
    ----CITATION----
        Preston, Paul.. The Alpine Guide, or, The Veteran of Marengo .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7438
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Alpine guide, or, The veteran of Marengo 
            
               THE. $1,000 PRIZE STORY.
THE ALPINE' GUIDE-
OR,
THE VETERAN OF MARENGO.

-N HISTORICAL TALE, OF .TE NABPOQLE Nf &amp;W EI RE.
By PAUL PRESTON, Esq.
AUTHOR OF, "TcHMRIOh  AND °THMU'POOR,  WIFc ,  UTO.  U
NEW YORK:
ED :.LONG &amp; CO.,.'BOOKSELLERS AND PUBL ERS
No. 26 ANN- STREET.

:*

1)

,, .
,


THE ALPINE GIU
BY PAUL PRESTON.
C HAP T ER I.
THE FETE OF SAINT THEREBE.
"HULLo! nobody at home !" shouted a young villager,.as h
the basement chamber of the chalet of Jean Claude, pit
situated at the base of Mount Cenis in Savoy. " Dame G
is doubtless within her chamber, and perchance Jean Claud
wise there also,"
The .young Savoyard, familiarly known to the villagers of
let, at the base of Mount Cenis, as Petit Pierre, was one
hardy, active and enduring peasants, whoseintegrity and cour
rendered the name of his countrymen a proverb for zeal and
Noiselessly he opened one of the lateral doors and exclaimed
voice, " Hold ! there hg is sleeping amid the fern leaves ! TJ
fellow may have toiled wearily yester-night; well," he continue
deposited upon the table of the little apartment, or rather
court, an ample supply of freshly gathered flowers, glisten
the dew of early morn, "Genevieve has already prepared th
of Saint Therese and hung up hergarland.; I willgo to work
up the vases.
True enough, it was upon the fete of Saint Theese in the ye
when the Savoyard devoutly prosecuted his work of adorning
mestic shrine of his patronal Saint. By the way of further e
his proceedings he sang a characteristic song of his nation,
tuneful melody, for which the hardy mountaineers are note
verity ! the free air of the hills gives an extra rest to the pa
pouring-of humble, yet independent, souls.
The ,peasant had scarce finished the opening stanza of his s
a figure emerged through the doorway he had previously op
advanced towards him. The man bore all the appearance of
still his clothes were rough and destitute of ornament, espeA

)E..
entered
resquely
enevieve
e is like-
the ham-
of those
age have
probity.
1 ina low
the poor
zed as he
interior
ing with
te Chapel
in filling
sar 1795,
g the do.
livening
with that
d. Of a
etic out-
ong when
ened and
a soldier,
flally the


I

TIlE ALPiNE GUIDE.
over-coat from which its owner shook off the particles of fern leaves,
adhering to it from pressure of his body, during a rude slumber,
with an air of solicitation.
" Well, mine host," quoth the new comer, " things breathe an air
of refreshing gaiety, this morning."
" Eh ?" returned Pierre, stopping short in his minstrelsy, "how ?
-this is not Jean Claude."
" Hold !" ejaculated the stranger, examining the peasant with a rapid
scrutinizing glance ; " this is not Jean Claude. Ah ! from your actions,
my fine fellow, I should be inclined to believe you a gay and joyous
friend of the family."
" That indeed am I," continued the peasant, resuming his labors in
the tasteful distribution of his flowers, " and moreover I am the god
father of their child-still I have never seen you here before."
"That don't astonish me at all," good-hurnoredly responded the
new corner, who appeared a hale, hearty and benevolent inai, "I lost
my way last night in the mountains ; Jean Claude, whom I encountered
accidentally, has, perchance, saved me from falling into some abyss
and offered me a 1ook in his hospitable cottage, where I have slum-
bered soundly to this hour."
I can recognise the work of Jean Claude in that," joyfully ex-
claimed Petit Pierre, eviineiiig an infantile admiration for his new
mountain friend, who had honored hun by the sponsorship of his
child.
" Has he gone hence ?" inquired the unknown.
" I should judge so," replied the peasant, taking his vase filled with
flowers and disposing of them with muth taste upon a side-board at
the end of the apartment.
" Ah! my friend," quoth the stranger, gaily, " then to day is a holy
day, a religious festival."
"This day is the fete of Saint Therese," quickly responded the
young peasant, " and upon this day not an inhabitant of the mountain
fails either to offer a bouquet to the Saint or a prayer at her shrine.
Hence, this very morning, at the break of day, I have rang the bells,
yes, a double set of chimes."
"Then you are the bell ringer ?" familiarly remarked the stranger,
whose manners exhibited hiin a man of quality.
" Bell ringer and wooden shoemaker at your service," respectfully
responded the Savoyard. " It was I who rang the chimes at the mar-
riage of Jean Claude."
"I trust he has taken unto him an excellent wife," returned the
stranger.
" As excellent as she is kind,". frankly replied the peasant,." and
beautiful as she is excellent."
The light tread of a female disturbed the conference, and both
turning around, beheld a young woman at the further end of the cham-
ber.
" You can judge for yourself," whispered the Savoyard to his com-
panion. Then advancing to the young woman, he saluted her kindly;

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

5

'Madam Genevieve." " Good morning, Pierre," answered she, in a
musical voice.
The guest gazed upon the wife of Jean Claude, and was astounded
it the surpassing beauty of, the woman whom he expected to find an
ordinary peasant of the country. Genevieve was a young girl evi-
dently of Italian extraction, of purely classic features, with a full
black eye and a Madonna-like expression of countenance. Although
garbed in the common costume of the Savoy, the chastity of the ma-
terial, the artistic manner of its make, and above all the exquisite
elegance of her own mien, evoked a semi-audible expression of sur-
prise from the stranger, as- he scrutinized her personal appearance.
Rarely had he encountered a being more beautiful !
"I have been impatient," observed the unknown, advancing politely
to the wife of the Alpine Guide, " to offer to you, Madam, as well as
to your husband, my grateful thanks for your most unexpected and
opportune hospitality -.-"
"Poor enough, indeed," modestly interrupted Genevieve ; "still,
such as it was, I assure you it was offered in full sincerity of the
heart."
"What, what, what !" interrupted Pierre, warmly, " who has a
more sincere heart----"
" I pray thee, my friend," in turn interrupted Claude's wife, "do
not speak so loud-you will wake the sleeping child."
" Pardon," replied the young Savoyard, considerately, "pardon,
the dear little Jane sleeps-yes, we must speak lower."
" Ah !" exclaimed Genevieve, as she turned and beheld the flowers
with which Petit Pierre had garnished the sideboard, " what most
beautiful bouquets !"
" Nothing, Madam Genevieve," modestly replied the peasant, "no-
thing but two handfuls : I could not find the chaplet of good mother
Marianne."
" Jean Claude, who has gone to the Grand Bourge," responded his
wife, " has"taken it with him to have it blessed."
" Then your husband has gone to the Grand Bourge ?" inquired
the stranger.
"But he will return," replied Genevieve.
"Unfortunately too late," resumed the unknown guest, " for me to
be able to shake his hand before I will be compelled to take my de
parture. I am really sorry."
" Are you going to Chambery ?"
" Not that way," replied the stranger ; "on the contrary, in quite
.an -opposite direction. I am  desirous of traversing over Mount
Cenis."
" But, sir," remonstrated Genevieve, gently, "you cannot at this
present moment travel up the mountain."
" And for what reason ?" politely inquired 'the guest. /
"For one good reason," interrupted Petit Pierre, "because in this
month we mountaineers only navigate during the night; for, you see,
during the day the sun melts the snow, which comes down in torrents
to our village."

I

t4

;

r
.,y.
e,
:
. s
' '
3 '
n f
., .
tG,
_
s        * .
h
r
"  f +
r       .   r

I


6

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

I.

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

" Well! it's all the same," energetically replied the unknown, as if
determined to have his own way, "I will attempt -"
" To drown yourself to reach it the sooner," quoth the deep voice
of Jean Claude, as the Alpine.Guide entered the apartment, amid a
general exclamation of delight and surprise.
" I counsel you against any such rashness," continued the moun-
taineer, shaking the dirt and dust off his garments. Then addressing
his wife, he continued gaily : " Good morning, Genevieve ! eh ! and
you here, my little Pierre !" With this salutation the Guide shook
his friend's hand warmly.
" Yes, I am here," laughingly replied the peasant, pointing tp his
shoes ; "I put on my new boots to pay you a visit."
" How fresh you are this morning !" replied Jean.
" Because I am dying with hunger," retorted Pierre.
" Then let us have some breakfast," gaily added the Guide, who
turned to his guest: "Await until evening, it will then be practicable
-now it is impossible."
Thus speaking, Jean Claude, accompanied by his wife, walked to
the domestic shrine and attached to it a chaplet.
" I am much annoyed at the impossibility of my departure," re-
marked the unknown, addressing the Guide.
" There is no use swearing," returned Jean Claude, frankly ; " it
cannot be helped, and I will tell you the best thing to do- .
" What is that ?" inquired the stranger.
" To set the table, and make an excuse of breakfast," replied Jean.
" Agreed !" gaily answered the stranger, and without more ado the
entire party set them at work arranging the table for the simple, yet
nutritious meal which was to be spread before them.
"Hold, wife," observed Claude to Genevieve with a suppressed
sigh as they walked apart at the end of the apartment ; " you
perceive that our golden medallions have been changed into pewter."
" It is all the same," gently responded the young woman, as she
passed the string of a locket over her neck, " as long-as the souve-
nir they contain remains unchanged."
" And now I have six crowns to set us right," remarked the Guide
affectionately ; " and how is our little darling ?"
"tShe was as gay this morning," joyfully responded the wife, "as
the newly risen lark."
" And now !" inquired Jean with a sigh of inquietude.
" She sleeps like a little hedge-hog," laughingly replied his wife.
"And perchance," continued the Guide anxiously, " the fever will
return no more."
"1I pray to God that it would not," fervently returned Genevieve.
" Come, the table is set !" gaily shouted Jean, " to breakfast."
" I am there !" ejaculated Pierre, taking his seat.
" Stop !" quoth Jean, seizing the stranger, who appeared about to
leave, " an unexpected guest upon the day of St. Therese-it is a
sign of good luck to our family ! Now serve us, Genevieve," he
continued as-the stranger assumed his place.

" And now we are'allseated," interrupted Pierre, "I must tell you
that I have bought something by the way of dessert."
" What is it ?" inquired Jean, as he observed the bell-ringer draw.
ing from his pocket a piece of printed paper.
" The account of the taking of Montmotre by the French," returned
Pierre triumphantly.
" It is the bulletin of the 14th of this month," remarked the
stranger.
Genevieve will read it to us," exclaimed Jean, joyfully, " for
Genevieve knows how to read, to write and to make sums. Read to
us, my dear wife, for we are all ears."
In compliance with the request, Genevieve read as follows :
" Upon the evening of the 14th the action commenced. After a
combat of two hours, General Colti, who had succeeded in gaining
the plaine, threatened to envelope the French, held in check before
Mount motte, where Colonel Roger, finding an opportunity for
manoeuvering the cavalry, hitherto idle, charged at full gallop with
his regiment upon Colti 's division.  The enemy was evidently
shaken and the Commander-in-chief, General Bonaparte, profited by
the extraction of the left wing to order the assault. The victory was
complete, and the general-in-chief has named Colonel Roger to be a
general of brigade upon the battle-field."
"Again a victory !" enthusiastically proclaimed Jean Claude.
" Colonel Roger has gained 'his epaulets as a general !" exclaimed
the bell ringer gaily, "let's drink his health? Madan Genevieve,"
filling her a glass, "Here, is the health of the brave General Roger !"
" His health," responded Genevieve, "he has my best wishes."
" Unfortunately each victory leads to fresh combats," remarked
the unknown. "The Austrians, who have received fresh reinforce-
ments, have closed all the roads to Mount Cenis."
" Yes, after the French passed," responded Pierre : "they have
done as the worthy fellow, who bought a lock after the horse was
stolen."
s" Yes," resatn9d the unknown, arising from the table, "the God
of battles will ne'v er desert the French !"
" Oh I   would so delight in var," exclaimed Pierre, "if I had
no fear of the great big' cannons. "
" The noise of the cannon then is more dangerous than that of the
big bell," responded Genevieve, smilingly.
"Thank you!" rejoined Petit Pierre, rising from his seat, "you
have put me in mind that I have to ring the bells for vespers. But I
will return in the evening, Jean Claude.
"And bring your new boots with you ?" jocularily replied the
Guide, smiling at his allusion to the wooden shoes.
" These boots," rejoined the bell ringer, "are of famous leather,
however, both sole and uppers are of one piece. This leather, you
perceive, sometimes cracks but never rips.-To-night then-"
" To-night then, my little Pierre," replied Jean Claude as the-
peasart emerged haQtulv to attend to his duties.

V

;
p
.

7


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

" Hark ! I hear the child cry," remarked Genevieve as she
abruptly arose to quit the apartment, and to attend to her babe.
"Go, my wife, and bring it, hither," interrupted the Guide, "1I will
take it into the fields with me-The air is rure outside--"
" And I," interrupted the stranger, " will be pleased to see it."
"I will go and bring it," replied Genevieve, " only I must dress it."
" Dress it," smilingly replied Jean; " ever the way with mothers !
To show you her babe, she must exhibit its clothing. Yes," he con-
tinued to the stranger, ' it is a weakness mothers have who admire
their offspring ;" then added in a low tone to Genevieve, " put on its
new clothes and pretty little cap."
"Be at your ease," confidentially responded the young wife as she
hurriedly left the apartment.
"Ah ! my comrade," observed the Guide, a moment after the
departure of Genevieve, " you appear to be very sad."
"No," replied the unknown; "I was thinking how surprising it is
that, in this country, you could have found a woman like your wife ;
Genevieve-"
" Has an education ;" interrupted the delighted husband. " You
are not the first, who have been thus astonished, and I will explain
the reason. I was very young when an avalanche caused a terrible
catastrophe in this region. Two days after this calamity, my mother,
Marianne Thibaut, returned to the house in the evening, bringing a
female child which she had found in the snow. It was cold as an ici-
cle, but its little heart beat, and my mother soon succeeded in res-
toring it to warmth. We could see from its little embroidered shoes,
and- the necklace of pearls that it was an Italian. Well, both father
and mother were dead, and we never heard of them afterwards. My
mother searched everywhere, showing the pearl neckl ce ; one day
she said to me, 'the little one belongs to rich people, and not people
of evil and misery like us, for a jeweler of Chambery tells me that
the necklace is well worth a hundred pistoles. 1 have sold it to him,
as it is necessary that Genevieve-(we called her Genevieve)--shall
be well brought up and not suffer from having been accidentally
thrown among poor people. This money will serve to clothe her and
educate her, and as to daily bread she will divide with us while the
Good Deity gives it us.' Then.my mother paid the pastor of the
hamlet to teach Genevieve to read the Bible, and I became a wagon-
er, walking from town to town to gain sufficient money to last us
during the winter. After I had made a good many journeys Gene-
vieve had become both learned and beautiful, and my mother said to
me, 'Jean Claude, Genevieve is now seventeen years of age, and our
family needs a protector. You, my son, have labored hard, and let
us now expend our earnings upon four acres of ground, and through
Heaven's mercy we will never be forced to leave it.' From that hour
I remained with them and we have been happy until about three
years ago, when our poor mother died and went the way of all good
souls."
" Then you lost your benefactor," remarked the stranger.

" And I mourn her loss deeply," resumed the Guide, "for the world
is ever unjust. Soon was I forced to say to Genevieve, ' you know
we are not brother and sister, and there are scandalous tongues-the
good mother is no longer with us, and fvr the sake of your honor, we
must needs separate ; you, Genevieve, keep the cottage-as for me, I
will make a fortune in some - distant spot.' Genevieve commenced
weeping, and I found it impossible to leave her. Then we found a
means to silence scandalous tougues, and when two days after the cu-
rate of Saint Martain married us, something in my heart told me that
Genevieve was not created for one so poor as I am."
" It seems, on the contrary," interposed the stranger, "that your
marriage had been decreed in advance."
" I know not I" resumed the Guide. " The first year of our union
the blessing of heaven descended upon us. Heaven has given us a
little girl an angel like her mother. Still, for two years back we have
had but little prosperity."
"How comes that ?" inquired the unknown.
" At first the child was ill," rejoined Jean Claude, "and during the
past year hail destroyed our crops. Luckily we had some savings--..
but this year the Austrians, in passing through this place, have done
more damage than all the storms. Our savings have been exhausted
to the last penny. There is no means of selling our bit of land, for
the war has driven away all purchasers. And now behold us forced
to seek for work in large cities, which grieves me, as denevieve never
served anybody. Now since our daughter has recovered sufficiently
to travel with us, nothing remains but to depart upon our pilgrim-
" But to undertake your journey," interrupted the stranger, " you
will have need of money---and -"
"I have enough," replied Jean. "Yes, when we were in prosperity
I purchased two golden medallions, because, you see, necessity often
compels me to be absent to sell our hemp---and then we had a mutual
souvenir to console us in our absence. This may appear to you
strange, but we have such ideas in this country, where we love one
another so dearly."
" And I," interrupted the unknown, " ever wear mementos of my
wife and son."
" Then we can understand each other," remarked Jean in continua-
tion, " this morning I was at the Grand Bourg to exchange my gold
for pewter, as you see, but the souvenir is not changed. Mine con-
tains the hair and writing of Genevieve. In hers there is my hair,
but not my writing for the reason-Hush ! here comes Genevieve, do
not speak to her of our journey, it renders her so sad."
" Have I kept you long waiting?" inquired the young wife as she
entered and presented to him his angelic babe.
"You have been long enough to dress yourself for 'a wedding,"
laughingly ejaculated the Guide.
"What a lovely babe !" instinctively spoke the stranger.
" And if you knew how cunning it is !" affectionately quoth the

;
i
a" , _
F   i k
Sgg
Y'
'F
f
a
,
rr
a
°r!
^;
t,

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

9

8


10

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

husband ; " and now to the fields, where the little one can play until
evening."
The Savoyard tenderly shouldered his child, and gaily danced it in
the air.
" What are you to do in the fields ?" inquired the stranger.
"To dig.out the ditches the Austrians have filled up," responded,
the Guide.
"Shall I lend you a helping hand," interposed the unknown.
" Willingly, my friend," replied Jean Claude.
" Au revoir, Dame Genevieve," kindly said the stranger.
" Are you happy' and content ?" quoth the Guide to the child in
his arms, " my little Jane, that your father carries you into the fields,
as he gaily sings :
"'Youp ! youp ! laliretto !
Youp ! youp ! lalirou!'
Come, comrade-now to the green heather.'
" Take care and do not stumble over the stones," quoth Genevieve
affectionately, as the Guide and his guest departed.
" No danger," gaily responded Jean, renewing his mountain song
as he led the way to the broken ditches.
CHAPTER            II.
A LESSON IN MYSTERY.
"Poon Jean," soliloquized Genevieve, after her husband had left
her to commence his daily labor ; " how happy is he with his treasure
in his arms ! and yet we are poor-true the riches of the heart dispel
not misery, and we are soon to commence our journey. Well, we
must not grieve, for it is God's pleasure ! let' us hasten to arrange
everything for a departure." -
While Genevieve set about clearing away the breakfast things, and
in arranging the apartment with neatness,
" Pardon, Madam," quoth a stranger, who unexpectedly entered
the cottage, " but am I far from Saint Martin ?"
"Two leagues," affably returned the young wife.
"Still two leagues," muttered the traveller.S
"Are you fatigued ?" anxiously inquired Genevieve.
" I have walked for over three hours," replied the stranger, who,
from his dress and manners, appeared a man of good social standing.
"I have come from the Grand Bourg, and have yet to go to Saint
Martin."
" Then allow me to advise you to rest awhile," quoth the young
wife, with an air of solicitude ; "the house of Jean Claude is situated
nearly half way."    '
"This, then, is the place," murmured the traveller to himself; and

TEE ALPINE GUIDE.

11

speaking more loudly, he continued : " I willingly avail myself of
your hospitality."
" And if you would say a prayer to the saint," resumed Genevieve,
,pointing to the chaplet hanging against the wall, "that chaplet is
made of fragments from the grey rock."
The traveller seated himself and continued the conversation.
"Is this, then, the grey rock, so celebrated throughout Savoy ?"
" The rock of Saint Therese," replied the Guide's wife.
" I know nothing of its history,"-frankly answered the stranger.
" Truly !" exclaimed Genevieve, with unaffected- astonishment.
" It is stated that during the religious war, when slaughter and
famine desolated this country, Saint Therese descended from heaven
to bestow bread upon the little children. The grey rock on which
she reposeed, sank beneath her to such a degree that even now can
be seen the impression of her feet and of the folds of her long white
robe."
" And the beads of this chaplet," quoth the traveller, going up to
it and examining it seriously, "are of this rock ?"
" It is not to be doubted," replied Genevieve, "for the chaplet was
given by a monk of Saint Bernard to the mother of my husband."
"To the mother of Jean Claude ?" inquired the stranger.
"Then you know his name ?" remarked the wife of Claude.
" I know yours likewise," resumed the stranger.
" I am named Genevieve," frankly replied the young wife.
Genevieve is the name given to you by the mother Marianne,"
retured the traveller complacently, " but it is not that which you
you received from your father and mother.
"And you know the names of my parents ?" anxiously inquired
the young mother.
" Your father," commenced the stranger, " Emanuel Loredan, mar-
quis of Ferrars, and your mother, were swallowed up, with you and
two domestics, by a terrible avalanche. You- alone, a small child,
was saved by Dame Marianne, who found you by the roadside. At
twenty years, you married the son of Dame Thibaut, who died a
little while previously."
" An'd how know you this ?" inquired Genvieve.
" [ know it from your uncle, Antonio Loredan," replied the travel-
ler. " He discovered a pearl necklace, with a Jew of Ferrara, who
had purchased it from a jeweller of Chambery. He recognized the
necklace as the one he placed around your neck at the time of your
baptism, and had the jeweller questioned, who revealed what Jean
Claude had told him ; and thus. was convinced of the existence of his
niece."
"My uncle !" exclaimed Genevieve, in astonishment.
" Although ill, and well advanced in years," returned the stranger,
"he desired to traverse Italy to seek after you in Savoy, but his
expectation was deceived. Forced to stop at Milan, he died, leaving.
a will of which I have an exact copy, which I will read to you--"
"Is this aught but a dream ?" murmured Genevieve.

r

i  -
},;
N 5.
a
4 Mr.
'      l
j  ,  :
;  Y
{ri_  .,..

.
,.
3
i

' i
;,
k
t
3
Ei' ija
MF i  _
L
if
Fv
'G-
'"A
y
i ( .
' 4$"c'3
1,"
Y
}
'i
Y
i        '
S


t
t
t
Fv
s
f
.
f
t
' 1
t
_
_       s
f     s
i b
3

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

The Italian took from his pocket a document, which he perused as
follows:
'I constitute as my sole heir, my niece and god-daughter, Maria
Loredan, of whose existence I am recently apprised, upon the express
condition, however, that she will inhabit my palace of Ferrara and
resume the names and titles of her ancestors, after having annulled
her marriage with Jean Claude Thibaut, the Alpine Guide  -"
" Never !" emphatically exclaimed the young wife.
" If, contrary to these provisions, Marie Loredan refuses to fulfill
these expressed conditions, the estate will revert entire, at the end of
a year and a day, to the monks of the Convent of the Barnabites of
la Concordia, where 1 desire to be buried. Signed at Milan, this twen-
tieth of April, one thousand seven hundred and ninety five, by me,
Antonio Loredan, Count d'Este and Proveditor of Venice."
" Still all that is but a test, an invention, a mockery," responded
Genevieve, at a loss to realize the truth of the document.
" If this were not the truth,"remarked the stranger, "think you I
would have journeyed so far out of my way to communicate with you.
Should you desire positive proof, you have but to follow me, without
confiding your secret to Jean Claude ; in four days, we will reach
Venice, where you will be received by a family expecting your arrival
impatiently, and who fears seeing the palaces of the Loredans become
the property of monks. There, you will find all proofs, incontestably
clear ; you will obtain the annulment of your marriage, by you con-
tracted in ignorance of your birth-and instead of being poor in the
Savoy, you will be rich in Venice."
" And my husband ?" inquired Genevieve, "my daughter ?"
" We will secretly carry the child away with us," responded the
stranger, " for there is nothing in the will against it. As to your
husband the terms of the will are express."
"I have Jistened to you, Sir, calmly," proudly returned Genevieve,
'and I do not find myself insulted for I am not the woman, in search
of whom you are. Maria Loredan has perished amid the snows ; I
am Genevieve, who never had other family, save that of the Dame
Marianne, who adopted me in my helplessness, and of Jean Thibaut,
whom I love and who is the father of my child. To enjoy the rights
of Maria Loredan, I would have to abandon my husband ; but if I
am Maria Loredan, I can unconditionally enjoy the heritage of my
father, ''
"Your father," continued the stranger, "dissipated his fortune in a
passion for traveling ; your uncle, who has husbanded his, died thrice
a millionair'e-and you know at what price you can obtain possession
of this immense fortune."
'And-if I refuse," remonstrated (4nevieve.
" It will enrich the monks of Le  _mcordia," replied the Italian.
" Then let the monks," continue tme young wife, "erect a tomb of
marble and fine gold to him who has so greatly enriched them.".
" Still-" interrupted the Venetian.
" You will say to my relative in Venice," resolutely resumed the

r
t
\r
t
2

13

12

wife of Jean Claude, " that Genevieve has refused to quit the cottage
where she has lost her second mother, where her brother had cherish-
ed her, and where her husband daily blesses her."
"I conceive but one thing," returned the stranger, "affection ren-
ders you indeed blind."
"Say, rather it enlightens me," responded Gonevieve.
" I will not insist longer in advising you," replied the stranger,
pacing the apartment, and returning to the young woman, he contin-
ued : "I will return when you have deeply reflected."
S" Oh, no !" remonstrated Genevieve, "my husband may encounter
you. For Heaven's sake remain here no longer ; avoid his sight-
he may know you--he may have a suspicion."
" He knows me not," returned the Italian, "I assure you, I have
only an inclination to converse with you in private."
" And I," resumed the Guide's wife, " have no desire to see you."
"That will not answer my purpose," murmured the Venetian, as he
gazed upon the pensive Genevieve. " By accidentally, as it were,
leaving my valise, I will have a legitimate excuse for my return."
Then he continued in a loud voice.
"I am about to continue my journey. You have nothing to say
to me, Madame."
" I have only," returned the young wife, "to inquire who you are ?"
"A Venetian Nobleman," was the response.
"'What interest has guided you in this mission ?" inquired the af-
flicted wife.
"No personal interest whateverr" responded the stranger; "I love
adventures, and I have believed it my duty to inform Genevieve Thi-
baut that she can resuscitate a noble heritage."
" Genevieve has not the power of doing so;" returned the wife of
the Guide; " a clause in the will precludes her doing so."
" You will be a better judge ere long," retorted the traveler, as he
emerged from the cottage.
" Is this not a dream ?" soliloquised Genevieve, as she meditated
upon the strange relation which had been made to her. "Yes, Dame
Marianne has often told inc that my family was rich, and of Italian
parentage. And what have they offered to me ? Does a mother
await me   Is it a father who'calls me ? ' No ! it is gold in exchange
for my affection, gold in exchange for the existence of my husband-
for if Jean, returning here some day, were to find the cradle empty,
and the house vacant, he would lose his reason, he would emerge
hence and go forth, shouting for us,, until he would fall down, worn
1 out by fatigue, or dead from grief. But no, my good Jean Claude,
the weeping Genevieve loves ,thee too deeply from \he bottom of her
heart."
" Genevieve," quoth Jean, in a suppressed tone of voice as he en-
tered bearing the child in his arms, " the child is fast asleep, now
put her to bed tranquilly."
" Yes," murmured the young wife.
" As for me," rejoined the Guide,1" I have come for the two pick

C;

THE ALPINE GUIDE.


.4

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

axes with which we will finish our work. But what ails theeGene-
vieve ? you have been weeping ?"t-n
" No," replied Genevieve, taking the child into her arms.
"No," ejaculated theGuide, "1 can notice it myself, what has caused
you this trouble ?"
" Nothing," replied Genevieve, "I assure you nothing."
" But," said Jean Claude looking around him, " what is this ?" he
continued as he stumbled over the valise.
" A valise," said Genevieve, in astonishment, " forgotten by a
stranger, who rested himself here awhile."
" What is that written upon this ?" inquired the Guide, pointing to
a brass plate attached to the valise.
" Luidgi of Venice," read the obedient wife.
" Luidgi of Venice," repeated the Savoyard, " has he told thee aught
which has given you pain ?"
" In no wise," replied Genevievp, " while he rested, I showed him
the chaplet of the grey rock. He was ignorant of its history, which
I related to him."
" Is that all?" anxiously inquired the Guide.
" That is all, my friend," returned Genevieve, "I will go and put
our little Jane to bed."
" Go, Genevieve, go, for sleep will do her good," replied Jean, as his
wife glided noiselessly out of the apartment with the sleeping child
tenderly embraced within her arms.
CHAPTER III.
THE WAGES OF COURAGE.
JEAN CLAUDE placed the valise upon the table, and fell into a deep
mneditati6n upon the cause of the untoward incident he had noticed.
Vainly could his gentle wife deny the fact of her sorrow; the traces of
grief were too palpable to be concealed. Poor Jean heaved'a deep
sigh ; greatly as he admired the resignation of his wife, his heart was
embittered to think that she should pine in solitude and tears when he
was absent from her. The mystery of her grief surpassed his com
prehension.
" Well, my friend, I'm waiting for you,"quoth the stranger, who
had accepted the morning's hospitality-now entering the room.
" Oh !" responded Jean, earnestly, " I beg your pardon, comrade
upon entering here I found my wife had been crying, which, as you
may say, riveted me to the spot."  ,
" And why was 'she crying ?" kindly inquired his guest.
"She would not tell me," replied Jean, "but I know what it is. She
was weeping because it grieves her that we must so soon start upon
our journey after work."
" But tell ine," interposed the stranger, with unostentatious kind-

15

14

ness, how much money will it require for you to remain here until
next summer
" A sufficiently large sum," returned Jean ; "in this country the
cold lasts a length of time and wood is dear, hence at the commence-
ment of the winter we had forty crowns surplus, and to-day I had to
sell my gold medallions to celebrate the day of St. Therese-there is
no help for it, we must make that sum before the close, of the sum-
mer. Well, I must get the jackasses, and then we will go again to
work.'
As the industrious peasant glided out of the room, in search of the
imiplements, the military stranger feeling in his pockets, drew forth
some..golden coins,.which, after some hesitation, he slipped into the
drawer of a table he noticed standing at the further end of the apart-
ment.
" Forty crowns," he soliloquized, "will afford these poor people a
deal of happiness. I do not know of any better use to which I can
put this prize money. And who knows, but that this. may again re-
turn to the'enemy, whence it has been taken ?"
" Come, comrade," quoth the Savoyard returning with a couple of
pick-axes upon his shoulder, " take this one. Come, I will now show
you the rocky mountain which you must turn to find the rdute to
Suze." Opening the door he continued to the guest who had now
shouldered one of the implements," do you see that bunch of stunted
trees beneath the heavy cloud ?"
" Yes, I perceive them," responded his companion.
"Come, the other landmarks can only be seen from the broad
meadow land," resumed the Guide, as they both passed the door.
No sooner had Jean Claude and his companion departed for the
meadows than the Italian nobleman retraced his steps to continue his
interview with Genevieve. Luidgi had encountered more obstacles in
his mission than he had calculated upon. The obstinacy of the young
wife, her affectionate adherence to her marital duties, her determined
self-sacrifice not only annoyed, but absolutely disconcerted him.
However he thought, upon mature reflection, that her reason might
be convinced if it was impossible to excite her cupidity, and therefore
he resolved upon again offering further temptations to the unhappy
woman. The emissary possessed a strong personal inducement to en-
sure the return of Genevieve to zer relatives. A-banished outlaw, an
exile from Venice, he had been promised by her influential family, a
revocation of his banishment, were he to succeed in his attempted
restoration of the girl: and this consideration of his individual advan-
tages stimulated a renewal of his project, after her first and decisive
refusal to accompany him.
While engaged in his meditations, he was disturbed by the heavy
fall of rain. Going to the door he perceived two men running at full
speed to gain shelter beneath the roof. Trembling to be seen to
emerge from the chalet, and dreading to encounter the husband of
Genevieve, the Italian determined npon hiding himself in one of the
adjoining apartments, until the cessation of the storm would -again

,
i
-- -,
.. _ .
_

f
}/


16           THE ALPINE GUIDE.

allow him to seek a conversation with Genevieve, after the departure
of her husband.
The Venetian had scarce acted upon the1suggestion of his naturally
ingenious mind when the Guide and his guest entered the cottage tol-
erably drenched by the passing storm.
" What weather !" exclaimed the hardy Savoyard'
"Hail, rain and tempest," quoth the stranger.
" The rain enters even here, Iet's shut the door," responded Jean
Claude, closing the only outlet to the building, which precluded any
possibility of retreat for the Italian.
"It won't last long, for I saw the blue sky by the side of the vine
yards," remarked the Guide, "besides it will give us time to rest our-
selves-so take a seat, comrade."
The guest readily acquiesced in his wishes.
" Well, now what shall we do ?" resumed Jean ; " by the way, you
know how to read ?"
" Yes, but what then ?" returned the guest.
" Read to me again about the French victory," replied the Guide.
" Willingly, what have you done with the bulletin ?" inquired the
stranger.
" I'm hunting after it," remarked Jean, turning over the valise
upon the table-" hold, this Italian Luidgi has not come back. Don't
lose your patience while 1 look for the paper."
"But why do you love the French ?" inquired the stranger.
"Because," replied the Guide, continuing his search, " I am French
-my parents came from Chambery, but I was born at Saint Genis ;
beyond the Rhine-I am.Swiss; still I come from the right side-the
French side. Where can Genevieve have put that paper?  Perhaps
in this drawer. What's this ?" he continued, as he opened the drawer
and perceived money in it-" how came this money here ?"
"The discovery is premature," thought the stranger.
" What can this mean ?" resumed Jean, greatly perplexed. " The
traveller who was here in our absence, has probably entrusted Gene-
vieve with this money. She said nothing to me about it, and I will
go question her about it."
" No! that is useless," replied his guest.
" Still--" urged Jean, pacing towards her chamber.
" I know where the money came from," resumed the stranger, "for
it was I who put it in your drawer."
" You !" exclaimed the Savoyard, with evident perplexity.
" Yes, my friend," rejoined the unknown ; " still I hoped you would
not discover it til after my departure, when you could have.disposed
of it without regret. As for me, I am a soldier, and in my trade you
you know victory pays when the cannon regulates our accounts.
Thus I had money-which you had need of, when I had none-that
explains everything."
"Your actions betray an excellent heart," quoth the Guide, moved
at the generosity of his guest, " they are worthy of a soldier-still 1
must frankly tell you that I cannot accept your money."

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

17

" And why noti?" earnestly inquired the stranger.
"Neither would Genevieve accept it," continued Jean, "for we
have done nothing to earn it."
"But yesterday, you saved my life," rejoined the stranger; " with-
out you---"
'"Oh !" interrupted the Guide, bluntly, " those things are nothing
in our mountains. He who is set aright in his road, says thankee,
and he who has befriended him trusts to a return of the good on some
future occasion ; both shake hands, and the matter is ended. There.
fore I pray you to take back your money  "
" And should I furnish you an opportunity to earn the amount ?"
-interposed the soldier.
"Ah! that would be a different matter," replied the Guide, dubi-
ously--" but how ?"
"At first," continued the guest, "it is necessary to know my
namne."
" Certainly, if we make a bargain," responded Jean.
" Then know, that I am General -Roger," said the unknown, con-
fidentially.
"Vou !" ejaculated Jean, with an outburst of incredulity.
"Then," resumed the general, taking no notice of the Guide's sur-
prise, " if you must know the reason of my disguise. The general-in-
chief is ignorant of the enemy menacing his outposts, and as the route
to Suze is closed, the intelligence can only reach him by the paths
over Mount Cenis."
"The Austrians are in possession of them," replied Jean.
" Yes," resumed the gallant Roger, " but as a detachment could not
penetrate thither, I thought a single man might be able to pass along
unperceived."
"I understand," interposed Jean Claude.
" It was in attempting to carry out my scheme yesterday," said
the general, "that I lost my way ; and I am afraid of going, astray
again. Consent to guide me, and soon General Bonaparte, warned
that that the enemy seeks to surround him by means of the route of
Sule, instead of exposing himself to a dubious conflict, will retire to
the plain for a pitched battle."
"It is perfectly correct," responded the Guide  mechanically.
"And when," continued the general-emphatically, "you have aided
in avoiding a useless and perilous combat, in which thousands of men
would perish, think you not that you have honestly earned your forty
crowns ?"
" Then," enthusiastically replied Jean Claude, " I would have no
longer a fear of their bringing misfortune upon us."
"No traveling for your wife," continued Roger, "no more danger
for the health of your little one."
"We will start," solemnly said the Guide. "The sun is already
down ; in an hour the road will be in good-order. Do you swim?"
" Yes,"' replied the gallant officer.
Then we will cross a little stream," rejoined the Guide, "and
thus save two good hours upon the march."


r,
;r
t
,° s

" And you trust that by to-morrow-?7" inquired Roger.
"We will have gained the bridge St. George," replied Jean firmly.
" whence can be seen the French camp."
" And may God be with us !" piously ejaculated the general-
" Poor Genevieve will await me all night long !" murmured the
Guide, as he thought of the kind woman's affection.
" Come, we will notify her," rejoined the general, moving towards
the stair-way leading to her chamber.
" No," quoth Jean, stopping him, gently, "in witnessing her tremble
for my safety, I would lose all courage. She must be ignorant of
my journey, and I will :goon return and my presence will quickly
dispel her inquietude. Let each of us take a staff and forward."
" March then," quoth the general gaily.
" Oh !  Great God !" suddenly ejaculated the Guide halting in
front of the domestic shrine erected to St. Therese.
" What ails you ?" tenderly inquired the soldier.
"Should 1 never return-" murmured Jean, despondently.
" You are afraid !" exclaimed the general.
No ! general," replied Jean in a tone of decision, it is my duty
-I should strive to gain repose for Genevieve, let us start," then
stopping near the door he paused. "Still I think-"
"Of what, friend ?" inquired the soldier.
" We will take with us the chaplet of grey rock," replied the
G-uide as he took the relic frcm the wall and hung it around his neck.
"It will protect us against the evil spirits of the mountain. And now
to our work !"
The Alpine Guide and his brave companion crossed the threshold
of the cottage and soon disappeared among the shades of the night,
falling fast upon the bleak snow-covered side of the tall mountain,
at whose base the little hamlet was situated.
The Venetian noble from his hiding place became an involuntary
confident of the general's schemes. In order to perfect the designa-
tions of the persons, the spy crept out to take a complete view of the
departing individuals.  He particularly noted that Claude was
clothed in a grey over coat, while his superior companion wore a
cape and piedmontese hat- These particulars he treasured in his
memory in order to communicate their appearance and intentions
inore fullysand especially to the Austrian videttes, who might here
fore capture them  with greater certainty. He was well aware that
the Austrians spared .no prisoners and therefore was assured that
should they fall into the enemies hands both would be massacred and
thus the marriage of Genevieve would be annulled. But  before
arriving at the final resolution n of their betrayal, he determined upon
consulting with Genevieve in the hope that her sober second thoughts
would spare him such an alternative. While he was cogitating upon
these subjects, Genevieve descended the stair way with a lamp in her
hand, as the shades of evening had by this time enveloped the
cottage in complete darkness. She placed the lamp on the table
,and commenced knitting as the memory of Jean recurred to b - -

aggrated the suspense and anxiety in which she was placed. A
sudden noise revealed to her the presence of the Italian traveller.
" I have come, Madam," said Luidgi, "to seek after a valise,
which, I have forgotten here."
"There it is, sir," responded Genevieve pointing to it.
" Thanks, madam," replied   the Italian, '1  trust that your
,resolution."
" Is irrevocable, sir," firmly responded the Dame.
" You have not then reflected," continued the stranger, " that
your high lineage requires irremedial exigencies ?"
"And do you, sir, not believe" that the ties of consanguinity like
wise boast theirs ?" retorted Genevieve.
" Are you ignorant," continued the Venetian, "that you have no
right to renounce a fortune for which you have to render account to
your innocent daughter ?"
"Have I not moreover to render account to her for the existence
of her father ?" inquired the wife of Jean.
" Then," reiterated  the Ita!ian, "do  you formally refuse to
seperate from Jean Claude ?"
" I will never seperate myself," replied the young wife, calmly,
"from him, even if he should command the sacrifice."
" This is no longer affection," murmured the Venetian, "it is
sheer madness. Madame, I withdraw-"
The face of Genevieve expressed her joy
Still the Italian internally vowed that despite herself she should
become both rich and the Marchibness of Ferrara. Halting near the
door he added: _"May Heaven grant you repentance."
" Heaven is just !" exclaimed Genevieve, exaltedly.
" Its will be done ?" solemnly said the Italian as he gained the
threshold where tarrying an instant he saluted Genevieve respect-
fully and retired into the darkness without,.
CHAPTER IV
THE GUIDE'S RETURN.
IN a little cottage, close beneath the eaves of the village church of
Saint Martin, fifteen days after the events we have described sat the
disconsolate Petit Pierre. toiling away upon one of those contrivances
he was wont to hew for the accommodation of the human 'foot.
Upon this occasion Pierre's mechanical skill was evidently at fault,
for the result of his labor gave little satisfaction.
" Come," he soliloquized, as he gazed upon his sabot, in course of
construction, " that is cut down too much,'' then, taking up a pair for
the sake of .comparison, he continued: "I have made both for the
same foot-there is that clock again, it only wants that bell to put
one into alin'famous humor."

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

18

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

19


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

As the bell rang forth its peal the mechanic dashed the incomplete
sabots violently ihs the corner and resumed his meditations even more
pensive than before.
" That bell torments me now, as greatly as it once gave me pleas-
ure," he continued in soliloquy. " It recalls to me the sayings of
Jean Claude, who used to tell me, when the wind is fair, the sound of
the bell would reach the house as if to say to Genevieve and me,
here is Petit Pierre sending us news. Poor Jean Claude, he is no
longer at the cottage to hear the sound ! And since he has gone I
have lost eating, drinking, sleep and labor-everything gone. I have
given my place to another. And, Madame Genevieve is going too.
The little house of Jean Claude has no more attractions for me, for
her rich relatives are there waiting for her. Poor friend, how hap-
py I was to carry her garlands and flowers to the field, but now her
rich relatives have brought her trinkets of jewels and of gold, and
it appears tc me that when I take some flowers they wither in my
hand and die."
" Are you the man they call Petit Pierre ?" interruped the Italian,
whom we have heretolfore encountered.
"Yes," replied the wooden shoemaker, " still there are other peo
ple in the country who have the same name."
" I come on behalf of Madame Thibaut," resumed the Venetian.
""'hat's me, them !" joyfully replied Pierre, " for I was the tried
friend of her husband-it must be me."
" Yes," returned the Italian, "Madame Thibaut informed me that
you dearly loved the unfortunate Jean Claude."
" As if he were umy best beloved brother," returned the bell-ringer.
" He is now unfortunately dead," rejoined Luidgi.
" Shot by the Austrians I" replied Petit Pierre.
" He paid dearly," resumed the Venetian, "for his imprudence."
" It was not imprudence, but courage," returned Pierre. " He ex-
posed himself to earn bread fbr his family. Had he been able to
have given his family millions upon his death, he would have prayed
the Austrians to have taken his life. You said, sir, you came on be-
half of Madame Genevieve ?"
" Yes, my friend," replied'the Italian, " as she is coming to hear
mass at Saint Martin she begged me to charge Pierre to have two
candles in the church, one at the shrine of Saint Mary, the other in
that of St. John."
" Yes, for Jean Claude," warmly returned the bell-ringer, " the
other for Marianne ; you say she will be here at mass ?"
" She desires," resumed Luidgi, " before leaving the Savoy that
her child should be blessed by the curate of Saint Martin, who ad-
ministered to her the rites of baptism."
" The baptism !" ejaculated Petit Pierre, " that indeed was a joyous
day for us-I was the godfather. I purchased a new suit at the fair
of Saint Poins, and a capful of sugar-plums. We could not foresee at
that time-but excuse me, sir, I hasten to complete the mission of
Genevieve."

TIE ALPINE GUIDE.

21

While the mechanic was absent, the Italian paced the floor in a state
of nervousness, as he meditated upon the success of his schemes.  -
"Eight days ago," he soliloquized semi-audibly, ,"the cousin of
Maria Loredan, faithful to his promises, has brought me a revocation
of my order of exile, and I, who burn to return to Venice, I must
follow to Milan, the heiress of the Loredans. Thus circumstances
change resolutions. I -remarked to-day that Maria Loredan must
contract a new marriage to forget the name of Jean Thibaut;' I am
the- Count d'Arezzo-I am still young ; 1 and her relatives are alone
aware of the will of the Count d'Este, and the past history of Gene-
vieve, beside I am almost one of the family. A few months have
scarce elapsed, since, ruined at gaining, and exiled from Venice, I would
have yielded in despair. To-day I dream of realizing a fortune !
Crazy indeed not to foresee and mould his fortune, a man is but a
grain of sand, and chance is the unforseen wind which carries us
along."
"The candles are burning on the altar, and the curate awaits to
perform mass," announced Petit Pierre reappearing.
" Good, my dear fellow," returned Arezzo, " Madame Genevieve
must be near by, I must precede her-so console yourself."
" That is impossible," quoth Pierre.
" Time will come to your aid," resumed the Venetian.
" So every one says," tranquilly remarked the bell-ringer.
" I should go to the mass," meditated the Savoyard after the de-
parture of the Italian, " but I have no courage to gaze upon poor
Genevieve in her black garments. No, I will go to the pond and try'
my shrimping net; it will kill time somehow."
As Petit Pierre took down his piscatorial implements, he heard the
voice of Jean Claude on the outside summoning him by name, dis-
tinctly and repeatedly.
" Holy Virgin !" ejaculated the terrified bell-ringer, "1 hear a voice
-am I haunted by evil spirits ?"
" There is some one at home," murmured the Alpine Guide, as he
entered the cottage. Then noticing Pierre he saluted him:
" Ho ! have you grown deaf during the past month, ho ! Pierrot ?"
" Jean Claude !" ejaclated Pierre. " Is that you?"
" It is me !"' responded the Guide.
"Then the Austrians have not killed you ?" inquired Pierre.
"Not quite," responded Jean, " they thought they did and I too."
"What! not dead !" again exclaimed the astounded Pierre.
" Why no !" replied the Guide, "here I am solid flesh and blood?
"«Hurrah ! my old Jean Claude," shouted Pierre, tossing his cap
into the air and then rushing into the arms of his friend.
"Now tell me, how is everybody--Genevieve-my child ?" in-
quired Jean, as the enthusiasm of Pierre subsided.
" Genevieve," Pierre replied in hesitation.
" Well ?" nervously reiterated the Guide.
" Fifteen days ago, the poor woman assumed mourning for you,"
re sponded Petit Pierre agitatedly.

i

20~'


THE ALPINE GUIDE.THE ALPINE GUIDE.

" Poor Genevieve !" muttered her husband," how she must have
suffered !"
"I thought she would have died," continued Pierre, " had it not
been for the sake of her darling daughter."
" I was well assured," returned the Guide, " that here you would
grieve for poor Jean Claude."
"And we found your coat, pierced with fifteen balls," quoth Pierre.
" Alas, my friend," mournfully responded the Guide, as a tear
dropped from his eye, " I loaned it to general Roger who had lost his
in the briars of the ravine, and he wore it when upon nearing the
valley we were captured by the Austrians. We had been betrayed,
Pierre, some one had given particulars concerning us as they admit-
ted."
"Who could it have been ?" murmured Pierre.
" I have no doubt," resumed Jean, '- but that the spy was concealed;
in my house."
"That may be possible," replied Pierre, meditatingly, "for upon
the night of your departure, as I arrived at your house---"
" Well ?"' nervously interrupted the Guide.
" I observed a stranger come out," returned the bell-ringer, " and
Genevieve told me that it was a Venitian who had returned to seek
after   "
" A valise he had forgotten !" ejaculated Jean Claude.
" Precisely," returned Pierre..
" It was he then !" savagely spoke forth the Guide, the blackness of
of this treachery in violating the sanctity of Alpine hospitality recur-
ring forcibly to his mind, " this wretch ! and you would know him
again. Well, the Austrians commenced an assault, and after-havina
trampled us into the dust, they allowed us but five minutes to pray to
God. The general asked as a favor of the Austrian chief to tell him
whether we were betrayed by a'-Frenchman-the chief answered us
it was by a Venitian
" It was that fellow !' firmly rreiterated Pierre.
"A smile of consolation," continued the Guide, "reanimated the
veteran's face ; the general gave the command himself, and he fell to
the earth dying like a brave man as he was."
" And you saw all," marvelled Pierre, " you, Jean Claude ?"
" Yes, Pierre," resumed the Guide, " while awaiting my turn ;
whilst I was praying, I heard a great cry and confusion above my
head.",
"What was that ?" inquired the tremulous Pierre.
" Oh ! Heavens !" replied Claude in tones of grateful thanksgiving,
"it was the French, alarmed by the noise of the fusillade."
" Ah ! ah ! ah !" shouted Pierre in triumphant excitement.
" Oh, my friend," continued the Guide graphically, "had you only
seen them-they fell upon the Austrians like anl avalanche. You
would have said that the mountain was on fire-it sounded deeper
even than thunder--it was more beautiful than the tempest-when
suddenly I could neither see nor hear anything. Some days after I

=t
r    j{
}
F

41

r                         }
R
r
tqi
i s
4
rr
t"
_ S
r
r6,

found myself in the French camp where they had carried me; a sur-
geon extracted from my wound a ball penetrating to my heart, and
they told me that the brave General Bonaparte could not restrain a
tear when he learned of the massacre of gallant general Roger."
" And what became of the Venitian traitor ?" inquired Pierre.
"They are searching for him even now," replied the Guide, " I told
them truly that [ had seen the name of Luidgi upon the valise, but
this appears to be but a baptismal name. At the end of fifteen days
I was cured : I h-id regained my strength when a great man of the
army, whom they called Massena, asked me whether I would not con-
tinue in the wars, but I thought of Genevieve, of my child, of you,
Pierre, and I started for home. For two days I ran the entire dis-
tance ; I had just turned the border of the great lake, when I heard'
the bell of Saint Martin-; then I said to myself, there is little Pierre
calling me, and instead of following my straight road, I turned off
into the cross roads, and here I am. Now that I have seen you, em-
braced you---I must hurry to console Genevieve and nurse the baby in
may arms, while they weep or laugh at seeing me safe and sound."
" Stop," interrupted Petit Pierre, as the Guide was about hurriedly
to quit the habitation, " first you must know something."
Well, what is it ?" inquired Jean, returning to his companion.
" I must tell you," resumed the bell-ringer, "or rather you know
that when the dead come to life they will see great changes. There
have been wonderful things here sinee you have gone."
"What are they ?" inquired the Guide, with a presentiment of evil.
" Then listento me with all your ears,"continued the peasant.
" Iam listening," said Jean Claude, nervously.
"Then you know," stammered forth Pierre, "or' rather, you don't
know, that Genevieve has been discovered by her family."
"Can that be so ?' murmured the perplexed Savoyard.
" Yes, my friend," proceeded the mechanic, "her father and mo-
ther were Italian nobles, dead long ago, but an uncle remained to her,
who found the pearl necklace" of her infancy-and the jeweller at
Chambery, whom they questioned, told them all--  "
"And then " inquired the Guide in breathless.
" The uncle, who had no children, died last month, and left all his
property to Genevieve."
" Can it be true ?" musingly muttered Jean Claude.
" And they say," stammered forth the bell-ringer, "that she is the
richest lady in Ferrara-a countess or a marchioness -"
" A marchioness 1" exclaimed the astounded Guide.
"Still there is a condition," hesitating proceeded Pierre, "a con
dition attached to the will, that-"
" She leaves me-me, Jean Claude ?" anxiously interposed the-
Guide.
"Hdow know you that ?" inquired the astounded bell-ringer.
" Heaven told me that in advance," responded the disconsolate
Jean throwing himself upon a rude bench. "Yes, ever since Gene-
vieve has been my wife, I have a presentiment of some misfor-m'ii
like this. And Genevieve knows all this ?"

TIE ALPINE GUIDE.

23

22


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

s
'I

"She knew it well before your departure." replied Petit Pierre.
" How was that ?" inquired Jean Claude.
" Yes," rejoined the bell-ringer, " they came while you were from
home; they brought her the will; they advised her to leave; still
Genevieve had but one answer :-' I am,' she said, 'the adopted
daughter of Dame Marianne, and the wife of Jean Claude ; without
him I would perish in a palace-with him I could live in a humble
cottage ; his affection is my wealth, and I will not barter happiness
for gold-go therefore and return no more." '
" And thus spoke she ?" enthusiastically exclaimed the Guide.
" But they persisted in coming back," continued Pierre, "and
Genevieve begged us to go hide ourselves until your return. But
you came not, and when we found the fragments of youi- coat in the
valley and they told us the general and Jean, his Guide, had been
shot-the cousins of Genevieve brought the news-they came again
to carry her hence."
" And still they came," murmured the disconsolate husband.
" Yes," proceeded Pierre in his narration, " because death dissolves
all marriages. They found the poor woman pale and ill; but these
people, who have their carriages, soon sent for a physician from
Chambery, who has restored her to health. Yes, Jean Claude, these
are the wonderful things which have happened since your departure.
But God be praised ! Jean Claude still lives, and Genevieve will re-
sume her distaff; remain with us, send away the rich relatives and
the great legacy. We will talk no further on the subject."
The Guide was lost in deep meditation, and apparently turned a
deaf ear to the consolations of his kind and honest friend.'
" I wished," resumed the bell-ringer, advancing kindly to his silent
comrade, "that you should know everything before reaching the cot-
tage, and now if you wish it, I will accompany you-yes, let us go
forth together-come, let us go, 1 say-"
Pierre !" said Jean Claude, recovering his former resolution, as
he arose and extended his hand to his faithful companion, " farewell,
Pierre, farewell forever !"
Where are you going ?" inquired the peasant warmly.
"To rejoin the army ; to mingle agam amid the roaring cannon-
farewell !"
"Jean Claude !" exclaimed Pierre, attempting to restrain him.
"Now do you not see," quoth the Guide, his speech growing more
and more animated as he continued, "that I am one too many in. the
world?  Can I reappear unto Genevieve?  Can I deprive her of a
fortune and perchance of life, to reduce her to poverty and labor,
which will now cause her death-"
"Still!" vairly interposed the bell-ringer.
" And were that wound," continued Jean in a melancholic strain,
" which I have received, to open again ; were I unable to toil with
my arms-would [ then behold Genevieve, a discarded heiress, scrape
the ground to nourish me ?"
" But the fact is, that-you are thoroughly cured," added Pierre, by
way of explanation,

" I am not sure of it,' responded the Guide. " The snow and hail,
the storms of heaven, may again be a scourge to us. And think you
that to-day, after Genevieve has seen a fortune disappear before her,
I could say to her: 'Come, wife, put the child upon your back, the-
timres are hard, but the world is large ; come, let us find some means
of gaining a morsel of bread.'-No ? that would be impossible,
Pierre-in returning to my mother's house, I will experience nothing
but cold and hunger, misery and pain-"
"And who told you that riches will bring happiness to Genevieve ?"
shrewdly interposed Pierre. " Do you think, then, with a house full
of gold she can buy a friendship like thine ?"
" Oh ! no ! no !" muttered the Guide.
" Thou knowest well, contentment surpasses wealth," resumed the
argumentative manufacturer of wooden shoes.
" It is true, Pierre; you are right," responded Jean.
S" Come then, Jean Claude," entreated the bell-ringer, " let us go
and seek Genevieve once again."
"Still," hesitatingly replied the Guide, "if 1 make my reappearance,
her fortune will be sacrificed !"
" What will that signify-?" remonstrated Pierre.
" And then if our poor child, who is not strong," resumed Jean, in
depth of meditation, "should chance to die, perchance, Genevieve, as
she laid it in the cold ground, would mourn in silence that we had not
wealth to have saved her. Then I would be guilty of a crime in
causing her murder-better for me to die like a brave man with the
battle cry of France upon my lips-farewell."
Await for me, then," resolutely responded his comrade, "I will
accompany you hence, yes, a long way hence-and perhaps you will
change your ideas."
" Come !" reiterated the Guide.
"Wait !" whispered Pierre, as he opened the door.
"Why so?" inquired Jean.
"Genevieve is coming,ouutof church," replied the bell-ringer.
" Genevieve !" exclaimed the Guide.
"She has been to church to hear mass," rejoined Pierre, " and per-
haps'she will come in here."
"In heaven's name !" ejaculated Jean Claude, "conceal me."
" And whatever happens," continued Jean, " do not speak to me."
"Not a word !" said the bell-ringer, as he closed the door upon
him, " I will not say I have seen you. Now, Holy Saints, guard us!"
The worthy Pierre, rude and humble souL as he was, disposed of
his furniture to avoid suspicion and calmly awaited the coming of his
expected visitor.

I
F

24

I

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

25

"   iM.
.


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

CHAPTER V.
THE H HUSBAND' S SACRIFICE.
GENEvEvE entered the room, pale, trembling and careworn. She
was modestly attired in deep mourning, and the grief of her heart
seemed indelibly printed upon her beautiful countenance.
" Good day," she said, advancing in a most friendly manner to the
confused and excited bell-ringer.
" Ah, Madame Genevieve !" quoth the humble artizan, " you have
come to visit me," and he endeavored to stifle his emotions.
"I have come from church," resumed Genevieve ; " I have many
serious matters to speak to you about."
" Madame," responded the peasant, " I am at your service."
At first, my friend," quoth the lady, taking a seat upon a stool,
"it is necessary for me to bid you a long farewell."
" You leave us then ?" inquired Pierre.
"It is necessary," returned Genevieve. " My relatives inform me
that I should appear at Naples to assure possession of the inheritance
to which misfor tune gives me title. I have no longer Jean Claude,
whose labor gave me a living. I am now compelled to accept a large
fortune to guarantee my daughter against misery, which alone I could
buffet. I am about to yield up to the curate of Saint Martin the four
acres of heather land to aid in the relief of the poor-and I bring)
you, my friend, the forty crowns for which your poor companion lost
his life."
" To me, Genevieve ?" tremulously inquired Pierre, as the weeping,
Dame placed in his hand a leather purse, containing the coin.
"You will not refuse," reiterated Genevieve, giving vent to her
sad emotions by a copious flood of tears. " It is your share of the
inheritance and a souvenir of your best friend."
" Thousand thanks !" gratefully replied the bell-ringer.
" The money will be well spent, but keep the purse-it was his
travelling purse for many a year," sadly rejoined Genevieve, arising
from her seat and placing a key in his hand: "Here is the key to the
cottage of Jcan Claude. Be the master and guardian of it; and if
you desire to inherit it-"
"Oh, no !" warmly responded Pierre, " I could not think of living.
there without you, without him. No, wealth has closed the poor
cottage for a long while to come."
"May heaven grant that the wealth which has cost me such a
pang," resumed the still weeping lady, " will aid me in preserving my
sole treasure-my dear daughter. Did you only know, my friend,
how much during the absence of Jean Claude,'I have held her, either
burning or cold from fever upon my knees ; how many times I have
prayed God, and God heard my prayers, that her ills would cease be-

fore the return of her father, to whom I have never whispered con-
cerning the past afflictions, for my child was the mainspring of my
life. Poor Jean Claude, Heaven knows that had he lived, I would
have labored for his happiness." The lady sighed deeply and wiped
the tears from her eyes.
" I'm almost tempted to call Jean Claude," murmured the bell-ringer
to himself, touched at the sincerity of the poor wife.
And during my sorrows, Pierre," continued the Dame, "I'have
a shadow of consolation in his being able from on high to say to him-
self as he sees her growing up : Genevieve can now protect our child
from the blasts of autumn, the snows of winter, and she will grow to
womanhood beneath a genial sun."
" Still I dare not summon Jean," ruminated Petit Pierre.
" Farewell, Pierre," said the lady, shaking her friend warmly by
the hand ; "you can still say that Rich Genevieve of Farrara will always
be considered as a valuable friend."
" You are too good, Madame," gratefully replied the peasant," and I
shall ever love you truly ; still I would be unable to live among the
great people, who summon you to them; I could only compare my-
self to a thistle among the flowers of a garden.
" In the valley it may bloom unnoticed, but among dIinty plants
never !. But how long before you start upon your journey 'C
"In an hour, perhaps," returned the lady "andl now farewell and
may your life be a successful and a happy one."
Madame Thibaut extended her hand to 'the humble friend of her
infancy, who pressed it to his lips and bedewed it with his tears. The
poor fellow, warned as he had been by the reapparition of his ancient
comrade, viewed .the departure of Genevieve as a personal calamity
embittering the casual comfort of his bleak aad solitary existence,
with stammering accents he mumbled forth an affectionate, heart-felt
farewell.
No, sooner had Genevieve quitted the apartment than the Guide
stepped cautiously frei his place of concealment as if to catch- a
glance of his wife's retreating form.
"Now," murmured Jean Claude addressing his, companion, " you
must understand why 1 am one too many in this world."
" Yes," stammered Pierre-" that is so !-you must not be in a
hurry-there must be some time for reflection."
" She will take the child to some more genial clime," quoth the
Guide, pacing the apartment nervously. " Now. then will 1 have
courage to face the brunt of battle-I can willingly die of my
wounds !-Thanks to heaven, that before closing my eyes in death;
I have seen them on the road to a happy future. ' Come, let us start,
Pierre, my head burns and 1 must hasten-"
At this'momeint the bell of Saint Martin commenced ringing for
the close of service.
" hold !" exclaimed the bell ringer, " the bell announces the close
A mass-church is coming out-Genevieve will pass the house."
But should she enter," interposed Jean tremulously.

27

I

t26,

l

RT   t    ' ..  .      '^. .,..    _   ,.    _.                      _.. _..                4 ...t t ,     3      ^ ......,  ..  , ..,.   F .    ' i            Ie+. r y_ . ..     .A  .fie.                 ._.       1" h  "  1
j              1.                                                                                           f                                                                                                    S              i


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

28

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

" I will bolt the door," rejoined Pierre, suiting the action to the
word by forcing the bolt. " She will think that I have gone out-
now perfect silence until the bell ceases."
" Could I but see her for the last time," murmured Jean.
Shall I draw the bolt ?" insinuated Petit Pierre.
"No !" firmly responded the Guide, designating with his finger a
lateral window opening upon the street. " I see the people upon the
road way, strangers-they are her rich relatives-yes Genevieve is
among them bearing my child-my little Jean, my only treasure !.
Yes, they bear away my child, my everything !" still he added in
perfect delirium: " they cannot rob a father of'his daughter's love."
"No!" composedly responded Pierre.
" It'is-a sacrifice," continued Jean, " perchance repugnant to the will
of God, on high."
" Yes, repugnant to the will of God !" repeated Pierre, "certainly
it is,-l will go call Genevieve."
"No !" firmly responded the Guide, " I would seek her myself,
still-were I to be assassin of my child !-is my brain turned, or
has my wound re-opened-I feel my head swim-my breath fails
me.-Oh ! Pierre, you know not what sorrow is concealed within
my heart."
The Guide fell overpowered with grief and sorrow upon the breast
of his ancient comrade, and shed his tears freely, as the bell continued
to ring forth the closing chimes of the service.
CHAPTER            VI.
THE HOUSEHOLD SPY.
EIGHTEEN years elapsed after the departure of Genevieve from
her mountain cottage of the Savoy.   Many serious changes had
transpired'during that period of time, and the general, for whose
relief' Claude the Guide had ventured his existence was hailed as the
great Emperor of martial France.
It was, therefore, in the year 1813, that the domestics of a newly
decorated mansion in the Rue de Verneil were lounging out of the
windows to catch a glimpse of the imperial cortege, as it defiled
through the Rue de Bac. One by one curiosity impelled them to
desert their labors so that the main saloon of the mansion was
deserted by all save one, who, availing himself of the absence of his
master, was about to imitate their example when he discovered his
exit precluded by the entrance of a gentleman of middle ,age,
costumed with the taste and brilliancy distinguishing the new born
aristocracy of that period.
" Simon," said the incomer, as he almost jostled against the
domestic, who was about passing out, "are you here alone ?"
" Yes, Monsieur Morel," respectfully returned the servant.

29

"4Well, ray boy," familiarly quoth the gentleman as he closed the
door cautiously and advanced to the domestic, " you have not forgot-
ten that two months ago when I placed you in the house hold of the
Count d' Arezzo, 1 promised you-"
" That y ou would double my wages," interposed the affable
Simon.
" Upon condition.-"    "That I would inform you of everything
transpiring here," replied Simon, with signal effrontery of manner.
"There are two Napoleons," continued Morel, throwing to him
two glittering pieces of gold.
Thanks, sir," replied Simon; " now for your questions."
"First," resumed Morel, " where is the Count ?"
 He is undoubtedly at the Treasury," answered the domestic,
where his duties as Treasurer of the Venetian contributions should
demand his presence."'
" No.   I have come from   the Treasury," said the gentleman.
Has he gone out for the night?'.
"Yes," replied Simon, pointing to a mask, which lay. upon a piece
of furniture ; " probably he has gone to the masked ball at Frascati's.
I found this mask and cloak in the room early this morning."
" A masked ball !" meditated the gentleman ; "he would not miss
one of the fetes of Frascati-he gambles heavily." Then he contin-
ued aloud. " And the Countess ?"
"Has gone out;" replied the servant ; "Mademoiselle Jane remains
alone in the -hotel."
" Is there a continual dispute as to her marriage ?" continued Mo-
rel with an air of nonchalance.
More than ever," continued the confidential spy, " although we
do not hear much about it."
"Perhaps," interrupted the visitor, " The Count and Countess have
had an explanation ?"
'No," responded Simon, "the Countess will come to no under-
standin~g with her husband."
".He still persists in witholding his consent," remarked Morel.
" It. may be deferred until Mademoiselle Jane attains her majority,"
observed the well instructed Simon.
Oh, but that is far distant," continued the gentleman.
"She will be of age in ten days," quoth Simon correcting him.
"She will be of age in ten days," said Morel, reflectingly ; "are
you sure of that ?"
." I can assure y ou," observed the domestic confidentially, "that
Mademoiselle Jine attains her legal majority."
He will probably then demand all accounts, due during her
minority," remarked Monsieur Morel.
"That is a natural consequence," said Simon.
" Who has told you all this ?" inquired the gentleman.
" No one," responded Sinon, shrewdly. , " A  domestic, troubled
with curiosity, learns everything naturally ; a word on one side ; nd a
hint on the other, an intercepted letter-in a word you pay me  or
information; ;  pick it up-I inltruet you."'

II

7
I
'          n
o
r I

'V

t.

- I

4if
4

..s        {           a    a.'   , '1k.Y        i         4" "  R          }F' {      r          {     A. ' '' ' " M   .g,  .     'S4 .    :  !' "  rt, '.' S i


3U

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

" I have not a moment to lose," resumed Monsieur Morel, "it is
necessary for me to see the Count this very day."
Will you wait for him ?" inquired Simon.
" No! I have two calls to make," returned the visitor ; "at what
hour is it probable he will be here ?"
" I cannot say," replied the domestic ; " often when we believed
'aim at a distance, lie is in this very chamber: I sometimes believe he
-'ones through the walls.".
" I must make haste," observed the visitor. When near the room
Joor he suddenly stopped ; " Is there a cab-stand here ?"
" In the Rue de Bac," replied Simon.
"Thank you," rejoined Morel; " when I return, let me in."  " Let
you in," responded Simon in a hesitating manner, " that was not
-rieed upon."
" I will treble your wages," quoth Morel, taking his departure
hastily.
"Is that man the friend or the enemy of the Count de Arezzo ?"
soliloquized Simon as he watched the gentleman leaving the apart-
nent. " Is he a debtor or a creditor ?  In faith, he can be one or
the other, provided he does not pass counterfeit money. . A carriage
at the door !" lie continued, as he went to look out the window
" the Count, perhaps; no, the -chariot of the Countess. And I have
forgotten to deliver to Mademoiselle Jane the result of the commis-
sion she entrusted me with. I must hasten to her."
"I was just going to speak to you, Mademoiselle," he continued as
a young and lovely woman entered the apartment.
" I was out of patience waiting for you," returned the lady.
" I have been to the post," replied the domestic ; " there are no let-
ters from Italy for the Countess."
" He has not written then," murmured the girl to herself, " fifteen
days, and without a letter !"
"She appears annoyed," musingly observed Simon.
"IHenri does not love meas dearly as I love him," quoth the girl
to herself.
! Is Mademoiselle aware," interposed the cautious Simon, " that
her mother, the Countess, has returned to the mansion ?"
Think you so l" observed the lady abstractedly.
"The horses are already unharnessed," replied the servant.
" I was ignorant of it," remarked the young wom an, about to take
her departure from the chamber.
" Jane," interpo'ed the Countess, entering the room in her carriage
costume, "I have been seeking for you everywhere-what are you
doing here ?''
"I came to ask a question of Simon," modestly responded the fair
girl to this inquiry of her still young and handsome mother.
" B it what ails y ?" inquired the Countess with an air of solicit-
ude, " on have a ,. ressed looking air-has anything unusual oc ur-
ed, Simon?"
"9Nothing, Mlada ,'

TIE ALPINE GUIDE.

31

" Ilave you seen the Count ?" tenderly inquired the mother. "IHas
he been conversing with you ?"
No," disconsolately replied the young woman: "still, I have
been thinking that fifteen days have elapsed without any news from
Italy."
An-I that grieves you," reinarked the Countess, as she seated her-
elf' upon one of the longires, " my poor child, reassure yourself, dry
tip your tears, and dream that Colonel Henri thinks more of you than
lie does of himself."
'" In the first place," rejoined the daughter, assuming a seat affee-
t imnntely by the side of her mother, "that is an impossibility, besides
his silence does not prove his love. About an hour ago, I saw a ser-
vant come hither with a letter--oh ! how my heart beat, but I was de-
Teived. It was  letter from the Marshal's wife, who invites us upon
the fifteeitlh of this month to attend the soiree given before her de-
parture to the country."
"Yes. I am  aware of it,".responded the Countess, "I have just
quitted the lady i she will call shortly to take you with her to the
chateau."
" What ! me !" inquired Jane.
'Yes," resumiied the Countess, " to-day there is musical mass in the
chapel; the marshal's wife has two places in the gallery reserved for
ladies of honor ; one she has placed at your disposal, and will take
you in her company. Hence, my child, make all speed, call your
waiting-maid, and arrange yourself beautifully-"
And you ?" affectionately inquired the fair daughter.
I," responded her mother, " will profit of your absence, and en-
(lea vor to speak to the Count rationally concerning your marriage."
Listen, mother," entreated the beautiful Jaine; " 1 am too heart-sore
.to dress myself, and think upon the vanities of fashions. Permit me
to write a line thanking the duchess, and suffer me to remain by your
side the rest of the day."
Should I permit y ou," retorted the Countess, smilingly, " you will
repent of it before long."
Why ?" sweetly inquired the young lady.
" Because I trust youwill see," responded the Countess, "some one
at the Chapel, um ho will dissipate your melancholy."
" Who ?" anxiously interrupted Jane.
" A person arriving from Italy," replied the Countess.
"Who brings tidings from Colonel Henri ?" quoth the young girl.
"And who knows the reasons," continued her mother, " why he
has not written for the last fifteen days."
" Who knows the reason !" ejaculated the young lady.
" I do," replied the Countess, " because he told it inc."
" And you have concealed it from me ?" said Jane.
"You gave me no tinmIe to communicate it to you," answered her
mothere. "rThe Colonel has not written for the reason that the weari-
n'ess of separntion pressed so heavily upon him that he solicited an
ippoiitnieiit near the Emperor.'
"   T  n - tu to  race ?' iitte; mtrotel th  'n-me Iad v.

F~~'   --~  F-"~    v       -                -

F

Oki
}I
1
l
{4

1i

I'r
Il

t
4

i
S
i
If

;                        '                             ,
- .. .--.-ter--                  w           - - 
sz,


32-THE                   ALPINE     GUIDE.
" Which he has obtained," continued the matron, joyously, " he
started for France forthwith, and now he is in Paris."
" Henri, here !" ejaculated Jane, drying her tears readily.
"Yesterday he was received by the Emperor, and to-day he will
be present at the mass in the chateau," quoth the Countess.
And is this all true ?" anxiously inquired Jane, almost beside her-
self at this joyful revelation, "all you have told me?"
Quite true, my child," returned the Countess, " now will you not
go and thank the Duchess."
"And have you seen him ?' anxiously inquired the fair girl.
We have not time to enter into details," affectionately replied her
mother, " now hurry and dress yourself."
I will not be long for my heart urges me to the task," and with
these words the beautiful creature was about to bound out of the
room, when she noticed the entrance of the step-father, at whose as
peet her joy was suddenly changed into a re-assumption of her pre
vious melancholy.
"Well, Jane," quoth the Count d'Arezzo, upon his entrance, "you
seem to have dropped your good-humor. Are you afraid of me I"
No, father," timidly responded the young girl.
"In truth," continued the Count, " you almost make me believe it
to be so. Preserve your gaiety, my girl, for it suits you admirably,
and do not disguise it in my presence, who was but a moment ago
thinking of you."
" Is it possible, father 7" musingly asked the blooming Jane.
" Yes," responded the Count, "1 have just left one of our most
wealthy diplomatists who has a son attached to the department of fi
dances, and I thought that-
" You are well aware, my father," interposed Jane, energetically.
that I am promised to Colonel Henri."
1 am aware that the Countess, your mother," responded the Count,
has been guilty of the weakness of encouraging the hopes of this
young man to whom I am a stranger, and I should be much pleased
to have a conversation with you upon the subject; will you therefore
do me the favor of taking a seat ?      .,,
"Jane has it not in her power to comply with your request," inter-
rupted the Countess. interposing her person between the speakers.
"At this moment the duchess is expected to arrive to convey her
to the Chateau."
I regret that my daughter can not sacrifice to me.---" resumed
the Count.
" It is impossible," repeated the Countess, "the duchess will be
here, and Jane will be behind time-Go, my child, and haste thee."
"Poor mother," musingly whispered the young girl," to leave thee
alone to ennui -
"Nay, trouble yourself not on my account," affectionately respond-
ed her mother " go, be happy, and make haste."
The beautiful Jane smiled and quitted the chamber noiselessly.

THE4 ALPINE GUIDEF.

00

CHAPT        IR   VII.
"I fA trusted, Madame " qooth the Count, as he deposited a tnae
of documents upon the table, " that in assigning an hour in advance
for my daughter, I might havo reckoned upon her attendance."
"1 am astonished, that you should solicit, at this hour, an interview
ou have avoided for the past six months," proudly retorted the
untess.
aIt was because I concluded you had resolved to discnntenaime
a project of alliance. my silence disapproved of."
" And why this silence 7 upon what grounds do you base your di.
approbation ?" sternly inquired the Countess.
" Upon an interest for Jane's welfare," replied the Count ; '"and
therefore it is my duty to resist the dangerous allurement of an affeo-
tion which has completely bewildered you."
"You are laboring under a delusion, sir," retorted the Countes.
"ount happily, Ideem It proper to interpose my prudence," the
Count rejoined.
" Or rather, your hatred," resumed the lady
Hatred ! for whom V' ironically asked the nobleman.
"My daughter," solemnly spoke the Countess.
" I entertain hatred against her ?" exclaimed the Italian.
"You are aware, sir," responded the lady, "that I had, sworn to
remain a widow, when the monks of La Concordia contested my in-
heritance, after I bad been in possession over two years."
" I remember that," nervously added the nobleman.
" You should moreover remember," resumed the Countess, "'that I
was subsequently informed that you instituted these unjust and illegal
proceedings."
"It was a calumny !" warmly said the Count.
" You are still further aware," proceeded the Countess, energetio.
ally, "that the Sovereign Council of Venice, unto whom I had re-
coarse, promised me its protection upon the condition of contracting
a second marriage with some Italian nobleman, who would becon e
at the same time my husband and the adopted father of ay child."
"That is all true," remarked the Count.
" I had no choice but between the future of my child and of the
existence of her father; my duty was plain," continued the Countess,
"You were near me, and contrived to take possession of my cond.
dence, and when, to preserve the fortune of my daughter, I became
your wife, we signed a contract, recognizing the right of Jane to ones
half her property, and constituting you her tutor. You even exacted
by the same instrument, that this fortune should belong to you,
should my daughter chance to die, and I yielded to the emei-gency,
for after her loss the world would be valueless to me. From that day
you have up to this time surrounded Janie with every care and pre-
caution-now you dissimulate no longer-you have thrown off the
mask."

F,

I

r
r
,
i

T:

5$     ,' +, , T 1     F   .r «_ !row,.    '       .f       ,f     . ... .:±4..  __       L .zr_"h
.k.    4


34                 TILE ALPINE    GUIDE.
" I, Madane!" ejaculated the Count.
" When the First Consul," continued the heroic mother, " having
conquered Italy, summoned you to France as a Venitian envoy, did
you not endeavor to separate my child from her mother, and prevent
her from following us hither ?"
" I would have withdrawn from the Countess d'Arezzo," returned
the Italian, " a child which seemed perpetually to recall the name of
her former husband, Jean Claude."
"The name of Jean Claude Thibaut will always be enshrined in
my heart," warmly responded the Countess.
"You are welcome to your divinity," sneeringly observed the
Count.
"Shortly after our arrival in Paris," resumed the Countess, paying
no attention to the sarcasm of her husband, " did I not see my poor
child fall ill, and speedily decline, overwhelmed by your neglect, and
wearied by domestic quarrels of which she was the object?  Did not
the most skilful physicians prescribe for her travelling ? Have I not
proof that your continued injustice was the cause of her malady, since
after a month of calmness and repose, she recovered her health ; and
when, after a two-years sojourn in Italy, Jane and I hastened to ob-
tain your consent to her marriage with Colonel Henri, whom we knew
at Florence, and to whom I pledged my word, have you not for six
months placed obstacles in the way of this marriage, without explana-
tion of your motives, as if you had a secret pleasure in tormenting
Jane, and in anticipating dread of her happiness ? And now, tell me,
if you do not hate my daughter, in what way do you show your,
love ?"
" Madame," responded the Count, with an affectation of calmness,
CI cannot reply to accusations, 'vhich can be excused, probably, by
the agitation of your mind, for I will not say from your anger, only
by averring that it does not suit me to authorize the union of my
step-daughter with I know not what young unknown Colonel."
"Who bears a name the army venerates," returned the Countess,
" for he is the son of General Roger."
" I never before heard of that general," resumed d' Arezzo, with a
profound affectation of ignorance.
" I have already told you," responded the Countess, excitedly,
"that General Roger was shot upon Mont Cenis-with Jean rThibaut,
the companion in his misfortune. Do yoi not find, sir, that in the
union of the children of these two men, murdered in the same cause,
can be seen the hand of Providence ?"s
"It assuredly is very romantic," replied the Count, "still quite
impossible, for I also have a project for the alliance of my daughter."
You ?" inquired the Countess.
" I desire," returned the Count " that her marriage will connect
us more intimately with the Court of France; beside, I have not as
yet relinquished my double duties as guardian and tutor."
"After having trampled," resumed the afflicted mother, "my poor
Jane to the earth by disdain, and indifference for over twelve years,

THE ALPiNE GUIDE.

35

you, at this late period remember that you are her step father,
because it suits you to dispose of her at your will, to sacrifice her for
some dormant scheme of ambition-Sir ! that would be a crime ?"
"Madam, I am astonished !" exclaimed the Italian.
"To find in me some resolution !" calmly returned the Countess.
In fact, that should  astonish  you.; I have ever been, if not
submissive, at least resigned, but my resignation ceases when the
future of my child is concerned. On your account, I have seen her a
child, weep I have seen her a girl, weep, and on your account, I have
no wish to see her, a wife weep ; and therefore -I tell you this
marriage shall be accomplished because I believe her happiness, her
I fe depends upon it. It is time that Jane should live in consolation,
for I have no wish that the shade of Jean Claude, who died for us,
shall come to the Countess to inquire what she had done for the
existence of the child of Genevieve. And were I, in this struggle
against you, to encounter even death-I Swear to you that I will face
it without changing color--"
You desire then," replied the Count, " War to the knife !"
"No, sir," responded, the Countess haughtily, "I merely desire to
solicit you- approbation of this marriage."
"Never, Madam !" firmly answered the Italian.
"Time has devoured space, sir," continued the mother, "in ten
days Jane will be of age."
"And then '' .nervously inquired the Count.
"Free, mistress of her own actions," responded the Countess
cal ly, "she will contract a marriage which heaven has blesssed in
advance, and institute her return to power by demanding a state-
ment of your accounts."
"What, madam," exclaimed the Count in consternation, "would
you brave scandal fearlessly- I"
yo The devotion of a mother to her daughter's welfare," returned
the Countess, "can never give rise to scandal-"
"In ten days, Madam," resumed the Count, "you will seek to
employ a rigorous exercise of right, I will therefore use all means left
to me during the ten days to come."
The Countess smiled, for she had resolved to remove her daughter
from his supervision during the remainder of the period of his legal
tutelage of the young and interesting girl.
hI desire," continued the Count, " to interrogate my child, in order
,hat her disobedience may be removed, then, madam, you can profit by
my hatred, for it would be justifiable, still-I am convinced that Jane
will recognize -"
Force may compel her obedience in a word," returned the matron,
"but at heart never.
' To-morrow we shall know all," responded the Count.
The Countess smiled again, for she had determined that her daughter
should be far distant ere the morrow's dawn. Then she continued
Yes, Madam," replid the Italian affirmatively.'

H4

4
E
t

n   ,


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

36

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

" Then I will withdraw," haughtily returned the Countess, as she
reiterated to herself her determination to send Jane out of the reach
of her rapacious and treacherous father-in-law.
" I have procrastinated too Long," soliloquized the Venitian as he
paced the room in nervous-agitation," I have suffered this explanation
to remain until too late-I was a fool for my remissness. If I cannot
obtain Jane's consent by persuasion, by intimidation, I must devise
some means to procrastinate the marriage. Should she compel me to
account for her monies--I will be not only ruined, but absolutely dis-
honored. Well ! I have yet ten days to arrange thatters ; ten brief
days. Luckily the hero of this adventure is four hundred leagues
hence. Let me see, I have friends at Florence, one above all, skilful,
intriguing and daring-while I an at work here I will set him in nU-
tion at Fiorence-he will introduce himself to the Colonel, quiet his
suspicions, allay 1eis doubts, and plant the seeds of revengeful jealousy,
while I poison the match here.
" Yes," he continued rubbing his hands, and ringing his chamber.
bell, "I will write to him, explaining my plan, and give him cause
to be interested in our success-"
" Did your excellency call I" modestly inquired Simon, who had
entered the apartment in answer to the dount's summons.
" Yes," replied the Venitian, "let the horses be put up, I shall no
go out again."
" Certainly, your Excellency," returned the domestic, "but I would
inform you-"
" What ?" inquired the Count, impatiently.
"That Monsieur Morel-" answered the servant.
" I cannot receive him," remonstrated the Count, "I have no time
at present- "
But, sir, he insists upon it," reiterated the servant.- ,'c
" Send him away," said the Count, raising his voice to a high pitch
--"I cannot--I am too busy-'-'
"And. so am I, your Excellence !" Interposed Monsieur Morel, forc-
ing his way into the apartment-
" He's done it !" murmured Simon, gleefully, as he left the room to
indulge in a hearty outburst of laughter at the superlative impudence
of the Count's mysterious visitor.
CHAPTER VIII.
AN UNEXPECTED ARR.IVAL.
"I a terribly annoyed at disturbing you," quoth Morel, throwing
himself into an arm-chair, without awaiting an invitation from the
Count, "yet I am enchanted to see you."
" What do you want 7" inquired the Count, indulging in a vehement
outburst of rage.
" Mer~ely to give you notice," replied the visitor, thatt I have de-

posited in the bank your note at sight, subscribed to my order, for the
sum of one hundred and twelve thousand francs for which you are
indebted to me."I,
"Well, sir," responded the Count, continuing the composition of
a letter, and paying but indifferent attention to his creditor, " you
will have the trouble of taking it out of the Bank again, for I cannot
at present pay it."
"You have the funds," replied Morel, 0 and I can wait no longer."
"And why this haste, at this emergency ?" inquired the Count.
"Simply while you are absorbed in gaming," answered his visitor
leaning over the table, so as to address him in a low tone of voice,
" you see not difficulties arising on all sides of you. In ten days
Mademoiselle Jane will be of age ; she will make the customary de-
mands upon you and after a notice of fifteen days will insist upon
her accounts, and as your affairs are disordered I have thought prop-
er to claim a preference among creditors."
"And then, Monsieur Morel," returned the Cdant arising and lay-
ing aside his correspondence, "you believe that I have not forese a
this state of matters-that I have provided nothing to guarantee my-
self. Such a thought is as outrageous in my case as audacious  p
ungrateful in yours."
"What are your expectations ?" inqatred Morel.
"In the first place, learn," replied the Count, " tlat this marriage
cannot be accomplished under six months, if it is at all. Accord rte
three months and then-luck will-not forever run against me; this
very night my vein of good fortune has commenced. A party of
twenty determined gamesters were assembled at Frascati's; we weie
afraid of being known, beside the rules allowed masked gambling, I
had three thousand napoleons before me when the day broke, and bii.
terrupted our game."
"Wonderful!" ejaculated Mogi.
" Twenty times," continued the Count, " I held the queen oar-d, tIp
knave of diamonds."
"Twenty times ?" repeated the visitoineredulously.
" Yes, twenty times !" reiterated the gamester.
"If you could only give me one on account," quoth Mora, exteg'd
ing his hand towards the noble,
a Pooh ! nonsense," replied the Count," that would appear tjpe
confounding you with my contractors."
"Well," returned the guest, "I do not mind that."
"But," responded the Count, taking his friend's hand, "I have boo
high an interest in your case for that. Well, this return of luck will
return and last as long as has my want of success. I will moreover
have before long other resources to pay you. Agree therefore to an
extension of three months and leave me.'
The Count conducted his visitor to a door at the further end of the
apartment and continued : " I am desirous of finishing an important
dispatch for Florence with regard to Colonel Henri."
Colonel Henri is in Paris," replied Morel, laying his hand upon

37

f


tt

p*

8

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

I
3!
t'
I4

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

39

the knob of the door, and addressing the Count, who had resumed his-
seat at the table and reconmenced his writing.
"You are mistaken," remarked the Venitian nobleman.
Not at 'all," replied Morel returning to the table. "I am certain
of it, I heard of it at the Club. Yesterday he was received by the
Emperor, and this morning he was present at the review.
"It is evidently an error," resumed the Count obstinately; " The
Countess whom I have just seen, would not fail to have informed
. . .
"She is either ignorant of the fact," replied Morel, " or has some
good reason for desiring to conceal it."
"You are crazy," insisted the Count, "it is impossible."
"Your excellency," quoth the domestic, Simon, appearing at the
door, 'Colonel Henri Roger desires the honor of an interview  with
the Count d'Arezzo."
"He is in Florence, is he ?" sarcastically observed Morel.
" Well, Morel," quoth the Count blandly, "I am delighted to meet
him face to face, for no business is transacted better than in person.
Take a seat, Morel, I will receive him in your presence and in such a
wise that his marriage will be broken off this very day."
" That's your game," responded the visitor, seating himself.
" I am in the humor," observed the nobleman as he issued the or-
der to Simon to introduce the young Colonel.
A moment afterwards a gallant young soldier, the very beau
ideal of one of those chivalric heroes, who had, raised themselves to
honor and renown in the army of the great Napoleon, entered the
apartment with a manly, yet respectful mien.
"Wil1 the Count do me the honor of receiving my salutations ?"
respectfully said the soldier, after the fashion of the Empire.
" What, sir, is the object of your visit?" harshly inquired t'ho
Italian.~
" You    not ignorant," resumed the Colonel, " that I aspire to the
hand, in marriage, of your step-daughter. I have taken the liberty
of addressing you several letters from Italy, which, to my regret,
have remained unanswered."
" Which should have instructed you, sir," replied the Count haughti
ly, " that I could not accede to your request,"
"I feared so, sir," modestly responded the soldier ; "but as my
future happiness depends upon this marriage, I have determined to
solicit your approbation."
"I conceive it to be, sir, exceedingly strange," answered the Veni
,.an, gruffly, " that you have ventured hither, when everything assured
you, in advance, of a refusal, which I now declare to be irrevocable.
"That's clear, and to the point," murmured Morel.
" And now, Count, I come," resumed the Colonel, discarding all
tone of inferiority or supplication, "as the bearer of a message, which
rmay probably influence you to alter your previous determination."
"A message !" quoth the Count, arising from his seat.
" But before employing a means repugnant to my honor," continued

I",

the young soldier in a milder tone of voice, "allow me, sir, to ex-
plain to you my situation-"
" You stated that you were the bearer of a message," harshly inter-
rupted the Venitian noble, "now, what is it? give it me."
"No, Count," remonstrated the Colonel, " I do not desire to employ
any influence--"
aI am waiting for the message," insultingly rejoined the Count.
" For mercy's sake," remonstrated the soldier, "just listen to me)/
" The message, sir," imperiously demanded the Count, "or I retire."
"Since you have forced me to deliver it, here it is," responded the
Colonel, presenting to him an epistle.
"I am curious to know," remarked the nobleman haughtily, "who
dares boast power to overawe my inclinations."
" And so am I," murmured the other visitor.
The Count leisurely tore open the letter, and dead with an air of
indifference, as follows:
" Monsieur the Count: the Countess d'Arezzo has promised the
hand of her daughter in marriage to.Colonel Roger. This young
soldier is the son of one of my companions'in arms; I approve of the
marriage, and will be most happy to sign the contract.
NAPOLEON.
"The Emperor !" ejaculated the enraged Italian, crushing the letter
within his palsied hands.
"The game's blocked !" muttered Morel significantly.
"The desires of the Emperor," quoth the Count in evident confu-
sion, " are orders in my case-still, it is--a determination imposed on
mae, a forced consent-I must avow to you, sir, that thus taken by sur-
prise, I have need of some days-to prepare myself-"
" We will wait, sir," responded Colonel Roger, " and during the
interval you will learn to appreciate me; shortly, perchance, I will
owe to your free action a favor; for which I am at present indebted
but to the intervention of the Emperor. Then we will forget this
message, of which, sir, I never should have availed myself, had not
your cool reception rendered such a step necessary. I will retire, sir,
without visiting the Countess, and without divulging the secret of this
Interview. I depart, sir, contented, for I believe that which had' its
origin in constraint will terminate in friendship."
The young man, as he spoke, extended his hand to the Count.
" I doubt it," stubbornly said the Venitian, refusing to accept Ite
courteous offer, " farewell, sir."
" No, Count, not farewell--we will meet again shortly, then autr.
voir."
The soldier then respectfully took his leave.
"Well, Morel ?" ejaculated the Count, disconsolately.
"Well," responded that gentleman, arising from his seat, "let your
Countship get out of that if you can. .As for me, I have the honor of
wishing you good-bye."
"Where are you 'going ?" hastily inquired d'Arezzo, as he noticed
nis creditor, with hat in hand, moving to the door.

r
a    =
f ,
,Y t4I
t{
I i
f
4
"if
x
t
s
P

"

I


40

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

"To hasten the presentation of my note for five hundred and
twelve thousand francs," coolly replied Morel.
" Stop !" retorted the Count, " are you not aware that in ruining
me, you cause your own ruin likewise ?"
" Please, sir, how is that I" ironically inquired the creditor, about
to open the door.
"Because," growled, as it were, the Italian, "I have arranged in
case the matter should turn out thus."
"In what way I" resumed Morel, retracting his steps.
" You are in debt to me for a fortune," responded the Count d'Ar-
ezo, in a low, threatening tone of voice, " which you have acquired
within a year through my protection. You would never have made
gzch enorrpous profits had it not been that I, with whom important
sums have been deposited, have assisted you in illegal transactions,
which I dared not undertake myself. Thus I have taken care to secure
your responsibility, that my ruin will lead you straight way to the
tribunals of justice."
"Lt has then been a set trap !" exclaimed Morel.
" No, sir," replied the Count, " but an act of foresight."
" Yu are an infernal scoundrel !" said the infuriated visitor.
" Bless me !" calmly ejaculated the Italian, " and you are another,
as I will prove in good time. But as we have no time to waste upou
compliments, let us cogitate how to get out of this embarrassment."
"Your diff ilty in no wise concerns me," responded, the infuriated
Morelf "you subscribed an obligation, relating in no wise to our ar-
rangements. It is strictly according to law." And the visitor attempt-
ed to leave the room.
" I subscribed to the order of Morel," replied the Count, impending
lis passage, " and your name is not Morel---j-"
"Not Morel !" replied the creditor.
' No !" continued the Venitian, " you assumed that name, after es-
caping from Florence where you were to be tried as a connterfeiterif
the public money."
" What! you are then awe-" interposed the visitor.
" That upon the same day you would annihilate my credit," resurn,
ed the Venetian - "I will give you over to the Florentine envoy, who
will take you off my hands."
"Should that occur," responded More], altering his tone materially,
"1 will join my destinies so intimately to your own that we will be
mutually compromised."
" Now," continued d'Arezzo, calmly, " we understand each other
most clearly."
"You are right," responded Morel, "what shall we attempt" -
" Anything tending to salvation," rejoined the Count.
"Tell me, Morel ! when I saw Jane, dying, given up by her phy-
gicians '
" After her death," interrupted the creditor, "you will have to ao-
count to her heirs."
"I am  by agreement," replied the Venetian, "her sole heir, and

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

41

" The Devil !" muttered the Florentine, " you have all the ,cards."
" And now to sweep the board," continued the Count, " but the
time has not yet come ; besides I have some combinations to work
out. If you could attach yourself to the track of the Colonel-pro-
yoke a quarrel-a duel----"
"No, thank you," replied Mbrel, dubiously, " he would kill me,
and I love life a little t'oo well. Still we could,-by aid of lying, scan-
dal-"
" I leave the Colonel to your ingenuity," interrupted the Court;
t' to-morrow, I will hold my step-daughter in my power."
" To-morrow!" quoth Morel, " she will be far from here."
" Far from here ?" inquired the Count.
" Her mother sends her hence to-night," replied the visitor, " the
matter is all arranged."
" Who told you this ?" marvelled the Venetian.
" I know not," answered his companion, " but I can convince you
of the truth of my assertion."
" In what way ?" anxiously inquired the Count.
" In the first place," replied Morel, "do you know of a man named
Ambroise, who resides at Chaillott ?"
" Yes," responded the Italian, " an old servant of the Countess,
whom I turned away for considering he had the right to interfere in
her disputes-"
" The Countess has preserved relations with him," continued Morel,
" for immediately after leaving you, she addressed a letter to hime."
" And what does that prove ?" interrupted the Count.
"IRead the letter," replied Morel, handing him a note, "arid yon
will learn all."
"How came it into your hands 7" suspiciously said the Count.
"Siinply,," responded the Florentine, "because one of your ser
vants was entrusted to put it in the post by the Countess, who sod
it to me, while I was in the ante-chamber."
" Which one of my servants V inquired the Count, foaming with
rage.
" What difference does that make ?" quietly resumed the Florentine,
" read first, and get angry afterwards."
" Excuse me, Monsieur Morel," said Simon, who entered the apart-
ment, bearing some lighted candles.
" What's wanted ?" warmly demanded the Count.
" The hackman, whom Monsieur Morel has left at the door of the
house," said S iron, apologetically, "wishes to know if there is any
further need for him."
" Let him wait," replied Morel, " I will leave shortly."
" No," interrupted the Count, "let him go."  Then whispering tb
Morel, he continued : " I have need of you to-night-the hours are
most precious."
"But they are waiting for me at home," returned Morel.
"Give them notice," said the Count, resuming his writing,
" Where is the hackman ?" inquired Morel of the servant.

t

t

i
t
f
i
3i
1C
f
l

{
#
.
i = .
E .
4
I  g(  i
E   ,
'c
3
{
}_
-                            f
f                  ,s:a

}
'i
g
t


4.2

TIIE ALPINE GUTIDE.

"In the ante-chamber," responded Simon.
" Show him in," ordered Morel, resuming his seat, while Simon
disappeared to execute his mission.
" It is truly the hand writing of the Countess," murmured the Ital-
ian, as he opened the note and glanced over its superscription and
contents.
CII APTER          IX.
JEAN, THE HACKMAN.
THE door opened, and, and in entered the coachman, a fine-looking
man of middle age, whose figure, although costumed in the dress pecu-
lian to his professional calling, evinced a manly independence and
martial bearing, at once announcing him to have been a veteran of
of the Empire.
" Excuse the liberty, sir," quoth the hackman, known 'among his
associates as Jean the Mountaineer, holding his hat in his hand r-
spectfully, " but I have the habit of giving notice-we are too often
forgotten-and there is discontent for time goes on according to law."
"You can go," replied Morel.
" Then I did right in notifying you that the coach was below," re-
sponded the hackman ; then looking at his watch, he continued: "You
engaged me at half-past four ; it is now half-past nine; ive hours
exactly."
" And I' owe you ?" interposed Morel.
"Forty sous the first hour," replied Jean, "and thirty sous each
hour after *"it is easy to reckon : eight francs exact."
" Iere1 -e ten !" answered More; giving him the coin.
"And here are two in exchange," responded the coachman, taking
out his purse.
"I t is unnecessary," interposed the Florentine.
 Thad you, sir !" said Jean retiring towards the door.
"Hold !" quoth Morel, " you are carrying money you have not
fully earned."
" Pardon, sir, but I thought-" apologized the hackman.
"You will go to the Place des Vosgeo, number seven, and inform
tiem that the master of the house will not be home to-night," quoth
Morel, laying stress on the direction.
"Yes, sir," murmured Jean. " Place des Vosgeo-still another
course    "
" What are you saying ?" inquired Morel, bluntly.
"I was saying that it was another course," responded the Backman
frankly. " It may not be for other cabmen, who put up at Piepus
or Sainte Antonine-but I live at the Barrierdes Bonnes HIommes, and
in going from the rue de Verneuil to Passy, the- Place des Vosgeo is
not exactly the shortest cut."
" That's well enough," interrupted the Count impatiently ; "di,-
pense with your reflections-you are paid-go !"

T-IIE ALPINE GUIDE.

43

" The gentleman is too polite, for one not to hurry on his errand,"
returned the hackman, placing his hat upon his head.
" What's your number !" inquired Morel.
" Two hundred and twenty-six, sir," replied Jean.
Well,-' responded the Florentine, " if I find, to-morrow, that you
have not done my errand, I'll have you put in the workhouse-now,
go !"
" No danger," replied the Hackman, " I owe you a course, even if I
make it on foot."
Ihen as the mountaineer departed from the room, he was almost
tempted to return the money and request his employer to secure the
services of some other of his companions. A fear, alone, of the coni-
missary of police, prevented this ebullition of spleen on his part, so
he emerged the apartment with a determination to make the most
of a bad bargain.
" Well!" said Morel, arising and going to the Count.
" You have read this letter ?" inquired the Italian.
" I merely cast my eyes at its contents;" replied Morel.
The nobleman handed him the note, which read:
"Ambroise : The Count d'Arezzo wishes to employ the last hours
of his authority over Jane to torture her-and I can do no better
than concealing hei- with you. At ten o'clock precisely Jane will
leave the mansion, going down the rue de Verneuil to that of du Baca
Hasten ; be at the corner of these streets, where you will meet her
Conduct her first to your house at Chaillot-on the morrow depart
for Fontainbleau, where you must remain for ten days. Do riot
write ; the letters may indicate your retreat; in everything else Jane
will counsel you."
" It now wants but a few minutes of ten," quoth Morel drawing
out his watch and making a calculation.
I have no time to prevent this departure," resumed the Count,
walking in agitation. " No ! I should not desire to do so, now I aui
instructed of it  More! can I not join Jane, and see her without
dread of her mother's intervention ?"
" You can, I suppose," tranquilly responded Morel.
"Instead of tearing her from me," continued d'Arezzo, " the Coun-
tes has thrown her in my arms, and I shall be annoyed should she
change her plan-let us see what passes."
The Count went to the window, and withdrew the curtain, whi'l
Morel concealed the burning candles behind somne.pieces of furniture,
t.bat their forms might not be seen before them.
" No one in the Countess' apartments," whispered the Count as ha
gazed out through the window ; "yes, some one opens the vestibule,
the door opens; the Countess embraces her daughter; Jane leaves her;
the door has closed-Jane has gone !"
" Perhaps, not meeting Ambroise, she will return to the mansion,"
suggested Morel.
"No !" replied the Count in agitation ; " she will continue on to
Chaillot, expecting to meet him-it is ten o'cloc :?"

- x

4

,
F
t
t
s.
.
_1

si
1~
'1

t
4
{
+
f
A
F
]j{jt)
7
.
'i


I
44

"Yes, Connt," returned Morel.
"Morel," resumed the Count, earnestly, " should we not prevent
this marriage, think you I will be imprisoned after the fifteen days
of notification ?"
I am certain of it," responded his companion.
* And the slightest confusion in my case will seriously compromise
you with me," quoth the Italian.
"'That is what I dread," moodily answered Morel.
"Morel," said the -Count in a tone of decision, " we must follow
upon the trace of' Jane-we have not a minute to spare."
The Count d' Arrezzo summoned Simon to him and gave directions
to bring fresh candles, alleging as a reason that Morel apd he had a
long series of accounts to arrange, which would require their atten-
tion all night. Particularly cautioning them not to suffer them to be
disturbed in their nocturnal work, the Count dismissed his domestic
a7d cautiously bolted the door after him: an operation Morel viewed
with astonishment.
"some, Morel," continued the Count after finishing all his precao-
tions, " let us hasten after her."
" You told your people," interposed the Florentine, " that you
were to remain hese locked up all night, and now they will see you
go out."
No !" replied the Italian opening a secret door in the 'Wall, " this
conducts us to the garden, whence we can pass into the street unseen."
" Very well," said Morel, taking his hat, while the Count produced
a couple of masks, from a drawer in one of the pieces of furniture.
" Take this mask," the Count continued, " and I will use this one."
"   mask !" remonstrated Morel, " why a mask !"
For prudence sake," responded the Italian.
"What are you going to do ?" inquired Morel hesitating.
" I have not made up may mind," said the Count ; " we will think
of it as we go along."
Still," remonstrated Morel.
"Will you leave all traces of Jane ?" inquired the Count.
" No," replied his companion.
" Then let us staet," nervously said the Venitian.
I am ready," sullenly responded Morel.
As an act of further precaution the Count took off his rings, which
he usually wore, and cast them upon the table. In a moment after
the two passed through the secret door and disappeared as it closed
solemnly upon its hinges.

TIllt ALPINE GUIDE.

46

.C II A P T E R X.
T H   H AoKMAN AT HOME.
Ti main feature of the habitation of Jean, the owner and driver
of carriage No. 220, situated at the Barrier des Bonnes 1-lommes,
upon the top of one of those steep hills whence the citizens of Passy
are accustomed to gaze down upon the Parisian metropolis, was a
lhce cellar the ordinary receptacle of the appliances belonging t his
dail~ing. In this emporium  things necessary, Jean found him hard
at cogitation upon some occurrences which had marked his eventful
career, In the open court yard stood his bright green hack, while in
the reriote corner of the subterranean apartment tranquilly dozed
one of his companions, an occasional member of Jean's household,
which was managed and controlled by the Dame Champagre, an aged
and half, deaf woman, a kind neighbor he maintained from charitable
motives, for Jean leaving the mountains, still maintained an inkling
of their generous hospitality.
"Hulo, you there, Dame Champagre," quoth Jean, perceiving the
old lady upon the stair way leading to the inhabited quarters of
Jean's mansion, " wait a moment. I have something to give you for
the young lady."
Jean went out into the court.yard and the Dame, whom he had
forgotten to be afflicted with deafness, disappeared up the stair-way-
and left her host in possession of the deserted premises, holding in his
hand a little package which he had taken from the hack with a deal of
preaution.
"Well," soliloquised Jean, depositing the package upon a piece of
furniture, "It will do at some other time. The old lady's deaf, and
I shouldn't speak loud for fear of waking Pierre, who has worked
hard at his shop during the fete of St. Cloud, tnd the fellow want
.leep. He'll stay here until Sunday, then he will go and amuse hin-
self, according to his habit, at the criminal courts. Well, every man
to his taste."
The hoar of opening the public fountain having arrived, the back-
man took his buckets and startedto water his horse, and thus save
himself a superfluous journey to the Seine.
Jean had not expended many moments upon this branch of his
labors ere the occupant of the straw gave signs of animation and
finally leaped to the ground with a somerset of decided agility.
" Only a fly," muttered the sleeper, wh6 was no less a personage
than the ex-bell ringer of the Savoy, as he gazed out and noticed

I1

4

/

I

TIIE ALPINE G-UIDE.

9


TIlE ALPINE GUIDE.

the carriage of Jean in the court-yard, "Jean has come back ! yes.
there's the green hack and I hear the Negress and Marego munehin.
their oats iin the stable like happy beasts as they are; but where is
Jean ? I will seek him in his chamber."
Petit Pierre was about to ascend the stair-case when he remem-
bered that Dame Chanpagre had inforImd him that it was in the
occupation of an unknown lady.     So the Savoyard halted and
prosecuted his researches elsewhere.
Ilo, my little Pierre," shouted Jean, appearing at the entrance
of the cellar with his buckets in his hands, " what, up and kicking as
weil as ever'"
" Yes, Jean," replied the peasant," light a candle."-
 What woke you there ?" inquired the Hackman.
A fly," responded Petit Pierre, scratching his nose.
loid !" quoth Jean, looking into the stables, "old Marengo has
gi elt the fresh water; coming, old boy, coming."
-That's right !" responded Pierre, " give Marengo fresh water, he
wi l never drink it younger ; as for me I'll take a bite.
Pierre went to the cupboard, took out a loaf of bread and cut off a
slice.
"Everybody served ! nobody wants anything !" gaily said the
the hack man, as lie entered his depository. "Pierre, I have not seen
you since your return."
" At six o'clock this morning," replied Pierre, beating upon his
lhand, "you had gone-when I had got back."
" I was on the stand," rejoined Jean, as he commenced blacking the
traces hanging against the wall, " at five in the morning ; that gives
trie time to rest the horses in the middle of the day. \But tell me,
are you content with your little journey ?"
The end was good," replied the Savoyard. " I sold my portraits ;
see. there only remain a Monsieur and Madame Denis, and one Na-'
pdleo n and two old rabbits."  As lie spoke he opened the euphord arid
drew forth some plaster images'which he placed upon a board to re-
arrnish, then he continued; " I must fix up my store-still the two
ir4 day's from a continual rain."
Oh, yes," interrupted Jeancontinuing at his labor, "I thought of
-voi and said to mrynself, if we only knew it would turn out so, Petit
I'ierre would not have started for two days."
You may believe it," resumed Pierre, intent upon the work of
roLtoring his images from  damage, " for then iy figure -would not
have been vet, and I could have been present at the sentence of the
pretty bar woman, tried for having two husbands
She has been condemned," responded Jean, toiling at the traces,
that pretty bar wonan, to ten year's imprisonment."
" Ten years !" exclaimed Pierre. " How I should like to have been
there, I, who had listened to all the interrogations
You were there theta I"
No ! replied Jean," I heard it yesterday, at the Prefecture."
\V hat were yu doiig at the lPretoet ire'?" said the Savoyard.

" To deposit there a pocket book," responded the hackman, " which
a young nt forgot in my cab. I could not find out where his home
was, for 1 set him down at the gate of Luxembourg, so I took it to
the place-for reclamations, where i heard about the pretty woman and
her two husbands."
" Do you think it right ?" inquired Pierre.
Yes, it is right," responded Jean, " but there are many who
have two husbands-still it is the law-that's all we can say !"
"That's all we can say," reiterated the peasant, " and you, my poor
J enn, you have beeni thrown into the water ?"
fHow do you know ?' srmilingly inquired the hackman.
"'This morning, also, when I came," rejoined  Pierre, " I was
going up to your roon, when t net that venerable youth-the Dame
hliainpagne, who told ine something-but the young girl said you
saved toy lite-that she owes it to von-"
No, to Marengo," responded Jean.
"Marengo!" ejaculated Pierre, mysteriously.
I was returning Thursday evening from the place des Vosges,"
'luoth Jean, leaving his work to narrate the adventure, "I wanted to
take Champs Elyses, but Marengo turned to the left to take the river's
edge-that was not my idea but his-and as I was not engaged, f
u old not disappoint the poor beast and we took the side of the
river. When we arrived by the heighth of the Bridge of Jena, I
heard something fall into the water. As the waters are low, I drove
lose to the edge of the pier and then I could plainly see a woman,
struggling in the river. I soon sprang over a pile of wood' and
thence drew forth the poor creature-not a single passer-by to aid
Inc."
Not a single one," replied Pierre, deeply interested.
"None," resumed Jean, " for it was going on midnight-but old
Marengo-you know he follows me like a dog-well, he dragged the
Negress after him and there they stood about fifty steps to come up
to tile. I put the poor creature in the hack, for the hospital wag fir
off and my house was near. I was soon here, I woke up our neigh-
bor, Dame Champagne, and the doctor, and what a night we passed.
The next day she was no woman, but mad-devoured by the levei-
and I would not leave her a moment with Dame Champagne, fearing
each convulsion would be the last. . However, during the night, she
became cam; and yesterday the doctor told us that the crisis woi'ld
not return again, and that she was saved. Then, you c6uld not iia-
giiie nily lhappiess, to have gazed upon that beautiful young girl-o
near perishitig-and to know her out of danger. At that moment
above all I thought of you, and l said to myself: ' Here is a piece of
joy, and Petit Pierre is not here to take his share in it.'"
Oh, yes," interrupted Pierre, "I would rather not have gone to St.
Cloud, and this young woman, would she drown herself?"
"' That is not certain," resumed Jean, sagely, " but there is no ques-
tion, God be praised ! that the (delirium has not quite left her, for yes-
terday evening site ordered me to drive her close to Chaillot, for some

j

'.
I,

I

L

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

47

46

i


48                 THEt ALPINE GUIDE.
one nathed Ambroise. I dared not refuse and there we learned that
Ambroise had started two days before, to his sisters at Melun. I
feared this little promenade would fatigue her, but no, I saw upon my
return and she is well and has related tier history."
" How then did it all happen 1" inquired Petit Pierreh
" We   greed," resumed Jean, "tlat is, Dame Champagne and I,  he
bd wished to destroy herself, not from misery, for she had silk gown
and embroidered petticoats-it would not be anything but love--
" It could be nothing else," interrupted Pierre, eagerly.-
"Well, it was something else," replied Jean: he continued his nar-
rative : " As she was going late in the evening to Ambroise'q at Cha-
Iot-.she had passed the es lanade, when suddenly two brigands--rob
bern in masks, Precipitated themselves upon her ; the  oor girl was
seized before she could cry aloud ; they tore from her er necklace,
watch and chain, and threw her into the river."
"Good heavens !" ejaculated the kind hearted Savoyard.
Yes, Pierre," responded Jean, "such scoundrels are to be fiund."
"1I am aware of it," replied Pierre, " I see them at the Court of
ises,-     d you have learned all this to day  le you were asleep."
"Butn a  little while ago," responded Jean, "1whileyoweeaepi
"Then P11 run to the commissary." ejaculated hierre, excitedly,
"id lodge a ('rnplaint-"
"No at all !"rmntrated the hackmnan, "not at all."
"But, yes," insisted Pierre, "1you know nothing about such affairs.
It is  criminal matter-we commenced by a complaint-the police
will hail the assassins and it will finish by a sentence. By all that's
good ! it will be a brilliant affair and every one will have to get up
early to secure a good seat-1 shall be on the other side of the bar as
a witness I will see all without a farthing---I shall run to the commis-
sary.".                                .
"Await first," said Jean, stopping his exit.
" But," interposed Pierre.
" Think you, I had no inclination," resumed Jean, " to run to the
pcyice ats soon as I learned all this."
"Well," observed Pierre seriously, " what prevented youo
*" The young girl," resumed the'hackman, " who begged of me to
await until she returned to her family, and she is too ill yet to expose
her to new emotions. It is necessary to punish these brigands,yes;
and they cannot escape, but above all it is not right to injure the inno
cent to be avenged upon them. Let us await until the young girl is
recovered--you know not what she is called, Pierre ?-now what
think you is her name?
"What is it?" said the perplexed Savoyard.
"Jane " replied Jean the hackman.
"Jane 4" hesitatingly mused Pierre.
"The same as the little one," murmured Jean, " of the cottage"
"Yes the same as the little one," repeated the peasant. "
" What has become ot her ?" quoth Jean, in a pensive humor, "of
my daughter and Genevieve. The blessing of Heaven should have
acornpanied them in their riches."

THE ALPINE      GUIDE.                   49
"Poor Jean Claude !" meditated Pierre, silently, "he often thinks
of his wifeand child"
"Eighteen years soon passes !" continued Jean in his reflections.
" Jean !" exclaimed Pierre, advancing to the hackman and awaken-
ing him from his day-dream," come, let's see Mademoiselle."
"Yes," replied Jean, " distraction will do her good ; you go first
and I wvil charge you with a little message."
"well, what is it ?" exclaimed the delighted Pierre.
"Yesterday," responded Jean, "when I took her to Chaillot, it
was necessary to be all dressed-her silk gown, her petticoats-and
we dried them well, before they were put on-but at the moment of
starting I saw she looked for something to put on her head. She is
the daughter of rich folks, you see, and not accustomed to go out into
the streets bare-headed. I said nothing, for she is so young, so hand-
some,-we could not offer her a hat of Dame Charnpag   , eso hnd
"By no manner of means !" interrupted the Savoyard.
"This morning in passing by the market of St. Jacques," confiden-
tially continued the hackman, "I saw a pretty little bonnet with rose-
colored bands, ad Ibought it. And as I don't know how to offer
it to her, you will give it to her on my behalf."
Ths speaking, Jean took the package, which he had originally in-
tended to send by Dame Champagne, and handed it to Pierre.
"It's agreed !" replied the honest Savoyard.
"I've just time to blacken Marengo's collar," responded Jean, "and
I will com and join you."
"vA little time hence," murmured Pierre as he ascended the stair-
way, "and I will make her a little present. I bought at Cloud's a
shawl with flowers, which I intend to give to the flower-girl who takes
charge of my shop when I go into the palace of justice-I will buy
her another; it cost me three francs fifteen sos, but I'll give her
your bonnet first."
" Above all," cautioned Jean, " don't speak of the commissary."
" " replied Pierre. "but don't-you want to make a complaint ?"
"No," sharply answered the hackman, "I don't wish i
" Nor I either," responded Pierre, " here's to your errand."
CHAPTER XI.
THE SOLDIER's soN.
JEAN, the coachman,, was well satisfied with the return of his com-
panion, for he would feel the departure of the young girl less bitterly.
As he had been seated by her side the previous evening, while she
was arranging her toilet, the poor man thought he saw Genevieve.
The dream of twenty years hung over him.
" Thisis the place," quoth a young gentleman, entering the court-
yard; "yes, the number 226-the very man himself."


"What's wanting ?" inquired the hackman respectful ly.
"Yes, now I recognize you," continued the young nan.
" I don't recognize you," responded Jean, perplexed
" I forgot a pocket-book in your carriage," resumed the gentlemnthe -
" Ah, it is you !" quoth Jean, " I no longer have it - it is at the
Prefecture to be reclaimed."
" It was returned to me this morning," replied the young man.
"I am glad," responded Jean, " it has reached its owner." bank-
"Sir" resumed the gentleman, " the pocket-book, besides
bills, contained papers of vital importance to me ; and grateful at the
act of probity which has restored them to me, I have hurried to your
house to beg you to accept a just reward."
"No, sir, no," interrupted Jean earnestly, "I consider it theft to
take possession of anything belonging to another, andno nioan deserves
a reward for not having stolen."
"Monsieur Jean," spoke the young man in a tone of pride, "you
are an honest man."
"I believe so, sir," replied the hackman.
"1I have a proposition," continued the gentleman after a moment's
reflection, " to make to you."
"tWhat is it, sir ?' modestly inquired the coachman.
"sMy fortune permits me to keep horses," i ejoimed the young man,
" and if you would take charge of my stables, as an honest man can
never be over-paid, I would leave you to arrange your own terms."
"I am thankful to you, sir," proudly answered Jean, drawing hnim
self to his full height, "it would be necessary to wear livery, and
when a man has been a soldier--"
"You have served then ?" inquired the stranger.     .    I
" For fourteen years," responded Jean; with a military air. "n
the 6th dragoons, styled the War-Dogs, in which regiment for ten
years I have been lance-sergeant."
" I crave your pardon, sir," replied the young man, " the livery can
never replace the uniform. I know it, for I am a soldier, and the son
of a soldier."
" You a soldier !" warmly exclaimed Jean, "I served from '95 to
1809."
"You made the campaigns of Italy ?" quoth the stranger.
"The first and the second, and that of Egypt between them," re-
joined the hackman, with a glow of enthusiasm. e,,
"1How then have you remained so long a sub-officer I earnestly in.
quired the gentleman, interested in the veteran's story.
"tAh !" responded the veteran with a sigh, "I know neither how to
read or write. Since I quitted the service Ihave learned a little of
both-to be a coach-driver it was necessary to read the names of the
streets and the numbers of the houses. Had I known as much before,
I never should have been' uneasy as to the  ure
"I have, Monsieur Jean," joyfully resumed the stranger, "a retreat
I can offer you."
"Truly, sir," interrupted Jean, gratefully.

TIIE ALPINE GUIDE. "

50

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

t
ii l

51

i'In the forest guardians," returned the gentleman, " who wear as
we may say, the veteran's uniform. Thanks to- my position in the
Italian army of occupation, I can place at your disposal the situation
of frontier guardian ni the forest of Piedmont."
"That is something like," responded the veteran, " sir, I would like
to end my days somewhere in Piedmont, where I could view the lofty
peaks of the Alps ; still I would be unwilling to give up my business
as long as I have Marengo."
" And who is Marengo ?" inquired the young soldier.
" My old horse," replied Jean, " another of the 6th dragoons y we
were together at Marengo, and a slash intended for me there cut off
his left ear ; we were moreover together at Cautzig, both down, and I
believed he never rose from the field.,,,",a
" Still you have found him again ?" said the gentlemen.
"Two years after, at the market," resumed the veteran; "I was
buying a hack and horses. I knew enough to husband the proceeds
of victory, and in passing the mart where old horses are sold I recog-
nized Marengo, from his lost ear. As soon as he heard my voice, he
rushed to my side. He was for sale at sixty francs, a horse who had
seen Rivoli, Cairo, and Austerlitz. I bought him immediately, and
for five years we have toiled together."
" Can he do duty still as a hack-horse ?" inquired-the soldier.
" I must say," exclaimed Jean, "that I joined with him the Negress,
a black mare of great strength, and she gently leads him along when
in harness. However, although twenty-five years old, Marengo, still
has a heart. Why, sir, the other day, during a sham fight on the
Champ de Mars, they fired cannons and sounded the charge. Well!
no sooner did Marengo hear a noise of battle than he dressed his ear,
since he has but one, looked at me whining, as if to say: 'Oho, Jean!
to the saddle ! the Austrians are at hand.' Well, sir, it made me
laugh as well as cry, and I could not help saying to himdOho, my
boy ! the Austrians are no longer in the field.' Who would believe
it ? there are stances when I talk to that old horse as if he were a
human being."
"Sub-officer Jean !" quoth the young soldier kindly, "the situation
of forest guard, which I offer you, will be at your service whenever
you wish to take advantage of it."
" In that case," thankfully responded the veteran, "I may have
time to reconsider my refusal."
"You can always find my address at the war office," continued the
soldier;-" this is my nane, Colonel Roger."
"There was a general by that name," sadly rejoined Jean.
ie was my father," responded the young man.
" Your hither !" earnestly exclaimed the veeeran, gazing upon the
young soldier fixedly.
"- W ho was shot upon Mount Cenis by being betrayed." murmured
the hackman.
"Did you se-ve beneath his orders ?" warmly inquired the gentle-
m a n.g


52                 THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.
"I, no !" thoughtfully replied Jean. " I Jean, the Mountaineer,
commencednmy campaign under Massena.           " whenever you
" It's of no consequence," resumed the Colonel;"wevryo
desire it, the post of guard is at your service. Now I have another
request."~
"And pray what is that, Colonel ?" in turn inquired Jean.
" Before leaving, I must see Marengo," replied the soldier.
"Tht i eay eouh !"ro ended Jean delightedly. " Please to
pass through the stable, whence a door leads to the street. But don't
expect to see a gallant steed, still you know many a gay lancer ends
his career an invalid-this way, Colonel."
The hackman with aaproud step marshalled the young soldier into
the court-yard, while at the same moment Pierre appeared on the
staircase and descended the steps with precaution.g around him,
and then addressing the young girl, he continued: "Come down, ma-
demoiselle, there .is no one here."
"Has Monsieur Jean gone out then ?" inquired the young lady,
who, in addition to her costume, wore the little bonnet purchased for
her by the kind old veteran.
" Oh ! no !" responded Pierre, as he caught sight of the hack, still
standing in the court-yard ; " perhaps he is in the stable: shall I call
hin, Miss ?"
"Donot disarrange him," modestly replied the young maiden.
" Here he is !" exclaimed Pierre, as he noticed Jean coming from
the stable.
"The son of General Roger !" quoth Jean, talking to himself; then
observing his guests, he gaily said, "Ah, Pierre ! and Mademoiselle ?"
"We have been waiting for you," observed the beautiful girl,
gently.
"You did not come, so, as I wished to thank you-for the pretty
bonnet you had the kindness to buy me, I come to you. How do
you do this morning!",~
" Good heavens   how beautiful !" exclaimed Jean in raptures-
" after all, it is not the bonnet-but since your color has returned
"I trust it has," interrupted the girl, taking a seat. " Monsieu
Jean, we will have a long account to settle. So many cares ! such
kindness, and so much money spent for me, every day !"
" Money mademoiselle !" stammered the hackman, ' don~ t speak
of that ! we always have it ! that is to say, Pierre and I have a little
which always sleeps in our money box-"c                 -i-h
"Yes, we have a money box," quoth the Savoyard, coming to his
rescue.
"rAnd I have something more," modestly said the damsel, in
tones of gratitude, "to request from your inexhaustable goodness-
" Perhaps a little shawl," thought Petit Pierre to himself; "now
is the time to offer mine," and he went off to search for the precious
article in the cap box.

i.
L

THE   ALPINE     GUIDE.                  bb
It is four days," resumed the girl, ," since I have been with you ?"
"Yes, mademoiselle," responded Jean, " four days."
tI have had but a few hours," continued the young maiden, "when
the light of reason dawned upon me, when I have been    'prmited
the use of my senses-d   nug        ur I iha     en permitted
theuseof  y snse~du~ngthese hours I have thought of your
goodness-of God-and of my mother."
"Your poor mother," sighed forth the generous Jean, "must be
sorely distressed on your account.'
"No, happily," gratefully replied the girl, "she does not expect
me--she bieves me absent on a journey."
"That is indd luky"       '    d
nolinbehieeh luk," inerpose Pierre advancing to her,
holding behind him the bundle containing his intended present, "and
your father, Mademoiselle ?"b'
"My father !" mournfully added the damsel, "it was to escape
" He loves you not !" ejaculated the wonder-stricken Jeau.
"mHe !" exclaimed the maiden disdainfully, "he is not my father;
my mother has lost her first husband.y
" Then he is but your step-father ?'" insinuated the hackman.
"Yes," replied the lady sadly, "my good mother who never
wished to marry again, sacrificed herself for my welfare to save my
fortune, and she has been sadly recompensed. On account of my
step-father, I do not fly, this very instant, to the arms of my mother
whom I will expect to-morrow, and whom 1 wish to apprize in
secret-not of my accident, but of my unexpected arrival. Dare I
supplicate you, beg of you to take charge of a letter to her ?"
During these remarks, Petit Pierre passed to the opposite side of
the lady and gaily unfolded his cherished shawl.
"That is an easy task," replied Jean.
"You will please to hand to her a note in private, and to her alone,"
resumedthe damsel; "for should the letter fall into the hands of my
stepfather, evil will come of it."Y
"RPest easy on that score," responded Jean ; " it will soon be eve.
ning, I will soon go to my stand for the night. Does your mother
live in Paris ?"
"Rue de Verneuil, No. 8," replied the lady.
" No. 8 r" ejaculated Jean, "are you not mistaken in the number ?
"No," returned the girl.
"No. 8!" rejoined Jean, "that is a magnificent mansion."
"'Which belongs to my mother," resumed the young lady.
"To your mother !" exclaimed Jean, while Pierre who had unrolled
his shawl to surprise her by throwing it over her shoulders, remained
petrified, as it were.'
" There," continued the maiden, following out her plan of instruct-
ions,you will request the porter to conduct you to the Countess d'.
Arezzo."       reusthpotrtcodcyototeontsd'
"What, Mademoiselle !" exclaimed the astonished Jean, "are you
the daughter of a Countess ."
-" Yes," smilingly replied the young girl.


54                THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.
"You, Mademoiselle !" repeated the hackman, in redoubled aston-
ishment.
" The daughter of a Countess !" murmured Petit Pierre to himself,
"the shawl is too small," and he vigorously rolled it up again.
"And I," resumed Jean, "have dared to offer you-oh ! it was not
a bonnet, it should have been a hat ! but I did'nt know and-you must
pardon me."
" That bonnet, Monsieur Jean," warmly responded the young girl,
" I would not exchange for a diadem.--It will be treasured as the best
souvenir of my life."
" In truth ?" interposed Pierre, then he internally resolved to pre
sent her with the shawl, which he unfolded again.
" Go hide yourself with your three livre shawl," uoth Jean to the
Savoyard, and who was approaching the girl, cap in hand.
" It won't do then," muttered the disconsolate Pierre as he retired
to refold up his unfortunate purchase.
"Madam, you have suffered probably from the poverty of your
host," apologetically asserted the humane hackman.
" All the treasures of the earth," responded the young maiden en
thusiastically, " could not have drawn me from the river ; we cannot
purchase courage and devotion."
"That is true," mused Jean, " for it is not wealth which gives a
heart."
" Oh, yes, you are right," responded Jane; " and have a care that
my letter does not fall in the hands of the Count d'Arezzo."
" Have no fear," answered Jean.
"I will hasten and write it," joyfully exclaimed the girl.
"Yes, Mademoiselle," replied Jean, " Pierre will guide you to the.
chamber and bring you everything you want."
"Come, Mademoiselle," kindly quoth Pierre, " everything is in the
chamber."
" And while you are writing," resumed thehackman, "I will ha'l
ness up the team ; it will not be long."
" This way, Mademoiselle," gallantly quoth Pierre, guiding the
young woman along the stairway. Then as he gazed upon the fair
creature his thoughts turned upon his intended present, and he for a
moment wavered in determination between giving it to the flower girl
or converting it into a waistcoat.
CHAPTER XII.
THE LOST TREASURE IS FOUND!
HONEST JEAN, the hackman, reflected seriously upon the narrative
of the young girl, and wondered intensely how a step-father could
render this treasure of a girl unhappy. She was the daughter of a.
Countess, and the worthy man thought to himself that his Jane night

TIIE  ALPINE    GUIDE.                  55
be one too, for Genevieve was of a noble family. As the bewildered
hackrnan sought for his reins which he unhooked from the wall and
hung around his neck, he meditated that his daughter would soon be
twenty-one years of age, and was now perchance married to some gay
nobleman. Jean soothed his conscience by the reminiscence that upon
each succeeding anniversary of her birth, he had caused mass to be
said to ensure the blessings of Providence upon her.
" After all," soliloquized the perplexed Jean, "the young creature
calculates upon me and I must make hate-where are my reins? I
had them a moment ago-ah ! here they are-l scarcely know what I
am about ; my head is wool-gathering."at
" Jean !" exclaimed Pierre, coming down the stairway out of breath
and violently agitated, "there is no need of harnessing up the horses;
I'll carry the letter to the Countess. You must not go there with it."
" And why not ?" inquired Jean.
" Listen to me," resumed Pierre, nervously ; "a moment ago as
the young girl was about to write, I said to her something like this: 'if
your mother is a Countess, are you not one too, my little woman?'
'No,' said she to me, 'fathers alone give titles to their children,and
my father was a poor man, who was killed upon Mount Cenis in guid-
ing a French General.' "
" My God !" exclaimed Jean, as the realization of his daily dreams
flashed before his brain.
" And what was his name ? I asked," continued Pierre, " and with.
out hesitation she told me-Jean Thibaut."
" It is my daughter-my Jane !" quoth the hackman in plenitude
of joy, as he advanced towards the stairway.
" Where are you going ?" interposed Pierre, stopping him.
" Are you certain she spoke that name ?" again inquired the joy
bewildered Jean, returning to his ancient comrade.
" As sure as Jane," replied Pierre, " that the Countess d'Arezzo is
no one but Genevieve."
"Both living !" exclaimed Jean, raising his hands to Heaven in
mute thanksgiving. " Yes, Pierre, I know now why Heaven has spared
my life against cannon ball and grape shot--it was that at some future
day, I should snatch my daughter from the jaws of death. What!
this beautiful girl is the little babe I have nursed. Great God above,
I am repaid for all my sorrow. Conduct me to her, let me see her !"
Calm  yourself, Jean," remonstrated Pierre, as he noticed. the
temporary delirium into vhich his friend had relapsed, "don't go on
so ! look at me, see how cool I am."
"But you are not her father," murmured Jean.
" Am I not her god-father ?" argued the Savoyard, " she's my god-
daughter-she's both our daughter."
"Yes, my friend !" responded Jean, affectionately and rationally,
"e have but one heart and one thought, dear little Pierre. And so
the good God has conducted her to my Poor roof."
Pierre could not withstand the expression of his comrade's confi-
deuce, as he threw himself into his arms wild, while Jean wgnec k
away the tears rollingr down his rugge d cheeks.

t
'(P
.                          p+
i
6
{
i  I(       f
t
i
J
Y
f
"f
a
t
+          t
7.
t  }
i

s


56                THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.
" It was likewise a kind Heaven," continued Pierre, earnestly,
" which inspired me to prevent you going to the commissary, for he
'would have compelled all of us to appear, you, the Countess, and her
step-father. And justice would have her eyes open wide, and would
have found a woman again with two husbands like the pretty bar-
woman, as you know,-and ten years of imprisonment."
" But Genevieve is not guilty !" exclaimed Jean, " she thought me
dead; she would not marry again, as Jane has said, only through de-
votion for her daughter."
" I know all that," responded Pierre, sagely, " still law is law ; you
let her think you were dead when you were not. Beside Genevieve
with you was poor ; with another she is rich and a Countess, and if
they find out that her first husband lives--"
"You are right," sternly said the hackm'an, " they would dishonor
her ; still they shall know nothing about it. Still 1 dread that Gene-
vieve will cause her own ruin-she will insist upon seeing him who
has saved her child."
"And should she see you," interrupted Pierre, cautiously, " danger
may come of it."
" Have no fear," firmly responded Jean, " for Genevieve will never
see me again. I have been offered a post in Piedmont. I have the
Colonel's card, who offered it to me. I will find him out and then see
you."
" Hush !" interrupted Pierre, "here she comes."
And as the light, agile, and truly beautiful figure of Jane descended
the stairway, the veteran exclaimed, in warmth of paternal pride :
"It is, it is her, indeed !"
" Monsieur Jean," quoth the young woman to the astounded, won-
der-stricken hackmnan, " here is my letter."
"I, Mademoiselle," said Pierre, advancing to her, " am  going to
carry it. Jean, who commenced work so early, is fatigued, but I have
slept late. Beside I am going to work, as every day I do a little upon
the Quai Voltaire, which is but two steps from the Rue de Verneuil,
and so you may rest assured that your letter will be delivered into
the hands of the Countess."
"I thank you in advance," gratefully said the maiden as she remit-
ted the note gracefully into his hands.
"Jean," quoti the Savoyard, advancing to the hackman, who seemed
lost in deep meditation, " Eh ! my old Jean, won't you give me a
shake of the hand before I go."                 1
" Willingly," responded Jean, extending his hand.
" You will not leave before my return,' whispered Pierre, so as not
to be overheard by the beautiful damsel.
" No !" replied Jean in a similar tone of voice, " 1 will wait until
Mademoiselle Jane is asleep; I long, before I go, to kiss her as she
sleeps."
"'Here we go !" gaily said the Savoyard, as he lifted.upon his head
the board loaded with the plaster images which had survived the sale.
at the fete of St. Cloud.

L

THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.              1   57
E All right !" ejaculated Jean, as he kindly steadied the board.
" Now we're off !" quoth Pierre, with the shop resting firmly above
him, " au revoir, Mademoiselle Jane ; be here shortly, Joan !' and
the gay Savoyard, with his humble stock-in-trade, moved into the
street, where his voice was soon heard, exhorting passers-by to pur-
chase the unrivalled specimens of art he had for sale at marvellously
low prices.
Jane stood in silent meditation, and her face beamed in joy as she
thought that her mother would soon have her letter, and on the mor-
row she would be secreted in the hospitable mansion of the gallant
Colonel Roger.
"To-morrow," quoth Jean to himself in deep meditation likewise,
"I will seek Colonel Roger, but I must first spend a few hours with
my dearest long-lost daughter."
" Monsieur Jean," interrupted the young girl, " are you going to be
so kind as to spend some time with me ?"
Yes, Mademoiselle," replied the hackman, " we will go into your
room where there is a good fire burning."
Jean took his daughter gently by the arm, the heart of the honest
man filled to overflowing, and his suppressed joy could only find vent
in a few straggling tear-drops.
CHAPTER            XIII.
A MOTHER'S SOLICITUDE.
COLONEL ROGER was seated in his house in the rue de la 'Paix,
reflecting over the contents of a letter purporting to come from his
betrothed announcing her approaching arrival from Fontainebleau
and her intention to conic to his house to secretly rejoin her mother.
".I trust," so soliloquized the young soldier, " that a fresh departure
will not intervene before our marriage, for the Count d'Arezzo has
made a formal apology to me, overwhelmed me with compliments,
and finally agreed to a reconciliation with his wife. How astonished
will Jane be at ascertaining this marvellous change ! The emperor's
letter has effected a miracle, and I am happy for it, for the five days of
.Jane's absence appear to have been as many centuries."
" I take the liberty of announcing myself at your service," respect-
fully said a servant entering the apartment.
" Ah, Benoit !" responded the Colonel, "I was waiting for you.
Do you know the hour of the arrival of the diligence from Fontaine-
bleau V-
"Between twelve and one," replied the domestic.
" Take my cabriolet," resumed the Colonel, "and drive to the office
-you know the daughter of the Countess d'Arezzo ?"
" I have seen her with her another frequently, Colonel," was the
answer.
' She will be a passenger doubtlessly, in the diligence," continued

.1T1

1
C
,
_               #
y
. ,
F
.   y
AwMMlhttWT ttf t . ,. _.


58

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

the soldier, "You will tell her that I have sent you in advance for
her."
The Colonel's sentence was cut off by a sharp ring at the bell.
"News from the Rue de Verneuil; see who is there ?" quoth the
domestic who almost immediately ushered in the Countess d'Arezzo.
" Good morning, Madame," said the Colonel with an affectionate
salutation, "now, Benoit, lose not a moment."
The servant left the room, while the Countess, whose solicitude and
agitation was apparent, seated herself by the Colonel.
" I have many things to tell you," said the lady.
Nothing disagreeable I hope," inquired the Colonel.
"Quite the reverse," responded the Countess, " Good news."
" I have sent it in advance to Mademoiselle Jane," resumed the
soldier.
She will be here in two hours," quoth the Countess, " the dili-
gence arrives at half past twelve."
" Now, Madame, I can listen to you-" resumed the Colonel as he ar-
ranged his papers on the table and took a seat opposite to her.
You must know that when you quitted the mansion last evening,"
commenced the lady, " you left me in conversation with the Count."
" Yes, Madame,'' nervously interrupted the young Colonel.
" We talked for a long while about Jane," resumed the Countess.
" I have found the Count embarrassed or rather repentant, after accu-
sing himself of a coldness, involuntary on his part, or rather irre-
flection, he passed a eulogy upon you, and he said he would be happy,
for the sake of a reconciliation with her, to hastei your nuptials by
giving a consent he had hitherto witheld."
It is preferable both for our reputation and his own," responded
the soldier, " that the marriage be arn aged amicably."
" You are right, Henri," resumed the Countess, " and in the hope of
attaining that object, I have announced to the Count that to-day - hope
to meet Jane."
"But," interrupted the Colonel, " you did not communicate to
him the contents of the letter."
" Oh, no 1" warmly replied the lady ; " I could not ; the bearer of
the note forbid such a movement; so I invented a little falsehood. I
told him that when Jane left for about ten days of absence, she had
upon our separation agreed to return secretly to embrace me at Paris
and that we were to meet on the fifth at your house -which is to-day
-that Jane, faithful to her promise, arrived here to pass an hour with
meand that I, by announcing the happy resolution of her father-in-
law, could prevent her from leaving again."
"'Very good, indeed," exclaimed the delighted Roger.
" The Count," proceeded the lady, "upon hearing that I anticipated
seeing Jane to-day, could not, restrain his emotions, and has given me
authority to unite his requests with ours in a word, he is coming here,
and I have hurried to let you know of the arrangement in advance."
"Malame, " gleefully observed the colonel, " everything works
well."

A ,

THE ALPINE GUIDE.
"Now," continued the Countess, " I have let you know of my an-
ticipation, let me explain my inquietude."
" What can- it be ?" interposed the young man anxiously.
" I cannot define them," responded the lady, " but they are based
upon this letter of Jane's-perceive how singularly it is sealed."
" It is not easy," remarked the Colonel, after examining the seal,
to find allnecessary writing materials at a village inn."
"Still, Jane," continued the Countess, " carries a seal, attached to
her watch, which is engraved with her initials-besides, see how the
hand writing trembles."
So it does," corroborated the Colonel.
" And further listen to the sonbre style of the composition," re-
marked the Countess as she read :
" Dear Mother-I cannot live away from you and yet I dread to
encounter the Count, that man who would cause our death, were not
Providence to watch over us."
"You perceive," observed the Countess, pausing in her reading,
"it would be impossible to exhibit this to the Count."
" Certainly, it would re-awaken his enmity," replied Roger, as the
lady continued with the epistle:
" Towards the middle of the day, I will arrive at the dwelling of
the Colonel ; hasten to precede me there, and think in advance of
some means for my concealment, where you can console the poor
daughter who loves thee so dearly.                    JANE."
"That letter was conceived in a profound state of melancholy," he
remarked, as the sound of a carriage called him to the window. "It is
the Count ; conceal the letter while I go to receive-he Count d'-
Arezzo."
"Henri is right," soliloquized the Countess, as she concealed the
note and took off her h t and shawl. " The Count would gain no-
thing, but lose all, by deceiving us. I know the reason, but I an
tormented despite myself; I would to Heaven the day was passedd"
i" Gentlemen, enter," quoth the Colonel, ushering in the Count and
his inseparable companion, the Florentine forger-; "the Countess
whsp is ready here, awaits your coning."  .
Colonel," said the Count, entering the apartment, "I have taken
the liberty of being accompanied by my friend, Monsieur Morel,,
who, as you will hereafter judge, may be useful to us."
"You are welcome, sir," responded. the Colonel politely.
" Colonel, you really do me very great honor," quoth the Floren-
tine with obsequious humility.
" My step-daughter has not yet a'rived?" remarked d'Arezzo.
"She will not be long behind us," responded the Countess.
-" My dear Count," warmly spoke the yonng soldier, " the Countess
has filled my head with joy by announcing to me you good-disposi-
tion with regard to us---"
"Some rumors have already been circulated with respect to may

f ,

I

L,

(#
t
a



r

gi
i
.4
Y
E
F
F   "
L

';_
_                                                 -      ;
'
1
i            -                ~' My. w   .     .
-   ,  - w.......r.w..6...wlJr.. .-....-....


60

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

t

AL

.

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

61

opposition to this union," returned the Count with affected disinter-
estedness, " and I have deemed. it proper to crush them by accele-
rating its consummation. It is therefore necessary to enter upon
some important examinations; and therefore I have brought with me
Monsieur Morel, who will present you with the balance sheet of my
account of Jane's guardianship."
"Here are the documents," said Morel, producing them.
For my part, gentlemen," quoth the frank soldier, "my fortune
is open to inspection. The Emperor Napoleon, to reward the father
in the person of the son, has conferred upon him the forests of Pied-
mont; to it he has added the pension of my rank, and a little pleasure
mansion, which has been bought since my return to Paris."
" Colonel," interposed Morel, " the marriage contract of the Count
d'Arezzo proves that the estate of Mademoiselle Jane was, at the
period of his taking charge of it, valued at twelve hundred thousand
livre. Had the speculation of tife Count turned out always profitable
this fortune would have been doubled during the past twelve years,
but it has progressed in a proportion which you can determine and
appreciate only by examining the accounts which I place at your dis-.
posal."
" In the evening I will charge my notary with their examination
and with drawing up the marriage contract," responded the Colonel,
placing the documents in the hands of his secretary. " I think I hear
some one walking in the adjoining apartment.
" It is doubtlessly my daughter," said the Countess, rising in agita-
tion, as the Count and Morel likewise quitted their seats. The hopes
of the mother were disappointed ; it was but Benoit who returned
and spoke to his master.
"The daughter of the Countess," replied the domestic aloud in re-
sponse to a question of the lady, " was not in the diligence from Fon-
tainebleau."
"Are y ou quite certain?" interrupted the Count, with a significant
glance at his companion--the counterfeiter.
"The diligence brought but three persons, and Mademoiselle Jane
was not among them."
"There are other coaches which stop at Fontainebleau, which like-
wise take passengers."
"The diligences from Lyons and Orleans, but they will not arriv-e
before evening" returned the domestic.
" Very wei!' responded the Colonel as the domestic left the room.
"I cannot explain this delay," quoth the Countess, with evident
uneasiness of manner.
" If Mademoiselle Jane was to have left Fontaineleau this morning,
it is to be presumed that she has taken the post coach," interposed
Morel.
"In that case she would have arrived sooner," interrupted the
Countess.
" Doubtlessly," remarked the Colonel, likewise uneasy.
" I have a presentiment of some misfortune," said the Countess;
" I must leave, and go find it out."

ii
E

"Be not tremulous concerning her, madame," interrupted the
Count. " Reflect for a moment that your daughter has agreed to re-
turn to Paris in five days, that is to-day, and some very trivial inci-
dent may have detained her."
"Hark, some one at the door !" exclaimed henri.
" It must be her !" ejaculated the Countess sorrowfully.
" I humbly trust it is," replied the Colonel, who gallantly proffered
his arm to the tremulous mother, and led her forth to welcome her
child, should she have arrived.
C H A P T E R XIV.
RESUScITATION        OF THE DEAD.
" Tun moment of dissimulation has nrived, Morel," quoth the
Count to his companion in iniquity, when alone.
The Countess will doubtlessly proceed to Fontainebleau," remark-
ed Morel, in a whisper to his companion.
" Or rather to Chaillot," observed the Count.
" The Colonel," said Morel, " will not have time to occupy himself
with his notary or with the accounts which you dictated."
" Happily not," returned the Venitian.
" The Countess will soon be informed of her misfortune," continued
Morel ; " I commence to tremble already."
" Why so ?" inquired the Count.
From fear suspicion iay fall upon us," replied Morel.
" The disappearance of the jewels will remove every suspicion from
us," returned the Italian.
" Still you are the heir of Jane-" resumed the forger.
In faith, a good reason, that !" interrupted the Count. " Think, we
are in our own apartments, seen by our servants, at half past ten,
and within an hour afterwards we were served by them in the same
apartment. whence none saw us go out."
"That is true !" remarked Morel with satisfaction.
"So much towards an alibi !" rejoined the Count ; " and now the
fatal hour approaches--it causes me a fever, which will be mistaken
for agitation arising from  grief-Hark, they come ! now put a good
face upon the matter."
" God be praised !" exclaimed the 'Colonel upon his entrance,
" here is your step-daughter."
S" My step-daughter !" ejaculated the Venetian with a vacant stare
of incredulity.
" Yes, father !" quoth Jane, as the Count stood petrified and his
brother culprit trembled from head to foot.
" They tell me," meekly resumed Jane, " that you have consented
to sanction our nuptials--nay, you do not reply ?"
Excuse me," stammered forth the Count, trembling as if he

rii
1 '

ii
V
1$!

3
R
T
t
:I

IF "

'1

I

4.


6 2                THE    ALPINE    GUIDE.
beheld an apparition fron the grave, " we were all--yes, all were--
uneasy-"
" Our inquietude have vanished," replied the young girl, unsuspi-
ciously ; " embrace me, father."
The Count, almost ready to faint, leaned forward and kissed his
daughter upon her forehead, who turned, after his embrace to her
not her.
" Mother, Henri !" affectionately quoth the maiden, tear-drops
standing in her eyes, " I am happy in being with you-I have suffered
so much, while I was away from you."
"Suffered !" ejaculated the Countess, " why not send for me?"
"I could not, mother," replied the girl.
"But where was Ambroise ?" inquired the anxious parent.
I have not seen him," returned the maiden.
Not seen him !" ejaculated the astonished Countess.
" The absence of Ambroise," replied the girl, " caused me to be
the victim of a misfortune, so terrible, that I would not have men-
tioned it had I not contracted a debt which all of us must join in
repaying."
"1 tremble from head to foot," sighed the Countess.
A misfortune !" inquired the Count in dissimulation.
" Ambroise came not to meet me," continued Jane, "and I
continued along toward Chaillot ; 1 trembled, for the long way grew
more and more deserted, when profiting by my isolation two men in
3nasks threw themselves upon ne."
Great Heavens !" ejaculated the Countess.
" Stricken by terror," Jane proceeded, " I became insensible in
their hands, when the two wretches, doubtlessly to annihilate the
evidence of their crime, threw me into the Seine.-
" Thou ! my daughter !" exclaimed the Countess, clasping her
arms around her most affectionately-
" Weep not, mother !" soothingly resumed the damsel, " I am here
with you again ; weep not, for Providence has saved thy child-"
" By what miracle ?" exclaimed Henri.
" What passed for three days," continued Jane, I know not, for
during that time my reason wandered, but after that the light of in-
telleet returning to me, casually through the intervals of fever, 1 dis-
covered that a passer-by--a haekman, thme best and most courageous
otf men, -had dragged me fi'omn the water at the peril of his own lite,
ld had carried into his dwelling and watched day and night by my
bedsiile.  In fine, in his poverty he had found means to succor me)
and his kimdiiess, likm a ray from heaven, restore-d m  to life."
" The mrme of this noble maim ?" ingmired the Countess.
'-Ile is called J eain," returned the gr.iteul girl,-" the name of may
hither-.
" Where is he ?" enthusiastically cried the joyous mother.
" I cmne t  i-igmnate his d welling." responded Jane, " Oh, I had hop.
(,d Zn tbing 11 my- sivon hulwith ime, hut he d-ewrted m when I was sleep-
lu, a-nd 4 r hidh,  hiln I finld in'st 1. 1   itid l   orlT tJean had

..
3 ,
I-'

Ii,

gone on a journev. Tains would he avoid may gratitude but he shall
Hot, cannot, fsCnde my researches, for. I know the number if his car-
r rNo.  G  ha1t fiur, is Unlelibly marked upon my memory."
'h  !"+jacalated Henri, -c know the man.
' i kn'ow h m?' inquired June, in ast)nishlment.
I reei ved iinfo rmio tn concerning him at the Prefecture," return-
fd the Coloiel, "and have iiscriled it upon this pocket book, which
he, in his hnstv,  tiurned to in after leaving it in his carriage."
U) dam drew  or! t hispoucket-bo ik and read: " 226, hack driven by
Jean,  v led tihe Mountaineer ; residenee, rue de Passy, Barriere des
Bonnes Fliloni."
"Order m carriage," exclaimed excitedly the Countess, " I must
Sie that nia.'
Paroim i', Colonel," said Benoit, on entering the room, " there
is in ex-soldier, who has lbceired nme to hand you this card."
"IL is mY own, let him await a mmniiieut," said the Colonel ; after the
servant had gone out, he discovered some writing upon the back.
" What is this," he continued, as he read : " I have reflected, Colonel,
and beg of you to accord to ne, as soon as possible, the place of for-
est guard in Piedmont, which you have promised me."
Turning to Jane, the Colonel whispered: " It is the Mountaineer!"
Advancing to- the Counitess, who had put on her hat and shawl, the
Colonel said to her gily :" Madame, remain ; the man who sent this
card in to mI is-Jean, the haackman !"
Heaven has surely sent hinT hit her !" responded the Countess,
again taking 4ff her toilet ga:Lirments.
Con in!" shouted theColonel to the coachman without the door,
"Monsieur Jeaii, come in !
"Excuse me," quoth Jean, who had entered the apartment unaware
of other persons being lpr'esent, " you have company, I will retire."
" Nay," said the soldier, kindiv restraining his departure, " there
are none here who should be strangers to you."
"None but friends, Monnieur Jean,'' ex:claimefd. Jane, running to
hiill eff'ceionatecl y.
" Mademoiselle .Jaiie !' ejaeulated the Mlountaineer, astounded.
And her mother, sir," inuterposeI the Countess, " who desires to
bless you fr saving her life."  -
Genevieve recognized ihe features of the long-lost Jean Claude, and
gave vent to a pierclng cry of alarm.
" What ails y  i n:e '. ?" said the Count, approaching her.
Save me, Comnt," wildly exclaimed the semi-frantie lady, '' von
whose injustice has almost caused the-the-death of my daughter.
That man there-who sacrificed himself for her-he alone has the
right ----"
l3efore the Countess could complete the sentence, her face turned
jale, and her speech failed her.
Mother !" exclaimed Jane, running to her assistanee, while Jean,
who had made a fev steps in advance, turned upon his heel, by a
desprate effert to imi!ste'r h.s iihumycilse to rush to the uimhappv lady's

i
l

TI S;  i1NI.":a GLiii "

sy
c ?


64                 THE ALPINE GUIDE.
" Carry me hence," murmured the Countess, in a state of semi-con-
sciousness. The Colonel hastily opened the door of an inner apart-
ment, and conducted the trembling lady within it, accompanied by
her equally agitated daughter, but not, however, until her lips whis-
pered the solemn words: " Jean Claude still lives !"
The Count paced the room in meditation ; a fresh enigma was pre-
sented for solution, and for a moment he was at a loss to comprehend
the reason why the presence of this obscure man could exert so pow-
erful an influence upon the emotions of his wife.
"Wretched man as I am !" murmured Jean, in a paroxysm of grief
which seized upon his sensitive soul.
" Jean!" quoth the Count, " styled the Mountaineer."
"Your star is accursed !" whispered Morel to his companion.
Perhaps," whispered the Venetian in return, " but, Morel, leave
me alone with this hackman, go!."
Morel gazed for a moment upon them both, and murmured to him-
self: " what can he hope to do now ?" and with this observation, he
took his departure from the chamber..
"I must haste to leave this house," muttered Jean, advancing to
wards the door with a moody, melancholic step.
" Stop, sir !" interposed the Count, " I cannot let you go thus ; I
owe you a tribute of gratitude ; I am the father-in-law of Jane."
" Ah! you are the man, then !" said Jean, with a gesture of con-
tempt.
" Yes," continued the Count in a familiar manner, "I became the
second husband of Genevieve Thibaut, widow of the father of this
young lady."
" You have then gained," responded Jean most tranquilly. "a very
kind, gentle girl, and very beautiful."
" I owe her return to you," resumed the Count in a tone of perfect.
dissimulation, " and therefore-I desire--[ pray of you that you will
consider my.house, as I may say, as your own."
" Unfortunately," replied the hackman, "I an about to quit France."
" Soon ?" inquired the Count.
"In an hour," responded, " My comrades are waiting for me."
" But the Countess will be inconsolable," interrupted the Italian, Itif
you g6 hence without her being abloto thank you, you see; I will go
and let her know."
" No !" quoth Jean, attempting to stop his movement. "I wish to
tell you that I am an old soldier, very rough at that, and I know not
the way of talking to your high-bred ladies-I would rather go, and
you can arrange all the rest."
" It is impossible," said the Count, " here comes the Countess ; she
will accuse me if I suffer you to leave without her seeing you, and-
not to annoy you-I will leave you together alone.'

.I

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

65

CHAPTER XV.
THE TEST OF LOVE.
THE heart of the Mountaineer beat rapidly as the Count made a
sign as if going through one of the doors as the Countess entered
throu h another. Instead, however, of leaving the 'apartment, the
wily Venetian mer elf glided behind one of the curtains, whose dam
ask folds concealed the windows.
" Pardon me," said the Countess in a half-stifled voice, " if my
emotion at first paralyzed my speech ;" then casting her eyes about
her, she continued, " Where is the'Count ?"
" le is there," responded the hackman, gazing around the room,
when not being able to see him, he murmured to himself; "is he con.
cealed somewhere ?"
" He is listening to us," whispered the lady, "I heard the curtain
shake."
"Let us be upon our guard ?" quotrh Jean cautiously.
"Without you, sir," commenced the Countess, her eyes intently
fixed upon the curtain, "the mother who now speaks to you would be
dying with grief."
"You would have been very much distressed," calmly responded
the Mountaineer, "had the young woman perished:"
" I would," proceeded the Countess, " that my gratitude could equal
the courage displayed by you in saving her from death."
"Oh, my courage !" tranquilly answered Jean, " why, you see,
Madam - that would be a'good deal for some people, and nothing for
others. When a man has been twelve years a soldier, when he has
marched across battle-fields, exposed to every kind of peril, then he
learns the necessity of aiding his fellow-creatures ; of picking up one
who has fallen, or of tendering the hand 5to one who is down--and
you may say that, without forethought, Providence impels some to
assist others."
" Oh, you are right," interrupted the Countess, " the ways of
heaven are unfathomable mysteries, which humble the strong and
succor the weak, which unite and--separate."
" We are certainly overheard," whispered Jean as he mastered his
emotions.
" Yes," continued the Countess as she drew a medallion from her
bosom. " Providence teaches us to bless a man to-day, of whom we
knew nothing the day before."
While she spoke, she directed the attention of the Mountaineer to

0

Sir
I?
I    rai

1

tj
,


66

' THE ALPINE GUIDE.

a medallion of pewter, which the Alpine Guide had bestowed upon
his wife upon his return from the Grand Bourge many years before.
Upon the sight of this relic, Jean, who was about to speak, suddenly
become mute, while the tears coursed rapidly down the cheek of the
unhappy lady.
" Have you children, Monsieur Jean ?" inquired the Countess.'
" No, madam, I have never been married," replied the Mountain-
eer  " An orphan frominfancy, I have ever been alone in the world."
The Mountaineer drew from his bosom the counterpart of the mne
dallion, and secretly exhibited it to Genevieve.
"Since you have no child upon whom I can shower.my gratitude,"
resumed the Countess, " it is with you, Monsieur Jean, that I must
settle my debt aind obligation."
" I understand, Madam," replied Jean, disguising his feeling by an
outburst of laughter, while the tears trickled down his rugged cheeks;
" you would pay me for what I have done; well, I accept the offer,
only I don't know how much it was worth."-
" First take this purse," said the Countess, drawing forth a purse
which at first he hesitated about taking, but finally accepted.
" This purse is indeed a heavy one," said Jean. as he jingled its
contents ; " after all, it is perhaps but the price of service.
" With this gold I will have a glorious revel; [ will spend it with-
out remorse, for I have no family."
" Poor Jean Claude !" murmured the lady.
"I will assemble my companions," continued Jean, " and we will
recommence the celebration of Saint Medard, fete of hackmen, and
we will drink, for the Mountaineer stands the shot, to the health of
Mademoitelle, as well as yours. Ever thanking the Countess, I have
the honor of saluting you."
The Countess made an attempt to restrain his departure, but Jean
insisted that his absence was requisite, as he was on the verge of a
journey... The Countess heaved a deep sigh, and with her eyes filled
with tears, disappeared through the doorway, announcing her deter-
mination to summon her daughter.
"Poor Genevieve !" murmured Jean, sorrowfully, " wealth has
not given her happiness."
"1It is not him'!" quoth the Count to himself. " Besides, he alluded
to his journey, and is waiting to see Jane again."
" She was right !" meditated Jean, without noticing the Count.
" Heaven has mysterious ways ;-ah t the Count is listening ; I
was well aware that he' was in that game."
" So you have seen the Countess," inquired the Italian.  .
"Yes, sir," responded the hackman, concealing his emotions.
" How excited he is," quoth the Count internally as he crossed in
front of Jean to assume a seat upon the lounge, " 1 am not quite cer-
tain, yet-it may be possible that instead of remaining among the
dead, Jean Claude has arisen to avenge himself. He must submit to
another test."
" Monsieur Jean," exclaimed Jane, entering the apartment, " they
told me you wished to speak to ine."

L.

Ii

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

67

Yes, mademoiselle," replied the hackman.
And I have so many things to tell you !" responded the girl
" You waste your time, Miss," interposed the Count, arising from
the lounge and placing himself between the speakers; " for Monsieur
Jean his but a few moments to spare, and I wish .to take advantage
of them, for I have something serious to speak of to him."
Wita ine ?" ejaculated Jean.
Yes, with you," returned the Venitian.
Can you imagine," interrupted the maiden, "that I have nothing
serious to say to him-yes, sir, I I"
"I do not seek," responded the Count, speaking violently, "to rob
you of an opportunity. I beg you to withdraw, and will wait until
you are gone."
"But, sir," remonstrated Jane.
"In a word !" exclaimed, the Count, imperatively, "your father
commands you--obey-begone !"
"You are not my father," responded the maiden, indignantly,
knoww it well, Miss," sarcastically resumed the nobleman," in that
I have committed an irrevocable fault-in receiving you into my
house, in becoming the husband of your mother-,concealing beneath
a noble title the shame and ignominy of a prior marriage."
" Shame !" exclaimed the young woman; "shame ! there was no-
thing shameful in my mother's marriage-my father was poor, it is
true-"
So poor,' interrupted the Count, " that he was a beggar !"
The hackman, however, was sufficiently keen-witted to catch the
drift of the Count's assumed anger, so he leisurely retired to a distance,
whence he endeavored to catch the eye of the young- woman to put
her on her guard.
"A beggar ." exclaimed Jane haughtily, " It is false !"
"A t least I have been told so," remarked the Count.
My father," continued the maiden, excitedly, " was indeed a poor
man, a guide in the mountains, who walked night and day, frequently
upon his bare feet, to earn money to nourish his household, which he
blessed by his presence. There are others, Count, like you, soulless,
heartless-
Jane," interrupted the noble, "you weary my patience."
Heartless man," continued the girl, not heeding his interruption,
who outrage both the living and the dead,"
]enough I" interposed the Count.
Whose presence is a cirse," resumed the damsel.
Mademoiselle'!" ejaculated the Count in a frenzy of rage, rushing
at the girl as if to strike.
"Count !-sir-I never," interrupted Jean, throwing himself in
front of the Italian with a demonstration of forcibly resenting any
personal violence offered to the trembling Jane.
"What do you want ?" calmly inquired the Venetian.
'Nohing" .responded the hackman mastering his anger-and at-
tempting to smile, "I have a bad habit of mingling with other peo-
ple's ouarrels-that I have."

Sr

ii
At

Y
s


68                 THE   ALPINE GUIDE.
"It is truly Jean Claude," murmured the Count to himself.
" I saw you lift your hand," continued Jean, going up td the Count
and attempting to excuse his conduct, " and then my bad habit came
upon me-I as I told you, always meddle in what don't concern me ;
I ought to have gone-I will go now."  Then reflecting that Jane
might not be safe when left unprotected, the mountaineer proceeded
to address her: " Mademoiselle, it would be better for you to retire
-the Count is angry."
" He shows an interest in her safety," murmured the Count.
" Retire, I beg of you," continued Jean.
"But, Monsieur Jean," hesitatingly replied the girl.
" For my sake, do retire," solicited the mountaineer, " as a favor."
" For you, as a favor to you, Monsieur Jean, I withdraw ;" thus
speaking the young girl left the apartment, kissing her hand as if in
adieu to the warm-hearted Coachman. Jean turned around, and rapidly,
wiped away a tear falling from his eyes.
" He has wept," exclaimed the Count, "he wipes away tears."
"I have truly asked your pardon," continued the Mountaineer, " I
did not intend offence-but I was excited ! was wrong'! I am. as
harmless as a chicken, but when a young woman is threatened then-.
I-I break something-i'll be going."
Jean the Mountaineer without further ado precipitately departed
from, the chamber, while the Count clapped his hands in undisguised
glee, as he gave vent to an exclamation: " She is a bigamist ; I am
saved !"
CHAPTER X V I .
GENEvIEvE, AGAIN!
S"WHAT a curious idea of the Count," muttered Simon, as he ar
ranged the recept'on-chambers of the Mansion d'Arezzo in the rue de
Verneuil, " who ordered me, should a hackman call, to show him into
the parlor."
"Yes," quoth Jean, speaking to himself, " I did right in responding
to the summons of the Count. I cannot leave Paris, yet; my flight
would doubtless augment the suspicions he entertains. What can he
want of me I"
As the hackman meditated he seated himself pensively on one of
the large arm chairs standing in the centre of the chamber.
" He takes things easy," murmured Simon, advancing to Jean, and
touching him upon the shoulder ; " Coacher, just get up or you will
spoil these arm chairs."
" Pardon," quoth Jean, still in a pensive mood, passing to another
in a different part of the saloon.
" He takes the arm-chair for a box seat," ironically murmured Si-
mon as he dusted off the article of furniture.

I
f     t
5
i
i
.

THE ALPINE     GUIDE.                   69
"Again !" exclaimed Simon on entering, Jean assumed another
seat ; "It is scarce worth the trouble of making you get up if you go
from one to another;"
"Excuse me," responded Jean, still in a brown study, "I did not pay
attention-I was thinking," and Jean walked about in a state of ab-
straction.
"I wonder how the Count will suffer," muttered Simon, as he dust.-
ed off the second chair, " such people as these to come into this sa-
loon.
"Happily," continued Jean, walking around as-he followed his train
of thought, "none save Genevieve and Pierre know that Jean Claude
is still in the land of the living---.."
You didn't wipe your feet before coming upon this carpet," in-
terrupted Simon, again advancing to the Mountaineer.
'  Yes," responded Jean, looking at his feat, " I am rather dusty,
for I have walked a considerable distance."
"Then go and wait in the ante-chamber," gruffly commanded the
domestic.
"Just as you please," responded Jean ; " which way ?"
"File this way," replied Simon, taking him by the shoulder.
"Hullo !" quoth Jean, remarking him seriously for the first time,
"you are a lacquey, you ?"
" I am head valet of the house," returned Simon.
" Head valet, eh ?" retorted Jean, displacing all the chairs within
his reach; "arrange this furniture, earn your wages and hold your
tongue.
" Do you think," exclaimed the astounded valet, arranging the
chairs in their places, "I'm here to wait upon you ?"
" Simon ?" quoth the Countess, " my daughter requires you."
" The Countess !" ejaculated the Mountaineer, taking off his hat re-
spectfully and holding it in his hand.
" You are doubtless astonished, Madame," said Simon to the Coun-
tess, "to find this man here in this saloon, but it is by order of the
Count." Thus speaking he left the room.
"Jean Claude," resumed the Countess, after having closed the
doors, "we are now alone."
" Imprudent woman !" ejaculated the hackman,
" The Count has been unexpectedly called to the Treasury," ex-
.claimed the lady.
l He can return and surprise us," remarked Jean.
"Some one is on the watch !" returned the Countess.
"But should we be betrayed ?" observed the hackman.
" Our guardian will never betray us," rejoined the lady.
"Depart, I pray of you," implored Jean, " for I have lost confidence
in all mankind."
"In Petit Pierre !" naively inquired the Countess.
"In him, I have," gaily replied the veteran.
" He has worked his way to me," resumed the Countess," he watches
en one side, your. daughter upon the other."


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

"They will be faithful to their trust," replied the hackman.
" I have desired," resumed the lady, " to profit by this hour, when-
ever we will be without witnesses, for that, before being uneasy as to
the estimation of the world at large, 1 desire to secure that of Jean
Claude."
" Madame !" exclaimed Jean.
" For a long time, I swear it," proceeded the Countess, " although
having the proof of your death before me; I lived as in a bewildered
dream. While awaiting an impossible return, while awaiting the sole
riches of the soul, affection and confidence, I regretted my sudden
prosperity. But passing days destroyed my hopes, and realized the
bitterness of my disappointment. At the end of five years I saw
the future of my child menaced, and on her account solely I was forced
to sacrifice myself and accept the name of another  "
"Seek not to justify yourself," interrupted J ean' Claude, " I am
aware of the deepness of your sorrows."'
"You !" ejaculated the Countess in surprise.
"I was miraculously saved," rejoined the Mountaineer; "I hastened
to our home; there I learned that my presence would tear you from
the titles and wealth of your ancestors ; yes, upon the very day when
you came in grief to bid farewell to Petit Pierre. Jean Claude in
concealment, not able to restrain the impulse of .his heart, was about
to throw himself at your feet, when I overheard you say that opu-
lence might prove the salvation to our child then, Jean Claude, who.
had courage to preserve silence, was prostrated in grief at the thought
of leaving you a widow and an heiress."
" Unfortunate man !" returned the Countess, " if you only knew
how many torments wealth has occasioned me, how envy of my
portion engendered hatred, how much, in fact, I suffered daily !"
" I likewise," interrupted the hackman, " have shed many tears-
have eat hard bread, and counted hours of wretchedness, still my
little Jane was in refuge against the blasts of autumn and the colds
of winter. Hence, while the mother was in sorrow, and the Lather
dragged his wounded limbs on the battle-field, the child has grown up
beneath a genial sun."
" And it was for her," responded the Countess, " that thou. hast ac-
cepted isolation and misery ; pardon me for having accused thy cour-
age and thy will-thou, the only husband of Genevieve, thou, the
martyr she has wept for in silence."
The Countess leaned upon the shoulder of her husband, and wept
most profoundly.
" Genevieve !" exclaimed the mountaineer firmly, as he wiped away
the tears from her eyes, " now that you are Countess, I'll tell you
that which you have to do. If the Count could assure himself of the
existence of your first husband he would probably institute proceed-
ings against you, perchance with success, for men cannot rightly in-
terpret a silence which has preserved wealth unto you. Still, that
may not take place ;. when I followed the army, rather for death than
glory, I was aware that the revelation of the name of Thibaut might

t
s
i
g;
r
-a
e

ruin you, therefore I volunteered under the name of Jean, the child
of accident. I have never pronounced the name of my mother, nor
that of Jean Claude Thibaut-come what may, you would be unaware
of my existence, and could remain a widow in security."
" Yes," interposed the Countess, "but Jean the Mountaineer has
saved the life of my daughter. Have I no right to see him ?"
" As soon as it is proven," cautiously returned Jean, "that Jean
Claude Thibaut is no longer in this world."
" The Count approaches the hotel," quoth Pierre, entering from one
of the lower doors with precipitation.
" Already ?" exclaimed the Countess.
"Fly !" said Jean, leading her to the door of the apartment.
" [ go," returned the Countess, "remember, Jean Claude, that while
the Countess, must resist, Genevieve, from the bottom of her heart
invokes blessings upon you. Farewell."
And the lady retired rapidly from the saloon.
"You know, old fellow," said Pierre to his comrade, " where to find
me. I am under the coach yard gate with my shop. If there is any
need of me, first a sign, and I'm here."
" I will reckon upon you," replied Jean.
" I always carry a good cudgel," resumed Pierre, "for we don't
know when it is necessary to use it."
"Oh, no," replied Jean, "no violence here."
" Well, as you will," responded Pierre, " but it won't do to be
beaten without a return. Here comes the rascal, and I'm of;" then
halting near the door, he continued, "you know, if needs be, you will
find me."
"You will be where ?" inquired the hackman.
"Under the gate-way," replied the Savoyard, "by the side of the
watch-dog."
CHAPTER XVII,
AN INKLING OF THE TRUTH.
"PIERRE and Genevieve !" exclaimed Jean, as he was left alone
after the departure of his guardian angel of the plaster image store,
"just as they were twenty years ago. Come, I must drive every kind
emotion from my heart. I must arm myself with restraint and dis-
trust, and take care -tb disembarrass myself with everything which
can compromise me."
"You will watch in the vestibule," said the Count, entering with Si-
mon, to whom he gave his hat. and cloak, " and as soon as Colonel
Roger calls, you will tell him I am impatient to see him, and show
him at once into'the saloon."
"Good !" said the domestic, retiring into the vestibule.
"You have been told, Monsieur," quoth the Venetian, "  Tse1y
aired to see you."

I

70

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

7 1.

r,

i

l


72                 THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.
"I have come hither," frankly responded the mountaineer, "to see
what you wanted of me."
" Have you no suspicions ?" asked the Count.
" None whatever," replied Jean.
"I sent for you to inquire," continued the Italian, " what sum of
money you received of your wife to consent to pass as dead."
" I !" responded the Mountaineer, "my wife !-I don't understand
your meaning."
"Are you a gambler ?" resumed'the Count.
"Thank God, I am not !" replied the Mountaineer.
"Then how are you so poor at present?" continued the Count.
" You should have taken your share of the bargain which brought to
your wife an inheritance of three millions."
" Three millions !" answered Jean, with a forced laugh.
" It is true," resumed the Venetian, " that time and the alehouse
Will ruin a man."
" You evidently mistake me for some one else," rejoined Jean, with
a movement evincing his anger, "and your error almost amounts to
an insult, therefore--"
"Be not angry quite yet, Jean Claude," calmly interrupted the
Count, " I have a long story to tell you."
"What name did you mention ?" inquired the Mountaineer.
" That of your father !" returned the nobleman.
" I never knew I had one," replied the hackman, " I was a found
ling."
" A foundling!" smilingly resumed the Count, " then you are not
the son of dame Marianne of Chambery ?"
" I know not who was my mother," answered Jean.
" Then," continued the Count in his examinations, "you did not
marry in the Church of Saint Martin in the Savoy, Genevieve, adopt-
ed daughter of Marianne ?"
" Never heard of her," determinately replied the Mountaineer.
"Did you not," again resumed the Count, " when Genevieve as-
sumed the titles of her ancestors, suffer her to contract a second mar-
riage upon conditions still more shameful than the first, by which
you agreed to continue as if 'dead and thus make her be believed a
widow ?"
" Count," responded the Mountaineer in evident anger, "my pa
tience is exhausted-finish this examination."
"The examination is finished !" said the Italian.
" It is very instructive," murmured the mountaineer.
"Do you know whence I have just come r" resumed the Count in a
threatening manner.
" I knew not, neither do I care," returned Jean contemptuously.
"From your residence at Passy," answered the Italian.
".My residence !" exclaimed the hackman-" the door is locked.'
"I caused it to be broken in," resumed the Count.
"What ?" rejoined the mountaineer, choking his inquietude beneath
an outburst of rage, " that is a burglary."

/

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

73

" Make a complaint against me if you dare," responded the count,
in a defiant manner. " You have told me you never knew Gene-
vieve, once poor, now wealthy-I wish I could believe you. Then
how comes it I found this medallion in your possession ?"
The Count arose, and going to the Mountaineer, exhibited to him
the original souvenir of Genevieve in its pewter locket.
"It was given to me by a sister, who died," replied Jean, after a
moment's hesitation.
" But you were a foundling," sneeringly replied the Italian.
" All foundlings are brothers and sisters," returned the coachman.
"And Genevieve was likewise a foundling?"
" Yes," replied Jean, sullenly.
" The tribunal wiil judge of that," quoth the Count, as he noticed
a trembling seize upon the frame of the Mountaineer. " And you
deny that you are the son of Dame Marianne?"
"Most positively," responded Jean.
"Then how comes it that I find at. your house this chaplet, which
was given to the Dame by a monk of St. Bernard ?"
" AIl'chaplets are alike," said Jean, as he recognized the relic.
"Not all," rejoined the Italian ; " this one is rather peculiar, as its
beads are made of the grey rock, and it hung eighteen years ago in
the cottage of Jean Claude, at the base of Mount Cenis."
"Whoever told you so, has told you a wilful falsehood," tranquilly
responded the Mountaineer.
"-No one told me of it--I saw it there." replied the Count.
" Then you are, yourself, in error," answered Jean.
" Further to convince you," exclaimed the Italian, with a vehe-
mence of manner, "I will summon the Countess d'Arezzo, who cannot
deny that eighteen years ago, in the month of May, upon the festival
of saint Therese, 1 entered to rest myself into the cottage of Jean
Claude, and that she herself, then called Genevieve, showed me this
selfsame chaplet and told me its history."
" You are not the man who rested upon that -day at the house of
.the Guide !"
" How do you know ?" inquired the Venetian.
"That man, who likewise left the valise, was named Luidgi," an-
swered Jean.
" Who told you so ?" exclaimed the Count.
"I have been told so," tranquilly replied the hackman.
" Can you prove it?" inquired the nobleman.
"Possibly, I can," again answered Jean.
" And I can just prove that I am named Andreis Luidgi, Count
d'Arezzo !" resumed the Italian, excitedly.
" You !" interrupted the Mountaineer, as he gave vent to an excla-
mation of exultation: " You are the man !"
The Count was inwardly congratulating himself upon having estab-
-lished the identity of Jean Claude, when the servant, opening the door,
announced Colonel Henri Roger.   '

ii

it

-

!
,
t


74            THE ALPINE GUIDE.

CHAP T E R        X V I I I.
THE' TABLES TURNED.
" You desire to speak to me ?" inquired Colonel Roger, as he enter
ed the apartment.,
" Yes Colonel," replied the Count.
" I deem it my duty to give you warning," commenced the Colo
nel, " that I refuse in advance every amicable arrangement you may
proffer ; and now be brief-what have you to say ?"
" I desire to counsel you to renounce all idea of this marriage," re-
turned the Count.
"tWherefore ?" in turn inquired the Colonel-" for what reason?"
"Suffer me to refuse all explanation," rejoined the Italian.
"Still, Count-" urged the young soldier.
" It will be for your interest," returned the Count.
"It appears to me," continued the Colonel, " I have a right to re
quire-to insist-"
" A right !" exclaimed the Venetian.
"Yes, sir," deliberately retorted Henri, " the right-----"
"Well, sir, permit me merely to give you advice," resumed the
Count, with renewed gravity. " People don't generally marry the
daughter of a woman, to be tried before criminal courts."
" What do you mean ?" inquired the Colonel testily.
" Simply that the Countess is a'bigamist," replied the Venetian.
" Bigamist !" exclaimed the Colonel.
" That man," quoth the Italian, designating Jean, " who is disguised
beneath the name of the Mountaineer   -"
"That is Jean the hacknan." returned the Colonel.
" That is," continued the Count emphatically, " Jean Claude Thi
baut, the Countess' first husband, whom she deefares to be dead."
" Wait a moment," quoth Jean with animation as he passedin front
of the Colonel; " your pardon, sir. The Count is seeking after Jean
Claude Thibaut, native of Saint Genis, an Alpine Guide, who lived
near Saint Martin-yes ; I knew him well-he was slain upon the
Mountain."
"Along with my father !" interrupted the Colonel with a sigh.
" Who was betrayed," resumed Jean, " by a Venetian, who, on the
day of Saint Therese, concealed himself, within the cottage of the
Guide." Then addressing the Count -he continued : " Oh, I could
talk to you of that story. Poor Jean Claude died in my arms, Count,
saying that the traitor, whose none he had on his valise, was named
Luidgi."

1

THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.          .       75
" Impudent wretch ?" muttered the Count to himself.
"And the general Bonaparte," continued Jean Claude, to the Colo-
nel, " although then a poor man, offered a handful of gold to whoever
would discover the family of Luidgi. Now I am  sure that to find
out the betrayer of his companion-in-arms the Emperor Napoleon
would give more that twenty conquered standards-still we have
never been able to discover the family name of this accused Venetian,
and you, Count; have never heard mention made of this assassin,
you who were born at Venice ?"
"I," said the Count, in trepidation, "I was born at Florence."
" During eighteen years," musiugly quoth the Oolonel, " this mur-
derer of my father has doubtlessly died."
" We can't say," resumed Jean, his eyes fixed intently upon
d'Arezzo, "ferocious animals live longer than others, and you
have believed, Count, that I am Jean Thibaut, because I am named
Jean and because I am  a child of the Mountains. Reassure your-
self, and to be convinced of your error, hold, here are the records of
service of Jean the Mountaineer. Examine them, read them, there
are only wanting the records of my birth and baptism. The first,
my father forgot to put in the basket with me, and as to the second
my companions christened me the Mountaineer. As for Jean Thibaut
-a wicked idea of your own, devised to torment the Countess, it
may some day bring misfortune on your own head. Sooner or later,
as you well know, evil actions are punished and the older we grow,
the more convinced we must be of all the justice of Heaven. Fare-
well, Colonel."
"Arc you going ?" inquired the young soldier.
.Yes, but it will not be long before we meet again, replied," Jean ,
then turning to the Count he continued: "1 will return to demand
the. papers of Jean, the foundling, surnamed the Mountaineer. To a
speedy meeting !"
He is gone;, murmured the Count, as he heard the doors close
after the exited Mountaineer ; then taking up the documents, which
had been 1 brown upon the table by the veteran, lie made a semblance
of examining them.
'[hat man was-right," resumed the Colonel, "particularly when
he charged you with inventing tortures for your wife. And by what
odious suspicious do you not se ek to wound, to injure her, and above
all to break off my marriage, which you dread so deeply ? Still in
spite of your obstinacy, the motive for which is revealed, that mar-
riage will tale place without your consent and within the shortest
space of time possible. For I have hastened to recall to you that no
tie of blood connects you with Mademoiselle Jane, and to prove to.
you that the Countess will find in me a son, who will know how to
protect and defend her. Upon that head I pledge- my solemn oath.
I have solicited peace from you, sir ; now I desire war."
With a look of mingled defiance and contempt the young soldier
stalked majest ally out of the room, leaving the noble criminal to,
his own reflections.

1

,*

i
N '
S
.A
" if


i

77

" War !" shouted the Count, tossing the documents, which he held
in his hand, disdainfully on the table. "Yes ! I could vanquish you
all, were it not for this terrible fatality which ever pursues me. This
man, this Thibaut possesses a terrible secret-but will he be believ-
ed ?  Yes, old soldiers are ever listened to in France. How can I
deliver myself from him?  He has my secret, but that of the Coun-
tess. To avoid compromising Genevieve he will, doubtlessly, fly
far from hence. He can be disposed of, how to get rid of the Col-
onel and the Countess ?"
The Count mused sullenly and was awakened from his revery by
the sudden entrance of a man through the window of the parlor.
" Who is these? exclaimed the Count in affright.
"6th Dragoons," responded the Mountaineer, "in the enemy's
camp!"
"You commit burglary ?" shouted the Italian, ferociously-
" You broke open my door," responded Jean, energetically, "and I
have opened your window. A friend whom I encountered in the-
court-yard made himself into a short ladder and I have taken a short
cut into the room."                                  /
"Sir," added the enraged Count., "you are quite venturesome."
"Oh ! don't get angry yet awhile," responded the veteran in a calm
collected manner; "I've a long story to tell you, but, first, the
chaplet of my mother-"
" Is it this which you want ?" quoth the Count handing him the rel-
ic ; "now ydu avow yourself the child of Marianne Thibaut ?"
" The child of Marianne," replied Jean, gravely, " has come to
avenge Genevieve .'"
"Or perchance to ruin her, " retorted the Venetian.
"Not as yet, Luidgi !" replied Jean.
"I am not the Luidgi, to whom you allude," rejoined the Vene-
tian.
" It is too late to deny it," reasserted the Mountaineer.
"What proofs have you of my being the person ?" inquired the
Count.
" In the first place I will prove it," answered the veteran, " be-
cause being determined upon the death of the Guide, you caused the
General to be massacred : you were interested in the death of Jean
Claude."
"I !" ejaculated the Count, " for what purpose ?"
"To enrich Genevieve and then to rob her," returned Jean.
"To rob her !" muttered the Italian.
"I have not time to pick out my words," resumed the veteran.
" I have said it and 1 mean it; and perchance I will prove it before
long that you went masked to throw a young female into the Seine."
" Can you suppose-?" interrupted the Count.
"Yes," rejoined the mountaineer undauntedly, " still I dare not
complain of it, for, by means of this crime, I have been enabled to
save my daughter's life, and to find out my Genevieve ; I could, if I
would, in return conceal myself to waylay you; but when a man has

KE

served a dozen years beneath the banner of France, he does no such
things. We attack our enemies, face to face, and summon them to
combat loyality in a duel,-wrong, perhaps still it is the custom.
Now that is the reason I have hurried here to ask of you in two words
--th'e hour and place of meeting."
"Your passion," interrupted the Count, " your insolence and anger
seems to have prevented your thought of the distances-
" Excuse me," responded Jean, " 1 know you to be a rascal, while
I am an honest man, and I throw the distance in as a bargain for the
difference--"
" There are unfortunately," replied the Venetion, " limits, which
the laws of nobility do not permit a man to trauscede-I am the
Count d'Arezzo, chevalier of St. Mary-"
" And I am of the Legion of honor," remarked the Veterarn
proudly, " and I will wager I have had more trouble to gain my
cross than you had for yours--But we will not speak of that."
Nevertheless," interposed the Italian.
" You are a Count and chevalier, say you ?" quoth Jean, " you are
a coward-"
Sir !" exclaimed the Count, indignantly.
" You are a wretch, and have been so for more than twelve years,"
continued the Mountaineer, in a sonorous tone of voice.  " You
have robbed, harassed, tortured during that period, two defenceless
women, an when the father and the husband comes to challenge the
assassin of his family, you speak of distance. Ohl have a care.
Luidgi, that the old soldier may not for an instant, forget the dictates
of honor. Now let us ,determine the hour for the meetings, let me
counsel you."
" Should I accer t your challenge," responded the nobleman, i' who
would be your second ?"
"= It is a matter of no consequence," returned the veteran.
"Mine would desire -to know," resumed the Count.
" My second will be Petit Pierre," replied Jean, "a friend of my
Childhood, devoted-to me as a brother."
I will not be able to find a single one of my friends," resumed
d'Arezzo, promenading the room, unconcernedly, " who would consent
to regulate the conditions of a duel with Petit Pierre, and that
renders a duel impossible."
" Is that the case ?" rejoined the veteran, with a smile, " well, we
will arrange it in a different manner. I will seek my old commander
at the Battle of Arcola, who was an intimate friend of General
Roger and of Massena and who, at the present time, is Marshal of
France. Prince d'Essling and Duke of Rivoli-who ran over the
ground swearing that he would shoot Luidgi in the evening were I to
miss him in the morning. And if your friend finds the Marshal too
small a man, I know of no one higher, unless it be the Pope or the
Emperor. But the Pope forbids duelling and the Emperor they say,
has no time to attend to it.  Come," exclaimed the veteran, observ-
ing the uneasiness of the Count at his suggestion, " you prefer, I' see,

Jj
'4
t

,
{.
:.
i
'          r
(   ..
1
I
r
,
; .
y ,
)
t
9

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

THE ALPINE GUIDE.


THE ALPINE GUIDE,
Petit Pierre to the Marshal-I go then for Pierre, and we will have
no further words. Now, the place of meeting ?"
The Count after a moments reflection designated the Bois de
Vincennes.
"The Bois de Vincennes!" ejaculated Jean, "it is a large place."'
"Porte St. Maude," said the Italian, "at the guard house."
"Very well," returned the veteran, " now the hour'?"
"The'break of day," replied the nobleman.
"1All agreed upon," quoth the Mountaineer, "but not without
somd trouble,"
" I will be punctual, Monsieur Jean," responded the Count, " and
I trust to chastise you for your msolence."
" All in good time," answered Jean, " you will have need of your
courage as well as your bill."
Then as he was about emerging through the door, the veteran
turned and addressed the Count: "To-morrow, Luidgi, and to the
death !"
CHAPTER XIX.
THE PORTE ST. MAUDE.
TOWARDS the break of day, Morel, the. bonfidential friend of the
Count d'Arezzo, proinenaded in front of the guard-house,-at the Porte
St. Maude in the Bois de Vincennes. The gentleman was strangely
transformed in personal appearance, for instead of his usual costume
he wore the full uniform of a forest guard. le amused himself, while
walking about to resist the chill ot the morning, imagining by what
means the Count had obtained the consent of the ordinary guardian
to prmmnit him to stand about in borrowed plumage, but finally con-
ciilMil that fair promises as well as good pay had wrought the miracle.
Here I am, under aurs," soliloquized the Florentine, " but I cail-
not divie what can he the intentions of the Count, whom I blindly
serv-etill I trust that it will lead to the payment of my five hun.
dred ad twelve thousand francs. The Count told me to await here
the e:rriv;al of the coacimnr, and then warn him,1as I would meet hin
i the grand avenue.  W ly the Count has thought proper to get rid
f the guard, I cao't Sa ,bu  the mystery will soon be expbaied. I
h t ethis Jean won't discover me-here comes some oine-it is him."
Is this ihe road to the guard-house upon the road to St. Maude ?"
inquired Jean the Mountaineer, as he entered, bearing a pair of pistols
i .his hands.
"This is the place," answered the counterfeit guard.  " you are
travelling early in the wood ?"
j   arl so m ei' 1oe icn, absorbed in other thoughts.
" I miut iake my round," resumi. d MIrel, " this is a good tine to
catch the vagr:nts who are sleeping around the wood.'

i1

U

TILE ALPINE GUIDE.

79

You will find some not far ofi," returned Jean, " I heard some one
treading upon the grass near the grand avenue."
I will go see," replied the false forester, " it must be the Count."
Jean walked about in meditation, awaiting the arrival of Pierre, as
he had started before tiat individual in order to have time to say a
prayer while on his way. The worthy Savoyard did not, however,
hep hini long waiting, for, deemimg the presence of a carriage an act
 of precaution, he drove up the green hack, and shielding it from ob-
servation among the dense underwood of the fores', hurried to the
guard-house.to enter upon his duties as a second. Pierre was a prac-
Ieol phlosopher ; a earrig :was a necessary to a duel, serving as a
hearse for the deceased, or the means of escape for the survivor.
"I was cert;n you vWould 'ot be behind time," quoth Pierre, enter-
lug upon the ground in front of the guard house " you are alone."
"Yu see Iam waiting ori this Luidgi," replied the veteran.
"[he will be always too soon," remarked the Savoyard.
Why so " inquired the Motntaineer.
Because," said his companion, " it should be forbidden that a brave
man, like you, should risk his life against that of a felon, like him."
How otherwise," calmly remarked the veteran, ' can I disincum-
ber the world of hin, unless through a duel ?"
Bah !"'quoth Pierre with a significant expression of disdain, " let
inc do it,-with my stout cudgel."
" Be perfectly easy," returned the Mountaineer, " I have my mo.
thenrs ehaplet with me, and I have prayed to the God of the Brave.
However, Pierre, we should anticipate all accident : should my des-
tiny deterinmate that a ball should open my road to my last home,
you will go, Pierre, to Colonel Roger, and declare to him that the
Count caused his father to be shot, and you will join him in watching'
over my Jane."
'here is no need in telling me that," responded the Savoyard
aloud, who iurmnurel inaudibly: "If he only knew that I have told
the Colonel ail about it."      r
,V bhieh of you is named Pierre ?" inquired  Morel, returning
from his walk.
TnatLs me," replied the Savoyaid, " what's wanting I"
A gendiemami, w) o ias just arrived on horseback," replied the
false guardian, ' charged Inc to announee to you that as second to the
adversary of your friend, he is at your service."
-- W hore is he i" inquired Pierre.
" I will conduct you to hiu," said Morel, trembling for fearof being
detected.
. I n vith you," replied Pierre, taking up the pistol with repug.
nance.
" Pierre, you know the rules," calmly said Jean, '" fifteen paces amid
fire until one
" All right," responded Pierre, following Morel to the grand avenue.
One hour hence," soliloquized the veteran, " and the hazard of the
lie will be decided ; sold unisfirtune arrive, Pierre and the Colonef

I1

N
Jy7
9(
Y
I    -
I    F
t
C
'                             h
!t
1         y
1'a
4
j1l
i.       F i '

'i

;
r


80                 THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.
who survive me, will be protectors to my wife and child." And Jean
paced the ground resignedly.
" The Guard House," whispered the Countess to Jane, as the two
ladies made their appearance from the opposite side of the domicile
of the forest ranger.
"This must be it," responded Jane, when seeing Jean, she pointed
him out to her mother who immediately advanced towards the impa-
tient veteran.
" Genevieve !" exclaimed the mountaineer, in astonishment.
" Genevieve !" returned the Countess, in a voice of unaffected en-
dearment, " has heard of your appointment to fight the Count d'Ar-
tzzo, and has hurried to prevent the combat."
But, Madam," replied Jean, inflexibly, "a man has sacred duties,
which he must perform."
- " The most sacred of duties," resumed the lady, "is that which
preserves those dear to us, and at the hour of duelling I come armed
with your daughter."
"You have then entrusted Mademoiselle Jane," quoth the veteran,
moved at this exhibition of affection.
"Everything," interrupted the beautiful girl, "oh, father ! I had no
need of this to love you, but now I have the right of informing you
that you are no longer your own property, and therefore' cannot ex-'
pose days which belong to the ch:ld, who entreats you to preserve her
wealth."
"My daughter !" exclaimed Jean, in sincerity of affection.
" Only think," continued the maiden, her tones augmenting in affec-
tionate interest, "that my mother taught me in my earliest infancy to
pray God for you, father, and now, after having suffered so much from
the disdain of the man usurping your name, I find you-the object of
my early prayers and after sorrows, on the eve of a duel I But you
will not fight, father, for 1 have need for you to live, that I may love
and cherish you."
"1My Jane !" exclaimed the Mountaineer despondingly, " you will
renderine a coward and poltroon--1 likewish at this moment contemn
the duel ; I too dread death, when my daughter stands before me, a
treasury of kindness and affection."
"W hat can we do to prevent this duel ?" interposed the Countess.
" \ie can do nothing, my poor woman," responded Jean. "I must
see Pierre, who is at this moment engaged in arranging the conditions
of the combat."
" W here is he !" inquired the Countess,
Not far hence," replied the veteran. " I will go join him, and he
may be able to assist us."
Jean walked leisurely in the direction in which Pierre had disap-
peared, when he perceived the Count coming towards him and invol-
untarily announced the fact.
" He here !" exclaimed the Countess, " we will remain with you."
" No," replied Jean sternly, " he might insult one of you."
"1Then the duel will be inevitable," interrupted Jane.

THE ALPINE      GUIDE.                  81
"If we could only hide ourselves," quoth the Countess.
"Where l" responded the veteran, going to the guard-house,"this
door is closed-no ! it opens- enter here."
" Yes !" replied the Countess, taking her daughter with her by her
arm; then, standing upon the threshold, she entreated Jean to pledge
his word to abstain from the combat.
" I swear to adjourn the duel if within my power," responded Jean,
as the ladies concealed themselves in the house ; "no ! I cannot fight
at this moment, my eyes are filled with tears and my hand trembles."
" Morel has doubtlessly given Pierre the wrong direction," quot
the Count as he entered. "Some time must elapse ere he can find
his way again."
" A h, 'tis you, Count ?" said the Mountaineer, accosting him.
"-Before taking our positions," commenced the Italian, "I have some.
thing to say to you particularly."
And I also desire to speak to you," responded Jean.
"You !" exclaimed the Count in surprise, " proceed, I listen."
" I believe," said Jean, with embarrassment, " that each one of us
-upon sober thought, might---that is-instead of the duel-for the
duel-"
" Well?-' interrupted the Count.
" We will," stammered out the veteran," leave the matter entirely
to chance."
"1 did not expect to find you with such ideas," responded the
Italian, although distrustful of the man's sincerity, "and if they are
really your own, you can annul the combat---"
Upon what conditions ?" interrupted the Mountaineer.
" Upon condition," replied the Count, " that on the morrow you
depart for America with your daughter Jane--"
"But she loves the Colonel," interposed Jean
" You will teach her to forget him," replied tie Venetian.
"And -her mother ?" inquired the veteran, " what will become of
her, deprived of her exiled child ? no-no-it is impossible "
"Impossible, do you say ?" quoth the Count, sarcastically.11 "Prob-
ably you are not aware that 1 can rid myself of you, who have fallen
into this trap.
" Trap !" ejaculated Jean in amazement.
" Here I could slay you without the presence of a witness" said
the Count, drawing a pistol from his bosom, and presenting it full
cocked at the mountaineer, who folded his arms, and prepared to meet
his death with the courage of a soldier.      Pe         m

,
;


TUE ALPINE GUIDE.

7I

CHAPTER XX.
MARENGO's LAST JOB.
" You are deceived !" exclaimed the Corrtess, suddenly appearing
from the guard-house, followed by J ane.
"The Countess !" exclaimed the astonished culprit.
" Have a care, mother !" implored Jane, as she interposed her per-
son between the Count and her parent.
"Away, my daughter !" quoth the Countess, tenderly repelling
her, as she continued excitedly, " the Count is your heir, but at my
death he loses everything, and therefore I can brave hin. I can, and
no blood will be spilled-no duel-I will summon him before the
law which will decide my destiny."
" Genevieve !" exclaimed Jean, somewhat terrified.
"The law !" muttered the Italian, sarcastically.
" I desire," continued the lady, elevating her voice in passion, "to
appear before the Court with my two husbands,-he who succored
me in indigence, and he who tortured me in wealth. I wish them to
krow that my daughter belongs to the poor man she honors, and not
to the rich man she despises. In a word I wish to be tried. The
world, absolving me in advance, will learn that which nmy family has
forgotten-that.true nobility belongs to the heart."
" You are ignorant, madame," interposed the Count, smilingly,
" that a judgment will come to you with dishonor."
"Dishonor !" ejaculated the lady, " I 'can be dishonored no more
than by the name I bear. I defy you and put my trust in God."
"I accept the struggle as I hurl back defiance," wildly responded
the Count. " There are men whom difficulties overwhelm, but there
are others who can break them down like rushes. Destruction to you
all, and may you fall into the abyss you have toiled 'to dig for my
feet !"
Humiliated, frenzied, and infuriated, the Count d'Arezzo took his
departure. casting glances of defiance upon the family who had ex-
pelled the caitiff from its bosom.
"1Thanks, Genevieve," murmured the Alpine Guide, as the tears of
gratitude rolled from his eyes, " who would offer yourself for sacrifice
in my place. Still you know not the new danger which threatens
you--"
" A new danger !" ejaculated the lady.
" You knpw, poor woman," resumed the Mountaineer, Ifthat they
ever condemn good souls--you are perchance right in placing your
trust in the justice of man-unfortunately they can neither condemn
or absolve you."

c2o

I

Why ?" inquired the Countess.
" Because," replied Jean, " the Count can never be your accuser,
and will remain more than ever your enemy."
"And will you not defend my mother ?" pathetically inquired Jane.
" Reassure yourself," returned the Mountaineer, "I undertake the
defence of your mother, and when I perish with that assassin--...."
"Perish, my father !" exclaimed the maiden.
"YWould I not deem myself guilty of all the evil that malefactor
has created for you, and will continue to create, unless I follow .his
guilty footsteps," acnd thus speaking wildly, the Alpine Guide started
to follow in the wake of the Count.
" Jean,! father !" entreatingly exclaimed the sorrow-stricken ladies
endeavoring to restrain his departure.
" What is that ?" exclaimed the Mountaineer, as the report of a
couple of pistol shots followed each other in rapid succession.
"Some one comes from the grand avenue," exclaimed Jane.
"It is Henri !"
" What has happened ?" said Jean, musingly ; and then addressing
the Colonel, who was accompanied by the ever faithfulPetit Pierre;
what is it, Colonel ?"
"The Count d'Arezzo," quoth the soldier.
"Well!" interrupted the Mountaineer, nervously.
"Thanks to the revelations of Pierre," replied the Colonel.
" I have forced the assassin of General Roger to fight."
" The assassin of the General !" exclaimed the Countess.
" Yes, Madame," rejoined her future son-in-law, " and Jean Claude
Thibaut can prove to you that I had a father to avenge."
"And now, 1Genevieve," interposed the Savoyard, joyfully," the
child can go home with Jean Claude, and I have exactly No. 226 on
the field and I'm a going to drive."
"What !" exclaimed Jean deliriously, " I ride in my own -carriage
with Genevieve, and the child of Jean Claude; it is a dream, let us
start before it disappears--come, friends, come."
As he spoke the green cab, withi Pierre on the box drove up to
them, and the worthy Savoyard soon forced the party to take their
seats within it. Snapping his whip with the most approved science of
a coachman, Pierre drove off in triumph as Jean exclaimed to his
sanguine companions:                                         s
"Courage, Marengo, old fellow ! it is your last job!"
That night the Emperor pardoned a duel, and sanctioned a marriage.
THE END.

THE ALPINE GUIDE,         83,

I


THE ALPINE GUIDE.
THE WITCH.

IZEKIAH Noarms was one of those who in the latter part of the
17th century, emigrated from England to this country for the purpose
of enjoying, in peace and without molestation, those religious privi-,
leges which at home were prohibited, under the most severe penalties.
He was one of that class of plain religionists denominated Puritans,
who considered that the surplices and vestments used by the clergy
of the episcopal church, were an abomination in the sight of the Lord,
and he looked upon the beautiful ceremonials of that church as being
but very little removed from the gross abuses that had crept into and
almost swallowed up the imposing ceremonials and strict ritual observ-
ances of her elder sister of Rome.
Whether the opposition of the Puritans to the established church
was right or wrong, I must leave to the decision of wiser heads than
mine; but I-ezekiah Norris held the opinion of many stout and stern
hearts of the same period, that he and they did perfectly right in
opposing it, and all that belonged to it, to the utmost exent of his
and their ability.
His wife, as in duty bound, held the same opinion, and when they
had received some gentle hints ~from the authorities of the place in
which they resided, that from their obstinacy in religious matters,
their small property was in danger of sequestration, Hezekiah very
wisely resolved to sell it, square accounts with the world, put trust in
Providence, and with his wife and two small children, emigrate across
the Atlantic.
 " By the blessing of God," as our friend Hezekiah expressed it, they
had a pleasant passage, and all arrived safe at Plymouth on the 16th
of the following July.
This goodly place not suiting the fancy of our worthy pilgrim, in
the spring of the next year he removed to Salem, where with his
family he soon became permanently located. With the proceeds of
the sale of his former property, he soon built him a snug little house,
near the spot where now stands the large brick edifice known as the
Franklin Building. He also possessed a little garden in which his
wife, assisted by the little Anna, their daughter, cultivated some
flowers which they had transplanted from their former little garden
in "merrie England."  And careful, very careful were they con-
strained to be in this harmless occupation, for the red sous of the
forest, become jealous of the encroaching whites, were at that
period making sudden irruptions upon families, and in many instances
whole villages fell a prey to their cunning and savage warfare, thus
rendering necessary the greatest caution it carrying on even the
most common avocations of life. But a few days prior to the open-
ing of our story, two men, while at work in the fields, had been shot
at and killed by an unseen foe, and several other indications of a
warlike nature having been shown by the Red Men, rendered it neces-
sary for the settlers to be ever vigilant and always upon their guard,
Therefore, every one kept their fire-arms within their reach, and

I

*       ,

84

It

seldom was it a family retired to rest, during that dark period in the
history of our venerable town, without having a sentinel of some kind.
to watch for the appearance of their savage and implacable foes.
In the night that our story opens, Hezekiah, having just returned
from the labors of the field, entered the door of his humble dwelling,
and having deposited his loaded rifle safely in its place, called out,
BCome, wife, my dear, supper, supper."
But his wife did not answer him, she being at the same time en-
gaged in the garden with little Anna and the flowers.
lezekiali soon found them out and joined them, reminding them at
the same time that the hour for supper and evening devotion was
at hand. Upon hearing this, they left their pleasing employment,
and joining Hezekiah, proceeded to the house. The evening being
warm and sultry, the doors and windows were thrown open, whilst
(after a blessing had been craved) this little family eat in religious
silence their evening meal. After it was finished, "little John," the
brother and son, having just returned from a neighbor's took down
the large family Bible, and placing it upon his father's knee, the old
man opened it, and read a portion of it aloud, at the commencement
of evening worship. This done, they all rose, then dropping upon
their knees, he poured forth a simple, devout, and fervent prayer.
.At its conclusion, as he arose from his knees, he was surprised to
find that an unlooked-for and unknown visitor had been in attendance
during part, if not the whole of his short supplication.
He was soon aware that his visitor was a woman of tall and stately
form, dressed after the manner of the Indian women of that period,
and that she bore in her arms a beautiful babe, delicate and fair as
the whitest rose. The woman spoke-
"Man of the pale face and strong arm! Nature, the spirit of the
clouds -commands me to confide this child to your protection and care
-take her; let her be brought up as your daughter ; and mind! as
you dread an lndian's vengeance, that no harm ever befals her. At
the end of every yeay, come to the cavern that you wot of by the
side of the Indian Oak, and you will find money sufficient for all her
expenses. Answer me not, but take her, and remember that you
have once seen her of whom you have often heard-aye, even Zoraida,
the Witch of Naumkeag.'
So saying, she stepped forward, and depositing her burden in the
lap of lJrs. Norris, with a proud and stately step, she left the house,
and ere the astonished inmates could muster presence of mind enough
to follow her, she had turned into the woods, and speedily vanished
from their sight.
We must now take the privilege assumed by all the romancers, and
transport the attention of the reader to the mansion of an English
nobleman, situated in London. In the drawing-room of this mansion,
about two years previous to the time mentioned in our last chapter;
might have been seen, sitting at a small round table, sipping his
chocolate late in the morning, the Right Honorable Lord Henry Fitz-
sinuinous. He was dressed in a loose morning-gown, and the appear-

r1

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

t
,'


86   .THE                ALPINE    GUIDE.
ance of a bandage round his head, together with the redness of his
eyes, gave pretty strong tokens of an overnight debauch.
" I have a great mind," said this- Right Honorable Lord, soliloqui-
zing : " to leave off drinking this cursed wine, it makes one have such
confounded headaches. Good Heavens ! how my temples throb now,
in spite of Camphor, Eau de Cologne, and all other such remedies-
past 11 o'clock," exclaimed he, looking at his gold repeater, "I shall
not be able to take my seat in the House of Peers to-day," so say-
ing; he remained silent till a servant entering, announced that Lord
George Herbert was below.
" Show him up," said his master, and the servant departing, soon
returned, and ushered in Lord George, whose countenance,.like that
of his Right Honorable companion, bore visible marks of recent dis-
sipation and excess.
" Good morning, Lord Herbert," exclaimed Fitzsimmons, as soon
as his companion had seated himself, "how does your lordship feel
this morning ?"
"Indifferently well," replied Lord George, "as regards bodily
health, but a strange circumstance has recently occurred, which bids
fair for the future to seriously endanger the health of my mind."
"And what lamentable accident, if I may take the liberty to ask,"
said Fitzsimmons, "has taken place to impair the strength of that
hitherto-considered impregnable fortress of thy bosom ?"
" Indeed," replied Lord George, more seriously than before, " I am
scarcely prepared to answer that question ; but this much I will in-
form you, that after the party at Lord A -  's last evening had
broken up, I returned home as you well know, much excited by wine,
and entered my wife's chamber. Judge of my surprise at finding it
untenanted. I immediately called together all the servants, but all
the information I could gain of them concerning her, was that she had
walked out in the early part of the evening aid had not since re-
turned. It was late-I knew not what to think, or how to act. In
turning to look towards the bed, I discerned a note lying upon it-in
a moment I had opened it, and read as follows :-
' " LORD GEORGE HERBERT:
" 'False deceiver, farewell-I leave you now forever. Thinkest-
thou that the heart of woman, weak and tender though it may be, can
have ,the sharp-pointed dagger of jealousy pierce to its very core, and
not feel it ? Thinkest that thy criminal flirtations with that wretched
hag the Countess of A---e have been witnessed by me unheeded ?
Satisfied as I am from I what I have seen and heard, aye, seen, that
you have proved recreant to all ties of honor and true love, I have
resolved never more to see you. Live and be happy if thou cast
with thy paramour, but never shall it be said that the proud daughter
of Duncan of Scotland brooked such deadly insults, even from the
partner of her bosom. But oh, Herbert, though almost turned to
stone by the mortal injuries, my lacerated heart still clings to thee,
when 1 reflect that ere long I shall become the miserable mother ot'

THE   ALPINE    GUIDE.                   87
your child, and if-but oh, no, it cannot be, between us there is fixed
an impassable gulf.
"'I shall embark as soon as possible for America, but-if you have
any regard for your own life or that of your child, seek not to foflow
me.
" 'Thus writes for the last time the much injured
"'EMILY HERBERT'"
".Ods blood," exclaimed Fitzsimmons, as his friend finished reading
this epistle, "what a woman, high spirited as a young lioness, methinks
if she had been my wife I could have loved her for that attribute alone.
Why could you not love her ?"
Why;' replied Lord George, " I did love her as I could, but there
was a certain something, in her manner and temperament, a- boldness
that I could hold no sympathy with. Young and gay, with the repu-
tation of Eing handsome, I courted pleasure and congenial spirits.
On the other hand she lived mostly in an ideal-world of her own cre-
tion, where sue conjured into her presence, dark phantoms of roman-
tic madness. Yet she was young and stately, and beautiful, and had
she condescended to inhabit the earth, and partake freely of its pleas-
ures like myself she would not have driven my love into other and
criminal ena'nels. But be that as it may, I have determined to sell
all my estates, place the proceeds in the funds, and start immediate.
ly for America. As for her I know she is in possession of a large
property in her own right, therefore she will need none of mine."
I am 'lad to hear," replied Lord Fitzsimmnons, " that you are
going to Anerica, I intend soon to do the same thing myself, as I
have large estates mnVirginia that sadly need my oversight in per.
bon-.My young and only son will accompany me, and if it suit
your convemience,my dear Lord George, we will both go at the
same time, and by the same conveyance."
"A thousand thanks, my dear Lord Henry, for your generous of-
fer, and I gladly accept it, as I am  firmly resolved to leave nothing
undone in the endeavor to gain tidings of my injured wife and child."
So saying the noble Lords shook hands and parted.
Meantitmetlie little Zoraida, (for that name had been applied to her
from the first,) grew up to be a fair and delicate girl. She knew no
other parents then Iezekiah and his wife; to little Anna, she confi-
ded all hr joys and sorrows during the period of her childhood, and
aloshared with Anna the little affe t(,5ofhi-brterGore
eatio~ns of her brother George.
Though gentie in her manners and disposition as the most timid of
her white playmates, she would show symptoms, when in the least
excited, of the high spirit and bold daring of the brave Indian.
Although the junior of Anna, by four years, she greatly excelled-
her in travellin the wild woods, and climbing the rocky precipices,
and unlike her too, she appeared to be very fond of the Indians, and
they of her.
The money found at stated times in the cavern was punctually
aproieed tt- use, and nothing occurred to her worthy of  

;
.
,
,,
,
}
.
ti
.t
yi
ti
4
,
}


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

At that time, upon a fine summer afternoon, when the- sun. was
shedding his farewell beams on the departing day, she and Anna
might have been seen seated on a board seat that George had prepared
for them at the bottom of a little flower garden before spoken of,
in conversation apparently important and interesting to them both,
for they heeded not the presence of a tall dusky form, that stood
erect behind the little hedge that divided the garden from the woods
beyond.
" So, Anna," said the lovely Zoraida, looking up into the blushing
face of her companion, " I have heard that m  your late visit to
Boston, you have attracted the attention of a young gentleman and
are about to be married to him. Tell me now, my dear Anna, have I
heard true or false !"
" Dear Zoraida," replied the still blushing Anna, "in the course of
our young lives 1 have never kept from you a secret, and I shall not
begin now. What you have heard is true. You know that I have
spent the greater portion of the last year with my invalid aunt, in
Boston. "Twas there I first met and soon after loved, Henry
Fitzsimmons. He is soon to visit us, and ask the consent of my
parents, to our immediate union, and dear Zoraida, when you see
him, all gentleness and beauty as he is, you will not wonder at my
choice."
" Oh I" exclaimed Zoraida, as the burning tears coursed down her
pale cheeks, " how lonely I shall be when you are gone. On whom
else shall I bestow my love ?"
" Do not talk so, my more than sister," replied Anna, "are you
not-called the pride and beauty of the village ? Do not all the hand-
some young men of the village, to say nothing of the proud Indian
Chief Chenusa, strive in every way to gain your favorable attention.
Ha !" continued the fair girl, playfully, "if I had half so many beaus
at my heels as you have, I should have been married long ago."
",Alas !" replied Zoraida, " I love them not, I heed them not. But,
Anna, I have often thought if perchance such favors were ever granted
to us wicked mortals, that I should like to tear away the dark veil
that separated us from the future, and become acquainted with its in-
penetrable mysteries."
" Your wish shall be gratified, if you have the courage to brave the
dread ordeal," came from behind the hedge. In an instant the hedge
was cleared, and Zoraida, The Witch of Naumkeag, confronted the as
tonished and bewildered maidens.
"Tremble. not," said the Witch to Anna, whose slender frame shiv
ered with horror and surprise at the sight of the strange being before
her-" my business is not with such as thee. I would speak a few,'
words with thy fearless companion, who but now expressed a fatal
wish to penetrate the dark made of the future.
"Maiden of the pale face, but the brave heart," continued the
Witch, suddenly assuming in a measure, her Indian manner and lan-
guage, "art thou willing to depart for a short time from thy pale-raced
companions, in company with the daughter of the Chief of the Golden

Waters, in order to have revealed to thee something as regards thy
future destiny ?".
" Lead on !" exclaimed the feArless Zoraida, "I will follow."
" Oh, dear Zoraida," exclaimed the weeping and trembling Anna,
as both she and the Witch began to-move away in the direction of the
woods; "do not go with that fearful being. Remember what our
father has told us of the dark doings of the emissaries of Satan, who
have of late appeared among us in the shape of old women, whom
he has entangled in his toils, and then led to death. Again," said she
more vehemently, as the distance between her and her companion in-
creased, "I adjure you, Zoraida, not to depart inl company with the
Witch."
But her solemn adjuration was neither heeded nor answered, for erp
it was concluded, the fair form of Zoraida, and the tall, stately, ana
noble form of the Witch, had disappeared amongst the gigantic oaks
and pines of the adjoining forest.
Hurrying her companion through woods and over plains, the Witch
thus addressed her:
" Brave girl, a sorrowful moment will it be for thee, when the wish
that you expressed to yon trembling girl shall be gratified. When
at your age, the same desires and thoughts, and feelings, had taken A
strong hold upon my mind, so strong, that ,I haveever since lived in
the future. But 'twas a terrible life. The imagination of such vision-
aries will conjure up a thousand phantoms of misery, which, concealed
under the bright mask of glory, tends to lead on the pursuers, until
they find themselves engulphed in a horrible reality of cares and sor-
rows. But perhaps, maiden, thou understandest not the meaning of
my wild wrds, and happy would it be for thee, if thou shouldst al-
ways remain ignorant of their sad purports."
Zoraida did not attempt to reply to the lofty words of her compan-
ion, and they hurried on in silence, until emerging from the woods,
they found themselves overshadowed by the ancient branches of the
Indian oak, and near to the cavern before spoken of.
Easily finding, bg the light of the bright full moon, the entrance of
the cave, which Indian ingenuity had contrived to conceal, and pushing
aside the thick foliage of two bushes, which served instead of both
outlet and entrance, the Witch, followed by Zoraida, entered the cav-
een ; the Witch telling her companion to remain still, as the darkness
was intense, until she should strike a light. Zoraida, whose courage
now for the first time began to falter, tremblingly obeyed, whilst her
companion groping her way to a shelf at the side of the rock, took
from thence a small box, and, by the Indian mode of obtaining fire,
that is, by rubbing two dry sticks violently, one against the of her, she
soon succeeded in accomplishing her object. As the lamp threw a
brilliant light around the cavern, both the Witch and her companion
were surprised at seeing crouched in the farthest corner of it, the
dusky and savage form of an Indian Warrior. He arose and confront-
ed them as soon as he became aware of their presence, but the Witch
was the first to break the silence.

M'

,r""h s,.

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

88

89

i
,  ;a
.
r;
,'
i


90

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

"What seeks Wacumea of the Narragansetts, in the dark wigwam
of the daughter of the Chief of the Golden Waters ? Let the Red
Warrior reply."
" The Great Spirit," answered Wacumea,    is angry with the
Narra gansetts; the son of their Chief is sick, his bones are weak,
he hears the war-whoops, of the Pequods, but the strength of his arm
is gone, he cannot answer it. Let the medicine woman of Naumkeag
go to him, and he will again be strong, and the scalps of the enemies
will again be seen in his wigwam. Will the daughter of the Chief
of the Golden Water go ?"
"Seest thou, Wacumca," replied the Witch, pointing to Zoraida,
"tbis young squaw of the Yengees; she is dear, very dear to me ,
I have just oaken her from her parents ; her feet are young and tender ;
she is tired and would rest. Ere many morns, and the daughter of
the Chief of the Golden Waters will leave her a wigwam, and go to
the far off Spirit Land, and who but she, the young Zoraida shall take
her place. The wigwam of Wacumca is far off and enemies are in
the path, but ere five suns have gone from east to west, the medicine
woman of Naunileag, and the beautiful and brave Zoraida will visit
it. Will Wacumca say more."
" The daughter of the Chief of the Golden Waters is wise,"
replied the Warrior, " and her words are fair ; Wacumea is satis-
fied." So saying, he drew about him his deer-skin robe, and immedi-
ately left the cavern.
"Notest thou, fair maiden," said the Witch, after the departure of
the Warrior, " the power that I possess, so that the bold- and brave
Warriors of the Red Race come from far distant tribes, to have their
sick braves raised up by the skill"of the medicine woman?  Still
although they think so, and although the pale faces think so too, yet I
am not of tuem, 1 was once-but no matter, we are tired and will
now rest."
Thus saying, she removed a broad flat stone from the entrance to
another apartment of the cavern, which by the assistance of the
Indians of the neighborhood, had been rendered much more commo-
dious than the outer one. It contained a table, two large oaken seats,
and a sinll but comfortable looking bed, and a large oaken chest
also occupied one corner of this strange abode. After they had
entered, the Witch open the chest, and taking froin it a basket, she
locked it, and carefully placed the key in her bosom. She then uncovered
the basket, which contained provisions, of tlhe nicest quality, and
setting them in order upon the table, she thus addremed her
companion
"Eat, daughter, and refresh thyself, for to-morrow thou mayest
avert need, but not title. If thou repentest not the bold step thou
hast taken, I see before us a long, a weary, and a perilous journey.
Therefore daughter, if thou thinkest thou hast not courage and
strength equal to the undertaking, I will to-morrow return thee in
safety to thy parents, and prosecute my journey alone."
Mother,'' replied Zoraida, " I know not why it is, but when in

I

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

91

your presence, I feel as though I was where I ought to be; I feel as
though I was where I was beloved. I have often heard my parents
speak of you; they called you Witch; said that you possessed
charms; that you ought to' have been hung along with the poor
wretched unfortunates who have suffered that cruel penalty. And
when they said such words, some invisible agency seemed to prompt
me to a terrible and deadly revenge, aye, revenge against the best of
parents, but I crushed such horrid feelings, and after such seasons had
passed, I would retire intd the dark woods, and weep for whole hours,
and pray that such vindictive thoughts might be totally eradicated
from my bosom. And now, although in your presence, I feel a sort
of strange dread which I cannot define, yet I will not leave you.
Whither thou goest, there also will I go."
Daughter," replied the Witch, in a softer tone than she had ever
before assumed in conversation with her, " thou sayest that thy
parents called me Witch ; I have passed through severe and fiery or-
deals to gain the title, and n it lays the whole secret of my power.
But now we will retire to rest."
In a few moments, this strange being and her young companion,
were wrapped in the happy forgetfulness of sound repose.
About an hour after the old folks had retired to rest, a slight rust-
ling was heard among the bushes in frontof the house, and soon the
light and graceful form of the fair Zoraicla was seen toemerge from
their covering, and approach the open window of Norris's house.
" I wished to see you, my Anna," said she, after she had got within
speaking distance, " for the purpose of bidding you farewell, as I ant
about to depart to-morrow with the Witch, as you call her, to some
distant part of the country, where her talents as a medicine-wonan
are to be put in requisition."
Dear Zoraida," exclaimed Anna, " you shall not go, nay ; you
must not: come, do come in. lIenury Fitzsimrnons is here, and I
wish you to be made acquainted with him."
I may be glad to make his acquaintance," replied Zoraida, " for
the selfish purpose of requesting his company back with me to the
place front whence I came, for in my progress hither, I saw several
suspicious and dusky forms, that seemed to watch me, and I feel some-
what fearful that all is not right."
Seeing that Anna was about to speak, she said
Do iot urge me to slay, Aana, for it w;ll be useless, as I have
given my word to her whom you call the Witch and it cannot nor
shall no,, be forfeited. Therefore, if Mr. Fitzsiminons will acompa-
ny me back, I will thank him."
" Certainly," said our chivalrous hero, starting from his seat, and
preparing to go, "thatis, if Anna here will promise not to be jealous"
So saying, and telling Anna to be a good giol till he returned, he
left the house, and joining Zoraida, they immediately took the path
leading to the Witch's Cavern.
But an unexpected stop was soon put to their careerfor theyhad
hardly gt a quarter of a mile d: *Lat from Norris's house, when a

I

(

f V


92           THE ALPINE GUIDE.

party of about eight or ten Indians darted out of the thick woods,
and in less time than it will take to chronicle it, had taken Henry and
Zoraida prisoners, gagged and bound them, and immediately disap-
peared again into the woods, taking their prisoners along with them.
Under the verandah of a commodious mansion, situated upon one
of the finest plantations on the confines of James River, in Virginia,
about a month previous to the events related in the last chapter of.
our history, might have been seen -sitting a person who has before
been introduced to the reader under the title of Lord Henry Fitzsim-
mions. In his hands he holds a letter, which he seems to be diligently
perusing, when all at once he starts, and pacing backwards and for
wards, exclaims:
" Well, this is a pretty kettle of fish; Ilenriy Fitzsimmons junior,
son of a lord of that ilk, very good-humnoredly and peremptorily an-
nounces to his indulgent father that he is engaged to be married to
the daughter of one Hezekiah Norris, whom he denominates as one
of the most substantial farmers of that den of witchcraft and super-
stition, Salem.
" Here," said the old man, speaking to an Indian In attendance,
who appeared to be servant of the family ; "go to the library and
acquaint the minister that I wish him to join me here immediately."
" What has happened, my dear Lord Henry," asked the minister,
entering the apart ineit, " to cause such an unusual excitement in your
manner and bearing ?"
" Happened !" exclaimed his enraged companion, thrusting into the
minister's hand the opei letter, then pulling it away again, he threw
it on the ground, and continued " Why, you see, George, that my
dutiful son to show his gratitude, I suppose, for my making the
trouble and expense of giving him the best education the country
aflrds, sends me word very coolly that he intends taking to wife the
accomplished daughter of a substantial farmer ."
"I do not see what objection you can have to that, my dear Lord
Henry," replied the mninister.
" Objection, why only think, I say, for an instant, of the complete
absurdity of iny son-the son 6f' an English Peer marrying a farmer's
daughter ! But if I can I will prevent it. I will to-morrow start for
Boston, and my object in sending for you, Herbert, was to see if you
Would not hear me company."
Certainly, Lord Henry," replied thenim.ster, 1 will gladly go with
"on, although I think, as it regards your sots case, it will avail but
little, for where a man really loves, let the ooject of his affections be
high or low, he will seldom be entreated much less compelled to give it
up. But how are you going "
tW by," answered his companion, " we wits take passage in Capt.
O ulter's sloop which sails fromthe town to-morrow with a load of
tobacco. Then we must trust to Providence, and our good luck, if
we happen to have any, for a conveyance to Boston."
Therefore the next morning after getting every thing in readiness,
Sur friends took their departure, and in about a fortnight arrived sate-

THE' ALPINE     GUIDE.93
ly in New York, where they had the good luck to find another sloop
bound to Rhode Island and- Providence plantations, and on board of
her they went, and off they started, but they had not proceeded more
than two days' sail, before a violent storm arose, and they were driven
ashore upon the Connecticut sea-board, where they had hardly time
to offer up thanks for their deliverance from the perils of the sea, be-
fore a party of Pequod Indians had seized upon and made them pris-
oners.
" Ah !" exclaimed Lord Henry, upon finding that his journey bid
fair to end very tragically, " if I had dreamed of this, Henry might
have married all the infernal Indian squaws in the country and be
hanged to him, before I would have troubled myself about either him
or them."
Their enemies having led them in triumph to their village, they
were all placed in a large wigwam, and well guarded, whilst their In-
dian captors proceeded to hold a council-to determine their ftte. The
council soon assembled in the centre of the village, when after sitting
for some time in silence, an aged warrici' opened it as follows:
Brothers, the Great Spirit has given into our hands these
pale faces, who burnt our houses, and took.our scalps-that in return
we might take theirs also. Let the pale faces die. I have spoken."
A stifled narmur of approbation ran through the council at these
words, and the prisoners were dooined to innediate torture and
death. Each one of the prisoners was then brought forth, stripped.
and bound to stak s, and the Indians were about commencing the
death-song when another warrior spoke as Follows:
Brothers, shall the pale face and his sister, whom  we took from
the Narragausetts, die ?  I say let the pale face, warrior die, but let
the squaw, his sister, live. I have spoken."
Another murmur of approbation ran round the circle, another stake
was planted, and the young Henry Fitzsinicons, followed by the beau
tiful Zornada, was led to the stake of death.
In van did the weeping and distracted girl plead for him ; in vain
did she throw herself between hun and death, for. her merciless and
savage foes soon bound her, then gagged and left her on the ground in
a state not to be described. They had piled faggots around the un-
fortunate prisoners, and they were preparing to set fire to them, when
suddenly the shrill war-whoop was heard, and a band of Mohawks,
with which nation t ie Pequods were then at war, completely surprised
them, killing many and taking the rest prisoners.
These new visitors then unbound the white prisoners from the
stakes, and substituted in their stead the Peqod warriors they had
just taken. The fires of death were lighted, and they soon underwent
the same cruelties which just before they were about to inflict upon
the pale faces.
After the departure of Henry Fitszimmons w th Zoraida as before
noted, poor Anna sat for some tine in a patient but anxious expeeta-
tion of Henry's return.-But hour lifter hour rolled by, and still he
did not return, sad, and melancholy, and despairing hours were they

I


94               ~TIM     ALPINE    GUIDE.
to Anna Norris. At last her delicate frame gave under the agonizing
suspense caused by the prolonged and unaccountable absence of
sury, and insattempting to rise, for the purpose of calling her fa-
ther,,her strength failed her, she sank in a deadly swoon upon the
floor.
Meantime, there was one, waiting as patiently, and expecting as
anxiously the return of the young Zoraida, as Anna was that of
eiry,s ai that one was the Witch of Naumkeag, the, solitary inha-
bitant of the Cavern by the Indian Oak. But after hours had elapsed
and she did not return, the Witch rose from the bed, upon which she
had reclined, and hastily putting on her Indian dress, she left the
Cavern and took the path leading to Norris's house.
aV   en she arose from the bed," soliloquized the Witch, speaking
of Z-orida, as she swiftly travelled the path by the light of the full
nidnighlt ioon, "she told me that she was only going to bid her sis-
ter 0rew ell, and then she would directly return, and I took her at
her word ; and were it not that I believed that she was too much like
her mother to forfeit it, I should think they had persuaded her to re-
main with them. But be it as it may, I will now unravel the mys-
tery."
Thus soliloquizing, she walked on more swiftly than before, and had
nearly reached the open space in front of Norris's house, when a tall
shadow darkened the path, and immediately the stately form and
features of Wacumca, second chief of the Narragansetts, boldly cou-
fi cited her.
The medicine woman of the Naumkeag," said he, addressing her,
" seeks her lost bird of the forest. Let her seek in the lodge of the
Narragansetts. Wacult no has spoken."
No saying and before his auditors had time to answer him, the In-
dian warrior had darted into the woods and disappeared.
intimately acquainted as was the Witch with the metaphorical lan-
guage of the Indian tribes, she was at no loss in coming to the c.n-
glusio that Zoraida had been entrapped and carried off by the
attendants of Waeumaca, in order that she, the far famed medicine
oman, might speedily hasten to the lodge of the Chief Sachem, for
the purpose of curing his sick son ; but for all that she had a latent
y ip that she might find the object of her solicitude at the house of
Norris. She therefore emerged from the woods and seeing the door
ot the house open, she abruptly entered the lower apartment, where
the first object hat her cager gaze ecuntered was the prostrate form
of Anna,  ho was jut begittninu to recover from the swoon into
which she had fallen.
Anna Noreis," said the Witch, dropping for the time her Indian
mannerf speaking  " tell me, I a jure thee, if thou knowest aught of
mn  orai a. Have you seen her ? Has she been here l"
" Out upon thee, Witch !" exclaimed the indignant, Anna, as soon
as she had recovered sufliciently to speak, " well dost thou know
where she is. Begone instantly, tell deceivet, or I u ill call my
father."

I'IE ALPINE GUIDE.

9)

lut there was no need of that, for the old gentleman at that instant
descended the stairs, having been awakened from his sound repose by
the loud tone of the Witch's voice, which she had assumed in speal..
iltg to tti. His wvife sootijolited hill, and theni, in that little roinml,
: oefr a panter.I     r    tad     ,    n        o   ,
W's    ee fot Mti'        al[*prostr-ate ott the floor, lay, or rather
ielitted, the furms of' the pale iud trembling Anna,  he clear blue eyes
m igantly at the tall and stately form of the Witch, while
site, totally tititnoved, stood against the wvittdow, calmly awaiting the
the issue of the scene ; and Ilezekiah aind his wife, suddenly aroused
fiom a sound sleep, coitfused and bewildered, invested the whole with
ati air of' solet ti ltdicrousutess, which would have formed an equally
happy subject for the poet as well as the paintter.
h'aput to return.  Alter J4ezekiah had in a measure recovered from
his unfeigned surprise,'he demanded of the Witch the cause of the ii-
trusion imito his house at that late hour of the night.
I came," siuswered the witch, calmly, "to seek her whom, when
she was an infant, I left in thy safe-keeping ; but she is not here.
And-" she was about to have said more, but the old man sternly
bid her to remain silent whilst Anna proceeded to give an account of
tCe re-appearance of Zoraida and her departure with Henry .Fitzsin-
mons, and concluded by saying,
"Father, I solemnly and sincerely believe, that the limb of Satan,
that Witch, who now stands so lofty in your presence, has delivered
the nboth p to our Indian enemies, with whom    I know she is in
close leainue.
Begone from iy house instantly    exlaied Hezekiah, incensed
by the words of.Anita, " and never agaim dare to desecrate its thresh-
old with thy presence."
Slowly, yet with a firm and lofty step, the Witch moved towards
the door, which having gained, she turned and casting towards Anna
a look of withering contempt, she said,
Prou' girl, feeling as I do the bitter injustice of thy words, I
could curse thee for them, but I will not ; for, if my own-eyes tell me
true, ec you bright moon cmes again to its fullness, thy fair ft'im,
of whiehl thy patirets are so proud, will be mouldering in the cold and
gloomy ncurch-yard. Even now thy burning brmv is flushed with
the dry heat of a imalignant fever. The scenes of this igtt{ have been
too much for thee.  ienmett her my prophecy. Now I will go."
So say itng, this strange being departed from the house and wended
her wVay back agaimi to the Cavern.
IIezekiah and his wife, after the departure of the Witch, tried
every means in their power to soothe the fears and quiet tie a -prt-
hensiots of the pale amid tretmitbling Anna, aid they at last succedeti
so far as to gain ter consent to retire to rest for the remainder of the.
night. She with considerable difieulty reached her bed, kissed her
mother, who kindly said she would watch beside her, and thensauik
away into a troubled sleep, furo  hich she awoke in the morning in
Mil the deli mi til of' a bratin fever'.
nhe-nt ttmorting tte witch left lther' Cavern and mlae the best of
ier wav through the wildetrmie s to the 'i"d, of time  rr-an''sett..

'I

I


96

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

After they had feasted their savage cruelty upon their enemies in
true Indian style, the band of Mohawks before mentioned, with their
yhite prisoners, took up their line of march northward towards the
location of their tribe.
In a few days they arrived with the prisoners at the lodge of the
Chief Sachem of the tribe, where they were civilly 'treated, and ac-
quainted, through an interpreter, with the cause of their singular
capture and detention.-Through this medium, they learnt that Wa-
cuica had formed and executed the curious stratagem of taking them
prisoners for no other purpose than that of receiving the prompt and
immediate attendance of the famed medicine woman upon the sick
sun of their Chie.
But they did not have time to await the success of their strange
project, for a detachment frontt the large and peaceful tribe of Pequods
with whom they were then at war, cane upon them the very next
day after Hlenry and Zoraida had arrived at the lodge, killed their
Chief Sachem and his sick son, burnt theix wigwams, and carried off
a large numiner of prisoners amongst whom was Henry and his com-
panion.     .
leaving made the above explanation to his father, Henry with the
rest of the prisoners and their Indian captors, being greatly fatigued
by their forced marches, laid themselves down upon nature's green
carpet, with no covering except the broad canopy of the summer
sky, and were soon enjoying the repose which their tired and exhaus-
ted situations rendered necessary for theta. They might have been
thus reposing some two or three hours, when the guard suddenly
gave the alarm, crying out, "the Yeugees ! the Yengees !"
Upon hearing this alarmit, both prisoners and captors sprung almost
sirnultaneously to their feet, and dire was he constarnatiou ainongs-t
the lIndians aind great was the joy of the prisoners when they heard
the cheering sound of an approaching drum, and the shrill notes of
the martial fife.
Ere the miinus could gather their weapons, or yell forth their
horrid war-whoop, they were surrounded by w company of whites, the
captain of whom eotmatnded them instantly to  surrender, under
pain of being immediately fired upon if they refused.
Being hemmed in upon all sides, and finding that they could not do
any better, the Mohawks were forced to agree to an unconditional
and iinmediate surrender when their white prisoners soon recieved
the congratulations of the brave soldiers, who had so providentially
and unexpectedly released them from bondage.
What a strange and unaccountable passion is true love. Confine it
as we may, under all conventional forms and usages 'of civilized so-
ciety, and still it vill secretly penetrate bosoms 'where it has no-
right t, enter, and there, locked up in the most secret recesses of
the  heart, drive its unfortunate victims to despair and death.
Thus it was with the young Zoraida.
After her unexpected capture by the attendants of Wacumca, when

THE ALPINE GUIDE.                       97
the beautiful light of the' ensuing morning first revealed to her the,
handsome features and noble form of Henry Fitzsimmons, the conisu-
ming, burning ardor of the most passionate love took immediate pos.
session of her sensitive bosom. But being fully aware of his situa-
tion towards Anna Norris, she betrayed not to him, either by word or
look, the least symptom of, her hopeless passion, but she nobly re-
solved to endeavor to eradicate it from her bosom; Poor thing, she.
little knew what a Herculean task she had undertaken to perform..
But, in accordance with her determination, although in their strange
situation she and Henry were necessarily together, she treated him
with a coldness and reserve, which, considering her as he did to be
Anna's sister, pained and surprised him. Therefore on the night to
which we have brought our story, when at supper, George had obscure-
ly hinted at Henry's future union with Anna, sharp pangs of jealous
despair had pierced the heart of the unfortunate Zoraida.'' And that
night, when she retired into her tent she wept, and then prayed that
such unholy passions might be driven away from her bosom, but it
was of no avail; so towards morning, being unable to sleep, he left
her tent, and passing the guard, she paced wildly and swiftly tae little
open space upon the border of the dark pine-woods. She had not
walked long before a low voice interrupted her by calling out,
"Zoraida ?"
She turned and beheld George Norris standing beside her.
" Be not alarmed, dear Zoraida," he said, "at my intrusion upon
your privacy, for I felt anxious to speak to you a few words ere we
depart from this spot."
" George," answered Zoraida, " in the bygone days and happy hours
of our childhood, you were always wont to speak your thoughts and
wishes to me without restraint, and I know not that your absence has
debarredyou from now taking the same privilege. Speak on."
"Dear Zoraida," replied George, " I will not longer conceal from
you the true feelings of my heart. By accidentally overhearing a
conversation between my father and mother, I became acquainted
with the fact, that you were not my sister ; and having always felt
towards you more than brotherly love, now' that you have given
me the privilege of speaking my feelings, I will tell. you, that to-
wards you they are none ocher than feelings of the most deep and
fervent love. If so be, dear Zoraida, that my suit be favorably re-
garded by you, here on this spot, with yonder ntorning star for my
witness, [ pledge to you my hand and heart."
"George," replied Zoraida, turning towards him her pale and care-
worn features, "although before it was never whispered to me by
mortal lips, that I was not your sister, yet from  my earliest child-
hood I always felt within my bosom the most incontrovertable evi-
dence of the fact, therefore in respect to that, you have a right to
love me if you will, but I must tell you, George, for the first and,
last time that your passion can never by me be returned. It grieves
me.to wound a.heart so noble and true as I believe yours to be, yet
I must solemnly entreat you, by the remembrance of our earlier


98                 THE ALPINE      GUIDE.
and happier days, never more to lisp to me that cruel, yet sweet
word, Love. No," continued she drawing herself up to her full height.
"if you would not drive me from your presence into yon dreary wil-
derness, avoid forever speaking to me as you have this morning.
Ask me no reasons for what may appear to you unaccountable and
ungenerous conduct on my part, for the time may soon come when
you will learn all. When we meet again let us be as we have al-
ways have been, brother and sister." So saying she turned abruptly
from him and entered her tent ?
Poor George, stood for some time motionless. Thunder-struck at
the fatal blow his long cherished hopes had just received, it was some
time ere he could decide how for the future to act. But with a
buoyant heart always alive to man's sweetest and best angel, Hope,
he said-
"Perhaps by paying her every little attention, and striving in
every way that I can to show my deep devotion to her I may yet
succeed in gaining her affections. Indeed I will try."
Having formed this very reasonable and philosophical resolution.
Norris, with a heart somewhat lighter than when Zoraida first left
him, turned and entered the encampment. In his way to his .tent he
discovered our friend Drubbits, the chaplain, advancing towards him
with a countenance so extremely lugubrious and disconsolate that he
could hardly refrain from laughing aloud at poor Jerry's uncouth
appearance
"Our worthy chaplain," said George, " seems to have taken the
field early this morning. How happens it in"
"Capt. George," solemnly replied Jeremiah, "I have discovered
in this camp, aye, even in the very apartment where I have spent the
night, my mortal enemy, yea, even him who did smite me unto the
earth with his fists in the beautiful little garden which lays behind
your father's house. Lo, Lo, the Lord hath delivered him, even mine
enemy into my hand, and vengeance is mine, and I, even I, will re-
pay it."  So saying he began to make sundry war-like demonstra-
tions with his withered fists, which, if George ha- not stepped back,
would have come in contact with his nose, but of which he took no
farther notice than to laugh outright, saying at the same time:
" My good Mr. Drubbits, allay your wrath till after our morning
meal, when I will inquire into this matter, and have it definitely
settled, ere we leave this place."
" Verily," replied Jerry, "although the young man hath wounded'
me in a sore point, inasmuch as he came between me and the beloved
of my heart, still if he repenteth and asketh my forgiveness, as I am
a wuan of peace rather than war I will grant it unto him."
" But," asked George, as he took the worthy chaplain's arm and
walked with him towards the tent, " how did you happen to recog-
nize the young man, your enemy as you term him? V
"1Why," replied Drubbits, "amongst the rest of the prisoners
which the Lord  through our instrumentality, delivered from; the
blood thirsty Indians was a godly pious man whose name was

1

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

99

Herbert. When we were about retiring to rest last night, this man
asked the privilege of returning thanks to God for the happy deliver-
ance of himself and companions from their enemies. The privilege
having been by me joyfully granted to him; he commenced and made
such a fervent, and such an appropriate prayer, that verily my bowels
yearned towards him, even as a mother for her child, and at the
conclusion of it I could not refrain from taking him by the hand and
warmly-embracing him. In a conversation which I held with him
after the rest of the company had gone to sleep, I found out that
this Henry Fitzsimmons, who aspires to your sister's hand, was the
person who so unceremoniously knocked me down as I have told you
before, in the little. garden. What vexed me more was that the
young man had made a jest and sport of me to his father and Mr.
Herbert, concerning this same affair. Surely it hath sorely troubled
me, and the evil spirit rises within me, yea, even the unhallowed
spirit of revenge, whenever I think of it."
Having arrived at his quarters as Jerry concluded with this state-
ment of facts, George immediately gave directions to have the men
musteredd, and breakfast prepared, which was soon accomplished, and
All had met at their respective stations to enjoy their morning meal.
The same guests who had graced the table of Capt. Norris, the night
previous, did not need a second summons to -appear in the morning.
Soon seated at the table was the cheerful Lord Henry, and his
anxious and impatient son, the mild and dignified, yet melancholy
Herbert, Zoraida, with her countenance deathly pale, yet betraying
no other sign of her recent emotion, and last but not least, our good
friend Drubbits. He having craved a blessing, George common
conversation by saying-
"Henry, my dear fellow, our friend the chaplain here has entered
a serious complaint against you for knocking him down in my father's
little garden, coming in between him and his beloved, and so forth ;
now, we, as being umpire upon the occasion, would like to hear your
version of the affair."
Henry then proceeded to give a distinct and true account of the
occurrences in the little garden, and after he had concluded, rose and
gave poor Jerry his hand in token of repentance.
"Verily," said Jerry, as he took Henry's extended hand, "young
man, I forgive thee from the bottom of my heart." And so, dear
reader, that matter ended.
After breakfast was over George ordered immediate preparatians
to be made for their departure, which being soon done, the whole
company were quickly on their way to Salem.
It was some days after the strange disappearance of Henry and
Zoraida, before the burning fever had left Anna Norris. But it did
leave her, although in such a weak and debilitated state as to give
but small hopes of her ultimate recovery. After the wild delirium
under which she had suffered during the fever, had left her, the fair
sufferer called her mother to her bedside, and .thus addressed her-.
" Mother I feel that my time in this world of cares and sorrow is

Li
,
- e
l
1

I


THE ALPINE GUIDE.

short, and that soon I shall be called to depart to another and a better
world."
" 0 say not so, Anna, " answered her weeping mother, "the fever
has left you, and I hope and trust that you will soon recover."
" Mother," replied Anna, and her eyes sparlded with supernatural
brilliancy as she spoke, " my hopes of happiness in this world were
all centered upon one being, and in the deep devotion of my love for
him, in the wildness of my fervent attachment, I had forgotten that
my highest affections should have been bestowed upon my blessed
Redeemer. By this sorrowful and afflicting dispensation he has been
pleased to show me mine error, and now my thoughts of this world
ars, as nothing to me, and I now feel it my duty to prepare myself as
soon as may be for the change which I feel certain awaits me, yet, mo-
ther I have prayed, and I hope there may not have been sin in the
prayer, that -1 once more might behold my Henry, and my dear Zo-
raida. Mother, come to me and kiss me, for I am weary and would
sleep."  And her mother went to her and kissed her, and the beauti-
ful girl sank gently back upon her pillow and slept, but 'twas a fear
ful and troubled sleep, for every few moments she would give a con-
vulsive start and say, "0 God ! the Indians ! the stake ! the fire ! my
Henry-oh, save him !" and then her mother would soothe her, until
she seemed to drop into-a peaceful sleep-and then her mother left,
hoping that when Anna awoke she should find her better. Mrs. Nor-
ris then joined her husband, and related to him Anna's conversation-
with her, but the stern old man only answered, " the Lord's will be
-done."'
Next morning Anna awoke somewhat refreshed, but that evening
she was weaker than before.
As her father at her request was performing evening service a loud
knocking was heard. The old man opening the door, Henry Fitzsim-
mons rushed past him into the -apartment. When he had recovered
sufficient breath he asked-
" How is my Anna, is she still alive ?"
" She is ;" replied the old man, " but Henry, the days of that dear
child are numbered. It is the will of the Lord, Henry, and we should
not murmur at it, but oh, (and the tears ran down the old man's burn-
ing cheeks as he spoke,) human will asserts its prerogative and we
must mourn, we must weep."
Whilst the old man thus spoke, Henry began to weep convulsively
and there they sat, two manly and stern specimens of God's handi-
work ; the one young, the other old. bitterly weeping at the very
idea of the death of that young and pure being so sincerely, yet dif-
ferently loved by both.
Whilst this scene was going on below, Anna, having heard, and
immediately recognized that voice, suddenly seemed gifted with super-
natural strength, for, throwing over her emaciated form some articles
of clothing, she exclaimed, " It is him !" and with a quick step de-
scended into the room below, and throwing herself into Henry's arms,
she said-

S
L

100

*

"Henry, if thou couldst have been blessed with the vision I had
last night, thou wouldst not weep. henry, I dreamed of Heaven, but
my tongue cannot describe its glories. And Henry, I felt too that it
would be hard to part with thee, and my fervent prayer was, that I
might live to behold once more the dear form of my affianced hus-
band. God in his infinite mercy having seen fit to grant my prayer,
I can now depart calmly and in peace." Throwing her eyes up to
the window, she suddenly gave a wild scream of terror, and cxclaim-
ing, "The Witch ! the Witch !" fell back in Henry's arms in a deadly
swoon. Upon looking up, the old man beheld, standing upon the
same spot where she had so prophetically pronounced the doom of
Anna upon the night of Henry's departure, the stately form of Zorai-
da, the Witch of Naumkeag ! But it was only for an instant, for the
old man rudely grasped her arm, and said,
" Witch ! how dare you taunt me with your accursed presence in
this bitter hour of my distress ? Art thou not satisfied ?"
"Hezekiah Norris," replied the Witch, mournfully, "I am no ene
my to thee or thine, yet when in the sorrowful hour of my separation
from her who is as dear to me as this pale flower is to you, you
spurned me from your presence, I was constrained in the galling
bitterness of my heart to utter the fatal prophecy. Your child dies
peacefully and calmly in the home of her father, surrounded by those
who are dear to her ; but mine oh, God ! has no home." Thus speak-
ing, the woman rushed into the woods.
Meanwhile Mrs. Norris, with the aid of the almost distracted
Henry, had borne Anna to her chamber, where she again sank into a
troubled sleep.
The next morning the loud sound of a drum, gave notice to the
denizens of Salem of the approach of their soldiers from a victorious
campaign.
Foremost amongst those who greeted the soldiers' return was
Hezekiah Norris. Besides being a prominent town officer he felt a
father's pride arise in his bosom at the thought of meeting his son,
crowned as he was with the laurels of victory.
Captain George dismissed the men, and hastened to inquire of
Anna.
"And here, father," said George, " see I have brought my other
sister, the fair Zoraida, and should also have brought Anna's truant
lover, Henry, but he stole a march upon us, and I suppose is here,
ere this."
" True," repiied Hezekiah, "he is here, he arrived last night in a
state of great exhaustion and fatigue. And now my son George,"
continued the old man, " you and your fair companion Zoraida( must
.ccompany me without further delay to the bedside of that fair and
'esigned sufferer."
" But stop, dear father," said George, " ere we depart, suffer me
to introduce to you' Henry's father, Lord Fitzsimmons and Mr.
Herbert, a worthy minister of our Lord and Saviour."
I should consider myself as doing injustice to both, were I to un-
dertake to 'i'c '4he the meeting of Zoraida with Anna.

THE . ALPINE GUIDE.

101

_
i
Ri
. }

,_
.               :,
t     , ,                                    , 3..i' '.


102

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

Having .bolstered the weak sufferer up, her mother descended, leav-
ing the three together as Anna had desired, after which she called
lenry to her bedside, and said to hii,
" Henry dear, I feel that I am fhst going. I wish to speak to you
concerning the sister of my heart, the friendless Zoraida.
Henry Fitzsiinmons," said the dying girl solemnly, " to your pro-
tection and in your care I leave her. Refuse ine not, Henry, my last,
my dying request, but swear to ine that you will cherish and protect
her, as you would me, if it should have pleased God to have suffered
me to remain ou earth."
"I swear," replied Henry, solemnly. As he concluded, Anna sank
back upon the pillow, and her pure spirit returned unto him who gave
it.
The wild shriek of Zoraida, and the heavy fall of Henry brought
quickly to the apartment the agonized parents, and their sympathising
visitor.
The remains of the gentle girl were shortly afterwards deposited in
a new made grave in the village burial ground. After which they
took the path leading to the Witch's Cavern.
On arriving at the Indian Oak, the party halted, and soon the tall
form of the Witch moved towards them from the cave.
" I bid you all welcome," she said, coming up to them, " to the
rough, yet secure shelter of my wild abode, and I ask you to enter
my cave and partake of such poor hospitality as I may be able to show
you."
The young Zoraida was the first to press forward and in a few mo-
mnents they had all entered that dark and romantic place of refuge.
The witch soon struck a light, and turning to her visitors, said :
"Methinks I see one among you, who young in years and strong in
limbs, should be amongst these brave soldiers, who even now are con-
tending with the savage enemy."
Zoraida stepping forward, anticipated him by saying-
" Mother, speak not harshly to the young man, for it was his ardent
wish, expressed to Captain Norris, upon the receipt of your note, to
go forth with him and fight by his side, but the captain reminded him
of a solemn oath which dear Anna extorted from him, to protect me,
yes, ine and her poor and friendless Zoraida."
" Ah, that is well," replied the Witch, and continued she musingly,
" two so young and handsome, surely there must be love at the bot-
tom of all this ; however I shall soon ascertain the facts."  She had
spoken the latter part of this speech in a low tone of voice, and at its
conclusion, she turned suddenly to Lord Herbert, and looking him
earnestly in the face, while her voice trembled with emotion, she said :
" Your dress, sir, bespeaks you to be a minister of the Gospel; if
I might take the liberty, 1 would ask, sir, if that be a fact."
" In answering your question, madam," said Herbert, "I would
merely state, that having spent my youth in giving loose rein to my
wild passions and vicious habits, a sudden and unexpected calamity
that came upon me as a thief in the night,' had the effect to bring

a

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

me to my senses, and led me seriously to reflect upon my previous
conduct. I had taken for the partner of my bosom, a being beau-
tiful and fair as the uncloudy sky, and as pure as she was beautiful,
yet totally unfit for the station she had assumed. I could have no
pleasures in common with her, and I soon became in a measure
weaned from her, and sought amongst women of a lower and more
congenial order, to spend my leisure hours in the grossest debauchery
and dissipation. But this gentle and pure being, could not brook to
be neglected and dishonored by him to whom she had given her
young affections, therefore she suddenly left me, and since that, 1
have never been able to gain any information whereby I might be
enabled again to see her. I will inform you now, what I should have
told you before, that I was formerly an English nobleman, and after
my injured wife left me, I accompanied my friend here to his planta-
tion in America, where I accepted a call to preach to the few inhabi-,
tants of the vicinity in which we resided."
She said nothing, but motioning Zoraida to follow her, she removed
the broad flat stone, and then both of them entered the inner apart-
ment, where the Witch, opening the large oaken chest before men-
tioned, took from it several articles of dress suitable for her sex and
stature of the finest quality, and strictly conforming with the fashions
of that period, with which, after divesting herself of her Indian
apparel, she proceeded, assisted by Zoraida to array her person. She
then removed an Indian mask from her face and neck, showing as she
did so, a skin of the most transparent whiteness.
" My child," said she to the astonished and amazed Zoraida, "I
now declare myself to be your mother, my child, and the time has now
come when it is proper that I should explain to you my reason for
putting you away from me, to be brought up amongst strangers.
"I was married when young to an English nobleman, and lived
with him about two years, when I learnt that-, but it matters
not; I left him secretly, and by the assistance of friends, was enabled
to obtain a passage to America. Always romantic and'wild, and vis-
ionary in my thoughts and ideas, and sorrow and trouble having
blighted my young hopes and made me sick of the busy world, I re-
solved as soon as I arrived here, to live altogether retired from it.
Delighting as I did to roam about in the wild woods, enjoying in soli-
tude the luxurious melancholy of my own wild thoughts, I heeded
not danger beset me, till I was suddenly captured in one of my ram-
bles, by a party of Narraganset Indians. I believe that they at first
intended to have put ne to death, but my courage and bold bearing
excited their admiration, and although they still held me captive, yet I
was allowed every other privilege I could wish for. Soon becoming
used to their manners and.customs, and having been carried far away
from the white settlements, I relinquished for the time all thoughts
of escape, and resolving to adapt myself to their ways, I sat myself
down with them, and become as one of them.
" And now, my dear child, having said all I have to say to you at
present; we will join our companions in the other apartments."  So

t
6
,
f
t
t
r
,
A
t1
   
f
E
,r
'z
.£
s
h

4

I

{S

J'
9'1 t
t
Z '
'r
'
V
f
t.
J   '

103

t


r

THE ALPINE GUIDE.

saying, the Witch took outa large golden necklace from the oaken
chest, and putting it upon her neck, and telling Zoraida that it was
her husband's gift upon her bridal night, she proceed ed, followed by
Zoraida, to the outer apartment.
No sooner-had she presented herself in her English dress, to the
astonished and admiring gaze of the inmates of that apartment, than
Herbert, suddenly springing from/ his seat, caught her in his arms,
exclaiming:
" I know that necklace--oh, my much injured wife, forgive, oh
forgive your suffering and repentant husband !"
"[have no- doubt," exclaimed she, speaking in a soft, mild tone,
" George, that you have suffered sufficiently for your injustice towards
me, and I now freely and uidonditionally forgive you. Embrace your
daughter," said she, pointiig to Zoraida, and in an instant she was
clasped to his paternal $osom.
" Zoundsd!"' exclaimed Lord Fitzsimmons, starting up and seizing
his friend's hand, and/then in the exuberance of his joy dancing and
capering about theapartment, " this is what I like to see. Forget and
forgive is my motto. The minister said to-day that in the midst of
life we are in death ; that is very true, but I should think that he might
now add in the midst of death we are in life. Hurrah ! a man and
wife Teunited after a long and painful separatian ! 4 daughter found !
ZOds. I can hardly contain myself."
- Here Drubbits entered, exclaiming:
"Verily I bring glorious-news from the soldiers of Israel; the Lord
hath delivered the enemy, even the Indian Philistines into our hands,
and many of them are now the captives-of our bows and our spears.
Captain George hath sent me to acquaint this worthy coinpanf, that
. you can now return in safety to the house, in which I opine that, the
accommo atidhs are somewhat better than they are here."
Great as the astonishment. and first surprise of Hezekiah Norris
and his wife at- the strange denouement that had just taken place,
whereby Lord George and his wife, had become reconciled to each
other; and Zoraida had found her real parents, but after it had in a
.measure 'subsided, they both approached Lady Herbert, and each
taking a hand df hers, the old man said :
"'My lady, 'I humbly ask your forgiveness for the harsh and bitter
words I have spoken to you, and for which, having found how little
you deserved them, I now feel heartily sorry."
The forgiveness that he asked, having been speedily and cheerfuly
granted, -the whole company, headed by Henry and our friend Dru-
bits, made the best of their way to Norris's house, where George
had made hasty preparations for their reception.

THE END.

104

,{
i.

4
kr


  
             
         
       
   
