
    ----CITATION----
        Raymond, Geo. S.. Red Wing, or, The Weird Cruiser of Van Dieman's Land .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7542
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Red Wing, or, The weird cruiser of Van Dieman's land 
            
                 RED WING; OR, BY GEO . S. RAYMOND, U S.N. .   NEW YORK 22.2 I'JRO A'D WA . -    ,. . .  WEIR CRUISER      YAN DIEMN' LAND. UN1, CH -+fTHE; FE'eTIVAL,-A D ,EAIf OF .BEAUTY.  Oh, rioh,ere the' odor stht , oate dher , , ,  tO'ei the swan-ike neck and t b oim fair!  And Ts w8iet. tiwigled with sparkling piarb,  On the marble. .bo and. uste;ed curl&  A iT wasa magnieen, evening 'n e'rjy J'ne , i8 just the Softest, lov-breathipg .eplrs  ed the dagreen iageof    sa herei andi the re a solit ary; tanheik, gren liage 'f gro fretting, impatient, but wildly be utif, Iser. The millions of, star-lmp, 'hpg out by Godo , owI hand, to adornL and beauify thecli lu  , ,aimmd by oneei1 fleecy cloud, were t'ow paling and fading' away befgr the silvery ,di anoe- of the, full, round mion g orfous Queen fi i ig risiag ie- river inn. ' /, , . Ani1.un ich wtas tir.  With throngs . .of , s y peapI all ,Ola4 i the' r agsIt't hoi0ay igierb i iDF:9nr' a^ y'i ,pro/ud iapision W e forth aoft " etrains-of tnusioi mifgled, twi tool notes f song and glad, rngos  pealsI of iterry aughtr. ,. .'         .  t &  MU; mloh es atirfrv thtgoo o   pty .nci;od  ogal $agthm, Priane, an4iid hieir apiatp4 p narenti 'o at9:i;;? Cgd.. o i.;e -&a -of- Jropje.  twent^ .     *   * ^  .   ^ 4rt po ;t.8 a  x a  e o o t     i   4           RED WING; OR, From Augsburg, Rattisbon, Weitheim, Passan, Wasserburg, and even from many of the Austrian and Bohemian frontier towns and cities, the nobles had gathered to the festival, and such an array of chivalry and beauty had never before been assembled within the pre- cincts of the Bavarian capital. Munich was one vast hive of gay, happy, pleasure-loving humanity. Like Berlin, Dresden, Cassel, and two or three other European cities, Munich has its "Unter den Linden," a broad, beautiful prome- nade and " drive," lined on either hand with the best and most stately private houses, as well as several of the public edifices of the beautiful capital of Bavaria. It is within a princely mansion on the southern side, and halfway down the Unter den Linden, (" beneath the limes,") towards the rapid Iser, that the first scene of our eventful drama of Red Wing, the Weird Cruiser, opens. Had I manufactured the incidents of this story of Van Dieman's Land, I never should have come here, into the very centre of Europe, to commence it. But as my motto is, to use real life incidents, histori- cal facts, if you please, which you know are very arbitrary, why, I must take them as they are, and give them to you as I find them. 'Tis a most gorgeous display of beauty, wealth, fashion and royalty, assembled here in the vice-regal palace of the young Prince Maximilian. We enter a sumptuous apartment of the most ample dimensions, fitted up in a style of more than Eastern splendor, and crowded to its utmost capacity with ndble-looking nien and beautiful women, repre- sentatives of every nation from the daucases to the Island Kingdom of Great Britain; and here and; there, amid the courtly throng, we behold those, both miale and female, 'wlose birth-places we might (pro- vided we have traveled: much) locate in every coutiltry of the Western World."       * ... . Here, it this royal birthnight ball, we find assembled the beauty and chivalry of two cjnrtinents.  ' For the first half hour our eyes are so confused by the wealth and' splendor of all, everytting' about us, iha, haif :stiupifie and bewildered, we forget to iparticiUlariie, an ii blend: the iw'ole gorgeous display into one, almost chaotic vision of fairy eneihantment.  But at length becoming in some degree accuistomed to the; at first, dazzling magnificence, oii eyes wan'dbed over the vast assembly, rest- ing for a momentt on thAe ':oble fiigdri a-id brilliant uniform of some ) princely giests, or upon thmore m  than hiuman beauty of some glorious dark-eyed' creature from sunny Italy, voluptuous Spain, or La belle   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       5 France, radiant with smiles and flashing with jewels, until they finally settle down and become fixed upon the fin'e, handsome features and manly form of a young man most fashionably attired in a suit of plain, genteel black, whose face is indicative of the country that gave him birth. That :noble-looking stranger-it needs no word to tell us that he is an Ameriian, a native of the United States; and of some one of the northern states too, you' would guess--for you see that he has a fair white skin, clear blue eyes, and light brown hair, such as we rarely see in the warm-blooded sons of the south. You are right in your conjectures; for allow me to inform you that I am most intimately acquainted with that young man; and, presum- ing that you are blessed with a 'fair proportion of that universal Yan- kee commodity called curiosity, I will, while we are edging our way along throughout the crowd towards the young American, tell you who he is, and what I know respecting him. His name is Curtis Marvin-very handsome, as you see-just twenty- four, and possessed of a snug little fortune in the State'of New York, valued at one hundred and forty-five thousand dollars. His father has been dead some two years, his mother more than six, and without a living relative nearer than an uncle, and two or three cousins, Curtis Marvin having no kindred 'ties to keep him in America, and being eager to see something of the great world abroad, has made a voyage to India since his father's death, and now for the lastsix months he has been traveling in Europe. Through what means he has been introduced here, I am not informed; but 'tis very evident that he is a universal favorite with all, ladies and gentlemen; you see them crowding around him, by scores-and had we entered the splendid hall but fifteen minutes earlier, we should have beheld Curtis MXrvin leading to a seat, yonder glorious creature, Princess of Nassau, after having been her partner, and conducted her with inimitable gallantry and grace through the complicated Bohemian dance.  I had intended to introduce you more particularly to this. handsdcre young American, but we are a moment too late, for even as we force a passage through the human wall which surrounds 'him, we behold a gray-haired servant in the showy livery of a Prussian noble, who is conversing with our young American 'friend, approach his master'; and after communicating some intelligence that cause; the Prussian to retire from the circle towards' the group 6;]'adies 'in the distance; the servant places something in the hand of Curtis Malivin, which looks very much like a small neatly-folded note; but, withoit as much as   6          ' - RED WING; OR, glancing at the article which he has just received, he thrusts it into his breast pocket, and bowing courteously to those about him, leaves the spot, where, for the last ten minutes, he has been conversing with his friends; and very shrewdly guessing, from a peculiar expression which we, noticed pass like a quick shadow over his face the instant he received that card, paper, or whatever it was, from the Prussian serv- ant, that there is something of mystery connected with the affair, and perhaps an adventure in embryo far off, we will, if you please, as we are particularly fond of adventure and hate all sorts of mystery, follow the handsome young American, in the hope of elucidating the one and witnessing the other. Leaving the festive hall and princely throng, and following clost in the footsteps of Curtis Marvin, we traverse a lofty corridor, hung on either hand with costly and rare old pictures, till we reach the rear of the palace, where we descend a flight of broad. marble steps, and find ourselves in a spacious garden, densely planted with ornamental trees and flowering shrubs, brilliantly illuminated by thousands of lanterns of variously-colored glass, suspended amid the green leaves, and so arranged that they form crowns, stars, triumphal ears, and a hundred quaint, fantastic forms, Down in siltnce along the beautifully gravelled serpentine walks, goes our young friend, and in eager, expectant silence we stealthily follow him. On, with a word, a smile, or a bow to the various groups wandering hither and thither through the enchanted pleasure ground he goes with hasty strides, till the bottom of the grounds is almost gained, when he suddenly pauses in front of a dense thicket of myrtle and speaks aloud a single word. "Alice." The next moment a lovely girl steps out from a little arbor formed by the trained boughs and thick foliage of the myrtle grove, and stands there beside Curtis Marvin, in silence, while he. holds both her hands close prisoners in his own, and imprints a lover's kiss upon her velvet cheek, or for aught we know, it may be upon her very lips, for the lamp illumination does not extend to this part'of the grounds,' and light as are the rays of the full summer moon, they are so effectually shut by the leafy screen, that the exact .position of the young man's lips is a matter of guess-work to us, although we are very: certain that it is a lover's kiss, for no other incentive could glue the. lips to that soft fair cheek, or perhaps that other pair of red dewy lips, for a space during which you might count fifty-very slowly.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMANYS LAND.        7 But the most ardent lip salutation, whether from love, friendship, or from whatever cause it proceeded, is at length over, and the young man speaks. He has not observed us standing here so near him in the shadows. Listen, and 'tis strange, if there is a mystery, that we don't get a clue to it. D "Dear Alice," you hear him exclaim, as passing his arm around her 'waist he gently draws the. unresisting girl to a seat within the sylvan bower from whence she has so recently emerged-"Dear Alice, I had almost begun to despair when your messenger came to me. I feared that your courage would fail you, and I should be compelled to leave Munich to-morrow, without the opportunity which I have io ardently desired of meeting you alone, and learning from your own lips the cause of -your bitter sorrow." "' And must you indeed leave Munieh so soon?" we hear the female exclaim, and there is a word of sadness-nay, of very heart anguish, in the tones of her flute-like voice. "I must, Alice. I have just received news from America, of such a nature that it makes my immediate return to that country a matter of imperative necessity. I could not go, however, until I had heard your story, which you will now tell me, and tell me all, too, Alice, as though you were already my wife." There are a few moments of the most profound silence, broken at length by that sweet, plaintive voice, and Alice . Ah, I had for. gotten that we are ignorant of, her name other than Alice; but listen. We shall soon be able to speak iti for you understand she is telling her story to her American lover. We hear her pronounce her name in full-Alice Trevelyan. But, my friends, interesting as that story might prove to you, I have scarcely space to'give it to you in detail, and you must be content to receive the condensed substance of it. We hear the female, whom we know now as Alice Trevelyan, relate how her father, eight years since, was -considered as one of the wealthi- est India merchants in England. But through the mismanagement and villany of partners and pretended friends, he had become bankrupt; how in a fit of desperation and despondency he- had committed suicide, leaving a wife and daughter to the cold, unfeeling charity of a heartless world; Her mother, we hear her inform her companion, pined in poverty for nearly a year, and then sunk into the grave. She had a brave, noble-hearted brother, who, on the bankruptcy Of &    I            .    I    . 0*     her father, went assupercargo of . 4hip bounad to India,.hoping to earn a mintenanoe for thoir mother and herself .    :    . . The ship was wrecked, and he, with nothing but his bare life,escaped, and returned to England, only to find their mother dead,and iherself -earninga : meagre subsistenc;, by working like the veriest jlave -with her needle.                        . Within , three weeks after his return, her brother. ,was areted -or' an assault upoin a li .ertineyruffin, from whose power he rescued her; .and because that ruffian was.-ithe son of one of England'! proudest ;peers, Robert; Trevelyan, her brave. brother, .was. tried and sent to the British penal colony in Van hDiemeana's Land for seven years. She had at last suqo eeded in getting a oituation- in.,the .family of -L9rd ;Lilford, as governess to Lady Lilford's children; and aas her Ladyship's maid had been indisposed that evening e she had been called to;accompany her to the,birth-night ball at the palace of the Bavarian ,Prince     .  The story of Alice Trefelyan is concluded, and for, five: long minutes Ate silence, of death x eigns within that myrtle arbor, broken at length by Curtis Maryin, who addressed his companion in a tone so full of confidence and kind -love, that we bless him as we stand here and listen. .      : . . .,  .- "Dear Alice, I will not urge you again to become my wife, knowing as I do that you have solemnly pledged your word to Lady Lilford that you will remain with her till her. return to England. I should love -you .less, dear Alice,did I believe you capable of forfeiting your word to any. one. But keep good courage, love; three months Will soon pass, and then you will return to England. In five, at the furthest, if God spares my life, I will meet you there; we will be married, and  Alice,; here before G(od, I swear, by the love I bear you, by my most sacred honor,.by my every hope of bliss on earth and happiness here- after, that your brother shall be freed from his-unjust confinement in a penal settlement, among vile, hardened wretches. "And now, dear Alice, I must bid you adieu. Do not weep, love; and fear not, that Curtis Marvin will ever for a moment forget the bright being he loves more than his own life. No, Alice, till we meet again, in all my visions, in every dream of the beautiful, Alie Trevel, yan shall be the brightstar which, ma kes the picture." The. young man departs from the myrtle arbor, and we, too,will leave the garden of. Prince Maximilian, the palace, Munich, Bavaria, and the continent.   THE WEIRD CRVISER, OF VAWN DIEMANS LAND.        9 -,. , ,     , , ,' . *    t   ,CHAPTflR  t/. WESTWARD HO .l-TH-RE .MAIDEN'S PERIL--SAiL-HO!--JACiK's BROADSID;E-- THE HARDEST FEND OFF-THE RESCUE-THE MAIDEN'S fiOMnl--kidlCO * NITION. I .   .               '   ' ; "I've'roamed the si satea"s far and wide - In man I * n alandaraknger; But never in vain to woman cried For succor, ia wa otr dan ger: Then she 'gainst wrong in vain shall never cry;  Her battle's mine-I'll fight them till I die." ON the afternoon of a beautiful. day in June, 1830, 'ten-oritmay be twelve days since we stood .there, by the myrtle arbor in tthe palace grounds of Prince Maximilian, of Bavaria, and listened t0o - - But stop a moment. It is:in the. city of New York that this, our second' scene opens, and you will naturally inquire if ten or twelve days is not a most marvelous quick passage from Munich to New York  To ordinary, old-fashioned, five-mile-an-hour-travellers, it is. But to us, romance-writers and roiance-readers, who, always manage to get full fifty years in advance of the age, it is nothing. Besides, we have the most 'positive evidence that passages, or'at least one passage, a great deal more wonderful than this, has been made. One of our New England authors, who .has written a great many' more books than you or I shall ever read, has got a ship, totally dis*- nasted, frow the Eqator to the coast of Florida, in just three days$ aifi nineteen kours. ,Having thus convinced you that travelling on paper can be aceom^ plished at,a rate as far ahead of the fastest modern railroad'speedi as that conveyance is in advance of the ox carts of Deitrich Ksibker- bocker's time,. will go on with my story, perfectly satisfied thakId am right, and you know it. Well, then, it was in New Yorkl.-on one of the piers down4 on the East river, at what was then often called " Coffee-house' sli1*,'f0ot of Wall street, at about three o'clock P. M., that a very' handsome-looking man, whose age might be about twenty-five years, and habited in a half nautical garb, stood leaning somewhat negligently aginst a pile, and appeared to be scanning very critically the general oatitiff atfiae   O     -   .;.  RED WING; OR,                -t new ship, which had just got in to her berth, from her first Liverpool voyage, and whose head moorings were seoured to the very pile against which he was leaning. , It might have been fifteen minutes that he had stood there, when he was suddenly aroused from his half waking dream, by a hand laid upon his arm, and turning suddenly round, he stood confronting the owner of the ship-Mr. Simon Berford, one of the first merchants and ship owners of New York. "Is your name Henry Bolton, late chief mate of the British ship Indus "1 inquired the merchant of the handsome sailor-looking man, taking a letter from his pocket, which he proceeded to unfold as he spoke. "That is my name, sir," replied the sailor; "and I Owas first officer of the Indus." u You had some difficulty with the captain, I believe." "None farther than this, sir. Oapt. Giles is unfortunately so addicted to the use of liquor, that he is in a state of beastly intoxication nearly the whole time at sea, and I could-'no longer remain in the ship on that account, although I was very sorry to leave her, as otherwise Capt. Giles is one of the best men in the world; and I had been so long with him in the oldship, that it seemed like leaving my home a second time when I parted company with the old Indus and her comniander."' "You have made several voyages to Australia and Van Dieman's Land, I believe"V "Five, sir.. Every voyage but one, that I have made. to India, we have touched at Hobart-Town and Sidney."' "So I have heard from your Consul, Mr. Bolton. From him I have also learned that you are just such a man as I have been for several days in search of. Here I have a letter firom two gentlemen in the West, who are building a small ship on-the Ohio river, which ship they intend to fit out for a voyage to0, New South Wales and India. One of them is an old sea captain,who goes out in command of the vessel, and they have written to me to send them on a good chief mate, who is capable of fitting the ship out; and above, all, they-desire to have a man who is acquainted at the various ports in Australia. "As, to wages, they are yery liberal, offerig full a third more than the largest ship out. of New York pays her chief mate. Will you -accept the berth, Mr, Bolton. " ," I will, sir, on one condition."    . "Name it."  , "It is, that ,ibe allowed to take with me a noble fellow, who once    THE WEIRD CRUISER OP VAN DIMAN'S LAND. *        l saved my life at the most imminent'risk of his iown anad wh for more than three years has been with nme in all my cruises."1    *  "Ts he a sailor, Mr. Bolton..?" "Ay, he is, sir ;and a better one never put the two ends of a rope together, or hauled out a weather earing." '       - "Then in that case your condition is most lucky, indeed, for in this same letter, I am requested to send on a good,capable feliow for  boatswain, and your protege can have, that berth upon your recom- mendation, and go right on, with you. But how soon can you get ready to leave, Mr. Bolton?"  "Within the' hour, sir, if needs'be.' " ' Good-I like your promptniess; but I have some business to attend to this afternoon, and so if you will come to my office, in Wall street, to-morrow, at any time after nine o'clock, I will give you letters to my Western friends, all necessary instructions for your route, and furnish you with whatever funds you may need to fit yourself out here, and defray the expenses of your journey." "Thank you, Ar. Berford; but as for the money, I do not need it having more of my own than I care to take with me, and if you are willing, I should be glad to leave a few hundred dollars in your hands for safe keeping."  "eryt well; we   will talk of that to-morrow.  Good day, Mr. Bolton." "Good day, Mr. Berford," and the merchant departed, to look after his afternoon's business, while the handsome mate left the pier to hunt up his boatswain that was to be, and prepare for his inland cruise. Let us change the tense again, and away with 'me to the West-to the banks f the beautiful Ohio. I  will show you a life-picture, more wivid and exetig than this New York pier scene, which we have but now looked' upon.  'Tis a  most 'enhanting picture  of sylvan beauty. A most magnifi tent sunget Soene,                     - eSome four miles below the lovely old-time village of Marietta, and on the same side of labelle reviere, we behold a romantic and picturesque valley wose ruggSed sides be a  dense growth of giant o ld  tresa of Who6 n, tie -the date of the ir shrub existence, have encounterei the storms and sunshine,'the summer rains, and chill winter frosts, oaf per. haps five hundred years. Along the bottom of this wild-wood glen goes mnrwuring on its course towards the Ohio, a  quiet, plitid'stteam, whose .water, pure and sparkling as the dew gems distilled by night's subtle chemist    12           RED WING; OR, upon the brdad leaves of the graceful tulip tree, speaks baok in gentle whispers to the glad vesper notes of ten thousand winged warblers, while the towering crests of the lofty!old' trees, now tinged with the last vivid rays of the sunlight, wave gently to and fro in the balmy air, just swayed by the soft 'summer 'breezes that come stealing over the broad river, telling in low sweet tones of their wan- dering over forests, fields, and the far off blue ridges of u the dark and bloody ground." Through the narrow vista formed by the miniature river' between the two undulating walls of dark green foliage, we catch a glimpse of the opposite shore of the Ohio in the distance, and at the confluence of the two streams, we behold a ship on the stocks, and as we should -judge from where we stand, she is in a state nearly ready to be 'launched. We have been many times on the Ohio and other waters of the West; and it is a sight we have never looked upon before. A noble craft, constructed to battle with the winds and waves of the ocean, standing here upon the stocks, almost two thousand miles from the element upon which she is destined to float. So intent is our gaze upon' the ship' seen through the green vista, and so absorbed are' we in the contemplation of this novel feature in the picture, that for ten long minutes we have stood here upon this rocky ledge, with every sense seemingly concentrated in that of sight alone.  Ten minutes. We might have stood here thus, till the fast gather- ing shades of night shut out the whole picture from our view. No, we are startled by a quick, shrill scream of female terror, a ring- ing peal of taunting, demoniac laughter, the heavy tramp of several pair of feet sounding down the beaten pathway that winds along the hill-side, many' yards below the ledge on which we stand, and we behold a young, fairy creature, struggling in the strong grap off the burly ruffians, while a little apart stands two other .villains, laughing at the maiden's frantic efforts to free herself from the plutphes of their two companions.  i' Nay, hay,. Belle Loretta" we hear one of the bligands, atall black whiskered wretch', exclaim, :a .the girl at length ceases, h;er struggles  from sheer exhaustion, and stands there passive and quivering with feai, in the -rude embrace of the stalwart villain, who, with one arm encircling her waist to prevent her escape, grassps .with the other hand her dehicate wrist, with so fierce a grip that the viee-like pressure , ,? .  1   THE WEIRD CRUISER OFVAN DIEMAN'S LAND.         18 cau ses an expression of pain to mingle with that of terror, n the fae ' of the beautiful captive..                  -., "Nay, Lorretta Howard,'tis foliy for you to struggle against a fate  which no mortal power can now avert.  "Dost: remember, proud beauty, when not two months since,' on the  very day that you  were to sail from' London for your Western home, h   w, when It made' you the free offer of my hand and fortune, you scr'yed myQsuit; ealled me vile libertine, seducer, betrayer of feniale innocence?  Ha!ha! haa! dost remember all this,. Loretta Howard? How you, the petted child of an obscure merchant, whose wealth has been basely plundered from   another's coffers, publicly scorned the proffered love of the titled heir to .one of Briton's proudest earldoms t "Theon, I ould have. made you my wife-now you shall be mine by another title, so long as the novelty of your charms shall please me, and then shall you wear the name of the cast-off mistress of' -- n "Never 1 detestable wretch that you are!" shrieks the  aroused maiden, and as if endowed with superhuman strength, she frees herself from the rufian, aid the next instant, with a oot as fleet as that of the startled fawn, she bounds away along the path towards the distant ship upon whichl we have been gazing.  But swift as are her footsteps, they are all too slow to bear her beyond the reach of her ruthless pursuers, ana ere fifteen rods of space have been passed, the hapless glrl is again writhing in the loathed em- ' brace' of the taill, whiskered villain, who bears her back along the path seeking at the same time to smother her frantie cries for help with his hand, which he presses upon her lips. "Come her;e, Hogan,' your hear him cali to one of his comrades, when he has at length gained that part 'of the pathway immediately beneath us.  Come here, and assist me  to' bear the ittle' fool up to the car. r'age, or I shalli ot' be able 'to suppress her screams; an dIf there be ' inhabitants nearer thfan yonder houses at the mouth of the creek, wee ': s  hall hav e tiem dAown upo n us her e- d ozen I may be. of these w'i. d men   of the woods, b efore we can make goodi ourretreat. "Mercy!  mercy 1" screams the girl, as the second rufian advanced'- and, regardless of her cries, the miscreants are about to bear  her off wheni' suddenly they are :';rieste-'d by' a I fi;  o "t rings. )ut a " Sail-ho I 'Vast heaving there ' and before thea stonished scoun - drels recoverfrom their urprise-, they are ese6t by twof stoutTellows, . who come bounding downi the narrow p'ath.    ; .  One of the assail-ants i dres'sed in the garb of  a oommin sailor, and P   as      ,  RED WING , OR, his compani9n-one .single glance at. his manly figure and handsome face, and we recognize him as the mate engaged by Mr. Berford for the Weqtern ship, We understand it now, who these two strangers are-Henry Bolton and his friend ---; we have not learned his name yet, but we shall do so from his own lips, ere many moments have elapsed. In a moment, the two unoccupied ruffians are struck down; in the same breath their companions relinquish their grasp upon the girl, and rush forward to attack the two sailors, menacing them with-a pistol in either hand, while the liberated maiden sinks fainting to the earth. ,Almost as quick as thought the two miscreant, whom the intruders had prostrated, but not disabled, regain their feet, and like their com- rades, drawing their weapons, the two sailors find themselves there, armed only with a stout walking stick each, confronting four fierce, desperate-looking men, armed with pistols, and the determination to use them written vividly in the features of each and all.. ,But not for a single instant do these brave, determined fellows falter in their purpose. They have seen that beautiful girl, now lying there senseless upon the ground, in the clutches of these base wretches, and they. will rescue her or die in her cause. "Away, meddling fools!" shouts the tall, whiskered villain. "Away! nor meddle with that which concerns you not." "Who says it concerns not Henry Bolton when a helpless woman iL screaming for aid, and struggling in the ruffian grasp of. a damned black-hearted libertine?" "Ha! this to me?" and quick as lightning a bullet from one of the ravisher'ss pistols hisses by the ear of the daring champion. By the main lifts of Heaven I Mr. Bolton!" yells the sailor, a real Hercules in proportions, let's pitoh into the d-d beggarly swabs with a broadside that'll send -'em all to kingdom in two twos. By God's right hand I Ben Vickers never yet. stood by and saw a bloody pirate craft rake or run down another under the petticoat flag without scaling his batteries."  'i Go preach your unintelligible jargon to the fiends, you salt- water fool " and a ball from the other pistol of the enraged ruffian is sent through the sailor's tarpaulin, not a half inch clear of his skull. "Let go and haul, and the hardest fend off 1" shout, the. now thor- oughly aroused sailor, and dealing the murderous wretch a blow over, the head with his oaken stick, that settled him quivering like a felled ox there in the pathway, he rushes upon the next miscreant, and before   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN S LAND.       15 he can present either of his weapons, he sends him headlong to the ground with the whole frontal bone crushed in, and both eyes beaten from their sockets, by that one tremendous sweeping blow of his Herculean arm and stout oak club.  Another of the wretches sinks down, with the brains oozing from his battered skull, hurled to his death by the stalwart arm of Henry- Bolton; and the only remaining ruffian-him whom we have heard the whiskered scoundrel address as Hogan, seeing the fate of his asso- ciates-flies precipitately from the spot, leaving the two brave sailors victors of the battle field. The noise of the desperate fray has aroused the maiden from her swoon, and half bewildered by the strange whirl of events which have so rapidly transpired, she timidly approaches the handsome mate, gaining his side at the very instant that he bends over the prostrate body of the black whiskered villain, who just begins to exhibit signs of return- ing consciousness, and with one quick motion of his hand he tears away a wig of black glossy hair, the beautifully curved moustache and huge shaggy whiskers, disclosing a face at the very first glance of which both the sailor and the maiden stagger back from the wounded man, and, utter first a quick exclamation of astonishment, and then the next breath they speak the same word-a name. It must be that of the prostrate' ruffian, for you see they are both pointing towards his face, now distorted with agony, as returning reason brings with it the sense of feeling and capacity to suffer. "Lord John Monerieff!" is the name spoken simultaneously by both, and a moment later it is repeated by the sailor, Ben Vickers, "Well, I'm blest, Mr. Bolton---" Mr. Bolton! almost screams the rescued :girl, bounding forward and grasping both the handsome young officer's hands. "Can it be that I have been delivered from the' hands of that bad man by Henry Boltob, who once plunged into the sea to save me from death?" "Oh no, lady; not to me: is the credit of this rescue due, any more than wra that of your salvation from a waterygrave. Then we both should have perished, Miss Howard, but for the interposition of an arm mightier than mine; and that' same arm has:again done us both good service, inasmuch as two of these villains have been struck down by it," and'Mr. Bolton points towards the'athletic sailor as he speaks. "Ben Vickers, my brave, noble friend," the maiden exclaims, as she takes his 'hand in hers 'and: greets him as though he were a dear- brother. "'Is this. all a dream? No! here before me lies the to6, palpable evidence of its reality. But it seems so very strange.' First,   more than three years ago, when returning from India in my father's ship, I was saved from death by your brave arms; and here again this evening, in the, western wilds of America, I, am rescued from a fate worse than ten thousand deaths, by the same daring hearts, to. whom I owed my, life before. It must be real, and yet it seemsa,more like some strange, frightful dream." "LIt's all, raal as can be, Miss Loretta; 'scuse me, ma'am, but you, lirnt me to call you that in the old, Indus. But it's all raal 'nough, Miss Letta, 'cause you see, ma'am, there aint no -d-d devil no where, black 'nough 'round his heart, and wicked 'nough all. over, to play Lord John. Moncrieff;, and so, you see, it must be raal. Do you remember, Miss, that 'twas this same infernal land-pirate that. tried to 'lope in London With that poor girl, Miss Alice Trevelyan, and when her noble brother run afoul of him and raked, him fore and aft, he got him, put in chokie, and finally sent to Van Dieman's Land for it?" "O, but too well,I remember this% among the many other base acts of this human fiend." And then you hear her relate--this fair, beau- tiful girl-how, when her father came to America .two years previously, she had remained in England; to complete her, ducation, and how, just as she was about. to sail from London, only two, months . ago, :the vile libertine solicited her hand in- marriage, and she spurned ihim and ,his offer with contempt.            .  And then she goes on to relate how he had surprised her there,. not ten niinites. before their: appearance;. and of alla everything butthat terrible threat, she' makes them acoquainted.,  And then, as they leave the scene of that tearible encounter-*-the two dead ruffians, ad', the, villain. Lord: John ,Moncrieff, just, stagger- ing to his feet-and pass along down the winding patk, now becoming obscured. in tie fast-gathering: :shadess We ishall .hear, asnwe:follow close in their footsteps, thehandsome officer,ito reply, to Miss Howard^: inquiry, inform, her: hoW, with, his :.ompanion,j he had. laandd& .in Marietta4 froti a steamer ,not::two ebonra 'ine, hbavings uoma on -from New York to fit out .al. d go ,in ashP not buiding-it must: be ,ea where We ire,--and. o*ned in ,part by. Mr,. James Selden,; to whomrhe had: letters. , .    -     *         .  "Mr. Selden, did- you' says, 714,iinquires. the, maiden,. eagerly. r.. Selda a, - Why,. Mr. Bolton ,that is the ship there befoet' as. .No, you vannot.;ee it now, it is, to ,dark&.., But it is :thtre at, the: mouth of thisiereek. ,O, my father will be so glad that you have! come: on. to go with him,     . '  1--.. -& . T *vIJJ Ari aS LANuD Your father, Miss Howard?"    ,   -    .  "Whby yes, Mr. :Bolton, my father and .Mr. Selden own the ship tween -thkem, and my father, is to' command her. An . OI amiso ligh ted, to, that, you and .Ben 'have come, for I am going to Vau eman's-Land and .China. with my father' and it will be. so charming have the company of two such dear friends for the whole long voyage. it we are here, just at home. Both Mr. Selden and my father reside re, very near where the ship is building, and to-morrow you will call beautiful spot. But now, I wish to see if my father will recognize her of you. You shall come in with me, and I will merely inform that you, Mr. Bolton, are the mate whom he has been expecting seve^l dayS, and that Ben is a sailor that has come on with you M New York.?1 rhe door of the neat, comfortable dwelling is gained, and following ss Howard into a large, handsomely furnished parlor, Mr. Bolton Ben Vickers find themselves 'in the presence of Capt. John ward, a stout, fine 1oking man, somewhat past the prime of life; 3. Howard, a woman of perhaps forty-five years, and the very picture ealth, happiness and, contentment. esides, i: presqnt, the master sphipwright, the. boss joiner, a ad e half dozen of the carpenters who: board here with aapt. Howard. Father, herewis the mate to whom Mr. Ber--"' hat is all the introduction that they get or need to Cap' Howad, e has reognized .them both in a moment, and now welcomes them is home as cordially as though they :were his o*n children., few moments spent in answering Qapt. Howard's questions, and Mr. Bolton informs him of the recent encounter, conflict, and the h of two of, the ruffians. , ithin ten minutes some forty persons, mostly mechanics employed !e ship are on their way to the spot where the encounter ooourred. te dead 'bodies of the two slain. ruffians are found, j;ust as they eull, Ifter seraching for more than an hour without finding any traees e libertine Elngishman, Lord Johwn- Moncrieff, except his Wig d OU8 false whiskers,. the party return to the embryo Village; .an e fAolowing day a coroner's inquest is held, a verdict rendered' ding t to circumstances, and the two, bodies are interred there a twenty. feet of where they fell.        re  there week. later,'and we find Henry -Boltona ery busily eged'  t  ew berth, fitting up the ship which is now nearly ready .t o t as it will le some three weeks yet ere (he can poibly be 2   g     .   BRSIEDWIG,; O,    '  " got, off on her destined voyage, and as' w e "hae to   ayarteul' r  pation or business at presti on this side ot the giobe, let dg away  :n board'the clipper ship, Imasg aton, a ^ia .bark for l;man's Land, where *e shall find a thousand' things to amUeus U9 ntil the arrival of t/is new ship from the interior of the U nited States./ C HAPTE B III  AslMAmJ, oA VA  EMbRs LOD-tCOIViCTs-TE   WE4lA CIulX-8 pOPULAR SBPERBTITION. Far southeWout-post of Britani's reslm, Almost Antatic. storms oft overwhelm Thy rugged shores , hemn'd in on every hand By rocl and wtaaes, lie poree Vay Diemeni Land. Os' the outhern e oast of the almost fifth continent, the vast slsaid Mf  y Austealia and separated romit by a boad chanel, lnown a Bass' ftratsi lies lan, Diemaf'S rand, Ihe antipodean pOn ifbtiary and OWrkI house of Great Britain.  ,Thb aland, :not..itha..ndi : its high oubaiern latitude, wh d the fact that eo land'ints efns betfeen its eternal icwe brrr w h ou the pole, and extenu theirfrigld shield to within a' fewdegrees ofgtlis worlds out-Post, is posssd by'a elimate more Italian in its general features than that of any other land inthe southern hemisphere  True, there are frequent storms during the Auistaliaa' Wintet , from May to,: September; When the wind comes' vhowig of the last ;cie fiblds'.of'the south. But these winter gales are always brief, and fol lbWe&, iuvaria]y,;]Y iievral days of lear, beauthfil weather, even in the gstormiest seson: In- extent equal to Ireland, Van Dieman's and ss bse te mo fertile i, and foi:grand, romantil scenery, no othe portons of ths lJ)ithbble orld9 ean dompae w-ith it., The-hills andu mountai, rsi n{ to -e;levations fromi four to five thousand feet,j dot i it i ra'ige 8as we see 'them in other eountries, but esie here and there, in iln islted sgrandeiir eothe d in daok :geen mintles of Natlure's ow asiinpg, to;hsir' wrsy cress, while broad valleyq, watered By beautf streams, and covered with grain or luxuriant meadow-elover, sepnre oe from janother, thlse-lbfy peakso whose toweing oresto 'a:ed li"   THE WEIRD CltiSSB &#    VAV N DIEMAN'S LAND.  , a loft, ancd ig inglg w i e li torcis: s8odrm-olouis, seem i i kelthe eatch- tow ers pl anted h ere  9s ei-lou rs ip on the ConIfnes0 ota universe.^ Th6e o ast' of Van )i6ii"tean's L and is 'eyster e  worft [ of ,the m ost diversfied C haracte r her e rjectinre into b od, ro cky head-lB-nds and promontories, there retiring into beautiful land-locke d bays and, com- modious hbarbors; lbut' everywlEere manaainin g the peoculiar, 'grand and  picturesqiue features, for wheh -thAts little souther world has become so jastly celebrated.  OhLI the sotheruhern cobast, and upo n itheX bainks of the magnificent Der- went, a broad and deep salt-water stream, unobstr'ueted by a singl e rock or shoil, and naivigable for tte heaviest draiught  line-of-battle ship, is' situated the ineran'tile and Coniineriail metropolis of an Dieman's Land-Hobart Town; while don the n rth , joith,  here' her  silverwavecd Tamer pours its flood into the w at2rs of ioss' Straits, stands Laun- ceston, the twin capital wiith-th6ift cTown, of this far off penal colony.        '  From the, time of TZaim fln' s visit to- 'Van -Diemifan' s Land, (1642,) no E ur'opeau vessel visited its sh6res for  the spae of one hundred, and thirty years. '          . ' In 1773, Furneaux; one of o'0-k's captains, casted ca1ng the eastern side of the island, and finally entered the broad strFit on., the north, in order to ascertain whether' tie territory was an island or a p-ar of' Australia proper. Stormy Weatheir drove him* back to the eastwards/ and, the final discovery was left to Bass, who gave his name to the. strait.  In 1777, the indomitable Coo  himseilf visited the island, and carried on considerable traffic with the natives', whom he found advancedl :in, civilization far 'beyond' any race of savages: which he had ever enooun-, tered. Years' later the great Freich Captain, 'La Perouse, came hither, and there is still'a tradition extant 'a'nong the Aboriglnes of the northern coast, that the unfortunate :Frenhiimat; wih his vessel and every'soul on board,' was hurled to destitti on on a unken ledge, some four miles from the coast, and ten t'o the 'Westward of fhe piouth of the Tamar. Indeed there is one circeum'st'ance Whioh goes to prove; almost conclu.: sively, that the daring navigator, :whose: fate tas been so long involvd  in mystery, must have perished ikere onf some of these dangerous reefs or rocky ledges, with wlich: Bassi :Strait abounda throughoutits whole extent. This evidence consists in numerous drawings and" engravings on the hard, redish rocks of Depuch Island, on the north ooast of Van Die-   20           RED WING; OR, man's Land, and among which are to be seen more than twenty-pictures of the French ship, forming a serial picture gallery, representing her as she first appeared, under all sail, and. then through- all the phases of the terrific' storm and shipwreck, until she was finallydashed to pieces opn the sunken rooks   ,          :  . These pictures are 'executed with considerable artistic skill, in basso relievo, and others, by removing the hard shell or, outer coating of a red color, and exposing the bright green stone underneath. They have all been carved here on this lone, uninhabited island, by native artists, and with such rude tools as their savage ingenuity has supplied them with; but so faithful and true to life have, they been drawn, that when the French expedition came hither, a few years since, in quest of some memorial that might throw light upon the dark veif of mystery which for so many years had enshrouded the fate of the adventurous La Perouse, the first of this article being compared with an accurate print of the lost ship, the most striking and minute resemblance was recog- nized at once by every officer of the expedition; and scarcely a doubt remained in their minds that the picture was that of the ship in question, and that the hapless voyager, with every soul under his con- mand, had perished here under some terrific gale. Van Dieman's Land has, for many years, been the great market, so to speak, of Great Britain, for her convict produce; and even at the period of which I am writing, although only twenty-seven years had elapsed since the first criminal was sent to this new settlement, yet there were no less than 11,400 male convicts alone on the island, and of this number more than one thousand were undergoing punishments for offences committed after sentence. The usual punishment inflicted on these desperate, hardened wir tches, was to load their limbs with irons, and compel them to drag a pon- derous clog or block of wood attached to their necks by a rough iron collar and massive chain, and all the time they were forced to labor at quarrying rocks, building quays, and constructing streets, from day- light till dark, with only a few moments interval at noon, allowed for a meal of the most ordinary and very often the most repulsive fare. In another part of this island they would be placed together in a deep, rocky pit, from which escape was impossible, often ten to fifteen in company, where, ironed hand and foot, they were fed with the refuse of provisions'prepared for the more orderly and well-behaved convicts, and withott the least shelter from pelting storms, the scorching sun's rays, or the sharp biting frosts of winter, and often in mud and filth to their very knees, these miserable wretches would drag out a loathsome 9   THE WEIRD CRUISER 06P VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.      21 existence for days weeks, and sometimes whole months, or die like brutes, and be trodden under,foot by their surviving companions. "At Port Arthur, nearly three hundred ot' these hardened despera- does, were placed on a barren peninsula, connecting with the main land by a low sandy neck, across which a strong wall, surmounted by sharp spikes, and guarded by 'fierce dogs, is, stretched to prevent escape, as if such a thing were possible to men manacled with more than forty pounds of iron each, and chained by both wrists to a sliding ring, that traverses on a fiigate's chain, cable hauled taught, and shackled 'at either end to a line-of-battle ship's best bower. At the Arst glance, you would say that such punishments 'as these are monstrous, barbarous in the extrdme, but when you reflect that there are fifteen convicts to each free settler on the island, nearly all of the worst class, who lack but the opportunity to murder, pillage, and burn, till not a free settler remains alive. you 'need but to be assured that these hardened villains whom you behold undergoing such a dreadful punishment, would' dye tleir hands in your heart's blood' within ten minutes after their release, should an opportunity offer;, and you are quite content their doom is merited-you are perfectly content to let them take/their chances as, best they may, without the waste of another sympathetic thought upon the worthless brutes.  With regard' to the other convicts, such as by proper demeanor have' entitled themselves to kind treatfment, they are' almost always better clothed, fed, and less worked than the hired laborer of Great Britain. A free settler arrives in Van lieman's Land, andswanting perhaps twenty servants, male and female, to assist him on a farm in the interior, and waiting upon the Government Commissioner, he pays a nomina price' per head, and takes his chance of getting suh particular help as he may want; for the itiket he receives. from the. commissioner, must all ,be drawn by lottery, and if he should require twenty practcal farmers, the chances are that he gets one, and the nineteen others represent as many different trades or, handicrafts. it is no unusual thing to see in faiilies, servants-not more than fifteen inall, perhaps-who in the aggregate have been guilty of every crime known to the English code, from muraer 'tothe theft of a two- penny loaf; andi yet very few crimes are ever' committed' by ticketed servants of free setil ers, ani vtery fewof themt ever attemt to escape. This state of things is mainly attributable to the salutary influence exercised by the very severe punishments which I have already noticed, and ,the Ifact' that the convict servants among the free. s tters are almost invariably treated with unitormai kindness. alA i   euf          es   22           RED   WING; OR, There are, however, many of the most hardened criminals, who, by some strange, unaccountable means, manage to escape, and these, 'too, from positions from whence we should deem escape utterly im- possible. At one time a vacant ring on one of those huge cables at Port Arthur, proclaims to the officer who goes his rounds at sun-rise, that one of the fettered villains has absented himself without a ticket of leave'; but how or by what means he has managed to escape, remains a mystery. The same morning; perhaps, a pile of fetters lying near the brink of one of those foul human pounds, tells of a ruffian liberated by, some foreign aid; but from what quarter that aid has come, no one is able to'explain. Again, when at the dawn of day, the guards who are to muster the chained convicts who labor in the. quarries and the streets, enter the strong prison where they are shut up at night,' they find two, perhaps three cells empty, and the collar, chain and block of wood which has ornamented the prisoner's person, left there as a memento for his keepers. It is some six years since these strange disappearances first began, and by keeping a list of the names of the escaped convicts, and com- paring them with the registry of the crimes for which they were transported, it has long since been ascertained that every rindivdual who has thus mysteriously disappeared, ha, been convicted of some crime designated as genteel and aristocratic by the gentlemen of the London swell mob, as for instance, burglary, highway robbery, forgery, &e. There are two other circumstances connected with these singular escapes, which, taken in connection with the other, are almost sufficen to give a definite direction to the suspiion.     . The first of these' is, that several of the escaped convicts have been arrested in England within a few months after their disappearance in Van Dieman's Land, and sent back agai to some of he tpeenal colonies, with the 'death penalty a xe to their sentence, in case they ever return a second time to that copuntry. .        ,  The other circumstance, or rather two circumstances combined, are that these convict .escapes are a6way periodcal, oo9iring once in about six months with the greatest regularity; and always,; fqr sevyerl 4day before the first escape takes pla ea small but extraordinTary swift sail ing craft, is seen hovering alpn the coat, and about the, nihborhoo of the princlpal convict Rtations as Hobert Ton, . Launceton, Por  . .. ...;R.,,.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OQ    VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.     29, Arthur, &c.; and although she has been repeatedly chased by the fastert vessels in the British' Navy, as well as many private: armed clippers yet none of them has ever been able to overhaul or speak her,'and always the moment the chase is discontinued, the mysterious schooner will haul her wind; and stand back after the pursuing craft, just as i' sbe was herself in chace' .'                ' There is always a dreamy, unreal appearance about her, so different from every other eraft that has ever been seen on the coast; and then her,sudden advent at particular times and places, almost always in' dull, hazy weather, or just at night-fall, added to the indisputable factn that often times she would vanish almost instantaneously from; sight, as though she had' dissolved into the air-all combine to give her an unearthly character; and there is everywhere, among all classeds a strange, undefined dread connected 'with this Weird Cruiser,' 'ai she has been most appropriately christened by the inhabitants of Van Dieman's Land.   ,                    '  There is a popular superstition, however, which first had its origin' among the natives on the north, along 'te shores of Bass' Strait, but now common to all in every part of the island, that for many years, ever since the destruction of the -beautiful ship -which the native tradition says was the one whose semblance is sculptured on the lone rocks of Depuch Island, there often comes at night fall, and always before an unusually severe storm, a dim, phantom craft, of a pale, indistinct hue, like the clear blue sky, fading and growing colorless as the early dawn chases the darkress away westward before the coming god of day.  Her sails they will tell you, are woven 'of some airy transparent fabric, scarcely interposings a shadow between the' eye and the etar- gemmed sky, or the clearly defined horizon beyond. She is a most exquisitely modeled schdonerithis phantom craft; and 'tis asserted that sometimes, just aft lU, ' she is seen darting along through the water with arrowy speed, not more than a mile from the land, and that, too, when not the slightest breath of air kisses the cheek-turned seaward, or stirs a single leaf along the foliage-fringed At other times .he will appear at midday in the midst of the wildest storwsA-sometimes off :HobsFtt Town, battling with , in'ightywsoutheast ' gale in the 4ead of winter,; 'then atPt pio Aithur, beating up Snder  every inch of canvas against a western. burrieane, amd sagain dashing furiously here and there ataidl te 'yelling bieakersaund sunken ;!d of lsa .Straits;, and not unfrequently; tey wil tl ell you, hetas bleia   AC: .,        -; RED WING; aR, seen amid the gathering shades of evening, sailing right-on through the. ajr, like the dim outlines of some' monstrous bird of duskry plumage, hovering over the .dark, wooded valleys, gliding along the bare, rugged Pwalls of some mountain steep, or settling gently down into some sylvan dell, and then, perhaps, sqaring like a vast kite to, the very summit of- some elevated peak, where she will vanish in an instant, as goes, out, the lightning flash of a brilliant meteor .  These native savages call her the spirit of that stranger ship which perishedin the mad tempest many years ago, there on that sunken ledge in/Bass':Straits-the craft whose image is sculptured there on the rocks of Depuch Island. t Now, of course we do not believe a word. of all this ridiculous tradi- tionary legend, originated and. perpetuated among these Australian barbarians; but there are hundreds and thousands all over Van Die- nBan's Land who do believe it; and somehow they have come gradu- ally to associate this strange, wild legend of the phantom schooner with the less fabulous and equally mysterious appearance of the Weird CrUiser, till .the names: have become synonymous, and, all throughout the country the inystic craft is known as the Phanton Schoener, or the Weird Cruiser of Van iheman's Land. ,  C HAPTE R IV. TtiE VAN DIEMAN S LAND PROPRIETOR--THREE CONVICT SPECIMENS - ENGLISH, IRISH, AND SCOTCH-r-THE PIRST RSSAY AT-WOOD-CRAPT. "Tri-nation convict colony, , ; , "A motley race is thine, , -; ' .' -,; As ever peopled'continent  - v  Or troas'd the omean's brine. .   . Now, my friends, I for'one have been disappointed in my expects ti ions. The clipper Imagination, in which we embarked at the com- mencement of the last chapter, has., for once proved an exceeding slow- moulded ctaft. But here we are'atlast, after a 'three months' passage from Marietta on :the Ohio river, arrived safe and sound at Hobart Townf the metropolis and southern -capital iof this' other-side-of-the- Orlld country, that I have been telling you about. ,  : Tlhre monthsl! Ninety d;ys 1:' Why that's not a very unreason4ae   THE WEIRD CRUISERI OF' VAN' DIEMA/S LAND.      25 passage, after all.. There's;many a noble ship, even in thege dadys of California clippers, which will never make the passage in that thne. It is early morning, in early spring, when we step -ashore from the good ship Imagination, in the port of Hobart Town'; and as I hI:ave'a scenein the interior, which I wish to show you this very iiiornirig, it strikes me we have no time t-o llose, and by your leave we- will mount this good, old-fashioned land conveyane -Matter-offact, and be off.  It is very near the middle of September, 1830. - You wi6lrecollect I have just told you that it is early spring----. It i so ; for you must remember that we are now in the southern hemisphere, and that September of Van Dieman's .Land is the' March of North America.' 'Tis to the residence of a:free settler; an Efiglish gentleman named Burrell, some forty-five miles finm Port Arthhr, that I would invite you this morning.      ': '  We behold a fine, well-cultivated farm, that would do no discredit to the first agricultural districts of England or the United'States. There is, a beautiful, modern-built, brick' hous& with comfoitable out- I  buildings, &c.; and as we approach the mansion, we see the proprietor himself, a noble, benevolent-looking man, in the very primte of man- hood, standing in the yard in front of the mansion, holding in his hand i  several papers, while about him are gathered perhaps twenty convictf A  laborers, all awaiting his instructions with regaid to their several du-   ties for the day.  - These are given, and the laborers retire, leaving a group of four con- victs standing there in silence, a few yards from the proprietor, ho,' after glancing for a moment at onae of the papers; in his hand, calls A  aloud their names: .             ^      ' "Joseph Ashowdell    ,I         ,  i "Me, sir!" promptly responded a tall, ungainly yoding fellow, with a head as. red as a beet, and' looking "justi for all the worlds like a half" made-up Indian Hoosier, strayed away from the banks 6f the Wabisi, i and thrust by mistake into thie-gray;jacket, two-colored cloth cap,' rtis set brogans, and sheep-skin' trowsers, with the two big letters? DB. painted oni the -seat, in *blik, of' the Vian Dieman's Land donvicts.: '  "Joseph, you have been transported for theft, I perceive,' speaksl the, proprietor:4in' calm, quiet, maandier, lanuiig': the 'second fiiiei at the paper in his hand.         - ?   ; :  i"Ez zur, Oy prigged summut in Lunnun, an they took't ma hup vOrt.1 . "Well, Joseph, what was your employment in London u?',  ' "; Whoy, zur, oy spuns; skittles an' 'spbks hl!e, soomtoimes' e , t , a,.i   26           R D, WING; ,OR, "You. don't, quite understand me; .I wish to know' what you worked at." ," O, ez zur, Oy hunderstand now, sur; yen Oy voo rks hat hall, zur, Oy yos ha coal 'eaver."            / "O, then you can handle a spade.; you. may tale one of those you see there, and go down into the meadow with the men at work ditching yonder; and off walks the coolkney coal-heaver to his first day's convict labor in yan hDieman's Land., ". Archy'McOlusky.," calls the proprietor, after a moment's pause. , Och, an he; the ppowers, yer Honor, an. it's mesilf that has the ugly name av Archy McClusky,; Divil fly away wad the name intirely an' the ould baste av a soarlen asJ giv it, till me." "$ Stop, Archy, ,don't qurse your mother."' "( Divil a mother was she at all, yer Honor; but only an ould fag- got as. found me in, the bog, an' kipt me fur the sivin' poun' she got wud me.^ "Well Archy, you have been sent over for killing a dog, I see." "! Faith an' I wuz, yeHonor." , "I Whose dog did you,kill.?" . "Ief wa, belopgin' till the big, dirty blackguard, the Marquis av Londonderry, yer Honor."' " And how did you, hbppeq to kill him " . "Why, faith an' the young masther sent the big brute on to worry me as. I was goin' pacily .along the strate, an' so I jist hit the divil a whack wud me shillaly, an' brope his hbead, bad 'cess til the brute." "What business did you follow ,in Ireland, Archy?"' u Woorah I An' be the powers is it me biziness that yer Honor'd be afther axin fur? Divil a boy in Ould Jreland iver had more av it than. Archy McCIu;skyy ,yer Honqr. WI hat .betwane ,the wakes an' the fairp, the. turf diggif' anq .ogtin',divil; , slape I'd slape from Good Friday til Hallos E4v e , yer Honor. ,Buth if-ye've iver a field av pratieas til dig, it's mesilf ..kin pa!l le e out, iLUgInI.:'. Ihavye none to .dig jtust .wW, Arehy; hut I have a great many to plant; gad sqo0,u iytqW , intjp ,thbred, barn down there, and fill up a, eart with them till I   wom diowa to you-    . "( Long life tl ye Ho riP -VIl .do; that same ;" and off marohes Arehy, singing as merry as a lark--          :      ; , Whdis e'r hd the 'ac til ls Donnybrook Fair." "Hugh Aniderson!! :"'  ' : .       ' "Hoo ye ken me sae wel by 'that sma wee bit' 6 paper, I canna'tel i"   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN, DIEMAN'S LAND.       27, speaks one of the two remaining convicts, a little dapper fellow, with, an unmistakable look of the Highlands still about him, stepping for- ward. Without replying to the Scotchman's remark, the proprietor first. looks at the scrap of paper in his hand for a moment, and then ad- dresses his new servant that is to be, again: "( Hugh, I perceive that government has sent you out here for having two more wives .than the law of England allows a man." "Diel tak the huzzies, I wad nae had the ane, had I nae been daft. ox sense. 'Tis weel the Laird has brocht me hame ayont the sea, or else I'd sane ha crawed the dung-hill craw, an' the muckfle jade wad hae, scaured the hurdies frae my bodie, I ken fu weeL"-  "Have you a trade, Hugh?" "They ca'd me Hugh Anderson the tailor, and I wad nae doubt I'd cut an' stitch muckle weel the nho." ': So then you're a tailor--well I'm right glad of that; I have plenty of employment. for you at your own trade. You may go into the house; till I amat leisure, and, I will then set you to work.", Mr. Burrel pauses for a few moments after the departure of the Scotch tailor, and we will seize the opportunity to snatch a glance or, two at the remaining. convict.    -  Ie is a young, man--not more than twenty-three or fpur, as wei shoufld guess, although from a certain haggard, care-worn expression in, his handsome features, he might very naturally be counted several. years older by the casual observer.        , He is of mdium height, with a broad chest, limbs that a Romai4, Athlete might have been proud to own as his, features almost faultlessly    beautiful, with dark hazel eyes, and hair the color of a ripe chestnut, curling in a profusion of crisp ringlets on, his temples and about the. I   edge of his convict cap,       .  There is nothing;of the villain written in a single feature or expres- sion of that. man's face, and we are' just: beginning to speculate ,con- cerning the cause, which has, found him a home in ,this. far-off land, anda. habited him as we see, in the rude garb of Englgnd's, felorn, slayvef, when our conjectures areq,ut short by the voice of the proprietor, who; speaks his name.    .   ,     .         , " Robert Trevelyan"--ain d there is a:certain tone of, it sounds very much like respect, ina, 3s. voice, which minged. not with th before mi manner in which he spoke to the others as,;i e appoine! ,them:-th ei tasks. "Robert Trevelyan, I see. by your ticket, that you have, be en   28'          RED WING; OR, two years in the colony, and are sent into the interior by your own request. But as this is a colonial ticket, the-the cri-or--" ' You would say crime, sir," interrupts the convict; and there is a tone of calm bitterness in his voice which tells eloquently of 'his sense of wrong and injustice inflicted upon him by the powers which have- sent him hither.  "Yes, sir, it was a crime-or so at least they call it in England-for a poor, unfriendless fellow to protect a helpless w6man against the libertine assaults of a titled ruffian." "True-most true, Mr. Trevelyan-the laws and usages of our country do make a most unjust distinction in this respect. "And was this the offence (a crime it was not) for which you have been transported?" i It' was, sir. I dared to lift my hand against-, and 'chastise as he deserved-no, not as he deserved, for death is the just deserts of such vile 'wretches-an unprincipled scoundrel-Lord John Moncrieff, for a brutal assault upon my only sister, a poor, delicate girl, with no parents, no friend, no protector, but myself.' The libertine fiend would have dragged her to shame, infamy, and ruin; and lecause I, her only brother, presumed to rescue her from' his clutches, I was arrested, thrown into prison, convicted by an English jury, sentenced by 'an English judge, and sent hither by our magnanimous English law. to expiate my crime by seven years' slavery. Eternal curses on such wla' and those who, having it ih their power to change, still perpetuate it because they themselves are perched high above its reach, upon the bowed necks and"bent backs of millions, who are in every respect, but in point of wealth and proud titles, born their equals!" 4' I can well appreciate your sentiments, Mr. Trevelyan. I have all my life mourned over and regretted this unhappy state of things at home; and it was for this very reason, mote than any other, that I left England and took up my abode in this wild, far-off land." "'You should have gone .to America; sir, if such was your purpose; for' here, in the penal colonies, although you see not the immediate workings of this unjust, hristocratic code, its effects are more palpa. ble, ten thousand times, than they are' in Great Britain." "True, very true. But I did not understand or think of this until after my settlement here; and' now I must "make the" best of it, and ndeaVorT, so far as I am 'able, to amelirate the co6iditiOn of th such-as inay be placed under my charge. '"  '"But e iall labor here, Mr. Treyelvan,' and-and-I-"   '       THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       29' "I think I understand you, sir; you would have me select some kind of work, as the others who came here with me have done?" !:   "Yes, that is what I would have said. But Mr. Trevelyan, although it is beyond my power to set you at liberty, yet I can grant you all, every privilege that you can desire, except that. If you choose to remain here until the term of your. servitude expires, you shall be treated in every respect as though you were one of my own family, and at the end of the five years which you have got to serve, you shall be paid for your labor as if I had hired you as a free servant. I now, if you will make choice of some employment at which you would prefer to labor-or perhaps you are a mechanic? If so, and it be any trade at which I can employ you, I shall be but too happy'to--'" "No, sir, I am no mechanic," Speaks the handsome convict, eagerly. "M y former occupation has been such that I fear I shall make you but an unprofitable servant at first; but I am strong and able sir and most willing to learn. Employ me as you seeproper, and I will do all I can for a man who has exhibited such genuine kindness of heart as you have done towards me. "I was, till my father's death, or rather till his bankruptcy, which occurred a short time previous to his death, a clerk in his, extensive mercantile house in London. Since that time, until my arrest, I acted as supercargo of a ship which was wrecked on her first passage to India, and ever since I came to Van Dieman's Land, I have been employed on board of ships in the harbor, or in fitting rigging on shore, until, so far as the fitting out of vessels go, I have acquired considerable skill in nautical matters; but, as I said before, I shall, I fear, make but a sorry farm servant at the first." "May I inquire what were your motives for requesting to be ticketed onto a farm in the interior?" asks" the proprietor. "Most certainly, sir. There are many persons in Hobart Town who knew me under other circumstances, and it is painful to me, in the extreme, to be recognized and spoken to by them; besides, a man-of- war brig, the Beazle, has lately arrived, at the colony, where it is said 'she will remain three years. Her commander, Capt. Charles oncrieff, is the younger brother of the titled ruffian on whose account I have been made England's slave.  Twice has the unfeeling wretch publicly taunted me with my degra-  dation, since his arrival at Hobart Town, and I might but expect that every day would bring a repetition of the insult while I remained." There is something like a smothered curse falls from the lips of the   60           R  WiNG; 0i,   '  kind-heated proprietor, as he listeins to tie 'reasois'd f Bobert Trevel- yan for seeking' te seclusions of the coiintriy. "tnidai d, I am very muiie engaged this morning,Mr, Trevelyau? we : eiear him retark, after a feW 'bients of' thdughtful' silece'. ; ' I have  several of my men to 'set to tork j et:; :t I will see yo0 - aaiin this afitenoon, when we can arrange abiut the particular e-mploymientii h .- you wh id prlfear, o-"     -           - "'I have no preferenee, sir. Set mbe at someting now; jthng   .: you'please, sir,"iio: that it is woik. It . til drive thought--this torturing . ou'iIb)e, sir,'66' s work.       : h ' 1'o f ithoiu gh^t-Lfr om t-y t btai ' .s Again the 'ppOprietor muses for a few moments, with his eyes-fixed intently upon that giant' old Pink-wood tree, growing there withii  fifteen'-yards of'the' redt;arn within which Mr.'Archy M6Clukyis' very busily engaged in loading up a tremendous great cart wit'h pitatoes for : panting y                        . i .    t, c' Cain you usen an e sT' the proprietor inquires of his companion. : ,e "' I have had but little practice with the tool, sir; 'but if a willing mind and a pair of stout arms are any match for'inexperience, it shall i tiot be long ere I become an expert'woodman."            [i Without a word of reply,but with "a bland smile of approval'lighting  up 'his benevolent faco, Mr. Burrel steps into a small tool house some few yards' distant, and soon returns, bearing in his hinds a bright, : keen-bladed axe, which he' gives to Trevelyan, as' he thiis familiarly .i addresses him:  "Now,-Robert, there's that great ugly Pink-wood growing up there, : shiading more than half our vegetable garden, besides being a constant 2 dread to myself and family; and in some of our violent gales it may, if left standing, be blown down on top of the red barn, or just as likely I  as not, across the house. "4 Now, if you 'are so disposed, you may take your first lesson in :r wood-craft in felling and cutting up that old tree. Take your own time for the job' as'there is no hurry about it; only I would like to get t' it all cleared off in:the course of eight or ten days, before we commence jI gardening."  ,But I must be off into the'field now, for I have got a hundred  things to attend to;" and -the proprietor goes off in the direction of a party of convicts engaged in Ploughing, while Robert Trevelyan  approaches the huge' old IPink-wood with a determined expression- upon his handsome features, indicative of no very good will towards the' tree.        .                     .. As for ourselves, we consider it a most unadvised and thought- i- .b !:   nzA   w Inj CRu UISEl;  OF VAN DIEMAN7S LAND.   31 less scheme on the part of Mr. Burrel, to set a man. who Lad no more practical notion. of felling a tree than a Hottentot his of the Greek alphabet, to cut down that monster old Pink-woodi 'tanding there as it does,. within reach of both the .mansion and the ried barn, either of which it is liable to crush to atoms, as it' comes thundering down, misdirected by Trevelyan's inexperience in such matters. But the proprietor, in his hurry to look after'other important matters, had never once thought of these chances, and the convict tyro in wood craft, never once suspecting but that, 'the Idne repre- sentative of a once mighty race of Pink woods, which at an earlier period had stood there in grim  array, would of itself go down dlear of everything by natural instinct; and so, peeling off his gray, con- vict jacket, and baring his brawny arms for the work, he falls to upon the big tree with ha right good will, as though his very life de- pended upon its downfall before the return of the proprietor from. the field. Ten minutes' observation affords us a most positive demonstrations that when that old tree does come down, its direction. will be alto- gether a matter of chance.; for Trevelyan  is cutting on every. ide, going 'round it exactly as we  sometimes observe the little speckled depredator often denominated by farms as the ' sap sucker," encircle an unlucky apple tree, boring holes through the bark at intervals of every quarter of an inch. We might step forward and   offer our advice, but 'tis no business of ours, and we remember two or three instances where we have got our. selves into a  moat unenviable snarl by offering our advice. unasked. There are some people who care not to be advised by any one, and Robert Trevelyan may be one of, them; wherefore we shall absolutely decline having any  voice at all in the matter, but seating ourselves here-no, not just here; let us get at a  more respectful, or at least, prudent distance. I have a decided dread of falling trees--almost a great as I  have of the blowing. up-propensities of western steamboats I don't like to have a tree come crushing, down on the top of me, earven though it be a  small one. I tried it once, and I assure you the sensa. tions are unpleasant, very; I have been peculiarly sensitive upon the subject ever since. Let us get further off-isq; this. is a safe distance, and here we will plant ourselves until we see what the effect of Trevel- yan's circular work will be. We   must have been, asleep, or dreaming wide awake; for two full hours have gone by, during whioh time we have only been conscious of-   32       ,   RED WING; OR, the incessant, ringing blows of Trevelyan's axe, which has at length grown into a monotonous clicking sound, that of itself begins to act as a soporofie, when we are suddenly aroused by a succession of startling shouts, and springing to our feet, we behold Mr. Burrel running at the very top of his speed, towards the huge old Pinklwood, which we per- ceive in a moment is nearly cut to the heart onuall sides; while the convict-woodman, all unconscious of danger to anybody, or anything, is still plying his lusty blows, as though he were a machine-man, built of iron, and driven by the power of steaim. "Ha! H  A!! Helloa! Hold there! For'God's sae! Robert stop--stop, I say! Mr. Trev'LRob--stop!" It is thus we hear the frightened and out-of-breath proprietor jerk out the exclamatory words and broken sentences as he runs. Too late; for at the very moment that his last sereamed forth in- junction falls upon the startled ear of Trevelyan, the loftier and more slender twigs of the giant old tree begin to vibrate, the last larger branches quiver spasmodically, like the last nervous gasps of the miser- able wretch battling with the grim tyrant as he comes arrayed in the revolting garb of hydrophobia. The tall, arrowy trunk sways slightly to and fro for a few seconds, first nodding o'minously towards the mansion, now this way, now that--. Another moment, and there comes a sharp, quick crack, like the smart report of a rifle discharged. "Tis the last death-yell of the doomed tree. The strong heart-strings of the forest monarch are snapped asunder, and down, like the rushing of a mighty blast, goes the old veteran Pink-wood, its immense top falling upon and crushing the beautiful red barn into atoms, driving down through roof andwalls, as you would crush the frail egg-shell beneath your shod heel.  Robert Trevelyan stands aghast, with his wildly glaring eyes fixed upon the ruin his ignorance has wrought, while the proprietor, having gained the stump of the fallen tree, looks towards the wrecked barn for three-it may be five seconds-with almost a frown upon his features, which vanishes before a forgiving smile; and then, as he turns his. gaze upon the woe-begone countenance of the unluckly Trevelyan, he bursts into an uncontrollable roar of laughter, in which, however, he is almost immediately interrupted by the appearance of a comical figure. emerging from amid the ruins of the barn, and the voice ,f Archy McClusky, as he shook his clenched fists furiously about, in. every. direction, as if menacing a hundred invisible foes. "Houly St. Pathrick! an' what the divil is it all about . Avi,- an' be the Hill o'Houth, an' its a big black'art av an ould tree ye are,   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIsMAN     S LA N D. 38 till be afther comin' down that way, an'- spillin' all me pratiee, an' brakin' the masther's cart all till smithereens wad yer nonsinse, ye ould spalpeen." "Archy, are you hurt V" calls Mr. Burrel, as soon as he recovers the power of speech, after his immoderate laughing fit. "No, yer Honer-divil a hurt I'm hurted barrin the suddint fright I got; but the cart's all broke, yer Honer, an' ivery pratie's spilt ant gone till glory, where paddy pitched the dollar." ".0, never mind the cart nor the . potatoes, Arehy. So there's no lives lost, we ought to feel'thankful--and Robert, don't let this accident disturb you in the least. It is -all my own fault, you told me candidly that you knew nothing of wood-craft; and it was my duty to have given you such instructions as would have prevented this, after all, more laughable than serious accident. "Come, you are not in the least to blame, but on the contrary you deserve great credit for having felled this big tree in so short a space. There are not two other men on my estate, who would have done it in double the time. "You may tiow lop off the limbs and cut the trunk into suitable I  lengths to be hauled away; and Archy-you may go to work and clear away the ruins of the barn. Pile everything up snug, and if you I  come to a whole potato, save it." The good natured proprietor retires into the mansion, laughing as he goes; the two ,onvictS set to work at their respective tasks, and we, if you care to bear me company, will repair to the Northern coast. A  There is a marine picture-a soene in Bass' Strait-tha t I wish you to gaze upon with me. '/1 ] rS, ,/:'   34           RED WING  OBR C HAP T:E R     V. rHE HARBOR LAUNCESTON-MORE MYSTERIOUS ESCAPES-APPEARANCB OF THE PHANTOM SCHOONER-THE. CHASE-ALMOST A SHPWREC lt"  The phantom craft glides o'er the sea: ," Ho! for the chase!" he cries; Before our guns and banners free The wizard cruiser flies.. WE are here in the young and thriingt city of Launceston, on the northern side of Van Dieman's Land, on the banks of the beautiful T/mar, just a little within the line of the bold, rocky coast which here rises in gigantic cliffs, defending with their everlasting walls the green valleys and cultivated fields within them, from the wild storms which so often sweep over Bass' Strait with such appalling fury, hurling ships, sea fowl, and even the vast monsters of the deep, to destruction upon the rocks and sunken ledges of this most dangerousStrait. - I had intended our first view to be in the spacious harbor, but being here within the town, at an hour of the day when the whole human World of Launceston is astire and, as you would. think, in the open air, I would detain you for a few- moments, that,.you may gaze .uponi'the busy real-life scene, and thereby correct an erroneous impression which you have somehow become possessed of, that Van Dieman's Land is peopled solely by British convicts and British bankrupts, all of whom have, one way or another, "1 left their country for their country's good.' Let us take our stand just here at the corner of the small, but neat and well-regulated market. Here we can command a good view of the stores which line the square on all sides; and here, too, we shall gather better than from any other point, living evidence of the intercourse held between this far-off port and almost every eastern nation wher, the flag of Britain has ever floated. Here we behold stalwart Socots in Highland costume, wearing kilt and plaids, and unwieldy claymores; Irish peasants in frieze jacket and trowsers; the sooty, wooly-headed African; copper-colored, lonp tailed China-man; fantastically-scarred and elegantly-tattooed Nem M Zealanders, Malays, and Lascars; smooth, oily-skinned Cingalese staid sober-lookini Germans; tall, Van Tromp-faced Hollanders   THE WEIRD   CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND. 38 shrewd, calculating Yankees; grave, whiskered and moustached Span ' iards; quiet, snake-eyed Italians; and sallow-featured, mercurial French, men; throng theonOarket-place,jostld and crowd each other in the streets, and meet and mingle in heterogeneous masses in $te stores and shops. buying, selling, bargaining, bantering, singing and shouting, each in' his own language, and creating such a hideous, unearthly din as never, since the day that God confounded the language of all the stone masons. at Babel, has there been heard, in any city of the-whole world, such a pandemonium of words. Don't suppose, for a single moment, either, as very many people in the United States do, that should you ever take it into your heads to emigrate to Van Dieman's Land, and having remained here until your transoceanic stock of clothing, culinary utensils and' household gear has ! become exhausted, you are obliged to fall back upon their semi:bar- barous substitutes, in the shape of flint hatchets, stone bake-pans, sheepskin petticoats, and kangaroo trowsers. No such thing. I assure you. Almost every article,'either in the j eating, wearing, or ornamental way, you may have at a very trifling advance on the same article in Liverpool, London, or any of the Atlantic cities of the United States. As a proof that what I am telling you is no fable, just run your eye along down the list of articles named on yonder shop-board-only one X of a hundred like it in Launceston: "Apples, beds and bedding, butter, carts, cows, coffee, cheese, crockery- ware, candles, dimity, drays, domestic goods, drill trowsers, edging, eggs, fine silks, flutes, flannels, farming tools, fancy articles, gold lace, grindstones, gimblets, garden seeds, grass scythes, gunpowder, gin, groceries, ham, hung beef, honey, hardware, hats, hunters' out-fits," and so on, in alphabetical order, from A down to Z.    . '  And now, having satisfied ourselves beyond all question that every- I body and everything, or at least their duplicates, are to be metfwith ^ here in this northern capital of Van Dieman's Land, let us away down ' the Tamar to the harbor; and as we'pass along, I will inform you that : only yesterday morning it was found that some seven or eight of .the most desperate criminals in and about Launceston, had escaped during the night previous, in the same mysterious, unaccountable manner that hundreds of others have done within the last six years, and, like all' the other escaped convicts, these last were of a class known as genteel scoundrels, forgers, burglars, robbers, &o. Added to'this, the fact that the Weird Cruiser has been seen several j times within the past week in the Strait, and twice close in with the   36           RED WING; OR, bar off the harbor, is evidence almost conclusive that these semi-annual appearances of the unknown* craft, and the periodical escape of this particular class of convicts always about the time that the phantom cruiser is on the coast have some mysterious connection. The man-of-war brig Beagle, sent out by the British Government to make a survey of the coast and Bass' Strait, having arrived from Hobart Town this morning, and her commander being informed that -the Weird Cruiser was seen hovering along the coast and off the bar, no longer ago than last evening, has been, for the last four hours, busily engaged in getting his vessel in the best possible sailing trim, with the determination, if the phantom schooner again makes her appearance, to get under way and give chase to her. She is a most splendid specimen of British skill in naval architec- ture, that saucy-looking man-of-war brig, as we gaze upon. her here from this elevated bluff, not a quarter of a mile from where she lays there, riding to a single anchor, almost short-stay-apeak, with capstan manned, halyard led along the deck, topsail yards mast headed, yard-arm gaskets loosed, and men by the top-sail sheets fore and aft, ready to let fall, sheet home, heave up and get under weigh at a moment's notice. With a nervous, impatient stride, her commander is pacing the quarter-deck with a spy-glass in his hand, which he frequently raises to his eye, and with it sweeps the whole line of horizon outside the harbor. This horizon is brought home to within perhaps six miles of the coast, by a dense bank of vapor,which has all day been gathering far off in the northern board, and creeping gradually to the southward, right up against a steady breeze blowing from off Van Dieman's Land, shutting in one after another the white foaming reefs, green beautiful islands and lone rugged rocks with which the waters of Bass' Strait is studded, until now, when you see it there, an ash-colored shroud, cling- ing to the smooth surface, rising to an elevation of not more than fifty feet, and presenting the strange phenomenon of a Vapor-wall, with its front clean, perpendicular, and almost as even as the brick- fronts, skirting a broad avenue of some model city. All within, and above this gigantic sea-wall of fog, the atmosphere is perfectly clear, and it seems as though every particle of whatever moisture or vapor it might have contained, has been removed by some powerful action of Nature's own chemistry, and drawn within the limits of this vast bank by an irresistible attraction, leaving the air so per- feetly clear that every form and feature of yonder sea-fowl, which must   "THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        37 be full three miles away, appears as minutely, defined as though they i,  were wheeling their lazy flight within fifty yards of our eyes. Such a phenomenon as this, on the coast of England or the United ?   States, would be looked upon with theutmost wonder; but here, about Van Dieman's Land, and especially in this Strait, it is a matter of so t very common occurrence that it excites very little notice; although perhaps no person living has ever seen this veil of mist assume just :  such a form, or come creeping up with such a long, extended, unbroken a  front, before. To the commander of the brig, who has been but a few hours in the harbor and less than two months in Van Dieman's Land, the appear- ance is a source of wonder, and, coupled as it is in his mind with the little wonder that he should exhibit symptoms of nervousness and ex- citement as he paces the deck of his clipper-looking craft, every now Btand then stopping for a few moments to scan the whole view seaward within the line of vapor. We are too far away here on this cliff, to note particularly the ap- pearance of the commander of the brig, and so if you please we will step on board. ^We   shall perhaps witness a scene that will amply repay us for our i  trouble. On the quarter deck of the man-of-war brigand  one single quick s glance at her most perfect appointments confirms our first opinions respecting her beauty and efficiency. Our second glance falls upon her captain-a  young and very hand- some, aristocratic-looking oficer, whose features are so exactly like those of the English ruffian from whom we saw Henry Bolton tear the disguise of whiskers, wig and moustache' there in the forestof Ohio, that even had we never heard this commander's name, we   should not hesitate a  single moment to call him the brother of Lord John M on- crieff. But we do know that his name   stands in the list of  British Com[ m  anders, as Capt. Charles Monerieff; and nowlet us give ourwhole attention to him, the brig, and the scene outside the harbor.. C  apt. M oncrieff has been sweeping the focus of his spy-glass along the face of yonder fog-cliff, and is just about to, drop it into the hollow of his arm, as he has done a hundred times before, when some distant objeSt,uddenly catches his eye, and in an'instant the glass is again in requisition.        t4the gas'sa            i But it needs no aid from the telescopic lense to convince the com   38           RED WING; OR, mander of the brig, and us too, if we judge his thoughts aright, that the object in question is the very one which his eye has sought so long and eagerly. - In a direction nearly N. N. E. from the brig, and full five miles dis- tant, we behold, bursting through the wall of fog, and stretching out into the' clear, open space, the well-defined shape of the phantom schooner, which we have heard described so often that we recognize her in a moment, although nothing that we have ever heard has given us a just idea of her strange, supernatural appearance, as she is now pictured on the eye, instead of the mind, for the first time. Rushing forth from the impenetrable shroud, she stands out in bold relief against the misty wall, a trim-looking craft, all of a pale, leaden color, except her sails, which seem, as we have often heard, woven of some delicate, airy fabric, so transparent that they do not appear to interpose more than a faint shadow between our eyes and the but little darker back ground of the mist. She is hauled to by the wind, heading up on the starboard tack about W. S. W., which course is drawing her gradually away from the fog coast, and in with the bold, rocky coast of Van Dieman's Land. On her deck we behold some twenty human forms, as vividly por- trayed as though they stood upon the deck of some of these about us, but a few hundred yards distant. We can almost make out their features; but their most singular costume fixes our attention: and yet I do not know that we should pronounce it singular, for you see it is in perfect keeping with the whole craft, and the traditionary legend connected with her. All these twenty (or it may be a few more) forms which we behold there on her deck are clad exactly alike, in what seem to be short, clse-fitting frocks, full, wide-legged trowsers, and small, round caps, i4of the same pale, leaden hue of the mysterious schooner. They are moving about the Weird Cruiser's deck with slow, measured steps, while the mirage gives them to our eyes like monstrous giants, and the craft itself is magnified into twice the proportions of a huge line-of-battle ship. But our our attention is called back from the phantom schooner to the deck of the man-of-war brig, on which we are standing, by the loud and hurried orders of her commander, the rattle of her chain-cable as it comes in through the iron hawse-pipe, hove home by two score brawny fellows, the creaking of blocks and running rigging, and the quick tramp of busy feet ; and we know in an instant, even before we take the scene, that the Beagle is getting under weigh.   g: i   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN S LAND.        89 Down from the topsail-yards fall the folds of those heavy topsails, and almost before you can count ten, they are sheeted hock home, the yards are swayed till the leeches are taut as harp strings, to'gallant sails are set, courses loosed, fore-topmast stay-sails and jibs' are run up, home to the bows comes the ponderous anchor, and almost before we can fully realize the busy scene, the brig is standing out over the bar before the fine steady breeze, while her commander stands there on the weather quarter, carefully scanning the Weird Cruiser with his glass, leaving the working of the brig to the first lieutenant and Launceston pilot. The brig has been got under weigh to go in chase of the phantom craft; and we have been all along so completely absorbed in the strange appearance of the Weird Cruiser, the equally strange phenome. non of nature, and the active bustle of pulling sail on the vessel, that we had entirely forgotten to step ashore while we had an opportunity; j  and now it is too late, for we are full five miles from the anchorage, and must perforce remain, content or not, and witness the chase. As I said before, the mysterious vessel is heading up about W. S. W., and under her press of gossamer canvas is rapidly leaving the line of fog, while we-that is, the brig in which we have taken passage-are running off free, heading about N. W. N., which course the captain has calculated will bring us in contact with the mysterious cruiser, about midway between the breakers of Launceston bar and the fog- coast. The two vessels are fast nearing each other, and each successive moment, as the phantom craft aproaches, the mirage loses more and more its highly magnificent properties, and ere ten minutes have elapsed, the huge proportions of the Weird Cruiser have dwindled to those of a rakish-looking schooner, of certainly not more than one hundred and fifty tons, while her giant crew have shrunk in like manner to the stature of ordinary men; but all, everything about the strange craft and her most singularly uniformed crew, still retain the same dim, dreary appearance that belonged to them when viewed from a distance. But you see Capt. Moncrieff has miscalculated the speed of his own or the stranger craft, for she has ranged up into the brig's course, and is nearly a mile and a half dead to leeward. "Loose away the royals. and out all weather stun' sails alow and aloft," came the quick, energetic orders from the brig's commander, who, aroused all at once from his dreamy reveries seens to compre-   40           RED .WING; ORi hend that if yonder phantom schooner .gets on our weather-bow, she will escape, and he is determined she shall not.. Quick as the- rook-perched eagle spreads his broad pinions, so sail after sail of white 'gleaming duck is swayed up, boom-ended and sheeted home, till the beautiful little Beagle has her royals and all her studding sails, from the royal yards down to her swinging booms, out; and being hauled to, to N. W. by W., so that the Weird- Cruiser is again two points on her lee bow, she goes dashing on, swift as the wild charge of an Arab squadron. . Five minutes more and the schooner has again forereach, until she is directly 'ahead of the brig, but' this time -not half a mile distant, when, quick as thought, her helm is put hard aport, she. swings gracefully off to N. N. W. for a few moments, until three small guns are discharged from her larboard side, in rapid succession, and then, as she falls off to due north, dead before the wind, a broad, dusky banner blows out from her main peak, bearing an immense wing most beau-. tifully wrought in brightest scarlet, while almost simultaneously, from her main royal mast-head, there floats a burgee of' the same sickly, pale hue as the craft, her crew, sails, spars, and everything which we can see about her, and having through the middle, in huge scarlet letters, her name-RED WING.. That is the name which these Van Dieman's Land savages have given to their Weird Cruiser, and this mysterious craft just ahead of us here must be her. We have always laughed at this improbable legend, but there is an air of unreality about this vessel that goes very far towards convincing us that these untutored. aborigines, and the thousands of white people who believe their story of the phantom schooner, may be right after all., It is not known that any person has ever been so near her as we are, and we have never heard that she has ever fired a gun before, although she always sets that great dusky flag with the red wing in it, and the leaden burgee with those same giant letters in scarlet, whenever any vessel gives chase to her; and those who claim to have seen her sailing on over the forests and mountains in the interior, assert that she invariably wears those colors at night-fall; and hence the name by which she has become universally known throughout Van Dieman's Land and Australia. There are two of the convict commissioners, as well as several gentle . men belonging to Launoeston, on our deek, and as the brig is kept off after the flying craft, these step forward and almost protest again the chase.                           \   JW    THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        41 = f   d You may depend, Capt. Moncrieff," we hear one of the commission ,   ers exclaim,  , you may depend, sir, that no good will come from follow-   ing yonder craft.  During the past five years she has been chased perhaps a hundred times, and no vessel that has ever gone in pursuit of her, got back to portwithout some accident." "Set the starboard stun'sails fore and aft, andyou, Mr. Trunion, clear away and shot both batteries with grape and canister within five minutes."                 " These orders came from   Capt. Moncrieff, and you never saw resolu- )  tion written more plainly in any face than we behold it in his, as-he turns to reply to the superstitious commissioner. I'll follow that craft, Mr. Leeds, till I overhaul her, and find out who she is, and would do so, though she were the devil's own flag-ship, and commanded by Lucifer himself" On, after the phantom schooner, goes the gallant b rig, with every :  thread of canvas drawing, and yet ten, fifteen minutes of the chase  goes by, and not a  single inch is gained, when the weather or iar- board studding sails come  in by the run,up to port swings the brig until the Red Wing is broad on the  starboard bows, and the eight guns, with their muzzles all trained forward, as far as the port will permit, g  are discharged all at once at the dreamy looking  shooner. The   smoke blows off, and no sign of any damage to the Weird Cruiser There is   a loud,.wild peal of fiendish laughter comes struggling up against the breeze, the three small guns are fired as before, and straight as an   arrow's flight, and almost as swift, the phantom sohooner goes on her course right down towards the dense fog-bank. The brig is kept before the  wind again, the studding sails reset, the guns loaded, and on she goes in chase, but the evolution of doming i to and firing her starboard batter; has lost her a full .half mile in fIthe chase.                          J11.. Now, three fourths of   our modern marine story-tellers and novelists ! would have had at least two bow chasers and two forecastle guns blazing for the last ten minutes upon that run-away Red Wing, and the chances are that, in their own way, they would have sent her to the bottomof B  assl Straits, or knocked the sticks out of her long before this' time. I would merely remark, for. the benefit of those shore-goin spinners of sea yarns, that ill al t:-waer wanderings, I have never yet run afoul of one of their peculiarly constructed small crafts, blessed with these nautical appurtenances of frigates, line-of-battle ships, and sloops   42           RED WING; OR, of war, and I have not ambition enough for nautical story writing to r'k tthe elhaue of bei, oJAlo1l '.lubhbe. hv w silor for giving to a craft something tnat aon t Delong to her. Just look for yourselves, my friends. You see the Beagle has no bow chasers or forecastle guns: otherwise Capt. Moncrieff would have never come by the wind to fire that broadside at the chase. I tell you, most positively, that these small craft don't carry such things. It is only 'long-shore story-tellers who write romances for marines, that tell you all this nonsense. But let us look after our chase, the mysterious, lead-colored Red Wing. On my life, 'tis well we have turned our attention again in that direc- tion, for you see her just entering the dense wall of fog, and in ten seconds more, we might have lost sight of her altogether. The brig's light sails are being taken in, but there is no thought in Capt. Monrieff's mind of abandoning the chase. He is only adopting such measures as will enable him to work ship handy; for he knows that the neighborhood to leeward is a dangerous one, full of rocks and sunken ledges, and no prudent commander woild risk carrying stud- ding sails among such dangers and in such weather. Right on into the misty shroud dashes the brig; and for ten minutes, it seems as if the darkness of midnight were upol us, Every object at the distance of a hand-spike's length from our eyes, is completely shut out, and of course the chase is entirely lost eight of. But directly the vapor becomes less dense, a dim, greenish light struggles down upon our deck, each moment becoming stronger and stronger, until the dim, indistinct outlines of the phantom schooner looms up again there, not three hundred yards from our jib-boom-end. Strange! you exclaim. There she is, carrying the same canvas that she did before, and we, with all our light sails taken in, gaining upon her so rapidly. I am still skeptical with regard to her phantom character, and my own opinion is that she has been hove to since she entered this veil of fog. Heave to instantly, or I'll sink ye!" thundered Capt. Moncrieff from the brig's night-heads. "Hal ha! ha " comes back that peal of laughter again for an answer.. U "Stand by your braces, there I Your lgrboard battery, Mr. Trunion fl-a-r-d- "  I   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'q 4-AD.       8 His voice is hushed by a harsh, grating sound, a crash that pitches everybody headlong to the deck, and the British man-of-war brig ji  Beagle is hard and fast on a sunken ledge of rocks, over which the Weird Cruiser has, but a few moments before, passed in safety. In the midst of the wild confusion which ensues, the mysterious schooner hauls to by the wind, and stands back close along side the brig, passing her so near that we can read every feature of thQse upon her deck, as plainly as though they stood beside us. , "By Heaven!" exclaims Mr. Leeds, the Launceston Commissioner. "; There! Look there, all of you! As I live, there are five of the   convicts that last night escaped from Launceston." "They are! they are!" shout the half-dozen citizens on board, con- firming Mr. Leeds' declaration.  A wild, long-drawn-out peal of laughter, is the response from the phantom craft, as she glides past and disappears in the dense fog to the south'ard and west'ard.  By heaving all the guns except two, the anchors, chains, and a large quantity of shot, overboard, the Beagle is at length got off the, ledge, worked back into port, and moored along side an old hulk, where, with both pumps constantly a-going to keep her from sinking, we will leave her and take passage in some craft peculiar to us fast people forH Iobart Town, where we shall meet, among some four hundred recently-arrived convicts, onef our friends-or at least one .of our charactrs, whom we should scarcely dream of seeing here in te epenal colopy, ,aud - convict, too. i            , I   "           RED WIiNG; ORl' CHAPTER VI. THE LOTTERY-THEB BROTHER'S SURPRISE-THE MAIDEN'S STORY-EPAUI "ETTED INSOLENCE-ITS PUNISHMENT-THE MAIDEN S PERIL AND THE BROTHER'S DOOM. "Mark you that beauteous female:-youth and grace, Unquell'd by dread, still linger in her face; Great was the tempting, and the crime but small; And those who lov'd, might deem it none at all." METROPOLITAN. 'Trs just two Weeks since we left the Beagle, on the afternoon of her unsuccessful chase after the Weird Cruiser, and we are once more in the Sbuthern Capital of Van Dieman's Land. T'wo 4eeks; and then, you will recollect, it was about the middle of September: early spring, in this southern clime. Well, we have spent one day in the interior, with Mr. Burrel and his convict servants, one in Launceston -and on board the man-of-war brig; and the other twelve in finding our way hither. It is now the very busiest season of the year with the farmers of Valn Dieman's Land, and hundreds of them are in from the country to procure servants. There is a good supply of them on hand at Hobart Town now, for no less than four convict ships have arrived within as many weeks, and one within the last ten days, having very nearly four hundred females on board. These female convicts we shall find at the barracks, a short distance up the Derwent, and if you are disposed to bear me company thither, I have no doubt but you will be amply repaid for your tronble; that is, if you are anywise curious about seeing perhaps seven hundred females, of all ages, ranging from sixty to thirteen, and who, like the men at the other barracks down the river, have been sent here for every grade of crime, from murder to larceny of some trifling article and perhaps every third one of these female convicts has committed some crime for no other reason than to get sent hither, with the view of bettering their condition, as it is a well known fact in Great Britain, that a poor girl's chances of getting married in the penal colonies are five hundred per cent. better than they are at home.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       45 In passing through the barrack-yard, we behold a busy, exciting scene. In one place a group of perhaps fifty young, and generally good-looking girls, all arrayed in the Australian convict garb-coarse gray dresses with aprons of tanned sheep-skin, and lettered H. P. B. just as a farmer paints the initials of his name on the wooly jacket of his sheep, in huge red capitals. Amid this group of convict beauties, you behold a thrifty farmer, just in from the interior, a respectable free tradesman of the town, or very likely a well-dressed, well-to-do merchant, busily engaged in selecting a wife; which, when he has made choice of, he must give bonds to the Commissioner for, that he will not take her out of the penal settlement before the term of her sentence shall have expired. In another direction we see a crowd numbering two-it may be, three hundred, of all ages that come within the limit of the English transportation law; and near these are some twenty free settlers, mostly farmers, who have come in from the interior to procure female servants.  As I have told you in another place, all these servants are drawn by lottery, and there, a little apart from the gray-frocked, leather-aproned array, you discover a man holding in his hand a small box, having a round aperture in the top, from which several men are drawing slips of paper. It is the servant lottery, and if you wil come nearer with me, you will see at a glance how very simple the process is. A young, well-dressed farmer, from the interior, wishes five dairy maids, and draws them thus: Putting his hand into, the box, he draws out a slip of paper, on which is written- "Frances Ilworth-Age 62. Occupation-grounsel and chickweed hawker. Crime-Theft. Term-Seven years."  There, Mr. farmer, you've got one of your five dairy maids. Call her out- "Frances Ilworth!" and out from the crowd steps a wrinkled, shriv- elled old hag, with "fury" written upon every lineament of her witch- like old face. A model dairy maid; try again, Mr. Farmer. "Margaret Currie-Age 29. Dublin. Woman of the town. Crime- Infanticide. Term-For life." "' Margaret Currie!" and a great, red faced, brazen-looking enhch, answers the summons.                  . 3 Really, Mr. Farmer, you are getting on braely, and if your next three tickets prove as appropriate as these two, you will have a model   "          RED WING; OR, troop of dairy maids, a set that it will be hard to match evenn iVan Dieman's Land. "Huldah Scroon-Aged 43. Occupation-Fish woman.   Crime- Robbery, Term-Fourteen years." Step but, Huldah Scroon; and we look upon the most repulsive- featured hag that we have ever seen. 'Jessie Arden-Aged 24. Occupation-Shepherdess. (That'sbetter than the others.) Crime-Bigamy. Term-Seven years." Jessie takes her place with the other prizes, and we behold a fair, healthy-looking, Scotch woman, with nothing sinister or vicious in her features, and there is a chance that she may become a useful servant. "Hester Ames-Age 16. Vagrant.    Crime-Murder. Term- For life." The shortest term of the five, Hester; for as she comes out from the crowd, we look upon a frail, delicate creature, with pale, sunken cheeks, bearing each a' single bright hectic spot, a sure indication that con- sumption has seized upon her for his prey. That girl will not-cannot, live six months. And yet she is sent hither, a murderess. Drawn here in this human lottery, as a dairy maid. With no Ivery pleasant expression on his features, the farmer retires with his five servants, and the next person that presents himself, is habited in the convict garb. A felon exile, here to draw, perhaps a' convict wife. No; look there I He turns his face this way, and in a moment we recognize him as the tyro woodman of Mr. Burrel's estate-Robert Trevelyan. It is not very strange; for confidential servants are often sent hither to draw other servants, and we hear Trevelyan inform the Commis- sioner that Mr. Burrel has requested him to come in and procure a nursery maid. Robert Trevelyan puts his hand into the box, draws forth a ticket, gazes upon it for a moment, and then, with a wild, frantic cry, he lets the ticket fall, clasps his forehead with both hands, and staggers back- wards against the trunk of a tree, where he crouches down and quivers with some new and powerful emotion. "It is all very strange-a perfect mystery to us, why this strong hearted young man should be so suddenly and powerfully affected by the simple act of drawing that slip of paper from the lottery box. We shall know it all in a moment; for the Commissioner lifts the paper from the ground, and reads aloud-    I   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMA^IS LAND.       47 , i, "ALICE TREVELYAN-Age 20. Occupation-Governess. Crime- Larceny.  Term-Seven years." ' 'Alie! O, my God! Alice, my sister!" screams the excited con- :  vict, as he rushes forward, grasps the astonished Commissioner by the arm, and stares wildly about him.  "Robert! O, Robert, my brother! have I found you so soon?" and in the next breath,.a fair-haired, lovely creature, whose holy, angelic beauty, not even her coarse, rude garb, the degradation of her position,   or the foul stain of crime upon her name, can blot out, forces her way through the wondering female crowd, and, with a cry of frantic joy, flings herself into ,the outstretched arms of Robert Trevelyan-a. wretched convict girl, sobbing there in the arms of her convict brother. For a few moments, Robert strains his sister almost convulsively to his heart, and then drawing her gently to one side, he listens to her story. Let us also listen, for we are almost as much interested as Robert Trevelyan' himself. We hear the beautiful girl relate to her brother, how, after he had left England, she had ,succeeded in getting a situation as governess in the family of Lord Lilford, where she had remained more than a year, and finally accompanied Lord and Lady Lilford to the Continent, where she became acquainted with and was loved by the rich, generous and handsome young American--Curtis Marvin. Of her betrothal to her American lover, we hear her speak; and then she goes on to relate how they had parted, on the night of the grand birth-night festival in Munich, with the understanding that they were to meet in England as soon as Marvin could return from * America.  Within three days after her lover's departure, Lord Lilford received intelligence from London which made his return thither a matter of immediate nece5sity, and twenty days afterwards the family was again in England, where, in less than a week, she had received two letters, left for her at Lord Lilford's residence, by some person unknown to i her. "           dence '    p  so    to The first was from  er brother, dated at Hobart Town, some three and a half months previously, in which he implored her, in the most moving terms and by all her sister's love, to find some means by which, she could get out to Van Dieman's 'Land, as he was dying with con-  sumption, and must se 'her ee'he e went down to lis feloingrave.  ' False I false as hell itself " we -hear the excited brother exclaim, in a passionate voice. Alice, my sister, this is somae eepiaid'pIlto get you beyond the reach of friends who were able and willing to pro- I           9   /48       , Y   REEI WINO; OR, teet you. As ardently as I love, ,nd as much as I have longed to gee yout, my own dear sister, I could never have asked you to come hither; and as God hears me, I never wrote that letter. It was all a base for- gery, to entrap you into'some new danger."'     ' , "Then was the other a forgery also!" cries ,the almost franti girl, and then, after a few, moments, in whioh, by a powerful mental effort she succeeded in mastering, in a great measure, her agitation, she pro- ceeded to inform her brother that the- second letter purported to have been written by her affianced husband, Curtis Marvin', and: that in it he had informed her that, after leaving Munich, he travelled post to Calais, where he embarked' on board the steam packet, for London, intending to take' the first ship sailing for America; but during the passage across the channel, three well-dressed strangers charged him with robbing'them of a large 'amount of gold and jewelry; iand the charge being substantiated by the finding of all the missing articles and money in his trunks, he was arrested .upon, the arrival of the steamer in London, and the court being in session at the time, he was tried, convicted and condemned almost immediately, his sentence being fourteen years transportation to Van Dieman's Land. :In his letter he protested his innocence of Ithe crime, and conjured Alice, by all the sacred ties which bound, them to each other, to find some means of bollowing him to the penal colony, where they would be united in marriage; arid then, sending to America for. his wealth, they would live there, in the far-off country, contented and happy, even in the felon home.                ^  -And then Alice Trevelyan goes ohn to tell her brother how carele; she was of all-of everything, but the means of securing a passage to the distant land where her loved brother was pining for her presence - the land which would soon be the home of her affianced husband- and how she was for a time nearly distraeted. @ But her womn's love came to her aid, and she dared to sacrifie' all th"at remained tq her but life and honor, for the accomplishment of her purpose, She took a valuable necklace, a diamond broach, and a ring of im- mense value, all the property of Lady Lilford, and laid them away carefully in the bottom of her own, trunk.     . - The articles were 'oon' missed, and upon inquiry' being made for. them, she managed to direct siispicion to herself.. The property. was found in her possesion, and being arlraigned before a maistrate, she., plead, guilty to the charge of- larceny .was tried, and Sentenced to four- teen ylelrs' tranlsportation.             , There was a ship nearly rea  toi saii for Hobart Town with female lhere was s'ship nealrly rea   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN9S LAND.        49 convicts, and twenty days after she received those two letters, Alice Trevelyan was on her way to meet her brother, and, as she fondly be- lieved, her American lover, in Van Dieman's Land. Poor, love-infatuated Alice! It was a rash venture of yours; for it was only one chance out of fifty for you to be sent to Hobart Town in preference to some other port in Van Dieman's Land or Australia, and then you might never have met those for whom you have risked and sacrificed so much. But you were ignorant of all this, and even had you known the uncertain chances, your woman's devotion would have risked them all. But 'tis. a mystery who it is that could have written those two letters, or for what purpose they could have been written, other than to lure Alice hither from England; so much is very evident, but all else is to us an unaccountable mystery.                   f Alice informs her brother of Curtis Marvin's solemn promise to herself that he would free him from his penal bondage, and then they leave the barrack-yard together, for the purpose of setting out immedi- ately for the residence of Mr. Burrel. Robert Trevelyan has come in to Hobart Town with a strong two- horse carriage belonging to the proprietor, and having very little load besides Alice and himself, we may as well take passage with him on his homeward-bound trip, particularly as we do not wish to lose sight of him till the conclusion of the present chapter. At the distance of some six or seven miles from Hobart Town the carriage is suddenly stopped in a narrow, rocky pass, almost over-arched with dense brushwood, by one coming from the opposite direction, which at the first look we know to be the government wagon which conveys the mail weekly between Hobart Town and Launceston. There are three passengers only in this mail carriage, and one of these three we recognize at once as Capt. Charles Monorieff, of H. B. M. brig Beagle. The recognition between Robert Trevelyan, Alice, and the British captain, is also instantaneous and mutual; and as Robert leaps from the carriage in order to turn the horses as far as possible to one side of the way, so'that the mail wagon may pass clear, Capt. Monorieff also springs to the ground, and drawing a pistol from his pocket, pre- sents its muzzle to the head of Robert Trevelyan, first ordering him to halt, and then, almost in the same breath, addresses the trembling Alice: ' You are most welcome to our little southern world, Miss Trevelyan; but really I  must protest against your leaving Hobart Town quite sh 4   50           RED WING; OR, soon. I had heard of your arrival, but I scarcely expected you would have sickened of our beautiful city, and the magnificent scenery along the silvery Derwent, so soon as to wish to leave them before the arrival of him at whose special request you came hither." "Insolent, epauletted brute!" fiercely exclaims Robert Trevelyan; but his eye falls upon his own, then his sister's convict garb, and he is mute. What more he would have uttered, dids away in his throat in inarticulate whispers.  "'Tis well you thus curb your felon tongue, or a moment more and a messenger from this somewhat dangerous toy should have silenced you," hisses the now enraged officer, as he scowls with a frown as black as midnight upon the helpless, unarmed brother of the convict maiden, whom he again addresses: Again I say you are most welcome to Van Dieman's Land, Alice Trevelyan. But I must really protest against your leaving Hobart Town before the arrival of my brother from America, whither he went for the purpose of bringing to this country a young lady, with whom I believe you were acquainted when you were the rich merchant's daughter -Miss Loretta Howard, I mean. I will explain, in a few words, so that you may know how matters stand.  "You see I loved Miss Howard, and was determined to possess her, but I was ordered to this station with my vessel, and being kept very much engaged with my duties, I had little time to devote to love- making; and so it was arranged between Lord John and myself, that he should endeavor to win Miss Howard's confidence; and if he could manage to get possession of her person, he was to place her on board my vessel just aspahe was about to leave England. But somehow he did not succeed, and Miss Howard sailed for America to join her parents, about a week before I left Portsmouth. "'Lord John came down to see me, and I proposed to him that if he would follow Miss Howard to America, get her into hig power, and bring her hither, I would so manage matters that you, Miss Alice, whom my brother loves as well as he can love any one, should be here by the time he arrived, or very soon thereafter. "I had a most confidential friend who had just returned from the Continent, where he had spent some time with the fanily of Lord Lilford, and I believe your attachment to the handsome young Ameri- can was not so very private an affair but that a shrewd observer might have guessed it all. "Iwas obliged to sail before Lord Lilford's return to England; but I had every confidence in the cunning and penmanshiv of my agent,   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIRMAN'S LAND.       51 and I was very certain that, in consideration of the two thousant' pounds which I left in his hands, he would employ both his pen aind cunning to the best advantage. You see I have not miscalculated in respect to his shrewdness or your own affection; and now you will return with me to Hobart Town, there to await my brother's coming." Mute and motionless as a statue carved in marble, has Robert Tre- velyan stood there, and listened to the epauletted scoundrel, as all unblushingly he avows his own and his titled brother's black-hearted villany. But now that the ruffian orders his sister back to Hobart Town, and makes a step towards the carriage as if to remove her, with one single bound like that of the maddened panther, he gains the side of the wagon, and stands there between the British Captain anid his victim. "Capt. Moncrieff,"-he speaks, and his voice is very calm-" the laws of England have made me a convict for daring to protect my sister against your libertine brother-take care, sir, that the laws of Van Dieman's Land do not make me a murderer for daring now to protect her against yourself. She has been lured hither by your hellish intrigues--she, like myself, is a convict-almost an outlaw; but she is my sister, and I am still a man ; and as such I will protect her against your brutal power while I have life. She is the servant-slave-prop. erty, if you will, of my master, Mr. Burrel; and as such, you have no control over her any more than you have over a free citizen of Great Britain." "You shall soon see, sir convict-champion, that I have some control over this most charming sister of yours. So stand aside, and interfere not with my purpose.; or by the hand that made me, you shall repent it!" and again the ruffian commander of the brig makes a single step towards the carriage. "Back I back, I say!" shouts Robert Trevelyan. The shout is answered by the loud-ringing report of a pistol. Trevelyan reels: backwards against the wagon; a stream of blood, dripping down upon the breast of his convict jacket tells that the bullet from the villain's pistol has sped its mark---. But 'tis nothing-only a slight scratch an the cheek. It was the concussion of the air, that caused hiim 'to stagger back thus; and the next moment we behold Capt. Monerieff lurled first this way, then that, now tossed high into the air, as the !ayful kitten flings up its mouse victim, and now dashed upon the hard-beaten earth and trampled beneath the heel of the now fully Lroused convict; now again he is flung crashing against the' stouit" vheel of the wagon, as though he had been prdjected from some pow-'   52          RED WING; OR, erful engine, and down he sinks-senseless, bleeding, and his face crushed almost out of the semblance of humanity, just as the driver of the mail carriage, and the two fellow passengers of Capt. Moncrieff, recover from their first surprise, rush to the rescue, overpower and bind, hand and foot, the brave convict hero. Capt. Moncrieff is placed in the mail carriage, while Robert Trevel- yan is flung rudely into the bottom of the wagon so lately in his charge, which is immediately turned back towards the town, and being driven by one of the mail passengers, the other remaining to assist, so far as he can, the bruised and mangled officer in the Government carriage; and thus they return to Hobart Town, which is reached before sunset, and the British Captain conveyed to the hospital. Robert Trevelyan is secured in a dark, dreary cell, loaded with iron, and chained like a brute to the floor of solid rock, there to await the trial for his assault on Capt. Moncrieff; while Alice, almost heart- broken and distracted, is placed in the hands of one of Capt. Moncrieff's fellow-passengers, who promised the Commissioner that as soon as he shall have transacted some little business that brought him to Hobart Town, he would convey the girl. to the house of Mr. Burrel, and deliver her up to him. The Chief-commissioner of prisoners at Hobart Town is a kind- hearted, humane man, and did he know the character of that villain into whose power he had delivered the half-crazed convict maiden, he would as soon have intrusted her to the keeping of the ferocious dogs, trained here to guard the more desperate convicts. We know that man but too well. Arthur Rutherford, sent hither ten years ago, at the age of twenty, for the murder of a confiding girl whom he had ruined. Ere he had been three years in the colony, the labor part of his sentence was remitted through the influence of rich relatives in England, and in this last seven years he had grown rich-very rich; for he is a scheming villain; but in principle he is the same base, sensual, remorseless wretch that he ever was, and better were it for poor, unfortunate Alice Trevel- yan, had she perished at sea, and found a home from'life's storms beneath the eternal waters.  But such is her destiny-. God help her now! in this, her darkest hour; in this, her direst peril. God help her noble, generous-hearted brother, too; for 'tis little sympathy, pity, or mercy, that he will find here. That convict garb in i which he is arrayed is an armor, pioof against every softer emotion of i the human heart here in these penal colonies. There are precious few    THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        58 men or women to be found here in Van Dieman's Land, who are pos- sessed of hearts like that of Mr. Burrel. the wealthy proprietor, who stood there and laughed at the total destruction of his beautiful barn. Poor Bobert! Yours is indeed a bitter fate. Chained there in that damp, narrow cell, to await a doom more bitter still, if such can be. But our sympathy can avail you nothing, and so we will away once more to the farm of Mr. Burrel, the rich proprietor. CHAPTER VII. ARCHY M'CLUSKY'S COUNSEL--THE DEPARTURE-THE VILLAIN'S SCHuME- ITS DEFEAT-ARCHY'S VICTORY--THE      AD A STRANGE RU- MOR. Green Erin's sons are brave and true, Nor warmer hearts the world e'er knew; For woman, wine, or love they'll fight And battle stout for honor bright. Foi nearly an hour the recently imported Irish servant of Mr Burrel had been very busily engaged in smoothing down and crushing between his fingers, every lump of earth that came under his observation on a ilog, narrow bed or flat, which lay close along the. southern side of the brick wall that skirts the northern border of the vegetable garden, and which Archy was diligently preparing for the reception of some- thing near a pint of lettuce seed, contained in a tin cup near where he was at work. For a full hour Mr. Burrel had stood leaning against the low brick wall, not ten feet from Archy's head; and while his'eye seemed to fol- low every motion of the Irishman's hand, there was a vacant, wander- ing expression on his features that told plainly enough of troubled thought, and that his mind was not in the least upon Archy McTlusky's garden making. All unconscious of the proprietor's presence, Archy plied the busy task without once looking up, and all the time accompanying his labor with snatches of Irish ballads, glees, and lively airs, interspersed with an occasional ejaculation of surprise at the non-appearance of Robert Trevelyan, or an audibly-expressed wonder of "  where the divil the bye kipt himself at all, at all;" and it is probable that Archy might   54          RED WING; OR, have kept on thus till the huge " conch" summoned the convict ser- vants to their mid-day meal, had not an untoward, but not very serious accident happened, which caused Mr. Burrel to burst out into almost as violent a laughing fit as that in which he indulged upon witnessing Trevelyan's dismay at the ruin he had wrought in felling the huge old pink-wood across the barn. Archy having at length pulverized the last lump of earth, and smoothed the surface of his little bed apparently to his entire satis- faction,-took up the long-handled garden rake, and began making sundry flourishes above the smooth, even plat, with the implement, preparatory to drawing the small transverse drills into which the --seed was to be inserted; and all the time the Irish gardener went on, apostrophizing to himself, his work, and the lettuce crop in pros- pective, much in this manner: "' Arrah now, and be my sowl, isn't a dacent, purty bid intirely yees made fur the little seeds, Archy? An, be dad, wont the good master- God's blessin till his big heart!-won't he be afther praisin me an the mornin he made me sicond gardener till his honor? Avic, be the powers an it's a dacent place ye'll have till grow up in, ye little darlints ;" and here Archy looked archly over his shoulder at the tin cupful of tiny white seeds. "Be gorra, an wont ye be growing up here illigant, ye little white black'ards? Troth, an I'm thinkin ye'll grow bigger nor Father O'Shane's cabbage, that growed intirely out ov his own land, an he had till rint a half acre from the parish clark for the monster till spread out on." Here Archy became unusually excited, and grasping his long-handled rake by the centre of the stall, he gave a tremendous flourish with the pointed end elevated in the air, and at the same time the head of the instrument came in contact with the tin cup behind him, one of the teeth hooking into the lettuce-seed receptacle, and at the next nervous jerk of Archy's,arm, up into the air more than twenty feet spun the tin cup, scattering the minute seeds in its upward flight, which, being caught by the smart breeze, was borne away, and probably fell broad cast over acres of land to leeward. Of one thing Archy became perfectly convinced at a glance, and that was, that not a dozen of the seeds had fallen on the bed which he had prepared with so much care and pride; and as he sprang to his feet, in order probably to give full.- emphasis to some Irish malediction, his eye encountered the head, shoulders and arms of Mr. Burrel, above the garden wall, and in an instant poor Archy's under jaw fell on his breast, his great gray eyes rolled wildly from side to side, and there he stood, still   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN)S LAND.       55 grasping the rake in one hand, the other upraised as if about to invoke a curse on something, and his face the very picture of blank despair. There was something so truly ludicrous in Archy's soliloquy and his absurd gesticulations before rising from his knees, that it only needed the catastrophe of the seed-sowing operation, to cause the explosion of laughter on the part of Mr. Burrel. For full five minutes they stood there, the rich proprietor convulsed with laughter, and his convict Irish servant dumb with the varied emotions called up by the sudden loss of his lettuce seed. But Archy was the first to recover his speech, and flinging the unlucky rake from him, he thus gave vent to his pent-up thoughts:  "Divil burn and fly away wid the ould rake intirely. But houly Saint Patrick I what'll I be afther doin fur the iettus seeds all, yer honor?" "Ob, never mind the lettuce seed, Archy, you've sown them most effectually, I see-not exactly to the best advantage, however; but that is a small matter, Archy. There is plenty more seed to be had in Hobart Town; and Archy, what is your opinion respecting Robert's absence? This is the tenth day since he left home, and not a word have I heard of him. He ought to have been here six days ago." "Is it Archy's opinion that yer honor'd be afther askin?" "It is, Archy, and not only your opinion, but your advice, too; for I am realy alarmed about Robert's non-appearance, and you are a shrewd fellow, more capable of advising in the premises than any other person on my estate." "Thank yer honor for the illiegant compliment intirely, and it's Archy McClusky that'll give his opinion at once. Robert 'ud niver been gone all this blissed .ime, yer honor, unless some accidint had been afther happenin to him. It may that ould carriage broke in the jilty roads, or the horses got sick, or that bloody captain ov the brig, (bad luck till the dirty bladk'ard,) has been gettin Misther Robert intil throuble; an it's my advice till yer honor, that ye'd go aff till Hobart Town directly afther him an the carriage, an the girl yer honor sint him fur." "That is exactly what I've been thinking, Archy; and now, I wish, you to accompany me. You have no objection, I suppose, to a little excursion on horseback?" t Sorry an objection 'ud Archy McClusky have til be aff in a ten toed machine, the bog-throtter's own carriage, ov it was til do a turn fur yer honor."   56           RED WING; OR, "Well, Archy, you may go down to the stable and tell Martin to get the horses ready. I'll soon be down myself." "An will yer honor remimber the lettus seed (Bad cess till the owld rake.)" "Ay Archy, I'll see that you have a full supply of that and every other seed to be found in Horbart Town; so come, be off to the stable and have out the horses." "I'll be that same, yer honor, an long life til your sowl ;" and away went the -good-natured, warm-hearted Irishman, who, for the heinous offence of killing a snarling cur, had been sent to the penal colonies for seven years: and off to prepare for his journey went the equally warm- hearted and good-natured proprietor, who had left his native land on account of laws that protect the rich and titled scoundrel, and hold him blameless of an offence for which they will send a friendless beggar to fourteen years of convict slavery. Before the expiration of another half hour, Mr. Burrel and Archy, both excellently mounted and armed-Mr. Burrel with a heavy double- barreled fowling piece, a brace of pistols, and a stout hunting knife, and Archy with his knife and favorite shillelah-set out from ' Myrtle Glen," (the name of Mr. Burrel's estate,) for Hobart Town. Leaving them, for the present, to pursue their journey, let us step back to the southern metropolis, and turn our attention once more to Robert Trevelyan, Capt. Moncrieff, Alice, and the villain Arthur Rutherford. First, more than a mile to the northward and eastward of the mouth of the Derwent, we behold Bobert Trevelyan, chained to an immense wooden clog, an iron collar about his neck, from which long iron spikes project on all sides, and his legs secured within the limits of a very modest step, by achain of three ponderous links, and thus hampered with fetters that might secure an elephant, he is compelled to labor in a rocky quarry, with some fifty of the most abandoned, desperate villains that have ever found their way to Van Dieman's Land. This quarry'is situated on a bold, elevated promontory, rising on all ,sides, except the narrow neck which connects it with the main, in almost perpendicular cliffs, to the dizzy height of more than four hun- dred feet, while, in addition to the massive wall across the neck, the narrow space is continually guarded by watchful soldiers and a score of fierce, savage blood-hounds, so that even with unfettered limbs, the attempt of any otle of those slaves of the- quarry to escape, were an at of more than madness.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       5 Leaving this rock prison, and passing on into the town, we learn that for his assualt upon Capt. Moncrieff, in defence of his sister, Robert Trevelyan has three days since been condemned to serve out the remainder of his term at hard labor in chains, on that rugged, exposed headland. On through the busy streets to the "Royal Arms," a fashionable hotel on the northern side of Wilton Park, and hete, in a private parlor, with his face still disfigured by bruises, plasters, and patches, we find Capt. Charles Moncrieff, bolstered up in an easy chair, and making inquires of a servapt as we enter, respecting his friend, Mr. Arthur Rutherford, whom it seems he has not seen for two days, and whom he had expected all day yesterday. I could not find him, sir," we hear the servant answer; " they told me at the house where he stayed, that he settled his bill there at day- light this morning, saying that he should set out to-day on his return to Launceston; and then one of his servants told me that he saw Mr. Rutherford driving a pair of very light gray horses before a stout green carriage, in which was a very handsome girl in the convict dress, and that he saw him leave the town by the Launceston road." "Eternal curses on the double-dealing scoundrell" almost screams the excited officer, leaping up from his chair, his face hideous with passion and unhealed bruises. "Ay, curse him, and curse my own imbecile folly for trusting him, too! Here, Adams, bring my clothes, and help me to dress, this instant. By Heaven! I'll follow and shoot the traitor down as I would a vile cur. Come, quick quick, I say Adams!"  We too will follow the scoundrel Arthur Rutherford, and as we are much faster travellers than this British Captain, even now in his jealous, passion-driven impatience, the chances are, that we shall over- take the ruffian and his victim, long ere Capt. Mbncrieff has traversed half the space which separates him from the object of his vengeance. I will inform you, as we pass along the way, that ever since Atice Trevelyan was placed in the care of this wretch Arthur Rutherford, he has pretended to be her friend, and has ten times pledged his word to her that he will use his best endeavors to appease the indignation of Capt. Moncrieff, and all along taught her to believe that- his influ- ence with the authorities would be sufficient to obtain her brother's release from prison; for up to the moment of her departure, Alice had been kept in total ignorance of Robert's trial and sentence to the quarries. -    58           RED WING; OR, The road to Launceston and that leading to Myrtle Glen are the same for the first twenty miles from Hobart Town, then the mail route deviates from the hitherto nearly straight line, and branches off at an acute angle towards the north, winding for the first eight or nine miles along the eastern base of a range of broken, rugged peaks known as the Peppermint Hills. About six miles from the junction of the two roads, there is an inn of a very questionable character, kept by a notorious individual named Patrick Somers, who some fifteen years ago was sent here from London for forgery, but who, like Rutherford, had the labor part of his sentence remitted after a few year's servitude, when he established himself in this wild, desolate region, as an inn-keeper; and in partnership with a female convict quite as notorious as himself, and known all over the Island-as Nell Brodie, he has managed to amass within the last ten years a handsome fortune, not by legitimate trade alone, although that is a very respectable revenue, but by many other practices, of which I will give you a single sample, and you will not need to be informed that Pat Somers is capable of anything in the way of villany. On the day after Alice Trevelyan was placed under the care of Rutherford, that worthy despatched a note to Pat Somers, wherein he requested him to come to Hobart Town without a moment's delay, us he wished to confer with him upon a matter of the utmost im- portance. Somers came in company with Rutherfords messenger, and after being made acquainted with all the particulars relative to Capt. Mon- crieff, Robert Trevelyan and Alice, it was arranged between the two scoundrels that Somers was to have a room prepared at his inn, at which Alice was to be confined until all search for her, instituted by Capt. Moncrieff, Mr. Burrel, and the authorities of Hobart Town, should die away, when she should be delivered up to Rutherford. Somers received three hundred pounds from the villain, and de- patted for home on the same day that he came, promising to have every- thing prepared within a week, when he was to send in word; and Ruth- erford would leave town with Alice in Mrs. Burrel's carriage, telling her that he had received instructions from the proprietor to bring her home to Myrtle Glen. Somers was to meet them at the forks of the road, attended by a servant, who would be sent on with a carriage, with instruction's to say to Mr. Burrel that Robert Trevelyan had been condemned to the quarries for an assault on Capt. Moncrieff, and that he had been sent with the horses and carriage from Hobart Town. !   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       59 And now, having in a brief manner made you acquainted with the circumstances very nearly as they are, let us hurry on and overtake the carriage containing Rutherford and Alice Trevelyan. We are not one moment too soon, for at the very breath that we take a turn in the road which commands a view of the spot where the mail- route branches off to the northward, not three hundred yards distant, we behold a broad-shouldered, dark-complexioned man, emerge from a clump of low brushwood which grows close down to the road-side, and approach the green carriage just at this instant drawn up at the junc- tion of the two ways; and as the stranger gains the side of the car- riage, Rutherford seizes the maiden in his arms, and attempts to pass her down into those of the swarthy ruffian. All at once, as it would seem, the girl becomes conscious of her peril; and while she struggles desperately with the ruthless villain, her frantic screams rend the air, and wake the shrill, far-off echoes, until the whole forest is vocal with the heart-rending cries of woman's agony. Vain are all her entreaties and despairing efforts, and rudely as he would lift a dumb brute, the stony-hearte wretch forces the almost fainting girl out of the carriage, and down into the arms of his vile accomplice; and the first ruffian act of their infernal scheme is almost accomplished, when suddenly the loud clatter of horses' hoofs greet the ear, and in the next breath two riders come thundering on, brought suddenly into view by their turning an abrupt angle in the wood- skirted road, not a hundred yards distant. "Hold, there I ruflans! fiends,!" shouts the foremost horseman, in a clear, ringing voice; and on the instant we recognize the kind-hearted proprietor of Myrtle Glen. "Hould on, there, ye bloody, murtherin' thieves av the woorld!" screams the second rider; and it needs not a second glance to tell us that it is the convict gardener, Archy McClusky. On, like the rushing leaps of some mighty glacier hurled from the lofty battlements of an Alpine steep, come those two foaming steeds and screaming riders, while the clang of quick, smiting hoofs, whose iron armor rings upon the rocky fragments, mingling with the hoarse, loud yells and screams of terror from the struggling girl-all combine to raise such a wild, confused chorus of unearthly sounds, as never. before startled the forest denizens of this quiet, wild-wood glen. "What means this outrage?" demands Mr.' Burrel, reining in his panting horse almost within arm's length of the two stranger ruffians and their victim.       '  He gets his reply from the muzzle of Rutherford's pistol, and tho   60           RED WING; OR, generous proprietor reels to and fro in the saddle, makes an ineffectual effort to raise his gun, drops it and clutches at his breast, as if he would grasp one of his pistols, clasps his head with both hands, and falls headlong to the ground. "Damnation til yer black sowl! may the divil fly away wud ye fur that same!"-and down, with a force that would have felled an ox, comes the stout shillala of Archy McOlusky upon the skull of Arthur Rutherford, who relinquishes his grasp upon the maiden's arm, gasps once, and then, as the blood spouts forth from his mouth and nostrils, staggers backwards and sinks down across the body of the fallen pro- prietor. "Take that, you convict whelp!" shouts the burly wretch whom we know as Pat Somers, the felon inn-keeper; and as he speaks, his pistol flashes within three feet of the brave Irishman's face. It misses fire, and crash comes Archy's club square across the eyes and nose of the villain Somers; and with a single wild scream of mad agony he falls to the earth, and lies there quivering like a bullock just struck down by the butcher's sledge. "Take that, will yez, ye big murtherin black'ard!" yells Archy, as the ruffian goes down beneath his stalwart arm. "Arrah! an be the heart of Kate Kearney, it's Archy McClusky's powther that niver flashes it the pan. Are yez hoorted, mie darlint?" and the noble fel- low leaps to the ground, when, scanning the form of Alice, who has retreated several paces from the scene of conflict, until he is apparently satisfied that she has received no bodily injury, he bounds to the side of Mr. Burrel, beside whose body he kneels; and after first examining his head until satisfied that he has received no wound there, he next unbottons his coat, and is proceeding to loosen his vest, when all at once he pauses, lifts both hands above his head, and gives utterance to a wild, exulting yell; then leaping to his feet; he stands there, holding in his hand one of Mr. Burrel's pistols, with the flattened and ragged bullet fired by Rutherford sticking in the shattered stock. The truth has flashed upon the mind of Archy in a moment. The proprietor, his kind, generous master, has not been hurt after all-only stunned; and it was the sudden rush of blood to his head, that had caused him to faint. "Come here, me darlint," Archy calls to the half-bewildered maiden, and passively she advances. "Now thin, Miss, if yez'd plasf til hould the gintleman's hid while I run til the brook there beyont, fur a drhap av cool wather, we'll have the kind masther spakin to us thirectly,"   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        61 Without a single moment's hesitation, Alice sits down, takes the head of Mr. Burrel in her lap, loosens his neck-cloth, and, with her fair, soft hands, proceeds to chafe his temples ; while Archy runs to the brook, but a few yards distant, and scooping up his cloth cap full of pure, cold water, hastens back, holding his novel bucket in both hands, with the water oozing through the pores of the cloth in five hundred tiny streams, so that by the time he reaches the proprietor, there is scarcely a pint remaining. But it is sufficient; for Mr. Burrel has already begun to breathe, and on the very first application of the cool element, he opens his eyes, consciousness comes back to him gradually, and within five minutes he has almost entirely recovered from the effects of that sud- den' shock.                     - Rutherford and Somers are still lying there very quiet; they may be dead, for aught we know or care; and it seems that the three per- sons near them have quite as little sympathy for the vile scoundrels as we have; for without- once heeding them, we hear Mr. Burrel, as soon as he is sufficiently recovered, questioning the maiden, and' listening with eager curiosity to her account of her having been drawn by her own brother as the proprietor's servant, their encounter with Capt. Moncrieff, and how she had been shut'up in Hobart Town for ten days, until this morning, when the villain Rutherford set out with her, as he said, by Mr. Burrel's request, to convey her to Myrtle Glen. When Mr. Burrel inquires for Robert, Alice informs him that he is still in prison, awaiting his trial for the assault upon Capt. Monerieff. The poor girl believes that she has told the truth, for Rutherford has told her so but this very morning. When Alice had finished her story, Mr. Burrel assists her into the carriage, and directing ArchyBto mount one of the horses and lead the other, he takes his seat beside the rescued maiden, and turning the carriage around, drives off at a rapid pace in the direction of Hobart Town. 'Tis almost night, and we will not follow them this evening; neither will we remain here beside these two senseless-it may be, slain ruf- fians. Let them die for what we care; they deserve death, and as we shall never meet either of them again, we will bid them a silent adieu. I Four days have gone by since that encounter and rescue, there in the wood; and I can now inform you of Mr. Burrel's motive for returning to Hobart Town, or rather his continuing his journey thither, after rescuing Alice, his success, and something of a new wonder that has just made its appearance here. i.'                '    62           RED WING; OR, In the first place, Mr. Burrel was much astonished to find Robert Trevelyan had been condemned to the quarries, and deeply grieved that, with all his influence and eloquence, he was unable to effect his release. He relatedto the authorities every particular of his encounter with Rutherford and Somers; and so eloquently did he represent the noble conduct of Archy, that the magistrates unhesitatingly remitted so much of his sentence as condemned him to labor; but the brave fellow declared he would leave Mr. Burrel only when he died. Alice's sentence of labor was also remitted, and being offered a home by the generous proprietor in his family and as his own child, she accept- ed it; and after three days spent in Hobart Town, they returned to Myrtle Glen, sad only at the thoughts of poor Robert laboring there in fetters, in the quarry. There is a wild, exciting rumor in Hobart Town, of a magnificent little craft, white all over as the glossy wing of the snowy sea-gull, having come into the harbor just at dark, one night, and anchored; when a tall, handsome stranger, in a close-fitting uniform, all white, with rich gold-lace trimmings, came ashore from her, accompanied by three others, all very handsome young men, in white uniforms also, but less gorgeous than the other; although these three Here apparently officers of the strange craft, and the tall, noble-looking man her com- mander, yet no word in relation to her did they speak to any one; and after walking about the town for more than an hour, making several inquiries concerning the man-of-war brig Beagle and her commander- one or two about Robert Trevelyan, whose attack upon Capt. Moncrieff, trial and sentence to the quarries, wee the topics of conversation everywhere-and finally partaking of a supper prepared for them at one of the hotels-they went off aboard the schooner, for such the white craft was, leaving every body in Hobart Town just as wise with regard to their craft or themselves as they were before they landed. At sunrise, on the following morning, the mysterious white craft was seen under weigh and standing out of the'harbor; and every body was electrified at beholding in her fore and main sails, both of canvass white as the northern drift, two enormous scarlet wings. Like wildfire, the news that the Weird Cruiser was in the harbor flew through the city, and thousands rushed to the wharves, and thronged the banks of the Derwent, to have one good view, by open, clear daylight, of the phantom schooner. She was there, in plain sight;- but those who had seen the Weird Cruiser fifty times, said that this craft was nothing like her.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN S LAND.       63 She was of about the same size; but that was all the similarity that nautical men could discover between them. The phantom craft was a fore and aft vessel, while this was a beautiful topsail schooner; that a dim, dreamy, lead-colored craft-this a brilliant white one. And yet there she was, before their eyes, with those two great scarlet wings in her sails; and as they stood gazing upon her, up to her peak went a broad white banner with a red wing in the centre, and up to her royal mast head went a white burgee, bearing, in mammoth letters of flaming scarlet, her name--ED WING. Thire of the swiftest vessels in Hobart Town were immediately sent in chase of the mysterous white cruiser; but she glided away from them all, as the fleet Arab courser leaves the slow paced camel of the desert behind him, and ere an hour had passed, her white, gleaming sails showed only like the tiny wing of a far-off sea bird on the eastern horizon, and her baffled pursuers returned disappointed to port. Such was the rumor that Mr. Burrel heard in Hobart Town, and carried home with him to Myrtle Glen; and never was there a rumor more circumstantially correct. Little did Alice Trevelyan dream, as she sat and listened to Mr. Bufrel's account of the mysterious craft, on their way home-little did she imagine, I say, that the appearance of that white RED WING in the Derwent, was in any way connected With her own destiny; but we shall see in due time. 'Tis strange that that ship from the Ohio has not arrived Lhere. It is quite four months since we left her there, almost ready to launch, and she ought to have arrived here ere this time. You will recollect that there are several of our characters in the United States whom we have neglected for a long time; three-four, perhaps, in that new western ship, and as we can leave our friends here for a short time, we will, if you please, return to America, and see what it is that detains the ship and our friends. r    "          RED WING; OR, CHAPTER     VIII. THE GROUNDED SHP-A NARROW ESCAPE-THE NIGHT ALARMr-A TIMELY WARNING-THE NIGHT VENTURE-DOOM OF THE LAND PIRATES. Life is the ocean, and man is the bark, Amid the wild tempest, dreary and dark; Now breasting the storm wild sweeping his deck, Now sinking in death, a foundering wreck." HOME from Van Dieman's Land to the Uinted States-to New Orleans. No matter how, or by what means we have come hither; but here we most certainly are, and that too, within twenty-four hours after Mr. Burrel, Alice Trevelyan and the brave Archy, set out from Hobart Town to return to Myrtle Glen. We have come hither, you will recollect, to make some inquires after the new ship that we saw on the stocks there a few miles below Mari- etta, and at the same time hunt up, if possible, a few of our characters whom we have too long lost sight of. We may gather considerable information respecting one of them, right hereeon the levee, before we have been an hour in the "Crescent' City." You are admiring a magnificent brigantine moored at one of the piers of the lower "Picayune tier " in the third Municipality, and from two or three well-dressed, gentlemanly-looking men, standing here oq the levee, we learn that early in June last, that beautiful craf arrived here from England. She was owned and commanded by JLord John Moncrieff, who discharged his crew immediately after his arrival here, and within three days, having first placed his vessel in charge of a keeper, he took passage, with his first officer, and two other persons who came with him in the brigantine, in a steamer bound for Cin- cinnati. In about three Seeks, he returned to New Orleans with only his mate, and within a few days there came an indefinite rumor that the others nad been killed in a melee near Marietta, but no particulars had ever become known, further than it was something about a girl that Lord Moncrieff had attempted to carry off. After his return to New Orleans, the English nobleman fell to gam- l   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       %65 bling in the most reckless manner, and in less than three weeks he had not only lost all the money he possessed, at the gambling-table, but had also staked and lost the brigantine; and it was soon discovered that he had forged paper to a large amount on three or four English houses, but he had managed to escape before he could be arrested, and two days after he left the city, intelligence came from England that Lord John Moncrieff had been guilty of forgeries in that country to an extent not then ascertained; but some fifty thousand pounds had been discovered, nearly all of which it was supposed he had lost at the gaming hells of London. A week after this information was received, there came to New Orleans a most beautiful English woman, who claimed that she was the wife of Lord Moncrieff, having been secretly married to him some three years previously by her own father, a respectable clergyman of Not- tinghamshire. Clara Monsell, as she called herself, having by some means ascer- tained that, after having committed the extensive forgeries in New Orleans, Lord John had gone up the river, set out in search of him- since which time nothing had been heard of either, until within a few days, when another rumor came from the upper country, which says that the titled English forger is at present the chief of a notorious gang of thieves, robbers, and land pirates, who infest the Ohio, and who have their headquarters somewhere in the dense forest about the Blue Ridge, not far from the mouth of Green River, in Kentucky. Of the ship and our other characters we can learn nothing, only that the ship has been launched, fitted out, and partially loaded, in Cincin- nati, for Hobart Town. But she has never arrived in New Orleans; and as there is no other outlet by which she can reach the ocean, we must look for her some- where above. The fastest steamers are quite too slow for our romapce travelling; and so, by the same conveyance that brought us hither from Van Die- man's Land, we will continue on up the Mississippi and Ohio, if needs be, in search of the ship and our friends. Up and onward, by Natches, Memphis, and fifty towns of lesser note-right on; up the beautiful Ohio, past Paducah, Smithland and Mt. Vernon, until we reach the quiet little town of Evansville, more than a hundred 'and fifty miles above the mouth of the Ohio; and  here, where, the river is very nearly a mile in width, on an extensive sand-bar, and about one-third,the distance from the mouth of Green River, to a beautiful island very nearly in the centre oft the Ohio, we 5 l   "           RED 'WING; OR, behold the first object of our search-a superb new ship, lying hard and fast aground on the sand-bank. Yes, it must be her; for as we pass under her stern, we read her name-Lorretta Howard; and as we step in upon her deck, our eyes ' encounter the familiar faces of several of our friends. First, we notice the Hebe-like form and- Madonna features of Loritta Howard, the captain's daughter-she after whom the gallant% ship has been named.                      ! There is Capt. John Howard himself, just come from the cabin; there, by the main rigging, and engaged with some piece of nautical fancy work, we recognize the frank, good-humored face of our sailor friend, bluff Ben Vickers, and bow coming aft from a group of busy sailors forward, we behold the handsome chief officer of the ship-Mr. Henry Bolton. It is a mystery which we do not half understand. Here is a ship, which some four months ago we saw nearly ready to launch, and understood that it was theolintention of her owners and commander to get her to sea within. a month; and now we find her here aground, "her captain, officers, and crew on board, and the men busily engaiged in in bending her heavy sails, as if she was just ready to- sail from port. The river is rising rapidly, and she will soon be afloat again. It must be that she has been aground here all this time; and we may ascertain all the particulars from Mr. Bolton. Yes, tis as I suspected. Thet ship has been here all summer, and now they are just preparing to get under weigh as soon as there is sufficient water to float her. But the mate has a few leisure moments, is very willing to gratify our curiosity upon the subject: and we will listen. MR. BOLTON'S STORY. "After having taken in our Cincinnati cargo, we got under weigh and stood off down- the river, with a fine, fair breeze, and everything alow and aloft drawing beautifully. "It was late in the season for a vessel of so heavy a draught of water to pass down the Ohio; but our pilot, who, 'in addition to his nautical acquirements, was a most thorough practical western river navigator, informed us that if the breeze held on three days, he would -havew us down over the falls'all square by the lifts and braces, and out into the Mississippi all ataunto under our three royals, the first - ship from the Queen 'City of the West, for the capital of England's southern penitentiary.    THE WEIRD CRUISER OP VAN DIEMAN!S LAND.        67 Well, the breeze did last us till we were down past Louisville vhen it died away at about midnight- and after baffling around from ne point of the compass to another till morning, it finally got steady, nd came out strong at southwest. "Capt. Howard would have anchored, and held on for a steamer o tow us out into the Mississippi, but the pilot said if she behaved well in stays, he could work her down without the least difficulty, and hereby save an expense of perhaps four hundred dollars for steam. "Capt. Howard gave his consent, and the experiment was tried. 'he ship worked like a pilot-boat, and it was decided to keep on under invas. ': Everything went on fine till we got down here about four bells in le first dog-watch, after the wind came out ahead, when the pilot put is helm down and tried her for stays right square above the head of ie island or shoal, which just began to show above water. "She came to, head to wind, like a cutter. The after-yards were raced round, and she was falling off rapidly, when a sudden flaw took ,r flat aback; she got stern-way on her, and before we could box her F, the strong current set her down on the top of the shoal. "We carried off our kedge, and hove till we parted our hawser, and en, as the river was falling at the rate of six inches every two hours, E knew it was useless to carry off an anchor, and so we furled all sail d let her lie. "At daylight next morning she showed a side five feet out of water )re than she did the night before, and at the -end of three days, e sand was bare all along her starboard side, while on the larboard, ich is, as you see, next the--Kentucky shore, there, was still about ;hteen inches of water, which the pilot informed us would remain so, a river having reached its lowest summer level. :"To get the ship off was impossible, and even if we could, there s not water enough in the deepest part of the channel to float her; d as there was not the slightest possibility of another rise in the er for several months, Capt. Howard determined to unbend the avy canvas, discharge all hands except Ben and myself, go back me with Miss Loretta, and wait patiently for the ' fall rise.' 'In the course of a  week we had the topsails, courses and other ivy sails, unbent and stowed away, everything snug and ship-shape, en Capt. Howard, Miss Loretta, the pilot and all hands, got aboard ight: draught steamer bound up stream, leaving Ben and myself re in charge of the ship. "The time passed off very comfortably, considering all things, and   68           RED WING; OR, nothing worth noticing occurred till one afternoon, I think about three weeks after we got on the bar. "It had been raining during the night previous, and. in the morning, the sun having come out bright, we loosed all the light sails to dry. "It was perhaps an hour before sunset 4hat we turned to furling the sails, and having got through with all except the main top-gallant sail, we were taking it very leisurly, playing what sailors call old sojer' on the yard. "We had the bunt of the sail rolled in, and while Ben was passing the gasket, I lay over the yard, gazing out at the bold, romantic scenery along the Indiana shore, when suddenly both of us were startled by a sharp " tack" on the spar directly between our heads, which were neither of them a foot from the mast. At the same instant I felt a rush of cold air on the-cheek next the mast, just as I have sometimes felt when a small, swift bird has flitted by, within a few inches of my face; and at first I thought it was that, and that the sound was only a season- check or rent of the stick, as the spars had been made green, right out of the woods; but Ben placed his finger on a clean, round hole in the spar, saying: "' Look there, Mr Bolton; that's a visiting card from some chap's rifle, pitched into, that top-gallant mast; blest if it aint, though.' "Before Ben was half through, I was satisfied that he was right, for there came to our ears the sharp report of a rifle, and casting our eyes in the direction from whence the sound came, we beheld a puff of white smoke curling up from a clump of paw-paw bushes near the bank of the river, and a moment after, we made out the forms of two men partially concealed by the dense foliage. "We didn't stop to furl the yard-arms; for if it were us they meant, they might make a better shot next time, although I thought the first was quite near enough to the centre; and I reckon two sailors never came down bff a top-gallant yard quicker than Ben and I did. "We made a thousand guesses that night, but we couldn't think of anybody that should Want to shoot us; but we determined not to give them a chance in that way again; and so, after it got to be dark, we went aloft and unbent all the top-gallant sails and royals, and sent 'them down on deck, where, as they were dry and in good order, we stowed them away below. "Ben happened to thihk that it might be robbers, whose plan was to pop us off, and then plunder the ship'; whereupon he proposed that we should stand a regular watch, four hours on and four hours off, for a   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.      69 few days, to watch for ourselves and the robbers, if they were such, at the same time. I liked Ben's proposal, hnd adopted the plan. We had these two little brass barkers, which we wheeled aft here and loaded up, placing one on each side, so as to rake the deck for'ard. We had in the ,cabin fifty muskets, twenty of which we also loaded, and then with plenty of pistols, pikes and cutlasses, we were well prepared to astonish any shore visitor, who might be disposed to come off at night without an invitation. "But three whole days and nights passed off without any furthur demonstration, and we began to think that the spot in the top-gallant mast'might have been but an accident; when one night, near twelve o'clock, Ben came into the cabin and whispered to me that there was a boat with several persons in her, which he had seen come out of Green River, and pull off towards the ship. "I took a musket and two pistols, and going on deck, I peeped out cautiously through the mizzen rigging, when I discovered the boat close up alongside the ship, and about a dozen men in her, all of whom appeared to be earnestly engaged in a conversation which was carried on in low whispers, so that I could distinguish nothing., "After a few moments, the boat was shoved along aft round the stern, and five of the men got out on the sand, where they stood whis- pering together for a little while, and then they came so close to the ship that two of them put their hands on her as they traversed the whole length of her hull, and halted again under her bows. "Ben and I followed them, creeping stealthily along in our stocking feet, like eats; and as we gained the to'gallant forecastle, I heard one of the miscreants on the sand mutter, in a low, suppressed voice: "'No, curse 'em, not a single rope left to climb up by, and we never could get on board without ladders.' "' That's a fact, Cap'n,' spoke another of the. gang. 'We can't get up no how to-night, and we may as well go back.' "' Ben was eager to fire upon the scoundrels, but I kept him quiet, and after a few moments they returned to the boat; which was shoved off and pulled silently away until it finally disappeared in the dim shadow of Green River. "All remained quiet till morning, and the following day passed without our having seen a living soul on the Kentucky shore; but we made every calculation, and prepared for another visit during the  coming night. It was my watch from eight to twelve, and up to the time that I   70           RED WING; OR, called Ben to relieve me, there had not been the least sound that would indicate the approach or presence of the brigands; but as for seeing them, it was so pitchy dark that everything beyond the reach of my outstretched arm, was an impenetrable, murky blank. "I had been below perhaps ten minutes, and had just flung myself down on a matress spread on the table, with my clothes all on, when I was startled by the jingle and crash of broken glass, and leaping to my feet, I discovered that a pane in one of the cabin windows next the rudder-casing had been dashed in, and there was plainly visible a human hand waving to and fro within the window. "I approached carefully, and was just about to fire my pistol, when my arm fell nervelessly to my side, and I stood there, rooted as it were to the spot, by the sound of a low, musical female voice, which I should have recognized in a single instant, in the wild storm, amid the roar of battle, or the discordant murmurs of an assembled universe. "It was the voice of Clara Monsell, a lovely English girl-the daughter of a good old clergyman in Nottinghamshire. I had loved Olara to idolatry, and we were to have been married; 'but a vile wretch, a very fiend in human shape-an English nobleman, Lord John Moncrieff--saw Clara Monsell, and-she became his victim. -"It was Clara, there at the cabin window; and when for the third time she spoke my name, I approached, and, spell-bound, listened-while she, in words of impassioned eloquence, first sought my forgiveness, and then informed me that the robbers who had visited us the night previous were a portion of a formidable band of land pirates, having for their captain, Lord John Moncrieff. Charles Hogan, a ferocious scoundrel and English outlaw, was his lieutenant; and it was their purpose to attack us on the following night, at twelve o'clock, and after murdering us, plunder and set fire to the ship. "She had paddled off in a small canoe, and climbed up to the cabin windows by the backing of the rudder, a feat that not one sailor out of fifty could have accomplished. "After having imparted this information, and warned me in the most impressive manner to be on my guard, she disappeared from the window; and as I listened attentively, I could hear the cautious dip of her paddle, as she sent her light canoe through the water in towards the mouth of Green River. "I had imparted to Ben the intelligence I had received, and the plan which I had formed to defeat the land pirates' schemes; and in less than ten minutes we had our light quarter boat lowered down, hauled across the sand-bar, and were pulling for the Indiana shore.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       71 "Within three hours from the time we left the ship, we were back with fifty resolute men, and we knew that a hundred more would be ready to cross over from Evan's Villa as soon as it would be dark, on the following night, for the purpose of intercepting the desperadoes, should they escape from us. I "We all kept out of sight during the day, but as soon as night came on, we all went to work. First, I got a heavy anchor poised on the larboard rail, about midway between the fore and main rigging, and stoppered in such a way that, by cutting a small languard, it would cant overboard in a moment. Next, I braced the fore and main yards in, so that their larboard ends were as near over the anchor as I could have them, and then I rove off more than a dozen sets of stun'sail halyards through single blocks, which Ben secured to the yards, close to the boom-irons; thus forming several single whips, having in the end' of each one an easy running bowline, which was placed on the rail near the anchor, ready to be flung down into the boat, just as the Buenos Ayrean gancha heaves his unerring lasso. .To complete the arrange- ment, I passed the bight of two ropes over the side and quite down to the water, belaying them inboard near the anchor, in order to lure the miscreants to the right spot, if possible, should they come during the night.. "Everything being in readiness, we lay there behind the bulwarks in the strictest silence till near midnight, when the low dip of muffled oars came to our ears, and in a moment we were all on the alert.. "One man, a Circuit Judge from over in Indiana, stood by with his knife to cut the languard which held the anchor, one of us to each of the nooses, and the remainder of the company bent on to-the whips to run the scoundrels up, provided we caught any. "A few seconds of breathless expectation, and the pirates' boat rasped alongside, and almost immediately there was a jerking of the two ropes hanging overboard, as of men climbing up the' side; but it was so intensely dark that we could see nothing. "The profound silence was broken by the Indiana Judge, as he shouted--' Heave! "On the instant, every bowline was hove down into the boat, and away went the men on deck with the whips. One stroke of the judges knife across the langard, and away went the ponderous anchor, crashing through the frail boat, as though it had been an egg-shell. Shrieks and curses and the most hideous yells rent the air; and all the time the company on deck went away with the whips, till every bowline knot was brought up in the scores of the blocks, when they were belayed,   72'          RED WING; OR, and every man sprang to his musket, for another boat full of howling pirates came dashing on towards the ship. "Fire!' screamed the now fully aroused judge, and as the second boat struck the side, fifty musket-flashes lit up the cimmerian gloom, and fifty bullets went hissing down among the doomed wretches in the boat. "Again there went up a wild, unearthly yell of dying men, answered by a peal of rifle shots fired towards the ship from the third boat, which the flashes of the pirates' weapons revealed in full retreat towards the shore. "That momentary flash showed us also ten writhing miscreants, sus- pended there from our yard arms. It was only for a single instant, and then everything was shut in again by the inky darkness. "There was perhaps three minutes of comparative silence, broken only by the plashes in the water, and the loW gurgling sounds of men mortally wounded, and then drowning where a child tnight wade, or the shrieks and horrid blasphemies of those haltered villains, struggling there at the yard arms. "But soon there came a crash of musketry from just within the mouth of Green River, replied to by a few dropping rifle shots, death- yells, and screams of agony, and we knew that the Sheriff of Vander- burg and his hundred men were there to intercept and cut off the retreat of the baffled pirates. "The hours of darkness went wearily by, and when daylight came, it showed us a most terrible picture. "Ifour mangled wretches were lying dead beneath the anchor- three had crawled to the edge of the sand-bank, and died there, partly in the water; two had gained the bar under the ship's bow, and lay there still twisting like crushed worms, while at the yard-arm hung the ten victims, no two in the same position-one being suspended by the ankle, head downwards, quite dead, and his face discolored and livid; a second one the noose had caught around the body, pinioning both arms to his side, while a third was hanging by one wrist, at the fore yard; the outer one of all hung the robber chief, Lord John Moncrieff dead, and with the noose as fairly about his neck as though it had been placed there by the most skilful hangman.  "An hour after daylight, the sheriff and his party came aboard, bringing with them three of the desperadoes, all of whom where severely wounded, and the dead body of poor Clara Monsell. They had found her lying on the bank of Green River, shot through the head, probably killed by a chance shot from one of the pirate's rifles.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.      T8 "Our suspended victims -were lowered, and five of them, who were found to be dead, were taken ashore, together with the three bodies from the sand-bank, the four from beneath the anchor, and with those killed in the third boat, numbering twenty-two in all, were buried in a pit dug for the purpose, on the banks of Green River. "The body of poor unfortunate Clara Monsell was taken to the Indiana side, where it was interred in a sweet lonely spot, in the corner of a little village graveyard. i' The wounded robbers, as they were taken within the jurisdiction of Kentucky, were conveyed to Henderson, and given up to the authori- ties, where four of them soon died, and the others are still in jail awaiting their trial." "All afleet!" sings out Ben, the bo'son, at the very moment that Mr. Bolton concludes his tale of blood, and looking about us, we discover that the beautiful ship Loretta Howard is once more afloat. In a moment all hands are busy making sail, bracing round the yards, clearing away the decks so as to work ship without confusion, and in less than ten minutes the noble craft, under her three tall pyra- mids of gleaming canvas, goes dashing down the beautiful Ohio, like a swift-winged bird. She is a right ship, and nobly officered and manned-a perfect model craft in hull, spars, sails, and all her belongings. We have no longer any special business here in the United States. Our characters are here on board this ship; bound for Van Dieman's Land. Why not remain in her and go out with them ' We are also bound thither, and we could not go in a better craft. Not quite so speedy perhaps as the one we came in, but that matters not, we are in no hurry now. ,   CHAPTER IX. THE HURRICANE--SUDDEN APPEARANCE OF THE ,WHTE CRUISER -TH MAN-OF-WAR BRIG-A PAIR OF WHTE VISITORS-AN INTRODUCTION  The storm-king mounts his whirl-wind car; The tempest stalks abroad all grim and dark; Amid the elemental war Drives on before the gale yon gallant bark. MORE than two weeks the beautiful ship Loretta Howard had been detained at New Orleans, in completing her cargo; another week, or perhaps ten days, went by before she was clear of the South West Pass; and then, with very moderate breezes and fine pleasant weather, she has been one hundred and ten days in making the passage from the delta of the Mississippi, to- not to Hobart Town, whither she was bound, but to within a few leagues of St. Paul's and Amster- dam Islands, lying just about midway between the Cape of Good Hope and the western coast of Van Dieman's Land. A hundred ,and ten days! :A long, tedious passage, you will say, for so perfect a modeled and well appointed craft,  It is, I allow; but you will please remember, that the fastest clipper which ever floated on salt water could not make a single degree of latitude or longitude without wind, any more than a loco- motive or steamer could move without its propelling agency. It has been some four months, then, since the morning that we saw our good ship swing off into the stream from that sand-bar where she had so long lain aground; and now, on the morning of one of the first days of March, 1831, we find ourselves still passengers on board the Loretta Howard, and she in very nearly the centre of the great Indian Ocean, still more than three thousand miles distant from her port of destination. For twenty-five days, ever since passing the meridian of Good Hope, we have had a continuation of the most beautiful weather; and until within the last twenty-four hours, there has been every appearance of its continuation for many days. The south-west "Trades," or Monsoon, has just set in, and almost invariably, when it comes light, with clear, warm weather, as in the   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        75 present instance, it continues so through the whole term of six months, during which it blows constantly in one direction. And yet there are sometimes exceptions to this general rule- times when the wildest tornadoes leap, as it were, into being from quiet air and calm, blue sky, raging for whole days with the most appalling fury, and hurling everything within their track to instant destruction. It is one of those terrific gales that we are in dread of; for it is now just six bells in the middle watch, and it is still pitchy dark, when, under ordinary circumstances, here in this longitude, and at this season, it should be broad daylight. fEver since yesterday morning there has been a strange, dark-colored vapor gathering and settling down upon the ocean, becoming more denseas the day wears on, till at length the sun goes down gleaming red, like a huge globe of molten iron dimly seen through the folds of a dusky mantle. All throughout the night the breeze has been growing fainter and fainter, until now, when it should be daylight, not a single breath of air sighs through the rigging, although there is all about us alow, indistinct murmuring noise, a thousand rustling whispers in the murky atmosphere, as if many swift-winged birds were wheeling their eccen- tric flight about the ship, and ever and anon smiting together their invisible pinions. All these peculiar sounds and appearances are sure heralds of the coming tempest; and so Capt. Howard, Mr. Bolton, and every sailor on board the ship, understand them. Every preparation that skill or long experience would' dictate, has been made to meet the crisis which is now evidently near at hand. All the light yards and spars, even to0 the three to'gallant masts, have been sent down, her courses and close-reefed topsails'are furled snug, secured with double gaskets, extra gripes and lashings have been got on the stern and quarter boats, preventer braces on the yards, everything, moveable on deck well lashed, and there, stripped of every yard of canvas except her fore-topmast staysails, and heading the long, regular S. W. swell, lies the brave Indiaman, reminding you of some sturdy champion stripped for battle, and awaiting the onset of some stalwart foe. It is nodong that she has to wait the encounter; for scarcely has the last stroke of the ship's bell, telling the hour of 5 A. M., died away when the murky pall directly ahead of her rolls iup from the surface of the ocean; and there not a njle distant, in the south-western board, the   T6           RED WING; OR, whole.,line of water, as far as the eye can pierce the dim, uncertain dis- tanoe, is one broad belt of leaping, boiling, snowy foam. There is a rushing sound, at first low and monotonous like that of a far-off waterfall, but deepening each moment, and growing at last into the giant roar of the terrific tornado. The whirlwind, in all its shrieking fury, is almost upon us, and- God help us now  Slowly the ship falls off, until her broadside is presented to the com- ing, blast, and there is not one chance out of a thousand for her to escape total destruction; for lying here as she does, broadside to, the whole power of wind and waves will be hurled against her at the greatest possible disadvantage, and she be-- No! There is a puff--a whiff of air-a sudden cat's paw fills away the staysail, her bows fall majestically off to leeward, and she just begins to travel through the water as the first mad blast of the com- ing hurricane bursts, in wild, screaming fury, upon us. Lucky it is that the first flaw of wind paged her head off as it did, for otherwise she whuld have been hove on her beam ends, or the masts would have been wrenched out of her in an instant. As it is, she quivers in every timber and frame, like a mettled steed at some sudden fright, and then, like that same courser, bounds away, amid the wild, shrieking surges, while Mr. Bolton himself grasps the wheel, guiding with consummate skill her rapid, headlong flight. An hour goes by, and on, before the lashing, foam-crested waves and loud screaming blast, goes the tempest-driven ship. Due northreast she pursues her foaming course, and two hours more will put her among the rocks and dangerous coral reefs that surround Amsterdam and St.. Paul's Islands. Another hour, and the yelling tornado begins to veer gradually round to the westward, until the ship, being kept dead before it, heads up E. by S., and there is no longer any danger of being driven in upon these dread reefs, where destruction would have been certain; and as the howling fury of the blast is fast subsiding into the steady iolenoe of an ordinary gale, the chances are that the gallant ship will at length come out of the tremendous elemental strife all unscathed. "Breakers on the larboard beam!" rings out the voice of Bo'son Ben,Ifrom the fore-topsail yard; and jn an instant all eyes are turned towards the point of the compass N. N. E. from the ship, where wp behold, dimly, through the thick haze, which not even the hurricanes breath has been able to break up and drive away to leeward, a long line of foam not half a mile distant, where the surges break, all feather   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        white, on the southern coral reefs of Amsterdam Island, which we can see looming up yonder, through the unnatural, smoky atmosphere, like a dim fog-bank. Most providential has been this shift of wind, and we have escaped death by a miracle. "Loose away the main topsail!" shouts Capt. Howard; and in less than ten minutes the close reefed sail is loosed, sheeted home and swayed taut by the halyards; and under this new impulse the ship dashes on again, with speed little less than that with which she had been driven through the water at the height of the tornado. "' Sail ho!" screams Benfrom the topsail yard. "Where away?" thunders Capt. Howard, through his trumpet. "Broad on the --"But the remainder of the sentence is lost in the roar of winds and waves. We need it not, however; for look there. There, on the starboard bows, standing the same way as ourselves, and almost within hail, we behold a most superb little topsail schooner, skimming the waves as buoyant as the crested nautilus, and kept on her course under her topsail, reduced to its smallest possible dimensions. There is a strange peculiarity about that craft, which we have never seen in any vessel before, and never heard of but once. You see she is white. White all over, her hull, spars, yards and canvas-white as the winter drift; and there, upon her'deck, our eyes encounter the forms of perhaps a dozen men, all clothed, from head to foot, in a uniform as white as that of the beautiful craft herself. We have heard of a white cruiser that made her appearance in the Derwent so suddenly, lay there at anchor during the night, and was pursued off the coast on the following morning by three fast-sailing British vessels. This must' be that very craft, for there is no rumor that there has ever been another like her seen in these or any other seas. Ay, 'tis her indeed; for look there again. Even as we are speaking, that banner of purest white, with a huge scarlet wing embroidered in the centre, goes up to her main peak, and at .the same moment the white burgee blows out at her main royal mast-head, displaying, in vast red letters, the name of the Weird Cruiser---Red Wing. Strange indeed, most unaccountably strange, is the mystery of this white craft to us. We have seen the dusky phantom schooner, with :the groet, lead-colored; flig and burgee; bearing respectively the name of ' Red Wing,' and the emblem of that name. We have seen her, I say; and nearer, too, than we are to yonder oraft:; and we are very'positive   78           RED WING; OR, that there is scarcely a single point of resemblance between the two vessels. That, as we have before remarked, was a dreary, phantom-looking craft, with sails of some strange fabric, such as we have never seen before, and a crew whose garb is of the same hue as their vessel, sails and flags-while this is a magnificent schooner, with a peculiar, saucy, real-life look about her, very unlike the mysterious phantom schooner of which we have so often heard, and which we once saw so very close to us there at Bass' Strait. And yet we see that both these vessels wear the scarlet pinion in their colors, and both fly the name of Red Wing at their royal mast heads. It is all a most strange, complicated mystery; and were it but mod- erate enough for a boat to live, we should be tempted to go on board yonder little white beauty, and make an effort at least to get at the secret. But patience, my friends. It is utterly impossible for any boat to live in such weather; and let me assure you that yonder craft will not leave us until after it moderates, and we shall most certainly find who and what she is, within the next twenty-four hours. The day wears away, night comes again, and the gale, born of the hurricane, has at length lost itself in a pleasant, wholesale breeze, while the white cruiser, under her fore-topsail and single-reefed mainsail, fore- sail and jib, is gliding along before the wind there, on our starboard beam, not a quarter of a mile distant, and holding way with our superb clipper ship, with studding sails out alow and aloft. The sea is fast running down, and before daylight to-morrow morning we shall have it so smooth again that the little dingy, secured there bottom up on the poop, will float with perfect safety. Did I not prophesy correctly? Have you ever in your whole lives looked out on an ocean picture more gloriously beautiful? The sea has gone. down during the night, till the ocean is as glassy and smooth as that of a mirror, heaving only in long, undulating swells, while the breeze had died away to just the faintest breath, which only stirs softly our lofty and lighter sails, leaving the heavy courses and topsails hanging there from the yards, as motionless as though they were suspended within an air-tight room. Overhead the clear blue sky is flecked here and there with beautiful, white, fleecy clouds as far as the eye can pierce the dim distance; thousands on thousands of sea-fowl, many of them of gorgeous plumage, are wheeling their glad flight-some circling around the ship so close that every feature and peculiarity about them is distinctly visible,   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       79 while hundreds of others soar up to such an immense height that they appear only a tiny, white speck, showing against the azure back ground beyond. Some three miles down to the northward and eastward, lies, nearly becalmed like ourselves, a tall ship, decidedly English in her appear. ance, while five miles away to the north-west is a bark with a jib-boom and fore-topmast gone, most probably carried away in the gale of yes- terday. In the southern board, and so far off that her low, snake-like hull only rises into view from a position half way up our main rigging, is a brig whose raking masts, very square yards, and the immense height to her topsails, all tell, quite as emphatically as any language can do, that she is a man-of-war brig. We have been on board the Beagle, you will recollect, and examined her very critically; and were our opinion asked respecting yonder brig, we should answer most positively that it is the British man-of-war brig Beagle. But there is another feature in this ocean picture, in which we feel a greater interest than in all else beside. It is the uhite cruiser lying there becalmed, only a few hundred yards distant from our starboard gangway. \ We were to visit her this morning,; but there is no need that we should do so now, for you see her boat is out, and pulling directly down for us, with four of her white-uniformed crew at the oars, and two per- sons in her stern sheets, one of whom looks eagerly towards the ship, as though he sought or expected to meet with some one with whom he is acquainted upon our deck. There is a familiar look about that face, which fixes our attention from the first moment the boat leaves the white cruiser; and, as she draws up with us, we are quite as confident that we have seen it before, and at no very remote period either, as we are of our own identity; but where and under what circumstances we have met, we cannot for our lives remember at this moment. Of one thing we are certain, however- it was not in that spotless, white uniform, with the brilliant gold lace, or in any way connected with the beautiful white cruiser, that we have known the handsome stranger in the bow sheets of that boat. We observe that Capt. Howard, his daughter, and Mr. Bolton, are gazing intently at the individual in question, and we are very certain that he has been recognized by them all, and as far as Capt. Howard is concerned, there seems so be associations connected with his recogni-   80           RED WING; OR, tion, not of the most pleasant nature; for as the boat ranges up to the gangway, and the officer fixes his gaze for a few moments steadily upon the captain's face, there is an instantaneous expression flashes over the features of the latter, so expressive of conscious guilt, that had Capt. Howard stood within the criminal dock accused of murder, that single expression would have gone very far towards convicting him to the minds of any intelligent jury. But we have no space to moralize or draw conclusions, for the hand- some officer of the white cruiser steps in over the gangway, and the very moment that he does so, we too recognize him:-the convict woodman of Myrtle Glen-the chained and manacled prisoner of the rock quarry there on the bold rugged coast-Robert Trevelyan. He salutes Mr. Bolton, who is waiting at the side-ladder, most cor- dially as he comes in over the side, and then passing aft, he takes the hand of Loretta Howard in both his own, raises it to his lips, and whis- pers a few words in the ears of the blushing girl; after which he turns to Captain Howard, who stands there pale and silent, and thus ad- dresses him: "You have nothing to fear from me, Capt. Howard. I am no pirate, sir; and if I were, I could not rob the father of Loretta Howard, even though the wealth which you here command was plundered-stolen, if you will, Capt. Howard, from my own father. "But it was not 'to upbraid you, sir, that I have come on board your ship. It is to ask of you an especial favor, which I doubt not you, will grant; for, with the exception of the one act, I have never heard aught against the character of Capt. John Howard, and I know that you possess a kind heart, so that I have little fear of a denial. -"My request is this, sir: I have been nearly three years a felon slave in Van Dieman's Land, and 'tis scarcely a mouth since, through the assistance of a brave, generous-hearted man, whom I had never seen, I managed to escape from bondage. "My only sister-you knew her, sir-is at this moment a convict in Van Dieman's Land, and she mnst be free. It is to enlist your kind office in her behalf that I boarded you this morning. Will you assist  me, sir?" "I will, so help me God!" we hear Capt. Howard exclaim, and there is a tone of earnest contrition that tells more than mere words can do for his sincerity. "Robert Trevelyan"-he goes on to say-"I have nothing to offer in extenuation of the deep, damning wrong I did your noble, kind-   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEIMAN'S LANI-.      O0 hearted father; and O, the hell of conscience that has ever since tor tured me!I I will repay you,--"         "Stop, Capt. -Howard. I know what you would say;: it is that you w ill: repay to me the wealth which Mr. Selden and yourself obtained so unjustly of my father, and theiloss of owhich drove himanfrom the station , of a merchant prince to bankruptcy-from bankruptcy,to want, desti- ,   tution,.lunacy, and self-murders; which sent my angel mother broken- hearted to her grave, which indirectly made convict slaves of my pure, gentle sister and myself. No no! I would not have that wealth back again. It would only curse me as the price of my arents' lood. 'No, Capt. Howard; pledge'me ,your word that you will grant the request I am about to, make, apd---  "I' do, Robert, Trevelyan; and may God's severest vengeance fall upon me if ever, for a single moment, I forget that plighted' fith." "'Tis well,'sir. My- sister, as' I have just iinrmned' you,' is a convict. I would risk my life ten thousand times over to set her free, but this I cannot do, as she is some fifty miles from Hobart Town, in the interior; and for'me to reach her without being arr'ested, would be impossible.' "Now, I have a friend-4the same noble, generous man who freed, myself from chains and slavery, and who, as an American, may freely traverse the country unsuspected. Will you assist us in 'this matter, byj receiving my friend on board your ship as a passenger from Amer- ica to China, and when you 'sail again from Hobart Town, will you take with you a female who will be placed under your protection, and this same friend-also, keeping them until I shall fall in with you at sea?" '-  I will do all this Robert, and all else that I can towards the liber- ation of your sister."  't Then, sir, I will introduce my friend who has accompanied me hither from the schooner." '  Robert Trevelyait., turns, towards the gangway, and our eyes invol- 'iutarily following .the direction of his 'own,fal'l upon, the tall, 'arrowy figure of a man, dressedl extirely in' white, standing there with his back towards us, and seemingly gazing very intently at some distant object awray to the southward and eastward.'   '       v At a word from Robert Trevelyan the stranger turns his head, and to us, at' leat , be needs n o -introduction. We recognize'.him ',in a moment; but we will stand aside and permit Robert Trevelyan to ' ttr 'ueehi. ia  H is made ',; :ow .'ter as  ^ Harlt  He is made known to Capt. Howard and his daughter as   82           iEp  wING; OR, Mr. Curtis Marvin, owner and late commander of yonder beautiful white schooner.  YFor the space of perhaps twenty minutes, Capt. Howard converses apart with his new passenger, while Robert Trevelyan and Loretta retire towards the stern of the ship, here they appear to have a thousand things to imppart to each other 'and there is something in the actions and features of each that tell us very plainly this is not their frst meeting. The conference is at length ended, and while Curtis Marvin is point- ing out to Capt. Howard and Mr. Bolton the distant object at which lie has been gazing so intently while standing there on the gangway Robert Trevelyan and Ben Vickers are very busy with a canvas bag, which has just been passed up out of the boat. But we wid overhaul that mystery in'another chapter.      .  CHAPTER X. SIGNALISING-- A VERY NATURAL MSTAKE, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES-A SEA-FIGHT, AND ITS EFFECTS--ARRIVAL IN HOBART TOWN. "'Speak to him, Hubert, with those parti-colored bits of bunting. And he under- tands'them not; he is no true sailor, Hubert."-Mss. PLAY. " YONDER man-of-war brig is the Beagle, Capt. Howard," we hear Curtis Marvin exclaim, addressing Capt. Howard, and pointing, at the same time, towards the distant vessel away there to the southward and westward. She has got the fresh breeze which. has sprung up within the last half hour, and is now coming down under a cloud of canvas, heading directly for the' ship, and travelling apparently very nearly as fast as the breeze itself; for we can now see her black hull from our deck, and the long line of bright-green wavelets, just crested with sparkling, snowy foam, are tossed on either hand from her bows, not a quarter of a mile within the long-extended belt which marks the progress of the breeze. , "' That fellow is bringing the breeze down with him, Capt. Howard, and will be up within range of these iron play-things of his, while we lie here becalmed, unless we send him off in another direction; and as I do not care to have him within speaking distance of my little Red   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       A Wing, I will take the liberty of making a crack English sloop-of-war of your beautiful ship, for a few minutes; and if that gentleman can distinguish the difference at this distance, he wears better spy-glasses than I give him credit for." Thus speaks Curtis Marvin; and, as he concludes his speech, he turns towards Mr. Bolton, Robert Trevelyan, and our friend Ben Vick- ers, who are now, as we for the first time observe, very busily engaged in sorting out and binding on to the signal-halyards a set of small flags just taken from the canvas bag. "There you are, Ben," exclaims, Mr. Bolton, casting a glance from a yellow-covered book which he holds in his hand-and on the outside of which we read "Signal Book of the Royal Navy"-towards the four small flags which Robert has selected from among the hundred and more on deck, and which Ben has bent on ready for hoisting. "There you are, all right. No. 1, blue, white and blue, stripes horizontal. No. 2, red, white and blue vertical. No. 8, white, with a red square in the centre. That spells sloop-of-war Rubicon, Lord James Elsingham, commander. Up with 'em, Ben, and Capt. Trevelyan, will you please take the glass and see what yon fellow says to us?." The three flags flutter at our main sky-sail mast-head for perhaps thirty seconds, during which time Trevelyan is scanning the man-of- war brig narrowly with his glass. "Up go his main-sails, and there he comes to with his after-yards braced aback.' Ah, there go his numbers aloft. White and red, and white and blue horizontal, with the red and white duplicate pennant underneath all. What does that read, Mr. Bolton?" "White and red, white and blue-brig Beagle, Charles Moncrieff, Esq., commander. White and red pennant-' I understand your sig- nal.'" "Very good; now down with that set, Ben, and send up-let me see. Affirmative-red and white pennant. So-well, that. Now the yellow, with blue cross. Red. Here you go. Blue, with the white square in the centre. That's right. Up you go. That reads-- Do you see the sail to the south'ard and east'ard?" "What does he say to that, Capt. Trevelyan " . "Blue, red and white, and blue vertical, sir." "Good. He answers-- I understand.' Haul 'em cwn, Ben, and send up these-red, white, and blue vertical-white, with a red square *and blue underneath.' That'll talk to him plain enough-' Haul your wind and stand on in chase of the stranger.'" "There go his colors in reply, sir," almost shouts Robert, or, as we   bS4           RED WING; OR, must now know him, Capt. Trevelyan. c; Aye, and there go his answer* ing signals, too, as he braces up his yards and hauls to. How's her head there?" he checks himself and inquires of the man at the wheeL "E. by S. i S., sir." "'dVery well. Then the brig is heading up full S. E. by S. But there's his numbers-duplicate jack, red and white, and white and blue supplementary pennants." "All right, sir," we hear Mr.'Bolton say, after turning over the leaves of the signal book for a few moments--' I obey your orders.' ' "You may haul down your orders now, sir," exclaims -Marvin, ad- dressing Mr. Bolton, and speaking for the first time since the marine conversation commenced; and then he goes on to explain what, to Capt. Howard and ourselves, is more than half a mystery. We hear him tell how, having purchased yonder beautiful craft in New Yorkl he fitted her out as an armed yacht, and sailed for London for the purpose of being married to Alice Trevelyan; but, on his arrival there, he found she had but a few days previous sailed in a convict ship for Van Dieman's Land, under sentence of transportation for larceny. ," One night, not long after he became acquainted with the main fact, he had accidentally learned the villanous scheme which had been prac- tised upon Alice; by listening to the conversation of a couple of scoun- drels who occupied a stall next the one in which he was seated at a coffee-house. One of them related to the other how he had been employed by Capt. Moncrieff to write letters to Alice -in the name of her brother and affianced husband, begging her to find some means by which she could get out to the penal colonies; and then his companion, ' whom he soon learned had been sentenced to Van Dieman's Land for burglary, entertained his friend with a long and circumstantial account of his escape and return to England, in a craft which had long been known as the Weird Cruiser of Van Dientan's Land. A He left the coffee-house with his mind made up to sail at once for the penal colonies, and determined that the mystery which hovered around the phantom schooner should aid him in effecting the liberation of Robert Trevelyan and his unfortunate sister. "The disguise of white uniforms, white paint, and red wings for the schooner, had all been procured and assumed at a little obscure port in Brazil, from whence the news would not be very likely to reach Eng- land or Australia in time to defeat the accomplishment of the purpose for which they were assumed. "They had arrived at Hobart Town, and entered the Derwent about the time of Robert Trevelyan's sentence to the quarries, and after   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        85 hovering about that part of the coast for more than a month, they at length succeeded in freeing Robert by scaling the cliffs one dark night, cutting off his fetters, and conveyinghim on board the white cruiseri which was hove to near the shore. "With regard to Alice, they had been able to effect nothing, as she was in the interior; and after the escape of Robert, the coast had been so strictly and constantly guarded by the Beagle and several colonial cutters, that they had found no opportunity of communicating with the shore.               /  a' Fifteen days previously, they had been chased out of Bass' Strait by the Beagle, and a large, fast-sailing schooner, under the British Australian colors, and had led them off by carrying sail just sufficient to keep beyond the reach of their guns, with the intention of doubling on them, and returning to Van Dieman's Land before them, where they had determined to make one bold stroke for the rescue of Alice while the coast about the Derwent was unguarded. -"The royal signal-book had been procured from an English sailor on board the schooner, who had deserted from a frigate in the Wool- wich dock-yard, and who had managed by some means to lay his hands on the " forbidden fruit," and carried it off. As for the signals, they had all been manufactured on board the schooner." The explanation is finished, and for a few moments all eyes are turned towards the brig, which now, hauled to with the wind abeam and weather top-mast . stun'sails out, goes dashing away in chase of a sail just visible above the horizon in the south-eastern board. " Yonder craft is the Greyhound," remarks Marvin, pointing towards the far-off sail. ," She is nearly as large a vessel, and carries as heavy a battery as the Beagle.: She is commanded by a'regular fire-eaiter, an ex-convict, who hates and despises Capt. Moncrieff, and if the two crafts come in contact after dark, as it is almost certain they will if the schooner continues standing on to the south'ard and east'ard, there will be some warm work before they separate. "Now, you see, Capt. Moncrieff has mistaken this ship for the Rubicon sloop-of-war, which has been expected here, or rather at Vai Dieman's Laud, for some time, but which in reality is in Table Bay, repairing damages received in a severe gale off the .Cape. "He understands, from our signals, that the Greyhound is some one of these mysterious cruisers which he has been in chase of so often, and she is' too far off for him to; raise- her hull, even fromi his totgallant yards; the mistake will continue so long as 'Capt. Lintoa, of the schooner yonder, chooses to carry sail and keep out of the' Beagle's way.   86           RED WING; OR, B"Capt. Moncrieff mayy fly that red bunting of his until he whips it all out, and Nat. Linton will never heave to for him. But what- ever the result of the chase may be, the consequence to ourselves, or rather to my little Alice there, is just what I had anticipated; for it has sent him off in chase of the Australian cruiser, when he would otherwise have been down here alongside of us before we could get hold of the breeze." Two or three trunks' and several other articles of baggage have been passed up, out of the white boat alongside, during Marvin's speech; and a few moments after he has explained everything thus explicitly, Robert Trevelyan takes his leave, and returns to the white cruiser, which now begins to feel the first breath of the coming breeze; and as the chase now becomes the prominent feature of the day, we too will leave the good ship Loretta Howard, and convey ourselves to the deck of the Australian cruiser Greyhound, Capt. Nat. Linton. We behold a beautifully-appointed craft, of about the same capacity as the Beagleisand mounting a battery fully equal to her's, both in number of guns and weight of metal. We should say, at the first glance, that she is an American built vessel, andBaltimore at that; for there is a peculiar, coquettish grace about her whole appearance, that nobody in the world except Ameri- cans has ever yet attained in marine architecture. Her commander, a' perfect giant in stature, swarthy as a Moore almost, bearded and whiskered to the eyes, stands there on the quarter-deck in conversation with his first and second officers, both like himself, ex-convicts of Van Dieman's Land, and as thorough sailors, as fearless hearts, and as perfect desperadoes, as' ever trod a quarter-deck.  They are all three gazing intently at the man-of-war brig, which is now coming on like a race-horse, but 3still some three leagues dis- tant, so that the heads of her courses just begin to raise above the horizon; and the two officers are listening to something that their commander: is saying relative to the brig. His voice is loud and earnest, and as it appears to be no secret-the subject of his discourse -we too will listen. "You see,gentlemen"' we hear him say, as he lets the glass, through ,which he has been scanning the distant vessels, fall into the hollow of his arm, " ou see that the sloop-ofwar there and the brig have been talking, bunting to each other for the last fifteen minutes, and now the brig has hauled to and set everything to run down for Vis-both, doubtless having mistaken our vessel for one of these ' Flying   THE 'WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN S LAND.        8T" Dutchmen' which have been seen on our way towards Van Dieman's Land. "But we'll show this upstart second son of an Earl, Capt. Moncrieff, that our American born Greyhound is quite as fleet of foot as his Eng- lish-bred, hblf-cur, hare-hunting Beagle. "Put everything on her, Mr. Vane, and keep the brig's lower yards down with the horizon till dark, and then we'll let him come up as soon as he chooses. He, beyond a doubt, takes the Greyhound for that strange white cruiser, andas we are .too far off for him to see our black hull, or that we lack those huge scarlet wings in our sails, the mistake is not to be wondered at, for the vessels are otherwise very much alike. "I have long wished for an opportunity of meeting Capt. Moncrieff at ser some night by mistake, and my desire is about to be gratified; for I will take good care that he does not discover who we really are, till he learns it from the muzzles of our guns,        . "Of my whole crew, there is not a single man who has not, like my- self, worn the convict's fetters, and the felon livery of England's penal slaves. , We have none of us any great love for these royal cruisers or their officers; and as for myself, I have an account of long standing to settle with Capt. Moncrieff." Even while the semi-piratical commander of the Australia cruiser has been thus engaged with his two officers, the work of making sail has been going on, under the direction of the third lieutenant and boatswain; and now, as he pauses in his speech, we look with a feeling of pride upon the really superb craft, heeling gracefully over to port, and leaping away through the short, crisp wavelets, under the addi. tional impetus of her weather fore-topmast 'and top-gallant stun'sails, fore-royal, main-gaff topsail, and main-topmast stay-sail, like the fear- driven gazelle before the ravenous wolf pack. The fine, steady breeze has reached her almost at the very moment that it falls upon the sails of the man-of-war brig, while, not three miles away to the northward and eastward, not a single breath of air stirs the slumbering waters, and the surface of the ocean presents' a most novel appearance. Here, on the very northern limits; of the strong, steady gale, goes rushing on the Australian schooner; and on, like the fleet war-steed, some three leagues .in her wake, comes the English man-of-war brig; while only a few miles down to leeward, lies the giant Indiaman, entirely becalimed; and there, away nearly N; W., looms up the three tall pyramids of snowy canvas belonging to the gallant American ship, now just beginning to feel the breeze; and   88           RED WING; OR, close to, on her weather beam,' the head of the white cruiser's sails show like a tiny speck on the distant horizon. An hour has passed, and we have gained so much on the brig that her topsails are almost down with the horizon, while the American' ship and her consort, the little white craft, have both been drawing up with us, till now the black, shining hull has risen above the water; and 'the schooner, we who know her, can make out those two great colored spots in her fore and mainsails, although her hull is still invisible, and no. one, unacquainted with the secret, would ever suspect those two reddish spots in her sails of being what they are-the white cruiser's emblems of - , it may be her speed. But of that we are not. quite certain, as we have not been informed. "We must take those light sails off her again, Mr. Vane, or we shall run that Royal clipper nr yonderout of sight long before sunset." Thus speaks Capt. Linton; and, in obedience to the order, all the light canvas is taken in, which another half hour's experience proves to us has reduced the schooner's speed to just about'that of her pur- suer,while the Loretta Howard and little Alice are fast drawing-up on our lee quarter; but as our courses are all the same, and they are fully six miles further to the northward than we are, they will pass us so far off that we shall not be able to scrutinize them very particularly. "Yonder craft in company with the ship, looks to me much like the white fly-away that we chased off here for fifteen days," Mr. Vane says to Capt. Linton, after a long, steady look at the white schooner, the dark spots on her sails beginning to assume a definite form and color. ' By Heaven I it is her!" exclaims the captain, as he brings her once more within the focus of his powerful glass. "It is her, as I live; and she is a prize to the sloop-of-war, too. But look there, the Rubicon is hauling in all her studding-sails and furling her royals, while the schooner has got her mainsail in altogether. Lord James, it seems, is determined to let the brig overhaul us if she. can, without any interference on his part. I am glad of this, for I would not like quite to astonish Capt. Moncrieff with a couple of double-shotted broadsides, under the guns of that crack sloop-of-war." We have seen and heard everything that is likely to interest us here on board the Australian cruiser, and as there is a prospect that her decks'may become a rather unhealthy location ere long, we will take ourselves off in time, and return to our own ship. We find the Loretta Howard, with all the studding-sails taken off her and royals furled, jogging leisurely along, and kept off to E. S. E.,   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.        89- so that she is now each moment widening the distance between herself and the Beagle, which bears now about south, two points forward of the beam, and crowding all sail in chase of the Australian schooner. The Alice, with her mainsail, fore-royal, top-gallant sail, and flying- jib furled, is kept along just to leeward of the ship, whose larger hull completely hides her from the brig. As we glance back at the colonial cruiser, we see that she has furled her royal, gaff-topsail and top-gallant sail, in order to let the Beagle draw up with her; and as things are likely to remain much as we now behold them, for several hours yet, we will in the meantime amuse our- selves as best we may, here on board one of the most beautiful ships that ever floated on salt water. Here is Mr. Curtis Marvin, whom we now meet on the quarter-deck, in a plain, genteel suit of black-we shall find his conversation both amusing and instructive; and then here is the beautiful and accomplished Miss Howard, Capt. Howard himself, Mr. Bolton, and the careless, bluff sailor, Ben Vickers;, they will all entertain us, and we shall not find the time hang heavy on our hands for a few brief hours. Noon comes, and in no one respect (except that the Beagle has gained perhaps two miles) has the aspect of affairs changed in the least. The sun goes down, and the brig is up within five miles of the schooner. We have been sitting here in the cabin for the last hour, and we must have been asleep too, for we have become unconscious of passing events, till aroused by a sudden loud report that causes the ship to vibrate, as with the quick shock of some huge wave and starting up, we find it is night.                   .  As we rush from the cabin, there comes another and another con-. cussion in rapid succession, and as we gain the deck, we find the ship with every inch of spare canvas packed on, and- staggering along with a strong breeze, heading up due south-east, while square ahead of us, and not more than five miles distant, as we should judge from the flashes of the guns, there is a murderous fight just commenced between,; as we have good reason to, suppose,the Australian schooner and the English man-of-war brig. First; we hear the, report of single guns fired at short intervals; next, broadsides replying to broadsides; and then, as we draw up with the scene! of battle, the 'rash of musketry mingles with the terrific thunder of cannon; thus proving that the furiOs fight is being carried on at close quarters.          . '.   s9-,   '   .'. .RE- WIND0; OR, Right on, down towards the two contending vessels, drives the noble ship, until not half a mile of brine intervenes between us and the com- batants, when there is a sudden, vivid flash that lights up the whole surrounding scene with- a glare, ten times more brilliant than the brightest noonday sun-there is an instantaneous vision of spars, men,I huge guns, and ponderous anchors, being hurled upwards high into the air, and then the next moment there comes a tremendous crash, an awful roar, as if a world of fire had:; been suddenly quenched in the waters of the Indian Ooean.  The most profound silence and the blackness of midnight reigns for a space, during. which you hear no sound, see no object, and then a succession of quick splashes in the water, some of them almost along- side our, ship, tells again, as did that flash and roar, that one of the contending vessels, with all, everybody attached to her, has been blown up. Our ship is immediately hove to, the boats are lowered, and as we pull away in the. direction of the late ,confliet, the dim outlines of. a vessel soon loom up through the dark shadows which still envelop the scene; and we range up alongside the British man-of-war brig Beagle, now almost a; wreck, with herjib-boom and main-top mast shot away, twenty of her crew lying dead upon her deck, everything in dis- order and confusion, and, on a matress, aft bythe. wheel, is stretched her commander--apt. Charles Moncrieff-in the last dreadful agonies of death, his breast horribly mangled by a grape shot, and both legs almost torn from his body, by a fragment hurled from the blown up Greyhoundi Three; four hours have gone by, during which time we have rendered the. unfortunate Beagle and her surviving crew every service in our power; and, noW, having seen her commander breathe his last and con. signed to the waves, we, return to the ship, which is filled away, and oiee. more we are carryingi a press of sail on ourway 'to Van Dieman's Lande. * But we miss the white cruiser, the beautiful little Alice. We had been so much excited by the night battle and its, terrific termination, tht we have all along, till this moment, forgotten her, and; now she is nowhere in sight.  "Ah;, Mr. Marvin informs us that she has kept on her course E. S. E., under all sail, since sundown, and as she can sail a great deal faster than'theship, it is not probable that ,we shall fall in with her again Until after the Loretta Howard sails from Van Dieman's Land to Can. ton, especially as the schooner will steer E. S. E. for Bass' Strait,   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN S LAND.       91 while our course is S. E. by S. for Hobart Town, along the southern coast of the Island. Now, my friends, eat, sup, converse with Miss Howard, Mr. Marvin,' or enjoy yourselves as you please for the next fifteen days; and then I will invite you to come on deck for a first look at the southern capital of Van Dieman's Land. *   *    *   *    *'   #    *   * "Land ho!" rings out loud and clear from the fore-topsail yard, at- the very first glimmer of eastern dawn, on the sixteenth morning since that terrible night conflict occurred. Ten miles away to the northward, we catch the first dim, indistinct glimpse of the bold, rocky headlands that mark the entrance to the harbor. Two hours more, and the ship'Loretta Howard rides proudly to her anchor on the waters of the noble Derwent, and waiting just longs enough in Hobart Town to see Mr. Curtis Marvin, Captain Howardf and his daughter, comfortably established at one of the best hotels,:wee will take our way once more towards Myrtle Glen, where it is almost certain that we shall find our unfortunate heroine; Alice Trevelyan, as) we remember that Mr. Burrel, the noble, warm-hearted proprietor, offered her a home with him and his famtily, that day when the author. ities remitted her sentence of labor. CHAPTER      XI ..  THE FARMER'S FIRESIDE-ARCHY'S ADVENTURE-A SUDDEN INTRODUC- TION.--A JOYOUS MEETING. "Their's is the spell of home, where'er they rove; . The maiden loves with all a maiden's'love; * And' the fond mother, as she rooes her boy', , ,  Feels in her bosom all a mother'? joy."  IT is somewhere, very near the tenth o' Aprtl, a month or pehii ji five weeks since we have encountered that hdrricane in the Iidini Ocean, and some two weeks since the arrival of the shipi Lrdoetti Ha6 Ard at Hobart Town.  April in Van Dieman's Land is 'almost ian'exa"ct "py of the simb month, in New England. The -iost unneuttil gr6und betwhent th5 empires of grim, stern old winter, and lovely, smiiling suimerp'yrtitl   92           RED WING; OA, ing the nature of each, aping both, and unlike either-to the year just what" sweet sixteen" is to female existence-beautiful, coy, coquettish, fickle, fair, and fastidious-the delightful halting place in her journey from girl to womanhood. It is April, and as unlike what April ought to be, as the little vixen of sixteen, with hair in papers, dress hooked once, stockings sans atta" dura, and shoes down at the heel, in the morning at half past nine-is like that same young lady at the. same hour in the evening at a fash- ionable party, or tete-a-tete with her heart's first favorite in pa's draw- ing-room. But enough of the comparative; it is positively very little like what April ought to be, but precisely what April is full half the time- decidedly stormy. It has been so ever since we left Hobart Town, two days ago. Rain, rain continually, all the first and greater part of this the second day; and then, for variety, it has treated us for the last two hours with rain. thunder, sleet, hail, and lightning, all mixed up together. It is some time past sunset-almost dark; and right glad are we to catch the first glimpse of the red, cheerful-looking brick walls of the mansion of Myrtle Glen. "We are met at the door by the hospitable, kind-hearted proprietor, and condueted to a handsomely furnished apartment, where-all wet, and shivering as we are with cold, and the kindly greeting with which we are made welcome to the fire-side of this fair forest home-the air of comfort, happiness and contentment that pervades the domestic scene, instantly drives out every chill from our hearts, and along with them goes the recollection that we are strangers beneath a stranger's roof. We know that we are most welcome to the family shrine, and that knowledge banishes all reserve on our part, making us feel as though we had found an asylum from the wild storm, at the home of those we know and love. There is a picture to make an anchbret forsake his rocky den, bed of leaves, and diet of roots and herbs, for the most natural and thrice holy enchantment of social enjoyment-a scene that a single glance at should convert the most inveterate and prejudiced old bachelor in existdece from his religion of single uselessnesst t tat of domestic love and, married heaven.  There, at the right hand side of the bright-blazing wood fire, is seated awoman of most extraordinary beauty, and, it may be, some' thirty, three or four years of age-the very picture of health and happiness- o0e hand fondlininga cubby, owng infant, nestling in her lap, and the   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF "VAN DIEMANS LAND.       93 other toying with the brown, curly looks of a bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked girl, of some five years, who is seated on a low stool there, by her mother's knee. That is Mrs. Cecelia Burrel, the angel wife of the noble proprietor of Myrtle Glen. Rising from her chair, at her husband's introduction of ourselvesshe bids us welcome to her fire-side, and. that heavenly smile, which lights up her almost perfect features, is very eloquent of her heart's sincerity. On the other side of the fire, and with her face turned from us, is seated a female form, bending low over the stout, handsome boy who is kneeing at her feet, and who, holding one side of a book while his com- panion grasps the other, is reading to her in a low tone some beautiful passage from Milton, in which the female now and then stops the boy to correct or explain some word or passage which he does not read correctly. "Alice, daughter," speaks Mr. Burrel, and O, there is a world of kindness and paternal love in those two words! The female rises from her chair, puts back from her fair brow the profusion of rich, wavy hair, and turning her face towards the proprie- tor, we behold here before us, the lovely maiden of the Munich festival, the betrothed wife of Curtis Marvin-Alice Trevelyan, the convict sister of Robert, and adopted daughter of the proprietor of Myrtle Glen. There is an air of mingled sorrow and happiness visible in every speaking lineament of Alice Trevelyan's face, at which we are in no- wise surprised when we look back and con over in our minds the strange vicissitudes through which the poor girt has passed within a few short months. Our introduction and reception ended, we are seated with the family, and are just beginning to feel very much interested in Mr.. Burrel's account of his settlement and progressive prosperity here in the British penal colony, when we are suddenly interrupted by a confused clatter in the hall, and the next moment the door is flung open with a bang, and there, just within the apartment, stands a figure so unlike anything human, that were it not for the familiar tones of a'voice which we could tnot easily forget, we might more readily suspect the intruder to be Iome terrific monster of these far-off Australian wilds, than a human being. But ere we listen to his wild, almost unintelligible speech, let us sniatch a hasty glance at his most strange, uncouth appearance. The first feature that attracts our notice is a pair of booted legs,   "           }RCD WING; OR, bare, torn and bloody, from perhaps three inches above the knee to where they are concealed, half way up the calf, by the russet boots. Upwards, from the bare legs, the figure swells out to the bulk of six ordinary men, and is made up of a mass of dark, hideous-looking ani- mals, all hanging'head downwards like a bunch of rabbits from spme market-hook, while they appear to be fastened -together by the hind legs, and slung over'the shoulders of the figure that supports them. From thisbundie of dead animals protrudes two arms one bare and' bloody like the legs, and the other exhibits the tattered fragments of a gray frized sleeve, while the hand clutches the wreck of what has been a double-barelled gun: Surmounting the whole is a, head, which is certainly human, although, were it not for the familiar tones that emanate from it, we should never suspect it belonged to anything claiming affinity to the human family. The thick, bushy shock of almost fire-red hair stands out in every direction, like the quills of a porcupine prepared for battle; there are two bright, flashing eyes, gleaming like live coals of fire, while the whole face, from the summit of the low forehead to the massive chin, is torn and bloody, as if a shrewish wife or a dozen mad cats had scratched their autograph upon it. Have you not already guessed who and what this strange apparition is  If not, listen, you will soon know. "Arrahl an isn't it meself that's bin havin the murtherin fight intirely wud the thavin divils?" "Why, Archy, is that you?" inquires Mr. Burrel, so far recovered from his astonishment as to be able to speak. "An be dad it is, yer honor; or, it's what there's lift av Archy Mc- Clusky-bad luck til the rantin divils; may the ould divil, the father cf 'em, fly away wud the whole bluddy thribe." I' Is it the devils'* that you have been battling with, Archy?" "An be gorra, it's a thru sayin fur yur honor, that same. I'd bin lookin for the cows that got strayed, yer honor remimbers, the day before the storrum, an I was crossin the rock pasthure beyant, whin all at onct the big nise intirely that I was afther hearing over in the field furninst the grape garden, tould Archy that the thavin divils was among the shape. * There is a carnivorous animal peculiar to Australia and Van Dieman's Land, called the "Eevil," shaped like the otter, but considerably' larger, which is very destructive to the flocks, attacking the sheep-folds at night, and destroying often fifty of the sheep before they can be driven off.. t".   THE WEIRD CRUISEIR OF VAf DIEMAN'S LAND..     -95 "Whin I come over til the fold, the poor shape was eryin out mur- ther, and there was the dirty brutes, more'n a hundred ov 'em, killin and atin and fightin like divils that they are intirely.",  t "Bu't ow came you to be so stripped of your clothes and skin, too, 'Archy?"  "Faix an, yer honoi'd- niver be afther axin that question if ye'd seen the way the blaek'ard divils all pitched on til me, whin the thievin divils 'found- that my powther was all weti an I couldn't shoot 'em at all. "I kilt all these that I've got hangin about my neck, and plenty more that run off til the wuds, the bloody cowards -but afther a little, whin I broke my gun an lost my knife, they cumi up mor'n I could bate back with the gun barrels, turnin myiacket and trowsers off:my body, and the skin afther them; and be the hedges of Ballyreggan, the scramin divils 'ud soon be'n makin a male ov poor Archy ef the -gin- tleman from Amiriky hadn't come out an lint me a hand.! "The gintleman, Archy? Who do you mean, and where is .he?" "Och, an be the powers! here I've bin talkin all about meself an forgettin the noble gintleman that saved me from bin ate up; but sorry bit av me knows his name at all; he only tould me, yer honor, that he was an Amirioan, an that he'd come out from Hobart Townt to see yees, and got lost in the wuds." -  "But where' is he, 'Archy? Why didn't you bring him home with you" ." "Didn't I have morehn a: load av these thavin divils, yer honor? But he's come along wud me, an he's just waitin here in the hall beyant; will I inthroduce him, yer honor ."  ' Most certainly, Archy. Show the genleman in;" and the ludicrous compound of Irishman and "t devil" withdraws'from the apartment for a moment: when he re-appears, he is followed by a tall, hands6me-look. ing goung man, whom we recognize in: a single moment as our sometime fellow-passenger in the good ship Loretta Howard. To us and one person of the proprietor's family there 'is little necessity for an introduction' to the handsome-stranger. "t, ,here;,yer honor, is the gintleman that hilped me to kill the divils, and keep the divils from atin Arely for their suppers, bad luck til the nugly brutes. An now I'll be afther lavin yees:to'get- myself rid of the brathers in make meself daeint." Mr. Burrel comes forward, takes his guest by the hatd, and welcomes him to Myrtle Glen, and turnstowards his wife as if he would commend the stranger to herhospitality; but before he cad speak,-the eyes ef his     guest encounter those of his adopted daughter. There are two, quick, passionate exclamations:   ; "AliMe Treveydan!"7 "' Good Heavens!-C'urtis Marvin!l'? And the next moment -the adopted aconvict-child of the wealthy proprietor is infolded in the armri of her affianced husband, with her own twined gently about his neck,: while Mr. Burrel and his wife stand gazing in 'mute wonder-upon the, to them, most strange tablea x. Mr9'. Burrel is the first to recover from. the' half stupor into which the scene has thrown both her husband and herself; and giving her inant to the boy whom we have seen knbeeling there beside'Aice, she a'ppoaches. just at'the moment' he relinquishes the now happy maiden / from a long ardent embrace, and' she takes him by the hand, and look- ing him earnestly in them face, she enquires,: Curtij: Marvin--is .tht the name by which my Alice addressed "It is," 'replied the- young man, in his turn considerably. astonished at Mrs. Burrel's earnest manner.       . "( Was your fathers 'nam. Winslow   '    , :, It w as-.Winslow Marvin.' , "And your mother's?" "Adelaide."'  : ' I "'My sister's child!"-and the handsome English woman embraces the young,' Aierican almost as .affectionately as he had just .now- done the convict maiden. ' cMy mother your sister, Mrs. Burrel'.." we hear Curtis Marvin inquire.  "                -  "Most assuredly' she as. Your mother's maiden name was Sher- wood;!. and she was born in the littlb'village'of Fatirfield, RHerkimer County, State of New York"  "Most true."  "Her mother, your grandmother, died' in England, while on a visit to a sister." "She did."   .          . "You have heard your mother -speak of a sister ten years-syounger than herself, who was with yout grand mother. when she .died, and after her death, remained in Englandewith her, aunt?' ,  ,;'Often have I heard my -mother 'speak of that 'siiter, and wonder if she Was living."            ' '  '"      i, Well, I am' that sister. At tte time of my mother's deth I was but ten years old, and? as my. father had- a large family of children, it s Wasdecid'd that I should remain in my aunt's family, who, as she had !   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN    DIEMAN S LAND.    97 no children of her own, adopted me, and I never visited the United States afterwards. ; " In less than two years, news came of your mother's marriage, and close following this, the intelligence of my father's death. There was a correspondence between your mother and myself, for three or four years after her marriage; but I accompanied my aunt to the Continent, ! whither she went for her health, and where we remained more than three years; the correspondence terminated when we left England, and was never afterwards renewed. "I have learned, since we have been here in Van Dieman's Land, by a gentleman from New York, that your parents are both dead; but all that I could ascertain relative to their family was, that they left only one child, a young man who was then in India- " "And on that very voyage to India, my dear aunt, I remained some five weeks with the ship at Hobart Town, little dreaming that my mother's sister, my own nearest living relative, was residing here, within so short a distance of me." "And by what means have you discovered us now ." , O, I had received the most particular instructions as to the route to be followed, from a most intimate friend-perhaps you know him- Robert Tre--' "Robert! my brother! O, tell me! where is he?" exclaims Alice, grasping her lover's arm, and looking most beseechingly up into his face. "He is in safety, dearest, and in command of a beatiful vessel, which I have brought hither from America. I can trust you all here 2" "With your life!" replies Mr. Burrel, taking the hand of his nephew and shaking it most energetically. A"I know it, uncle, and shall have no hesitation in declaring to you the object of my visit to Van Dieman's Land. You have heard of the mysterious appearance of a strange white cruiser in the Derwent?" "We have," replies the proprietor; " that craft, and the unaccount- able escape of Robert Trevelyan from the quarries, has been for the last three months the all-absorbing themes for conversation and wonder all through the country." "Well, the white cruiser is my vessel; and it was myself, assisted by five daring fellows of my crew, that set Robert free. She is now cruising under his command in Bass' Strait." Then we hear Curtis Marvin inform his newly-found relatives and Alice of all the particulars connected with his recent arrival in Hobart Town, by the American ship; how he had fallen in with her at sea, the mistake of the man-of- 7   98           RED WING; OR, war brig, the chase, battle, destruction of the Greyhound, and death of Capt. Monerieff. A"And now, in conclusion," he goes on to say, " when the ship ip which I arrived, sails again from Hobart Town, Alice will accompany me in her as a passenger. When we are well off the coast, beyond all danger from any of the English or Colonial cruisers, we shall fall in with the little white cruiser,.which I have called the Alice, and leaving the ship,  we will sail direct for America in the schooner. "But, Alice, I have a piece of information that will delight you, I know. There is a young lady passenger in the ship, who informs me that she is, or was a few years since, most intimately acquainted with you." "With me, Curtis?" inquired Alice; why, who can it be?" "Simply the Captain's daughter-Miss Loretta Howard." "Loretta? O, yes, she was my most dear friend, and I shall be so happy to meet her again!" "Capt. Howard, did you say, is the name of the commander of the American ship?" asks Mr. Burrel, somewhat eagerly. "Yes, sir; virtually the ship is under the command of Capt. Howard, although he, being and Englishman, of course cannot hold the papers in his own name." "An Englishman, did you say?" "Yes, sir; he has been something over two years in the United States, and before he went thither, commanded an Indiaman out of London." "His first name, do you know it?" 4"I do-it is John." "Then the commander of the American ship is my brother-in-law- the husband of my only sister, and Loretta Howard is my niece, your own cousin, Curtis. I will set out for Hobart Town, rain or shine, and bring both Captain Howard and his daughter home with me. You will remain here with your aunt and Alice, and it will not be very strange if, when the ship sails again, myself and family go passengers in her." "You, uncle?" "Yes, I am quite as tired of this white slavery here as I was with England's unequal and oppressive laws at home. My wife has long been most anxious for me to sell my property here and go to the United States. I have a most excellent offer now, from a gentleman lately arrived from England, who will pay all cash down; and within three   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMANIS LAND.       99 hours after I arrive in Hobart Town, I will close the bargain, and then within two weeks I shall be ready to leave the country." "An wud yer honor be ofther goin over til Ameriky, an lave poor Archy here behint til be ate up intirely by the bloody cougers an mur- therin, shape-stalin divils?" inquired Archy, who had crept in unob- served by Mr. Burrel, and overheard all the latter part of his con- versation. "No. Archy, I'll not leave you behind, you may depend. You shall go with us, if I have to head you up in a cask to get you out of the country, as they used to your countrymen sometimes, after the Re- bellion in Ireland." "More power til yer honor I Troth an yez may hid me up in a pille-case, or an ould powther-horn, an divil a loud word -will Archy McClusky spake av it." It has been a singular, romantic, rather interesting, and withal a most happy meeting that we have witnessed here, on this stormy April evening, between betrothed lovers and relatives, who, for the first time in their lives, have met here by the cheerful fireside of this far-off home in the interior of Van Dieman's Land. Mrs. Burrel, who for the last few moments has been absent, now re- enters, announcing supper in another apartment; and, leaving the happy family to the private discussion of their future prospects, and the social enjoyment of their evening repast, we will away once more from Myrtle Glen, out into the pelting-storm, and through it wend our way northward to Launceston. There has been an arrival or two from England lately, at the northern capital, and there are certain confused, mixed-up rumors afloat, some- thing about phantom-craft, government reward, &c., that we feel an interest in. We will visit Launceston and see what discoveries we can make.   t00           RED WING; OR, CHAPTER      XII. rHE MYSTEIY SOLVED-A GOVERNMENT PROCLAMATION-THE SLOOP OF WAR-A LEE SHORE-THE WHTE PILOT-THE HARBOR. The storm clouds are gathering in marshal'd array, And wild winds are feathering the waves of the bay; Faint sunbeams are gleaming on yonder white sail, While sea-birds, loud screaming, herald the gale. THE storm is past, and the weather is once more bright, beautiful and warm, almost as summer, although you will please recollect that it is April, and April is next but one to the winter months here in this Australian world, as it is in America, only here it comes before the winter, instead of after. But 'tis a most lovely day-as soft and pleasant as if such a wild., uncomfortable storm as that of yesterday and the day before had never been known. All the whole world of Launceston seem to be abroad, aid all appear to be deeply interested in some new theme of a most exciting character, as we should judge from the earnest tone and eager speech of the hundred groups which we pass, gathered here and there as we thread the busy streets, at an hour before noon on the day after the storm. Here, at the corner of the market, where once before we have paused to survey the scene, we will halt again for a few moments, and it is strange if we don't learn the meaning of all this unusual bustle, talk and excitement. Ah, here, just within the market-house, are some five or six respecta- ble-looking citizens, one of whom is relating to his friends the par- ticulars of some official intelligence that has arrived within a few hours from England. This must be what we are anxious to get hold of, and we too will listen. "It had been ascertained in England, through the confessions of several notorious thieves, robbers, &c., that for the last six years, the aristocratic rogues of Great Britain have owned and supported, at a liberal outlay, two vessels of what was considered matchless speed, whose sole trade or business it has been to make periodical voyages to Australia and Van Dieman's Land, for the purpose of rescuing from penal bondage villains of the first rank in the estimation of the London   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       101 swell mob, and conveying them back to England. In consequence of this fact having become known, the government has ordered an extra preventive squadron to this station, of which the sloop-of-war Rubicon, which we have seen the American ship so well and successfully repre- sent, is to be the flag ship. One of the smaller vessels of the fleet has just arrived from the westward, through the straits, bringing the news that the sloop-of-war, having remained some twenty days at Graham's Town, to repair dam- ages sustained in a severe gale off the cape, had at length sailed nearly two weeks before them, to come north about, through Torres Strait, and then southward, up through the Coral Sea, touching at Port Stephen and Sidney, remaining only a day at each, after which she would sail direct for Hobart Town. Furthermore, we learn that one of these very craft which the gov- ernment has sent out this extra force to cruise for, has been seen in the strait only three days since, standing to the eastward, close in along the coast, awfew leagues to the westward of Launceston. But the speaker's discourse and our attention are both arrested at the same moment, by the approach of the licensed crier of the city, who advances through the crowd, ringing his bell and distributing, right and left, printed hand-bills from a large bundle that he carries on his arm.  *  We manage to secure a copy, and find it to be a government procla- mation, detailing the facts which we have just been listening to, in regard to the mysterious cruisers, and concluding by offering a reward of ten thousands pounds each for the capture of the felon craft, and a full pardon for all past offences to any convict, either in Australia or Van Dieman's Land, who shall in any manner aid and assist in the capture or destruction of these vagabond vessels and those who navi- gate them. The whole secret of the excitement among the good people of Laun- ceston is ours now, and as there is no other matter of sufficient import. ance to detain us here, let us cross the channel which' separates Van Dieman's Land from the almost fifth continent'of the globe, and for once during our cruise of the Red Wing, nut the foot of our imagina- tion upon the shores of Australia. 'Tis no more than a hundred and seventy miles from Launceston to where I would take you. We might reach Australia at a hundred and thirty, by crossing here at the narrowest part of the strait, but it is away to the northeast, to the extreme southerly pitch of Cape Howe, that I would take you; and we must hasten, too, or,' expeditious   102          RED WING ; OR, travelers as we are, we shall be almost certain to get caught in another storm before we can cross the strait. A storm I you exclaim, in perfect astonishment. Why, it is clear  and, unlike a storm as any summer day that we ever saw. I know it's clear and very pleasant just now, but there are certain indications about these sudden changes of weather here at Van Die- . man's Land, which you do not quite comprehend: I tell you, that clear and beautiful as the sky appears, there is a storm brewing, and a most severe one, too, or I know little of weather-wisdom, which is so very essential a part of a nautical education. Come, then, let's be off; if you are not yet convinced, you will be most assuredly before sunset. From the extreme southern point of, Cape Howe, a bold rocky head- land forming the most south-easterly, portion of Australia, the land trends away in its general course nearly N. N. W., for more than sixty miles, when it stretches off to the westward for many 'leagues, and then curving round to nearly due south, juts out another rocky cape into Bass' Strait, forming a vast bay, filled with innumerable islands, shoals, ledges and sunken rooks, among which wind a thousand intri- cate narrow channels, whose navigation is of the most dangerous nature. Outlying this immense gulf, whose waters are as yet as little known to man as those of the Polar Sea, there is a group,or rather an extended chain of rugged, uninhabited islands, some of which are covered with a dense growth of trees, while others are merely bare, gray rocks. I had intended to have taken you over to the rocky promontory; but we are too late; for, as rapidly as we have travelled, the dread storm-king of Van Dieman's Land has outstripped us. Scarce five hours have gone by since we stood there in the market-place at Laun- ceston, and now, ere another half hour shall have mingled its minutes with the time-ocean of the past, the tempest will come down in its terrible wrath. Did I   not tell you so? .I know something of this coast and its storms; and as I live, I would at this moment give five good years from my lease of life, could Ji, by the sacrifice, impart only what little 1   know of Bass' Strait and its navigation to the commander of yonder proud ship. So engaged have we been with, ourselves and the wildly romantic picture about us, that we have not observed her before, but now we will halt here on this green wooded ,island, one of the most southerly of the chain, and watch not only the fast-gathering storn, bht its effect upon the gallant vessel which we have only this moment discvered,. **   THE WEIRD CRUISER'OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       108 although we might have seen her long agoi for she has been in sight a whole hour, and now she is scarcely five miles distant. f It needs no one to tell us that she is an armed ship, and from, her almost- exact resemblance, at that distance, to the Loretta Howard, together with what we have heard in Launceston of the English squad- ron, we pronounce her at once to be the British sloop-ef-war Rubicon. She has passed Cape Howe with but a small offing, and. kept stand- ing on close hauled on the starboard tack, with light breezes to the southward, until now that she is nearly thirty miles to the westward of the cape, and in the most dangerous part of the strait; the wind suddenly baffles, heads her off to N. W., then to N. N. W.; holding there for ten minutes perhaps, till just as the ship is preparing to go about, in order to prevent running in among a mass of, rocks and reefs to leeward, the breeze flies back to south, then to S. EF, veering about three or four points each way for a few minutes, falling stark calm, and then bursting out in a moment into almost a living gale, at about E. S. E., jamming the ship right down there to leeward, under a; short canvas, and almost hooked in on both tacks by islands, shoals, rocks, and dangerous reefs, the latter showing now their white foaming backs in a hundred spots, where, before the gale set in, all appeared deep, blue water, free from any hidden dangers. Great masses of black, ragged clouds, with edges of a lurid coppery hue, roll up in the eastern board, and come driving on, shutting in the clear blue sky now almost to the zenith with their sable folds, while long fleecy streamers, of a pale leaden hue, stretch out westward from the van of the dark pall, darting away down to the western horizon, and veiling the low descending sun, whose feeble rays, struggling through the misty shroud, fall upon the jet black hull and, snowy sails of the brave ship with a ghastly, unnatural glare,giving her the appear- ance of an unearthly phantom craft, rather than a noble; staunch-built English man-of-war. All about us the air is alive with thousands on thousands of sea- fowl, of a hundred varieties, who come sailing in from seaward, scream- ing their harsh, discordant warning of the coming storm. Each successive moment the gale'goes on increasing in strength and wild-yelling fury, and now the whole line of horizon eastward ifom where Cape Howe intercepts the vision tO as far southward as the eye can reach, is one vast field of leaping, foaming, white-crested waves. The captain of that noble ship is conscious of the peril in which'his ' ignorance of the coast, together with his blind dependence on the fair promises of a fickle April day, has placed himself, the ship, and every   104          -RED WING; OR, soul on board; and now he is exercising all his skill in navigation, tax. ing every energy of his mind, to extricate the vessel and her crew from thejaws of threatening ruin. Within twenty minutes from the time that the first breath of the now fearful tempest curls the surface of the blue waves into feathery spray, the ship is stripped for the storm-fight, and we now look upon  her with all her light sails taken in, royal and to'gallant yards sent down, and standing out from a long line of foaming reefs, which seem, from where we stand, to be scarce a mile to leeward; we see her goI staggering on under close-reefed topsails, braced sharp up on the star- board tack, plunging madly into the, quick-coming surges, doing brave battle for herself, and the four hundred stout hearts upon her decks. Ten, fifteen minutes longer, she stands on, heading up due south, and then her helm is put hard up, in order to wear her round on the other tack; for her commander has discovered that all to the south- ward and westward of the ship is one unbroken chain of reefs, whose eastern point curves round and locks him in, so that it is impossible to loear it on the other tack. A full half mile is lost dead to leeward in wearing ship, and now she is no better off than before; for at best she can only head up northeast, making, under her short canvas and the influence of the quick-driving sea, which is now heaving in, full four points away; and all along the northern board, great black rocks, craggy islets, and sunken ledges, hem her in and menace with death all, everything approaching them, in so wild a storm as this. Suddenly, from one of her weather ports, there jets out a stream of fire; there is a wreath of white smoke curls up and goes whirling away to leeward, and then, as we stand with bowed heads, in the attitude of listening, the faint report of a cannon comes struggling up to our ears, A moment more, and a second puff from the lee side tells that a second gun has been fired, although the intervening hull prevents our seeing the flash or hearing the report. Another and another in quick succession, and we know that the brave sloop-of-war is calling in thunder tones, from the muzzles of her guns, for help. Blaze and rqar away there, with every gun, fore and aft-aye, howl forth your last despairing death-yells, even to the moment that ye go crashing-inupon those jagged ledges and screaming reefs to leeward, who in'their fiendish storm-glee howl back their taunting shouts, in very mockery of those' frantic cannon-calls of distress! You will find no aid here. As well might the European traveller   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF'VAN DIEMANSS LAND.      105 cry out from the sand-shroud of an Arabian Sirocco to the loved ones of his far-off home for aid. There are none here to lend assistance, and if God helps ye not, your destruction on those terrible reefs to leeward is inevitable, and that within the next half hour, too. Once again in our lives we have been mistaken. MThose signal guns have not been fired in vain. Look there!-even as the dull boom of the last cannon falls upon our ears-there, to the western extremity of the island on which we have sought shelter from the storm! In the centre of a narrow belt of deep. blue water, forming a channel between this and'the island next to the westward, just stretching out from the cover of a projecting cliff, we behold the brilliant gleaming hull, tall arrowy spars, and snowy canvas of the White Cruiser. We have seen that craft once, and we should know her again in a moment, were we to fall in with her ten years hence, on the other side of the globe. Her fore and aft sails only are on her, and these are reefed down to battle with the fierce gale, till those two huge scarlet wings show now but just clear of her booms; and yet, as she draws out from the shelter of the tall cliffs, so that the full power of the gale falls upon her, she darts away even under that 'tiny show of canvas, right out into the seething waters of the reef-locked bay, like the very genius of the, wild, shrieking storm. The little passage through which she has just passed, is broad on the ship's lee bows, and from her decks it is so completely shut in by intervening rocks and reefs, that no one would ever have suspected that there was a channel in among those foaming breakers, where even a whale-boat might dare to venture. For five minutes, it may be, the schooner comes dashing on, tossing the flashing brine in sparkling jets from her graceful bows, and heading up for the ship on the opposite tack, till less than half a mile of space separates the two vessels, when suddenly the White Cruiser's helm is put hard down, and even in this tremendous gale, the short chopping sea and her scanty canvas-circumstances under which not one vessel out of five thousand, the whole world over, would 'work-she comes sweeping gracefully up, head to wind, with an evolution almost as rapid as the wheeling flight of the sword-wiged albatross.  As she comes head to the wind, two guns are fired at the same instant, one from-either side, to attract the attention of the ship's corn mander, and then, as the superb little cruiser swings off on the larboard tack, there go fluttering aloft to her main-royal mast-head four small   106          RED WING; OR, flags, which, if we remember rightly, read, in the signal book of the Royal Navy, "Do you want a pilot?" If we could stand upon the quarter-deck of the sloop-of-war at this moment, we should hear her commander address some three or four of his officers standing near him, in language like this:    I "My God! look there, gentlemen! Do you see those numbers? Ho, there, signal quarter-master! Quick, to your book, sir, and see what those flags read." "Do ypu want a pilot " reads the old gray-headed quarter-master, from the open signal book of the Royal Navy of England. "By heaven'!" almost screams the astonished commander, " yonder little white beauty is either a commissioned cruiser of Great Britain, or the phantom craft she has been represented. In either case she has got our signals; ;and were she the flag-ship of Beelzebub himself, I'd follow her. Send up the affirmative answer, and stand by your braces fore and aft." In ten seconds the private numbers, 5-2-8, with duplicate pennant over them, are seen at the ship's mizzen topmast head, (all her three to'gallant masts having been sent down,) and at the same time the blood-red folds of England's meteor flag blow out at her main peak. This last is responded to by the broad, red winged banner of the White Cruiser, and in place of her first set of signals, we now behold another, reading--"Follow me." Off, until the wind is brought square abeam, goes the white schooner, and off goes the stately sloop-of-war, with yards squared in, standing on in the wake of the-to all on board-strange, mysterious craft; while, as if enraged at this sudden prospect of losing its noble prey, the wild, howling tempest seems to rave with redoubled fury, and the deep night-shadows are fast gathering in, and settling down upon the storm- picture. Right on, down towards the black frowning ledges and white foaming breakers, goes the beautiful schooner, closely followed by the tall ship, till there is scarce five hundred yards of space between the White Cruiser's bows and the extreme western point of a dangerous reef, on which the mad waves are breaking, all feather white; when both ves- sels are suddenly hauled to again, and go dashing on into the smooth deep water of the narrow passage, leaving on their starboard hand, as they enter the channel, the shrieking, hissing whirlpool of the dreaded reef, and passing it so near that one might almost leap from the ship's weather-hammock nettings into the outer edge of the whirl- ing abyss.   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.      107 Right on, along through the narrow, intricate passage, goes the tiny Red Wing, now luffing sharp up into the wind to avoid some sunken rock, now falling gracefully off till the gale comes in broad over her quarter, to shun some dangerous ledge that skirts the weather side of the tortuous passage, closely followed by the rescued ship, whose com- mander, stationed between her night-heads, watches with eagle eyes every motion of his accomplished pilot, and gives his quick, energetic orders, to follow every turn and winding of the channel, in the wake of the little White Cruiser. Now,-for five minutes, the rocky islet there to the westward shuts in both vessels, and now they burst into view again, and for ten minutes longer stretch away to the northward, until they have gained the centre of a noble bay, completely sheltered from the gale, land-looked on all sides, and affording ample room for all the navies in the world to ride at anchor; when, at some signal made by the schooner, the sloop-of-war suddenly comes to, head to wind; both anchors are let go, her topsails are clewed up and furled, and the gallant Rubicon lies there as snug as though she were moored, head and stern, at the dock- yard where she was built. The active duties of mooring ship has engaged the whole attention of her commander, and now, when he turns his eyes to leeward in quest of his pilot craft, she has vanished. In an instant the conviction flashes upon his mind that she is indeed a phantom; but we know better.. While the Rubicon has been coming to, we have watched her glide away to leeward, and disappear very naturally behind a group of green islands that skirt the western shore of this miniature sea. We shall find her again ere we leave Bass' Strait. 6    108          RED WING; OR, CH APTER XIII. TUE WEIRD CRUISER-THE CHALLENGE-A NOON-DAY PHANTOM-RED WING-THE SURPRISE-CAPTURE OP THE PHANTOM SCHOONERS-THE CONVICTrS TRIUMPH-PARDON AND DISAPPOINTMENT. I                          i How varied life's changes!  How fickle the flame That beacons our glory, Or dawns on our shame! DAY after day, for two whole weeks, the wind has blown steadily from the southward, varying no more than two or three points of the compass; and now, at sunrise on the fifteenth day, it still con- tinues, not in loud, fitful gusts, or screaming boisterous gales, but in one continued, soft, gentle breeze, just stirring into laughing little wavelets the clear, blue waters of Bass' Strait, while they whisper on the pure, almost summer, air, in low, gentle tones, like the chastened murmurs of a far-off sylvan water-fall. The scene-all except the wild, elemental war, the gallant war-ship struggling yonder with the winds and waves, and the glorious vision of the superb little white cruiser coming to her recue-is just what it was fifteen days ago. We are here upon the same beautiful wooded island, amid the reefs and shoals on the northern side of Bass' Strait, and there, in the centre of the magnificent sea to the northward of our island, lies still to an anchor, just as we saw her on that stormy evening, the beautiful Jnglish sloop-of-war Rubicon. We are not at all surprised at finding her here, when we examine that narrow, winding passage through which she has entered the bay. and see how utterly impossible it is for any craft to work out through it with the wind blowing right square in, as it has been for the last two weeks. The officers of the ship have examined every fathom of the reef and island-shore by which they are surrounded; and although they have found a dozen channels through which a vessel of easy draught may pass, yet not one of them, except that by which they have come in, has sufficient depth for a sloop-of-war, and so, perforce, she must wait for a shift of wind to get out of the secure harbor they were all so glad to make on the afternoou of the gale.         . t\ /   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.      109 Several times since they have remained here, the white gleaming sails of the mysterious pilot craft have been seen gliding about among the islands and reefs in the distance; but never since that night of the storm has she approached near enough to the ship for thenf to dis- tinguish any objects upon her decks,-and the first impression of all on board the Rubicon has become fully confirmed. Every soul in her, from her commander down to the superstitious Guinea cooks, have set her down as an unquestionable, unreal phantom. They now fully be- lieve in all the many marvellous stories they have ever heard of the "Weird Cruiser of Van Dieman's Land." Two hours of the morning have passed away, when the breeze, which has held on the southward so long that those in the man-of-war had begun to despair of its ever changing, suddenly veers round to the northeast, and within fifteen minutes thereafter, when all is hurry and bustle on board the Rubicon, preparatory to getting under weigh, we behold that very craft which you remember we once followed into a fog-bank off Launceston, or another exactly like her, suddenly shoot out from those rocky islets down there to the westward, and stand along down the narrow passage till she reaches an abrupt turn almost with its confluence at the inner bay, when she comes by the wind and runs up her dusky red-lettered burgee, sets her broad, red-winged banner, and fires three guns in quick succession-the first to windward in sheer bravado, and the other two (shotted) from her larboard battery directly at the sloop-of-war.. As we watch the effect of this bold banter, and-the course of the Weird Cruiser's shot, we hear the drums beat to quarters on board the ship, and just as the two balls go rocketing by on either quarter-one of them so close that it sends in a shower of spray upon the sloop's deck-there are two vivid flashes from her stern ports, which the breeze has flung round square towards the channel, followed by a simul- taneous roar from her two stern chasers: ant turning our eyes again towards the phantom schooner, we behold one of the sloop's twenty- four pound shot pass just clear of her bows along the surface of the water, while the other goes through her dusky mainsail, not three feet from the boom. - Who or whatever the crew of that dreamy looking craft may be, it -is very evident that they had not expected so prompt a response to their salute from the sloop-of-war, for there is a short space of apparent consternation and confusion upon her decks, and thenshe is kept off before the breeze, just in time to avoid two more twenty-four pound visiting cards, playfully tossed down towards her from the British   "O           RED WING; OR, ship, and which, had she remained hove to fifteen seconds longer, would have both gone crashing through her hull. Home comes the sloop's last anchor; all at once, her three topsails are let full, sheeted home and mast-headed; simultaneously the three to'gallant sails are set; down at the same moment come the tacks and sheets of her heavy courses, up go all her hand-sails at once, and as the Weird Cruiser clears the outer chops of the harrow channel, the gallant Rubicon is dashing on towards the little strait in swiftest pursuit. There will be another exciting chase, and perhaps yonder wizard craft will lead Sir James, of the sloop-of-war Rubicon, an ignisfatuus dance, like that which nearly proved fatal to the Beagle and all on board. Whatever the event may be, we would like right well to witness the chase :- as we should, by remaining here, soon lose sight of both vessels, we will step on board the Rubicon, as she passes out through the narrow channel, and remain for a few hours the guest of her titled commander. The ship is out clear of the rocks and reefs which lie off the entrance to the strait, and goes stretching away S. E. with the wind abeam, in chase of the phantom schooner, who, some two or three miles ahead, is steering for the eastern point of a long line of reefs that lock in the southern side of this outer bay. At intervals of a few minutes, the sloop sends her eighteen pound shot, from either bow, down towards the schooner, more to remind her that the chase is in earnest than with the expectation of injuring her; for medium eighteens do not tell to much purpose at this distance. The breeze, first very light, has continued to freshen until now  after we have been something more than an hour on board the ship, she"is staggering along, ten knots, with her to'gallant sails furled,'and the phantom schooner is still the same distance ahea'd. Not a single inch have we gained' upon her in our race across the bay, and now having weathered the extreme point of the reef, she squares away, dead before the wind, for fifteen minutes, and then jibing over her mainsail, she hauls to along down the south-western side of the rocky ledge, standing back N. W., while we have a full mile to stand on in exactly the opposite direction, before we can clear the point of the breakers, wear ship, and stand on after her. The, point is gained; and when we 'brace up on the other tack; the chase is almost up with a wide eitended group of rockls and islands )   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S BAND.        1ll that bound the whole line of vision in the western board, from north, trending away round to S. W., and not more than four miles distant. Twenty minutes are passed, and right on, into a strait, open passage among the rocky islets, drives the sloop-of-war, the Weird Cruiser still in sight, although nearly twice the distance now separates the two ves- sels that did so at the commencement of the chase. It is almost noon, and the breeze has lulled so much that the sloop has now all three of her royals set, and going no more than five knots at that, when all at once there comes, stealing out from among the shoals and rocky islets, not more than a mile down ahead and on the starboard side of the sound, another dim, shadowy craft, the exact counterpart of the one we have all ,along been in chase of. At the first glance, we almost fancy that this new phantom is but some strange shadow and reflection, flung back by a powerful mirage from the real craft, which we can still see going off wing and wing, more than four miles ahead of us. But we are soon convinced that this strange schooner is no unreal' shadow; for, as she ranges out into the open channel, she, like her twin cruiser, fires three guns-two towards the ship, and one in the opposite direction; after which she is immediately squared away, and, like the other, goes off wing and wing, dead before the wind. A dozen shots are fired at her from our guns, but somehow they all go wide off, and gliding away as she does, apparently three feet to our one, she is soon beyond the reach of our shot, and the firing is suspended. The first cruiser has hove to, waiting probably for her consort to run down and join-her, and every square inch of sail is now crowded on the sloop to bring her once more within range of her batteries. The two vessels are abreast of each other, and both are standing on up the channel, which is here narrowed to less than half amile in width, when they, as well as ourselves, are startled by a sudden apparition of a snow-white craft-white all'over, in hull, spars, sails and everything, except -those three monstrous scarlet wings-two in her sails, and the third in her broad, milk-white banner. We Bnow her as the Alice, Capt. Robert Trevelyan, and we are only astonished to find her cruising here, on this side of Bass' Strait, fifteen days after we had seen her come so suddenly to the relief of the' sloop- of-war, and at a time when we thought -she would be watching off the east coast of Van Dieman's Land for the India-bound American ship. I The commander, officers and crew of the Rubicon, recognize her as the phantom pilot, and argue that, as her first appearance was to favor   "2           -RED WING; ;QR,. them, they may expect that she will in some, way contribute towards the capture of the two phantom vessels. As for the crews of the two Weird Cruisers, they stand and. gaze upon this strange white copy of their own craft with absolute horror and dismay, They have often heard of such a mysterious wizard cruiser having been seen about Van Dieman's Land; but they have never believed it; and now she is there in broad daylight, right in the centre of the narrow passage ahevd of them. For a few minutes all is terror, superstitious dread, and absolute dismay upon their decks. They are hemmed in here between the sloop-of-war-which is coming down under all sail, and who, if she gets them under her guns, will blow them out of water with her formidable batteries--and! the real Weird Cruiser, the veritable Red fng, whom they fear ten times more than they do the English sloop-of-war. There is but one chance for them to escape; forto attempt running the gauntlet by either of these enemies, they dare not; and so, after a brief consultation, both of the schooners are hauled to S. E., into the shoal water of that -side of the channel, so full of rocks, ledges and reefs, that the ship cannot follow them. The moment that their intention becomes apparent, the Rubicon is brought to by the wind, and lets drive her whole larboard' batteries at the runaways, and then wearing round immediately, the fire from the starboard battery is delivered. The distance is too great, however, and her shot fall short of the mark; but there is an enemy on their trail from whom they will not escape so readily. Right in among the intricate channels and dangerous reefs, go the two dusky schooners; and dashing on in their wake, like the fierce sleuth-hound-driven through the hissing brine two feet to their one- goes the real Red Wing, in the chase. Ten, fifteen minutes go by,.and then a wreath of smoke curls up from the white cruiser's deck, and a moment later we see the foremast of one of those phantom schooners go over to leeward; and, as we listen for a few seconds, a tremendous roar comes looming across the waves, so loud, so deep, that the very deck of the sloop-of-war quivers beneath our feet with the concussion. Five minutes later, as we continue to watch the white Red Wing, we see her range up alongsidei the- dismasted, schooner, and' four lurid flashes from her larboard side tell that she sent her iron hail-storm into her enemy at half-pistol shot, and this time, before, the report of her guns fall upon our ears, we see the great dusky banner come down /   TfMi W9IRD C   IttB*iftF J iaN DIEMAN S' LAND. "ll8 rinX th7'7fsehodneh s peak;amXtr iavte p  ntm  e  sa ur- ' en'deread' ttheswhir eiouser v- i,5a ' Ai"",i lit., *1';., \'. KNot-for a single instN d /c{sh* Kngepby her Apti ettt on and ; way- inher rpid ourre : after the ei aiting asehoner. N * ; .; , i.' ',.r JI might have told d you that the Ulice' arrie amidaps on-h esredks one of those lbeutifkl -Yanee/ playthingsth) :peuiiar pt^ of Ameri- can' priva-teers dring the last:war with( rea Britain a 'mst magnifi- cent affair, witht wideht:he -can: piteh Iher" forty-two pto&ds ,of. iron "tfi/rough and through : shiplie' this, at a, distance where 'she, herelf ould lie fair-beyond the reach of -n dinfaty iattery. - . . Wi-th this same, g:ni she 'widlldriveyonider duskyschooner thO5 the b'ttom, -t into i6splinters, beforte ten ty: mintes-' moreshall' have y 4el psed. * /:" 1. ' , '-;', * * s ; i-"; ".^^ " ' Buht the'coidimander :of the craft profits lby th lesso n juit 1taughtihis consort, and at the third shot from the white oruiser's murderous gun, he hauls down his flag and surrei ders. -, \  A "lde of jealous disippoiiiinentt darkens tie features ofLord "Jimes, the eo' mandoer of 'the': R bicon,^az he gives the eommaud -to haul the' ship th by the wind;,iad stakd baok to the, astward,. /e 'Would 'not; hae missed the capture of' 6neiat .least .of those vessels,.for , which the British government has offleredso prinely' a -rwir.,' not for his ochanee of0 being fIl deg an aiiiral; "anld- ow they .harv. botli;been snapped up hebrebefore his: yeys, by that uerhb te * hite; criift, ('h he- n6w lkn6ows weil enogihf has nothing supernatural. about,-,enri and wh6om heis almost certai' n aame iato bin';nder the skilfUl handsiof an American shipwright ." s  ^ r  ',i str' " j .^'^ 1' x - : - ,- ( "It is' aloSt night, and as we have: some :doabts of being a W4elcome guest lher oni toard the Rublaon, le: witt take ourselvesoff, -anl seek a passage bacf to ;ia'ifceston with OapC Roberq- Tevelyzn, in his beau. tiful - ite Oruis r -; e, . - ;O.." ;'     t . ;  IF orthe firsiitO tim6 in rio liver we foorselie o thcteoek df . the strange, mysterious,'and splendid-'ietfftof which we have so often. heard, and twice before to day seen.       :    ;  Wor have a   fbw mi i eof in lisure i-. wrhich to- eaami hehetia ghite Majpt. Treve tn-au-d Is cr areAn batuin eculrisig teib t p-isaiereigt tnUgm up a jui'forofas i i ^the I .dismstedeoiitooie, tadptepanri o tF get'utlic er i hig;lnt'foo   - ; t' ' u ' ; .'- *. . i s^W.  .-'*^; . -i eveir m our4 Hvli hv" owe beheld a -iorer 6 fpecto dled: or a^ Btf-ffi^  nte^  ed^a  (^r;- i  mr! iho^m^ ^iW Ahe   cat world of mankind, ihve iw ie witih- aore acdo ee lised adgeitle miiair oiafde  tho^-^^"iib^A^.?;dertuit &: ,     .;^'  8   A 14          RE, .W- N - q : RDwINtOR ,' -  -By hiif: weare welcomed oon ;board the Alice, and by him, to, we ' are informed that, on leaving the American ship, the evening before Mth9 terrific and disastrous tencounter between the Beagle and the Australian cruiser, he sailed direct for Bass' Strait, and .on thefol- ]lowing day he fell in with the wreck of an. -English brig, from which - he took three sailors, allithat remained alive'of a crew of fourteen ; and  -among these was a man who:had once been a convict in Van Dieman's "and, and sailor on board one of the phantom schooners, From this man: he learned that the rendezvous of these weird cruisers was here,; in among these -islands. The three sailors were all familiar with this navigationi, and being willing to ship with him, 'he' dtermined to come hither and lie in wait for their arrival. He had procured a copy of the proclamation from the wrecked brig, and as, by its terms, he could disburthen himself of the penalty which was. still attached, to him, provided he coQuld capture either of the schooners, his mind was at once made up to attempt it.  lHe-had made the attempt, and succeeded-beyond his hopes or ex- pectation; for he had captured both without the loss of a man on his part; and now nhe can tread the British soil again, a free British sub- ject, and lay daim to the comfortable little fee of twenty thousand pounds for the service rendered. It' is sunset, andt the Alice,. with her two prizes in company, is stretching away to the southward towards Launceston, and as they do inot need our services 9on deck, we will seek an hour's repose. We have been, you will recollect, fifteen days ,on the lone, uninhabited island, and a night's rest will not come amiss to us. We are'aroused from slumber by a confused din of bells and shouts, and the;thunder of loud-throated cannon, and rushing on deck; we find ,the little Alice anchored.: between her two prizes, close in with the wharves at Launceston, with her ample white banner and, its red-wing emblem, foi&ting atk her main. royal mast-head, her scarlet-lettered bur- , gee, at the fore, and the glorious banner. of the stars waving proudly at her peak.                ; Thousands of people throng the shore, and as .Robert Trevelyan steps his'foot uppn' the land, clothed: as he is in his brilliant white uniform, he is the magnet that' fixes every eye, and the acclamation of joy and congratulations by which he is greeted by the assembled-.thousands, could- not be Imdre rapturous were he the Emperor of the universe. ;J^ Sauh isihuman life, The fortunes of a day, or the Ochances of an :hu, trmaktIiuan idol or a slae+.    e hero orTafOn, , , a . ,  Within 'an hour after his -arival, he r'eceives hisa pardopn from;j the    THE WEIRD CRUISER   OF VAN-aDIEMAN'S LAND. ,j5 colonial authorities, and once more his proud heart swelli with the happy thought that he is no longer a convict slave., But a shadow flits over the bright sunlight of his new-born dream, for an acquaintance, just arrived from Hobart Town, informs him that ten days ago the ship Loretta Ioward sailed for Canton, with Mr. Burrel, his family, and Mr. Curtis, Marvin, and (confidentially the friend whispers,) Alice Trevelyan, as passengers. In a moment he determines to follow her, and in a moment we determine to accompany him. *       '            . CHAPTER XIV. FAREWELL TO VAN DIEMAN'S LAND-THE TIMELY RESCUE-RE-UNION-- CANTOU--HOMEWARD BOUND-THE ARRIVAL-CONCLUSION. "Touch us gently, Time; Let us glide adown thy stream Gently-as we sometimes glide Through a quiet dream." BARRY CORNWALL. THREE days after the Alice entered the Tamar, and anchored before the town Launceston with her two prizes, she was again under weigh for Canton, Captain Trevelyan haying received from the Royal Commia- . sioners the reward due him from England for the capture of the two phantom, schooners, together with some ten thousand pounds additional which was paid, or, rather forced upon him, by the citizens of Launces- ton, in consideration of the service he had rendered the colony gene- rally in thus summarily ending the career of the two convict graft and their felon crews. This last sum he generously divided among his own crew, being for himself perfectly contended with the government reward and his full restoration, to all rights and privileges ofa free- born English citizen. At Captain Trevelyao and his white-uniform crew we will take our last loolk and bid our last adieu to the rugged northern coast of Vah Dieman's, Land, from the deck of the Weird Cruisers now. under all sail, and stretching;away to, the eastward, having but Ijust cleared the bar of Liancestou arbor, bound fqor:.iinaj unless8 she shall ohane Ato overhaul the Loretta Howard before she atri ea :.Maeao, whieh chance does not appear; very probable, as you will ;lease to retoleot   "6           RED WING; OR, that the beautiful clipper ship sailed thirteen days ago from' Hobar Town, and should dre this time have shortened her passage to China by full one-half. Adieu, Van Dieman's Land, with your rugged, cliff-bound shores, your' forests, cities, magnificent valleys, towering, cloud-capped moun- tains, and your vast army of white convict slaves. There is butsa bare possibility of our ever visiting -your shores again, and therefore we bid you farewell.  Adieu, for the present, to you too, most beautiful red-winged cruiser- sweet little Alice-namesake of the lovely convict maiden. We would visit the splendid clipper-ship Loretta Howard, and although your speed is unrivalled, yet even your keel, our little pet, is all t6o slow for our impatient flight; and therefore, for a short space, we will leave you, swift winged Weird Cruiser of Van Dieman's Land. Twenty-one, two, or it may be, twenty-five days since we left the white schooner there in Bass' Strait, and it is only this very day, not two hours ago, that we have succeeded in finding and getting on board the American ship. We were altogether mistaken in her route, and had looked for her all along though the Sea of Java, and from Cape Bajador, the northern extremity of Lazon, up through the China Sea, as far as the Island of Banco on the eastern coast of Sumatra. Had we taken the passage between Plores and Lumbawa, through the Strait of Macassar, Sea of Celebes, and passed in by Sooloo Islands, we might'have found her, on the very day that we left Capt. Trevelyan and his Red Wing, here on a coral reef off the northeastern coast of Borneo, almost in mid-channel, between it and the long, narrow Island of Palermo. It is almostl night when we gain the ship, and after greeting our friends all, lamong whbom we meet Curtis Marvin, Alice Trevelyan, Mr. Burrel, with his: family, and Archy McOlusky, we are informed by Capt. Howard, that twenty-five days ago the ship struck on this coral reef, and that thus far every effort to get -her afloat had been unsuc- cessful. Within a week after she struck, the savages hid gathered about them -by the thousands, in proas and hbilge war canoes, making hostile demon- strations, and preventing them from working, or doing anything towards getting the ship afloat, as' it required all -their vigilance and energy to beat off theli avages, who had made several desperate attempts to get possession; of the Vesisel- ".'. , Fifteen direct :atticks have been made;' and 'each time thes natives Fite, ie\   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.       117 have been beaten off with immense loss; but now, Capt. Howard informs us, he has not a dozen rounds of ammunition left, either for his two cannon or the small arms;. and if the furious savages renew the combat with to-morrow's dawn, which it is almost certain they will, the doom of the noble ship and every soul on board is certain. Wearied and worn down with twenty-five days and nights of fighting and watching, the American crew are almost in despair, and the night hours pass on leaden wings to them as they sleep in fitful snatches upon their watch, or, stretched upon the .hard deck, dream in broken shmber of the coming morn and their almost certain fate. Morning dawns at length, and as the orb of day rolls up from his ocean bed, fiery and red as blood, gleaming there on, tke eastern horizon like a huge ball of fire hurled in upon the cope of vision by some mighty, unseen arm, there comes bursting in, through the dense smoky vapor which surrounds the ship and the reef upon which she lays, a most formidable array of proas and canoes, filled with yelling savages, and bristling with cresses, spears and other rude weapons peculiar to these Asiaticapirates. On they come, in one long extended, solid line of canoes, proas and men, driving right down over the smooth, glassy water, towards the doomed ship and her ill-fated crew. Capt. Howard informs us that they are in more than four times the force that they have at any time appeared since the ship came on the reef, and with their ammunition almost exhausted, the crew Worn down with long continued watching, fighting, and constant dread of night attacks, the thoughts of contending successfully against this over- whelming force is faint indeed; and yet there is no alternative but to fight, and fighting, fall: for these savage pirates know no meroy, and a surrender to such fiends were,but a base coward's act. They are within two. hundred yards of the. ship, when the two brass guns, one under the command of Mr. Boltop, the other worked by the indomitable Ben Vickers, with a half dozen picked men, hurl down upon their hostile front their iron storm of grape, and for a few mo- ments there is a halt, an apparent consultation around two or three shattered and disabled proas, and then the whole line comes dashing on,. again towards the ship. -   hey: are within musket range, and withthe second discharge from the, two cannon, there: rings out the crash of t*enty Imukeetsj and once more the van of the savage fleet is thrown into confusion.  Like heroes, Mr. Bolton and Ben Vickers, cheer,on their brave fel- lows, while there, along. the starboard side of, the -poop, you behold   "8        "  RED WING; OR, I(apt. Howard and his passengers are busy with their musklets; But look there!,-there by the mizzen-rigging! There' is a sight for you to look upon and-wonder. Mrs. Burrel, the beautiful Loretta, and the sylph-like Alice, are all busily' engaged in loading the muskets, which Archy passes to those who defend the ship, and return with those just discharged. Again, and again, the hurricane of grape from the two cannon, and the leaden hail from, the score of muskets, sweep over and through the barbarian host, checking their advance, and destroying their canoes and proas; but still those in the rear press on and fill up every vacant space in the line, which -is now one compact mass of boats and fero- cious piratical wretches, with a front, full half a mile- in length, and its centre- within a hundred yards of the ship. God help her now! that noble craft-and God. help her brave defenders too for the last charge-is in the cannon, the last musket- cartridge has been fired, and now the whole barbarian horde begin to move steadily on to the attack. Twenty of the principal boats are within fifty yards of the ship's side, and Capt; Howard, with his passengers and orew, are preparing to meet them at the bulwarks with bayonet, cutlass and boarding pike; when, sudden as the thunder peal that follows the nearest lightning's flash, there comes a terrific crash, a roar of cannon; and*-all along: down in the very front of the savage fleet, there goes sweeping, on a perfect whirlwind of iron missiles, grape and. canister, round shot'and musket balls, tearing up and dashing the calm blue water into a foaming tor- nado, while more :than a-dozen of the frail boats are rent to atoms, hundreds of the pirates are curshed and mangled by the awful dis- charge, and almost in an instant, the bright blue waves* are dyed crimson with the blood of slaughtered barbarians.   I A sudden panic seiies the tpirates, and many leap wildly into the sea, while others 'scream aloud in frantic terror; sand in the very height of dismay, the, second -murderous discharge comes bristling through the air, better directed and more destructive than the first.; and therei on our starboard, bows, not two hundred yards. distant, we behold the beautiful:,white hill, gleaming .sails,. and tall taper spars of the Alice, while upon her decks we see her crew busy about -her still-smoking guns, and erei- ten seconds are gone by-that ,monster .gun amidships, levelled by Capt.-Trevelyanw himself, -vomits forth for the third, time its death-dealing' contents. among the frightened and flying pirates. For ten minutes longer, while a'single pros or. canoe remains within range of her gung, the schooner is: kept hove to, dealing death among rauge, o -th "adoo 'er it 1' t hov   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF, VAN- DIEMANS LAND.        1t9+ them from her starboard battery aid that terrible pivot gun, and whena  at last the survivors had. all; got beyond her reasih, she is kept off and run down alongside the ship. ' They stand here before us, Capt. Howard and his passengers, aston- ished and half bewildered, by the sudden transition. from'. almost certain. destruction to comparative safety, the total defeat, of the savage piratesP, and the miraculous appearance of the white cruiser.   .  t It is thus they stand as Robert Trevelyan gains the ship's .deck and. rushes aft to greet his friends; and here comes in a :scene, which such a" pen as' mine was never calculated to. paint. Do you recollect that Robert Trevelyan has a fondly-loved sister. there among that group, whom he saw last in the: convict garb of Van:' cieman's Land, and from whom he was rudely' separated on the day'of  his attack upon Capt. Moncrieff  Do you remember, that    ; but no, that is a secret which you have only half guessed, but I will inform. you that in England, Loretta Howard had loved Robert Trevelyan with all the intense, pure love of whhich her, young heart was capable,; and, when: he was sent to Van Dieman's Land a convictlslave, Loretta Howard loved him still. She had made a solemn vow, when she embarked in this ship for India, thati. once arrived/in Hobart Town, if she could. not: effect Robert Treiel- yan's release, she. would leave the ship and remaina there with him; inh penal bondage.    ,  -                   . {  She met him on the passage that morning after the. storm, and: now you see they have met again, for you behold Robert Trevelyan holding: to .his heart the blushing Loretta and his own. loved sister both at the same moment.  The joyous greetings ended, Robert with his crew set' to work. with Captain Howard and his company; .and .so successful Were their united efforts, that within-four hours, the gallant ship is once more, afloat and under all sail,. standing down through the island ebminnel, and amiong the rocks and coral reefs, till we gain the, China Sea.  .  'A month,has gone by soince .the day that ,we stood there.:upon the deck of the good, ship LoretIta-,H oward, and- witnessed the, piratical attack, the desperate,defencw final overthrow of the savages, anul finlly. the. meeting of Robert. Trevelyan with bie8sister, bhisi(ypu;mgy. as :welH know it)-betrothed -wife, and his friends generally, therae-t .the: cquar ter-deck of thc Americane shi p s      .  v . - ! tt- A,  !.. Only a month, and: we are invited to .attend a joyoUh bappy bry rl' at one of the English, flatoriesl iu the eoity-of :anton,. -.' - :- ; - It is a, double weddtpgRloobert Trevelyan and Loretta .(Howardi   120           ED WINCd  OR, Curtis Marvin and the lovely Alice Trevelyan, are the happy couples. The chaplain of an English man-of-war in the river, performs the ceremony that binds four willing hearts in Hymen's silken bonds, while all: the merchants of Canton, together with the commanders and officers of 'all the English and American ships in port, are assembled to do honor to the wedding festival. Another month is passed by the newly-married pairs in :the city of Canton, after which they embark for' the United States in the beauti- ful little: Alice, and on their homeward-bouhd passage touching at Ceylon, Cape Town, St. Helena, and .Rio Janerio, they arrive safely in New York, some six months after leaving China, when, having spent a few weeks' at the paternal mansion of Curtis' Marvin, situated on the banks-of the noble Hudson, they set out .for the residence of Capt. Howard, in Ohio.  A few real-life pictures,.drawn in the sweet, rosy month of May, 1833, and my story of the Weird Cruiser is told.  First, a brief marine view in the city of New York. At an. hour past sunrise, we' stand 'upon the pier at the foot of Wall street, almost in the exact spot where we once saw Mr. Henry Bolton stitding'to admire a beautifl: new, ship.-         ^ '-:The object of our admiration is the same as his was. Not indi- vidually, for his was 'a vast ship of' more than twelve hundred tons, loading or discharging, we have forgotten which, a Liverpool cargo, This is a ship also,-but' a'beautiful clipper craft of not more than four hundred and'fifty t6ns, and almost at, the moment that we read the name-.Loretta Howard-on her quarter board, our eyes encounter a familiar form and face on her quarter-deck. It is our old friend, -Ben the boatswain, now Mr. Vickers, chief inate of the noble Indiaman. Let us make a few inquiries of him. ;' "Who6commands this ship now, sir?"' ':sCapt. 'Henry. Bolton."  .  4 Indeed! Is he' o board'?" '    -! -  -  "C No, sir, he is not-; but I expect :him down every' moment.- He was married only last week, and has just-gone up street to bring Mrs. Bolton down aboard, as she goes 'out to"Cantoni ith us,'and' the ship is all ready to get' ander: weigh, only waiting 'for the 'captain--- ah, there he eomnesnow.!"   - :  A carriage drives down alongside the ship, from which we see Capt. Bolton step forth and tsiista; mostA . tlobvlyereaitre to alight; and then up the side and down into the cabin, when :the pilldt give' his orders to 'make sail, and bidding farewell to the Ioretta Howard, Capt. Bolton   THE WEIRD CRUISER OF VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.      121 and- Mr. Vickers, we leave the pier just as the gallant Indiaman swings off into the stream, and away to the sunny south we wend our way, to gaze for a few moments upon another picture of real life. Outlying the coast of Western Florida, and separated from the main by a narrow sound, lies the long, but exceedingly narrow island of Santa Rosa, extending from the mouth of 'Pensacola Bay to the entrance of Choctawhatchie, a distance of more 'than sixty miles, and being ini no place more than a single mile in width.  .  More' than ten miles of the western, and some four or five of the eastern, extremity of Santa Rosa, is little' more than a mere sand bank ; but entering the little sound by the Pas Ohoctawhatchie, and going westward, we comie to a most lovely spot, 'a" perfect: Eden, where 'it seems as if Nature, in her most bounteous'humor, had bestowed upon this earthly paradise all 'her rarestigifts.   ' ' "From the smooth beach of brilliant white sand, the ground rises in a gentle slope to the centre of the Island, from whence it descends 'again gradually towards the southern or gulf shore, and the whole width, for a distance of more than four miles, is covered with a luxuriant growth' of'beautiful live oaks, oranges, pecans, magnolias, and almost every other species of southern 'trees, which passing 'as'we travel westward along the beach, we come to a little promontory jutting out into the sound' and' forming to the westward' a tiny bay, having along its southern shore ields 'of cotton, sugarcane, and green orange groves. ladened  with golden fruit, while there on the very. shore itself, we look with admiring eyes upon four splendid mansions with green blinds, balconies runninig the whole length next the water, and all completely shaded by, a miniature wilderness of ornamentalA trees.  We have threaded the shores of ethis' magnificent bay, to within three hundred yards' of' the nearest mansion, upon the balcony of which we see a group of perhaps a dozen persons, ladies' and gentlemeni assembled, when suddenly, from a small' cove just beyond the western! mansion, there comes stealing into view a superb little craft, which, in a single moment, we recognize as the Alice, or, as *e once knew her, the Weird Cruiser of Van Dieman's Land. Yes, it is most certainly her white hull, that gorgeous scarlet-lettered bargee, red-winged banner, and the two huge pinions in her sails, all, everything exactly as we have seen her so often in Bass' Strait and elsewhere. She is steering along down the shore, towards a small wooden pier nearly in front of the mansion where we see those persons standing; and here, before she comes to, permit me to inform you *A    IS         .        .EP IN $0 , that the beautiful mansion before us is the residence of Mr. Curtis Marvin and his sweet, lovely wife, Alice, once the conqiot maiden-of Van Dieman's Land.          .  The second house is owned and inhabited by Capt. Trevelyan. That is hin you see there in the white trousers and blue jacket; and that is Lpretta, his angel wife, standing there with her hand upon his shou'lder, and pointing towards the, white schooner. I, might here inform you that Mr. Selden, Capt. Howard's partner, died about three months since, and. on his death-bed willed bapk to Robert Trevelyan and his sister the wealth which he had so unjutly obtained from their father.         ,  The third mansion yonder is the property and residence of Capt. John Howard, and the fourth is owned by our former acquaintance of Myrtle Glen, the kind-hearted and benevolent j,: Iurrel, iho aso has made his home here with his frieods, on thislittl.-den Island of Western flori 4a,; J- ,  -'       ' 1 A "- - r  It fcithe proprietfor$sof these mansions, with .their wives and a few friends from the maii%, that compose the group, there on the, balaoRj , 8 But you see the little soehooner, has arried at the pier, /and-there is a,voie from her hailing our friends there' on the balcony, which by us could not be mistakenw for any other person ,than the hero .of Van Dieman's Land ':devi1Pfght, Arehy Mclausky. .:  Oan inform you that Arehy is the oommander of the sehooners whieh;is .iy owned by Curtis Marvini Esq., and kept here as a pleasure yaeht.- ,: . 'The party leave- the,'manuion and, ripair.,non boa rd thq s4ch9ner, which leaves: he, pier Writh a gentle b  Aeezs,and: contining to ath her till she rounds a gree. wooded, .head-land- spome, four, miles to the westward of .the fourimansions,; as the .lst ;gleam of the warm sunlight flashes bacl from her white hull, sails, ad .e4-uinged banner, we doff, our somberoes, and take oqur last farewell look. at the gallant lit ge RED oWN  sotetime te tteird Crmiser of Va. ma D s w, . . * \.         , . EN D :. D' I , ," " .v  ,tNIt  VERS ' Y i i- '\      
         
       
   
