
    ----CITATION----
        Scoville, Joseph Alfred, (1815-1864). Vigor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7714
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Vigor 
            
               6

V][G &amp;O0R.

I

WALTER BARItR ETTO~
AvUTloltOf
"M ow xa Txs or, xw rou* QIfoa,

V

,NEW YO RX
Carleton, Publisher*,A413 Broadway.
MDCCG LXW.S

. I


N 3tiate'tliz Joook
TO   g

JAMES

GORDON BENNETT, EsQ.,

Proprietor and Editor of the New York Herald.

YFtege4A according to Act of Congress, 4s tIe year 1803,.-
B    GEO. W. CAR L E T ON,
in  the Clerk's Ofieof the. PMstrict Cogrt of the Ugtqd Sates for the Southern
District of New York.,

Who has carvedfor himself a record in Journalism that will last as long
as newspapers are published-because he first told me that I had those.
peculiar imaginative qualities that would enable me to write a success-
ful novel. This will test his sagacity.. Long years ago, he asserted in.
the most positive manner that I had qualiflcationsthat would give me
marked succoss as a novelist., I laughed, at him because I did not
believe him. He asked me if I had read may of the great novels,
and when I replied in the negative, he gpve me money to purchase
novels written by Scott,- Bulwer and others. I read their worIka, but-
I did not write a novel then, though I thought much of what Mr. Ben-
nett had 'said,' Snce then I, have done more than write "for the daily
bread and butter for my family, and have found leisure to write this
novel, which may or may not verify the predictions of Mr. Befinett.
WALTER ,BARRETT, CUr..
WAss1Nro1's BIRTH-DAT)
February 22,1864.  J

f

0)


VIGQR.
CHAPTER L'
T o-Introduction.
HOLLA4N has sent to our shores ,many of her best eitisens.
She has the merit also of having commenced two hundred and
forty years ago, and some of the best families in New York
are of the Neder Duitch stock. The country is overstocked
with h6ck deutschers of more recent importation.
Not many years ago I made. a visit to Holland. 'I resided
for some months in Delft, the capital of Delftiland in the Prov
ince of Holland. Raving business at the Royal Academy,
where I was having various models made, I endeavoredto, pro-
cure a residence in a private family. .,Through the exertions
of Professor Lipkins I succeeded; and the second' dayafter
my arrival, found ,myself installed into a quietcountry villa
about. half a mile from the city. It was located upoi the bank
of the canal that connects Delft with the Hague. My host,
whose name was Van Hagen, was a man of great age and hia
vrouw was still younger. They had no children, but occupied
this beautiful villa alone. It. had4a large and well cultivated
garden attached to it, and its neatness and luxuries still leave
a pleasing impression upon my mind-
Over the gate was a motto-but whether it was indicative
of the mind of the owner, or his coat of arms* or indicated the
character of the place, I never inquired I wA in gold let.
ters, or made of brass, gildedl-LusT' aN Rtr ope and
Repose.
It was a pleasant morning's walk, from wy bt , oantry
villa into the city of Delft, and the sudden transition from the


8               VIGOR.

VuIG. 9

tranquility of the country to the busy hum of men was very
striking.  The canals, with their numerous drawbridges in
the heart of the city, lined with Treckschuiyts of all sorts and
sizes, gave a relief from country quietness.
The first meal of which I partook at my new home was a
solitary one. Every thing was neat, and -the victuals well
cooked. I had a silver fork by my side, and the table cloth
was of snowy whiteness and n the roem in which I dined was
a glass China cupboard, and every article within it bore shining
testimony of its having received a due proportion of diurnal
care. After my meal was finished I was joined by my aged
host and his worthy lady. They had dined previous to my,
arrival. He addressed me in English, somewhat to my surf%
prise, and remarked--"You are an American.1
I replied that I was, and he added, "Had you not been, I
should not have consented to entertain you even at the request
of my old friend the Professor of the Royal Academy."  "You
seem to be partial to Americans, and I certainly feel thankful
that it is so, for Deift is a gloomy place, while her6 I am alrea-
dy at home. But why are you so friendly to America .). I
asked.  He replied "I once thought of going to America.
My brother went out there many years ago, with a young wife.
It was during the time that the French occupied Holland,. and
our king was then Louis, the brother of Napoleon. He was
ambitious to restore the fallen fortunes of. our house, for we
are one of the oldest families in Holland; and some day when
we visit 'the city, I *ill show you a monument in the "nOU
kirk " at Delft of one of our name, who was buried in 1562,
and was a famous scholar in his day. Now, my young friend
all of our old race are in America except myself._- Had my
brother not died, I should have .sold my property here, and
followed him overe the sea.. I am not rich, but in comfortable,
circumstances, and as a Director appointed by the Government
to keep the dams and roads in repair I- receive a handsome
fxed salhxrj, and an content to live and die where my anees
tors for five hundred years before me have lived and died.'
I listened to the old gentleman's remarks, with the very
deepest interest, and after he had concluded I asked, "What
part of America did your brother and his wife go to' .
"To Char1ston, i t'We.Southern part of America," replied
the old gentleman with great simplicity.
"To Chadeston in South Carolina, you probably mean."
"Yes, that was the place.".

"You have heard from your brother frequently, I presume,
before he died ?" I asked.
"Yes, frequently, until somewhere about the time that Wa-
terloo was, fought. That was when 94"
"In 1815," I added.
"Yes. Soon after then I got a letter from him  He had
been very successful in business, and had acquired considera-
ble property as a merchant.  He owned a plantation and ne-
groes, but he wrote me that his health was ft4ling. lHe had
two children, both girls. Not long after I received the letter
in which he stated he was sick, I got another from my broth-
er's widow. She wrote that he was dead."
"Was that the last you heard, from   your relatives in
Charleston !" I asked.
"No.. I received a letter occasionally for several years de-
scribing the growth of my two nieces, one of whose name was
Margaret, and the other Mary, who was some years younger.
than her sister, and was not born' until the year in which my
brother died. For twenty years I have not heard a word or
received a line from any of them. ' I wrote frequently, but no
reply came, and I suppose they are.all dead."
When I parted with the venerable Van Hagen, I told him
that very probably I should at some future day, after my re-
turn to America, visit Charleston-and in such an event I
would diligently seek out any of his race or name, and if I
ascertaixed that any were living, I agreed to write and inform
him fully in reference to what so nearly concerned his family
love.
Years passed away before I found myself in a position to re-
deem my promise. I had occasion to go to Charleston and
while there had rooms at the Charleston Hotel, kept then, and
I believe now, by a most excellent landlord 'f the name of
Mixer.
With his assistance I obtained a clue to the locality where
I would probably find the relatives of my ancient'Dutch friend
I was obliged to undertake a short journey into the country
and to reside for some time in a spot that at certain  eriods
of the.year is a modern Garden of Eden. Fruits and flowers
flourish in the most luxuriant manner. Game is abundant, and
the rivers and creeks are stocked with fish ready to bite at th
most insignificant bait.
I returned to Charleston, and immediately devoted my time
for several days in writing a letter to the aged Van"ilagen in
.Deift, Eolland. I enclosed the letter to William S. Campbell,

I


VIGOR.

10               VIGOR.

&amp;q., the United States Consul at Rotterdam, a city only one
hour distant from Delft.
After dispatching my formidable document, I left for the
North. I had not been in New York a great while when I re-
ceived a private letter from Consul Campbell, informing me
that old Adam Van Hagen was dead, and had not received my
letter.
Luckily I kept a copy of the letter I had sent to Holland. I
determined to re-write it in a book form. A faithful narrative
required me to embrace the adventures of one of the descend-
ants whose spirit of enterprise led him to New York. As a
consequence I had to bring in other names, and use many oth..
er matters of interest indirectly connected with one of the
family.                 4
I will now relate in a regular manner hat I have to say.
But in, order to do ,so with spirit, I will commence a new
Chapter.

CHAPTER II.
[This Chapter was written before the outbreak in 1861.],
South Carolina and her People-Marriage of Henry' Monck to Miss Tan
Haen-Monek's Corners -Country Fever-Birth ofMarion Monck.
SOUTa CAROLINA was. the State in which the descendant of
the old Holland Van Hagen was born, and who is also the
principal hero of this narrative. The State, as hEr leading sons
affectionately designate her, in Congress and elsewhere, has
ever been regarded as the most aristocratic State in the Fede-
ral Gonfederacy, and her sons and daughters as the very elite
of the great American population. Ever the F.F.V. or "first
families of Virginia" by general consent, back down gracefully
and give place to an old South Carolina family. In the North,
Southern travellers who can assert with- truth 'that they are
South Carolinian,, hold their heads at a more lofty elevation-
and their right to do so is never disputed.  Northern people
cave without a murmur to South Cirolina pre-eminence.
The actual opinion of a genuine South Carolinian of his
State, and of him or herself, is not put on for show, while tra- t
veiling or while conversing upon the subject.  They honestly
believe what has the-appearance of being egotistically asserted

'A

-and the humiliating idea that South Carolina is not the gen-
teel and the most powerful State 1 the Union, if not the only
State of any account, and her population the most enlightened,
most wealthy, most happy, most prosperous, 'and the best edu-
cated, is never entertained for an instant in the breast or brain
of a genuine S'outh Carolinian.
South Carolinans are a singular and an exclusive sort of
aristocracy. They believe in their own institutions of all
kinds, and have a holy horror of Northerners in general. It is
true that this Japanese sort of exclusiveness is not so intense
as it was a few years ago.  Yankee pedlers, Northern mer-
chaints and storekeepers have emigrated into 'South Carolina,
made fortunes, and, in many instances made alliances- by 'mar-
riage with some of the best blood in the State.  Both parties
have gained by these marriages. Families of two or three
hundred years' standing, but broken down, so far as finances
were concerned, have been married into by men of business
habits, literary merit, or .property qualifications, and the happy
result has been a much healthier progeny, intellectually and
physically, than when the descendants of the old families mar-
ried with each other ciclusively. Such marriages have done a
great deal also to soften the prejudices of South Carolina
against the people of the more Northern States.
South Carolina may be said to be divided into three parts-.
the upper, the middle, and the lower division. In the latter
are to be found the largest planters,'and those who own the
greatest quantity of slaves. These planters reside near the
banks of the Cooper and Ashley rivers, both of which pass
Charleston on each side, and then unite and pass onward to
the sea.
It was on the banks of the Cooper river that my principal
character was born.
I have already mentioned that in the early part of the cen-
tury, a Dutch gentleman and his wife emigrated from Delft, in
Holland, to Charleston, South Carolina. Delft, already alluded.
to in the introductory chapter, was farrous many years ago for'.
its crockery. The city is located about niidway between the
Hague and the city of Rotterdam. Martin Van Hagen, as well
as his brother Adam, was born in an old house stretched upon
the mainland, and directly opposite to the old church in which
William, Prince of Orange, was assassinated.
When Martin and his wife decided to try the United States,
they took passage in an American ship at Rotterdam, bound
directly for Charleston. They reached their destination-" in

IJ


12               VIGOR.

VIGOR;             is

safety. Ere they had been ashore a month, Mr. Van Hagen,
who had cash capital, had engaged in mercantile business, and
he had also secured a small wooden dwelhng-house on the
corner of King and Warren streets.  The building is still
standing. In this house the family resided several years, and
their affairs prospered. They were blessed with two daugh-
ters. One named Margaret and the other Mary. A consider-
able interval elapsed between the birth of the eldest and the
youngest. Shortly after the birth of Mary the father died, and
left a widow and two children.
They continued to reside in the old house long after the
father's death, but before the eldest reached the age of sixteen,
she married a young American of the name of Henry Monck,
and shortly after his marriage he - conveyed his bride to his
own home on Cooper river,-in the parish of St. John Berkley,
not far distant from the celebrated Monek's Corners, a name de-
rived from his ancestors, one of whom emigrated from England
at a very earlyperiod of the history of South Carolina.  The
Henry Monck who emigrated to South Carolina was the second
son of that English Admiral Monck, who, in 1640, fought the
great battle that lasted three days with the Dutch Admiral
de.Ruyter in the time of Charles the Second.  It was under
permission of the Admiral Monck that Vandervelde, the great
maine painter, plied between the fleets, so that he was enabled to
represent every movement of the ships, and every material cir-
cumstance of the action with astonishing minuteness and truth.
But to return to young Monck.  When he married Miss Van
Eagen he was not twenty-two years of age. His father died
when he was very young, and by some rascality of his guar-
dian, before he became of age he was robbed of nearly every
negro that he had inherited at his father's death. When he
married he was-only the owner of two negroes, a dwelling-
house, and about three hundred and sixty acres of land. This
quantity of paternal acres would have been a great property if
located in some parts of the Union, but at Monck's Corners,
where land in those days was as reasonably cheap as "seven
pence " an acre, the value of the land only amounted to about
forty-seven dollars.
The dwelling-house was large and commodious, with a wide
hall through it, and a spacious piazza in front.  All the out-
buildings were good. The store contained about five hundred
dollars' worth of merchandise, of a suitable and assorted char-
aqter fpr that region, so that the young couple started on their
mnrriage career under very favorable auspices. The lands

owned by Henry Monck bordered on Cooper river, and he had
only to seat himself in a boat, and. it would float down with the
ebb tide to Charleston City, about thirty miles distant by wa-
ter, The State road passed his door, and al drive of twenty-
eight miles would take him to 0harleston by land., It was
very easy, under such circumstances, to replenish the stock
of goQds in his store whenever it was called for.   The
young couple were also blessed with health, and though poor
white people, yet they had Ao reason to envy their more pros-
perous neighbors, the rich rice planters of Cooper river. It
frequently happens in the state of South Carolina that.. those
who appear to be most rich are in reality the most poor, while,
on the contrary, those who are comparatively poor, but out of
debt, are the most independent. Our agricultural readers will
be somewhat astonished with the information that ridh lands,
teeming with luxuriant vegetation, located both by land and
water within thirty miles of the queen- city of the south, should
ever have been at. low a figure as twelve and a half cents the
acre. Yet such has been the fact, and even, now, fifty-four
years later, rich lands, capable, by proper attention, of produ-
cing as valuable crop as are made on the best land on Long Is-
land, and valued at five hundred dollars the acre, can be
bought for one dollar and fifty cents to two dollars an acre, with
a dwelling-house upon them. But Northern farmers, although
well aware that rich lands are to be had in South Carolina at a
very low figure, refuse to emigrate to South Carolina'as they
do. to Virginia, because-not slavery-but the country fever.
It is worse than yellow fever,'African fever, or any other fever
but itself. It is a scourge-a terrible scourge, and wo to "a
Northerner or Southerner who places himself in the way of
country fever. If he takes it, and escapes with his life, it
breaks his constitution forever. Our readers have got so far
this tale as where Henry Monck carried his bride up to
Monek's Corners. They were married in December, and at
that season the country in the neighborhood of Charleston is a
paradise. The bride was delighted with her new home, and
all went on pleasantly and prosperously with the new couple
until the month of August of the year, succeeding their mar-
riage. When May came, Ilenry told his wife of the danger
that she would injur by residing on their place in the summer
months, and proposed that they should go into the Pine lands
some  en miles distant, and. there erect a log cabin for their
resid noe in the summer nights.. Re told her that he did not
fear the cou~ntrrfever, and that she might escape it if she'


VIGOR.

VIGOR.

would go to the Pine region before sundown and spend. the
night there, returning to the plantation and store in the morning,
after the dew had been driven off the grass by the rays of the
sun. So they arranged matters, and for weeks and months un-
til far into the summer they left their dwelling before sunset
to go to the log hut in the Pine region, and there escaped the
danger of the miasma worse than that of the pontine, marshes.
Mrs. Monek enjoyed excellent health, and could scarcely credit
the horrible but truthful stories she heard related of the im-
mediate effects of the country fever. When told of Mr. Smith,
who had accidentally been caught ont at night, and slept in
the woods, only succeeded by the- long sleep that knows no
waking-it seemed to her a dream. When told that to sleep,
unless a, large fire was kept burning all night, was certain
death, she could not credit it; and finally, as the summer
passed into autumn, and it became necessary to use extra ex-
ertions to get in the crops of their small farm, which was cu.l-
tivated by her husband and the two old negroes Phillis and
Toney that remained out of the wreck of his property, she
found it, so inconvenient to go to and- fro night and morn-
ing between the two places, she told her husband that she did
not believe there was any danger, and refused to leave her
dwelling to go any more to their low cabin in the pine woods.
He'begged her to wait until the "black frost " came, the only
sure remedy or preventative of South Carolina country fever.
No.. Before September closed she had it, and though it ran
nine .days before it was broken, yet she recovered, after
months of suffering.
On the' second of December, 1814, a year after their mai
riage, Mrs. Monok gave birth to a son.
She ,a.d visited with her husband the grave of General Ma-
ion, in St.Stephen's Parish, had been-over the grounds where
he had fought his battles, and she insisted that her child should
be baptized in Biggin Church, famous in revolutionary history,
and that he should be named after the hero of whom she had
heard so much; and so the boy-was baptized by the Rev. Mr.
Howe as
MARIoN MONCK."
He was an only child, and father, mother and son vegetated
at Monok's Corners, with more or less prosperity every year,
until Marion had reached his eighth year.

I
. R
A

16

CHAPTER IH.
oung Monck's Boyhood-Jack Bird and Mr. yegro Black-Wild Turkey
Funding and Fishing.
WrE Marion Monek was eight years old, like other south-
ern boys, he was capable of playing almost the game in life of
a man. He could hunt, fish, ride a - horse, or drive a team,
and was a great favorite not only of his own relations, but of
many of their neighbors. Some of these became Marion's -in
structors in all manly arts. One of the names of these men
was Jack Bird. He was a fine specimen of a man. His age.
was over 60, and he stood. six feet and a half without boots,
and his frame was we proportioned. He could neither read
nor write, but he would secure more wild turkeys and deer in
twenty-four hours than any other man in South Carolina. Jack
was a fair specimen of many poor white people. His den or
cabin was in the Pine woods, some three miles from the, Santee
canal, and there he kept his wife and eleven children, all grow-
ing up inthe' ways of old Jack. Jack Bird owned no cows, or
hogs, or poultry. Why should he? - His neighbors on Cooper
river owned large herds, and -.well, Jack could steal as many
as he needed for home consumption, or as he 'could safely sell.
Marion 'had always been an immense favorite of Jack's,and
although the position in life of Mr. Monek was several degrees
above that of Jack Bird, yet the latter did not envy or injure
him, and would have gone some distance out of his way to
have done Mr. Monck or his wife a service. The mother re-
'paid Jack for all his kindness to her son, 'by givig him choice
bits of tobacco occasionally out of the store, and he frequently
returned the compliment by leaving her a fat wild' turkey, a
-brace of wild ducks, or when[ these were scarce, a- dozen
pigeons, partridges,.or robms. Whoever else Jack Bird plun-
dered was of no consequence-lie left the denizens of Monek's
Corners unmolested, and they were grateful whenever occasion
offered.
Charleston -people frequently visited Mouck's Corners to
have a hunt, and -Jack was always to pioneer on such occa-
sions'; but wo to any unlucky favorite pen-knife, .peneil4egse,
or fish-hook that fell in his way! It was sure to be missing if
it took the fancy of six-foot Jack.

1 4


VIGOR.

Jack had trained Marion until he had become one of the
best wild turkey hunters in the parish. He could discover,
with little trouble, where the wild turkeys came to feed. He.
would then prepare a biding-place in the neighborhood, and
fix a gunk loaded, so as to command a reach of ten or twenty
feet in a trench by the side of a log. This trench he would
bait with corn, and' then trail the corn off in several directions
to places where the wild turkeys would be likely to see it. A
day or two only would pass when Marion would discover that
the turkeys had found the trench and had ate the corn. This
he would refill, and so do every morning forta.week, until the
turkeys had made aregnlar business of crowding the' trench.
Then Marion would selectt a particular morning, go early to his
hide, and conceal himself, with the barrels of his duck gun
loaded with buck-shot, bearing directly upon the track. Bye-
and-bye he hears a noise-m--one, two, twelve, twenty, fifty wild
but unsuspecting turkeys arrive--they jump over, and on, and
around eaich other, to get at the corn. Marion quietly pulls
one, and then the other trigger--bang, bang! Some turkeys
get off, but nearly all remain. Twenty-eight are dead, and,
Marion. goes home for a negro-g-Toney and the one horse cart
to convey his spoil bome..
Another especial friend of Marion Monk's was Negro
Black. His original naie. was John Black; but besides being
a popr white man, a hunter and day laborer, he 'added to his
slender income by catching negroes. Ience his nick-name of
gro Black, by-which he was known not only throughout St.
John Berkeley, but by mapy planters in other section, who.
had runaway negroes to.catch. Like Dick Bird, he had a wife
and eight or ten white-headed children. Mr. Black had one
source of revenue,, and it wAs, always a sure and profitable one.
It arose from successful h ning wild cats. When a prowl-
ng wd cat made 'the fact apparent that he was in the neigh-
borhood, by catching up chickens or small pigs, the planter
upon whose premises the, animal had made a demonstration
was.,seen-to dispatch a summons to Mr. Negro iBlack.
It is a very curious fadt in respect. to the habits of a wild
cat, that when he approaches a plantation, or rather the dwell-
ings on a plantation, where his designs lay, whether it be to
catch poultry, chickens or pigs, he goes to work in a. regular,
seientifi business manner. The, cat exhibits no greediness.
If he lights upon an old sow that has a litter of elevenor more
nice little delicate pigs, wild kitty con mn veswith using up
one a day, and no inducement of appetite can foree him to in-

grease the quantity.. If no discovery is made by the ownerof
tqe poor old sow, at the end of the eleventh day she is pigless
Tle instant the overseer discovered by the regularity of the
thefts that a wild cat was about, he sent for Negro Black.
Perhaps it took one, two or three days, but Negro Black was
a sure coffin for the cat. He and his dog Victor never failed.
The eat was a doomed cat, and Mr. Negro Black received the
skin and $10 as his fee for the operation. Negro Black had a'
jealousy of Jack Bird, and he maintained that the mode Jack
had of catching wild turkeys, by a hide, was deliberate mur-
der. It gave the turkeys no show.; and he taught Marion
anotherdethod. At a certain season, when the wild turkeys
get scattered, he would go into the woods with Marion, and
pile up a lot of brush wood.
"Get behind that with your gun, pull the brush wood over
you, and use the whistle."
It was many days before Marion succeeded in. shooting a
solitary wild turkey; and even before that event took place,
Negro Black's patience' became quite exhausted ;-for while
Marjon's gun was idte, and not a wild turkey would come nigh
him in answer to his whistle, Negro Black would be ,off in .
different part of the woods, and kill several. At last he broke
out-
"Why you no whistle as I do, when you go for catch wid
turkey'?  Take your whistle a-d blow leetle bit-turkey hear
him..-wait-no blow again until you hear tarkey answer-theP
0blow a leetle harder-wait-turkey answer again-then blow
one soft, slow blow, and don't blow any more. Wait-wturkey
come bye-and-bye sure-den pop him. Turkey like young
girl. If young manwant take young girl for his wife, he give
one call-little girl don't answer-it no use. Young man hab
patience and wait. Bye-and-bye little girl make reply. Young
man call again-wait until the young girl emne, like tui--
key, and say, 'I'm yours.'
Another and a third mode of killing wild turkeys, taught
Marion by his hunter teachers, was to watch in the woods to
hear where they roosted. Ile would hear a turkey fly at sun-
down, and very soon would- trace a flock. If it was moonlight
Marion would go for his gun, and four or five turkeys would be
his reward. Or if it was very dark, he would wait patiently
for the first glimmering of daylight, and then 'pop off a few ti-
keys before they had left. the "turkey robust.
Marion's two friends were both fishermnei as well as hunterer,
and where in the world is there sucih sport with thea filny

VITGOll.


18                      VIQOR.
tiibes as at Monck's Corners ?  Hours, day and night, Mario'
used to spend on the banksof the .Biggin creek,,or on the sid0
of the old Santee canal. Sometimes with a small "dip net N'e
would catch one, two or four shad, as they dashed up to th '
waste way of the canal, and in the months of February, Marib,
April and May, with the hook and line, in Biggin creek; he
would catch trout of the size of eleven pounds, rock fish, perch,
brise, catfish, and mullet by the million. 0, such sport as he
had in these. well-filled waters. Every fish that belongs to
salt or fresh water is caught in the Biggin creek, or bantee
canal, when the tide is running in or out. Thousands of nights
could Marion have been found with his dip net on the hank of
the Biggin creek, the whole scene made as -light as day by the
"light wood " bonfires, and sometimes he and his companions
wohld- be thus engaged, with more or less luck, until daybreak.
CHAPTER IV.
Marion's Education.-Death of Grandmother-Aunt'sgorrival at AoF's obr-
ners-the Store-Negro Customers.
WHILE Mariont Monck, by violent exercise, was developing
his physical powers, his mental were neglected, so far as edu-
cation was concerned, during these years of child and boy-
hood, or until, he was over ten years of age. At that time he
hid not acquired the first Jetter of the alphabet.  His grand-
mother came up from Charleston occasionally to spend a few
days, but our youth never returned to town with her.  About
this period, the grandmother, who had came over from Hol-
land with her husband, died in the city of Charleston.  Her
remains were taken to Monck's Corners for interment. So soon
as her affairs were settled, the 'eldest daughter left Charles-
ton and went to. Monck's Corners to reside permanently with
her sister, Miss Monck. This event had a very important
bearing upon the education of Marion.  She was a very intel-
ligent lady, had reading many books, and possessed a very
general knowledge of what it was now highly important that
yugMonk should know
The Aun found in her nephew, a well developed handsomne
boy, capable of leading in any manly enterprise, and accom-
plished in all manly sports. In place of A 13 C, he knew the
number of every fish hook ; if he had no knowledge of grammar

q
'Al

VIGOR.              19

he could ride a horse, and join in a deer hunt., -If he -had no
knowledge of geography, he knew every spot where game
could be scared up, and for arithmetic he could catch fish and
game to an extent that even David could not have counted.
In a word, he could ride, drive, hunt, fish, or swim equal to
any man in St. John's Parish, if thrice his age.  He was in-
telligent, could talk well on many and moot subjects, his -in
formation having been derived from the conversation with
others.. His aunt,-who regarded a good education as every.
thing in life, became very much alarmed at finding a nephew
ten years of age who could neither read or write. She deter-
mined to remedy what she regarded as a degrading evil.
Marion felt that it would at least be convenient to read at
last, and' willingly, became a prompt pupil to his aunt.  His
progress was very rapid, for he had au iron memory. The
A, B, C, was soon acquired, and flight and day- did he, devote
to learning, until he could read anything, wrote a plain hand,
could "do " any sum in Daboll's arithmetic, and had Murray's
grammar by heart. Moore's geography was soon mastered,
and Marion had acquired at least as good a foundation in use-
ful and necessary learning, as is given in the District schools
of the North. ' It is needless to add -that he' had- acquired
from his mother and aunt the Dutch language, and as his*
teachings from the aunt were partly in that language, he could
read and speak it as well as he, could' English.  His fatlier
devoted most of his time to the plantation, and to raising
horses, cattle and hogs. His mother superintended the house-
hold matters, and also attended to the stoie.  When Marion
vas able write and reckon, he became of vast. service to his
mother, and spent a great portion of his time in the store, and
when customers were rare, he 'had a book in his hand.  He
literally learned it by heart, and what "he knew,he' knew.
He continued until he was nearly fourteen years old.  The
store was guite an affair. The stock of goods was limited, and
articles were bought in Charleston once a month, or ordered by
letter. The maze consisted of coarse dry goods, bacoa, coffee,
sugar, rice, whiskey, tobacco, pipes, cigars, crockery, soap,
lead, butter, spices, tin buckets, and coarse wooden ware.
The customers were in part the poor white folks, and second
the negroes from the'adjoinig plantations.  Fifteen thousand
negroes.at least, looked to that store for their little luxuries,
and the happitiess that this store conferred, can hardly be re-
alized. Here, sometimes, the slave would come at miniught,
having travelled ten miles, with ten more to go before he got

4


VIGOR.
back again to his home, and perhaps he would have- walked
all the distance to get a "f6urpence " worth of tobacco4or his
little bag of corn. When he got it, he was a happy fellow.
Sometimes forty or fifty would come together, and   then
some care and caution had to be exercised, for in sueh a force
in the store at one time, the temptation to steal was too great
to be resisted. Each took his turn, while the rest remained
outside. -'Marion became quite a favorite with these neg'oes,
and it was really a pleasure to him-to get up and wait upon a
tired customer even for the most trivial article. The pay was
in corn.  Sometimes the negro had received money for -his,
corn, and then he had cash. If it was a bill of five or ten
dollars, the slave asked it to be changed into silver, and when
that was done, he knew what he was about, and trade com-
menced. "How Much for da4 tin biggin ?"
"Seven pence."
"I tax um," and the quarter would be handed in by the
purchaser, and then change given. Trade would then com.
mance again.
"How much you ax for dat spider ?"
"Quarter dollar."
"Quatah. dollah. I gib ten pence for him."
"Take it."  Pay and take change again.
"Gib me one and ninepence worth of tobacco."
And so trade goes on, paying for every article as he buys it,
from a dollar's worth of homespun to a cent cigar, and per.
haps he goes to the plantation where he belongs loaded with
small things-and no father of a family, or piatronesses of.
Stewart in New York, ever enjoyed spending money so much
as these slaves. If it was corn he brought to trade wpith, then'
he had it-measured. Suppose it was two bushels. The price
has been seventy-five cents, and never varies in the negro
trade if corn is worth in Charleston only fifty cents or a dollar.
Then he pays for his goods with corn-a peck, four quarts, two
quarts, as the case or price may be of the article bought, and
never makes a blunder.
Now and then two negroes are in partnership, or some negro
who could not come, has sent his corn by a friend. The bearer
of the corn for another gets what is wanted,-and never mixes it
up with his-own transactions. How it is done, no bookkeeper
in a bank could tell. Sometimes in financial transactions the
red corncob is used as a matter of security. One negro owes
another.. They deposit a rede corncob in the hands of .a third
party as an evidence of money loaned or a debt due. The per-.

VIGOR.

21

son who receives this corncob never gives it. up until the debt
is paid or cancelled, and then it is done in the presence of the
two parties interested. It is a sort of red corncob bond and
mortgage, and the parties can't get over it. It is rarely set
aside, even by podr white people.
The attachment of the negroes to this store was wonderful.
It was what they looked forward to, when they had cash or
corn, as a great blessing in their existence. As an evitience
of this, when Marion' was ab'ut twelve years old, the family
were woke up about two o'clock one morning, by a bright-blaze.
The store was on fire--and in less than two hoursobeing, built
of pitch pine, it was in ashes. Five thousand negroes were on
the ground before it finished burning, and then came sympathy
and anxiety for it to be rebuilt, The negroes for two weeks
poured in from all quarters at odd hours which were their own.
Carpenters from all the plantations volunteered. Others went
into the woods with axes, and  ut down trees, and hewed them
into their proper size.
Before two weeks had passed the store was rebuilt again,
twice its former size; and when it would have cost, under ordi-
nary circumstances, four hundred dollars to rebuild it, it did
not cost Mr. Monck fifty dollars--and then it was for nails, and
things the negroes could not furnish. When it was ready. to
receive goods, Mr. Monck went to Charleston and bought them,
and when the store was re-opened again, there was as general
a rejoicing among fifteen thousand negroes and negre'ses,
young and old, as if each one had had an individual interest in
the affair. It was a "want."  They missed it. It was their
place of resort for luxury and comfort, and they could not get
along without it. The dark lover, when he was about to wed
a darkey bride, could get the rings at the store, and a battle of
cologne, a comb, papers of pins, or any little article, that, when
purchased, gave more real happiness than a thousand dolr
shawl in other circles of society:
CHAPTER V.
Parting from Home and from Parents-His stay in Charleston-Arrial
inNew York.
To leave a loved home, loved parents, love friends, and
long-loved associations, at the age of fourteen, to wander forth
into the great world with the design of acquiring an education,
a livelihood, a profession, a fortune, or an~y othef of the theoti

4


I

22        %1

VIGOR.

sand'and one objects of human ambition, is a serious matter.
Long and earnestly had, Marion Monek communed with him-
self, and dreamed by day as well as by night of his future.
His mind was made up to leave home. Young as he was, he
knew and felt that his father, his family and himself could only
-hold a second rate position in white society. He could not
rank or associate on an equality with the rich planter, and he
was somewhat in advance- of the poor white class. He was
occupying a sort of mongrel white rank, betwixt and between
'the two white extremes. Marion felt within himself 'that, he
had talentind genius,,and it urged him on to seek a larger
field.
At last he gained the consent of his parents that he should
leave home, and seek an occupation elsewhere, where he could
see and learn more of the world. Worthy'Mr. Monck wished
his son to seek employment with some merchant iii Charleston,
as he honestly thought that Marion's experience in the store
at Monck's Corners would have been a, good preparatory school
for a merchant's coutting-room. Marion promised that in six
months-he would come back and see them--perhaps sooner.
The mother packed his trunk, placing a Bible in a-flannel shirt
carefully, gave her son a few crying kisses, and Mr, Monck
drove off with him en route for Charleston. On their arrival
at their destination Mr. Monck found quarters for Marion with
a friend, and the same day started on his return home.
Charleston was then, is now, and will be fifty years hence
the' same Charleston. The quicksand bar is still there, shift.
ing and changing about-.the old houses grow a little older.-
the mass of the old wooden tenements gets thicker and more
impervious every year-the bell to call. in. the negroes rings
at a quarter to nine, and the drum beats at the guard-house at
a quarter to ten, to say that all negroes' out after that hour
without a pass from their masters, if they are slaves, or from
their. guardians, if they are free, will be locked up in the
guard-house for the night, and taken before the Mayor in the
morning. The yellow fever makes its appearance every two
or three years, just when the Charleston-people, because it has
missed a year, have begun to indulge the hope that it will keep
away five years, and give their favorite city a chance to loom
-up in the commercial world. But no-it seems almost hope-
les;. and the dread of yellow fever is like an incubus upon
the city, and it is doubtful whether it will ever be taken off.
For more than a week Marion Monok roamed about Charles-.
ton, seeking employment in some commercial business. Per-

VIGOR.23
haps it was lucky for him that he found no vacancy. No one
wanted a clerk of his size, shape or make. One beautiful
morning he wandered down about the wharves, and was admir-
ing a stately ship. She was loading for New York. The idea
flashed across his mind whether his chances would not be bet.
ter in New York than in Charleston. He answered it by
going on board and ascertaining'the price of passage. It was
within his means, and would still leave him something in his
pocket to keep afloat a few days in New York. The ship was
to sail the next day. Her name was the Saluda, and her com-
mander was the man who hadAraded so lIng between Charles-
ton and New York,. that in the latter place he is known by no
other name than the Charleston "Berry."  Long ago he left
the ship line, and has built and commanded every steamer that
has voyaged from Charleston to New York. May he command
steamers between the two cities for a thousand years more!
Marion returned from A4ger's wharf to the house where he
boarded, and announced to the worthy Mrs. Ferguson, the land-
lady, that he had half made. up his mind to put out for New
York the next day.
"Who do you know there, young Monck?" was her imme-
diate question.
"Nobody.
" Indeed! And pray how will you get along without being
acquainted with anybody or somebody ?"
Marion reflected, and replied, "Well, I have had no success
to my wishes in this town, where I do know a great many peo.
ple, who knows but that I may find a situation among-those
who don't know me or that I don't know ?"
And quick as lightning, the idea made him decide* to go to
New York; and he told the worthy lady, in the most flat-
footed and decided manner that he should embark for New
York in the good ship Saluda, Captain Berry, the next day.
"Well, my brave boy, if you will go, I will give you one
letter that may be of service to you. I have a .niece in New
York who is married to a merchant there. She is a Charles.
tonian, named Bessy Nordheim, and will give a helping hand,
if need be, to a South Carolina boy."
Marion expressed his thanks, and immediately-returned to
the ship and paid his passage. That night his landlady wrote
the letter, and he placed it carefully in his trunk., The next
morning, bright and 'early, he and his trunk were on board the,
Saluda, and before meridian the ship had passed over the bar,
bouad to New York.


it

It is useless tq give a description of a sea voyage of eight
days' duration. Marion was intensely sea-sick for t*o days,
and it did him more good than fifty boxes of Brandreth's pills
would havedone. On the afternoon of the eighth day, the
ship Saluda was moored alongside the dock in Burling Slip,
and Marion hired a cartman, and with his' trunk proceeded to
a boarding house in Liberty street near Greenwich, to which'
I j     he had been recommended by a fellow passenger.It was
nearly dark when he got fairly established in his room, and
after he had taken a boarding-house tea, he did the most sen-
sible thing,a young stranger who made his first visit could do
at night, viz., he went to bed.
CHAPTER VI.
Marion Monck in New York-Pretents his Letter of Introduction-Procures
a situation with Granville and Nordheim-Home of Mr. Nordheim, in Bond
$4treet.-The Character of the Wife.
HEN Marion arose from his bed on the morning after his
arrival, his head was so confused by the multiplicity of noises
which he hld listened to from long before daybreak, that he
could with difficulty comprehend where he really was. But at
last his lonesome position, in a strange city, broke with full
force upon bis mind,. He thought of hi. distant home and
loving parents, and cried. He could not hplp it. He was in
a great city, without one solitary' friend. Bye-and-bye he
dressed himself, descended to the breakfastroom, and after
drinking a cup of strong coffee, felt, decidedly better, and much
more energetic than he had felt since he left Monck's Corners.
The landlady cautioned him agaist getting lost, as soon as
Marion told her that he had ever been in the city before, and
he started out to try his fortune in New York.. e wandere
about until dinner-time, starig at the million of novelties that
his eye encountered, and then he returned home, and went at
once to hig trunk to get the letter of introduction that his
Charlestom landlady had given him. ilehad hardly looked at
the address before, but now he regarded it as of some impor-
tance. It was directed to a.house in Bond street, and he found
his way up there, and before five o'clock in the afternoon he
had presented the letter of introduction to the lady, to 'whom
it was addressed. She received him in a very cordial man-
ner, insisted that he should stay to tea, and become acquainted

VIGOR.

24 -

VIGOR.
with her husband, Mr. Nordheim, who, she said, had resided
in Charleston some time, and who was engaged in a large busi-
ness in Broad street. Marion felt that there was a hope, and
desiBd sMeetN dh                                tn
so he did as Mrs. Nordheim wished.
It was nearly half-past seven before the husband came home,
and then the wife introduced Marion, and showed the letter
from her Charleston relative. Mr. Nordheim was very cor-
dial, and joined his wife when she insisted that Marion should
take tea with them and spend the evening. It was Dot long
before Marion discovered that Ferdinand Nordheim was an
Israelite,
. Conversation turned upon Marion's prospects; and when he
stated that he was anxious to get a situation i a counting-room
or store, Mr. Nordheim observed that the firm of Granville and
Nordheim, of which he was a partner, wanted a clerk. 4 I
leave these matters to my partner," said he; "but in this
case, if you will meet me at my store at ten o'clock to-morrow
morning, I willmake you acquainted with my ~partner, Mr. Gran-
ville, and I dare say some arrangement satisfactory to you
may be made. I will tell him how I became acquainted with
you, and your own rather prepossessing appearance must do
the rest. If he is willing to engage you in our service, I shall
niakeno objection; on the contrary, I will willingly employ
you".t.e.
The heart of Marion beat quick-and after the evening meal
was concluded, Mr. Nordheim, that tiere might be no mistake,
wrote down the address, "Granville and Nordheim, corner of
Broad and Garden street," and Marion took his leave.
At precisely ten o'clock he was in the counting-room of Mr.
Nordheim. That gentleman introduced him to Mr. Granville
with such explanations as were necessary, and Mr. Granville
Sed the way into his private office. After cross-questioning
Marion for some time, he appeared to be quite satisfied asato
his capability, and observed "It will take some time before
you can be of much service, but you.look is though you would
try an  learn fast; and although itr is not customary with
heavy houses to pay any salary for two or thi'ee-years--"( Ma-
rion was all aghast)-don7t be alarmed ; in your case, under
the circumstances, we will vary from the custom, and give you
a salary the first year. What will it cost ou to live here
Marion had no idea. Supposed he could board for one or
two dollars a week.
Mr. Granville smiled.
"Probably four or five dollars will be nearer the mark.


o,
VyjiG9II

If
41
I
ii
'I
I
4 0
ii
Itt'
it H

However, we will make an engagement with you for four years,
4nd give'you $250 the first year, $300 the second, $400 the
third, and $500 the fourth year.. After that your services will
be worth whatever you choose to make them, if you get a
thorough knowledge of the business meanwhile. Are you
satisfied9"
" Perfectly, and am very thankful," said poor Marion.
"Very well-then come with me." And he left his private
office for "the general counting-room, where seven or eight
clerks seemed to be very busy. He addressed an elderly
clerk :
"Mr. Wilson, this youig gentleman will come into our office
to-morrow. His name is Marion Monck. You must try and
make something of him."
Mr. Wilson bowed, and after having given some instruction
to Marion as to the hour next day when he would be expected,
went on writing his books. Marion quietly took his departure,
and went at once to his room, and wrote a letter to his father
and mother. The next day he was regularly installed as a
clerk with Granville and Nordheim.
Mr. Wilson, the bookkeeper, explained to him his duties,
and stated that as he was the junior clerk, it would be neces-
sary for him to commence at the bottom of the ladder, and
work his way up. He was obliged to open the store, put the
books in the safe at night, lock it up, and give the key to the
bookkeeper, and stay and see the porter shut up the store at
night. He was also post-office clerk, had to go with letters to
the office, and bring all letters in Box 910 to the office of Gran.
ville and Nordheim. Marion went through the first day with
real satisfaction to himself and his employers. His modest
willingness to do anything that he was called upon to do, had
already secured to him the good feeling of the bookkeeper and
tht other clerks.
The store was closed before dark the first day. In fact, such
was the usual habit, except on "packet nights," and then 'it
was kept open until ten or eleven o'clock. Marion received
the keys from the porter, and proceeded to his home, No. 119
Liberty street. He told his success to the landlady, Mrs.
]Birch, and she congratulated him warmly, adding, " You owe
much to the lady who received you so kindly, and who was the
means of procuring you the place. I have known young lads
wait months to get a situation, and then not so good a one as
you have .secured in two days. Have you been up town to.
thank the kind lady in Bond street ?" .

27

Marion replied t  he had not.
"Then you, out to go at once. Gratitude costs but little
in your case."
These few words set Marion to thinking. He was merely a
clerk. Was it right to go and pay av isit at the private resi-
dence of his emp   r ? "Well," thiOght Marion, "she asked
me kindly to calf when I got fixed in a place. I am fixed, and
through her kindness. I will go up and see and thank her to-
night."  An hour afterwards he was on the steps of a large
three story brick house in Bond street, and had pulled the
bell-knob. A- neggo woman came to the door and opened it.
"Is Mr. Nordheim at home ?"
No-Massa ain't come in yet. Missis is in.
Go and tell her Marion Monck would like to see her."
In a moment Mrs. Nordheim herself came out of the parlor,
and taking Marion by the hand, led him back into it, and
placed him by her side on a luxurious sofa.
"Well, what luck, Marion ?"
"Thanks to you, dear lady, I am engaged for four years by
your husband's firm-but has he not told you ? -
"He-my husband-do. I have not -seen him since morn-
ing. Sometimes I do not see him for two or three days and
nights together "-and noticing Marion8s look of aatonshment,
she added, "He has so much- to. do at times, and frequently
has to visit neighboring cities on business-but never mind
him. I am so glad you have come up'to-night. I want 'to
talk to you about Charleston-about your home and parents,
and South Carolina matters generally. But you must have
some tea "-and she jumped up, and pulled the bell. It was
answered by another negro girl, who took the order.
Marion again thanked her for being the means of getting
him a place, and told her that she did not know how happy it
had made him-that but for her he should have had a wretch..
ed, anxious time of it. "And: you must tell me how to show
my gratitude,'' he added.                       /
Again she took both of his hands in her own delicate white
ones, and pressed them closely., "Say no more about it. I
need just such a friend as you will be, and if you are grateful,
as you say, you will be able to do a thousand kndnesses for:
me. You must come here as often as you can. I am'sadly in
want of a beau; and as you are so young, and froni my own
State too, I am sure Mr. Nordheim will not be jealous of you,
and will letme go out with you for an escort wheneverlI
please. It is very rare now that he goes out with me himself,"

26

VIGOR.

I


4
IP
i[lk

The ice was broken, and before the "'as served they
were chatting as familiarly as a couple d ildren-and, in
truth, they were both children.
"How old are you, larion ?" she asked.
"I was fou teen last peond of Decemher, and it is April
now,-Mrs. Nordheim."
There, stop-don't Oll me Mrs. Nordteim-say Bessy,
and I shill like it andyoV a great deal better."
Marion laughed, and added, "Well, Bessy, how old are you?",
Guess."
" 'cannot. You are married, and "--
"Very well. I am just two. years older than your most
venerable self, Master Marion. I am but sixteen now---just
old enough to be your loving elder ,sister." And with one
hand pressed around Marion, with the other she parted the
dark brown hair on his white forehead, and pressed it with a
pure, loving kiss. "Now, that christens you my brother'," she
playfully added. "And this," said Marion, throwing one arm
fondly about her neck, and putting his lips to 'hers, "makes
you my loved sister."
The blood rushed to the face of the young wife, and slowly
disengaging herself, she sprang up and said, " Now for tea;''
and they sat down to the well-served table.
"'Take Mr. Nordheim's seat, opposite me," said the lady.
Marion complied.
"1Have you no sister, Marion ?"
"None-and no. brother either. I am an only child."
"And that is my case precisely, and now we will be brother
and sister to each other. I will love you and you shall love
me, and Mr. Nordheim "-       She stopped.   "Well, Mr.
Nordbeim don't trouble me with any of his doings, and I don't
see why I should bother him with telling that I have adopted
a brother ;-so, dear Marion, when Mr. Nordheim is at home,
you must call me 'Madam,' and be as respectful to my lady.
ship -as if I were Queen of England. But .you won't be much
troubled with this formality,on his account. Now drink ano-
ther cup of tea. I suppose your clerkship is very anxious to
know how I came to marry Mr. Nordheim, and all about it ?"
Marion smiled, and looked anxiously at the beautiful crea-
ture opposite to him. She took her hands, and flung back,
from each side of hei face the masses of dark, beautiful curls
that partly concealed her features, and completely covered her
snow-white neck and shoulders.
" I look more like a wild girl than .a dignified wife, 1 sup-

28

Ii~//
/~4~
~
44~       4
.VIGOl~.

pose'- ,'o matter. Mr. Nordheim was pleased  ihit
of a face, and my-long dark hair. I was very poPo  e  eut
upon my aunt, and I was tired of it.- True, Mr.No  was
an Israelite, but my aunt, like a good prudent wonV e
is, before she consented-no, before she sold  e, t  is
right word-made Mr..Nordheim settle $2000 ';year on e
for life; and I feel independent, at least, if I do'  i.
As he don't beat me, I am as comfortably of, or m  than
I was when dependent upon my aunt. I believe    elved
handsomely to my aunt-that is, he gave .her $100?thea
we were married.-Why, what are you looking ame ej ear-
nestly for, Marion ?-I -married Mr. Nordheim, beea  his
wife, and he brought me-on to this big house. The f ture
is elegant, is it not ? But you have not seen it altYet.  ow,
have you finished your tea? Then let us go back to the sofa."
Marion went with her and took a seat by her side
"What do you think of all I have told you ?" she pleas tti
inquired.
"Why, what wouldd I think, except that you have done*
pleased you, and I hope you will be very happy."
Bessy Nordheim drew a long sigh, and then made Marion
tell her all his history, his plans and prospeAts. ,
"I don't like your being in that boarding-house. Why,
would be much more-- . We have plenty of room- in thia.
house. Why should you not come here? I will speak to
Nordheim about it, but not just yet."
A key was heard turning in the door, and she jumped up
and11ew towards the hall.,It was her husband.
"Here is your new clerk come to thank you and me foghik
situation, Ferdinand."
-Mr. Nordheim entered the parlor, and without further note
of his wife, commenced talking to Marion. "I hope to find
you very attentive to business. I have a great ma  things of
my own to attend to, independent of the firm, 'an  h
shall find you ready to lend me a hand when I need ii."
"Certainly," replied Marion. "Anything that 4Ian do for
you it will give me great pleasure to do. I owe you my situa-
tion."
- Mrs. Nordheim had taken a seat, and listened,but said nothing.
" Where are you boarding ?" he ayked.             g
" At 119 iberty street."
Mr. N. made a note of it, and carefully placed it in his
pocket-book. " I may wazst to find you at night. Are youi
busy evenings ?"

Ii


VIGOR.
"-1 I hav nothing to do."
r      . I will call at your boarding-house, and some
time '-    be necessary for you to do some writing for me
u    rtmy house. In such cases Mrs. Nordheim will have
o redn  for you, and you can stay all, night. I will
e pla the necessity to your landlady when I call at the house."
Mis    rose to take his leave-and as he approached Mrs.
Nor      -'and took her hand, he felt a gentle detention and
re-d a glance of those beautiful soft eyes, which said
$     a s if they could have talked, " Don't forget your sis-
ter jessi"' Mr. Nordheim    did not extend his hand, but
acco  and   Marion to the door, and kindly-bade him good
nig    He had made up his mind that the handsome, intelli-
  gen  by should be made useful to him in more ways than one.
When he returned to the parlor, he said somewhat surlily,
That boy "owes his place to me. I only hope he will be
rateful. He is a stranger here, and I must go to his board-
jnglouse and see if he is comfortable. It is,,ny duty to do so,
Iks. Nordheim.
It is very kind of you; but I suppose boarding-houses are
not very, omfortable."
"YoiPught to know ;"-and Mr. Nordheim sneere d very
verely." "I believe your excellent, but somewhat sharp
aunt, Mrs. Ferguson, was engaged in keeping a house of that
kind, when I was so fortunate as to be 'struck with your silly
Bessy's eyes were flashing fire under their long dark lashes.,
Now, madam, I do not expect,_that my young friend will
be   rat his prese               location. You heard me
say to him that I shall probably require his services up here
occasionally to do: some private writing for me, and that I-
should require you to fix a room for him. Now madam, let me
tell you, gat it is my intention, if he is not comfortablee where
he is, to hk him to come up here and make it his home alto-
gether; aad let me add decidedly, madam, that I expect you
will sub3  to my wishes in this respect, and make no oppo-
sition to iem. You have objected to my bringing any of my
relatives to this house. He is not a relative,  but a young boy
that will be useful to me, and I prefer to have him in the same
house with me. Don't say. a word, madam-I will have it so."
And Mr. Nordheim, who had worked himself into quite a pas-
sion, in order to silence any objections that he took it for
granted his wife would make, badka her good night, went, into
the hall seized his hat, and then passed out into the street.

VIGOR.

What a world! Could Mr. Nordheim have looked back intQ
the parlor, and have seen that elegant form, with one foot
pressed forward, her figure erect, her eyes sparkling with ex,
citement, as she flung back the long curling tresses which she
had allowed to cover and conceal her delighted face while he
was talking with her, he might have thought that his deter-
mined purpose was not so obnoxious to his girlish wife as he
imagined, She burst out into a merry, happy laugh asshe
heard the street door close, and exclaimed, "Dear, dear Ma-
rion! I shall have a brother with me, after all. Who would
have thought that Mr. Nordheim himself would insist -upon his
being here, when I hardly dared to ask it !' She was as in-
nocent and pure as an unborn babe, and it was a sister's love
she thought she felt for the handsome boy.

CHAPTER VII.

Ar. Monck moves to Bond Street, and resides with Mr. Yordheim--.The Mer-
cantile Library Association-How to learn Languages.
THE new clerk improved in his capacity for general use.
fulness every week, but he had been nearly a month at hir
new place, before Mr. Nordheima carried out the idea expressed
to his wife. He then called on Mrs. Birch, in Liberty street,
and apparently was not satisfied with the place selected for
Marion. He informed the landlady that it would be more
convenient to have Marion at his own residence. He paid her
bill, and when he returned to the office of Granville &amp; Nord-
heim, he infornied Marion of what he had done, and told him
to hire a cart, and remove his baggage to Bond street that
night. It was Saturday,
" Here is a note, Marion, that I wish you to deliver to Mrs.
Nordheim, It informs her that I aiii obliged to go to Phila-
delphia this evening, and may not return until the middle of
next week.   I wish you to take. good care of 'matters at my
house.  If any thing is needed, get the money from. Mrs.
Nordheim and procure it.  If she wishes to go any where-
to church-to any place of amusement, you will go with her.
In this note to her, 'I have written my wishes as I have ver-
bally stated them to you; I hope you will be pleased with
your new home."
He bowed and left the office before Marion had any time to


VIGOR.
make any comment.    As soon as the store was closed that'
evening, he engaged a hack and went to Liberty street, bade
his landlady good bye, and with his trunk proceeded to Bond
street.
The hackman had carried his trunk into the hall before Mrs.
Nordheim made her appearance.   She seemed a little sur-
prised at the trunk, but when Marion had shaken hands with
hed, and she had read her husband's note, her features as-
sumed a different apperrance, and were covered with rosy
blushes.
"How beautiful you do look, Bessy," was the involuntary
exclamation of Marion as he was led by her into the parlor.
"-Now, Mr. Truant, give an account of yourself, why have
you kept away from here ~i long month ?"
Marion said he did not see how he could come with any
propriety, as Mr. Nordheim had told him weeks ago, that he
was to come-until the latter directed him to do so, as definite-
ly as he had that day.
"And now that you have come, I am going to make the most
of you, brother dear.  Mr. Nordheim writes that you are to
escort me wherever I want to go, and be my protector while
he is gone.  Good.  I am very much obliged to my husband.'
Next. I am to fix up your room in the most comfortable
manner, and not to fail to treat you with the utmost blindness
 "-you see, sir,-I quote from the note.  In the first place, I
fancy that I have already made your room very cosy, as I had
a hint this morning from my lord and master, that you -would
probably come, and as for treating. you with kindness, why,
you ungrateful brother, after such a long absence,- and such
sisterly kindness, have you no reward to offer me ?" and, as
Ahe put her pretty pouting red lips in close proximity to Ma-
rion's, he could do no less than put his arms around her, draw
her close to his breast, and press the lips to his own.
"There, dear Marion, that will do, and now I will go and
superintend the making-tea department, and you shall have a
supper such as I dare say you need."
Had Marion Monck and   essy Nordheim really been brother
and sister, it is not probable that they would have exhibited a
stronger attachment for each other. The next day was Sunday.
Marion accompanied her to church, and almost every night he
went with her to some place of amusement, or called withher
upon some of her. extremely limited circle of. acquaintances-.
Mr. Nordheim did not come 'to his home for a week, and. during
his absence Marion had made himself completely at home, and

VIGOR.||
his attention to the duties of the store were from very early in
the morning until sometimes a late hour at night.. Mr. Wilson
the book-keeper had promoted him to copying letters, and to
making duplicates of letters and invoices. As Marion wrote a
neat mercantile hand, it was no great hardship.  Marioialso
found work at the dwelling house of Mr. Nordheim. Thagen-
tleman was, as I have stated, an Israelite, and had inherited a
large property from his father, who had died about two years
previously at Amsterdam in Holland. When he discovered
that Marion could read and write Dutch, he was overjoyed, and
Marion for months worked several hours at night in copying
important papers in that language of a private nature for-Mr.
Nordheim, The latter bought a nice desk, and had it placed
in Marion's room.  Frequently Mrs'. Nordheim would sit and
chat with him, while' hard athis work. She was as fascinating
in her conversation as she was beautiful and attractive in her
appearance, although she did not seem to be aware of it. -Ma-
rion regarded her as a sister, and- treated her as he would a
sister. He would eatch her and draw her upon his knees, and
make perfectly free with her balmy mouth and lips. Some-
times if her magnificent hair had been carefully arranged, he
would pull out the combs and fastenings, throw it loose over
her, and comb it with the finger of one hand, while he contin-
ued writing with the other. Bessy would call him her teasing
brother, and then select one ,f her combs, would carefully
comb his hair, -without preventing his writing. Did a thought
of wrong cross their minds '  No.  She had been isolated
first in her aunt's boarding-house, and secondly, in the cold
home of her husband. She placed Marion on the footing of. a
brother. He had brought the first sunshine to her cheerless
home. She had something to pet, fondle and caress.- She
never thought it wrong, never analyzed her feeling, and hard-
ly took the trouble to control or conceal them before Mr. Nord-
heim. . Marion was in a new hoie-he who had been petted
all his'life, and Bessy was the only one who brought love and
home-or home love, back again to h~is mind. He appeared
to regard her affectionate kindness and caresses' as he would
those of his aunt or his mother. He was too young to dream
or think of love. Both were happy, for both were innocent in
thought or word as well as deed.
Mr. 'Nordheim was a man whose age must have been nearly
forty years. He was of small stature, with dark, piercing,
oriental sort of eyes, and a nose that clearly told his Hebirew
origin. He spoke English, with great purity, and one could
2*


K

VIGOR.
hardly have imagined that Dutch had been the language of his
boyhood. He was short-sighted, and wore a pair of gold spec-
tacles. His habits were very irregular, although it was many
months before Marion discovered that he wAs one of the worst
of ljbartines, and that his frequent journeyings to other places
for tu iness purposes, and also his frequent absence for the
same reasons, were not so. On the contrary he was off in the
country, or anywhere else where he could carry on his nume-
rous .intrigues without discovery. As he was the principal
capitalist, his partner, Granville, if he knew Nordheim's weak-
ness, did not notice it in any manner.
Marion Monck had not been in the counting-room of Gran-
ville and Nordheim over two months, before Mr. Wilson, the
bookkeeper, asked him how he was off for books ?
"Books ?" replied Marion. "I have no book, save one, and
that is a Dutch Bible which my mother placed in my trunk
when I left home."  Mr. Wilson smiled.  lie probably re-
membered his own mother having made for him, when a boy,
(perhaps fifty years before this) a similar provision. "That is
a valuable book, no question of that," said Mr. Wilson, "but,
- Master Marion, what I meant is this, is there any one you
kno~w who is the possessor of books who will lend them to you to
read, otherwise you will have many an idle hour hang heavy
upon your hands." Marion siid he knew no one who would
lend him books such as lie desired. " Mr. Nor dheim has
books at home."  "Then I propose that you should- at once
join the Mercantile Libirary Association. It was established
1'for merchants' clerks, and when once a member you will have
access to any book or paper that you need."  Marion asked the
expense of joining, and when told that it was only the small
sum of two dollars per annum, agreed to go with Mr.- Wilson
and be made a member that very night. The counting-room
was closed before six o'clock, and Marion did not go home,
but went to get his tea with Mr. Wilson, at Clark &amp; -Brown's
eating-house, in Maiden Lane, where Mr. Wilson, with many
other Englishmen, boarded, and took his meals when and
where he pleased. They each had a cup of tea and hot muf.-
fins, and after these were despatched, they proceeded to Cliff
street, where the Mercantile Library Association occupied the
first floor of number eighty-two. It was then poor and in its
infancy. Not long after, it was removed to a building in
moved to the old Opera House in Astor Place.
But to return to the visit to the Mereantile Library Associ-

VIGOR.

35

ation. - Mr. Wilson introduced Marion to the Treasurer, Li-
biarian, and one or'two -of the Directors, and after he had paid
the fees, received a certificate of membership. "Is there any
particular book you desire ?" asked the Librarian.  "Yes,"
replied Marion, and he named a French work by Voltaire. It
was given him with a catalogue and the last report of tehe As-
sociation. As Mr. Wilson and Marion went out into the street,
Wilson remarked, "Why, Marion,. the book you selected is
printed in the French language. Do you understand it ?"
" Not a word," was the reply. "You may think it queer, Mr.
Wilson, but I will read that book before I return it., The fact
is, Mr. Wilson, I will read Frencl Spanish and German before
I am two years older. I understand Netherland Dutch now as
well as English. I will learn a language after my own.ethod,
or rather one taught me by Aunt, who taught me low Dutch."
" What is the method,?" enquired Wilson.
" In the first place, I can repeat the New Testament almost
word for word from beginning to, end. I have read it-so often,
and got so many lessons from it in former years to oblige a
very excellent mother. YoA comprehend that part."
Very well.'
"Within three days I have been to the Bible Society, and
they gave me for a trifling sum a'New Testament in French. I
shall read that in French until I-have it almost by heart. By
the time I am through, or before I have been at it a few hours,
I shall understand perhaps a thousand French words, and the
mode of placing them without having to refer to a French
Grammar or Dictionary."
"That is very clear," remarked Wilson.
"Now I shall get a dictionary and grammar, read the work
by Voltaire, and what words I cannot acquire rapidly in the
New Testament, I shall get out of the dictionary. It will not
be long before I have mastered the French, and the Spanish
and German will follow."
" But how will you learn the pronunciation of the lan-
guage ?"
"By placing myself where I can hear one or the other spoken
incessantly. But we are up to Broadway, and I mast bid you
good-night, and hurry up to Bond street,"


VIGOR*3

VIGOR.

CHAPTER YIJI.
'he Budness Excursion of Mr. Nordheim-Birth-place of Clara Norris..
Her Advent into New York.
IT has already been mentioned that Mr. Nordheim made fre-
quent excursions to neighbQring cities. .He gave out that
these frequent trips were for commercial purposes. His part-
ner, Mr. Granville, did not contradict such announcements,
and his family were unable to do so.
October had arrived, and Marion Monck had been living at
the residence of Mr. Nordheim more than four months, when
the latter informed him that the next morning he should leave
for a distant State, and would not probably return for some
weeks. Mrs. Nordheim was in the parlor engaged upon some
embroidery when her husband made this business sort of an-
nouncement, and, as usual, she made no comment upon it.
Turning to his wife, he said, " Of course, my love, if you want
money, you can send word to the office by Marion in the usual
manner, and he will bring it up to you." This was said in a
very sarcastic manner, and a slight bend of the magnificent
head of the young wife was the only reply. Soon after he left
the house to go to Pat Hearns', or some other equally well
known "Hell," or a worse place.
The carrying out of our story requires that the reader
should be carried out of New York, and taken to one of the
most northern counties of the state of New Jersey.  It is
again evening, and onlytwo days later than when Mr. Nord-
heim told Marion that he was to make a business excursion the
next morning. It was night, the tallow candles were lit, and
in the bar-room of a country inn in Sussex county was the
well-dressed Nordheim.  Several rough.looking countrymen
were loitering about the bar-room, and two were engaged in
playing dominoes at a pine table in the corner of the room. A
young and rather pretty girl was behind the bar, waiting upon
such customers as required a glass of cider, or the more potent
cider brandy. Mr. Nordheim was smoking a cigar, and seated
near the fire place, in which a wood fire was burning, for the-
weather in October in a village. two thousand -feet above the

level of the sea was intensely- cold. The girl was evidently
about fifteen years of age, but fully developed.  Every now
and then she cast an anxious glance towards Mr. Nordheim,
and as his eyes caught her own, she would suddenly drop
thlem and blush, scarcely conscious why. Mr. Nordheim was
evidently an object of curiosity to her, and the contrast be-
tween his elegance and the rough customers in the room made
her wonder what his business could be there. Presently an-
other person entered the room, and as he stepped, into the
bar he said, sternly, "Susan, go into the kitchen and help
your mother get supper.
"Have -you ordered a fire in my room ?" demanded Mr.
Nordheim of the new comer, who was evidently the landlord.
"I have just finished making it myself, and your supper
will be ready presently," was the reply.
"Thank you," was the reply of Nordheim; and he continued
to puff away at his cigar. Soon after Mr. Nordheim obtained
supper and then retired to his room.  He found a good fire
blazing ,upon the hearth, and almost at once the girl called
Susan made her appearance with a candle, which she placed
upon the table.
"Any thing else, sir 1" she asked.
"No, my dear-stay, yes-there is-I want to ask you a
few questions.  Are you acquainted with a young lady in this
neighborhood.whose name is Clara Norris ? Sit down, Su-
san.
Susan took a seat before she replied, in a very low tone of
voice, ' Oh, yes, sir; I know her very well."
"Indeed. Here, Susan, is a little something to spend when
I am gone."  He placed in her hands half a dollar, patted her
cheeks pleasantly-" and now tell me all about Clara. Is she
very beautiful ? is she as pretty as you are
Susan simpered and'replied, "Oh, yes;- a thousand times
prettier. Etery body calls her the Sussex Lily, and indeed,
sir, she is the sweetest girl in this region."
"How old is Clara, should you think ?" asked Mr Nord-
heim.
"I know precisely. She is just one month younger than
me, and I shall be' fifteen next month. Do you know her,
sir ?" and Susan paused to hear the answer.
"No, not exactly, that is to say, I have not yet seen her. I
became acquainted with her father last summer, and I have
heard him speak of Clara so frequently that I was almost
tempted to say -I knov her, but I do not."

86

37


4

38

VIGOR-

"Oh, she is a charming girl. You will like her very much.
She is not at all like me. Her hair is light auburn, and very
long, and when she wears it in ringlets it is pretty. She has a
beautifulofigure, and her .cheeks are as red as roses,- and her,
skin is as white as snow."
"XWhy, Susan, you are quite eloquent in your description,"
said Mr. Nor dheim, and he continued, "Is Miss Clara coi-
fortable in her home ?"
" Oh, no indeed, sir. Her father is a drunkard, and her
mother is not much better-in fact-worse, some. say, but I
don't know any thing about it. I see poor Clara every Sunday
at church, and she looks very unhappy, I don't know how she
stands it. I wouldn't. If my father licked me as her'n does
her, I'd run off and go to York, but I must go and help get
supper for the other boarders."
"1Stay one moment, Susan," dnd as the girl stopped he slid
his arm around her and gave her a long kiss upon her mouth.
" Oh, don't, sir-what-.will "--but a half dozen kisses in suc-
cession stifled her voice, and when Mr. Nordheim placed in
her hand another silver half dollar, Susan wiped her mouth,
smoothed her ruffled hair, and promised Mr. Nordheim that
she would come back as soon as supper was over to see if h&amp;
wanted any thing. Any of her country beaux might have fid-
dled around Susan six months -before her lips would have given
one kiss. Girls like the man, be he'old or young, that impu-
dently takes what he wants without trifling or beating around
the bush. She had left the* room but an instant when her
father made his appearance. "Well, Van Ness, what is it ?"
asked Nordheim.
" Did you send a message by the stage-driver to old Bill
Norris, up the road, that you wished to see him ?"
"I did. Has he come
"Yes, sir. He is down in the bar-room."
"Van Ness, have you any really good liquor, any wine fit to
drink ? That cider brandy is vile stuff."
"Yes, sir, as good as any gentleman need have, I don't care
who or what he is. . I have got the best French brandy, but it
comes at two dollars the bottle."
" Bring it along if it was five dollars, and here, by the way,
is a five dollar gold piece, and if you have a bottle of cham-
*pagne, bring that up also, and never mind the change.  Old
Norr*s may prefer some other drink besides brandy or wine."
" Not he, sir. He will never leave this room as long as
there is another drop of that French brandy in the bottle."

39

VIGOR,

. "Show him up at once, and then put some more wood on the
fire."
A few moments more and the heavy boots of Bill Norris ap-
proached the door.  "Come in," exclaimed Nordheim, and
the old drunkard entered. "Take a seat, Norris.  I am glad
to see you. I told-you at Dover last summer I would come
and see you before Christmas day."
"So you have. I like to see a man who sticks to his word.
It looks like business."
"True, Mr. Norris; but here is some liquor I have ordered.
It is no use talking with, dry' tongues. Here is champagne,
and here is French brandy. Which will you try ?"
"Oh, give me the brandy. I don't Want any new fangled
stuff down my throat," and he helped himself to a stiff glass of
raw brandy, and drank it off at a gulp. It did not even make
the old toper wink. "Prime !" he exclaimed. "Now I will
take another with a little water into it," and he helped him-
self while Mr. Nordheim knocked off the neck of the bottle of
17 1    champagne, and as he poured it foaming into the glass tumbler
he said, " Now, Norris, I want you to drink with me to the
health of that young girl we talked so much about at Dover.
Here is Clara's health."  Old Bill Norris again emptied his
glass and took a seat, and turning his face full upon Mr. Nord-
heim, said, "So, so, mister, yer haint got off that notion, eh ?"
- "No indeed; the more I hear of her the more anxious ami
come to some understanding with you in regard to her fu-
ture welfare. Where is she now ?"
"At hum, or was there half an hour ago."
"Bill, can any one overhear our. conversation?20"
"No,'I reckon not." Bill opened the door and looked into
the entry to ace that the coast Was clear.
"When you see my darter, if as how you likes her, and she
takes a kind of liking to you,.what do you intend jo do with
her? Do ye mean to marry her ' That's the pint."
"Mr. Norris, we will talk of that presently, meanwhile, I
want to enquirer kindly of you whether five hundred dollars, if
given to you by some kind friend, would really be of any ser-
vice to you ?" remarked Mr. Nordheim in a whisper.
"'What?   Just say that over again," and Bill was on his
feet.
"Keep perfectly calm, Mr. Norris. I have five hundred
dollars that I can get by driving-up to the Sussex Bank after
nine o'clock to-morrow morning, and I could give, it to yof
without feeling the loss."


0

40

VIGIOR-

Five hundred dollars. Sussex Bank bills! and"-
"Stop one moment more.   I am anxious to do that for you
to-moirow. I am anxious to do more than that for Clara, if
you aid me in the matter. I want to take her away from here,
however, and you will lose her services. Of course I expect
to pay you for that loss."
"That's fair.' Five hundred dollars. Of course I'll let her
go for that. She will never bring me any thing like that.
Five hundred' dollars! Whew! What a sum. Why, it will
buy a good sized house and farm, won't 'it ?  But you hadn't
told me one thing. What do you want to do with the girl?'
Marry her ?"
"1Mr. Norris, you know it would be imprudent to do so now.
What I may do when I have sent her to school, I cannot tell.
I shall take her to New York, place her with a rich aunt, and
she will be taken good care of. What can I do more ?"
"That is all on the square. I don't see what you can do
fairer, Mister. What am I to do ?"
"Go home very soon. Talk the matter over quietly to
your wife. Get her consent. In the morning I will be up at
your house, and have a talk with Clara, if she consents to go,
with me and the matter is fairly understood among you. She
goes to Dover in the stage with me to-morrow evening, and I
will hand you and your wife five hundred dollars before we
leave."
"It's a bargain. Shake hauids upon it.  You are a gentle-
man, and do up your business brown. I will go now."
"Take some more brandy."
"Not a drop," and Mr. Norris left-he was really sober;
the five hundred dollar proposition had fairly neutralized the
effects of the, strong potions of alcohol which he rad drank.
He had hardly got down stairs before a light step came up
'them, and Susan came in, shutting the door behind her. "I
.came up to see if you needed any thing," she observed.
"Yes, Susy, come here," and he pulled her towards him.
"Don't--don't--I"- NTA
"All I want, Suisy, is to hear more about your friend Clara,
Kiss me, now, and then tell me, has she any beaux'?"
"You kiss me so hard I don't like it. No ; Clara hasn't got,
any fellows.  She is too proud for that.  None up here are
good enough for her."
"Indeed. I am glad to hear that,"-here Susan began to
.squirm in a very uneasy manner, for Mr. Nordheim was re-
sorting to all sorts of means to stir up the young girl's passions,

Ai1

ec

VIGOL

'L ify-
"Arl
q !

and probably he would*shave succeeded had not Susan said,
" If you are so anxious about Clara, what do you want to fool
with me for 2"  It was nough.  "I was wrong. -Now kiss
me, to show that you are not angry." -Susan complied, and he
led her to the door.* She had escaped that time, but' the poor
chirping bird was marked for a shot, and only got away be-
cause a beautiful quail was to be looked after.
When Mr. Nordheim was alone, 'he lit another cigar and
then went down to the bar-room. Bill Norris had gone. The
room was crowded. Mr. Nordh'eim had an object-it was to
make popularity. Time after time did he treat every man in
the room until' all but himself were drunk-roaring country
drunk, and then he went to bed. How little his elegant wife
dreamed of the nature of her husband's commercial negotia-
tions
The next day opened bright and beautiful. It was much
warmer, and 1Mr. Nordheim rose early. He had ordered a
horse and buggy to be ready for' his use immediately after
breakfast. It came as he had drank his last cup of coffee. He
settled his bill, paid for a day's use of the horse and buggy,
observing that he might- not return. The carpet bag was
placed in the buggy, and after a few enquiries as to his route
to the house of Mr. Norris, he bade his host " good morning."
and started on the main road.  He had to drive a distance of
two miles.. He occasionally stopped to gaze on the woods and
the water.  The forests were covered with colors as varie-
gated as the rainbow, and he passed two long sheets of water
that he could not but stop to admire.  Between the two first
lakes stood a cottage embowered in a grove of large drooping
willows, and not far off was a long row of poplars. He en-
quired what place that was. "Poplar Farm," was the reply,
and he drove on. He had nearly reached the head of the'sec-
ond lake, and was coming in sight of the third, when he no-
ticed a log-cabin that seemed hardly capable of holding up it-
self. It was large, but every thing ab6ut the spot looked
poverty-struck and desolate. He was passing on, by it when
out started a man that he recognized as Bill Norris.
"Hallo. What, you was a-going by, eh ? That won't do."
"Have you a place to put my horse, Norris ?"
"Yes; I got a little snuggery down under- the hill. Drive-
around the road a little way, and I will come and help you'un-
'hitch,"
Mr. Nordheini complied, and when the horse was put in


VIGOR.43

the miserable apology. for a stall, Nordheim asked if the moth.
er had been spoken with.
"Yes ; and she is willin'. She thinks it the best thing that
can be done."
"And Clara-does she know any thing of what is pro-
posed ?" said Nordheim, anxiously.
"I rather think the old woman had something to say to her
about it, but I don't know. Women folks can't keep a secret,
you understand."
Nordheim felt relieved. Ialf his work was done. The two
now reached the log-cabin. Norris entered first, but no sooner
had Nordheim followed over the door-sill than he actually
started back wit astonisbment.  Never had his eyes been
placed upon sue a vision of female loveliness. He could not
speak. She was dressed in rags, but there was a form, a tom-
plexion,, a skin that rags could not hide. She had been trying
to do up her splendid hair, but lacking combs and material, it
had fallen like a golden cloud over her shoulders and reached
nearly to her knees. Nordheim jumped towards her, took her
hand, and observed, " This is Clara. I need no more of an
introduction--.don't be scared on my account," and then, with
the grace of a man of the world, he placed all at their ease by
talking of their future. There was a little boy and a little
girl, brother and sister of Clara,  To one he gave a pearl-
handled knife, and to the other a gold pencil..case.  "Now
then, Mrs. Norris, I am going to dine with you, 'and here is
some money t6 buy any' article you need. I suppose Mr. Nor-
ris will go and get it for you." She took the 'money. "Miss
Clara, as I was riding up, I could not help admiring the mountain
in front of us. There nust be a beautiful view of the lake
fiom the top of it. Suppose you accompany me, and point out
all that is to be seen," requested Mr. Nordheim, kindly.
"Get your bonnet and go with the gentleman," came from
the mother's mouth.
"I am in no hurry," observed Nordheim, "'Take your own
time, Clara." This he said so kindly that the poor girl burst
into tears. A few moments after he was following her up the
side of the mountain. "Clara," called Mr. Nordheim.  She
stopped, and he took her hand in his own. "Don't let us go
too far and get tired.  Here seems to be a nice quiet place,
where we can take a seat and talk over certain matters."
Clara seated herself by his side. He still kept her hand.
" Clara, will you answer me a few questions honestly and
truly ?"

"T     --will.
"Are you happy here ? Do your parents treat you kindly ."
"No---I am miserable, and they treat me horribly."
"Would you like to leave here ?" he asked, kindly
"With all my heart! But my poor parents !"
"Clara, suppese I say that I will give your par n s the sum
of $500 to-night, to make them comfortable. Will you then
place yourself under my charge
"Will I? Try me. But what am I to do?"
"This is all, Clara, if you will make me your husband. to-
night-that is, you will treat me in .every way as if I were
your husband."
" But will you marry me to-night ?" said the girl, who was
covered with blushes. "Speak plain," she continued.  I
know what you mean., You will nwt marry me, but you wish
me to become your mistress; you have money, and you would
buy me! Now repeat the offer,".said Clara, determinedly,,
" Yes, Clara, ,that is it. I will take you from here to New
York as speedily as possible. To-morrow morning we will
start. . Then I will get you handsome clothes-I will procure
you a home-I will get you teachers, and Iwill.-make a lady
of you."
Clara smiled, and said, "Listen to me, Mr. Nordheim.
There is no need of words. I am a decided girl. I am as
pure as ice-but I can't lead such a life. I want to see my
father comfortable. Do what you said, and the next night I
will return to my wretched room, remain in your arms. until
morning, provided you then hurry me off to New York. If
you do what you promise then, you will have a mistress that,
will be true to you till death. If you deceive me, or do not,
make good your promises, woe be on your head I-,Now let us
return to our humble home."
"Stay a moment, Clara. If you are anxious to go, why not
start to-day ?"
I' No--I will not move until I see my mother and father in
possession of the price you have agreed to pay for me."
"And then
"I am yours, body and soul, and I do not care what you do
with me."
"I have the money ready. .See, here it is, in Sussex Bank
bills. Count it."
lie handed her the money. Clara did count it, and then
slowly drawing her hand across her face, she asked,
." And when~you give that, to my parents "-

42

VIGOR.


44

VIGOR.

VIGOR.

Then, Clara, I expect you to regard yourselfas mine. We
will stay here to-night, or we will go to Dover, just as you
decide. Now shall we return home ?"
"Be it as you wish--I have no choice,"' said Clara, mourn-
fully.
Nordheim attempted to kiss her lips.
"No, no," she exclaimed, while pushing him aside. "Not
now. Pay the sum to my parents, and then I am yours alto-
gether."
Not a word was spoken until they reached the log house-.
Clara took a seat.
"Well ?".said the father..
"Everything is pleasantly arranged, and Clara and myself
have decided to leave for New York city either to-night or to-
morrow morning. But I have something for you."
He took out of his pocket-book a roll of bills, and laid it
upon the table. Clara jumped up and seized the money. She
selected from the roll five fifty dollar bills, and placed them in
one pile. " Father,- take the money ;" and then an equal
amount she handed to her other parent, adding, " Mother, take
this. God bless you both !"1
They each took the money. Then she kissed her mother, and
afterwards her father, crying as if her heart were broken.
When she had found voice, she said, "Now you have money,
spend it wisely. Father, don't drink any more ; and when you
think of doing it, think of poor me, and perhaps at what an
awful cost I earned the money." Then turning to Mr. Nord-
heim, sh~ added, almost hysterically, " Come sir, you have not
yet deciJed whether you will stay here to-night or go to Dover.
Followme, and I will show you my delightful bed-room. Up
this ladder." *
She was followed up by the exquisite New Yorker in .aston.-
ishment. -As he reached the floor of the open garret, he ex-
claimed, " Why, Clara, where do you sleep ?"
- " There; she exclaimed, pointing to a pile of rags in a bor-
ner of the garret; and she ran towards it, and loosing her hair
so as almost to cover her entire figure, she flung herself upon
the rags, and said, "Well, what do ypu think now ? This must
be our bridal bed if youstay here to-night. My parents have
no other."
He went to her, calmed her excitement, and kindly coaxed
her to descend the stairs. "We will start for Dover in a few
minutes. .Fix up Clara the best you can," said he kindly to -
her mother.

45

Clara did not cry any more. She -spoke kindly to her mo-
ther, and helped her to spread the table with -a few eatables.
An hour later she took her seat in.the buggy beside Mr. Nord-
heim. That same evening they reached Dover,. after a few
hours' drive. They were just in time to catch the mail stage
for New York via Newark. The next night at about ten
o'clock the two reached a private house in the upper part of
the city, where Mr. Nordheim seemed to be perfectly at home.
Such was one of the business transactions of Mr. Nordheim.
It was the opening history of a beautiful girl, who in after
years made a sensation as the haughtiest as well as most mag-
nificent courtezan that ever walked the s-treets of New York.
CHAPTER IX.
The first year over--Dinner at Mr. Granville's-The Family of Air,
Granville-Col. Mac Neil.
LIFE in a counting-room during the period of junior clerk
ship is without much of interest. The routine is about the
same from day to day. A year had now elapsed since 'Marion
arrived in-New York, and he had become quite expert in his
clerical duties. He was a favorite with Mr. Granville, he con*
tinued to reside at the residence of Mr. Nordheim, in Bond
street, and oftentimes was of great service to that partner.
Young Monek was a hard student,' and rarely retired to bed
before twelve o'clock at night. He could read French well,
and availed himself of every opportunity-of speaking it. This
was the more easy, as the business of Granville and Nordheim
was principally a foreign commission business. They received
consignments of vessels and cargoes from many ports in the
Mediterranean, and wine and assorted cargoes from Cette and
Marseilles were regular. By such meanS Marion became ac-
quainted with French captains and' French passengers that
brought letters of introduction to the firm, and he used to show
them the hospitalities of the city. His progress in pronounc-
ing French *was extremely rapid from these facilities, so that
at the expiration of his first year in New York he was a fair
French scholar. The foundation was laid, and by practice he
improved until he could write, read or speak French equal to
a Frenchman. Mrs. Nordheim was his fellow student in French,
and her progress was equally rapid with Marion ; for Mr. Nore

(


46               VIGOR.

VIGOR.

heim spoke French well, and when she expressed a wish to
that effect, he would converse with her in that language., Fre-
quently Marion would take part in their conversation '
It was a very curious fact, that for some months Mr. Nord-
heim had not found occasion to be absent from the city, and
he was much more kind and sociable at his home than before
Marion came there. He was absent almost every night, but no
curiosity was ever expressed by his wife or Marion as to the,
cause of such absence.
Marion ha4 had very few opportunities of knowing much of
MrGranville or his family.- The intercourse between them'
was only at the counting-house ; and although Mr. Granville
appeared to be pleased with the attention which Marion showed
to his business, yet he rarely noticed him save, to give orders
or instructions. Marion had observed to Mr. Nordheim that
Mr. Granville did not seem to be aware that he was in. exist-
ence, save in the office.
" Never mind, Marion," was the reply. "An old merchant
like Mr. Granville does not waste much time on the youngest
clerk in his employ. . Wait."I
He took his advice. Precisely one year from the day he
entered the office, Mr. Granville in the morning calledhim
into his private office, and somewhat abruptly remarked,
"It is a year that you have been with me."
Marion was astonished. He could not conceive that the
haughty merchant by any means should stop to remember such
"a fact. He did not know the man-and he replied Yes sir.
"Then to-morrow your salary will begin at three hundred
dollars."*
Marion-bowed and added, "I have not drawn my salary of
two hundred and fifty dollars. There is nearly one hundred
and fifty dollars due me now."1
"How is that ?"
"I have been living with Mr. Nordheim, and he has not
said anything to m about what he should charge, and I did
not think it would be right to draw under such circumstances."
"Go and call in Mr. Wilson."           I
It was done.
"Wilson, 'ill up a check and bring it to me to sign for the
balance due on this young man's salary up to date. In the
coming year it will be three hundred dollars. Now, Mr. Monek,
I-have nothing to do with my partner taking you to his house.
I understand that you speak and write low D)utch~ and heus.
made you useful to him to a greater amount than any board hes

would charge' Make your mind easy on that score. He will
make no charge against you-or if he does, give the account to
me, and I will pay it out of my own pocket."'
By this time Mr. Wilson had brought the check. It was for
one hundred and sixty-five dollars, and Mr. Granville signed
it. As he handed it to Marion, he laughingly said, " You will
be quite rich. What will you do with so much money, eh 1"
"9Send it to my parents, sir," replied Marion.
" Very right and proper; and now, sir, will you do me the
favor to conte and dine with me to-day at five o'clock?  I wish
to make you acquainted with my family; and you will meet at
my table one or more of my friends worth knowing. You know
where my residence is, I suppose ; and be before the hour ra-
ther than later, whenever you are invited out to dine.l"l
"I shall be pleased to dine with you sir, and will not be
later than the hour."
Before we present Marion at this dinner with his senior em-
ployer, it will be interesting to the reader to learn something
of Mr. Granville. Williant Pitt Granville was the grandson
of a man who was once speaker of the English House of Com-
mons. He had been educated commercially in one of those
extensive commercial firms in England, whose business con-
nection extended over the world. The firm had sent Mr. Gran.
vile to New York toattend to some special business,-andhis
keen eye saw an opening in Nfe- York,'and he 'wrote ihome, to
that effect. The London firm of Prescott, Grote &amp; Co. had a
correspondent named Nordheim, who had a son that he was
anxious to place in business in some American port. The
London firm saw that they could benefit these parties, besides
their own firm, and the result was that old Nordheim aged
to put $50,000 in cash in the firm for his son, and young Nord-
heim in less than six months became the partner of Mr. Gran-
ville. Mr. Granville was the business man. His energy
was unceasing. Connexions and agencies were made in every
part of Europe; and what with Mr. Nordheim's cash capital,
and the facilities -extended by the London firm and the elder
Nordheim, business rolled in upon the NeW York firm from
every quarter, and their profits in a short time were more than
double their original capital.
Mr: Nordheim, as we have before observed, was not much
of a business man, and Mr. Granville persuaded him to go to
Charleston, S. C.,nto procure shipments of rice and cotton to
New York and to' his father's house in. Amsterdam. As he
had money to advance on all such shipments, he was very sucd

47


48

VIGOR.

cessful in procuring them, and his sojourn in: Charleston was
of great benefitsto all parties. It was while residing at Charles-
ton that he became fascinated with Elizabeth Ferguson, and
married her, as has been detailed in a former chapter.
To return to Mr. Granville, He was English in. his appear-
ance, habits, mode of thinking, and in every other way. lie
believed that this* was a great country to make money in, but
that England was the only country worth belonging to; and he
never would take out papers to become an American citizen
9 British I was born, and a Briton I will dip," was, a favorite
expression. He was 9ix feet in height, and well-proportioned.
His forehead was very high, and his head almost bald. le
was fifty years -of age when Marion joined him. His nose was
curved like the beak of an eagle, and he felt much flattered
when told that this feature very much resembled that of the
great Duke of Wellington. It was true, too. He had mar-
ried in England, and brought-over with him, when he decided
to remove to America, a wife and two children, the one a girl
named Isabella, and the other a boy named Walter. His resi-
dence was in a house which is still. standing in State street,
fronting the Battery. At that time it was the residence of
some of the most prominent merchants that New York has pro-
duced. It was a venerable double house, painted yellow, with-
a door in the centre, and an old-fashioned stop supported by
two wooden pillars, with red stone steps on each side, leading
up to the doorway. It had a large, spacious hall, four times
the size of a hall in a modern house. On the right was a large
reception room, or parlor, and on the left was another of equal
dimensions, In the rear of the hall was a -dining-room, with
large bay windows, extending nearly the width of the house,
and overlooking a large yard, which was-filled with plants and
shrubbery of every description. The view from the front par.-
lors, or from any room in the front part of the house, was mag-
nificent beyond comparison.  The windows overlooked the
Battery and the bay, and the view in the summer season was
unsurpassed in the world. There was nothing to equal it in
New York. Mr. Granville had good taste.
Besides his, wife and children, Mr. Granville had a younger
brother residing in the old English mansion. This brother
Thomas was as eccentric a being as ever drew breath; and we
shall have much more to say of him as our story progresses.
Mrs. Granville and Thomas were the only persons in the din-
ing-room when Marion arrived. It was to them that Mr. Gran-
ville introduced Mr. Mock.

49

3

VIGOR.

Mrs. Granville appeared to be about forty years of age. She
was very small in size, and extremely pale. She looked as
though a good strong gust of wind from  the Battery would
blow her away. She put out 'her hand-to Marion, and kindly
greeted him, saying,
"I have heard of you often from my husband, and expected
you would have visited us before this; I am glad to* see you
now, and I trust you will come and see us as often as you have
,      leisure."
Poor Mrs. Granville,. her days were numbered! Marion
soon learned that her seclusion arose from the fact that she
was dying of consumption.
" I shall be most happy to continue the acquaintance, be-
lieve me, Mrs. Granville; for I know very few families in the
city."
"Here comes Isa.-my daughter, this is Marion Monek."
And a beautiful girl sprang forward and gave her hand to
Marion.
"0, I have seen Marion a hundred times when I have skip-
ped in and out of the office, but I am so glad Pa-has brought,
him here. I abn sure we shall be excellent friends."
A moment after Walter, the son cane in. He was a hand-
some lad, of about Marion's age, but extremely reserved. He
had already become acquainted with Marion, having seen him
many times at the office. A gentleman came in just before the
family rose to go to thedining-room. Mr. Granville introduced
him to Marion as " Col. Mac Neil, a very old and valued friend."
The Colonel in a very gentlemanly manner expressed great
gratification at meeting Marion. Soon after the party that had
assembled in the parlor adjourned to the large dining-room,
Covers were placed for seven, and when all had taken their
seats a dinner was served in a very simple manner, nd Ma-
rion felt completely at his ease. His seat was directly oppo-
site to Isabella Granville, and before he had received a dozen
of her laughing glances, poor Marion began to feel that he was
getting in love.
"Bell," as her Pa called her, was a sweet little creature,
very girlish in form and figure. Her eyes were black, and she
had a profusion of soft black hair, which was partly taken up
on the back of her head, and the front portion was arranged in
curls.- Her mouth was small and pretty. She was ready to
fall in love with anybody that there was a spark of romance
about. Although only fourteen, she 'had had two lovers siues
she was twelve. One was a West Point cadet, and the ofher


50,

VIGOR.

an unfledged midshipman ; but her father, kind and gentle as
he appeared, was,a stern, despotic man in his own house, and
most fully imbued with the English ideas of marriage. He
considered children as -merely a means of extending "connec.
tions," and deemed it his duty to select a suitable husband for
his daughter, and a proper match for his son, where settle-
ments could be made on both sides. He detested cadets and
midshipmen, lawyers,. doctors and clergymen. He had his
own views for "Bell." Mr. Granville was a merchant, in the
true meaning of the word, and he looked upon every man out-
side of the commercial profession as not belonging to his world,
and as a nobody. . He, believed in the English' nobility, noble
blood, and all that sort of thing. He also thought that there
might be a nobility in the United States ; but if there was any,
that no class could justjl lay claim to it except the commer-
cial class. A grea4 merchant was -an object of profound re-
spect: the President of the United States he regarded as the
principal Custom House officer in the nation, and he had a
contempt for all Government officers, high or low. He deem..
ed them a pack of useless suckers. There was one, class of
the world that he respected next to merchants-they were ac.-
tresses and actors. A celebrated English actress was a Mrs.
Granville, a century ago. Ile was descended from her. This
was the clue to the secret, that there was no actor or actress,
from Kean the elder to Vandenhoff, and Ellen Tree to Mrs.
Wilson and Miss Sheriff,! that he.did not invite to his huse.
James and Henry Wallack were his intimate friends. Hackett
found a banker in him when he needed one. In a word, no
actor or actress came to this country from England without a
letter of introduction to Mr. Granville. That was his weak-
ness,-if he had any.
When the ladies retired from the dinner'table Walter Gran-
ville went with them, and the conversation continued until a
late hour. Marion was delighted. Mr. Granville treated him
as if he had been the richest merchant in the city, conversed
with him, drew him out, made him athis ease, and yet not one
word was said about the store, his own. position, or business.
The shop was sunk, in the house of, Mr. Granville. It was
nearly ten o'clock when Marion took his leave, and when he
reached Bond street Mrs. Nordheim made him tell her all the
events of the dinner, and particularly all that Colonel Mac Neil
had said. ~But Colonel Mac Neil is is too important a person
to bring in at the close of a chapter.              --

VIGOR.

L

t I

51

~ CHAPTER X.
Colonel William Mac Neil- Duel of Mr,. Graham and Colonel Barton.
"Bnssy, pray tell me something about Colonel Mac Neil,
whom I met at the dinner at Mr. Granville's. yesterday," ex-
claimed Marion, at their early breakfast next morning toi Mrs.
Nordheim. "I am sure you know something of his previous
history."
"Not so much, perhaps, as you may imagine. What I do
know, I obtained from Mr.. Nordheim. - The fact is, the Colo-
nel is a very gallant man, and Tegards himself as quite a lady-
killer. He made love to me before I had been in New York
three weeks. I rather astonished him by repeating some of
his love speeches before him at dinner, when Mr. Nordheim
was present.  The gallant Colonel did not make -any more
sweet speeches to me, I can assure you. Mr., Nordheim was
excessively pleased with my tact, as he called it, and in grati..
tude, I suppose, for its display, told me somewhat of my gal-
lant gentleman's antecedents. The Colonel is Scotch, and of
a very good family. He must have been 'born somewhere
about the year 1800, and I have heard him say he was only
fourteen years old when his father, who commanded a regi-
ment of Highlanders at Waterloo, was slain. . The young Mao
afterwards emigrated to Canada with his mother, who married
a second husband, and ten years ago came to this city.  lie
was about twenty-one years of age, and had about ten thoa.-
sand pounds Sterling in money. By Mr. Granville's advice
he formed a partnership here and Went into the wine business
with a Mr. Gillespie, who had no capital but great experience.
Colonel Mae Neil is a dashing, fashionable man about town.
le goes into the best society, boards at the City Hotel, is a
manager at the City Assembly balls, and, though he has niade
some seductions, and. one of his victims he keeps as a mistress
in very good style, and has had two children by her, yet he is
well received wherever be goes, and he is engaged to be mar-
ried to the wealthy and accomplished Miss Grasper.
"If he spends money in so princely a manner, I should think
he would need to marry an heiress unless his business is a
source of great profit," remarked Marion.


52-

VIGOR.

"Mr. Nordheim says unless the Colonel marries money,
that his high flown game will soon he up, that he gambles tre-
mendously at Washington Hall every night. He is a good
hand at cards, I dare say, and it may be that his luck and skill
as a gambler is the secret of his having so much money to
carry on the war with. You know what a noise he made some
years ago as the second in a duel."
"No; I do not. . Never heard of it."
"It was a sad'affair. By the way, Marion, I do not wish to
prejudice you against Colonel Mac Neil. He is -a great friend
of both Mr. Granville and Qf my ,husband. -He is .a perfect
man of the world, and when you are a few years older, it will
be in his power-to be of great service to you.  I recommend
you to cultivate an intimacy with him, and receive any advan-
ces of a friendly nature on his part with cordiality."
"Thank you.   I will not forget your advice. But about the
duel ?".asked Marion.
"I had -nearly forgot it. A Mr. Graham, connected with
the Daily Courier, had some difficulty with Mr. Barton, who
is more famous as the husband of Cora Livingston, a daughter
of the great Edward Livingston, than any other-act of his life.
It led to a demand for satisfaction on the part of Barton.
Graham accepted the challenge. Barton, who was intimate
with Col. Mac Neil, requested him to act as his second. The
principals met, and Mac Neil's advice to Barton saved his life
and killed Graham."
"What was the advice?"
"Don't aim, Barton, but raise your pistol .to a dead level
with your stomach, and fire at the word."
"Mac Neil'must be a very cool sort of person on such occi.-
sions?"
""it is much easier for the secor'ds to be cool than it is for
the principals, I should suppose. This affair, and the noise
about it,.made Mac Neil quite a hero among the girls-.-and all
the young bloods about town, if they get into a quarrel when
drunk, go to consult Mac Neil about their honor when they are
sober. Keep on the right side of Colonel Mac Neil, Marion. I
feel that he will be of use to you some day. I did think that
Mr. Granville had an idea in his head to marry pretty Isa to
Mae Neil. 'I don't think so now." Why, Marion, how you
wince."
"I-nonsense! What difference would it make to me ?
But why would not Mr. Granville -marry Bell to Mac ?"  ''
" Because Mac is getting on too fast for Mr. Granville. He

4

VIGOR-.
wants Bell to marry a man who has got money and a steady
business. Don't you begin life by falling in love with that lit-
tle face. She is the most arrant little coquette in existence,
and don't know her own mind ten minutes. Or if you do
choose to let up a flirtation with her, don't make it serious,
for she will marry at ten minutes' notice, any man 'Pa'
chooses, and he will not choose you. Another prudent reason
for not falling in love with Isabella is this-Mr.. Granville
would make short work with your clerkship if it was to get to
his ears. Prenez garde."
Marion laughed, and' thanked Mrs. Nordheim for the Iform-
tion she had given him, and then hurried down to the office.

CHAPTER XI.
Cows and Mocking Birds in South Carolina-Tke French Cofee House
in Warren st., and its visitors,
NEARLY a year had gone by since the close of the last
chapter, and two years since the arrival of Marion in New
York. Not a week had passed without his writing a letter to
his parents, or receiving one from them, and every now and'
then, he would get some present from home, to remind him that
he Was not forgotten. He had remitted one hundred and sixty
dollars to his. father.  The latter acknowledged its receipt,
and while he thanked his son for sending it, declined to.use it
for his own purpose.
"We have no need of it, 'my son, but I have placed it where
it will grow-in other words-cows are worth' here at present
only eight dollars. I have bought and branded M M, twenty
cows, and have 'registered them in the parish as yours. Four
or five years hence my son will be quite a cattle proprietor.
I have taken - to Charleston four cages, each containing a
valuable mocking bird ; they will, be sent to you 'by the first
ship."
The ship arrived, and Marion gave one of the birds to
Wilson, the book-keeper, one to M'rs. Nordheim, one: to
Isabella Granville, and the fourth-Mr. Nordheim offered to
buy it. Marion refused to sell it, but begged Mr. Nordheim
to accept it, adding-
" I have already given one to Mrs. Nordheim."
"I aware of that, Marion, but I wish. you to procure the

p

a
i
*


54

VIGOR.

handsomest cage you can find,  Put my bird in it.  I will
give you the address to which I wish it taken; and you shall
accompany it with a note from me. I have -to ask an addition.
al favor. You need notmention the circumstance of the bird,
or any part of this conversation, or to whom I havd*given the
bird."-
"Certainly not, if you do not wish it."
As the office was closing that night, Marion asked Mr.-
Wilson if he would go and take a cup of coffee with him. The
offer was accepted, and they . strolled off to No. 9 Warren
street.  At-that time there was a French coffee-house! there,'
kept by a sleepy-looking Frenchman named Blinn. When Mr.
Wilson and Marion had taken their seats at one of the small
tables, Marion ordered coffee and omelettes for two from
Blinn himself, who attended to all orders. The order was
given in French. Mr. Wilson remarked it.
" Yes, I must confess that such is my anxiety to perfect my-
self in French, that I come here every chance I get to prac-
tice. There are some very remarkable men, Mr. Wilson, that
visit this place daily. Fitz Green Halleck, the poet, who has
rooms at 45 down the street ; Charles Fenno Hoffman, and
several others. I have become well acquainted with Mr. Hal-
leck, and have been to his rooms at Mr. Martine's, where he
has roomed for fifteen years. I like him very much. With
Mr. Hoffman I am not so well. acquainted. He must be pro
paring himself for death or the mad-house."
"Why do you think so ?"
"]Because I have seen him drink at one sitting, and that
not once, but a hundred timnes7-four or five cups of this French
coffee, as strong as lye ; but that is not all. He places a large
luip of sugar in a teaspoon, puts it across the top of his cup
over the. coffee,.then pours over it a wine glass of Kirchwas-
ser, and burns it, the sugar melting and running into the cof-
fee. It is a devil's dose, is it not ?"
"Yes, I should think so, if old Lucifer ever stimulates. I
should think a few such cups of coffee, with the burnt sugar
and Kirchwasser, would waken the old chap up."''
" While we are waiting for our omelette I propose tQ read
you a letter from my father," and Marion read the letter about
cows and mocking birds.
"Cows are cheap in South Carolina, are they not?"
" Extremely so. But it costs nothing to keep them. If my
father does as he says, (and I' never knew him do otherwise,) I
mnay own a hundred cows before five years are over."

Tell

VIGOR. 0
"It will cost some taoney and fodder to keep such a stock
in the winter," observed Mr. Wilson,
"Not a cent. Those cows will go off in the woods, and
perhaps not be seen until next spring. Then father will hunt
them upi for they will run with his stock. They will be found
with calves ; all the bull calves will be selected, fattened, and
sent to Charleston, where they will bring seven dollars each.
The heifer calves will be branded M. M., and turned adrift
again with their mothers and the bulls."
"1How do you manage to keep them out of your neighbor's
land?  Do they break down fences ?"
" Fences! Fences are somewhat rare in the great swamps
and forests in South Carolina. Our neighbors do as we do
with their cattle, and they feed themselves from one end of
the year to the other. 'We only keep up a few cows for milk-
ing purposes.  Why, we raise hogs and colts in the same
manner. What do you think 'of Mr. Nordheim's asking me for
a mocking bird extra, eh ?"
"II think he intended to give it to his mistress."
"His mistress !" and Marion jumped up;. "mistress! what,
does he keep a mistress ?"
"A mistress. By the Lord Harry I don't think re keeps, a
mistress, I think it more likely that he keeps three. or four.
You seem.perfectly astonished."
"I am, and can hardly credit it. His wife knows nothing
of it."
"I dare say not. At least I should presume it would not
be a very frequent or agreeable subject of conversation in the
family circle between man and wife.  Don't you remember
about four months ago asking me about a beautiful girl with
light hair that called to get some money ?"
"Very well.' She was a beauty, I do rememberr"
"That was one of the mistresses of- our worthy Mr. Nord-
heim, and she occupies a handsome two-story house in Broome
street, not far from Hudson.  Nordheim has had her about a
year. He picked her up somewhere in the country; and pays
house rent, furniture bills, &amp;c.' for her."
"It is a shame and a sin," said Marion,
",Not at all.  Nordheim* is rich, and the firm is coining
money. He can afford it, and if a man can't do what he pleases
with his own money, what is the world coming to in a-financial
point of view ? I dare say you will see the lady with your
own eyes, for I judge that the junior partner intends that you
shall carry the bird up to Miss Norris, for that is her name.


VIGOR.

I

Don't those birds cost your father some money ? I would not
take twenty dollars for the bird you gave me. I have him hung
up in Clark &amp; Brown's bar-room, and the chap goes it with a
perfect looseness."
"No, they are as thick at Nonck's Corners as robins are
here in the Spring. They build nests all about our house, and
as soon as they are hatched, we take the nest and put it into a
cage. The old birds follow, anA then they feed the young
birds in the cage until they are able to fly. Then we have to
be careful--for the old birds, when they find their young old
enough to fly, and unable to get out, go into the woods and
select some poisonous berries, which they administer, and kill
the little birds, if not prevented."
"That is queer, and-bad in a financial point of view. It is
getting late, and I must go," said Wilson.
Marion was extremely embarrassed when. he reached Bond
street. le had made a discovery in reference to Mr. Nord-'
heim that he would prefer not to have made. He felt guilty
himself, and when Mrs. Nordheim asked him what the matter
was, or if anything unpleasant had happened, he tried to laugh
it off, and only made matters worse. Finally, he voucluded
that come what would, he would keep the secret, and Mts-
Nordheim remarked, "Very well, Marion, you have made a
discovery of some kind that affects me, and you will not tell
,ne what it is, That is not brotherly. I am the test friend
you have in the world, and you ought to trust me as such."
When each retired for the night, there was a certain degree
of coldness. Marion felt that he must regain. her. confidence-
at any cost.
CHAPTER      XIUI.
The Home of the Kept Matress-The Opinion of/a Wife of her Husband's Follies.
TRUE to his word, the next-morning Mr. Nordheim, who was
absent from breakfast at his own house, met Marion at the office,
and handed him a note. It was addressed to "Miss C. Norris,
No. 591 Broome street."
"Did you get the cage as Iwished ?" he asked.
"I did, sir," replied Marion.
"Take the porter and go with it and the bird to the number
where this note is addressed. 'Send him off when you reach

'I.

pA

there, aid deliver the note yourself to the lady with. the bird
and cage," said Mr. Nordheim.
Not many hours elapsed before Marion was at the resi-
dence designated. He inquired for the lady, and a negro
girl received- the bird cage, and asked Marion  into the
parlor  He handed the note to the girl, and bade her take
it up to her mistress with the cage and bird. While she was
doing this errand, he had time to look around the parlor. It-was
-luxuriously furnished, a double parlor, with mahogany doors
between, whicl were furnished precisely alike. The walls were
covered with paintings, that at a glance Marion knew to be -by
the old masters. The carpets were so thick that you hardly
heard your own footstep. In both the front and back parlors
were centre tables of black Egyptian marble, and they were
Covered with books, bound in the most costly style of binding.
Sofas, lounges and ottomans were in every part of the parlor,
and covered with the most costly blue velvet. Marion had no
time for further examination, for the girl returned and said,
"Missus wants you to come up stairs." Marion followed her,
and was shown into a sleeping room extending the whole
width of the house on the front part of the second story. His
eye rented upon the same beautiful face that he had seen once
before, and he recognized her at-once. There was a splendid
bedstead in the room, but the hlady was dressed in a rich silk
dressing-gown, and reclined upon a lounge near one of the
windows. She raised her head as Marion entered. In her hand
she held the note, and by her side upon the floor was the cage
and bird.
"Oh it is You, Mr. Marion, you do not know how very glad
I am to see you. Mr. Nordheim has often spoke of you, and
I have to thank you for for this charming present. There,
don't say a word. I know all about it. Come and sit down by
me. Do you know that I had to threaten Mr. Nordheim before
he would consent that you should come up here I"
Marion bowed and took the seat.
"9I have not had my breakfast. -Do ring that bell, and you
must take a cap of coffee with me."
Marion was about to decline, but the impetuous girl declared
he should. The negress came in, and she ordered a double
breakfast. She gazed at Marion.
"How old are you ?"
"I shall be seventeen before many mouths are over."
" You aire handsome and good, and I shall like you very
much. There, don't blush and look foolish. Wait until yon

VIGOR.


VIGOR.
hear me through. You know my relations with Mr. Nordheim.
-There-don't say a word-that is enough.  Mr. Nordheini is
kind-very kind-yet he is very jealous. There are things
that I need-must have-I crave them. I will have them. I
crave knowledge. I read-read-read every thing that I can
get hold of.  You see what a quantity of'books I have gt"-.
(the room was littered up with-books~.)  I have read them all.
Mr.hNordheim says that you are learning different languages.
Is that so
Yes, madam- I am learning languages."
How many have you acquired ?"
"Two-Dutch and French. 'I am now learnIng German. I
nmean-to learn more before I have finished,"' observed Marion
in reply
That is capital. T am crazy to learn French, German, Spa-
nisb, and Italian. Now tell me, how do you manage ?"
Marion related to her his mode of Isarning a language.
"1You have given me a new idea, and I shall not lose it.
But now answer me another question. I cannot go about to
coffee houses and French places. How can I acquire the pro-
nunciationT I know-don't talk. I must have a teacher.
Now you can find me a proper person who can teach me
French, German, or Spanish. I know you can. Nordheim
says so, and he is willing that I shall have one of your selec-
.tion. Why, Marion, you are handsome! What a fool Nord-
hehm is, to be sure.* He might with reason be ten times more
jealous of you than any man he has ever brought. here yet."
Marion looked confused.
"You need not be afraid of me, Marion. I know your posi-
tion at the home of Mr. Nordhein  I will not mention the
name of that lady-it is too pure for my lips. I hope she is
Jappy. There-don't say any thing. You can serve me in
many ways. 'Will you ? That is enough. I frequently need
money. Nordheim will always give it to you, or I-will write
a note -to you when I want any special favor. Now about the
teacher. Will you find one -for me'?  Some oldish man who.,
is poor."  Marion promised that he would do so. "Find one,
if 'you can, who can teach me several languages-.&amp;a German,
Pole, or Russian. I understand those people speak three or
four languages equally well. Did you notice my piano in the
rear parlor? If I was dressed and down stairs I wonld play
and sing to you. Nordheim has had me taught me the piano,
and to sing-also to play on the guitar an accompaniment t'o
myself when I sing. Oh what pleasure ! I should not have

I

VIGOR.
been allowed to learn that, but I could have woman to teach
me those accomplishments. Pshaw ! what am I talking about.
You don't understand such restraints," said Miss Norris. Ma-
rion did, though. He was wiser than she thought. " What
delight that bird will give me! What shall I call him?  Oh,
I know-Marion. That's a good pame. I want you to get me
a quantity of books-will you ? You say 'Yes.' Iwill serd
you a list in, a 'note, and you mustget the money from Mr.
Nordheim. Look, here is my hand..riting. What do you
think of it? 'Neat and lady-like,' you .say'?  Will you be-
lieve me when I tell you that when Nordheim-when I be-
came acquainted with him, I could not write my own name
I have cause to be grateful to him for some things, if not for
others. Now I know you are anxious to get off to that horri-
ble office. Here is the breakfast. Help me tordevour that,
and then you may go. hNothtillthen.",She poured out a CUP
of coffee, made him eat some nice toast, and when he had fin-
ished said, "Now you may go, Marion, but have mercy upon
my mania to learn French, and get' me a teachersuitable to
my circumstances."  Marion promised, and soon after tookhis
leave. The reader who remembers chapter eighth of this book
will not need to be reminded that the country girl Clara Nor-
ris, .wh eighteen months previous had been brought by Mr.
ris wh0i  e
Nordheim to the city, and who was then innocent and igno-
rant, was now the luxuriously located, and the well read and
somewhat literary kept mistress. Nordheim had.bestowed
upon her every accomplishment that he could, consistently
with his jealousy of male teachers. Miss Norris had led a life
of seclusion, and devoted herself to study and to reading. Her
mind was maturing for the most deadly purposes. She was
armed with beauty, and needed but the sharper weapons
which the mind's accomplishment would give er, to make her
vengeance felt whenever she should repay upon  ancthe in-
jury she had received from his, sex.  Mariotrefected well
upon his position as he walked from Brond street down tud.
son, and when he reached St. John's Park oneof the gateswas
open, and he passed in and took a seat in an arbor. There he
remained over an hour, endeavoring to satisfy his ownucon-
science as to what was right and proper for him to do uIler
the peculiar circumstance in which he was placed. "I am
'living in the house with~ the pure wife of my employer. Shen
is like a sister to me, raid here I am forced by her husindw
to be a sort of platonic friend to his kept mistress bl N o
mind, Marion Monck. Do what is right. You are ohligedt

0


do what your employer civilly asks you to do,. but as the
only person affected is the wife--and situated as I am, in 'the
house with her, I will not lose her confidence, come what  rill'
If she acts upon what I shall tell her, why then, there will be
a pretty general smash up and breaking of things, and I must
take my'chance." He found Mr. Nordheim at the office. The
latter quietly enquired if he delivered the bird and note, and
when answered in the affirmative, made no further comment.
Mr. Wilson, the book-keeper, nodded to Marion and whis-
pered, "Been up in Broome street, eh ? Expensive in a finan-
cial point of view, eh ?" Marion smiled and went at his work.
When evening came he hurried home, and although anxious,
yet as he opened the door of the tea-room in a cheerful man-
ner, he caught the attention of Mrs. Nordheimn, who congratu-
lated him in being in .so good Spirits. "I.am, dear Bessy,
and I will tell you why."
She gazed into-his face a moment, and then said, "Tell me
why.".
"Because I am placed in an awkward situation. I have
not shown that confidence in you that I ought to have done.
Come what will, after tea I want you to go up in my room. I
have some writing to do, and when we get up there you shall
know all.". She smiled. Tea was soon over, and Marion went
to his rpom.  He was soon followed by Mrs. Nordheim.
Now be seated, Bessy, and I will tell you all that I have
kept from you. It may make trouble, but you shall never say I
concealed any thing from you, in any way or shape, or look
coldly upon me as you did last night." Marion took her hand
and told her all. Every thing that Nordheim-..her husband
had said and done, and all about the beautiful mistress and her'
well furnished home.  She never spoke 'a word. "Well,
Bessy, what is the matter ? Why don't you say something ?
Are you angry with me ?"
No, no. God bless you, Marion. You have made me very,
very happy by what you have told me. I could not bear the
thought that my loved brother-my Marion, my friend, that I
would trust with life, could be a traitor and keep back any se-
crets from me. No-angry ? No. Why should I be with
you? But I should'have been outraged if you had not told
me. So they would get you into the meshes of that lady,
would they'?"
Marion was astonished, and asked, Well, Bessy; it don't
seem to annoy you at all, what I have told you ?"
She mailed. "Brother mine,- I have known it all along.

60

VIGOR.

I
I
1I

VIGOR.

61

All I cared about was your learning what- I already knew, and
keeping it a secret from .me that you did know it.  As for
that girl--or Mr. Nordheim, I don't care the weight of a
feather what they do. Did I 'love him,,I might feel different.
I married him to obtain two thousand dollars' a year. It is
settled. upon me, and as long as I act right it cannot be altered.
Let him  do as he pleases. Keep as many women as. he
pleases. Seduce as many girls as he chooses, or corrupt' as
many married women as he sees fit. It is none of my business
so long as he don't sport them in my face, or bring them into
my house. Now that perfect confidence is restored -between
YOU and me, I rather like the idea that Mr. Nordheim should
have selected you to get books and language teachers for Miss
Clara. It will be extremely funny for us to know how my moral
husband progresses. But Marion, mind you "-what she was
gto say-whether to caution Marion against leing en-
trapped in the golden hair of Miss Clara, it is not our province
to reckon. "Marion, you may kiss me to-night as long as you
please."  Marion drew her upon' his knees, unfastened her
hair, and availed himself of her offer, saying, as' he almost
smothered her with his loving caresses, "Dear Bessy, I im-
agined you would be outrageously angry with Mr.' Nordheim
and the lady, and that at least you would get a divorce or do
something very dreadful. I am agreeably disappointed?"
"Marion, you need not have had any. such fears. He is not
Worth the trouble. Now stop hissing me. Go to work at your
desk.  It is nearly twelve o'clock, and I must go to bed, for I
am weary and tired. Good night,, Marion; you have shown
that you are a dear good brother, and I will never be angry
again with you a moment. So she told you that you were very
handsome    She is a fool, and ought to 'know that you are
merely a child."-
She left the room, and he went to work with his pen.
CHAPTER XII.
TThe Marriage of Thoma3. Granville-General Jackson-The party from
New York.
THE.E was a gay party assembled in an old fashioned dwell-
ingin he ityof  altmor, o  Chistaseve, 18.  The
building was in the old portion of the monumental city, and
was known as " the Castle." Few of our readers that have


62                      VIGOR.
visited that city, but what wili remember it. The rooms were
spacious, and crowded with guests, who comprised some of the
oldest and best families in Maryland. There-was more beauty
in that assembly than had been gathered together for many
years. Washington, the capital, had sent down several guests,
among whom was the venerable President, whose slight figure
an4l stern military aspect made all who approached him pause.
with respect and reverence. It was General Jackson. Several
senators and members of the House, of Representatives had
come down with him.
. There had been a wedding at five o'clock that afternoon in
the Cathedral, and Archbishop Eccleston had performed the
ceremony which made Thomas Granville the husband of Cathe-
rine Pinckney. The venerable edifice was crowded with spec-
tators, who had been invited to the wedding, for Granville had
troops of friends, and the beautiful and accomplished bride
had been the belle of Baltimore. She had refused scores of
offers, for she had long given her heart to Tom. To be refused
by Kate Pinckney was a part of a Baltimore young man's edu-
cati6n. His education was not deemed complete unless he
had offered his hand and been refused by Kate. The more
intimate friends had. been invited to a large evening party at
the Castle, given by the venerable grandmother of the bride,
whose age was nearly ninety, and yet she-was as gay and as
lively as any one of the youngest in that gay party. She was
the widow of one of the signers of the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, but had outlived her worthy husband half a century.
She was rich, and although eccentric, and at times very penu-
rious, yet when a favorite grandchildImarried, she spared no
pain-:;.or expense to make a brilliant display. A daughter had
married one of the most gallant of our commodores in the last
war, and front this marriage came seven lovely girls and two
sons. It was one- of those beautiful girls whose marriage had
taken place that day.
All the other sisters were present, and their names were
somewhat remarkable. The mother had named the younger
daughters after leading men.,There was Miss Madison Pinck-
ney, next to Kate in years; then came Miss Monroe Pinek-
ney, Clay Pinckney, andrCalhoun Pinckney. The sisters,. from
the eldest, Kate, to the youngest, Calhoun Pinckney, were not
less celebrated for their beauty than their superior education
and accomplishments. Their father, when alive, had been a
devoted friend of General Jackson, and the mother was not
less so after his death. Hence the presence of the President

VIGOR,

OF

63

on this occasion. He was in good spirits, and seemed as happy
as though no cares of State, no United States Bank, or no dis-
union troubles preyed upon his mind. He even danced areel
with the venerable old dame, whose age lacked but five years
of reaching a century. The President offered his congratula-
tions to the bride and her husband with a hearty good-will, and
observed to the bridegroom,
I Tom, I understand that you are about to engage in mer-
cantile business in New York. I hope you will be successful;
but merchandizing is but a species of gambling, and should your
'not succeed,.come and see me."
Tom had visited Washington---he had told stories and anec-
.dotes, sung songs at the President's fireside, and made many
a glomy, anxious hour pass merrily to the old hero, with whom
he became a great favorite. "Come and se6 me " meant
woi-lds when it came from Andrew Jackson's lips ; and when,
not many years after, Tom did go and se the old man at the
White House, he made him' dine with him; and when Tom
felt almost discouraged at his future prospects being so gloomy,
and was about leaving after the dinner, General Jackson told
him to wait a moment. Tom complied, and walked to one of
the windows that overlooked the -Potomac. The President
touched his elbow.
"Tom, that recitation you gave after dinner, which yo say
is from a play of our friend Howaid Payne, was very good--
very capital. Appropriate to Jou, Tom, eh ?  Pronounce it
again here. I like it."
Tom repeated:
"I can believe that beauty, such as thine
ay possess a thousand fascinatingsnares to lure the
Wavering-and confound the weak; but, what is his
Honor, that a sigh can shake, or his virtue, that a
Tear can move? Truth.,valor, justice, constancy
Of soul, these are the attributes of manly natures.
Be woman e'er so beauteous, manwas born for
Nobler purposes than to be her slave."
"So he was, Tom--so he was. You and Kate have parted.
Very bad*'d----d bad. But, cheer up. What do you intend
to do? Brother won't help you, eh ?"
"No, General, he will not. I beli*e I am abandoned by
all.-.have got no friends. Don't know what I shall do, unless
Ii turn actor."
"Tu  would make a first rate actor, Tom, but wait a while.
You are wild, Tomn---everybody says so----I think so myself.
But you must keep straight with me. Haive you any money 2"

I


VIGOR.             05

"No, General, not fifty cents."
I will give you thirty dollars-lend it to you. To-marrow
I 1will send your name into the Senate for confirmation as
consul to the second city in France. Here is the money to get
out of this place with. Come and see me before you go abroad.
You will have plenty of friends as soon as your appointment
is in the Globe. Good-bye."
But we are getting in advance of our narrative. Our read-
ers must return from this little digression to the wedding'
party and supper. -All $he Granville family were there, ex-
cept Mrs. Pitt Granville. Mr. W. Pitt Granville, his son Wal-
ter, and his daughter Isabel, had come on from New York to
be present at the wedding. Isabel was one of the six brides.
maids of aunt Kate..-her sisters and Miss Benson making the'
other five. Walter was making the best use of his time with
Miss Madison Pinckney, with whom it may not be out of place
to mention that he was desperately in love-and these young
people were* actually engaged to be married. This was a secret
kept from the elder Granville, who would-have murdered his
son in cold blood if he had suspected such a thing for an in-
stant. Miss Margaret Benson, a daughter of Colonel Benson,
had come on with the party from New York, as a friend of
Isabella and her aunt Kate. She acted as one of the brides-
inaids, as before stated.
'Tom had six chosen friends from New York who acted as
his groomsmen. The first was Colonel W. Mac Neil; the oth-
ers were Doctor;Carnochan, a young surgeon who at that pe-
riod had but little else to do than attend weddings, or any
other amusing affair, though now the leading surgeon of the
country, if not of the world. A third was an Englishman of
good family, a Mr. Sidney ilerbert Cedar, whd wrote tales for
magazines, and gained by  hook or crook a living." The fourth
was Mr. Francis Popinjay, who lived off his wits and his wife's
allowance from out of a bankrupt estate swindled out of the
Government by a notorious tea importer. The fifth was a cha-
racter well known in New York as Colonel Le Grand Peacock,
and the sixth was Walter Granville, Tom's nephew.
All the New York visitors were putting up 'at Barnum's
Hotel, and late at night, when the party at the Castle was
broken up, another elegant repast was spread by direction of
Mr. Granville, under Barnum's superintendence. Some of the
guests kept it up until daylight, in the long dining-room of the
hotel
It was decided that immediately after the wedding, the

bridal party should return to New York, and then the bride
and groom should go to housekeeping at once, in a housa pre-
pared by Mr. W. P. Granville, and there .spend their honey-
moon. We ought here to mention, that the engagement be-
tween Thomas Granville and Kate Pinckney had 'been of some
duration. It would have been still longer, had not Mr. Gran-
ville senior opened a negotiation with the venerable grandmo-
ther of the" bride. Mr. W. Pitt Granville agreed that imme-
diately after the wedding he would take Tom into the firm of
Granville and Nordheim, and give him an interest in the busi-
ness; and the relict of the signer of the Declaration, who -was
a shrewd business woman in her way, agreed to place $25,000
in the concern for Tom, if he kept steady and devoted to busi-
ness one year. This proved a prudent and safe clause.
The elder Granville was delighted with the wedding. He
saw hope for his favorite brother, "Master Tom," as he called
him, and he never dreamed.that Tom would sport with such
brilliant prospects, or pursue a course that would dash his
hopes to the ground. The elder Granville confessed to Col-
onel Mac Neil that he had never witnessed a bridal that opened
with such brilliant prospects as that of his brother. Tom was
gifted, clever and amiable, and although somewhat eccentric
and extremely lazy, yet Mr. Granville concluded that when.he
became the husband of the brilliant, beautiful, and well de-
seended. Kate Pinckney-one who brought money to him and
a powerful connexion--one who actually worshipped the very
ground which Tom trod upon, and whom Tom professed to love
deeply and devotedly in return, they would be happy. These
were hopeful prospects for the new beginners in married life;
and what would have been the fate of any one of the brilliant
crowd at that wedding, ifhe or she had prophesied that ere one
year had passed, Tom would have left business and his brother,
.separated from his wife, so recently a bride, and that in. that
space of time she would have applied for a divorce, and that
ere two years had passed, it would have been granted by the
Legislature of Maryland. Such is life, under the most happy
auspices.
'I'he-morning after the wedding, all of the party that had
come on from New York returned thither with the bride and
groom ; and as soon as they arrived in that city, Mr. and Mrs.
Tom Granville left for Niagara Falls.

Iv

VIGOR-*


10

66

VIGOR-

. /

CHAPTER XIV.
The Supper at the City Botel--The Count Falsechinski'
MAnioN did not go to Baltimore to attend the wedding of
Thomas Granville, although the latter gave him a cordial invi-
tation to do so. His opinion of Tom was not very flattering to
that gentleman in a business point of view. He thought that
Tom was gifted, could tell a good story'and sing a song very
prettily ; but in all other respects he regarded him as a very
light and silly fellow. le had a good excuse for not accepting
the invitation to the wedding.. In the first, place the elder
Granville would not hhve allowed Marion to leave the counting
room when he himself was absent. He was now seventeen
years of age--almost fully developed in stature, and 'his fea-
tures possessed a dignity that made, him appear older than he
really 'Was. Two years and a half in the countinor-roon had
made quite a change in the South Carolina boy. He -had been
promoted step by step for his devotion to business, and now he
ranked next to Mr. Wilson, the head clerk or book-keeper.
Marion entered vessels and goods at the Custom House when
they came consigned.to the firm; he made sales of merchand-
ize, purchased produce for foreign orders, and chartered ves-
sels when needed. He also wrote most of the domestic busi-
ness letters of the firm, and not a few foreign ones.  He had
assisted Mr. Wilson so often with his books, that he told Ma-
rion as a great mark of his esteem and respect, "Marion, if I
were to die, the best thing the firm could -do in a financial
point of view, would be to put you in my place.  You- can
keep th9 book's as well as I can."
Mr. Nordheim did not go to tho wedding. He was obliged
to remain and sign checks and papers during the absence of
Mr. Granville. Marion, since his interview with Miss Norris,
had received several notes from her, giving him  commissions
to purchase books, papers, journals, and many other things.
He had frequently taken them up to. her himself, and' some-.
times sent a note, with the article ordered, by the porter.. Mr.
Nordheim had frequently given him money to pay for such or-
ders, and sometimes two hundred dollars were called-for in
one sum. He never refused a demand from that quarter, and

H
I
'

67

VIGOR.

thanked Marion for relieving him of trouble and bother. He
was really grateful.
Marion had made several attempts to procure a proper per-
son as teacher of languages to Miss Norris, but the summer
and autumn had passed since the request was made, and he
had been unsuccessful. He almost despaired of finding one,
and he wrote an apologetic note to that effect. The reply was,
"Don't give it up. I will wait."
"(After the return of Mr. Granville from the wedding at
Baltimore, Marion was relieved from many duties that became
his while Mr. Granville was absent, and he found more leisure
to attend to his own studies and amusements.~ About a month
after the marriage, he was invited by Colonel Mac Neil to pay,
him a visit at his room in the City  notel, and to meet a few
friends. Marion accepted the invitation, and at nine o'clock,
was at the place designated. The Colonel had invited a dozen
people to a supper which was arranged to come- off in his own
parlor, for he had a handsome suite of rooms in the City Ho-
tel, which was then kept by Chester Jennings,.and was the
principal hotel in New York. It was here that all the great
balls and famous dinners came off, and it was at the City Hotel
that strangers of any note stopped when they came to the city.
The supper was 'truly a recherche affair, and did credit to
the Colonel's good taste in ordering it. It is -a secret that few
men possess, but Col. Mac Neil was - an old traveller. . There
were present at it several bloods and fast young men of the
town, and they drank, sang, and seemed to enjoy themselves
amazingly. Dr. Carnochan was at the table, and so was Mr.
Cedar, the story writer; and to these gentlemen Marion was
formally   resented. There was a Mr. Wolcott, a son of an
ex-Governor of Connecticut,. a foreign count with an unpro-
nounceable name, and an Irish gentleman, that Mae introduced
to Marion as Mr. John O'Doemall. After the supper had been
disposed of, the Colonel introduced cards, and parties were
made up in different parts, of the room. Marion was- seated.
near the foreign Count, and as he noticed that he did not seem
disposed to join himself to any of the parties at the card tables,
he determined to form a more intimate acquaintance, and asked,
Count, do you not intend to play?"
"No sare."
I believe I was introduced to you in a somewhat informal
manner by our host, but your name -escaped me. May I ask
"Thuo e Coun Atdolphus Falsechinski, at your servie, sare."

I


68

VIGOR.

Count, I am really pleased to make your acquaintance ;
and Marion opened upon him in French. The Count spoke it
like a French native. Dutch-low Dutch came next. That
the Count was at home in, and you could not doubt but that
be had lived in the Netherlands from boyhood. The Count
was equally pleased to find some one who could speak Nether-
land Dutch, as it was a somewhat rare accomplishment in New
York.
"Pray, sir Count, are you a Dutch Count ?"
"No sare.-I am a Polish nobleman. I left my own country
after the late revolution."
"Then you speak other languages-perbaps better, if that
were possible, than you do Dutch, French, or English."
"Sare, I speak the English, the French, the German, the
Russian, the Danish, the Spanish, the Italian, the Portuguese,
the Holland Dutch, and of course the language. of my own
beautiful loved countrywhich is Polish. I am also a good
Greek as well as LIatin scholar, and having resided in Greece
some time, I speak the modern Greek."
Marion bowed to the Count with the most profound respect,
and the thought came to him that it was extremely unfortunate
that the Count was not poor, as he would be just the person to
engage as langua-ge teacher to Miss Norris. He took a good
look at the Count, and examined his dress. le wore white
pantaloons. It was January, and the night was bitter cold;
but Counts and other distinguished foreigners are permitted
to do queer things. Still Marion would not have been much
less surprised had the Count wore no unmentionables at all.
The coat was a military arrangement, and buttoned close up to
the throat. Although it was warm in the room, yet the coat
clasped its owner closely, and showed no signs of unbuttoning.
Conversation commenced again, and Marion devoted himself to
the Count until the party broke up. Occasionally he watched
the hack of the players, and particularly the Colonel. He
could not exactly tell who was the winner, until he heard the
Count remark,,
"Ah, what a happy dog ! The Colonel Mac Neil has won
three thousand dollars this evening. It will pay for many
suppers."
As the guests of the Colonel were passing through the ball
of the hotel, Marion found himself walking by 'the side of the
handsome Count.
"Do you go up or down town ?" he asked.
" Up," replied the Count.

v "I

VIGOR.OR
"And as I am going the same .way, suppose we keep each
other company
"It will give me the very greatest of pleasure' to do so,"
said the Count ; and so they walked up Broadway. It was a
bitter cold night. Marion wore a thick overcoat,- bat before
the two pedestrians had got as far as Canal street, he was al-
most perished. The Count 'had no cloak or overcoat, but he
did not seem to feel the cold.- Marion chatted away about the
parties with whom they had spent the 'evening, and the Count
gave him a great quantity of very useful information. He was
quite indignant that the young blades who lost their money
should have been so green as to lose it to Colonel Mao Neil.
"I am sure, Count, from some of your remarks, that you
understand 'bluff' better or as well as any gentleman who was
in that parlor. How comes it then that you did not play and
win some money yourself-?"
The Count replied that there were many reasons, and some
day perhaps Marion would be convinced that one reason alone
was enough to prevent his playing.
The wind blew down Broadway so cold and so piercing, and
withal so wild and fierce, that Marion remarked it could not
have long left the region of the. frozen North, where 'icebergs
.abounded.  On, on they went up Broadway.     Prince and
Houston streets were passed, and when thqy came to the cor-
ner of Bond street, Marion stopped, remarking,
"Well, Count, we must part here, for I turn up this street
to the Bowery."
"So do I," answered the Count.
The weather seemed to become more intensely cold. They
reached the residence of Mr. Nordheim. Again Marion stop-
ped-so did the Count. "At' last I am home," said the for-
mer. " How much farther are you going, Count ?" demanded
Marion.
"Me ?-.well, I really don't know. I shall walk down town
again, and if I do not find some place open that keeps open all
night, I shall have to keep walking, unless I get so very cold
as to make it necessary for me to warm mny toes  the watch-
house."
M Varion was thunderstruck. "Count, I wish you to come in.
I have a good fire in my room. It is too cold to talk out here."
The Count declined.
" Psha ! no nonsense with me--you don't know me. Youn
can rest yourself a few moments, and then if you wish 'to go,
you shall. It is near two o'clock.

i
it


VIGOR

VIGOR.

The Countifollowed Mariou into the house, and with little
 noise they ascended to his room. There was a cheerful fire in
the grate. Candles were on the table ready to be lighted, and.
in addition there was a light supper waiting for Marion.
"Seat yourself, Count, and be at home."
The Count drew a chair to the fire, gave a slight shiver, and'
remarked, as though he had just found it out, "It is quite cool
to-night."
"cDecidedly," said Marion, who had got off his overcoat, and
had taken a seat in a cozy cushioned rocking-chair. "Now,
Count, I want you to deal frankly with me. I am of the opin.-
ion that you have no room to go to to-night."
"You are perfectly correct. Such is the fact."
"Excuse me, Count, I do not wish to pry into your affairs;
but when a gentlemanly person like yourself makes such an
admission, it is high time that some friend should find out what
it means."
"You are right. You noticed that I ate very heartily to-
night at the supper ?"
"I did-and wQndered at it.-
"This night food passed my lips for the first time in three
days."
"Count, Count, this is too bad !" and Marion looked at the
supper. The Count understood it.
No, no. I have ate enough for three days more."
"How is it that I find you in such company, and without a
home to go to ?"
"Simply this, that I have kept up appearances to the last.
Col. Mae Neil knew me under other circumstances. He knows
tlpat I can handle cards better than he can. He knows that I
am too poor to play. He invited me to-night, with the under..
standing that if he was beat by any of his rich opponents, I was
to take his place, he was to furnish me with means, and my
share of the plunder would have been whatever he chose to
give me. He was lucky all the evening, and my services were,
not needed. I was too proud to even tell the person whose
supper I had eaten, that I had not a cent, or a place to lay my
head to-night. Had I done so, I dare say he would have
handed me a five, as he would have- done to a beggar, but
would never have met me as an equal again."
"Count, do you know that you cannot get out of this room
to-night ?"
The Count insisted that he would go-that he was sure that
he should be a trouble, and made a thougnd apologies.

I

"I would cheerfully let you have money to-night, Count,
but no hotel is open, and I really have business for you to do
in (ge morning."
" Business for me !" the Count repeated, as though anything
for him to do was an utter, and very absurd idea., He had lost
all hope.
"Yes. Business-occupation.   Something that will em-
ploy your time, and that will give you an income that will sup-
port you like a gentleman, as I believe you are. Yonder is a
large double bed-you have got to occupy one side, I the
other."
The Count would not-he would sit by the fire, But no.--
Marion would not consent to anything but that the Count should
immediately undress and go to bed. The Count was in de-
spair. He would not undress-he would lie down upon the
carpet, but he would not trespass so much upon the kindness
of Mr. Monck. Marion became really angry, and the Count
saw that it was so. He rose from his seat, and with quiet dig-
nity, said,
"Be it so. But you might have spared -me from showing
my disgrace." As he said this he slowly unbuttoned his coat
and removed it from his body, and burst into tears.
So did Marion. "1My poor Count, is it possible !"
The Count was vestless and shirtless. Not a rag covered
him but that old military coat and the close-fitting military
stock. He quietly tok off the pair of white pantaloons and
his boots. He had not even a pair of stockings.
"Do not be, angry ith me, Mr. Monck. This is not my
seeking.-you made me do it ;" and as Marion continued silent,
he added, " I ought not to have come here-,.and then I should
not have been exposed."
"Exposed !" repeated Marion. "Why, Count, you don't
know me., Thank God, you are not far from my size. Now
Count, I want you to oblige me ;" and heopened a bureau, and
took from it two pair of thick woolen under shirts. "Put
them on, Count."  Two pair of woolen drawers. "Put them
on." A pair of thick socks, and last a fine linen shirt wer
laid across the chair. "All must go on."
The Count consented.
" Now these pantaloons...-this vest, Count.. Last,.not least,
this coat. Here is a new stock. Now Couiit, don't stop yet-..
I am master here. Put on this cloak-I never wear it. Now
Count, you can take all' these things off, and go to bed'as soon
as you please, but all have toe go on in the morning ; and to

71

1
i~

70


72                VIGOR.

relieve your mind of all obligation, let me say this.-that be-
fore to-morrow night I mean that you shall have employment.
Then, if you choose, you can pay me."
The Count was leaning his- head on a, char, crying. -*e
could bear up with the thermometer 'at twenty degrees below
zero, but the kindness of a heart that beat at ninety in -the
shade melted him. He was like a child. "Don't laugh at'
me, Count," continued Marion, who delicately wished to spare
!j11A  the Count's feelings, "but I have done you -the most gross in-
justice; and I beg your pardon a million of times."
"You, Mr. Monck? Why, in what manner
"Tell me, Count, you really wore those white pants this
cold January night because you had no other ?'
Certainly,: but they were respectable, and no one would
notice them at a party."
"Why, Count, I think a hundred thousand times more. of
you than I did before I knew all this. I did you gross injus-
tice about those pants. I never for a moment dreamed of the
real state of the case.' I supposed you were a stuck-up for-
eigner, that wanted to come some new dodge over us unsophis-
ticated Yankees, and out-do us; and that you had put on those
white pants to astonish th3 crowd. You did astonish me.
Some day, Count, you will tell me how all this has come about.
Not to-night. Now let's to bed, and get' a good though short
night's sleep, for it is after three o'clock."
Both slept better than usual-the one with the sweet con-
sciousness that he had performed a good action; the other,
that he had found a true friend and some comfort in his dreary
walk. What passed in the morning in that room must be left
to another chapter.

CHAPTER~

xv.

The ountgets a Place.
Tn sun was pouring his most brilliant beams into the room
of Marion Monck when he awoke the morning after the supper
at the City Hotel. He heard breathing near him, and as he
turned his eyes to the spot from whence the curious noise pro-
ceeded, he saw the.pale face of the Count. He was buried in
deep sleep. Marion then recalled all the circumstances of the
past night. He immediately arose, dressed himself without

VIGOR.73

making any noise,' and descended to the breakfast room.
There he found Mrs. -Nordheim, who received him very cor-
dially; and then enquired, " Who in. the world, Marion, did you
bring home with you last night?  You were out very late."
Marion took her hand and commenced an apology.  She inter-
rupted him. "Stop all that. I do not need any explanation. I
have the most unbounded confidence in you, Marion, and am
perfectly satisfied that when you do any thing out of the, usual
course of things, it is capable of being properly explained."
"But I must tell you the whole story."
Mrs. Nordheim listened with the most profound attention
until Marion came to the part where he had to tell of the
Count's real destitution, and then she cried in sympathy.
" Poor fellow! and to bear up so bravely, too! We must
do some thing for him, What can be done ?"
" Leave it to me, dear Bessy. I have a plan in my head,
but have no time to detail itto you now."
"Don't attempt it. Go up and- call the Count down to
breakfast. I have a nice one all ready, and it needs but an
extra plate, or he can take Mr. Nordheim's place. He did not
come home last night, and I suppose he will breakfast down
town to-day, or in-Broome street. Never mind."
Half an hour later the Count was seated at the breakfast-'
table. He was a fine-looking fellow, about Marion's size, and
the clothes he had received made him look much better than
he did the night previous in the white pants. His moustache
and imperial were properly arranged, his hair carefully
combed, and he was altogether a different person. His con-
versation was amusing, and Bessy Nordheim     was much
pleased with him. Breakfast was over.
" Now, Count, I expect you to go down with me, and as I am
late, I must hurry you."  Marion sent the girl up for his cloak
as well as overcoat, and after the Count had flung the cloak
over his person, they left for Broad street.
Mr. Nordheim was already at the store, and alone in his
private office. Marion entered, passed the usual compliments
of the day, and, after closirig the door, asked Mr. Nordheim if
he could have t few moments' private conversation with him.
" Unquestionably, Marion. Is there any thing the matter at
the house ?" said he, somewhat startled.
"Nothing, except that I took a guest there last night, en-
tirely. unauthorized."
,*" Is that all ?" and Mr. Nordheim looked listlessly out of the
window. Marion continued, and did not atop until he "had
4

Itt
1't
fir?


74

VIGOR.

given in detail all that could operate favorably for the Count,
adding, "You know, sir, Miss Clara has been very anxious for
a person to teach her languages. I think this is the very man,
-iff-it meets your approval."
Mr. Nordheim was wide awake.   "You have said nothing
to the person about Miss Norris ?"
"Not a word."
"Nor to her about the Count ?"
"How could I?   I have not seen her."
"True, true. Where is the person ?"
"'Seated in the front office."
"1Stay where you are. I will go and have a look at him."
Marion remained. Mr. Nordheim was absent but an instant,
and then he returned and resumed his seat, and reflected a
moment.
"What do you propose to do in the matter, Marion?  He
seems a very nice person., Is he capable, think you?"
"I have no doubt about that, and I think that he is in such
need that he will be very faithful to you, sir, if you pay him
pretty liberally for his services."
"Indeed. You may be right. Suppose you engage him,
then. Hire him for the office."
"For the office ?" repeated Marion, in surprise.
"Yes, sir. Engage his services at fifty dollars a month, to
copy, translate, or do any work required about the counting-
room, and make one of the conditions that he shall teach Miss
Norris any language that she wishes to learn. I suppose he
can support himself very well on six hundred dollars a year,
and I will have it charged to my private account,  Ii. will
speak to Mr. Granville about the matter, and you can tell Mr.
Wilson to give him a deskand find something for him to, do.
Draw a check for fifty dollars, and give him in advance, and
take his receipt. When this is done, youhad better take him
up to Miss Norris. No. Go up yourself, and see what she
thinks of it, and if she agrees, the Count can go to give her
the first lesson to-morrow."
Mr. Nordheim was a prudent man; if he paid for teaching
he meant to make the most of the teacher.
"When you get things fixed, Marion, you can let me know."
What tfe junior partner said to the senior, rests with them.
MArion informed Mr. Wilson that the Count Falsechinski was
to be a clerk from that date, and then introduced them to each
other, first telling Mr. Wilson all about the Count, and after
he had asked the Count if six hundred dollars a year would

Ii
I

75

keep him afloat, the Count could not contain his joy. Re was
almost annoying in his expressions of gratitude. "Keep calm
Count, and wait here until I return."
Marion went at once to the residence of Miss Norris, in.
formed her of his success, atid told her that now she could
learn ten languages, if it pleased her to do so. He informed
her of all that had passed.  "Poor fellow, I know I shall
like him, and you may tell Mr. Nordheim that I thank him
very much. When will he come up ?"
"1To-morrow."
"iOh, no. Send him up this afternoon."
Marion returned to the office, where he found the Count al-
ready at work translating some invoices.
"Count,I have some other work for you to do. The junior
partner, Mr. Nordheim, has a relative that he wishes'. to be
taught French and other languages, if she wishes it. You will
go there this afternoon. I will give you a note, and you can
commence yourinstructions immediatelyy"
I" 1 like that very much, indeed."
"You will devote all the time necessary to the young lady,
and purchase such books as she may need. You will get the
moneyfrom me. Here is a receipt for you to sign for your
first month's wages, and here is fifty dollars; and I also rel
commend you to get a boarding-house without any delay."
The Count promised to do ary and every thing.  Marion
gave him a letter to the lady at No. 591 Broome street, and he
delivered it that day, and then returned to the office.  Mr.
Wilson did not like the new arrangement.  He was intensely
-   English, and hated foreigners, particularly if they had mous-
taches.
"4I will make that fellow do more work than he ever did be".
fore, but I am sorry he is coming into the office. I don't mind
his teaching the young woman, although that is very bad, .in a
financial point of view."
The Count selected a boarding-place in John street before
night, and gave Marion a very pressing, invitation to come and
see him.  The latter promised to do so the. very first oppor-
tunity.
"Mr. Monck, I have no words that cair express my gratitude
to you.  Last night I was almost in despair.  I meditated
suicide. I met you-I found rest--clothes-food-an income
  and a home, and a bright prospect of independence.  What
oan Ido for you ?  What canlIsay ?"
" Say nothing at all, Count. Go to work with a good. wili

I I

jut
it'
IIi,
it'
fI~
Ii
1~tj
iii

VIGORL


76

Teach that young lady all that you know in languages. Be
faithful in that quarter, for your income of six hundred dollars
is more for what is expected of you there, than for office
work."
"1I know that already, Mr. Monck, and rest assured I will
tpach as no teacher ever taught pupil before, and I will do all
that can be found for me to do at the office.  God bless you,
I say again and again."
CHAPTER XVI.
Tom Grqnville's Extravagance-Washington Hall, aird an evening
at a Faro Bank.
AGREEABLY to the engagement made between old Mrs. Chase
and Mr. Pitt Granville, Thomas became a partner of the firm
a month after his marriage.  Mr. Nordheim agreed to it, on
one condition, that his share of the profits was to continue the
same, viz: one half. It was a generous act on Mr. Granville's
part, to relinquish his own half share or any portion of it to
his brother, but he did so--to what extent was only known to
the brothers.  The style of the firm  remained unchanged.
We have already stated that Mr. Granville had rented a house
and furnished it previous to the marriage of his brother.  To
this house. which was located in Chanibers street, the new
married couple removed on their return from Baltimore. The
house was crowded with visitors, for Tom invited every body
that he had ever known, to come and see ,im, and he gave a
dinner.party every day of the week, and before March had
given two large parties at night, and the doings got into the
newspapers. Mrs. Thomas Granville became the talk of the
town. Tom himself attended to business for about a month,
and then he 'neglected to come t the office until one or two
o'clock in the afternoon.  His brother renionstrated, and
plainly told him that such neglect would be ruinous ; and Tom,
to show how he appreciated such brotherly 'advice, did not
come down at all, except it was to draw money.  Luckily for
the house of.Granville &amp; Nordheim, the partnership, so far as
Tom was concerned, was a matter between him and his
brother. No notice was publicly made, nor was it intended to
be until 'the grandmother of Mr. Tom  Granville paid the
twenty-five thousand dollars. The way that Tom was going
on--spending money at the rate of ten thousand dollars a

VIGOR.

VIGOR.

L

77

year--made it pretty certain that the old lady would back out
of her promise, for it was not probable that Tom's extrava-
gance could long be kept from her. Still 'the Senior Gran-
ville determined to keep his brother within, bounds, and
agreed to allow him at the rate of two hundred dollars a
month, and no more. January and February passed, and Ton
rather increased than diminished his expenses, for he told
Mr. Granville on the first of March, only two months after his
marriage, that he required a thousand dollars to pay off what
he already owed, and that if W. Pitt Granville would let
him have that amount, he would solemnly promise after that
to live within two hundred dollars a month. Poor Torn. The
Elder Granville gave him the one thousand dollars, but Tom
was incurable. He flung away the money by the handful, and
did not use the one thousand dollars to pay old claims, but
spent it in new extravagancies.
About a month after the one thousand dollars had' been ad-
vanced by one brother, and slandered by the other, Tom
called at the counting room to make a fresh demand. It was
evening. The next was packet day,'and this was called packet
night. In these days of steamers, the word may not be under-
stood by the reader. In the days of sailing packets, nearly all.
the foreign merchants kept their offices open the night before
a packet sailed for Liverpool, London or Havre, those be-
jug the ports to which regular foreign packet lines were
established.  When - Thomas  Granville  reached  the  of-
fice, he found his brother had left, and was not. expected
to return. Mr. Nordheim was -in the private office,
and as soon as he }ecame aware that young Granville was
there, he came out, and invited him to go in the private room.
Tom accepted.  When they were alone, Mr. Nordheim kindly
inquired after his handsome lady,.adding-
"I think you are a very lucky man, Mr. Granville, in secur-
ing as-a life partner so charming a person."
Ton said he was satisfied with his choice.
"I understand, Mr. Granville, that my partner has given
you an interest in his partnership, and I was given to undei-
stand that you would take an active part in the management
of our business.
Tom replied:
"I believe something of the kind was talked about, but I
don't like business.  I think it. a most infernal bore.  My
brother thinks I ought to be down here at ten ~o'clock, but I
find it utterly out of the question. I never get up until

Pi


VIGOR.

twelve, and it takes an hour before I get my breakfast down,
consequently it is after two o'clock before I could possibly
get to the office. My brother found fault, and I gave up com-
ing at all."
"IYou do not appear to be as fond of commercial business as
my partner. He is always at his post before nine o'clock."
"He is, excuse me, a great fool for his pains., No, I don't
'think business agrees with me, and I shall cut it.".
"You married a lady of some wealth, I believe."
"Not a red cent, as yet. She has an old witch of a grand-
mother who is a4 rich as black mud. She is ninety-five, and
ought to have died long ago, but really she is so dried up and
withered, that I think she may outlive me. When she dies,
if the old fool will ever oblige her grandchildren so much as
to die, she will cut up well, and my wife will get her slice."
"Meanwhile, Mr. Granville, how are you to live?  I sup-
pose my worthy partner allows you a pretty liberal sum,
eh ?"
"So, so, but I am spending more, much more than my' allow-
ance .of two thousand four hundred dollars, and I came here
to-night on a beg--disagrpeable, is it not ?"
"Very, Mr. Granville. People say you are one of the most
fascinating dogs alive. Is that so
"I am overrated, I fear. I never tried to be very fascinat-
ing."'
"Now, Mr. Granville, if you were so disposed, you could
do me a great favor. I want to get rid of a woman, and if
you would exeit your fascinations in my favor, with a very
beautiful creature,.and take her off my hands-.get me clear
of her, I 'will not only be very grateful, bnt I will, as my
worthy man Wilson says, make it an object to you in a financial
point of view."
"Nothing will give me greater pleasure. Your wife, I sup-
pose ?"
'I-- it, no, man, not so bad as that comes to.  No.  It is
a  -eybeautiful, but terrifically expensive mistress - that T
have. In a word, I am tired df her. I want to get her off my
hands, and yet I will not cut the connexion myself, but if you
can gain her affection--get her to leave me, -and run off with,
you in such a way that she caq, have no possible claim upon
me, I will give you, as soon as the work is finished, two thoU-
sand dollars.  More than that.  If you consent to do what I
require, I will give you to-night five hundred dollars to comn-
menee the war with."

I1,

VIGOR.                     - '9
I will do it, as sure as my name is Thomas Granville."
"You will have hard work.  She' has an easy time of it
and every comfort and luxury, and-aind- think she really
loves me ;" and Mr. Nordheim stroked his whiskers with great
satisfaction.
"How am I to get acquainted with her ladyship?"
"She has a Count Falsechinski, who is a clerk in this office,
and who is also employed in teaching her French.  You must
get him to take you"'there, or Marion Monck.  Do it any way
you can, except through me.  She is very honorable.  Were
I to introduce you, and you were to make love demonstrations,
she would feel called upon to inform me.  That will not do.
Is it a bargain ? Will you undertake it ?"
"With the greatest pleasure; but I must have some money
immediately. I shall succeed. Have no fear of that. Three
months from this I will claim the other fifteen hundred dol-
lars--..perhaps sooner."
"1I have not five hundred dollars with me; but I will draw
a check for the amount, and, go with you to the City Hotel, and
Jennings will cash it to-night. He has frequently accommo-
dated me in that manner after bank hours.
The check was drawn and signed, and then these two. con-'
spirators left the office in company for the City Hotel. Jen-
niings cashed the cheek. "I am walking up Broadway, and
will keep you company', Granville, if you have no objection."
Torn agreed, and on they passed until they came to Chambers
street, when Tom invited h is companion to go home with him.
This was.what Mr. Nordheim anxiously desii'ed, and they
walked down Chambers street to Tom's residence. -When they
entered the parlor Mrs. Gr;irnville was alone. She bowed to
Mr. Nordheim, and then, in a very anxious manner, asked,
" Well, did you see your brother ? and with what success '
Tom'placed a roll in her hand, and replied, "No, Pitt was
out, but Mr. Nordhein advanced me what I needed, and you
can thank him for relieving our pressing necessities."
Kate Granville wa-s somewhat surprised, and she thanked
Mr. Nordheim, although somewhat coldly, for she had met
him on several occasions, and there was something in his
manner that'did not please a virtuous wife. She was afraid
of him. and almost wished that Tom could have procured the
money somewhere else. But the money must be had, and she
took it and used it.
Tom made no stay at home. .Other guests came in, and he
left, apologizing to Mr. Nordheim, and saying he would return


80

VIGOR,

soon. He called Kate out into the hall. As soon as they were
alone, she said,,
"No, no, Tom. I know what you want, but I need every
cent to pay what we must pay, or be turned out of house and
home, and be disgraced."
" Only a hundred, Kate. I must have it. Why, woman, it
is mine. I earned it-yes, earned it'
"Tom, you will lose it at gambling. I know you will; you
have no luck, and-but here, take it and go; I must get back
into  the parlor.".
Tom got into the street, and with a hundred dollars in his
pocket. He'turned around into Warren street, and into No. 9.
" Blinn, give me a glass of' brandy and water.. Has the
Count Falsechinski been here yet ?"
"No, Monsieur Granville. The Count has not been here
yet."
While Tom was sipping his brandy the 'Count entered: " Ah,
Count, I am glad to meet you. What in the name of Lucifer
has come over you? Have you discovered a gold mine, a new
tailor, or what is out ?" asked Tom Granville.
The Count smiled, and took a seat. In a moment, an idea
seemed to flash across Tom's mind, for he-,asked, "Have you
got employment to teach French to a young lady..a Miss Clara
Norris-eh ."
"And suppose I have, Mr. Tom  Granville, have you any
objection to my making an honest living!"
"None in the world, Count, for I like you very much. I
knew that this coffee-house is one of your haunts, and that
you came here every evening. I had heard of a Count being
employed in my brother's office and that he taught French to
a very dear friend of my brother's partner, Mr Nordheim, but
I did not know that you were that Count. You remember,
your promise some weeks ago?'
"Name it, Mr. Granville."
-" You promised that for a smalsum fou would teach me,
hbow toplaywith the chances in my favor against a Faro
Ba-nk. .
"Excuse me, Mr. Granville-.-with the chances not in
your favor. Ten weeks ago, when I made that promise, I was
very poor. I needed money, and I was aware that you were
losing money every night at a Faro Bank. I could have saved
you from losing, but you did not avail yourself of my offer. I am
in different circumstances to-night, and I might decline your
offer, but I will not. But I must do one ting. I assist yout

,

81

to-night. I will dictate my terms. First answer me this
question: how much money have you in your pocket to lose
to-night? Precisely, tell me."
"1That is a queer question, Count. But I will- answer it.
One hundred dollars : no more, or no less."
"Now   I will tell you    what I will do. Give     me
that money in my" own hand. You can come with me
to Washington Hall..to the Faro Bank room. I will play for
you, with your money. If I lose it, you are not to say a word.
If I win, you will follow me out, and I will pay you One-half of
the winnings.
"9But, Count, that is rather severe. I put up. the money,
lose it, if it is lost, and if it wins only get one.half. Oh, no."
"Very well. , Then I will not play for you. I put up my
experiences against you with your money. It is worth more
than your money if I win, as you know. Say no more. Those
are my terms."
. "There, Count, try it. Here, take the hundred dollars; but
I will go with you, and if I say stop, or"-
"If you say one word to me, I will knock you down."
"Why, Count, what is the matter with you ?"
"Nothing at all. Remember, not a word to me, for I will
not only strike you, but I will deny that I have received a
cent from you and call you a liar; and, Mr. Tom Granville,
the word of the Count Adolph Falsechinski with money in
his pocket, will outweigh the oaths- of Mr. Tom Granville,
penniless as you are now. Trust me as a gentleman, and half
the winnings are yours. If we miss each other when we leave
the gambling table, I will come directly here. Do you fol-
low."
The Count had the hundred dollars, and the conditions
were arranged. Then ,the Count ordered a strong cup of
coffee, and the pair left the French coffee-house for Washing-
ton Hall, then the headquarters of fashionable young New
York   John Mariner kept it then. It has long ago been torn
down and its site occupied by Stewart's great dry-goods store.
The Count and Tom went into the bar-room. Several of their
acquaintances were there, and they all took a drink at the
Count's expense. As Tom Granville.kept near the Count, the
latter whispered, "Don't come near me, or speak to me again,
until we meet at the French coffee-house. Don't go ta the
Faro table with me. - Keep by youself."
The. Count shortly afterward separated from the party who
had drank at his expense, and quietly slipped into the great

V

VIGOR.


- 82

hall, and then passed to the third floor, and on the right hand
side, knocked at a green baize door. A question was asked by
some one inside. The Count replied, and his answer appeared
to be satisfactory, for the door was opened just sufficiently
wide to admit him. When he had entered, the door was closed
and fastened.. There were two large rooms, separated only by
large folding doors.  In one of the rooms were several tables,
and surrounding them were parties of two or more engaged in
card-playing.  In the other room was a long table.  To this
the Count approached., Twenty more persons were seated
about it. One man, to whom the Count bowed, was dealing
from a small silver box.  On the table before the dealer, cov-*
ering nearly the whole table, was a suit of cards, commencing
with the ace and ending with the king.  By the side of the
dealer was a man who acted as banker or treasurer.  He had
a box filled with piles of white, red and purple chips. Each
white chip was worth one dollar. The reds were fives, and
the purples twenty dollars each.- Another person sat close by
the cashier, with a little box filled with white and black checks
on wires. As a card was dealt, he mofed a corresponding
check in the'little box. This was the man who kept the game.
The play was running high, piles of red chips were upon the
cards, and the luck seemed to favor the bank, for the dealer
raked pile after pile of the red chips towards him, and then
deliberately restacked them in the mahogany box. Presently
Mr. Granville entered. The Count was still standing up. He
did not notice hinl. The play went one.  One-and then ano-
ther, left the room-had lost all. Their faces were haggard
and despairing. The Count smiled., He was not ready to
play yet. ' He was noticing one man, behind whose seat he
stood. He seemed scarcely conscious of any thing. He placed
a pile of red chips upon the ace'; the cards were dealt. He
had lost. He rose from his seat, and with horrid curses and
imprecations upon himself, cards, and every thing else, left
the room. The Count took the seat left vacant by this person,
who had lost fifteen hundred dollars in half an hour-..
" Hand me a hundred dollars' worth of red chips, if you
please," said the Count-and as they were delivered to him he
deliberately counted twenty, and piled them up before him. A
new' deal commenced. The Count placed a red chip on the ace
-another on the seven-spot. It was some time before either
turned up. He was a winner. Meanwhile the Count had
watched other cards ; the king had been dealt out three times
and the deuce-spot twice. He placed ten red chips on the

VIGOR.*

-      4

Ci'

king and five on the deuce. The king won.  He had doubled
ten red chips. The deuce won. The Count then placed twen-
ty red chips upon the last deuce ; it was a bet, and won.  He
looked at the game board-there was but one five spot in. All
the -rest had won for the bank.  The Count placed fifty red
chips upon it, and won. That deal was over, and the Count
piled up his winnings, but was perfectly cool.  There was no
limit to the betting allowed at that faro bank. If it bet fifty
thousand dollars, it would be good.
Another deal began. The Count scattered one or two chips
on different cards-.-and they won and lost, until be noticed that
but two aces-one seven and one ten-were left in the dealer's
box.  He put down' five piles each of twenty red chips on the
ace, and won. He was paid in purple chips.  He left all the
purple chips on the ace again, and it won. There was but one
turn more, and the Count placed five hundred dollars on it. It
won. Another deal followed, and the Count played heavier
yet. When there was but one ace left in the box, he placed
fifteen hundred, dollars upon it.
"That is my last play to-night," said the Count sternly.
The cards were dealt.
" He has won," said Samuel-and so he had.
"Pay me," said the Count, and he received from the. smil-
ing banker four thousand two hundred dollars, and it was paid
as pleasantly as though he would not have cared if it had been
four hundred and twenty thousand dollars.
The Count placed the money about his person, waited a few
moments, looked at those who continued-to play, and then left
the room and descended to the bar-room.  Several gentlemen
who were broke followed him, and begged a small loan.
" No, it is not my money," said the Count.
In the bar-room he asked several up to drink. Then Gran-
ville came up, expecting of course to be invited.
"If you drink, let it be at your own expense, Mr. Gran-
vule " quietly observed the ,ount.
f Tom took the hint and sheered off.  After the drinks had
been settled for, the Count walked slowly to the French cof-
fee house in Warren street.  As he entered, he- saw Tom
Granville with a glass of brandy before him. The Count took
a seat opposite to him.
" You are lucky to-night, Count," remarked Tom Gran-
ville.
" I played my own game, sir," replied the Conut.
" You must have won a couple of thousand dollars."

VIGOR.*


84

VIGOR-

Tom had got so excited before the last deal that he had de
scended to the bar-room to get cool, and was not present when
the Count placed fifteen hundred dollars on one card.
The Count placed roll after roll of money on the table.
"Hands off!" he exclaimed, as Tom put out a hand to clutch
some.
The Count, then counted it, for there were threo bills of
one thousand dollars each.
"1Four thousand two hundred," said the Coppt.
Tom-Granville ordered another glass of brandy.
" Four thousand two hundred," repeated the Count-" and
your share is twenty-one hundred dollars," and he handed him
the precise amount.
*  Waiter, bring me a cup of coffee and a cigar."  He lit the
latter, and turning his face to Torn, quietly asked, " What was-
your meaning to-night, when you asked if I was the Count who
was teaching French to Miss Norris ?"
"Oh, nothing in particular. Count, how can I express my
gratitude for this sum of money ?"
"By saying no more about it. It is but a trifle, Tom
Granville."
"I suppose you will now play on your own hook and win
a good deal more.'"
"1fYou never was more mistaken in your life.  I never play
at faro when I have plenty of money.  I only play with my
last dollar, or when I have other people's money to lose or win
with. What do you want to know about Miss Norris ?"
acuI hear she is very pretty. I should like amazingly to get
acquainted with her."
The Count laid down his cigar,. and gazed into the face of
Tornfor a minute ereherreplied,
I will take you there."
"When-?" asked Tom.
] ow-to-night. It is not late, and as you are a good mu-
sician,, we will have- music, and u gay time of it."
At twelve thatnight, if Mr. Nordheim had called upon Miss
Norris, ihe would have bad the pleasure of listening to a deli-
cious concert  Clara played the piano, the Count accompanied
her with the guitar, and Tom Granville, who would have made
money as a tenor singer in opera, sang some of the sweetest
songs in the English language; and in some few both the Count-
and Clara joined.

I
F

VIGOR.

4 - 85

employed it-; and added, "My share was twenty-one hundred
dollars, and Mr. Granville has an equal amount in his pocket.
I think, Miss Clara, you ought to teach him how to spend it."
What was the object of the Count?
Miss Norris regarded Tom as a flat, and. she determined to
take the Count's advice. She led Tom on so far as to promise
that he would take a private box and accompany her to the
Park Theatre the next evening.
The two gentlemen 'left the house together; and as they
came down town, the Count told Tom that he had evidently
made an impression upon Miss Norris, and advised him to fol-
low it up. What was the Count driving at?
The Count saw Tom safe at his own house, and saw him en-
ter; then he walked down to his own rooms in John street,
and enjoyed a good night's repose.
CHAPTER XVI.
Prime, Ward &amp; King-Teaching French-The Thousand Dollar Bill-
The Park Theatre.
THE morning following the successful gambling operation of
the Count at Washington Hall was a delicious April .morning.
Eight o'clock found the Count Falsechinski at the counting-
house of his employers. 'Mr. Wilson had already arrived and
opened the safe. The Count volunteered to assist him in
transferring the massive ledger and journal and other books of
a great commercial firm to the long mahogany desk occupied
by the book-keeper. When the work was .done, Mr. Wilson
thanked the Count, who asked, "What shall I commence do-
ing ?" The Count wrote a hand that was almost like copy
right. Wilson had become aware of the fact.
I .f you have no particular objection, Count, I will get you
to assist me in the books. You can copy my day entries into
the journal."
Mr. Xilson showed him how it was to be done, and the
Count cheerfully weni to work. The stock of the Count ad-
vanced fift per cent. that morning in Wilson's mind. After
Iasomelittle time had elapsed while working, the Count asked
Mr. Wilson to name to him the most responsible private bank-'
small amount tha I shoul ike to have placedutnIsafe hauda


86              VIGOR.

VIGOR.             87

where it would be drawing interest," and the Count laid down
on the desk two thousand dollars. He took out one hundred
dollars. "This I will keep. The two thousand dollars I wish
to keep at the bankers."t
Prime, Ward &amp; King, No. 42 Wall street, are the firmest
bankers. I would recommend them, but I am not certain
that they will take your account.' Who could you get to go and
introduce you to them ?"  -
I know of no one," replied the Count.
"Then, Count, I will tell you what I will do. Their book.
keeper, Charles Christmas, is a particular friend of mine, and
I flatter myself that my introduction to him will be as good an
opening as you -could have. I will vouch for you, Count.
About ten o'clock, if you will go with me to that banking
house, I will do the needful, and get an account opened with
you by that firm."
When Marion arrived, he was somewhat surprised to see the
Count and Mr. Wilson on such familiar terms, and he was
rather pleased than otherwise.
The bankers alluded to, Prime, Ward &amp; King, were at that
time regarded by the commercial community here, and, in fact,
in every city of the Union, as the most solid house on this con-
tinent. Their bills of exchange on London or Paris would
bring one per cent. higher than any commercial firm.  The
partners of this celebrated house were. men of originality. The
senior was old " Nat Prime," as he was familiarly designated.
He started life in a humble capacity, and rose to be the head
of a great banking house, His residence for many years was
at No. I Broadway, now occupied as a hotel.  " Sam Ward,"
the second partner, built a house on the corner of Fourth
street and Broadway, and added to it a gallery of paintings,
that was the wonder of the people in that day.  James Gore
King, the junior partner, was born in England, where his fath-
er, Rufus King, was Ambassador from the United States to
Great Britain. le was named after James Gore, a celebrated
merchant. All these partners died long ago. The Count and
Mr. Wilson went to the banking office of this firm. Wilson in-
troduced'the Count to the book-keeper gith a request that he
willingly complied with. In a word, -the Count was intro-
duced to Mr. Ward, one of the partners, his account was re-
ceived, and he deposited two thousand dollars, and wrote his
signature upon the signature book. He also received a bank
book, On the leather cover of which was printed Prime, Ward
&amp;King in account with, and written underneath, the Count'

i

Adolph Falsechinski, and inside he was credited April -fourth
with two thousand dollars, bearing interest at four per cent,
per annum. When this was all done, the Count. took- his
leave, but not until he had made a very favorable impression
upon Mr. Ward, who begged to serve him in any manner. The
Count was a deep planner, and -knew the world. In opening
an account with Prime, Ward &amp; King, and getting one of their
bank books with the naine of Count Adolph Falsechinski upon
it, and a sum to his credit, he had procured a credit, a conse-
quence, an endorsement, 'backers, position-that would be val-
uable in any part of the Union. There was no disputing it.
It was worth more than a reference, for either of the partners
would have said they knew nothing of the Count. An author-
ized banking book, with a credit of cash in with so respectable
a firm, told its own story. It was the best kind of a reference.
The Count had his opinion of it. "It was near twelve o'clock
when all this was completed, and the Count, instead of return-
ing to the counting house, parted- from Mr. Wilson, and went
to Broome street to give a French lesson to Miss Norris.
He found Tom Granville already there. Miss Norris re-
ceived the lesson, which occupied nearly two hours? Tom .re-
mained quiet until it was finished, and then insisted that Clara
should read French with him an hour. Tom was a good French
scholAr, for he had.in early life resided two years in France.
"By-and-by. I will not now  I want to scold the Count for
not coming earlier. I waited for you two hours this morning."
".I am sorry for that, Miss Clara. I will be more punctual
in future, but the fact is, I was obliged to visit my bankers,
Prime, Ward &amp; King, this morning,"-here he displayed care-
lessly his bank book,--. and I was detained talking with' Mr.
Ward longer than I expected."
Tom opened his eyes, and even Miss Clara felt a greater re-
spect for her teacher. Here was more mystery. A count, and
a book account with Prime, Ward &amp; King.
"Count, Mr. Granville has secured a private box at the Park
Theatre to-night. Shall we have the pleasure of your com-
pany? You will be welcome."
What is the novelty ?  What is to be played ?"
"The Opera of La Somnambula. Mr. and Mrs. Wood and Mr.
Brough, with his magnificent bass, all appear in it."
",I shall accept your invitation with pleasure. I knew the
Woods in London."
" The deuce you did. .Tell us all about them, Count.. Is
Mrs. Wood his wife ?"


88

VIGOR.

"To be sure she is, but she was divorced 'from her first
husband, who was Lord Lennox.   Lady Lennox procured a
divorce, and then married the tenor Wood. Lord.Lennox used
to beat her,, it was said. I must go now, but will be here pre-.
cisely at seven o'clock to. accompany'you to the theatre."
" Mr. Granville," said the fascinating Clara, after the Count
had gone, "how much have you left of the two thousand dollars
you won last night ? They say you are a terrible fellow to
spend money. I dare say you have spent it all."    . I
"No, I have not. I have had no chance. See, here it is.
Count it."
Clara did as she was desired to do. She took a thousand
dollar bill. "Tom, I will be your banker, and keep this for
safety. You will squander it. It will do you no real good.
With me it will be quite safe."
Tom looked anxiously-.
"What, afraid of me ! Here, take your old trash. What I
proposed was for your own good, and you know it well," and
the fair girl pouted as though she was angry in earnest.
" My dear Miss Norris, you entirely mistook me. Keep it,
by all means. -1 have the most perfect confidence in you. In-
deed, I insist you shall be my banker."'
In the struggle to force her to keep it, her face came near
Tom's, and he kissed her.
"You naughty man. That- is the first time I have been
kissed, except by Mr. Nordheim, since I was a country girl.
I do not see how you dared to do it. I will take good care of
this money, if you wish . it, but really, I had rather you
would take it back.'"
But no, Toimi Granville would not consent to do any thing of
the kind.
" Very well, then, I will keep it safe, and you can have it
whenever you wish. I should serve you perfectly right if I nev-
er gave it back to you. It was very wrong for you to kiss me."
What would Mr. Nordheim say, if he knew it ?  But to show
you that I forgive you, I will read French with you an, hour,
and then I must go, for I expect Mr. Nordheim, and he must
not see you here.''
Clara procured a book of French plays, and lay down on the
lounge. Tom drew an ottoman near her head, and they, read
together. Tom was completely. lost. That reading finished
him. He was madly in love with Clara Norris. She sa it-.
her pride was gratified, and she allowed him more kisses, and
when he left he was perfectly insane about her, Wife, brother,

I

VIGOR.

89

II

business, all were forgotten. No sooner had he passed into
the street than Clara took from her bosom the thousand dollar
bill. Then sbe walked to a black walnut bureau, unlocked a
small drawer, and took from it a bank book. Outside on the
cover was marked "The American Savings Bank in account
with Miss Clara Norris." *She opened it, and read off various
sums. Five dollars, ten, fifty, eight, twelve, thirty-two, fifty,
seventy-five, one hundred, two hundred.
"Very good. This is a changing world. We do not know.
what may happen. Mr. Nordheim thinks I am very extrava-
gant. So I am-this book says I have already squandered in
that Savings Bank eleven hundred dollars ;" and she rang the
bell.- The colored-girl answered it.
"Cheeky, I am going out to be gone an hour. If Mr. Nord-
heim calls, say that if he will walk down Broadway to Stew-
art's dry goods store, he will meet me coming up."
The lady went out. In less than an hour she returned, and
took the same book from her bosom. Another one thousand
dollars had been placed to her credit ; and she carefully locked
the book in the drawer, and placed the key around her-neck.
" Now I must dress for the opera to-night. What will Nord-
heim say? But Tom Granville .is. brother to his partner.
Surely he can't object to my going with him-and if he does ?
What a fool Tom Granville is! And yet I rather like him.
So ,I do my mocking bird -Marion. But that Count-heigho!
I wish I knew his history---it must be a -strange one."
There was a curious grouping of people in the old Park
Theatre that night. Stephen Price was the manager, assisted
by quiet Simpson. The Woods were cramming the house every-
night, and the treasury was overflowing. On this particular
day the Woods had dined with Mr. Granville at his residence
in State street, for he had been very kind to them, and was
their banker. Colonel Mac Neil .was at the dinner, and one or
two more. Mr. Wood insisted upon placing a private box at
the disposal of Mr. Granville and his family, and the offer was
accepted.
Mr. Nordheim had also secured a front bench in the dress
circle, He had invited Mrs. Tom Gronville and her sister Miss
Madison Pinckney to go with him. H e knew that Walter
Granville loved the latter, and so to have Mrs. Tom all to him-
self, he invited Talter to go with him.
Mrs. Nordheim, the day previous, had expressed a wish to
hear the Woods, and Marion had been able to secure thre'o
prominent seats..--and he invited his old friend Wilson to take

Eli'

Af

f     / I


14

'I

tea in Bond street, and then go with Mrs. Nordhein and him..
self to the theatre. This -was agreed to.
When tie curtain rose that night, the pit, the dress circle
and the *galleries presented from the foot-lights one sea of hu-
man heads, and they were all -in raptures with the perform-
ance. Brought sang "My Boyhood's Home " as it never has
been sung since,.and Mrs. Wood enchanted the audience with
"False one, I love Thee Still."
When the curtain descended, people began to look about
them. Marion was the first to utter an exclamation of sur-
prise. The front seats 'occupied by his party' were directly
opposite the centre of the stage. A little to the left was Mr.
Nordheim, Mrs. Kate Granville, Walter Granville, and Miss
Madison Pinckney. On the right hand stage private box was
Mr. Granville and his family, including Col. Mac Neil, and in
the opposite box was Mr.-Thomas Granville, the Count False-
chinski, and Miss Clara Norris., Mr.. Nordheim smiled, and
came around and spoke to his wife. Marion, when Mr. Nord-
heim had left, pointed out Miss Norris to Mrs. Nordhein.
The only person who felt particularly foolish was Tom Gran-
ville. Mr. Nordheim informed Mrs. Tom who the lady was
that Master Tom had charted a private box to accommodate.'
The eyes of the brilliant Kate flashed fire. She felt humili-
ated and disgraced, the more so, as Mr. Nordheim expressed
the deepest sympathy, and mentioned the fact that the senior
Granville and his party had been informed that Tom was in
company with a kept mistress, and that it must be very annoy-
ing to his brother! Poor Kate! Her love was fast changing,
to contempt; and Tom was more confirmed in'his mad love for
the beautiful woman by his side, as he noticed the withering
glances that were bestowed upon her by those nearest and,
dearest to him. Isabella Granville leaned on the front of the
box, and attracted universal admiration. Marion seemed par-
ticularly struck with her loveliness, and made some very en-
thusiastic remarks in her favor to Mrs. Nordheiin. She sighed,
and in a tone, of voice that was overheard by honest, tender-
hearted Wilson, remarked,
"Have a care, dear Marion; don't fall in love with- that
trifler, or you will feel more sorrow than you ever yet have
known.'
Wilson seemed struck by the sigh and the remark with a'
new idea, and he turned his eyes from the one to the other, but
he did not say what he thought of it, even in "a financial point
of view."

VIGOR.

91

Walter Granville did the worst thing he could have done.
He tried to escape the observation of his father, and yet not
actually neglect the fair Miss Pinckney by his side. It was of
no use, for the senior Granville had a pair of eagle eyes, and
his course was decided upon in his own mind.
At last the opera was finished. Ton and the Count went to
a supper party at a Broadway Saloon. The rest of those that
we have.grouped together returned to their homes.
CHAPTER XVIII
A Marriage Arranged-Departure of Walter Granville-.Death of Airs.
Pitt Granville.
IT is not our purpose to write a philosophical work; if that were.
the case, we might philosophise upoi the foolish but notorious
fact, that a majority of parents, especially those who are pos.
sessed of wealth and aristocratically descended, or in position,
deem it a parental right to interfere in the marriages of their
children, and if these children happen to form any attachment,
and the object of such attachment does not happen to come up
to the parents' standard of the husband-or wife, they have ar-
ranged for their child, they or onc of the parents goes to work
to break it off.
Walter Granville was an only son. lHis father was most
anxious that he should tread his own footprints, and be able to
,succeed him in business, and to keep the name of Granville
in the commercial world for anQther century at least. The
father had given him a good education, and "Master, Wal-
ter" had recently graduated at Columbia College, with consid-
erable credit to himself. It was now11the purpose of the
father to place his son in the counting-room, and -to haehim
settle down in life, as he termed it. He had determined that
Walter should marry at once. True, he was not out of his
teens, but that'fact was of no importance to the senior Gran.
ville. le had a horror of Walter falling in love with any
young /woman that he, the father, did not deem  a suitable
connection. He had been driven almost to madness --for
several-months, by having hints given him, that Walter was
in love, and engaged to Miss Madison Pinckney. True, she
was a very beautiful and a very accomplished girl. That is
all very well so far as it goes, but to a mind like old Gran-

90

VIGOR-

I

II

I

,1


fl
(Ii!
II'!JI
iI ~
d
I
Al

VIGOR.

ville's, there was nothing tangible ether in beauty or ac,
complishments. He wished for his son's wife, something more
reliable. He could give a business and settle money on his
son, and-in choosing a wife for him, he wanted the other side of
the house to be able to do the same thing. Heb had other
objections to a marriage between Walter and Miss Madison.
Pinckney. His brother had married one of the sisters, and one
of the family was quite sufficient, as there was no money
and never might be any. It all depended upon the caprice
of a- "mean, mad, woman" as Tom designated the grand-
mother of his wife.
" If Walter will marry, I have a girl in view, that he shall
marry, and I will make him do it at once, or know the reason
why." - Thus spoke Pitt Granville to himself. The party that
he had fixed upon was Miss Margaret Benson, the daughter of
Colonel Benson, and one of the bridesmaids at the wedding of.
Kate Pinckney.
Colonel Benson had served in the English army, but he had
married an American widow lady of wealth, who owned a
plantation and several hundred negroes on Ashley River, near
Charleston, South Carolina. He had resigned his commission
in the British service and settled in New York, where he be-
came a special partner in a commercial firm, largely engaged
in the English trade. The Colonel held some sort of special
agancy for the British Government, which gave him no small
income. His wife had one son by her first husband, whose
name was Glen Hammond.      The latter was a- wild haruni
scarum 'fellow, who was travelling in Europe. By Colonel
Benson she had two children, a son and a daughter.
The name of the son was Middleton Benson. He was
nearly of age, and w'as devoted to business, being engaged
as a clerk where his father was a special partner. The daugh.-
ter Margaret was a tall, dignified girl of eighteen years of age,
very. haughty, and proud of her descent and her position. She
worshiped her father and was not likely to fall in love with any
man, except such a one as her father would approve.
Colonel Benson and Mr. Granville were on the most intimate
terms. If the latter had needed for any sudden emergency half
a hundred thousand dollars, the Colonel would let him have it
any day before three clock. They dined, supped and made
excursions together, ari'd almost every evening if one did not
come to the the house of the other, that other was sure to know
the reason. The marriage of Walter and Margaret, had often
been a topic of conversation between these two fathers. But

VIGOR.
while Walter was at college, there was no need of being in a
hurry. But the public attentions of Walter to Miss Pinckney
at the Park Theatre had brought 'matters to a climax,, so far as
Mr. Granville was concerned, and the next morning he -sent a
note to Colonel Benson, asking him to dine in State street that
day., The result of that dinner was, that Mr. Granville
agreed to place Walter in business as soon as he was of age-to
settle immediately upon him, real estate that should ,produce
two thousand dollars clear income, and the Colonel agreed to
give his daughter a house, and furnish it, and settle upon her
and her children the income of thirty thousand dollars, two
thousand dollars a year addition, and these conditions were to
be complied with at once, and the marriage to take place
without any delay. Both parents shook hands cordially when
these preliminaries had been arranged, and then they agreed
to drink an extra bottle of choice old Madeira to the health
and prosperity of the 'to be' married couple.
The same evening Mr. Granville called Walter to his
room, and informed him of what he had done to settle him for
life.  Walter listened, but did not say a word until his father
had amplified and explained all the advantages of the match;
he concluded, " Now, Walter, I want to hear your opinion."
" My opinion or wishes seem to have been little consulted."
"You do not mean to say that you ire not pleased with the
arrangement I have made for you ?"
" Has Margaret Benson been consulted ? Is she aware of.
the honor about to be conferred on her ?"
" What in the world has she got to do with the matter, so
. far as we are concerned? ~ Her father will arrange with her.
It is my duty to attend to your welfareand happiness.  Now
Walter, speak out like a man. Don't have any foolish modes-
ty. Of course you authorize me to say to Colonel Benson thae
you are delighted with the prospect, and all that sort of thing,
eh, Walter ?"
Father, I believe you love me.  I do not think you have
any thing nearer to your heart than my happiness. Is it not
so ?"
" Of course it is, my boy.  I love you better than I do my.
self-and I flatter myself that if any proof were wanting that
I love and care for you, this arrangement between Colonel
Benson and myself made this afternoon, is enough to convince
you of the farct."
"Father I cannot marry Margaret Benson-I do not lovo
her."

92

Ii
A.
~Li1


VIGOR.              95

"Pooh, pooh, is that all?  You will soon learn to do so.
You must marry her--I have given my word."
"There is still another reason. I love another, and I have-
promised'to marry that other."
"You have! I think, Master Walter, that I have one or,
two words to say about that. You mean Madison Pinckoey.
She has not got a cent, and is very extravagant, -or will be so,
if she ever gets a chance. No, no, Walter-drop all such non.-
sense. I will give you until to-morrow before-I go to dine with
Colonel Benson to think it over, and then,I think you will do
as I wish."
"Father, let it be settled now. I cannot give up Miss
Pinckney, and I will not. My word is given to her. and my
affections also. If you do not sanction my marriagewith her,
I must do without it, or wait until yor do.  I will not marry
Miss Benson under any circumstances. I do, not love her, nor
could I have done so, had my love to Miss Pinckney never ex-
isted."                          s                     -
" Nrow hear me,aitei- Granville.  From  this moment I
disown you as entirely as-%if you had never been born. Go Gut
of this house forever. Go and marry Miss Pinckney to-morrow
if you choose, or go to the devil.  You have disobeyed your
father, and I will disinherit you.  You have mortified me be-
yond measure.   How can I look Colonel Benson in the face ?
You need not go penniless. Take this money."
Walter took it, and then flung it upon the floor.
"Perish your money-I want none of it, and I will get out
of the house before an hour. I merely wish to bid my mother
and my sister good-bye-and farewell, Sir.- The day may come
when you will regret this harsh treatment."
"Never, sir. If you should change your mind, and come
back obedient to my wishes,. you will be my son once more.
Until that day comes, I care not to see you again. Begone !"1
Walter Granville bowed and left the room. He was not long
in packing a trunk with clothing. That done, he went to his
mother, who was an invalid.  What passed between mother,
and son is only known to them. Isabella was not at home. An
hour after a hack conveyed Walter and his trunks to the City
Hotel. He selected a room, and then hurried up to Chambers
street to his Aunt Kate's. Madison Pinckney he felt could
sympathize with him. He found her alone.
Walter had yet to learn another lesson.  Madison Pinckney
was perfectly cool and very calm, while Walter, whose mind

V

was frenzied, narrated all that had passed. At last Miss Madi-
son spoke.
"You are a silly boy, Walter. Quarrelled with your father,
and he has turned you out of doors."
" It was for your sake, dearest Madison. I could not marry
Margaret Benson and continue to love you."
" And pray, who, wished that you should?  But, Walter,
you certainly have no idea that I am such an immense simple.
ton as to dream of marrying you, after you have been cut
adrift by your father.  I would do nothing of the kind.  We
would starve in ?six weeks. Love is very fine if you have-
money or business enough to keep house and be comfortable.
Now I advise you to forget me as quick as possible, forif your
father has fairly made up his mind against me, and in favor of
another young lady as your wife, further' words are useless.
He is not a man to change, and although as his son, you ,are-of
some account in the world, yet cast off by. him I don't know
what you will do."
"But, Madison," exclaimed poor Walter, who was com-
pletely heart-broken, " your letters-your caresses --.your
promise.-your "-
"Do, for mercy's sake, stop repeating that lover's cata-
logue., I dare say I have been very foolish, but I did not
dream that your father would oppose- your marriage with me.
Now be a good boy.  My advice is to go to your papa.  Tell
him you have been to.see me, and that youshave told me that
you cannot marry me, and promise your father that you will
marry Miss Benson any day that you. are called upon to, do
so-'
"My dream is over,".exclaimed. Walter. -Past-gne."
"That is right, Walter. Wake up and.get over dreams as
soon as possible. They are extremely unhealthy, and make
people nervous. Come and see me as a friend any time that
you have leisure. I must say good-night, now," -and she left
the room. Walter seized his hat and hurried back to the City
Hotel. He was enraged and mortified at himself. He did not
go home to State street again. That evening he met with a wild
young fellow that he had. known for some years--a regular
New York boy.
"I'm off to-morrow," said Charley King.
"Where to ." enquired Walter.
"On board a whaler bound round the Horn."
" Could I get any berth aboard ?"

I

94,             VIGOR*


96              VIGOR'

"Certainly; and the skipper would be glad to get you.
Have you got any money ?"
"Plenty."
"TheQ let's have a regular night of it"
Walter agreed. They visited every drinking place as long
as any was open, and then returned to Walter's room. ,The
next day Walter had shipped for a whaling voyage. . The ship
Dorothea went to sea the next day, and it "was many months
before Mr. Grunville ascertained what had become of his
son.
Meanwhile Mrs. Granville became worse. The loss of Wal-
ter preyed upon her mind, and her strength failed daily. May
arrived, and one morning Mr, Granville did -not come to the
office. It was whispered that Mrs. Granville was worse-dy-
ing.  Then a note came for Marion Monek to come at once to
State street. When he arrived, the servant said he had orders
to show him up to Mrs. Granville's sick room, where Mr.
Granville was.  He entered the room. The proud merchant
was weeping and kneeling by the bed, with a hand of his wife
in his. Isabella, too, was sobbing as though her heart would
break, Marioni was about to retire from so sacred a scene
when the eyes of the dying woman fell upon him.  " Come
here, Marion," she whispered, " give me your hand, and prom-
ise me that you will be a faithful friend to my two children,
and find the lost one, and tell him his mother blessed him be-
fore she died." Marion promised. "They will need a true
friend some day.  Be a brother to my poor Isabella.  God
bless you." Marion left the room, but not the house. He re"
mained in the parlor. some time elapsed, and then Mr. Gran-
ville came into the room, still sobbing.
It is all over, She is dead. Close the office, and then
come back for further directions. Biing Mr. Wilson down with
you."

97

CHAPTER XIX.
The Choera-Summer-Changes.
THE funeral of Mrs. Pitt Granville was plain and simple,
and according to the English movie. She was buried in a vault
belonging to Mr. Granville, in St. Thomas' Church Yard. The
office was closed the day she died and the day the funeral was
celebrated. All the connexions went into deep mourning, and
for a few days Mr. Granville forgot his usual gaiety.  The
spring months passed away, and then came the summer, that
terrible summer when the Asiatic cholera made its first ap-
pearance in New York. What a scattering of people when
the -facts became apparent that the long dreaded scourge was
here! Mr. Granville took his 'daughter to the residence of
Colonel Benson after Mrs. Granville's death, and when the
cholera broke out sh'e. was with Colonel Benson and his
daughter at Niagara Falls.
Mr. Nordbeim eldsed up his house in Bond street, and found
a refuge for his wife at the village of Woodbury, some twenty
miles north of New Haven, Connecticut. lie did not remain
but a week with his wife, and then started off on a tour of
pleasure. Mrs. Tom Granville and her sister went to Saratoga,
while Tom accompanied Clara Norris to her early home in
Sussex County, New Jersey.
Mr. Granville concluded -not to leave the city, and his ex-
ample was followed by Mr. Wilson, the Count Falsechinski,
and Marion Monck. Although the Count continued his lessons
daily to Miss Norris up to the day of her departure, yet he
had regarded them as a secondary affair. Save when absent
to give these lessons, he had devoted every hour to business.
He was at the-office early and late.  At last he heoame so
useful to the book-keeper, that he made him his assistant, and
Mr. Granville ordered his salary raised to eight hundred dol-
lars per annum, and to be paid by the house, and not out of
Mr. Nordheim's private funds. Mr. Granville invited Marion
to take up his residence, at his house in State street to keep
him company.

VIGOR.

1I


98                      VIGOR.
ft would be a melancholy -chapter if I were to relate all that
occurred in the city while the cholera raged here. It did not
make Marion falter or flinch. At that time there was scarcely
a store in Broad street except the one occupied by Granville
&amp; Nordheim. The street was filled with private residences
and boarding-houses. Opposite to Mr. dranville's store,. at
No. 24, was a boarding-house. -Marion counted in one -day
nine coffins taken out of the one house, and that very evening
he felt convinced that he had the cholera. Mr. Granville was
alarmed, and made him go to bed, and sent for funny old Doc-
tor Francis. He was shown'into Marion's room. There Ma-
rion lay groaning with the cholera. The Doctor felt his pulse,
asked some questions, and Marion related how many coffins he-
had seen come out of No. 24 Broad street.    The Doctor.
smiled, and ordered up a slice of bread. When it came up,
he made up two or three small pills with it. Marion looked at.
his proceedings with astonishment.
"Take these pills ; they will cure you," said the Doctor.
"Why, they are nothing but bread," said Marion, and he
jumped up in a rage at the idea of the doctor making fan of
him.
"Why, the very sight of my pills has' cured you," and the
Doctor laughed heartily. Marion commenced dressing, and he
could not help laughing also. - It was. catching. Mr. Granville
laughed, and so did the servant.  "Nothing serious is the
matter with you. You have no cholera. You have seen so
many coffins to-day that your nerves have become excited, and
you fancied you had the cholera. It's lucky for you, my boy,
that I discovered the fact, or you might have had it in earnest,
and perhaps died with it," said Doctor Francis, solemnly.
The Doctor descended to the parlor, accompanied by Marion
Monek and Mi-. Granville. A glass of old Madeira made Marion
quite well, and when the D&amp;ctor departed, he went part way
home with him. Many persons in the hands of less sensible
doctors died that summer with the cholera who had no more
cholera at the commencement than did Marion. The doctors
treated such cases as cholera, and they died of cholera.
While the epidemic lasted, only once did Marion leave, the
city, and then he obtained leave of absence for a week, and he
spent it at the village where Mrs. Nordheim had gone.
There -are some lovely villages in the State of Connecticut,
and none more .so than the beautiful town of Woodbury, in
the County of Litchfield. It is on the mail route between
New Haven and Litchfield, and about fifteen miles south of the

VIGOR.

99

latter town. The town extends three miles, with houses pret-
tily laid out along the whole line. There are three places of
public worship, and one, the Episcopal, is located in the corner
of a burying ground that has been used as such for over two
centuries. At the south end of the burying-ground is a neat,
well-kcpt inn, with a large garden that adjoins the- burying-
ground. It was at this inn, or hotel,. that Mrs. Nordheim had
obtained quarters during the prevalence of the epidemic in
New York. When Marion obtained leave of absence for a
week, he hurried up to this town, and he was delighted with it.
It was such a contrast with a town in his own State of South
Carolina, In the village where he .'as born there was not .a
 school-house, and, in fact, not one within thirty miles. In this
Connecticut town there were no less than five district schools,
and one academy kept by one of the clergymen of the aforesaid
churches. Marion soon became acquainted with the principal
people. He attended singing schools, went on fishing excur-
cursions, clambered over rocks, bathed in the river, and al-
nost every day accompanied Mrs. Nordheim to spend 'the af-
ternoon or evening with some one of the families' with. whom
she had become acquainted.
The Week of absence soon passed away, and he returned to
the city. Mrs. Nordheim continued to reside at the village inn
until the cheering news reached there that the cholera had
abated in the great city. Arrangements were made for her
return, and one lovely October morning she left the quiet
country life to take her part again in the city of New York.
One by one, family after family, returned to New York, and
about the close of November the principal part of the ab-
sentees had returned, and were as gay and devoted to worldly
pleasures and pursuits as though the Almighty had not sent a
destroying angel into the city to remove hy sudden and horrid
deaths a large portion of the unthinking population.


100

VIGOR

CHAPTER XX..
The Commercial Success of Marion Monck-The Count Pyasechinskt specu-
lates and wakes money in Stocks-The bargain of JMr GtAnville with Mr.
Nordheim-Marion is nineteen years old -Mrs Nordheirn pr(po es a party
Tie Irish Adventurer, John O'Doeall-Andcdote if A  Arrival in
New York.
A YEAR passed away from the time when the scattered and
scared persons alluded to in our story returned to the city after
the cholera summer. During that year few changes or occur-
rences took place worth noticing. The duties of the counting
house of Granville and Nordheim were carried on as usual, and
their business increased rapidly. Mr. Nordheim was absent
from the city, or engrossed with schemes-,of his own personal
pleasure. After the death of his wife, and the departure of
his son Walter, Mr. Granville seemed to lose a portion of that
business energy that so strongly characterized him. These
two facts flung a greater responsibility upon Marion Monek,
and Mr. Granville had already entrusted hiu with a power of
attorney to sign the name of the firm. It was a great trust for
so young a man, as Marion was not quite nineteen years old.
But he was of the right metal, and this confidence served as a
more powerful incentive to renewed activity and devotion to'
the business of his employers.
The Count Falsechinski,,during the eighteen months that
followed the cholera summer was not idle. He devoted his
time to- the duties of the office, and by a careful economy had
increased his deposits with his bankers, Prime, Ward and King.
He had become acquainted with the different members of that
distinguished firm, and one of the partners made a suggestion
to the -Count, in reference to taking an interest in a purchase
of stock, which was to be "cornered," which proved valuable;
for the Count availed himself of it to quite a large amount, at
least to four times his capital, his bankers making the pur-
chase, and retaining as a i margn " the funds of the Count in
their hands. Onp December morning, the Count received a
note from his bankers, requesting him to call at the banking

VIGOR.

101

house, No. 42 Wall street, early in the morning, and Mr. Ward
surprised him by saying,
"Count, you are aware that our firm purchased for your
account ten thousand dollars' worth of Morris Canal stock. It
has advanced fifty per cent. on the price we paid. Shall we
sell it at the Board to-day?  I think it has reached a high
limit. It may go higher, but you will make a good thing of it
at yesterday's quotations. What doyou say ?"
The Count had very little to say, except to authorize the
sale at the Board that day. His orders were complied with.
The stock had advanced still more, and when the Count's bank
book wag wrote up and handed him next day, lie found that he
had to his credit bver eight thousand dollars. This did not
move -him. He was the same quiet, smiling, unobtrusive
Count. He attended in Broome street, and gave his lessons
to Miss Norris regularly ; and that young lady was already an
excellent Spanish and Germanc scholar, as well as, French,
which was the first language he 'taught her. Frequently he
met Tom Granville at the residence of Miss Norris, but the
Count took very little notice of him on such occasions, nor did
the notorious fact that Tom was perfectly fascinated with the
beautiful and accomplished girl seem to disturb the usual' plaw
cidity of the Count. Occasionally, when he called to give a
lesson,.he met Mr. Nordheim in the house of Miss Norris~and
he seemed pleased with the progress that his protege had made.
Our readers will remember that Tom Granville had made an
arrangement with Mr. Nordheim to take Miss Norris off his
hands in a specified time. He had signally failed; for al-
though it was quite apparent that\,Clara likcd Tom, yet her
ambition to learn, and the advantages she had in her present
relations with Mr. Nordheim, made her decline in the most
positive manner all overtures to change, or make any arrange-
ment with Master Tom. Now and then, when Tom, became
clamorous for funds, Clara would give him a few tens from the
amounts she received from Mr. Nordheim, but she never wont
to draw money from the Savings Bank. She received Mr. Tom
Granville's- attentions without the slightest objection. She-
allowed him to escort her to public places on- all occasions, and
it would almost seem that she was aware of the secret purpose
of Mr. Nordheiin, but she kept her own counsel in this respect.
Tom occasionally spoke of his progress to Mr. Nordheim. The
latter merely smiled, with a few words, such as, " Well, Ton,
more money, I suppose." Tom would leave with -a hundred
7   dollars in his pocket. He still kept house in Chambers street,


I

102

VIGOR.

but left his wife to get on as well as she could ; but whenr she
needed advice, she found an adviser in Mr. Nordheim, who
was a regular-visitor in Chambers street, and escorted Mrs.
Tom Granville to nearly every private party which she at-
tended. Many who had met them frequently in public, thought
that they were Mr. and Mrs. Nordheim.
Meanwhile Marion Monck was residing in Bond street,
where lie had.removed when Mrs. Nordheim returned from
the country after the cholera. Marion and Bessy were like
brother and sister.
Another visitor now made his appearance in Bond street,
and not a Sunday passed that he did not dine at Mrs. Nord-
heiun's. . This was no less a personage than our serious, me-
thodical old bookkeeper, Mr. Wilson. His attachment to Ma-
rion, his sterling integrity and good sense, had rendered Mr.
Wilson a great favorite with Mi's. Nordheim, and a welcome
visitor..I He was a safe man, and the lady felt that'he was one
of those that could be relied upon in a case of emergency,
should such a case ever approach he'r home. The Count False-
chinski was also a regular visitor at Bond street. le was ac-
complished, and helped to while away many an hour pleasantly
that without his music and animated conversation would have
beep dull and cheerless.
December had arrived, and it was near the anniversary of
Marion's birth-day. Mrs. Nordheim had determined to make,
some preparations for the day when her " brother Marion"
would be nineteen years old. She had consulted with the
Count and with Mr. Wilson, as to what she should do to make
the occasion an agreeable one, and .to be remembered. They
advised a party in the evening, and this was decided upon.
"'Marion," said the lady, a few days before the event was to
happen, "I ain goilg to give a small party on the evening of
your birth-day. I hope the idea will please you."
"Most unquestionably; whatever you do, dear Bessy,
pleases me., I have a happy home, and I ought to be very
thankful to you. I wish you would tell me how I can be suffi-
ciently grateful for all your goodness and kindness to me."
"By telling me who to invite that you 'know, and that I do
not. See, here is the list of those I have already invited."
Marion took the list, and carefully read over the names..
Why, you seem to be better acquain-ted with the names of
my friends, Bessy, than I am myself; and yet there is one
name that is not on the list, and I wish you would invite the
Person. I have met him frequently, and he has behaved with

VIGOR.

100

great civility to me. I know of no way to return it except by
inviting him here. I will take the invitation when you have
filled it up, and deliver it myself. Here is the name."  And
Marion wrote in pencil upon. a slip of paper, "John O'Doemall."
The name was transferred to an envelope, and in the course
of the day Marion delivered it to the party for whom it was
intended. H6 found Mr. O'Doemall in his room at the City
Hotel, for this Irish gentleman never stopped at any place ex-
cept it was the first-class hotel.
As Mr. O'Doemall will be frequently introduced into this
local history, it will perhaps be as well that AI should give a
brief'narrative of his career from the time he reached our hos-
pitable American shore, until he makes. his appearanee as one
of the leading characters in our story.
Irelan'd never sent to the United States a more p'erfeet gen-
tleman than John O'Doemall. He claimed to be an Irish peer,
but in disguise. He spoke the Spanish language as well as
English, was really handsome, very aristocratic in his bearing
dressed well, had the manners and used fluently the language
of an educated gentleman. He was a fascinating lady-killer.
le could discoarse of beautiful scenery, Moorish palaces, the
Alhambra, Mount Zion, and the river Jordan, life in Spain, in
Germany, France, Holland, Greece and, the East, including Je-
rusalem, Grand Cairo, and Mecca. There could be no doubt
but that Mr. O'Doemall had been a very great traveller. Ex-
claim suddenly "Jack-you Jack!" and Mr. O'Doemall-would
jump up, hastily and reply, " Ay, ay, my Lord !"  This was
tried on frequently by doubtful people, who had heard of this
peculiar trait in this original Irish character. There seemed
DO possible e way of accounting for it, except by surmising that
gentlemanly Jack had been, at no very remote period, a valet
to some Irish or English peer, and had travelled with the said
peer in those countries which-Mr. O'Doemall could talk so
learnedly about. This was probably the true secret of the for-
mer occupation of the Irish adventurer. Doubtless he had com-
mitted some rascality that had pai-ted him from his' noble
patron, and rendered it necessary that he should try the Ame-
rican continent. He landed from a Liverpool packet ship of
the Black Ball line, but as his name never appeared in the
list of cabin passengers, it was reasonably supposed that he
came in the steerage. Before he had been in New-York a
week, he could have been found at the City Hotel, located in
a comfortable apartment, and perfectly at home.
One day at dinner his agreeable, gentlemanly, language


"*if

VIGOR.

made an impression upon a neighbor at the table who formed
one of a group of gentlemen that were sipping their wine toge-
ther after most of the other diners had left the table. This
gentleman invited John to take a glass of wine with him, and
finally to draw his chair nearer and join the drinking party.
John cheerfully accepted the invite, and before another hour
had passed he had made a still more decided impression upon
the individual alluded to. The conversation became general,
and John was brilliant. One of the party having made a state-
ment that anybody could earn a living in thi4 country, was
asked by John O'Doemall the following question :
"How can a reduced Irish gentleman earn an honorable
living ?"
Easily enough ; provided he is not too proud to take any
situation that offers."
"What position could I get ?" asked John.
"I have but one that I could offer you," was the reply. "I
keep a hotel at West Point, and I need a bar-keeper."
"And if you think I would suit you I accept the situation,"
said O'Doimall.
The bargain was concluded, and Mr. O'Doemall received a
sufficient sum to pay his hotel bill. The next day he left the
city in company with his new employer, and before the week
had passed he was concocting drinks for the pupils of Uncle
Samuel's great-military establishment near the Highlands.
This worthy hotel proprietor had a young and very beautiful
sister. Of course it was not long before Mr. O'Doemall be-
came acquainted with this sister, and also with..the fact that she
had the snug little sum of ten thousand dollars in her own
right, which sum would beconie hers the very day she married.
What arts so accomplished a traveller as Mr..O'lDoemall used
with a simple country girl to fascinate her, it is needless to
mention. They can be easily guessed. How quietly and how
adroitly everything was managed was-wonderful. Had a thun-
derbolt pitched into the brain of the worthy landlord, he could
not have been more astonished, than when one afternoon, just
as he was preparing to take a siesta after dinner, his barkeeper
requested a private interview. Somewhat astonished at the
request, the landlord complied. When they were alone, Mr.
O'Doemall remarked,
"1I believe sir I have been -with you three months?  Per-
fectly satisfied with my manner of performing my duties ?"
" I have no particular fault to find, Jack," said Mr. Cozzens.

VIGOR.

105

"Well, sir, I shall leave ydu in the down boat this evening,
and shall take my wife with me."
"Your wife! I didn't know you had a wife!' Where the
devil have you kept her ?"
"I have only been married about a week, sir. Perhaps you
will have the kindness to read this certificate. It slightly con-
cerns you, and when you are satisfied, I shall expect some sort
of arrangement in reference to the trifling sum of about ten
thousand dollars that you are trustee for, and I will henceforth
relieve you of the duties of trusteeship.",
"Intriguing, d---- scoundrel !" was the only comment ut-
tered by the landlord,  s he read the certificate. "Bring your
wife here immediately.
"With pleasure."
The girl came. But why prolong such a scene? The bro-
ther's horror-a woman's faith. O'Doemall secured her pro-
perty-had it placed in his wife's hands, and a few days after
the husband and wife came to New York. Before six months,
O'Doemall had the whole sum in~a bank in his own name. He
had wheedled his poor wife into giving him the money. le
took a store down town, and commenced business as a wine
merchant. Before a year had expired, the poor wife died in
giving birth to a child. O'Doemall was all right. He had
secured the money safe by proper deeds and gifts, and was
now a regular boarder at the City Hotel--as more than ayear
had elapsed since the death of his wife.
Had Marion Monek been aware of these interesting antece-
dents, I question whether Mr. O'Doemall would have been in-
vited to his quiet home. Marion knew nothing of them. He
had first met O'Doemall at the rooms of Colonel Mac Neil. He
had been introduced to him as a merchant of,-apital, and he
had perceived that he was an-agreeable man of the world. Mr.
Nordheim also associated with and recognized him, and besides
Mr. O'Doemall had bought of the firm a large bill of wines, and
he had paid the cash for them. With such and other collateral
evidences of respectability, what occasion had Marion to hesi-
tate about introducing him to his home circle ? He had ione.

5*

104

Al4
fil
Lk


hit~
fit
I15
lit,

VIGOR-

CHAPTER XXI.
Mrs. Nordhei'm gives a Party-Marion Monck is nineteen years old -John
0 Doemall--James G. Bennett at a party-enr ' W. Cedar-Mrs. Wood.
ruff-Maron and Is ibetla Grariville-A n offer and an acceptance - Sccrtcy
enjoined-An anecdote of the Author's "first love."
TiHE eventful day arrived.  Marion Monck was, nineteen a
years old.  He did not make his appearance that day at the
office of Granville &amp; Nordheim, except for an hour or two in
the morning, and he returned to Bond street to assist Bessy
Nordheim in the event of her needing such assistance.
"Bessy,. I have invited more people without your permis-
sion.",
" Pshaw. What do I care for that ?  I have invited a few
more than I had on iny list. But we have room-plenty of
room, and I shall have a gay, happy time of it.  Our party
will be a regular old fashioned party, Marion.  I will not
have one uncomfortable if I can help it.  But pray, Marion,
whom have you invited ?"
" First. Mr. John O'Doemall; but you know all about that'
Next, a person connected with the press-with one of the
daily papers.- He is a young Scotchman, and used to live in
Charleston."
" That alone, to a Charleston girl, is almost a sufficient letter
of introduction, without any other. What is his name ?")
" Bennett-James Gordon Bennett.     I was introduced to
him at Mrs. Coffin's, the large boarding house on the corner of
Broadway and Wall street, opposite Trinity Church.  I like
him very much. ,He is quiet-very intelligent, and you will
be pleased with him, Bessy."
"Very likely. Who else have you invited ?"
"Then I frequent Ned Windust's Shakespere, near the
Park Theatre. I have invited two friends from that region,
although I had previously met them both at Colonel Mac Neil's
room at the City Hotel.  They help fill up, and are perhaps
as much my friends as many others that will be here. One is
a literary man named Cedar. 'He writes for the Weekly
Mirror, and for some of the monthly journals, and he also

VIGOR.

107

writes novels. He promised me one, which I will give to you
when I get it.  The other is a young doctor and surgeon
named Carnochan. He is also Southron like you, only born in
Florida instead of South Carolina.  He has been quite a trav-
eller in getting surgical knowledge.  He studied in scotland
three years-in Paris he walked the hospitals four years, and
was several years the favorite pupil of one of the first surgeons
in this citi-Doctor Mott."
"Then I suppose he has a large practice."
"In playing billiards, I dare say yes, but as for private
practice, I do not, Bessy, believe he Vias a solitqy patient in
New York.   He is a gay man-good looking-rather careless
--has a prospect of property, and-well, I think he lives off
those prospects, and a few dollars he gets now and then from
a rich uncle."
a  like him already.  He must be an original, and when
night comes, if your three friends come also, I will try and
make them at home, and that is ill I can do. Have you no
curiosity to know who I have invited ?"
"to be sure I have. Do I know them?"
"Yes and no. You have observed the wealthy widow lady
that lives next door to us."
"Certainly-Mrs. Woodruff is the name ori the silver door-
plate, Jam glad she is to be here. Do you know I have a
great admiration for her?  She lives so quiet, no noise, sees
few friends, has her pet rabbits, parroquets and parrots, mock-
ingbirds, canaries and dogs. Why, I have tried to steal her
beautiful fawn colored Italian greyhound half a dozen tines,
but I did not like to be so unneighborly."
"I am glad that you are pleased with my inviting her, for
you will shaie the responsibility of the act with me to Mr.
Nordheim. I do not knQw how it is, but on one or two occa-
sions when I have mentioned the name of our lady-liko neigh-
bors in his hearing, he has turned up his nose one degree
more, and then followed such a curious expression upon his
face that I asked him once if he knew  any harm  of Mrs.
Woodruff.
"Pray, what reply did he make ?"
. "Nordheim said be did not know any harm of her, on the
contrary, that he believed she was highly connected, and that
her husband was a man of great genius,/and died wealthy,
leaving her a princely fortune and no-children."
" She has some of the handsomest eqjuipages in town call at
her door," observed Marion.

106

Al


.Ui~J
I    !~
t
1K
I    ~
I III'S
1~i
1K
~I~t
ill
I, I

VIGOR.

"That is true. We have occasionally spoken when we have
met at the door, andthis morning I boldly asked her to be
present this evening, and she accepted. In addition, I have
invited Mr.and-Mrs. Parker and their beautiful niece Julia.
They live up the street, and called upon me and Mr. Nordheim
yesterday. They are immensely' rich, have, retired from busi-
ness, and are very desirable people to know.  Mrs. Parker
prides herself upon being one of the principal leaders of
fashion. She is only twenty-five years old, while he is fifty if
he is a day.' The niece is but seventeen. But who is ringing
away at that door-bell ?- Is there nobody to answer, it?  Go,
Marion, to th door yourself."  I
Marion went and opened the door, and returned, leading by
the hand, Isabella Granville. The look of intense admiration
with which Marion gazed at-the beautiful girl whose 'hair fell
over her face, her cheeks red with excitement, and her eyes
dancing with joy, was not lost upon ,Bessy Nordheim. She
was rather cool at first, but it did not last long. -
"I have come to help you, dear Mrs. Nordheim. Papa said
I might come, and I will do all in my power to relieve you of
your care about the party," said Isabella.  lI
"Thank you, Isa; but I must be at work, so I will leave
you and Marion to amuse each other."
, Mrs. Nordheim left the parlor to go and look after the ser-
vants. Poor Marion. - Isabella Granville took off her bonnet,,
then her shawl, and then Marion seated himself by her side.
They: chatted and 'laughed, and finally Isabella adjourned to
the' piano, played several favorite airs, and sang the words.
Marion stood by and drank in every note. Isabel -looked up
at him, when she had finished. "Isa."  It was all he said,
and then he took her hand in his, and led her back to the sofa.
He put his arm around her waist, and again repeated,- "Isa, I
love you."  She did not make any reply, but leaned her head
over on his shoulder. The perfume of her hair almost took
away his breath. He kissed her forehead, and then, more.
bold, he pressed her pouting, cherry-ripe lips-..-not once, but
a dozen times, and-she returned it.
Mrs. Bessy Nordheim, where were you all this while ?
Down in the kitchen-the sweat pouring out of your face, as
you gave hurried directions about the baking and cooking
arrangements; and he for whom you were making all these
extra preparations, was only over your head, giving away his
first, his puppy loves to 'a silly little coquette who did not
know her own mind five mninutes.

108

)

VIGOR.                 -    AU
"Isa, I love you. Do you love me in return ?"
"5Oh, yes; very much indeed. I love you a great deal
more than I ever did Frank Clacksome, or that stupid William
Senless, although I did love them once, but' I dn't now. I
have loved you ever sinee-let me see-ever since my
mother"died. But you must Dot tell any body that I love
you," simpered Isabella.k
Of course, dear Isa, you will let me speak to your father
and"-said Marion, earnestly.
"Oh, no. Certainly not. The idea of such a thing is per-
fectly frightful. Why, he would lock me up, beat me-.I don't-
know what he. wouldn't do. He would very likely make me
marry Middleton, Benson at an hour's notice, as he tried to
make Walter marry his sister, and you know I could not run
away and go to sea, as Walter did. Now don't look so cross,
Marion. Kiss me again," was Isabella's reply.
Marion complied, and told Isabel that he thought she was
alarmed without cause. "Why. should your father object to.
me ? I am only .nineteen, it is true, but you are very young.
We can wait, dear Isa. Howeve, I will do as you wish; but
will you promise to marry me when your father gives his con-
sent 9"
"'obe sure I will. But then you are not to ask him
and not to say a-word to a soul alive until I tell you that you
may. I will be very angry if you do," observed Isabella.
Marion promised. All further conversation was interrupted
by the entrance of Mrs. Nordheim, who was too much excited
by her culinary troubles -to give any heed or even to notice
the sheepish looks of the two young friends. She called upon
Isabel to go up stairs with her, and Marion was alone. It was
his first love. There was a pretty face, his employer's daugh-
Ster--and imagination must dQ the rest. He thought Isabella
perfection itself; but- he was only nineteen years old, and as
ignorant of the sort of partner he had been making love to as
though he had never seen her. Youth must love something
If it is not a reality, it will be an ideality. I well remember
that my first, love was ahyoung girl that I first saw in St.
George's church. I attended that church in  eiekman street
t   iwo years for no other earthly or heavenly purpose exempt to
see her every Sunday. I did not know her name even. Then
I went to the East Indies-to Canton-was gone a year. Eight
months of 'that period I was at sea, and I walked the deck at
night and indulged thoughts of her. I deamed of her. All
my aspirations of future, success in life were associated with.

I     i


U "I
I
tiir
4
I'~t
'4

VIGOR-

her. When I returned, I hurried to that church,. for it (was
Sunday morning when I landed from my Canton voyage.- I
found her there. That Sunday I cultivated the sexton, and
ascertained her name and where her parents lived. It was
opposite St. John's Park. There for weeks after dark, I used
to go and sit on the stone foundation of the iron railing, and
look at the house that contained the object of my admiration,
and so four years passed. Then I,commenced sending he'r
anonymous but costly presents; I wrote her poetry, and used
up another year, but no hope dawned. I began to see daylight.
I had lent two hundred dollars to a wretched cousin of my fair
flame: and he agreed to introduce me to the family. " When ?"
I asked. "One of the daughters is to be married next week,
and I will get you an invitation."  Capital," I replied. I3ut
what is the name of the daughter that is to be married ?" I
asked, with a shiver. ".Susan," was the reply.  The uni-
verse seemed to me to have capsized for about five minutes.
" Susan " was the name of the daughter that I had so long
loved, and that I had regarded as my wife. She was to marry,
and did marry a man named Wilson. I have hated that name
ever since. I contemplated having Susan arrested for spirit-
ual bigamf'; but wais too much occupied to commence pro-
ceedings. Then, again, as I had never 'spoken spoken a word
to her in'mv life, it made it so odd. That was' my first love.-
my puppy'love-and it was deep in the heart. Susan has
children-ay" g4 dchildren-now, but I never see her in the
street, meet her in church, but soft, pleasant memories will
stead over me of my long-tried love. The only thing painful
about it is that I did not say something to Susan at the time.
It was all one side. I ought to have let her know something
about it, and the chances are decidedly in favor of the suppo-
tiom that the. abominable, plodding Wilson that made my,
Susan Mrs. W. would have been nowhere.
But to return to Marion Monck. H e was obliged to fall in
love with somebody or something. lie was honest as the day
was long. RHe would not commit a wrong. He liked essay
Nordheim. He never dreamed of loving her, because she
was his employer's wife ; and for want of a better real to his
ideal in soul, he fell in love with Isabella Granville. She
remained until afternoon in Bond street, and then Marion
accompanied her home in State street, where she went to dress
to+return to the party that evening. That party must com-
mence another chapter.

VIGOR.

Iii

CHAPTER XXII.
Th Evening Party comes off at Mrs. Nordhim'-The guests-Mr. Bev.,
nett's ConversaCon-Mfr. and Mrs Parker and niece Jua-Old ,John
Grae r the miiliionire- Cot.'Mac Neil and Miss Irene Grasper-Mjr.
Bnnett' family and birth place in Scotland-Col  iac Nel offers his
hand to Miss Grasper, is accepted by her, dd rejected by htr father-"No
man is rich enough to support twofamilies"-Airs. Woodruff s Residence
-Her horses and ca riag s - Ir p w in Grace Church, and her pie ty-
The Count Falsechin ki at the party -He ofers to go to church- The party
6reakcs up.
THERE was a vast difference between an evening party thir-
ty years ago, and now. In those days, the hour in the even-
ing rh en the guests assembled at the hospitable mansion was
much earlier, and the hour when the party dissolved was not
later than midnight.  The refreshmants were of a different
order. Then there were the solid, old-fashioned mahogany
sideboards, filled with good things, and covered with substan-
tial eatables and drinkables.  There, was choice old South-
side Madeira that had been in 3ask forty years. There Was
old cider for old-fashioned'people, and quantities of cut glass
dishes overloaded with cracked hickory nuts.  Rhode Islnd
Greenings and Spitzbergen apples were piled up on famous
large crockery open-work dishes, and the young people could
eat nuts and do courting at the aforesaid sideboards. Then
the supper was a substantial supper, with oysters done in every
style, and cold turkey and chicken, apd knives and forks and
plates, and above all, room for all the guests to'partake of the
good cheer in comfort. There was a room for the supper.
There was room for those who danced, and room for those who
played whist, or who wished to converse.
Those were good old days, but they have changed for the
worse. Few of our readers but what know from personal e-
perience the difference between such a party as we have dese
cribed, and one in the modern times, when all is heartlessness,
claptrap and show.
Before eight o'clock on the evening of Marion Monok's birh-
day, the two large parlors of Mr. Nordheim's spacious resi-
d'nce in B.nd street were partly but not uncomfortably filled

110


112

VIGOR.

VIGOR.

with the persons to whom invitation had been sent. There,
was not one missing.
Mr. Nordheim could act the gentleman when he chose to do
so, and on this occasion he spared no pains to make every one
feel at home. His partner, William Pitt Granville and Isa-
bella were among the first to arrive ; and soon after, Mr. and
Mrs. Tom Granville, accompanied by Miss Madison Pinckney,
were announced.. Tom had no sooner entered than he was
hurried to the piano by Miss Benson, who knew how delight-
fully Tom  played upon that instruirient.  Colonel Benson
joined Pitt Granville, and with Colonel Mac Neil and Mr. Ce-
dar the author, a whist party was made up.
Marion did the honors to a certain extent, for as fast as
those arrived to Whom he had specially given Invitations, and
who were personally unknown to Mrs. Nordheim, he presented
them by name to the latter lady. Mr. Bennett and .Mr. Wilson
came in together, and after the former' had been presented to
the hostess, he-retired quietly to an ottoman in a corner of the
room, and there remained until Mr. Wilson went and tdok a;
seat by his side.
I suppose you will join the dancers presently," said honest
Wilson.
' No indeed. I don't dance. I prefer looking on.  It is
very rare that I go out to a party, and when I do I have my
own way of enjoying myself. As you seem to know most of
the people here, you will confer a great favor upon me if you
will tell me all about them. I am very fond of studying cha-
racters, and I am much deceived if you have not some origin-
als here .to-night. Mrs. Nordheim is a. beautiful woman-
which is her husband ?" asked Mr. Bennett.
"1That Jewish-looking man talking with Mr. Thomas Gran-
vle," replied Mr. Wilson.
" I've seen him before. I'conversed with his lady a few
moments about Charleston; I must have seen him at the
South," was Mr. Bennett's observation.
"Very likely : and Mr. Nordheim is a man, that if you.see
him once, you are not likely to forget him.  He is not re-
markable for his beauty, but he is clever in a financial point
of view, said Wilson.
Here Mr. and Mrs. Parker and Miss Julia Parker were an-
nounced, and soon after were cordially received by the host
and hostess. The latter introduced Marion, and he offered his
arm to conduct Miss Julia to a seat. Mrs. Parker and' her
husband followed. Soon after, Mr. Nordheim, accompanied by

113

Mr. O'Doemall, introduced him to Mrs. Parker, and the hus-
band went off to find Mr. Granville, who was an old acquaint.
ance. These parties are disposed of, and we' now return to
Mr. Bennett and Mr. Wilson. Mr. Bennett remarked,
"Those last arrivals seem to create quite, a sensation.; who
are they, Mr. Wilon ?"
"Oh.e Mr. Parker is as rich as Crosus-retired from' all
sorts of business, married a handsome wife only %one third as
old as he is, and they live up the street in princely style,"' was
the reply of Mr. Wilson
"Their daughter isan elegant girl," said Mr. Bennett.
"She is only a niece, and- the aunt is very jealous of her.
Do you see that nice young man who is paying such devoted
attention to Mrs. Pai-ker ?" asked Mr. Wilson.
Yes ; who is he ?" asked Mr. Bennett.
Mr. Wilson rolled up his eyes as he replied, "From all ac-
counts, he is a hard case, in a financial point of view. I don't
know much about him. He is abld to make the female sex be-
lieve black is white, and-well, in a financiall point of view; lie
is said to be a regular Jeremy Didler. He goes on change,
and he gets into society somewhere or other, and no English-
man of any account comes to this town but what Mr. O'Doeniall
gets into his good graces. Why, man, I don't believe but what
he owes every hotel in town except the one where he resides.
He comes to our office occasionally, but I don't like hiig."
Mr. Bennett smiled and 'observed, "He seems to be making
himself very agreeable to Mrs. Parker."
"He make himself agreeable! Why, sir, he has already ex-
pliined to her all about our Savior's tomb at Jerusalem, and
promised her a fragment of the 'rock which covered our Sa-
vior' s sepulchre, which he has at his hotel, and which 'he got
from a monk when he was last in Holy Land. I'll bet two to
one that she has already invited him to call to morrow with it
at her residence," said Wilson.
"Doyou suppose he has a piece of the rock ?"
'Rock be hanged. No; doubtful if he was ever nearer Je-
rusalem than I have been. As for the rock, he will smash a
piece off the curb-stone as he goes up to her house, and take it
along with him. He is a bad customer, in a financial point of
view, and if he once gets a foothold in the house of Mrs. PAr-
ker, she will never get him out," said honest Wilson.
Mr. Bennett queried out of the book-keeper the- name and
occupationdof nearly every person in that room, and then they
left it together to join the dancers, who were busily' occag~iod

9


114

VIGOR.

jt

VIGOR.

115

on the floor above. They had. hardly procured seats before
Mr. Bennett was much struck by the appearance of an elderly
person who was watching the dancers. He asked Wilson who
that was.
"Old Grasper, the millionaire," was the reply.
In those days, thirty years ago,.raillionaires were very few
and far between in the city of New York. Now they are as
plenty as pickpockets in a great assemblage. Old John Gras.
per was considered about as rich as any other man, with one,
or perhaps two exceptions. Astor could set several numerals
to the word millions. Old Nat Prime, of the firm of Prime,
Ward &amp; King, was getting up rapidly towards a million, and
would have overreached it by the rise of city property had he
not died suddenly. , Then there was Stephen Whitney, who,
was running up on the hundreds of thousands,. but did not
touch "million."  Thirty years ago Bobby Lennox, who made
his first property while a clerk to the Commissioners of the
British prison ships, could count up to three or four hundred
thousand, aind John Grasper was not far behind the richest of
them (save Astor) in those days. He had recently built him a
house out of town of granite, and people wondered at. sich ex-
travagance and folly as to put up so costly a building way up
B roadway, above Prince street.  But old John finished it,
and in spite of opposition moved into it from his brick house
on thenorth-east corner, where the Astor House now stands,
and took a position as one of the aristocratic families in New
Yorg. He had two children-one a boy and the other a girl,
or rather, these children were a young man named Franeis,
who sported his inoney around town as one of the exclusives,
and a fair girl named Irene, who, with her pecuniary prospects
so flattering, was acknowledged as one of the elite and most
fashionable young ladies about town. Old Grasper had other
children, but they have no connection with this story, and need
not to be alluded to.. Mr. Grasper was a man of strict business
habits. He had acquired property in the fur trade, and he
judiciously invested it in real estate and bank sfock. After
he retired frontactive commercial life he was elected. presi-
dedt of a city bank. The position was a respectable one, and
the incine from this office was well worth having by even one
of the richest citizens.
On the present occasion old Mr. Grasper was watching every
movement'of his daughter Irene, who was dancing with Colo-.
nel Mac Neil. His eyes scarce wandered for a moment from
them. Mr. Bennett and Wilson took seats near him. .

"So that is old~Grasper, who is so rich-the millionaire, as
you say, Mr Wilson," said Mr. Bennett.
"Yes, Mr. Bennett, and judging by the way he is watching
the attentions of Colonel Mac Neil to his child, I should think
something ,was broke. lie evidently don't like Colonel NMac
Neil's sweet demonstrations upon his daughter-it is bad in a
financial point of view; for my own opinion of Colonel Mac is
that he is not Worth a cent."
"le may be a good man, for all that. Scotch-is he not ?'
replied Mr. Bennet'.
"Yes sir. He might be a good man, but he is not, in. a
financial or any other point of view. He is a very immoral
man. But you are Scotch too, are you not ?" asked Mr. Wilson.
"1 certainly was born in\Scotland, and lived there until I
was sixteen, when I came to this country, and have been here
ever since. I am from a different partof Scotland than where
this Mac Neil's race lived. My family were Catholic Scotch,
and believed 'in the Divine rights of the Stuarts down to
this day. My mother was as strongly in favor of the Stuart
dynasty as were her ancestors before her, although years had
passed since there was the remotest hope of any of that royal
race ever reigning again in Great Britain. But tell me more
about this Colonel Mac Neil. You say that he is immoral.
How so?   Gambles, I suppose ?" asked Mr Bennett.
"Worse than that. He seduced in Canada a virtuous young
lady named Jane McPherson. She was a soldier's daughter.
I have seen the poor old father, McPherson. He came down
to New York to try and persuade his child to return home.
But no---she would not do it. She loves Mac Neil too well.
She lives very retired as his mistress, and has fwo children by
the Colonel. Poor thing! She hopes some day that Mac Neil
will make an hoiiest.womai of her by marriage. Thee is no
hope of that-the Colonel must marry for money, and he will
do it too, if he can."
While this conversation was being carried on, the object of,
'al  it was deeply engrossed with Miss Irene Grasper. Tley had
2   finished dancing, and Col. Mac Neil conducted his fair partner
to one of the side rooms. Theywere alone. Irene Grasper
was a magnficent girl, stately in appearance, with a profusion
7    of light auburn locks arranged with great taste. Her cheeks
~ were pale-her eyes a mild blue. When she was seated where
few were likely to interrupt them, Mac Neil took one hand if
his own, and in deep impassioned tones observed,
"You know, dear Irene, how devotedly-hiow madly I have

-


VIGOR                                           O

Toved you. To-night I nust know from your own lips my fate.
You must have perceived how closely your father watched
every motion while we were dancing. Do you love me, Irene?1
"0 Colonel, how can you ask nie such a question!  You
know that I do. How could I help it, although I have tried to
do so," replied the lady.
"Tried to help loving me, Irene?  What do you mean by
that sentence? Why do you wish not to loye me i" asked
Colonel Mac Neil.
"I do-God knows I do. 0 Colonel, there are so many
stories told about you-so many lies, perhaps scandal-.--and
yet I am afraid almost to - dream of trusting my happiness in
your keeping."
"1Do you confess that you love me, Irene ?" asked Col. Mac
Neil.
"I do," replied the fair girl,-her eyes swimming in tears.
"And will you. authorize me to make that statement to your
father, when I ask him for your hand, which I will do to-
night ?" said the Colonel.
"0, do-not! He will not give his consent, and I shall be
more miserable than ever," said Irene.
"That, dear Irene, we shall see. There can be no great
harm in my asking. I owe it to myself--to my own self-re-
spect. Why should he not give his consent?  I am his equal,
except perhaps in point of wealth, and of that he may hive
more than I."
What reply the young lady might have made is not so cer-
tain, for just at that moment Mr. Grasper the millionaire made
his appearance upon the scene. Colonel Mac Neil arose.
"1Be seated, sir ; and you, Miss Irene, go and join your mo-
ther. I would like to say a few words to you, sir," observed
Mr. Grasper.
Colonel Mac Neil rose and bowed to Miss Irene as she left
the room, and then re-seated himself.
"I am waiting patiently to hear the words you mentioned
that you wished to address to me," said Colonel Mae Neil.
"Colonel Mac Neil, you have been very pointed in your
attentions to my daughter of late, and especially to-night.. I
am a plain man, sir, and should. like to ask you what are'your
intentions towards her ?" demanded old Mr. Grasper.
"Honorable, of course, sir. I would like to see that person
who dared say or hint otherwise !" said Col. Mac Neil.
"0O-ah-.-yes. That is all very well, sir. Honorable-
that means marriage, That is just what I don't want. I had

just as lief your intentions were what you would call dis-
honorable. It would suit me as well," sternly observed Mr.
Grasper.
"Mr. Grasper, I thank you for opening the way to a propo-
sal I have to make. I love your daughter. You need not sneer,
sir. I love her for herself alone. You, may think I seek her
hand in honorable marriage because she is the daughter of a
wealthy man. It is false, sir  I care not for her money. She
loves me, sir, and will confess it with her own lips, if you, will
ask her," said the Colonel.
" Shan't do anything of the kind. I will not consent to your
marrying her under any circumstances. If you take her, God
curse me if I ever give her, directly or indirectly, dead or alive,
a solitary cent to keep her or you from starving. Do I speak
plain ?" sternly observed Mr. 4rasper.
"Perfectly; but really, Mr. Grasper,. some explanation is
necessary. I have a good business. I can support my wife.
My position in society is equal to yours. By birth, I am at
least your equal. Pray, Mr. Grasper, give me some reason for
so extraordinary a refusal to my proposition. I am no beggar !"
"Do you wish me to give you the reason--my real reason?"
asked Mr. Grasper.
"I do, most respectfully," replied Colonel:Mac Neil.
"And, Mr. Ma Neil, if I do, and if it is satisfactory, will.
you promise me, as a man of honor, that you will go to my
daughter, and say to her that you relinquish her affections, and
all claim to her hand ?" asked .Mr. Grasper.
" I will, upon my honor. And now let me hear, if you please,
the reason," said the Colonel.
"Colonel Mac Neil, you may be -doing a good business-
you may be making money-I care not. I do not believe you
or any other man is doing a business sufficient to justify him
in attempting to support twofamilies."
Colonel Mac Neil was for a moment paralyzed. He was not
prepared for this. "Stop one moment, sir-I am satisfied."
Mr. Grasper passed out of the room.
" What a fool I have been ! Who in the fiend's name could
have told him that I kept a mistress, and had two children by
her ? That is what he meant. Well, I am as proud as he is
aA moment after he joined Miss Grasjger, and addressed her
as easily as though nothing had happened. Ere he left her
side, he said,
"Irene, we meet hereafter as strangers. Your father has
refused me your hand. I lam satisfied, and shall never' caim

K

116

117

VIGOR.

I III


VIGO.

I

118

it again. God bless you!"  And soon after he took his leave
of Mrs: Nordheim, and left the house.
Mr. Bennett had noticed some of these- proceedings, and
when Colonel Mac -Neil took his hasty departure, he gently
nudged Mr. Wilson, remarking, "My Scotch friend, the Col-
onel, seems to have had a rebuff from some quarter.".
"Indeed he has. I overheard a few high words between
him and old Grasper  short time ago, and I think the Colonel
will haul off in that quarter."
He communicated to Mr. Bennett the "two families to sup-
port " remark. The latter laughed, and said he had not thought
Mr. Grasper had so much keen wit in his composition.
"It was not bad, was-it ?" said Mr. Wilson.
Marion Monck was not idle for a moment. He introduced
such people to each other as he thought would make agreeable
acquaintances. Such of his friends as were bashful, he led up
to, the prettiest girls, and made them select partners for the
dance. At last he approached Mr. Bennett.
"Come, come, sir, this will not do. Why, you are destroy-
ing Mr. Wilson's usefulnesss, and it don't pay in a pecuniary
point of view-eh, Mr. Wilson?  What can you two have to
say to each other of so much interest? Mr. Wilson, you must
take down Mrs. Nordheim to supper to-night, and as to Mr.
Bennett, I must trust him to take charge of my sweet Isabella
Granville.  Consider yourselves engaged, both Monsieurs,
when the proper time comes," and he passed on and joined
Mrs. Woodruff, who was seated ,alone..
" That Marion Monck is a noble fellow, Mr. Bennett. What
do you think of him?  You have known him some time, he
informs me."
"For some months. He came up to the editorial rooms of
the Courier to see Colonel Webb one day, and I then had a
short conversation with him. I have since met him at my
boarding-house," was Mr. Bennett's reply.
"He will make a great merchant one of these days, I am
thinking," added Mr. Wilson.
. I have my doubts about that. I do not think lie will make
a great merchant, nor a small one, either. He has talent of a
higlrorder, and fitted for a higher sphere, or I am much mis-
taken," observed Mr. Bennett.
"Higher sphere !" repeated the indignant Wilson; "what
higher sphere is there in New York, I should like to know ?"
"'I don't wish to be rude, but I think to be an editor re-
quires a higher order of talent than it does to make a success-.

VIGOR.

11
ii-

ful shop-keeper--.-or, I beg your pardon-a -leading, merchant.
Young Monck, I dare say, has never written a line in his life,
N    yet I think some -day he' will make a clever journalist. He
will if he can write as well as he talks-"-.but time makes strange
changes."
Time proved it, for what that editor prophesied became true
in after years to a far greater extent than even he dreamed of
at that early period.
Marion was deeply engaged in conversation with Mrs. Wood-
ruff. She seemed grateful for his attention. "I feel almost
isolated here to-night, knowing so few, in fact none except the
inmates of this house, by seeing you pass in and out of the
doors," was her remark.
"Yoa have resided next door to us over a- year, have you
not ? I have always admired that house-it is at least one-
third deeper than our house, and the yard is larger, and very
beautifully arranged with trees, plants and flowers. You must,
be fond of flowers, madam ?"
"Very, indeed. I love them. My husband has been dead
some years, and but for my pets, and my flowers, I should not
know what to do," replied Mrs. Woodruff.
"Have you no relatives living with you ?" asked Marion
"Not one. . have done with them, and they with me. Not
a soul lives with me except my servants and my live stock. I
have many acquaintances who call upon me, but they are of
the highest character. Mr. "Monck, I shall be most happy to
have you call and see me whenever it is convenient. 1 am
rarely out. If I have company, it need not discompose you.
I shall have a parlor for you, no matter how many may be in
the house. I never show one of my visitors into ihe same
parlor where there is another," remarked Mrs. Woodruff,
proudly.
Marion thought this was a queer sort of woman; but as she
was rich, she had a right to- be as eccentric as she pleased.
He answered, that he should avail himself of her kind invitation.
One word more. When you wish to ride, I have a car-
iage and servants at your disposal. My stable and -carriage-
house are in the rear of my house in Bond street. I hope yoa
go to church, -was the word more of Mrs. W.
Occasionally," replied Marion.
"You ought to go every Sunday., Religion is an e'ellent
thing for a young man or woman. It keeps the minds of both
occupied and out of mischief. Will 'you go to church with rie
next Sunday ?"


* It
tit,

VIGOR.

What church ?" asked Marion.
"I own a pow in Grace Church, down Broadway, corner of
Rector. We will ride down in my own carriage. Dr. Wain-
wright is iny pastor," said Mrs. W.
" Nothing will give me more pleasure. Perhaps Mrs. Nord-
heim".t-observed Marion Monck.I
66 top, -stop. I never ask women to go with me anywhere.
I shall be happy to have you go. ' You will be obliged to re-
turn without me, as it is sacrament Sunday, --and I always stop
to partake of the Lord's Supper. Who is that gentleman con-.
versing with Mrs. Thomas Granville ?" said Mrs. Woodruff.
"That? Why, that is the Count Falsechinski."
"Tell me all about him. I am anxious to know his history."
Marion complied with her request, and told her all he knew
of the Count, except one or two matters that he had no right
to tell.
"Thank you; thank you. Now will you do me one favor
more ? Bring the Count here and introduce him to me."'
Marion stepped across the room, and, after talking a few
moments to the eager Count, telling him about the rich lady
next door, and so forth, he took his arm and brought him over.
" Madam Woodruff, allow me to present to you my noble friend
the Count Falsechinski. I will leave him with you."
The C4unt became almost excruciatingly polite. He bowed
almost to his knees, and placed one hand on his heart while he
declared that he was perfectly overwhelmed with bliss at be-
coming acquainted with so perfect a lady-that she reminded
him of his sister (he was-too polite to say mother,) the Princess
Sophinski, the most beautiful woman in Warsaw before the re-
cent revolution. All the extra touches were put on by the
Counts
"No more. No more, .Count. I cannot bear it. There-
stop and sit right down, or you will hurt yourself." The Count
took a seat by her side. "There, that"is right. You are a'
dear good Count, and we shall like each other much, when we
are better acquainted."
What passed after that between the two last-named persons
it is not necessary to recount. Suffice it to say here, that Mrs.
Woodruff showed the same anxiety about the piety of, the
Count, and repeated the same invitation she had given to
Marion. She also spoke of remaining to the sacrament, and
the Count said he could not possibly permit that, unless he
also remained with her,

VIGOR.

121

"But do you wish to partake of the sacrament, Count ?"
she asked earnestly.
"Nothing, I assure my dear madam, would, give me more
pleasure. Rather than part with.your dear company, I would
partake of any thing."
Here supper was announced, and the Count offered his arm
and escort. The other quests were suitably arranged, and be-
fore ten o'clock all were at the supper-table, and ere midnight
the regular occupants of thd house were left in it alone.
CHAPTER XXII.
Miss Norris and her Teacher of Languages- She Threatens Mr. Yfordheim
-Gives the Count a Fearful History of the Antecedents of mrs. Woodruf
-The Value of Mr. Cedar's Note or Draf upon his Publishers-Doctor
CarnochiM-The Derence between a Gerinan and a Dutchman.
NOT many days after the party in Bond street, the Count
Falsechinski called in Broome street to give a lesson in Ger-
man to Miss Norris. He found Tom Granville there.
" Tom," said Clara, "I wish to see the Count alone this
morning-so be so obliging and take yourself somewhere else.
Money you cannot get from me toIday, nor to-morrow,,.either-
it would do you no good. Go to your brother."
"But you have money of mine in "-commenced poor Tom.
"Stop-no more of that, or I will forbid you the house. I
do not owe you a dollar. You put some in my hands, but you
have drawn it ,all," said Clara.
"Surely I have not had "-again commenced Tom.
"Never mind whether you have had it or not. I don'tkeep
accounts. I have not got any of it, and if you have not spent
it, I have, so there is no more to be said about it. Now go,
that is a good boy," and she iose and gently pushed him out
of the room and locked the door. " Now, Count, I have got
rid of that poor foolish youth, I wish to talk with you.. You
are a man. I understand you perfectly,. and I tell you can.
didly, I admire you very much.. Hawks must not pick out
hawks'  eyes. So you were at the party at Mrs. Nordheim's?
Never  say a word until I finish. , Mr. Nordheim was all atten-
tion to Mrs. Tom Granville. Don't shake your head. I know
better. But what do I care ? As long as he allows. me what
I need, and pays me regularly, he may do what else he pleases,
6

120

} !'


p
ii
4

9

VIGOR.

but let the funds stop hut a day, an hour, ay, a quarter of a
moment, and Mr. Nordheim and me part company forever. Tell
me all that you know about Mrs. Woodruff."
This was a subject upon which the Count willingly en-
larged, and he gave a glowing description of the 'ricl widow,
her splendid mansion, coach, servants in livery, and pew  in
Grace Church.
"Did Mr. Nordheim speak to her when she was at the party
of his wife ?" asked Miss Norris.
"I don't think he did. No: I am sure he did not."
"The arch hypocrite! Did~Mrs. Woodruff become person.
ally acquainted with other persons at the party beside you and
my friend Marion ?" asked Miss Norris.
"Oh, yes, to be sure; with many," replied the Count.
Name them, every one, male and female," said Clara.
"She talked with Miss Irene Grasper, with Mrs.. Parker,
and her niece, Miss Julia, -and she was also introduced to Mr.,
Doemall, an Irish gentleman. Some say lie is a peer," re-
plied the Count.V
"Are those all ?" demanded Miss Norris.
"Upon my honor, Mademoiselle Norris, I think those I have
named are all," was the Count's reply.'
"Cout, I like you. I wish you to steer clear of the break-
ers.  May I confide to you a secret for your own good, not
mine ?" asked Miss Norris.
"You may," replied the Count.
"You say Nordheim did not appear to know that woman;.
He lied by his actions, and is worse than I dreamed him to be,
to introduce her to his home," said Clara.
" He did not invite her there.  It was done without the
knowledge of 1Ir. Nordheim. I kn6 that to be a fact. I had
it from Marion, and he will not lie."
- " That is true, and Nordheim is not quite so black as I
thought him to be. Count, listen to me, but never repeat it.
Use the knowledge for your own purposes, but do not use-it to
save others. Count, you know that I was bought by Nordheim
and brought to the city. You do not know, but now Iwill tell
you, the first week that I spent in1 New York, before this house
was ready-for me, I spent in that luxurious mansion now, as
then, occupied by Mrs. Woodruff."
The Count did not trust, himself to speak for several mo-
ments. His eyes were busily engaged upon the rich flowers
of the tapestry carpet that covered the floor.

VIGOR.

123

"That carpet cost four dollars a yard,. Count.  You need
not examine its texture more closely."
The Count smiled.
"Mademoiselle, I am too astoufided to. say any thing. What
a game my lady Woodruff must be playing ?"
"She is a fearful-a terrible female, Count. It is real
friendship for you that has made me open your eyes. She is
the more to be dreaded because she moves in the very highest
circles, and spreads devastation wholesale. Count, for some
purpose you are saving money with all a miser's eagerness.
Don't look so astonished. I know it. A little bird tells we'
all that you do.  1, too, am saving money. For what purpose
I know not, but this I do know, the power of money. I will
never be poor again while there are gulls and pigeons to be
plucked. Use the information I have given you. Show this
pious lady that you at least know her, and make her pay-pay
.-that's the word-if she uses you.    As you regard me,
breathe not a word if you were to see your best friend's wife
going into those double hall doors in Bond street," said Clara.
"I thank you, Mademoiselle Clara, a million of times.  I
will make that lady pay before she has done with me. You
shall see what you shall see before the play is over. Now for
the German lesson. You will need but three or four more,
and then you will speak English, French, Spanish and Ger-
man. The next shall be the Italian, eh ?"
Yes, Count. Italian next. Answer me one question. Tell
me what you think of the intrigue between Mr. Nordheim and
Mrs. Tom Granville. Tell me honestly and truly.  You are a
man of the world. Will that lady succumb to the infamous
man?

"No. Upon my soul. She is too clever-too spirituelle.
He pays her money-largely, too. I know that. Five hundred
-one thousand. But-she takes it-is civil-goes with him
all about, but, lady-that Mrs. Granville loves her husBand.
It is true, and she is honest."
A precious pup for a sensible man to love, and yet, poor
Tom,lhe is a delightful, harmless fellow. I do not think Tom
would hurt a chicken. No; not a fly. But he does notknow
the value of money. I gave him fifty dollars one morning last
week, and what do you think, he did that' evening? Came to
me for more. It is true, and when I asked what on earth he
had done with it, he pulled from it a note of that precious-
scamp Cedar's for sixty dollars, and told me had made' ten
dollars by cashing it," said Clara.

122

Alt
fit

-


124

VIGOR.

"Mr. Cedar's note is not, then,. worth much ?" asked the
alarmed Count.
" Not worth so much as the paper was before he wrote his
name upon it. Beware -of that English genius, Count," ob-
served Miss Norris.
"II will take care of him, and thank you, too, for had you not
told me this,1 should have given him two hundred dollars for
his draft upon his publishers for two hundred and fifty," said
the Count.
And you would have lost every cent. I don't think his
publishers owe him a penny. Yet that manI would challenge
you if you dared insinuate that he was any thing but an lion-
orable man. Count, is not this a very queer world ?' sarcas-
tically observed Miss Norris.
"The people in it are very queer-a very curious people.
Mademoiselle, tell me about Doctor Carnochan."
"1He is a young man of decided tradent:. and he, will one day
rise to the very head of his profession, if he lives.. le has it
in him. At present he is, from the force of circumstances, a
wild, dissipated, useless man, and his companions are of the
most worthless class.  Does he want money of you, too'
Count ?" asked Miss Norris.
"No. But it may be in my power to throw some practice in
his,.way," kindly added the Count.
Do so if you  edan,  Coun He will earn more than the
usual fee as compared with other doctors. Tell me how Ma.
rion Monck gets on with his languages," aske4 the lady.
" He has already mastered several of the most difficult. His
parents were Dutch, so that it came natural to him to acquire
the German, which is a sort of first cousin to low Dutch."
"What is the difference between German and low.Dutch ?"
asked Clara.
The German, or Hoch Deutsch, is spoken all through Ger-
many. The Neder Deutch, or Low Dutch, is the language of
the Hollinders, or the Nederlanders, which, in English, is low-
landers, in contradistinction to the Hoch Deutsch or high Ger-
mans--.or rather high-land Dutchmen. Now shall we proceed
with your German lesson?
"With pleasure, Count," was her reply.
An hour afterward the Count sent a note from the office to
1irs. Woodruff.

VIGOR.

125

CHAPTER XXIV.
Jlarrison Street-Colonel Mac N'eil's private Home-Miss McPherson and her
two Children-A Breakfast Scene with Willy and Patsy-The Colonel set-
tiles a House on his Children, and places two thousand dollars in the Saving.
Bank for them--Redeeming traits in a Fashionable Bad Man's character.
SUCH of our readers as are familiar with New York, will re-
member a street in the lower part of the town, running from
ludson street to the North river, named Harrisor, street. As
it was kuown a hundred years ago by the same name, it could
not have been named after our General Harrison, or more re-
cently President Harrison, but must have honored some Eng-
lish family. Be this as it may, in this same street, at No. 27,
the first door from  Greenwich street, stands or. did' stand a
small two story brick house. It rented for three hundred dol-
lars a year, and was occupied by two fainilies. 'The lower part,
save a back kitchen, was rented by a worthy butcher and his
small fatnily, while the upper or second story was occupied by
a lady and her two children, one a boy about five years of age,
that his mother called William, and a little girl three years
old, with the pretty cognomen of Patsy. The front room of the
second story was plainly but comfortably furnished as a parlor.
The rear room contained a bed, and between the two rooms
was a third small:room in which was placed' a trundle bed for
the children. It was a cold December morning, only a week
after the party at Mrs. Nordheim's house in Bond street, when
the bell rang at No. 27. The mother of the two children had
just placed their and her simple breakfast upon the table in the
small back kitchen in the basement, where she had a cooking
stove and a pantry. ' This also was a portion of her part of the
house, for which she paid an annual rent of one hundred and
twenty dollars. The hell rang a second time.
"Go to the door, Willie ; who knows bat it is  our   a 1
It sounds like his ring.
The little boy was off like a rocket, and in a moment 'after-'
ward a heavy footstep was heard descending the kitchen stairs.
He entered the room with the boy in his arms, and placed him
on his feet; and then the'lady flung herself in the gentleman'a

I 1

I

/


iIIfI~
1~1!I1f ~,
I'
iii ~
~I1h
~ ~II II
~ ul ~d
~IiI~Ii
II
I ;I~~
$1~uhI~ ~1
~1
I
Ii
d~ ~il[

VIGOR.

arms, uttering but one word, "William,!" He gently displaced
the lady, and then took up the little girl, and kissed her fondly.
"I am just in time for breakfast, Jane, eh ?" and he took a
seat.
0 William, if we had but known you were coming-we
bve not a breakfast fit for you to eat," observed Jane.
"Don't you and the children eat that breakfast ? and if so,
is itnot good enough for me ?" asked Col. Mac Neil.
" Don't be. angry with me, William-I did not mean any
thing. But you, who are so used to living at hotels, could
hardly expect to enjoy such a breakfast as this. But why have
you'kep away so long ?" she asked.'
"Business, Jane. Business, pleasure, every thing. But
now let us have a nice breakfast. Here is money-send out
and get any thing nice that you can find," observed the Colonel.
"I wi lgo myself, if you will mind the children while I am
gone, Colonel," she replied.
" That I will do with pleasure ;" and he took a child upon
each knee, and kissed, caressed and played alternately with
them until the mother returned. It was not long before the
good mother had a very choice breakfast smoking on the table,
and'all partook of it, while the father, for so he was, of those
two children exerted himself to the utmost to make a pleasant
time of it. An hour elapsed-before the happy family had fin-
ished the' meal. Then the gentleman, who was n3o other than
Colonel William Mac Neil, asked if there was a fire up stairs.
Receiving a reply in the affirmative,. he continued: "Jane,
send Willy and Patsy pp stairs-we will follow presently ; but
I have a few 'words to say to you alone."
The children went up stairs, little Willy leading by the
hand the tottersome Patsy. When they were.gone, the Colonel
drew out a segar from a rich shagreen segar case, and delibe-
rately lit it.
" Come and sit down by me, Jane."
She complied' in silence, her looks expressing wonder as to
what was to come next.
"Jane, I idolize those children. I wish to God you were
niy legal wife, for you are, a true-hearted, loving woman. Don't
cry, darling, but listen to me. You think I could easily legaf-
ize them, and marry you. No, no-that is' a dream; it i too
late-my cursed pride will notlet me do it. That is not all;
I must marry a woman who has money, or be a disgraced bank-
rupt. Yet, you nor those two dear childrenn shall ever want,

VIGOR.

127

or be dependent even upon me. I am a rascal, Jane, so far as
you are concerned : I know it-I feel it. But, thank God, I
have placed you and those dear ones so that you can never
want. Are you listening ?" said the Colonel, with emotion.
"Surely, Mac, I have not lost a word. Go on-I hope you
have nothing worse to tell me," she observed.
"Jane, I have saved up and withdrawn from my business
seven thousand dollars, and with it I have purchased a house
in Franklin street near Broadway. The lot is twenty-five feet
by one hundred, and sixteen years hence, when Willy is of
age, that property will be double or treble in value. I have
deeded it to you, Jane McPherson, in trust for Willy and
Patsy. The house is a good one, and now rents for six hun-
dred and fifty dollars per annum, and has- a good tenant. That
rent you must% draw and live on, in case I am unable to do any
thing more for you. That is not all. Here is two thousand
dollars that I won in gambling some time ago. It is but a par-
tial return of ten times that amount that I have lost at gam-
*     bling. It is yours-take it to a Savings Bank, and place it
there at interest in your own or in Willy's name--your own
is better, and then you will have two sources of income."
The poor young mother was weeping.. "O.Mac.-dear Mae,
why do you do this ? Are you going away'? Idon't- want it;
you allow us all we want !" she exclaimed.
"Listen, Jane. When I signed that deed, I had deter-
mined to offer myself that night to a very Wealthy young lady.
I expected to be accepted, and I then determined to act hon-
orably by her; and to do so I intended -that deed as a pro-
vision for you and my dear children, and then t bid you fare-
well, and see you no more," said the Colonel.
"0 Mac, could you'have the heart to do it ?  Could you
part with those two little precious ones, and, never see them
more? 0, it was a cruel thought !" said Jane.
" Be calm-I am. I have not yet'done. I offered myself
to the girl, and she accepted me. Don't start off in that man-
ncr. Then I saw her father-one of the wealthiest men in the
city. He refused to countenance the marriage, and what was
still more, situated as I am, he swore before God that if his
daughter married me, she should never receive a cent. He
had heard of our affairs-of our children, Jane, and he said he
did not think I could support two families. That was quite
enough for me, Jane. The affair is at an end, and I shall pro-
j4bably never marry."

1.23


128

VIGOR.

7lil
f  l

'i

VGOR"*

129

The mother flung herself into his arms, and kissed the Col-
onel in the most fond mariner.
" Hear me out, Jane, and know the worst. I have secured
you from want, and the deed is irrevocable ; but Heaven only
knows how soon I may be a beggar. The affairs of my firm are
in a terrible state. My partner. thinks that he can carry the
concern through. He.is buying produce - on credit, and ship-
ping it to Europe, or any where else where 'he can get cash
advances upon the shipments. If those shipments turn out'
well, we are safe, and shall keep afloat. If not-but I don't
dare to think of it. This thought though consoles me-come
what will, you and Willy and Patsy are provided for," contin-
ued the Colonel feelingly.
"But, dear Mac, if this would serve you, I will deed it back
to you, and, you could sell it again, and also take the two thou-
sand dollars," observed Jane.
"You are an unselfish being, Jane-but no, no. It would
not be a drop in the bucket. Do exactly as I have to d you,
and I will continue to give you what funds you need, just as
though the nine thousand dollar provision had not been made.
If I am fortunate and get through my own difficulties, you will
have the interest every year to add to the principal, and in a
few years you will have quite a little sum. Now kiss me, and
then let us go up stairs and join Willy and Patsy. After all
there are some happy moments for the most miserable, and I
will come and breakfast with you soon again," said the Colonel.
" Dear Mac, it makes the children so happy."
The haughty Colonel Mac Neil played and romped with his
children untildinner was ready,'and then he dined with them
Before evening he was again at his hotel.
There are some redeeming traits in even the most worldly
of men. . And this is a redeeming chapter, and shall stand by
itself.

CHAPTER XXV.
The Italian Opera House in Church street-The Character of the Subseribers-
Mr. Nordheim a Director-A Tragedy Night-Mr. Nordheim insults a lady
in the Dress Circle-is Spectacles driven into his eyes by a Brother-His
removal to the City -Rospital-Francis*Gaillard of South Carolina-Mr.
Granville dissolves the firm of Granville o Nordheim-The Notice-List of
the Daily Newspapers--Feelings of Misq Norris-Her Proposition to Ton
Granville-The Days that the Wife of Mr. Nordheim spent at the Hospi-
tal with her dying husband-Nordheim's Will-His Death and Funeral.
IN the year 183-, a company of persons who would be ex-
tremely exclusive, determined to put up a building and open
an Italian Opera House in this city. To carry out their de-
sign, they purchased sufficient ground on the corner of Church
and Leonard streets, and proceeded to put up a large and
handsome building. When this Opera House was finished, an
arrangement was made for a manager, and a regular stock
Italian Opera Company was established in New York'city. It
was a mixed-up sort of concern.  At -first it was a regular
stock company. Then private boxes were disposed of to par-
ticular families foi life, in order to raise money; and then
commenced a system   of begging, borrowing, and voluntary
contributions, until all hands became disgusted, and the build-
ing passed from the opera people to 'the mortgagee, and he
leased it for a regular theatre to James Wallack, who opened
it under the title of the National Theatre.
But to return to the Italian crowd.  The parties who got
up the Italian opera were not the old Knickerbocker stock in-
habitants. They were a parvenu population-people who had
been successful as brokers, merchants, stock gamblers, real
estate speculators, and other modes by which fortunes are'sud-
denly accumulated in this great metropolis. Many of the
parties had travelled in Europe to acquire business, and form
commercial connexions.   They had visited Pa-is and London,
and perceiving how aristocratic the Italian opera was in those
cities, they considered that to become interested.in an Italian
opera in New York would give* them an aristocratic position
These were the motives that actuated most of the patrons of


130

VIGOR.

'Id
j'
"I
J1
Fit 1 i
4J

VIGOR.

:131

the early Italian opera in New York. It is needless to say
that they paid dear for the Italian whistle, and it got broken
in a very short period of time.
Among those who took a very active part in the Italian ope-
ra was Mr. Nordheim:  He spoke Italian fluently, and he was
not only allowed to spend his money in the enterprise without
stint, but he was also permitted to take a very active part in
the details. The Finance Committee knew no more about Ita.
lian than they did about Greek, and Mr. Nordheim translated
between the false Italian Prince and Princess actors, and their
Wall street financiers.
The Italian opera opened during the month of the party at
Mrs. Nordheim's, and Mr. Nordheim placed at his wife's dis-
posal a private box, and she filled it almost every night with
some of her-friends. She was generally attended thither by
Mr. Wilson or Marion-sometimes by both.       The Count
Falsechinski receivedtickets frequently for Miss Norris and
himself, and occasionally Tom Granville made up a party for
one of the front seats in the dress circle. It was April. The
bill for that night was very attractive. Mrs. Nordheim was in
her private box with a party. Marion Monek was there also.-
and so was Isabella Granvile.  On the right side of the dress
circle, Miss Norris, with the Count and Tom Granville, occu-
pied three seats.
Shortly after the curtain rose, Mr. Nordheim was seen to
enter the dress circle by a door directly opposite the centre
of the building. He took a seat on the third bench. Directly
in front of him was -a gentleman accompanied by a lady of
rare and surpassing beauty.  It was noticed by those in the
neighborhood that Mr. Nordheim endeavored to attract the no.
tice of the beautiful woman who occupied the seat directly in
front of him. Once she turned her head almost around, and
gazed at him with an expression that denoted the most violent
anger, and then seemed absorbed with what was passing on
.the stage.
I may have omitted to mention that Mr. Nordheim was near-
sighted, and wore gold spectacles.  He never was without
them. Hundreds -who were present that eventful evening,
well remember the fearful scream  of agony  which  rung
through that Opera House, although the extent of the.tragedy
in the dress circle was not dreamed of that night. Again that
lady turned and looked indignantly at Mr. Nordheim, who
saniled and partly bowed. It was noticed that the lady whis-
pered to the gentleman with her. She quietly informed him

that the person on the rear seat had put his hand upon her per-
son in an improper manner.
" Can you point him out to me distinctly ?" whispered. the
brother.-for so he proved to be.
"Yes, Frank, he is seated directly behind me, with his
knees upon the seat where I am   sitting.  Frank, he has
pinched me behind again !"
"Keep perfectly quiet, Emily-don't move," and as he
said this he rose to his feet, turned his back to the stage so as
to face Nordheim, and rapidly drew back his arm, and with
all his force struck his fist directly in Nordheim'sright eye.
There was one terrific scream. The glass had broken, and the
force of the blow had driven several of the particles into the
right eye of the unfortunate Nordheim. There was an instant
rush, and much confusion. The gentlemen remained perfectly
calm and did not move an inch. Nordheim had fainted with
the intense agony from the pierced eyeball. Shouts arose from
the parterrev--" Turn him out !" The gallery re-echoed "Turn
him out !"  Meanwhile Marion Monck, the Count, and' some
others of the acquaintance of Mr. Nordheim; hurried to the
spot, just as he had been carried out of the boxes.  They all
saw at once the nature of the wound. Then the gentleman
who had inflicted it came out and explained what had occurred
--regretting that he had inflicted so terrible a punishment. A
carriage was procured.  By this time Pitt Granville had
learned what had occurred. "Take him at once to the New
York Hospital," was .his peremptory order. Mr. Nordheim
was with difficulty placed in the carriage. His agony was fear.
fiul.
"Go and tell Mrs. Nordheim what has happened, and- take
her home, Marion. I will be up there as soon as Nordheim is
better or worse.  The hospital is the only place, Tor he needs
immediate surgical aid. Mr. Wilson, go with me."
These sensible orders of Pitt Granville were rapidly carried
into execution, and the carriage drove around to the hospital
gate. Mr. Roberts, the Superintendent, was an old friend of
Mr. Granville, and luckily happened to, be in the office. A
proper room Was instantly arranged, and Mr. Nordheim was
taken into it. Then the leading. surgeons were sent for. They
tried to extract the broken pieces, of glass, but only partially
succeeded. Mr. No'rdheim was a raving maniac..
But I must carry back my readers to the Opera House.
When Mrs. Nordheim had learned the particulars of the-acci-
desnt, she refused to go home, but 'left, her party,. and o with

I

v


VIGOR.

-t

Marion went directly to the hospital inner gate, where the
little house of the gate-keeper is, and asked permission to go
in and see her husband. She was refused-politely but posis
tively-and she at once got into a carriage and went home to
Bond street. .Soon after, a gentleman appeared at the gate,
and asked permission to see one of the officers of -the hospital.
He was shown inside to Mr. Roberts.               0
"1Here is my card, sir. I am the person who struck the
blow at the opera."
Mr. Roberts took the card and read, "Francis Gaillard, at
Mrs. Mann's, No. 85 Broadway."
"1The accident, sir, I fear will terminate seriously, and I
will use -this card, as you may be called upon to give some
explanation. How did it happen ?" inquired Mr. Roberts.
The stranger, whose name was Gaillard,. replied, " I am a
South Carolinian, on a visit here with my mother and sister. I
took my sister to the Italian opera this evening. After the
performance had commenced, she told me that a person- on the
seat behind her had insulted her, and I at once struck him."
"Served the d     libertine right," was the only comment,
made by the indignant but honest Mr. Roberts.
"fI took my sister to Mrs. Mann's boarding-house, and
came at once to give myself up in case of need.  Will it be
liecessary for me to do any thing more9"
.'No. Go home as though nothing, had happened.  If he
dies to-night, or within a few days, a coroner's inquest will be
held, and you willhave to be on band; but it is a disgraceful,
affair, and unless Nordheim dies immediately it will be hushed
up. Good night."
"Thank you-good night," and the stranger Gaillard passed
out of the hospital.
The Count conveyed the horrified Clara Norris to Broome
street, and then left her, promising to return as soon as he had
paid a visit to the hospital. -iHe, too, was refused admission,
but as he was passing out of the gate he was overtaken by Mr.
Pitt Granville and Mr. Wilson.
" Count, 'go at once to Mr. Nordheimi's, in Bond street, see
Marion Monck, get the keys of the store, and come directly to
the City Hotel."
The Count went on his errand, and when Pitt Granvillevand
his book-keeper were walking alone, the former said, abruptly,
" Wilson, this sort of thing-has got to be stopped. I am tired
of it. Such proceedings by one of the members of a mercan-.
tile firm are ruinous."

I think so, sir. It will be known on change to-morrow,
.and even if Mr. Nordheim gets well, I den't see how he- can
explain it."
" Explain. 1 There is o explanation needed. I can put up
with a great many things, but this is a beastly concern alto",
gether. Come what will, I am not going to associate with 'him
any more as a partner."
"But how are you to end the partnership?   You have no
right to "--asked Mr. Wilson.
"I know what you mean; but right or wrong, you will see
what course I shall pursue under the present painful circum-
stances. Wait until I get into the office."
They reached the City Hotel, and Mr. Granville ordered
whiskey punch for himself and for Mr. Wilson. They finished
the first glass, and then Mr. Granville ordered one more- for
himself, as Mr. Wilson refused, and he requested him to go
and find Colonel Benson, andimeet him at the office as speedily
as possible. Soon after the Count and Marion joined him, and
all proceeded to the counting-house in Broad street. It was
opened. Then Colonel Benson..and Wilson arrived. Books
were got out of the -safe, Accounts were examined. The con-
sultation was held, and finally Mr..Granville came out of his
private office with a paper in his hand.
"Marion, I want you to make several copies of this. Take
one to each of the following daily papers
"The Daily Mercantile Advertiser.,
Gazette,
Courier and Enquirer,
Journal of Commerce,
Standard,
Post,
Commercial,
N. Y. American."
Marion complied. The next morning the following could.
have been read in either of the five moruing dailies:
NLOTICE.-The co-partnership heretofore existing under the firm of, Granville &amp;~
Nordheim is this day dissolved. The liquidation of the affairs of the late firm
will be attended to by the undersigned, who willcontinue to carry on a General
CommissionBusiness under his ownaname.
W. PITT -GRANVILLE,
.                                 At No. 31 Broad street.
NEW YORK , Alyil 10P,183-.
When Marion returned from   the publishing offices of the
morning journals, he- found Mr. Granville and Mr. Wilson in
the main office. The Count had left. So had Colonel Benson.

vIII~iI
Pitt
'1ll~ ~
~iI~ ~
iI1~
11 1
~i:
~a ~
III
ft
t t~ ;tIi:i~
ti~ ~.iii~
I i~' I1~

1 11

13-3

1.32

VIGoR.


131~                  VIGOR*

"Have you put those advertisements in the morning pa.
pers ?"
"Yes, sir. I was in time with all of them."
"When you go home tell Mrs. Nordheim what I have found
'it necessary to do, with promptness, to save the credit of this
concern. She can appoint you or Mr. Wilson to act for her in-
terest, should he die. He may recover his senses enough to
make a will. If he does not, Mi-s. Nordheim has her settle.
ment of two thousand dollars a year to fall back upon, and one-
third interest in his property. He has be-en spending a fear-
ful amount of money lately, and Mr. Wilson thinks his share
of the profits is not only drawn out, but-also a large portion of
his stock capital in the concern. We shall know in a few
days."
aThe Count Falsechinski, when he left the office, although' it
was nearly midnght, went up to Broome street. He found
Miss Norris waiting for hin. Tom Granville was there.
"Nordheim will die, or be insane for life," said the Count.
"Is that your opinion,' Count ?" asked Tom, who seemed
pleased at the idea.
"It is. 'The firm is dissolved by Mr. Granville, and notices
to that effect will appear in all the daily papers to-morrow."
" Then good-bye, Ferdinand Nordheim. You have been a
source of good and a curse to me. Now I will fight my own
battles and play my own game in life, for you are dead, so far
as I am concerned in any event. Sh.all we make up a card
party to-night .",
Thank you. No. I must get home, for I have much to
do to-morrow. Are you walking down town, Tom ?'
" No; he is not going down town these two hours yet," spoke
Clara.
She showed the Count to the door, and then returned.,
"This is a funny business, all round, ain't it, Clara ?" said
Tom.
"Tom Granville, answer me one question. You have stated
to me that you believe your wife and Nordheim were engaged
in a criminal intimacy. Answer me now, as God will be your
Judge. Do you, in your inmost soul, believe that ?" demanded
Clara.
I do solemnly," replied the husband Tom.
"Why do you not take steps to get a divorce from  your
wife, then, if yoiu believe her gudity and faithless to your hon-
'or .' asked Miss Norris'.'
Never. I have lo'ved' that woman. Perhaps love her yet,

VIGOR.                     135
but I will never take any steps to get divorced from her," re.
plied good-natured Tom Granville.
" Suppose she, however, should try to get divorced from you.
She could do it," said Miss Norris.
"Let her do so. I will make no objection."
"Tom, do you believe I have been true to my ,master--to
Nordheim ?" asked Clara.
"I do. I know I can speak for myself, Clara," said Tom.
"Tom, it is true. I have been as faithful to that man as if
I had been his wedded wife, but it is all over now. He is. no
more to me than if he was dead. His money is gone, even if
he lives. He has been fearfully extravagant. You say that
you will never live with your wife again ?" said Clara.
"Never," replied Tom Granvilled
"Will you live here, Tom ?;and devote yourself, to my com-
fort ? Go with me when I go out ? I need a protector. I
will pay for one, but no nonsense with me..- No jealousy, or
any thing of that sort. I will be as free as a bird, go and come
when I please; see whom I please, dance, flirt, coquette, or
play the fool with, whoni I please, and you are not-to open your
lips. I like you, but I don't love you. You are amusing-a
gentleman-:and you shall have the means to carry on the war
as such. You don't keep me. I keep you. Do you agree to
these conditions ? and have you force of character enough to
stick to them ?" she asked.
"I have, Clara," was the reply.
"Very well. Our bargain is made, but mark me, the very
first moment you deviate from our understanding, or show any
jealousy, or any dislike to my being intimate with whom  I
please, that moment we part. Now you may kiss me, and seal
the bargain," she pleasantly remarked.
Poor easy, good-natured Tom Granville. Little did you
dream, whem completing this arrangement, that you'were sign-
ing the death-warrant for your future hopes of earthly domes-
tic happiness, and degrading yourself to the lowest of Mankind
-the kept man of a- fancy woman !   Leaving these worldly
ones, our reader will go with us to the hospital. Nordheim be-
came worse and worse. The next lay his wife spent several
hours by his bedside. He did not recognize her. Day after
day she visited him,.until the inflammation, which had reached
his brain, became so certain of ending fatally, that a lawyer,.
Charles 8. Spencer, was employed' to remain with him. con-
stantly, under the hope that he might become sane for ,afe
inoments ere he died. Two weeks after the accident, his wife


136

. VIGOR.

.called, and found him, for the first time, perfectly conscious of
every thing around him. His partner was sent for. The law.
yer asked the Physician Surgeon how long he might live.
"Until evening."
Then occurred a painful scene-a death-bed repentance. He'
dictated a will. It was short. He left all to his wife. All-
every thing. Except the furniture of the house in which
Clara Norris lived, that he gave to her, and also five hundred
dollars. He signed articles dissolving the firm, and authorizing
his wife to close up the affairs as best suited herself, and he
made Mr. Granville give a solemn promise that in case his half
interest in the concern should not leave a respectable sum for
his wife, that he would give her one-third interest in the future
business, or take into partnership any one she should desi*g-
nate. Frank Gaillard was sent for. When he reached the
bed of the dying man he was much agitated, and expressed the
deepest regret for what had occurred.
$ Not a word more. You served me right. Tell your sis-
ter that a dying man begs her forgiveness for the outrage he,
committed."
Mr.' Nordheim lingered on through the day, but just after
sunset, when twilight was deepening into dark over the trees
and around the old hospital windows, Nordheim sank into what
appeared a gentle sleep. Mr. Granville first discovered that
he was dead. Mrs. Nordheim pressed- her lips to the dead
man, and was then led out of the room  --That night the coffin
containing his body was conveyed to Bond street. The sue-,
ceeding day it was transferred to a cemetery, and the trou-
bles, the pleasures, the rascalities, and the redeeming qualities
o the unfortunate Nordheim were over forever.
CHAPTER XXVL
New Street thirty years ago---The store of Mr John O'Doemall-His Business
-The Debt of three hundred and four dollars and seventy-two, cents, and
how it was liquidated-Mr. Granvilte's Instructions-The Story of the Irish-
woman, and ho O'Doemall victimized her out of seventy-two dollars' worth
of shirts, and rained her sister and husband-A Bad Character.
BETWEEN Broadway and Broad street, running from Wall,
to Beaver, is a little narrow street called the New street, al-
though it is one of the oldest streets in the city. Thirty years
ago it seemed to be used for no other purpose than for an alley

VIGOR. 

137

to the two main streets of Broadway or Broad.  A  sort of
sewer ran through it. Some of the houses on Broadway had
stables in the rear, facing on New street. An occasional dwel-
ling house occupied by French dry goods importers on Broad
had a solid stone warehouse on New street. No. 20 New
street was used as a building of that description. The walls
were two feet thick, with small windows, closed by two straight
iron bars and an-iron shutter. On this store was a large sign,
" John O'Doemall, Wine Merchant."  There was an office in
the rear on the first floor. In it was one desk. The floor
contained eight, or perhaps ten gin pipes, whiskey puncheons,
and a pile.of champagne baskets. All were empty. In the
office was a plain table, and upon it was a couple of wine
glasses, two glass tumblers, and some sample bottles.  Mr.
O'Doemall is at his desk. He is seated in a cushioned arm-
chair, with one leg cocked over the desk, and is engaged in
reading the Courier and Enquirer.
A customer enters. Mr. O'Doemall drops his leg and re-
moves the paper from his face.
"Oh, ab, my friend Marion lonck. Good morning. Real-
ly, I am quite happy to see you.  Sit down.  Take a seat.
Where is my clerk. Here, Thomas."
But the aforesaid Thomas, the clerk, is an invisibility.
"I have called,' Mr. O'Doemall, at the request of Mr. Gran-
ville, to obtain some sort -of a settlement with you.  Mr.
Nordheim, unbeknown to his partner at the- time, sold you
goods to the -extent of three hundred and four dollars and
odd "-said young Mouck.
"E~acai yoThree hundred and four dollars and seventy-two
cents. I kiow  the precise amount. A mere trifle, which
ought to have been paid long ago, but I overlooked it. Surely,
Mr. Granville would not send you to collect so small an amount
as that."
"He did.so, and if it. is not convenient for you to pay the
money, he would like to have you give your note, adding the
interest for ninety days, or even four months."
"I forgot to ask you' how Mrs. Nordheim 'is-poor lady-..-
great misfortune. Nordheim was a good fellow. Queer. If
Nordheim had lived, he would never have been so mean as to
send for that pitiful sum. How do you know but what I have
a receipt for it ? In fact, I don't think I can pay that "note.
Nordheim owes me, let me see, three hundred dollars at John
Florence's, twQ hundred and ten dollars one night in Broadway
--and..---it, man, I guld not think of\ paying it at present,


138

VIGOn.

I must. look up some of Nordheim's 1 0 Us. ~,I dare say they
are in one of my cast off vest pockets," replied the impudent
O'Doemall.
" If you have any receipts from 'Mr. Nordheim, or any claim
against him-note-due bill, or positive evidence that Mr.
Nordheim owed you a dollar, Mr. Granville will allow it,"
said Monek.
"Of course he will.  I knew he was an honorable man.  I
have them. somewhere. That is a beautiful daughter of Gran.-
ville's, Isabella. You are to mar-ry her, I suppose? Couldn't
do better, and I shall tell my friend Granville so," said O'Do-
ernall. -
"Really, Mr. O'Doemall, I trust you will do nothing so fool-
ish. I have no idea-that isI am not engaged to her, and "-
said Monek, embarrassed.
"I will speak to Gran about it. You are a first rate match
for his daughter. She is pretty, and will have the thino, eh ?"
said O'Doemall.
".Really, Mr. O'Doemall, I cannot converse with you upon
such a subject. I called to settle an account, If you, will
not settle it, I will so say to Mr. Granville when I return 'to
the store."
"4Very well, sir. I could pay, I believe, twenty such ac-.
counts, if I owed them. I believe W. Pitt Granville is good,
and you can say to him that if he wants to borrow eight, or
even as high as twelve thousand, I can let him have it at teni
minutes' warning," said the audacious Irishman.
"I will mention the circumstance to Mr. Granville, and I
wish you good morning " coolly observed Monck-
"Bye-bye. Drop in any time and take a glass of -wine,"
said the indomitable O'Doemall-
"4What an infernal seamp," was Mr. Granville's comment'
upon Marion's report. "Never pnind, Marion; I want you to
call every day upon that impudent fellow until you shame him
into paying it. Nordheim owe him!, He never owed any
body in his life. 'He was, uncommonly particular in that re-
gard," continued Mr. Granville.
"I think it will be a waste of my time, but as you wish it, I
will call until I see there is no hope. Shame him  That will
be a tiresome job," was Marion's comment upon the business.
The next day Marion went again in No. 20 New street, but
at a later hour. The clerk, Thomas, was there, engaged play-.
ing marbles on the store floor with another' boy.
" Where is Mr. O'Doemall ?" demanded Marion.

VIGOR.

130

"Gone to dinner," replied the boy.
"Coming back soon ?" asked Marion.
"Immediately. Going to wait?   Please tell him, sir, when
he comeS, that I've gone home," and before Marion could ex-
press the least dissent to a proposition that'left the responsi-
bility of the store and its goods upon him, the boy was out of
sight as well as .hearing.
s6 I am in a fix. Suppose O'Doemall don't come at all? But
I will wait awhile, anyhow."
Presently a very respectable-looking, middle-aged woman
entered, and enquired for Mr. O'Doemall.
"lHe is not in, madam, and will not be for some time. I am
waiting to see him about some money."
"Oh ; do you owe him any money, sir ?" asked the woman..
"No, indeed. But he owes' me, o rather the firm that I am
a clerk with," replied Ma-ion.
"And do you think he will pay you'? Do you think he will
pay me, or any body else he owes
Marion looked at the woman, who was in a state of violent
excitement.
"Does he owe you much ?" he asked.
"Only seventy-two dollars, but it has ruined me, and my
husband-goes out now to work at days' work.  But perhaps
you, sir, can. tell me what I ought to do. Mr. O'Doemall
served us a dirty 'trick."
"If you will tell me how he incurred the debt,- with all the
particulars, if I can give you good advice, I will 'do so," said.
Marion; who began to be interested in the matter.
"-It is a long story, but I will tell you all about it. Well,
sir, you must know that me and my sister Mary used to do fine
needle-work in the old country. I married, and came to this
country with my husband,' and he got a good situation. 'Then
he says to me, 'Now, Bridge t dear, I am. making a little
money, and we have got a little saved up, and as yon and Mary-
can do fine work, -I think the best we can do is to tate .a little
store somewhere up town, and you can make and sill shirts
and sich like, and gentlemen's. underclothing, and, I shall
be able to send a good many hotel people to buy of you.' Well,
we got a little store just big enough to hold us and a few good.?
up in Broadway, near Broome street. We had not been open
a great many weeks, but was doing uncommon well, when one
evening, bad luck to him, who should come in but Mr. O'Do-
emall. ' Ah,' said he, ' fine nice store. Show me some of yotgr
best shirts. I must patironise you, and I will buy a dozen. 3I

I

I' ~


140                     VIGOR.
want the finest linen shirts.' I showed him our best, and
asked him two dollars a piece. They would not do, but he
said, 'You seem honest young women, and I will trust you to
make me a dozen of the finest linen shirts at six dollars each.
I must have them in a week ; and more than that, if you do
them well, and suit me, I will bring young Coster, Astor, Lord
Lennox, and some other fashionable young fellows, my
friends, and we- will get you up a first-rate business.'
Oh, sir, that O'Doemall has a 'tongue in his head, and. he
wagged it to some purpose.  He set me and my sister Mary
almost crazy. We thought our fortunes were more than made.
We took our good cash, and went and purchased the very
finest linen to make this dozen shirts, and we both worked
night and day until they were finished. One Saturday evening
he called for the shirts. * They were all packed up ever so'
nice. . He winked and looked at every one, and he talked all
the while about his magnificent room, and that he could not
bear to stop at a hotel, and I do not know what.  I thought
he was a marquis at least. At last he says-..
'Seventy-two dollars, eh? That is cheap enough. I have
paid, in London, twenty guineas for shirts not half as good.
But you must send them round to my house in Prince street,
it is only a few  doors.'
"I called my husband's little brother, Felix, and he took the
bundle. Then Mr. O'Doemall began to feel, in his. pockets,
and he took an old wood cane and laid it upon' a chair.  He
felt-felt.-I asked him if he had lost any thing. He said no,
but that he had dressed for, dinner; and left two 'hundred
dollars in his-vest pocket.
It will make no difference,' said he ; 'your little boy can
be trusted, I suppose, and if so, I will give the .seventy-two
dollars to him.'
" We told him to trust 'the boy-we did not like to refuse to
let the shirts go, but he went, 'and the boy too. Presently the
boy returned..
I want to get the gentleman's cane.'
"'Where are the shirts ?'
He is holding the shirts while I cane back for his
cane|'
"The poor boy went away again, but it was a long time
before he came back, and then it was to tell us that he could .
not find Mr. O'Doemall. We could not believe that so gentle-
manly a person would commit so cruel a wrong upon two
women just starting business in a new cownstry. But next

VIGOR.

141

day we found that he had never lived in the house in Prince
street.  It broke us up at our little place.  So great a loss
disheartened us; we did not try to do any' more.  It was
long before I found out where he did business. I have been
several times, but MKr. O'Doemall laughs at me. -Says he will
pay me, but that I ought to pay him for teaching me a lesson
in not trusting.  Oh, I don't know what to do.  I am afraid
we will never get paid ;" and here the poor woman relieved
herself by a flood of tears.
"What a rascal he must be, to be sure  "
"But that ain't all, sir.. He got acquainted with my poor
sister Mary. She was a very beautiful girl, sir, and she met
him and took walks in St. John's Park with Mr. O'Doemalli
and she has never been herself since, and I fear, sir, she is
bewitched after him."
"Is it possible such a man is allowed to walk the streets ?"
"But I am not not quite done yet.  My husband went to
Mr. O'Doemall, and gaye him a piece of his miud.  The very
next day he was turned out of his situation at the hotel, and I
do believe that Mr. O'Doemall was the occasion of it. Now he
goes out to days' work, when he can get any thing to 0do.
But here he comes, Mr. O'Doemall."
. " Aha, my sweetest plant from ould Ireland is it there you
are ?" laughingly exclaimed O'Doemall-and then noticing
Marion, he added, "and the future husband of the delicious
Miss Granville."
"Mr. O'Doemall, good-bye," exclaimed the indignant Ma-
rion as he left the store.  That evening he told Mr. Granville
the.story of the shirts, and the claim of three hundred dollars
was placed in a lawyer's hands. 'Marion was. told that he
need not call on the New 'street wine merchant any more.
CHAPTER XXVIL
Increased Business of Mr. Granville-Mrs. Tom Granville 6ccomes his
Housekeeper-The latter discovers the engagement between Marion Monck
and her Niece-Communicates it to Mrs. Nordheim-Disappointment and
stern Resolve.
THE dissolution of the firm of Granville and Nordheim ap-
parently had no effect upon their extensive business. It was
continued to the new house of W. Pitt Granville, who, if there
was any change, largely increased their business. Mr. Gran--.

I

R

3


142

VIGOR.

vile devoted much more of his attention to business than ever.
He was at his office early in the morning, and except to go to
his meals,.never left until ten o'clock at night. Some changes
had taken place at his home. Tom Granville bad some time
previously left his house and home in Chambers street, to de-
vote his whole time to Miss Norris. As soon a's it became evi-
dent to Mrs, Thomas Granville that her husband had utterly
abandoned her, and had openly connected himself with Miss
Norris-w-which he did immediately after the death of Mr. Nord-
heim-she sent a note to her brother-in-law, Pitt Granville.
He came at once to Chambers street.
"Tell me nothing, Kate, about Tom. I know all. What do
you intend to do ?"
"It is useless my incurring the expense of keeping house
alone, I think. I have no one 'but my sister, and she can take
her departure for Baltimore at any moment."
" Then give up tl e house at once, sell off the furniture to
the best advantage, and come and take charge of my house.
Isabel is too young to be burdened with a housekeeper's cares
and anxieties, and besides she needs looking after. She is very
inexperienced, and as her aunt, you are the proper person to
take charge of her."
" This is really a proposition that I could not have expected.
I do not know how to thank you."
"There is no occasion for thanks-I am the obliged party,
and if you say you will come, Kate, there is an end of it. Make
your arrangements, and come, as quick as you can."
The result of this conversation was, that 'Mrs. Kate Gran-
ville was installed as mistress in State 'street. Isabel liked
her aunt, and was delighted at her taking charge. To Mrs,
Kate Granville it was the most acceptable thing that could have
occurred. The scandal afloat in reference to her, and the
separation between Tom and herself would be silenced, for
certainly the world would say there could be no blame attached
to Mrs. Tom Granville, if her husband's brother, a large and
extensive merchant, should receive her at 'his house; not only
that, but take her to keep house, and ,take the charge of his
daughter,.
Mrs. Kate Granville had not resided with' her brother-in-law
but a few weeks, when her keen eyes discovered that there
w sop e sort of-a secret between' her niece Isabel and Marion
Mo    . She was satisfied that notes and letters passed between
the  wo young people. Marion was a regular visitor at the
house ini State street, and was there a hundred times unsus-

VIGOR.

f

143

pected, because he was now the confidential clerk of Mr. Gran-
ville, and it was necessary that he_ should see him frequently.
Sometimes Mr. Granville would be confined to the house for a
few days, by sickness. 'Then' Marion would be there half a
dozen times a day. He never came but Isabel contrived to
see and speak with him, if it was only for a moment.
Aunt Kate determined to put an end to this in some manner,
for she was not certain her brother would like the idea of an
attachment between Marion and Isabel. The former was but
a clerk, and although Mr. Granville seemed to be very fond of
him, yet she knew that being fond of a youth as a clerk, and
approving of him for a son-in-law, was entirely a different mat-
ter. She took Isabel to task the first opportunity, and taxed
her with being in love or engaged to Marion'Monk. The fair
girl could only reply to the charge on the instant with a flood
of tears.
"Don't deny it, Bella dear. There is no very great crme,
and you can tell Aunty all about it-how it happened."
Thus coaxed, Isabel very soon took the' advice, and made
Aunt Kate her confidant. At first the sister-in-law concluded
that it was her duty to inform her brother of circumstances
that so, nearly concerned his domestic happiness ; but when
she listened to Bella's pleadings, her anxieties, and her confi-
dent assurances that if Aunt did tell Papa, that he would turn
her out of doors, as he 'had done her brother Walter, and not
only that, but that he would discharge poor Marion from his
employ, and probably ruin him and his prospects for life., and
all "for no good," Aunt Kate hesitated. Then Isabel told
her that Marion was not to blame, and that it\was her persua-
sion that had made him conceal his attachment' from her father.
Finally Aunt Kate was persuaded to keep silence so far as Mr.
Granville was concerned, provided Isabel would agree to sub-
mit the correspondence between her lover and herself to Aunt
Kate's inspection, and that no further letters should be sent or
received unless she inspected them. Again, it was understood
that Marion should be informed that Kate knew all about it,
and that she would converse freely with him upon thesubject.
Isabel affectionately kissed her Aunt after all these prelimina-
ries had been settled upon, and she felt her mind much re-
lieved. She dreaded the anger of her father. With Aunt
Kate as her confidential adviser, there was somebody to ,share
with her the furious anger of her father, whenever le was in-
formed of the attachment, shonid 'it be displeasing to him, or
should he have other matrimonial views for her.

At J
11

II


144,

VIGOR.

Mrs. Tom Granville, after Isabel left the parlor in which
this memorable explanation had occurred, did not feel at ease
in her mind. "I have consented to do wrong, but I have pro-,
mised Isabel not to interfere, and I will not. If it comes to
Pitt Granville's ears, as Isabel says, the house would come
trembling down, and there would be a general smash up. Pitt
has a fearful temper when he gets a going. There is poor
Walter too-driven off to sea-never been heard from, and his
father never allows his name to be mentioned, and all because
he chose to fall in love with my sister Madison, and refused to
marry that proud, impudent hussy Mag Benson. No-Isabel
may run off with this Marion Monck-I certainly will not in-.
terfere. But one thing I will do, without delay.-yes, this
very morning. This Marion has a warm friend in widow Nord-
heim. Of course she is aware of his attachment to Isabel, and
she has great influence with Granville. I will go and consult
her'About the matter, and take her advice."/ She rang the bell.
The servant answered it.
" Go tell Thomas the coachman that I wish to go out in about
an hour."
?Aunt Kate went up to Isabella's room, and informed her that
she was obliged to-go out for a few hours, but would be home
by dinner-time. Isabel was surprised, but said nothing. She
little dreamed of the object that Aunt Kate had in view. If
she had done so, Aunt Kate would not have been permitted to
go on such an errand ; for with' a keen instinct Isabel had
partly discovered a secret that Mrs. Nordheim supposed was
safe in her own bosom ; and on one occasion the young Miss
had almost allowed jealousy to get the better of her, and she
came very near charging Marion with loving LMrs. Nordheim
better than lie did herself.
Mrs. Granville found Mrs. Nordheim at home. She was
dressed in deep mourning, and received Mrs. Tom Granville
with unusual courtesy. She felt a deep sympathy for her.
Both had lost husbands-one by death, the other by the fasci-
nations of a beautiful but bad woman ; for Mrs. Nordheim was
not aware that'there were two sides to the story of Tom's sepa.
ration from his wife. She had .heard that Tom had left his
wife to go and live with Miss Norris.
"I am very. happy to see you, Mrs. Granville, very indeed;
and I cannot tell you how glad I was to hear that 'you had
found a refuge from your domestic difficulties in the house of
the elder Mr. Granville. It is an arrangement that must be
very gratifying to all patties, for my beautiful friend Isabel is

too young and inexperienced to have charge of so extensive an
establishment as Mr. Granville's, and you cn relieve her of
all care, and be a mother to her. Poor girl! She needs a
mother, for I think Mr. Granville has an extremely bad tem-
per, although he can be so pleased ind smile so amiably in his
out-door intercourse."
Mrs. Nordheim spoke with animation, and from the heart.
i I really believe, Mrs. Nordheim, that you do'feel what you
express; and you have never joined in the lying scandal about
me, although my name was connected with your husband's. He
was a good friend, and assisted me. What his ultimate mo-
tives may have been, he can only settle with his God. I could
not do less than be grateful for his kindness, which was be-
stowed upon many occasions when I assure you I needed kind-
ness. But don't let us talk, Mrs. Nordhein, of what gives me
the horrors. I came up this morning for an express purpose."
"Indeed! Can I guess that purpose ?"
I presume you are aware of the relations that exist between
Marion Monck and my niece, Isabel Grauville ?"
Mrs. Nordheiim sat rocking herself to and fro in a Well-
cushioned chair, and when she caught the last words, the chair
ceased its motion, and the occupaut placed her hand for a mo-
ment upon her heart, as if to discover that it beat. Her
breath caught for a moment, and her face was as pale as death.
It was but for a moment that she hesitated, and then she asked
" The relation between Marion and Isabella ?"
" Yes. I suppose Marion has told you that he has long been
attached to Isabel, that it is reciprocated on her part, and that
they are engaged to be married. They are both fearful that     LI
their views may conflict with those of my stern brother, and
they are both keeping the arrangement veryquiet.  i coaxed
it out of Isabel this morning and knowing how warmly you are
attached to Marion, I presumed of course that be had at least
informed you of it. Is it possible that he has not done so ?" .
Mrs. Nordheim broke out into a laugh that actually sur-
prised Mrs. Granville.
"Told me-me ! No, he did not tell me. Why, it is the
most comical thing I have heard of for a long time !Marion
in love, and engraged to be married to that little girl, Isabel   I
Granville !-ha, ha,  ia! It is a good joke, is it not ?"       !
Mrs Tom G3ranville could not, or did not see the joke ; and
she replied that her niice was not sQ very little ; on the con-
trary that she xlas a fail grown young lady.
t0, my dear Mrs. Granville,'I meant no harm. To tell you
7


145

VIGOR.

the truth, your information has somewhat surprised me. Ma-
rion is not yet twenty years old, and' it is rather young to think
of getting married."
" It is indeed. But what can be done ?  I thought I would
come up and have an explanation with you."
"You are very kind indeed, but I must decline having any
thing to do with the matter. Marion has not told me of it, and
therefore I shall say nothing. Your conversation shall go no
further. I will keep it in my own breast;" and she placed
her hand there for a moment, as if to press the secret in,, so
that it would be safe.
These two ladies continued in conversation for over an hour
upon almost every topic of the day. Mrs. Nordheim took the
lead, and Mrs. Tom Granville wondered at such a flow of good
spirits. ,At last the visitor left. No sooner had the door
closed, than Mrs. Nordheim fell at full length upon the floor,
and rolled in agony.
"0 , my God, preserve my reason ! I that have so long
loved him in secret! I-that -now all obstacles to my dreams
for years is removed! He-Marion-our Marion-my Ma-,
rion-to go and' fall in love with that chit, simpleton, foolish,
nonsensical girl!, But I will not give way-! No, no, no! Cour-
age, courage! It is. better as it is. He nor no living soul
ball know what I-have suffered ! But it-is over now, and if
Marion were to come home I c6uld receive him as calmly as if
he was my brother."
She rose and resumed her seat. The tears silently poured
down her cheeks, but after a few moments she descended to
the basement and gave orders to the servants as calmly as if
her heart had never known aught but the most peaceful pulsa-
tions. Such is life-4

4

VIGOR.

F

147

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Daily Lyfe of a New York Merchant-Tiabits and Ideas of one rf the
Class Mr. Granville-Colonel Benson, the British Mrchant-Merchants'
Ideas of child n- A plan concocted to marry Isa'bella Uranville to Middle-
ton Benson by their parents-Isabella at the piano-A rrival of the ship
Doroth.afrom Ba avia-A profitable voyage-NiMtrion Monck inforins Mr.
Granville th :t he has ift the house of Mrs. Nordheim- The City Hotl-
Captain Watson-The Shades, in Thames street-A pleasant night there.
THE daily life of a merchant in New York is one ro-qnd of
routine. He rises in the morning, gets a hasty breakfast,
and before nine o'clock reaches his place.of business. If he is
a shipping merchant he reads the list of arrivals of that day,
and the clearances of vessels the day previous. If he is any
other sort of merchant, he reads that portion of' the' journal
that affects his peculiar interest. Half an hour with the
newspaper in his hand, and then he puts it one side and goes
at his work. The letters come from the pest-office-.these he
reads, and then transfers them to his bookkeeper to be read
and noted. An hour later he goes out into the street and
attends to his out-door business, and perhaps stops at a
refectory, an oyster cellar, or Delmonico's, and gets a stiff
glass of brandy and a bite of something to eat, and then is back
to his counting-house or store. Business, business, business.
Business in his head, business in his actions, business in his
thoughts, business at heart. He is nothing more than a body
made up of business. He goes home to dine at five o'clock,
and reaches his commercial palace filled with thoughts of busi-
ness. He has left a loved wife-been absent from     her nine
hours. He las perfect confidence in her, and when he comes
home, he tells her how successful he has been in' business.
He eats a hurried dinner, but delays longer to drink his wine.
He returns to his business again after dinner, ,or if not he
takes his hat and goes down to some place of amusement, or
.to see some friend. At or before eleven o'clock he is found
at home, and after he gets his tod goes to bed.  The next and
ten thousand succeeding days, perhaps as long as he lives, is
but a repetition of the one day that we have given as a sample.

-11

II
if

1ill


I 18

VIGOR.

He may acquire money, but even that is not all he desires.
lie is never as'happy as when he is admired as the most
extensive merchant of his class  He works for that ; he battles
for it night and day. As a politician he is a nobody. Expires
may be overthrown, kingdoms conquered, a republic cor.
rupted-it is nothing to the merchant-it has no connection
with his business. He cares not who rules the city, the state,
or the nation. He does not, vote-it wouIid take too much tiill
aind he would be obliged to indirectly mix with people th t
he considers beneath him. Sunday is not a working day. He
goes to church becauseit makes a'man more respectable, and
helps pass away the time. His religion is a part of his regular
business.. In early life he has married, has a family  They
become a part of his business. He leaves his wife, perhaps a
young charming woman to get aMonig the best way she can
with nothing to do. Most women find something to do, and
they have it all their own way, for from morning until night,
day in and day out, the wife of a New York inerchant can tell
at any time where her husband 'is. But could the veil be
removed from the careless husband's eyes, he who is a worse
slave than the Jane or Tom of the South-...could he imagine
for one moment in what manner his wife or the daughters, or
the sons occupy their time, his business would lose its charn.
An eminent statesman once remarked th-rt it was a remarka-
ble fact that -there should be a virtuous- ric/ merchant's wife
in New York, and on being asked why he thought this, he
answered,
" Because, of all the male inhabitants of God's earth, the
merchant is the only known class that abandon their vives
and daughters without remorse or fear to be seduced, cor-
rupted and betrayed by the idle and the vile of the other
sex."
It was once a good custom in New York for merchants to
have their dwellings in the same buildings with their stores. A
return to that habit would save from vice thouands of wives.
It is a good custom. The merchant can then look after his
 business and his honor at the same time.
Mr. Granville was just exactly the business man we have de.
sribed. Hk ate his meals regularly. He went to church on
Sunday. He had a good stock of w-ines in his cellar, and
occasionally gave a dinner. It was a pait of his business.
Most of those lie invited were business mon. If he invited
-others who had genius, it was to make the dinner go off better by
having a few intelleetua! persons mixed in the' business eaters.

[7

YIGOR.

149

He had lost all hopes of seeing his son Walter again--that is
to say, as be wished to see him. He did not regard him as a
son but as a sailor, and as his confidence was lost by what
the senior Granville called a gross act of filial, disobedience,
he determined that his remaining child should be the means
of carrying out his design. On one occasion Colonel Bensn_,
called in State street. Mr. Grahville was alone. Aunt Kate
and Isabel had gone out to spend the evening at Mr. Grasper's.
Between the Colonel and Mr. Granville, Walter's name had
been a forbidden subject by quiet consent. This evening Mr.
Granville alluded to him in the following manner: " Colonel,
are you aware that I have never been so crossed in any matter,
so completely disappointed, as at the overthrow of my plans,
or rather of our mutual plans, in reference to our children,
Walter and Margaret?'
"Children are inexperienced and great fools, Granville.
I confess that I was annoyed for a short time, for Walter was a
great favorite of mine. I saw no reason why the match should
not have been a happy one. We could-have started the young
couple fairly in life, and our own minds would have been at
rest, I'll tell you. Mr. Granville, that one of the greatest
anxieties'in a person's mind, if he has sons or daughters, is
that they will make an unfortunate match, especially-so if you
have money. There are so many prowlers about in a city like
this-chaps that have got nothing, but -dress well and can keep
up appearances, and get intosociety. These fellows keep parents
constantly on the look-out. I am never easy in my inwd.
There is my son Middleton-he is rising rapidly as a business
young uMan. I am delighted with his conduct. lie is not fool-
in  about the town at nights, and has formed no bad ac-
quiaintances. He will be taken into the firmi before he is much
older, and I shall give him the capital that I have invested in that
house, and withdraw my own name altogether. Now, would it
not be enough to make a man curse his father, if that favorite
son should fall in love with some pretty shop-girl or*sonte.
angelic book-folder?  Yet I should not be surprised at -it.
It would only be in keeping with the proceeding of sons
generally who have wealthy parents."
"I hope Middleton will never take any step, my dear Colonel,
that would be so utterly repugnant to you views-for his future.
I have to keep a careful watch upon my daughter Isabella, but
thank God, s1e is heart whole, and will never disobey or cross
my wishes ; but as double security, I have got Torn's wife here,
and she is a perfect woman of the world, and if -there 1i- any

I


150(

VIGOR*

young man comes to my house to make love to my daughter,
it will not be long before I should be fully informed of it. If
'your views, Colonel, are not changed, as we have been disap-
pointed in one match between my son and your daughter,.
suppose we try again, with your son and my daughter."
"With all my heart, Granville; but we must manage somewhat
differently. I shall take a warning from your son. I don't like to
come directly in contact with mine, or he too might go off
three years' voyage. Consider it a bargain, between us. I
will do for my son what you proposed to do for yours, and you
shall do the same for your daughter that Iproposed to do for
mine. Now, if you agree to this, let us go to work and brings
about the match as originating with the two young people
themselves, and not with us. Come often to my house and
bring your daughter with you. I will make it a point to bring
Middleton with me when I come here. Miss Isa must display
her fascinations to the best advantage and when we find there
is a liking, then we can carry out our views ; but don't let us
try to do in two months what may take two years and we shall
see if we don't have.more success in this marriage plot, than
in the other one, which resulted, I am sorry to say, in losing
your son, at least temporarily."
-I agree with you, perfectly, Colonel. I already perceive
that your plan is a more feasible one than mine."
The return of Mrs. Tom Granville and Isabella interrupted
the conversation of these two worthies, whQ were a fair sample
of nine in ten of the parents of New York, who have marriageable
children. Business. Position. Money. These are regarded
as the materials for a suitable match. Honesty, talent, health,
on the one part--beauty, virtue, amiability, intelligence, on
the oiher, are not counted in the game. If they were, there
would be few matches made between rich men's sons and
daughters.
Colonel Benson was a man who had moved much in society,
and could be very fascinating when he chose to be so.  When
Isabella had removed her bohnet and shawl, -he gazed at her
for some time in silence.  He was more struck than ever with
her extreme loveliness. He drew ,his chair near her, and
engaged her in a very animated conversation for some time.
He was delighted with intelligent conversation. Then he
asked her to play and sing some of his old favorite English
songs, and without a moment's hesitation, or any hypocritical
arts, which young ladies frequently use to enhance the value
of this performance, she arose and went to the piano, which

151

VIGOR.

was an upright English piano, importect expressly from Eng-
land for his child's use, by Mr. Granville. Isabella played all
the English airs that she had' learned to play to. please her
father.  When she had finished, the colonel looked at Mr.
Granville. There was an expression in his eyes which the
father understood. He saw that the colonel was delighted with
the prospect of such a wife for his son, and he could not.
control his feelings, but turned to Isabella and said:
"My dear Isabella, I am very glad I did not bring my son
Middleton with me, for had he been in my.place this evening,
you would have set him crazy.  But I will venture him the
next time I come.
Isabella shuddered-she hardly knew why, but at that
moment the bell rang, and shortly after, although ,it was late,
Marion Monek entered theparlor.  le bowed politely to all
in the room, and then approached Mr. Granville with some
letters-
"The ship Dorothea, Captain Watson, is below, sir. She is
just in from Batavia with a cargo of sugar, and is consigned
to the late firm.  Captain Watson came to the office only a.
few moments ago. I took him up to the City Hotel. Ie will
go down to the ship early in the morning, and wishes some
directions ; but I will wait until you have read your letters."
Meanwhile Mr. Gra'nville was occupied in reading his let-
ters, and as he read he commented upon them.
"The Dorothea will make a glorious voyage.  Her sugar
will bring eleven cents a poiund from the ship, and they . on,1y
cost five Spanish dollars the pecul."
" How much is a pecul, Mr. Granville?" asked Col. Ben-
son,
&amp; One hundred and thirty-three and one-third   English
pounds. The ship will clear twenty-five thousand dollars in
'her cargo, and pay a good round freight to her owner ;" re-
plied Mr. Granville.
" Is the cargo owned by you ?" asked Colonel Benson.
"It is owned one half by my late firm, and the other half
belongs to John McGreen of Philadelphia, who also owns ,the
ship. I am his agent here," replied Mr. Granville.
Some general conversation occurred, and then Colonel Ben-
son remarked:
" Well, Granville, I see you have something to do to-night,
and I will take my departure."
" You nee!1 not be in a hurry, although I shall, call on Cap-

I


'152

VRXog.

tain Watson as soon as I have finished my letters," said Mr.
Granville.
Colonel Benson took leave of the two ladies, 'and soon aftar
they bade Mr. Granville and Marion a pleasant good-night,
and retired to their rooms.  Mr. Granville and his elerk were
left alone.
"A capital voyage the Dorothea will make, eh?  H1ow does
Captain Watson look ?  I will go up and see the old sea dog
presently. You must send a note to Havemeyers and the
other sugar refiners early in the morning, and see if we can't
sell this cargo of sugar from the dock. It will save us a great
deal of expense. You were late at the office to-night. Lucky,
too, or you would have missed Captain Watson. , How is Mrs.
Nordheiin ?"-demanded Mr. Granville.
"Quite well. I am going to leave there."
" Leave there ! Why, I thought it was almost -a permanent
home ? What is out.? Have you and her quarrelled ?" de-
manded Mr. Granville.
"Not that I am ware of.  She iold me this afternoon that
slie should probably give up the house soon, and -although she
did iot wish to incommode me, yet the sooner I prooared a
home somewhere else, the, better."
"Short and sweet. What are you goipg to do'?" asked Mr.
Granville.
"1[ have not made up my mind yet.   This sudden notice
bas taken me all aback. I must-try and get a boarding-house
somewhere nearer the office," said'Marion,
"You will do nothing of the kind. . To-morrow do you come
here with your trunk.  I will have a room fixed up for you,
and you will be perfectly at home. It will be very convenient
for me. I shall save for you and myself a large amount of
boot and shoe-leather," said Mr. G.
"Really, you are very kind, but shall I not put you to in-
convenience ?" enquired Marion.
"rWhat hae you got to do with tbat ? You are well ac-
'quainted with my daughter, and with Mrs. Tom  Granville.
Coming here will not be like going among strangers.  But
come, let us go up and see Captain Tommy Watson," said Mr.
Granville.
The merchant and his 'clerk went up to the City Hotel.
Mr. Willard smilingly told them that Captain Watson had
left word that e he had gone round to the Shades in Thames street,
directly in the rear of the hotel. To"a the Shades" they Went, and ,
there they-found the Captain with his mug of ale' on the little

A.J

J 4

VIGOR#

153

table before him, and enjoying a cigar with great guo.  Mr.
Granville and Marion took seats at the same table, and soon
had their'" mugs " before them. The main room was crowded
with small tables, and every table had four to six persons
about it.. In the center of the room was a-large round table
which accommodated twenty persons..  These were dinkig,
singing songs,, telling stories, and enjoying themselves without
limit.
"I did not know that there was such a place as this in New
York," remarked Marion.
"I did,' said Captain Tommy Watson.    "It is the only
place where you can get a good glass of beer; and a  Welsh
rabbit.'  I always come here when I am in New York.  Be-
sides the'good drinks and eatables, there is always lots of fun
going on here, and every hour the character of the guests
change. In the morning you have one class that come here to
get their breakfast.  Tea or coffee and a mutton-chop, or a
deliciously done beef steak.  Towards eleven o'clock, a class
come here to get a mug of beer, some bread and cheese or a
cold cut.  From twelve to three, inerehant%-some of the best
in town, come to get a regular feed.-a downright dinner,
Then in the evening, all the leading literary men and wits
come here, and in addition, a lot of chaps who have a little
spare change, come and.spend it, and hear the geniuses sing
and talk ;" said Captain Watson
Captain Watson's description of the Shades was good a
quarterof a century ago.  But now, although the Shades is
still in existence, and kept in the same place, yet its custom
has sadly fallen off, and- their character changed;   Now and
then a stray English actor lodges andboards there, and some-
times one of the ancient guests drop in to see how his old
haunt looks. :But the majority of the customers have gone up
town, or to their graves, and the'Shades is desolate.
The Captaintand his consignee, Mr. Granville and Marion,
remained until long after midnight listing to their songs, while
partalsing of a nice little bird supper, garnished with chain:
page, which Mr. Granville had ordered. The Captain con-
tributed his quota of enjoyment by telling anecdotes of his
recent voyage to and from Java.
When they parted for the night, it was with the understand'
ing that the Cptain would come up with the good ship Doro,
thea, and lay her .along side th  Rector street, as early: in the
morning as was practicable.

7*


V4oirG.

CHAPTER XXIX-.
Count Falsechinski Makes a Levy t upon Mrs Woodi uff-The Count calls in
Bond stret- A Palace Uitsuspected of Evil -its Gorgeousness-The
Count gets a Check for a Thousand Down and Two Thousand Dollars a
Year for Keep ng a &amp;cret-A ecompazzies the Lady to. a Fashipnable Party
-What the Count Saw at "6The Parkers "-Air. O'boemall and- Mrs.
Parker-A Scene of Excitement -Interview between Giunt and Airs. Wood-
iuff-Ten Thousand Dollirs OfTred for a Rushind for a Young Lady
of Wealth and Beauty-- The Little Baby-A Horrible Outrage in IhA
Life-The Count Falsethii.ski L vi s Eve Thouisand Dollars More-His
Opinion of Morality ond Virtue in iigh Places.
WHEN Miss Norris communicated to the Count Falsechinski
the secret of Mrs. Woodruff, that noble gentleman forthwith
sent a note to the Bond street lady. He received a reply the
same day, requesting him to call so soon' as be could make it
convenient. -It was not long before the Count made his appear-
ance on the premises. He stood upon the steps and then rung
the bell, but noticing that the outer door was partially opened,
he passed in, and found himself in a short hall. At the end was
a second mahogany. door, which was fast, and another bell-
handle could be seen at the sidd door.
There was every sign af the residence of some weally per-
son, at the same time, it was evident that the arrangement of
two doors was very convenient for persons who did not wish to
be seen entering the house, as they woulh not be kept a 1mo-
ment on the outside of the street door. Ladies or, gentlemen
eould run up the marble steps, push open the door, enter, and'
push the door to, agaip. There they were safe from  observa-
tion, and could leisurely ring the second bell. "This the Count
did. A colored girl soon after made her appearance..
I wish to see madam."
"Your name, sir ?"
The Count Falsechinski."
The inner door was carefully closed by the girl, who went to-
seek her mistress, .1She returned, opened the door sulcient to
allow the.Count to enter, then carefully closed and locked it,
and led the way to the rear parlor.
"Take a seat, Mr. Count. Missus will be down directly."

The door was partially bpen which connected with the next
parlor. The Count entered it, and found that there was still a
front parlor. Three parlors, magnificently furnished,.occupied
the floor. The walls were covered with paintings, and the fur-
niture was of the most costly description. 'The rear parlor
opened upon a balcony, which was so covered with creeping
vines as almost to exclude the light, and prevented any one
from looking into the yard. Between the two rear windows
stood a bronze stand with a marble top. Upon it was a mar-
ble bust of Daniel Webster. One side of the room, between
each recess of the fire-places, were large mahogany bopok-cases,
with looking-glass doors. The Count tried to open some of
them, but found all carefully locked. She must have a large
library, thought the Count, if these splendid cases are filled
with books. On the opposite side of the room was a small ta-
ble, covered with a fine white cloth.  Upon- it, was a large
quarto, bound with velvet. The Count opened the book. It
was the Bible. "Queer female this," muttered the Count, and
tired with looking about the room, he partly reclined upon one
of the superb sofas that-lined the room. Presently the lady of
the house entered, and walking rapidly across the room, took
-the Count's hand, and bade him not rise. She seated herself
by his side. The lady, who was no other than Mrs. Woodruff,
was dressed in deep mourning, and also wore a widow's cap.
" Count, I received your note, and I presume you received
mnine,or you would not be here."
The Count bowed politely, and said he had received the
note.
" Yours, Count, made me aware that you possessed a secret
of mine, and that it ws in your power to do me injury or
continued Mrs. Woodruff.
"Good, as.you may decide," interrupted the Count.
"1 will be very frank with you, Count. If you are not dis-
posed to injure me, you can be of essential service to me, and
at the same time benefit- yourself most materially; but it is
necessary that we should perfectly understand each other,"
remarked Mrs. Woodruff.
The Count nodded his head in approbation.
"What, Count, do you require ?" she asked
"Money, and I will earn it," replied the Count.
"Do you mean to have me, infer that if I pay you a certain
sum of money, that you will not only keep-my secret, but that-
you will serve me in any way that I shall point out r" asked
Mrs. Woodruff.

m'

VIOR,              1

154

155

of


I56

VIGOR.

I do,"replied the Count.
"Will you take a solemn oath upon that Bible yonder that
you will never, directly or indirectly, betray me or my inter-
ests ?" replied the hostess.
I will."
*The lady went and got the Bible, and as she resumed her
seat, placed it upon, her knees, and again addressed the -Count.
"What money will you require?"
I wish the sum of one, thousand dollars in cash. I then
wish you to pay me five hundred dollars every three months,
so long as I serve you," said the cool Count.
"Swear upon this book what I require, and I will agree .to
your proposition." The Count took the oath.
"Excuse me a moment."' The lady left the room, but was
not absent over five minutes, when she again took a seat by the
Count, and placed in his hands two bank notes of five hundred
dollars each. "Three months hence, Count, you will receive
another note of five hundred, and so on for the year at least, or,
as long as our bargain holds good. Count, will you tell me by
what iieans you discovered the character of my establishment?
I do not ask you save in this regard. ,Will the source of. your
information be. used again to others ?" asked th6 lady.
"'I cannot give you the name of the person who informed me
as to your real/pursuits, but I can and do guarantee 'that 'it
shall not be repeated by that party to your injury," replied the
Count.
" I am satisfied,; and now let us understnd each other. You
move, Count, in a certain circle. You will make many valua-
ble acquaintances. Such as you, deem will be of value for me
to make, I wish you to be the means offbringing us together. . I
want none but the highest-those who are wealhy-or hold
positions 'of political power, or foreigners who "are titled, or
leading men, in- the. professions.  Do you understand me
askIed Mrs  Woodroff.-
" Perfectly ; and I will carry' out your views in that regard-.
What else ?" asked the Count.-
I wish you to accompany me to church, to places of public
amusement, and to the select, fashionable parties among the
higher classes of society," was the reply.
"What ?   Do I understand you to say that you visit in the
highest circles ?' asked the astonished 'Count.
" Did you not meet me at Mrs. Nordhieimu's'?" she asked-.
Oh, ah, lady, yes - that was because you were a neighbor,
I suppose; but  here are higher classes," said the Count

i

F'
F'
Ii
I
F'
F'

157

Very well; we shall see. Read this note,' replied Mr.
Woodruff, and she banded him a hote.
The Count read an invitation addressed to hiniself from Mr.
and Mrs. Parker, inviting-him to a party at their house 'that
igh~t.
" I see, my dear Count, that.you are sonvewhat astonished,
but I have a note of invitation, and -had no difficulty, I assure
you, in getting one for you. Nothing- will give me more
pleasure thap to accompany you there," smilingly observed
Mrs. Woodruff.
"No. Not accompany me, but meet me thbte," she con-
tinued, correcting herself.
The Count'soon after took his leave,, but when the night
came, he was at the party, and was one of the. favored ones.
Mrs. Woodruff was, as usual, quiet and retired, but made many
acquaintances, particularly aniong the young married ladies.
Mrs. Parker was the life and soul of her party, but the Count
could not help noticing that one of her guests seemed to be an
object of the deepest interest to the hostess. It was no other
than Mtr. John ODoemall, the wine merchant. He was dressed
superbly, and certainly far outshone the Count, who did not at-
tenmpt to rivalkhim.
- "What an impudent scoundrel that O'Doemall is !" said the
Count to Mrs. Woodraff, as tbe carriage which contained them
drove.off from the stately residence of the Parkers. "1 had
half a mind to give Mrs. Parker a warning."
" It is welL, you did-not, Count. Mrs. Parker is one of my
oldest friends aid acquaintances."
The Count gave a prolonged "Whew '-" And Mr. O'Do-
emall also ?" he asked.
Yes; and .some day I may lell you inore," she replied.
The Count became a friend of Mrs. Woodruff, attended her
at church, theatres, and private parties, and .his salary was
regularly paid, and as-fast as he received it he deposited it
with his Wall street- bankers, adding constantly to the amount
to his credit already in Prime, Ward &amp; King's 'hands 8 8
weeks and months passed on, no. one. suspecting 'or dreaming
that Mrs. Woodruff was not the wealthy pigulady that she
was supposed to be. The rector of the fashionable church at
which she worshipped paid her a formal visit at least once a
month, and no other female member of his congregation con-
ducted herself so unexceptionably as Mrs. Woodruff. No other
miade the worthy rector so many presents, and as she seat them
through the hands of the sextoni of that fashionable church, no

I

VIaOR.


VIGOI

one who held a seat in that church received a bow as she
passed into the church, or was shown to her pew with a greater
respect.
The Count had drawn his salary from Mrs. Woodruff almost
a year, when one afternoon, as he was about leaving the office
to go to Delmonico's to get his dinner, a note was placed in
his hands by the coachman of Mrs. Woodruff.
"4Carriage around the corner. Missis say you come right
up," observed the coachman.
The Count read the-note, and then hastily followed the colored"
coachman and took his seat in the carriage. It was driven
rapidly to Bond street. He entered the house, and found Mrs.
Woodruff in her private parlor, in a state of great excitement.
"Ah, Count, 1 am so glad you are come! I have had such
a scene !" she exclaimed, as he entered.
"-Be calm, Mrs. Woodruff; seat yourself, and tell me all
about it. As I have had no dinner, will you order me some-
thing, and a bottle of champagne," remarked the Count.
The order was given, and Mrs. Woodruff resumed a seat-
"Who was the scene with, my lady ?" asked the Count.
"0-, with those Parkers. If it were not for me, their wealth
could not save them," replied the indignant Woodruff
What is out now'?  Tell me all-about it, aud- then if you
want advice, I will give it," said ,the Count.-A
"Count, could you procure a husband for a young lady of
high famiLy, one of the first respectability, if ten thousand dol-
lars were placed in her husband's'hands the moment she was
married ?" demanded Mrs. Woodruff.,
"I dare say I could doso-in fact I know I could. Ten
thousand dollars'? Is' the lAdy pretty ? I know fifty young
fellows that would marry ten thousand dollars and take the
Witch of Endor if she were alive, as the wife additional," re-
plied the Count.
"Do not joke-I am perfectly serious; and I will tell you,
the young lady is Miss Julia Parker, the niece of Mr. Parker,"
observed Madame Woodruff.
The devil she is! Why, my lady, what is out now ? A
beautiful young and virtuous girl like Julia Parker need' not'
go begging for a husband. She can take her pick in the mar-o
kei," said the astonished Count.
"AYes, that is all very-well; but she must be married as a
widow with hei child. She won't give up her child," said the
lady.                            Whwa h~odNc
" Widow-a.child-Mliss Parker ! Wy    htte     l   ik

A
"1

"

is out now! Tell me all, or don't ask my aid, Where is Miss,
Parker ?" continued the Count.
"Up stairs, and her aunt has just left. But I made her pull
in her horns. I dared her to threaten me. The negro woman
took away the child this morning, and the mother frets about
it ; but the old she devil Parker insists that she shall go to a
party on next Monday night, as though nothing had happened,"
said Mrs. Woodruff.
"How long has Miss Parker been in this housq ?" asked the
Count.
" About three weeks. She had a little baby about a week
ago," replied Mrs. Woodruff.
"'Miss Julia Parker-leetle baby !" repeated the Count,
whose eyes actually stuck out with amazement.
" No, indeed; Madame Parker needn't put on any of her
airs with me. She is a communicant at the.same chureh-that
don't matter. She has done it all. That poor girl was as'in-
nocent as a babe-unborn, until the outrage was committed upon
her, and why was it done ? Who did it ?-what for 1 0, Count,
I could tell you such a story as would make your hair curl,
without putting. curling tongs anywhere near it," said Mrs.
Woodruff in a very excited manner.
"Now, my lady, youhave said too much, or not quite enough.
I. want to know more," fiercely observed the Count.
"You shall know all; and then advise me what to do. That
old wretch shan't make a cat's-paw of me-not she. You know
that O'Doemall-of course you do. Mrs. Parker chooses to fall
in love with him. He of course agreed to it, and they met
here, in this house. She wanted a handsome lover-he 'wanted
money. Well, he got a few hundreds out of her, and it was
more, more. One. day, I told her not to come here any more.
So they met afterwards at her Own house. They got pretty
bold and imprudent, and one morning Miss Julia happening to
go to her aunt's apartments, she caught the naughty O'Doemall
and her worthy aunt breaking Commandient.No. Eight. Then
there was a scene ! but Mrs. Parker was equal. to the emer-
gency. She sent a note to me .at once, enclosing a hundred
dollar bill, and requesting a room ready in an hour. It was
ready, Mrs. Parker came, and her niece was with her. The
niece knew nothing of my business. She knew me as a vis-
itor. and a friend. They both took a seat in one of my parlor0
Then the aunt complained of being sick, and asked me to let
her lie down. The niece went up to the room with her. Then
,she ordered up a bottle of Madeira. The servant took it up,

158S

I

1t

Ii

1591

ii
'1

VIGOR.*


ZOQ

VIGOR.

O'Doemall came, and he went up of course. -But really I can-
-not tell the rest, Count.-it is too horrible," remarked the poor
Mrs. Woodruff.-
You must tell it all.-go on," said the Count sternly.
Be it so. I had other matters to attend to, and my mind'
was not called to what Mrs. Parker was doing.,. The three re-
mained in that roomi over two hours. Then the man O'Doe-
mall slid out of the houge. Then I went up. JuLia, p-oor child,
was acting m6re like a maniac than anything else. Mrs. Par-
ker frowned, scowled, pinched her even. But still the girl
sobbed in such a woeful manner that my suspicions were
aroused,-but I could say nothing; and shortly after Mrs. Par-
ker took her niece and they left the house, went up the street
a short' distance and got into their carriage and drove home.
Count, in order to keep that little girl from exposing her aunt,
that fashionable 'ady and- her lover had forced the poor girl to
lose her innocence. Is not this horrible'? I suspected this&amp;at
the time, but it was only recently that Miss Julia told me the
facts. The outrage was repeated several times, and she dared
not say a word. She became pregnant, and then the aunt in
alarm came to me, and to prevent disgrace I agreed to receive
and take care of her through her illness, and received a thou.
sand dollars for my trouble. She is nearly well, and Mrs. Par-
ker, who has Inade her husband believe that Miss Julia is in the
country, has hiied a negro woman to take the child to nurse,
and wants that her niece shall now return hoine, and take her
place in the family circle. - What do you think of it, Count ?"
asked -r . Woodruff.
"I1think that it is in character with a good many other things.
This is a  unny. world. It is all right. Mrs. Parker is one of
the leading fashionalde ladies in New York; but why does she.
wish to marry her niece in suih a hurry? As a widow, too?"
asked the cautious Count.
" Because her niece has' become very fond of the child. She
says she will keep the-child, and that if she marries, it must
be to some one who knows the facts,-.that*is to say, that she
is the mother of the child. If any' one who is respectable will
marry her, the matter can be arranged, Count," observed Mrs.
Woodruff.
" My lady, you are deceived. It is only to pacify the young.
lady that Mrs. Parker talks that way I know better.she is
not sincere. In a month, the shrewd heartless woman/ will
wean the young one from her offspring,. and she will be as'fash-
ionable a belle as ever. No one will be the wiser. . So don't

VIGOR.

I Ol

I

fret yourself at all. You have .done with Mrs. Parker. She
will never serve you more. You know too much. Now you
must make her pay'-pay," said the Count.
"But she has paid me," replied the lady.
"No, no. She told you she would pay ton thousand dollars
to marry, eh'? .But it is a lie. Never mind. I will get five
thousand-half for you, lalf for' me," said the Count.
"But, my dear Count, she will not stand it. She "-....--
" Don't say any more. She will pay 2nze. Write her a note,
and say that I am the person who will marry her niece, and that
you have told me all. Leae the rest to me."
The Count received the sort of note that he desired, and
with it he proceeded to the residence of Mrs. Parker. Hie saw
that-lady, told her all that she had done, and gave her one day
to raise five thousand dollars, or that he would send her and
Mr. O'Doemall' to the City Prison. The next day the fright-
ened lady had raised the sum, but only about one half in cash;
the rest was in jewelry at the Count's valuation, although it
had cost Mrs. Parker over six thousand dollars.
The Count made some pledges also to that lady. -.She con-
tinued at the head of fashion, and hr niece eventually married
well-the child having been disposed of in a most mysterious
manner, The Count was right in his predictions. Mrs. Parker
met Mrs. Woodruff at church, but their acquaintance, socially,
was ended.
The twenty-five hundred dollars the Count paid over to Mrs.
Woodruff, and the jewelry he made a special deposit of at his
bankers. It is needless to add that the Count's faithin th e
genuine piety and morality of our most fashionable church
goers was not'visibly increased.  " I will levy a tax on sin;"
said the honorable Count, " wherever I find it.'' lie had done.
so with the Parkers to a very heavy extent.
CTIAPTER XXX.
T'he shock to Mrs Nor dheim at Mi .. Tomn Granville's emunmunication-Finda
herself a rich widow and loving Marion. .&amp;onck-.1tr. Wazson aznd the Widow
Nordhei-Iis opinion ,of .Monck-A long conversation-Marion Alones
quit t* du**** -fil  .Nodlie-Tke latter invites Mr Wilron to reside
n Bond street. and to purchase another house-She ofers to put him in busi-
nesa-A new world opened to Ae old bookkeeper.
THE communication- whioh 'rs. Tom Granvile wade to Mr's.
Nordheim was as unexpected as it was shocking. She 'was a
true-hearted woman. .She had married for reasons that have

if

:

I


VIGOR.

been already alluded to; but she had never loved Mr. Nord
heim. The duties assumed by her were invariably faithfully
and fully performed, and she would have continued to perform'
them until her dying day, but she was young, and of a loving
disposition. It w'as not until after the death of Mr. Nord.heim
that she became aware of the nature of the feelings in her
bosom towardslarion Monck. She thought she loved him as
a sister. He had been something for her to love for long
years. She had became bound up in all his aspirations and
his hopes, and his-wishes. He had become a part of herself.
There was very little difference in their ages. She was a few
months oldev than him-.-that was ,all. When Mr. Nordheim
died, the reflections that crossed her mind in reference to her
future were of a new and at first a startling character., Then,
she began to canvass Marion's conduct, and she concluded in
her own mind,- that he must love her or that .it would soon
change to love. When Mrs. Granville informed her that
Marion loved ;nd was engaged to her niece, her eyes were
opened---the veil was lifted fromher most secret thoughts.
She knew herself, her weakness, and she determined to con-
quer it. .She had no female friend or relative. to consult-but
there was one of the other sex that she respected, and felt that
she could trust. It was our old friend the bookkeeper, Mr.
Wilson. To him, ever since Mr. Nordheim's death, had been
confided her vieWs and wishes in reference to the settlement of
the affairs of her husband. Those affairs had turned out much
better than any one anticipated. It was true- that Mr. Nord-
beim lad :been very extravagant, but it was no less true that
the firm had been making every year a large amount. Mr.
Nordheim's original capital had never been touched. On. the
contrary, every year when .the accounts were made up,,Mr.
Nordheim had had a considerable sum to his credit upon the
books. As soon as this was ascertained, under Mr. Wilson's
advice, she had gradually'withdrawn from the concern large
sums .at intervals, andthese had been judiciously invested in
real estate, and in bank stocks bought in her own name, She
was independently riuh. She was aWare of this fact long be-
fore she became aware of Marion's ill-fated- attachment. to
another, and it is not a cause 'of wonder that she sometimes
dreamed that Marion Monck would share it withr her. Poor
Marion, little did he dream that. his boyish love for Isabella
Granville was to be nipped ifi the bud, and also to deprive
him of a fond loving heart and an independent fortune..
iM~rs. Nordheim had seen adversity in her early years. She

VIGOR.

I 3

VY

I!
F

had been a wife without receiving any of those blessings of
Domestic life which she had heard of, and now that the hopes
that were just budding in reference to Marion were so cruelly
withered, her heart seemed to be crushed.
Mr. Wilson came up that evening. She was alone. "Where
is Marion to-night ?" he asked.
Mrs. Nordheim burst into tears, and made. no reply. Honest,
true-hearted Wilson sat down by her side, and tried all in his
power to console her, or at least to obtain from her, lips the
secret of such bitter tears. As she became more composed,
she felt that to have the sympathy, of this cold-hearted busi-
ness man was something, and her heart opened to him.
! Mr. Wilson, I am ashamed to tell you why I. have wept so
bitterly, tut I am sure you will not betray my confidence. I
'have had that youth living in the house with me as a brother
for so long a time. I thought I only  oved him as a brother,
but when my husband, whom    I never loved, died, .1 then
awoke to the real state of my feelings--I loved, Marion Monak."
And then she, recounted to Mr. Wilson what Mrs. Tom Gran-
ville had told her...-' Can it be possfle that it is not so-
that he does not love Miss Granville'?  Tell me- truly what
you think. I know you will peak the truth," she observed.
"Lady, I thank you much for this confidence. It. has not
lessened you in my regard. On the contrary, I would do
more than ever to serve you. I, too, have become very much
attached to Marion. I have no body to love. I work hard for
a living. I am poor, for I have saved nothing from my salary
for until within a few months I remitted all for the use of an
infirm mother and 4 sick sister in England, who had nothing to
support them except what I could send," said Mr. Wilson.
"You. are a noble -man, Mr. Wilson," interrupted Mrs,
Nordheim.
" Death has removed my mother, but I still have to aid
my sister; but having, as, I said before, nothing to love,
I became warmly attached to Marion. I tried all in my power
to impart to him all the commercial information which I pos-
sessed - I succeeded, for h&amp; is an apt scholar. I have watched
him in the office and out of it, and the more I sawof him the
more I liked him. When I discovered that therd was. an
attachment to Miss Granville, I became alarmed. He neve
-informed me of it, but I could not be deceived. I knew that
Mr. Granville would not listen a moment to it. He has other
views for his daughter. I know from himself what those views
are, and you may believe me, Mrs. Nordheim, that I have beeu

162

I

U

Ii


164

VIGOR-

for months expecting an explosion. It will come sooner or
later, for Mr. Granville, when lhe sets his mind .upon any thing,
will carry it through or die in, the attempt. You know the
history of his son's unfortunate attachment. It was to a heart-
less girl, but still, Walter loved her, and .refused to marry
Miss Benson, that his father had chosen for him. The conse-
quence was, that he became an outcast, and is somewhere in
the Pacific Ocean as a sailor before the mast, and I do not
think Mr, Granville ever gives him a thought," remarked Mr.
Wilson, quietly.
But, Mr. Wilson, could nothing be done to remove Mr.
Granville's objections?  I would do much for Marion's happi-
ness. Were' I to agree to put'a large sum at Marion' disposd
to start him in business, would not that remove some of Mr.
Granville's scruples ? I would do any thirig-make any sacri-,
flee for-him," continued Mrs. Nordheim.
"You are a loving, kind-hearted woman to say so, but it
would not add a feather to Marion's chances. Nothing that
you or I could do would prove of any use. Mr. Granville has
made up his mind, surtere it ends. Marion might run away
with her, but if he did, he 'ould have her for his pains. Gran-
vile would never forgive or see them again in life. On the
contrary, he would do all in his power to ruin Marion, and
plunge the married couple into deeper misery," replied Mr.
Wilson.
"What a character he must be ! I never heard of such a
man. l-He does not seem to be so iron.-hearted and so stern,"
remarked Mrs- Nordheim.
"lHe is even worse than I have pictured him to you. Oh, I
gnow him well. I have known him long years. Let me offend
him to-night, and although I have almost starved my life out,
yet le would turn me into the street penniless, and see me
starve with as' little remorse as if I was a dog," said Mr. Wil-e
son.
"My honest friend, I begin to understand you, and I like
you more and more Bear this in mind. I find friends are
few.. You are a true friend to me, I do believe., If need he,
and you want a friend, Mr. Wilson,.come to me at once," and
she gave-him her hand, 'which he took, although his own trema-
bled.
"Nothing, then, can be done in favor of Marion in that quar-
ter ?" she continued.
" Nothing. lie must take his chances, and they are fearfully
against hiin," replied'Mr. WVilson.

A

0

VIGOR.

1.65

"'How is it that Mrs. Tom Granville seems to being favqr of
the match?  Is it not very queer ?" asked Mrs Nordheim.
"It will cost her a home ;.but I believe if her heat waslaid
bare, it would be found that she hates her proud .brother-in-
law so heartily that she would rather injure or thwart him 'in
any purpose that he holds. near at heart, if she sacrifice home
and every thing else a woman holds dear,"-replied MrVilson.
"Mr. Wilson, tell me what I ought to do., L  annot have
Marion Monek live longer in this house.
" Is he aware, dear lady, of your secret attachment to
him ?" asked Mr. Wilson.
" Great God, no! I should die for shame could I think he
dared dream of 'such a thing! No. -'No, one but yourself
knows it, and I want you to forget it, as I shall endeavor to do.
I told you because I need advice.  I do not. know what to do.
Ile nust leave the house, but it seems cruel to tell him to go.
What will he think of it? How can it be done? Oh, do tell
me, Mr. Wilson, and I will be so grateful,'' continued the ex-
cited lady.
Mr. Wilson thought for several moments, but did not say a
word. --At last, as he noticed that.Mrs. Nordheim was waiting
for a-reply with the greatest anxiety depicted in her face, he
asked, " Do you wish him to leave immediately ?"
" Oh at once-to-night if it were possible. I do not want
him to remain an hour longer than is absolutely necessary. .I
am afraid of myself-that is, I am afraid that something, might
occur to Mr. Vilson that would betray my secret.",
"Then you must resort to innocent deception.  Do you
know any place where you-could go and remain, two or three
days ?" asked Mr. Wilson.
" Oh yes, at Woodbury.  I was there during the summer
the cholera was here-don'tyou remember ?"
"Certainly I do. Well, we -fnust send you upthere.' As
soon as Marion comes home this evening, say to him pleasant-
ly, ' Marion,' you must move to-morrow, for I am going away,
and shall probably break up housekeeping.' If he asks when,
or where, tell him. If he asks when you are- coming.black--
,you don't know.  Let him remove to-morrow with hisAhings.
le will find some other place. Once out of the hose, you
will have no further trouble," was the sound: advice of Mr.
'Wilson.
"I will take your advice, but it is hard.  Still: I feelmy-
self it must be done.
-"Be sure that you place his removing upon that ground

11

I'

I1

'ii
ii
ii
it


Ii!

166                     VIGOR.
alone, that you are going away.  Don't let him imagine for a
moment it is for any other reason.
Soon after,'Mr. Wilson took his leave.. He had hardly got
away from the house before Marion, using his nig  ey, en-
tered, and stood before Mrs. Nordheim., She receive  im as
cordially as though nothing had happened, and it 'would  ave
been hard work to' have made the announcement that night.
She felt that she had not the heart to do it.  But he said-
"Bessy, I have got to go back to the office to-night for a short
time, and shall then spend the balance of the evening at Mr.
Granville's, in State street."
There was no more delicacy about telling him that she wahs
going into the country, and that he must find another home-
" at least for a while," she added, as she saw his amazed look,
" although I do-not think I shall keep house much longer in
the city. I mean to pay a visit to Charleston."
"Can' I help you in getting ready' to go in the country ?"
"No-.-'you will have enough to do to get your own things
ready.,' If I need help I will send down to Mr. Wilson.",
"-That is very cold language to use to me."
"1Not at all. You will have enough to do, as I sid before,
and the sooner you get removed with your things, the sooner,
I shall be able to go-and now good night. I have got work
to do," and she hastily left the room.
.It was this communication, that he mentioned to Mr. Gran-
ville, who invited him to his house.  The next day Marion
went up to Bond street, and before starting ordered a cartman
to' meet him there, and to bring down his trunk.  He found
Mrs. Nordheim in the parlor.  She half regretted 'her deter-
mination. It appeared unkind on her part, and entirely un-
necesary. Probably she would .have told. Marion he need not
go; but when he arrived, unfortunately for him, 'he exclaimed,
"Well, Bessy, I have come for my things, and I am going
with them to Mr. Granville's, in State street."
I am very glad you have found so pleasant a place. You
will find Miss Granville a much more agreeable hostess than
you have found me."
" No, that cannot be. You have been very kind to me,
Bessy."
"Well then, get your things in your trunk, for your cart-.
man is at the door ready to receive them," and then she hur-
ried to her' room and'locked the door. .
Marion, when he had packed his trunks, tried to see her, 'but

VXGOR.

167

I
Vi

the girl told him her mistress-had too bad a headache and could
see nobody.
Mr. Wilson called that evening. She saw him, but her pale
cheeks and tearful eyes betrayed that if it had not cost much
trouble to get Marion out of the house, it would 'cost her still
more to get him out of her heart.
"He has gone, has he? I am glad of it; and now will you
visit the Connecticut village ?"
"No, I believe not. There is no occasion for it, and I am
not well."
Should Marion call here, what then ?"
"I have ordered the servants not to,"let him into the house,
and to keep the door locked constantly so that he cannot come
in as.of old with the night key, and to say that I am not home.
or any thing else they choose. 'I will not see him under any
circumstances, at least for a month. By that time I shall" be-
come accustomed to his absence, and shall be able fo seehim
without any emotion., I am very glad that he is gone. Now,
Mr. Wilson, will you do me a favor ?"
I will ifI can.
*Let one month go by, and then I wish you to remove to
this house; will you do it ?"
"If you wish it,-I will."
" I do wish it."
"What will people say?   I do not speak in reference to
myself, dear lady, but on your account.
" Mr. Wilson, I do not care what people say. I intend' to
act during the remainder'of my life upon my own ideas of.
what is right and what is wrong--following the one and avoid.
ing the other., You have been the book-keeper of my deceased
husband many years--you have acted as my agent iu settling
up his affairs. I still need your assistance,and shall continue
to need it for a long time, perhaps. I am alone, with no male
person in my house ; you are living in a common lodging house.
If you are sick, you have no one to see that you do not'suffer.
Now why should 'you not come and take up yourresidence with
me.? Who can or who dare object to it ?"
-True, that is very true, and I feel very much flattered by
your kind invitation. I will try and be of use. But I like in-
dependence, and if I come here I shall expect to pay' some
share-"---
"'Stop, sir, at once. I cannot repay you for your kindness
with any thing that I can do ; and if you come up here to live,
I wish you to relieve me of all responsibility or anxiety about'

'Ii


V"IOR

F!I
i1/

VIGOR.

to~

business matters. You will be made. comfortable, but the
word pay must neverC be used. You become a member of my
family', Wiy, do you suppose that Marion ever paid for be-
ing with us ? No indeed."
i-eally was not aware whether he did or not, but be ren-
dered himself very usefulto Mr. Nordheim, did he not ?"
"Once he may'have done so, but you will continue useful
to me. The mere fact that I have a middle-aged 'gentleman in
ly house, is full payment. I need a protector and -a friend,
and I shall find one. That i- not all, Mr. Wilson.  You have
done more for me in attending to my complicated business than--
any paid merchant could have done.: What I should have
done without you,-I know npt.  Your suggestions have been
very valuable. That is not all. I do not suppose you inten
to remain the slave of Mr. Granville all your life, and when
you "t too old to woi'k be sent to the workhouse, if you can
help it. Very well-y--you can help it.  I say so to you now,
and what I say now 1 will say six months or a year hence.-
The moment you see an-opeling to go into business on- your
own account, and only need money, let me know, and you shall
have whatever you reqire.. You are aware that Mr. Grand.
ville promised poor Nordheim that he would take a partner
whenever .Ij requested him to do vo.  You can talk to Mr-.
Granville at your earliest convenience, and if he will take you
into partnership atiy request, and n compliance with his
death-bed promise, then I nanme you, an&amp; I will furnish what-
ever capital he may require."'
" I have no "words to expresss my "gratitude for such a liber-
al offer. Oh, Mrks.Nordhenn, 'what can I do ,?
" I will tell you one thing that you can do. I have to re-
eive in cash a sum equivalent to'about twelve thousand dol-
ars from Mr. Granville some time this month, have I not -!
"About that amount."
"ookout for a house with a large garden in some quiet
street. By it for me. I detest this street, the house and all
its memories. As soon as yoaake the purchase I will re-
move into it with my furniture. Don't say a word more.,"-
What curious thogits that book-keeper had that night as
he walked down to Clark  Brown' in Maiden Lane, where he
had lodged, for so many years.  A new world was opened to
him.

CHAPTER XXXI.
Struggle of Mifrchants to k ep up-The Failure of Mac Nd! 1 Aspinwall
-Loss of Friends-Mhe Assignment Y Mac Neil tn Co.-Human Feel-
i i9 for those who Fail-- ODoemell'e Interview with Colonel Mac Neil-.
Tke Latter 6bins to ,Issipate-Consolation in llarrion Steet within
ChYldren -Removesfrom the: City Hotel to Pfty Dollars a year Lodg
--His Bureau in a Centre street Crog sho- Quee, Doings-A (kit el
.Loafer's L'fe -An honest creditor lives the olonel Eight hundred Dollaro,
due him-The Value of a little Mon y,
MAO NEIL    T AsPINWALL struggled bravely to keep on and
to recover their losses; but it was all in vain. Both pPtiers
lived extravagantly, and Colonel Mac Neil was so"kind-hearted
that he could notsay no to any request or solicitation for peOu-
niary aid. For some time  after he had made provision for his
niistress McPherson and heir two children, both himself and
his business partner made every effort to keep fromiailing
but as is usual in such cases, they made-matters worse. They_
paid two, three, and even five per cent.- a ,nonth to, get their
bills receivable cashed. They 'bought goods 'en time, shipped
them to different parts of rope, and received cash advances
on the same, but it was of no use; Jvery day thatsthisfirm
continued to pay their notes, their affairs became n eer-
fully involved. At last the day of ruin came. Colonel Nao
Neil had been to his office in the morning, and althoughhis
partner tried to keep up.good spirits, andspeak encouragingly,
Mac Neil asked him " How long isthistate of things go
last?"
"o, we may get through yet. Todayw ill be a hard day,:ii't
Mr.Granville has promised u  breethousand dollarsason
and with that we can keep on a week at least; befoe-thatti
something will odcur in our favor. Eesp-         od he
Colonel;"K
With suh1 consolation,  e Colonel ieft hislaoeofhiggs
visited a few haunts, and then went, and took diner wi h-
McPherson and his two little ones. l-e did not leave
Until nearly five o'dloak, andthen he. started dow  d
towards the ,City Hotel. He~was opposite St.aul's :hr
when he met an acquaintance, a merchantt whobm A-
8

Ii

I,


ft
I [
II

well. ie stopped, and while shaking hands with the Colonel,
*ho was quite, surprised at such an exhibition of warm feeling,
expressed 'hisregret at what had occurred.
"These accidents we are all liable to, but I hope the, mis-
fortune will be but temporary."
"Really, you must be more explicit; what misfortune do
you allude Vto"
Colonel MacNeil had not the retpotest idea of what was coming.
Why, to your--failure-suspension. It is talked ofui the
street. The  otesof your firm have been protested at the
iank o-day, Were you not aware of it, Colonel ?",
Indeed I was not. Great God ! This is awful! Excuse
m   but I-must hurry on ;" and the Colonel did hurry on, He
went to his store'. There was a gloomy set of clerks there, but
his partner was absent. He 'called his chief clerk on one side.
"Ro* is this?  Have our notes bien protested to-dayT
askedthe ColoneL
4I am sorry tosay that it is too true. Mr. Aspinwall was
to have received some money from. Mr. Granville, but only a
few moments before the Banks closed, he declined lending us
thiemoney. There was no time to remedy, and Mae Neil and,
AsPin wallhave failed;'"
*" Thank you. It niust have happened sooner or later, and
perhaps it i as well now as at a later period. Can you .giv
e a smaall sum of nio ey  ' demanded the Colonel..
0 yes air j we are not so bad of# as not to have some money
left. I drewive hundred dollars and Mr. Aspinwall took half
and4o1'd me to hand yoa the other half. Here it is, sir,',' re-
plied, the clerk.
h''e Oolonel took the money, then proceeded to" the city
otel, and wentto!his room. He gave orders that, he would
see no one except his partner, should he call iHe laid down
upon his bed, but he could not sleep. He walked the room,
btit brought no relief to the, deep agony of his mind. He,
was east down; his commercial name was blasted. "I hall
neer rise again."
'The Coloneiwas an honorable man. -e met his partner the
next day, and they agreed to give up every thing-to assign
all the property that they heldjointly or individually. - "Leave
me only my' clothes, and I shall feel happy in giving up every
thing else?" said the'Colonel. Some'of the creditors proposed
-giviig himi a release. The Coloneireplied that it mattered.-
bit little, bitt that'he should be pleased if they gave a releadoe
to his partner, who would probably endeavor to .get into lbusi-

170

vIGO.

ii

VIXGOR                  1. I
'ness again, but as for himself it nattered but little, as he
should never; engage in commercial pursuits Tany iore  To
his partner, Aspinwall. who asked him howhe indterded to
along, the Colonel replied,
"For some time, at least, I have a pretty. sure source of in-
come. I have several thousand dllars due ne-cdettenof
lonor, from personal friends, to whom I have frequentlyoaned
money. Those debts are not included or 'mentioned in our as-
signment, and the parties whlt only paytem to me."
Why, 'Colonel, replied Is mor. experienedtartner,
"have you the least idea that those friend4 toAhom y  have
loaned money, now that you are a ruined mani, will ever return
you the money they'have borrowed?"
Of course they will, and be glad to do 'it when thy are
informed that I need ik. I-:did not ask them whil  pros-
perity, replied the unsuspicious Colonel.
"Ab, my worthy partner, you have got to' learn an aiful
lessen- Mark my words-.you will never receive a dollar-from
thosefriends,,h you call them.. They will avoi
would poison,
I 'hope not, and I know'to the' contrary.You' regard, 'the
world as worse than it'is, but we shaltonsee.,  Ope As,
pinwa.ll, you will not suffer much from our failure.I negn,
-thatyou will have money for your immediat wants,
4. shall, Colonel because I shallgo to work at oncea d
earn it. I have already secured a clerk's position, withy a'lib-
eral salary. Have-ou  seen Mr. Graanville since ourfil,
and what excuse could he make for behavingsoba 1y o uat
the latest moment, too,?"' inquired Mr.Aspinall.
"I have not seen him, and. I shall not endeavor odi so.
Do we owe him any thing ?" asked Colonel Mac 'Neil
"Not a dollar-he took good care of that  d  now      .
bye, Mac.'God bleks you'  Keep a Sto. art ana asiff
upper lip. If  ean ever serve you, let .me know  9w   as
thetsincere parting words of Mr. AsnWalL
The Colonel was deep afected.Mr.Apinwall     d   aly
left the room before Mr. O'Doemall entered.
"Ah, Colonel, I am glad to. ee u-inde
see you lookig so well. ]a basiness, yo           i    t
I hope you'-have kept back ,onething s     e
,O '     toerna-I.
"John, what adoyou take me~ for ?  Lhave gie  p vr
tng except a few debts owing to me indv~~~lyb~ieo
npy friend. You% for instance, have had 8ev*rlaei~


172              vIoon.

VIGOR.,

tions from me at different times, in all I believe amounting to
over five hundred dollars. Now is the time that I nteed it re-
funded, and I hope you will not be backward," observed Col-
onel Mac Neil.
"y dear Colonel, if you knew how I was situated. I
haven't a dollar to keep myself with. I thought to get some
from you, knowing that you had failed, and had no mo're notes
to pay. I felt sure that you bad plenty of money, and I was
going to ask- ou to lend ime a hundred," said O'Doemall.
O'Doemal, I believe you are a precious rascal, and I will
expose you unless you pay me some portion of what is so justly,
my due."
"Expose me ? Wby, Mac, you must be .joking! If I owe
anybody, it is your creditors. You say that you have not as-
signed in your schedule what I owe you, and therefore I think
if you make any stir about it, you are more likely to expose
yourself."
"Leave the room on the instant, or by -    .  Go, go!
Don't make me put my hands upon you, oiit will be the worse
for both of us," exclaimed the Colonel.
"Why, Mac, you are as cross as a bear; but I will leave
you now, and see you some time when you are better matured,"
said O'Doema'll.
. "Scoundrel, if you ever dare to speak .to me' again, under
any circumstauoes, I will break your head ! Begone !" aid
Colonel Mac Neil, sternly.4
Mr. O'Doemall was somewhat alarmed, and made a precipi-
tate retreat.
"Perhaps Aspinwall was right, and I shall not be able to
collect a dollar from my fair weather friends," thought the
Colonel. Colonel Mae Neil was not to be an exception -to the
general rule, that when one meets with misfortune, all hope
of fair weather friends is gone. He tried several of those who
owed him money---honestly owed him borrowed money. Not
a dollar could he get froxthem, and 'from those friends who
did not owe him he was 'too proud to ask a favor. So days
passed on, and poor lMc Neil found his position'hanged. He,
was still.a gentleman--still could be amusing, and when 'he
frequented old hiunts, he met with some who at least' could.
aord to stand' a treat. There was one soiree of consolation
yet to the broken down man, for he was completely- broken
down.' After his failure, he began to drink to excess. His
eye-sight, never good,.partially gave way. 'This source-of comn-
for't was in the quiet tgo story house in 'liarrison street. -IEo

4
'4

173

had provided for those three ,dar ones, and-'they could not
want.
Miss McPherson tried to make the Colonel take up his home
there. It was in vain.  She urged her deep and tender love,
and offered to place at his disposal the income which was com-
ing in quarterly with regularity. No-he was too' prud to
accept that ; or perhaps it' was a better..-a still- biher motive.
"Urge me not, Jane, to any meanness of the kind. - I have
found by? bitter experience what it is to be without money.-
You nor the children shall not have such experience.  Come
what will, even if I die in the alms-house, I will not break for
an instant upon yours and the children's means. If I thought
that I could be persuaded to do so I would-go- to my room and
blow out my brains. No, no. Let me come and see you occa-
sionally, see the little ones happy, and that is all I wish-I
shall get along somehow or-other," was his reply.
His mistress knew his determined character, and that it
would be useless to attempt to interfere with his determina'-
tion. She was a woman of' sound sense also, and 'loved 'her
children.  She looked to the future for them alone, and know-
ing that the provision the Colonel had secured to her and them
would be but a drop to him with his extravagant habits, she
forbore to urge his taking the income. So Colonel, Mac Neil
travelled the world almost alone... He was no longer invited
to parties or dinners, and he withdrew from fashiorable socie-
ty. At last he found he could not keep a room, or hoard at
the City Hotel. He paid his -bill and removed; he told no one
where he was going. He had an old-fashioned- bureau. that
had belonged to his father-that and his trunk were' all his
baggage. The cartman that he employed was a strange one,
and could not be found after he had removed the Colonel's
things. Could one of those fashionable associates have followed
Mac, or found him within a week after he left the City .Hotel,
it would have been in a small, badly-furnished room in a little
tenement in Cross, near Pearl street. There was he and his
trunks, and he had made an arrangement with the-proprietor
that he could have that room for a dollar a week, or 'fifty 'dol-
lars' per annum. The bureau was too large for the room but
the landlord had-also a store only a few doors from 'his-hiouse.
It was in Centre street, and eXtended through from Centre to
Cross, only a few doors from Pearl.  He had been a porter in'
the Colonel's store in former days, and had got upto be pro-
pnietor of a three cent grog shop., It "was in the rear' of' this
store that Mac had his bureau. Harry' Mercer; the propri-


VIGOR.            17

174             VIGOR.

etor., was much grieved when Mac told him his situation, but
Mac would accept no favors. He was grateful for a home.
where his poverty would not he exposed, and' where it came
within his means. Harry Mercer was glad to have Mac there.
The bureau took up but little room, and was'placed near the
rear door.- The store was always open at daylight, and Colo-
nel Mac Neil soon after came, opened his bureau, proceeded to
shave himself, and after half an hour would be ready to go to
take his morning draught.  Jemmy the clerk had a bottle. of
rather choice brandy which was kept exclusively for Mac's own
use. Then he would deliberately read the paper with as much
satisfaction as when he was spending twenty thousand dollars
a year. His old porter respected him and his dignified ap-
pearance, for he was scrupulously neat, andhis intelligent con-
versation made him respected by the regular customers of the
store, who it is needless to say, were a new set of acquaint-
ances.
Colonel Mac Neil was a'king-pin among these new people.
When he had read the morning papers, he went and procured
breakfast somewhere, and then returned.  At about eleven
o'clock, the same hour that he used to show himself to his
fashionable friends, the Colonel would go up to Washington
lHall, down in Barclay street, or some other well known resort,
where he could mix freely but independently with the old set.
le would generally be asked to dine by some of the young,
bucks, who felt honored by his- acceptance of the invitation.
The afternoon would .be spent in dining and finishing ,soine
wine. Then the Colonel would return to the store,.and sit and
chat with his Centre street acquaintances more sociably than
with the Broadway set  They were delighted with him, and
there were no end of drinks. About once a week, as it reached
nine clock, the Colonel would say,
"1Harry, let me hay.e ten dollars."
"Certainly," would be the smiling reply 'of the one called
Harry.
With this money placed in his pocket book he would go to,
some of his old gambling haunts. He rarely lost.  Fortune
favored him on alniost every occasion. He would not abuse or
tire her ladyship. He bought his chips, and calmly played
them until his earnings reached twenty or sometimes fifty
dollars. .Then he stopped and would play no more,.partake of
alight supper, and go to his-solitary room.
In the morning, when Mercer opened his store, Mac would
hand him all, reserving ten: dollars perhaps. This sum *as to

be used to give the Colonel the very luxury of happiness. He
would forget his usual routine when such a white day chanced,
and be off for a large grocery, on the corner of Church _and
Canal streets. .There he would order an old cheese, a few
pounds of the best tea, a. loaf of sugar, and a few choice
things -as many as he could carry, and these he would carry
himself to No. 27 Harrison street, and there would be a merry
time of it.
How queer it is that when rich, or with plenty of money,
the most sensible men have no idea how far and how much
happiness a very small sum will sometimes confer. Colonel
Mae Neil never spent ten thousand dollars with half the per-
sonal satisfaction to himself that these ten dollars would give.
le always took care that there should be some silver left, to
purchase whatever the children used most to desire.
These were happy days to the Colonel. le was independent
too. He was not drawing upon their little source of income.
l e did not frequent the gambling saloons with any regular*%
ity. He went there for a purpose. He had lost large sums'
there. lie went to wiu back-enough, as he said, to keep him
afloat  He played coolly and with skill. If the game was faro,
- he played small until all the cards were out but one. Then it
was a fair bet, and his chance of winning was upon a par with
the bank.. If lie lost his capital of ten dollars which he invari-
ably took with him frora Mercer, he played no more.  Some-
times a person who had known him would give him fifty dollars
to play on shares. Then the Colonel would generally win, but
as soon as his share reached fifty dollars, he would play no
more, but go to his little lodgings in Cross street, and the next
morning add it to his pile in Wilson's bands.
There was another curious trait in Mac Neil's character.-
Whenever he got a considerable sum,.say a hundred dollars,
in Mercer's hands, he would say,
"Harry, give me a receipt for fifty dollars for one year's
lodgings."
Mercer would give it without comment, and take the fifty.
Now that leaves fifty dollars"---or sixty, as the case might
be-" in your hands ; is it not so ?" asked the Colonel.
"Yes, Colonel; but are you aware that you have already
paid me for three years' lodging at fifty dollars a year, as we
agreed ?" replied Mr. Mercer.
Oh yes, I am perfectly aware of it, and I mean to be on
the safe side and be ahead for some years. ~You are rising in


VIGOR.            177

the world; money is of use to you now.  I look ahead, and
am trying to provide good lodgings, eh ?"'added the Oolonel.
On other occasions when his luck would 'be good and he had
*a surplus in Mr. Wilson's hands, he would go and pay for a
suit of clothes ahead. Again, he would pay for quite a bill of
useful articles which he knew. Mrs. McPherson or her children
needed. She, poor honest woman, asked no questions, but,
made up her mind, that from some cause or other, the Colonel
spent more money on her and her children, without an in.
come, than he had ever done while he was rich. But Colonel
Mac Neil in poverty days never got entirely broke. He always
had something to fall back upon.  He dressed better, seemed
happier, and was more so, than in his proudest days.  Some.
times a gentleman, who had means restored him, would pay
back the Colonel what he owed him. On one occasion he re.-
teived/from such a source eight hundred dollars. He laughed
in his sleeve-I don't want it now. lie made Jane McPherson
add it to the sum already in the Savings Bank.
Mac Neil began to feel the value of money.
'CHAPTER XXXII.
The Parents of Marion Monck in South Carolina-The Count Falsechinski'
Gratitude-The Count with his Bankers, Prime, Ward s King-Old Nat
Printe-His Views of Real Estate on New York Ibland-The Count buys
One- Thousand Lots-Realizes $250,000 by the operation-Miss Norris goes to
Sussexand buys a Farm for her Parents, and send her Brother and -Sister
to School.
Ouu readers may deem that we have neglected the family
of.Marion Monck, as rarely has an allusion been made to them.
Not so, however. He was the all of his parents, and not a
week passed but thathe both wrote and heard from them. He
was very careful to remit them all his surplus money, from
month to quarter--and as he received a very liberal salary,
amounting to eight hundred dollars, and his expenses being
very light, his remittances during the year amounted to a
considerable sum. He was devotedly attached to his parents,
and hehad very correct views of. his relations-to them. He
felt that until he was of age, theyI had a right to what he
could earn above paying his own personal expenses.. These'
'were rendered very light in consequence of the liberality of
Mr. and, Mrs.. Nordheim, while he lived with them.

The Count Falsechinski on one occasion asked him what he
did with all his money-" You can't possibly spend your mo-
ney. "  Maion replied,
"6I do not; Count, but I send it home to my parents I do
not want more than I can use."
"That is all very fine, but if you saved up your salary you
could speculate a little, and add to it. What are you going to
do for capital by and bye, when you want to go into business?
Now I have got a pretty considerable capital in the hands of
my bankers, Prime, Ward &amp; King, and it is growing.'.'
Marion said he was very glad to hear it, and. added,
"But why, Count, are you so anxious to get money?"
"Ah, Marion, you, have seen me when I was very, very
ppor. It is bad to be poor. You have been my good angel.
You brought me luck-you have made a new man of me. I
will never forget you, Marion.  I would die for you,.  I will
prove my gratitude to you some day. ''You don'tneed my aid
now. You will some day. I am making money.   I work for
it night and day. I have a fixed'pu-rpose; never mind what
it is; and that reminds me that I have got a note from my
bankers to come around there-so good bye."
The Count went to Wall street to his bankers; when he
reached there lie was..ushered into one of the inner offices,
where he found the head of the firm.
Oount, good morning. I have sent for you to, tell you
that if you choose to place your money out under my direction
t "will pay you better than the five per cent which is all we
can allow you," said old Mr. Prime, the headof the house.
Reallyi-Mr. Prime, .you are very good.  Will you point
out to me a mode, and I shall follow your advice. I have fouid
it of great service heretofore," said the Count.
"Buy real estate up-town--it will advance very rapidly. It
is the only certain way toimake and keep money in New York.
Real estate don't run away. It will always, rise. It will keep
going up as long as there is an acre of unoccupied ground on
Manhattan island. Every dollar that a man'don't require he
,should invest in real estate. If he does so, he will be im-
mensely rich some day. I have heard you say-that you shall
not' require your money in some years; is it so ?" asked the
old banker.
"You are right-it is so," replied the Couut.
Then take my.adviceand buy real estate.  I know.of some
property up town that can be~ bought for a hundred .thousand
8*

I!

VIGOR.*


178

VIGOR.

dollars.  I advise you to let ,me.order it for you," said Mr.
Prime.
"But, my dear Mr. Prime, I have no such sum of money-
nothing like it," replied the Count.
The banker smiled as he replied, "Nor need you to have.
It only requires about twenty per cent to be paid in- cash, and,
the rest can remain on bond and mortgage for five years. Be-
fore that time expires it may do to sell, or hold still longer--
it will double in value, I have no doubt."
The Count did not hesitate a moment. He knew nothing of
what'he was doing, but his confidence in the stout solid old
gentleman was unbounded. He requested him to order the
purchase made. Mr. Prime replied,
' I will do so. You need not trouble your head. My firm
will employ a lawyer to examine titles, draw up papers, and
fix it all up. We will pay the twenty per cent, and charge it
to your account. You will do well, 'Count."
The old banker was flattered by the confidence shown in,
Lim, and the' promptness with which the Count agreed to take
his advice-and that old man was a shrewd, wise old man in
every way. He never led anybody astray. It was the time
when real estate began to take that great rise which has been
the means of making many immense fortunes. It was just at
the commencement of that rise when nearly a thousand lots of
25X100 feet each were bought for the Count at a pricetinside
one hundred dollars a lot.
It was but a few days after this conversation that this heavy,
purchase was made by order of Mr. Prime.  The- Count said
iot a word to any one except one. He had no sooner got out
of the- banker's office than he hurried up to Broome street to
the residence of Miss Norris. She was at home, and for -a
wonder was alone. Tom Granville was not to be seen.
She appeared glad to see the Count, and asked. him a varie-
ty of questions; to all of which he 'replied promptly. Then he
said,'
" Now Clara, I owe you a good turn. You have once placed
me in the way of making money.  I came up this morning to
do thewsame for you. I can tell you how .you can more than
double your-money, and be safe too. I know that you have
saved up at least three thousand dollars." ~
"Four thousand, Count-four. But I have not a entleft;
it is all gone," replied Miss Norris.
" Great God'! Clara, I am amazed. That Tom 'Granvillk,
I suppose," observed the Count.

VIGOR.

179

I

Why, Count Falsechinski, how perfectly horrified you do
look. But I have not told you all. I have not only spent the
four thousand dollars, which includes the legacy of five hun-
dred left me by Mr. Nordheim, my lately respected friend, but
I have run in debt two thousand more, which I must go to
work and earn money to pay off. Tom Granville, I assure you,
my dear Count, had no more to do with my wilful extravagance
than you had," said Miss Norris.
"Wilful extravagance ! Really, Miss Norris, k am  sur-
prised. I feel some interest in your.future, and I grieve to
say that I am'distressed to hear you confess you have acted so
imprudently. I gave you credit for a stronger mind--.but'it
can't -be helped " said the vexed Count.
Count, you have never given me more credit than I de-
-  serve, and don't let me have your contempt for a ,moment.
Hear me.   I have parted with my money, that you know I
placed in bank for safe keeping, and where it was drawing in-
terest. Count, you know that I was sold, -or sold, myself to
Nordhcim for the sum of five hundred dollars, and that Uhe
money went to my parents. I have also a brother and sister.
That money probably saved my father from a drunkard's fate,
and my mother and her children from degradation or a county
porhouse. If there is any place we love it is the place where
we were born-if there is any ambition in the world, it is to
stand well with those among whom we are born. 1t-dOn't
matter where we go-what we do-how great' our success may
be in tlie wide world, we do not value our good fortune fully,
unless it raises us with those in our little village, among those
where we were born. - Now, Count, have patience.  I have
not squandered my money, but I will tell you what I have
done with it. For years I have been of service to my parents
-since I am in New York I have helped them  all I could.
L'stsummer I was up in Sussex county, and spent 'a week
with them in their somewhat comfortale home. I then learned
that a very valuable farm,, containing some three hundred
acres, with good dwelling, barn, out-houses, &amp;e. was for sale.
It almost adjoined my old hoiostead, and was considered.' a
great dairy farm. Luckily I met with a-lawyer in that region
who was always partial to me.   I told him I wished to buy
that farm for my father and mother to live upon.  I informed
him also that I had four thousand dollars in cash.  The- pice
asked was eight thousand dollars, but 'it was to be sold at auc-
tion in the course of a few weeks, and the terms were half
cash and half in five.yiears. I returned to New "fork, mnado


iI~

VIGOR&amp;

my 'arrangements, got my money out of the Savings Bank, and
took it up to Sussex, and deposited it in the Sussex Bank, and
waited patiently for the day of sale. I said nothing to my pa-
rents. I instructed my lawyer what to do. The sale day came,
and my lawyer, Mr..Thompson, bought the farm for six thousand
dollars. I paid more than half cash, and have five years to
pay the other two thousand, and an interest which only, amounts
to one hundred and twenty dollars. You may imagine how my
parents felt. You cannot conceive my happiness, Count.. It
was happiness."
"You have raised yourself much in my opinion.  You hold
tde titles of this farm in your own name ?" inquired the Count.
"Entirely. My father has enough to stock it pretty well. I
don't expect it to pay me- an interest until it is paid for, but it
will be a home for them for life, and it may be of great value
to me some day. Now I shall sleep easy. The farm had been
allowed to run down. It is well worth, fifty dollars an acre,
and can be. made worth that, -My father is a good farmer. In
his hands' he will make its value increase," replied Miss Nor-
fis.
"I hope you will succeed in all you undertake, Miss Clara;
and perhaps in this matter you have done more for your inter-
est than what I *had to propose. At any rate you have shown
yourself a good, amiable'child, and you have made yourself
happy y doing a good action. *How.is Master Tom ?" asked.
the Count.
'I have not seen him, Count, since morning," replied Clara.
" Are you aware that his wife has been on to Baltimore and
employed a distinguished lawyer to get a divorce for her from
her husband?"
"  was not aware of it andl I do not think Tom knew any
thing about- it.' Well, she will get the divorce without any
trouble, for I believe Tom will not contest the matter. How
did you hear.of it ?" inquired Miss 'Norris.
"From her brother-Alaw," replied the Count.
"Why, Count, perhaps she is anxious to get a divorce from
T.om to set her cap for you?" laughingly observed Miss Norris.
"My good Clara'.she has got no money, and I cannot marry
anybody who has not got plenty of money-money that brings
in an income-property that gives such a sum every year.
Then a man is a man, and can be 'a gentl'matn even in this
country, if he has a-fixed allowance.- I want at least an income
oI twelve thousand dollars a year. Then I shall feel easy-

11

VI GOR.

181

not until then. I will have it some day, Miss Clara. Nous
verrons," observed the excited Count.
"Ah, Count, you have some secret that I cannot fathom;
but perhaps you will tell me some day what it is,"observed
Miss Norris.
" I must leave you now, and I wish you a good day. The
more I thiik of it, the more I am pleased with your purchase
of that farm,".said the Count.
The. Count returned to his humble lodgings' in John street.
It is not exactly in place to tell here the result of the real
estate operations made by the Count Falsechinski, at the sug-
gestion of old Mr. Prime, but it may be as well told here as
any where else. For the moment the purchase was made, real
estate began to rise rapidly. Lots sold one day at a certain
price, were re-sold again the next day almost for double, and a
third, fourth and fifth sales were made within a very few days
at the most extravagant prices. The lots purchased by the
Cpunt Falsechinski were in about what would be now the lower,
part of the oity. They comprised a large vegetable garden.
Not many weeks after the papers were all duly signed and
the money paid, the Count -,was again sent for "by old Mr.
Prime. He went to the old banker's office. 'Mr. Prime said,
"Count, you can get two hundred dollars a lot for your lots.
Do you wish to sell ?"
The Count was amazed, and he replied, perfectly cool-.
"What do you advise, Mr. Prime?1"
"Wait. The fever has not yet got full headway."
"I will do as you advise," and the Count' went back to his
clerkly duties' in the office of Mr., Granville, who knew no' more
of the Count's transaction with the banker than he did, of the
world of spirits.. Not many weeks more elapsed before the
Count received a note asking him to dine with the great banker
at'his country seat near iHurlgate. The Count, accepted the
invitation, and at three o'clock took a seat in the  arrie of
the banker. ..When they were on-the way up, old Mr. 'rie
ordered his coachman to drive' to the 'garden, which was, in
reality, the property of the Count. He pointed out its ad-van-
tages, and prophesied that 'ere many years -it would be coy-
ered with palatial. residences. The rid6 was a delightful one.
The dinneer was excellent, the Count was. introduced to the
banker's' family, and he in his turn made hiuiself uncommonly
agreeable. That night he slept in the house of his ho4itable
entertainer, as it was too late to go' into' the city. After the
breakfast was concluded the next morning, the old banker re-

180


1 l

I VIGOR.

marked, as though it was not of much consequence, "Count,
your lots have gone' up 'to three hundred dollars. You can get
that for every one of them; I I think the fever has reached a,
crisis. I advise you-to sell. You can get one half cash. That,
is one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. You owe eighty
thousand dollars mortgage. Take eighty thousand dollars out,
of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and buy the mort-
gage, Count. Then you will have a first mortgage-for one hun..
dred and fifty thousand dollars,' bringing seven per cent. in-
terest and seventy thousand dollars in cash.  The mortgage
has to run five years. Perhaps atIthat time it will be down,
and you can foreclose and get your property back again."
It all happened as the old financier prophesied. The Count
sold out his real estate, the thousand lots, paid the mortgage
of eighty thousand dollars, had seventy thousand dollars in his,
banker's hands, and a mortgage of one hundred and fifty thou.
and dollars drawing seven per cent interest, and 'one of the
- best'possible investments. We now return to the regular nar-
rative and to the moment when the Count returned to his John
street humble quarters.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
The Batteri" a Quarter of a Oenturvt Since AIMrion Monci-IsabelUt Gra.i-
3A.~ and Miss Benson'-The Man' Who Killed Mr. Nord~irn- F. Gaill,,.r i
,-e Accompanies.Miss Benson Home from the Battery-The Accornphshed
Sducer--Scareer-of Vadainy-The Due --An Anecdote of Rascality-The
World's Opinion.
THE old citizens of New York must well recollect what a
place of resort the Battery was twenty-five years ago. Then,
most of the adjoining blocks were made up of handsome dwell-
ing-houses, and they were 'occupied by our wealthiest mer-
chants and most respectable people. The hotel now on the
corner of Broadway and Battery Place at that time was the
city residence of-Ild Mr. Prime, of whom we have spoken. Or
an afternoon the Battery was crowded with children taccom-
panied by their parents, or sometimes only by their nurses.
Young ladies of the first respectability took their morning or
afternoon-walks unattended., No outrage was ever known or,
dreaded of. What a contrast with the dirty, filthy Battery of
the present day, when it is almost as much as a. man's life is
worth to go 'upon the BatterIy, and a female could not walk
across it without being grossly insulted. In losing the bat-

VIGOR.

18s

tery, New Yorkers lost one of the iost invigorating and health-
ful promenades in the city.4 No uptown park or square can be-
gin to compare with it.
It was a custom of Marion Monck, after he removed to' Mr.
Granville's house, to rise early in the morning and go out upon
the Battery for -a stroll. He was generally accompanied by
Isabella Granville, and these occasions were seized upon: to
converse with all the sincerity of a young attacliment upon
their future hopes of happiness. It was a very difficult matter
for Isabella to persuade Marion, who -detested, concealment,
to keep from her parent the real state of matters. But she did
succeed in doing so, and although Mr. Granville could see
them walkig upon the Battery from his widows, yet.it never
crossed his mind for a moment that there was the- slightest
danger /to the peace of mind of his daughter from such an in-
tercourse. One beautiful morning, while Marion and Isabella
wete proenading what is called the lovers' walk, they were
met by Miss Benson. Isabella and the latter lady ernbraced
each other affectionately, and Bell insisted that Margaret
should-join them, and then go and take a breakfast. Miss.Ben-
son agreed to promenade with them, but positively refused to
go to the house afterwards. "I don't like Aunt late, Isabella,
and my feelings are fully reciprocated, I am well aware."
They then had been walking up and down sevei'al times, and
finally took the outer walk nearest the water. The young la.
dies noticed some boat off in the river, and stopped, watching
its motion; while doing so, both leaned over the wooden fence
or railing. Marion stopped in his walk, and was waiting- for
his two companions to proceed, when a gentleman walked up
to him and asked him if he was not Mr. Monck.
"I am," was the reply.
"My name, sir, is Gaillard."
In an.instant Marion recognized him, for he had seen -him
twice at the time Mr; Nordheim was injured at the Qpera
House.
"I am glad to meet you, sir  You have been absent from
town since-.since "-
o"   know what you would say. Yes, sir. I have been home
to South Carolina. By the way, you are from my- own State.
I heard of you frequently in -harleston." Marion bowed and
replied,
,  Yes, sir; I am also from that State."
Here the two' young ladies seemed ready to walk again. Ma--


VIGOR.

VIGOR.

rion wished to ask Mr. Gaillard some further questions, and be
at once presented him to both ladies.
"Will you walk with, us, sir ?" inquired Marion.
Mr. Gaillard consented willingly, and each took the outside
of the two ladies, Mr. Gaillard on the side of Miss Benson.
The conversation became general and very interesting.  Mr.
Gaillard told of many matters that had occurred in South Car-
olina, (for it was when nullification had a foothold in that
State) which wer'e entirely-new to Marion. Finally Miss Ben.
son, who had been looking at Mr. Gaillard very earestly,
ceased walking and said. "I am sure.I ani not mistaken. Why,
you are thegentleman that kil---that injured Mr. Nordheim."
Mr. Gaillard bowed and said, "I am that unfortunate per..
Unfortunate," repeated the lady. "I do not know ;why
you should call yourself unfortunate. You acted bravely, and*
protected your sister from insult as a gallant gentleman should
do. I like you all the better for that. affair, and I assure you
that I consider myself. highly honored by forming .your ac-
quaintance- Marion, I am really much' obliged to you. What
do you say, Miss Isaboila'?"
I am pleased to make Mr. Gaillard's acquaintance.  I
thought I had seen him before, but I could not remember
when and where., You werepointed out to me that dreadful
night. I almost hear the scream that Mr. Nordheim gave. But
I never blamed you. Even my father, sir, said you did per-
fectly right."
Mr. Gaillard bowed again, and made some inquiries after Mr.
Granville, whomshe said he met at the hospital the day Mr.
Nordheim died.
"It is about time, Miss Tsabel, for us to go home to our
breakfast. I see the girl is waving a handkerchief en the steps
as  signal. Will you go with us, sir ?"
"I must decline. I am placed rather delicately... Remem-
ber Mr. Nordheim was Mr. Granville's partner, and my pres-
ence may bring unpleasant memories to him,' answered Mr.
Gaillard.
"Ohi" exclaimed Miss Benson; "don't decline on that ac.
count. Mr. Granville is not so excruciatingly sensitive as all
thut' comes to. So long as yoihad not killed him,- he don't
care. I rather think he was very much obliged to you for giv-s
ingMNordheim that blow."
" Miss;Benson, how can 'you -speak in that 'manner~ of -my
father ? It is very un ind of you. Well, if you will not ac- .

185

company us, Miss -Bensoi nor you, Mr. Gailard, 6. must go
home without you.
'$If Miss Benson will permit me to.continue t be her 'es-
cort, I sha1 be quite happy," said Mr. Gaillard.
",Very happy, indeed; and if you will escort me as far as my
home, I ahall be happy to have you take breakfast with my
good folks. My worthy papa is rather disposed to like you,
and as you are from the next State to the one in which my
mother was born, she will be charmed to meet you. So good-
bye, Bell. Good morning, Marion."
Mutual good-byes were exchanged, and while Marion re-
turned to No.  State street with Isabella, Mr. Gaillard and
Miss Benson continued on up Broadway.
"Miss Benson, I consider myself one of the most fortunate
of h4dividuals, in' becoming personally acquainted with you this
morni.ig. I have desired to know you for a longer period than
you are aware of.  I first noticed you that night at the Opera.
I have since frequently met you, and I hope you will excuse -
my frankness when I say that it had 'not been with .the% hope
of being introduced to you, I should not have made' myself
known to Mr. Monck."
"-Indeed," replied Miss Benson, "I feel extremely flattered.
I certainly could not have supposed for a moment that Mr.
Gaillard was aware such a person as Margaret Benson was in
existence until this morning."
The couple continued the conversation until they reached
the residence of Colonel Benson. It was with some difficulty
that Miss Benson perAsuaded the young South Carolinian to
enter her father's residence at so unusual an hour, but she.suc-
ceeded, and het happy nianner of making-him acquainted with
her parents and her brother, soon' made him perfectly at his
ease, Mr. Benson was glad of an opportunity to talk' about
the Souih, and the Colonel, it would almost appear, was de-
lighted at meeting thegentlemian who had so opportunely rid
the world of Nordheim.
"It was really quite a godsend to Mr. Granville, I assure
you. It could not have happene~t better, for Mr. Nordheim
was a.bold, bad man. .He certainly cared neither for God' nor
.,the devil, If he had not died when he did, I am quite sure
Mr. Granville would have been obliged ,to have dissolvedis
Commercial connexion with .him, and these dissolutions alre
always troublesome affairs. Nordheim gotkilled, and all' diffi-
culty was at an end. I am really quite pleased to meet with

to2
I t

a

184

-

I


VIGOR.

you, and I hope you will frequently visit us. We shall always
be happy to see you."
The Colonel's invitation was warmly seconded by his amia-
ble partner, and when the breakfast was over, and it was time
for Mr. Gaillard to leave, he was.obliged to give his address,
and promise that he would call very soon again. -It will be
easily supposed that Frank Gaillard gave a willing promise to
comply with such a pressing invitation. Mr. Gaillard gave his
address as at the City Hotel. Such was not the fact however.
A year previous, this gay youth had taken a house in Wooster
street, not far from Canal. . The rent was five hundred dollars.
He had furnished it handsomely, and employed a very intelli-
gent colored woman to keep house for him. He had arranged
that his letters should be sent to the City Hotel, and every day
he called there for them.
Probably one of the most accomplished seducers, and one of
the most successful ones that ever visited New York, was this
same Frank Gaillard. He was an only son. His father died
when he was quite young, and left him a large property; but
in addition to this, he inherited from an aunt a large plantation
in St. John Berkley Parish, on Cooper river, a large rice plan-
tation, and about three hundred slaves. This, when he became
-f age, he left under the charge of an overseer named Frede-
rick, who was both honest and capable of planting successfully.
The young Gaillard, when in the South, resided mostly with
his mother, who lived on a plantation some twenty miles dis-
tant from his own. He also owned a n.agnificent residence in
Charleston, where his mother and sister resided a portion of,
the year,- when the country fever prevailed on the plantations.
The family also owned an upland cotton plantation near Green'%
vIle, and'frequently the mother and sister passed the summer
season in the up country. Not so Frank. He had been edu-
cated at tie North, and graduated at Yale College, New Ha-
ven, with a fair standing. While pursuing his studies at Yale,
he had frequent opportunities of visiting New York, and it
was there, that he acquired habits of dissipation, and a love for
illicit and animal pleasures. He could gamble, but he was too
cool-blooded to ever be injured by it. He could not have be-
-ome a professional gambler. He was a splendid specimen of
a man. Added to this, was a power of conversation beyond
that of. almost any man we ever met. He was perfectly irre-
sistible when he chose to be so,. and could fascinate any one,
man or woman, who came within his circle. This latter power,
when combined with a total want of principle, a perfect reck.

186

VIGOR. .                   187
iessness of consequences, and a courage that was unquestioned,
made him, where females were concerned, a most dangerous
acquaintance. He spared no pains, no money, no labor, no
patience, when he undertook to ruin and seduce a young and
lovely girl. Her rank or her position in society was no bar or
safety guard against his designs. The poor working girl with-
out a dollar or a friend, or the daughter of the wealthiest mers
chant or most powerful statesman, were equally. insecure against
his lustful passions. le regarded them as fair game, and
while he would have scorned to have his honor questioned, or
his veracity doubted, and would have fought knee deep in blood
with any one who questioned either, yet when the ruin of a
female was to be effected, truth, honor, all was forgotten. The
basest falsehoods, the most solemn promises, the most sacred
influences were brought to bear. He kept house for no other
purpose than to get virtuous and respectable girls or married
women to visit there. He went so far as to invite them to call
and visit his mother, who, it is needless' to add, never saw the
inside of his rsidence. When once the poor victim-was en-
snared inside those -parlors, her ruin was effected; for then,.
when she was startled at not meeting his mother, lie would tell
the poor girl that it was all a farce-that his mother was not
there, but that it was a house of the worst kind, and then
threaten herwith exposure if she did not submit to his base
purposes. After all this coaxing and threats, he laid aside all
further mild measures, and resorted to force, and generally
succeeded. He used wines--and if these failed he resorted to
drugged wines. He boasted that no girl or married woman
ever left his house in Wooster street except she left him a full
conqueror.
fhe very intelligent reader may say that such a character
3     could not exist in New York a day oi a month, and pursue un-
punished so high-handed a game. His power seemed almost
miraculous in this regard ; his oily tongue, when once his ob-
ject had been accomplished, would seem capable of extenuating
and procuring forgiveness from injured victims for the most
atrocious rape ; and this horrid crime, which not once, but in
dozens of cases, seenied to fix-permanently the attachment of
the wronged one. Then he was liberal with his money, and
had an abundance of it to be liberail-with. Never in any one
instance was the notice of the authorities called to his villain-
ous acts. .Even had it been otherwise, his .money and his
power of persuasion wouldbhave been: placed in requisition'
and he would-have gone scot free. Of these ace, vile as they


VIGOR.

were, he was never ashamed ; but in company with male friends
he would openly boast of his having seduced that young lady,
or of having debauched such a married woman; would give
names and dates, and all the attending circumstances.
On one occasion, at a dinner, he made use of a lady's name
in such a connection. A gentleman arose, and said, "If Mr.
Gaillard has told the truth, he is a scoundrel. If he has not,
he is not only -a scoundrel, but a vile liar to boot." Gaillard
knocked him down. A challenge was the consequence, and the
opponent of the renowned seducer was made a cripple for the
rest of his life, for his free speech.
Mr. Gaillard made the acquaintance of Mac Neil. It was
he who, was relieved of some financial difficulty by the Colonel,
and he repaid him when Mac needed it. He continued to meet
the Colonel frequently, invited- him to dine, gave him a seat
in a box at the theatre often, and would have loaned the Col-
onel money. It was a custom of Gaillard's, when he met Col-
onel Mac Neil at any of the gambling 'saloons, to furnish him
with funds to try his luck on their joint account.
This same Frafcis Gaillard was the Southern gentleman who
had been introduced on the morning to Miss Isabella Benson,
and was so cordially received by her parents. Young Benson
knew nothing of his character or his antecedents. Frank
Gaillard's positionin society was unquestioned. He was in-
vited to the most select parties, and associated with the high-
est. You may know what sort of a character he bore. On a
particular opcasion he was introduced to a family where there,
was a lovely daughter. She had a lover who knew Gaillard.
With much frankness he informed Gaillard that he had told the
girl in question and her parents exactly his character.
"I told them, Gaillard, that you had ruined many girls, and
was the greatest libertine alive."
"Had I a design to ruin your fair flower, my dear sir, I
snould feel much obliged for your paving the way by giving,
me such a character."
" How so? What do you mean, Mr. Gaillard ?'"
"Simply this. Your Intended is a simple-hearted, innocent
girl. She believes you to be a moral and a safe man. She
never thinks of you in any other light, or in connection with
any unusual feeling connected, with her own passions. You
give me an immoral character. I meet her, -for the moment;
she sees me ; her head is occupied with funny ideas. She is
agitated. She is canvassing over the subject, wondering who
the victims are-whether she knows them-what would be her

fate if she too were a victim. The ice is broren-.-if she has
one naughty thought, it will grow into fruit.. Time and oppor-
tunity only is needed. She don't need me to break down the
barriers by a free and unrestrained conversation upon forbid-
den subjects. She expects it as a matter of course, if she puts
;'     herself within my reach. I have no design upon your fair
fiancs, but I tell you, if I had, you have paved the way for
me. It is a bad policy for a young fellow to ever try to injure
a rival, by telling the girl that a rival suitor is imnmoral and a
libertine. Much better tell her that the, rival is secretly a
saint, and says his prayers three times a day, and reads a chap-
ter in the New Testament when he goes to bed, ,nd one of
David's Psalms when he gets up at daylight."
Frank Gaillard in this very case forgot his resolution, for in
less than three weeks he did seduce the intended bride of his
friend, and she eventually became a poor miserable girl of the
town.
We leave the career of this gay Southerner for a time, to
begin a more interesting chapter.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
The twenty-first birth day of Marion Monck-Mr Granville gives a grand
Dinner in State street-James Gordon Iennett and the Herald"--Boarding-
house life in New York -A capital Story-Gaillard relates a Southern Story
in reference to a StAre, who w4rpped his Master b.his own orers, to see
"how it felt"-Mr. Bennett relates an Anecdote of his first Arrival in the
United States-Songs and Stories-Breaking up of the Dinner Party.
MR. GRANV:LLE Was so well pleased with the conduct of his
chief clerk, Marion Monck, that he determined to show his ap-
preciation of his character by giving a magnificent dinner in his
honor, on his twenty-first birth-day. He announced his inten-
tftn to our hero '
"Well, I really feel grateful, Mr. Granville, the more so
as it is entirely unexpected on my part, and -I cannot realize
that I have deserved.so much honor at your hands," remarked
Marion in reply.
Mr. Granville gave a short happy, laugh, and said, "Ah,
Marion, all my dinners in your favor cannot recompense you
as you deserve, but I wish to know how many friends you will
invite ? I have but very few to' come, but I want yvu to wpake
out a good long list. I am satisfied that you will invite no m'ag

188

180

VIGOR,


4

-t VIGOR.

to place his-feet under my mahogany unless he is entitled to
be there as your friend; and I am quite sure you have no
friends-who have not recommended themselves to your friend-
ship or acquaintance by being in some way English clover at
least."
"I believe my circle of acquaintancesrMr. Granville, although
somewhat limited, are rather clever, and at least original. I
have no particular friends except at the conting house, and
from that list I shall invite but one-Mr. Wilson," Marion re-
plied.
" Excellent -Wilson is an original in his way, and one of my
oldest friends in London. I am glad you have invited hun
without a suggestion from me."
While Mr. Granville was speaking, Marion took a pencil
from' his pocket, and wrote on a piece of paper a few names.
Handing it to Mr. Granville, he remarked, "Here. is a full
list--only a baker's dozen--including Mr. Wilson, of whom
we have spoken.".
" Very good. I will have invitations written in my own name,
and state that the dinner is given in honor of your birth-day,"
said Mr. Granville-
"Thank you, Mr. Granville; 'and when they are ready, will
you be so good as to hand them to me. Some of them it wil
be difficult to find without my aid ;'" and Marion laughed as the
idea crossed his mind of what a hunt the porter of Mr. Gran-
ville would have to find some of the names on the list. -
"I will do so, Marion, with pleasure. I have but four
friends that I shall invite on my own account. One is Cap-
tain Marryatt, who is stopping down Broadway at Blancard's,
another is an old London acquaintance who resides with his
family at Staten Island, and has lately gone into business in
this city, Mr. Cubson, and Colonel Benson and his .daughter-.
The Colonel is, as you are aware, connected officially with the
British Government. Besides these four and ,your list, my
daughter and my sister-in-law will 'be the only ladies at, tle
table, and they will run away early. I shall order a dinner
for twenty' persons, and if I am not mistaken it will be rather
a choice affair,:' observeil Mr. Granville-.
"I hope it will, and be pleasant for you aid agreeable to all
those invited," said Marion.; and with these words they parted,
Marion to attend to his duties, and- Mr. Granville to carry out
his ideas in reference to the dinner party.'
At six o'clock on the evening of December 2, 1883, the din-
ner given by Mr. Granville came off at his residence in State

VIGOR.

191

street. It was a dinner such as few could get up; for Mr.)Gran-
Ville was an epicure himself, had traveled extensively, and his
wines were of the very choicest quality.
The guests began to arrive before six, and were shown into
the south front parlor, which overlooked the, Battery. The
walls were covered with really choice paintings,- selected with
great care by Mr. Granville, who had seen some of the best
paintings in the galleries of Europe, and was not likely to be
deceived in purchasing on his own account. Isabella was
seated at the piano, playing ",The Last Rose of Sammer" very
much to the enjoyment of Mr. Cubson, whose jolty red ace and
happy laugh made a picture of itself. Miss Benson was near
the piano, listening' to soft nonsense from young Gaillard of
South Carolina. In a recess of the window oveirlooking the
Battery was the brilliant Mrs. Tom Granville, and seated near
her, apparently engaged in earnest but low-toned conversation
was a short thick set man, with very'dark hair, and very coarse
looking. It was the celebrated Captain Marryatt. Colonel
Benson stood near them, watching some, object upon' the Bat-
tery. H-e was tall, slim, pale-faced, very intellectual, and a
perfect gentleman' in appearance, but English from top to toe.
These were the friends that Mr. Granville had invited, as he
remarked, "on his own hook." Scattered around the room
were others, invited by Mr. Granville at. the request of Marion,
As they arrived, Marion introduced them to Mr. Granville,
who in turn presented them to Isabella his daughter.
Distinct couples were, formed all over the room. Some ad-
mired the paintings, others listened.to the music, while others,
who were previously acquainted, conversed together upon the-
variousmatters of the day.
The party assembled numbered twenty-one. Marion passed
from one to the other,. endeavoring to .make each one of his
own friends at home, and perfectly at his ease.- He came near
Mrs. Kate Granville, and she exclaimed,
" Marion, where upon this earth did you manage to pick up
such a lot of funny acquaintances?  Who, in the name of all
that is good-looking, are they 1"
- " Friends of mine.-eclever people in their way, and all 'are
men worth knowing," replied- 'Marion.
"Do introduce me to that modest, bashful person, dressed
in black, who seems afraid of his own shadow," said Mrs.
SGranville.
" Noti now, Aunt Kate, but I will do so before dinner is.~

190

I


up

VIOR.

over ;" and he bent over and whispered something in her, ear,
She actually jumped off her chair with astonishment.
"Marion, are you in earnest?  Is that so ? Mr. Bennett of
the Herald ?" she asked earnestly.
"Precisely so,." was the reply.
"And is he going to dine here ?" asked Mrs. Tom Granville.
"Unquestionably he will," was the reply .
Kate Granville looked long and earnestly at him, and then
remarked, "Marion, I am' sure you are quizzing me. That
gentlemanly, quiet person the notorious Bennett! I don't be-
lieve a word of it."
Reader, in 1834, when the Herald first started, the other
papers made such unfair onslaughts on the new comer, as were
perfectly .terrige. It seemed as though the old sixpenny sheets
had a presentiment, that unless they crushed out the Herald
and Bennett, that it would be his destiny to crush them out.'
Some of the most worthy people in the city had made up their
minds, from these attacks, that Mr. Bennett was a perfect ruf-
fian.--a blackguard in looks and actions----a iian who attended
balls, and sneaked into houses.of ill-fame to get names of indi-
viduals to attack in his paper. They could not conceive of a
more base character than he was supposed to be ; and the idea-
of inviting Mr. Bennett to a dinner among gentlemen and ladies,
was considered a species of atrocity. But to resume our writ-
ing. It was now half past six, dinner was announced, and the
entire party passed into the dining room. Mr. Granville took
the seat at the head of. the table, and requested Marion to do'
the honors at the other end.. The ladies had seats near Mr.
Granville, and Marion had some choice spirits of the other sex.
to flank him.
We have no taste for describing a dinner... Suffice it to say,
that the good things were numerous, and served up in excel-
lent style. The wines were' delicious, and several health
were drank before the ladies took their departure. Then Mr.
Granville opened.
"Now, gentlenien, I want every .one to be at home and be
happy. Get acquainted with each other the best way you can,
And now let me propose a toast. It is the birth-day of that
young gent at the other end of the table. He is twenty-one to-
day. Here is his health-a9nd may he and- his. friends, be as
well satisfied with him on his three-score and tenth birth-day
as we are on his twenty-first."
All joined, and drank bumpers. Marion made .a reply, ra-

ViGOR.

19.3

ther confused, for he was somewhat bashful before so many,
but he was let off easy.
"0Mr. Bennett; shall I have the pleasure of a glass' of wine
with you ?" asked Mr. Granville. Every eye was instantly
directed to Mr. Bennett, for with the exception of Marion, he
did not know a soul in the room, and not one even knew him
by sight before this dinner.
"With pleasure," said Mr. Bennett, and he drank his wine
and bowed to Mr. Granville.
"We all know the Herald," continued' Mr. Granville, "al-
though to most of us this is the first time we have .had the
pleasure of your personal acquaintance."
Mr. Bennett made a quiet reply, and conversation became
general again until Mr. Cubson was called upon for a song, and
ho gave in the most exquisite manner,- "My pretty Jane" to
the great delight of all the company.
Some one else was asked, but refused, and then Mr. Gran-
vlle .sang a pretty air. On its conclusion he observed, "Now
I have sung a song, and therefore it is perfectly proper that I
should offer a resolution that every one at this table shall, in
regular order, contribute some thin toward our spending a
merry evening; hifle cannot sing a song, he must give us a
good sentiment or toast, or tell a good story. No one shall be
et off."  is proposal was acceded to at once by all, and as
Captain Maryatt sat next to Mr. Granville, it was his turn
next. He complied, and sang a song called "Artichokes and
'Cauliflowers," and his song and health being drunk, the next
in order was Marion Monck.
Marion had never sang a song in his life. Speech-makin
was not his forte, and he had never written.a line, and did not
know that he had it in him, but he told a story. "I have been
very lucky, said Marion, "since I came to New, York to fid
a home, never having been but for a few days in a boarding-
house, and have lived in the family of one of my, employers-
formerly with one now dead, and more recently with the kind
friend, as well as employer, who now presides at the head of
this table," and he bowed to Mr. Granville, and then con-
tinued, "'but I had a friend who arrived in New York about
the same time I did. He is dead now, poor fellow. Board-
ing-houses were too much for him. When he, was, on his
death-bed he said to me, 'Marion, beware. of boardinghouses,
pious boarding-houses especially,' and he told me. the fearful
tale which I shall repeat as nearly as I can remember it in his'-
words,' My mother was a pious woman. I was an only, child.
9

192

ii


194

VIGOR.

VIGOR.

195

When I left home, at the tender age of fourteen, to come and
try my fortune in this great metropolis of sin and commerce,
she was fearful. I was born and brought up- in a beautiful
New England town, that contained about four hundred inhab-
itants and four churches or places'of worship-one Ep.iscopal,
one Baptist, one Methodist, one New, and one Old School Pres-
byterian, . and one, Roman Catholic. It was a pious place.
Every church had a bell, and on Sunday morning was a jing-
ling that would astonish a small crowd. My mother was an
Episcopalian, and I was brought up in that faith, but -she was
a good woman, and was herself inclined to think that there
might be pious people even among other denominations beside
her own, but she was not certain upon that point. Religion, as
you see, coming from a small village with six churches, was a
starting point with me in life. My mother was all anxiety to
get me in a pious boarding-house. Well, I reached New York
safely, and got with a pious landlady, a Mrs. Bacon.  She was
a sister of the Tappans. She commenced on me in a regular
course. I had to be at prayers in the morning, and prayers at
night, and we had to stand grace over a miserable piece of half
done beef at dinner, and bean soup. Grace at tea, over dish-
water, a slice of stale bread, rancid butter, and ginger-nuts of
the commonest kind. The old lady bought her provisions by
the cent's worth at a Dutch grocer's. I remonstrated with
great benevolence-told her that by buying wholesale she
could'get good articles and at a low figure. She was grateful,
said she didn't know any wholesale grocers, begged me to buy
her by the quantity and she would pay me. Did' so-bought
eighty dollars' worth. Never got 'paid to this day. Insisted
that I was hard-hearted; wanted me to go and hear Burchard
at the Chatham street Theatre; went with old lady ; cousin
went with old lady's pretty daughter ; Burchard went it strong;
old lady got excited; rose in her seat; audience paused;
begged Burchard to praydor a handsome young sinner by her
side ; called me by name, Harvey Foot ; got up angry ; begged
Burchard on my own hook. to pray for a swindling old lady,
who had stuck me eighty-five dollars ip groceries, and wouldn't
pay up'; audience excited; expelled by .saint members, amd
obliged to quit pious boarding-houses.  That was boarding.
house No. 1.' " When Marion' had reached thus far, the quaint
manner in which he narrated the story-not a smile upon-his
countenance, not a muscle moved, the effect was richly lu-
dierous, and the emnall audience actually screamed as he con-
tinued on with Pious Boarding-House/No. 2, No. 3, No. 4 and

4

4.
'4
.4
jI
4
K'
I
II

so. No one was more pleased than Mr. Bennett. He turned
to a neighbor and remarked, "A man who can talk that way
can write. He will make a clever editor one of these days,
that Marion Monck." When Marion had finished, he proposed
a toast. "Health and long life to all pious boardig-house
keepers, and may they never lack stale bread or ginger cake
nuts for their teas." The toast was drank with shouts of
laughter. "As it is my turn, gentlemen, I call upon my
neighbor here-neighbor in a double sense, as he was born in
the same parish in the.South as myself-Mr. Francis Gaillard."
Mr. Gaillard arose, and was excusing himself from a song,
when he was interrupted by Colonel Benson. - "Pardon, gen-
tlemen ; I beg to ask Mr. Gaillard to tell us .some story about
the South-something about the slaves; these are exciting
times. Horrid stories are told about the cruelty of Southern
masters. Mr. Gaillard is a large slave-holder, I hope he will
give us an anecdote of a different kind.
"Thank you, sir, for the suggestion. I am not certain that
a little story I can tell will contain any thing interesting, or
possess any especial merit. It shall have one advantage over
those horrid tales of tortured and murdered slaves; it shall be
true. My father,- when a young man, had a favorite slave
named Billy. He was coachman, and frequently travelled with
my father, with or without the carriage. On one occasion they
were in a boat crossing Gooper river, and it upset. My father
had no more idea of swimming than he had of flying, and death
by drowning seemed inevitable, but Billy was not only a splen-*
did swimmer, but a most powerful man. Re seized hold of
my father, and although the tide was ebbing, yet, after almost
superhuman exertions, he succeeded in getting his master and
himself safe on shore. It was some time before my father
came to, and he and Billy footed it to the plantation.  My
respected parent and Billy were nearly of the same age. The
fact became known that Billy had saved my governor's life,
and although it secured him a great many praises and favors
from other members of our family, yet it never seemed to alter
my father's course. He seemed to have forgot it, and though
Billy did pretty much as he had a mind to do, I do not remem-
ber that Billy got severely whipped by my father's orders ex-
cept on one occasion."
"Whip a-poor negro who had saved his master's life! That
is gratitude with a vengeance," niuttered the jolly EVnuglishinan
Mr. Oubson.
," Let me finish, sir, if you please," continued Mr. Gaillard.


S1GOR.

"The occasion was this. My father was somewhat eccentric,
but I ever found him a very 'just man. He had an overseer
on one of' his rice plan tations, a Mr. Maice, who was a great
band for whipping. fy father did not exactly like it, but
when he spoke to Maice, the overseer would say, very deci-
dedly, 'it's no use to try to get along, sir, with niggers unless
you give them a lashing. I never, order more ,than twenty
lashes, and it does the niggers good.' Maice took his leave,
my father pondered over the matter, for some time, and then
called Billy.
"Billy came.
"'How d'y, Billy.'
How 'd'y, Massa Frank.'
Billy, go and get -the overseer's whip.'  Billy went and
got it. 'Now help me take off all my clothes,' said my father,
Gor a mity, Massa Frank, what you gwine to do now?'
said Billy,
I want you to give me twenty lashes, as hard as you can
put it on, as haid as Maice whips the niggers,". said my father.
Why, Massa Frank, wat de debbil you want for do now?
Get dis nigger hung?' replied Billy, who was very much
scared.
I want you to do as I say.. If you don't, I'll send for Sam,
and have you whipped,' said my father.
No; I swear God I can't lick you, Massa,' replied Billy.
"My father got in a-rage, and called in Sam, who was a sort
of second negro chief in the house. Sam  came.  'Sam, I
want you to whip Billy,' said my father.
Eh, Billy?  What you do Massa now? Take off your
coat.'
Billy did so at once, and Sam gave him two or three good
cuts, when Billy says, ' If dat is all you want, I gib dem cuts
myself.'
Will you lick me now, Billy?' said my father.
0,. yes, Massa. I'll lick you. Gib me de whip'-and
Billy took it and gave his master two rather -hard cuts.
Lick me harder, you rascal, orI'll have Sam  lick you
again,'-said my father. Thus admonished, Billy put in 'de
big licks,'- as Sam,' who was a spectator remarked,- until the
quantity was reached, his master counting at every stroke,
one, two, up to twenty. 'There, Billy. I don't like it, and
I'll be. damned "to hell if I'll ever have another nigger whipped
on mny plantation.' And he never did. He never -afterwards
had an overseer ; and if a negro deserved punishment, he gave

VIGOR.

197

the very worst that can ever be given in the South--it was to
transfer him from one plantation to another.
"But to return to Billy. My father died. When his will
was opened, it was found to contain a clause stating that many
years ago Billy Gaillard saved his life, and that he bequeathed
to him, first, his freedom, second, Lhe sum of five hundred dol-
lars per annum, to paid quarterly at the Bank of Charleston, a
house on the plantation, a horse every year, and, as he wished
Billy to continue to work on the plantation, he was to receive
pay for whatever he did from my father's successor, myself.
There is not a more independent gentleman in the South, sir,
than'Billy Gaillard. When I am 'at home, he is always near
me-lectures and.scolds me as if I were a child-has mar-
ried off his family, has lots of children, and is'-more re-
spected than ever was a patriarch in Bible times.    He
has but- one weakness - when he goes to Charleston to get
his quarterly dues, he generally manages to get moderately
drunk. He frequently speculates, and makes more money
than his income. le niakes all his sons and daughters com-
fortable, and gives them many presents, but has never' been
know to even dream of buying any of them 'their freedom,
although he has the means to do it; for he has saved and in-
vested money for a great many years, and owns half-a-dozen
valuable houses in Charleston that he rents out and receives
quite an income from. Gentlemen, I hope I have contributed
a little to passing away a pleasant time. I will conclude with
a toast. I give-
"'The health of every Northern Abolitionist who will 'go
South and see the Institution of Slavery as it really exists'"
The story was warmly received, and the comical idea of the
toast made all laugh. Even old Cubson growled out that he
was afraid the healths of any northern gentlemen who made
such an excursion would not be greatly benefitted. Mr.
Gaillard called upon Mr. Bennett for his quota. Mr. Bennett
very quietly remarked,
"Gentlemen, I am not much of a hand to tell a story, but I
would rather be guilty of telling a stupid One than to lack the\
courtesy of trying to contribute my share to the general mirth
and amusement. The story told about pious boarding-house
keepers, but the more especially the description of the New
England village of four hundred inhabitants and six distinct
houses of worship, reminds me of an adventAre in one of the
same sort of towns, and I will try and narrate it. Some time
after I had arrived in this country I found myself in Boston,

196


VIGOR.

and with but little to do. I determined to travel into the in-
terior and see if I could not pick up something. I had a good
education, and I had heard that school teachers were in re-
quest. I will make my story as concise as possible, and with-
out going into details, will mention simply that I found myself
in some such place in Connecticut as Mr. Monck has des-
eribed. The town was divided into three school districts, as
they call them. The middle district required a "school mas-
ter," that is the designation'in Yankee land, and not school
teacher.  I offered my services to become the school master.
It was necessary to see the Committee, and I applied to them
for the situation.. They consisted- of a Presbyterian clergy-
man, a Squire Phelps, and Deacon Botsford. After some co-
siderable bother, an hour was appointed when the School Com-
mittee met. I was there punctually at the time. The school-.
house was a little one-story building, painted red outside, and
the inside was covered with all sorts of drawings' and orna-
ments made by ambitious scholars. Presently the important
Committee, arrived one by one; At last the solemn business
was opened. Squire Phelps asked if I was the 'young man'
who was anxious to take charge of that district school. I re-
plied in the most amiable and seductive manner that I was the
person. 'Deacon, we must examine whether he is capable of
taking charge 6f our school.'  The. deacon grunted an affirma-
tive-and then commenced such an examination as was never
heard of before. I was asked how cheap I would act-whether
I would board round among the parents of the scholars-and
whether I could measure wood. I got along very well and
quite satisfactorily until the clergyman asked me, 'What is
your religion, Mr. Bennett?' I replied that I was a Catholic.
Then the three committee men took a general stare at me, and
afterwards at each other. 'Where are you from?' was the
next question. I did not think, but replied simply, 'From
Scotland.' '0 yes-I know where that is. It is up near Mid-
dletown, in, Windham County.' There is, I have since learned,
a town called-New Scotland somewhere in that region. I was
requested to retire. I did so, but was soon called back. 'Mr.
Bennett, we have consulted together in reference to your ap-
plication, and after examination,. very impartially conducted,
we are obliged to decline your offer, as we do not consider'you
competent to teach this district school.'
"Gentlemen," continued Mr. Bennett, "you may form some
idea of my mortification. I assure you, I never applied since
ra school teacher's berth. Yiet I believe I am possessed of

1989

e

VIGOR.                      199
some ability, but it has taken a new direction. I have, as most
of you are aware, started a new enterprise, and in the Herald
I have had great success. I can assure you, that-by the regis-
ter I now circulate up in Connecticut over twenty-five hundred
copies of my paper daily, and I believe I may say that that day
will come, improbable as it may seem, when I will issue ten
thousand copies of the daily Herald. I will give you a senti-
ment, 'A new era in Journalism.'
It was drank with enthusiasm; and the idea of a man of Mr.
Bennett's. acknowledged cleverness to have been rejected as a
Yankee schoolmaster, was perfectly rich and refreshing. Mr.
Bennett hoped that Colonel Mae Neil would take his turn at
the oar. The Colonel said he should not trespass long upon
.their time-that he was happy to meet with Mr. Bennett.-that
the Herald was giving new life to the community, and was
making itself felt, and he hoped it would reach a circulation
of ten thousand daily, but that he supposed was an utter
impossibility, an extravagant idea, that Mr. Bennett could
hardly expect would be realized in many years, if ever. "I
cannot sing you but one song, gentlemen-I will try that.;"
and Mac Neil sang-with good taste and feeling, "My Heart's
in the Highlaids.
The company had by this time become quite excited. Songs,
stories and toasts followed each other in quick succession, un-
til nearly midnight, when it was proposed that all shoid join
in the good old song of " Good night, and God be with us all."
All were in good spirits, but no one was quite intoxicated, at.
least to such an extent as not to be able to find his way home.
When the party broke up, Marion retired to his room. A new
life was before him-he was twenty-one years old.
CHAPTER XXXV.
Of age-.r am twentq-one 1-Anxiety to get into Business-Monck's salary
raised-Mr. Granville's Promises-Mr. Wiloon to be taken as a Partner-
Mrs. Tom Granville's advice to Marion M1onck respecting her Niece-Ma-
rion is -astorshed- Concludes to make a Confidant of the Count False-
chinski.
" I AM of age." " I am twenty-one years old." "I am a
inan legally." " I am a citizen." What important sentences
in the career of every male-what an epoch in the life of every
man ! Americans are not like Europeans, content to slave on


I

200-

VIGOR

for a period of years in clerkship, until the seasons of youth
and middle age are passed, and old age reached without a hope
or desire of bettering their. condition, or of taking the chance
of bettering it, by going into business upon their own account,
becoming principals and employers themselves. .It is a strong
characteristic of the general American mind. He does not con-
sider himself settled in life until he is in business on his own
hook. He never dreams of getting married until he is his own
employer. A young clerk's highest ambition is to get into
business upon his own account, so 'soon as he is twenty-one
years old. From this cause spring a thousand fearful evils in
a commercial.community. Half the failures that occur to per-.
sons engaged in mercantile pursuits can be traced to this
going into business at an early age, before experience justifies
it. Could all the young men who have gone into business
upon their own account in New York city before they reached
twenty-five years, te traced out, it would be found that they
have failed where, had they been content to gain experience as
clerks until they were thirty years of age, their after success
would probably'have been certain. The Jews are a sensible
people in this regard. Their children don't take upon them-
selves the responsibilities of men until they reach thirty. Our
blessed Lord and Saviour did not separate himself from paren-
tal control until he was thirty.
Marion Monck was not destined to, be an exception to the
general rule. Head reached tenty-one, and he began to
think that it was high time to get into business. The next
morning after the dinner, Mr. Granville informed himthat his
salary in future would be one thousand dollars per annum-
"As you will continue to reside at my house without any ex-
pense to yourself, you ought to be able' to lay aside some~
money every year, Marion. Are your parents in a situation to
give you any capital to start in business, when your experi-
ence justifies such'a step ?"
" Indeed they are nt. They might raise a small sum, but
riouldnever consent to it. I must depend upon my own ex-
ertions,"replied Marion.
"And a better reliance no man 'can want in this country,
my boy. If you go on gaining commercialinformation, it will
be of use to you some day. Water will find its own level, and
so will business experience, capability, honesty, and activit.
You possess all of' the qualifications, and all you have to do is
to pursue. a straightforward .course, and you will gain a foot-
jhold in the commercial world sooner or lateix  I am not justi-

201-

VIGOR.

fled in saying what my intentions are towards you eventually,
but if you should remain with me a few years longer, and
. should then wish to go into business, I shall take great pleas.
ure in forwarding your views. Very likely I shall hear of
some person who has capital who would be willing to form a
partnership with you, because you have such good business
qualifications."
Marion had not lost a word of all this speech, which was an
unusually long one for Mr. Granville to make. He was pleased-
with it, and, yet displeased. It was cold, and strictly mercan-
tile. It gave him  no hope of the future, so far as becoming
interested in the business of Mr. Granville was concerned. It
seemed to remove Isabella to an iimneasurable distance from
his reach, but still le thanked his employer for his good inten-
tions.
"I shall soon make a change in the style of the firm; and
as I regard you as my confidential clerk, I will communicate
my intentions to you. On the first of Januaryneixt Mr. Wil-
son will be taken into the firm, which will then be Granville &amp;
Wilson."
Marion now expressed his sincere satisfaction, and asked if
he might congratulate Mr. Wilson upon his good fortune, when
he met him at the office. '"He said nothing to me about it at
dinner yesterday. In fact he never opened his lips about any
thing."
"Nop-.Wilson is not very talkative. A very excellent qual-
ity too in a man. But as he has said nothing to you, I don't
think you had better say any thing to him. I suppose that you
Know he is living at Mrs. Nordheim's house ?t" observed Mr.
Granville.
"I really did not know it. When did he go up -there ?"
asked Marion.
"Very recently. I may as well inform you that I did .not
agree to take Mr. Wilson into the house because of his ser-
vices, or of his personal importance to-me. I have known him'
a great many years. He is a reliable, excellent man, and a
most accomplished bookkeeper. He will owe his becoming my
partner solely to Mrs. Nordheim. I made a- promise to Mr.
Nordheim that 1 would take into partnership any one that his
wife should recommend. She has expressed her wishes de-
cidledly in favor (of Mr. Richard Wilson:. She also furnishes
him with a capital of fifty thousand dollars to put in the new
firm. Under these circumstances Mr. Wilson will be admitted
a partner. If Mrs. Nordheimn had expressed the wish that you
9*


202

VIGOR.

should have been associated with me, it would have given me
pleasure to have taken you into partnership. I.am a little sur-
prised that she did not do so. It has appeared to me that you
were a great favorite in that quarter. Had you any disagree-
ment with her ?" demanded'Mr. Granville.
" None that I am aware of. She seemed anxious that I
should leave her house, and appeared to act somewhat abruptly
in requesting me to do so," said Marion.,
V " Women are very fantastic in their way of doing things,
and Mrs. Nordheim does not seem. to me to be an exception.
What has made her take such an interest in Mr. Wilson is be-
yond, my comprehension, bVt I suppose they have a secret un-
derstanding that Mr. Wilson pays her a portion of the profits
he will be pretty certain to make as my partner in business-"
observed Mr. Granville.
This conversation made a very deep impression upon Ma-
rion's mind, in more ways than one-, It set him to thinking of
Mrs. Nordheim and Wilson. He wondered what could beher
motive. He was not long in doubt. That same day Mrs. Tom
Granville found him alone in the parlor.
"Marion, it is high time that you and me should have some
understanding about Isabella. She has .onfided to me the
secret of your mutual- attachment, and I very foolishly con-
sented-to keep it from Mr. Granville ; but I must tell you very
candidly I think you are both young, and both particularly
foolish. Mr. Granville will never consent to your marrying
Isabella under present circumstances. He might do so, were
you in successful business and making money. What are your
future plans ?" she asked.
Poor Marion, this was the extra pound that was to break his
back. ,He did not know what to say, but he made a sort of
answer, and informed Aunt Kate that he really had no definite
plans for the future. " I will let things take their regular
course. I am going with the current, and I cannot get out of
the stream to get ashore," said he.
"1I am afraid you will have to get out of the stream very
soon, or you will be helped out. Have you not noticed that
Colonel Benson is very regular in coming here and are you
not aware that his hopeful son generally cones with, his pa-.
and also that Mr. Granville takes 'Isabella and myself to the
residence of Colonel Benson, and contrives that young Benson'
shall see Isabella home ?" remarked Aunt Kate.
Marion replied that he was aware of all these facts, but re-

VIGOR.

.203

quested Aunt Kate to inform him more plainly what impres-
sion she meant to convey by mentioning these circumstances,
"Why, my worthy Marion, if you don't see what it all means,.
I do. Middleton Benson is in love with Isabella as much as
that thick-headed plodding young man can be in love with any
thing, and it will not be long before he will propose-for Bella,
and be accepted," replied Mrs. Tom Granville.
Accepted, Mrs. Granville f  By whom, pray?   Not by
Isabel-she perfectly detests him, to say nothing about her
affections being given to me. Pooh! pooh'! You cannot fright-
en me with any such notion," observed Marion with some
temper.
"Marion, I do not want to alarm you, nor is there the least
necessity for showing to me any temper. It is all but a waste
of words. I cannot alter things, but I have endeavored to
kindly put you on your guard. Take it in that light," replied
Mrs.. Granville, with calm dignity.
"Mrs. Granville, will you answer me one question. Suppose
Mr. Benson, Jr. should propose to Bella, would he be accept-
ed ?" demanded Marion.
"By Mr. Granville, do you mean? Unquestionably he
would be. In fact, I think the two old heads have already
arranged the matter," replied Mrs. Granville.
"No-I mean by Isabella 7" anxiously inquired Marion.
"Isabel would not dare refuse him under such circumstances.
She would refer him to papa, and although she would cry and
take on about it in her room, yet to Mi. Granville she would
appear pleased, and when the time came would marry Middle-
ton Benson without saying a word," replied Mrs. Tom Gran-
Ville.
"Great God! I can't believe it. She would never be so
false to me," said poor Marion.
" False is a hard word. She is a mere child, and when you
consented to being engaged to her, you have penetration enough
to have formed some idea of her character. I~ think, Master
Marion, you have behaved. excessively foolish.  There is no
body whose advice is so good as a woman's.. Before you got
trammelled with such an attachment, why did you not consult
Mrs. Nordheim 7 She always appeared to be a great friend of
yours,' asked Mrs. Granville.
" Because Isabella requested me not to say a word to any
one about the matter," said Marion.
" When Isabel told me about it, Mr. Monck, I was extremely
eurprised, and I supposed, as a matter of -course, that Mrs.

ij


204:                     vIGoR.
Nordheim knew all about it. When I told her, she was per-
fectly paralyzed," observed Mrs. Granville.
"In God's name, Mrs. Granville, tell me what you mean.
Did you tell her ? and when was it that y6u told her ?" said
Marion, excitedly.
"I did tell-jMrs. Nordheim, of course, and. the time was the
day before you moved here. In fact, she must have requested
you to move the very evening of the day that I saw her," re-
plied Aunt Kate.
"1 And what,'Mrs. Granville, cotild have been her motive for
so abrupt-ay, so unkind a proceeding? Why should she be
so angry at my becoming attached to Miss Granville," inquired
Marion.
" You are really silly. The very best reason in the world.
She did not wish to quarrel with Granville. She knew that
he would not consent to your marriage with Isabel, and sensi-
ble woman that she is, determined not to be mixed up with it,
by countenancing you-so she requested you to move as quick
as possible, and told some foolish story about wanting to go
into the country. She never did go into the country, .and that
is proof that it was but an excuse to get y'ou out of the house,"
said Mrs. Granville.
"I see it all now," replied Marion. "My eyes are opened.
What an infatuated fool I have been. She was. vexed at' my
apparent want of confidence, and that is the secret of her cool
treatment." Marion was as far from the real reason as ever.
Aunt Kate continued to pour oil upon the fire that she had
kindled. "I dare say that if you had told her all about your
love for Belle, she would have advised with you about it, and
as she was very fond of you, it is likely that she would have
backed her own advice by acts. Granville is about to take
Wilson into partnership. Itis all Mrs. Nordheim'sdoings. Had.
yaui acted right with so good a friend as that lady, she would
have requested that partnership for you, and Belle's hand into
the bargain. Had she done so, Mr. Granville would have con-
sented at once. But it is too late now," was the remark of the
lady.
Marion covered hia face with his hands. His heart was too
full to speak. At last he managed to inform  Mrs. Granville
that he would like to see Isabel, and-have a full and complete
understanding with her. Mrs. Granville replied, " It will be
of no use, Marion. She will say yes to all you say. But she
will not run away with you, or get married without the consent
of her parent. When lie puts his foot down, she will obey

VIGOR.

205

him, and marry the man she has chosen, and that will be the
end of it. Take my advice, you would at once tell Isabel that
you both have been foolish, that both had better give up all
hope of the future, and forget each other," said Mrs.Granville.
"But Isabel, my dear Mrs. Granville, will not consent to
,      any such thing. She loves me truly. Did I not think so, I
would never 'give her another thought. She will never con-
sent to breaking off our engagement while she is alive," said
the confident Marion Mouck.
"Nonsense. Try the experiment at. least. It will be for
your own happiness to do so, I assure you. Under different
circumstances, I dare say you and Isabel might have been very
happy, but not now. Good-bye. Think over what I have
said, and act precisely as you deem  best," said Mrs. Tom
Granville.
Marion was completely paralyzed at such advice as this. He
did not know which way to turn for relief. He attended to his
duties the remainder of the day, and when evening came and
it was about time to close the store, his mind was made up to
take the advice of a third and a disinterested party. He told
the Count Falseehinski that he desired particularly to see him,
and asked to meet him that evening at the Fronch coffee house
in Warren street.
"I will meet you, Marion, but not there. Make it at Del-
monico's, in William street. There we can have a room  to
ourselves, and a quiet nice dinner, or supper, if you call it so.
I have an idea that I could guessthe nature of your seeking -a
private conversation with me, but I will not do so. . Be punc-
tual to the time, which I wish you would make eight o'clock;
do not be later. It is a bitter cold night, and a good cozy
room with a fire, and the nice edibles and drinkables -that Del-
inonico can get up, will enable us to pass a delightful evening,"
replied the Count, and the parties separated.

V P
pA
if
Rik
oil
Nil
Hit;

qQ;
if m(.
UM
a M
Avg

I

CHAPTER XXXVI
The Night of the Great Fire in New Y rc city-The Count FAlsechInski and
Marion lonck at Delmonic's- T'he Coun SOpinions of fmr. Granville S
Views-Marion saves the Portfolo and Papers ~of Mr. Granville- The
Great Fire,
IT was a dreadful night, that night in December, 1835,
when the Great Fire occurred in New York. Marion left the
store early in the evening, and as usual took the keys of the


206

VIGOR.

VIGOR.

store from the porter, as he bad previously taken the keys of
an immense iron safe or vault, built into the solid walls of the
store. He went home to tea, and .after he had finished, Mr.
Granville expressed a desire to have a policy of insurance, or
to knotr if one had been taken out on property in a -store on
the North River side of the town.
I shall be over in the neighborhood of our store, and it
will cost nme but little trouble to go in and ascertain for~you,"
was Marion's reply.
"1 wish you would do so," was the answer, and Marion left
for Delmonico's, still keeping all the keys with him.
The store of Mr. Granville was on the corner of -Broad and
Garden street, and its rear overlooked the graveyard attached
to the Reformed Church in Garden street, of which Dr. Mat-
thews was the pastor.
Delmonico's at that time was almost as celebrated as it now
is-perhaps more so, as it then had no rivals and no establish-
ment of a similar kind could have been found in the city. It
was located in William street, on the west side, about midway
between Garden and Beaver streets. The eldest brother of
the Delmoniico Brothers was then alive. He was a fine-looking
man of middle age, and his first name was John. He had an-
other brother named Peter.  Since then, -several others have
come to this country, while John is long since dead. lHe was
accidentally killed while shooting over on Long Island.
When Marion reached Delmonico's it wanted but little of
the hour appointed. .He found the Count waiting, and soon
after a servant showed them up to a nice little dining-room on
the second floor, and facing the street.  Soon after the dinner
was served, and'a bottle of wine also.
"Don't talk about any unpleasant nfatter until we have had
our dinner," said the Count-and Marion scrupulously re-
frained from the least allusion to his troubles. Over an hour
passed away while the Count was enjoying the meal, and then
he ordered coffee and cigars.
"Now, Marion, I am ready for you. Tell me how I can
serve you, and I will do so to an extent that you little dream
of. Tell me all, from the beginning to the end."
Marion then related what has already been made familiar to
our readers. When he had concluded, the Count remarked,
"I dare say, Marion, that you consider this unfortunate at-
tachment as one of serious importance. Pah! if you could
view such things as I do ! Minds change---young men's espe.
cially. Could you jump over five years of your existence, you

207

would laugh heartily at this boyish attachment !to a pretty
simpleton, for that is all that Miss Isabel amounts to inder
the most favorable circumistances. But I will not laugh at
you, for I have been over the same road, and know just how
you feel upon this occasion. Mr. Granville will not consent
to your marrying Miss Isabel under-any circumstances---and I
would not either, if I was he. And if I was your parent, I
would cut your throat before you should marry such a useless,
insignificant piece of furniture. Pah again! Don't look an-
gry, nor don't get angry with what I am going to say. You
have the world before you, with health and good looks.  Yes,
Marion, you are a devilish good looking fellow, and when you
'get a trifle more manly, you will be a splendid specimen of a
man. You speak several languages-you -have a thorough
mercantile education-and now you would throw all these .ad-
vantages away, and tie yourself up with a little silly girl who
has not done.eating bread and butter. For shame, man ! I
thought you had a high ambition.  If Mr.' Granville would
plank down a hundred thousand dollars with the young lady, it
might do, but to marry her without his consent and not get a
cent-Oh no, it's perfect nonsense.  Don't think of such a
thing-it is sheer madness," was the advice given by the expe-
rienced Count.
But,'mydear Count, although I am half persuaded that
you are right, yet how can I help myself?  We love each.
other, and we are engaged.- It would not be honorable in me
to break off, and I could not do it.  What would she not suf-
fer ?" replied Marion.
"Not a pin's-head worth--not arparticle. Try it.  Go, to
Miss Isabel to-morrow the first ,thing. Tell .her you are satis-
fled her father will never consent to your engagement, and that
you cannot support a wife, and beg her to give up all thoughts
of such an arrangement.  Tell her that your parents won't
consent to it. Tell her you have made a promise to me that
you won't marry until you are thirty years old, and see how
kindly she will take it.  She. won't make the slightest objec-
tion. Or if she does, your skirts are clear, and there is no
occasion for you to trouble your head any further about the
affair. 'I advise you to move out of the house of Mr. Gran-
ville also., Get some other place to live-it is more indepen-
dent," continued the Count, when the alarm of fire occurred.
"Fire! . Fire! Fire!" rang through the streets. The
Count jumped up, and so did Marion. They flung open the
blinds, and could see' by the illuminated sky that it raged near


208 .VY1i-
them... Down stairs they rushed. The Count paid the bill,
and they were soon in the street. It was nearly ten o'clock,
the cold ,was intense, and there was a high wind. They passed
rapidly into Exchange street-now Beaver, east of William-
and kept on to Pearl. There were few people assembled, but
one of the large dry-goods stores a few doors from Wall was in
a blaze. They stopped and watched the fire for a short time,
and saw it extend westward towards the Merchants' Exchange.
"Count, it is very cold to be standing here. I have the keys
of the store, and I am sure good coal fires are burning in both
ofiices-if not, we can soon make one. We shall freeze if we
stop here," observed Marion.
The Count agreed to the proposition, and they walked rapidly
to the- store of Mr. Granville. Sure enough, they found a
good- coal fire burning, and they lit ,a couple of candles and
their cigars,- and took seats by the fire. Some short time
elapsed when they heard an unusual noise in the street, and
Marion said be would go and see how the fire was getting on.
He had been out but a moment, as it seemed to the Count,
when he returned, his face aghast. "Count, several blocks
are on fire, and so is. the Merchants' Exchange. Why, our
store may be-in danger!" said Marion.
" Nonsense ! To get at us the fire has got to burn a good
sized church, -and a pretty large grave-yard. However, we
had better stay and sethe business over or the fire out. I
shall not go to look at it myself, for I am very comfortable
her. Suppose you go to Delmonico's and get some cigars."
Marion"started on his errand, but speedily returned : "Del-
monico's'is all on fire; there is no getting near the place."
"But there are no hells ringing. It is a fire without much
noise," remarked the Count.-
" People have too much to do to save their things. -Let's
both go and look at the fire," said Marion.
It was a very remarkable fact that o9 the occasion of the
Great Fire in New York, the city bells rang but for a few
moments, aud~ while block after block was being burned, there -
was a fearful stillness, only interrupted by the roar of the
flames.' The Count and Marion got separated, and Marion
was alone watching the progress of the fire. It cane down
Garden street like a summer whirlwind, and Marion .for the
first time became fully conscious that the store of Mr. Gran-
ville could not escape. He then went to work to get the books
of the firm at least to a place of safety. lie felt sure that the
fire would not cross Broad street. Luckily, a store was, open

VIGOR.

209

on the opposite side, and he was well acquainted with the peo-
ple. He carried thither every book and paper that he regarded
as- of any value. When this was accomplished, he took the
portfolio, which contained bills of exchange, notes, stock cer-
tificates, and other papers of value to the amount of half a mil-
lion of dollars. This he carried about his person knowing that
its loss could never be replaced. No one arrived to aid him.
He went once more into the street: the church in the rear of
Mr. Granville's store was on' fire, and Marion then knew that
the store was doomed. By this time the authorities had de-
termined to blow up buildings and prevent the fire from
spreading in Broad street. A store selected to be blown up
was at No. 42 Garden, only opposite the corner store of Mr.
Granville. From the opposite side of Broad Marion saw that
blown up, and fall in one solid mass of ruins-not a brick or
stone fell into the street-the store rose up and fell on the
ground upon which it was-'built.  .
Shortly afterward the store of Mr. Granville caught, and
Marion remained on the opposite side of the street and saw it
burn and fall a mass of fire; such was the intense heat that
not a brick was left standing. While watching' this result, he-
was startled by hearing some one exclaim; "My God, I am a
ruined man !"  He knew the voice. It was Mr. Granville.
'Marion approached him and placed his hand on his shoulder.
"It is not so bad as you suppose, Mr. Granville."
"The portfolio-where is the portfolio ?" inquired the mer-
chant.
"I have it, sir, all safe. Here it is," replied Marion.
"Thank God for that. All the rest may go," was the re-
sponse of the merchant.
Marion then conducted him to the spot where he had placed
 the books and papers. " Nothing is lost, sir, except the mer-
chandise, and that is fully insured.
"You have done all this yourself?" asked Mr. Granville.
"Yes, sir. In 'a time, like this aid was impossible to be
had," was the niodest reply of Marion.
"I owe you a debt of gratitude, my dear boy, that I can
never repay.. But come, let us get home," said Mr. Granville.
It was nearly daybreak when they reached State street, but
the fire was burning as madly as ever, and did not stop until it
had levelled every house between Broad and Wall street to the
East river.


210

VIGOR.'

CHAPTER XXXVII.
Miss Norris Rouses the Ambition of Thomas Granville, Esg.-He Goes to
Washington-General Jackson Appoints Him Consul to a Port in France
-Returns to Ntw York-Brother Advances Money-Renews Intimacy
with Miss Norris-Consul Granville sails for Europe, aud Miss Norris
Accompanies Him-Queer Scenes in England and France-The Prtsident
Removes Tom Granville from his Consulate-His Return to America, fol-
lowed by Miss Norris, who has made Five Thousand Dollars by Her Euro-
pean Tour-The Ruin and Distriss of the Ex-Consul.
THOMAs GRANVILLE seemed to have lost the esteem not only
of those with whom he was connected by relationship, but
also of the young woman with whom 'he had formed a depen-
dent connexion.   She, too, got sick of Tom, -and became-'
anxious to terminate their engagement. She was more anxious
to do this, as Tom displayed no energy and no manlinQss of
character. He was contented to remain by the side of Miss
Norris at her comfortable quarters from one 'meal to another.
At last she came to the conclusion that she would, for the wel-
fare of Tom, rouse him out of his unmanly lethargy at any
cost. About the -time of the Great Fire she took Tom.nGranville
to task.
"Is it-possible that you expect to be tied to my apron-strings
for ever? Have you no idea of doing anything" for yourself ?
For shame !" she asked.I
Tom replied, " I do not know what I can do. What do you
wish me to do ?"
"Oh, man, man, have you no energy-no self-respect left'?
Do ? Why, rather than lead such a miserable life as you are
leading, Master Ton, I would go and hire myself out as a
street sweeper, carry in coal, go from house to house and offer
to clear off the snow from the sidewalks, do any thing to earn
my bread, were I a man, or, if like you, I pretended to be
one," said the handsome Miss Norris.
Such language was calculated to arouse a new spirit in poor
Tom, and it succeeded admirably.
"1Do you wish to get up a quarrel with me ?  Is that what-
you are trying to do'? or do you wish to separate from me'?  I
can accommodate you in any way," replied Tom, with some
spirit.

VIGOR.

211

-1,

 i
'I  l

I'.

)

"Bravo, bravo, Tom. That is excellent. I have not seen
you look so becoming in a long while. I will tell you what I
want. Be a man; make yourself respected. God forgive me
for ever letting you come here. Do you know that all your
friends charge me with leading you astray ? seducing your af-
fections from a beloved wife ? destroying her peace of mind ?
ruining her domestic happiness, and all such sort of stuff,
which you, Tom Granville, know is as false as falsehood it-
self," continued Miss Norris.
" And who dares say such a thing ? It is not true, and you
know it all well as I do. Why, then, should you care what
people say falsely? Tell me who makes those charges against
you. Give me names, and if my brother or my wife even have
dared to assert-such atrocious slanders, I will make them con-
tradict them," replied Tom, very bravely.
" Ah, Tom, if you would only show as much spirit in your
actions as you do in your language, I should respect you
much more than I do now. I do not want to make enemies,
and yet I am making them every day on your account. Your
wife has applied for a divorce, and she 'will succeed in getting
it, if you do not mind, Tom," observed Miss Norris.
"I don't care a straw whether she does or not. What will
it matter me ?" inquired Tom.
"It matters this much, that if she succeeds in getting a di-
vorce, it permits her to marry again, while it debars you from
that privilege," remarked Miss Norris.
Tom answered that he did not care for a divorce, that 'he
should never marry again under any- circumstance, that he had
had quite sufficient of' married life, and wished for no more.
But he continued, " I see that you wish to get rid of me. Your
wishes, Clara, shall be gratified. I will leave you this very
day. You shall see me no more."
"Nay, Tom," continued Miss Norris, with some feeling. "I
wish to see you do something. You have cleverness, use it to
some purpose, in some way, I care not how. I have no wish
to get rid of you, except for your own good."*-
"No matter what the motive is, Clara. We won't speak of.
that. You do wish it, and it shall be done. But I have a fa-
vor to ask. I need some money for a short time. Lend it to
me, and I will return it inside of a month. I am mai enough
for that,, at any rate." said Ton.
Miss Norris went to a little portable desk, opened it, and.
took out a pocket-book.
"How much do you want, Tom ?' she asked..


VIGOR.

"Fifty dollars will answer my purpose," was the reply, and
she at once banded him that amount.
"-If it is not sufficient, tell me so, and you shall have more,"
added Clara, as she held out the purse.
No. It is quite enough ;. and now, Clara. good-bye," said
Tom.
Miss Norris wished to arouse Tom Granlille to make some
effort to do some thing for himself, but as she saw determiua-
tion in every lineament of Tom's expressive face, she became
fearful'that she had overdone the matter. Perhaps Tom was
going to jump.-off the dock, or .commit suicide in some other
shape. She felt that the melancholy- fate of poor Nordheim,
her first friend, had been tragedy enough for her lifetime, and
she was not anxious to have Tom get killed, or kill himself.
So she changed her battery. "Come, Tom, you need not say,
good-bye ; or if you will do so, give me some reason for it.
Tell me where are you going. What are you going to do.? 5nd
if it is not an impertinent question, when am I. to see your in-
dignant lordship again ?"
Not a smile appeared upon the face of Tom.  He was ,as
calm as apparent insensibility could make him. He felt indig-
nant, but he had sense, and he had pride, and these told huim
that Miss Norris was acting right. It was a bitter pill to
swallow, but he got it down.
Clara, I will try and reply to your questions, or I would
do so if I could, but I do not really know what I am going to
do. I am going to leave New York this very evening, that I
have decided upon firmly. So that my good-bye means some-
thing.  I shall go to Philadelphia this afternoon.  I have
friends there. If nothing opens, I shall keep on to Baltimore,,
where I married my wife, and from thence 3 may go still farther
south. That is all I can tell you, and once more I say -good-
bye."
Tom, as he said this, rose and took his hat, and walked
partly to the door. Miss Norris followed him.
Tom, I shall not say one word to prevent your going. It
is necessary for your own sake. May God grant that you may
find some thing to do-get into business,'or get some position
that will be creditable lo you and toithose connected with you.
If you do, perhaps your wife will withdraw, her application.
Your brother will receive you as a brother again. I wish you
well from the bottom of my heart. I am not selfish when I
propose our separation. It is for your good,"' said Clara.
Tom replied, "So you have said, Clara4, and I believe you,.

1'
.1

212

VIGOR.                     213
On, more good-bye. You shall hear from me favorably, and I
thank you for having roused me from my lazy, unmanly sleep."
Miss Norris bade him an affectionate farewell, and Tom Gran-
ville left the house determined to turn over a new leaf. He
did not wait for his resolves, which he felt were good ones, to
cool. It was about noon when he left the residence of Miss
Norris. -He went from there to a quiet eating-rouse down in
Nassau street, and got dinner. That afternoon he started for
Philadelphia, and he did not plt for any time until he had gone
as far south as the city of Washington.
In the chapter where we gave an account of Tom's marrying,
we mentioned the conduct of General Jackson in after years,
when Thomas Granville came to him in distress and in trou-
ble. It was the present trip to which we then' alluded. Pres-
ident Jackson took the matter in his own bands, and sent the
name of Thomas Granville to the Senate for confirmation as
Consul to one of the principal cities of France. He furnished
Tom Granville with funds to proceed immediately to New
York. Tom was delayed in Baltimore for a few days. Before
be reached New York, his appointment and confirmation had
been published in all the New York papers. It took all his
acquaintances by surprise. "Ah, that brother. of mine. He
will never be taken alive," exclaimed Pitt Granville, who had
a great admiration of official people, and his brother was now
one, thanks to General Jackson's. friendship. No sooner did
Thomas Granville reach New York, than he proceeded to his
brothel's office. W. Pitt Granville received him kindly, and
conducted him into the inner office.  Before Tom left., Gran-
ville had promised to let him have all the money he needed for
an outfit, and wait for it when Tom  Granville~ should have
reached France, and began to pocket the emoluments of the
Consulate. It is needless to say that the mere fact of his
brother's getting so honorable an appointment abroad was very
gratifying to the senior Granville. A thousand or two. thou-
sand dollars to send out his brother to France, was nothing, in
comparison to the gratification of his own feelings, even if Tom
had never remitted back a cent.
No sooner had Tom received money frqm his brother, than
he at once went to a hotel. There he sat down and wrote a
grateful letter to General Jackson, and inclosed the thirty dol-
lars the President-had loaned-him.
" Your act, General, has made me ascertain that I have more
friends than I dreamed of. As you foretold, I have any quan-
tity of friends since my appointment became pitblic. I had no


214                     VIGOR'
difficulty in raising money, and have sufficient not only to re-
turn you the thirty dollars which you were so good as to make
me take at Washington, but enough left to procure me a hand-
some outfit and pay my expense to the port where I am ap-
pointed."
General Jackson was much gratified with the letter of Tho-
mas Granville~iand wrote him in reply a short but expressive
letter, urging him to leave New York at the earliest moment,
and giving him some good advice as to his conduct while in
office.
Thomas Granville, after he had dispatched his letter to the.
President, found his way up to Broome street. Miss Norris
was in ecstacies at his success. "I knew it was in your line,
if you only exerted yourself."  She then inquired what the
income would be, and into various other matters. Tom said,
he should engage passage to Liverpool, and from thence g6 to
Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, and other places in England
where he. had relations and connexions.
You know my wife has some very aristocratic connexions
in London. One of her great aunts is the Duchess of Leeds,
another is the Marchioness of Carmarthen.:, They were both
Baltimore girls, and married well," said Torn.
"They know all about your wife; of course ?" inquired Clara.
"Certainly. They know of our marriage, and both ladies
wrote on letters congratulating us at the time the unfortunate
affair came off," -said Tom.
"Probably they have heard of your separation fro m your
wife ?" inquired Clara, anxiously.
"Not a syllable. You may bet your life that I have never
uttered a word about it to those grand dames. Nothing has
been said about itin the papers or in any public manner, and
I am quite sure that my wife and her relations are too cur*
sedly mortified about the affair to have written such unpleasant'
'news, said Tom Granville.
"Thomas Granville," repeated Miss Norris, coming close to
him, laying her hands upon his shoulder, and looking him full
in the face, "Tom," she continued, "you have said that you
loved me. Did you mean it, when you used to say it ?"
"Upon my soul i did, Clara; I do love you," answered Tom
Granville, returning her look.
The lady- did not alter her position. -" Thomas, will you
prove it ? Will you take me with you to France ?" .
" You, Clara ! You ! But will you go ? No, no ! I were
mad to think of such a thing. It would d--n all uxy prospects

t

VIGOR.

215

forever. Great God, what a regular row it would kick up!
No, Clara, it would not do. It wouldn't pay. What would
v9',
Granville say.
"Listen to me, Tom Granville. Your brother, the Presi-
dent none of your friends need to know any thing of the mat-
ter. You go to work, get your outfit-.-uniform, letters, com-
mission, letters of introduction. Engage passage, and do every
thing that you have got to do, as though I were not. going. I
will secure my passage in the same ship, but under another
name. When we reach Liverpool, we can then travel toge-
ther, and then what a chance of your paying off your wife old
scores! Take me as your wife--introduce me to the haughty
dames who are her connexions, and see what glorious times we
shall have. After leaving England, I can go with you to Paris
-then follow you to your post-take a little cottage in the
suburbs of the city. 0 Tom, it will be so nice--so quiet, and
we can be so happy," said Miss Norris.
Ah, Tom Granville, where was your'better angel when this
artful syren was pouring such ideas into your confused brain ?
Consul Granville agreed to the entire programme as marked
out by the artful Clara, and it was eventually carried out in all
its details. Clara sold off all her furniture and everything of
value, and placed the money in the Sussex Bank. She went
up and bade her parents good-bye.
When the day for sailing came, Thomas Granville had an
abundance of friends to see him off. His brother Pitt Gran-
ville and a large party went on board the ship, and came up in
the steamboat. Little did any one dream that Miss Norris
was on board, under an assumed name. Yet so it was, and the
shi left the hook with a fair breeze for her destination.
-[I is not in our power to give an account of all that befell
Thomas Granville during the period he was absent from the
United States. He reached England, and so did Miss Norris.
She travelled with him far and wide as his wife. His family
received her as such, and the haughty relations, the two per-
sons to whom we have alluded, made much of their American
relations. Tom and his supposed wife were feted in the most
sumptuous. manner. The relatives of Mrs. Tom Granville
were very much delighted with their relation, as represented
by Miss Norris. But at last her intrigues -became noticed,
and Tom hurried her over to Paris. There they became worse,
and although she kept a purse separate from Tom, before he
had resided at his post~ a year she had coined money in abun-
dance, while he was impoverished., She left him for London,

I


216

VIGOR.

and there her position enabled her to carry- on several liasons,
that brought her in enormous sums of money. She played a
high game, and she won. Ere a, year elapsed, she was back
again in New York. She had been missed, but no one knew,
.where she had gone.
There came letters to the Pinckney family in Baltimore from
the English princesses. They had met Mrs. Tomn Granville,
and were delighted with her. This produced an explosion,
but who was playing so impudent a part became the next ques-
tion. Pitt Granville's relations also wrote to hitm about Mrs.
Tom Granville. An explanation followed. The American
minister in Paris wrote the President all about it. Tom Gran-
ville was recalled or removed just one year from the day he
left New York. Miss Norris preceded him only a month, But'
she had a great lark, with lots of fun and frolic. She had
moved in the highest circles in England and France. She had*
travelled all over the continent; and practiced the languages
she had learned from the Count Falsechinski, and made her-
self perfect in all of them. During her sojourn in England,,
and while upon the continentsof Europe, she -never forgot'for
a single moment one purpose. As we have before stated, she
was engaged in intrigues constantly, but they were not of a low
character.. She passed along as the beautiful and gifted wife
of an American official, and she took care that under that as-
sumed position, all those nobles and gallants who followed in
her train, or who succeeded in their designs, were -men that
had an unlimited control of money. The costly. jewelry and
presents which she received were enormous. She carried over
from London. to Paris a sum equivalent to twenty-five hundred
dollars in cash, and she had not. been ,in Paris a week before
she opened a bank account with the American Banking House
of Welles &amp; Co., and before the expiration of another week
she purchased from that house a bill on New York for twenty-
two hundred dollars. This she remitted to her lawyer in New
Jersey, with directions to pay off the mortgage of two thousand
dollars anil the interest and other expenses. Then she com-
menced flirtation in Paris, until she made her supposed hus-
band, Consul Granville, the laughing stock of all his friends in
Paris. She~then formed an intimacy with a Russian nobleman'
of unbounded wealth, and under his protection visited the prin-
cipal capitals of Europe. She wheedled her Russian admirer
out of a large sum. Soon after her return to 'Paris she gave
him the shp. converted all her funds nto a good .draft on New
York,-'went down to Havre, and took, passage in the ship Erie.

VIGOR.

217

On her arrival she passed from the ship to 1ew Jersey, and'at
Newton deposited her money in the Bank. She, stayed but a
few weeks with her parents. The mortgage of two thousand
dollars had been paid off, and she was the owner of a fine farm.
Her father was a sober, industrious man. Her brother and-
sister she sent to a neighboring town to school. These duties
accomplished, she soon after started for New York. Here she
found Tom Granville, irretrievably ruined and disgraced. His
brother Pitt Granville had had his feelings outraged, and he
would no longer recognize Tom as a brother.
Poor Tom. He managed to get the address of Clara Norris,
who had become more beautiful and more accomplished, but at
the same time more 'heartless than eier. She gave him a few
dollars, and at the same time announced to him that all inti-
iacy was at an end, except she should be pleased to have him
call upon her occasionally. She was residing with Mrs. Wood-
ruff, in Bond Street. Thomas Granville asked her if she in-
tended to keep him in money any longer?
"No Tom-not again. I am going to lead a life after my
own fancy. I shall be in this house but a few days, and then I
am going to follow the bent of my own inclinations. I hope
you are satisfied '' she asked, in a cruel manner.
This was all the information Tom could get, except she pro-
mised that when she got settled, she would write a note to him,
and she 'told him not to call again at Mrs. Woodruff's, but that
if he wished to see or communicate with her, to send a letter
addressed to her, care of Mrs. Woodruff; and he then took his
leave.
We have digressed in this chapter, and brought the doings
of the two principal characters in the chapter in advance of the
period of our main narratiVe.  We return to that in another
chapter.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
D struction of Proprty 6y the Great Fire-its amount-Mr. Granville a
A avy Sufferer-Mr Wilson b cones a Partner-The new House of Mrs,
Nordhim-afarion Moncic a Visitor-An intei esting Courtship-The
Widow Nordheim marines R chard Wilhon.
THE great fire'in New York was a terrific blow to its coM-
iercial prosperity, although. it was not sensibly felt at the
moment or for some mouths subsequent. Millions of property
were destroyed iu one night.' Almost every fire insurance

ii~


218

VIGOR.

company was irretrievably ruined, and ,the merchant whose
goods were fully insured, soon found that the companies where
he had insured would not pay ten cents upon the dollar. The
loss of Mr. Granville was very heavy.' His warehouse in Broad
street was filled with valuable merchandise, and he had ano.-
ther large store in the burnt district with an amount of almost
equal value. He felt this loss very acutely. Had the fire
occurred a few weeks later, it would have found Mr. Wilson a
partner, and also a severe sufferer. The arrangement of hav..-
ing Mr. Wilson come into the firm, with a considerable cash
capital, was now a matter of extensive moment to Mr. Granville.
He stated' frankly to the: former that 'his 'losses were very
heavy, and added,6" I shall not insist upon your complying
with the agreement we had concluded, unless you are perfectly
satisfied that my losses have in no way impaired my solvency."
Mr. Wilson advised fully with Mrs. Nordheim, and then in-
formed Mr. Granville that he should become a partner accord..
ing to agreement, on the approaching first of January. When
that day came, the announcements were made in the daily
journals, and the firm Was changed to "Granville &amp; Wilson."
Mr. Wilson had resided some time with Mrs. Nordheim be-
fore he discovered a suitable house. He did find one, how-f
ever, for sale, and it was purchased, and Mrs. Nordheiim gave
up her house in Bond street, and moved into her own resi-
dence. It was a three story house, not in a fashionable part
of the town, but in a street running from the west end of the
Military Parade Ground, now known as Washington Square.
Shortly after their removal Mr. Wilson invited Marion Monck
to call upon them. He did so, and was pleasantly scolded by
Mrs. Nordheim for his long absence; and she pleasantly .in-
quired after the health of his fascinating friend, Miss Isabella
Granville. This was a sore subject to Marion, and he skillfully
avoided it by saying that he saw so little of Isabella that he
did .not really know whetlir she was well or ill. Mrs. Nord-
heim then inquired particularly about old friends and acquain.-
tances, the Count Falsechinski, Thomas Granville and Miss
Norris. Marion told her that Tom had received a foreign ap-.
pointment, and of Miss Norris he knew nothing. He congra-
tulated Mrs. Nordheim upon her new residence, and with' a
promise to call often, took his leave. After he was gone, the-
beautiful widow sat and mused for a long time.
"What curious beings we are! There is-that lad, Marion-.
I thought I loved him. Perhaps I did so-why, I cannot 'tell
myself. Now I would no more think of making him my hus.-

-s
,

VIGOR.

219

band, than I would of marrying a child. I want some-one that
I can lean upon -some one.that I can trust. 'This youth is as
changeable and unstable as water. Had I not discovered that
he loved Isabella Granville--well, it is all for the best, and I
am fortunate in getting rid of my attachtnent, or what I thought
was such, so easily;' and here the lady drew a long sigh. - At
this moment Mr. Wilson entered the sitting-room.
,"Good evening, my old friend. I have had a visitor. I
wish you could have arrived a little sooner. You would have
seen how perfectly calta I received a visit-from Mariop Monck.
Pshaw! what dupes we are to our own imaginings ! I really
fancied that I had a strong regard for that youth. I find he is
no more to me than a hundred others," said the widow Nord-
heim.
.'Iam very happy that you are able to meet him w'th such
composure. I feared it would be otherwise. But you have a
brave heart," replied Mr. Wilson.
" And a good one, too, I hope. Have you just left the
office ?"
"'About half an hour ago. All was going on well in that
quarter. Mr. Granville has. been terribly scared, and is a
much more sociable sort of partner than I ever thought he
would make. He consults or advises with me in reference to
every matter of importance. Such a change in the tenor of
any one man's life I have never heard of. From the neglected
bookkeeper I am become a prominent merchant, and treated
with the utmost respect by all with whom I come in contact.
It is you, dear lady, that has-done all this, and how can I ever
repay you ?" demanded Mr. I.ilson. "But one thing you
shall know-I fear that my residence with you exposes me to
be talked about, and I would rather go and live somewhere
else---on your account, lady, not on mine," continued honest
Wilson.
" Who dare talk about me, Mr. Wilson, or what can any one
say in reference to my conduct ? Surely I am doing no harm,"
said the widow, with great spirit.
"I ought not to have said anything about it to worry you,
but I could not help it. People joke me. Even Mr. Gran-
ville said with a sneer this morning, that as you had behaved
very kind to me, that I ought to be very careful of your repu-
tation, and that I ought not to reside in the house with you,"
'stammered out poor Wilson.
" I begin to think they are all right, Mr. Wilson. It is curi-
ous. It must appear singular that a merchant who has been a


220

VIGOR-*

clerk should reside alone in the house of one of his late e*-*
ploy ers. It must be remedied, Mr. Wilson-we must give no
occasion to people to make severe remarks, or to talk scandal
about us. What can be done, Mr. Wilson? You are older
and wiser than me, and I look to you for correct advice.. You
are twice my own age. I am but a little girl in years," said
the lively widow.
Mr. Wilson reflected a moment before he attempted to make
any reply. Then he answered quietly, "Although it may put'
you to soige inconvenience, yet I think it would be better that
I should move back to my old quarters at Clarke &amp; Brown s in
Maiden Lane. I could come up here every day. Then I am
-sure the woifd could see no impropriety in you."
" That is your candid opinion, is it, Mr. Wilson?  Now it is
not-mine. I have a better plan, and not half so troublesoine.
Come and-sit down by me on the sofa, and I will tell you what
my plan is," said the widow.
Mr. Wilson seated himself as requested. She reached her-
hand out and gently took hold of his, and continued : "I have
told you that I needed a protector. Suppose, Mr. Wilson, I
could" find a nice, amiable, kind-hearted, middle-aged man, who
would be willing to marry me. What would you think of that
plan ?"
Poor Wilson was aghast. "Really,, Mrs. Nordheim, I-
yes, perhaps it would be, best. But could you love such a man
as you describe ?  He must be a wretch if he did not love you
and make you happy.. It would be better. I know you have
selected the man, or you would not talk so decidedly. Do I
know him ? You must confide in me, and tell me his name. I
will then tell you honestly what I think of him."
Poor Wilson had made a terrible long speech, but it was an
honest one. He was much too humble in his own eyes to
dream for a moment of the real person that the widow had in
view, and he was fearful that it was Colonel Mac Neil, or per-
haps the Count Falseehinski. Had a thunderbolt fallen at his
feet, he could not have been more startled than when Mrs.
Nordheim replied,
"Yes, Mr. Wilson, it is right and proper that I should tell
you the name of the man I intend to ask to become my hus-
band. ' It is Richard Wilson," said the widow firmly.
"Me !" he exclaimed. "My God! can you be in earnest,
or is this a dream ? This is too much honor, too much happi-
ness for a poor old devil like me."
" It is you, Mr. Wilson-that is if you will have me. I will

VIGOR.

-221

try and be a good, loving wife. I will try to make you hap.
py ;" and she gazed fondly into his face with those clear, beau.
tiful eyes, as she said this.
"Mrs. Nordheim !" was all Wilson could say,
"Don't call me- Mrs. Nordheim-call' me Bessy; for you
shall have that right, and no one living but you."
I really don't know what to say. I do love you. If you
wish it I will marry you-but it is not right. You are very
young-gifted, beautiful, rich, and can marry, any one yoi
choose-the very pick of the land; and I am a poor old fel-
low, double your age, and old enough to be your father. Don't
think of it-don't make such a sacrifice !" earnestly exclaimed
Wilson.s
aIt is no sacrifice at all, Mr. Wilson. If you are old enough
to be my father, then you can act father as well as husband,
and I will be a dutiful daughter as well as wife, It shall be
so, unless you refuse me altogether,' she said smilingly.
"() no, dear Bessy! I woulddie for.you, and would be as
-devoted to your interest if you had selected some one else;
but if you will marry me, why you will make me the happiest
man alive," said Mr. Wilson.
"Then, my dear Richard, you are satisfied. So am I. Let
our marriage be as soon as you please. We will have no fuss
or noise.  Send for a clergyman and witnesses to-morrow-
next week-.or any time you choose : we.will be married, and
then all the notice that we will give about it to our dear friends
will be when they will see the announcement in the papers.
Are you satisfied, Richard ?"
Poor Dick Wilson was overcome. He seized the fair widow,
and pressed her to his manly bosom as though heavould never
R      release her. Then he kissed her rc-sy lips, but she offered no
3,     resistance, to either demonstration, but returned his caresses
fondly but gently.
"1Bessy, I am forty years old !" he exclaimed.
"9Richard, I am twenty-two years oldi" and. she laughed
heartily. "I would not have you a year younger for anything.
I respect, esteem, trust you; and, dear Richard, don't fear
but that I shall learn to love you as fondly as if you were only
twenty. I need one thatlI can rely upon in my love, and you
are that one; and I shall give you all the wealth that I possess
of worldly goods, but I 'Shall give you what you will value
more--all the wealth of the most devoted affection," said the
widow.
.Wilson embraced her again and again. His heart was too

1:


VIGOR.

K-

0

CHAPTER

full to speak, but he murmured, "Dear lady, you shall never
regret your choice."
" I don't believe I ever shall, Richard. I will trust you
with my future happiness without a doubt. Now let us talk
quietly over the future."
They did so, until a late hour. Mr. Wilson urged delay in
the marriage. He was anxious that she should have time to'
think- it over. Perhaps she would change her mind. The
lady was resolved
A few days elapsed after the conversation, and then Richard
Wilson and Elizabeth Nordheim went together in a carriage,
one beautiful morning, to the residence of the Rev. Dr. Milner,
in Beekman street. There they met Mr. Pitt Granville, Mrs.
Tom and Isabella. Marion had not been invited. Mr. Wilstn
had two friends there. These parties were witnesses, and the.
venerable clergyman performed the ceremony of marriage.
From the clergyman's residence the small bridal party drove
directly to the house of Mr. Wilson. A table had been spread
with refreshments, and all partook of them. Mr. Granville
then began to make excuses, and said he must go to the office.
" Take Mr. Wilson with you. Mr. Granville. I do not want
him to vary his usual habits. He has not been absent from his
post for years, and I do not want to kill him on our marriage
day by making him give up one of his old habits," said the fair
bride.
A laugh was the consequence of this playful-sally, and Mr.
Wilson, after kissing his wife, joined Mr. Granville and went
to the office.1
The rest of the bridal party took leave of the bride, and she
was left alone. "Poor dear Wilson !" she murmured, "how
perfectly astonished he appears to be.' I dare say he thinks
it all a dream. Never mind--it shall be a happy dream, and
I will begin by making him completely at, his ease, and act as
though nothing -remarkable had happened.  What a lucky
thought to send him dqwn to the store! How delighted he
was to get off! I do love him. But now for dinner. I must
begin to see about that, for he will be back here to dinner as
punctual as the clock."
Thas commenced the wedded life of Mr. and Mrs. Wilson.

VIGOR.

The Ma"riage of Mrs. Nordheim opens the eyes of Mr. Monck-He Condoles
with the Count Falsechinski -He walks upon the Bdttery with Isabella
Granville -A very funny Love Di logue-Appeals to Mr. Granvillefor his
Consent to mtrry Isabella-The latter denies loving Marion-Mr. Gran-
ville sends Afrf. Torn Granville to Maryland-Dischalges Marion Monck
from4Asst,ploy - nus ,4hrn out of his house-S ndsfor Colonel Betison-
Jirriage of yu g Benson to Is.Abla G anville.
WaEN Mr. Granville, accompanied by Mr. Wilson, reached
the counting-room, (which was now heated, after the fire, lower
down Broad street., on the opposite side to where the old store
stuod) he announced to the Count Falsechinski and to Marion
Monek and the other clerks, the event that had occurred that
morning. All immediately pressed around the new married
man, and offered him their sincere congratulatio-ns and. good
wishes. None were more sincere than the Count.- Marion,
without exactly knowing why, was embarrassed. He felt hurt
that he had not been asked to the wedding. He was not con-
scious of feeling deeper upon the subject than this.  In the
course of the day he found himself alone with the Count, and
he remarked to him, "Count, don't you think it very queer
that Mrs. Nordheim, let alone Wilson, did not invite me to the
wedding ?"
"Marion," replied the Count, "allow me to say that T can-
didly think you are a perfect ninny-a blind male mole..-an
ignoramus-a jackass-and if I knew any other term to express
the most consummate stupidity, I would apply it to you."
A . Marion sprung off his office stool.
"Count, what do you mean?    Do you wish to insult me
"Not at all, my dear-boy ; but you are so queer, so ex--
tremely so, that I cannot put up with you any longer. Invite
you ?. That would have been cool. No, no, my dear child:
you were not wanted at that wedding. Marion, while yoi
were making an infernal fool of yourself, and falling in love
with that silly fool, Isabella Granville, Mrs. Bessy Nordheim
was deeply attached to you. Mrs. Tom Granville went up an.
told Mrs. Nordheim that you were engaged to her niece. - Mrs,

XXXIX.

I

02 2

223


224                      VIGOR.
Nordheim sent you away from her house that day, for it was
only on being told that you loved another, that the lovely lady
discovered the nature of her feelings to you.  She acted
wisely, and got rid of you, determined to forget you. She is
an affectionate disposition. She found sympathy in Wilson.
He is a devilish good fellow. She wanted some body that she
could love and respect at the same time. She put Wilson in
business-took him to her home, and-to-day she has married
him. She has done well, and mark my words, there will not
be a happier married.couple in New York than these two. I
know them both. Now, are you not an idiot ? . Such chances
-and you let them slip ! Now get rid of that other affair. Get
off with Miss Isabella, as I advised you the night of the fire, or
you will regret that, for the moment Mr. Granville suspects
that, he will start you out of his house and out of -his employ.
The girl is a heartless coquette, and she would not cross the'
street -to pick you out of the gutter, if you happened to fall into
it. What! not a word in reply ?" demanded the Count.
"No, Count; I have nothing to say. I see through it all
now. My eyes are opened. Why did you not tell me about
Mrs. Nordheim before ?" asked Marion.
" Itell you ! That is cool. Why, my -dear boy, it would
have done noigood. Salt could not have saved you. The mo-
ment Kate Granville informed Mrs. Nordheim about your affair
with Isabella, your cake was dough. A- woman that loves,
when.. he hears that the one she loves is also in love with-
another woman. Bah. It is no use talking thus. The affair
is all over; but cheer up, mait, the world has not come to an
en d, and although Mrs. Nordhein has become Mrs.Wilson, and
Miss Granville will shortly become Mrs. Benson, yet there is
still as good fish in the sea as ever were caught, and will be
many more by the time you are thirty years old, and if you
think of getting married before that period of your age,. you
are perfectly insane," exclaimed the Count.
Marion was in no humor to combat the Count's remarks. He
felt convinced, and wanted time to think. He only replied
with a few words.
"Count, if I do not say mgeh, it is because I feel just as
though I should like to go and stretch myself. That will do.
me good. .I am going to walk for an hour with a gentleman on
the Battery. Not a very agreeable companion at this moment-.
It is myself."
" Go along, my boy ; and whatever may chance to turn up,

VIGOR,

225

do not forget that Adolph Falsechinski is your friend," cheer.
ingly said the Count.
Marion sauntered down to the Battery, and he had not
walked there many minutes before he was joined by Isabella
Granville.
"Why, Isabella, I thought you were up at the wedding
which came off this morning," said Marion.
'-So I was, dear Marion ; but I have been back some time.
I saw you on the Battery, and I ventured to come and take a
walk with you. Was Pa at the store when- you came away ?"
she asked.
"He was," replied Marion; "and I have no reason to supi
pose he will leave there until late."
" A curious wedding this morning. Were you not sur-
prised at it,' Marion? and how did it happen that you were not
present ?" she asked.
"I was not invited. In fact, I knew nothing about it.'
"Were you not surprised at it ?" asked.Isabella.
"Nothing surprises me now. I should not be surprised
were you to get married to some person that I never heard of.
before," said Marion.
"You appear quite vexed. this morning. I hope you are not
angry with me," softly whispered the young lady.
"No, Isabella; not with you. I am vexed with myself, I
could tell you a very singular story, if I chose to do so. Isa-
bella, you know that Mrs. Nordheim was once a friend of mine
--a warm friend."
"I very much suspect, Marion, that she was once very much
in love with you," replied Isabella.
"She certainly treated me with kindness until the day your
Aunt Kate went up to her house, and under pretence of con-
sulting with her, contrived to let her into our secrets, and told
her that you and me were engaged. That night, Isabella, Mrs.
Nordheim gave me a hint to go-no-not a hint; she told me
she wished me to leave her house as speedily as possible.'. I
did so, and since then she has exhibited no kindness to me.
On the contrary, not inviting me to her wedding this morning,
was in perfect keeping with her other acts," said Marion,
"An'd poor me is the cause of this ill-treatment, which you
seem to take so much at heart. What need you care for Mrs.
Nordheim, orfor Mrs. Wilson as she now is? She can be
nothing more to you," said Isabella.
indeedd she cannot be. But say no more of her, but let us

Xi

'


226

VIGOR.

speak of our own future. You love me, Isabella, do you not ?"
asked Marion.
" How can you doubt it, dear Marion? I have told you so a
hundred times," replied Isabella.
"I did a very wrong thing, Isabella, when I consented to be
engaged to you, to agree not to mention it to your father. I
have felt mean ever since. I have lost my own manliness of
character. I wish, dearest Isabella, you would tell me this
morning, 'Go to my father. Tell him all, and when he asks
me if I love you, I will say yes, and leave the consequence to
Providence. We shall both feel easier. We shall have- done
right, and our minds will be relieved.' What do you say, Isa-
bella 1  Say yes," said Marion.
The fair, but treacherous young coquette held down her
head, and walked some distance before she opened her lips.
Then it was to say, "But, Marion, 'it is perfectly useless. Pa
would dismiss you from the store and from the house.".
" But," pleaded 'Marion, "I could bear that even, provided
you assure me solemnly that you willstill be constant and true,
and continue to love me until I am in a different situation, and
that if the worst comes to the worst, that if your father cannot
be persuaded to give his consent to- our marrying, that you
will be mine without his consent. Assure me of this, and ere
I sleep to-night, your father shall know all," said Marion.
" You will do.nothing of the kind if you really love me, as
you say you do. Pa would kill me outright. He made me
consent to marry Middleton Benson, although you know I per.
febtly detest that young man. But what could I do? Don't.
stare at me in that furious manner.; you quite frighten me,"
exclaimed poor Isabella.
Marion had stopped suddenly in his walk when, Isabella
made this queer statement, and gazed fixedly into her face. At
last he spoke, and it was with such concentrated bitterness
that the young lady began to weep.
" Isabel, how deeply, devotedly I have loved you, God alone
knows; but what are you ? A trifling, silly, nonsensical doll,
baby, or are you a young girl of principle, character and firm-
ness?  Tell me at once, and truly, all the. facts you have hint-
ed at. Has young Benson offered his hand to you, and when?"
" Oh, some days ago. Pa told me he would do so, and that
he and old Colonel Benson had arranged it all. What could I
do? The young man called. He told me he loved me and all
that sort of thing, and asked me if I would marry him," re-
plied poor Isabel, crying.

VIGOR.

22%

7

"And you, Isabel," exclaimed Marion in tones somewhat
agitated and rather sternly-" what did you reply ?"
He took her hand in his, and led her to one of the benches.
"I am very caln, Isa. Sit down quietly now, and tell me all
about it. Of course you appealed to his honor-you told him
that you had long loved me-that we were engaged, and-
and-" said Marion,
"No, I did not do any thing of 'the sort," said .Isabel.
"What did you say then when he asked you if you woiild
marry him ?" nervaously inquired Marion.
"Why, I.had to tell him yes, of course-what else could I
say ?" pleaded Isabella.
Marion dropped the pretty little hand which he had held in
his, and in the most indignant manner addressed the, poor
-silly girl--
" I am ashamed that I should ever have lost my heart to
you. You profess to love me, and say yes to a proposal of
marriage from another! Oh Isabel, had any one else 'told me
this of you, I would have crammed the words down his throat.
Do you love that young man ?" asked Marion calmly.
"*No, I don't," was the reply of Miss Granville.
"And yet you agree to marry him when he asks you!"
I had to do it," said Isabella.
"And do you intend to marry him ?" asked Marion.
I suppose so: what else can I do ?" replied Isabella.
"Do you mean, dear Isabel, that you would do any thing
else' to avoid this proposed marriage ?"
"Yes, I will. I don't like young Benson, and I do love
you,"-was her reply.  .          #
"Then, Isabel, let us walk up to the Bowling Green. There
are cairiages always stalling there.  We will enter one of
them, and proceed to the same clergyman's residence who mar-
ried Mrs. Nordheim this morning. He will marry us. As soon
as the ceremony is performed I will go and' tell the, whole to
your father ; he will forgive us. Only reflect how gratefully
he has expressed himself at my saving his portfolio and books
from the fire. Come, Isabel, say you will consent, and I will
make you the happiest little wife that ever 'drew breath," and
again the little hand was clasped in hers, and he seated him-
self at her side.
" Why, Marion, what are you thinking of! I would not go
in this dress, and if I was to go home and change it, Aunt
.Kate would smell a rat, and then there would be such a to-do.
-Oh no, don't think of it any more," said Isabel.

map
all
My
Ina.,
jQ'
A
lift-%
n Am X,
Q. All:,
bmil,
PIP

9


228                     VIGOR.
" Really, Isabel, you would tire out the patience of a saint.
The dress. is nothing ; if you love me you will marry me, and,
then all will be soon settled. Your father will consent.  But
if you will not go now, will you make your arrangements, and
run away with me the first good chance you get-say this eve-
ning ?" earnestly demanded Marion.
"I can't this evening. I am going to a party at Colonel
Benson's, and I would not miss going there for all the world.
Why need we go and get married?  Pa will kill us both if we
do.. Let him have his own way. It will b.e a great deal bete
ter," replied Isabel Granville.
" Isabel, is this trifling upon so serious a -subject right ?
Say that you will not marry me, and then I shall know what to
do," said Marion.
"I will marry you-that is, I like you better than that stu--
pid Benson, if Pa will consent; but there it is again, he will
not consent, and what can I do ?" observed Isabella-
"If your father was to ask you, Isabel, if you loved me,
what would you say, Daisy ??'
"If Pa appeared to be angry when he asked me, I should
say 'No.' If he appeared pleased I would say 'Yes.' It
would depend altogether upon circumstances. What else
could I do ?" replied the fair girl.
" My poor Isabel, I pity you from the bottom of my heart,
but I will not be in suspense longer.  I will know  my. fate,
to-night. Come, let us walk towards the house.  Take my
arm," said the angry young man.
Theytwalked to the house, and Marion bade the young lady'
good-bye. From the hQuse he went directly to the office. Mr.
Wilson had gone home and Mr. Granville was alone in his pri-
vate office.  When Marion entered the counting-room, the
Count looked at him for a moment, and observed in a low tone,
"Marion, what is the matter ? You seelp to be very ner-,
vous and excited, Don't be rash, whatever you do."
Marion was in no humor to be pacified, At that moment it
appeared to him as though the world had but one object. His
marriage with Isabella Granville, his clerkship, his property,
all were forgotten. He stepped hastily into. Mr. Granville's
private office. The old merchant raised his eyes from the
letter he was writing, and without laying down his .pen, asked
mildly,;
".Any thing particular, Marion ?"
"Yes, Mr. Granville, it is very particular. I regret that I

VIGOR.                     229
have not told you before. I will , tell you now, if you will
listen to me."
The merchant quietly laid down his pen and listened to a
narrative which seemed to paralyze him for a moment. Marion
informed him of his long attachment-their engagement-of
Label's anxiety to conceal it-of her repentance in reference
to her promise to marry Benson, and concluded with inform-
ing Mr. Granville that he was satisfied that Isabel loved him,
and that she would boldly declare it if he would not scare his
daughter when he asked her the question. Mr. Granville did
not interrupt the narrative except when in the relating of it
Marion mentioned the name of Mrs. Tom Granville.  He then
simply inquired the extent of her knowledge of' what was
passing. It was too late for Marion to equivocate or excuse
any one. He told the truth.
" Wait for a moment'here," Mr. Granville coldly remarked,
and then went to the cashier and received from him a roll of
money.   "Now, Mr. Monek, will you go with me ?' politely
asked Mr. Granville.
" Certainly, sir," answered Marion.
There was not another word spoken until both were inside
Mr. Granville's house. - The parlor was empty. He rang the
bell. The servant answered it.
" Tell Miss'Isabel I wish to see.her," said the father.
A moment only elapsed ere the fair girl entered the- room.
She blushed deeply when she saw who was with her father
" Come here, my child. This young gentleman has informed
me that he has long been attached to you, and believes that
you are attached to him ; is it so ?" kindly asked Mr. Gran-
ville.
She made no reply.
"Did you not tell young Mr.~Benson that you loved him,
and that you would marry him ?" asked Mr. Granville.
I did, Pa," was the.child's reply.
"Have you altered your mind, my darling ?"
"No, Pa," was the response, plainly spoken.
"Do you wish to marry Mr. Marion Monck ?"
No, Pa, 'if you do not wish me to do so."
" You can go to your room. Seld down your Aunt Kate to
me. Now, Mr. Monck, I presume you are satisfied," said
Mr. Granville.'
" I am, sir.- I have been most grossly deceiyed, and I would
not marry her, sir, if she were Queen of England," said the
indignant Marion.

4

F I

*

I


230

VIGOR-

"I dare say you would not, nor as Miss Isabella Granville.
But enough of this."
Here entered Mrs. Tom Granville.
"Did you send for me, brother Granville?" she asked.
I did, madam, and it was to place in your hands this mo.
ney," handing her a roll. "I have had evidence of how care-
fully you have guarded my daughter, and I wish to relieve
you from all farther responsibility, in the matter.  Please use
that money to go to Baltimore- this afternoon, or so soon as
you see fit. I hope to have my house relieved of your pres-
ence before -night," coldly remarked, the exasperated Mr.
Granville.
"I shall not be here an hour longer, I can assure you,
brother of mine"-and, turning to Marion---" I hope some day
to thank you for your manliness in revealing secrets to Mr.
Granville which, as a gentleman,. you had nor right to reveal.
I wish you both farewell."
Aunt Kate left the room. Meanwhile Mr. Granville seized
a pen and wrote a note, carefully sealing it. It was directed
to the cashier of his concern. "Take this, sir," he said, ad-
dressing Marion, "and go to the office. The cashier to whom
it is addressed will make up your accent and give you a check
for what salary is due you. I will remain here until you re-
turn. If there is not money in the office, tell him to fill up a
check, and I will sign it here. Bring the cartman with you
when, you return. I wish you to remove from my house as
speedily as possible. It is unnecessary for me to add that I
shall have no further need of you in my business; in fact, I
wish our acquaintance to end to-night in all ways and shapes,"
sternly observed the merchant.
"Lcan assure you that in this matter, Mr. Granville, I will
be as obedient as I haye ever been to your wishes," was
Marion's response.
, " Thank you. I regret what has occurred, but it cannot be
helped. After what has passed, your own. good sense will
point out to you that our acquaintance is at an end," said Mr.
Granville.
Marion bowed, but did not venture to reply. He carried the
note to the office. The cashier made up his account, and
drew a check for the balance. The Count had left the office.
"Are you going to leave us ?" asked the kind-hearted
cashier.O
" I believe 30," was the reply. .  .

VIGOR.'

231

"Take the check to Mr. Granville to be signed. Here is
your account, on which I have placed my initials."
Marion then found the cartman and proceeded to State
street. The check was signed by Mr. Granville without a
word of comment. Marion went up to his room, packed his
things, and one of the servants of Mr. Granville who had gone
up with him helped him to.bring his trunks down stairs, and'
they were placed upon the cart. "Where shall I g ?" asked
the cartman. For a inoment;,-Marion appeared contfi9ed. He
did not know where to go. . He thought of Mr. Wilson's old
place, and then he told the cartman to drive to Clark &amp; Brown's,
in Maiden lane. There he went and there. we will leave him.
After Marion's departure, Mr. Granville despatched a note
to Col. Benson. That gentleman replied to it by calling in
person. The two gentlenien were alone for a long time. Mrs.
Kate Granville ha'd been taken with her baggage to the Phila-
delphia train before Colonel Bensoir arrived.' She did not bid
her brother-in-law good-bye a second' time, but pressed Isa'
6.ella to her heart when she left her in-her own room. NV e
will not go into any unnecessary details, but will come at once
to results. That evening a saall party was assembled at Mr.
Granville's residence. Colonel Bensofi, his wife, his daughter,
and his son were there. A venerable clergyman was also
present, and before he left, Mr. Middleton Benson became the
husband of Isabella Granville.
The simple girl was, very pale, but she made the responses
during the ceremony with a firm voice, and it would have been
difficult for a stranger to have noticed that she was dissatised
in the least with her share in the proceedings. Mr. Granville
appeared satisfied that he was doing a good deed, and provid-
ing well for a favorite child. Colonel Benson, also, was not
displeased. His son had made what is called a good match.
The settlements made by.Mr. Granville were unexceptionable,
and of the most liberal character. He was entirely ignorant
that Isabella bad any previous. attachment, for Mr. Granville
had considered it unnecessary to mention what he- deemed a
childish attachment. Middleton acted like a child who had
become possessed of a pretty toy that he had admired for a
long time.
It had been decided by the old people that the new married
couple should continue to reside in State street, at the old
mansion, and Mr. Granville was to live with them at least for
a time. So closed the day, eventful by the fact of the two
marriages.

1,

mi

top"
:U p""

jfA~


232  -I    VIGOR'

CHAPTER XL.
(lark x Brown's Cofee house in Maide Lane-Mfarion  fonck in his nne
Qurters-The Count Falsechnski calls upon him with on ofer of money---
Aleets Mr. Bonnet in Nassau street, and accimpanies hi-n home-Some ca-
?ious facts in reference to the Editor of the Herald-lts Early Hi tory, and
the real secret character of Mr. Bennett'
MARION removed with bis baggage to the coffee-house in
Maiden Lane. It was a lodging house and a restaurant com-
bined. It furnished rooms at the moderate sum of two and a
half dollars a week, and tlheAoccupant had it optional with him-
self where to get his meals. le had to pay for what he or-
dered, and if he chose to-live expensively .and consume the
choicest bits in the larder, he could do so, or he could live on
a more simple fare, or he could; in case of stern necessity,
live on bread and water.
When the room had been selected, his baggage carried into
it, and he felt located, Marion came down into the bar-room,
and ordered a glass of hot whiskey punch and a cigar. He,
had already learned the way to drown sorrow.  He had not
long been seated in the bar-room ere the Count Falsechinski
entered.
"1Aha, Monsieur Marion. I am seeking for you," was his
first address; as he took a chair and seated himself by the side
of our hero,
"1I am glad to see you, Count, particularly to-night. I sup-
pose you have heard that I am no longer one of the white
..slaves of Mr. Granville," observed Marion with a-good deal of
bitterness.
it was the merest accident in the world.  I was at the
office towards night, and the cashier told me that you had been
paid off, and while he was relating this to, me, the cartman,
Billy Christie, entered, and from him I learn that he had
carted you and your baggage to this place. What led to the.
explosion, and your sudden dismissal, is beyond my present
knowledge, and if you will favor me with all the particulars I
shall feel very much obliged, and my mind will be very much
relieved," replied the Count.

F

fit

233

VIGOR.*

Marion cheerfully complied with this reasonable request,
and commenced as follows:
" Count, I deemed your advice good, and I followed it to
the letter.  I determined to know my fate -to know the
worst."
Then Marion continued, and told the Count all -that our
readers have been informed respecting the events of the day.
The Count replied,
"Nothing but what I expected, my dear boy.  I suppose
you are satisfied now that what I told you is true, that you
have nothing to hope for in the case of Miss Granville."
" I am satisfied that Mr. Granville. is a hard-hearted, un-
grateful man, and all my services to hiin go for nothing," said
Marion.
" Of course they do.  He is like all the rest of mankind-.
no more nor less. As long as you were of service to him, he
was your friend. You cross his purpose, and you are kicked
out without a word. Have you any-money ?" asked the ount
very kindly.
" Plenty ; he paid the balance of my salary, and I have a
couple of hundred dollars in my pocket," said Marion.
"Two hundred dollars judiciously spent will enable you to
carry on the war for some time. I was afraid you had no mo-
ney, and came to request that you would make me your bank-
er. I am a' rich man, and you need but to ask me for money
to obtain it in any quantity. I have had an idea of leaving
the employ of Mr. Granville for some time. I shall do so at
once. He -has treated you so badly that it will no longer be a
pleasure to remain with or be connected with him," remarked
the amiable Count.
"I thank you, Count, for your generous offer-and I will
add,i that.did I need assistance I would at once go to you for
it,".replied Marion.
"That is right ; and now I wish to give you some advice.
Don't take any situation for the present. These changes make
a more sensible man. You, I dare say, Marion, think that
losing your situation with Mr. Granville will be a great injury
to you. No such thing. It will be of service. A young man
who is in one position too long gets stereotyped. You had no-
thing to expect more from him. You have learned all that is
to be learned in that shop.  Now you must try something
else. But don't be in a hurry.  I have something in view
for you, but my plans are not quite maatured yet. As soon as
they are, I shall need your services, and you will find your

pHs
bpi
N F
04
yj
tv


234'

VIGOR'

situation much bettered from what it was yesterday. One
thing I must insist upon; don't fall in love again with the
next pretty face you meet," said the Count good-humoredly.
Here. they were surprised by the entrance of a young clerk
of Mr. Gxanville, who had been a warm friend of Marion. His
eyes were sparkling with excitement, and he hastily observed,
Well, Marion, I have got some news that I thought -you
would like to hear, and so I came around to tell you. I have
just been to all the morning papers with an advertisement."
"What was it about, Benny ?" demanded Marion.
"It was a notice of the marriage of Miss ~Bell with Mr.
Benson this evening; Mr. Granville sent me with it," replied
the boy named Benny.
"Oh," exclaimed the Count, I like that.  That is caging
the pretty bird with a vengeance.  So, it is all over at last.
Marion, my boy, allow me to congratulate you with all my
heart. I hope you are cured now, eh'?"
Marion did not speak; he was very pale and very angry.
He walked across the room rapidly several times, ordered more
punch, and thent reseated himself.
It is a bitter medicine, Count, but it is all for the best;
and as you say, I am satisfied. Thank you, Benny, for the
news. Come and see me when you have a spare moment.'.
Benny took his leave, and soon after the Count followed his
example. When Marion retired to his room that night, it was
not to sleep ; his mind, was too .excited for that.  He lay
awake thinking over plans for the future ; but before any par-
ticular one to suit him had been presented to his mind's eye,
lie fell asleep, and it was at a late hour the next morning
when he awoke. It all seemed like a dream. le hastily
dressed himself, hurried- down to the bar-room, snatched up a,
morning paper, and in it found the marriage notice alluded to
by the boy Benny.
"1No, no," he exclaimed, " it is no dream ; it is all true."
He' read no more, but went into the dining room and ordered
a cup of coffee and a light breakfast, and when he had finished
this slight repast, feeling much better, he smoked a cigar,
and took his way up Nassau street. Once or twice he turned
about with his face towards the store.  How odd it is to
change our habits, and refrain from frequenting old haunts
For years Marion's footsteps had taken him in the direction of
Mr. Granville'A counting room. Suddenly he found himself
cut off from going there- any more. He could hardly realize it,
and he felt an isolation that can only be understood by those

I

VIGOR.

235

who have experienced it.  He wended 'his way Up to the
Clinton Hall, in which building was the Mercantile Library
Association. He had never omitted to pay his dues at that
knowledge-fountain for young clerks, and had never discon-
nected himself from it, although for a long - time he had not
availed himself fully of its privileges. This morning he saun.
tered in, was accosted cheerfully by the librarian, and for an
hour or more he amused himself by reading one 'of the Euro-
pean publications found upon its tables.. Tired of this, Marion
again sought the street, and passed out of the Hall'by the Nas-
sau street entrance. He halted for a moment on the step, and
was accosted by a person who was passing, -with a "' Good
morning, sir."
" Good morning," replied Marion, but at that instant he
recognized the speaker, and added, "Ah, Mr. Bennett, I did
not at first recognize you; how do you do, sir ?"
"Very well; and what are you doing up near little Wall
street? I thought your researches did not extend above the
lower Wall street," said Mr. Bennett, laughing, for he had
already nicknamed Ann street, in which the Herald office was
located, as ' Little Wall street.'
"I cannot say that. I am connected with' Wall street or
Broad street any more ; I am out of mercantile business, "-said
'Marion.
Indeed! How long since ?" asked Mr. Bennett,
"Twenty-four hours," replied Marion.
Mr. Bennett added, " Then your time cannot be much occu-
pied, and you wifl have leisure to go over the way to my
room. Come along with me."
Marion did as Mr. Bennett desired, and went over to the
editor's room. At that time, directly'opposite Clinton Hall in
Nassau street, there stood five brick three-story buildings,
about twenty feet wide each. ' The lower floors were occupied
as stores and the upper part as boarding houses.  It waq in
.the third' building from the corner of Beekman that Mr. Ben-
nett had his quarters. 'Marion followed his conductor up the
narrow stairs to the third floor, and into the front room over-
looking Vassau street.
".This is my sanctum," said tie editor, "and now take a
seat and make yourself at home. I have a line to write and
then I will talk-to you."
Marion glanced his eyes about the sleeping apartment of the
man who was even then making himself felt in journalism.
'There was a maple single bedstead in one corner of. the room,~

w

K

YE  i


236

VIGOR-

and between the windows was a table with but Very few papers
upon it ; for it is a very extraordinary fact that ,this remarka-
ble editor, even in after years, when an accumulation of letters
and masses of manuscript read and received would have been
on his hands, never appeared to have many papers about him;
all were disposed of summarily and systematically, and' but
few papers covered his table. There were oue or two books
recently published, sent in to be noticed. Oa one corner of
thp table was a small pocket edition of Shakespeare, with leaves
innumerable turned down as an index, and many little slips of
paper markers between the leaves. The imprint was "Glasgow:
1814." ' The editor had now finished what he was writing, and
noticipg that Marion had examined the little volume, he
observed, "That volume is a great favorite of mine. I value
it not only. as 'Shakespeare,' but as in old familiar friend. I
brought it with me from Scotland. It was my only coiipanion
from Charleston here, and in many of my wanderings it has
been the only book I owned, as it is now'the only book I own.
I would not part with it for its weight in gold.-You told me
you had left commerce. flow is that ?"
Marion then informed him of what had passed to the extent
that-he had parted from Mr. Granville.0
"And what dd you intend to do now ?-" asked the editor.
"I don't exactly know. I presume I shall find, some open-
ing for me. I have served an apprenticeship of over seven
years, and it would seem like folly to throw all the information
I have acquired in that time away, and seek some other em-
ployment," said Marion.
" How would you like to connect yourself with newspaper
life ? I think you would succeed very well," observed the
editor.
"Me! I never wrote a line in my life to be, printed," was
Marion's reply.
" It don't follow that you could not do it. On the contrary,
I think you would write well with a little practice. Do you
remember that boarding-house story you told at the dinner the
day you became of age ? That was very amusing. If I had it
-now I would publish it. If you could writc that, precisely as
you told it,'it would make a capital article," said theditor.
" You flatter me, Mr. Bennett; but-v I. am afraid I should
make a poor band at a newspaper article. I must stick to
business, and I suppose I shall find something to do ere long,"
answered Marion.
" If you do not, come and' see me," Mr. Bennett replied.

VIGOR.

237

I

"I am rarely mistaken in my estimate of a person's ability,
and I will give you a trial whenever you are so disposed. So
Miss Granville is married ?"
"1Yes sir. She was married last night. You must 'have
noticed it in the morning papers ?" said Marion.
"I did. What passes among my friends, .or my enemies,
for that matter, rarely escapes my attention. I generally. get
hold of it early. And my white-cravated friend Wilson has
also married ? Why, marriage seems to be the order of the
day in your quarter of the city. Bye-and-bye I suppose you
will be following the example of some of these people.. What
has become of the Count Falsechinski?  He is a very curious
fellow, that," said the editor.
Marion made a reply, not noticing the marriage allusion. It
was a sore subject to him ; and. soon after he remarked that
he knew the value of an editor's time, and would not trespass
longer upon it, and he took his leave. Before doing so, the
editor gave him a cordial invitation -to call upon him at any
time he found convenient, that he should always be happy to
see him. This was an invitation that Mr. Bennett gave to very
few people of the tens of thousands that he came in contact
with then and in after years.
That scene in a Nassau street boarding-house occurred a
quarter of a century ago. That editor was as conscious of
power at that time as he isg now. He cared nothing for money
then, save to serve the great purpose of his life, the establish-
ment of a great independent daily journal, modelled after his
own ideas of what a daily journal should be.' He worked then
with brain and hands-nientally and physically, to achieve suc-
cess, and he succeeded. He had commenced with a partner,
a stupid jackass, in Ann street. After the fire, which had
burned out his establishment, Mr. Bennett started'again, alone,
with a solemn determination that for his natural life he would
have no more' to do with partners. He planted upon the* ie-
raId 'its imprint, " James Gordon Bennett, Editor and Propri-
etor," and it has never been changed to this day. His old
partner started an opposition paper, another Herald, but that
soon died out, and Mr. Bennett was in the field alone. He
was not inexperienced in journalism in the city of New York,
for as early as 1827 he started in Chatham  Square a small
daily, which he sold for one cent. It did not last long. Later
he started a Sunday paper. He was for a long time connected
with a paper that the celebrated Henry Eckford owned, called
the National Advocate. His connection with Webb and Noah

I


I

is well known. lie made these men famous, and when he left
the Courier and Enquirer, it was to connect himself with a
daily journal in Philadelphia. From thence he came to New
York, and soon after the Herald sprang into existence. Mr.
Bennett was then what he has been in more mature age, quiet,
reserved and thoughtful. Words may escape his memory, but-
never an, idea, or a new idea. Few men can distinguish so
readily the difference between mere words, however prettily
expressed, and words that convey ideas. He has ever used a
small memorandum book. In it lie writes a catch word to a
thought or an idea. This book is the key to the editorials in
his paper of that or the ensuing day, or used to recall an idea,
a fact, or the beading for an article weeks or months after it'
was noted, and eventually 'became the subject matter for a
" leader," or a series ot editorials of a thundering or. startling
character.
He is both shy and extremely sensitive. He admits'few to
any degree of intimacy with him. Those that he so selects
must be original men, who are able to suggest new ideas, or
strike out ne w and startling subjects-men who have travelled,
and who can give him information upon subjects that lie did
not know before. All is fish that comes to his net. He values
men as they contribute to the success of his journal.- Person-
ally he is as cold as an icicle. . With a man of information, he
will talk out an editorial in' the very presence of the man who
has originated the ideas or facts upon which it is based. He
will enlarge upon the emanations of the minds of others so
that when they read the very editorial a few days afterwards,
and recognize its groundwork or base, they will be perfectly
astounded at the beauty and symmetry' of its appearance, its
ornaments, and the genius of the entire editorial structure. If
a statesman calls upon him, and he possesses genius, original-
ity, or information of any kind, past, present or future, that ,is
unknown to Mr. Bennett, the eyes of the latter sparkle-he
moves uneasily in his chair, or rouses himself up if reclining
on a sofa, and leads off in conversation until he draws his man
out, and has drained him dry. -Then perhaps he will talk on
for his own practice, or to impress the subject more fully upon
his own memory, or to shape it for an editorial. Some editors
write out their thoughts--Mr. Bennett thinks them out, in his
solitary hours, and is as ready to dictate a complete editorial
from his tongue, as others were to write one. Some days. a
gentleman will see in the next day's Herald an analysis of his
own 'conversation with the editor the evening previous. What

VIGOR.

*23

he acquires from anybody goes into the editorial mind and
mill, and the editorial miller grinds it and adopts it as his own,
and forgets where it came from; and so completely does it be-
come a part of himself, that he will use the identical idea or
fact to the very man who gave it to him, unless perhaps he has
previously used it in the Herald editorials.
Many mdn, or rather the vast majority of mankind who read
the Herald, have no real idea of the character, mind or habits
of the editor and proprietor. They regard him as a lucky in-
dividual, who as an editor has prospered in life in a financial
point of view, and is enabled to cluster around him men of
talent, and that these writers make the great newspaper that
the Herald unquestionably is. This is true but to a very lim.
ited extent. Those men carry out ideas that originate with the
proprietor. His mind is unceasing in'its activity. -It is never
idle. He comes to his office charged with matter for his edi-
torials. He calls in one reporter to his private sanctum. Die-
tating a column perhaps upon one subject,. the reporter takes
it down in shor-t hand in five or ten minutes, and goes out to
his desk to write. it out. Another reporter -succeeds him. Mr.
Bennett is perhaps ten minutes more in dictating another col-
umn, upon another su ject. So it goes on for an hour, until
editorial articles of the highest importance are dictated. The
reportters. write out these articles.. They are sent up to the
printing office, and all the force is put on them. Mr. Bennett,
if he chooses, can read the corrected proof, and yet not be de-
tained more than an hour at the office from the time he arrived.
Such are the inner workings of the Herald office.
Money, this singular man regards as dross, except so far as
it contributes to the increase of his paper. Show Mr. Bennett.
a mode by which he could make a million certain in a specula-,
tion, and he. would laugh at the proposal, but decline to have
anything to do with the affair.' 1 This can be said of him- with
truth, that he. never speculated to the extent of a dollar in his
life, and never prostituted or used the' columns of his paper
to forward the speculationsor private objects of others know-
iigly. Show him a working plan of type and press that would
-strike off a million of copies an hour, and he would buy it, if
it cost a million, and would not give a penny more for it, were
he guaranteed the exclusive use of it. He wants the best of
everything that increases the power of the Herald, but he
cares not a fig if the rival papers have the same facilities.' He
wants the machinery of the Herald equal to any other paper.
aHe don't want any to exceed him, but he cares not how near

VIGOR.

238.

;JAI
A
Am A
n
jW
antj
T
"Nit
A
in 1
job,",
top
I in


24:0                      VIGOR.
they approach him, if they have the genius and means to do so.
The Herald is himself-he knows no other joy or pleasure
compared with it.  It is his god-,-his idol-his all ; and every
thing else falls below it in his mind. His is a terrible power,
and he knows it. He is conscious that every line tells upon
thousands of the human race.
He has the giant's power, but does not use it like a giant.
If Mr. Bennett had malice, he could dictate an editorial that
wbuld set New York by the ears, and have mobs and riots
every week of his life. But no-that he does not regard as
the proper vocation of a great newspaper conductor.
We are somewhat i advance of our story, but the author
has written of a man who 'twenty-five years ago was what he is,
now, save success--which be had 'not then reached. People
have an idea that the Herald twenty-five years ago was a hor-
rible paper. It was not so, and would not appear so if the old
files were re-published to-day. When Mr. Bennett started
the Herald he published'-every thing that occurred or that was
talked about in the street. At that time it was an innovation.
upon the old established newspaper custom, and the Herald
was regarded as an immoral publication. Now the same things
are published daily, only a hundred times worse, by every
daily paper, but nothing is thought of it.
CIIAPTE[ RXLI.
Mr. Wilson demand explanations of Mr Granville, his Partner, in respect to
- the discharge of Marion Monck-Mr. Granmile gives them- Wilson invites
Marion to his house to dine-Cordial reception by Mrs. Wilson-The bad *uc-
cess of Marion's friends in procuring him another clekkship-Dfarion becomes
dissipa4ted--Gets acquainted with Theatrical Managers and Actors-Gives
suppers and dines in restaurants-The Count Falsechinski wakes him up to a
higher course.
THE sensation created upon the minds of Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
son at their breakfast the morning after their own marriage,
when they read in the morning papers of another marriage,
that of young Benson with Isabella Granville, can be better
imagined than-described.
" Impossible I  What can it mean, Richard !' exclaimed
Mrs. Wilson.
*Each offered half a dozen supposable cases, but none were
satisfactory. At last Mr. Wilson remarked, " It is beyond my
ability to solve the riddle. I know of but one way to ascertain

VIGOR.            '241

the facts, and, my dear, as you appear to be so anxious about
the matter, I will go at once and find out all about it. When
I come home to dinner you shall know all."
With this understanding Mr. Wilson left home, and pro-
ceeded down town. At the head of Wall street, opposite
Trinity Church, he met the Count Falsechinski. The Count
immediately told Mr. Wilson all he knew about the matter.
Mr. Wilson asked, "Do you mean to say that Marion Monek
has been discharged from our employ by Mr. Granville '"
"In the most peremptory manner. Paid off, too. I met
him at his new lodging place, for he left the house of Mr. Gran-
ville last night, bag and baggage, and took up his quarters at
your old place in Maiden Lane. I think he has the identical
room that you occupied when you boarded in that house," re-
marked the Count.
"I must see about this. It is rather a high-handed proceed-
ing, I think, on the part of Mr. Granville, to discharge that
young man and not say a word to 'ne. I thank you, Count, for
your information. We shall meet soon at the office. In the
meantime, good-bye," said Mr. Wilson, and passed onward to
the counting-room.
Mr. Granville had just arrived. When Mr. Wilson entered
the office, he walked up to his partner and congratulated him
upon the marriage of his daughter, adding, "It seems to have
happened in a hurry, or I presume~ you would have informed
me that so important an event was to take place in your
family."
Mr. Granville replied, "Yes, Wilson, it was a marriage got
up somewhat hastily, but I had my reasons. WAlk in the  ri-
vate office, and I will tell you all about it."
Both partners remained close ted together for some time, and
when Mr. Wilson re-appeared, he seemed worried, and not at
all satisfied. le took his hat, and left the -office for Maiden
Lane. At the coffee-house of Clark &amp; Brown he found Marion,
who had just returned frot his visit to Mr. Bennett. Ile put
out his hand in the, most cordial manner, and 'observed, "I
hope, Marion, you do not think that I have had any hand in
your abrupt dismissal from our employment."
"No indeed, sir," replied Marion. " I know to whom I am
indebted, and it could not well have happened' otherwise. I
blame no one. Not even Mr. Granville. He has acted in the
matter as he deemed would niost conduce to his own happiness
and I have not a word to say. I trust it will prove for the

11

1 oil
all
Nil
" Y
J,


'Al

242-

VIGOR.

"I am rejoiced to find you take it .so coolly, and like a
philosopher. But what are you going to do now? You -must
not remain idle," said Mr. Wilson.
"I have not settled upon any definite plan. I shall be
forced to remainidle for a short time at least, although I hope
it will not be lng, for mine is not a disposition to keep quiet.
I must find some thing to do, or I shall die," replied Marion.
Mr. Wilson4 rejoined, "Come with me this afternoon to din-
ner. I will take no excuse. Mrs. Nordheim.r-l mean my.
wife-will be pleased to see you. I will not take 'No' for an
answer. Go you inust."
Thus invited, Marion, accompanied by Mr. Wilson, walked
up town to the residence of that gentleman. Mrs. Wilson
welcomed Marion cordially. Dinner was not quite - ready, and
Mr. Wilson unfolded his budget of news. He informed his
wife of all the reasons that Mr. Granville had, given for his
urging on the marriage of his daughter, and for discharging
Marion.
" Well, Marion, you must not let it break down your spirits.
There is no remedy for you that I see. Isabella has married,
Mr. Granville has discharged you from his employ, and now we
must put our heads together and see if-we cannot do some thing
to remedy your loss of a situation. What do you say, Mr.
Wilson ?" asked his wife, as she made these practical observa-
tions to the 'discharged clerk.
Mr. Wilson replied that undoubtedly a better situation even
could be obtained for Marion, but that it would take time, that
he would use his utmost exertions to get him as good a situa-
tion as he had lost.
Here the servant came in to say that dinner was served, and
the parties went to the table. Dinner occupied a long hour,
and Mrs. Wilson did all in her power to cheer up Marion's
spirits. She so far succeeded that when Marion left the house,
towards evening, he promised to return again soon, and walked
to his lodgings with a higher ambition to succeed in New York
than he had felt for a long time,
"This trouble is 'only a trial of my strength of .mind, per-
haps, and now I can show that I am as capable of bearing ad-
versity as 'prosperity," was his thought, and when he reached
his lodgings he had reasoned himself into the belief that his
discharge and the marriage of Isabella were two things that
had occurred for his particular benefit, instead of to his'injury.
Marion continued to look about him for a situation for some
weeks, but without any success. He was aided by Mr. Wilson,

VIGOR.

-243

and also by the Count Falsechinski, but the efforts of the three
amounted to nothing. Marion seemed destined to remain idle.
For the first time in his life, he indulged freely in all the
pleasures to be derived from visiting places of amusement in
New York. The place in which he lodged was frequently'
visited by English actors and their friends, who could there
order an English beefsteak. One of those visitors, whose
name was Adam Close, although an American, was an intimate
friend.of Brough, the English singer, who was then engaged at
the Park Theatre in connection with the Woods, singing in the
operas of "La Sonambula" and " Amelia."  Mr. Close wa.s
also a friend, of Mr. Simpson and Mr. Barry, and he introduced
Marion into the interior of the old Park Theatre. In the green
room he made many acquaintances. Mrs. Vernon was then in
her prime. John Kemble Mason, who afterwards married the
daughter of worthy old Cram, the distiller, was one.of the stock
actors,.and an intimacy-sprang up between him and Marion
which continued many years afterward.' Not a night passed
that Marion did not attend the Theatre; both before and behind
the curtain, and hardly a ni~giht passed that he did not invite
some of his new species of acquaintances to a supper with him,
either at "Windust's " cellar, near the Theatre, or at Salum
&amp;.Suscombe's famous restaurant; which many of our readers
will well remember,
Not alone did he limit his patronage to the Park . Theatre.
The Bowery was just then in its glory, under the regime of
the renowned Hamblim. Miss Waring was the star of that
establishment, and the gorgeous plays enacted at that popular
haunt were a source of great attraction. Marion became well
acquainted with all the popular actors and actresses on those.
boards, and even with the immortal Hamblin himself.
. The Franklin Theatre in Chatham square was then in full
blast, with William.Seften as the Golden Farmer and John
Seften as Jemmy Twitcher. The' Olympic, with Mitchell as
manager, had just commenced its career of success. ,A very
few months of idleness made Marion well posted in the theat-
rical business of the town. He had acquired, in addition, an-
other habit, that seemed to grow with what it fed on. Marion
had always been abstemious in his habits so far as drinking
'spiritous liquors or wines was concerned. A few glasses of
wine at most, would, at an earlier period, have completely
upset his equilibrium, bat after a few months had -been spent
iin giving suppers and drinking parties, a fe w bottles would
hardly disturb his nerves ; and a habit of drinking was grow-

I


244

VIGOR.

ing upon him every day. He seemed to have forgotten his old
associations, or his business hopes. But this was not to last'
forever. He had not been forgotten by others, and one morn-#
ing he. was astonished by the entrance of the Count False-
chinski.
"Come, Marion, rouse up. I have work for you to do. A
new chapter in life for you to open.".
But before we continue this narrative, we must preface it
by a history of the Count's personal operations during a period
of some months. To do this, we will commence a new chapter.

CHAPTER

XLII.

The Count Falsechinxki's Fortunes-An Interview with old Nat Prime-The
Russian Minister, Mr. Bodisco-The Count a real Count-Hs Narrative of
Family Afairs in Poland gn4 Russia -Confldes to Air. Prime that he loves
Miss Grasper-The old baker negoidles te matter with old Mr. Grosper
success!ully-A stonishment'of Mr. Granville when the Count leaves his em-
ploy-Draws his balance of salary and gives it to AMarion M1onck..-T/e lat-
ter hires a oom in the house where AM. Banett lodrs-Visits Colonel Mac~e
Neitat 46 Centre street-A bird's eye of the charactersfound there.
WE must now return to the Count Falsechinski and his suc-
cess in real estate speculatiors. The Count had fairly gained
the entire"confidence of the old Wall street broker, Nat Prime.
He called upon him frequently, and was always well received.
Some time previous to the result of the real estate operationbeing
known the Count asked to see Mr. Prime'alone. The former had
in his hands a bundle of papers and letters. When he was
-closeted with old Nat, and when they' were- not likely to be
interrupted, the Count asked, "Mr. Prime, do you believe
that I am a Count ?"
Mr. Prime gave a sort of laugh, and answered the question
by saving, "I never troubled my head much about the mat-
ter, Count, for I did not care whether you were or not.    It
made no difference to me."
"For that reason, my dear sir, and because you have not
seemed to care, but have treated me in the most cordial man.
ner 1as a man, without knowing any thing of my antecedents, I
feel happy to be able to show you authentic documents prov-
ing who and what I am. I could not do- so until this morning,
when the maiL brought me a letter from      Mr. Bodisco, the
Russian Minister at Washington. Will you read this letter '"'
asked the Count, as he passed a letter to the old man,

Mr. Prime received it into his hands, looked it over a
moment, and observed, "Vount, this is all, Greek to me. I
cau't read Russian, Polish, or whatever language this letter is
written in. You must translate it for me."
"I forgot, Mr. Prime. The ltter from Mr. Bodisco is
written in the French language. I will translate it for you."
"Do so, and it will answer all necessary purposes," was the
reply of Mr. Prime.
The Count continued: "Before I do.this, Mr. Prime, I must
mention some facts connected with my family interest. I am a
younger brother of one of the oldest families in poor Poland.
My brother Stanislaus- took an active part in a rising against
Russia some years ago. He was seized. and exiled.to Siberia.
I was a mere lad at the time, and perhaps might have shared
his fate, bad not a friend of my father at some risk to himself
protected and educated me. I was forgotten until [ had grown
to be a young man, when accident revealed to, the authorities
at Warsaw who I really was. I barely escaped with my life,
and reached England safely. I soon after came to this country,
and then I swore a solemn oath that I would~not eat, drink, or
do any thing that involved expense, except to barely keep life
in my body until I acquired sufficient funds to pay whatever
fines the Russian government might inflict upon me, in order
that I might then be restored to my position in society, and be
enabled to return to my own county without danger to my life
or to my liberty. -My brother had no children; but as there
was no pardon for him, no hope of clemency from the emperor
in his behalf, it perhaps was lucky for me that his death, which
became known at St. Petersburg about eighteen months ago,
placed me at. the head of my family, and enabled me to treat
for restoration to my own rights. A powerful friend of mine
in the Ruissian capital went to work faithfully for my interest.
Letters, upon letters have passed. I have given the most
solemun assurance to the Russian government of my devotion.
The result of all this is that I am fully restored to My true
rank, or the rank that my brother held before his unfortunate
patriotic failure, and without any conditions except the pay-
ment of a fine which amounts to about twenty-two thousand
dollars ot your money, which has been imposed upon me. The
matter is now in the hands of the Russian Minister at Wash-
ington. I have to arrange the financial part with him, and he
wiJi send the same to the European Government. In less t'ban
a year all obstacles will be removed. .I shall be' once more
upon a good footing with the Government-the head of mg wn

4

VIGOR.

245

AIR
Ion
IVA
IT
All
4 A,
low
TOR
.A,  I

7


246

VIGOR.

family, and be the manager of the family estate in Poland of
the Falsechinski's  This is the purport of the Ambassador's
letter, dated at Washington."
"What is the income of the estates of your family, Count?"
asked the banker.
The Count replied, "Before they were confiscated and my
brother exiled, the revenue was almost princely-I believe as
high as twenty-five thousand pounds sterling. But I have no
idea that they can now be anything like that amount, even under
the most favorable circumstances. Be these revenues small
or great, is not the question. I want to be a man once more,
in the land of my birth, instead of a wanderer ; I wish to hold
my true fank and position, even if the revenue were not one
cent," said the Count.
"Right, perfectly right, Count; you are a man, every inch
of you, and I am glad you have told me this. What can I do
to aid you ?" asked Mr-. Prime.
" You can draw a check to the order of M. Bodisco, and I
will remlit it to him. This check will be returned to you
after it has beew paid at the bank, will it not "T' asked the
Count.
" Aha! my Count. I see what you ar'e driving at. It will
be evidence that you have paid the money, in case the Russian
Minister proves tricky, eh ?" said Mr. Prime.
"He may not acknowledge receipt of the money, and as you
say, Mr. Prime, the check with his endorsement would be
pretty conclusive evidence that he had got it, but I hope there
will never be any necessity to use it against him," was the
remark of the Count.
"'There is nothing like being on- the, safe side with those
diplomatic chaps. They are an uncertain set. More so than
common counts and humbugs. Excuse me, Count; I did not
mean you. But to tell you the truth, Count, I have always
regarded you as a sharp, shrewd, intelligent -man.  I always
liked you, but until this morning I fancied that so far as your.
Countship was concerned, that it was all humbug.  But I did
not like you the worse for it, and I can't say that I shall like
you any better for knowing that you are a real, instead of a
shan Count," said Mr. Prime.
The Count bowed, but did not make a reply. He knew that
he had raised himself full one hundred per cent. in the banker's
estimation by what he had stated, for the old gentleman was a
real admirer of aristocracy, let it belong to what country it
might. The Count had not done yet.

I

VIGOR.

247

"Mr. Prime," he asked, "how does my account stand with
you sipce the sale of the real estate ?"
The banker made no reply, but rose and walked to the door.
He opened it and called "Mr. Christmas," and then reseated
himself. A moment elapsed, and the employee answering to
the name of Christmas made his appearance.
"What balance has the Count in. our hands in cash, and
what securities also ?" asked the banker.
"Shall I make out his account with the interest added to
his credit ?"-asked the bookkeeper.
"No, no. Simply the balance, without interest. That can
be made-up at any time, and, by the way, draw a check for
twenty-two thousand dollars to the order of Mr. Bodisco, the
Russian Minister at Washington," ordered the banker.
"Make it twenty-five thousand dollars," remarked the Count,
and turning to Mr. Prime, he added, "It is better to make it
somewhat larger than the exact amount. It will do no harm.
Although a minister cannot be. bribed, yet it don't do any
harm to have two'or three thousand dollars in his hands. He
may have expenses to incur, eh, Mr. Prime ?" quietly observed
the Count.
Both laughed heartily, and the expression of their faces
would seem to imply that they had no idea that the Russian
Minister would ever return any change on thWe twenty-five
thousand dollar check. Presently ,the bookkeeper returned
and stated, "The Count has a cash balance to his credit on our
books of one hundred and six thousand dollars; less this check
of twenty-five thousand dollars, it is eighty-one thousand dol-
lars. We also hold bond a mortgage for one hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, bearing interest at seven per cent., pay-
able semi-annually."
"Thank you. That is all, Mr. Christmas," said Mr. Prime,
and the bookkeeper returned, and the old banker turned to the
Count. "Pretty snug, that, Count. Eighty-one thousand at
four per cent. is three thousand two hundred and forty dollars,
and seven per cent. on one hundred and fifty thousand dollars;
is ten thousand five hundred dollars. Total, thirteen thousand
seven hundred and forty dollars. Nearly. fourteen thousand
per annum, Count, is a nice little income for any single man,
and can be increased still more. Count, when you go back to
Europe, I suppose you will be marrying some of those blooded
-dames, eh ?"
. r " Really, Mr. Prime, I cannot say ; but you will laugh it
meif I confide a little secret to you," replied the Count.

;,uf


248

VIG01R.

"Not a bit-.-not a bit of it. Tell me your secret. Some
love scrape, -eh?  Sone pretty girl in your eye, eh . and the
old banker ruLbed his hands with delight.
The Count saw his advantage at once, and he had a. plan
fully matured in his own mind. He needed the assistance of
Mr. Prinie to carry it out to a successful conclusion.
"Ah, Mr. Prime, you have guessed my secret. I am in love
with a beautiful young lady, but I have no hopes. She is not
within my reach," said the-Count, in a very humble tone.
"Not within your reach ? How the d--l is that?    You
have a capital of nearly two liundred and fifty thousand dol-
lars, that I know. You are a Count. You are very good look-
ing. You are intelligent, and how is she not within youi,
reach ? Perhaps the lady is already married," said the banker.
"Oh, no, sir. She is single, and her father is a particular
friend of -yours,") replied the Count.
"Indeed. Who is she?    Tell ne her father's name.' Per-
haps I can give you a helping hand in the matter, eh?  Do
you know ber well?  How long have you been acquainted with
her ?" hurriedly asked the banker, who was 'now fully inter-
ested in the affair.
este am not even acquainted with the lady to speak to her. I
have met her on one occasion, btit she was so far above me
that I did not dream of ever being able to aspire to -her hand.
With your aid, Mr. Prime, the case is different. Her name is
Irene Grasper, and she is the daughter of your friend Mr,
Grasper. There, the secret is out, and I Iope safe in your
keeping," said the Count.
" Safe, my dear boy, as a rat in a trap. Above you, man
alive! No such thing. She shall be yours. I will make it
my business to see her father. You are'no humbug. You
have got the tin, the solid rocks, and he must pint, too, if you
marry his daughter," said the banker.
"'My dear sir, I do not mean to marry for money. Never
dreamed of such a thing," and the Count could hardly kepp
his countenance, for it was the- money that the -Count had in
view. Hehad-a list of all the young ladies of property in
New York. He had corrected and altered it for three years
according to circumstances. He' had made up his: mind t,
marry a fortune, and to go through with the entire list, /one by
dne, until he married the richest that he could get out of the,
lot. Miss Grasper was A No. 1 on the list. The old man
was reputed to be worth a million, and this was an only daugh--
ter. -To the Count's reply that he never dreamed of such a

I-

I

VIGOR.

249

1-1

I

I'

41,
,Jp

thing as marrying for money, the old baker remarked that he
was a fool if he did not.
,1'll tell you what it is, Count-that is all very fine on
your part, but you have consulted me in this matter, and I am
your banker. I will not permit you to be imposed on. You
have, as I said before, a title and the hard stuff. If you  marry
my old friend's daughter, he shall come down handsomely. He
shil put up the solid. I think he ought to give his daughter
as much as yoi can show.  Leave that all to ine.  D you
secure the girl, I will arrange the matter with my old crony.
You have got nearly two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
that I can vouch for, Count. Suppose old John don't or won't
agree to plank down for his daughter that sum. What shall I
do then ?" asked Mr. Prime.
"Excuse me, Mr. Prime, but the idea of mixing up. money
matters in. an affair of the heart really shocks me, but if you
insist upon my saying some thing, I will only say I leave it
entirely in your hands. I think if he gives any thng to his
daughter, he ought to secure her one hundred and fifty thou-
sand dollars in your hands the moment she is married to me.
You arrange it for her secretly. I don't want the money---
don't need it," said the Count.
"Say no more, Count He shall do it. You are as liberal
as a prince, and I will see that you are not imposed upon, and
now I am going to bid you good-morning, Count, come down
to No. I Broadway to-morrow and dine with me. I don't say,
but Ithink you will find some body there that you will - be
pleased to see," said the banker.
The Count Falsechinski took his hat, and left the banker's
office, after having politely accepted the invitation to dine.
When he was clear of the premises, he walked down .to Del.
monico's and ordered a cup of coffee and a cigar, 'and while
sipping the one and puffing-the other, his reflections were of a
very pleasant character. Occasionally, he rubbed his hands
and shrugged his shoulders as he counted up the sucess of-his
plans. "The remittance to tie Minister will place my affair
right in Russia. So much for that business. I will make love
to Miss Grasper. Her papa, under Mr. Prime's tuition, wil
settle 9ne hundred and fifty thousand dollars, or about ,ten
thousand dollars a year on her. My own income will make it
up to twenty-five thousand dollars. With that and my ,affair
all arranged, I will return to Poland, and there I will live like
a prince, I will be somebody. The ineome of my own heredi-
tary property-bali! I am afraid that my titles would be a
11*


250

VIGOR.

poor concern, if they depended upon the income of my Polish
property, without other sources of income. But now I must
finish up my career mercantile at once--bring it to an end to-
day. It may excite wonder inold European minds why I am
a clerk; and until my object is achieved in that quarter, I will
end it) )',These were the unspoken thoughts of the worthy
Count. When he had finished his coffee and cigar, he went
around to the office of Granville &amp; Wilson, in Broad street.
The two partners were conversing together when the Count
approached them.
"Gentlemen," said he, "I have to thank you for all your
kindness to me while in your employ: and I am grieved to say
thai I must leave your employment to-day."
Both partners stood in amazement. The Count continued:
"I am restored to my rank and position in Poland-by the
act of His Imperial Majesty, who imposes upon me a small
fine of twenty-five thousand dollars, which I have just received
from my bankers, Prime, Ward &amp; King, and which I must to.
day send to the Russian Ambassador at Washington."
Here the Count carelessly displayed the check, and Mr.
Granville took it into his hands; and after gazing at it in stu-
pid silence, passed it over to Mr. Wilson.
" I have in my baiker'shands, in cash and good securities,
about two hundred and fifty thousand dollars-so you see that,
I can get along very well. I would remain with you longer,
but I must make my preparations to go to Russia and take my
place-my real position-and manage my estates, which have
been very long neglected. Will you give me a check for what
may be due me-it is not much,' added the Count.
The conversation of the Count was like the shock of an elee.
trick battery. Mr. Granville was astonished ;-Mr. Wilson was
less- so, and coolly made up the account of the Count, and
drew a check for three hundred and twenty dollars.
"That is the amount-due you, Count," remarked Mr. Wil-
son; "will you 'sign a receipt for it ?"
Meanwhile Mr. Granville recovered his speech, and listened
to further explanations about the Count's affairs. When the
receipt was signed, the, Count again thanked the two partners,
and took his departure. They looked at each other for some
time in silence.
"That is a rum chicken, that Count, but I can hardly believe
that he is humbugging us. That check at least was genuine.
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in Prime &amp; Co.'s.

VIGOR.

251

hands! Impossible ! Good God, if I had but known that !"
exclaimed Mr. Granville.
I Mr. Wilson did not seem at all surprised, and when Mr.
Granville observed that'he meant to seeone of the firm that
day, and ask if what the Count had stated'was true, Mr. Wil-
son remarked that it was useless-that he knew he had money
there. This did not discourage Mr. Granville, for ere two
hours had passed, he had ascertained from Mr. King that the
Connt Falsechinski had kept an account there. for years, and
that he had over two hundred thousand dollars in their hands;
and Mr. King added, that if Mr. Granville thought of having
any financial transactions -with the Count, he would find /him
perfectly safe to an unlimited amount..
Mr. Granville returned to his-own office mortified to a degree
that he could hardly have believed. "I did not believe, Wil-
son, that the man had five hundred cents ;" and then he mut-
tered something about locking the stable door after the horse
was stolen, implying that he had had it in his power to have'
made a warm friend of the Count, but had neglected to do so,
until the time -had arrived when the Count was in such a plea-
sant position that he needed no friends. "What, a most con-
summate ass I have been," was the only consolation that Mr.
Granville could find for what he deemed the most stupid stu-
pidity. It was too late, however, to mend matters fully, but
Mr. Granville resolved to do the best that he could under the
circumstances, which was to be extremely civil to the Count,
and trust-to chance for the result.
The Count, when he left the office of Mr. Granville, pro-
ceeded directly to Clark &amp; Brown's, in Maiden Lane. As we
haye related, there he found Marion, somewhat depressed in
spirits, and he addressed him in a cheerful manner.
"Cheer up, my boy, and open a new chapter. Have you a
pen and ink handy ?"
Marion procured him one from a little desk in one corner of
the i-oom. The Count seated himself at the table, and took out
the check for three hundred and twenty dollars that he  had
received from Granville &amp; Wilson. He indorsed it, for it was
drawn to order, and passed it over to Marion, saying pleasantly,
"Will you go and get, that money, Marion ?"
"Certainly.  Shall I bring it back to you ?  Will. you
wait ?" replied Marion.
" No-I have not time," said the Count.
" What shall I do 'with the money, then ?"
" Put it in your pocket, my dear boy, for-it is yours Don't


252

VIGOR .

bother me. Spend it, and when you want more, let me know.
I have got work for you to do, but not quite yet. You must
get out of this hole. I don't like it. Can't you find no other
place to live in except this ?" asked the Count.
Marion replied that he could and would that day. "Count,
you do not know how you have relieved my mind. I have no
money left. I could not have. paid the very trifling amount t
owe here, but for your kindness. How shall I repay it -"
asked Marion, feelingly-.
" It has already been paid to me in advance, Marion, by-,
you.- Now I will repay you some part of the large debt which
I owe you. I am not quite'ready yet. When you have scw
elected a new place, write me a ine to that effect, and leave it
at Prime, Ward &amp; King's. I have left Granville &amp; Co. That
-check was for a balance due me, and closed my account there
forever. God bless you, my boy--take care of yourself! You
will be all right before long ;" and with these hopeful words,
the Count left.
"I have one friend left, and I will do at once what he re-
commends-but first to draw the money," said Marion to him-
self. He went at once, I nd received the money for the check.
Then it occurred to him, -hat when long previous he had called
upon. Mr. Bennett at his room in Nassau street, he had noticed
a bill upon the house, with "Rooms to let."  He hurried up
there. First, he inquired for Mr. Bennett. He was'still re-
siding in the house, but was at his oiice. Then he engaged
the back room on the same floor, and paid a month's board in
advance. This done, he proceeded to Clark &amp; Brown's, paid
his bill, got a cartman, and took his baggage to his new quar-
ters. The next step was to write a note to the Count, inforim-
ing him of his new location, and this he took to Prime &amp; Co.'s
office, and left it.
It was late in the afternoon before Marion had concluded Iis
work. He went at once to No. 46 Centre street. There he
found Cplonel Mac Neil, with whom he had retained an inti-
macy during all this period. Mac Neil had been a true friend;
and the young clerk had the good sense to respect him more in
his fallen fortunes, than when he knew him prosperous and
successful. A man of the world like Colonef Mac Neil had -it
in his power to give many instructive examples to a youth like
Marion, and he had not failed to do so upon every occasion.. At
this visit, however, Marion seemed possessed-of the attributes
of manhood. lie shook hands with the ColoneL. There were
many in that room, for it was the holiday season, and Marion

I

Vi

0

VIGOR.

253

asked all hands up to drink, and then he sat down by Mae
Neil
"Colonel,-this is a funny world, is it not? Queer changes
occur ;" he remarked.
"Just found it out" abruptly asked the Colonel.
"This morning I *as dead broke-.-not a red. Owed Clark
&amp; Brown nineteen dollars: Look here ;" and Marion, as he
spoke, exhibited a roll of money.
. " Put that up at once," said Mac Neil, sternly. "You do
not know who may notice it. Never show money---no gentle-
man does so. Besides, in such a place as this it is dangerous.
It might cost you tie loss of the money and a broken skull.
There are men in this room at this moment who would not hes-
itate to give you a clip over the head for the sake of a five dol-
lar gold piece ; but tell me all about this sudden change of
fortune."
Marion related, all to him. He only replied, "That Count
is a deep one. I never could make him out satisfactorily- to
myself. I ever believed him to be a sharper and a sham.' I
may be mistaken. That three hundred and twenty dollar check
would lead me to a different conclusion."
" Colonel, will you not be angry with me if I presume to do
something ?" asked Marion, in a very apologetic voice.
"I am not apt to get angry with you, my boy," replied Col-
onel Mac Neil.
"I want you to take fifty dollars of this money. I counted
it out before I came in here, and I have placed it in my side
pocket---here it is ;"'and as he spoke he poured the money'ifnto
the hands of the Colonel. The tears started in the old man of
the world's eyes as he received the money.
"What do you wish me to do with it ?' he asked.
"Keep it, to be sure. I thought it might serve you, and I
might throw it away. If I should need it, I vill come to you,"
observed Marion, delicately.
- " Upon such conditions then I accept it. Wait a moment."
The Colonel passed to the bar, and spoke a few words to Hen-
ry, the proprietor, and handed him the money. Then he re-
turned to the side of Marion. The latter remarked,
"Colonel, you seem to know this crowd, or they all know
you. Who are they ?"
"I will ask them all up to take another drink, and then I
will tell you," replied the Colonel.
'.his was accordingly done, and the Colonel continued :
"Notice that stout man who is seated upon a barrel, talking


254

VIGOR'

so loudly. That is fighting Charley-one of the worst men in
the Sixth Ward. He has been engaged in several prize fights.
The one talking to him is Parson Charley. He is so nicknamed
because his brother is one of the most famous assistant rectors
of Trinity Church in this city. That red-faced seedy-looking
young man is Theodore Van Ness--one of the richest young
men at twenty-one years old in Dutchess county. He is now
a beggar. That crazy, wild-looking genius, who has. a torn
blue coat with brass buttons, was in the Tombs all last night.
His father once commanded a ship out 6fthis port. She was.
chartered to take out provisions to the Greek patriots in 1828.
His uncle owns the Waverley House down Broadway, and is
one of the richest men in town. He has a firm  called Fitch
Brothers &amp; Co. in Marseilles, France. The uncle's name is
Asa Fitch."
"1Who is the venerable old man with gray hair who is talk-
ing to him, Colonel ?" asked Marion.
"That is Pop Junk. He keeps a junk shop down near the
Five Points. He has been in the State Prison for ten years,
but is now rich. Curious characters come here," continued
Mac Neil, "but they are hardly worth knowing, except to one
who is old and experienced enough not to be injured by com-
ing in contact with such people."
Marion remained with the Colonel until evening, and then
bade him good night and went to his new boarding-house.
CHAPTER XLIII.
Old Mr. Prime and Mr. Gra per-The Coant to marry Irene Grasper -The
Dinner at Mr. Prime' s--Satisfaction all around.
No sooner had the Count Falsechinki left the banking house
of Prime, Ward &amp; King, than the senior partner of that great
firm took his hat, and soon after could have been found in the
directors' room of one of the principal city banks.  He was
one of the directors of the institution, and Mr. John Grasper
was another.. Soon after the latter arrived, and the two old'
millionaires were engaged in a very earnest conversation. Now
and then a sudden but very emphatic exclamation could have
been heard from Grasper.
" What ! a real Count ? None of those impostors !-are you
sure of it ?"

VIGOR.

255

Then Mr. Prime's low tones assured his friend- that of this
there was not a shadow of. a doubt.  Again Grasper would
open his lips-
"Income of his estate twenty-five thousand pounds sterling
-impossible !"
But when he was again assured that whatever might be the
income of the Count's estates in Poland, there was no mistake
in the fact that the firm held cash and securities to the extent
of a quarter of million of dollars, his astonishment seemed to
have reached a climax, for he was perfectly silent. There was
no occasion for expressing incredulity in a. financial matter,
when Mr. Nat Prime stood ready to guarantee it.
It was some moments before the parties opened their mouths
again, when the celebrated banker continued the conversa-
tion-m
"Yes, Grasper, my old friend, the best you can do. You
say your daughter has no previous attachment."
" None that I know of. In fact I ai quite sure not, and I
have no particular objection that it shall be a match if all. that
you say of this Count proves true," said Grasper, in a very
quiet manner.
1" If !" exclaimed Mr. Prime with some spirit--" do you
doubt my word, old friend ?"
" Not in the least, but it is a large sum, a very large sum.
A quarter of a million.! And suppose these two young people
should become attached, what would I be expected to do ?--
that is, what sum would I have to settle on my daughter ?"
asked his companion.
." Now you begin to talk up to the mark; why, I suppose
,the advantage of noble blood and all that sort of thing, you
ought to put down as much cash on the nail . as your . future
son-in-law can show, eh ?" said the banker.
"I shall do nothing of the kind, but I will'do this; if you
will satisfy me that this Count has all you say, is all, you say,
I will put down as the portion of my daughter one hundred.
.and fifty thousand dollars when the parties are married," said
the other.
: " Do I understand you to mean that you will give it to her,
out and out ?" demanded the banker.
" Not exactly. I will place that sumin the hands of -our
house to be invested in a manner most satisfactory, to the
Count. The property or the income to be used by the'married
couple, and to go to any children that my daughter may have
by the Count," said Mr. Grasper

 i


26

VIGOR.

"No, no, that won't do. It is not fair for the Count; give
it out and out to your daughter when she marries him: I will
see that it is properly invested. Don't tie them up.  If the
count were a beggar it wobld be different, but he is not. Ie
i$ amply provided for, worth all or more than I tell you, and
the amount that you give to your daughter under the existing
circumstances should not be encumbered with conditions. You
are not going to live forever, and you will have a nice sum to
leave somebody when you die. Use your judgment when you
come to making your will. Then you can settle upon your
daughter what-you think fit," shrewdly observed the banker.
Right, old friend.  I am  satisfied that your advice is
good. Now when shall I see my future son-in-law ?" asked
the old man.
"I will have him on the course to-morrow, and you can trot
out your filly at the same time-that is to say, come and dine
with me to-morrow, and bring Irene with you ; I will have
the Count there," was the answer. I
I will come ; and now let us shake hands upon our agreed*
ment; I am much obliged to you for proposing it," observed
Mr Grasper.
Wait a while until you see how the new team work in har-
ness. Then thank me if you are satisfied with the match."
The two worthies parted 'mutually satisfied.  Mr. Prime
sometimes talked "stable." -Some people made the assertion
that before he entered into the brokerage and banking busi-
ness, that he had been hostler to old Billy Grey, a quiet mer.-
chant in Boston; whether true or not is no affair- of ours. He
did frequently use language that smacked of the stable ; and
upon one occasion, when a friend asked kindly after one of his
own family who had been sick, Mr. Prime replied, "She is
better, thank you, but she has not come to her feed yet." Mr.
Prime' also prided himself upon his knowledge of horse-flesh,
but he did not boast of it much after a terrific sell was perpe-
trated upon hint. He was shown a white horse, beautifully
variegated with coal-black spots, and his owner called him the
" leopard horse." He sold him to the' old gentleman at an
enormous price-some say two thousand dellars. After a
while Mr. Pripe began to believe that the .Bible, when t1_4
asked if the leopard could change his spots, implying that he
could not do, it, was sadly mistaken--for his leopard horse did
change his spots, or rather all the beautiful spots washed off,
and the horse was nothing more nor less than a plain white
o ne. But the banker was a good old soul after all, and did

VIGOR-

257

many a kind act equal in benevolence to his #friendship for
the Count.
The succeeding day the Count Falsechinski met at the din.
ner table of the old banker, Mr. Grasper and his daughter. T e
fair Irene was even more stately beautiful than when we 4
cribed her ,appearance at a party given .by Mrs. Nordheim.......
She was accomplished in almost every variety of the so-called
female accomplishments. She spoke Italian and French equal.
ly well, and much to the delight of her parent, she maintained
a long and animated conversation with - the Count in both of
these languages. After dinner was finished, while the two old
fogies remained at their wi-ne, the Count excused himself and
joined Miss Irene at the piano. There was a guitar by the
side of the piano, which the Count took in charge, and played
with exquisite taste and feeling, while he sang several charm.
ing odes.  They were much pleased with each other, and the
old people noticed this fact with great.pleasure.
When Mr. Grasper and his daughter got ready to leave, the
Count asked permission to accompany them, and it was readily
granted, and on the arrival of the party at the father's splen.
did residence, the Count received an invitation to enter, and
spend the remainder of the evening. The Count wondered
whether his intentions were known to the fair datusel. Mr.
Prime had taken him aside at his residence and informed hin
that he bad come to an understanding with Mr. -Grasper, and
that if the Count succeeded in obtaining the consent of the
daughter, that,-the father would give his child one hundred and
fifty thousand dollars. This was very gratifying news to the
Count, and-it gave an impetus to his attentions to Miss Irene
Irene Grasper, which bid fair to win success. The Coutit' need
have had no fear that old Mr. Grasper had communicated any
part of what he. had heard from Mr. Prime to any member of
his family. He was too much a man of the world, and knew
human character too well to be guilty of any such gross act.
He knew 'his child possessed an independent. spirit, and he
left the Count to conquer it, and to win the young lady's affee.
tions by his own merits.
When the Count left-that evening he was well pleased with
his day's work, but he added, " I am really in love nyself.-...
She is-just the tall, stately woman I have always had in, view
as my Countess whenever I married. What a sensation she
will create in Paris, Warsaw, or even St. Petersburgh. I am,
a lucky dog if I win her, even had I not the assurance of the

'Ii
(j}~


258,

VIGOR-

trifling sum that will become hers whenever* our nuptials are
celebrated."
He dreamed of Irene Grasper that night when he went to
ep.
CHAPTER XLIV.
lirs. Woodrvf-Ber House-Ber great Gamein pew York Life-Modes
of Capture-,Afi5s Norris a great Card-Jane Grahamn Weston-A Hoar-
rid Stor He  ea, oeav gSixty Thousand Dollars--Mrs. Miller, the
Mother of Miss Josephine Clifton -The study 'of Character and Life, by
Mis Norris.
MRS. WOoDRUFF pursued the even tenor of her'way in Bond
street, respected by all in her church, and all those with whom
she came in contact who did not know her real character, or
that she was a "whited sepulchre." She had long since quar.
relied with the Count Falsechinski, or rather that noble di-.
vidual, after the Parker affair, consulted his prudence and out
the good lady's acquaintance. Such sort of proceedings as
those connected with Mrs. Parker and her daughter, assisted
by Mr. O'Doemall, the Count deemed extremely dangerous';
and after levying what he thought a fair tax upon such fair sin-
ners, he withdrew from the connexion.
But the business of Mrs.. Woodruff did not diminish. Her
horses pranced more proudly than ever as they whirled her
carriage down Broadway, or out upon the avenues. No grand-
er equipage rested for its mistress at the portals of God's
fashionable sanctuary, Grace Church, than the widow's. A
coat-of-arms was neatly emblazoned upon the panels of the
carriage, and her coachman and footman both wore costly liv-
eries.-
Her visitors increased. Ladies from the South, accompa-
nied by their husbands, and who stopped at the leading hotels,
left their cards, at Mrs, Woodruff's, and frequently called.
Such ladies as were disposed to criminal indulgence, either to
gratify their passions or to increase their pecuniary resources,
found a friend -in. Mrs. Woodruff. Her correspondence was
extensive. Her acquaintance with the old rou6s and men of
wealth seemed almost incredible.
One of the most gifted, beautiful and fascinating ladies on
Mrs. Woodruff's list was Clara Norris. To her gentlemen cus-
tomers pious Mrs. Woodruff represented Clara as mne of the

I

*

most fashionable aM virtuous young married ladies in the city.
She was the beautiful " Mrs. Sinclair," the accomplished "Mrs.
Percy," or the wealthy "Mrs. Jones," as occasion served.
'When Mrs. Woodruff wished to make a deep impression, a
had a wealthy man in tow, -she would promise to introdu
Mrs. Sinclair " to the party. "But you had better see ber
first. I *ill get her to take a seat in my pe* at Grace Church
next Sunday." Then the rich fool who was to be victimized
would watch the descent of the widow and Clara at the church
door next Sunday. He Would see a young, and as he supposed
Married lady, glowing with beauty, meekly entering a church
to pay her morning devotions. He coIld hardly believe it pos-
sible that his good fortune was so great as to be able to secure
so much beauty; and when he went to Mrs Woodruff to make
his financial arrangements, the worthy would name as the price
of the interview, in consequence of the great risk, or the diffi-
culty of approaching the lady, who had plenty of money, or
some other cause, the sum of five hundred dollars for an inter-
view. of an hour. She never named less than one hundred
dollars-and whether the sum was the larger or the smaller
amount, or an intervening sum, the honest woman 'divided it
fairly with Clara Norris.
Clara was a great card for the widow, and the game between
them was played for a long time with such success, that Clara
would have been a constant visitor at the house, had not the
parties limited her acquaintance within bounds. Some of those
gentlemen who made h'er acquaintance wished it continued
from day to day, at even such enormous prices, but the prudent
and pious widow was made of sterner stuff-her rule was made,
.and it was as unalterable as the laws of the Medes and Peri
sians, which her minister read about-and even the five hun-
dred dollar customer 'considered himself-fortunate if he suc-
ceeded in seeing the fascinating syren more than once in a
fortnight. This ganre would have continued for years, had not
Clara herself finished it, by becoming a frequenter of houses
of ill-fame of the first class down town.
In Duane street, No. 106, resided for a great many years a
most extraordinary female, of the name of Jane Graham, alPas
Jane Graham West. It was the misfortune of Miss Norr*to
become acquainted with this lady, whose memoirs would 6na
-book. At that time, her house was the first in New York."It
was visited by the most aristocratic, old and young, citizen or
stranger. The house is still standing-a three story houserti
far from Broadway, on the North river side. In this den, in

F

VIGOR.

259


260

VIGOR.

one ofthe largest and most splendidly finished apartments
in the house, was Clara Norris induced to take up her abode
for a long time. Her fame soon spread, and hundreds, yea
ousands visited the house for the purpose of seeing the ac-
mplished'and widely talked of Clara Norris.
The keeper of the house could play no tricks upon Clara-
she was as shrewd as Jane Graham herself. She paid for her
board twenty-five dollars per week-and the harvest left to
Mrs. Graham was the immense quantities of wines sold to the
visitors brought to the house to seeClara-and the sums she
herself received were enormous. It was a, gay- life, and she
liked it; and although she remained at the head of the first-
class ladies of Mrs. Woodruff 's house, she did not like that
mode of life as well as the one she led with Mrs. Graham.
Clara Norris liked the society of the house where she lived.
She -reigned a quien, and. all bowed to her supremacy. She
thought that such a life would last forever-but after six
months' residence in that establishment, she had a quarrel
with Mrs. Graham and left her. She then visited for a few
dayo hcr parents' home, and carried up with her savings bank
credits for a very large sum \of money, obtained in the resi-
dence of Mrs. Graham, and from her occasional visits to Mrs.
Woodruff. She cleared in this business in the space of nine
months oyer ten thousand dollars, and presents of'jewelry that
almost equalled that amount  She never varied from one pur-
pose. .,However careless or dissipated, she did not neglect
visits to the savings bank once a week, and the sums she de-
posited- were never equalled by any woman of her class. She
invariably visited the bank alone, and kept her bank book from
all eyes but her own. When she visited her father she showed
it to him, and sometimes would say, " Father, if ever I should
die, look out for this bank book, and claim it on call at the
bank, and claim it as my heir." Her prudent lawyer in New-
ton was informed of the amount she had in bank. le ex-
planed to her how much better it 'was to have it in a safer
way. She paid his expenses, and hecame to New York. "Un-
der his direction, she became the owner of two. small brick
houses in one of the cross streets below Canal, that ran .from,
Broadway to the North river.
Wheh thepurchase of the houses had been completed, an4, /
the deeds taken out in her name had ,been recorded, he took
them with him to Sussex, and deposited them in his iron safe.
The rents from these two houses was' nirne hundred dollars.
The worthy Jane Graham was very loth to part with Miss

VIGOR.

261

Norris.   Better stay, Clara; you are the best card I ever
had in niy house. I am rich-I will leave you my business,
and if I die, as I have no heirs, you shall be my heiress."'
Clara turned a deaf ear to these proposals. Yet Jane Gra-
ham West could have made all good. She owned at that tim0'
fifty thousand dollars in United States Bank stock, and was
worth an equal sum in other property. She made it in that
business, and although she held on to her United States Bank
stock until it was worthless, yk she seemed no poorer. She
fell in love with a youig ulate of one of the Havre packet ships,
named Frederick Hewitt. He promised the old dame marriage,
and she bought him one-half of the ship Manhattan, and made
him captain of her. He refused to marry her after he. became
a commander, and married a young lady in Mobile. Jane
Graham sue' him 'for a breach of promise of marriage, and one
of the most ridiculous law trials took place between these par-
ties that ever occurred in any country. The lady recovered
six cents damages, and the captain a ridiculous notoriety that
followed him to the grave. He did not live long afterwards,
and the lady, Jane Graham, after the loss of her United States
Bank stock, took it-into her head that she was beggared, and
never held up her head more. She was abandoned by all, of
her girls, and left alone in that large house, her only compan-
ion being a negro hag.
Jenny Graham was found strangled one morning. It was a
question whether the deed was done by the negro woman or by
Jenny herself; but as the latter had frequently threatened to
put an end to her own life, the negress got the benefit of it.
Her two nephews turned up, and although they came into pos-
session of over sixty thousand dollars each, from Jennys death,
and werelmiserably poor before it happened, yet the ungrateful
wretches boxed her up in a wooden coffin, and sent her with-
out expense to Potter's Field. Such was the end of a remark-
able woman, who for many years was a warm friend and a great
admirer of Clara Norris.
When Miss Norris returned from her home, after her quar-
rel w'th Jane Graham, she made a short stay at the palace of
Mrs. Woodruff. But it was too gloomy for her-more espe-
cially as she had now got a taste for a free and easy life.
I must follow the bent of my inclinations, and I cannot
help it, good woman," was her reply to Mrs. Woodruff, 'whoin
vain remonstrated with Clara Norris against her becoming a.
public character.the.e
"You will ruin yourself, body and soul. .You will spoil

if
I


262             VIGOR.

VIGOR.

your market, my beauty, and that will be the upshot of this
business," observed Mrs. Woodruff.
"Can't help it-can't help it, if I die for it.
"'There is a destiny that shapes our ends,
Rough hew them as we will'
as Shakespeare says, and mine is fixed, Mrs. Woodruff. I
must pursue my own career."
And true enough, a few days after this conversation Miss
Norris was a resident in a house of a lowpr grade than that of
Jane Graham. She went to reside with Mrs. Miller, one of
the most extraordinaay women of her class in New York.-
When Miss Norris went with. her, the age of the old lady was
fast verging upon seventy years.
About this time Clara met the Count Falsechinski in the
street.. He stopped, and politely accosted her. She gave him
her address--" Mrs. Miller, No. 114 Church street."  The
Count looked at it a moment.
"Good God, Miss Norris! Are you in that house from ne-
cessity, or to please yourself'?" he asked.
" To gratify my own curiosity, Count," she replied. "I
want to get acquainted with this w6man. She is a study to
me. Do you know, Count, that she is the mother of Josephine
Clifton, the great actress?  Do you know; also, that she is the
mother of Miss Missguri, that Hamlin is just bringing out, and
who promises to be equal in genius and talent to her splendid
sister, Josephine ?"
"Indeed, Miss Clara, I did not know it. But I must say
good-bye -I will-call and see you ere long ;" and the Count
passed on.
"'Afraid to be seen speaking to me in the street," remarked
Miss Norris, after the Count's sudden departure.  "Well, it
is the way of the world. I ought not to have expected differ-
ent treatment."
For some months Miss Norris was' a resident of Mrs. Miller's,
but she found the old lady a miserly old woman, without one
redeeming feature. She became acquainted with one of her
sons named Nelson Miller, on whom  the old woman lavished
her affections and her money. Clara became disgusted with
the old woman, and again made a, removal, but this time it was
back to Mrs. Woodruff's, where we shall for the present; leave
her.

263

CHAPTER XLV.
Home of Mr. Granville--Happiness of the Young Coupe. Mr. and Airs.
Be0on -Young  "nson"" (Os into Business-Depressed State of Mind of
Miss Margaret Benson.
THE marriage of Middleton Benson to Isabella Granville
although a 'very sudden affair, seemed to give the fathers of the
young.couple the most unbounded satisfaction. Mr. Granville
gave up his house to the young people, and even went so far as
to deed' to them  all the costly furniture that it contained.
Colonel Benson was not behind hand. He made the bride -the
most costly presents, and so far as household furniture was
concerned, he purchased a sufficient quantity to have started a
dozen new married couples in all necessary articles for house-
keeping. Spacious and roomy as was the old State street man-
sion, yet every room was crowded with furniture, and pre-
sented an odd mixture of old and new fashions.
The young couple appeared very happy. Isabella did not
seem to have lost any portion of her gaiety, and her laugh was.
as merry and cheering as of old. Their a~ earance seemed to
confirm the father in his belief that all he Tad done had been
for the hest. Middleton Benson, his son-in-law, had been ad-
mitted a partner into the commercial firm where he had been
so long a clerk, and his father retired from it, giving to his son
the interest and the capital that belonged to him as a partner.
Every few evenings the two fathers would meet, and over a
bottle or two of choice wine would congratulate themselves
upon the happy results of their proceedings. From Mrs.
Thomas Granville they had not heard except indirectly. She
was living with her aged grandmother, and long since had suc-
ceeded ip obtaining from the Maryland Legislature an act
which divorced her from her husband, but the departure of
Mrs. Granville had not altered Mr. Pitt Granville's domestic
arrangements. He never spoke of her to his daughter-never
missed her. She had attempted to'interfere with his domestic
purposes, and to use his own expressive sentence to Colonel
Benson, "I kicked her out of the house, and that is the end of
her so far as I am concerned."


264-            VIGOR.

VIGOR.

. There was one chosen old friend that Mr. Granville missed
sadly. It was Colonel Mae Neil. He even went so far as to
send a note to th4 Colonel, inviting him to renew his inti.
macy. The Colonel was poor, but he was a proud man. He
could not get over the fact that in the dire extremity to which
his firm was reduced, Granville, his friend, had refused relief,-
and at a moment so late that his failure was the consequence.
" It might have happened later," would the Colonel reason,,
"but then, that probability ought not to weigh in favor of
Granville's course. He did refuse me a small loan which he
had promised, and even if he had lost it all, what was that to
him?
The Colonel sternly resisted all overtures, and took no no-
tice of Mr. Granville's note, except to exhibit it to every mu-
tual friend that he met. Not only did Colonel Mac Neil refuse
to associate with Mr. Granville, but lie also dropped all ac-
quaintance with Colonel Benson and his family, where he had
been a great favorite. -,His place, however, as a visitor at the
residence of Colonel Benson, was fully supplied by Frank
Gaillard, He was a regular and a constant visitor, and, Miss
Margaret rarely went out without being accompanied by her
lover, as he styled himself. The poor girl was completely
fascinated with this arch deceiver. She loved him with her
whole soul, and it was noticed by her mother,, that' from being
a lively and gay girl, she was frequently much depressed in
spirits and often found in tears. In vain did her mother seek
her confidence, and endeavor to fathom the -cause of her wo.
Did she ask if Mr. Gaillard had told her that he loved her I
Margaret replied with the simple word "Yes."
" Has he proposed to marry you ?"
The reply of the poor girl, with .a deep drawn sigh, was
That was all that could be obtained from Margaret. The
mother felt that there was some thing wrong, and mentioned the
facts to her husband. Tne Colonel laughed at her. Called her
a silly, anxious old woman, and then forgot all about it. That
Frank Gaillard or any other white man alive, dared to dreamt
of doing him or any member of his family a deep wrong, never
entered into his brain. He conceived such a thing impossible.
Meanwhile, time passed along, and while poor Margaret Bensou
drooped more and more, the young Southerner, Francis Gail-
lard,- became less and less devoted to the sweet girl. From
being a daily visitor, he ceased to call but once a week. Then
once in two weeks, and at last his visits suddenly ceased, and

I

the poor but proud spirited girl bent to the rod whein she
 learned that Mr. Gaillard had left New York for his home in
the South. She read his name among the passengers by a ves-
sel that had sailed for Charleston. Still, she spoke not to her
parents of the intense agony that his departure had caused.
She seemed stupified, and a few days after his departure she,
called at the office of Mr. Granville, and asked to see him
alone.
Certainly, my dear young lady, come at once in my private
office, and tell me what I can do for you. -Some thmg is on
your mind," ]indly remarked Mr. Granville.
Miss Benson followed him into the inner office, and when
she was seated she asked if he would confer a favor upon her*
for-a few days.
"And not mention it to my father, or any one of the fam-
ily? she imploringly inquired.
If you do not wish me to do so," was the reply Of her
father's friend Granville,
I wish to borrow of you fifty dollars " said Miss Benson
Mr. Granville replied, Withrpleasare, immediately," and
walked into the front ofie-n4 feeured the noney from the
cashier. He was frighten e  m  yo.che did not know what to
say or what to- do. Somo#lg was wong. What could it
be?   Why did she not ge to here &amp;dre   mother, brother?
Why come to him?   As he anded her the money, he pleas-
antly observed, " Really "--but she shook her finger.
"No questions arc to be asked, and more'than that, not a
word is to be said to my parents or any of my relations,  I
shall see you this evening at our house, shall I not ?"
I .Mr. Granville bowed, and followed her to the door. When
she had left him, he sat down for several minutes to try and.
fathom the mystery. The young lady went directly from Mr.
Granville's office to that of George Sutton, thee agent of the
packet line that plied between New York and Charleston.
There she inquired when the first vessel sailed for Charleston.
She was told that a ship  would sail the nest day, and she in.1 .
stantly paid for the passage of a lady, and thus accomplished,
and obtainig the exact hour. when the ship would sail. she .
wended her way home. That evening Ihe was the gayest of
the gay. Early the next morning she sent a carpet bag to a
store in Broadway by a servant, saying that it was -goods she
had purchiased, but wished to return About noon she dressed
herself as if for a walk--went to the store, and took the carpet
.bag. In the street. she hired a porter, who took it oni board
12

265


0-

266,1

VIGOR.

the ship, and she went on board and retired to her state-room.
Thatafternoon the vessel went down with the tide and a fair
breeze and passed the Narrows..
When dinner time came liss Benson was missed, 'but no
alarm was exerteduin the mids of any of her relations. The
tea hour came, but no Margaret, and then the mother became
somewhat alarmed, but not seriously.  So she sent a message
to Mr. Granville's house to have Miss Margaret come home.
Then: her brother, Middleton Benson, came, and when he said
his sister had not been there that day, the whole house was
alarmed, and the utmost confus*on prevailed. The male mein-
bers of the family started in diferent directions, but up to a
late hour that night no clue could be obtained of the missing
one. The next day the search was renewed, but with no more
success than had been obtained the previous day.   When
Margaret was first missed, suspicion was attaobhed to Francis
Gaillard, but his having departed for Charleston cleared him
.in their minds. Mr. Granville did not mention for some time
the -circumstance of her borrowing the fifty dollars. No sooner
had he mentioned this than the mother exclaimed, "Is it pos-
sible that she can have used that money to follow Gaillard to
Charleston ?"  This started the pursuit on. a new track. At
the office they found that a young lady had taken a passage in
the ship that had :sailed for Charleston three days previous
The description answered to Margaret. "I will follow my
child in the next ship,".exclaimed the agonized fatheir-and he-
did so.
CHAPTER XLVI.
The Rsealities of Mr. O'Donall- Ris Expergnes among Boarding,
House Keepers.
Soor after the Count Falseceninski had quarrelled with Ma-
dame Woodruff, that worthy lady turned her attentions toward
Mr. O'Doemall. Slhe bad seen that gentleman frequently in
,,companywith Mrs. Parker, and admired his' unparalleled im-
'pudence.She invited him to escort her to church on Sunday
u ni  . ai                  YasBa decoy. 'But the, fact
Was, she was afraid of him, for O'Doemall was boisterous-a
loud talker and p great boaster. Mrs.he Worunfa, ons th cota-
ry, was aaseceta  -tegra~ ialhetrncios-dit

267,

she could have prevented her right hand from -knowing what
the left hand was doing, would have done it. It can easily be
imagined that an .alliance between two such opposite charac.
.ers would not last long.
Mr. O'DoemalI was a great spendthrift, and when he could
no longer obtain funds:from Mrs. Parker, and was thrown up-
on his own resources, he became very short of cash. Mrs.
Woodruff furnished him with an outfit, and M1r. O'DoemIall
could again promenade Broadway the well-dressed gentleman,
and the observed of all Broadway observers.  Mr. O'Doemal
was one of the most accomplished scamps that ever-floated on
the fashionable scum in New York.  A large portion of his
time was occupied in prowling about New York, seeking fe-
male victims. . He had a keen eye, and could tell at a glance
such as would suit his purpose. He watched for them early
in the morning, and half the afternoon.  Sometimes upon the
Battery, and oftener in St. John's Park, and the parks and
squares and places'up town.
On one occasion'he met a young and pretty girl in St. John's
Park. O'Doemall had procured a key that would open the
gates. He made bold to accost her, and discovered that she
was of English stock-and while lie apologized in the most
humble manner for his boldness in addressing her, yet he ma-
naged to throw in the announcenient that he was an English
Captain, nephew to some English Peer, and that he was pass-.
ing through the city on his way to join his regiment in Cana-
da. The young lady allowed him to escort'her home,'and then
introduced him to her father, who really was a half-pay officer
in the English service. Luckily. for O'Doenall he was well
posted in the locality of the English regiments, and the names
of their officers, and for a long time was ,not detected.  He
even went so far as to borrow a hundred dollars from the fa-
ther.
He made rapid advances in the affections of the young lady,
and the night rambles in St. John's Park, (one of the worst
assignation.places and where more Joveliness has been wrecked
than in any house of ill-fame in the pity.) soon completed her
ruin. He then promised to marry her if she would ,eave home
and go with him to a small town on the New Jersey coast. She
consented, and the father became a broken-hearted man. .He
followed the seducer to Canada, where he supposed he had
gone, and there met the real officer, whose name O'D~oenal1
'had takeni, and whose rank he had assumed, and. learned hiow
grossly he had been deceived. Bat he could :get no elaetp

VIGOR,


268

VIGOR.

O'Doemall, 1uad he went back to England. The instant O'Do4
emaIl becaino' aware of the fact, he brought his victim to New
York, placed heir in a brothel; and then abandoned her forever.
She of course became a girl of the town at once, for she had
no other resource left.
It was not unfrequently that Mr. O'Doemall was turned out
of his hotel. He had used himself up in every prominent oni
in the city.  There was not one that he had not swindled.
JBlancard once. said that it was really a pleasure to be victim-
ized by him, as his explanation and apologies, were "so very
funny and interesting" HRe managed to pay. the rent of his
office in New street, so' that if he was turned out of a hotel,
lie could rally at his office.  He would go there when thus
turned out, pack up two or more large trunks with bricks,
boards, and rubbish, hire a cartman, and tell him to drive to
some private boarding house. He had a list, and would select
one whete it was not probable that he could be known. Once
in the house, he .would select the most extravagant apart-
ments to be had, find fault with every thing, and play the rich
Southerner, or any other character which he had adopted. /
A glance at the parties assembled around the dining-room
table would serve to convey to O'Doemall the pecliarities of
any person present.- His conversation,, dress, and impudence,
would sweep down all opposition.  Th n he would, before
twenty-four hours had passed, ingratiate himself fully with
the landlady, and if she had one or two daughters his game
was secure. He would notice that one' daughter was receiving
the attentions of a young man boarding in the house. OIDo-
emall would boldly say to the young lady, "Miss, I am aston-
ished that you associate with or permit the attentions of that
young man. I tell you this in confidence, for I am a warm
friend of your mother ; but this young man -(he, must have
been drunk, I think)-told me in confidence last night that he
had no idea of-marrying you, because he slept with you fre-
quently, without any such ceremony." To the youth in ques-
tiof, O'Doemall had previously told him that the landlady saw,
through him, and had said that lie "was trying to marry her
daughter in order to sponge out his' board billl" .
Thesebarefaced assertions would quickly make Pandemoni-
um of the most pious boarding houses in the city-a-and if Mr.
Q'Doemal'l was ever called upon for any explanation, he would
face the music, and declare the asserons had been made to
hiin by the parties themselves. If lie accidentally met the
'wife of any rather weak-minded boarder 'i the street .alone,

I

VIGOR.

269

O'Doenall would hurry down to the gentleman's place of
business, beg him not. to get angry, as he only wished to say
that he saw his wife entering such a house with such a cler-
gyman, (if there was one boarding in the house,), and that he-
the husband had better look .into the matter. The house would
be some private assignation house, and O'Doemall knew every
one in the city.
A month would generally raise particular Ned in the board-
ing house, if it had not nearly ruined it, and the mischief-ma-
ker would be the powerful adviser of all the, belligerents ,and
the particular friend of the landlady. If he was called upon
for money, he had a hundred excuses ready, but le generally
contrived to make such a scene of confusion in the house, that
money was unthought of. When his game was nearly played
out, after living on the fat of the' land for four or six months,
and landlady and boarders were loud in their execrations, aud
anxious to get rid of him at any price, O'Doeniall would deter-
mine to leave a sting behind whiph should provei a deadly~one,
If it was at dinner, he would rise and say, "Ladies and gen-
tlemen, I am forced to leave this. house. It is extremely un-
pleasant for me to remain here longer.  The pious landlady
has made a statement that I am in arrears for board. ,What
will you think when I tell you that I have let her lave ten,
twenty, and fifty dollars at a time?  She has come to my bed
night after night'for months, -nd now she says that she is.in a
delicate situation--that- I am the author of her misfortune,
and wants me to marry her.  Of course I shall do nothing of
the kind-I will leave the house first."
The landlady would generally faint at such an -infamous
charge, and the daughters would scream. The boarders would
be perfectly aghast, and some believe. it, and the lying scoun-
drel would walk out in triumph.  No one would take it up.
The very enormity of the charge would make the innocent ob-
jects of it quail, and exhibit all the terror of real guilt. Or
perhaps it would be a landlady who-in a moment of weakness
had become a victim to this arch deceiver ; he would then live
on her for weeks and months, borrow all her earnings, and not
leave until he had ruined and broken up her establishment,
Mr. O'Doemall in a quiet boarding house, could only be re-
presented by a fierce, unrelenting hawk, quartered in a barn-
yard surrounded by a peaceful lot of roosters, hens, and differ-
ent sized chickens. It was all one side ; the poor domestic
fowls stood no sort of chance.
In his business, no ene could get any hold of him. His of-


270

VIGOR.

flee or store rent was cheap, and that he ,paid promptly'. He
had a handsome business card, and he paid two dollars and a
half a thousand for them. These alone gave him respectabili-
ty and position with strangers, for who could gainsay it,? He
could be found at his store ; and many a tailor, shoemaker, dry
goods dealer, and tradesman, was victimized to a greater- or
less extent, He owed alL  But those who sued, made costs
for themselves. His very furniture in the office could not be
disturbed, for it was mortgaged to the landlord.  The only
way for his victini was to laugh, for O'Doemall did find associ-
stes with gentlemen, and particularly among English noble-
men or gentry, and he would take these persons to shops that
he knew, and owed money to.
His malice was intense and fearful. He made a'purchase of
some wine of one. of the most sturdy merchants in the city.
This man was a member of Dr. Spring's church.  He refused
to let him have the wine until he paid for it. The swindler
swore vengeance.  Unluckily the merchant left New York on
a visit of some weeks' duration. O'Doeniall managed to put
himself in the way of all this merchant's acquaintance, and as
if by accident, mentioned his-regret that-so fine an old mer-
chant should be so sorely afflicted-that he visitpd him once a
month in the Bloomingdale asylum, where he was -confined as
a mad man.
No matter who starts sucl a story as this; where there is a
shadow fof foundation, it runs like Greek fire, and is very
speedily so extensively spread, that in a large city it cannot
be traced to tire real author. O'Doenall was revenged-the
story flew among the business acquaintances of the merchant,
and he was ruined. When he retured,-he did not know what
had hurt him,'for few like to tell a supposed madman that they
are aware of his having been in a mad-house.
This bad man, as bold as he was wicked, had, as our readers
will remember, formed an early intimacy with most of those
who were connected with the firm of Granville and Nordheim.
He knew Marion Monek, but that young man had cut his ac.
quaintance- after the shirt story' affair.  But O'Doemall was
not one to be easily cut, and, no insult could prevent his recog-
nizing one he had once known.
He ascertained that Marion was sick and confined to his
root in Nassau street where Mr. Bennett lodged ; he called,
was admitted, and presented himself in Mlarion's room, where
he was lying upon a sick mar ' bed..

r

p

VIGOR.

271

fow d'ye do ?--heard you were ill. Come to see you,
and if I can be of any service to you," said he.
Marion replied that he was glad to see him. So he was, and
so he would have been to have seen any one who could relieve-
and passaway the weary sick hours. O'Doemall continued to
be a frequent visitor at the sick room.  Once or twice he
watched all night.  Other friends called--Colonel Mae Neil
was among the number, and when he learned that O'Doemall
had been so kind, even he was disposed to overlook his owing
him money, and renewed' the acquaintance.
No one knew the extent of O'Doemall's rascality,. All be*
lieved him a bad fellow, but'perhaps not worse than many othI
ers : and' when he himself related some of" his most -villanous-
storie , his hearers had the charity to believe he 'was lying,
ard only told such tales to please the company.  Such was
not the fact.
The effect of renewing his acquaintance with O'Doemall
both upon Marion and Mac Neil, *ill form matter for, another
chapter.
CHAPTER XLVII.
31 iss Benson arrives saf ly in Charleston-Calls on Madane (aillard, the
Mother of Frank, her Lover -Tells her .Sory-.The other conveys Miss
Benson to her Plantatio at St. John's-Young Gaillard is Sick-His
Marriage with Miss B nmon - The Arrival of UoI net Benson-His Sati.-
faction, and Departure-Birth of a Son -Death of Francis Gaillard.
THE passage of the ship that conveyed Miss Benson to
Charleston was a remarkably short and pleasant one.. To say
that the fair traveller did not undergo the usual tax of sea-
sickness, would be untrue. She suffered greatly, but her stern
and determined purpose kept up her spirits, and when she
reached port, she was redy to go' on shore the moment the
vessel in which she had been a passenger reached the dock or
wharf. She was astonished at her own coolness and courage,
for she was not aware that she possessed these qualities. Her
baggage was easily carried, and she hired one of the sailors to
carry her carpet bag, and to conduct her to the Planters' Hotel.
As soon as she 'found herself settled, she sent for the landlord
and begged him to ascertain whether Mrs. Gaillard was in
town, and if not, whether she was 'at one, of her plantations,
and which one. 'The answer was favorable. Mrs. -Gaill*erd


272

VI-OR&amp;

was in town. Miss- Benson at once ordered a carriage, and in
it proceeded to the town residence of the mother of her lover.
Her visit occasioned some surprise ; but when she stated
her parentage, the circumstances under which she left New
York, her attachment to young Gaillard, and at ast 'informed
her of the deep wrong her son had done her, and that she was
soon to become a mother, and that her long journey had been
undertaken in order to save the honor of her unborn child-
his child,.all the good in that mother's nature was thoroughly
roused. She placed her in a room-sent to the hotel, paid the
bill, and had the carpet bag brought to her own house.*
"II believe all that you have stated-every word of it. My
son, shall'do you justice, and that too/fimmediately, or I am no
longer his mother. We will start fop the plantation this very
afternoon. Frank is sick, and I feel alarmed about him. Now
lie down, and make yourselfrperfectly at ease. You require
rest and quiet, and I will soon send m'y daughter fo you," said
the mother.
Miss Benson was overcome, and she flung herself upon her
knees bf the bedside, and poured forth sincere thanks to God
for his kindness and care. Then she laid down-upon the bed,
and soon fell asleep.
In the mean time, Mrs. Gaillard had informed her daughter
who the visitor was, and her purpose in coming to Qharleston.
The young lady was prepared toyreceive her as a sister.
"What a cruel wrong Frank'has done to her! 0 mother,
who could have thought, that. my brother would have been
guilty of. such an infamous thing?  I never will forgive him
until he makes wrong right, b.y marrying this sweet girl. Will
he do it, Mamma, deur, do you think ?"
There was a stern contraction of the haughty brow of that
stately mother, and a quivering of the lips, as she replied,
" He will, darling, or "-  but the threat remained un-
spoken, and she continued. -"Go, my child, to the apartment
of Miss Benson.. If she is asleep do not wake her to misery.
Remain by her bedside, and comfort her when she awakes."
The Southern beauty did as her mother directed, and when
Margaret Benson woie from a short sleep, and exclaimed
"Where am I'" her hands were seized by the affectionate
Miss Gaillard, and she pressed her lips,.as she exclaimed,
"With those who will love you for your own sake and who
will try and make~that naughty brother of mine give you a legal
title to our love. Now try and sleep again." -
.The next day after Miss Benson found a lome in the resi-

I
P

VIGOR'*

273

dince of Mrs. Gaillard, that lady, her daughter, and the 'New
York arrival were packed in a-travelling carriage and on their
way to the plantation. They arrived about the middle of the
afternoon, and as the carriage turned off from the State road
into a long avenue, each side of which was ornaineiuted bhy a
row of stately live oaks, Miss Benson almost fainted . Ho
was. she to be received by her lover? At last, the -arriage
drove up in front of the old stone mansion. Troops of negroes
of all sizes and ages poured out to meet "Ole Missus."
" Where is your master, Tommy ?" demanded Mrs.:Gaillard
of an aged gray-headed negro.
"Massa Frank gone down to de creek fishin'," was the reply.
"That is all. I am very glad of that," said Mrs. Gaillard,
addressing those in the -carriage. "I shall have time to con-
verse with him before he is aware of the arrival of Miss' Ben-
son."
The occupants f the carriage entered the mansion, and Miss
Benson was speedily shown to a room. Miss Gaillard' 'accoma
panied her thither, and' as she assisted her to change her
dress, she endeavored to soothe the agitation of the stranger,
and to give her every encouragement.
"You must not leave your room, dear Miss Margaret, until
Mamma has had a serious talk with our gay' deceiver of a bro-
ther. I have never seen Mamma so decided- and so angry,"
said Miss Gaillard.
0, 1 hope, dear Miss Gaillard, that my arrival will not be
the means of causing discord in your peaceful family. If I
thought so, I should -wish I had never left New York," repled
Miss Benson.
"Give yourself no uneasiness. If there is a storm it will
soon be over, and a ,clear sky will follow. I pray God that my
brother will be convinced by Mamina of the necessity of doing
what is right in this unhappy affair," replied Miss Gaillard.
" Amen," was all the reply that Miss Benson could make.
A few moments only elapsed, when Mr. Francis Gaillard
was seen coming up the long avenue through which the car-
riage had just passed. He was extremely pale, walked very
slow, and had every appearance of suffering from 'severe ill-
ness. His mother went out upon the piazza, and when he en-
tered, cordially embraced him.
"Are you better, my son ?"
"I really do not know. I think I am'stronger, 'but at times,
Mother, I get discouraged, and feel that I shall never be' any
12*

CM

I ,


274

VIGOnL

better. Tht what has brought you backfrom Charleston ,in
such a hurry 1" he asked.
-" That, my dear son, I will tell you presently. Meanwhile,
come into the sitting-room,".she said kindly.
Young Gaillard followed his mother, and, they were alone.
Mrs. Gaillard spoke.
"Francisi. will you come and sit down by me 1"
He complied.
"Now inform me, my son, of every fact connected with your,
acquaintance and, conduct to a young lady in New York, whose
name is Margaret Benson."
Mother, what do you know about her, and why do you ask
ma for information ?" asked Francis- excitedly.
" My son, answer my questions, as if you were in the pre-
sence 'of your God. But for, her attachment to you, was this
young lady a virtuous girl ?"
" Asthe fallen snow. I only led her into sin," was the.
honest ieply.
" Are her parents of respectability ?" asked the mother.
"'Unquestioned. Equal to my parents in every regard,"
replied the son.
" Then how could you be so base as to ruin her ?"
"I, Mother l .But why should I deceive you, Mother? I
have acted like a r    -scal. How you came to know'anything
about the matter I will not stop to ask. I feel the deepest
remorse ia reference to that young lady. If ever woman loved
man, she loved me," was the truthful reply of the son.
' "And yet you could deliberately' abandon her in the, deli-
cate situation to which you had brought her ?"
":L my motherT. What do, you mean ?" he asked.
"She is shortly to become a mother-a mother to your child?
0. Frank, Frank !" said the mother.
" Mother, L will return to New York, and do her full justice.
I will marry her, if she will consent to marry such a wretch
as me," said Fr-ancis. '
.,,My sQn, she is here-in this house. She has alone fol-
loved; you'on from Ne w York, for the sake of -her child."
" Not a word more, mother. I. will see her at once ;" and
before Mrs. Gaillard could arrest his speech, Francis Gaillard4
found his way to the apartment of Miss Benson. - The meeting
between the two young persons was affecting in the highest
'degree. Poor Margaret, when she listened to the first bursts
'of repentant words freu Frank, was Qverwhelmed with happi*
ness., It was long ere she could find words to reply to his



I

275

extravagant fondness. "Thank God that you' had' the nerve
to come South, dear Margaret! You shall not 'regret it. I
will marry you without any delay, and at least -the little one
promised to us shall make its advent under more auspicious
circumstances than I deserve. Cheer up ! I go'to ho-l4 oun-
sel with my good-hearted old mother," exclaimed the lover.
Frank Gaillard went to the mother, and told her allklia plans.
She listened quietly, and finally replied,
" My son, I am rejoiced at discovering a disposition on.your
part to repair the wrong that you have committed against the
peace of a young lady of such respectability; bu-t- the -matter
must be settled quietly, and without any noise. I can arrange
yoar marriage so that no question will ever be raised in regard
to the' legitimacy of your, child."
The old lady sent a note -to Dr. Wallace, the rector of the
Episcopal Church, within a few miles of their residence. The
ceremony of the marriage was performed that evening. A
certificate of the marriage was given, and a corresponding en-
try made in the record book of the Parish Church. What mat-
tered that it was dated six months earlier than the day when
the marriage rites were celebrated? -It ought to have,, been'
celebrated six months earlier, and who should ever study for
proof to the contrary?  The good doctor believed he was do-
ing right, and whep asked for a duplicate certificate, he- wil-
lingly gave it.
This duplicate Francis Gaillard intended to send to Colouel
Benson with an explanatory letter, bat he delayed writing it
until he himself should-go to Charleston.,, Meanwhile, the fair
Miss Benson was presented to all as. Mrs. Francis . Gaillard.
The marriage was kept a profound secret; no oie of the 'du'
mestics dreamed of such a thing. The only witnesses to the
ceremony were the mother and the sister.
Before a week elapsed, the family was' startled by another
arrival. They were just sitting down to dinner when a  ar-
riage drove up the Live Oak Avenue. It contained Colonel
Benson. He sprang out of the carriage, and had reached the
top of the steps leading 'to the mansion, when his daughter
flung herselfinto his arms.
"Oh, dear Papa, how glad -I am to see you, and so will my
husband be."
"Husband !" and he held her at arm's length while he re-
peated that single word " Husband !"
" Yes, dear Papa. Husband ; 'for Mr. Gaillard is my' hus-

viGOR.


VIGOR;

VIGOR.

band, and I will tell you all about it Papa, but not now. Here
is Frank."
Mr. Gaillard offered his hand to Colonel Benson. It wa's
barely touched by the latter.
"uWhen I hear all, perhaps I shall be more cordial," he ob-
served, coldly.
He followed his daughter and her husband, and then was in.m
produced to Madame Gaillard. If the latter was pleased at'
rneeting the stately and gentlemanly .father of her daughter-in.
law, the Colonel was no less pleased with the magnificent old
lady, tle mother of his daughter's husband.
"You have arrived just in time for dinner, Colonel Benson.
I need not add how welcome you are;" she observed.
"Many thanks, dear madam, but I am afraid that my pres-
ence here has occasioned you some surprise. I confess that 1
arrived here-with far different purposes than to eat a friendly
dinner,"said Colonel Benson.
"No one could be more welcome than the father of my son's
wife. I hope we shall be able to make your visit a most
agreeable one," said Mr. Gaillard.         .
"The first words spoken by my child have relieved my mind
of a load of agony and anxiety," replied the Colonel.
An excellent dinner wos partaken of, and, when it was -fin-
ished Madame Gaillard advised the young couple to go -and
walk. Then she dismissed the servants in attendance. When,
she was alone with the Colonel, she deliberately requested him
to listen to her explanations. She informed him of the arrival
of his daughter in Charleston, and her surprise and anxiety of
her bringing his daughter home and the marriage. When she"
spoke of the maternal situation of his daughter, the Colonel was
dumbfounded. Then she told him of the delicate manner in
which the marriage had been managed. and handed him the
inarriage certificate.
"It, will probably be some two or three months before my
daughter-in-law's confinement. Then if God wills that no acci-
dent happens, there never.can arise cavil or flaw in the. pro-
ceedings. Bea- in mind, Colonel Benson, that we had to
make a wrong right, and out of evil to get good. I, too, am
nore interested in having our large possessions go to an un-
questioned legal descendant, than you possibly can be. Now,
are you satisfied ?"
"Madam, I have no words to express my gratitude. -If I
had a hundred lives, they -should all be yours. You have in'

deed acted nobly, generously, and how can I repay it?" said
Colonel Benson, warmly.
"Sinmply, Colonel, by treating _your son-in-law and your
daughter as though nothing irregular had happened-make no
allusion to it.,- The pai-sh record and the marriage certificate,
and the entry of the birth of the first born child will tell all the
story in future times, should it ever need to be told. Intro-
duce the bride as an old married lady, or at least as ,haVing
been married so many months ago .as to have ceased being a
novelty' to talk about,; and the world, that is so fond of scandal,
need have nothing to say. We have only to keep our own
counsel. The members of my family will keep theirs. When
you get to New York, an equally prudent course on your part
will be productive of equally happy results," replied Madame
Gaillard.
"You'are a lady of a thousand. I .agreewith every word
you have uttered. As soon as I reach New York, I will give
out that your son was privately married to my daughter before
her family knew any thing about it, and that the young lady
followed her husband to the South, where she now is."
" And where, Colonel Benson, she-must remain for one or
two years. I say this for the sake of the child that I hope will
proVe a grandson, and be a blessing to my old age. . When the
babe, reaches a few months old, then my daughter-in-law can
visit the North with safety, so far as important questions are
concerned."
"Again you are right, lady," observed Colonel Benson.
"And I must add that few parents will enjoy a sounder and
more refreshing sleep than I shall to-night.  My mind is com-
pletely at ease. I have been extremely worried for many
days."
I can readily understand that, sir, but you will have no
further cause. of embarrassment. My son is rich, and Margar6t
has made a good match, so far as wealth is concerned. My
son has been wild, but I hope that will pass away, and that he
will be a good, kind husband. I regret to say that his health
is far from good since his return from the North, and there are
moments when my fears get the better of me. We must hope
for the best," said the mother.
This was news to Colonel Benson, but when he Closely exam-
ined the countenance -of his son-in-law, and contrasted, his
present feeble appearance with what he had know him in-,New
York, he, too, partook of the alarm, and suggested to the .elder
Mrs. Gaillard, as his opinion, that medical advice of a high

1"
if
I ~
it.
:4
Ii
I:
Li


279

VIGOR46

character be resorted.to at once. Colonel .Benson wrote 'that
evening to his wife in New York. He simply informed her
that he was well, and that Magaret had been secretly, married
to Mr. Gaillard, and:that she was quite an old married .dame
when he reached her. He' cautioned his wife against saying
much about the matter until his return to New York. After
despatching this, the Colonel felt completely happy, and gaVt
himself up fully to his enjoyment. IHe fished, hunted, and rode
about theneighborhood, making the acquaintance of the princi.
pal planters in that vicinity. After a fortnight spent in this
manner, he. could not be contented to remain longer, bat took
his departure for Charleston, and from thence sailed for New
York.
'After the departure of her father, the ydung wife devoted
herself to her husband. His health failed daily, but still, he
was not regarded as in great danger. It was resolved that he
should take a voyage -to the West Indies,- but the interesting
situation of his lovely wife prevented. Weeks passed away,
and then she gave birth to a child. It was a boy, and was,
christened Francis.Benson Gaillard. When Mrs. Gaillard had
recovered sufficient strength, after her confinement, to travel,
it was discovered that Francis could not make a journey, and
he madenup his mind to remain at home and abide the fate,
which was'now evident
He liVed but a few weeks after' the birth of his son, and then
his spirit went to another world, and his wife was a young
widow.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
.Eitor Bennett of the Herald -Marion Monckfalls in love -A boat upsets-
He saves his own life, and the live of his companions by ',swimniny ashore
-The herald's account of the -affair-M'-. Jones, the Father, decline. all
further aequaintanee with Mr. onck.
IT would seem almost an impossibility for Marion Monck to
be on the same floor with the editor of the Herald, and in the
habit of meeting and conversing with him every day, without
imbibing a certain quantity of the spirit that ;animated the
editor in a new era in journalism
On one occasion he had been traversing an upper street of
the city-when he fourad himself in the midst of a riot, lHe saw
.the~ whole of it. A man was killed. Mlarion' went home, and,

VIGORLo

27g

as it was a matter of news of some moment,. he: went intoTMr -
Bennett's room and narrated the whole of it to himi " Excel.
lent," said the editor. " I am  really much obliged to you,
Add to the. favor by writing down what you have already told
me, and I will publish it in the morning's issue. It will make
a capital article, and you have related it in excellent style."
Marion.took a pen, and after some hesitation wrote an account
of the affair. Mr. Bennett read it and then exclaimed, "Bahb,
what trash!"
"Why, what is the matter with it, Mr. Bennett".
"The matter is that you have ,not written it at all as you
told it., You have attempted to improve upon it, and bungled
it all up. You have got the Cart before the horse. As .you
related it to me -it was excellent. This writing of yours- is
nonsense. I shall have to write it all over again from my own
recollection of what you have told ,me,. in order to make a
readable article. There is not one person, in -ive hundred, of
those who claim to be editors or writers, that can write  a
editorial as it should be written. An editorial, Master Marion.
should have a beginning, a middle, and an:end. An editorial
should have an object-a point. If a man happened to fall
into a sink because there .was no cover' to it, and aneditor
wanted to call the attention of the authorities to the' neglect.,
and consequent injury, the occurrence of the man' falling should
be related plainly, and as it occurred,; then state the danger to
others from this neglect ; and lastly, point o1it the way to mend
all further accidents by covering the hole up with a stone or a
piece of marble or an iron top. It is a common simile, but it
answers as well as a better one. You write what a shame it is
that rows are allowed to occur, and then tell that a row has
occurred, and a man has been killed. -But don't* get discour-
aged ; you may not think so, but one day youwill be able to
write a clever editorial, which is the highest style of composition
known," said Mr. Bennett, encouragingly.
'Such conversations frequently occurred between the editor
and Marion M6nck. Bat such was the low estimate that Marion
had at that time of the destiny of the Herald, that. though he
had not a cent, if Mr. Bennett had offered him an equal part.
nership, .he would Ihave declined the offer. Marion, however,
did not underrate the ability of the '-editor. He discovered
then, that clear-headed ability, that careful, thought, vivid
imagination and ready wit which has since been deveJlped, bue
which great body of his readers have never given~ Mr. Bepnett:
credit for.; He' possessed a winig way with young' pedplee

3

*1
1:
:i


I.

VIGOR.'
and had'a happy faculty of drawing them  out. Marion was
somewhat susceptible in love matters. He had not suffered
quite enough with the affair of Miss Isabella Granville, but
some months after became violently in love with a rich bank-
er's daughter. The name of the father was Jones. Marion got
introduced to her, and accompanied her to church on' one or
two occasions. The father was- excessively pious, and so was
the daughter. The old Jones abominated theatres, and con-
sidered a Sabbath-breaker as out of the pale of any sort of sal-
vation. Marion was on the free list of almost every theatre,
and was cheek by jowl with every actor and actress qf any note
upon the New York boards. In regard to the Sabbath, after
the acquaintance commenced with Miss Euphenia Jones, he
was very regular in his attendance at the same ,church where
she worshipped. Unfortunately, on one occasion three young
gentlemen persuaded hini"to accompany them in a White Hall
boat to a place in the lower bay. It was Sunday. All went
on very well -until they attempted to return to the city in the
afternoon. The wind came out from the north-west, and blew
a stiff breeze. It was night before they beat up to within some'
distance of the Narrows. The tide was-at ebb. A sudden flow
of wind capsized their frail boat, and they were all immersed
into the water. All succeeded-in 'gettingupon the keel of the
boat, an4their united weights sunk down the boat so low that
the water nearly.reached the neoks of these young men. Upon
comparing notes it was found that batone could swim. That
one was Marion. They were a mile or two from the shore, and
floating out rapidly to sea.. There was but little chance of be-
ing picked up by- inward bound vessels, for -the wind was
ahead, and all such, of course, would come, to an anchor. Un-
der these appalling circumstances, Marion, with great gal-
lantry, offered to swim ashore and get aid. One of the young
men was an acquaintance of Marion's new flame. His name'
was Robert Knight, and his uncle was governor- of the little
State of Rhode ,Island. Marion stripped off every rag of
clothes, and after he had bade all good-bye, he sai4. to young
'Kight, "Bob, dear Bob, should I be drowned, remember me,
for God's sake; to Pheeney Jones."
,,After a terrible time, Marion succeeded in teaching the
Long Island shore. He ran up directly to a private residence
situated high upon the shore. He forgot his nude state, and
rushed iinto the parlor, whore the family were congregated, and
among them a number of young ladies - Their -screams were
fearful, but nothing daunted, Marion seized a candle-stick and

4
'4

281

rushed back to the shore.' He had toldhisstory, and luckily
a negro overheard and understood it. He asked Marion for
particulars, and without a word went down to a boat belonging
to the house, and rowed off to rescue the sufferers. He was
just in time, and he succeeded in getting all into the boat,
bringing them ashore and conveying them to his own humble
cottage. Then commenced a search for Marion. They found
him senseless at the foot of a cliff, with the candle and candle-
stick beside him. He had fallen through a tree which grew at
the foot of the rock, and this had-saved his life. The negro
furnished the party with old clothes, and at midight they left
him and walked to New York. It was near daylight when
they crossed the Fulton ferry. That day three, of the party
took a carriage and went down to the spot. They found the
negro, and made him a present of a hundred dollars in silver.
Marion contributed his share, but he was too ill to go with his
companions. He lay upon his bed, and a medical man was
called in. The affair got wind, and the afternoon papers, of
that day had a long article upon the matter. They gave credit
to Marion for his gallantry in-saving te lives of his. compan-
ions,iut one of the Journals, the "Commerpial Advertiser,"
stated that 1t was "Sunday," and that God would have acted
perfectly right if he had drowned the whole party. That even-
'ing Mr. Bennett called in to see his sick friend Marion, and
he, too, congratulated him upon the gallant act;
"Curse that commercial newspaper. They take that paper.
Sunday. My cake is all dough now," exclaimed Marion, very
petulantly.
"What is the inatter ? Tell .me all about it. I' will put it
straight in my paper in the morning: Let me have all the
facts," said the editor.
Marion narrated them, andadded, "Of course it was' very
natural, that with a good show for being drowned, I sent a
message by Bob, in case' he got picked up, to Miss Jones."
"She ought to be obliged to you, very much' so," said the
editor.,
The next morning Marion sent out. early to get a Herald.
When he opened it, there was the article headed "Narrow Es-
cape 'from Drowning. Gallant Behavior of Marion Monek."
Marion read on-all' pleasant!-.praised him up-told the whole
thing pretty fairly, but all at once -his face- became a foand a
half long, and he rushed into Mr. Bennett's room.
" Why, what is the matter 'i" exclaimned the editor.
"You have ruined me. I am a dead nman. Look here..'

Of

1'

Fl
I
I

'ii

VIGOR.


282-

VIGOR.

and he read, " Bob, dear Bob, should I be drowned, remember
me, for God's sake, to.Pheeney Jones.' That is my death-war-
rant."
"But Marion, you don't mean to say that Jones, Pheeney
Jones,is the realname of your flame ?"
"Of course it is. Old Jones the banker's. daughter. One
of the vestry of Trinity Church. Sunday, too! You also say
that I was 'engaged and shortly to be married to that young
female to whom he sent a dying message.' It is no such thing.
O, it will play Ned with me !"
"1On the contrary, my dear boy, you are not responsible for
what appears in the Herald.  You don't say that you were
engaged, it is theHerald that says so. Throw the blame upon
the IHerald. As for Miss Jones, I will print another edition,
and say it was Miss Smith, and you can send her a copy; ald I
though I think she ought to be extremely flattered that a tal-
ented gllolw, a gallant chap like you should think of her, when^
he expects to bedrowned-shortly, eh? Look at it in that way."
0, that is all very fine, Mr. Bennett, to talk. No matter
what she thinks.. If itlhad been any other day than Supday,
it would have been all right. But her father-Jehyi! Sunday,
eh !  'll go up to the house of Mr. Jones this evening, and
know the Worst."
Eveningcame, and Marion-did.as he stated he would do.'
He went around to Ann street to the Herald office. When he
saw Mr. Bennett, the latter observed,
"Well, Marion, what success ?"-
"I could not get in. The servant, a grinning negro, handed
me this note. Just read it."
k"Tuesday Even ng.
"SIR-I have to beg t  you will no longer consider yourself an ae-
quaintance of mine or o my family, and I have given orders that you
neverr be admitted inside my doors. My daughter Ruphenia joins me in
these sentiment$. We both regard you as a 8abbath-bresker of the worst
kind. 'The Lord evidently kept you from being drowned in order that
you may repent. Hoping you may do so
I am, respectfully,        PETER  N1s."9
"Of course you will publish it. Give him as good as he
sends. Let me. write an article about it. He will regret the
longest day he lives that he ever. sent you that note," ex.
claimed Mr. Bennett, reaching out his hand for the note.
"0O Lord, no! I could not think of such a thing. . It would
ruin me with the girl."
" You have nothing more to hope for in that quarter, if you
put up with such a thing. It is a shame-but never mind-~-f

VIGOR.

288

you don't choose to take my advice, you are no worse off for
my having offered it," said Mr. Bennett.
It was in those days actually considered a horrible matter to
get into-a newspaper. Marion so regarded it. Not so Mr.
Bennett. He regarded those matters which became talked of
among a set or circle, as legitimate articles for a newspaper.
So they were; and now, that the ice is broken, half the people
in the land are on lytoo anxious to get their names into thne
newspapers, attaehd to anything.. -All seek notoriety.
4I
CHAPTER XLIX.
frs. Wilson has a Son-Waler Granville returrs from 'ea as a Sailor-
Visit a Hlouse of Bad Rpute. and. meets Mfs, NJrris- Wailter4is a
friend, a Sailor. son of a Bank Presid n', in his Co'n;ny *- He mi Rose
Barke,-A Rich Scene- Robinson takes her out of te:Ibuse- 'arer on
Clara aid in their escape,
'i., and Mrs. Wilson after their marriage continued to re-
side in the house purchased for Mrs. Nordheim in West Wash-
ington Place.  Mr. Wilson was a kind, careful, parental Sort
of husband, and every day's experience convinced "the wife
that she had acted most wisely and well when' she - gave her
hand to the worthy book-keeper.  Nearly a year elapsed after
the marriage, when Mrs. Wilson presented her husband with
charming boy. The birth of this little fellow' opened a"new
source of happiness to the parents-he was a iew bond'of at-
tachment, and bound their hearts together clos r than ever.
When the little fellow was about two months '61d, and' the
strength and health of the mother was fully restored, Mir. Wil-
son asked his beautiful wife if she would be pleased if he gave
up business altogether.  She laid her babe in the -wicker dra-.
die; and gazing at her husband a moment, said,
"Ah, Wilson, you cannot deceive me.  You have a nT'otive
for asking that question, but I will answer it plainly. I wish,
you would give up business, or if you wish to do business to
employ your time, do it in a prudent manner and in your on
name.
"That, wife,. is precisely what I am  coming at.  But it
will be necessary to getoff with the old love before I get on
with the new. Things are prosperous now.  The 'house of
Granville &amp; Wilson, have made money, and I hae contried
under various  retenes to withdraw from the concern a ceI.

'4
4

1.'
nI

I


284

VIGOR.

siderable amount and invest it in securities in my own name.
I think there will be a crash in the commercial vorld before
long, but by submitting to some extortion I think I can get
out of the concern now, with- the capital which you placed in
it and about half as much more as I am entitled to for my
share of the profits.  I can also make Granville cancel or so
cure me for all outstanding liabilities," observed the prudent
Wilson.
"Then, my dear, do so as speedily as possible.  I am  a
great reliever in luck, and there is none where Mr. Granville
is concerned," said the wife.
In pursuance of this understanding between the husband
and wife, Mr. Wilson proposed to M Ir. Granville a dissolution.
He made it in such a way, and it appeared so much to the ad.
vantage of Mr.. Granville, that he instantly acceded to it-and
thanks to the goed financial management of Mr. Wilson, the
firm ;er in a situation to give him back in cash all that. he
had put in, and twenty-five thousand dollars for his share of the
p fits.
Granville knew that the apparent profits were four times
that amount. Mr. Wilson calculated that the 'losses for the
nekt year, under more unfavorable circumstances, would eat
up all the profits. Mr. Granville also was able to give securi-
ty for the outstanding liabilities of the concern, and Mr. Wil-.
son signed the dissolution, giving the closing up of the affairs
to Mr. Granville.
Thirty days made Mr. Wilson free from all further resnon-
sibilities, and he retired on his laurels, and devoted his whole
time to the wife and child. The cash that he received he in-
vested in real estate,-and placed it in the name of his wife.
She was a woman who could appreciate a delicacy like this,
but she made no comment upon it.
From the very day that Mr. Wilson withdrew from the con-
cern it seemed as though the prosperity of Mr. Granville de.
clined. He met all his liabilities and engagements promptly,
both for the old house and the new, and every month Mr. Wil-
son re-transferred to his old partner stocks and other securi-
ties.
Then a commercial crisis followed. Mrt Granville seemed
to lose money by every operation.  He had done a very heavy
commission business, and held a large amount of business pa-
per, a large portion of which was protested as it become due.
UHis losses were tremendous, but he bore up stoutly under
them ; and although he lived higher, drank a great deal more -

I

1'

4.

VIGOR.                      286
than usual, and relaxed much in his strict business habits, yet
he appeared to hold his own, and his commercial credit stood
unimpaired, although it had a terrible shaking. He felt that
he had consented to a dissolution too hastily. But he kept a
brave heart, and was not a man to be moved by trifles. He
became a grandfather too of a fine boy about the ilme that Mr..
Wilson had a son.  This son of his daughter Isabel was a new
source of pride to the old merchant.
He regretted that the grandson was not Walter's child, so
that it could bear his own honored name of Granville. Then
the proud father wondered what had become of his son-.whe-
ther he was dead, or would ever turn up:again. His wonder-
ment was destined to be solved, but in a manner- that was al-
most a deathblow to the aristocratic parent. . The events that
led to this discovery we will narrate as briefly as possible.
It was at a late hour one Saturday night that two young men
applied for admittance to a celebrated house of ill-fape .in.
Ch'ureh street. In the centre of the door were some iron blindas
about the size of an ordinary window glass.  Through these
blinds the pei'son who came to the inside surveyed the appli-
cants for admission.
Who do you wish to see ?" was the query of the female
doorkeeper.
"Some of the young ladies," was the'reply, in a manly tone
of voice.
" Are you acquainted with any of tiem ?" was asked.
No, madam, we are strangers ; we know no one .in the
house, and have justarrived," was the reply.
"You are not rowdies anyhow, and I will let you in."
The parties entered, and the door was again closed, locked,
bolted, and securely chained, as is the ordinary but prudent
custom of such houses.
The girl took a good look at the two persons she admitted.
They were both draped in the garb of the better class of sail-
ors, yet they appeared to be gentlemen.  Probably they had
disguised themselves in thismanner for a lark, thought the
girl.-.and her survey being satisfactory, she observed,
"Both of the parlors are occupied. I shall be obliged to
show you into Miss Clara's parlor, and then I will send some
of the young ladies into you."
"Thank you," replied one of the persons. He was much
stouter than his companion, who addressed him as " Walt."
His countenance was ~large and open ; his teeth whernlie
laughed weIfe exposed, and white as ivory. His laugh was

-ii,


VIGOR.             287

merry nd Iearty, and the smile which accompanied it would,
have'won uny' woman's heart. He appeared to have been a
sailor. His faceawas bronzed, evidently, from exposure, and
his!dark hair*hich hung long about his face, appeared not to
have been cut-in along while.. He was. very stoutly built,
broad across theshoulders and chest, and he looked like A
youth that it *ould not be safe to trifle with. The younger of
the two was called Harry Robinson; he was not so stout as
his companion, but evidently was not a common sailor ; his
laxiguage was equally correct as his friend Walter.
The girl conducted the new comers into a small but exquis-
itely furnished parlor. There was a piano in it, and also a
guitar. Several choice paintings adorned the, walls, and an
elegant sofa was -in.one corner; there was a door which opened
to a room in the rear.  Harry, as he was called, tried to open
it, to see where it led to; it was fast.  Both persons took off
their hats; placed them upon the centre table near a superb
astral, when they entered the\ room.
.    The guitar seemed to attract the attention of the one called
"IWalt;"
He took it up and struck a few notes.
"The best guitar I have touched,,in.a long while--I wonder
.  who plays.it," he asked as the girl who opened the .door to ad-
mit them entered the room.
"That belongs to Miss Clara," replied the girl.
"Shall we have the pleasure of seeing Miss Clara ?" asked
Walter.,
WaNo, sir, Miss Clara does noi see company. She has this
parlor and the sleeping"room, attached, and is a private board-
er," said the girl.
Walter had commenced playing- while the girl was talking
,-and when she had finished he sung a.Spanish love song, ac-
companied by the guitar.
The girl stopped and listened. - Walter finished, and then
ordered a bottle of champagne, adding,'
Where is this Miss Clara, into whose parlor we have
been intruding ?"
The girl replied that Miss Clara was in one of the main par-
lo-s, amusing herself.
She was interrupted by a sweet musical voice-
" Miss Clara is here to speak for herself, and to ask who is
playing her gitar with such unusual good taste,' and at the
ame time one of the most beautiful visions burst into the par-
loer that Walter had seen in many months. Her -long auburn

'7
'4
I
I
I

tresses fell in ringlets that reached behind her Waist. She
w'as dressed in white, and not a single ornament of jewelry
was about her. Her face was beautiful, and -her figure, per-
feet. Both of the young men arose and uttered exclamations
of delight. She noticed but one. of them.  From the moment
she entered the room her gaze was fixed upon Walter.
"Fair lady," he observed, "we owe you an-'apology for thus
intruding into your apartments,.and I for touching this pri.
vate property-but the girl is to blame for showing as in here,
and I must apologize for touching the guitar," observed Wal-
ter respectfully.'
The lady gazed at him, but for some moments did not reply
a word, but took a seat on the sofa- Walter then resumed his
seat, and she took his hand, and still continued to examine his
features. At last she appeared to be satisfied with her close
examination, and a peculiar smile played-for a moment, upon
her fascinating mouth.
Miss Clara, I hope you will know me again when_ you see
me," said Walter.
"I know you now, if I am not mistaken," said Clara.
"Indeed I do not remember having ever had the -pleasure
of seeing you before," replied Walter.-' in- fact I have been
away from New York some years," he continued.
At this moment the girl entered and announced that one of
the parlors was empty, and that Miss Brown wished the party
to adjourn to the principal parlor.
 " I have taken the wine there," said the girl.
That is perfectly;right," Olara replied. "Show that 'gen-
tleman (pointing to Harry) into the parlor. I will follow with
one who plays the guitar. I want to ask him one or two qupes-
tionw. Go' atonce."
The' girl left the room with the young man, and as soon as
they were gone and she was alone with Walter, shelookedthe
door of the parlor, then passed tq the other door; and took a
key from the pocket of her dress, and opened it,"
"Look in here, Master Sailor," she added.
Walter came to her side as slasood in the open door, and
there he discovered a sleeping, artment fitted up eqal to
any room in a palace. The bed was a lofty one, with ins
carved posts, and was one that a king would have been satis-
fled with.
Walter glanced over the apartment, remarking as he did so,
" I have never seen an apartment for sleepizig more exqais
itelyifurnished."

I

286'                    VIGORA,


2 8

VIGOR.'

He looked for a moment at the loveliness by his side, and
sighetj.,,
-What is that sigh for, and what is your name .
AWalter-and I drew a sigh thinking what a happy man he
would be who could occupy that apartments and have as a com-
panion-its beautiful owner," was the gallant answer.
Indeed ! Do you know, Mr. Walter, that I am not oie of
the girls belonging to this house ?" asked Clara.
I am perfectly aware of it--and don't suppose that f, a
poor devil of a sailor just- off from four years' cruising at sea,,
had formed any idea that I could have s0o much happiness"
said Walter.
"Answer me some questions. Yu came here to-night, you
and your friend, to see each a young Lady ?"
I confess we did," was the reply.
"This is a somewhat; expensive establishment-are you
aware of it ?" asked Miss Norris.
I am ; but we are not without some funds. We were paid
off to-day, and what we order we can pay for," said Walter,
with some pride.
"Now, Master Walter, let me say to you that your friend, or
you, if you had a thousand dollars, could not enter these pri-
vate apartments of mine, but "-
I am aware of it-perfectly aware of it. Let us go tint
the parlor," said Walter.
"In one moment. Look at me, Walter. We will go into
the parlor.- You shall see all the' young ladies in the house-.
'some are exquisitely beautiful. If you do not see any that you'
can admire or desire for a companion Until to-morrow morning,
then, on one condition, I, my poor humble self, will be, your
slave. You shall be lord and master of the apartments and
my person at your disposal on one condition," and as she said
this, she, like a true ,Oriental, flung herself upon her knees,
and took' Walter's hand and kissed it reverently.,
"Why, I should be the happiest, luckiest dog in existence.
But you can't mean it, and what is the condition ?' asked Wal-
ter.
"That the word moiey is not used between us. You shall
not even pay for the bottle of wine 'that you have ordered, nor
for others that I shall order. You shall go, into the parlor, see
all the beauties of. the establish ment--play-sing-dance, and*
amuse yourself until you are tired; then, when you whisper
'thjatto me, I will leave the room and have you conducted. in
here. We will pass the night as pleasantly as we can. We

fi

VIGOR.

289

will have a choice breakfast ready in my parlor when we get
up, and after you have partaken of that with me, then yon
shall go wherever you please ; but the word money-or. pay-...
or compensation, is not to be used by you  If you forget your
promise, I will leave you in an instant," said Clara Norris.'
"Am I awake ? or do I dream ? Lady, I accept1'!the condi.
tion," said Walter.
Clara flung herself upon his manly breast, and he was not
backward in holding her tightly in his powerful embrace, white
he feasted upon her soft, dewy lips, He was losing all control
of himself, when she, with her face crimsoned with blushes,
broke away from him laughing, and as she unlocked and flung
open her parlor door, said, "Come,-my lord and master, I cane
not permit you to be naughty. You have a long night - before
you,- and you must see all the beauties of this house before you'
will be able to decide whether you will, accept my offer. Not
a word, more."
They entered one of the ma'n parlors arm in arm, and Clara
crossed the room and presented Master Walter to Mrs. Julia
Brown, the proprietor of -the establishment. Walter bowed to
a magnificent woman, who was "fair, fat and forty."', He then
seated himself, and for a moment was lost in amazement., In
different parts of the room were eight or more of the most exr-
quisitely beautiful girls he had.ever laid his eyes upon. Some
were not over fifteen, or at most seventeen years of age. One
was presiding at the piano, -playing a waltz, while two others
were waltzing with grace and elegance. All were dressed
costly, but with exquisite taste. Walter had read of Turkish
harems and voluptuous Circassian and Georgian- beauties, but-
hee he fancied that it was realized. The wine was passing
freely, and Walter noticed that his friend had made no special
acquaintance. He went up and spoke a few words to him.
Henry made no reply except "Is is possible ?" and then looked
at Clara, who, amid all this galaxy of beauty, was partly re-
clining upon the sofa, the most beautiful among tIle beautiful.
Her eye met Walter's and it seemed to say, "Are you satisfied
that I am peerless here ?"
Henry asked Walter a question, and directed his attention
to a young and lovely creature that scarcely seemed to be
twelve years old. Her cheeks were like roses, and her" hair
which was in long clustering curls, seemed to cover her little
figure as a black cloud. Walter went and spoke to Clara, who,
laughing, said, "Oh, that is my 'sweet rose. I am very glad
is

A


200

flooR.

that your friend has made so good a 'choice. I will introduce
him.",
She went across the room. to the young girl, brushed away
the dark masses of hair from her face, talked with her a little
while; andthen beckoned'to Henry Robinson. He crossed the
roont directly. "Henry, this is Rose, a little rlse that was
plucked away down in the State of Maine, at a place called
Bangor, iot' many months ago. She has a loving heart, and is
not very well suited for this house She is very low spirited
to-night. You must be responsible for het cheerfulness," and,
addressing Rose, "In the morning, you aid Mr. Henry come
and get breakfast in my parlor. Then the two friends ean
-leave together."
Rose raised her beautiful gazelle eyes. "You, Miss Clara,
-fou--you-his friend-.why, I thought you never "-
Clara placed her finger on the Maine girl's lips.  "Yes
Rose, I am in love with his friend. I, the haughty Clara.,
Now don't say any more. Good-night, both of you," and she
crossed to. the sofa, and Walter took a seat by her side.
Don't yourthinktha't Rose is exquisitely beautiful, Wal-
ter ?'asked'Clara.
"I-don't think-look-or care for but one in this room. I
believe;1 am getting crazy. That is you, Clara,'.---and as he
pressed his arm around her small waist, her exquisitely shaped
head fell upon his breast. For soine time they sat and listened
to the music. Meanwhile, Rose and Henry had left the par-
lor, the former crossing and wishing his companion good-niht.
When they reached the sleeping-room of Rose, Henry found a
large rooni, luxuriously furnished, and a sofa, upon which Rose
ung .herself.
"Lock the door and come and tell me all about yourself-.
where you have been, who you are, what brought you -here to.
night. What magic your friend Walter has, to be accepted by
Clara, who never-sees company, except it be some very rich,
private friend, although she -frequently goes into the parlor.
Tell me every thing, and perhaps I will love you, if you will,"
exclaimed Rose, in almost the accents of a little school-girl.
Henry took her up in his arms as if she had been a child,
and then related to her that he and Walter had been sent off 'on
a whaling voyage, that both their fathers were gentlemen,' that
Aung together in this way they had become very fondly at.
taehe,-and that four years had elapsed since they went away.
" Ho Walter has fascinated Clara, I don't know. Weanly

VIGOR.

291

(K

landed to-day, and after getting some: thing* toeat, we came.
here. That is all, my little rose-bud, that I can tell you."
"Harry is not a pretty name. Henry is better. How  do
hate this house! I wish I never had entered it. Bu.--hefgl)o
..-it can't be helped. You are the first person tato has ever
entered my room that I did not detest in five minutes," sai
Rose.,
" Why, how is that?" asked Harry.
 " You have-treated me as if I were a younglady. You held
me in your arms as my brothers once used to do, and you have
not once taken advantage of my position. I feel very different
to you from what I ever have done to visitors at this house."
Rose had met one who had sisters of his own equally beau.
tiful as she. The next morning, when, she and Harry Robin-
son entered the parlor to take breakfast, she blushed like a
young bride who receives congratulations the morning after her
wedding night. She attracted the attention of, Clara, who ex-
claimed, " Why, you little silly chit. Take care you andMas-
ter Harry don't get in love, or you will have Mistress Browat
about your ears.. She has no objection to her girls making
money, but she don't like to have them fall in love.  Take
care,"-.-and she shook her head menacingly.'
.Harry Robinson then observed, "Miss Clara, we wish you
to be our friend. I want to take Rose out of this sort of busi-
ness. She wants to leave it, too."
"Treason, treason to good Julia Brown, Why, you foolia
child, where will you go ?
.  "I wil! fix that somehow, if I can only get her out of this.
I have got a pocket-book pretty well lined, an't it, Walter!
She says she owes Julia Brown some money," remarked Rob.
inson.
"How much, Rose dear ?" demanded Clara.
" She told me thirty dollars last nht, when 1 refused to
talk with that, drunken gambler, and she scolded me until I
cried," replied Rose,
"She shall go with you if I save to have a quarrel with her.
Take the poor child out of the house, Harry, and you will never
regret so good a deed. . Ask her out. to walk when you go.
Then take her to a hotel in the Bowery, called the Nor
American. Go bolly in, and enter your names as ,  and
wife. Walter will go and see you to-morrow giht1 andi when
Mrs. fBrown fAnds that you have escaped her clutes, she wil
be very glad to give mue your wearni apparelnd trunk, and
I will liay her al.of her demands.  ow-.eat -your b atat,

I


v

292

VIGOR.

293

VIGOR.

and thetnyou, Itose, go and get on such clothes as will answer.
your purpose until to-morrow. Make up a -small bundle of
your night-clothes, and carry them in your h-utd  Mrs. Brown
will not be up for two hours. I will let you out of the house,
and Robinson, may God curse you if you ever desert that little
thing, osr allow her ever to get into a house of this kind again,"
exclaimed Clara Norris, earnestly..
$he never shall, if I can help it," and the young sailor
mreantwhathe said.
The breakfast was finished somewhat hurriedly, for Rose
was somewhat anxious. Then she got ready. Clara walked
to the door, and quietly undid the fastenings. Henry Robin.
son and Rose Banker followed, and in a moment were outside
free in the street.  Clara carefully fastened the street door,
and returned to her own apartments.
"Who knows, Walter, but that a human soul is saved?
What a time I shall have with Madame Julia! Now, dear
Walter,:'have you thought over what I have proposed? And
have you made up your mind, sfter the iost mature delibera-
tion, to accept my proposition ?" exclaimed Clara.
Before I give the, replies of Walter to these questions, I
must make a few explanations. Clara Norris had often seen
Water Granville, and knew.his features well at the time she
was the mistress of Mr. Nordheim. She had seen him at the
theatre, had seen him with Miss Madison Pinckney; and al.
though he had grown older and more manly in appearance, yet
there-was no very great change in the young boy she had
known, and the young man she found in her parlor on the night
that Walter came.off from the ship. She knew him at once.'
Walter did not know her-did not know her name even. ' Of
course, his female relations never allowed it to pass their lips,
and. his father or his father's friends and clerks were not likely
to talk with him upon such a subject-one which affected 'the
moral character of his father's partner. Consequently. when
he met Clara Norris in her parlor, he was ignorant of her per-
-on or of her name and antecedent. -He was extremely flat-
tered to find in an expensive house'of its kind a beautiful wo-
Man evidently flattered with his appearance-the more flat.
tered, as she was of a higher grade than the regular residents
of the inansion, and not dependent upon prostituting her per.
son for a livelihood. $he was 'beautiful-far more charming.
than any-of the others, and placed herself at his disposal for
lone .oertaily it was notfo' money, for she made it a condition
'of ier love and favor that money should not beoffei'ed her.

4

Walter was vain at heart, and not spposing Clara kneyw any-
thing, about him or his fami-y'.friends, he- came to the conclu-
sion that she loved him, and he entered the luxurious trap
without a thought of danger, and supposed that when. break-
fast was over in the morning he would probably never see her
again,
But what were the thoughts of the gifted syren, who had so
adroitly flung her auburn meshes around young Walter? Love!
She had no more love, than would naturally arise towards a
handsome, vigorous youth, who had been absent on' a long
voyage, and who had found in her the first female who was to
respond to his caresses. But she had deeper and more danx.
gerous designs ; and she no sooner was satisfied that the run-
away son Qf Pitt Granville was before her, than her mind. was
decided to have him at all cbsts and at all sacrifices. The first
step was to place him under obligations to her.
When Henry Robinson and Rose had left the, parlor, Clara
waited a short time, and then whispered to Walter,
"Do you'see any that you can love better than me
A loving kiss, and a whispered "No," was the reply.
44Follow me then ;" and she sprang up and went to her par-
lor. Walter entered with'her, and fastened the door.
"0, what will become of me, dear Walter?  I am madly in
love with you! I feared that you might see some one that yoa
lvould like better than me, and I have been. dreadtuily alarm,
ed ;" and she flung her arms around him. "I am fainting-
andress me and l4y me on the sofa! What can you think of
 me?"
Walter was flattered in the worst manner. He did help her
to undress,.and there was revealed to him charms that would
have tempted Saint Anthony. He was frenzied; but the artw
ful girl was perfectly herself. She had her purpose.
"How dare you attempt such liberties !" and she assumed a
sterner air. "I da love you, but I know nothing of your I
am a fool!Here you are, a strange sailor in my room, and  .
almostnaked! What is there about you that has so fascinated
me 1 - Don't dare to take' a liberty with meX! Now tell me al
about yourself. Who are you?   Where do you belong. ?  f
you will tell me the truth, that moment I will let you carry ,ine
in yonder ;" and she pointed to the- sleeping apartment, the
door. of which was opened. "If you do not, you shall go.
You are dressed, and I will open -that door, and call help, bt
you shall leave me. Now kneel down by mie, and tell te all."
Walter was nearly mad.-frantie with the ai-ts ofgten.~


VIGOR.
He commenced ad gave her his name, his history, the -name
of his father,. in facteverything that he knew. Clara listened
attentively. She knew it all before. She knew more than
Walter did, for there were many things about his own family
that he did not know. She did not offer to tell him these, but
said,
"aDear Walter, ITam not such a mad fool as I thought I was.
You are a gentleman, and that is why I loved you from the
first. ,Now I am yours"-ido what-yoiu please with m."
Her object Was achieved, and she gave way to ill her fiery
and fieree passions, which had been soatborougbly aroused by
the young sailor. As he lay clasped in-her arms, could he have
known her secret thoughts.-her feelings of gratified revenge!
There was a light in her sleeping apartment.
"0,"-thought Clara Norris, "could old Granville only know
this! His son--my partner! It is a sweet revenge! Tom,
too, who has .abused me so-where- is his loved, nephew?
Here in my a'rms-4-he abused, neglected, insulted Clara Nor-
ris-whomL Iam binding to me by chains stronger than those
of father, sister, uncle or friend -Beautiful Isabel, that has
isulted me wherever we have met, where is that manly, lov-
ing brother, that you would give almost your life to see once
nore! Where /is he ?-here in my arms--pillowed on the
bosom of Clara Norris! 0, this is delicious, exquisite re-
venge !" Aid with such feelings in her bosom-w.her worst
passions, lust; hate and revenge all being gratified, she passed
a sleepless night;
The next morning she met, as we have related, Henry and
Rose. She bad done apparently a good act, but it was to bind
the friedof Walter to her more closely, that she had assisted
in his running off Rose.
Whenthey had departed, Walter spoke of leaving.   .
"Indeed, sir, you shall do no such thing. You are my
prisoner. You shall not leave this house nor this room this
day of oar Lord. It is Sunday, and. you shall worship here.
Besides, you have told ic your history, and now you shall fol-
low my advice before yon see any of your friends por your
parent I have no doubt I can help you tabe reconciled with
your father. You are independent.. You -need ask no favors,.
-See here." -
T She showed him a large amount of gold, and bank bills of a
lrgeddnoination.
'Th4 is all yours, my dear Walter, if d~u need.it. I don't
iove byfhalds, and I aon't know bizt that I hall invite you 'to

29

go up in the country, where I own a farm and'spend a *eek
there. What do you thiik of it, dear Walter'"
"I will go anywhere with you-wto the devil, if you say the
word," replied Walter.
"We will see your friend and Rose settled, and then we will
go," observed Clara.
Will you see Harry all snug with his woman?"
"What is his name ?" asked Cllara.
" Henry Robinson;" was the reply.
"Is his father the rich judge of that name
The same. That is his father is Chancellor of the Stat/
replied Walter.
Walter remained all day in that house.
CHAPTER L.
Pledying a Watc,- Sirnpson of Chatham street-Colonel.)a Neilpledges
#is dealing pistols -A scene at 43 Centre street-Ain 'dtseared-
Finds thle Count Falsechinski-&amp; gives the Colorld one hundred dollar-
0 Doemaill watches the loan, ctndfolouws the Colonel to Harrcon street.
MAEION had a beautiful gold watch, which h had purchased
of Allen in Wall street. It. was a good watch-solid gold,lot
of jewels-and cost one hundred doTlars. The chain and other
outrigging cost third  dollars more. Aboatonceamonth some
stern necessity would compel him to part withthis costy affair
temporarily. ,He detested borrowing when he was short. It
is a horrible degradation to an independent mind. When 1r.
Monek had occasion for a small sum he would go openlto
Mr. Simpson, in Chatham street, who ought to be regarded  as
an institution of New York. He is supposed to work for a
large per centage. Grant it. He ought to get a mugh larger
one, Who. earns it so &amp;early ISimpson ought to charge
more-he would do so, did he not fnd a large reward--
In his calm and manly breast,
In his blessed daily tasI-
Of pledging the ditressed,
A*ng.up. the .broken -onea,
hort as pie-Crustlow
Bleeding drops of deep remorse
From an anguished brow.
His freqtient visits attracted the attention oftthe elder
Simpsou, and on one occasion he observed to NMawrn, ec
" Do you give your real name when you pledge your weth j'

VIGOR..


29G

YtiGOR*-

I do, sir. I am not ashamed of it. Why do you ask ?"'
Mere curiosity. Nothing more, L4spure you,'" replied the,
pawnbroker. "Most people sneak in here as though they had
been robbing a hen-roost, and felt mean., - I am not ashamed
o( my-business; and I like a customer who comes openly to me
and says what he wants; and if I can let him what he needs I
do it without any chaffling. Now I'ye given you twenty-five
dollars on. that watch. If you had wanted fifty dollars you
should have had it," said the pawnbroker.
"You are a man of business, Mr. Simpson.  ad, you must
sOe a good deal of the under-current of life. I would like to be
hired by you for six months, just for the sake of studying
human character. But don't you get taken in sometimes ?"'
asked Marion.
"Indeed we do. It requires one to keep his eyes open to.
do this business and make any thing by it.~ We have so many
rogues to deal with that we regard every man as a rogue until
we are taught better by experience. We hear some sad stories
-some heart-rending stories. We don't know whether they
aretrue or not., Some doubtless are, but ' we have no time to
examine)' replied the pawnbroker.
Those who love to relieve suffering would find lots of
opportunities, M!r. Simpson, if they would watch those who
bamein here for relief,"' said Marion.
'Indeed you never spoke a truer word. Did you notice a
very beautiful girl, who went out just as you came in ? Neatly
but poorly dressedI She pledged two sheets for twenty-five
cents. She wanted fifty. Said it was to get food for a sick
mother until she got her pay next Saturday night, when she
would return the money. She Js a book-folder. Her mother
and she can sleep between blankets-do without sheets.--can't
do without food. I am a blessing, to that girl. But for -me,
where would she go to keep her mother from starving On
the town !-where else I" emphatically demanded Mr. Simpson,
"You are a philosopher. I wish I had known how she was
situated. She should nothave wanted a few dollars to help
her along in her dreary walk," said Marion, kindly.
"Oh, yes! I dare say-and you w9ul have wanted some
thing else before you finished with her. Yotng men are young
men. I make it a point never to speak of what I know in
reference to young females who conme to my shop. Were I to
do SO, I should be the cause of the ruin of a great many. Now
I know that young -girl's address., She gave it true. It is on
the duplicate ticket for tLhe two sheets. You seen' to be a

VIGOR1.

29T

little better than these seducers about town;. but do you
suppose I would put you in the way of temptation, and, having
told you how destitute that girl is, tell you also where you
could find her?  No, sir. You would go, relieve her, get her
gratitude, talk marriage and honor, and all that sort of lying
nonsense, and-probably I Aould not see her again until byes
and-bye, after the lapse of a year, she would come here, rouged
like the red sides of a peach, to make a raise on- a2 gold watch
or a silk dress to pay room rent to some boss prostitute. No,
sir. I don't do business that way. I don't trust such secrets
to any body," said the conscientious broker.
"But, my' dear sir, you don't suppose .1 am such a sort of
person, or that I would use information so obtained to debauch
a young and beautiful girl ?" replied Marion, a little angered
and mortified.
"I do not know what you might do. I do know that- you
will not get any information from me about it. Poverty to a
young and attractive girl is a fearful thing any how,; bat it is
her defensive armor only so long as prowlers don't know it.
When a bad man is aware that a girl and her poor mother are
in a state of starvation, he has the game in his own hands, ifihe
chooses to run it down," said the pawnbroker.,
In the pawnbroker's shop of the worthy Simpson there isa A
long counter, but at the extreme end there are some three or
four cubby-houses, opened to the counter, but w'th high sides;
and when the door of this little pigeon-house is closed, it can
be locked inside, and the party occupying it can keep partially
concealed. Just as the- pawnbroker had finished: about the
girl, a person entered hurriedly, and passed into. one of the
boxes. Marion was startled.-he thought he had recognized
the person, although he had but a glimpse of him as he passed.
The party 'handed to the pawnbroker a dark-colored mahogany
box, sayin',
How much can you let me have on these V1
Simpson opened the box, for the key was in it.
-.They are hair-trigger duelling pistols," said the applicant..
"Old-fashioned affairs-out of date.  Wouldn't sell for
much,'" replied the pawnbroker.
"They have been used on two melancholy occasions with
deadly effect," observed the applicant.
"iEave- a sort of historical value, have they? .But it don't
count much with us," said Mr. Simpson.
" That identical pair of pistols, sir, was used in the diuel be.
14.

'4


298-

vGOR .

it

I

tween Burr and Hamilton, and more recently in a duel between
ColonelGraham'and Mr. Barton," observed the applicant.
" You are- Mr. Barton, I suppose,'' asked the pawubroker.
"I am' not, sir, but I was a second to that gentleman' when
his opponent was killed'!' replied the applicant.
"Indeed! How much do you want on them?   If they had
been used to murder all creation, it wouldn't make 'em worth
amite more in this shop," said Simpson, very coolly.
"I dare say it would not; but those pistols must have cost
over eighty guineas," urged the applicant, and added, "I want
twenty dollars upon them."
"Can't doit-will give you ten, if that will do ;" and the
pawnbroker turned to! another customer.
"Give it to me, then, and take them," said the applicant.
"Your name and residence, sir," asked the pawnbroker.
".Smith43 Centre street,"' was the reply.
First name ?" asked the pawnbroker.
William," was the reply.
The tickets were arranged, and the applicant took his deo
parture.
" Goodaye, Mr. Simpson," said Marion Monck,
"Good-bye, sir. Come in again-glad to 'see you," replied
Mr.: Simpson.,
No sooner was Marion Monek out in the street, than he, ad-
dressed himself thus: "Poor Mae! This will :never do, I
am hard up,. but he is worse off, or he would never have
pledged those redoubtable 'duelling-pistols of his, which he
exhibits with so much reverence. What can have happened ?"
He hurried up to Centre street, and there he - found the
Colonel sipping a glass of liquor, as though nothing had-hap-
pened.
"Rgad, I will not mortify him.so much as to .tell him I am
aware of his visit to the pawnbroker's," thought Marion ; and
as he approached Colonel Mac Neil, who was so. short-sighted
that'he could not distinguish a face. before he heard the voice,
he 'exclaimed, "Good: morning, Colonel;. how do you feel this&amp;
morning IAnything new.?: I will join you in a drink. I col-
lected some money this morning, and am. quite flush."
Saying this, he pulled out a roll, and without waiting for a
reply to his first salutation, gaily remarked, "If you want some,
Colonel, help yourself-but-I know you never want money."
My dear boy, you were never more mistaken in your life,
Ido want money..l. want just twenty dollars. 'I have ten....

290

VIGOR.

see it-and-I will help myself to a ten from your pile-if yott
can spare it, that is ?"
"Easily, my dear Colonel, and as long as you want: it,"
added Marion.
" No, I don't want it very long. The fact is, Marion," and
here the Colonel lowered his voice to a whisper, "I have had
a hard time of it lately. Things have all gone wrong. I am
getting quite discouraged., I have a home with the proprietor.
of this store-old porter of mine when. I was' rich, you know.
Always kept some cash in his hands, and I hate to borrow
without being able to repay, eh.? Safe rule. that, eh 7 ..Keep
one horse saddled and one in the tablee' eh ?" said the poor
Colonel.
There was an unusual wildness about Colonel Mae Neil as
he said this, which Marion was very sorry to perceive. He
discovered that the Colonel had, been drinking very freely the
day before, and he was so nervous that he was obliged to take
three stiff drinks while Marion was with him, to steady hiEs
nerves. Marion felt inclined- to give the Colonel a few words
of friendly advice, and to caution* him against excessive ,drink;
but he had hardly spoken a word respecting it, when Mae Neil
uttered the sentence," Boy, stop! Not a word more, or never
dare speak to me again !
Marion was'silenced. He was awed by this wreck of u-
manity, who was so much older, and who had seen so many
vicissitudes in life;, and he mentally resolved never'to opes.
his lips again upon the subject, no matter what opeurred  He
felt it to be useless. For a proud man, who-has become ad-
dieted to drink, and continues it to excess, is the last man in the
world to permit old friends to discuss such a subject, or, to
give him any advice. He regards it as a wanton insult and
would affront the only remaining friend he had on earth to reo-
,ent such interference.
There were in thattplace other persons well known to Colquel
-Mae Neil, and also to Marion. .One ,of these,-whom: we have.
alluded to as Charley, the clergyman's brother, was a very sen+
sible and a very practical man, Loss of businessof prop ty,
and utter hopelessness, had led him to abandon hi nselfto
drink to drown sorrow, but he had a limit whiehhe never ex-
ceeded. He never went to bed sober, but he managed to eat
his neils regularly, and this gave the rum he drank some .
to feed on. Mr. Charles addressed Marion and requested to
speak with him alone.4 Marion retired to the back of the stor,
and both took seats upon a pipe of mixed gin. -


II
I I
'F

I

-5UU                     VIGOR.
"Mr. Monek, I want to tell you that our friend the Colonel
is going it too strong. He catl't stand it. If he don't let up'
a little he is a croaker. His constitution is cracked."
Marion asked in some alarm if anything of importance had
recently, happened.
"'0 no, except the Colonel has been keeping .up a tremen-
dous head of stean, and until a very late hour. I heard him
say this morning, when he came down, that he had had no sleep
for forty-eight hours. When he took his first drink this morn-
ing., I had to help him steady his glass to get it to his lips.
Hkawas very shaky, I assure you. It dan't last. long,", ob-
served the good-natured Mr. Charles.
"1Good God, I should think notI But what can be done ?.
I don't like to-say anything. I did speak to him just now, and
he gave me a reprimand that I shall not forget in a hurry. I
will do anything that I can do. Tell me what I can do-?" said
Marion.
"He ought to be placed under some restraint, sir. He can't
control himself. Has he no friends that would pay for placing
him in the Hospital? It is only twelve dollars. They cure
him for that, and keep him from drink while he is there. If
'he is fool enough to drink when he comes out, and rush it again,
why he must take the consequences," observed the prudent
Charles.
"The money," replied Marion, I'. is of no consequence. That
-,is easily raised. But who will broach the subject to the Col-
onel?  If he don't see the necessity of going to the hospital
he will not go, and there is an end of-it."
" True, very true. But he is getting worse every day. If
he don't see the necessity to-day, he may to-morrow. I will
try and-see what I can do. He may listen to .me, as I am
nearly of his age. He will not to you-.-that is' certain.. I will
talk to you again to-mhorrow ;" and with this benevolent senti-
ment Mr. Charles put an end to the conversation by reporting
himself in person to an invitation to take a drink.
Marion began to sicken of the scenie. LiHe saw Colonel Maco
Neil again going up to the bar for another'drink. He saw even
the proprietor shake his head reprovingly to the Colonel.
Then Marioan ade his escape from the premises by a rear
door. He was very anxious about the Colonel. He had 're- -
eived twenty-five dollars, and he had let the Colonel have ten.
he went at opece to his landlady, and gave her the remaining fif-
otee dollars. He now determined to see, the Count  alsehin-
ski; He knew that at that hour the Count would. be aM Del-

b

VIGOR. O9
monico's in Beaver street. He hurried down there, and luck-
ily found him. The Count received him very cordially, but
scolded him for, not coming oftener to see him.
"I have sought" you this morning, Count, to tell you about
poor Colonel Mac Neil. You know I like him. I this morn-
ing gave him ten dollars."
"Where did you get the money to spend on him ?"
Marion's blood rushed to his cheeks, and. he took out his
pawn ticket.
"1There, sir. I pledged my watch to get twenty-five dollars,
and ten dollars Igave poor Mac, and fifteen dollars I paid my
landlady," said Marion.
"Pshaw, my boy-don't get vexed with me-! I have a fixed
purpose for you. It is only fair that I should pay your exa
penses until my plans are ripe. Here is money. Don't turn
an angry look at me-I will not see it. Here are two bills of
one hundred dollars each'-make -them go as far as they will.
This money is for yourself-not for Colonel Mae Neil. Still,
Marion, as the Colonel was the means of making you and I ac-
quainted, I will do anything for him that you desire. Where
can I find him?  I will go with.you now," said the Count.
Marion was surprised at the alacrity of the Count. He re-
ceived and pocketed the twohundred dollars without, ny
remark. The two started for Centre street, While on the
way the Count was pleasant and communicative, and talked
upon a variety of topics.: At lasthe said,
"Upon second' thoughts, I do not wish you to go with me to
see Colonel Mae Neil. Tell me where he is to be -found, and
I will find him. Now go and get your watch and join me at
the Colonel's."
Marion complied with the wish of the Count's. As he en-
tered Simpson's the second time that day, he handed him the
ticket and a hundred dollar bill. Mr. Simpson received it,
gave the change, and ordered a boy to'go get the watch. He
made no comment. -.Most men would. have said something, as,
" 0, you are in luck ;" "Have you been robbing anybody ?"
or "Found a gold mine ?" but such a man was not Mr. Simpson.
Commenting was not in his line. There was some little delay
attending the delivery of the watch, and when Marion reached
No. 43 Centre street, where he was to meet Count Falsechin.
ski, he found that gentleman engaged in earnest conversation
with Colonel Mac Neil.  Marion did not interrupted caion-
- versation, but he was surprised, Hie had never noticjeddhe
Colonel ia such glorious spirits, He seemed to be 0 new 40

ill"


#0

:4'
4

VIGOR.

and perfectly sober. He-remarked this fat to Mr. Charles.
The latter was an old soldier. He observed in reply,
"That is all false. He is drinking upon dead liquor in his
system. A gallon of rum would not have made him drunk this
morning. But to-morrow--wait until to-morrow! See him in
the morning! It will be dreadful, and it will be worse every
succeeding day, until the Colonel has the delirium  tremens.
I know just'how-it works--you can't tell me anything about
that matter. . Colonel Mac Neil don't eat anything-he. don't.
sleep, and he drinks like a fish. Of- course such a bad state
of things cannot last long. There will be a pull up some time
or another."
Having delivered these brief philosophical observations, the
brotBer of the Trinity Church clergyman went to take another
drink to his own cheek.
Marion approached the Count and Colonel Mae Neil. The'
latter spoke in a stern voice; "No, sir. No, sir. Not as a
favor. Not as a loan from you, sir. I am a gentleman, sir. I
am of the race of Mac Neil. I accept the hundred dollars you
are so kind as to loan me, provided you, sir, accept this ridic'
ulous pawn-ticket for a p'etty ten dollars for pistols that have
killed a Hamilton and a Graham."
'The Count took the-ticket at-once, for he was afraid of .a
scene. "That i's right, sir. We are now equals. It is a reg-
ular business transaction. You have collateral.security of at
least two hundred and fifty dollars for a loan -of one hundred
dollars. Now let us take a drink, .-What will you have, Count
Falsechinski ?" Colonel Mac Neil continued.
The Count pleasantly named his drink to the bar-tender.
"Count," continued the Colonel, "did you ever see .in me,-
sir, any thing incompatible with the character of a gentleman?
One of the race of Mac Neil.. The 'best' blood. in the High-
lands in olden times, and I am proud of it, sir;. You are a
blooded 'masculine,. if Poles can. have blood, Count, eh? EXx-
cuse the pun, but you are a Pole, are you not? A noble Pole.
Well, success to you. Here is your very good .health."
The Count-replied in courteous terms, and began to look at
the door ,and seemed uneasy. Just at that: moment Marion
noticed Mr. O'Doemall seated near the chairs recent oceu -
pied by the Colonel and the Count.  O'Doemall had evidently
been a witness to the money scene between the two parties.
As soon as he perceived that he was noticed by Marion, he
came forward in his bold, daring .way, 'said " How *d'y ?". to
Marion, and addressed both the Count -and Colonel.   The-

802.

YIGOILN
former bowed, but the latter treated Mr. O'Doemall with cold.
ness, and made an excuse to leave. O'Doemall then ordered a
drink for himself, and began to converse with the Colonel.
Marion no sooner observed the departure of the Count than he
followed him into the street, but he lost him, and concluded
not to return to the drinking saloon.
- The artful O'Doemall had it all his own. way with Colonel
Mac Neil after the departure of the Count Falsechinski and
Marion Monek. lie flattered his vanity, and the Colonel was,,
fast getting too intoxicated to notice the hollowness of praise
coming from such foul lips, atid he also forgot the character of
the man with whom he was associating.
Finally, the Colonel expressed his intention of going and
spending an evening with his family,
"Family !" interrupted O'Doemall, ." I did not know that
you had a family. Where do they live ?"
This question for a moment sobered the Colonel, who felt
that he had said too much, and with a scowl at his impudent
companion, remarked, "You are a rascal. Clear out at once,
or I will order you to be put out."
Mr. O'Doemall went out at once, but his--departure was not
noticed by the Colonel. Unluckily.-for him that this artful
scamp had again been permitted to renew an, acquaintance
whjch had ended for ever, but for his kindness to Marion
Monek when sick. Mr. O'Doemail had seen the Count hand
Colonel Mac Neil money. He had tried to get into Mac Nelsa
good graces,, but- had failed. He now determined to. watch
him. Shortly after Colonel Mac Neil left 43 Centre street,
and passed over to the west side of Broadway. At: several
stores he stopped and made purchases.. Some of the smaller
articles so' purchased he carried on himself. The, others he or-
dered sent to the address he left with the different store keep.
era. When he had satisfied himself, he continued on his wy
to 27 Harrison street, and entered the house. No sooner had
the door closed than O'Doemall, who had been following him,
crossed the street to the house, and after having carefully no.
ticed the number, he passel down the street to the dook.
"I have housed my game, and l' will try and amuse myself
for a short time, or until he comes out," was his soliloquy.


$04

VIGOR.

I,

CHAPTER LI.
The Plans of Walter Granville and Miss Norris- -Juia' Brown-Te Dea
parture of Rose-A-Miss Norris leaves Miss Brown's Residenee.
IF Walter Granville had -returned like the Prodigal Son in
the year 18- or thereabouts, no doubt old- Granville would
have bid him welcome, got up a great. dinner, and celebrated
the event with considerable rejoicings ; but young Granville
came back after years of absence with no repentant feelings.
His father had kicked him out, and Walter felt much obliged
to him that he had done so. It had made.a man of him--.made
a free man.  He had returned to this city because the vessel
in which he had been cruising was ordered to New York  He
had landed without intending to call upon his father, fiends,
or any body else. As a rover he had called at No. 100 Church
street, because he had known: in earlier fears that the house at
that number wa's kept for' pleasure purposes. He had money
to spend, and he intended to spend some of it there, and 'the
meeting with Miss Norris was entirely accidental. Hb regard.
ed it 'as a piece of good fortune. -Her curious conduct had
saved him money, and he felt obliged.
When Clara.proposed to Walter Granville to remain there
that Sunday, and to go. up in the country with her, he con-"
sented at once, because he had nothing to do on board the ves-
sel, and nothing in town that he was aware of.  His sea chest'
was where he could get it at any moment, and he  no alarm
about that.
Neither Clara Norris nor Walter Granville had any idea of
what. a storm was brewing' in Church street, to bo shortly
poured out upon their devoted heads by the worthy Mrs. Ju-
lia Brown. That lady was not a woman to be robbed of one
of her most beautiful night birds without uttering -her moth*
erly wings.
This lady deserves more than a passing notice. Previous to
the date of our Chapter, Julia Brown kept a two-story house
of ill-fame in Leonard street.  It was pulled down' in 1837 to
make room for the new Italian Opera House.. Thence Madam

41

'4

.1

VIGOR *-So
moved to 100 Church street, and after residing there for some
years, she returned to Leonard street, andin one of the most
magnificent Palaces of Sin.ever built in New York, continued
business for a long time. This house was -'next door to the
Italian Opera House, When that edifice was burnt, Julia's
house was consumed also. It was in this fire that the celebra-
ted Mr. 0., who was sleeping with the noted courtesan Mary
Moore, the female partner in London of Colonel Monroe Ed-
wards. G. barely escaped in his shirt from being burned to
death.
Miss Julia Brown made a 'large fortune in this business.--
She was a beautiful woman, but not immoral herself. She was
married to a fancy man named Jack Harris. For a long time
he was her fancy man, but when a daughter was born, he be.
came her husband.
This Jack Harris was also a character in his day. He was a
sporting man, drank hard, lived high, made bets on every
thing-.-and in a word was a thorough-bred gamble-.  He was
also a great politician, and in those days ruled the Fifth Ward
Democratic politics, and presided at the primary meeting that
first-elected Fernando Wood to a seat as a member of the
Young Men's Committee at Tammany Hall.
Jackiarris had a friend named Allen who would lend him
a thousand dollars whenever he needed it, and for a week's
useof this sum would charge Jack one hundred.  Miss Julia
Brown, though conducting a business for the public do'wnItown,
had her own magnificent residence in Fourth street, up towi.
At this house lived her datighter, who probably never was in-
side of her mother's "place of business." The daiughter was
not pretty, b'ut intelligent and virtuous. While living in
Fourth street, which house she owned, Julia came down in
her carriage. to -her business, in the morning, and retired at
night, leaving in charge for the later hours, a housekeeper.
All of a sudden, from being a pretty sinner, Miss. Julia
Brown became a violent saint. Her first appearance in this
character was at a sale of pews in a Universalist dhrrch in her
neighborhood.. She bought a pew half way up the middle
aisle, and paid for it one hundred and seventy dollars. 'She at.
tended this church, occupying her own seat, for several Sun-
days, accompanied by her daughter. No one knew her-hbut
on the sixth Sunday, a gentleman in the adjoining seat becanme
aware of the proiimity of his old aquaintnnce Julia .Brown,
and he mentioned the circumstance to his :wife, who- was a
member of the church. She told it to a dgzeni 9hji- female


80

VIGOR'

members, and it kicked up a delight for the devil in that eon-.
gregation. Alarge majority were for putting Julia out ofsthe
synagogue without a word of explanation.  More peaceable
measures were recommended by the clergyman, and it was de-w
cided that he 'should call upon the frail but somewhat notorious
sinner at her own domicile.'
He did so. Julia was a good actor. She spread herself at
once : confessed that she had been bad-very 'bad, but that
she had repented, was living in private-had married Jack-
was bringing up her daughter right, and had hopes that, she
should be enabled to convert Jack Harris, and iget him  all
straight.  The clergyman felt bad.  It was a mighty hard
case.' He preached a sermon about Mary' Magdalen-the eon-
gregation sympathized-and the upshot was that Julia conti.
ued in favor, and eventually became a religious lioness -in that
church, and visited freely 'with the different families of that
congregation-and among others, that of Mr. Allen,
Meanwhile Julia did sell out her establishment down town
"--or. pretended that she had done so. Her daughter had
grown up to be a fine young girl. She was courted by several
young men. One of them, was Mr. F. E., one of the. hand-
somest men in 'the City, or that could be found in the State'
r. . was accepted, and the parties were married,ewith the'
full cnsent ani approval of both Julia Brown and Mr. Harris.
Not long after the marriage was soleranized, Julia, whowas
posted in all the wickedness of the world in general,. and of
mankind in particular, discovered that her, son-in-law had
become' ~el fancy man of one Ellen MeVean, a handsome
courtezan that resided with Cinderella Marshall in Leonard
street, opposite Julia's-old house. The mother went ,to work
and prured a divorce for her daughter. Not long after,
another suitor appeared. He was i lawyer, named McM. He
married the divorced Mrs E. Then Julia Brown died,
leavm'g a very large property' to this -'daughter* and left Allen
(Jack's friend) executor. Then Jack died, and he also left his
property to this daughter, -and also made Allen his executor.
The daughter of Julia was now rich -inher own right. She
owned a large tract on the Fifth avenue. Then -she built. a,
house and moved into it with' her husband. The lady believed
that money was the sesame that opened all doors. - She had
money, and she desired to shine in the Fifth avenue. But
powerful as is' money, it failed to place Mrs. McM. at thelhead
of the sett about her. 'One's grandmother may~ have been -a
washeruioman, or never have had any existence. But when

VIGO11. U7
one's mother is notorious for having made th6 money we are in.
lined to spend off the souls and bodies of human beings -by
keeping a house of i1llfame, it brings things too near home'. It
is coming it too strong. So thought some 'of Mrs. McM.'s
neighbors, and they "cut her."
Disappointed as was Mrs. MOM. in such a result, she was
not dispirited or disheartened. She determined to command
success-to shine as a -star somewhere. Her mother was a
woman whose fame was' a public one, why should not the
daughter appeal to the public for favor, although in different.
way, and under somewhat different auspices? This-decided
other, so she took to Shakespeare and the stage, and made her
first appearance in  uffalo. She came to New York, and hired
the Academy of Mu ic for one night. Not satisfied with these
appearances, she determined to try another' feat. She 'became
manager of a theatre in Chambers street, and we hope she, will
carve her way to a niche in the temple of fame.
This digression is not out of place. It is an episode. that
could not be left out; and 'having followed in brief the for-
tunes of the mother to her death, and the daughter to her be-
coming a. public character, we now return to Julia Brown when
she was in her glory at No.100 'Church street, coining money
as if she were owner of a mitit.
'We left Walter Granrille and 'Clara waiting in the parlor
appropriated to Clara. It was near midday before Mrs Brown
made hr appearance.. It was then reported to her that Rosa
had not been down. Mrs. Brown sent at once to Clara Norris
to ask if she knew anything about Rose. Clara made no reply,
but went to Mrs. Brown herself.
" Rose is not in my room, Mrs. Brown," said Clara.
"Did not she and her companion of last-night get breakfast
with you ?"" asked Mrs. Brown, who was getting warm.
" They did," replied Miss Norris.
"Then 'where is Rose ?" again demanded Mrs. Brown.
" To tell you the truth, Mrs. Julia Brown, I think.Rose has
gone for good. She was but a child, and khe personieho was
with her last night took her off," was the reply of Miss Norris.
" Why in h-il did you not stop iti Why didaryou not irouse
the house-rouse ine? I had- rather have lost five hundred-
dollars than that girl !" exclaimed Julia
" I was not aware of that. I let her out myself," innocently
observed Miss Norris
" You, Clara Norris ! Do you dare to tell -me this I" ana

U'

.


1'

VIGO.

she seized kn ironbar that fastened one of the windows, and
approachedher as if to strike.
iave a care, Mrs.]Brown ,, One step nearer, and you will
goi to h--:1 before your time ;" and Clara drew from her bo-
som a small dagger. She held it so close to Mrs. Julia, that
the latter dropped the bar, and putting on one of her sweetest
smles, exclaimed
"Why, Clra, dear, what is the-matter? I was only joking."
Clara replied, calmly, "Take care, Juilia, that you don't try
sauh jokes on me once too often. Have a. care.4
It was now Julia's turn'to be calm.' She asked who was to
pay a debt that Rose -owed her?
"Come, Julia," said Clara. "If you will send all Rose's
things to my room, I will pay you out of my own purse. You"
shall not lose by my carelessness. RHeally, had I known that
Rose was such a valuable little package, I should have been
more careful. Now be a good woman, and go get Rose's things
packed. How much is her debt ?"
"1Forty dollars," replied the somewhat mollified Brown.
"W will pay it when I have her trunks,; and now I think of
itI will-go and see Rose's things picked up and packed, and
have hetrunks placed i$ my room ;" and she tripped out of
the room. Could she have heard the curses hurled at her by
Aulia when sh'e had left the room, she would have hugged her
small dagger more closely.
The trunks of Rose were packed and placed in Clara's par-
lor.* Then she sent for a carriage to be at No. 100 after din'
ner. She and Walter dined together, and then had the trunks
of Rose placed in the carriage. The driver had his instrue-I
tions, and the couple entered and were driven to. the North
American, Hotel, in the Bowery.
They found Mr. and Mrs.- Robinson's names on the book,
and were shown to their room. Rose was very grateftil, and
ordered upfher trunks. Walter and Henry Robinson left the
ladies together, and went down into the sitting-room, and had
a cosy chat about matters.
"   hope, ,Robinson," said Henry, "that I shall. soon see
,some opening in New York. I will never go to sea any more."'
"Indeed, and by the way,. what are you going to do with
that little girl Rose," asked Walter.
Sayve her from destruction, if I can, and become steady
myself. And you, Walter, what are you going to do with
tara ?" re*ie4 Henry.
" Probably she wil-l send me to destruction. 'I do not kniow.

VIGOR *

309

I shall take my chances. Where will I find you if you leave
her ?" asked Walter.
. I will always leave my address at the hotel for you," re
plied Robinson.
Soon after Clara and Walter reteirned to Julia Brown's.
That lady was ripe for a row. She had heard of Clara'spro.
ceedings, and the course she had pursued-with the sailor WalI(
ter was perfectly disgusting to the landlady.
I wish you to quitM these premises, Miss Clara as soon as
you find it convenient. I won't have sueh carryings-on' You
put yourself up-you make out yourself -a lady, and 'put on
airs. Hoity-toity, what a long tail our pussy cat has got!- Get
out !" exclaimed Mrs. Brown, choking with indignation.
"Leave my room, madam, instantly 1" said Clara, for it was
in her parlor that this. .scene occurred.
I will leave your parlor--my parlor, that is. I don't asw
sociate with picked-up common sailors, I don't," replied the
indignant Brown.
A decanter hurled by Walter at the head of the sauey land-
lady, and which dashed to pieces against the wall, brought the
dialogue to an end, and Mrs. Brown made good 'her retreat,
threatening police, and all sorts, of vengeance.
Clara rang the bell. It was answered, and she a second4ime
ordered a carriage, and then told themessenge to say to Mrt.
Brown that Miss Norris would leave ..as soon -as the ,arriage
was ready. Again Mrs. Brown 'came, and this time it was to
try to iMake up.
Be it so-I have nothing against you. Hand me fifty
Julia, and we are quits
The money was paid. It took some time to pack tp all the
articles of apparel belonging to Miss Clara, but at last it woa
completed, with Walter's assistance.  The baggage almost
loaded down the coach, and when Clara and Walter entered it,
they had barely room to seat themselves.
" Where now ?" asked the driver.
.Clara replied "Bond street," and gave him a card.
Walter made no observation until the carriage stopped at au
elegant house in Bond street.
"We will not go into, the 'country for- some days, Walter,
and I have brought you to. a friend's residence, where we will
stay a short time," said Clara.
tt Is she one of 'the other sort ?" asked Walter.
" No. She is a pious lady-keeps -her own carriage" Me-
-plied'Clara     '               ..

308,


F'I

VIGOR.

Mrs.WoodruffW-s really glad to -see Clara, and when. he
introduced Waiter 'Granville by his own name, she regarded,
0lwa with&amp; astonishment.
"Is he the son of Pitt Granville ?"1
Yes Mrs    ooduf; and you must make him at home for
his father's sake," replied Miss Norriso
Tea was soon after- served, andiWalter was more amazed
and more mystified than ever. The pious Mrs. Woodruff and,
herapalace and its solitude he could not pretend to fathom, and
did not try to do it.
CHAPTER , LM
colonel Mac Neil's Last Night With Hi Family-mHe has a Presentiment of
'His Fate, and Preparev for it--Re is IKnocked Down, Robbed, and Bad y
Bart in Franklin ettet-Gets to 40 Centre street Alout Daybreak--Re
DreatoDium  seeTrems, and is Persuaded to go to the City Jospita--
.Marion &amp;oak goee up with him.

CotoNEL MAc NEr's appearance-in 27 Harrison street, under
any circumstances,. was a welcome apparition. He carried
thither sunshine and happiness. Hia two children were de-
 lighted, and aealm peace Aiffused itself through the bosom of
that mother. Mi s Jane McPherson was, an extraordinary
woman. She was Scotch, had many of the prejudices and opin-
ions of the Scotch people; she worshipped Mao Neil, and re-
garded his proud family and his descent as some thing so su-
perior to her own, that' she never blamed him for not marrying
her, hut framed excuses in her own heart for his conduct. Hecr
soul was given to him and his children.- If she sometimes
prayed that he might marry her, it was not from selfish con-
siderations, or from. the thought that her position would be
more respectable. It was because, in her simple way of think-
ing, if the Colonel- was her husband, he would live in the house
with her and the'children, and she would be able to nurse,'
tended care for him in sickness.
Tothe children he was affectionate and. tender, and showed
tore Ma-rked kindness than -if they had been legitimate. Both
were attending the free schoolin North Moore street, and were
making rapid progress in their studies.. In these studies tieo
Colonel took a deep' interest, and encouraged them to be pur.
sued on every visit. - He never failed to bring,. them  presents
of any thing that he. thought they would like, and scarcely a

310

I
I
1

week passed that he did not send then! a sufficiency ofthe best
of provisions for their maintenance. He would not suffer Jane to
broach the subject of money. He had not drawn a dollar from
their little fund since he made the settlement- upon-her. On
the contrary, he had added to it, at one time; eight hundred
dollars,' and in mall sums -to the extent of twos hundred_ dol-
lars. more. On the occasion of Uhis visit, Colonel Mae Neil
was unusually kind id affectionate.- He kissed the young
people fondly, and to Miss Jane he seemed" perfectly devoted.
The good woman eet out the table, and prepared a-pleast
spread for him. Soon after the Colonel made his appearance,
different porters arrived with things he had boughtthat he was
unable to bring himself: All seemed 'happy, but Miss Jane
felt a gloom that she could not account for. She had a pre-
sentiment of evil, and.it was increased when the tea, was over,
and the Colonel'handed her a package.
"Jane," said the Colonel, "we are all liable to die and
have thought it best to write out an order for my few things in
case of any accident ever happening to me. ; I have a valuable
bureau...-old family papers' in it-that some day I want my son
to have. It is in the rear of No. 46 Centre street. The owner
of that store has rooms in his house to-rent. I occupy a Ismall
one, and in it are personal matters that I want to, become; my
son's. I have written all about these matters in'the letter I
now give you. Should I die, I think it would be better that
you move out of New York. It is a bad place. You do not
know who to trust, and a lone, unprotected woman has a hard
time of it,--or if you do not choose to do that, send for yur
father to come to New York. The old man would not refuse
to do so when I am, dead and out of the way. But :mind, I do
*not wish to advise you against your owngood common sense."
While the Colonel was -delivering this melancholy address,
Miss Jane placed both hands to her face and wept.
The Colonel kindly observed,  Don't be'so- foolish, Jane.
I have got todie some day, and I say these unpleasant things
now, forthey have got to be said some day, and it may'as well
be done first as last. With my letter to you: and to the ohl-
dreA in your possession, I feel relieved-. am rid of an un-
pleasant duty," and as if to confirm his wordasthe Colonel be-
gan to be quite merry. He told anbcdotes, sanga few songs,
and when he said he must go, it seemed as though the children
would not let him do so. ' Poor Colonel Mac' Neil.Rlie',kissed
them all affectionately, and~ left the house. It was'uear~eleven
o'elocl4 and he hurried onward as-fast as possibieg lopingd'~

311

VIooR.


s1

VIGOR.

get as far as(46 Centre street before Harry closed up for the
Might. He knew what time it was, for at the moment, of leav.
ing hig children he took a gold repeater from his pocket and
looked at the hour. Then he looked at the massive chain and
theseal. He had frequently explained to his son that the seal.
bore upon it the coat of arms of his family. He gave the"watch
to his son, telling him he might wear it if he would be care-
ful of it. 'Then he added, playfully, "As you are going to
sport gold watch, you ought to have corresponding clothes.
Let me see if I have got any money about me." lie took from
his vest pocket a roll of money, and counted out fifty dollars.
"There, sir, that must do for you-; and you, Sissy," for so he
called his daughter, "you must have some, too,"-and'he
handed her an equal sum.
"4But Popsy, you have none left for yourself," exclaimed
Willy.
"Yes, I have over twenty dollars, and that is all I need to-
day, and if I get short to-morrow I will come and borrow of you
rich folks, e ?" replied the father
This had occurred before he left 27 Harrison street, and as
we mentioned before, when he got into the street, the Colonel
knew that it was -nearly eleven o'clock. He walked up to
Franklin street, and stopped for a moment to get a glass of
brandy in at Thomnas, Riley's Fifth Ward Hotel. Then he
passed across to Centre street, walking on the north side of
franklin. Little did poor. Mac fear, that there was an enemy
on his track, watchig every movement, and all for the purpose
of secring his watch and the inoney he was supposed to have
about his person.  But the Colonel's thoughts were of the
scene he had left, of the dear spot where he -had spent the
evening. 'He passed Elm     street, and was opposite the*
Tombs, on the side -where the arsenal yard then stoo4  -He,
felt a blow, and stars sparkled in his-eyes, and he remembered
nomore. The first recollection after this was of partly lying
on a wet sidewalk close to the board fence. The rain was
pouring in torrents. It was pitch .dark. The Tombs loomed
up opposite to him, and he only recognized that massive
Egyptian architecture by the light of the lamp over the Frank..
liii street entrance. The Colonel was- Imazed. He remained
still for some time, and tribd to recollect what had happened.
"I must have fallen down; but it did not rain when I was
walking. .It is very queer. I certainly was not drunk'; -and
where ir my hat ? It must be after eleven o'clock. I will
hurry oni to' Harry's place. He may not have shut up yet."

VIGOR.

313-

These were his thoughts. With great difficulty he stood upon
his feet. He could not find his hat. This annoyed him. The
idea of Colonel Mac Neil doing- such a shocking thing as to
walk through the street without his hat worried him extremely.
He had never had such a disrespectable affair occur during a
long life. He felt confident of one thing ; he had not been so
drunk as not to know what he was about. Then he kept on to
Centre street. He walked-walked-and turned and looked
about him. Not a store was open, not a light visible, save the
lamps of the street. His head felt queer, "hut- he kept on.
Again and again did he stop and look about him. Not a place,
or corner, or house could he recognize. At last be came to an
open spot. It still rained, but as it poured upon his head, the
Colonel seemed relieved. Then he found himself close to an
iron railing, and he sat down upon the stone foundation.  "I
ought to know this spot," he exclaimed, aloud. Just, then, di-
rectly over-his head,' pealed out the deep tones of a bell.
" One " " two," " three," " four," "five," he counted, and the
bell ceased to strike, an'its dying' notes vibrated off into the
upper air. "As I live, that is St. John's Church.- This is
the park, and it is five o'clock. Great God! what is the matter
with me?   This is the most singular thing that ever happened
to me in my life. I will go to some hotel, for I feel weak."
He arose with difficulty, and tottered towards Hudson street.
Here he recognized his whereabouts, and he-turned down town.
When he reached Harrison street, he. recognized that street
"Ah ! there are my loved ones. I -will go there; but no, I
won't do it, either, poor things."  Even in that hour of dis-
tress, sick, wet to the skin, without a hat, he preferred to suf-
fer himself rather than discompose Jane or disturb the rest of
his children. He turned up Chambers street, and walked
slowly across to Centre street. It was becoming lighter every
moment, and as he reached the store No. 46 Centre street,
Jemmy,'the clerk, was opening the front door. The Colonel
got inside 'and grasped a chair.
" What do you want ?"' exclaimed Jemmy.
" My God, Jemmy, it is me, Colonel .Ma  .Neil."
In a moment Jemmy closed the door and lit one of the gas.
lights, and thOn as he gazed at the hatless Colonel, he eqx-
claimed, "Gracious Heaven, Colonel, what has happened.?"
"Really, JemmY, nothing particular. I've lost my hat some-
how," replied the Colonel.
" Why, you -are covered with blood. You lip is cut: open,
and your hair, Colonel, is filled -with blood."
14


VIGOR-

ii

VIGOR.

316

"I am faint, Jemmy. Give me a glass of spirits-any thing,''
said the'exhausted man.
In a moment it was procured and drank.
Examine me, Jemmy, and see what is the matter."
Jemmy examined his head. In the back were two deep cuts,
from which. the Colonel must have bled freely. Three front
teeth had'been knocked out,,and the under lip was laid open,
and fell down almost to the chin. Jemmy told him all this,
and went and procured a glass, in which the Colonel could see
reflected his ghastly, bloody appearance.
I have had a severe fall."
Fall, Colonel!, You have been knocked down. Where is
your money ?"
The Colonel attempted to put his bands in his vest pockets.
They were turned inside out. Not a cent was about him.
SI have been-robbed," he exclaimed. "Knocked down and
robbed. -That is it, is it not, Jemmy ? Well, I am thankful
that I have not brought myself into such a disrespectable po-
sition by being drunk."
Had you much money about you, Colonel ?" asked Jemmy,
who exhibited the deepest sympathy for the Colonel's misfor.
tunes, and who had ever- treated him with the greatest res
pect.
"I had, Jemmy, over a hundred and twenty dollars and my
gold watch and chain last night."
And all is gone, Colonel ?" extlaimed Jemmy.
No. Hang the rascal or rascals, they got bit, Temmy-
I left my watch with some dear friends, and a hundred dollars
of 'my money also, so that I have. only been robbed of about
twenty dollars. Curse them,".said the Colonel, who seemed
pleased that he had done the pickpockets out of some plunde
Do you suspect any one, Colonel ?" asked Jemmy.
I ? not one. No body that I know would rob me."
Who was with you last yesterday, in this place ?"
"The Count Falsechinski, Monck and O'Doemall."
Did any one of them know that-you had money, Colonel?
asked Jemrny.
"To be sure they did. Two of them gave me what I had -
and they certainly would not rob me of it," said Mac Neil,
"Not likely; and the third one, Colonel, was Mr. O'Doemall
You -yourself called him a scamp yesterday, and ordered him
out of the store. He saw that Count hand you the money. I
willbet all the money I have in the world, that Mr. O'Doemall

314

was the man who knocked you down and robbed you," ex-
claimed Jemmy.
"Pooh! pooh ! Jemmy. That can't be. John O'Doemall is
a hard case, but he would not commit a robbery. Besides, how
could he know where I was to be found last night at eleven
o'clock " exclaimed Colonel Mac Neil.
" Well, Colonel, there is no proof of it, butiny opinion can-
not be easily shaken, that the fellow O'Doemall robbed you
last night; but I must open and put the store to rights," said
Jemmy,
e AndI, Jemmy, will go and change my dirty linen and
wash up."
When the Colonel got back to his bureau and the glass, he
discovered that he was severely hurt, and the wounds pained
him extremely. He washed, changed his linen, arranged his
hair, and even while performing these operations, he called to
Jemmy to b-ring him a glass of brandy and sugar.
It had now become broad daylight. The rain had cleared
off, and the sun was up. It was a beautiful day.- Presently
Harry, the proprietor, entered the store. He was the Colonel's
old porter, and he was much attaclfed to him. He heard- the
Colonel relate what had happened, and his sympathy was so
much excited that he went at once to a physician and brought
him to the store. The doctor shed up the -lip with a single
stitch. He dressed the wounds iM the back of the Colonel's
head, but the Colonel continued to grow worse, and he felt
very weak. He drank again, and then Harry called his atten-
tion to the fact in this manner.
"Colonel, we are old friends, and Iadvise you to let -up a
little. You have received two or three very ugly wounds,
you have a great deal of liquor in your system, and I afraid
that you will bring on inflammation of the brain or some other
thing, unless you give way a little."
The Colonel for once was cowed. He was not himself, and
was frightened.
" I know, Harry, all you would say. I feel as though I shall
have a fit of the horrors. I want to stop drinking, God knows,
but I can't. I must'drink this morning. - See how my very
hand shakes, and yet I have drank four glasses of brandy this
morning. . Try and get me some thing that will lie on my
stomach. Make me an egg nogg., and put three raw eggs in it.
Don't be alarmed, Harry. I have drank so much recently,
that all-I can get down- now will not make me intoxiegited. It
, only brings mpe up to an even keel. I am drinking up ondd


316

VIGOR.

liquor. If I were to knock off suddenly, I should die," said
the Colonel.
Harry went and procured the egg nogg, and Mac Neil got
it down.
"Now Mac Neil," said the good-natured rumseller, "'don't
drink any more for some time."
"I will not-indeed I will not'; I will keep quiet," said the
Colonel-and he honestly intended to do so.
It was nearly nine o'clock before Marior Monck-arrived. He
too had drank to excess the evening previous, and went at
once to the bar to procure 'a hair of the dog that had bitten
him'-in other words, to get a mint julep. Hes had just finished
drinking it when Jemmy pointed out the Colonel in the rear
of the store, and told him what had happened. Marion was
shocked, and went at once to the Colonel, who appeared very
glad to see him.
"I am very ill, Marion," said he, in a low tone of voice. "I
feel I am getting worse eVery hour."
"Any thing that I can do to relieve you, Colonel Mac Neil,
I will do cheerfully and willingly. Here comes Mr. Charles."
The latter approached, and after expressing his sympathy,
exclaimed,
"Colonel, you must be attended to without delay.-. You are
in a bad state; why not allows to take you to the hospital ?"
"The, hospital ! - why, Ply dear fellow, I have a horror
of that place ; but perhaps you' are right.  CanI have a
room there ?" asked the Colonel.
"Certingly.  Good physician, good nurse, and all that sort
of thing. It will only cost twelve dollars to enter, and 1 don't'
think you will be there a week. A few days' nursing will
bring you around all right," replied Charley.'
" But the money, man! I was robbed last night, and have
none left."
" Not a word about that. I have plenty, and will go at once
to the hospital and make arrangements for your reception.
know them all up there, and it will be all right," exclaimed
Marion.
"Good boy--fine boy. Do as you please ;'nd Charley, you
will remain with me ; doi't leave me till I go up there, eh.?"
was the Colonel's request.
"No, old fellow, I will stay by you; never say die.  You
are worth a dozen dead men yet," said Charles.
" Charles, you are experienced. I have a dread of having
the delirium tremens-a horrible dread of it Now if I go to

i4

317

the hospital, and they cut me off short with ted, . God knows
what will become of me. If they let me taper off-give me a
little now and then, to keep the nerves braced, I think I shall
get over it, eh ?" pleadingly put in poor Mae, who was awfully
seared, and well he might be.
"They know just what to do up at the hospital; have no
,fear, Colonel. But here comes Marion. Well, what suc-
cess ?" asked Charles.
"I have paid the -twelve dollars, informed Mr. Roberts
about you, and at any moment when you are ready to go, we
will accompany you. You need not take any things, for I will
come and see you every day," replied Marion.
The Colonel drew a long sigh, then cast a look at the bu-
reau, and exclaimed, "Good bye, old mahogany. I don't
know that I am doing right. I feel bad, and sadly perplexed.
I have an idea  hat 1 shall never see this place or my old bu-
reau again. I will die game, though, if I am to die-but I
must have a drink before I start. Jemnmy, make a stiff glass
of old brandy and sugar. Suppose you all join me--who knows
but it may be my last drink 1"
The drinks were taken all round. Harry the proprietor ap-
proved highly of the course that the Colonel had determined
to pursue. He was afraid that he should have trouble, and he.
had no idea but that the hospital was the best plee for the
Colonel under the circumstances. All hands talked cheeringly
to the desponding Colonel, until at last he felt cheered up him.
self. He shook hands with all except Marion and Mr. Charles,
who were to accompany him to the hospital, see him safe in-
side his room, and then return.
They reached the open gate on Broadway, and the  Colonel
halted for a moment, and looked up and. down the street as
though he expected to see some one. Then as he passed the
inner gate where the gate-keeper's house is, Mac observed, "I
hope my case in entering this gate is not like one of those
where 'he who enters here leaves hope behind,' eh ? I hope
I am not in that category, Marion ?"
Marion replied soothingly--and yet he felt embarrassed. He
did not know that he was doing right, and he could, not make
up his mind, that he was doing wrong. If, for 'a moment, "the
least idea had flashed across his mind, he would have faced
about and taken the Colonel back to 46 Centre street. The
party reached the office, and directions were given to conduct
Colonel Mac Neil to a certain ward. ~A nurse was sent for,
and he led the way, followed by the three, persons. When

VIGOR.


VIGOR.

they reached the right ward the nurse opened the door, and all
entered. The door closed, and Marion noticed that it locked
itself.
The Colonel, as soon as he saw where he was, exclaimed,
"Why, this is not a single room! I am not going to remain
here !"
The nurse replied readily, "Oh, certainly not. We will
have a room ready for the gentleman presently. He can
remain here for the present, and he had betterlie down for a
moment." -This was said kindly, and 'the Colonel, who was
completely exhausted, observed,
"Well, I will lay down a moment. Marion, Charles, you
need not remain. I may sleep a moment. Come back to-;nor-
row, Marion-.-hear ?"
Marion said he would do so. The nurse applied a key to the
door, opened it, and as the two passed into the hall the door
closed and locked.again. "I am not exactly pleased with all-
this business. Why is not the Colonel's room ready ?" asked
Marion.
"Nonsense. le will have no room except that or the inner
lock-up. Why, that is the delirium tremens ward, and there
Mac will be kept until he dies or gets over it," coolly replied
Mr. Charles.
" Good God. -You don't mean to say there is.any danger of
his dying of delirium ?" asked Marion.
"He is pretty near it. He will have the delirium  tremens
most certainly:' He may die. He may not, But he may asiwell
die in that room as in the street. Besides, with all the rum
he-has got in his blood, and the bad cuts upgn his head, he
will have a bad time of it,' said Mr. Charles.
When the two reached Broadway, they separated.
CHAPTE RLIII.
Thomas Granville-A Genteel Loajer's Dailg Record-Cheop Lodging
Rouses -,lThe Liberal Stranger-Tom in Funds once more- The Strangr
Walter Granville places Him at the Hotel de Paris-Dialogue Between
Walter Graiiville and Mfiss Norris About Torn.
AFTER the return of Thomas Granville from Europe, his for.-
tunes became desperate. He seemed past hope. Hie had
been down upon the ground. The human car was off the track.
Thie Fresident of the United States---stern -old Hickory.-had

-5

picked him up, placed him on solid ground and started him d
new man. lHe went out Consul to a city in France, and could
have restored himself to position, wealth and influence. Un-
der the sad guidance of Clara Norris,.he had ruined his repu-
tation, squandered his property, and completely used up those
friends who had re-rallied about him. le had not been in the
city of New York many days before ha fully realized the con-
'trast between holding an official position, having plenty of-
money, and recognized by respectable relatives, ad the loss
of all these advantages. How he lived, no man but himself
ever knew. He managed sometimes to make a few shillings
by singing at a garden concert, or a free concert in some by
street. He went to such places and performed under an as-
suied name. He might have used his real one ; no one would
have troubled his head about him. Sometimes Tom wasalmbst
in despair: for he really suffered. He went to haunts fre-
quented by old friends and acquaintances. There he could
always obtain a drink, and nibble a crackers and cheese.  As
days passed on, matters grew worse, instead of better. It was
rare that Tom Granville had over a quarter. He had no regu-
lar place to sleep, but found-a bed in some lodging. If he had
three shillings, he went to Tammany Hall. If only a quarter,
to a neat lodging-house in Pearl street, near Broadway.,If
only a shilling, Tom went to a lodging-house in Chatham street,
near Duane. There he got a ld in a room where several oth-
ers slept, and Tom had to be satisfied. It was .better than
sleeping in the Park, or walking the streets in a Old winter
night. Sometimes Tom would be the delight of an audience
in allow bar-room where liquor was sold for threeent a glass,
and his droll stories in a-dark room in a lodging-house to the
other queer lodgers in the various beds, would make the. occu-
pants scream with laughter, and their first questions at day-
break would be for the funny man who had told stories or sang
songs in the dark the night previous.  What a happy disposi-
tion, that amiid scenes like these, and hardships even worse
than we hav narrated, could keep up and lose none of it  elas-
tipity.ylod                             ho  ei the  lowe-'
There was scarcely a low priced  gihouseinr
part of New York that had not had the honor of having, as a
loager, Thomas Granville. Occasionally, there would be .ad-
ventures connected with them of a very ludicrous character'
Late at night, on one occasion, Tom found that e had a sol
itary shilling left. -He wanted a drink badly. The place itre
which he found himself was a three cent shp i  rs  te

31-

318 .

VIGOR.*


320.

VIGOR.

kept by Peter Melville. There were several loafers -around
the stove, for it was a bitter cold night. Tom knew them all,
but not one had a cent, and business was at a dead stand. The
excellent Melville showed symptoms of closing up. Torn was
dry. He was as dry as a pump is said tobe when there is not
a drop of water in it.. He determined to have one more drink,
anyhow. The landlord, looked untrusting. Tom drew near the
bar.
"My lord Melville, will you give me a glass of your most
excellent, I might-say exquisite whiskey 1"
"IHave you got the mogey to pay for it, Tom ?" asked the
proprietor.4
"1 Excellent Melville, I regret to say I have not, but assur.
edly, if you will trust me until this hour to-morrow, by Her.
cules, the three cents shall be in your hands," said Tom.
"I won't do it," replied Melville.
"Inexorable Melville, say not so. Remember, worthy son
of the land where 'Wallace bled, that ' 'Tis a little thing to give
a glass of Scotch whiskey. But its draught of warm refresh.
ment, drained by chilled lips, will give a shock of  pleasure to
the frame more exquisite than when wine its nectarine riches
pours;' Ah, stern man, -pour out one glass,.. for poor Tom's
a-col."
The comic look which Tom gave the keeper, as he pro.
bounced these words, upset ,the Scotchman's gravity.  Ie
handed over the decanter to Tom, and told him to help himself.
"But no more, Tom, to-night," he added. Ton drank off the
wine, and then continued, "''Tis a little thing to speak a word
of kindness, but falling upon the ear of him who thought-4o die
unmourned, it sounds like gentlest music.' You have spoken
that word to me, my Melville, and I thank you. Good night,"
-and Tom felt in his pocket to see that his shilling was safe
to pay for his lodging, and then hurried out into the cold air to
go and seek his lodging-house. He paid his shilling and hast-
ened up to the room, where he found a dozen men in different
beds. . He selected one that was unoccupied, and was soon fast
asleep., In the morning, he was up by daylight, for he was
almost crazy to get a drink of water-grog---any thing.' Ile
hastened down stairs. There was a bar in the room, and pie
was kept upon a plate at one end of it. The boy was dressing
when Tom came down.
"I'll let you out in a moment, Mister," he said.
"Hurry, then," replied Tom, and he put his hand in his coat
pocket.

3"f

321

VIGOR.

The boy had his eye upon him.     tain,''said the
" Nbne of that. I saw yoU. Put that back ag
boy, as he approached Tom, angrily     kisaid
"Watdoyu         ea1 What are youutlking about '"si
"s What do you mean.
the unconsciOus Tomi.                 back on the Plate, or
"CYou just put that piece of mince pien ac ve determined
pay me two cents for it," said the boy, in a Very
manner.'td                  cWhyou impudent son of a
Tom began to understand "hy, yoh timpuent n of you
gun, do you mean to insinuate that have taken any of your
nasty pie " exclaimed Tom, indignantly.
"I know you put it in your pocket.h  tsaw you whan you
did it. Fork over, said the boy or rather the
&amp;~was, full grown.
Th ws     o       for our Philosopher Tom* The yoling
man  seid hmu and Tou t gave him a blow which sent bin
reeling. In a moment he had unlocked and opened the door,
and was in  hathamstree     d he ran as if for life. He fe
owa ridiulos thwould be to be arrested for knocking the fel-
low d    a to be  charged  too, with stealing two cents'
worth of mince pice. He-Thomas GranilleexConsul to
acity inFrance pHe ran the faster as he thought of all these
things, and never stopped until he was near Melville's, where
thigsandnevr sopp  un1Melville's place muas not
he had spent the previous evening  Melvill'sh peneia  n
oebu t a few doors below there was a grog--shop ened*. I
hI emergency, Tom entered that, approached the stove,, and
took a seat. How the slightest circumstance wilL ometies
effect a change in one's whole life  Jemmy, the bar-eeper of
efect, ha  it owned a'd fixed up the place. He made an
ohservau to Tom that it was a cold- morning. Tom replied,
obsrvaio toTomt- I  her  Jem4my was, not exactly
and then roared with' laughterele e      ws nto  eadly
plesed  an To  god-naturedlY'related the piestory and his
pleased, and Tom godntrmne0n          hc     o  related  it
narro  escpe.  he comic manner in which- Tomrltdi
narrow eSCape.   hemc   oie   d in as chorus. Jemmy taken
vias inimitable, rande totake drink. The invitation ,was'
invited Tom Granville totaea     wapesd.        ealotk
most cheerfully accepted. Jemmy    w   ereesed He a   tork
a drink. It was cold outside, and they, were seated byi a war
fire. Its genial influence warmed out Ton and inless than Al
hou heha .Jmm  completely fascinated' -that, Tom -could
hour he had Jemmy so comphlsh
have been treated with, the whole shop.
Tom had no coat, and his clothes were- seedy. His boots
wor a    dnrlgoneo, and his'shirt, it had not been changed for a
month nrl moe His hatshone bright, but it was napless, and
moth Torasa moerry this cold morning as if he had the wealth


322

VIGOR*-

of Astor. Later that morning. customers began to arrive, and
Jemmy had to go behind,the-bar, leaving Tom puffing a cigar
at the stove, and seemingly quite happy. Just then custome.z
of a di erent character entered the place, approached the bar,
and ordered a drink;  He wore a fur cap and a bearskin over-
coat. He had partly finished the drink he had ordered when
his eyes rested upon the pleasant face of Tom,
"Great God ! it cannot be possible !" he exclaimed,. and then,
with the glass in his hand, wont and sat hiinself in a chair next
to Tom Granville. "Excuse me, sir, but is not your name
Thomas Granville ?" asked the stranger.'
"I was once Sir Thomas Granville, Esquire. I am   now
Tom Granville, or plain Tom, at your :service,"-and a comic
smile played over his expressive features.
"When have you seen your brother Pitt Granville ?" the
stranger asked.
"Pitt--yes--my brother Pitt. Oh, it is a long time since I
have seen Pitt, but it is much longer since he has seen me,"
sMd Tom, with feeling.
"Then you and your brother have quarrelled, eh ?"
" No, sir. I never quarrel with my brother. He has, for
good reasons, I dare say, done with me. That is his business;
not ours, sir," said-Tom.
"Suppose you join me in a drink, Mr. Granville,"
"Mr. -Granville!  Certingly,. with pleasure.  Jemmy--a
glass of het toddy--my private bottle, you understand. I am
mIuch obliged to you, sir," said Tom-.
4 You once had a nephew, Walter Granville, what has be.-
come of him ?" the stronger continued.
"Ah, there you touch me. A fine iboy-.a noble boy.--gone
tp sea., Unheard of for years. Dead probably. The good
aye die young.  A family affair, sir.  Here is to your very,
good health," said Tom; Had he- noticed the stranger, he
would have observed that he appeared to be very much af.-
fected.
" Your own wife, Mr. Granville, where is she ?" asked the
stranger.
"I Baltimore, living with her grandmother. She is di.
vorced from me," replied Tom.
"So I have heard. What ever became of one of her sis.
ters ?" asked the stranger.
"Which one? She had several," asked Tom.
"Madison Pinckney," said the stranger, with feeling.
"Oh ; she married a young fellow named Charles Wharton, .

(q

VIGOR.                     S2
and has moved to Colaiuhus, Ohio. A very good match, I a m
told. Have you got any more questions to ask? If you have,
propel ahead. I am ready to answer to the best of my ability,"
observed Tom.
" No; I have no more to ask about your family. I have one
to ask about yourself. Suppose, Mr. Granville, that I, a stra-
ger, should say to you, 'Mr. Granville, go with me to different
stores. Buy an overcoat, a coat, a vest, a pair of pantaloons, a
pair of boots, a new hat, shirts,. underclothes, socks, a necktie,
nd any thing else that a-gentleman needs, and I will pay for
them,' what would you reply? and what would you think of me
when I, as I do now, make you such an offer    . said the
stranger.
"I should say yes, and I should think that you were. a par-
ticular d-----d fool," replied honest Ton.
"Perhaps I should be; but why do you think so, Mr, Gran-.
ville ?" pleasantly asked the stranger.
"Because, sir, I am poor. I am dead broke. I dont have
food half of the time. How long do you think, under such cir-
cumstances, I should keep my good clothes? Why sir, in less
than a week, or a month at most, those articles woul4 all go to
a pawnbroker, and I should fall back upon the old rags, sir.
That is truth-don't you think it is, Jenuiy ' said Tom as lIe
aprealed to Jem, who had been an attentive listener ,or some
.Moments.
"It may be, but if the gentleman makes you the ofer I
would accept it. It won't do you any harm to do        sa
Jemmy.
The stranger rose. "Come, Mr. Granville, and go witi me.
When you have all these things I have named, then we must
try and get some money, or food, or a place to beard. One
things at a time. Will you go'?" he asked.
" I will--but first let me ask who you are ?"' said Tom.
"Call me Smith, until we are better acquainted," replied
the-stranger.
"Well Smith, you are a devilish good-looking y'ung  * foow,
but decidedly mad. I will go with you."
The parties left the place, and left a wondering set f people
in it. Jemmy the bar-keeper was the most astonished -ofaU.
*He could not make it out.anhirid
It was near midday before Tom .Grannille' adhs fi
Smith returned to 46 Centre street Thomas Grauville wa a
different person. He was dressed like a gentlernP 2a~  i
actions did not belie his dress:' Fvery article was newan e


324

VIGOR.

.the finest quality. The stranger evidently did not do things
by halves. -lHe ordered drinks for all in the room. When
they had been taken, he said to Thomas Granville, "Now sir,
I will bid you good-bye ; but I will meet you at your hotel
this evening at precisely seven o'clock. Remember what you
have promised, and don't break it. Good-bye."
Tom shook his head, and after he had left, he observed to
Jemmy, "That chap is mad--quite mad."
"4What did he mean by your hotel, eh ?" asked Jemmy.
"  Mean ?. Why I am  stopping at a hotel. It is Tigin's
French Hotel de Paris, corner of Reade street and Broadway,
No. 34--best room, in the house. Paid my board- one month
in advance, thirty-two dollars--eight dollars a week, eh ? See
the receipt. What do you think of that, Jemmy ?" said the
delighted Tom.
"Who can he be? What was the promise ?" asked Jemmy.
"Smith is his name-I promised not to get very drunk, but
to be sober at seven o'clock this evening. Bless your heart,
I will be as sober as a judge !"r exclaimed the enthusiastic Tom'.
"He is a good friend," observed Jemmy.
"He gave me- ten dollars, and advised me to pay what I
owed, here, or any where else in a small way. How much do
I owe you, Jemmy ?" asked Tom.
"Not a red cent, Mr. Granville., You are perfectly welcome
to what you have had,'' replied Jenimy'
"4Thank you, Jemmy. But what a breakfast we had at that
French hotel! 0 my! That Smith understands good living-
He is a perfect prince," exclaimed Tom.
We must now follow the stranger. He had no sooner parted
from Thomas Granville, than he turned his course to Bond
street, and entered the house of Mrs. Woodruff. He walked
up stairs, and entered the front rooi on- the second floor,
There was a lady in the room., who rose as he entered. He
gave her an affectionate kiss, and observed,,
"A thousand thanks, dear Clara,- for enabling me to do a
good deed. 0, if you knew how far that- hundred dollars has
gone! But sit down, and let me tell you all about poor Tom."'
She listened, and he related the particulars of the interview
whith our readers are aware of. She wept, and at last observed,
"If it will only do any good, I shall be glad. I do it and
will do-more-but mind me, Walter, it is for you, not for Tomn.
I have come to hate him--'to hate him," she repeated, em-
phatically.
"ever mind your motive, dear Clara. You have enabledj

ViGoR.

d
5,

325

me to benefit my uncle, and I thank you for so .doing," said
Walter Granville, for he was the stranger that had so electri-
flied the crowd at No. 46 Centre street.
"And will Tom come.up here to-night'with you?" she asked.
"He will, and.then I will'tell him who -I am, and that I
should not have been able to do what I have but for you. Now
let us go and walk. Are you ready ?' said Walter.
"I will be in half an hour-remain quiet until then." And
she left the room.
CHAPTER LIV.
The Nw York City Iosital-A sad Chapter-&amp;(n 4Mac Nedin Me
JDiiriuifl lremrnes Ward-Stern Triatmtnt of Patients in tlwrt Ward-
The attack of the Maniac -upon the Resident Physician-The Colonel
chained-H-iis Detk---Th" body in the Dead House-The horro* of oarrn
"Monck-Distress in Hartioa street-The Body of the colonel taken to his
Rorne.
TiosE who pass up and down Broadway in the great city,
.must have noticed on its west side the dark, gloomy building 
known as the "New York Hospital.". Seen from  the street,
it looks like some glooniy old castle, with its iron railing, the
green lawn, the venerable elms, and the gate-keeper's lodge.
It is a pleasant place 'to look at from the outside, and, but few
are aware of the horrors that are daily witnessed inside. The
stabbed, the accidentally injured, the suicide who has only
partly done his work, the almost maniac, on the eve of delrium
tremens, pass inside those iron gates without notice or com-
ment. Sailors who liave paid United States Hospital money,
no matter what may be their disease, are entitled to be received
into that hospital free of charge, to the extent of one hundred
at a time. The sick or wounded man who can raise twelve
dollars to pay the admission fee, can find a home and medical
attendance until he is cured by medicine or death. In either
case he pays no more than the twelve dollars.
In the basement floor of what is called the North building
is one large room, capable of holding ifve or six small iron
bedsteads. The door has a strong spring lock, and fastens of
itself. The large wndow to this room is strongly barred with
great stout iron bar  that no human strength can wrensch or
tear asunder. There a -e three doors that lead out of this-roomi.
One-opens into a cell, rye there is no window. Nothing


326

VIGOR.

but four solid walls,-and an iron bedstead. Not an article of
furniture else is in this room. Another door leads to a bath
room. Here too the windows are barred with iron staunch-
ions. Another opens into the nurse's room, and this door also
closes with a spring lock, and like the main door, has to be
opened with a key. This room or ward is called the delirium
tremens ward of the Hospital. Into this are thrust those pa-
tients who are brought to the hospital laboring under this fear-
ful malady, or when it is suspected that it will break out, from'
the fact that the patient has been drinking freely, and has suf-
fered' or is suffering from want of sleep4 This is the most
fearful ward in the Hospital, and the nurse, as a matter of
self-preservation for his oiyn life, and the lives of those en-
trUsted to his care, is a man of experience, and perfectly hard-
hearted,  He knows no feeling, until actual observation has'
convinced him of the danger or absence of it, in a new patient.
No mildness, no manner or language 'of a perfect gentleman,
no money can disarm for, a moment the fear of the nurse for a
new comer. The moment a patient is committed to his ward,
he is aware that madness is the main complaint, and he is on
the watch for its appearance in any shape or at any moment.
His doors are locked. His eyes are as watchful as a cat's.
He orders a new patient to undress and go to bed.' Frequently
the patient refuses. Force is at once used, and he is placed
on the iron bedstead, and every particle of clothing is removed
to the nurse's own room. If the patient becomes more obstre
porous, he is at once pinioned to the bed, or a straight.jacket
put upon him, and a hand chained to each side of the bed. This
confinement of itself would almost drive a sane man mad. If
the patient becomes raving, then the scene is changed. He
is passed into the dark cell, where the solitary iron bedstead
is, and where no article of furniture can be found to aid him in
self-destruction. Then the patient may yell with horror, or
utter screams that thrill the stoutest nerves, or die in madness.
The door is strong-the walls are thick, and but little is heard
by others, however fearful the agony. Sometimes the patient
tires out the patience of the nurse, and then he forgets the
rules, and beats his patient into submission until death takes
up the cudgels, and finishes what the indignant nurse had only
begun.
The regular house physician, or the visiting surgeon, never
enter this ward without fear, and a full appreciation of.the dan-
ger. As a consequence, when a patient is placed in this ward,
the very circumstances attending his being there, or the mere

Vi oR.                     327
fact that le is there, shuts 1 I  out from all human sympathy
and kindness. The poor i ebriate who is suffering the horrors
of abstinence from drink, ,,ho needs kind words, and eneour-
agement, and soothing, gets none in this ward. He sees others
chained down to the iron be&amp;ds'-he hears the horrid screams
of the one in the dungeon-he sees them die in bedsalongside
of his own-he hears the fearful screams until death seals the
lips. If he had not the seeds of delirium already in his blood,
. all these things, and such horrid surroundings would make
him mad. Many hundreds of worthy men, who have died un-
lamented in the delirium tremens *ard of the Hospital, might
now have been alive and well, had the friends or relations who
placed them there have exercised a little forbearance and a
little kindness. That treatment of a man who has been drink-
ing until his nerves are burning wires, who cannot sleep, which
suddenly cuts off the spirit which has caused the difficulty and
the danger, and leaves the shattered nerves to sustain the
additional horrors of confinement among-madmen, is murder-
and such is the practice hourly in the delirium tremens ward
of the NeW York Hospital.
- Blessed be those gallant, glorious men who have inaugurated
a new era in this matter-who have started into existence the
"Inebriate Asylum."
When Colonel Mac Neil was placed. in the ward we have
been describing, and left there by Marion Monek and Air.
Charles, he laid down upon one of the iron bedsteads. He
dozed for a few moments, and then rose up.
"Lie down," said the nurse Patrick,
"Who are you addressing-me?     Where is my room, sir?
I will not remain here any longer," said the indignant Colonel;
and he marched proudly to the door. Of course he found it
fastened. "Open the door, sir," he continued.
Nurse Patrick went to another door, and called to a sort of
assistant. The other man came.
" Look here, Colonel, you must take off your clothes and go
to bed. We are not going to have none of your nonsense
here," said Patrick.
" Where is my room, sir p?" asked -the Colonel.
"0O, blast you and your room ! This is all the room you wil
have in this building. Come, strip, or I'll do it for you," said
the nurse, and he approached the Colonel, who stood near the
door.
" Stand off, I say ! or if you touch me I will make you suirer-
for it. I have never heard of such impudence 1"

a
i


$28.

VIGOR'.

The Colonel, as he said this, placed himself in an attitude of
defence.
"Help me, Bill," exclaimed Nurse Patrick; and at the
same moment he, suddenly jumped upon the astonished Col.
onel. He was overpowered in a twinkling, and the nurse and
his assistant flung him on his back upon the vacant bed.
This is outrageous !---infamous !-where is the 'Superin-
tendent?  I am a gentleman; what do you nean?  Are you
going to kill me ?" muttered poor Mac Neil. But it was of no
use ; in a moment he was stripped to his shirt; and then his
clothes, hat,'boots, and all of his apparel was taken to another'
room.
"iNow get into bed and keep quiet, or it will be worse for
you," said the nurse Patrick.
The Colonel saw that resistance was useless; he made no
further efforts, but determined to complain to the doctor when
he saw him. . There were.other patients in the room, but Mae
Neil did not notice them., He lay awake,, and moments seemed
hours, but at last the visiting doctors came-wmone old man and
two young ones. They sat by the bed, and the -eldest kept
examining Mae's wounds. The Colonel began to tell who he
was, and to complain of the treatment-.
"6You have been drinking, sir, and you are paced here to
be cured,-and we will try and cure you; when that is done we
shall listen to your complaints. Meantime yoi must try and
get some sleep. Your condition, without you, get -sleep, will
be a critical-one," said the elder doctor.
The Colonel began to realize his position: he asked the
doctor if he thought he was really very unwell.
"Yes ; you will probably be delirious unless you-get sleep.
I will order some medicine that will give you sleep probably.
It may not. How long since you have had any sleep ?"
The Colonel replied that he had not slept well for several
nights.
"I am very nervous now,  Could I not have a glass ,of
brandy and water ?"
The old doctor smiled, and so did his two assistants, and
they passed on to the next patient. Soon after they left the
ward; -and the nurse, who had received some directions, came
to the bedside of the Colonel.
"How do you feel now ?" he asked in a kinder tone than
usual.I
" Very bad indeed. I am really sick. I would like to get
up and put on my clothes," said the Colonel.

VIGOR.

329

I

"Can't be allowed. You must get some sleep before you
are allowed to sit up," replied the nurse.
"Then I will try and get some sleep," said poor Mac Neil,
le did try, but there was a fire in his veins that would not
let him sleep. Tea came; he tried to swallow it, but his
nerves were so unstrung that he could not hold the cup to his
mouth, and he fell back upon the bed. Then came the long
hours of that night. Moments only passed, and yet the Colonel
dreamed of horrid matters and doings that would have taken
hours to perform. He would start up in his bed, and a cold
sweat poured'from his brow. The building seemed'to totter ;
the room turned round; the sickly lamp seemed to be glowing
meteors. ie would satisfy his mind that all was imagination,
and then the horrid thought would cross his Mind that he was
goingmad. In a moment more he would doze, and then he
would be with his darling children. Oh what happiness! the
loved mother was there. Then snakes would come among them
-hateful, venomous reptiles, with unheard of forms, and his
children would be snatched away, and he would raise himself
in bed. "Lie down," the nurse would sing out. All his
dreams had been but a moment transpiring.
By and bye the nurse would come again. "Take this-tIhe
doctor ordered it."  The Colonel hesisated, but took the tea-
spoon in his hand, and swallowed' the contents. "Two hours
hence you are to take another one," said the nurse. "Now lie
down and try to sleep-it is all that you can do, or. that any
body can do for you; it is sleep or die." The Colonel would
lie down again.  In a moment he saw the doctor slyly enter,
and pass to the nurse's room ; he heard them whisper softly
to each other. One said, " Yes, I have given him the dose.
It will kill him;' then we will take his body up stairs, and no-
body will know it; he will make a good subject."  The other
replied, "I must not be known in the matter.  He is Colonel
Mac Neil. His friends don't care about him while he is alive,
but when lie is dead they may ask about him."
Mac heard all this dreadful conspiracy. He sat up in. the
bed, but there was no one in the room.  "Aha! kill me, will
they ?" He jumped out of bed and seized a wooden bench.
I will not die without a struggle."
The doctor haTd passed through the room, but it was to take
a bath ; the nurse was in his own room, occupied with some
business, but the poor victim, (for Mae, was now delirious,)
thought he had heard all this talk, and he was ready.
--The doctor came out of the bath room. No sooner' did MaLo


330  .VIGOR.

see him, than elevating the stool he exclaimed, "Poison me,
you d-d doctor, will ydu ?'' and made a blow with the bench
at his head.  Had it hit him, he never would have prescribed
for any more patients. The doctor dodged it, but fell.  In a
moment the Colonel was upon him. The nurse, hearing the
struggle, came in, and at once fastened upon the Colonel,' and
choked him until he released the. doctor.  Then more help
came, and at last they got the raving man upon the bed, and
then passing a chain over him, fastened his hands and legs so
that he could not move. "He is safe now, doctor," said the'
nurse. "You had a narrow escape, doctor : lucky I came in.
I thought we should have 'trouble with him; he has been a
hard drinker."1'1
"Yes, Patrick, don't let hin -loose again 'until I see you; he
is very dangerous. I don't think he will get over it, though
he may if he gets sleep to-night," and with these remarks the
doctor paged out and got a good night's sleep, leaving orders
to keep poor Mac chained until mornipg-
The struggles of the Colonel when he found himself made.
fast, were fearful. Sometimes it seemed as though he would
either break the chain and fastenings, or wrench off his wrists.,
His torrents of curses and reproaches were horrible. The other
patients who had gone through the ordeal and were getting
well, could not sleep, but they sat up ir their beds and watched
the run maniac. " For the love of God, take those snakes off
my handd" " Oh Graham, you deserved a better fate." "Poor
Will! my, bright, beautiful boy.'  "There ! there ! what a
horrid snake !"  " Water ! give me water !" these expressions
and a thousand others, gave a key to the thoughts which were
passing in the poor maniac's mind. Sometimes he would utter
scream after scream of agonized horror ; then he would weep
as though his heart would break: and so he continued all that
night. Towards morning he seemed to be getting quiet.
"I am glad of that," said the nurse to his companion.
"I thought, Bill, we would have to lock hini up. But he is
pretty quiet now, and I am going to have a snooze."
" Day broke, and soon after the light came through the large,
window, and fell upon the chained man's countenance.. The
patient in the next bed appeared to notice something unusual.
He observed to another patient, " I believe that man is dying.'
It is enough 'to kill any one to be treated so-chained down all
night. What a perfect gentleman he is, too !"  ~  I
The other patient added, " He don't make no noise now. Is
he asleep ? Take a look."

VIGOR.

331

The other did look, and placed his hand upon the forehead
of Colonel Mac Neil. "My God, he is dead. Let us call the
nurse."
"Don't call him-let hitn find- it out. He knows he will
get the gentleman's clothes, and that is all he cares about,"
said the other patient,
The Colonel lay thus cold -and unconscious, and the other
patients soon went to sleep. Later the nurse Patrick entered,
and went to the bedside of Mac Neil. "Dead, eh ?" and then
he opened the door and went to the office to report. Such
things are very common in that old building  The nurse was
gone a few moments. When he returned, hl was followed by
two other men. They all then assisted to place the body upon
a sort of bier, and carried it out of the ward down to the dead
house, and then placed it upon the table to await further orders.
There was no noise and no fuss at such a melancholy termina-
tion to a man's' life in the hospital, as there would have been
in a private mansion. No message was sent out to any body,
for that is not the business of people in the hospital. People
go to the hospital with one of two objects to accomplish-to
get well or to die. .Colonel Mac Neil was dead, and if - his
friends discovered it well and good ; if not, his body would be
taken from the dead house in the hospital yard to the Potter's
Field.  About ten o'clock that same day, Marion Monek,
agreeably to the promise he had made to the Colonel the day
previous went from 46 Centre street to see him. He passed
through the gate, and went directly to the ward in the North.
building. The door was not fast, but stood partly open. The
nurse was not there. Marion gazed around the room, expect-
ing to see the Colonel-hut he was not there. He turned
towards a patient who occupied a bed near the door: "I came
here with a friend yesterday. lHe was placed upon that bed.
Can you tell me where he has gone to ?"
The man looked at Marion a moment: "Yes, I remember
you. They have removed your friend-Colonel you called
him-to the dead house."
"Dead house! Why, what should he be removed there
for ?" asked Marion, horrified.
"What for?   Why, because he is dead," replied the man.
"Dead. Colonel Mac Neil dead. Impossible. Why, I left
him .here yesterday. Dead !" Marion exclaimed, and seemed
to be paralyzed at the information. Another patient joined
him, who seemed to be a little more human. Hie related all
that had occurred, and that the Colonel had died soon after


VIGOR.

daylight. Marion cried like a child. The nurse came in, and
Marion heard whatlie had to say. He then went to the office
and obtained permission to go to the dead house and see the
body. The dead house man opened the door. There was no
mistake now. There lay Colonel Mac Neil, cold, stiff and
Insensible to all affairs of earth.- Marion was too shocked to
oped his mouth. He hurried out of the building-out of the
grounds, and never halted until he reached No. 46 Centre
street. Mr. Charles was reading the newspaper.    Marion
hastily told the story, namely, that Colonel Mac Neil was dead.
Mr. Charles said he expected as much. Harry, the proprietor,
at once took an interest in the matter, and advised~ Marion to
go to No. 27 Harrison street and communicate the awful intel.-
ligence.to Miss Jane. He went over at once. He found that
lady just sitting down to dinner with her children. He asked
to see her alone. Half reluctantly she came out into the hall.
He told her what had happened. One shriek rang out,- and
he fell senseless on the floor. But there was no time for delay.
" You are Marion Monck, I am certain. Go and make arrange.
ments that his body shall be brought here. Poor William  he
shall have no burial from a public hospital."  The parties in
house were spoken to, and they advised Miss McPherson to
pursue that course. The children of the Colonel were very
much affected; When the mother told them what had h'.p
opened, they sobbed as if their little hearts would break. They
did love that poor father who loved them'so truly
Marion left them to weep at their great loss, and went to an
.undertaker and gave orders to him to take a shell and convey
the body of the Colonel to Harrison street, and then to take
measures for a handsome coffin and a respectable private burial.
He accompanied the undertaker to the hospital. Permission
to remove the body was at once obtained, and the unconscious
Colonel was with those who loved him that same evening of
the day he died. The notice of the death of Colonel Mac
Neil appeared in the papers next morning, and the funeral was
announced to take place that afternoon.

1'

VIGOR.

333.

CHAPTER LV.
The house of John Grasper, in Broadway- The Wedding-Count Falsechin:-
ski is Married to the Rich Irene Graiper-A Startling Contrast-The
Brilliant Marriage of one Lover, and the Alancholy Funeral of the Other.
IN that brown granite building up Broadway, the residence
of John Grasper, iEsq., there was a grand gathering of all the
elite of New York city one night late in the month of Septem.
ber*. The Count Falsechinski had that day led to the altar'
Irene, the handsome daughter of the rich old banker, She wag.
now a Countess. The bride and the bridegroom  were both
present at this party given by the parents of the bride to cele-
brate the nuptials. Music, the rarest and best that could be
procured, added liveliness to the scene. What a contrast to
the scenetliat same night in the humble dwelling-house in
Harrison street! Could the fair- bride, whose brow was un-
dimmed by even a passing "sorrow cloud, have realized that her
admirer-her lover, fand the one she loved in other days-the
gay and fashionable Colonel Mac Neil, had died that morning
in a public ward in the hospital, manacled, uncared for, and
unknown, and that at that moment, when her father's mansion
was illuminated with light and with beauty, and crowds were
offering incense at her shrine, he, the poor lover, was lying
dead in a small room, and by his.lifeless body knelt a woman
and his two children   What would have been the bride's
sensations' !We will not stop to inquire.  Such was the fet,
however, and it was known to the Count that Colonel Mac Neil
was dead, for he had met Marion JMonck, who informed him of
it as an excuse why he should be absent from the wedding
party, to which the Count had given him a cordial invitation.
To the credit of the Count, we will say that he not. -only bade
larion God speed in his work. of kindness in assisting the
widow and the fatherless, but he insisted that he should receive
from him, the Count, a sufficient sum of money to liguidate all
expenses copnected with the funeral of Colonel Mae Neil
Old Mr. Prime, the banker and the friend of the Count, was
at the wedding party, and as merry -as every old gentleman

332


334             VIGOR'

VIGOR.

ought to be. He considered this wedding as partly got up by
his individual action. He had satisfied Mr. Grasper, and Mr.
Grasper had paid into the banking house of Prims, Ward &amp;
King the dower agreed upon, namely, one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars. The settlements had been made to the en-
tire satisfaction of all parties.
Among the guests was the Russian Aihbassador, who had
undertaken to arrange the Count's affairs at the Court of- St.
Petersburg. He had succeeded, and his presence was a fu!Il
indorsement of the Count's claim to his  title, had any one
chosen to dispute or to doubt the matter. Mr and Mrs. Wil-
son were invited, and were present. So were Colonel Benson,
his son and Isabella Benson, his. son's wife, and her father,
.Pitt Granville. The latter was an unhappy, miserable man.
He had made a grand mistake in the Count. He had always
supposed he was a nobody.-an adventurer. He had had him
as a clerk, and had treated him as a clerk; and now to find that
this ci devant clerk was a real count-a nobleman, with a
princely income and a large, cash capital, and about to carry off
a bride with a hundred and fifty thousand dollars more, was too
bad. He might have had the Count for his own daughter, if
he had awoke a little sooner, and then, as he contpasted the
elegant, well-dresged, accomplished Count, passing from one to
another o( the guests, an object of universal admiration, and
winning smiles from the most beautiful by his wit and bril-
liant conversation, and then turned his eyes to his own son-in-
law, who sat in one corner, looking sheepish and stupid, no one
appearing to be aware that such a person was in existence, lie
felt mortified and vexed at his own past folly and stupidity.
All the friends and connexions of the Graspers were present
in fall force. The bride radiated among them, dressed in
spotless white and sparkling with jewels. She was proud of
her husband, and well she might be, for the Count could shine
any where, and he appeared devoted to his wife.
It had been arranged that the bridal pair should start the
next morning on -an excursion, which was expected to ocupy
some weeks.
The Count approached Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, who were
quietly enjoying the gay scene. He shook hands with them
cordially, and they congratulated him upon his. brilliant mar-
riage. The Count replied with deep fervor to Mrs. Wilson,
"Ah, dear madam; I can never forget you. That first night,
when I was so poor, and when M~ario, God bless him, carried
me to his room. Oh, you have brought me good, luck. It

started me anew, and you, Mr. Wilson, how kind you ever were
to me, I shall never forget."
Mrs. Wilson replied: "Poor Marion. I am told that he is
not doing very well, Don't forget him, Count, for if you do
owe any one for your success, it was Marion."
"May my head perish when I forget it. No, Mrs. Wilson,
I have a place on my hands for the good of Marion. He shall
be in business before I leave this land for my ,own country,
and-with, plenty of means. You have heard of that dreadful
event this morning, Wilson ?" he inquired, in a low voice.
Both husband and wife started, and asked to what he alluded.
"1Don't mention it here to-night, but Colonel Mac Neil died
of delirium tremens in one of the wards of  the hospital this
morning about daybreak. Marion Monck has removed the
dead body to residence of Miss McPherson and Mac's children.
Is it not shocking ? I must leave you now. Do not forget
ie, "-'-and with these words the Count passed on to greet other
guests.
Wilson-gazed into the face of his wife. Neither could speak
for some moments. Both knew the history of Colonel Mae
Neil. Both knew that he was once a favored lover of her who
was now- the ountess Falsechinski. At last Mr; Wilson
spoke.
"I Darling, Iam sick of stopping here. Can't we contrive to
go ? Poor Mac Neil ; what : sad fate. I shall .go to, his fu-
neral, wife. I wish I could have done more, What a blow it
would be to the gay bride, if the truth could reach her to-night,
eh?"
'I hope it may not, Richard. She could not have helped
the matter-and only think of that poor woman and her two
children.  Well-well-as people sow, so must they reap.
What a contrast between the melancholy death of one lover
and the gay bridal of another, and yet the one who has died a
horrid death, I first met the courted and caressed by all the
wealth and fashion of -the city. The other, who- is now sur-
rouded by wealth, admiring friends, a title, a rich bride, came,
to my house in the dead of winter, and without food or scarcely
any clothes. But for the kindness of Marion Monck might
have perihed in the streets that night. Does it not make you
shudder to think of such changes in life, husband ?" asked the
wife.
Thank God, and you, my darling Bessy, I am too comfort-
able to dread them. Weinmust stay until supper is ever. I
'will go and tell Mr. Granville about Mae Neil's death."

A

34%.,5


336         -.VIGOR.
lHe left his wife to do as he stated. *He was absent but a
moment, and when he returned he observed,- ' I have done a
very foolish thing.' I never saw a man so horrified -,as Grani-
villa appears to be. I am sorry I told'him any thing about tho
matter."
Mrs. Isabella Benson was at this wedding party, and her
beauty attracted a great' deal of admiration. Many solicited
an introduction to her, but her conversational powers were not
sufficient-to retain by her side those that her pretty features
attracted thithe'r.
The supper was a~ superb affair, and no pains or expense
were spared to make it excel all suppers that ever came off be-
fore in a private house. Old Mr. Prime declared that he had
never been it such a supper, and his indorsement was always a
good one for a note or a supper.
It was at a very late hour when the party broke up. All the.
guests were pleased, and went to their homes envying both
bride and bridegroom. Such is life.
The neft morning all the gay guests at 'that wedding read
t6e notice of Colonel Mae Neil's death, and that his funeral
would take place that afternoon from 27 Harrison street.
When the appointed hour arrived, there was a large crowd
gathered. It hardly seemed possible that, the Colonel had so
many friends, or even acquaintances. Mr.'Granville was there.
So was Colonel Benson and Mr. Wilson and many others. The
body was to be conveyed to Greenwood Cemetery. The widow
and the children were in a carriage by themselves, where they
followecf the corpse until it was placed beneath the sod.' Then
Marion Monck got- into the carriage, and returned with the
three weepers. As the little party crossed the ferry, Miss
McPherson spoke.   "Mr. Monck, you have been a trae friend
to us in our need, and God will bless you for it. Out of all
the Colonel's friends, you alone seem to have been a true one.
I want you to do one thing more. Get all his things from the
place that he frequented, and bring them to me. I will give
you his own authority for their removal."  She then told Ma-
rion about the last day he had spent with his little family.
He had a presentiment that he was to die, and it.-came true."
The day following that of the funeral, Marion caused the
bureau another effects of the late Colonel to be removed to
the residence of his widow, as hie called her, and by which title
she was ever after recognized by those who valued Mac Neil's
mnemfory.
~Soon aftei- the Colonefs death, the window wrote to her father

VIGOR.

in Canada. He came to New York. Mrs. Mac Neil appointed
a trusting agent to manage her property in the city, and, as
soon as those matters were arranged,'she and her two" children
returned to Canada with their relative.
CHAPTER LVI.
Walter Granville and Clara Norris-Their Marriage-The Hotel de Paris,
and Torn Granville-Curious Speech of Clara Norris to tVenr JRoinson I
The latter's Marriage with Rose Barker at Mrs. Woodruff's residence-.
Marion Monck-His Poem, " The Outcast "--ToGn (ranvdle'e degrad &amp;
tion,.and Rftetions at Clara's Wedding with his Nephew.
SoME weeks had passed after the arrival in the city of young
Walter Oranville before he made himself known to his uncle
Tom. The time had been devoted to Miss Norris, who had
continued to reside at Mrs. Woodruff's, and where she had a
fill opportunity 'to exert her extraordinary powers of fascina-
tion upon the young sailor. Never had she appeared so young
and so lovely. She accompanied him to every place of public
amusement, rode out with him, walked with him, delicately
furnished him with a stream of money, and bestowed upon him
presents of value and of utility. .She had a purpose in all this.
She made up her mind to succeed, and success seemed almost
within her grasp. She deterwineA to injure the elder Gran-
ville, and she saw no surer method than by plunging his only
son into a vortex from which there was no escape.
She had proposed to Walter that-he should marry her. She
explained to him that she was comparatively independent.--
satisfied him that he had gained 'her affections, and that her
whole soul was his. He certainly was leading a pleasant life.
He had no idea but that his father had losed his heart and his
doors upon him forever. Clara had behaved nobly to him, as
he thought, for she had not only made him comfortable, but she
had advanced Henry Robinson a considerable sum, to enable
him to support the expense of Rose and himself at a second-
rate hotel. Yet Walter hesitated. He had not Inade up his
mind fully in the matter until the morning of his interview
with his uncle Tom.' .The 'night previous he and Clara had
.conversed together upon the subject of marriage. He had
asked means to give a helping hand to his relative; and she
ad agreed to it at once. At tire same time sher told Water
that they were both doiing.hvery wrong in living together in the
15

3$-7.


s3S&amp;

VIGOR.

ibno.eh  they- ere doing without being carried, and that munh
As she loved him, it' should not continue another day.
"It willbreak iny heart, Walter, to part witli' you, but it
must be done. You have one advantage over me, Walter.
When we are married, if you do not continue to love me, or
get tired, you can run away and go to sea again."
The hint was not lost upon Walter, and that morning, when
he went out to-find Thomas Granville, he said, "Clara, I will
marry you as soon as you please, but let it all be done quietly."
"Then sappose it be this evening, in presence of. only one
or two witnesses. :.You promise to bring up your uncle, and I
will go out and invite your f-iend Robinson," said Clara.
"The clergyman-who will you get" to performs that cere-
inony ?" asked Walter.
" Leave all that to me, dear Walter, and don't worry your-
self about the matter. It shall all be regular, and with no
noise," replied Clara.,
With this understanding 'the  arties separated. Walter
went in search of his uncle Tom, and. Clara Norris to make
her arrangements.
Walter found his relative in the destitute state we have de-
scribed. He left hiin well provided for, and it did Walter's
heart gopd, for with all-his faults he loved his uncle Tom, and
sympathized with his misfortune. After leaving Mr. Thomas
Granville in the manner we have described, he returned to
Bond street. - There he found his friend Henry Robinson and
the lovely 'little Rose. He was still iore gratified when he
found that the two friends were invited to stay and dine.
"So, Walter, you are going to marry Miss, Norris," ex-
claimed Henry Robinson.
"Yes-'that is my intention. Have you any tbing to say
against it ?" replied Walter.
"Not a word, my dear boy. I am not so certain but that I
shall follow your example one of these days. I shall if I ever
gee my way clear to support my little Rose; but hang it, man,
I am afraid that had it not been for. your intended, Rose and
me would have had.to part company before this. Money was
getting very -scarce when Miss Clara came to our relief," re-
marked Robinson.
The opinion of his friend and companion for years, .had its
weight with Walter Granville, and confirmed him in his inten-'
tions, Rose timidly asked, if his. father, meaning the elder
Granville, was pleased with the proposed match. Walter gave

VOR.                       3
hera' stern look, and then perceiving that- she did not - ntice
it, added,
"My -pretty Rose, my father troubles his head very little
about my affairs, and I presume does not care whom I marry.
Ile must have heard that I am in the city, but not a word of
kindness or a message of any kind have .I received fro 'him
or any other of my family. They may go to the old Harry for
all'that I care. But come, dinner is ready, and we ought to
be thankful that-we can get a good dinner. We have not al-
ways been so lucky, have we, Harry ?"
The-dinner was a choice affair, and the hostess, Mrs. Wood-
ruff, graced the head of the table and did the honors.
"My beautiful landlady," exclaimed Walter, "you are the
prettiest of the three ladies now at this table. You actually
look younger than any of them, and if my hand was not already
disposed of, I would -certainly offer a share of my hard for-
tunes to you."
"Thank you, sir.  I am exceedingly flattered, but Miss
Norris has taken the matter in hand, and I am. too late.  I
must say, however, that if I envied any lady it.would be Clara.
I think you are-one of a thousand, and she is an extremely for.
tunate young lady."
"Thank you, madam, for both of us," replied Clara.
Dinner was over, and evening approached, when 'Miss Nor-
ris went to her room to commence dressing for the important
ceremony, which it was arranged should come off in the front
parlor  Rose accompanied-Clara, and Harry jdined ,Walter,
who left Bond street to walk as far as the 2Hotel de Paris,
where he had agreed to meet Thomas Granville. They found
Tom deeply engrossed in a game of dominoes with old James
Gemnmel, the Broadway watchmaker, who owned the 'building
occupied as the Hotel de Paris.
" Excuse' me one moment," exclaimed Tom, when he saiv
Walter, "I have only got twelve to go to beat this gentleman,
and then I am at your service."
Walter took as seat at one of the small marble-top tables, and
motioning Henry to a seat opposite, he ordered two cups of-
coffee.- The garcon brought the cups, and Walter lit a cigar.-
"IHarry, did you notice that gentleman that I spoke ?"
lhe asked.
"yI did. Pray who is he ?" asked Henry.
"cHe is mine uncle Tom, that you have so often heard me
chat about, during our watches at sea in the go d old' hle
ship," replied Walter.


1g,

The deuce he is ! Well, I like his looks very much.
Will he beat your wedding ?" asked Robinson.
Yes. But I don't exactly know how he will take it. He
must know Clara. But I will find out presently," said Walter.
At this moment they were joined by Thomas Granville. He'
rubbed his hands, and exclaimed with delight, " Aha! I am
-conqueror. I have beat old Mr. Gemmel, and he is -considered
the crack player in' this house."
"Sit dowp, sir. One would think you had won a second
battle of Waterloo, or some other equally important affair.
Allow me to introduce to you my friend Henry Robinson,o
said Water.
"I am most happy to meet Mr. Robinson, or any other
friend bf yours, my excellent Smith. Gents, will you join me'
in a drink ?" inquired Tom.
It was quite evident to Walter that his worthy uncle had
already drank quite sufficient, and he suggested in place of a
drink, that he should join them in a cup of coffee.  /
"Very well-I think Iwill do as you suggest. I hav/ been
drinking considerable wine to-day," said Tom.
I should judge so. The coffee will'sober you, and I want
you to be perfectly cool to-night, for I am to be married this
evening, and you are to be at the wedding," said Walter.
"The devil I am! And is that what all these new clothes
are for-hem-I beg your pardon, sir."  And Tom addressed
Robinson.  He had  forgot himself.  -1.w.m      .   m
"Never mind, M . Granville. You will be welcome to my
wedding in any dress. And now I perceive that you have
been getting a new rig-out 'of 'compliment to me, I presume.
Really, I am under obligations to you. Come, suppose, we
pay our shot, and then leave-what say you, gentlemen ?" asked
Walter.
All agreed, and soon after the trio left the Hotel de Paris,
and proceeded up Broadway to'Bond street. When the party
reached the hpuse of Mrs. Woodruff, Tom remarked that his
brother's old partner, Mr. Nordheim, used to reside next door.
" I am well aware of tbat,". quietly observed Walter.
Come in, gentlemen," he continued'; and then 'led the way
into the front parlor. No one was there. "Excuse me, 1r.
Granville. Come, Harry," said Walter Granville; and with
his companion'he passed up to the room occupied by Clara.
"Mfay I come inwith my friend Iarry '?"demanded Walter.
AlYes, come ini e are almost dressed-but we don't mind
you. Look at Rose, Harry. How do you like her 'I"

Iarry did look. The beautiful girl was dressed in a robe
of white satin, and her dark hair, parted upon her forehead,
and divided to the back of her head, fell in two distinct masses
down her back, and the end of each was tied with a white rib-
bon. Her lover flung his arms about her, and said,
"Thank you, dear Iiss Norris. Rose was a;.ways lovely,
but I have never seen her look so superb as she does to-day.
What do we not owe y a ?
.," Harry Robinson, let me tell you one- thing, and God knows
it is true. The talk of men, when it concerns women, is as
light and evanescent as a summer cloud. Under certain in-
fluences men agree to do any and every thing for a woman-a
young and pretty woman. They will marry-do this, or do
that, or the other. In an hour-a week-a month, all this is
changed. They will see the Magdalen they have made de-
spised, trampled upon, stoned even--and that same deceiving
man will cast the additional stone that crushes the spoor out#*
cast. She who has believed these promises dies a slow death
from poisonous disease in the almshouse, and finds an unknown
grave in the Potter's Field. Young man, you have a proud,
rich father. He would see you wed with wealth and respecta-
bility, with a girl who has read. all sorts of vile trash-who
has never known. sorrow, who has drank. wine daily at her
father's table, and nursed her luscious imagination with a thou-
sand corruptingthoughts until her soul was polluted. But she
is virtuous! Nay, the very girl your father would wish you
to marry, from the rich, the fashionable, and the pious circles
of high society, ninety-nine chances in one hundred, is a pros-
titute at heart, and when once your wife, as the fountain is
already poisoned, so the rivulet will be, and she will become a
prostitute in body the first chance she gets. Now look at that
vision of loveliness, gazing with her big black eyes at me while
I speak. She was made a prostitute in body while her mind
was as pure from stain as the white satin that now adorns her
person.- Her body was polluted, but her soul never entered
iito the act. She loved you with her mind the first time she
saw you. She loved you with her soul. You are her go'd-.
With you she leaves the den of infancy as gladly as the wild
bird leaves the wiry cage where it was confined. Take her
now to the altar, and let her become your wife, and she, that
little one, so beautiful, would clig to you till death, true as
steel, and as impervious to vice or vicious influences as the
flint. stone-: She- would neyer~ be.s unfaithful-s-never untrue.
She would guard your honor as her life, as the very jewel of

VIGOR.

340

VIGOR.

.341

a


liii
lit

VIGOR-

her existence ; for her virtue lies in that particle of Deity--.
her soul. That has never been polluted or soiled. The world
judges differently, but I speak what I know. Marry Rose,
dear -Farry, and if you live on bread and water, sweep streets
for a living, while she acts as washerwoman for your mutual
livelihood,-a's long as you are true to each other, you will know
a happiness that wealth cannot give."
. While Clara Norris was giving vent, to these expressions,
Walter Granville was looking at her in amazement. - While she
was speaking a pin falling would have been heard.
He then added, "Clara, have you spoken for yourself?"
"God knows-I have spoken for Rose, for she has. a pure,
loving, innocent heart, that a few weeks' residence, in a brothel
has not soiled or tarnished. As for me, I have been a world-
ling deeply-perhaps damnably.     The Great Judge only
,knows. - I do not know my .own heart, Walter. Did you bring
up Thomas Granville with you ?" she asked.
" I did. 'Left him down stairs, Clara," said Walter.
" Go down at once and apologize. Tell him you will be back
Presently," said Clara.
Walter descended to the parlor, but returned almost. in.
stantly, and addressing Clara, said, "'Uncle Tom is fast asleep
upon one of Mrs. Woodruff's exquisite sofas."
" Well, let him sleep there until we are ready to descend.....
and now what was I saying? Oh, about the vice of the body
and the vice of the mind, so far as us poor women are con-
cerned. Never mind. I don't think,:Walter, that my heart.
is corrupted, and I am sure that of' Rose is not. To-night I
become your wife, and wild and wayward as has been my ca-
reer, dear Walter, I will be true to you while I live. So help
me, Heaven. Henry, you do not need to be told what" Rose
will do. You can read all that is passing in her heart in her
sweet, heavenly face; Walter, will you forgive me for one act
I have done to-day ?"- asked Miss Norris.
"Tell me what it is, Clara. If it is not the unpardonable
sin, I think I 'can forgive you," replied Walter. -
'I have invited Marion Monck, once a favorite ulerk of your
father's-once a favored suitor of your sister Isabella, to be
present to-night," said Miss Norris..
'Y.ou are a strange creature, Clara. Why' invite him?
Whathave I, or. you, for that matter. in common, with him?
What is he to us now ?" haughtily demanded. Walter.
" More than 'ever he was in what. the world calls his pros.-
perous days. -He was~owce- kind to me, but he is now- writing

VIGOR.

949

for a living-depending upon his brains for his bread and wa-
ter. Mr. Bennett, of the Herald, has taken him up, and--
don't laughA-he writes poetry. He has not spoken to 'me for
some time, but last St. Valentine's Day I received from  him
this precious valentine." Here Clara went to a small desk and
took an envelope from it, and the enclosure she handed to Wal-
ter. "Read that."
Walter drew near the lamp. He looked 'at the hand-writing
a moment. "How. well I remember that writing," he ex-
clainied.. "It is indeed written by Marion, but-no signature is
attached. How did you recognize it, Clara ?"
"Pooh! pooh-! I have seen his hand-writing a hundred
times in the days of Mr. Nordheim. I knew it at once, but
read it."  Walter read the poetry. It was as follows :-

THE OUTCAST.
I look upon that face, but while
It seems so passing fair,
I ask me if that sunny smile
is wont to Iingr there;
I ask me if that bosom's heave
Hides not a heart that-s doomed to grieve
And wither in despair;
I ask if joy or peace can be
With one so desolate as thee.
I knew thee not, thou fallen flower,
When virtue marked thy growth,
I knew thee not in thy bright hour
Of purity and truth.
I knew thee nottil treacherous ways
Had dimmed the sunshine of thy days,
The freshness of thy youth;
And theil I knew thee in thy shame
Without a friend-without a name.
An outcast from thy father's home,
A blighted, joyless thing;
Thy journey onward to the tomb,
A rayless wandering.
Uncheered by hope thy bosom heaves
Yet like 'the rose's scattered leaves,
Some sweets yeti round there' cling;
And dimly round thy'ruin shine
Like ivy on-the shattered pine.
There's beauty still upon thy brow,
And kindnes in thy heart,
A smile is with thee even now,
Allhopeless as thou art.
Butsorrow'sWaye too soon will hase
The light of beauty from thy face,'-

342

3


H'1

VIGOR.

344VIGR.
And thou wilt then depart;
*  As bends the lily to the blast
Unknown, unloved, thou'll sink at last.
God cheer thee on that awful day,
For none will watch thy bed,
None sigh to see thee pass away,
Or grieve for thee when dead;
None seek the silent, lonely spot,
Where, cold, forsaken and forgot,
Reclines thy lovely head:
The turf,.alas, will soon be green,
And few will knowthat thou hast been.
9 Yes, dear Walter, I want that young man who could ad.
dress me such lines, to see me married-yes, married. I
should die were he not here to-night, for that poetry has,
weighed like lead upon my heart. But as your wife,.the spell
will be removed," exclaimed the excited Miss Norris.
"I am very glad, then, Clara, that you have invited
him. But come, you are all dressed. Holloa, what is the
matter with you, my beautiful Rose?"
Rose was weeping as though her heart would break. The
few lines, as read by Walter in his deep-toned voice, touched
a chord that had vibrated through her hosom.  She made, no
reply to Walter, but fell upon her knees'before Henry Robin-
son.
" Oh, dear Henry, save me from such a fate as that of the
poor outcast," she exclaimed.  1
"It shall be, Rose-it shall be. My mind is made up. Dear
Miss-Norris, may I ask one favor ?  After the clergyman has
made you and Walter one, let him do the same for us two-make
Rose my wife. Come what will, I will be her legal protector
her husband."
" God bless you, Harry," was all the reply that Rose could
make.
"I will see to it," said the majestic Clara.
A slight tap at the door interrupted the conversation,
" Who is there ?" asked Walter.
"Me-Mrs. Woodruff. There are some guests in the parlor.
Are you not most ready ?" she asked.
The reply was in the affirmative, and in a moment the door
was opened and the party followed Mrs. Woodruff down stairs.
As they entered the parlor a singular sight was presented-
Thomas Granville lay asleep, and was storing upon the sofa.
There was a clergyman in his robes, evidently of the Episco-

345

,, la

pal order, for he wore a white surplice, and held in his hand
the Book of Common Prayer of the Church of England.
In one corner of the room was Marion Monck.  It was the'
ladylike duty of Miss Norris to place these people at their
ease. She walked to Marion.
"Old friend, have you forgotten one, known to you many
years ago? This is Walter Granville.
Simple as the words were, they electrified Marion. Walter
was his old employer's son-the brother of her he remembered
with such tender recollections.
"Walter, why when did you come ? I am glad to see you,"
.was all Marion could say, and it was enough.
Walter said some kind words, and sat down by him. Clara
proceeded to the clergyman.
I " Venerable sir, in a moment we will be .ready for you to,
proceed. When you have married me to Mr. Granville, will
you marry these two to each other ?" and she pointed to Hen-
ry and Rose.
The clergyman bowed, and replied, "Most certainly, if there
are no objections,"
"None in the wide world," said Clara, and she passed to
the sofa where Thomas Granville was lying.' She placed her
hand heavily upon him, and in a deep voice pronounced the
single word "Tom!"
"In a moment he aroused himself, rubbed: his eyes, looked up
in her face, and replied,
"iHolloa! what's out now ?  Clara, is that you ? Where did
you come from 1"
She made no reply.  Then he sat up and looked about the
room, recognizing Marion, and also the man he knew as Smith.
He repeated, "Marion and Smith here  - That is all tight."
"Tom !" Clara repeated again.
"Well, what is it ?" asked Tom.
" You are invited here to be present at a wedding.  Are
you-sufficiently awake to be a witness ?"
" Certainly. Of course. Go ahead.  I am all right," said
Tom.
Clara turned about and walked to the clergyman.
" We are ready now, sir, Please proceed with the solemn.
ceremony."
She was joined by Walter, and the clergyman opened his
book and performed the ceremony of marriage according to the
Ritual. When it was finished, and the reverenid mandof God
pronounced them man and wife, Walter kissed Clara affection-
15*

1 1
TIl


I
I iit~
I ii
Ii
II
2
LI
iilt

VIGOR.

47

VIGO.
ately, and then Henry Robinson and Rose were made "one
flesh."  Clara then approached the clergyman and placed a bill
in his hand.
"Allow me," said she, "to settle the fees for myself and
for the other couple."
The clergyman, perhaps without meaning to do so, glanced
at the denomination of the bill.
"Really, madam," he suddenly exclaimed, "there is some
mistake; this note is for one hundred dollars."
"So I supposed. Keep"it. If it is unusual, use it to make
others as happy as I trust you have made several in the room
this evening," quietly observed Mrs. Walter Granville.
"Where can I find pen and paper ?" asked the clergyman.
"That lady," pointing to Mrs. Woodruff, " will show you,"
and she whispered to the clergyman, " May I ask that you will
give them certificates for each marriage, if not too much trou-.
ble ? You have the names."
" Certainly," said the minister, and he left the room.
Marion Monek had seen so many astonishing things in an
experience of some years. that he had long ago arrived at the
conclusion that he would never more be astonished at, any
thing which might occur in New York; still le was surprised,
to say the least of it, at the. marriage of the somewhat celebra-
ted Mliss Norris to the runaway son of his old employer. He
offered his congratulations to the lady now Mrs. Granville and
to -her husband. The former requested to speak with Marion
for a moment alone.
When she found herself thus with him, she observed, "Ma-
rion, we have known each other a long time, through some
strange vicissitudes, eh ?. Is it not a strange world ?"
"Rather so," replied Marion in a very laconic manner.
"Will you take back your poetry'about''1the OUTvAST?' I
am now a married woman-married to a man whose father is
an eminent merchant, eh ?"
, 'Exactly, 'dear lady; I understand perfectly well your sar-
casmn, bt it don't apply ; I den't take it. I wr6te 'the Out.
cast ' when it did-apply.  You were at old Mother Miller's,
you know. Don't be angry ; I will write another .piece which
you will like better when I have leisure, and call it  The
Wife,' eh ?"
" Now stop all foolishness. Here is five dollars : take it,"
said 'Clara Granville. -
*" What is out now ? Do you mean to insult me I"
"No, Mariou, far from it; but I want this notice copied,

and to appear in all the daily papers to-morrow morning: Will
you attend to it ? I krow. you will. Say nothing.,. I must
speak to Mr. Thomas Granville," said Mrs. Granville.
Marion read the note. It was as follows:
" Married-On Tuesday evening, the 29th instant, by the
Rev. Samuel Fuller, Walter Granville, Esq., son of W. Pitt
Granville, of this city, to Miss Clara Norris, formerly of New
Jersey."
It is needl'essto say that this notice- appeared in all the
journals the next day.
Clara approached Tom Granville. She seated herself ,by
his side. This gentleman had listened to all.hat was going
on. He was perfectly conscious that people bad been married
-he knew that Clara'Norris had married his friend Smith,
and he had made up.his mind that Smith was "sold," accord-
ing to his ideas of how the world ought to wagnou;but-heha4
caught no other name, or if he had, it had not fastened itself
upon his mind. But he was soon to be enlightened, Clara
had him alone, and she commenced.
" Tom Gravaville, do you. remember how you treated me in
France ?  Your heartlessness, your villany-selling me to
make an income for you to spend upon other women ? . Rear
me. and don't say a word. You know this is true. Grant that
I in many things did wrong. Does that justify what you have
done ?"
"Oh Clara, don't let us bring up old sores. Letv bygones
be bygones. You have married Smith.   Nice man, I dare
say. Respectable man, evidently. I'm mumn. I'll not say a
word. Do you understand ?",
"Tom, do you recollect how your brother' humbled me when
I was kept' by Nordheim ? Do you know the exerti9ns 'that he
used to deprive me of what I received from Mr.- Nordheimn?
He called me harlot, pfostitute,.vile wretch, and a few other
names that a woman never forgives nor forgets," said Clara.
",Well, what of it?. It don't amount to anything now," re-
plied Tom.
"Your' wife, your niece-how did they treat me ?" asked
the now excited Clara.
Oh, what matters all such' stuff-what is the use of brig.
ing it up now ?  This is your 'wedding night,"Old gal. You
have married Smith, let's all be j lly, eh ?" said T1o, ho
was still under the influence of liqaor although he ha4 h d _
good nap upon the sofa.

V'ill


348.

VIGOR-

"Tom, now listen to me. I want to give you an introduce-
tion to my husband. Walter, come here," said Clara.
Walter approached the sofa..
"Mr. Thomas Granville, allow me to introduce to you my
husband, Mr. Walter Granville. If I am not mistaken, he is
also your nephew ;" and when she had said this, she gave one
loud scream of hysterical laughter, and then sat down. Tom
could not join in it ; he was sobered, and asked,
Walter, is this so ?"
"lit is, uncle Tom. Did you not know me V
*And are you the husband of this lady ?" pointing to Clara,
who was watching this conversation.4
I believe that there is no mistake about that," replied
the other.
" Then may God have mercy upon the Granvillefamily; we
are a doomed race," said Tom solemnly.
"1Why, uncle Tom, cheer up; don't you get down-hearted.'
You at least know how I am situated-.--a cast-off.  I found a
true friend in Miss Clara when I had no other friends," -ob-
served Walter-.
"I am a broken-hearted man, nephew-3rushed. I have no
hope except to get a bed at night, an occasional meal of vic-
tuals, and drink and clothes. You have helped me along on
-my rough bye path, and I thank you for it.  I do not know
how you came by the means to do so. But what matters it,
Clara ? God bless you. You are -my niece now. What you
are driving at is beyond my ken.  Never mind; play out the
game your own way.. You hold ace, king, queen and jack of
the Granville family in your own bands, and your suit is
trumps. It is the -winning hand. Heaven send queen to Pitt
Granville. When will he hear the news ?" continued Tom.
Clara and Walter had listened attentively to the abrupt lan-
guage of uncle Tom. Both knew that in other days, when his
proud spirit was dominant, such a marriage would have been'
repudiated on the instant if it had cost him his life blood. But
they knew that stern poverty will humble the haughtiest heart.
He who lacks food for months, he who stoops to almost beg
from friends a shilling for a night's lodging; he who is ragged,
-shirtless, and wants the ordinary comforts of even a wash-bowl
and towel, soon comes'down to that low level, that were his
wife, sister, or even mother, placed in affluence at the price
of her virtue, would receive a portion of the wages . of vice,
and be thankful for it. Pride of birth or anything else van-

VIGOR'.

849.

ishes into thin air, -when placed in contact with the silent'deg-
radation of poverty. Marion had left for down town.
Mrs. Woodruff had left for her apartments, and Henry, with
the happy Mrs. Robinson, had gone to the nuptial couch. The
clergyrhan had also taken his leave, and man and wife, with
that worldly unele, were alone. At last he bade - them good
night. Walter did not rise. Clara followed him out of the
roim. As they stood in the hall, she said:
"Tom Granville, I know what you would say. This will be
a fearful thing for Pitt. He *ill see it in the morning papers.
Will he die ?"
"INo. It will make him mad-stark, raving mad.
"Tom, you. may need money. Take this roll-take it kindly.
I don't know how much there is-two or three hundred. You
are a man of the world-use it wisely, Ton. Good night."
Thomas Granville, late United States Consul in the second
city of France, was in the street. The moon was shining
brightly over his head, and he had more money. in his pocket
than had been there for many long months. As he passed
down Broadway, he soliloquized,
"Last night I had no bread-I had no money. I had barely
a few dirty coppers to keep me from sleeping in the streets-
no clothes-no decent boots-no hat--no cravat---no nothing.
To-night I have as much as I need. A hotel-a room to go to,
and money in my pocket. How did I get it all? Least said
is soonest mended. From this day forth I will never be with-
out money. Gold is all.
'That yellow slave
Will knit and breakreligions; bless the accursed;
Make the hoar leprosy adored, place thieves,
And give them title, knee and approbation
With senators on the bench.
Whatever else I lose, I will never be again without gold."
Thomas Granville reached his hotel. A silver shilling am-
ply rewarded the porter for opening the door, and he went to
his room.

fi
t
9L
It


350                      vruoi.                 .
CHAPTER LVI.
Peis of Youth in hrew York-Tammany Hall Commnittee-Marion Moncka
frat Article * the Herald-The SpAnih Boarding Rouse, and the two
Peruvian Girls.
THE1RE are few situations of more intense peril in human
life than to be in a large city, needing money for the ordinary
necessaries of existence, or witho&amp;- any regular source of in.
come. The man who works from six in the morning until dark
at night, even if he only gets a- dollar a day; is comparatively
independent, and is not exposed to temptation., His wages are
small, but he makes his expenses bear a fair proportion to his
income. If he earns but six dollars a week, his board costs
him but two-his clothes do not cost him' fifty cents a week,
and'his other expenses, for pipes and tobacco, and his glass of.
.beer or gin, may make a dollar more per week, and he actually
can lay up two and a half dollars per week.. Women, wine and
cards are'beyond his wishes. His income would go but*a lit-
tle way for the indulgence 6f either, and he never gives them
even a passing thought. If he gets out of employ as a day,
laborer, it is not a source of much anxiety, for as he has no.
pride to get over, but is content to take up with whatever
turns up, he soon finda something to do, and ho is at his' ease
once more.
This is not the case with the, young man who has been a clerk
in a 'store. He "considers a clerkship, an honorable employ-
ment. He engages in it, hoping one day to become, an. en.
ployer, a ierant on his own hook. From a hundred dollars
a year his' salary is increased to a thousand, but extravagant
habits have increased with it.- His board alone costs him two-
hundred to four hundred dollars a year. His clothes" are two
hundred more. He visits bad houses two or three times a
week, adding two hundred dollars for this tax; and he smokes
cigars, drinks occasionally, goes to the theatre and other places
of amusement-and these last inconsiderable expenses -count
up easily two dollars- a 4ay ; the suim per year is about seven
hundred dollars. Add it to the eight hundred dollars already
enumerated) and our clerk is living at the rate of fifteen hun-

VIGOR.'

35t

dried dollai-s, when he only gets one thousand. This discre-
pancy of five hundred dollus must come out of somebody. As
a general rule, a portion falls'on the place where he.boards-
his tailor, his bootmaker, and a few others who have trusted
him, share the deficiency ainong them. It is bad enough when
the salary continues steady; but when a young man who ,has
been living at this rate, gets out of a situation, and out of
money, in a place like New York, the chances are 'fearfully
against him. Temptations surround him on all sides. If he
stays in New York, his fall is certain-his degradation sure.
He begs and borrows to the full extent of his tether. These
sources used up, he has nothing left but to steal. If he'is an
American, he will not turn to manual labor, and he will not
take menial service. Who ever heard of an American servant,
and how far will one travel in New York before he finds an
American day laborer?
Marion Monek was out of a -situation, yet he had hopes ahead.
'Hopes, however, although very flattering stook in one' imagi-
nation, will not pay a board bill, obtain a decent suit of clothes,
a pair of boots or a hat. The young fellow had a proud spirit.
He would not beg if he could help it--he would not have writ-
ten home to his parents for aid. He would have out hi's right
hand off 'first. The Count occasionally let him have money,
and had made Marion promise that he would come to him (the
Count,) before he borrowed money, or before he took any neW
situation. Consequently Marion was resting upon his oars.
The Count Falsechinski had married, and was spending several
weeks out of town with his bride: Marion did not know where
he was.
He had boarded in the house in Nassau street for many
months. As we have said before, his room was the -rear-one on
the third floor, that of the editor was in the front. Sometimes
they talked together, but Marion was very shy of any over-
tures. He had no confidence in his own ability to write, and
even if he had succeeded as a writer, his prejudices we"ealto-
gether in favor of success as a merchant.-he considered it
more reputable than success as, an editor. in afterlife his
views underwent a great change. He learned to do full jistied
to the power and the respectability of the pen.
Soon after the marriage of the Count Falsechinski wihh Miss
Grasper, Marion Monek settled his :bill with the landladyin
Nassau street, and removed, to a Spanish boaarding-hous aiM
Fulton street near~ Cliff. It' was kept by a Spaniard nawed
Alfayez, who agreed to give Marion-good room~ and a seat at

l if


NI,

VIGOU.

the table for a moderate sum per week. - Marion was a good
Spanish scholar, but he wanted practice in speaking it. This
was a good opportunity, and he availed himself of it. We have
somewhere mentioned that Marion Monck had a great inkling
for politics. His sympathies were with the Democratic party,
owing probably to the. fact that when a clerk with Mr.. Gran-
ville, who was a Whig, he became a Democrat from the mere
love of opposition. At that time there were two Committees
that regulated Tammany Hall;, one was called the "Old Men's
General Committee,'" and the other the "Young Men's General
Democratic Committee."    These Committees were elected
once a year.- Marion had always been elected to the latter
Committee from the, ward in which he lived, and as he was
ready with the pen, extremely willing to work, and had no
game to play, or spoils to seek after, he was generally selected
as one of the secretarAeis of the "Young Men's Committee,"
and the work fell upon him, as it always does upon the free
horse, his colleague being contented to sign anything that Ma-
rion had drawn up or engrossed,
On one occasion the Committee had a very exciting debate.
A procession was to be got up in reference to a political vic-
tory in- Maine or some other State. In this victorious proces-
sion several very distinguished military men had volunteered
to act as Marshals, but they refused to do so unless all the
other marshals were military men.
" Very well,"-said the chairman ofdhe Committee. "That
matter can be easily arranged. There are to be three mar-.
shals from  each ward-make 'em  all military men ;" and as
each name of a marshal was proposed and accepted, the chair.
man observed, " Make ' Bill Gage ' a general."
"Enoch .Camp."-" Make him a major."
"Nick Dimond, first ward."-" Make Nick a general."
" Bill Dennis," said the Secretary. -
"Make Bill a major," said the chairman.
"Jde Sweet," called out the Secretary.
" Make Joe Sweet a Colonel," dictated the chairman.
"Thomas McSpeddon," said the Secretary,
"Put General to Tom's name."
SWilliam Shaler, sixth ward."
"Make Bill Shaler a Colonel-he has been in the wars-
and in this ludicrous way the list, which was to be published,
was made out, amidst the screams and. shouts of the Taa
mnany Hall Committee. When tie list was fairly completed,
word was sent to the real Generals, Morris, Wrd, Stryker,

VIGOR.

353

Ircularius, 'and others, that the Committee had placed none
but military men on the list of marshals from the different
wards.
It was late when the Committee adjourned. It was also
Saturday evening. Marion passed down Nassau street, and
into the Herald publication office. Somewhat unusual it would
be now, but at that hour in those days Mr. Bennett was still
in the office. The.two commenced a conversation, and in the
course of it Marion Monek related the ludicrous debate that
had occurred that evening in the committee room in Taminany
Hall. It appeared very droll to the editor, and irresistibly
comic. He actually held his sides while he roared with laugh-
ter. Marion did not laugh at all.
"I am going home-good night," said the editor.
.Marion returned his "Gobd night," and passed to his Span-
ish boarding-house.
On his way down, it occurred to him that his month was up,
and that he owed the Spaniard twenty dollars that very day.
"I am dead broke! Suppose he was to ask me for it?  I
have not got five dollars in the world, and the Count is off
somewhere. When he will be back, Heaven only knows !"
These were the thoughts of Marion Monck as he reached the.
door in Fulton street. He rang the bell. 'Alfayez, the pro-
prietor, opened it himself: It was an unusual thing for him to
do, and Marion expected to be dunned for his bill.
He was not doomed to be -disappointed. "You no pay me
my money to-day ?"' exclaimed the Spaniard in English. "I
want him. You got him now, eh ?"
"Sorry to say I have not, Senor Alfayez, but I suppose a
few days hence will answer all purposes," asked Marion
Monck,
No, Senor, he no do two tree days---bym-bye. I want de
money. Ahora, what you call now? No do two three days.
Hab got him ?" demanded the Spaniard, who had admitted
 Marion into the hotel, but seemed disposed to bar his' progress
to his room.
"Really, Mr. Alfayez, I have not got the money to-night.
You are in no danger of losing the amount, although I am com-
paratively a stranger to you. My trunks are worth more than ten
times your bill. However, to satisfy you, to-morrow you shall
have the twenty dollars," said Marion.
.KBueno.  Manana;, Senor.  Buenos noches,"-and after
this parting salutation, which means " Qood. To-morrow,
morning. Good night,"' Marion went up to his room. Where

352-

till


354             IGOR.

to get the money on Sunday morning was not so clear, and it
was a long time before he could get asleep. The next mora"
ing Marion Monck rose very early. At the breakfast table he
met two sisters, very sweet girls, who spoke Spanish, to  nim
upon every occasion. They were lovely creatures from  the'
city of Lims, in Peru, aid their father, a grey bearded old
Peruvian, was their protector. He, of course, was stopping in
the house. These pretty senoritas were aged thirteen and fif-
teen, extremely anxious to learn English: Marion Monck had
already made a bargain with them that he should teach them r
English while they kept him in practice with :his Spanish.
Very probably Marion felt anxiety to end the financial war be-
tween the Spanish proprietor Alfayez and himself as much on
account of these two. extremely beautiful pupils as for any other
reason. At any rate, no sooner had he finished his breakfast
and smoked a cigar, than he hurried up to the office of the
New York Herald. "He inquired for Mr. Bennett.
In hisprivate office," was the reply, and thither went Ma.
rion Monck.
" Good morning," said the editor, and then continued mak-
ing some memorandum in a small book. One of the most
prominent traits in the character of Mr. Bennett, and which is
only known to those who know him as well- as he knows him.
self, is his perfect editorial closeness., He does not et his
left hand know, what his right hand writes. He will appear to
be communicative and frank, and yet what he says is the very
frankness of hypocrisy. His hearer gains nothing, obtains
nothing from him. 'He will listen unmoved to what he knew
before, but the teller will not discover any sign of impatience
-or any indication that Mr. Bennett is already aware of what he
is telling him.
No man in the city of New York is better posted in refer-
ence to the affairs of the city, the prominent men in it, or in its
various fards than Mr. Bennett. Consequently, when Marion
Monck related to him the scene at Tammany Hall, which to a
man not familiar with the prominent military and political men
of the day, it would have been dry and uninteresting, to Mr.
Bennett, who knew the name and character of every man, it
was uncontrollably comic and ludierons.
When he had finished his work, he turned to Marion Monck-
"Well, Marion, what have you got new this morning'?"
"Nothing, sir. I have called here this morning for a very
particular purpose," said Marion-.

VIGOR.

356

"Indeed. It is raining in torrents, is it notT  What can I
do for you ?" Mr. Bennett asked kindly.
Marion hesitated a moment.. He had never, since he had.
known Mr. Bennett, asked him for a loan of money in any
shape, but this morning he felt that he had no other 'resource,
and so he replied, "Yes,. sir, it is indeed raining very hard,
but the fact is, I am in a tight place. You know I am down
at that Spanish boarding-house. My month was up yesterday
and unless I get, twenty dollars this morning I do believe the
old Spaniard will turn ie out of his house to-day. I could
get the money if it was any other day but Sunday. As it is,
if you will lend me the twenty to-day, I will return it to you
to-morrow,"-and Marion felt relieved, that the application was
niade, whatever might be its fate.
"No ; I never lend money," was the abrupt reply.
"Oh, well, never mind. There has been no harm doie by
my asking you. I hated to do it, but I must have money, and
stand up to the rack, fodder or no fodder. As it is 'nofodda-,
I must try somewhere else," said Marion Monck.
"'There is no harm in your applying to me," observed Mr.
Bennett, who wrote some thing on a small piece of paper.
Marion rose to go. Mr. Bennett held up the paper and o- -
served, "Wait a moment.- Here is an order for the exact sum -
you wish to borrow. I will not lend it to you. You must
earn it."
" Earn it! Earn twenty dollars. How in the world am I
to do that ?" demanded Marion,
" Last night you told me a very interesting story of some
doings in Tammany Hall in reference to a Democratic, victori-
ous procession that is soon to come off. You made -me almost
go into convulsions with'laughter by the funny way in which
you told it," continued the editor.
" Well," said Marion.
" Now, here is my order, for which you can get twenty dol-
lars when you go down stairs. There, on that table, is fools-
cap paper, -and pen, and ink. Write out what you told me,
and the order is yours," coolly remarked the editor.
." It will take me all day to do it, and I don't think it will be
fit to read then," said Marion.
"Never mind that. Do as I say, and do it as near as possi.
ble to what you told me, and I shall be satisfied," said the
editor.
~Marion took a seat and went to work. In less than two
hours he had filled ten sides of'foolscap paper. 'He handed it

4

I'
if


356

VIGOR.

to MDi. Bennett, who did not even pay him the compliment of
readb'ig it, but laid it aside, at the same time handing Marion
the order for twenty.  He took his leave, and down stairs lie
received the money.
"I suppose he made me write out all that stuff for tbe pur-
pose of affording him an excuse to lend me twenty," thought
Marion.
The next morning, however, when he opened the Herald, he
found his article. It made two and a half columns on the out.
side of the Herald. It was extreinely ludicrous. It was a
point. One of Mr. Bennett's frequent great points, and when
his sagacity as an editor was never at fault, either iq the sub.
jeet or manner of handling it, no matter how incapable the pen
he made use of. There were tens of thousands of military
men in New York. There were an equal number of Demo.
crats. Such an article, naming the principal leaders in both
the political and military ranks, and making them figure in a
ludicrous manner, would soon find its way through the streets.
At ten o'clock that day as high as a dollar was paid for a
"Herald. There were none to be had at any price. It was one.
of those millions of original articles that in -a great many years
had made the Herald talked about. Mr. Bennett is the most
suggestive mind in the United States. He could keep a hun.
dred papers filled with original matter if he bad the mechani-
cal minds and hands to work under him in sufficient force.
The appearance of this article was a matter of astonishment
to Marion Mouck. It was the. first newspaper article he ever
wrote. He did not believe that he could write one.  Mlr.
Bennett had told him that he could. He had made him do it.
The article was written. It appeared in the Herald. Marion
read it and could not doubt, that he had written it. " It was
an accident," he said to himself. "I succeeded by Mr. Ben-
nett telling me how to do it. I doubt whether I could do it
again." With the twenty dollars he hurried from the Herald
office but into the rain and down to the Spanish boarding-
house. He called for Alfayez, handed him the .twenty, the
Spaniard gave him  a receipt, and a friendship commenced
which lasted many years. After paying his bill, Marion passed
up stairs to the parlor occupied by the family of the Peruvian.
He found the two senoritas pouting because he had not arrived
sooner to give them their lesson. The father w4s in his, own
room, and dhe old duenna was in another part of the house.
The chemrxing pupils, with their long dark locks floating loose
over their white and almost naked shoulders and bosoms, sat

VIGOR.

357

LTc
4'

upon the sofa with Marion between them., For some time the
studies went on very smoothly. Marion had procured a bool,.
with Spanish and English conversation upon each page. From'
this be taught his pupils and they taught -him to pronounce
Spanish. Marion finally passed an arm around each of their
waists. The youngest, Inez, sprang up and locked the door,
saying, "What would the senora say, if she came in and caught
us r" and then resumed her 'seat. Marion tried the lips of the
sister who had fastened the door, and she returned kiss for
kiss with an ardor that surprised him. Then the elder sister,
Isabel, got up and poutingly observed that Marion did not care
for her, or he would kiss her as well as Inez. This invitation
was not lost, and the book was soon laid aside, while Marion
gave wpy to the loving kisses and caresses of the two beautiful
sisters. They were innocent, and so was' he. What a strange
contrast between Ameridan and Spanish girls. Two Americans
knight be alone with a young man, and their conduct would be-
the same as if their parents were present-they are accustomed
to depend on their own self-respect-they are to be trusted,
And their conduct would be modest and prudent, without being
afraid, of the opinion of their parents. Not so Spanish girls.
Thley are watched. They are shown early that they cannot be
trusted. They are not allowed to associate with the young of'
the other sex. Hence, when a ebance occurs like that with
Marion, they only regard the danger of being found out. They
fondled their teacher as if he had been a young kitten, and he
returned their innocent embraces and kisses. Then 'hey fin-
ished their lessons, and he retired to his own room.
CHAPTER LVIII.
Pitt Granville reads the notice of his son's marriage -Seeks out his Brother
Tom at 43 Centre street- Thomas G~ranvlle betieve. in tuck-Bpyjs a Lot-
tery Ticket.
WHEN Pitt Granville opened his morning paper, and his
eye fell upon the few lines which informed him that his son--
his only son, had married 'Clara Norris,' the paper fell from
his hands, and a few moments after, when one of his' cler-ks en-
tered the office, he found him lying senseless upon the floor. A
physician waspent for at once : he bled the old gentleman,
and then recommended that a carriage should be sent for 'and
that he should be conveyed to his homne as speedily 'asossi-


F
iI~
'I
p ir~P
~' 1~f~
Li
vi
r~ji
I {r~
I 1L1
1~
IL,
II
I F

ViGoR-

ble, and.,there be kept perfectly quiet.  No one present had
the slightest idea of the real cause of this sudden illness; the
doctor pronouneed it a fit of apoplexy.
When the unhappy father reached home he refused to go to
bed, but sent every one out of the room, except his daughter.
He informed Isabella of what had occurred.
"4Bell, my heart is broken ; I shall never hold up my head
more. If he had died I should have mourned for him, for he
was my 'son, although a disobedient one 'but to bring dis-
grace upon us all, to marry one of the most notorious courte-
zans mINew York,. the very one that ruined my poor brother
Tom-Oh, this is dreadful, and I feel as if my senses were
leaving me."
Isabella was deeply affected, and endeavored to soothe her
father, and prevent if possible another fit, for she hiad been
told by the physician that any violent agitation would induce
a relapse. She sent a note to Colonel Benson, and ere an hour
the cool old Englishman was with them. He was more shocked
L at what he called Walter's mad infatuation than even the fath-
er, whom he advised to break it up. "Get the parties di-
vorced, or buy the lady off with a sum of money."  To all of.
these suggestions the humbled father turned a deaf ear. "No,
Colonel; as-he has made his bed, let him lie on it; I will not
interfere-no, net to save his life; it is too ,late now.  He'
must have been in New York sometime without my know-
ledge; had he come to me at once--had he-but what am:I
talking bout ? He is ruined, body and soul, and our name is
the laughing stock of all the good and the respectable in New
York. If my business was only closed up, I would sell every,
thing and go, back to England," said poor Mr. Granville.
Colonel Benson urged-it upon Mr. Granville that he must
not take the matter too much to heart. . "Bear in mind," he
added, "that you have another child and a grandchild--a glo-
rious fellow too, who must take your son Walter's place. For
their sakes, don't give up."
"I will not. I will try not to do so. I will try and forget
my unworthy son., But, Colonel, where is my brother Tho-
mas ? I must try and find him out. "He too is unworthy of a
thought-but, poor devil, he is a fool. He does the best he
can, but he is half imbecile, and don't know wrong from right.
le must, not starve.' That affair of our old friend Mac Neil--
was it not dreadful, to die all alone in the hospital!. Poor
Tom, I am afraid he is following in the same direction. I have
not heard from him for~ a long time. He must be seen 'before

'368.

vIeon.                     369
it is too late.' Iate haefrd that he can be found at a' place
No. 46 Centre street. I will go there at once.  I feel much'
better : will you go  ith me, Colonel ?"h'aked Granville.
It as in vainthat Colonel Benson remonstrated, and .tried
to persuade his friend'that such a course would be worse than
useless.  He- was not  to be persuaded,.and when the Colonel,
hoping that his refusal to go. would prevent Mr. Granville from
doing so foolish a thing, refused to accompany him, Mr. Gran-
ville rose and said,
Well then, Colonel, I 'will go -alone, and perhaps it is
better that you should not go.
Isabel tried to dissuade her father from going out, but his
mind was fully made up. Colonel 'Benson accompanied him
as far as the corner of Broadway and Chambers street, and
there they shook hands and parted, the'haughty British Colo-
nel wishing his friend success in his present. attempt,
When the latter reached Centre street, he commenced ex..
amining' the numbers in order to ascertain whereabouts No.
46 was located. He was in a quarter of the city with which
he was no more acquainted than with the- localities in the
neighborhood of the North Pole. . He kept up Centre street
on the right hand side. At last hefound the 'right. number,
and entered. His striking appearance attracted Jeminy's at-
tention the .oment he entered the door.. There was indeed a
strong resemblance between the brothers. There were in the
store the usual quantity of loafers, and the visiter, after pass-
ing his eyes over them, took a seat. Jemmy the bar-keeper
had nothad his eyes off the new-comer for a moment. . As he
entered he was serving a customer, but when he had finished
that duty and placed the money in the drawer, he crossed to-
wards where the merchant had seated himself.
"Can I 'serve 'to you anything, sir ?' asked JeMy.
The merchant laid down the paper.
"Yes, if you have any good brandy I would like some in
water. I want good---no trash; here is a dollar. If you have
no good brandy here, send out for some."
" I have some in -a demijohn of the very choicest kind. It
was selected' by Colonel Mae Neil, and kept exclusively foi-his
use: he was a'judge of -that article, but since,'his death, .no
one has used any .of it."
How long Jemmy would have gon6 on it is iinpossible to
say, but no sooner had the name of Colonel Mae NeiL caught
"the ear of the old gentleman 'than -he interrupted him.
" aWho did you say-Colonel Mae Neil? what 2did' he Ao


360

VIGOR.

here, or what do you know about him ?" asked Mr. Granville,,
hastily.
Jemmy was now on his hobby.  He informed his- listener,
that Colonel Mac Neil kept a room for fifty dollars a year ; that
his old bureau had stood in the rear of that very store until
recently, when it was removed to his widow's house. He told.
him how the Colonel got hurt, and of the money which the
Count Falsechinski had given him; of Mr. O'Doemall, who
was last seen to converse with the Colonel-of Marion Monck
-.*of the pledging of the pistols, and of his opening the store
the next morning, and of finding Mac Neil all bloody; of his
being taken to the hospital by young Marion Monek, and how
surprised every body about the place was to hear next day that
the Colonel was dead..
"Not a word more; I cannot bear it, it is too frightful. I
knew the Colonel well. Here, my lad. I know you-were very
kind to poor Mac; he was a friend'of mine, and a hard fate
he had!  Take this and put it in your pocket.  I give it to
you out of regard to his memory," and at -the same time he
took from from his pocket a roll of money, from which he se-
lected a ten dollar bill. Presenting it to Jemmy, who thanked
him very warmly, the young man resumed attending to the
customers who were cursing at his absence.
Mr. Granville continued buried in deep thought.. Occasion.-
ally his eyes would glance over the casks and barrels of liquor,
but his thoughts were' of a most melancholy character. A thou-
sand traits of the amiable disposition of his. friend flashed
across his memory, and he soliloquized "Here he kept out of
the gay world and his former associates for years; he too, the
gallant, wealthy, successful and envied favorite of fashionable
society, was reduced to this haunt, and to a room at a dollar
a week in the neighborhood. Good God! what may we not
all expect ? what may not the most powerful, and wealthy be
reduced to! Perhaps it will be my fate : who knows ? -lHre
too is a favorite haunt of my poor brother Thomas; well, I am
glad I have come here. 1 see things as they are and as they
have been. I am learning a lesson in life which I should be
long in.learning in my own handsome mansion in  State street."
He looked at the different persons in the place. "All of them
I suppose have seen better days."  While he was thus re'
fleeting, a hand was quietly placed upon his shoulder-it was
his brother.
He could not speak. Not so, however, Tom ; he took a seat
and oommeneed,

361"

VIGOR.

. "Well, Pitt, how goes the world with you ?"
"'So.so, Tom: but you are looking better than I expected.
I had heard-but no matter. You are looking well."
Tom replied,
" Indeed! No thanks to you, though, brother Pitt. I should
have looked bad enough had I been dependent on you; but I
am glad to see you-heard of your son's marriage ?' asked
Tom.
Pitt Granville winced as he replied,
" Yes, I have heard it, and it pained, me much,; it is a very
disgraceful affair."
9 Could he do any thing else ? he had no money, and I sup.
pose he might have starved if that girl had not taken him up.
It is to him I owe my present respectable appearance 'had I
applied to you, I presume I might have starved, eh ?" said
Tom.
"No, Tom, no ; I came here today on purpose to afford
you relief if you needed it."
"Needed it? .I do need it-need money."
Tom said this, for he had become heartless, and had deter-
mined to adhere' to his plan of getting gold whenever he could
-he felt that something had shaken or softened his brother's
feelings, and he was now anxious to know to what extent he
could venture a financial demand.
" How much do you want, Tom, to make you comfortable ?''
asked the brother.
" All that you can spare. I want a home, with some money
in my pocket besides that which I want to return to Miss Nor.
ris, which I borrowed of her."
.Tom lied when he added this last.
"How much do you owe Miss Norris ?" asked the merchant
anxiously and quickly.
" What is the use of asking such a foolish question ? Let
me have some money, if you intend to do so, and I will then go
and pay her," said Tom.
The elder Granville took ou~t his pocket book, and handed
his brother two hundred and fifty dollars.
"Take that,' Tom.  Make' it go as faras you can.  Above
all, pay Miss Norris what you owe her. When you need more
you can send to me or call upon me. Find some respectable
boarding-house, and get settled in it," said Pitt, Grauville.
Thomas Granville place-d the money in hi pocket, and  heu
his mouth was opened. He informned his 'brother that he had
been present at the wedding' o his nephew' without being'


VIGOR.

aware of it, until the clergyman had made the parties man and
wife. Pitt Granville groaned in agony as he listened to the
narrative. Tom did not spare his brother from reproaches. He
told him that he had driven Walter from his home, and how
severely he had been punished for it. .-He then related his
own hardships, his want of food, of sleep, of ordinary comforts.
But he added, "I thank you, brother,, that even now your
heart has relented. It has done me good to see and feel some
of the hardships of life, and if I live, hey shall not have hap-
pened to me in vain. I willnever be'in such desperate want
again." The elder Granville listened, but could say nothing
in reply but to beg his brother to come and see him  at his
house in State street as though nothing unpleasant had ever
occurred. . He shook him cordially by the hand, and remon-
strated kindly at his not having a more respectable haunt.
Where he had gone Tom exclaimed, "Well, I am      in luck.
Who would have dreamed that 1, a poor, devil two days since,
that lacked a meal of victuals, wanted a shilling to get a night's
lodging, charged with prigging two cents' worth of pie, should
now be worth-let me count my fortune. My gold, my yellow
slave-five hundred and odd dollars. Well-
There is a tide in the Pffairs of men,
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.'
It is ebb with me. Maybe, whatever I do will turn out
lucky. Whatare my lucky numbers?. This is 46. I came
here, met my nephew, got clothes, home and board. Good-46
is a lucky number. Then Iwent up to that she devil's in
Bond street, No. 32. 1 came away with a pocket full of money.
Two hundred and sixty dollars in good city bills. 32 is a
lucky number. Now, to-day my brother. Pitt wakes up, and
comes from a sick bed in No. 9 State street to give me two
hundred and fifty dollars. No. 9 is a lucky number. 9, 32,
46.6' If I could get -a ticket with those, three numbers upon it,
wouldn't it win?  Of course it would. I'll go and try. If I
can't get a ticket with those numbers upon it iu the very next,
lottery, I will go for once ,into the policy business, and gig
those numbers for five hundred dollars.  Jemmy, give me a
mild drink. Make it me'ciful.
'The quality of mercy is not strained;
It droppeth, as the gentle rain from heaven
Upon the place beneath: it is twice blessed;
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes.'
It       James, take a drinks with me. It will do you good. I am
going to seek for money. James, when you are poor, never

try to borrow. No one will lend a poor man. Get ten dol-
lars, and if you wint to borrow a ten, go to your friend and
show him that ten, and tell him you have to make up twenty
dollars. le will lend you ten. With the twenty dollars go to
a second friend,'show him the twenty dollars, and repeat the
story, but nake the amount you have to make up fifty, and
borrow thirty dollars.  No. 2 will lend you it.  With a fifty
you can raise up fast. Show it to your No. 3 friend. 'Char-
ley, I have to lend Bill Astor's nephew a hundred this morn-
ing. Count that pile and see how much I lack, and then lend
it to me like a good fellow.' Ah! Jemmy, you find Charley
counts it, and lends you the lacking fifty with pleasure. He
would have seen you damned before he would have lent you
fifty cents, if he thought you really needed it and had not got
it. Jemmy, you have now a hundred. Get it all in sinall
bills, except one of fifty, and put that on top. Now go to No.
4 friend. Tell him you have to buy'a draft to remit three
hundred dollars to your brother in Philadelphia, and only need
a.hundred. 'Hand over, old fellow.' No. 4 is not going to
count your pile. He sees the fifty dollar bill and a pile. He
lends you the money without a word. You have now got two
hundred. Take an old bank book and go to some friend who has
plenty of money, but who is always on the borrow. Put in your
two hundred dollars, and then say to him that you are short to
make up a thousand, and if he will let you have three hundred
dollars he will oblige you, and you will do as much for him
next week. With the three hundred you can travel. Then re-
turn the one hundred and ninety dollars that you have bor-
rowed respectively from No. 1, ten dollars; *No. 2, thirty dol.
lars ; No. 3, fifty dollars ; and No. 4, one hundred dollars.
Return all these loans, exhibiting your full stock as you do -o.-
With the three hundred dollars in hand, you can borrow three
times that amount from your Nos. 1 to 4 friends, with whom
you have established a credit. You can travel on this credit.
You can victimize one of them occasionally, or increase your-
list to ten or twenty friends, of whom, at any time, you. can
borrow easily three hundreds, but of whom you could never
borrow three cents if you needed it. Jemmy, I am going to
try my luck. I have five hundred dollars. I will double my
money to-night. I am in luck. See if it is not so. Your very
good health."  Thomas Granville finished his glass and left
No. 46 Centre street.
At that time, and until within a very few years, there was a
[young man named Clark who kept an exchange office on the

0

362*

303

VIGOR.*

I

I'


364

VIGOR

north-west corner of Duane and Chatham streets, where Swee-
ney's hotel now stands. In the front office Mr. Clark did an,
exchange business. In the rear, partly divided by a low
wooden partition, he kept and sold lottery tickets. There was
an entrance to this-rear office from Duane street. Into this
little cubby place came Tom Granville. le asked to see. some
tickets, and they were shown him. He examined wholes,
halves, quarters, eighths, in the Pokomoke Lottery, but upon
no ticket could he find his combination of 9, 32, and 46. He
was then shown the Delaware Lottery. Upon a half ticket,
true enough, he found 9, 32, 46. He bought the half ticket at,
once, and paid for it five dollars, and left the place. For luck,
he placed his half ticket among his roll of bills, and then went
up to the "Hotel de Paris,"-entered his room, and laid down
to take a nap. When he awoke the light from a street lamp
was streaming into his room. He descended to take a cup of
coffee, and then carelessly approached Madame Vigne, the
landlady.
"Madam, I have more money about me than I care to carry.
Will you keep it for me ?" asked Tom.
"Certainly, with pleasure. How much have you ?" she
asked,,
"About five hundred dollars, I believe,"-and Tom handed
her the roll.
"1Five hundred !" repeated the landlady, who, from  Tom's
looks,-supposed his deposite might reach about twenty. 'She
counted it, and it overran about twenty dollars.
"Give me that for spending money," said Tom, and he re-
ceived and placed it in his pocket.
Thomas Granville had travelled. He knew that there was
no safer banker in the world than a careful, prudent French
landlady. His money he knew was as safe in Mrs. Vigne's
hands as in those 'of th e wealthiest banker of New York. Tom
drank his coffee.'
"It is a long time-since I have played. I will go and try
my luck to-night,"-and so saying he buttoned up his over-
coat and went out' into Broadway. He soon found himself in a
large gambling establishment in Barclay street. Tom was in
luck. When he entered the room the deal was- almost out..
Without looking at the state of the game, he put all his money
in a roll. He placed it upon the "queen." "My luck is in a
lady," was his only observation. The queen won. The amount
was counted and paid. .Tom left it lying on the queen. The
queen won again. The sum was paid.

VIGOR.                     365
"There is another 'queen'"in the box yet," said some one.
"Then I will leave it all upon my friend the queen," said
Tom, dryly. The queen won a third time, dnd Tom placed in
his pocket a hundred and sixty dollars, adding, "Now I will
get me some supper." He drank sparingly of a bottle of wine,
tasted a choice bit of game, and returned to the table., and
bought a hundred dollars' worth of red chips.  Then..he
played cautiously, and only one or two, until of some particu-
lar card, three had been dealt out,- and one remained in the
box. Then Tom played fifty dollars on a "bet."  He won un-
til he had two hundred and fifty dollars bet on different cards.
When the deal was over, he was a winner of over four hun-'
dred and fifty dollars.  He had sixty in his pocket.  He re-
turned to the hotel, and handing another roll to Madame Vigne,
he said, "Here, madam, add this to my sum in your hands."
She took the money, but made no comment, and Tom joined
old Mr. Gemnrel in a game of dominous. He was perfectly
self-possessed-not elated--and when Inidnight came went
quietly to bed.
Towards evening the next day he went to Clark's exchange
office. Mr. Clark recognized him.
" You had 9, 32 and 46-half ticket in the Delaware, had
you not ?" he asked.
"I believe I have that ticket," replied. Tom.
"Allow me to congratulate you, sir," said the broker. "It
has drawn two thousand fivetundred dollars. The half is one
thousand two hundred and fifty. dollars, gross. Discount off
will be one thousand .and thirty-one dollars and twenty-five
cents. Call here to-morrow, and I will cash the prize and pay
you one thousand and thirty-one dollars .and twenty-five cents."
Thomas Granville went around to 46 Centre street. JemmI
asked him what his luck had been. "I made over a thousand,
Jemmy,"-and he told him the particulars.   Tom- did not
drink as freely as usual. The next day he received the money
from the ticket. He went to Madame Vigne, showed it to her,
and received the sum she had on deposit, amounting to over
a thousand .dollars. Then Tom took two thousand dollars and
went down to the savings bank and, deposited it to his own
credit and received a bank book.

ji


366

VIGOR.

CHAPTER LIX.
Marion Monck and the larpers- Publishes a Book -Virgil Maxcy and
Jon C. Calhoun-James Harper and the Ternptrance Societies-To,n
Fl'1Ynn as a Lecturer-Mr. Aonck writes him a Lecture on Temperance-Its
delivery at the Tabernale -Tor a Delinquent-The Dinnfr ordered by Ar.
Fl"nn nd paid for by Mr. Moncek -End of Thomas Flynn, Comedian, in
the Almahouse.
MARION MONCK felt quite elated 'with the first money he
'earned with his pen, and it was but the commencement of ano-
ther task. Marion had a friend in Maryland whose name was
Virgil Maxcy. This ge'ntleman was a statesman and a scholar.
His melancholy fate a few years after th   date of this chapter
is fresh in-the memory of thousands. He was an invited guest
on board the steamship Princeton, when a cannon burst, and
killed Mr. Maxcy and several others.
This gentleman had prepared a work for the press.' It was
the life of a friend-the great southern statesman, Calhoun;
and he wrote to Mari&amp; Monck, requesting him to publish it at
the establishment of Harper &amp; Brothers, and to superintend
the publication.  Marion accepted the trust, and forthwith
made an agreement with the Harpers to publish this Life. at a
stipulated price, the copyright to belong to Marion Monck.
This was the wish of Mr. 'Maxcy, and it was his desire that the
profits of the publication should accrue to Marion, for the
trouble it would occasion him to attend to the business, read
the proofs, etc.    I
Not long after he commenced the work, he received a pack-
age of speeches from Mr. Calhoun himself, with a request that
he would also superintend the publication of a volume of
speeches. This Marion readily undertook; and- in' the .per-
formance of the duties, it required him to be a frequent, in
fact an almost daily visitor at the establishment of the Messrs.
Harpers. One afternoon, as he was about to leave for his
boarding-house, he was stopped by one of the brothers,
11ave you an engagement to-night ?" he asked
It was James Harper.
"None in particular," was the reply. "Why do you ask
me

VIGOR.

367

a

IT

" Because if you have not, I should' like to have you spend
the evening with me," said James Harppr..
"Nothing that you could propose would give me greater
pleasure," replied Marion.
"Then come with me, for I am going home," said Mr. Harper.
The two started for Mr. Harper's residence, which was at no
great distance from the publishing building. He then resided
in Rose street, next door to the Quaker Church. Marion knew
the house well, for in the abolition riots, some years before, he
had seen the mob enter that identical two story brick house,
then occupied by Lewis Tappan, and plunder it of its furniture,
which they burned in the street before the door. When they
were inside the house, Mr. Harper ordered tea, remarking that
Mrs. Harper would not be present, as she was very ill-in
fact, dangerously so. She died' not many'dayis after. After
tea was finished, Mr. Harper remarked,
"9A carriage will be here presently, fo take me where I can
fulfil an engagement. I want you to go with me."
The carriage came. Both entered it, and continued talking
until it stopped before the doors of a church in Forsyth street.
" We get out here," said James Harper. "Follow me."
Marion did so,.into the church, up to the pulpit. Mr. Har-
per opened a 'pew door near -the altar,-and when, Marion had
passed in and taken a seat, he shut theAoor and passed to the
pulpit, and took the principal -seat. Marion then noticed that
the church was crowded with people, called together for some
sort of purpose, and that Mr. Harper was to be the chairman
of the meeting.
The exercises soon commenced, and then Marion discovered
that it was the anniversary of a Temperance Society. Prayer
was made, a hymn was sung, then a clergyman made a speech,
another.hynin, another address and another hymn. Then there
was a pause. The chairman then arose, and with great seri-
ousness announced that'the Rev. Doctor Tyng was expected to
make an address that evening, and added, " But illness in his
family will prevent him. This'would be a great disappoint-
ment under ordinary circumstances, but I am happy to inform
the meeting, that I have secured thd services of a young gei-
tleman, who I am sure will, favor us with a short address, that
can fill up. the gap caused by the non-appearance of Dr. T'yng.
He is extremely clever, and has written a book that my firm
have published. I am not aware that he has ever joined any
temperance society---very likely he may do so to-night. Allow
me to introduce to this audience Marion Monek."


3 8

VIGOR.

Marion had followed Mr. Harper's language, wondering what
he was driving at'; but when he pounced down upon him by
name, and pointed at the seat where he was sitting,. he was
completely thunderstruck. .Had the steeple tumbled in upon
Jhe crowd, it would not have astonished him half so much.
He was so vexed with James Harper, that it gave him the con-
fidence necessary to make an address, and he did astonish that
crowd for half an hour. He Was really eloquent upon the tem-
perance topic, and his address was received with great ap-
plause. The services were soon after over, and be again got
into the carriage with James Harper, intending to blow him up
for. placing him in such a false position. It was of no use. Mr.
Harper laughed at him, and when they parted that night, Ma.-
riou observed, " Have a care, Mr. Harper; this is the last time
you will ever bring me in for a temperance address.",'
The next day, when Marion made his appearance in Cliff
street, the other brothers had a hearty laugh at his expense,
and at the "sell " so successfully made by "Brother James."
Marion received it all in good part, and' enjoyed the joke as
well as any of them.
The Harpers were always interested in the Temperance re-
formation. They upheld the "Washingtonian Parent Society "
in the gpod old times, when that Society counted upon its
books the names of over ten thousand reformed drunkards, and
were not sparing in their aid to the Society and its various
branches, or to individual members.
When the excitement that this Society caused, and which
would crowd their, weekly meetings with two and three thou-
sand people, had died away, it was followed and replaced by a
new order of things, called the Sons of Temperance. Then
the Daughters of Temperance. In these movements the Har.
pers engaged earnestly, and none more so than Brother James.
He was active in all of them, and presided frequently at the
annual meetings of these societies. Then came, fie Rechab-
ites. In the latter James Harper was a principal leader.
To his credit be it said, he was extremely liberal to those
who were without means, but who' were willing to aid in the
Temperance movement. Goiigh, Wallace, and many others
were indebted for means to be useful to Mr. Harper. When
Brother James found a person in any particular profession who
wds likely to be useful in making converts from that profes-
sion, he encouraged him to become a speaker and leader in the
great Temperance movement.
Not long after the appearance- of Marion Monek in the

I
4
'

VIGOR.

369

Chrystie street church, he was engaged in reading some proofs
at his own room, when a visitor *as announced. He 'was
shown up. This visitor was a stout, thick-set,' full-faed indi-
vidual, and he brought a note from Mr. James Harper, intro-
ducing him to Marion Monek.
"Sit down, sir," said 'Marion.
"Certainly -.with pleasure. That note is from Mr, Harper
-my very particular friend,. James Harper. He is to assist
me in giving a lecture at the Tabernacle, and he told me to
come and-see you," said the fussy individual.
"I do not see how I can aid you in the matter," replied
Marion.
"Indeed, but I do. -I told Mrs. Flynn this morning, and
she is extremely well aware of the fact, that I could and should
deliver an extremely interesting lecture, if I had it written
for me. There is money to be made in it. Thousands, sir,
will crowd to hear Tom Flynn deliver a lecture at the Taber-
nacle. The house will be a perfect jam, sir.. Mr. Harper ad-
vances-the money. -I shall be a great card, sir-an immense
card to the cause of Temperance " said Mr. Flynn.
"How long since you joined the movement ?" inquired
Marion.
"Over a week, sir.-nearly two. Now, sir, I 'am an ator.
Iam not good at an off-hand speech or lecture, unless I have
it all pat beforehand. Now you write out the lecture 'for me-
that's a dear good,. fellow. Mr. Harper said you were jqst the
chap to do it, and I know you will. I can learn it by heart in
a very short time after it is written-that is in  ay line. I
shall reform the whole theatrical profession-make :em all join.
My lecture will be perfectly overwhelming. When ,will you
go to work ? I want it done at once," said Flynn.
Marion took a good look at his customer. There was some-
thing so jolly about Tom Flynn, that no one could help admire
ing him, until they had become well acquainted with the man.
Then admiration generally ceased,
"WellMr. Flynn, suppose I write this lectuire. You will
make money by it. What am I to get for writing it ?" asked
Marion.
"0, anything you please-we won't stand upon trifles.
Money to be paid over after the lecture," said Tom Flynn.
"I would like  'have it understood now how tuch I am to.
get. Will twent dollars be too much ?"
"Not half enough, my dear boy.. It will be e magnificent
hit. I'll bring down the house.' Bless, your heart ! I shall
.16*

f
~1
I'
f

I

1

,


370

VIGOR-

want you to,,write fifty-a hundred lectures. Harper says I
must visit every city in the United States, and deliver my lec-
tures, and then go to Europe. Star it on Temp'rance all
through England, Ireland, Scotland ando Wales. I will keep
you with me, my boy-eh ?  How do you like that?''
Marion was in a hearty good hm6r with the illustrious Tom,
and agreed to go at once into the matter. To do 'this, it was
necessary that he should go to-Tom's apartments. These, Torn
said, were at the Sbkespeare Hotel, corner of Duane and Wil-
liam street. Accompanied by Marion, Tom wended his way
from Fulton street to the Shakespeare." This was kept at that
time by a man named -Pierrers, now steward of the St. Nicholas
Hotel. Tom Flynn's apartment was on the fourth floor'; and
into his room, for he had but one, he ushered Marion Monck.
There was a lady seated there, and the new comer was intro-
duced with much ceremony to the celebrated and extremely
clever Mrs. Flynn.
She received Marion with much amiability, and listened to
her husband's extravagant ideas of his success in temperance
matters with a smile of incredulity. . At that time Mrs. Flynn
was a woman of great beauty, and her success as an actress
had been long gained. Tom Flynn was doing nothing at all,
and the means of support~ were earned by Mrs. Flynn at the
theatre in.Chatham street.
It was a long time before Marion could get Tom down to
common affairs, or the practical business in hand. He had no
more idea of a temperance lecture, than he had of Mahomet's,
Koran; and would relate theatrical anecdotes, and his own ex-
perience, that had no more cennection with temperance than
with algebra; and Marion, with a powerful imagination, could
not torture or twist any of Tom's stories into. the skeleton
ideas for a lecture. At last he gave up in despair, and went
to his roon. There the thought crossed him to write a lecture
without- the slightest reference to Tom Flynn. He did so. All
the experience in it, and thrilling scenes, were purely imagi-
Uative-.-none of Ton's, at least. When it was, finished, Ma--
rion carried the lecture to Tom's quarters at the Shakespeare.
It was read in presence of both Mr. and Mrs. Tom Flynn. The
latter approved it, and flattered Marion by telling him that his
performance was a most creditable one. Tom undertook to
learn it 'at once.                   A
Some days passed, and the eventful nig t came, when the
Tabernacle doors were opened to admit the celebrated Thomas
Flynn to deliver a temperance lecture-" tickets twenty-five

II
1

VIGOI .                     371
cents."  There was a crowd, and notwithstanding an normous
quantity of " dead-heads," the lecture 'was a mone -making
affair. Tom hired some person to act as treasurer,  d when
the lecture was finished, he grabbed the proceeds.
Marion Monck went into the gallery to hear hi own original
lecture delivered. It certainly made a sensation, and was
cheered tremendously.  There was no hunibug about that.
Marion felt convinced of one thing. The lecture had sone
points in itthat told well on an audience. Tom delivered it
well. He had learned it by heart, as though it had been a part
of a farce, and it appeared to the audience as though it was
extemporized. So far so good,
Marion tried to get a sight of Tom Flynn after the lecture
was delivered, but Thomas, with seventy or eighty dollars in
his pocket, was not to be seen. The next day the' chase con-
tinued, and he found the lecturer about three o'clock in a
drinking saloon. Thomas was not exactly sober, nor was he
very drunk. It was a sort of maudlin medium.
" My dear boy, where have you kept yourself? I have been
hunting for you all day. Ask Thomas Shortland if I have not.
Come now, let us go and have a nice, quiet, old-fashioned din-
ner. I have ordered one for us both, and 1et us go to the place
at once," said Torn Flynn, and he appeared extremely anxious
to get to the dinner. It was an enormous fib, but never mind
that. The author and theaactor wended their way over into a
Broadway restaurant. * The proprietor placed them in a small
room by themselves. When they were fairly seated, and the
dinner had been ordered, Mr. Monck boned Tom about the
twenty dollars.
"Bless your heart, my dear bov, I had to pay onti every
cent. You have no idea what a time I have had-! Wasn't it
a capital house? fHow they did cheer! My fortune is Iaide.
I've struck a vein. Harper says he never saw anything like
it. Mr., Harper advanced the.rent of the building, but I had
so many demands made upon me for money to-day, that I can-
not refund him his advance. It is a hard case, ain't it?  But
those Ha,'pers are rich-he won't feel it. When willyou com-
mence another lecture for me, Mr. Monck:9" said Tom.
Marion Monck was really indignant; and he replied angrily,
 I'lltll tl you what it is, Mr. Flynn, I don't consider this fair
treatment. I wrote your lecture for you. You have made
money, and I expected to have received the twen'tf'dollars at
once."
" You are perfectly right, my boy. I don't blame-you-not


372%

VIGOR.

a bit of it. I'd feel just the same, if a man had used me as
shabbily as I have you. I know it is outrageous. You ought
to have had the money. But what am I to do?  You see-how
I am placed.. Dead broke-but never mind, we will have a
good dinner, any how. I expect it will be a magnificent din-
ner. Do you know I like good dinners ? What do you say to
a bottle of Champagne, eh ?"
"I am agreed," replied Marion ; "but what would your
temperance friendssay if they were to 'drop in upon you--
James Harper, for instance ?"              *1
"0, he be blamed. It will not do for me to break off so
sudden from all stimulants. It must 'be done by degrees,"
replied the actor.  0
The wine was ordered-not one bottle but two was placed
upon the table. A splendid dinner was served up, for Tom
Flynn knew how to order a good dinner. It was well cooked.
It was a dinner that any gentleman in the land might have been
proua to have partaken of. Under its genial influence Marion
became reconciled to the disappointment connected with the
twenty dollars. Tom promised faithfully that he should have
it in less than twenty-four hours. Still Marion refused to
write a second lecture until he received pay for number one,
and he added, " Flynn, you can make money as a temperance
lecturer, if you will deliver twenty lectures written by me, and
do as you have done this one, by each new one. Learn it by
heart. By the time you have committed twenty lectures to
heart and can deliver one on call, you can then practice on all,
and really you will have matter enough to deliver an extempore
lecture apparently, merely throwing in a few local facts or
matters whenever you deliver a -lecture at a' new place. You
will succeed, and you will be a popular lecturer, but you must
pay me honest, every time I write you a lecture. It was very
wrong in you to 'do' Mr. Harper out of the Tabernacle rent,"
said Marion.
"It was bad-very bad---a 'd--. shame. But it can't be
helped 'now, and I dare say Mr. Harper won't mind it. What
a glorious dinner we have made, eh ? Is there any thing else
you will have'? Order whatever you have a fancy for-wines,
cigars, coffee-d   the expense. . One may as well be in for
a sheep as a lamb," said Tom.
Here the landlord came in, and was very polite to Marion.
He asked if there was any thing else he could put upon the
table. ".Nothing more," was the joint reply. When the
proprietor of the restaurant passed out from the little, room

I

VIGOR.

37S

where the author and actor had cined, Tom Flynn followed
him, and, after an absence of a quarter of an hour (during
which time Marion was extremely an xious, for he had no mon-
ey, and he feared Tom had departed, leaving him in a strange
place to foot the bill), he returned rubbing his bands in great
glee, and exclaimed, "Lord love your soul, my boy. It is all
right. I told him who you were, and he said you could pay
the bill whenever it suited your convenience. I takes me,
don't it ?"
Marion was indignant, and at first could not comprehend
what Tom Flynn was driving at. "'I! Satisfied with me ?
*What the devil have I got to do with it? It is your, dinner.,
You ordered it," said Marion.
"That is true. But keep perfectly calm-what difference
does it make ?' I have no money-not a dollar. The bill is
twelve dollars twenty-five cents. He wouldn't trust me twelve
cents. I have satisfied him that you are as good as .the Bank
of France ; that James Harper, or all the Harpers, would be
responsible for fifty dinners; and that you were short to-day
for a wonder, but would call, back to-morrow and order a dozen
dinners, le is perfectly satisfied, andwill let us go out without
the money. Don't be afraid,",continued Tom Flynn, consolingly.
"Hang your infernal impudence! You told him the Harpers
would pay my bill! that I was short-that-that--0, the
devil! You have played Ned with me. It is bad enough to
stick me for the lecture, but then to stick rae for a dinner
that I never ordered, and tell a parcel of lies in order to induce
the proprietor not to have us arrested, or kick us out of doors,
is too bad. Tom Flynn, I will never forgive you-.never,
said Marion.
" Nonsense, 'my boy. We are all right. I've fixed it with
the proprietor. -Says yow-can pay it any time you like. What
else can I do ?" asked Tom.
"Else can you do?  You had no business to cone here, or
induce me to come here, unless you could pay for what you
ordered. But I have done with you-nmark that.!"  Marion
indignantly left the room, and went to the proprietor and told
him how he had been stuck for the dinner. The landlord
enjoyed the joke, and the next day larion paid the bill.
To return to Tom Flynn. He delivered his lecture several
timeso-once in Jersey City. He did well, but he cold not
keep from drink. It eventually fetched him, as it has millions
K of good fellows, and Thomas Flyn died in the Almshoue of
New York city.

Ij
'Jk
AIN-,

flo


374

VIGOR.

CHAPTER LX.
Rforrtion of Thomas Granville- The Tfotcl de Paris-The r Dmino Ciul
-Bruce--Trinity Church Anecdote-Thie Beautfeil French Girl Clotide
-Ton's Second Marriage-Ris Death at the Staten Island Small Pox
Buspital.
ALAS, alas,! poor Tom Granville! gifted with genus, with
kindness of heart, with every thing which could make thee a
worthy member of society, what a melancholy fate -was thine !
Why was this?   He had .thoroughly reformed, and changed
his habits from being a careless spendthrift into becoming a
miser, and he counted every cent he expended, and incurred
no outlay that.he could do without.
In a former'Chapter we have related the manner in which
he had accumulated the sum  of two thousand dollars. This
was deposited in the Savings Bank, and the bank-book, as evi-
dence of its being his property, he carried about with him at,
all times, and not a day passed that he did not take it out and
gaze earnestly at the items inside of it.  He dressed neatly,
and continued to board at the 'Hotel de Paris,' in Broadway.
Unexceptionable in his conduct, he foreswore houses of ill-
fame, gambling, and excessive drinking; lie had his bottle of
claret daily at dinner, and drank sparingly even of that.  As
he dined with his brother every Sunday, during the week he
would occasionally call in State street and invite his. niece to
promenade with him upon the Battery. - If she did not go her-
self, she permitted one of her children, for she had now three.
fine boys to go with ' Uncle Tom.' Such conduct won upon
Pitt Granville, and he no longer hesitated about giving Tom
money, nor even wait to be asked, but would frequently say,
"Well Tom, how do you fight your men ?  Have you any
ammunition left ?"
Tom never replied in the affirmative; but always laughed
and plead poverty.
"I am about broke, but luckily my expenses are not much."
To such a hint there was but one reply-
"Take this, Tom; perhaps you can spend it," and Tom
would get a twenty or fifty dollar bill. After such financial'

VIGOR.-

375

successes, Tom would g to his hotel, and make a special de-
posite with his landlady, keeping in his own pocket a few shil-
lings for his wants.
Thomas Granville visited almost every place of amusement,
but he was on the free list, and did so without expense. He
neither courted nor avoided the society of those with whom he
had been formerly intimate in his prosperous. days, and con-
sequently they once more sought his society -for he dressed
with care and taste, and his social habits made him always an
agreeable companion. -But on such occasions he never spent
a fraction upon them ; if he dined or drank with them, it was
at their expense, not his own.
After being present at the wedding of his nephew with
Miss Norris, he avoided them as he would poison.  le howev.
er changed his deportment toward Marion Monk-he not only
treated him kindly, but sought his society,: and many an hour
the two passed together in playing dominoes at the 'Hotel de
Paris,' where Tom originated a Dominoe Club. Besides them-
selves, there were men of some note that belonged to that club.
Mr. Bruce, for many years the confidential clerk of old John
Jacob Astor,.and after his death holding the same position
with his son, William B., was of this club.
Mr. Bruce was acharacter in his way. No man knew New
York for forty years better than he did-he knew every house
and building below Houston street, and was a man who solved
a difficulty in an unequalled manner. Upon o'ie very extra-
ordinary emergency, Mr. Bruce was called upon by a vestry-
man of Trinity Church.
"Bruce, the Corporation intend to open Pine street through
to Albany street, and it will cut through our graveyard; what
can be done to prevent it? Suggest something."
'Mr. Bruce thought for a few moments, and then replied
"Trinity is rich, and don't mind spending monev. Go to
work at once and put up in the graveyard opposite fine street
where'the proposed cut will go through, a costly monument to
the memory of the American Patriots whp fell or died at Wall-
about Bay.  Give out that the bones of these Revolutionary
heroes were buried under -the monument.  Do that, and you
will have no further bother.  The Corporation are not bold
enough to dig up the bones of Revolutionary heroes'"-
The vestrymen of old Trinity saw the wisdom' of the hint.--.
At their next meeting the monument was decided upon, and
workmen commenced their labors at the head of Pine street.-
Bruce was right.-there stands 'the monument, and fiQ street.

IA
1.4

1'


376

0-VICORS

has yet disturbed it, or the bones of the Wallabout heroes,
which probably repose some four miles off.
But to return to Mr. Bruce. He was posted upon every
subject, and to an editor of a daily paper would have made a
valuable assistant as a suggestive editor.
Another member of this club was Aaron Turner, one of the
most remarkable men in New York. He was nicknamed "the
Doctor," from his unVarying attention to any of his friends'who
became sick. One of' the club was once confined to his room
for thirty days-the "Doe" never left him. When the regular
physician had given the patient over to death, Doctor Turner
interfered, and by feeding the dying man upon rare, half-raw
beefsteak and old.port wine, brought him around again, and he
is still a member of the Dominoe Club.
'he. Doctor had an income of 'two thousand dollars a year.
Half he spent on himself, and religiously devoted thpe other
half to the relief of suffering humanity.  No man kndws how
the Doctor lives, nor where he lives, and no man ever saw him
do any regular business-and yet he is a master of all trades
and all sciences. He can paint a picture, or -he can -set up
thirty thousand ems of type aHweek with ease. He once navi-
gated a schooner from Chagres -to New York, and not many
months afterwards, when a passenger on the Erie railroad, and,
the engineer and fireman were both killed, he mounted the en-
gine and ran her and the train eighteen miles to Port Jervis.
Old James Gemmel, the rich watchmaker in Broadway, was
a member of the ,lub for many years. Ue is dead now, and
has gone to a better world, where dominoes are not permitted.
There were others of the Dominoe Club. Some are now living,
and some are dead, but we omit mention of the former because
they are cashiers in bank or Judges upon the bench, and those
who are dead are of no account in the 'game.'
Tom Granville was a great admirer of the game of dominoes
and of. the society which it brought nightly around him
One evening he came into the room. where his friends were.
playing, and there he found Mirion Monck; he seated himself
at the centre table and called for. a cup of coffee, observing,.
"Gentlemen, I will take a hand in the next game with you.
I have seen a leper to-day."
"A leper !" was repeated by a dozen members of the club.
"Yes, gentlemen, I have seen and conversed with a genu-
ine leper to-day.---no mistake about- it. I myself had doubts
about there being any lepers in this country, but I was mista-
ken. Listen to me, incredulous ones, and believe me. I was

VIGOR.

377

turning up into the Bowery from Chatham Square, on the left
hand side as you go up, and at Pell street-a little bit of a
street which empties into the Bowery near Chatham, I was de-
tained a moment. I there saw a man surrounded by a lot ot
curious boys; he was seated upon the ground, and his face was
like a leper. I started the boys off, and then cross-questioned
the individual. I gave him a quarter, and suggested that his
face was covered with leprosy.  He confessed 'it at once-.
what do you think of it, eh ?" asked Tom triumphantly.
- "Is leprosy catching ?" inquired Mr. Gemmel..
"Pooh, pooh, no. It is nasty, but not catching, replied
Tom.
Marion Monck had listened attentively, and when the story
about the leprosy was finished, said,
" Mr. Granville, did you ever see a man with the small
pox ?"
"No, I never did-and what is more, I never wish to, for I
have never had it myself; but what the devil do you ask such
a disagreeable question for--who is talking about small pox,
and what has that got to do with my leper that 1, was telling
you about ?"
.All the company shuddered at the suggestion. Marion. re-
plied calmly,
" I asked if you had ever seen a case of the sNnall pox, be-
cause I have been informed that before it breaks out, the ap-
pearance of the face of the person who is infected bears very
much the appearance of him who in Eastern climes is affected
with the leprosy-that isall."
"Indeed! Come, don't let us say anything more about
small' pox or leprosy, it makes nme nervous," replied Tom.
So the subject was dropped, and just at that moment Madame
Vigne came to the table and requested Tom to accompany her
to the supper room. Supper was on the table, 'but there were
no guests partaking of it, and Madame and Tom were engaged
in earnest conversation. Of the nature of that conversation we
will give an idea before finishing this chapter.
Not a week had passed after Tom became a permanent oc-
cupant of this hotel, before a creature made her appearance
behind the bar whose beauty was of a kind that startled as
well as captivated at first sight.  Granville had- risen very
early that morning and descended the stairs ; he went to the
bar to address Madame Vigne, but the face that beamed upon
hia made him exclaim, "CGood heavens, who are you ?" The
person thus addressed was a girl evidently not over fifteen

oil,
tI
Is
TV


878

VIGOR-

years old, and girlish in every action. Her hair was jet black,
and combed back. from a large alabaster forehead and gathered
up in a close knot that was as large as one third of the girl's
magnificent head. Her skin was perfectly transparent, and
the clear white and red were only visible. She had a Grecian
cast of features. and her smile exhibiting a pair of delicate red
lips and snow white teeth, was irresistible.  Her form  was
beautifully proportioned-a full bosom and small waist, and her
movements were grace itself. She walked with that lithe and
limping air, which in a young and beautiful girl has a powerful
charm. She did not understand a word of English, but Tom
spoke French as well as English.
They were alone in the room, and when Tom questioned her
closely, she informed him that she-had come from France not
many months previous with her mother. She was from   the
very province in France of which Lyons -is the capital. She
had been frequently a visitor to that city.. Tom  could de-
scribe every building in it, and this at once was an interesting
topic of conversation between them. Her name was Clotilde.
She informed Tom Granville that her mother had recently died,
and that " Madame,'' so she called Mrs. Vigne, had agreed to
support her, and she, in return, was t tend the bar and wait
on such customers as called -for coffee. Tom became really
eloquent to the beautiful Clotilde.' He told her of the dangers
.--f the attractions of her beauty-of the insults she would re-
ceive, and finally asked her if he, Tom, would get Mrs. Vigne
to give up the idea of her tending bar, whether she would agree
to it.
"I have money, and I will pay Madame Vigne, your board,
rather than you should be exposed to 'be gazed at and in-
sulted," said Tom.
The honest, heart-felt interest Tom expressed-had its effect.
The poor girl's eyes opened to the widest extent as she re-
garded Tom's speaking features. She was interested, and
months of ordinary intercourse could not have made Clotilde
so deeply grateful as that morning's conversation. Tom  told
her where his room was, and added, -" For your own sake, I
shall avoid conve'rsing "much with you while you are behind
the bar. When y.ou receive a signal from me, make your es-
cape and come to my room."  The girl agreed to do so. That
day Tom remonstrated with the Madame agsnst employing the
girl in the bar-room, but it made no impression upon her mind.
He offered to pay her hoard. That Madame listened to. The
beautiful girl was employed as bar-tender for several days, but

VIGOR.

879

her ignorance of money and the trouble her presence occasioned
among the boarders, who all became in love with her, made the
Madame anxious to withdraw her from such services.   She
talked with Tom Granville 'about it, and he again repeated his
offer to pay her board.
"Very well, Mr."Granville, I agree, to it on one condition.
You shall tell me why you do this-why you care about her-.-
and what are your, intentions. I have' a right to ask these
questions, for the leetle girl is under my charge."
"Certainly you have, and as my intentions are not wrong, I
will tell you. You know that I have money.', Very well., If
you will keep this girl in the house, and ft her go to school, I
will pay all her expenses. When I find that she likes -me, I
will marry her. Is that enough ?" asked Tom.
It was more than enough. Madame at once summoned the
fair object of so much trouble, and informed her of what Tom
had proposed.
I love Monsieur Granville now with all my heart and
sgul," was the frank respose of the giri. In fact, not a da
had passed that she had not been' to Tom's-rooin-and held'a
conversation with him. Not a band-or a finger had Tom placed
upon her.. Not a single caress at their interviews, and the
young French girl who had expected, and was prepared to re-
pel them, was agreeably disappointed, and these facts combined
with Torn's fascinating manners, had won her heart. When
other borders had been civil to her, or made love to her, she
had repelled -them with as much scorn as if some great wrong
had been proposed to Tom. When Tom had the conversation
with Madame, and she agreed to his proposition, Clotilde was
at ones taken out of the bar. She became a sort of companion
to.the Madame, and Tom, with her sanction, went'out with Clo-
tilde about every night, and visited some place of amusement.
She was delighted. Tom told her to regard herself as his
wife, and to ask for money, and he proffered all she needed
from week to week. One night he had been with her at tho.
opera,.where her extreme beauty had attracted the attention
of all in the vicinity. As they were returning home, linked
arm in arm, Tomn asked her if she would marry him. Clotilde
replied at once.  She would do so then.or at any time.  Tom
Granville pressed the white hand that reposed in his own, and
begged her to'listen to his story. He then told her of his wife
-gave the entire history, and again asked the sweet French
girl if she would marry him..

'1

ti

"1


380

VIGOIt.

"I love you more than ever, because you have.been so badly 3,
treated by that proud woman," replied Clotilde.
Tom was delighted; but honest. He then informed Clotilde
that his wife had procured the divorce, that she could marry
again, but that he could not, and explained the divorce laws to
the best of his ability. He told her that were he to go and
marry her, he would be liable to be punished for bigamy. .The
wild girl replied.
"Then, Monsieur Thomas,.do not marry me, but I will be
your wife, and you shall be my husband. I love you. I am
yours, and death only shall separate us."
When-they reae  d the hotel, Tom proposed that they should
confide in Madam,Yad to her Tom told his history.
"Then I will marry you," said the sympathising landlady.
"Do you write a. paper solemnly promising that you will take
Clotilde, support, live with, and be-a father to her children, if
she has any, and that your will give her all your money if you
die, and swear to it on the Holy Evangile, and' put' in it that
you would marry her in. church but for the reasons you have'
told me you cannot ?  Clotilde shall write another paper, and
sign it, and promise to be your faithful, good wife. You also
snake a will before a lawyer, that if you die you leave all you
have to.'Clotilde, and when you have both doue this, then 'you
shall leave these papers in my hands, and I will pronounce you
to be mati and wife, and then you and she can do what you like
and amuse yourselves as you please."
All went to bed that night pleased. The next day Tom re-
ligiously executed the papers, and so did Clotilde. Madame
changed Clotilde from her old room to one that adjoined Tom's,
and which communicated by a door, the two rooms having been
occupied formerly as a parlor and a bed-room. No noisq was
made. All was done quietly, and not a soul was the wiser of
these matters but Madame herself, and Tom Granville found
himself the actual possessor of one of the loveliest girls that
France had ever sent to these 'shores. Tom admired his new
wife. He found her as charming in mind as she was in person,
and she returned his love with ardor, for it was her first love,
and she worshipped him. - A few days after their occupying
the same apartments, Tom playfully told her that she was a
perfect copy, made by Nature of the " Venus de Medicis," and
added, "I want to see your hair fall as Natureamad'e it." . She
undid the fastening, flung it loose, and the dark masses, when
she leaned slightly backward when standing, swept the floor-.
Tom caressed her, and while playing and tanghing it, observed,

VIGOR.

"Dear Clotilde, I was not deceived.  The-first time I met
you, I was attached to you by your hair."
"But, Tom, it was all done up in a tight knot. Ahow could
you tell whether it was long or short, thick o thin ' - she
asked.
"My eyes could not deceive me in the beautiful ornament,
my dear Clotilde," replied Tom.
Tom became really happy. He had some thing to love, and
some thing to love him. His stern economy can now be ae
counted for. The extra expense incurred by his beautiful com-
panion was nothing. The Madame merely added a few dollars to
his monthly board, and Clotilde Granville was her companion
when Tom was out, or when engaged in the domino--roott. At
the. table she ate her meals with Madame and her'husband, and
Tom continued to take his at the same time. Thomas Gran-
ville had been thus pleasantly situated for some weeks when
the occurrence took place in reference to the lesson which wv
have narrated at the beginning of this chapter. The pleasant
arrangement between Thomas Granville and Clitilde had some
drawbacks. Tom' accompanied' her whenever she went out,
and her beauty attracted great attention. Tom's friends made
many inqiries as to who she was. His roue acquaintances
tried hard to get an introduction. ' It was all in vain.
Early one morning Tom, accompanied by Clotilde, was saun-
tering upon the Battery. He had pointed out to his companion
the house occupied by his brother, when that same bother
stood suddenly before them. Tom was not often taken by sur-
prise, and without a moment's hesitation he introduced Clotilde
as Madame Michel. Never did a more perfect lady stand upon
the Battery, and Pitt Granville was sensibly aware of it. Hel
was a gentleman' when he chose to be so, and immediately of-
fered his arm. Tom 'explained that Madame Michel had but
recently arrived to look after some property of her husband,
who had died in Martinique, where the widow was-bound; that
he knew her in France, and was agreeably surprised to' meet
her here at the Hotel de Paris, where she was stopping. Clo
tilde had learned English from Tom to an'extent that enabled
her to express a few words very prettily in English, and Pitt
Granville talked on as though she understood all he was say-
ing. At last he invited them over to breakfast  This Toniex.
plained to the lady, but prudently declined, giving a satisfac-
tory excuse. Before Pitt Granville parted from  them, he
placed some money in Tom's hands, and 'after his departure
Tom handed it to Clotilde, and then returned up Broadway to.

381

I;
4.

i


382            VIGOR-

the hotel. Clotilde could not conceal her satisfaction at having
met with Tom's brother.
" What shall I do with so much money as you 'give me?
Every week it isa great deal. All you have given to Madame
she has given to me.  I pay all our bills.  I pay for nice
dresses for myself, and yet we have plenty left. I have more
than four hundred dollars in my pocket-book."
Tom found that his brother Pitt had given him a hundred;
and the next day he took Clotilde to the Savings Bank, and
had four hundred more passed to bis credit. The teller also,
at Tom's request, gave a new book, placing all Tom's money,
amounting to about twenty-four hundred dollars, in such a
manner that Clotilde Michel or himself could either of them
draw the money on presenting the book. He explained the
matter fully to Clotilde after they left the bank. She was,
amazed.
" Do you mean to say that in case I should take that little
book, and go to that bank without you, that they would pay me
all that money-twenty-four hundred dollars ?' asked Clotilde,
" Every cent of it, pet, and ask you no questions. - It has
been. placed to your credit as well as to mine. So we must
take good care of the book," said Tom.
The French girl was very much affected. Such generosity
surprised her. " Why have you done this ?" she asked.
" To make you comfortable in case of my death. I know
you would never rob me of it, or abuse my confidence in your
integrity and virtue. Clotilde, I want to see you placed above
want, in case of accident to me. You love me, and you make
me very happy.- What is a few hundred dollars with what
you are to me---a fond, loving friend ?" said Tom, earnestly.
. The Frencl4 girl wept. She fully comprehended Tom, and
she determined that she would make him happy as long as sbe
lived, and she did.'
There are many of the then, boarders at the Hotel de Paris
who are now living, 'and who will well remember a tragedy
that occurred in that hotel, and which originated with this fair
French girl. A young Frenchman came out.froin France, and-
stopped at the Hotel de Paris. He had a room on the same
floor with Tom, and directly opposite Tom's. room. le had
seen this-young girl, as he supposed, and jfpll madly in love
with her-regular French frenzy love. He offerea money to
Clotilde to marry him. Of course, her mind was filled with
Tom Granville, and she rejected all overtures from the young
TFrenchman with scorn.. He knew nothing of Tom Granville,

VIGOR.                     g3
and he consulted Madame Vigne. She told young Paris to
keep quiet, and assured him that he had not a show to gain the
affections of her young countrywoman.
On Sunday morning the young Frenchman wrote a letter to
Clotilde. She at once handed it to Tom. The letter was re-
turned to young France. 'Soon after Tom descended to the
bar-room, and was in the act of lighting his cigar, when one of
the waiters rushed down stairs and said that young France fiad
blown his brains out. Tom and Madame Vigne hurried u
stairs to the suicide's room. He had strength enough to say
that he had been despised by Clotilde, and life was no longer
valuale.
"Poor devil, [*hat- a melancholy fool !" quietly observed
Tom, as he went to Clotilde's and his own room, and they
locked themselves in, while he explained the tragedy. A
coroner s jury was called; and as the young man had in his
trunk over a thousand francs in gold pieces, he had a superb
funeral. The jury rendered a verdict in accordance with the
circumstances, without the slightest idea of the real state of
the case. Thomas reflected upon the matter like a philosopher,
but Clotilde scouted' the idea of such foolishness as any man
killing himself on her account.
This tragedydecided Tom to move his quarters, and to take
Clotilde with him. The very day he met the "Leper " man
he had been looking for a part of a house in the eastern part
of the town. Some days passed, and meanwhile Clotilde went
with him to look at the house he proposed renting, when an
event occurred that destroyed all housekeeping projects.
Tom complained of being ill, and kept himself in his room
for a day or more. Marion Monck called, and Tom ordered the
servant to bring him up stairs to his apartment. Clotilde was
with him, and refused to leave the room. When Marion en-
tered, Tom received him. cordially, and after a short conversa-
tion, made him take a seat closer to hin.
"Marion, do you know that I have fretted myself about that
'Leper ' I told you of. I am satisfied that the man has the
small pox."
The last words he whispered in Marion's ear.
" Good'GodI You don't think so, really ?
" I do."-and what is more, I have caught it."
" Nonsense ;" replied Marion. " But I will go and 'bring
.you a doctor."
," That you may do ; and mind, if I have' it, will you see me
Conveyed to the Staten Island Small Pox Hospital ? I don't

1if L


384

VIGOn.

want to go to the Almshouse, and I know I must leave this
hotel. Not a word to a soul, remember."
Marion promised, and then left the room, and immediately
.went for Doctor Carnochan, a physician as well known to Tom
as himself. The doctor came, and pronounced upon the case
at once. It was the small pox. And now shone out the worth
and the devotion of a true-hearted woman. It was decided
that Tom should be- taken at once to Staten Island.. Clotilde
refused to leave him. Marion went down to the Island and
made all the necessary arrangements, and that very afternoon
Tom was conveyed to the Staten Island Hospital, and Clotilde
was by his side as his nurse. She did not leave him for a
moment.
Marion returned t9 the city, and informed Madame Vigne of
the real state of the case. She was alarmed,.but kept the mat-
ter secret. Tom's apartments were fumigated, and no other
case occurred. Mr. Monck visited the Island and made daily
inquiries after Tom,.but did not see him. A week told the
story. Thomas Granville was dead.
While he was ill, Clotilde never slept but for an instant or
two at a time. He was raving and did not know her; but just-
before he died, he became perfectly sensible. He knew her.
"God bless you, my own dear Clotilde. 1 It is hard to part
with you, hard to part with life, just as I have learned how to
live and to enjoy it; and you, of all the world that I have known,
are the only one by my side in this awful crisis. Don't weep
-don't quiver. Bear up as -well as you can. When I am
dead, go and draw the money in the bank for your own pur-
poses. It is your. If there is any objection, the will I made
and gave Madame Vigne is good. That is not all. When a
week has elapsed, go to my brother, and tell him all. Tell
him how you have been devoted to me to the bitter end of my
useless life, and he will be softened-.:-he will-O, my God !-
it's dark-get a light-Jesu  -
Clotilde had lifted his head up, but with the partly uttered
word of our Saviour's name, he fell back upon the pillow a
corpse, and his nurse-the beautiful Clotilde, faithful to the
last, fell senseless upon his body.
She witnessed the burial of Thomas Granville, which, was
solemn and immediate. Then she left the hospital where- he
had died, and.came up to the city, a stern, beautiful woman.
She was no longer the passionate, loving, laughing\ girl. She
went directly to the Hotel de Paris, and the Madame gave her
the'old apartments, which had not been rented. She waited a8

I

VIGOR.

385

I

17,

week, and then called on Pitt Granville. He was bowed down,
and took poor Toni's death much to heart. She narrated all
that had passed, and showed Tom's bank book and his will and
the other papers. Mr. Granville rang the bell, and then or-
dered the carriage.
"I will go with you to the Savings Bank,' he added; and
when the carriage was ready, they entered it together, and pro-
ceeded to the bank. Mr. Granville was well known there. He
asked if there would be any difficulty in Clotilde receiving the
money-the twenty-four hundred dollars
None whatever. Whenever she wishes she can draw it
out," replied the official.
"Then add this to her credit in the book," said Mr. Gran-
ville; and when Clotilde saw the entry in the book, she dis-
covered that Tom's brother had given her twenty-five hun-
dred dollars. He begged her to use his name* and to call upon
him whenever he could be of service to her; and he conveyed
her to the Hotel de Paris in his own carriage, and there left
her. He never saw her again. Neither did Clotilde remain
but a few days longer at the Hotel de Paris. She then left,
and what her fate was did not transpire for many year.
Our readers may be anxious to know what that fate was.
Twelve years after the event of Tom Granville's death, a
beautiful woman called upon Marion Monck. She had just re-
turned from California, where she had amassed a large pro-
perty. She called herself Mrs. Granville, and she went with
Marion to a French banking-house and bought bills of exchange
on Paris to the extent of eight hundred thousand francs. She
was older, and more majestic than formerly. She went to
France, but what became of her is a mystery; and what bad
been the manner of her earning so large a property in Califor-
nia was a still greater mystery.
Tom Granville was soon forgotten, attd our narrative will now
turn to its regular course.


VIGOR.

CHAPTER

LXI.

The Globe HotI and Blancard-John O'Doemall-The Colonel Claibfoot
and Lady Clairfoot-A Horrible Seduction and Robbery of 43000-The
Bloomingdile Asyluin and an Inmate.
Fo. many years a large hotel called the Globe Hotel"
was maintained inthe lower part of Broadway. It was located
a few' doors below Wall street, extended from Broadway to
New street, and the name of the proprietor was "Blancard."
At this hotel Mr. O'Doemall was sometimes a boarder,mbut
at all times a visitor. The "Globe" was the home of many
distinguished Englishmen, who came to this country to travel,
or of English officers on their way to Canada, or on their
return from Canada to England.
To this hotel came an English lieutenant-colonel, with his
wife. He was on his way to Canada, and had arrived in the
city in the month of January. It was bitter cold weather.
His name was Clairfoot. Among the first acquaintances he
made was Mr. (O'Doemal. The latter-gentleman in the most
disinterested  manner informed Colonel' .Cairfoot that the
weather was so cold in- Canada that he 'stood in dariger of
freezing to death. This had no effect, so far as the colonel
was concerned, but it alarmed him on account of his wife, and'
he became anxious that she should.not accompany him; and
the more so- as his stay in Canada was not positively determined.
He 'might be able to get "through the military, business with
which he was intrusted in a few weeks, and he mightbe de--
ined months. In the latter case, he knew that he could
speedily send to his wife to join him in Canada, whenever he
might be located for any length of time. When Colonel
Clairfoot had decidedrupon this course, he consulted with his
friend O'Doemall in reference to procuring handsome apart-
ments in'a private hou e. He did not like the idea of leaving
his wife at a- public hotel. Mr. O'Doemall soon procured the
desired quarters for, the lady, and to them the colonel removed.
The house was a boarding-housp in Chambers street, and the
colonel had taken the whole of the second floor for his lady.
She was a peer's daughter, and, of course, a lady in her own-
right. She was a very fine showy Englishwoman-not over

I

38

VIGOR.

twenty-five years of age, while the colonel was a man who had
nearly reached fifty. In the course of the proceedings, O'Do-
emall had been introduced to Lady Clairf t, and when the
colonel left for Canada he partly entruste her to the care of
his friend O'Doemall, who on his part promised to do all and
every thing that could possibly conduce to the 'comfort of the
lady. The colonel started for Canada quite satisfied with his
arrangements. His wife had money in her own right when he
married her, besides ample funds left with her by the colonel
for her own use. She bad brought a letter of credit upon the'
agents of the Rothschilds for three thousand pounds sterling.
A knowledge of these facts had been picked up by O'Doemall,
and no sooner had his friend the colonel started for the North
than O'Doemall went adroitly to work to carry out his plans and
purposes, whatever they may have been. He found out the
weak points of Lady Clairfoot in a very short space of time.
He. soon managed to get up a quarrel between her ladyship
and the family in whose house she had rooms, while he appar-
ently was the pacificator and friend of the landfady. The lad
was induced to have her meals in her own apartments, and Mr.
O'Doemall continued to be a regular visitor both at the dinner
hour and at tea, for hardly an evening passed that he did not
escort her to a place of public amusement. After the play wa
over, Lady, Clairfoot--...who was extravagantly fond of a good
hearty supper, which she couldnot get in her boarding-house
-would accompany O'Doemall to "Taylor's," "Thompson's,"
or some other well-known restaurant., She 'was gay and lively,
perfectly innocent, and somewhat independent, and just the
person with whom   a gentlemanly unprincipled rascal like
O'Doemall could'make, rapid headway.
Fortunately, for the success of Mr. O'Doemall's efforts to
victimize the worthy lady, her husband was detained in Canada
from day to day, and as he was not a great letter writer, and
expected to return speedily, he. did not write his lady at all.
It is useless to conjecture the arts used by such a ian as
O'Doemiall to destroy a woman.le could resort -to the very
basestin the seducer's calendar, and there is no doubt but
that some vile drug was used to accomplish his designs upon
Lady Clairfoot. She had accompanied him to the theatre,
then to a supper, and from thence to her home., At her home
he persuaded her to join him in a glass of bottled ale, of which
he had sent to her room a dozen bottles, with a story that.he
Ladsnported it himself from London. She drank one or more
lass and ten remembered nothing more until she awoke

C.f


388

vTcGOu;

the next morning in her sleeping apartment, and Mr. O'Doem.
allwas by her side. The lady was indignant, and the man was
impudent. She threatened, and he coaxed until she became
aware that further efforts against him were futile. She was in
his power, and she submitted. He had obtained, under vari.-
os -pretences, all ,the ready money she had with her, and when
she asked from O'Doemall sufficient to pay her board at the
house, he made frivolous,lying excuses about his having used
her money until his own remittances came. She believed him,
and then he suggested that she should draw on her letter of
credit,
He accompanied her 'to the agent of the Rothschilds, and she
took up a hundred pounds. Mr. O'Doemall had now the lady
under his control. He persuaded her to leave the house where
she had been placed by her husband, and he engaged rooms
for her in a distant part of the city. :'There they lived as man
and wife.
Mr. O'Doemal had had an understanding with the bankers
that they would cash her drafts, if brought 1y him, without re-
quiring her presence. Again she signed a draft for a hundred
pounds. She did not read the draft, and with pei'fect reckless-
ness she plunged into every species of dissipation. i-He intro-
duced to her a man named John James (since in the Illinois
State Prison for forgery), also an Englishman by some pdistin-
guished name, and then O'Doemall introduced cards, and the
lady lost. In giving a draft to O'Doemall for the usual amount
of a hundred pounds, as Ahe supposed, she actually signed a
draft for one thousand pounds. This money O'Doemall placed
with a respectable commercial firm as his own.
Not a night passed that all hands were not engaged in some
revelry. Lady Clairfoot was hardly ever sober, and she drank
apparently to drown remorse. Again was she induced to draw
for money. Again did she sign a draft for a very large amount,
supposing it a small one, and .this game was played success-
fully until all the money, excepting two hundred pounds, had
been drawn out by O'Doemall, and secured over two thousand
Pounds, or about ten thousand dollars to his own credit in the
hands of this responsible commercial firm, with whom he had
never been known to have had any dealings.
O'Doemall was hardly sober a moment, except when it was
necessary to accomplish his plans. His partner, John James,
had no knowledge of the extent of the villainy which was being
perpetrated upon Lady Clairfoot. Mr. James supposed that
O'Doemall was victimizing her to tigexteat of a few hundred

VIGOR-

389

pounds, and he was satisfied with a sinall share of it. Had he
known the game. was thousands, he would have claimed more.
3r. O'Doemall was not asleep in reference to Colonel Clair-
foot. He felt guilty, and knew there would be a terrible reck-
oning when the Colonel made his appearance in New York
and was informed of the facts. He kept Mr. James constantly
employed in seeking news of the Colonel's movements. He
himself changed his haunts, and when he- had obtained and se-
cured two thousand pounds, and had, besides, seven hundred
dollars in cash, he made up his mind to abandonthlayo
her fate, and quit theacity until the storm blew over
One of his haunts was the Shakespeare Restaurant, then
.kept by Windust. Here he was found by'. Mr. James one
morning quite intoxicated, and utterly incapable of taking care
f himself.d Mr. James informed him that Colonel Clairfoot
had reached Now York,. and was at the 11 beHte.      Ti
alarming news produced no effect upon the hearer, except to
make him extremely pugnacious. He was at once desirous to
go and fight Coloel Clairfoot, and avenge his wrongs and pro.
tect Lady Clairfoot. Lekily, he was too drunk to get 9ff his
chair or to walk across the bar-room without assistance.
anr. Janieswas in a quandary. lie dreaded an explosion or
an explanation, for he was fearful that lie should be called up-
n to disgorge, or perhaps explain before a magistrate his share
in the infamous seduction and plunder of the English lady.
Under these circumstances lie passed into the street, hoping
to-find assistancereHe-hadnot proceeded more than a block
before he encountered Marion Monck. O'Doemall had once
introduced Mr. James to Marion, and now he renewed the ac%-
quaintance. Marion received his advance somewhat coldly.
Ho knew nothing of Mr. James,, except as a friend of Mr.
O'Doemall, and snce the robbery .of Colonel William  Mae
Neil lie had been unable to free his wind from an impression
that OlIDoemall was the robber, and indirectly the assassin of
the Colonel. 'r. Jaies asked Marion if he was disposed to
do an act of kindness for one who had been friendly to him
when sick.
"Most certainly. Who is he ? and where is he ?" inquired
Marion .                                    /
It is Mr. O'Doeinall. He is down in Windust's cellar, ex-
treel dek.And that is not all; he has been drinking for
several weeks, and unless he is placed under -immediate. r
sta, , fear he will injure himself or some one else.. He is


390

VIGOR.

now so drunk he cannot stand. He has plenty of money about
him," observed Mr. James.
Marion was about to say "Send him to the hospital," when
poor Mae Neil's hasty fate crossed his mind, and he hesitated.
Has he nobody to look after him ?" he asked.
"Not a soul but me," replied James.
Marion thought that Mr. James was not a very trustworthy
friend, and he at once offered his services. "Take me to
O'Doemall," he said. The two descended to the cellar where
O'Doemall was seated, his head lying upon the table.
"Hullo, old fellow, what is wrong with you?  Wake up, and
speak to your frieLds. Mr. O'Doemall, I say," said Marion.
The drunken man roused up. "I tell you I have not got the
lady's money," said O'Doemall, and then recognizing Marion,
who had spoken to him, and who was shaking him, he added,
"Why, Marion, is that you?  I have not seen you for ages.
What is out!?"
"Nothing out, O'iDoemall, except yourself. You are all
out. You are drunk. You mu3t go with me," added Marion.
" Mr. James, will you clear out, and leave me with my fiend
Monck," said O'Doemall.q
Mr. James went to the extreme end' of the room.
"That'is a inost infernal rascal, Marion Monck  Have a
care of him. I am sober-quite sober. You don't believe it.
Very well. I have got a great deal of money with me. Count
that,"-and as Mr. O'Doemall said this he pulled out bill after
bill, and when one pocket was emptied he tried another, and
when Marion finished counting the money so placed upon the
table, he observed," Why, O'Doemall, you have over sik hun.
dred dollars with you. It is not safe to carry such a large
amount With YOU."
I know it. yI wish you to take it, and keep it for me. Will
you oblige me? You are as safe as the Bank of England.
That's a good fellow. I am not sober, and I am not drunk. I
have not slept for many nights. I have been' worried very
much," said O'Doemall.
Marion took all 'the money except the. surplus over the six
hundred, which he handed to O'Doemall. "I 'will keep it,
O'Doemafl, but some thing must be done for you. You are
very ill. The fact is. you require good nursing, or you will
die," said Marion.
,T am perfectly aware of it," replied O'Doemall. "Can't.
you take me to some nice place-in the country, for instance,

VIGOR.

391

where I can be out of the way until'I get well? You can pay
the shot out of my money."
Marion agreed to the proposal. He went at once to Mr..
James, and told him his plans. Mr. James was delighted.
" Nothing could be better," he exclaimed with delight.
Marion did not see what there was to be delighted about,
but he told Mr. James to go and engage a carriage to go out a
few miles into the country. The carriage came, and O'Doemall
and his two friends entered it. Marion handed the driver a
ten dollar bill, and told him where to drive and what to do,
and shortly after the carriage and its contents were on their
way to Bloomingdale. When they reached the gates of the
asylum, Mr. O'Doemall was asleep. Marion got out, and went
up to the- building. There he paid sixty dollars, or three
months' board for their patient, whose namp was duly entered.
Marion Monck fully explained the case,.and satisfed the chief
physician that it was all right. He then returned to- thecar-
riage, and almost immediately it was driven inside and up the
main entrance. Servants came out of this country hotel to as-
sist the guest to Is quarters. Mr. O'Doemall was woke up.
He gazed at Marron, then at the'hotel. Memory recalled a part
of his previous conversation, and he exclaimed with glee, " Ab,
you have done as I requested. Got me a country hotel. Where
is it ? What's the name of the place ? Let's go in and get a
drink, and then I will go to bed."
They entered the hall. O'Doemall began to notice some
things. It was too late. "Good-bye," said Marion; "I will
come and see you in a few days."
"I say. Stop. What does this mean ? Keep your hands
off me,"-and with a hundred oaths and protestations and re-
quests to be let loose, Mr.. O'Doemall was sent, or rather
dragged to his apartinents. He was a patient in the "Bloom-
ingdale Asylum," vulgarly called a mad-house.
Marion Monck and Mr. James returned to the city. Had
the former dreamed that his humane intentions were to be the
means-of letting a villain escape from the punishment he so
richly merited from a wronged husband, he mould have cut off
his own hands for the act.
It was so. Colonel Clairfoot made.every effort to discover
O'Doemall.. Mr. James went-over to Jersey. and staid three
months, to keep out of the way. There was no clue to 6'Do-
emall's retreat. The husband found -his wife almost a maniac.
Lie learned how deeply he had been wronged, and how largely
she had been robbed of honor and -of money. But time was


392

VIGOR.

precious. He waited a mouth to catch theracal O'Doemall.
He was not to be found anywhere. Satisfied that he had es-
caped his vengeance, the Colonel and his lady returned to
England. What became of her was never known by any one
on this side of the water. He was heard of some  ears after.
for he committed suicide in the city of Dublin without any ap-
parent cause (so the papers stated that gave an account of the
melancholy transaction).
Marion Monok was, of course, ignorant of any transaction of
a guilty nature in which O'Doemall had been engaged.  He
supposed he had drank to excess, and placed him where he
was safe.
A week elapsed before he visited him, and then he lred a
carriage, and taking with him the balance of the money left in
his hands by O'Doemall, he went out to the Bloomingdale
Asylua. That visit and the finale of our history of Mr. O'Do-
email must be left for another chapter.
CHAPTER LXII.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson-Mr. Bennett sends Marion ,Mnck to South Carolina
as Correspondent of the Herald-Two Months with Mr. Calhoun-De-
parturefrom Charleston for New York, and Safe Arrival with Mrs. Fer-
YUSon.
RaE and unfrequent were the visits that Marion Monck
paid to the comfortable residence of Mr. and Mrs. Wilson. He
was ever. welcomed there by both husband and wife, and it
would be difficult to decide why ,so old a friend did not visit
them oftener. There was one reason, however, which Mariou
hardly understood himself. He was not at home in the pres-
ence of Mrs. Wilson. He remembered the young wife of Mr.
Nordheim, and there was something he could not forget-and
yet he could hardly understand what that something was. The
Count Falsechinski, who was a perfect man of the world, had
on one occasion enlightened him as to the past feelings of Mrs.
Nordheim, but yet he could not reconcile the opinion with the
fact, that thewidow Nordheim had married Mr. Wilson.
It was a happy marriage.  They had become parents to two
children, both boys, and the second one was named "Marion."
Marion Monck had called up one evening, and Mrs.. Wilson
announced the fact to him in the presence of her hiisband.
-We have named our second darling after you, Mlarion, and

I

VIGOR.

393.

the young gentleman's name is Marion Monck Wilson. We are
not unmindful that we owe our happiness to you. Had it not
been through your instrumentality I had never known my 'pre.
sent lord, and I am grateful, Marion.  We only wish that you
could point out to us some way in which we- could really be
useful to you. We desire anxiously to see ou settle down in
life. You have sown all your wild oats. You have a marked
capacity for business ; and let me beg of you, dear Marion, to
think seriously of what I say. You have not two truer friends
in this wide and wicked world, than Mr. Wilson and myself."
There was feeling expressed in these few words from the lips
of -the graceful woman, which reminded Marion of old times,
and he was affected deeply. He replied,
"If it would give you any pleasure to see me settled, I can
only wish that I was in a regular business. I hope soon to be.
The Count Falsechinski has hinted to me an arrangement, by
which I shall soon have a partner, with plenty of cash capital.
I am under a promise not to mention any names, or I would
tell you more."
" That is good news. The Count is in a situation to make
good any promise that he gives," said Wilson.
"Are you aware, Marion, that we are going to 'move into
the country ?" asked Mr s. W ilson.
6 Indeed I was not. To what part of the- country are you
going ?"
" To the Connecticut village where I staid during the chole-
ra year. We are not going to break up in town. You remem-
her my aunt, Mrs. Ferguson, in Charleston--of course you do;
we have written her to come on and make a permanent home
with us. She will keep the house in the city, and we shall
only be absent during the hot summer months. It'is better
for the children. Poor boys, I cannot bear to have them
cooped up in town, when 'there is fresh and pure air to be'had
by a short journey."
When Murion made these visits he was asked all sorts of
questions about those persons they had mutually known, and
in this manner an evening passed very quickly and happily to
all parties.     Mro,      ol   eaddb      h  ayi h
" Come oftener, Marion,"would be added by the ladyin the
kindest manner when he was leaving, and he would inake up
his mind that his visits to this delightful family should hence.
forth be more frequent. But something always turned up to
prevent it. He was literally very busy-doing nothing. He
wrote-occasionally, and he idled still more, but his niind was
17*


394

VIGOR.

constantly employed. He would sometimes go to an old haunt
and remain there for hours, drinking a solitary glass, and then
he would dream out a thousand beautiful thoughts and fancies.
He thought much, and though he had no definite- plan but to
pass away the time, and the stimulus' he drank helped out his
ideas and thoughts,'yet he never wrote them down. He thought
them, and they pleased him, and were stowed away for use in
after years. In these places he saw. life.  He listened to the
conversation of others without mixing in it, and whether these
conversations related to a dog fight or a rise in cotton, he
gleaned information.er-tewsto
Sometimes he visited. drinking places where the worst of
the male sex congregated, and often had he volunteered to
keep the slate when a lot of -thieves were raffling for the first
chances in the fruits of joint. robberies.  He was thanked, ne-
ver molested, and often invited to drink. The slang language
of these people, and their motives -of conduct, amused. him.
When he had a few spare dollars he would go to a new spot,
where poor broken-down drunkards congregated, men who had
not a copper towards paying for a three cent drink. Here he
would pick up and stow away in his iron memory any quantity
of useful information. He would treat, and treat, the strange
crew until his funds were exhausted, and the men themselves
wondered at such folly And extravagance. 'But he gained his
point.. He was deeper into the mysteries of life after all such
night expeditions.
One lovely April morning, Marion Monck was passing up
Nassau street, when he was met by the editor of the Herald,
The latter asked in his hasty manner,
"Well, are. you doing any thing '"
"Nothing in particular.".
"Will you go South for me . asked the editor.
"What to do ?" asked Marion.
I wish you to travel through the Southern States, or at
least to spend the summer months in your native State, South
Carolina, and, write me a series of letters giving me all sorts
of information"-its agriculture, manufactures, society, scenery,
great inen and little men; in fact, about every thing; will
you go ?"
"1I will: when do you wish me to start ?" asked Marion.
" At once., Come up to theoffice and I will give youarfunds.
Leave to-day if you can, and go by the land route to Charles-
ton. From that point I wish you to commence writing me
letters," said the editor.

II

f

395

"I will be ready in an hour, and will then come to your of.
floe," replied Marion.
"Good morning-that will do," and theyparted.
Marion went at once to his boarding house, packed his
trunk, paid his bill, and made arrangements that his trunk
should be sent to the Philadelphia depot at five o'clock.
An hour after he was at the Herald office,, received the ne-
cessary funds from Mr. Bennett for his journey, and generali
instructions as to what he was to do, and then bade him fare-
w ell.                         -t  h    r s e t o  e v n
Marion Monck was delighted with the prospect of leaving
New York; he was sick of the city, and beside the prospect of
several months to be passed away in pleasant travel, he was
to see his parents once more, after an absence of many years.
lie did not bid any one good bye, but wrote a note to Cont
Falsechinski, and another to Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, informing
them of his pur ose.
The journey Was a pleasant one, passing through Philadel-
phia, Baltimore, Washington, Richmond, and Wilmington,
North Carolina, by land, and thence to Charleston by steamboat.
He reached Charleston the fourth day after leaving New York.
The next day he went up to the residence of his -parents at
Monck's Corners. To give any idea of the reception he met
with there-would vastly exceed our limits. He found his pa-
- rents and aunty older, but still hale and' hearty, and in the
most independent circumstances. He did not leave his home
for two weeks, and then-he returned to. Charleston, and com-
inenced writing letters to the Herald. These letters made a
sensation at the time. -They were all signed "Commissioner,"
and dated Charleston, ,Augusta, Columbia, Camden, Green-
ville, Sparta, Glen Springs, Unionville, Winsboro, Cosar's
Head, Flat Rock, and other points of interest in the State, not
excepting Fort Hill, near Pendleton, the residence and home
of the great Calhoun. There Marion spent two months, for he
was an especial favorite of the great statesman. These letters
can all be found in old files of the Herald. There were six
published in the London Herald, written by " Conmissioner/"
who was Marion, Monck, and who wrote these letters as flyers.
The series, if collected and bound in a volume, would have a
great run, for it is now no secret, that in writing these, letters
Marion had assistance from the highest source in the State.
j Mr. Calhoun himself furnished most of the ideas,'(and some
were brilliant,) for these Southern letters,
.While a resident at Mr. Calhoun's mansion, Marion. Monok

VIGOR.


396

VIGOR.

became acquainted with a lady and her daughter who were up
on a visit to the great statesman's faily,-in fact were dis-
tantly related. The young girl was not twelve years of age,
and a regular wild one. She, would ride with ease the most-,
skittish horse on Mr. Calhoun's plantation, and would drive
into Pendleton and back again in a buggy, with perfect safety.
When she rode about the place, or visited any of thb neigh-
bors, she rarely troubled the negroes to open gates for her,
but made her.horse leap the various fences.
" That tom-boy will break her neck," exclaimed Mrs. Cal-
houn, on one occasion, as "Cara" came full tilt with her horse
over the fence of the door yard. Mr. Calhoun was also on the
piazza of his residence, standing by the side of his wife, and
was a witness to the feat.
"Don't call her tom-boy. It is not a.proper title. I like to
see it.. Cara by such exercises is developing her physical
powers, and one day will be able to3 become such a wife and
mother as God intended women to be. Tire is -'no weak,
sickly effeminacy about her, engendered by being shut up in
a parlor, without pure air or healthy exercise.. I like to see
a girl educated in that manner. It is an education worth more
to her and to society than it is even to 'be able to read and
write, if she could not have both physical and mental educa-
tion."
Marion listened with interest to these remarks about a little
girl that he escorted to various places,,leading her by the
hand. These remarks probably led him in after years, when
Mr. Calhoun had descended to the tomb, to make this ci-devant'
little girl " Cara " Mrs. Monck. But we are getting on too
fast yith our story.
It was late in October before Marion Monck had finished the
tour of South Carolina. Then he returned to Monck's Cor-
ners, and spent another happy month with his parents. His
father was extremely anxious that he should give up New York
and remain at home.
" You have seen the world, my son. Why not now settle
down and'live at home ? We are not rich, but we have every
comfort that a reasonable young man can desire. Where else
can y'u find more substantial happiness ?"-l
It was all in vain. Marion's mind was made up, -and no in.
ducement held out by his father could persuade him to give
up for a moment his long dream' of ambition, which was to sue-
coed as a inerchant -in New York.

VIGOR,

397

",I will 'make a spoon or spoil a horn in that city," was Ma-
rion's quiet rejoinder, quoting a favorite axiom of'his father.
"You say, Marion, that you desire to go into business in
New York. Let mother and I make up what capital you need.
By selling cattle and stock of various kinds, and adding to it
some bank stock that we have put by, we could give you sonie
seven or eight thousand dollars, and not miss it much if you
were to lose it all," said his father.
"God bless you, dear father. I would not touch your hard
earnings if it was to be the means of making. me as rich as all
the Ravenels and old Wade Namptons to boot. No-don't say
a word about it. I shall not starve in New York, and I may
succeed," said Marion.
 ' And if you do succeed, my son, what does it all amount
to ?  You can't eat any more-you can't drink any more-.--you
can't sleep any more, if you succeed, as.you call it, and get to
be worth millions, than you can up here at Monck's Corners
in our own comfortable homestead, which will be all yours
when we die. Besides, there is no such, hunting in New York
city as here. There are no such deer-there are no such wild
turkeys ; and you can catch more fish in the Santee Canal and
Biggin Creek in half an hour than you can catch in' the New
York waters in a week," exclaimed the honest 'old father...
Marion laughed and replied, "True as gospel, my dear fa-
ther ; and you might'have added, there are no such live oaks
in any New York door-yard as there are about this house-no
such magnificent forests, and all that. Still I must try my
luck in the city for -a while longer. I should stagnate here-
die from actual want of something to do."
"A wilful man will have his way," replied the elder Monck,
and left Marion, while he went to look after his horses.
The mother,, who loved her son devotedly, was equally un-
successful in her endeavors to persuade him to give up New
York, and settle at Monck's Corners. When the time came for
his departure, both parents accompanied him to Charleston,
and did not return to Monck's Corners until Marion had sailed
for New York.
While in Charleston, Marion called ou his early friend M)rs.
Ferguson. 'She was delighted to see him once more, and he
expressed his gratitude for the success which her letter of in-
troduction many years previous had brought to him. The
good lady -said,
" I have sold out everything, and am ready to go -to New
York to live with Bessy. She has written for me.".


"So she told me before I left New York. In fact, I had no
idea that I should find you here. Why not go on to New York
with me ?" said Marion..
" I certainly will do so if you will take charge of me," was
the reply of the worthy landlady-I -
it was so arranged, and Marion secured a passage for Mrs.
Ferguson on board the ship Saluda. They had a pleasant pas'A
sage to New York, and when the shipreached the dock Marion
hired a carriage, and conveyed the lady to the residence of
Mrs. Wilson, her niede. He remained only long enough to
shake hands, and then went to the Herald office, where he
found Mr. Bennett. He was cordially received.
" Capital letters you sent me. I published every one of
them, They were very interesting," observed the editor.
"I am very glad that they pleased you. I should have sent
you more, but I was detained several weeks at Mr. Calhoun's
residence," added Marion.
" I am not disappointed. What money have you, received
while you were absent "?'' .  .      .
" Just enough to pay my current expenses. I have not
been very extravagant," replied Marion.
Mr. Bennett took a slip of paper, wrote a few words upon
it, and handed it to. Marion, observing, at the same time, "How
would you like to go to Washington ?"
"I don't know at present. I have to see a person, and then
I will tell you," replied Marion.
"Very well. Call upon. me when your mind is made up,"
said Mr. Bennett, and Marion left him. to go with the slip of
paper to the cashier. It was for three hundred and fifty dol-
lars. When Marion had pocketed the money, he said to him-
self, "Well, that is not bad, considering that I have had some
fun. In fact, I did not expect to receive a cent, and am rather
surprised at 'the liberal'amount.- The fifty must answer my
needs, and so I will invest the three hundred in a check on
Charlestopt"P
He went at once to tho office of Spofford &amp; Tileston, large
merchants engaged in the cotton trade. There hg bought a
draft on Charleston for-three -hundred dollars, made payable
to I Henry Monek," or order. When Mr. Tileston saw the
name, he asked Marion if he was not the 'author of the letters
from the' South signed "Commissioner ?  Marion hesitated
before he gave a reply.
" Mr. Bennett told mue so," added Mr. Tileston-.

398

VIGOR.*

CHAPTER LXIII-

-ThI Count Falseckinski's Position-Scene at Breakfast--Meets Walter Gran.
yle-Scene with Clara Norris-Pitt Granville become. insane, and is taken
to tke Bloomingdale'Asylum.
FEW persons could be found who appeared to enjoy life and
his position with more satisfaction than the Count Adolph
Falsechinski. Every thing that he had meddled with had
turned out successfully from   the moment he met Marion
Monek. 'If he gambled, he became a heavy winmer, He
sought a clerkship, and it gave him' habits of buinesa,.-and a
position ; he taught languages, and he made money and valuable

I

VIGOR-

399

"Then I shall not deny it, if that is the case.  I did write
the letters," said Marion.
"And extremely interesting they were. I am glad to meet
with you," said the merchaut.
When Marion took his leave he went up to his old Spanish
boarding-house, and re-took his room.    His pretty   en-orita
friends Inez and Isabella were delighted to see him, and he
was glad to see them. He at once wrote a letter to his father,
after the following fashion:
"NEW YORK, Dec. 1,8-18-.
'A M1 Dear Father-
"I am safe bpck in the great city that you so honestly detest. I was
agreeably surprised on my arrival to findthat my Southern letters have
proved to be worth three undred and fifth dollars. The fifty dollars I
shall spend-the three hundred dollars I d not need. When I was 1ast
with' you, I noticed that you we're, very anxious to own the magnificent
stallion -Santee," belonging to your friend Schopman. The price asked
was three hundred dollars. The enclosed order will just pay for that
horse, and I beg you will consider it a gift from your affectionate son.
Give my love to mother and to aunt Mary, and give a pound of tobacco to
Mann, Phillis, and Daddy Jemmy respectively. They will appreciate to.
bacco more than a love message. Your affectionate sin,
MARIo MONKK"
When Marion had finished this document, he inclosed the
draft in it, and then mailed it himself at the post-ofice. Then
he went up town, where he met a friend whs told him that he
had been earnestly sought after by the Count Falsechinski.
So Marion left a card at the residence of Mr. Grisper, for the
Count was not at home when he called. Then he went around
town to places where he was known, and at a late hour returned
to his boarding-house.

,   ,


400

VIGOR.

acquaintances; he speculated in stock and doubled his mo-
ney-.-in real estate, and it brought him a fortune. He mar-
ried, and obtained beauty, dignity, rich relations, and a large
amount of cash ; and even while these successes were being
achieved by his own diligence and exertions, his patriotic bro-
ther 'died, leaving him the head of an old noble family in Po-
land ; and a slight fine restored-to him his title of Count, and
the estates unincumbered.
After his marriage with Miss Grasper, the Count travelled
with his bride for several weeks. On their return to the city
they made their residence at the granite palace of Mr. Grasper.
The Count had won the heart of the old gentleman, who be.
came more pleased with the match as he became better ac.
quainted with the sterling qualities of his son-in-law. The
Coutiteos became devotedly attached to her husband; he was
kind and attentive, and his devotion did not end with the ho*
neymoon-he commanded respect wherever 'he went, and every
hour's intimacy taught the bride to respect more and more her
lord and master.
Over the inind of Francis Grasper, his brother-in-law, the
Count *as not long in obtaining a complete mastery. The
former admired theater as much as one man could possibly
'adinire another, and was pleased to have him for -his' relative.
He made his sister happy, and what more could be desired?
"Frank, I wish you to go and dine with me to-day where we
can be alone by ourselves," said the Count one morning, when
all were assembled at breakfast.
"Nothing would give ie more pleasure-; when and where
shall it be ?"
"At Delmonico's,.time three o'clock," and turning to the-
old gentleman, lie added, "-The fact is, Mr. Grasper, I have a
place- for Frank.whieb I think he will like, and after I have
made sure of it by a private conversation with him, I will ex-
plain the matter to you.  I detest seeing a fine young fellow
like Frank, although he may come into a fortune some day,
without any visible meis of exertion.  I should like to see
him employed--useful, doing something."
"Count, you have hit my ideas precisely. 'To tell you the
truth, I would like to have Franks do something for himself--he
is quite old enough to settle down. If you can arrange it, you
will oblige me very much."
" Then do not forget your own appointment, Frank ;-and
now I must leave you."
With this sudden closing, the Count passed into the street

VIGOR.

401

and wended his way down town, stopping at Centre street, in
the hope of meeting Marion or of learning his whereabouts.
Although he did not find Marion, he discovered a person whom
he remembered very well, notwithstanding his features were
altered. It was Walter Granville, smoking a cigar and drink.
ing a glass of hot toddy. Somewhat fiercely he addressed (he
Count.
"Well, Count, you have got up a little higher in the world
than when I first knew you. Then I believe you taught lan-
guages .
"1I have no reason to be ashamed of my profession, when I
had the honor to teach a lady who is now I believe Mrs. Wal-
ter Granville," and the"Count bowed.
"Yes, you did teach my wife, and I am much obliged to~
you.  A good many of our old friends have stepped out since
I first met you."
" Colonel Mac Neil is dead-Mr. Nordheim is dead-your
uncle Thomas is dead. Yes, we all have to die. Have you
seen your father?"
"No, I have not; he doesnot trouble his head about me,
and I see no reason why I should fret about him. They say
you are rich, Count. Is it so 1" asked the young man.
I am not poor, and I am not ashamed under my altered
circumstances, to say I was once very poor. Can I be of any
service to you, Mr. Walter ?"
'Not a bit, not a particle--I can steer my own canoe: will
you take a drink ."
Excuse me, I rarely drink in the morning, and I must
hurry down town; good morning, sir," and with these few
words the Count took his departure.
"That- is a proud, haughty cuss; he was once humble
enough, but he has pluck and I like him. I wish my old gov-
ernor would kick the bucket, and then I would hold up my
head as high as any of them'," muttered the son to himself after
the Count's departure. "Jemmy, give me another drink. I
wonder what the devil keeps.Harry away so long. Sure he
has not been here, eh ?"
"I am certain he has not been here, and he will probably. be
along soon. Who was your friend that just went out ?" asked
the bar tender.
"That is a real live Count-the Count Falsechinski--.aud he
has got the brads, too," was the reply.
I saw him give Colonel Mac Neil a hundred dollars one
day.-.-it was just before the Colonel died," said Jemmy,

titl
la~i


402                     VIGOR.
"cThe deuce you did.-why, what claim had the Colonel on
the Count ."
"I do not know, but the fact is as I tell you. There is.your
friend Robinson."
At this moment Henry Robinson entered the store from the
rear, and without a word took a chair and seated himself by
Walter Granville.
"What the old Nick makes you look so moody-any thing
gone wrong,?" inquired Walter.
onYes, every thinrseems td me wrong.   have just called
ife. I am getting too much in her debt. It is a
same, buti can't help it.  Rose, poor thing, is an awful
expense, but Ih can'pthelp it. I was obliged to get funds
from Mrs. Granille this morning."
Well, that isall right.  Did she shell out freely, or hesi-
tate ?". asked Walter.
aNot In the least, and I do not like riding a free horse to
death, when I have rich relativese  r of my own.  I told Mrs.
Granville so this morning, and asked her advice., She gave
me a plan to workupon,and curse me if I don't try it on. I
am going to have an interview with my parents-...what do you
hif Clara..-my wife, I mean-has suggested a plan, it is a
good one. S   e is clever. What an infernal shame that such
a woman should ever have been a  -.  Blame i, I cannot
pronounce the word when I am speaking of myown wife. But
Ole is honest now, and the'old devil we live with !-a'nt she- a
sanctified old sinnerdon't mention it,! said Walter.
shall try the plan, and if it succeeds you shall know all
about it. If it does not, there is no hariii done. Answer- me
oneuquestion. Do you think Rose would pass for a Spanish'
girl ?
"Blame me if I don't think she would. If she only spoke,
Spanish you could not tell her from a genuine pretty senorita
--black hair and eyes, and all that sort of thing."
These two young men continued together for some hours,
drinking and smoking, until Walter was" pretty tight."
Harry, I shall not see youvery often after tis. I think
you will get all right with' your parents-if so, the less you
see of me the better, and the less Rose has to do with Clara
the bete.In fact, old fellow, don't think hard of -me if I
should soon be among the missing. This getting money fo
a woman as I do, is not the thing for me. I shall cut it before

'403

a great while, and then I am off to sea again. I like indepen-
dence."
"But.your wife-whatIwill she do ?"
"She be blamed. She has always taken care of herself
without me, and can do it ag n. Not a word about what I
have said to you, to her,"obs rved Walter Granville.
He parted with Robinson at the door of the grogshop, and
went at once to his wife's apartment in Bond street. When
he entered the room, he flung himself upon the sofa, saying,
How are you, Clara? All alone, eh.? That is right."
"Beast," was hissed through the lady's teeth, and 'then she
continued, "Walter Granville, you are drunk again. In fact,
it is nothing but drunk from morning until night. I will pat
up with it no longer. Either stop it or quit," said Clara,
firmly.
"Quit-that's the 'word, is it ?" Walter raised himself upon
the sofa. Then he sat up. 11Quit--is it to be?. You, infer-
nal wicked prostitute. Your acts have inveigled me into a
marriage, and now because I don't please you-because I try,
to drown my degradation in drink, you wantto cry 'quit,' "-
and as he said this he sprung at her, 'and closing? his hands
about her neck, he choked her until he himself got scared, or
when he remoVed his hands she sank down upon the sofa with-
out sense or motion. He stepped to. the washstand, seized a
jug of water, ,and threw the entire contents over her person,
drenching? her completely." Now live or die, curse IyOU. I
don't care which. I ought to kill you, and id the world o  a
female d-evil. Would to God I had never seen- you, and I
hope that to-night is the last that I shall spend within aathou-
sand miles of you. You are getting around again, 'eh ?" ex-
claimed Walter,*
Clara opened her eyes and gazed at him. "Walter, I did
not expect this from you. You hurt me cruelly,'t she ex-
claimied.
"Did I ? It will do you good---.teach you to keep a civil
tonguehin your head, for it is a bit of a foretaste of what.I will
do with you if ever- J. put my hands abodt you again- in real
anger. I wouldvchoke you as I would a bad hen. You spoke
of parting. I am ready. What have you got to say. to it ?"
asked Walter.
was only vexd for a moment, dear- Walter.- I did not
mean to hurt yourfeelings. You knowIlove you, and have
tried to be a good faithfuls wif tow  o you,"si  lr, weeping.
" Oh, fol-de-rol, I say. I am going in earnest, old gal, and'

Iif
II'f

VIGOR,


404.                  VIGOR.

it's ,o use talking. If you have- got any spare change, give it
to me, for I shall never ask you again. I am gomg to be in.
dependent, if I ain't any thing else," continued Walter.
It was in vain that Mrs. Granville remonstrated, begged, and
even prayed Walter to remain.  hreaten him, she dare not
do, after the experience she hakhad of his choking propensi-
ties, She handed him her purse. .He took from it a few dol-
lars, and handed the:rest back to her.
"I want a rig and enough to carry me to Alexandria. Thera
I am going to ship before the mast in a vessel bound round the
Horn. That is between you and me. The fact is, you will
hear' of my death in about a fortnight. Then you can play the
gay widow, and no fear of my ever -turng up again. I will
do you that justice, for ever I do come this way, it will be
years hence, and under some assumed name. Keep up a stout
heart. It's no use talking, Clara., It has got to be as I have
said. You are tired of me. I am tired of you. That is hon-
est. If I stay here, all your money won't keep me from  a
drunkard's death. .It will force it on me. Now let us part
friends," said Walter.
Clara Norris was, for once in her life, affected. She knew
the determined will of Walter Granville. She knew that she
should see him no more-that he was going to sea on a long
voyage. She burst into tears.
"Oh, Walter, I cannot 'bear this. Do not go, or take me
with you."
" Nonsense. Now mark' my words. You will see my death
in the papers before long. I want to be dead to all here. But
'I tell you, there will not be a word of truth in it. I shall con-
tinue to, live under some assumed name. Now good-bye. No
nonsense." Saying this he kissed her, and was about to leave
when he- seemed to remember something.     He then said,
" Clara, if you have one tender spot for poor. Walter, and want
to do me a kindness, lend a helping hand to Harry Robinson
and Rose,"-and before she could reply he was out of- the
room, down the stairs, and in the street.  What direction he
took after leaving her, she never heard.
More than a fortnight elapsed before she heard any more of
him. Then a notice appeared in the morning paper, copied
from a Philadelphia paper. It was as follows:
"Walter Granville, a sailor on board the ship"Liberty, was lost over-
-oArd on the 17th inst. The ship was dropping down thle river, and had
anchored near Wilmington; The body was not recovered. The young
sailor was a son of Mr. 1itt Granville, an emiment New York merchant."

405

Clara read and re-read the article. "lie has complied with
a part of his promise. I suppose be went ashore at Wilming.
ton), and then proceeded on to Alexandria by railroad," she
thought aloud. But there was one iouse in which that'article
was read where its effects were fearful. It reached No. 9
State street, and was read by W. Pitt Granville. - He at once
screamed with laughter. Then he called the rest of the fa.
ily. Read the announcement of his son's death, making,'at the
fame time, the most ludicrous grimaces. He said it was "fun-
ny," "rare sport," "Walter was always fond of swimming."
"better to be drowned than married."  He was not violent,
but his mind had failed---or, at least, had temporarily given
way.
Colonel Benson came, and his son also. Mr. 4ranville was
insane. There was no question about it. Physicians were
called in. A person was appointed to take'temporary charge
of him, until some permanent provision could b'e made to cure
him if possible, or, at least, for his safety, should his madness
assume a violent form.
It was found that Mr. Granville was, at times, quite insane,
and on one of his sane days he himself proposed that his friends
should take him to the Bloomingdale Asylum, This was event-
ually done.
CHAPTER LXIV.
Marion fonck pays a second visit to Mr ODoemall, in the Iloomingdale
Asylum-Curious Fun among Mad People-Surprising lumber of Re.
pee    People in that Asylum  Arrival of Pitt Granville at the
Institutjcoln-Mr. 07)oemcll cones out-Invests hiis'ten thouscnd dollars,
and leaves New York-his Villainies.
WHEN Marion Monck paid a second visit to the Bloomingdale
Asylum, hi found the patient, Mr. O'Doemall, quite convales.
cent.. As soon as he saw Marion approach, he shook his head
pleasantly, and exclaimed, "Ah, you precious fellow, are you
not ashamed of yourself to have trapped me into a aad house
so niely. Country hotel, eh ?"
"I do not think I could have acted better for your own good
than I did. You' wre' in a shocking 0tate  perfectly incompe-
tentto take care of yourself, and I did precisely as. I wauld
have wished a real. friend to act for me.. Are you under any
restraint now ?" asked Marion.

P
1
IV

VIGOR.


406-

VIGOR.

"None whatever. 1 needed sleep, and.I obtained it the
second night.  What a horrible thing this drink is! The
medical genius has had to keep me under lock and key for two
days.- Now tell me the circumstances under which you brought
me hereoi Ihave a faint recollection of them, but am not clear,"
replied O'Doemall.
MarIon related the manner in which he met O'Doemall at
Windust's cellar, his interview with Mr. James, and the re-
ceipt of inoney ; and added, "You seemed perfectly cool. Yoa
counted your money. Bye-the-by, I wish you to relieve me of
further charge in the matter. I received six hundred dollars.
I paid out hack hire ten, and three months' board here for you
is sixty dollars more, and here is five hundred and thirty."
Here he handed O'Doemall that sum, who counted it d-lib.
erately, and observed,
" All as right as a twist. It is not every man that would
have acted in this manner, but I flatter myself, Mr. Monek,
that I understand human character pretty well. That Mr.
James would have robbed me of every cent and cleared out.
By-the-by, where is that precious chap? .I wish you to answer
me another question. Does anybody beside you and James
know that I am here ?"
"'Not a soul. James hasleft New York from some cause
or another, and has gone over to Jersey. He left his address
in case you wished to write him, and told me to tell- you that
there was an English mad dog in New York, and that you had
better keep from being bit by keeping out of the way," said
Marion.
"Ah yes, I understand--the naad- dog'I suppose is liquor.
It has bit me, and-I will keep out of the way. I rather like
this place, and as my board is paid, I shall stay some weeks,
or until my nerves get so strong that I can resist the temipta-
tion to drink. What do you think of it?  It is rather discred-
itable -to be in a mad house, but as no one of my city friends
is aware that I am here, my character is safe, ehI " said Mr.
O'Doemall, who had very powerful reasons for keeping shady.
He deceived Marion completely, and the latter replied to hin,
"The very best thing that you can do. Your business will
not suffer, and your health will be really benefitted. I will do
anything that I can for you in the city."
"-Thank you. There is but one thing you can do. I wish
u to call 'at' Blancard's Globe Hotel, and ascertain if Colonel
Olairfoot is stopping there. If you' find that he is, or that he
is in New 'York, I want you to ascertain-when- he leaves the

*1

city for England or Canada. I will do as much for you if I
ever have the chance: In making inquiries about the Colonel,
do not let any one know why you ask about him, and promise
me that you will not cover me *ith eternal disgrace. by letting
a soul knew th t I am in this mad-pen; or in existence. Will
you promise me that much ?" asked O'Doemall.
"With all my heart. Not a living soul shall be aware that
you are alive, from my lips," replied the good-natured and un-
suspicious Marion, who had no idea that placing O'Doemall in
the Asylum had saved his life perhaps in more ways than one.
It certainly was a secure and unsuspected refuge for the guilty
man;, for Colonel Clairfoot had applied to the police for aid to
discover O'Doemall, and the city had been searched from one
end to the otheT.
"What sort of a time have you had here? Do the keepers
treat you well#?" asked clarion.
"Like a prince ; and it is the funniest institution on Man-.
hattan Island.' Of course I am not mad, but all these people
are as mad as March hares, and yet are unconscious of it. Now
we have all sorts of amusements-.a billiard table, a ninepin
alley, and these mad chaps go and have a game. Fancy mv
going to play ninepins with one of them  .1I made a match' to
play a 'pony game.' It all went on very well for some time
until I noticed that my opponent hesitated. Ie held in his
hand a- good sized pony ball, and his eyes began to flash fire.
I am. Jupiter, the Thunderer. Look out for my thunder,
mortal! and he fixed his frenzied eyes upon me,, and lifted up
the pony menacingly. You can bet high that the mortal
sloped, and I ran out the back way as fast as my legs would
carry me; but I was chased for some distance by Jupiter the
Thunderer, who let fly a pony ball that whizzed with an inch
of my head. If it had hit me, my brains would have been
scattered. One of the alarm-keepers heard the noise, and
Jupiter was seized, made' fast, and carried to a private apart-
inent, where he might thunder as much as he, pleased, but
where his thunder could not take the'shape of an iron-wood
pony ball.P
"I frequently walk about these beautiful grounds, and en-
joy the pure air. - I meet on such occasions' both- ladies and
gentlemen. Of course they are mad, or they would not b'ere.
You are apt, however, to forget the fact. Yesterday a gentle-
man met me in one of my walks, and- as he came opposite to
 me, he raised his atai the most respectful manner, served
that it was a fle day, and wished to know if he eoul4 erve

ii'

91
ILI

VIGOR."

407


me. .Upon my soul I took him to be one of the physicians or
Board of Directors, as the latter frequently come here, and I
turned to jdn him in his walk. I asked him many questions,
and he answered them all with marked politeness. He was an
amiable follow. Finally he asked me to come and take a seat
i. an arbor. I complied; and-had no sooner done so,. than he
placed himself in the open doorway, and asked, 'Do you know
me?' '$I suppose I do. You are doubtless one of the Mana.
gers or Board of Directors.' He began to regard me rather
more savagely than I liked, and replied, 'Wrong, sir. I am
one of the Board of Directors of Heaven. I am the archangel
Gabriel, and I will scorch you up like a feather with one Qf my
wings, if you move;i' and with'this he began to use one of his
flippers like a wing. I started to get out, but lie sprang upon
me like a wild-cat, uttering, with a most fearful yell, 'Wretch
--you murdered my brother angel!' I did get out--how, I
don't exactly know; but. Left the archangel Gabriel with the
claret flowing down his face pretty freely. I am somewhat
given to pugilism, and* the poor maniac got a sample of it. But
the'cases I have mentioned, Mr. Monck, are the quiet, ,gentle
mad people. , 0,if you want to see the bad ones, go up where
they chain them, and lock them up in cells. You can see.
frightful cases enough there, if you. wish," continued Mr.
O'Doemall.
"I have seen'quite enough-A have no wish to make a more
intimate acquaintance with any of the species of madness ; but
can you go out when you please ?" asked Marion.
"Certainly, if you are once pronounced sane. I could go
out with you in five minutes, if you wished. How do you do,
Mr. Foster ?"
This was *addressed to a very gentlemanly looking man,
nearly sixty years old, who approached them. O'Doemall in.-
troduced Marion. The three conversed for some time, and
thenM. Foster left them.
"Good God I" said Marion, "I know him well. Why, he is
a large merchant in South street. Is it possible that he is
mad I  Why, he has a family-keeps a carriage, and has. a
pew in Dr Spring's church !"
"-The very same man, Mr. Monek; and if'he were to give
you a check at this moment for twenty thousand dollars, it
would be paid like winking. He is perfectly sane now," said
Q'Doemal i.d
" Then how in the arch Iiend's name does he happen to be
here ?" asked Marion.

408

VIGOR.*

14,    1 1.

"Because he has drank his wine at dinner for. years. He
has drank his brandy and water of an evening, and le is liable
to the same tumble as meaner inen. "I!eather beds won't give
him sleep when his blood is half alcohol. A soon as his
family perceive what is coming on, they send him up here for
a week or a fortnight, and give out in the city that he is sick.
When he gets well, he remains up here several 4ays lnger
than is necessary. ie is a little ashamed of it, but will soon
geh'ever that. If he was to kick the .bucket up here, nothing
would be said about it, and' his corpse would be sent down to
his own house. At this moment there are thirty cases of de-
lirium trenens in the Bloomingdale Asylum of men of wealth
and standing in society-professors,merchants, lawyers, judges,
and even drinking physicians, are cured temporarily here. It
costs but sixty dollars, and a ride in a hack, Men frequently
-come here in their own carriages, brought by their wives, sons
or brothers," said O'Doemall.
"I am somewhat surprised, I assure you. Can it be true ?'
asked Marion.
* "Don't trust to me. Get in with tlie officials of the esta-
blishment, or watch with your own eyes, and you will meet
men here that it would be an honorto know elsewhere. Poor
devils that drink and get. delirious go to the Tombs, Alms..
house and Hospital. The rich and respected in society,. who
can pay sixty dollars and not feel it, come here to get cured
and silence is the watchword for all' such cases."
The two persons had now approached near the 'nain en-
trance, and Marion asked Mr. O'Doemall if he had any c omnu
mands in town. The reply was in the negative.
"I do not want anybody living to know that I am here. I
am not quite well, and I shall remain here until my general
health is completely restored. Come and see me as often as
you can, but do not be surprised if I- am not out of this for
some weeks."
While they were conversing, a carriage, or rather two Oar-
riages, drove up to the main gate.
"Some new customer for'the mad-house," observed O'Do-
either spoke for some time, until Colonel -Benson and his
son Middleton came out of the, first carriage.
"As I live, there is Colonel Benson," said Marion, and
added, "I will wait, and see who those people are."
Moment after a well known physician came from the ear.
mag, edg ioterma. min tuemt he was 'visible.

VIGOR.

409

Ii

ii
Ii
ii
1


410

VIGOR.

"The maa chap is Mr. Granville, as I am a sinner. There
is no mistake about it," said O'Doemall.
From the second carriage tame Mrs. Benson and Isabella
Benson and Mrs. Wilson. The group entered the gate, and
proceeded to the asylum.
" A regular family party," said O'Doemall.
'Walter Granville's death has done the work for his podr
old father," added Marion.
Is Walter Granville dead?  That is news to me.  When
did he die ?" asked O'Doemall.
" He was drowned from a ship in the Delaware river," re-
plied Marion.I
The two followed the procession up to the asylum, and after'
Mr. Granville had been disposed of, and his friends had re-
turned to New York, Marion made inquiries'of the superinten.
dent. He ascertained that the physicians had pronounced the
case of Mr. Granville to be a melancholy species of insanity,
and that being uncertain what form it might take, it had been
deemied advisable to place him under a mild restraint,, and
where he could have the best of mad medical advice.
. imay be as well here to state that Mr. Granville continued
to reside at the asylunt foiamonths, and then for years.  He
confided the  closing up of his affairs to his son-in-law 'and Col.
Benson. ie signed his own papers in liquidation, and even
the Checks with which he paid his quarterly dues of sixty dol-
lars were signed by himself. When he wishes to leave the
asylum, he does so, and not unfrequently, after a visit of two-
or three days to the city, his own carriage conveys him back
to the asylum. Hie is never violent, but for days is quietly in-
sane. He is still wealthy, for his business was closed up, and
his capital invested in real estate and stocks in his own name.
His daughter treats him the same as in his palmiest days. His
* grandchildren are objects of his deepest love, and he never
.speaks of his son but in a sentence of two words-" Poor Wal.-
te,,
To return to Mr. O'Doemall and Marion. They commented
freely as they Lwalked about the grounds after Mr. Granville
had been received upon his insanity. Marion was uitable to
realize the fact. He was so many years with that merchant,
and respected him so highly, it seemed impossible he could
fall from his lofty position. He was abruptly startled from his
reflection by the voice of O'Doemall,
" That sweetheart of yours, Miss Isabel, is quite a little ugly
old womaii. I suppose seeing her has touched a soft spot, eh ?"

VIGOR..

4U.

" Not at all. I ain pained to see the head of the family in-
side of these walls, and I am sorry that his daughter should be
a witness of her father's incarceration. 'But -he has shown
that she has filial feeling in her heart by coming here with
him, and I respect her the more for so doing," observed Ma-
rion, quietly.
"I have no wish to hurry you, but it is time for you to go.
The hour of visitors is -passed," said O.'Doemall.
Marion bade him good-bye, left the asylum, and returned to
town.
It was some days before he could execute the commission of
Mr. O'Doemall in reference to Colonel Clairfoot. When he
returned to the asylum, he carried with him a newspaper in
which, among.the list of passengers by a packet ship that had
sailed for Liverpool, were found the names of the Colonel and
Lady Clairfoot. When O'Doemall read this, he asked Marion
if he came out in a carriage. The reply was in the affirmative.
"Then I will return to the city with you. I am quite well."
Marion had no objection to ofer, and 'he two came to the
city in the same carriage. O'Doemall ordered the coachmgn
to drop him at the,"Waverly," a hotel on the corner of Broad-
way and Exchange street.
With Mr, O'Doemall oar story will soon finish. New York
got too hot for him. He had committed acts that, fairly inves-
tigated, would have sent him to the State Pson, He had es-
caped the immediate danger from his wrongs to Lady Clair-
foot, but how soon an avenger might return and hold-hn to a
stern account, was not to be calculated upon. With such dan-
gers staring him in the face, he made up his mind to leave.
New York for a time, if not forever. He called upon the re-
spectable firm with whom he had deposited ten thousand -dol-
lars, being a portion of the money he had robbed from  Lady
Clairfogt. He requested the firm to obtain for hiun ten certifi-
cates of deposit in the Bank of New York, payable to his order,
for one thousand dollars each, and he called and left his 8igna-
ture at the bank and received the ten certificates. Armed with
this sum and the ready cash he had about him, he left New
York without a word to.'a living man or woman as to his des-
tination.
Hle was seen not many months afterwards in the streets of
New Orleans by one who had known -him in New York, and
'till later, when the California excitement broke out, a vessel
said tQ be owned by him left New Orleans for JSan Francisco
in California, lie arrived there in safety, and sold the shiip.


VIGOIAL

VIGOR.

His Adventures in that gold region. were of a spirited char,
acter, and if ever they are published, if his character did not
change from what it was in 'New York, they will be a chapter
of rogueries,.rascalities and villainies unequalled in any annals
save the volumes of the English Newgate Calendar.
CHAPTER LXV.
Henry RotiUson introduces Rose to his Parents as a Spanish (ird Clara
Norris Granville Rtisrn.q to her Farm in Susex-IHer P rents, Brother,
and Sidter-Refections upon the Care r of Cldra.
HenR RonINsoNq, did not rest long after her con versatjon
with Walter Granvillo before -he put the plan he had proposed
into operation. He called upon his .parents. They were
delighted to once more behold their truant son. The mother
gave way at once, and clasped'him in her arms. All was for.
gotten and forgiven. The father hesitated, but as he looked
at his son, more manly than ever, and bronzed by exposure
and hardsiiipp, he too forgave, and all was well.
"Now, Harry, will youngive up all your follies, stay at home,
and be a good boy i"
Father, I will; but I am no hypocrite. Mother, join with
me in askingforgiveness for one act more. I have concealed
it, but I will do so no longer. . In my travels in South Amer.
ica at one of the ports of Peru I met with a lovely girl. She
loved me. She was an orphan. She abandoned 'home; and
came with me to America. I'have married her. I could not
do less. Will you forgive me ?  Say but this. Receive-my
Rosa, and I will do all that you wish me to do. She is at a
hotel waiting for your decision. Forgive mne' this act, for it
brings you a lovely' daughter, as well as a repentant son."
Long and painful was the suspense. Then Mr. Robinson
inquired if she was ofgood family ?
"The best ; but all her relations are dead. She has now no
one but her husband to love, and-"if you forgive me, then she
will have two good-parents to love and respect, as I do," said
Harry, and he' knelt to his parents and bowed his head almost
to 'the,,carpet.
"does Ihe speak EnglIsh askedkd the father.
:She does. .I have taught it to her, and made her pledge
her 'soleumi word that she will not speak a word of'Spaniah'tb

two years.. This will make your son forget that she is a Span.
ish girh"
"4Harry, we forgive you. Go at onoe and bring your'wife
here. We will receive her with open arus.-Mother, .you
agree to this, eh ?"
Of course the mother agreed to it, and Harry hurried off'for
his wife. When he reached her and informed her of all that
had occurred. She shrank from    the task. "Oh, if they
should find me out. L cannot speak Spanish," pleaded Rose.
"I have told them that you have prornised not to do so for
two years, so that you will have to keep from Spanish for that
length of time," laughingly observed Harry.
At last poor Rose was equipped properly for the ep edition.
Her baggage was packed, and she entered the cartrige that
was to convey her to the house of her husband's parents with a
shrinking, palpitating heart. She was-beautiful, and Harry,
as he clasped her to his heart, whispered words of encourage-
ment and endearment at the same moment.
Again he entered his father's doors ; and leaning on his arm
was the pretty but confused- trembler. 'They entered the par.
' or, and the fair girl was kissed and 'embraCed by both parents.
It was a happy, day. That night, before. the family retired,
Henry was called into a room by his father,: " You have sown,
your wild oats, I hope, Harry. You have married a charming
wife, and, you dog, if you-don't make her.happy, I. will never
forgive you. You must go into business. I know a large
broker who needs a partner and capital. I 'will furnish ye as
his partner, and the necessary capital. Do you agree to it,
"I agree, dear father, to any thing you propose. I can only
regret that I ever disobeyed you in. anything " said Henry,
with real feeling.
"Let all that pass. Your wife is a lady if she is Spanish.
I can see that shelias got the old Hidalgo blood in her veins;
make her happy, you dog," said.the father,
The happy husband was once more upon, his feet.  His fia
otherr placed im in business, and rented and furnished a house
for hin.: The son devoted himself to business, became in due
time aparent, and i a sweet domestic home found happiness
and respect. He made mopey in business ; his wife becoming
an ornament to society ; and few who witnessed the Spanish
beauty, dressed in white, with her long dark hair, and covered
-.with diamonda as she appeared in the parlors at a large party,-
tha&amp; ska had ever been an ' out .s' in New York. Ne one

412

4.1


414               VIGOR.

knew it but Clara Norris and Mrs. Woodruff.   The latter
knew very little about Rose or her husband-and though she
once met the beautiful and fashionable Mrs. Robinson, she
never dreamed that she had known her as Clara's friend Rose
The change in her position in life never leaked out,  d if
had, it could never have been proved. As years rolled on
Robinson felt more at ease, and when his father died, leaving
him a splendid fortune, he feared no longer.
This ends his connection or that of Rose with our story. We
must now return-to Clara Granville. Her advice had led to
this happy result.-
The melancholy intelligence that Walter Granville bad been
drowned was no sooner communicated to his wife Clara Norris
than she prepared to make the most of it.
Properly handled, it would add to her respectability in one
quarter, and that was at her home in Sussex County, New Jer-
sey. She caused his death to be noticed in all the Jersey
newspapers, as she had on the occasion of her marriage had a
notice to that effect widely circulated.  The widow Clara
Granville had a large quantity of the most suitable mourning
dresses made, and in that regard her conduct was unexceptionf
able. When/1the dresses were finished, she topk her departure
from New York for Sussex County.
She did not for one instant believe that Walter was dead.
She knew better, but it suited her plans and purposes to act
as if he were.
This woman was still gloriously beautiful. She had not lost
one charm.  Age seemed in her case to improve all that she
originally possessed. She had taken the greatest care bf her
person and her health : she dressed with elegance, and aimed
at the simplicity and innocenceof a girl of sixteen.
It has been mentioned to her credit, that one of her first
acts, so soon as she had the means, was to elevate and place in
an independent position, her parents.  This she had accom-
plished. She had purchased a large and valuable farm, and
stocked it well with cattle and agricultural implements.  Her
father had proved an excellent farmer, and in nine years he
had almost doubled its value.
Clara had a brother and sister named Janies and 4ugusta.
These children when she left home were respectively six and
eight years old4L The boy James was the eldest.  Clara her-
self was but fifteenwhen Mr. Nordheim removed her from her
home; she was twenty-five when she Cturned thither a widow
-but oh, to what a different home ! And the new home Was

I'

of her own creating. She had sent both brother and sister
away from 'home--the one to a Female Academy at Newark,
and the other was now a student in Princeton College.- James
was a handsome, intelligent young fellow, and Augusta was a
full grown girl of sixteen, and as handsome as Clara was at
that age, and they strongly resembled each other.
The home to which Clara resorted when she became a widow
we will attempt to describe. It was a large mansion, with
plenty of out-buildings, many of them erected by Clara's or-
ders. In front of the residence was a level lawn,.consisting of
about twelve acres,.-and at the edge of this lawn was a fresh
water lake of fifty acres, filled with fish of every kind. _ There
was a bridge at the outlet of this lake, and crossing this bridge
you drove for some distance on the main road, passing through
fields of corn, grain, clover, and pastare grounds, the latter
filled with cows of the best stock. You.descended 4 hill? -and
then came to- another valley. At the side of the main road at
the foot of the hill was a gate which opened into a side private
road. . This led to the mansion, which was located about a
quarter of a mile from the nfain road. As you drove to the
house by this private road, you passed barns, and carried,
tool, chicken, and. cow houses, and then came to two artificial
fish ponds. A little farther on was a large spring, ten feet
deep, surrounded by willows whose roots helped to strengthen
the dam of the spring, over which poured the pure cold water,
making a fall of several feet.  This water glisten  in the
sun's rays, was a sight worth seeing. It formed a little brook
which meandered through the meadow we have described, and
emptied into the lake.
To the north of the, dwelling 'were large ore.hardsand in all
directions were fruit trees of every description. A hundred
white ducks were swimming on the lake, and as many geese
sporting in the brook. The garden was well laidout and filled
with rare flowers. The poultry was of choice breeds, and fbad
been'selected by Clara in New York. She had also made her
purchases of wagons, bridles, harnesses and saddles, and sent
them up. In the stahlea or in the fields were several valuable
horses. Nothing was wanting-..-and when the widow reached
her home and looked abroad over the beautiful scene. from, the
piazza, and felt that she had created allthis, she said to her.
self, "Well, well, -if I have been what the world calls bad, I
have not lived in vain-J have made others happy." Then she
tripped down to the large dairy houses, which, was built of
. tone, and stood upon one corner of tlie spring, and drank

VIGOR*''            415


VIGOR.

buttprmilk, while she looked at the revolving'water wheel
which was turned by the water from the spring, and churned
all the butter made in that dairy.
She was listening to the musie of the falling water when her
lovely sister came down the road with a pail of milk. As she
left the dairy, Augusta came and stood by her sister upon the
large flat stone by the brook.
" Dear, darling Clara. how beautiful you look.  But what
makes you cry-do you miss brother    Oh, he will be here
in a few days, and then we Will all' be so happy. How I should
have liked to have seen my brother-in-law Mr. Granville. But
he is dead.---and' I, a foolish girl, ask you why you weep. Come,
dearest, the spray from the water will wet you through ; come
and take a stroll down to the lake, and I will uqfasten the boat
ad row you out. I can row the boat as well as brother."
Clara threw her arms around the waist of the fair speaker,
and accompanied her to the lake.  There was on it a beautiful
boat, which Clara had sent up the year previous; she entered
it, and her sister rowed her into the middle of the lake.  Not
a wavelet disturbed that mirror of glassy water, so calm and
still. Not a sound was heard except the chirping of some
bird, or the lowitg of some cow.
The sun had just set. Clara-'at motionless in the boat, and
at. last she spoke.
" Dear sister, here ought to be happiness, as there is peace.
Oh, I will never leave this plae again. I have been in the
world-seen its hypocrisy, frivolity cand heartlessness.  Here
is home, and true, fond, loving hearts No, I will never leave
you more. Now, darling, row the boat ashore, and we will go
up to the house. The dew is falling fast," and I am  not yet
used to it."
The fair young sister complied, and they landed, and walked
linked in each other's embrace up to the house.  There the
evening meal was ready, and Clara partook of it, with a'silent
happiness she had never known before.
Few fair girls who have been forced into the life that Clara
Granville-had led for ten years, evet retired from it so success-
ful. She was purchased-willingly sold herself to better the
condition of her parent. She' succeeded. There was no phase
of the life she adopted that she did nhot experience. She was
'the kept mistress. She had her costly' appointments in the
highest class of Assignation , and she lived respectively in
brothels No. 1, Ne. 2; ad No. 8, where 'she was accessible at
the regidar prices of those establishments. From one of these

I

she emerged to entrap a young man of good family into mar-
riage, FroM that hour she became virtuous, and when he left
her to roam upon the ocean, 'and had 'his' death announced in
the public prints, she retired to her home in the country-to
the bosom of her family, to the respect of her parents, ,and the
love of sister and brother. She owned a beautiful house. She
owned property 'in New York that was rapidly rising in value,
She 'had money in'stocks, and she had cash in bank.  Her
beauty was unimpaired.  She had acquired accomplishments
by hard labor. She 'could play upon the guitar arid the piano,
spoke several modern languages, and an ordinary education" in
other respects.  She had read every thing.  When she left
home she was ignorant of all education. She had educated
herself, her brother and her sister. She had redeemedafatlher
and a mother who both drank.
There is a moral in such a tale as this. We may condemn'
the means she used to accomplish such great results, in her
limited circle, but we cannot withhold praise from them.
Contrast her position with the thousands who sink every year
into the gutter and the grave in the great city of New York.
Many enter upon the life of a harlot under as favorable aus-
pices as Clara Norris did. They -are kept by men of wealth,
but the foolish, unthinking girl spends what she could save
with a lavish hand, and when the lover or keeper becomes cold
she has no resource but to take a step down. Again she is the
idolized, petted, caressed, and money-making girl in the most
aristocratic house of ill-fame. But prudence deserts her here.
Money is flung into her lap by handfuls, and she tosses .it out
again for dresses and jewelry, and becomes indebted. to the
principal of the house or landlady until disease - or accident
sends her down another grade. Here she is equallyimprovi-
dent, and drinks like a fish. There is a, lower and a lower
deep until she reaches Water street, the Rook, or the Points,
. 'and there she has but one step more to take, that la to the
alnishoue, 'and.from there she is eventually carried in a white
pine box to an unknown grave.
There is hope forthe prostitute, but" it rests withherself.
'She is the arbitress of Ier owa destiny.  -he wields a power
she little dreams of. She copnmences her career with money,
She earns it in quantities. Did she but know enough to save
it, she could fight the world with its own powerful weapon,
emoney.'*The unfortunate girl who is forced into acth life for
any cause is too apt to be cut off by her own 9Qennexzion,~ unles
1s8

VICTOR

417


418

VIGOR.

her parents or relatives are very poor, so poor that money,
-earned in any manner, is a balma for disgrace.
Clara Norris owed- her salvation and. success to one fact. She
went"into a life of infamy armed with a holy love for her pa-
rents and her brother and sister. She earned and she saved.
It was for them, and as money accumulated she became more
and more anxious. She thought and paid part-she had.a mo-
tive to pay the rest until she owned property that paid an in-
come of itself. . Her sin was great, but it was redeeming. She
did good to others, and first to her own household.
When she returned to reside in her parents' home did the
finger of scorn point at her from  any quarterT  No. She
would have shot that man with looks alone that had dared to
approach her in her own home with infamous thoughts or pro-
posals. Neither was she a hypocrite. To her young and beau-
tiful sister she unfolded the-secrets of her past life, her mno-
tives, and by her conversation, impressed her with the awful
sanctity of virtue, and the happiness of a fair girl, whose posi-
tion was such, that she need not- deviate from  its paths, and
after the conversation, that younger sister, in her robe of pur.
ity and beauty, walked forth into the green fields and into lhe
wild forests with a character as stern and proud as if contam-
iV'ation had never approached the sister, she loved, who- had
.sacrificed all she had done for the good of the drunken parents
and the poverty struck, unrespected children. Augusta, as she
listened to her sister's exposure, loved her dearer than ever.
So when James caine home, a glorious educated boy, she was
his companion, talked freely with him, instructed him against
the wiles of the sex, told him of the power of money, what it,
'had done for all of them, and how it was powerful enough to
beat down the darts, of scorn from the most, respected and re-
speetable in society. Mrs. Granville, at her home, was the
perfect lady. She devoted herself to making her sister as ae-
complished as herself. She sought no society ; and she treated
with kindness all those who approached her home with-feelings
of respect.
Her brother was armed against the false opinion of the
world. The sister installed into-his mind the highest ambi-
tion. She led him to think that success in the world was noth-
ing, and that with books a'nd a home and healthful work he
could be far happier than in any other sphere of life.
" When your father dies the place shall be yours, and you
can make it- a paradise; The world may blame me for my own

VIGOR.

419

life. Conduct yourself properly, and blame will- never- attach
itself to you."
Such was sister Clura, and she commanded.the respect of all
in her vicinity. We shall leave her in.her country home with
every material for future happiness, and' nothing to mar it,
save it be some unpleasant memories of the past.
CHAPTER LXVI.
The Count Falsechinski dines at belmonico's with his Brother-in-law-Pro-
pos-s that he should be a Aferclant, and go into business with Marion Monek
-The Countt seeks out Marion-Tea at Mr. Grasper's-Te affair ar-
ranged -Marion Monck calls upon- Mr. Bennett at the A stor ouse-Mr.
3nnets opinion of the London Times and Jourialism generally.
DELMONICO's establishment was at theeorner of Beaver and
William street, and the Count Falsechinski'met his brother-in-
law Francis Grasper at the appointed hour, as agreed upon at
breakfast. The Count was there in advance of young Grasper,
and lie occupied his time until the latter arrived in the coffee-
room of that famed and still famous establishment. A dinner
had been ordered in a private room. When Francis arrived,
they both repaired to the room, and soup was soon placed -
fore them.
"Brother of mine, I don't feel much like dining, a'nd I did
not fix upon a dinner as a means of very great enjoyment, but
rather as a means of securing your time and attention, while I
open to yott a plan that I think you will be pleased with," ob-
served the Count.
"I am quite sure, Count, that I shall be pleased with any
project you -should suggest for my advantage. I know you
have my good at heart, and I know you would propose nothing
that would not be pleasant to me," said young,-Grasper.
" Do not be too sure of that, my amiable brother, but-listen
to me. The American people must have something to -do,.if
they would be respected. You may be as rich as- Cresus, or
your father--it won't answer for,-respectable purposes, unless
-youdo something in this country where people al work.
People ask.'Who is that young man' They also ask,- 'What
does he do?' -To the first question, the reply, ' He is the son
of the President of the United States, or of John Smith, is
- alike unsatisfactory, unless the second is -properly angered
If the reply to the second should happen to lie, '0O, he does

N

0


420              VIOn-

nothing, it is tantamount to saying, 4'0, he is a natural brn
fool, and has got nothing to do, for he is incompetent to do
an thin' ' A in1an, particularly a young man, has no position
if he is idle, no natter what his means iay be. He had bet-
ter open anoyster saloon, a cigar shop, or a penny nilk depot.
He must do something. What do you say to that, Francis.
Am I not correct ?' asked the Count.
"You are not only correct, but I have already experienced
its truth. Many a time have I been asked,-'What business are
you inI' and when I have replied- ,I am in no business,' the
question has been repeated in a different form .'Clerking it
yet' and when I have said, 'No, I am not a elerk,' there has
been a pause, as though I had insinuated.that I lived by petty
larceny, or something that was criminal. You are right,
Count, I need something to do. What is it you have to pro.
pose ?" asked young Grasper.
" My dear Franeis are you willing to become  a lawyer ?"
asked the Count.
" No," replied Francis-
"A doctor V' asked the Count
"No, no," replied Francis.
"A parson ?" asked the Count.
"No, no, no. Worse and worse," replied Francis.
Then, my dear fellow, there is only one decent employ-
ment left. Will you consent to be a merchant ..
What sort of a merchant-a dry goods,, shoe I store, Bilks,
groceries t' asked the youth.
"No.--none of thesa.- They are mere shopkeepers, not mer-
chants. I mean a merchant in the largest and most extensive
meaning of the word. To do a business with foreign ports--
to export and import eargoes. To sell cargoes, and foreign or
domestic produce on commission, -To own ships, and send
then laden to the ports of: te world,-and bring back return
cargoes. Thatis the kind of merchant I Inean," said the Count.
dAiI tha so rtof 'busiss, Cotht, 'Vould puit me to a
hicety. But-Ow ai I to get i-to any Such large concern
asked yong Grasper.
"You need a partner; Now I-have i viewa young man
likeyouralf only several years older. He has no capital but
be 2has business capacity of the highest order. He is capable
of conducting just such a business as I have described, said
the Coumt.
"What is his name ~? DolI know him ?" asked Gasper, Jr.
"Hs anameha1 Marion Monok. XHe was for many para in the

1

counting-rooms of Granville.&amp; Nordheim. There are ery few
Young men more capable of successfully carrying on a large
business than my young friend. He has no'capital, but if you
think you and he could get' along as partners,I- will- give him
Ral, ad te.
capital, and there will be no trouble in getting your father to
give you a still larger capital," observed the Count.
Young Grasper reflected a few moments, and then replied,
Iam perfectly willing to go into .such a partnership for
the purpose of doing the commercial business you have de-
scribed, but I am not at all acquainted with it. Would MI
Monek be content with such a commercial ignoramus -as I
should prove to be for a partner," asked Francis Grasper.
I have no doubt of it. He would of course understand
that you could not regulate business, or conduct it as he could
now do. But you would learn in tiune to do that. .1 know
yot possess perseverance, and have nothing to interfere with a
devotion to your new business. .1 thought I would have a free
and frank conversation with you before I said anything definite
to my young friend Monck, or to your father. Now if you will
say that you would like to try the experiment, I will go t6
work and complete all the necessary arrangements," -said the
4ount.
"Then I say at once, go ahead. I am willing to place mY-
self in your hands, and am really quite anxious to see my part-
ncr thht is to be," said FrancisaGrasper.
ALet us finish our dinner, then, and go and:find Mr. Monek.
He has been absent in the South for some time, or I should
have proposed this matter to you long ago. He has been back
a few weeks. I have seen him but two or three times since,"
observed the Count.
The brothers-in-law finished their dinner at Delmonico's, and
then went to look after Marion Monk. They went to his
boardinghouse and to several of his"haunts, but did not suc-
ceed in. finding him while the were in compan. At last'the
Countp'rnposed that young  asprt should a  him; and that
le would seek-Marion Mnek alone. As ood as Francis hid'
gone home, the Count turned down town, and irent 046 Cen.
tre street,and not'inding Marion there, he tookaseat and
waited. He had not to wait long.. The young ma he was
seeking soon entered, and frankly extending his had .to the
Count, observed,
" Well, Count T am glad to see you; for it affords me at
. pportuay for thanking you for past kindness, tad 'to sag, at
the saule tiine, that I am obliged to ask you to bemr dieinoi

vIOR.'              421


r1

422-

VIGOR.

in the proposal that you hafe hinted to me. I know you have
my interest at heart. I have received a proposal to leave the
city and to write letters to a leading newspaper this winter ;
so if y  have not some thing for me to do, I shall accept it."
Marionhesitated as he made this communication, but the
Count relieved his mind at once.
Well, Marion, hear what I have-to say, and then- decide.
I owe you a debt' of gratitude that money cannot repay. I
know that yo are ambitious to get into -mercantile business.
I have had a plan for this a long time, but I was unable to
carry it out until last spring, and then you were 'gone South
before I knew it. I would furnish you with money freely, but
I know also that you accept it reluctantly, and I doubt whether
you would have done that had younot supposed I was paying
to keep you along for purposes of my own. So I was. Now
let ine explain my design. I have a brother-in law, a fine
young fellow-his name is Francis Grasper. Did you ever
see him," said- the Count.
"Very frequently. I know him by sight, although I have'
no particular acquaintance with him," replied Marion.
.1 wish, to put this young man in business with you. Hie
is intelligent, but inexperienced. What do you, say to it ?"
asked the Count.
"-owcan I go into business? I have no capital-and he
would notgo into prknership with a young, man pennies
like.'me," Isaid Marion.
"I1am not so sure of that, my young friend, but be that 4s it
may be,-ILamlnotgoingto-leta you go into business without
Capital. How m'ieh capital would it require to do a stife and'
successful commission businesir-have you any idea"asked
the Count.
" I have sir, because it is a subject I have thought deeply
about. If I was to go into business, and had thirty thousand
dollars, w'e could do a smashing business," replied Marion.
" Iope you wall not do a smashing busiess-that would
be bade, .IBat seriously.' You shall have .thirty thousand dol-
I will-give you .ten, thousand dollars, and this sum, with
your superior business abilities, shall be deemed equal to
twenty thousand dollars, -which Frank shall put in'  the concern,
or rather his father shall pit in for him. - Now, sir, consider
this matter as arranged. Does it meet 'your views?" asked
thes Coute
"Ican hardly speak, Count---I do not know what to say.
Yet if you think ILshall not disappoint your expectations, I

VIGOR.

423

.

I

will cheerfully enter into t prtne ip so much to my benefit
and I will do the best I can. My whole soul .shall be in the
workk" observed Marion Ionk; very earnestly.
"1My dear boy, I do not doubt it for a moment. You will
succeed, I am sure'; but if you do not, it will not be a great
loss to any one but yourself. I can afford to lose ten times ten
thousand dollars, and not feel it;. and even if you do not su.
ceed, old Mr. Grasper would pay willingly that sum to see his
son in business with a good partner. Is it a bargain ?" asked
the Count.
"Decidedly, so far as I am concerned," said Marion.
"Then you. must go up with me to Mr. Grasper's. Francis
has been hunting with me for you for several hours, and went
howe expecting you would come up as soon as I found you."
B -ut, niy dear Count, I am not exactly fit for a visit," said
Marion.
   h" Bak ! Come with me and make no apYlogies. You will
be welcome. We    o to talk business, and not to a-Areas ball..
Come along."
Thus urged by the Count, Marion made no further refusal,
but walked up to the grand palace of the Count's father-in-law.
"Is Mr. Francis Grasper in ?"was his first inquiry, after
they reached the house.
he is, sir," replied the servant; and followed by Marion,
the Count passed into the, parlor, where the- object of their,
search was seated by one of 'the windows. He received Ma
nion in the most cordial manner.
aI will leave you two young gentlemen to get acquainted.
Francis, I have agreed -to giveM1arion -Mbnek ten thousand dot.
lars. You don't know quite as much about business as he does,
and so your worthy father must make it upby'giving304,1tic1
that amount. I will go and see him,. Make Mrion remain to
tea. I wish to introduce him to the senior Mr. Grasper."
With these words the Count passed-out- of the apartment to-
an office,twhere he found his fatheria-lawr. To him the Count
explained his plans. They were at once cordially e.-  aeed
by the 'Old financier.- At the .tea-table,l Marion, Monok wasAi.
troduced to the old gentleman, and to the rest of the family
All were pleased, and ere he left, he had made an appointment
to meet young Grasper early In the morning, to arrange fur*-
ther matters in reference to the new commercial establish-ment.
When he left, the house of Mr. 0-rasper it seemed t Muar-in
that all must bea dream, He coldra diy aline the fac
that from being almost without a dollar in a few days he wo~Jd


04               VIGOR-.

be a partner of a "firm" oth thirty thousand dollars. " But
I must not forget old friends while I am making new ones, and
I will call upon Mr. Bennett on my way down and decline his
kind offer."- With this intention he stopped at the "Astor."
The editor of the Herald had recently married, and with his
young bride was stopping at the Astor House. Marion Monek
called to pay his respects and express his good wishes for 'the
happiness of the new-married pair, and to decline the offers f
going to Washington. He was introduced to Mrs. Bennett,
and enjoyed a pleasant chat with the fatir dame.- Other visitors
entered and occupied the attention of the lady, and Marion had
Mr. Bennett to himself. He thanked the editor for his kind-
ness, and for his fair offers for the future, but added :-" I have
been so long an apprenticd to commerce that I have no ambition
to suceeed'as a writer.- I have had an offer to go into partner-
ship under very favorable auspices. My partner has capital
and connexions, and, is a very amiable young man.-
" I certainly wish you success; but I have my fears. I
think that there is a great uncertainty about a merchant's suc-
cess, and the day may come when you will regret not having
%iade up your mind to connect yourself permanently with the
business of/journalism," said Ar. Bennett.,
"It may be so; but the position of a mechTant is 'much more
creditable than even that of a newspaper tvriter," was Marion's
reply.I
" Simply because the position and power of the pen is not
yet properly appreciated. What is his power in the world
who can merely count that two and two are four, and that twice
fonr ,are eight, and goes on to make or lose money on that
basis--who knows how to eat, drink and sleep, and carry on a
routine busineO---when placed. in comparison with the man
who writes articles thatare read and will tell upon the winds
of thousands ?-of a man who can make public opinion, or who
can direct it, where it does exist, into healthful 'channels ?
Such a m an in reality should hold a far -higher position than
the -so-called merchant -orsu6cessful shop-keeper. Look at the
Circulation of the Terald.. It issues ovei- ten thousand copies,
and is read by at leastone hundred. thousand persons. Yet it
has only comnienced its existence. I will increase its. cirou-
%lation to ten times what it now is, before. matny years are
'passed; andsit 'will command an influence upon this continent
equal, if not superior to what the London Times now does in
ERurope. Few people understand the true theory of journal-
isa. Ia'w but a pupil in it. When I started the. Herald I

I

420

thought I had no more to learn Every day convinces me
that I do not even now know anything. Not a day passes but
I acquire some new knowledge of my profession, and I suppose
I shall continue to learn as long as I live."
Marion made no reply for some time to a prophecy uttered
by the editor, for be did not then appreciate its force. He
asked a question: " How can you make the Herald as, success-
ful as the London Times?  That paper is a stock concern, and
is very rich."
It was started and placed on. its present footing by the
mind of one man-4ohn Walters. He'stocked it-.that is true
-but he divided the stock among his own family, and the
income is enormous. The family, or the stock-holders, rarely
interfere with the course of the Times. It is edited by a mani
who never writes a line for its columns, while he superintends'
the matter for the paper, and rejects or admits the editorials
written by the most powerful writers in England," said Mr.
Bennett.
"PWhy does not the powerful editor write himself ?" asked
Marion, with some curiosity.
, "Simply that it is human nature for a writer to harp upon
one subject too long. He iuns it into the ground. An- editor
who is a clever, judicious man, abd who does not write him-
self, becomes impatient with the writings of others. He has
o hobby of his own, and his rejections of articles frm the
pens of the principal writers give no offence and excite no dis-
affection, because there is evidently no jealousy on the part of
the chief editor. His decisions are wise and prudent ones.
Before I leave the Herald, it shall be equally' well and firmly.
established, so that when I die it can walk along alone to fulfil
its destiny. Now you try merchandising, Marion, but. mark
my words, you' will not succeed, and when you get sick of your
mercantile ambition come back to me. You have talent, and
will succeed as a newspaper writer. It has been my opinion
for years. I have tried to develop the' genius you possess,
and I have at least made you aware of the fact that you do pos-
sess it. Some day it will come out, and I hold it to be a great
pity that you do not commence at once, instead of wasting
your time in the shipping or any other commercial business;
See who is right in the long run.*" Thus spoke Mr. Bennet b
and his words sown there produced fruit in after*years, but not
until a long series of mercantile losses and disasters had iade
Marion Mdnek sensible that the editor was right.
-Marion left 'm that evening~ with feelings of the truest re-

VIGOl.


'426

VIGOR-

aspect and esteem, and was almost,, convinced that the best
course he could pursue would be to refuse the kind offer of the
Count Falsechinski. But,
There is a destiny that shapes our ends,
Rough hew them as we may."-
Marion's destiny seemed to be a merchant's life.
CHAPTER LXVII.
The Conclusion.
THE lady who has figured in these pages as Mrs. Woodruff,
continued in her business, respected by those who did not,
know her well, and retained her standing in society, and in
the religious community into which her unparalleled impu-
dence had forced her.
Her establishment was the most choice and the most distin.-
guished of any in the city of New York. It had no equal. Her,
management was such that she never came-in contact with the,
authorities, and she had, among her 'acquaintances and friends,,
many persons high in official' power and influence, who would'
haveprotected her from harm had complaints ever been made
against her. Such was never the case, ,however-and now
that years have passed; 'she is still as flourishing as ever.,
We must now return to Marion and the Count. The meet-
ing between Marion and Francis Graoper was satisfactory to
both-and after several days, the basis of their partnership
had been arranged to their mutual satisfaction. Of course it
was equally satisfactory to their respective friends. Mr. Wil-
son had been consulted by Marion, and his, advice was of
great service to the new beginners as merchants on their own
hook.
The Count Falsechinski paid in a cash capital of ten thous-
and dollars for Marion Monek, and Mr. Grasper -paid in the
sum of twenty thousand dollars foi' his son. This was the cash
capital of' Monek,&amp; Grasper,' and on the first day of January,
18-7-, they commenced a general commission and commercial
business. -Their office and counting-room was in Broad, near
Beaver street.
No young Hlouso ever started under more, favorable auspi-
ces--they had a sufficient cash capital, and thanks to the elder*.
Grasper,:who wrote to all his business 'correspondents in dif-

VIGOR.

427

ferent parts of the States and in Europe, they formed coimer-
cial connections of the strongest kind.
The Count had determined to leave New York with his wife
immediately after Francis and Marion had commenced busi-
ness. It was further decided that young Grasper should ac-
company them, and after his arrival that he- should visit the
principal ports in Europe, and endeavor to secure business to
the New York firm of Monok &amp; Grasper.. This plan fully met
the views of his partner, and also was approved by the senior
Grasper. Old Mr. Prime was consulted, and consente- to
become one of.the references of the firm.
Our history will now leave Marion Mouck settled firmly in
his seat as a merchant in New York. He had been through a
great. variety of good and evil fortune, and had w-Withstood the
temptation of both. He was twenfy-five years old-ambitious,
energetic, and determined.  He had a-good share of commer-
cial experience-enough to justify his taking the charge of a
commercial house.  One of his most valuable counsellors was
Mr. Wilson, who came-daily to the counting-room of his young
friend larinn.
After the departure of the Count Falsechinski, his wife, and
Francis Grasper, the old Mr. Grasper never failed to cal and
see how the young Marion Monck, his son's partner, was sue-
ceeding.
We shall not continue the history of our hero beyond this
point; he had succeeded in establishing himself as a mer-
chant, and that is the second of the four great epochs of every
man's life.
The other characters in this work have all been fairly dis-
posed of-and in tracing out their various careers, a deeply
impressive moral may be drawn in each case.
Colonel Benson and his lady were in the enjoyment of all
those blessings whichgvealth confers, induced by a fair and
easy conscience.
Middleton Benson was a steady, prosperous, and prudent
merchant. His wife, Isabella Granville that was, became de-
voted to him-, an excellent mother to the children, and quite a
domestic woman in her way.  No tidings had ever reached
ner of her brother, since his death had been announced in
tne newspapers.
The old gentleman Pitt Granville continued to be busy about
his affairs, and an inmate of the Asylum at Bloomingdale,
where he could receive medical treatment when his quiet fits
of insanity made their appearance.


428

VIGOR.

From his parents Marion Monck heard frequently. They
lived on in their quiet Southern home, glad to hear of his
success in getting into business" but profoundly ignorant of its
advantages. His aunt Mary had become a very scientific wo-
man, and frequently wrote to her nephew on such subjects-
although he would have valued her letters more had they quo-
ted the price of Sea Island or upland cotton-
Mrs. Tom Granville resided in Baltimore, and rarely troub-
led her head about the Granville relations. She was divorced
from Tom by a double, divorce-the Maryland Legislature was
the author of one, and grim Death of the second. She called
herself a widow, and spent a great portion of ier time 'in the
city of.Washington, where she was one of the most influential
politicians. A bill could be got through both houses of Con-
gress with more ease with her aid than without it---consequently
she became a very popular and a very useful woman in legis-
lative affairs.
Old Josiah Cubson, the laughing Englishman, settled on
Staten Island, and became the father of a baker's dozen of
daughters..
The widow Gaillard, after her husband's death remained in
South Carolina with-her mother-in-law, devoting herself to the
education of her son. Her father; Colonel Benson,* visited
her occasionally.
The two  eravian girls, with whom Marion Monek was a
great favorite, returned to Peru, where they married revolu-
tionary generals-and as their husbands were shot within a
year after their respective marriages, (bey became widows.
Forty-six Centre street was broken up by the death of its
proprietor, and is now a second-hand furniture store., Jemimy
the bar-keeper got a situation on the Police.
Of the descendant of the old Dutchman Van Hagen we have
given a full narrative up to the hour when we leave him a,
merchant in 'New York, where he must" do or die."
Their subsequent career must be the subject of a future
volunW, should it eyer be written4
THE   END

.1

NEW BOOKS
And Nrw Editions Recently ,sued by
OARLETON, PUBLISHER,
(Late RUDD &amp; CARLETON,)
413 BROADWAY, NEW           YORK.
N.B.-Tuu PuMLIenUt, upondreceipt of the price in advance, ill send any
of the folwing Book, by mail, POSTARiWhEn, to ny fputcteha IUti4l*tes.
This  vennt n ey fe mode ma beadoptad whe thegringBoo
sellers are not supplied with the desired, work., StAte, n~in6 sndl~deaIill
VICtor Hugo.
LES MISERABLES.-.The only unabridged English translation of
"the grandest and best Novel ever written." One large
octavo vol., paper covers,$I.oo, . or cloth bound,  -
LES MISERABLES.-A superior edition of the same Novel, in Iive
handsome octavo vols.-" Fantine," "iCosette," "Marius,"
"S. Denis,"and "Vaijean." Cloth bound, each vol.,4Ioo
THE LIE OF vIOTro HUGO..-Told by .a Witness (understood
to be an Autobiography). "Charming and interesting as
a Novel."  . . . One octave vol., cloth bound,  .2Z
By the Aentor er "Untledge."
RtUTLEYGE..-A very powerful Novel.  mmo.scl boundd. .$z,5o
THE BUTHERLANDS.-   . . . . .          do.
FRANK WARRINGTON.-    .       .do                i.g
LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S.-      do.      $1.25
Hand-Dooks or Good Society.
THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; with Thoughts, Hints, and
Anecdotes, concerning nice points of.taste,.good ,manners,
and the art of making oneself agreeable. Reprinted from
the London Edition. The best-and most entertaining work
of the -kind ever published.  iamo. cloth bound, $i.5o
THE ART OF 00NVERsATION.-A book of information,-amuse-v
ment, and instruction, and one that ought to be in the hands
of every one who w-wishes -tobe an ,greeable talker or lis-
tener. . . . . . . . , izmo. eloth bound, $i.2

N


LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED
Mrs. M8ary 3. Hlme9 Works.
MRiAN GREY.-A Novel.     '   i1zmO. cloth bound, $1.25
MARIN GEY  ve  .  ' .do.             $1.200
'LENRIVERS.- . . . . . *             do.      $1.25
MEADOW BROOK.-   . .    . e*         d
OMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE.-  .      do.       $1.25
DORA 1EANE.-   . . .     - e         do      . $1.5
C6USINMAUDE.-. . . . . .            do*$1.25
DARKNESS, AND DAYLIGHT.-(In press.)  do.       1.25
Artemus Ward,.
1isBoO.-Anl irresistibly funny volume of writings by the
immortal American humorist and showman; with plenty
of comic illustrationls to match.  120mo. ci. bound, $1.25
Miss Augusta s. Evans.
BEULAH.-A novel of great power and interest. Cl. bd., $1-50
Richard B. imbal.      b
.WAS HE SUCESSFUL?-   A novel. i zmo. c. -bound, $1-5o
UNDERURENTe.-    . . . dooo.                $1-50
SANT LEGER-   .  - . -  do.         do.      $1.50
ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE.- do.         do.     $
IN THE TROPIC.-Edited by R. B. Kimball. do.   1.25
Euthbert Bede.
THE     NTE             N    EEN.-A rollicking, humor-
ous novel of -student,. life in an'EFnglith University;9 with
more than zoo comic illustrations . 12mo ci. bd., $.25
Edmund Kirke.
IMONG TE PiNs.--A thrilling picture of life at the South.
12mo., paper covers, 75 cts, -  . or cloth bound, $.0oo
MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS; OR, LIFE IN DIXIE.-1If2mo., paper
covers, 75 ets., . . - - - - or cloth bound, i.oc
WHAT I SAW IN, TENNESSEE.-Paper, 75 cts., or ci. bd.,  - .oc,
The Central Park.
THE ORIGIN, PROGRESS, AND DESCRIPTION, OF THE MANIFICENT
CENTRAL PARK AT NEW YORK-Beautifully illustrated with
more than 50 exquisite photographs of the principal views
and objects of interest. One large quarto, sumptuously
bound in                   -Turkey morocco, $25.00
E~rnest Renal'.
rUZ "LIFE Oi JESUS.-Tanslated from ihe original French
by C. E. Wilbour. . . - - Izmo. cloth bound, $1.50

BY CARLETON,' EW YORK
A. . Roe's Works.
A LONIG LOOK AHEAD-.'.A novel. . lzmo. cloth, $i.z5
I'VE BEEN THINKING.- - 0  do. . .     do.  I$1.25
TRUE TO THELAST.- . . .. do. e * .    do.    $1.25
THE STAR AND THE CLOUD.--. do *       do.     1.2
11OW COULD HE HELP IT.- . do.       -do
LIKE AND UNLIKE.-.       do.     ,do.5
TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.- do
TIME AND TIDE.-- 0                      o       1.25
, *  * *  * * . *     do.    $1.25
Walter Barrett, clerk,
THE OLD MERCHANTS OF NEW YORK. CITY.-Being personal
incidents, interesting sketches,. and bits of biography con-
cerning nearly every leading merchant in New York. Two
series, - . . . . . i zmo. cloth bound, each, $1.5
Rev. John Cuminng, l.D., or London.
THE GREAT TRIBULATION; OR, THINGS COMING ON THE EARTH,.
Two series, . ,. . -zno. cloth bound, each, $1.oo
THE GREAT PREPARATION; REDEMPTION DRAWETH, NIGI.-
Two series.  - . . . izmo, cloth bound., each, $ioo
THE GREAT CONSUMMATION; OR, THE WORLD AS IT WILL BE.-.
Two series-.- . . i zmo, cloth bound, each, *1$.0o
TEACH US TO PRAY.-A volume of devotional sermons o the
Lord's Prayer.  1. ..i zmO.o Oth bound, $ .00
ill. YI11chelet'e Works..
LOVE (L'AMOUR).-Translated from the French. i 2m. ci., $1.25
WOMAN (LA FEMM)E.2jranslated from the French,1. . 1.20
THE MORAL HISTORY OF WOMEN.- do.       . -   $1.25
WOMAN MADE FREE.-From the French of D'Hericourt, $1.25
Novels bf Ruint.
DR. ANTONIo.-.A love story of Italy. , i2mo. cloth, $1.50
LAVINIA; OR, THE ITALIAN ARTIST.-  .  do.
DEAR EXPERIENOE.-With humorous illustrations. do.  $i.25
V[NCENZO; OR, SUNKEN ROCKS-Paper covers. . . $0-75
F. D. GuerrazzL
BEATRICE CENCI.-A historical .novel. Translated from the
Italian; with a portrait of the Cenci, from Guido's famous
picture in Rome.  . . . . izMo. cloth bound, *-50


6             LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED
Fred. . Cozzeus.
THE SPARROWGRASS PAPERs.-A  laughable picture cf Spar.
rowgrass's trials in living -in the country; with humorous
illustrations by Darley. 1 2mo. cL. bound,. . . .
Epes Sargent.
1ECULIA.-A very clever new novel. . i zmo. cloth, $1-5c
Charles Reade.
THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH; O, MAID, WIFE, AND WIDOW.---
A magnificent historical novel, Bygthe Author of "Peg Wof-
fington," etc. Reade's best work. --Octavo, cl. bd,, $1.50
The Orpheus C. Kerr Papers.
A collection of exquisitely-satirical and humorous military
criticisms. Two series. . izmo. cloth bound, each, $1.25
T. S. Arthur's New Works.
LIGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS. -            . Am. ci., $1.25
OUT 1IN THE WORLD.-(In press.) . . . dao.
Stephen l assett.
DRIFTING ABOUT.-By "Jeems Pipes," of Pipesville; with
many comic illustrations. . . . .  lmo. cloth, i.25
Joseph Rodinan Drake.
THE CULPRIT FAYT.- A faery poem; tinted paper, cloth, 5o cts.
Riether Goose for Grown Folks.
Humorous rhymes'for grown people; based upon the famous
"Mother GooseMelodies." Tinted paper, ci. bd., 75 cts.
Hearton Drille.
TACTICS; OE, CUPID IN SHOULDER STRAP.-A vivacious and
witty West Point love story. . . . I 1zimo. cloth, $1.oo
3. 0. Jeaffreson.
B1OOK ABOUT DOCTOBS.-A humorous and entertaining vol
ume of sketches about 'famous physicians And   our-
geons. . . . . . . . . . . iznmo. cloth, $1.50
JqU I. RaeketL
NOTES AND OMMENTS..ON SHAKSPEARE.-By the great Ame*'i-
can Falstaff; with portrait of the Author. i zmo. cl., $a.,o
New Sporting Work,
THE GAMR FISH OF THE wORTu.An entertaining as well as
instructive volume. Illustrated. . . . zno..cloth, $1.50

9
4.
I

imil


  
             
         
       
   
