
    ----CITATION----
        Livermore, Elizabeth D.. Zoe, or, The Quadroon's Triumph, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7098
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Zoe, or, The quadroon's triumph, vol. 2 
            
                 ZOE; OR THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. A TALE FOR THE TIMES. BY MRS. ELIZABETH D. LIVERMORE. WITH ILLUSTRATIONS, BY HENRI LOVIE7 AND CHARLES BAUERLE. "God has hid away the human soul in the black man's skin and his darker person, that in finding it, we may re-discover our alienated and forgotten nature; and rejoice more over the one that was lost, than the ninety and nine who went not astray."-BELLLOWS. VOL. II. CINCINNATI: TRUMAN   AND  SPOFFORD. 1855. , ' ' '/4   Entered according to Act of Congress. in the year 1855, by MRS. E. D. LIVERMORE, In the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio. E. MORGAN a SONS, ST ltEOTYERS.   CONTENTS. PAUE CHAPTER   I.- SANTA CRUZ ......................  CHAP.   II.- EMANCIPATION .................... 22 CHAP.  III,-- THE RETROSPECT ................... 38 CHAP.  IV.- Zo'ES GREETING TO THE TROPIC ..... 53 CHAP.   V.--MNGING OF THE OLD AND THE NEW. 65 CHAP.  VI.- YOUNG AMERICA EXPATIATES  ........ 79 CHAP. VII.- ZOE OPENS HER MSSION ............ 101 CHAP. VIII.-YOUNG AMERICA IS HERETICAL ON ART 115 CHAP.  IX.--THE QUEENS OF THE QUEEN CITY .... 131 CHAP.   X.- DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND ............. 138 CHAP. X. .- THEi SHPWRECK ................... 154 CHAP. XII.- "BOOKS IN BROOKS." ............... 161 CHAP. XIII.-MRs. PUMPKIN's TRACT FOR THE TIMES i74 CHAP. XIV.-THE QUARREf rAND ITS DENOUEMENT. 192 CHAP.  XV.- YOUNG AMERICA MAKES A DECLARZTION, NOT OF INDEPENDENCE ............ 209 CHAP. XVI.- THE WAR-HORSE EAGLE ............   222 CHAP. XVII.- HOME, wITH ITS SHADOWS .........  229 CHAP. XVIII.-THE WORMWOOD AND AND HE GALL ..... 237 CHAP. XIX.- THE HvRICANE .................... 247 CHAP. XX.- LIGHT AFTER -DARKNESS ............. 258 CHAP. XXI.--A VOICE FROM AMAZONA. ........... 266 CH AP. XXII.--THE CHURC H RhcUSANT .............. 280 CHAP. XXIII.- LETTERS AND REMNISCENCES ..... 289 CHAP. XXIV.- THE CLosING TRIUMPH. .............. 298 ( iii )   ILLUSTRATIONS. A. ZOE JUBILANT .  .   ............Frontpie X. REVOLUTION.. ................... r.. .  .......... 25 3. ZOE FIRST MEETING HER PEOPLE......    ........   56 4. YOUNG AMERICA AND HLDA..     .......... . ..........  65 5. SWEEPING THE STREETS .............          131 6. PLAYING BACKGAMMON .............................. 139 7. SHPWRECK .                ' ....-..e...!.. 154 8. BIG-EYEs AND ANI-MTATS .................   ......... 174 9. PEGASUS AND THE STEAM-ENGINE ......................  222 10. SANTA CRUZ     . ....................... 229 ". THE TEMPEST...2..............    .......... ..... 247 12. SOENE IN THE KITCHEN  ........ ...................... 258 13. SANTA CRUZ AND THE SEA....    .............. ... ... 279 ". Z..   ....................................... .  289 15. THE CLOSING TaBIU  ...   ..  ..   ........ 298 ( iv)   ZOE: OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. CHA'PTER 0B "6, ye heavens, be kind  And feel, thou Earth, for this afflicted race "-WORDAWOTRrT. Be  must now return to Santa Cruz and give a hasty sketch of the fortunes of George Carlan and his wife; during the twelve years' absence of their daughter in Denmark.  It will be recollected that the former, in emerging from slavery, had placed before himself two objects for which to live and labor-wealth, and independence; or as it may be expressed in one phrase, independence through wealth. Towards these his aims were directed and his ambitious hopes constantly aspiring. Sophia, on the contrary, affectionate and retiring, as she was, shared but in a slight degree her husband's restless wishes; and if ever her thoughts were turned towards his favorite goal, and her imagination excited by his visions of distant good attained through these means, it was that he and her child, more than herself, might win the happiness which would accrue from their possession. Mr. Carlan's industry and enterprise had been crowned with success so far as to place them in comfortable circum- stances. Indeed, in comparison with most of his tribe, he was wealthy and was regarded with consideration by his own caste. But his affluence gave him no honorable posi- tion among: the white Creoles of the island. To-be-surec (5)   6    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. he had business relations with them, and the Danish offi- cials treated him with a half friendly, half condescending familiarity, which was anything but agreeable. But by the English residents he was looked upon with distrust and aversion as an ambitious, discontented man, who was to be avoided and scorned on every possible occasion to prevent his impertinent encroachments upon their dignity and aris- tocratic rights. As these latter saw their power and influ. ence decline in the island just in proportion to the losses and poverty incurred by their miserable management of their property, spendthrift habits, and ruinous absenteeism, so in the same ratio did they hate the Irish emigrants into whose hands their estates had fallen, or the colored people who, through their enterprise, were seizing upon their commerce and manufactures. Had George Carlan, when he emerged from slavery, possessed a true idea of the value of freedom in its rela- tions to the training and development of the human soul above all things else, he would have been saved much bit- terness of feeling and many heartaches, and in the end have prospered much better also in his worldly affairs. For by this principle deeply-rooted and acting vitally upon his daily life, he would have gained a self-possession equal to every emergency, an insight into the laws of commer- cial intercourse, and proper appreciation of the forces of nature, and the due balance to be preserved between the consumption of the products in which he dealt and the law of their supply, quite indispensable to success in any busi- ness department. This, too, would have given him that patient reliance on Providence in untoward seasons, and that geniality and kindness of demeanor in his social and business relations, which are better than a capital of thou- sands to one who launches forth on the sea of commercial life. But these ideas he had had no opportunity of learning in slavery, and it was not to be expected that he would begin his career as a merchant under better auspices, in these   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    7 respects, than multitudes, who commence life with none of his disadvantages. Still he had much skill, shrewdness, and industry, and for several years his success was without a drawhack, and, as was remarked in the commencement of this story, he was enabled to surround himself and family with not only the comforts, but many of the luxuries of life.  But in his social relations he was, as it were, between two fires. On the one hand, he was looked down upon, yet dreaded and contemned by the whites. On the other, in proportion as he was separated from the blacks by his mixed caste, his ambitious aspirations, and his gentlc- manly, and it must be confessed, haughty bearing and more luxurious surroundings, so was he hated, suspected, and even scorned by them. Many a time, in the market and on the highway, as he passed along through groups of laborers, or even met the convict-troop on their way to work upon the roads, did he hear the muttered sentence: "'Black man get along very well with Buckra before colored man come; he make all the trouble." This, of course, did not increase his sympathy for his race, or give him much hope of aiding them in their uprising. On the contrary, he grew more and more moody and silent as the years went by, more discontented with his position, and more hopeless of taking his stand side by side with the haughty whites. Absorbed in business as he was, he gained no higher tastes with which to occupy his few leisure hours, so that he too often, instead of bringing sunshine and strength to his home, distressed Sophia by throwing out hints of his determination to leave the island altogether and go to Denmark, or better still, to more sunny and genial, and hospitable France. How, in the meantime, did she, the more simple, refined, and retiring nature, fare in this rude, conflicting war of the different elements which made up the social life of her adopted island? In one sense better, in another worse.   8    ZOE, OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. She and her husband were very unlike in temperament and character. He, with his admixture of Anglo-Saxonism, partook very largely of its more striking characteristics. He was proud, self-respecting, practical, and grave. She, on the other hand, had the traits of the poetic, artistic, re- ligious African. The white tinge in her cheek came, too, from French extraction on the maternal side, which modi- fied her character to a tone more graceful and spirituelle. Her mother was from Martinique, a slave in a prominent family in that island, and favorite cook of the establish- ment. The father of Sophia was the son of her master, and she had dim recollections of being fondled, in her infancy, by a handsome young man under the shade of the banana trees which surrounded their hut. When about eighteen years old, her master and mistress came to Santa Cruz on a visit, bringing her as one of their attend- ants. Wishing to show their appreciation of the hospitality of their host and hostess, they gave Sophia to their eldest daughter as a parting gift. In the course of two or three years after this event the young lady died of a painful and lingering disease, in which the slave-girl watched her by night and day. Through this companionship of suffering on one side, and of tender, devoted, and sympathizing alle- viation on the other, there grew up between them a strong affection. Elinor, for that was the young lady's name, could hardly permit her out of her sight. No hand could smooth so suitably as hers the pillow for her aching head, the bitter draught lost half its loathsomeness when held to her lips by her gentle bondwoman, and when she was away, her eye would wander restlessly around the room for her favorite attendant. Sophia had learned, previously to this time, how to read imperfectly, and soon her young mistress preferred her slow, interrupted articulation of passages from her favorite authors to the more finished enunciation of her own sisters. Here was a spur to improvement in this art, so that she learned to read with much propriety in   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONiS TRIUMPH.     9 this her primary school both of literature and bereavement. For, at one time of that mysterious, dead hush of nature, which attends the hours of early morning in the hottest summer nights, when it seems an effort for even the well and strong to keep the vital spark from failing, this delicate southern flower folded its petals, drooped, and faded away into the dull hue of death, exhaling its latest breath into the ear of her beloved nurse in the form-of the glad tidings of--"Liberty to the captive." So she was free, and ere- long she was a freeman's wife, and the wild rapture of her betrothal, the bliss of her bridal eve, the chastened delight of her first morn of motherhood were all blended in her mind, hallowing it by their influence, with that sad but sweet death-bed scene, and with those entrancing words, toned down to tenderest, softest accents by her young mis- tresses failing breath, of "Ye are free, inasmuch as ye have willingly done all this for me." Until Zoe's departure, scarcely a shade had come across her wedded life. Her husband, though much engrossed by his business, was kind and affectionate, and she had so much gladness within herself, that his occasional fits of abstraction and silence were not much heeded by her, especially as she was ever pretty successful in withdraw- ing him from them by her playful chit-chat. When Zoe was born, after a three years' marriage, her happiness was complete, for the care of her child filled up the hours of her husband's absence, and she had no ambitious designs of a foreign culture for her, and no corroding anxiety for a higher station than her present one in the associations of the island. With no relatives of her own there, she had chosen her companions very much as her natural affinities led her, so that they were among the best of her class, and with a strong, instinctive love of nature leading her daily into the most beautiful haunts within reach of her home, she was less dependent upon social intercourse than was common among her people.   10   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. Her husband's relations were of a very mingled charac- ter, both as it regarded color, habits, and general develop ment. Some were in slavery, some free, but none of them had enjoyed the same early advantages as himself; for he was a trusty servant to one of the best English residents, and had caught much of the tone of mind and manner of his master and his household. They, on the contrary, even the emancipated, had less sense of character, less idea of the discipline necessary to enable them to make the most of their freedom, and were, therefore, thriftless, improvident, and disposed to rely very much on him for assistance and support. They attributed his greater success to good luck; were ever bemoaning their own hard lot; comparing, in a discontented spirit, their fortunes with his; repining at their own sufferings and struggles; and, at the same time, congratulating him with sinister look and tone upon his exemption from them. All this was a great trial to Mr. Carlan, and he tried to remedy their difficulties as much as possible; but, of course, time was requisite to heal all the evils entailed upon them by their former slavery. Sophia's quick woman's wit and keener spiritual insight, saw that the trouble rested very much upon their indolent habits, and want of judgment, and that, while men and women in stature, they were but children in character, and mental and social habits. They wasted their earnings by thriftlessness, and then came to her husband to make up their losses, and yet were angry if either of them sug- gested a different and better course of conduct for them. They quarreled among themselves and appealed to him as an umpire; and yet loaded him with abuse, if, in mediat- ing between them, he ventured to condemn, though in the most careful manner, the conduct of either party, so that he was constantly perplexed and anxious on their account. All this served to imbitter him still more when he thought of the rank which the colored people held in the island.   ZOE; AB, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    " He was sufficiently advanced himself to see the evils re- suiting to them from the prevailing prejudice against caste and color, at the same time, that he had but little hope, and saw less and less prospect of their taking soon a different position. The curse of slavery still hung over this beautiful island, and its effects were most deadly and disheartening; and in the little world of his relations the several acts of its fearful tragedy were daily enacting. "My dear," said Sophia to him one day, "I really think it is better for you not to give your brother Fred so much money as you do. He does not spend it prudently. I met him this afternoon driving two horses tandem, and dressed in a style which you do not allow in yourself, and really his wife quite outshines me in her finery." (' I know it, Sophia. I try to have him more thrifty and saving, but I can't make much impression upon him. He has been miserably brought up, poor fellow! what can we expect of him?" "I know we must make allowances, of course; but really your money injures him, I think. It prevents his depend- ing upon his own industry and fosters his spendthrift habits. Besides, it is not right on your own account. Here you are working from morning to night, and pouring out your means like water to one and another, and when I get tired of being alone, and beg you to stroll on the sea-beach with me, or sit under the veranda and enjoy the cool breeze, you say you have so much to do that you cannot. I really think Fred ought to depend on himself more, and his children should be trained to industry by necessity, if not willingly. Character is worth more to them than any amount of pre- sents from you. Tell him so, will you not, dear, hext time he asks you for money?" "Sophia, he is my only brother; I must help him or he would soon suffer. I cannot make up my mind to tell him so either. I know I work hard for my income, but as it is mine I must do-as I think best with it."   12    ZOE; OR, THE IUAEjROQN'S TRIUMPH. His wife was silent and subdued, but, though a coloret woman, with the quick, instinctive, moral sense of her race, and acute natural idea of justice, she was not able to see, any more than her white sisters under the same cir- cumsances, how it happened, that when they began their married life together, with scarcely a stiver, and she had, by her own industry and good management, helped to make their home comfortable and tasteful, and by her economy in saving their earnings, had served to increase their means, that they should be so coolly, and quite as a matter of course, appropriated by himself, and she, in the meantime, be made to feel as a dependent and intruder if she alluded to the mode of their expenditure. Still she was happy, and able, therefore, to dispel all such unpleasant reflections which might be forced upon her. But year after year passed, and matters grew worse and worse. George was more discontented and gloomy, less than ever at home, and more and more silent when there. Sophia watched with a beating heart his dark and brooding countenance, and strove by endearments and delicate atten- tions to withdraw him from himself and become once more to him what she was in the first years of their marriage. Not that he was unkind to her. He would have been shocked had he been told that he was negligent in his home-duties, and cruel towards the tender, loving spirit, who had given her affections and happiness into his keep- ing. By the sophism, that business was all important, and that, by providing her with abundant food and clothing, he was fulfilling the pledge he had given her on their mar- riage eve, he silenced any reproaches which might arise within him as he saw her move about their dwelling with abated spirits, or detected traces of tears on her morning face instead of the bright expression of days gone by. But with all this absorption in business, he did not pros- per as well as at first. As his spirits darkened and he grew morose and suspicious, he ceased to be the favorite ,'4   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.     13 that he had been with the captains of vessels and other strangers who visited the island. So that his yearly profits were less and less, and with the diminution of moral force of character, he was more and more imposed upon by his eager relatives. Thus his property sensibly diminished from year to year. This was readily perceived by Sophia, who adapted her expenditures accordingly. The French, it is well known, have wonderful capabilities in providing nutritious and attractive repasts from slender materials. Sophia had profited by the early instructions of her mother, and was an adept in all kinds of cheap, yet elegant cookery. She dismissed some of her servants to suit the exigencies of their lot, and occupied herself more with her domestic affairs. But in this course she went too far, for, by exerting herself too much in household exercise, debilitating in its effect in a hot climate, she brought on an illness, which put an end to the hope which had given her fresh joy, that soon, in the care of a new object of affection, her constant sense of Zoe's loss might be relieved. Her husband, aroused to the idea of his wife's critical situation, insisted upon it that she should work less at home and live more, as she was so fond of doing, in the open air among her favorite haunts. He even gave some more time each day to her care and diversion, and something like by-gone happiness revisited them. But as he saw her recover her accustomed strength and health, he returned to his old habits of busy toil during the day, and silent, moody, or sleepy evenings, and she was thrown more and more upon herself. And yet she was not alone, for, to the true lover of nature every tree is a support to the spirit as much as to the leaning frame-every sound of its waving leaves, when touched by the breeze, is a gentle whisper of the Almighty to the quickened ear of her who stands and reverently listens. Each flower is a smile, brighter or more tender, of the beauty-loving Artist of the universe. Each tiny   "  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. moss-cup is a hint of God's ever-watchful care and super- vision of the lowliest of his children. Each brilliant shell and sparkling coral, as it is thrown up from the deep, mur- murs of infinite love and joy. Every bird warbles in its song of its intimate communion with the spirit who gave it its little harp, from whose strings gush forth such melody, and she tunes her own inner flute to harmonious liquid measures; and the great ocean, with its roar and surge, is but a fitting accompaniment to the full organ-tones, which swell almost to bursting from the over-soul within her. Sophia was without the education of the schools, nor was her mind trained to subtlety and shrewdness by the current literature and philosophy of the day, any more than her tastes were shrunken to dainty dillettanteism, or her character warped to suit the vulgar loftiness of tone of modern, fashionable, conventional life. But God be thanked for the great school, which, through our dear mother Nature, he has opened for the souls of his children, for the high seminary of which Jesus is the head, where we may learn the great principles for the government of our- selves and the nations; and for the university of life where we may acquire, at the same time that we put in practice, the rules which are to fit us for, and conduct us through the eternities. Sophia was a docile pupil in all these schools. She daily sat at the feet of each prophet and seer, both in the Book handed down from the ages and in "God manifest" near her on the sea-shore, and mountain- top, and mahogany grove, and her spirit grew under their influence till in its beauty, and richness, and perpetual vitality, it surpassed the luxurious vegetation of her tropi- cal island. For so wonderfully has God adapted himself, his visible creation, and us to each other, that we have but to put ourselves in loving relationship with them, through their various voices and intonations, and second their efforts in our training by obedience to their wholesome   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    15 methods and gentle admonitions, and we grow into sym- metry and loveliness like the tamarind tree or the star-jas- min, and the fragrance of our lives arises sweeter to heaven than the odor of the orange tree. This lesson has the midnight student yet to learn, who shuts himself up day after day from the sweet air, and the dancing sunlight, and the cheerful voices of his kind to bury himself among the dusty tomes of the past, till his brain aches, and his face becomes wizard-like, and his hand is palsied by grasping his ponderous volumes, and life, nature, man, and God, take nightmare shapes in his view, so that when he pens his lucubrations, they darken more than enlighten mankind. But it is not well for us to dwell too much alone, and Sophia suffered in this respect. She lived on pleasant terms with her neighbors, and was affectionate and kind to her husband's relatives. But they were all unlike and very inferior to herself. One family, of a sister of her hus- band, she hoped much from in the way of companionship. They had natural refinement and were better taught, in some ways, than the other sisters and nieces. But their false position in the society of the island showed itself in a way peculiarly disagreeable to her taste and moral sense. They led a melo-dramatic life, as it were, acting not from the spontanepus impulse of simple, truthful minds, but with an eye to effect and admiration. "Aunt Sophia," said Eliza Larkin one afternoon, as she sauntered into her parlor, "I have come to sit with you a little while, and see if you cannot cheer me, for I am very drooping to-day." "Ah! what has happened, dear; you look well. , No bad news I hope from Thomas?" "O no! he was well yesterday, and his employer has raised his salary; but I often suffer from low spirits. Lieu. tenant Heidrich, who was at our house last evening, noticed this, and told me that my pensiveness was very becoming," and she cast up her eye towards the ceiling and sighed.   1  ZOE; OQ, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "When is Thomas coming home?" said Mrs. Carlan. "Next month, I believe, Have you heard from cousin Zoe lately, aunty?" "Yes, dear. We had a letter by the last ship, and she sent much love to all her cousins. I thought I told you." "I dare say. Did she ever write of the Baroness Von Worm? Lieutenant Hiedrich says that I remind him of her; that I have an expression in my eye which he never saw in any one but hers," and she opened and shut them several times with great emphasis. "No, I think Zoe does not know her. She speaks of Mrs. Liebenhoff, and Mrs. Kirner, and a few others; but she has not very many acquaintances outside her school." "I went to the Governor General's last levee with Uncle Fred, and the Danish officers were very attentive to me, and I heard one of them say that I was the handsomest girl in the room;" and she raised her hand to brush aside her curls. Her aunt said nothing to this, and she continued. "I wore my blue tarleton, with my new bertha, which is edged with real lace, and Lieutenant Heidrich put a lovely red rose in my hair, and said that it set off to good advan- tage my luxurious beauty." "My dear Eliza, I hope you will not suffer your head to be bewildered and your heart turned away from Thomas, your good lover, by Lieutenant Heidrich or any other Danish gentlemen. Depend upon it he means no good to you by his flatteries. Heed my words, love, will you not?" Eliza grew sullen, and said but little more before leav- ing; and Sophia's heart sank within her at the thought of the easy virtue of the women of her people, whom the taint of slavery still infected in the holiest sanctuary of married life, and blasted the hopes with which the truth of loving hearts was plighted. iA   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    17 Thus Mrs. Carlan had but a limited companionship, either with her busy husband or with her low-toned rela- tives and neighbors. Her own being was constantly grow- ing through the natural influences upon it of life, nature, and the Word of God, while no one kept even pace with her, so as to balance it by a sympathetic expansion and support, She was constantly receiving strength and inspi- ration, while she could ordinarily give out only what her friends were capable of absorbing-the mere surface-work- ings of her soul. Imprisoned, as she was, to all intents and purposes by the conventional walls which society had builtup, around her, she could no more act out fully her highest self, than when she, was a slave, could she go at her own will from island to island, ,  In Santa Cruz she was an exceptional person., Perhaps another could not :be found of a similar development, so few influences are there to rouse human nature to its full- est action. But in our own free land society is full of women, restless, discontented, and morbid from a painful sense of repression. Some strong, energetic spirits in the higher walks of life, who unfortunately feel themselves exempted either by the possession of wealth or by pride of caste, from the common labor of their households, and who have a nervous dread of any of the unfashionable ideas about woman's rights, spend their lives in trifling occupa- tions, insisting upon it that their sphere is sufficiently large for them. They think, perhaps, that their frequent fits of ennui, the blues, or whatever other name may be given to nervous depression and melancholy, are quite in the common course of human nature, though a disagreeable phase of it. So, if young, they emerge from a ten days' fit of com- plaining ill-temper, and sadness combined, to expand them- selves to a broader circumference in hooped skirts, exten- sive collars, latitudinary plaits of hair, and marvellous hats, astounding by their showy quality just in proportion to their diminishing quantity, and rearward tendency. If matrons 2   18   20E; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. and housekeepers, they make up for their stinted normal action of mind by devoting themselves to spacious man- sions, mirrors, and showy upholstery, which suggest that Aladdin's lamp should ever be in their possession; and to entertainments which vie with the extravagant waste of the ancient Romans in the days of their voluptuous decline. Some, stung to desperation by our falsities of thought and life, mount the rostrum and the pulpit, and, Pythoness- like, screech out their denunciations against our slaveries, monopolies, and frauds, and get hooted at for their fury and zeal. And there is some truth of feeling in the condemna- tion of society, though it may be sinning to the very extent of their accusations; for, if one has a truth in advance of the age, it should be regarded as a precious trust and deposit; it should be hovered over by the soul, with the brooding love of a bird for its young; it should be fed with the choicest nutriment to be found under God's can- opy; ay, and He should be wrestled with by the strong arm of prayer until he nurture it fromr his own storehouse above. It should be aired by the fresh breezes which blow all about us, so that it contract no rust or taint from our own possible mental stagnancy. Above all, it should nestle in the most loving nook of our hearts, and in its warmth it should abide until its sweetest song is panting to warble forth of itself, and its pinions are so strong that it can ever mount higher and higher without wish to return again to the earth or the home of its infancy. Then, its clear, musical note entrances and wins, and men cannot but listen and learn from its song the lyrics of the skies. Others, with gentle accents and tearful eyes, speak out the thought that is in them, an evidence of their earnest- ness, though it may not be strong enough to bear up the listeners to the point of their own interest and fervor. Others still, in individual and associated action show their powers of direction, and thus give expression to their benevolence. Some issue their prettily turned thoughts in   ZOO; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH     1i verse and fiction with facility and pleasure and gain by this relief, and in the world's acceptance and praise the happi- ness they ask for. But what shall she do whose tastes, culture, disposition, and aversion to prominent leadership point to no satisfac- tory division of labor in society as it is, but who sees the necessity of a still greater upheaving of old principles and customs and modes of thought and action before she can take her full share of the work of society upon her should- ers? Her daily life is an ideal one, but she has outlived the period when she thought it necessary and right to push it aside, cover it up, or extinguish it altogether, in order to fulfill God's appointments for her in the world. She has measured it by the Christian standard, and it compares well with that, and she sees that to live the same is the vital necessity of the world no less than of herself. She looks abroad and beholds signs on every side of the need of a higher life, and prognostications of its approach, though it limps, and wanders, and seems sometimes almost lost on its way. Restrained, as she is, by the laws of her own being, which have become to her a primary revelation, kept within her accustomed sphere by reverence and regard for-the beloved and revered, whose feebler and less pierc- ing imaginative glance discerns not what is clear to her in coming futurity, prevented from full expression, lest she should alarm them by what they would deem the vagaries of insanity, what, we ask again, can she do when the truth is as clear as a sunbeam to her that the feminine element, as expressed by the religion of Jesus, and which all along, in the world's history, has been in abeyance, is to'lead on the ages of the future? The feminine element! not merely in woman of course, but wherever it may be found, in all the different races, conditions, and castes, but which needs something more than the timid, slow, and compromising means put in force by the men of this generation, however sincere they may be, to give it supremacy. In the prevailing   20   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. skepticism of the day, the abandonment of churches and growing disbelief in the Scriptures, she sees how much the intellect of the age is in advance of its creeds and forms. In magnetism, spiritualism, and other forms of psychological development, she discerns a growth of soul, hitherto scarcely dreamed of on this side heaven. It shows itself at present in startling, awkward, abnormal ways, but by little and little it comes under obedience to legitimate laws, and, ere-long, will adjust itself to natural, simple, but elevated philosophical:rules.' What, I say, can she do, when she sees all this, and, in the new order of things, opening to society .throughthese. means, recognizes her' extended sphere of -action, but bide her time, and nourish, and, 'at the same time, keep within bounds her struggling, ' flattering faith, and subdue herself to the patience needed for the slow and wearisome hours? She rises in the morning, not to tire herself with labor, for she finds not sufficient of the same to suit her present develop- ment. On the contrary, the struggle is to repress her powers to her limited exigencies and means, to still herself to endure the world's present slow march of progress in spiritual life, to do her part meekly in the humble now, when her plans are squared to the broad spaces of the glorious future. The masculine minds around her point to the past, and weary her with old saws and maxims of the times gone by, when she hints of her hopes of the coming era! And well they may, for that has been their sphere in which her .account was small. But the future belongs to the feminine power, and in that is her home, and there will she find her crown of rejoicing. Thus dying to the past, while awakening to the future, upon- which no one looks with her prophetic vision, and, there- fore,.her words are but as idle tales to her companions, there is nothing left her but to write, write. So she covers sheet after sheet with her burning thoughts, that thus the fervor of her soul may allay itself, and as she weaves, day *J   ZO; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   21 by day this bright-colored web of her destiny, whose warp is of lightning and its woof of the mid-day sunbeams, she is but half relieved of the fire which flames through her whole being. O! then comes to her, like the draught of cooling water in the desert, our holy religion, bathing her spirit so that it is subdued yet not weakened. It paints before her mind's eye scenes as beautiful, but more true than the mirage in the skies of the east. It bids her wait patiently for the- fulfillment of her visions, trusting in a power greater than her own, at the same time that it points with directing finger to. the work which will leave her no sense of insufficiency, but will glorify and brighten her daily lot with the pomp and radiance of the heavens. But Sophia Carlan had not the ready aid of her pen to relieve her mind in its preternatural operations. She was in delicate health. She was lonely and longed for the companionship of her child, and in her husband she found but scanty sympathy, proportioned to the increasing de- mands of her nature. So that, like many at the present day in this country, the over-soul spilled itself out in weird, abnormal ways. She became a somnambulist, and was subject to trances, which frightened him, and to clairvoy- ance, which puzzled while it filled him with dread. He was not without superstition, and at first he feared some evil spirit had got possession of her, yet, as she was always in a happy and elevated state when in them, he gradually lost this feeling, but at the same time kept her away from all prying eyes when under their influence. Such was their mutual condition when an event long looked forward to, but sudden at the last, occurred in the islard, The dark gathering clouds shot their bolt of lightning, and uttered their peal of thunder, awful to the unprepared, but healthful and invigorating in their tendency to the waiting and longing who saw beyond the war of the ele, ments the bow of promise arched above.   ONNAPTER Boa "Yet, freedom! yet, thy banner, torn, but flying, Streams, like the thunder-storm, against the wind!"-BYRON. government of Denmark had for years kept in view the emancipation of the negro slaves, included within its colonies of Santa Cruz, St. Thomas, and St. Johns. It had afforded the means for a small amount of education through the schools and churches under the care prin- cipally of Moravian missionaries, and facilities through which liberty could be bought by the more indus- tri6us and enterprising blacks. It granted privileges by which the free colored people became equal to the whites in the eye of the law, and were allowed the same religious advantages as themselves. Farther than that, the gover- nor-general encouraged social intercourse between them, and by means of his occasional levees, strove to bring ther. together as much as possible. This, of course, was dread- ful to the whites, and, if they dared, they would never have returned an affirmative answer to the invitation to honor themselves by their attendance upon him, their un- popular governor. "What do you intend to wear to the levee to-night?" said Emma Stinson to Jane Rutgard. "I have not thought much about it," said she, with a toss of her head. "I had rather be put into the calaboose than go there at all. I hate the governor, and despise all his invitations," throwing his card across the room. r 2as )   ZOE; OR, TIlE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   23 "Hush!" said her mother, who at that moment saw John, one of the servants, slink out of a distant door of the long apartment in which they were sitting. "Do be careful how you speak thus within hearing of the people." "I do not care, mamma, I am too indignant to keep my speech within bounds. Here we are, forced to go whether we will or no, to cringe and bow to this shameless man, whose yellow mistress will be permitted to give herself airs over us, and her vulgar relations will jostle us aside to take the precedence as we walk to the supper-room. I can't bear it," and Jane reddened with passion as she gesticulated with great emphasis; "I have a great mind to say, I will not go at any rate, and then tell him the reason." "And have your father civilly told that his services are no longer needed by government-hey? My dear, you may as well submit to these little unpleasantnesses," said the indolent Mrs. Rutgard, leaning back in her arm-chair and fanning herself. "It is not very often we are obliged to endure it." "Affairs are growing worse and worse,n said Emma. "Mamma says, that she verily believes, from all she has heard, that the governor is plotting for the emancipation of the slaves. Already they begin to grow insubordinate and take airs upon themselves." "They have never been as contented and obedient since the law was made, that after twelve years, they should have their freedom. Give them an inch and they will take an ell," said Jane. "I know that they are an ungrateful race," said Mrs. Rutgard, with a little more energy than usual. "Though I have been so indulgent to my servants, and they have had so many favors, I dare say, that they would forget it all in a moment, were there a prospect of their fieedom and leave me to take care of myself," and the poor lady put her handkerchief to her eyes.   24   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "There will be no safety for us, if there should be an insurrection," said Miss Tomkins, an elderly maiden, in a harsh, guttural tone. "They would take all our lives. I would not trust one of them. Our safety rests upon their being kept under strict rule. I wish we could have a dif- ferent governor-general from this present .treacherous one." These last words were spoken in a lowered tone, lest the trade-wind, as it fanned their faces in their open apartment, should waft the rebellious sentences to any one of the many greedy Danish officials by whose exorbitant salaries, among other means, the mother country impover- ished her colonies. "O! I was so frightened, one night last week," said Jane. "I was at Hannah's Rest' with Amelia. We sat up pretty late chatting, and after I went to my room I could not get to sleep. Her tea was so strong, I believe it kept me awake, for I drank more than usual in the even- ing. There I was lying alone, feeling a little nervous and fidgetty when I heard a tap, tap, tap. I did not move at, first, though I trembled all over, but listened with my ears, wide open. By-and-by, tap, tap, tap again. I felt then quite sure that it was a signal of the slaves who were assembling for some mischief or other. I jumped up, de- termined to do my part to put them down if I died. in the attempt, and lighted a lamp. I stood and listened, again tap, tap, tap!" "For heaven's sake, what was it?" said Emma, wrought up to great excitement by her graphic, earnest manner of telling her story. "'I went to the window and looked all about, but could see nothing by the pale moonlight, and everything seemed still. I began to think it was my imagination, and I was going to bed, when tap, tap, tap again!" "O, gracious!" said Emma, clasping her hands, and holding her breath. "I could bear it no longer, so I went to brother An-   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH.    26 drew's door, and told him that there was a disturbance among the negroes. He was out in quick time, as you may suppose, with pistols in hand." "Where? what?" said he, looking really pale with fright; "and as for Amelia, I thought she would go into fits. Her scream, when I first told them, awakened the baby, who began to cry at the top of his voice, so you may suppose, what a bedlam there was." it Go on, and tell us about the revolt," said Emma, catching hold of Jane's arm, angry at her collateral details, and her eyes staring with fear. 4 Why, it was not a revolt, child," said she, alarmed by her eager look. "I led Andrew into my room and told him to stand still and listen. By-and-by, tap, tap again." "You foolish child, said he, partly relieved and partly provoked, 'it is in your own closet.' He opened the door, and away sprang a little mouse. My sister had set away some guava jelly upon a salver, resting it upon two small bandboxes. Mousey was attracted by the paste which was used in covering it with paper, and in nibbling upon that, moved the salver which was set unevenly upon the boxes, and hence, the tap, tap, tap!" ' O, dear!" said Emma, " is that all? Next time you relate an exciting story, tell how the end is to be, before you begin. Why, you have scared me out of a year's growth." "We ought to be prepared for the worst," drawled Miss Tomkins. "Emma" said she, to her niece, "put down your window at night, won't you? There is no knowing who may come about the house; the negroes are getting very disorderly, I think." "Why, Aunty, you know I should suffocate without air, and it is at least twenty feet from the ground. But if you think I ought to, I will." This is but one instance of the continual apprehension which haunts the slaveholder. No matter whether his fears -    26   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. are well-grounded or not, they are the ghosts which injus- tice and wrong conjure up, and no influence within the limits of the terrible system, can allay them. They stalk about, growing ever more grim, ghastly and threatening, until the evil shall be repented of, and removed from the land. It was true that the slaves were getting more and more dissatisfied with their condition, so one fine morning, in- stead of going to work as usual, a troop of some thou- sands of them assembled together from the plantations, with their sharp, working implements in hand, and declared themselves free. They shed no blood, and their depreda- tions upon property were comparatively small. Only a few persons who had made themselves particularly obnoxious to the blacks by cruel usage or provoking remarks at the time, suffered from their retaliation. They even attempted to allay the fears of the whites, as they marched through the streets of Fredericstadt, where the rebellion first began. To a lady, who gazed fearfully upon their move- ments from her piazza as they passed along, a dark, tumul- tuous crowd of excited human beings, they said; "We won't hurt you, Missis. We only want our freedom, and freedom we will have!" - There must have been a general concert among them, for, with some unimportant excep- tions, the insurrection was universal throughout the island, Bassin, the eastern town, being only a very little later in the same movement, than its sister town at the more west- ern point. The white Creoles fled to the ships in the harbor, and awaited the result. They sent immediately to Porto Rico for assistance from its troops, as the Danish force on the island was small and hesitating in its movements. Some of the negroes came down to the shore and solicited the return of the inhabitants to their homes, telling them that they should be unharmed; but they were too much alarmed to run the hazard. At Baisin the military fired a few times *             r   ZOL; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    27 into the rebel crowd, and some individuals were sacrificed, one of which was a woman. But the all-important point was gained. Freedom was proclaimed by the governor-general, who all along had been suspected of aiding and abetting them in their deter- mination. The government made arrangements by which each troop of negroes should be required to remain for a year in their former homes for small wages, and the island settled down again into comparative quiet. It seemed to be considered necessary to make an example of the lead- ers, so that fifteen of them -were, a few weeks afterwards, shot in cold blood on the open square of the western town, and a large number of others were condemned to the chain-gang. These examples of cruelty and bloodshed came with an ill grace from the whites, who had been spared by the blacks in their day of power, not a blow having been struck, nor a hair of their heads being injured in the insurrection. The Governor was recalled to Denmark in disgrace, and another was appointed in his place. The Spanish troops which were sent from Porto Rico returned home on the arrival of the Danish reinforcements, and the turbulent elements which had threatened to submerge this fair little island in a sea of troubles, were to the casual observer allayed by the prompt discipline and watchful oversight of the mother country. Mr. Carlan was one of the sufferers by the insurrection. He was distasteful to the blacks, for his admixture of race and his aspiring temper, which naturally led him away from their fellowship. By the lower class of colored peo- ple he was also disliked, because of his haughty reserve; and among these were some of his distant relatives. He had gone on, recklessly giving to one and another of them of his means, without much sense of responsibility, deaf to the suggestions of his wife, that he was really hindering their rise in the scale of humanit glSi. vi ;hem from ,;ffc;'"rSS   28    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. the exertion of their powers, which she plainly saw nothing but absolute necessity would arouse. At length his eyes were opened to the fact that, as their demands were insatiable, it was of no use to attempt to -satisfy them, and that he must graduate his gifts by his own sense of what was right under the circumstances, leaving them to be pleased or discontented, as the case -might be. This aroused the anger of those whose assist- ance from him was reduced; and low as they were in spirit and character, they were angry with him for his diminished help, rather than grateful for the generosity of past years. Too late for his or their good he learned that, in solving the difficult problem of ho* to benefit the less favored classes, the first step is to accumulate as much power of character as possible in ones-self, and while, at the same time, that, from a broad outlook we take in their general and particular wants, we must have an equal sense of responsibility, firmness, and common sense in adminis- tering to them as in guiding ourselves from the hurtful effects of weakness, indolence, error, and guilt. Tle mob, at the time of the insurrection, gathered around Mr. Carlan's store and made some threatening demonstra- tions, but were about leaving, when a free colored man, a cousin of his, to whom he had refused money the day be- fore, called out, "Pitch into the upstart's goods! Let him see what comes of looking down upon people!"They obeyed, and his well-filled warehouse was soon a scene of confusion and spoil. His home, which was near, they did not molest. His 'wife's gentle, affectionate heart and deportment were well known, and in a moment after the deed was done, some of the rioters repented on her account, and testified to its truth by assisting in their leisure hours to repair the dam- age committed and replace the articles saved from destruc- tion in their positions again. The same group of white Creoles were sitting in the   ZOlSb OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    29 cabin of the Emily a few days after comparative quiet had been restored in the country, though they dared not yet return to their homes. "What a dreadful state of things for us!" said Mrs. Rutgard. "It was as much as I could do before this rebel- lion to manage my servants and make them do what I required of them. But now that their heads are turned by this foolish notion of freedom, matters will be a thou- sand times worse. O dear, now ungrateful in them to subject us to this, after all we have done for them!" "I expected nothing better of Jim and Bill, for my part," said Jane; " and as for Susan, she has always been as im- pudent as she could be to me. She will be giving herself airs, I suppose, and tossing her head at me, (and Jane's was in imminent danger of dislocation from a sudden jerk upward,) I declare I want to leave the island forever. Papa, let's go home and live." Jane was born, bred, and educated in Santa Cruz. It was her father and mother's birthplace too, though they had been sent to England for a few years when young. Her grandfather, it was true, was a native of that kingdom, so, according to the custom of the islanders of considering themselves as expatriated, the whole family called the mother country home. "H shall not have sufficient property left for that, my dear," said Mr. Rutgard. "This cursed emancipation has ruined us all. My estate would go for a mere song now. Confound the government."' (Sotto voce.) This said estate- had been impoverished by the ruinous system of raising a succession of crops of the sugar-cane for years, instead of relieving it by other productions; it had never been generously enriched, and besides that, the gentleman was convivial in his habits, extravagant in his expenditures, and thriftless in the management of his business every way, and yet emancipation was, to bear all the blame of his diminished means!   30   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. 1"Papa, says that he thinks we may get along even better than before," said Emma. "C The negroes will be con- tented with small wages, and will work all the better for them. At any rate, he is going into the new system in good earnest and try to have it work well." "I don't want it to work well," said Mr. Rutgard. "And if every planter would- stand back, instead of making the best of it, we might yet induce Denmark to give us back old times again. Curse these new-fangled notions! The slaves are not fit for freedom. They are an ignorant, de- graded set, and yet they are to be equal to us in the eye of the law. What are we coming to? The impudence of those colored rascals is insufferable. When we were con- ferring with them on the day they came down to ask us to return to the town, that scoundrel Bill had the impertinence to nod to me with a twinkle in his eye, as if I were an equal." Emma turned away with an irresistible smile, for so striking was the resemblance between the two, that among both slaves and freemen of all colors he bore the sportive appellation of Gen. Rutgard, Jr. "Ah!" said the languishing Mrs. Rutgard, who could be pungent when occasion offered. "Our iniquities find us out. These children of sin will, I verily believe, get final possession of our beautiful island. I want no other home to live and die in; but we may be forced from it," and she fumbled in her pocket for her handkerchief, while her; husband wriggled on his chair. "I know," said Emma, " there are some dear, good creatures among them. When the first cry of insurrection was raised, Mammy Otte turned pale--you need not laugh, Jane-she did turn pale with fright, and wound her arms around little Edwin and me, gasping out: 'They will kill you, my children; let me hide my dear children from them?" "She always was a good soul," said Jane. "' What a difference there is in them!"   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    81 "And there never was a better fellow than Dick, our coachman; Poor Dick! He slept in the window-seat one night, with the full moon shining upon him, and that side has been partially paralyzed ever since. Of course, he could no longer be trusted with the horses, and he was so fond of them and of all of us. Papa gave him his free- dorn, but he is always lingering about the place. I never can help saying,'How sorry I am for you, Dick!' as he touches his hat to me, and says, 'Your servant, Miss Emnma!"l Mr. and Mrs. Strophel, though panic-stricken like the rest, suffered no other inconvenience from the new order of things, than a residence of some days within the small quarters of a crowded vessel, and after their return, from some natural pertness and fainEant tendencies of their home servants. Being a pensioned officer of government, he had no plantation to adjust in its workings to the new order of things, so life soon went on with them very much as before. Mr. Strophel had infirm health, and did no business, and with a diminished income lived quietly, his once handsome establishment bearing many marks of neglect. His wife, from having but little opportunity to indulge her passion for gayety, had settled down into a managing housekeeper and scheming mother, gradually taking, more and more, the rule of the household upon her shoulders, as her husband's health declined till he was fast becoming but little better than a supernumerary in the establishment. She was looking forward to Hilda's return with mingled curiosity and anxiety and a modicum of ma- ternal affection, it is true, but that had been insufficient to abate her happiness very much by her more than twelve years' separation from her, She would have been very glad to have heard of her having matrimonial prospects in Copenhagen, but as no such tidings came to her, she began to cast about her for a suitable match within the island. Delia, her youngest daughter, was but fourteen and   82   ZOO; OK, THE QUADROONTS TRIUMPH. immature for her age, so she: could, for the present, concentrate her attention upon the older and marriage- able one. Mrs. Carlan had for many months anticipated the insur- rection. With the quick insight of an awakened soul, she had read the signs of the times, and knew that a change was coming over the fortunes of her people. When in her natural state, she seldom alluded to it, for her husband was so accustomed to look on the dark side of things, that she got but little sympathy if she indulged in any visions of a better future. But when under the influence of somnam- bulism, she would express herself in a more highly-wrought l style than was usual to her, and dwell with exultation upon I the emancipation of her race. With no literary culture,  I associating only with minds of the simplest style of devel- i opment, whose speech and general subjects of conversa- tion were very circumscribed, she had, of course, but a   I small storehouse of language to draw from, even in her excited moods. Clairvoyants in our own country, who have had but little direct training, when in their abnormal condition, astonish by their power of expression and capacity for giving advice upon subjects foreign to their usual state of intelli- gence; and they are supposed by many, to be under the in- fluence, involuntary to themselves, of disembodied spirits in their revelations; but this seems inconsistent with reason and nature, and derogatory to the dignity and indepen- dence of the individual soul. If we valued that as we Dught, regarding it as an emanation from God, intrusted to us to discipline, develop, and worthily prepare it by the I use of all the means he has imparted, to become one with  i him in communion and aim and thus aid him in perfecting   A the creation, already but begun as it were, we should    I Iread nothing so much as to give up our individual wills  ,1 and personal responsibility and become mere automata  hough even .lord  beings might reveal themselves   O2E; OK, THE QUADROOS TRIUrMPHl .   {3 through us. For nothing, in one sense, can be so great to is. as the nature which God has seen fit to originate for our especial selves, and we turn aside from his evident design if we are used by any external, created force In a way to blend and confound us with the volition of another. It is virtually saying that we are not satisfied with God's handi- work in us, thereby proving ourselves ungrateful, unde- veloped and low in our conceptions of Him and of out own souls. Aid, suggestion, encouragement, sympathy we can gather from each other, and thus unite ourselves in loving fellowship with the great and pure spirits of all past and present time. It is good to associate with our fellows in the various enterprises, instituted for the elevation of mankind. But while yielding to others their meed of influ- ence and opportunity to develop each one his peculiar genius and distinct characteristics, we must guard with delicate care against the absorption of ourselves in the general mass, or give up the particular qualities, tastes, and tendencies which go to make up the individual me. For we may be sure that, if the Infinite took pains to fashion our being and breathe into it his pure breath of life, he--wishes, not only on our account, but for His good pleasure also, -to have us bloom into the proportions which will make us a beautiful, new variety in his garden of exo- tics, rather than to shape ourselves into one general con. glomerate without definite beauty of form, loveliness of hue, or distinction ot fragrance. This answers the idea which is so widely spread, that spirits speak through me- diums without their voluntary will. Are not they, as well as we, creatures of God? therefore should they not, be suf- fered to tyrannize over us, any more than those clothed with humanity. No, it is time to understand that we belong to the great Father, not to each other in any servile or arbitrary sense. To him we are to look for our highest communion; his universal spirit influences without enslav- ing; his enlightening voice speaks, when we will let it,   3'   gZOE; OR, THE QVADROON'S TRIUMPH. into our inmost souls, and in proportion as they are pre- pared for its incoming, does it echo it in more forcible or feebler modulations. Even God has a tender respect for our individuality, working with us for our regeneration, instead of compelling us to obedience.- Therefore, when men and women speak with unwonted, and, as it seems to many, with supernatural power in these days, it is a proof of a soul awakened either by normal or unnatural means, and that it has unwonted glimpses of truth either through some crevice caused by disease, which is working in this preternatural way, or as a natural result of the just and conscientious use of means to exalt the spirits character, and life. The ignorant may thus, in exceptional instances, utter wonderful verities in elevated language, just as in excited moments the arm may break through a stone wall, or lift immense weights. In this country of books many facts may have been gathered from them to be made use of in this time of excitement, to give utterance to their unwonted contemplations. For it must be remembered that nothing is lost from the soul, but each casual word which it takes in, even when listening carelessly in some occupied hour, falls upon its soft tablets, making an impression, which, though it may be overgrown, is never eradicated and is to start up in some future day, either to rejoice and exalt, or to condemn and disgrace us, according to its character, and the spirit with which it was received. We believe this doctrine to be true of the future world. What proof have we that the spiritual faculties may not be so awakened in this life as to live through the same experience, not alone in occasional and startling exceptions, but more according to the rule of an age, quickened, as no past time has been, by the thousand new agencies put into mo- tion for its advancement? When human nature, in the material departments of life, has taken such an unprece- dented start, it is no better than infidelity to Suppose .hat   ZOE; OR, THE q:UADROON'S TRIUMPH.    85 the spiritual life of humanity is always to remain in a state so disproportional to it as it now is, in the high places of power, influence, and trust, no less than among the masses of mankind. The universe is one. All spirits are emana- tions from one parent source. It may be that an intimate sympathy may exist between those of different, outward spheres, through the subtle and potent power of spiri- tual affinity; but that is a secondary consideration. The supreme, indispensable one is, that we become one with the Father through the means taught and exemplified by Jesus, the great head of a new spiritual creation, the In- spirer and leader in the career of the boundless develop- ment of the soul. Mrs. Carlan's mind was filled with the poetry, imagery, and rapt prophecies of the Bible, which principally made up the sum of her literature and classical power of expres- sion, so that when somnambulic, she would express herself similarly to them, and quote them in apt illustration of the truths she uttered. She would exclaim, with clasped hands and streaming eyes, "O! that the salvation of my people would come out of Zion!"Then her face would brighten as she would exultingly go on, ' When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, all the righteous shall rejoice, and they who love the Lord shall be glad. Yea, they who were -down-trodden shall build the waste cities and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens and eat the fruit of them." Thus prepared by her observation and foresight for the exciting scene of the insurrection, she was not only calm herself but went from one family to another, both of the free and enslaved, counseling moderation and self restraint, at the same time that she sympathized with, cheered, and encouraged them in the step they were taking. As she recovered her health, and the time drew near for Zoies return, the thought of which gave new life to. her   8f-  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUlMPl. being, she lost, in a measure, the morbid expression of her intensified nature, though she felt it had taken an onward spring which gave new richness and significance to her life. She still employed the language of Scripture to aid her in the expression of her awakened feelings; but she was gradually losing all tendency to somnambulism, which was a great relief and cause of rejoicing to her husband. With her present state of mind he had but little sympathy, and thought her very fanatical and far removed from com- mon sense and a sound judgment. Though unable to write very freely to Zoe from her defective penmanship, she had not lacked means of com- munication, or remained a stranger to her child. For when, through her simple letters, she failed to express fully her affection, she gathered and sent with them the various beautiful shells from the sea beach, each one of which became a symbol of the "mysterious union" between them. She strung the brilliant Jumba and Cocrico beans, for bracelets for her darling, and occupied many a leisure hour in weaving various pretty useful articles, of the rich, shining chestnut-colored seeds of the wild tama- rind. She at first pressed the flowers of the island, but finding they lost their hues by the process, she brought them home, and taught herself to copy them in water- colors in beautiful arrangement, so that Zoe's volume of West Indian wild flowers was the admiration of her friends. The sea-weeds and mosses she rescued from the waves, and their pencil-lines and bright variegated tints, were a proof to her child as much of her unseen mother's love, as that down deep in the sea, where no one is near to note God's admirable working, he lavishes his skill in the pure spirit of beauty upon these waifs from the lower ocean-depths, no less than upon the gorgeous flowers born of the sunlight and soil. Before the insurrection, Mr. Carlan had determined to   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    87 send for Zoe; but that event occurring a little previous to the time when Captain Keiser, an acquaintance of his, -would leave Denmark, he thought it better that she should remain until matters were more settled, as there was yet great uncertainty felt concerning the workings of the new system. We have already seen how Zoe decided other- wise. There was no time, of course, for her to forewarn her parents of the step she had taken, so that she was fast nearing them on her homeward way, while they thought her still in the safety and quiet of her school-retreat. 1/   "A flower, the wind, the ocean, which shall wound, Striking the electric chain, wherewith we are darkly bound."--Broo. on board and Copenhagen fading into the dim distance, the excitement of preparation and departure from Miss Ingemann and her friends over, Zoei sank into one of the terrible fits of depression to which she had always been liable, but which, as she grew older, deepened and lengthened in their character and duration. She threw herself upon her bed in her state-room, not to weep, for the bitter grief which weighed her down was beyond all reach of tears, but to live over her whole life again and question herself of its history in the past and its destiny for the future. To the keenly sensitive spirit no great change can take place in its environments without a cor- responding one in its physical and psychological life. It dies, as it were, to one great experience before it awakens to another. Zoei felt this truth in its fill force. Prostrated in body, deeply despondent in mind, her world seemed coming to an end, and had the crack of doom sounded in her ear from without, summoning her to judgment, it would, at that moment, have appeared to her as in the natural course of events; for with her, as with all persons who live much within themselves and in the spirit of Nature, the two seemed indissolubly connected.  She looked back to her infancy, even to the third year, for her memory served her thus well, and took in each stage of the wonderful journey of human existence. Glimpses of the (38)   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    39 loving tenderness with which her first years were nurtured, and of being led by her mother through a paradise of ver- dure, laved by the many-tinted sea of the tropics, came out, one by one, from the daguerreotype within her. But over even that sunny period of childhood there was a sha- dow. Her father's grave face looked darkly upon her from the background. Her mother's, sweetly pensive, smiled with tears in her eyes as she gazed upon her child, and listened with attention to the troubled words of her hus- band. Of the latter she had lost the memory even, if she had ever understood them, and yet their spirit and those sad looks of her parents had, somehow, woven a dark thread into the fabric of her soul. She recalled the part- ing from them, the life on board ship, with its wonderful sights and still more wondrous legends of the helmsman. Her distaste for some of the duties of her school, her fears of her teacher, and yet her constant sense of her intended kindness, were a mystery, a trouble, and a reproach to her. She recalled the sweet intervals of country life, vhen Miss Ingemann would take her pupils to the hillsides for a few summer days each year, when she would talk with the white elves in sisterly terms of endearment? and- try to propitiate the good-will of the dark elves, and encourage the little Hill- f6k with her own confident hope of their eventual welcome to Heaven. She sported with the lambs and calves, with the full belief that, imprisoned within them was some poor little boy or girl,who one day would reveal to her the story of their dumb imprisonment. Each tree, leaf, and flower were to her sentient existences. She sought for the particular one in which she had once been enshrined, but found it not in the cold climate of the north, for the mimosa thrives only where a southern sun and gales open and close it gently by their soft morning and evening breath. The sea, in the July days, would waft her spirit on its sparkling, fluent waves to her southern home; but in winter, when the cold snow would mingle with and whiten its waters, and the   40   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. icebergs would float by in chilly and glittering majesty, she would close her eyes and wrap her mantle about her bosom that the image of her own blue Caribbean might not be swept away by its rude whirlwinds. She thought of the good captain and his dying wife, and how, when the news came to her of the death of the latter, in a few months after their landing, a tie seemed severed between her and the home from which she had attended her. She recalled how she had gladly welcomed her little daughters, Freya and Adelgunda, that through their love and companionship, she might renew the severed bond, and how faithfully they had ever kept the promise made to their mother, to love the little stranger. Her after friendship with Mrs. Lieben- hoff, the Sunday instructions of her pastor, the thousand opportunities for culture of mind and character which had been hers in the home she was leaving, all came up vividly to her mind's eye, forcing her to pass judgment upon the profit she had derived from them. Like all idealists, Zoe lived as it were two lives. In her usual one, she was the reformer, devoted by Heaven, to a great ministry. For this she had been involuntarily preparing herself, by her intimacy with Nature and the Word of God. The training of her school, and her general literary culture were of a character to foster and help her on to the fulfillment of this settled instinct, first; then, idea of her mind. Everything which she gained, in accord- ance with her taste, was absorbed into her being, enrich- ing and exalting it, and hastening its maturity. From his- tory, she learned the economy of God's providence, and the philosophy of mankind's existence and growth. From poetry, she exhaled the subtle essence to be intensified in her own spirit. In romances and biographies, she was brought into sympathy with human character and life, while they gave her hints in the mastery of a knowledge of herself. She seized hold of the most striking facts of the natural sciences to prove the truth of her feeling that   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    41 the universe was one in plan, tendency, sympathy, and progression. By the separate beauties they revealed, which responded to the truth of her own observations, was she lifted higher and higher into the regions of the poetic, so that more and more did she grow into the world of ideal- ism, while less and less was she fitted to cope with the ac- tual. For, though burning with a love of humanity, and panting to save it, living as she had, in almost cloister re- tirement, when brought into contact with the world, she was ill at ease, unhappy and bewildered. No one came within reach of her ideal of perfection, and yet, so much better could the practical and common-place do well their part in life, adorn society and be happy in it than herself, that she was miserable at the thought of her own deficien- cies, and abashed before the superiority of the world. Then would the thought be forced upon her, that, though indulging daily in visions of the extensive use of every fa- culty intrusted to her, she was in reality in the rear in this respect, of the most worldly and least gifted. So over- borne was she at times, by reflections like these, exagger- ated as her sentiments were, by a somewhat morbid deve- lopment of body as well as mind, accompanied by a reserve which had become a second nature to her, that her occasional fits of despondency were dreadful, though her passive features and quiet manner revealed it but little to others. Hilda knew her much better than any one else, and without prying into her confidence or directly attempting to console her, had great power over her feelings, by her sunny temperament and never failing affection. She saw Zoeis depression and hastened to her relief. It was curious to see the utter difference of their feel. ings at this time towards Miss Ingemann. Hilda was that lady's favorite of all the girls in the school. She alone, of the number, was on terms of familiarity with her. Her playfulness and naivete amused her, and her courage, 4   42    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. decision and energy called forth her approval. Through these qualities, she had carried herself, as if by storm, into a kind of companionship with her dignified teacher, which was a separate cause of wonder to both of them. But the younger and more impressible nature had bden very much modified by the refined, tender, long-suffering, poetic Zoe. She had learned somewhat her mode of psy- chological outlook, and her opinions were becoming more and more shaped to an accordance with hers. She, there- fore, year by year, regarded the style of development, of which Miss Ingemann was a most favorable type, with dis- trust and lessened admiration, and the last few days, though they had made her tremble more than ever for Zoe, had convinced her of the inferiority of Miss Ingemann in all that pertains to the spiritual grace and elevation of womanhood.  Lacking Zoe's comprehensive, Christian sentiment of fraternity, charity and all-sided consideration, in judging of character, the more she saw her friend suf- fering and despondent, the more did her affection for Miss Ingemann diminish for the time being, until indignation at Zois wrongs and indifference, and even aversion towards the cause of them were her prominent sentiments. "Come on deck with me, Zoe,' said Hilda, as she opened the door of her state-room, " and let us take our last look of Copenhagen. There is a beautiful sunset and a new moon, too. I saw it over my right shoulder; so you see that everything is propitious for our voyage." "Not now, dear," said Zoi; " you may go and leave me here for the present. My head aches." Hilda saw how it was with her, and hesitated whether she should speak to her of her sadness or leave her to her- self, as Zoe usually preferred when her tone of spirits was at the very lowest ebb; but as they were all in all to each other now, away from other friends as they were, she was compelled to a different course. "Zoe, love," said she, " what troubles you so very much?   ZOEE; OR, THE QUADROUN'S TRIUMPH.    43 I know it is sad parting from them all; but then, you know, we love each other better than we do all the rest of them put together, so we will be happy, nevertheless, will we not?" "Dear Iilda, you will always be happy; but H" ' And you, too, because you know you live in the seventh heaven where the sun shines all the time, only tempered a little by those white, throne-like clouds you like so well. I only manage to exist while you live, my seraphina, pure as ether!" "Don't say so, Hilda. I am all wrong, wrong." And she turned her head away from her. "Don't tell me that, or I shall grow dangerous, who know well enough where all the wrong lies. But we are away now, thank heaven, Humph!? "O! I owe so much to Miss Ingemann," said Zoie, 4 and I have always troubled her so." "O! I owe, is a very pretty play upon words, but I am not disposed, in my present state of mind, to go any farther into their meaning, unless it be in a very unchristian direc- tion, which I know will not please you, so we will drop this dreadful debt which seems to weigh upon you, into the sea, while we, in the meantime, go down to tea." "I don't wish for any tea to-night. I had rather stay here." "Come, life," said Hilda, without heeding her answer, "I will introduce you to the captain. I have already commenced a most sentimental friendship with him. I was rushing along the passage at the rate of ten knots the hour, (you see I am a sailor already) when 1 ran against him as he came out of his state-room, with such force that he involuntarily put his arm around me to save himself from falling. Of course I was dreadfully embarrassed, and knew not what to do at first; but I caught the twinkle of his roguish eye, so what did we do but laugh outright in each others faces. It was as good as a month's ordi-   "   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. nary acquaintance and you shall share the benefit of it with me. Come, again I say; we will seat ourselves by him at table, you on one side and I on the other, and thus com- mand the best of everything going." Zoe smiled and said, not to-night," and relapsed again into abstraction and sadness. Hilda could be serious and was very sensible too. "Zoie," said she, "I really think you ought to try and overcome these unhappy feelings. You seem to me to indulge in them more and more, and it is very bad for you every way. Come, cheer up, will you not for my sake?" Zoe began to rise. "If you do not, I shall begin to think that parting with Ben Ezra has something to do with this forlorn mood of yours." Here she showed her want of a delicate sympathy in the means she took in rousing her friend. If she thought so, it was the last remark possible she ought to have made, and if she did not think so, she should have known that so abrupt a reference to it as that, to an enthusiastic nature like Zoe"s, who disliked nothing so much as the common trifling upon one of the most sacred subjects of life, was a sad mistake in her present nervous state. She sank back again on her couch saying," Hilda, please never, never mention his name to me." Hilda opened her eyes wide for her own relief and edi- fication, out of sight of Zoe, wondering if there had been any passages between them, concluded upon the whole there had been, and went down to the dining-saloon, say- ing to herself, 4 O dear, dear, here is new trouble in the wind! How am I ever to get this gossamer web, woven of spirit and nerves, with any kind of safety, through this rough, wicked world! Even knowing how tender its meshes are, as I do, don't save me from making a rent in it now and then. How much more will the selfish and coarse, who think it is compounded of nothing but common   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   45 materials!"And she drew a long sigh, as she seated her- self by the captain. Zoi, left alone, recurred to the parting scene between herself and Ben Ezra, not without self-reproach at her abrupt and indignant reception of words, which he was guiltless of supposing would thus anger and wound her. "I am bewildered and distressed," she said to herself. "Is it not a vain fancy that I have been indulging, that I am to reject the dearest happiness of life through the mar- tyr-spirit, prompting me to give up everything for the cause of Christ and God? Have I not been negligent in reading aright the intimations of Providence, which, per- haps, pointed to the very consummation he wished? Now I remember how, from the first, his words seemed to me as the inspiration of God; how, as he recounted his expe- rience through one age after another, my spirit reveled in the freedom it so much pants after, and soared in compan- ionship to the heaven of heavens. "Let me bethink myself. The first night of our meeting there was a strange and startling conjunction of the new moon and the star of love. Since, this lunar comple- ment of my soul has shown even more than her wonted sympathy with my every phase of feeling. When I was happy, the effulgence of her rays gave still richer tone and gladness to my spirit. When I have been sad, clouds more or less dark and dense have vailed her mild face from mine, telling of her sorrow for my grief. And later still, the planet Jupiter has come within our orbit with unwont- ed brilliancy, he and the love-planet on opposite sides of heaven, looking into each other's eyes with strange intelli- gence. But ah me! last night I looked for my beloved queen, Venus, the shadow-attended star of evening, and lo! it had fled from heaven, hiding her face in anger and shame, at the dull comprehension of her favored votary. O sad, sad willfulness of my untutored spirit, thus to thrust aside what GQd intended for my bliss and highest gqoo,   A4   Z)E; Oft, ITiE QUADROON'S TRIUMPAi. and through me the fulfillment of his promises to men! O miserable me! Blind, presumptuous me! who have called myself great Nature's fondling and God's prophetess of the coming dispensation. How could I be thus perverse? Am I not all wrong, a poor, weak idiot and fanatic, false to truth and duty, and condemned to punishment for my soaring fancies, of which this dark pall, hanging low and dense over my spirits, is but the prognostic and prepara- tion? O help me, God, forgive, enlighten, point me to the path where I must walk, to the work appointed me by Thee!" Thus was Zoe ever questioning with herself, and in this experience with the mysterious stranger was opened upon her a new world of anxiety and doubt. In any other young girl it would have been simply disappointed love, which threw her whole being into commotion. Ruled, however, first of all by the great idea of self-consecration to a reli- gious reform, she was not liable to yield up her affections hastily. On the contrary, as has been said, her feeling had been that she should never marry. But in reviewing the past, it seemed now that she had made a mistake, both as it regarded herself and also the furtherance of her mission. As a woman, she felt that she had thrust from her recklessly a whole constellation of enlightenment and joy; a sun in his clear intellect, which would ever guide her onward in her search, after truth; a gentle moon, shin- ing upon her with benignant, loving light at the same time that thlere were depths in his being like the fathomless gorges of that planet, satisfying to her thirst after the mys- terious and indefinite. He was Jupiter in his power, and strength, and capacity of a glorious, protecting .affection. He was Saturn, into whose ocean-like depths of soul she could pour the rivers of her own pent-up being, and find relief, and at the safne -time receive fullness in return. And in his steady revolatio':!Trobugh the ages, while gov- erned by the natural latws which kept him within the   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    47 earth's orbit of .duty, sympathy, and its highest means of cultivation, he was at the same time, ever like our system of worlds, revolving nearer and nearer towards the great clustered suns of the universe. As a reformer, she had perhaps thrown away half her own power by what seemed to her now her own self- absorption, and she mourned over a mistake which might condemn multitudes to partial blindness and death. Thus she mused in bitterness and doubt until sleep, the refresh- ment of weary, troubled mortals, wafted her gently into the regions of harmony and peace, and attuned her soul to devotion and trust, as in the morning she awoke to see the sun springing out of the ocean-bed, and by its ascend- ing rays, scattering golden colors over the wave-crests, like bright-eyed hopes, ever rising and falling, yet ever renewing, till embraced by, and blended with the sea of infinitude. When Hilda came Into her state-room after she had risen, she found her quite cheerful and ready to listen to the various incidents which she had already a store of, and to go with her into the cabin and join in whatever there was of interest and novelty within the compass of the sailing vessel. Their voyage was a successful one. Mr. Sarran was all devotion and gallantry to his young lady charges, the captain was a frank, agreeable Danish gentle- man, who made them feel at home on board his well-ordered ship, so that at the end of a few days when they were fast nearing London, the pleasure and excitement of the scene before them were allayed by regret at bidding good-by to their hospitable, ocean-host. Hilda knew the exact locality of her relatives, so that the two friends were soon welcomed in true English style and made amply comfortable, and soon happy among the kin- dred of her mother, in the very centre of the world- renowned city of London. : .. t Mr. Sarran established himself in a hotel near, and   48   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. divided his time between the accomplishment of his busi- ness and attending them to some of the principal objects of interest in the city. He was a man of dispatch, and told them that in one week, he should be ready to go on board the steamship Forth, and sail its usual route, first to Bermuda, touch at the Bahama islands, then on to Mobile, in Alabama, U. S., from thence to Havana and Jamaica, passing by Porto Rico, and so on to St. Thomas and Santa Cruz. Zoe thought it a circuitous route home, but Hilda rejoiced in it, and reminded her that, as they had intrusted themselves to the Viking, there was no knowing when they might heave in sight of their island. For her part, she should like well to make a voyage of discovery, so she should encourage Mr. Sarran's sailing propensities as much as possible, as she never expected to have another opportunity of seeing the world, which, so far, she had found quite to her liking. One day they went to Westminster Abbey, and spent an hour amidst its aisles and in its poets' corner. To Zoe this temple spoke impressively of the past by its architec- ture and the monuments to its distinguished dead. She bowed reverently to the genius which had fashioned each architrave and pillar to the spirit of a past religion, whose venerable breath still whispered through its cloistered alcoves. When the organ swelled forth its world of solemn, low-toned music, the roar of the ocean and the vast forests seemed hushed in concord with her soul, that no possible discord might interrupt its harmonies. And when it pealed forth its chorus, with the vocal choir as an accompaniment, O! then her spirit was swept upon its wings of wondrous melody to an ideal region, where the joyous morning song of birds, the rich, blended sound of myriads of insects, rejoicing in their summer life, the hallelujahs of a nation's joyful paeans, ay, and the music of the spheres seemed combined to constitute its majesty. Still Zoe lived too much in the future to blend her feelings permanently with   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'8 TRIUMPH.    49 the genius of the pile. For to her vision, the simple, joy- ful faith of Jesus clothed itself, it is true, with the pointing, uplifting form of the Gothic architecture in its exterior development, but within, in a cheerful, domestic, home- like church in which God and man could meet in natural, unforced communion, together with Jesus and the great and good of all past and present time, with the light of heaven shining through to brighten, warm, and animate the scene. As they returned home through Hyde Park, the word was given out by the coachman that the Queen was com- ing. He drew the horses aside, to be out of the way and at the same time to give the party a good view of the pageant. The train came grandly on, horses, and car- riages, and outriders, with her majesty in one of them with Prince Albert, the Princess Royal, and a youth, whom their friends said was the Prince of Portugal. The Queen bowed to the assembled crowd as she rode by, the glitter- ing train passed on, and Zoe and Hilda with their friends returned on their homeward way. The two girls were alone in their room. "How splendid the Queen's cortege was! What a mag- nificent equipage, and with what pomp the whole train moved along! You cannot deny, Zoe, that there is some- thing very imposing in royalty, although you have fallen in love so with republics? Confess, now, that you were im- pressed by it." "Certainly I was, I have an eye for splendor and beauty of arrangement, no less than you, provided it is ie more than proportionate to what is much grander."  "You mean, of course, the souls of these great people. Well, I don't know how it will do to look as deeply as that in judging of the show. But at any rate, as a woman and a mother, you cannot but respect Queen Victoria." Most assuredly. She dares to live a much more natu- ral and human life than any of her predecessors, and for 5   50   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. that I am very glad, and feel that I could really love her." "I know I should like to be in her place. Now don't shake your head in that fashion; I mean for a little while, at least. The fact is, I do like to rule. I always did, and: I believe I always shall." "Then you had better not wish to be Queen Victoria. Poor lady, poor, poor lady!" ,V What do you mean? She does not want you to pity her. Is she not queen of the greatest and most powerful kingdom on the globe, the one which takes the first rank in the civilization of the day? I glory in the idea that a woman can be thus exalted. You see that I can talk in Mrs. Liebenhoff-style, as well as you." "Mrs. Liebenhoff would not glory in Queen Victoria's position, Hilda, far from it. What is it but one of wretched helplessness? Nominally a sovereign, really but an instru- ment in the hands of her ministers and aristocracy, com- pelled to make war through the force of a miserable, wicked, and barbarous usage, to hear of the slaughter of thousands of the best and bravest of her subjects, with no power to save them, while she is insulted by having it sounded through the world, that she shows her sympathy for their woes by hemming pocket-handkerchiefs for them! Think you if she, a woman, had the power you ascribe to her, there would be the sufferings there are in her ill-fur- nished camp, in which cold, pestilence, and famine are slaying even more than the siege and battle? And now, what a rejoicing at the victory in which thirty thousand Christian Europeans have been murdered for the quarrel of a few crowned heads! And- she, a woman, forced to congratulate the people for what sends them into mourning and sadness forever I O Hilda, Hilda! rather than stand in her proud place, and sweep through the streets in regal splendor, while deeds like these are mingled with her name and crying aloud for redress and retribution, her   ZOo; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   51 hands meanwhile bound as with chains, and her heart crushed down by pagan codes and worldly forms and cus- toms, I would put on the rudest peasant garb and walk by night and day to their relief, and say to the poor, maimed, and dying soldiers: ' See, I, your queen, could not abate the cruelty of the men ruling the councils of our nation, so I have come to bind up your wounds, to bathe your burning, blood-stained brows, and die with you, if God wills-it matters not--here I lose but one life, but away from you, on England's throne, I groan out a martyr's death each moment in thinking of your wrongs and woes!'" "But, Zoei, she does not look at the matter as you do. She sees more of the glory of victory than the sufferings of the people. I own I used to, and thought formerly I should like to marry a great general 'like Napoleon, for instance, and go with him to his campaigns; but, really, since this disgraceful siege of Sevastopol, begun without enthusiasm, and continued without any spontaneous hero- ism, has been on the tapis, I must say I have got to hate and despise war nearly as much as you." "O! it is horrible. I wonder why it never comes into the minds of any queen or king to be a great, spiritual sovereign like our Saviour, and so rule the ages as he does and ever will?" "But, you know, he was different from other beings, Zoe. Nobody can be like him, only in a very distant way." "I know he was greater and better than any one that will be on the earth again, because he lived in an age of the world when there were more obstacles to his leadin'g a life of perfect holiness than now, and yet he attained to that elevation, and endured more suffering and persecution from carrying out his heavenly principles than any other one; for sinless as he knew himself to be, yet he submitted manfully to the direst death that can be conceived of. Therefore he is our Leader, now and forevermore. But if   52   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. he did not know that, in our different spheres, we could do as he did in his, ay, even more in proportion to the in- creased materials we have to work with, and the prepared state of the mind of the world by the prevalence of his religion, why did he say, ' greater works than these ye shall do, because I go unto my Father?'  "Well, Zoe, I don't know about it; but I think it is not right, dear, for us to talk so about these high matters. We are young and must be guided by other people's opinions. Miss Ingemann did not think as you do, I am sure. Let's go down into the drawing-room." And she put her arm around Zoe and drew her out of the room, chatting merrily upon other subjects as she went down the stairs. It had become her custom, and more than ever now, that she was left alone with her, thus to draw her away from herself, as it were, fearing that she was getting into danger through fanaticism. Zo/ appreciated her tender solicitude, which it needed no words to understand, and in one sense, felt strengthened by the supervision of Hilda's more prac- tical and common style of character and thought. On the other, she constantly suffered from having her strongest feelings thrown back upon herself, and her nature grew in intensity and fervor in proportion as it was denied all free expression.   "Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native land I Whose heart hath ne'er within him burned, As home his footsteps he hath turned From wandering on a foreign strand!"-SCOTT. the week was ended, and Mr. Sarran's busi- ness accomplished, he was impatient to be on the wing again. They, therefore, went on board the Forth, one of the large steam vessels, which now plyed between England and the West Indies, touching the United States on its way. They bade an affectionate farewell to Hilda's relatives, who had administered, in such kindly manner, to their comfort and pleasure, and the girls, to their delight, found themselves established one fine day, just before evening, in their spacious and comfortable state-rooms.  In this respect the ship compensated pretty well for its ordinary ladies' saloon, situated at the stern of the vessel, whose motion at that point was particularly favorable to sea-sick- ness, while the accommodations for those who might thus suffer, were meagre in quantity and style. During their rather tempestuous voyage they kept in them principally, well ventilated as they were, until one morning the cry on board was-" land ahead!"--and the island of Bermuda was visibly rising from the sea as they gazed. Hilda had recovered from her qualmishness and was (53)   54    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. on deck in fine spirits, watching every indication of this solitary group of islands, which are more isolated than any other point of land except St. Heleiaa, on the globe. As they approached it the colored pilot came on board, and he, with the captain, were continually on the outlook, for the approach is a very hazardous one on account of the coral reefs which lie under the water. For they change so by constant growth that the greatest care is necessary else the ship is injured by contact with their sharp branches. The rules of the British service are very strict, so that the captain took especial care to prevent it, lest he should lose his command, that being the penalty for any severe abrasion. Hilda stood by an English gentleman, by the name of Dennis, with whom she had become somewhat acquainted. As they neared the island of Ireland, their point of destin- ation, she said: "What a pretty contrast there is between the deep ver- dure and the glistening white buildings." "Yes," said he, "the island looks like a nice little dish of spinach and eggs." Hilda laughed. "What are those houses with immense sloping roofs here and there?" said she. "They are for the purpose of collecting the rain which falls and conducting it to reservoirs, otherwise the residents would suffer inconvenience for the want of good water; that which is in the wells is very much impregnated with lime." "What are those miserable-looking old ships in the harbor?" "They are hulks of vessels, used as prisons for con- victs. John Mitchell, the Irish rebel, is now confined there." Here there was a perceptible shock given to the steam- ship by its grazing against a hidden coral-reef. The cap- tain moved about from one point to another, looking very   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI.    55 much disturbed, and spoke with great severity to the pilot, to whose want of skill, he attributed the accident. Whether all the blame rested on him or not, became a subject of discussion among the gentlemen passengers. Was the ship given entirely into his care, or, as the captain was on the outlook, was not he partly responsible? All agreed, however, that notwithstanding the buoys swung here and there, at the entrance of the harbor, to warn pilots of the most dangerous reefs; yet, from the constant working of myriads of sea-insects, it must always be a very difficult one to enter. Great sympathy was felt for Capt. Stedman, and a certificate was signed by the passengers, attesting to his care and faithfulness, in order to avert, if possible, the penalty attending any accident to one of the ships of the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company. Hilda kept Zoe informed of everything passing on deck, while she was detained a prisoner upon her couch by the languor produced by sea-sickness. As the ship slowly neared its haven, its lessened motion gave her some relief. She rose and sat upon her berth to look out of her port. hole, and was delighted with the variegated tints of green, violet and purple, which the ocean strangely reflects upon its bosom. And now, that all was still within the huge leviathan, of whom she felt she was a part, so sympathetic was she with its every breath and motion, she arose, and with the aid of Hilda's stronger arm and steadier frame, arrayed herself to go on deck. At that moment, there were steps in the passage, and a knock at the door. Hilda opened it, and two young wo- men stood at the entrance with large bundles in their hands. One was a Quadroon, the other, a full Negress. "Any soiled clothes to be washed, Missis?" said the elder and prettier of the two. "No," said Hilda. "I have already given them to some one," and was about to close the door. i Stop, Hilda," said Zoe.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH. Emboldened by this request, the young woman advanced a step, taking some lemons from a basket on her arm, and saying to Zoe, " will Missis have some?" "O! it is just what you were wishing for, is it not, some good, sour lemons to give you an appetite?i' said Hilda. "And here are some green ones, the first I ever saw. Let me pay you for them-here," thrusting some uncounted coin into her hand, and standing between her and her friend.  Zoe seemed completely engrossed by the stranger. She sat quietly gazing with eager questioning in her look, (her arm half extended, as if to receive the lemons,) into the Quadroon's face. As Hilda bustled about nervously, coming as much as possible between the two, she would, involuntarily as it were, turn her head one side and the other, so as to get a view of the girl, whom her companion succeeded in half hiding from her sight. The Quadroon seemed intent, too, on evading equally with herself, the form of Hilda, until the latter, having completed the bar- gain, told her quite peremptorily that she might go, and hurriedly shut the door. "It is very strange and provoking," said Hilda, "that people don't know when they are dismissed, but persist in hanging around one in this style;" at the same time, look- ing anxiously towards her friend. Zoe said nothing, but seemed absorbed in thought. Hilda stood by her arranging her hair. "Mr. Dennis says that we shall stay here a day and a half, and that to-morrow he will hire a boat and take us ashore. Won't it be delightful to tread on terra firma, and feel that we are bona fide children of the soil again, after the tiresome lullaby old ocean has given us, day after day?" "' Yes," said Zoe, but half heeding what she said. "Although Mr. Liebenhoff does call me the water-sprite, I have no idea of being wedded to Neptune, with his hoary   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    57 locks yet. I shall wait till my old age for that. I am going to turn Hamadryad, and live in one of those cedar trees I see in the distance; and you, darling, may take up your abode in that palmetto. That will suit you, will it not?" "Yes, dear Hilda," said Zoe. The bell rang for tea, and she continued, "go down without me, please, to-night. I am not quite strong yet. To-morrow, I will accompany you on deck, and ashore, and wherever you wish me to go." Hilda knew pretty well when it was better to leave her friend alone, so telling her that she would send her supper to her by the stewardess, she ran to seat herself by the captain. (Zoe alone.) "What a new world is dawning upon my vision, through the simple errand of two poor peasant women! I thought it was my second self I saw, with the huge burden of my griefs of years made visible. What is she? So like me in feature and expression, yet so different in the nameless, voiceless atmosphere she carries about her! And yet, I felt a yearning towards her, as if she were my sister, and if I had been stronger, I should have lifted half the weight of that vast bundle upon my shoulders. And that ether darker being who attended her! Let me bethink myself. There are slaves in the Indies, and they were Africans, and Africans come from the torrid zone, where the fervid sun dyes to intensity, whatever it shines upon. Am I of that race? I have called myself an Ethiopian, and gloried in the title, for it spoke of fervor and enthusiasm and poetry. But the degraded negro! that is different. Why,he is de- spised wherever he abides. He is a slave, an outcast. Am I of the slaves' origin? Am I part and parcel of de- gradation, ay, a descendant of the victims of oppression, wrong, and every form of injury? Be still, my heart, be quiet, quiet I say, my brain! while I unravel the tangled skein, thrown at me at the very portals of my childhood's   58    ZOOE; OR, THE QUADRO)N'S TRIUMPH. birth-climate. O! now it becomes clear and clearer to me; the separate threads arrange themselves in order and I evoke from the whole twisted knot, the story of my birth. Yes, yes, my father's gravity of mien, my mother's pen- siveness, my warp and woof of sadness and anxiety, scarce daring to be relieved by brighter qualities within me, which, under genial skies, would sparkle with varied lustre! Ah! I know it all. Aid perhaps that is why Miss Ingemann disliked me. Where have I lived, that I never thought of this? Stupid, blind, deaf, unreflecting me! This comes of always dwelling in an ideal whrld, stooping but seldom to the actual! What am I to do now, with this revelation bursting upon me with the force of light- ning? Hush, hush, my soul! while I commune with the Infinite Spirit, Parent of Nature, and of poor bewildered me!" This was the event of all others, to which Hilda had looked forward with fear and dread for her friend. She had known for a long time, that Zoe was of African descent, and what was the condition of her race wherever found. It seemed strange to her that she too had not discovered the fact. But neither her father nor mother ever alluded o it in their letters to her, and she was so - accustomed to dealize everything in her own mind, which did not come nto direct contradiction with its nature and tendency, that ler Eastern descent was a source of an ever-flowing cur- ent of poetry and fancy. Hilda knew this, and in propor- ion to her exaggerated regard for the fact, fancy-tinted in his way, did she fear the effect upon her of the revelation f the naked and painful truth. For, though from Zoe she lad caught something of her way of looking at her birth- ight in the division of races, from Miss Ingemann she ad imbibed another most painful impression. When her teacher saw how much Hilda was swayed by ;oe, and that she was, by her example, leading her to a cry unwarrantable departure from her rules, she sent for   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    59 her to her apartment and -the following conversation took place between them: Ad I must communicate something to you, my dear, which you seem unaware of, and which I have forborne to speak of, as I know your fondness for Miss Carlan. She is of African birth." "I know it, madam. The difference between us on that very account fits us the better to be companions. I have learned to be much more gentle and refined from her than I otherwise should be." "I hope the influences of my home are all of a nature to produce that result, Miss Hilda?" "O yes, madam, certainly! but--- "You must certainly know, if she does not, that the whole race are in a Pariah condition, and, of course, take no position in Santa Cruz. You will necessarily be sepa- rated as soon as you get home, and now I reproach myself--' - "Separated! What do you mean, Miss Ingemann?" "Why, that as there is, and can be no equality between you, that your parents will never permit you to con- tinue your acquaintance on its present footing. Zoe will sink into a very low class of society, while you will mingle with those fitted for your companionship." "Miss Ingemann, my teacher, to whom I have looked up as a model all through my young years, do you counsel me to perfidy and faithlessness!" "God forbid! You will ever greet Zoe kindly when you meet, but your friend she can no longer be. Your parents will never allow it. I have thought much about the matter, and have come to the conclusion that it is unnatural for the two races to mingle, excepting as master and servant, and I was going to say, that I now regret and reproach myself for permitting you to associate with such intimacy as you have done. I see that you both are to suffer by the means, and I really lament it on your account, imy dear. But,   60   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. indeed, the first fault was in permitting her to enter my establishment at all. I have learned a lesson for the future." Hilda stood swallowing her emotion and anger while her teacher was speaking. "1 Madam, I know not what may be my poor Zoeis lot. I have many, many fears for her myself, but of this she may be sure, that, whatever may be in the future for her, I shall stand her friend. No matter if all the pomp, and splendor, and fashion of the world were weighed against her, they would not make me swerve a hair's-breadth from her, for I know the beauty, truth, and glory of her soul, and thank God that she has taught me to value that above all else. O my teacher!"-She was going on in a strain of encomium in favor of her friend, but she saw from Miss Ingemann's face and manner, that it would not in the least impress her, and she sickened at the thought of again forcing Zoe's rare qualities upon an utterly prejudiced ear, so she turned and went out. This was, more than anything, the source of her indignation at Miss Ingemann, vailing from her for the time many excellent qualities and her own great indebted- ness to her. She now laid awake a full hour, thinking how she could alleviate for Zoe the painful knowledge of her being one of this servile people, She thought over the principal characters among her tribe, who had made their mark upon the world, Toussaint L' Ouverture, Payenga, Placido, and Dumas, besides others known in history and the present times. In her sincere love for her friend, she turned over and over in her mind, how she could most strongly, and at the same time, delicately express her own affection and admiration for her, which should never be abated by the opinions of society, whatever they might be. In thinking of all this, and of other means by which she might express her tenderness and sympathy, she warmed herself to a point of great fervor, and even became in   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    61 danger of turning admirer of herself, especially for two or three particular expressions, whichl seemed to her really eloquent and poetical, and she fell asleep to see in her dreams the sweet visions, which come only to pure and truthful minds and loving hearts. Zoe's nature, ever hopeful and bright in the upper world of fancy and imagination, commuting, as it did, every un- toward incident and dark event into light and loveliness, however it might seem to the realist, after the first shock was over, recognized in this discovery of her race only the surer and speedier call to the great mission to which God had devoted her. "Father, I thank thee," she said, " for this revelation of thy designs for thy childand servant, and for making it doubly dear and beautiful by rejoining me to my people, for now I see plainly that I can gaze into their deep, mournful eyes, whose glance is ever forced within by the harsh world's unsympathizing and scornful gaze, and meet the answer to my ceaseless questioning. O welcome to my soul is the reply to my whole life's wailing appeal for love and power to act out my being's instincts! O glorious destiny! to raise the fallen, comfort the sorrowful, and not only point, but lead the way to a virtue as yet undreamed of, and a happiness commensurate with eternity." In such jubilant strains did she spend the hours before she fell asleep, and she awakened in the morning with a hope and exhilaration of spirits never felt before, so that when Hilda, fearful and trembling, came into her state- room, with her budget of comfort and alleviation all ready to be poured out at her feet, she found that, so far from its being needed, Zoe was the one to set the tune of the day to bright and joyous measures. Human nature has a spice of perversity in it, and it was manifest for a few moments in Hilda, for the first feeling, when seeing Zoe's pensive face lighted up by a more radiant expression than usual, was disappointment at tho   62   ZOE; (OR, THE QUADROON'S TUITIUMPI. waste of so much beautiful, consolatory material as she had all in readiness to furnish her. But her chagrin was quickly turned to wonder at this new manifestation of her companion, who was continually mystifying her by strange and eccentric changes. But this slight disappointment was followed by true enjoyment at Zoe's good spirits, and they were soon in busy chat about what they should do to amuse themselves during the day. Mr. Dennis offered his services to Mr. Sarran to assist him in escorting the ladies to the island. A boat was :hartered, and, with two or three others of the passengers, hey were rowed to Ireland, and soon were sauntering over ts verdant slopes, and shaded by its noble forest trees. 'ague memories of tropic scenes came one by one to Zoe's rind as she threaded her way through copse and glen, and he spirit of Poesy made music in her soul, as the breezes ently fanned her brow, and the trees waved in unison with leir breath. Both Zoe and Hilda read and spoke English well and ,ere familiar with Shakspeare's plays. The latter could ;cite many passages from them. Zoe, on the contrary, ad a less ready memory, but her nature was like the agnet, which attracted to it its affinities in thought, poetry, id fact; and while she, at the same time, kept distinct om herself the individuality of each author with whom ie was put in communion, she absorbed into her own "ng their subtle essence, thus adding to its growth and auty. "These are the vexed Bermoothes of which Shakspeare rote, I suppose," said Mr. Dennis. "O yes," said Hilda, ," where Prospero and Miranda ed, and where Ferdinand wooed and won her. And iel and Caliban, why this is classic ground, Zo6. How dutiful is that passage where Miranda pities her lover his servile labor and wishes to aid him," and she began repeat the lines as she walked.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TKRIUMPH.        63 Zoei disengaged herself from her companions and turned aside to a. seat among geraniums, cacti, and japonicas, with a palmetto rearing its fan-like summit near, and thus she breathed out her soul: "Welcome, ye generous products of my native clime, Children, as I am, of the torrid sunshine I Long, long have we been divided; Ye have bloomed on meanwhile in the sweet consciousness, Though feeble it may be, that ye were doing your Maker's bidding, While doubt, dissatisfaction, and vague yearnings- A shadowy train-have ever close attended me. But now I clasp ye to nmy heart of hearts In tenderest embraces. Speak to me, my tree, Ye many-fingered I Tell me, ye know and love me I O waft your fragrance to me, flowers, as sign of recognition. I have nursed your namesakes in the snowy land, All for your sakes, beloved I O many tinted ocean I coral-reef-ed ocean I Islet-studded, zephyr-breez-ed ocean I Fain would I be imbosomed in your warm and fluent waters That ye might hush to rest my longing, love-loru being I O deign to mingle with your roar a tenderer noto As welcome to your votary. As you kiss the sands Leave the impression, ever so faint, ' This is for Zoi.' And though it may be enigmatical to all besides. I hold the key which can interpret it. Yes, yes, ye answer well to my appealing, Deep, deep in my soul sounds low and gentle the replying Come to us, lonely one, Trust in us, aspiring one, Ever love us, impassioned one, Grow like us, inquiring one, Reflect God like us, thou chosen one- Be ever near and nearer to us, immortal one, So shalt thou be one with Him, eternal one. Ay, ay, this is the mystery of thy revealing, May I obey it I And this is the scene of the weird working Of thy subtle genius, England's wondrous son I God I I thank thee for the gift with which . Thou didst invest him to speak with power And thrilling harmony to the ages. May we not cling too closely to him, but see in him A light to guide us to an equal height of inspiration.   "   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH. For no god nor tyrant was he for the world's worship And subjection, but one, who in life so meekly Bore his heaven-invested dignity, that the world's More noisy great ones scarcely noted him, while by his Fellows was he better known as sweet Will Shakspeare, Than as the Swan of Avon. Prospero I with thy magic mantle, And thy subtle spirit, Ariel what were they, And what thy marvelous strength of will And wonder-working? Is there a power in man to rule The elements in the outer world, and still more potent might To sway his inner being? To be the wise and tender fate To guide his destiny, and to summon him To God's nearer presence, even as the mother hushes Her babe into the sweet and peaceful realm of sleep? Does God intrust us with his parental power Of lullaby, by which the worn anid weary body Drops from the soul prepared and winged for flight Into his higher temple of the boundless universe  O my asking soul I never gathering from the wisdom Of the past, finalities to rest upon, only hint And impulse to pry and question more Of the deeps profound of Nature and its Author . Prospero I a wizard wert thou, feared and dreaded; But as no imagining is vouchsafed to man Which he is not to realize, in some sense in his actual, So do I gather from thy coarse and barbarous might, An inkling into the more humane and loving future, When the powers of man shall be so subdued By the spirit taught and lived by Jesis, ' That God will, in a new and higher sense, Than we now wot of, adopt us as his co-creators, Co-workers, and ministers to a beautiful life, And still more beautiful euthanasy. Zoe rejoined her companions, and after stopping a few moments at the yard of the prison to traffic with the con- victs-who thrust their hands through the grating as they passed-in specimens of the spar of the island, cut into various forms and highly polished, they returned to their boat and were soon on board ship again.   ne that morning the oa. w on her way towards the Bahamas, at sprlts 'and Whlte which Rislands' speirit and gray; was brief. Mingle, mingle, mingle, THE next morning the Fsorth was E loh her way towards the Bahaimas, at which. islands'their stay was brief. After a few hours' delay, they were stealing away towards Mobile, their next pointof destination. They ar- rived in the night. Hilda went down to breakfast at the usual early hour. "Good morning, my Volkyria, said Mr. Sarran. "What news from Valhalla? But where is your shadowy friend, does' she yet fear the daylight?" "Yes, sir," said Hilda. "I can't persuade her to come upon deck yet. i ' O but she must, she must! It won't do at all. I must go 6                (65)'   "   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. to her, I plainly see, and bring her up in my arms. She will allow an old man that privilege, especially one who learned how from daily practice lang syne"-and the old man's voice trembled. Hilda remembered the story of his early sorrows-how he first lost his wife, then a lovely young daughter, leaving him alone in his home, and from these bereavements were dated his roving propensities. "I shall insist upon her coming on deck after breakfast, and I will tell her of your intention," said she, glad of being reinforced by what she knew would be an additional inducement for Zoe to rise, to escape Mr. Sarran's rather too demonstrative friendship. Hilda would always joke and play with him, and never refuse a seat upon his knee if he drew her towards him; but Zoe was kept in perpetual trepidation lest he should take advantage of what he called an old man's right, an occasional kiss, or the support of his embracing arm as she walked the deck. "ZoO," said Hilda, on her return to her, " get up, dear, Mr. Sarran is coming soon to take you upon deck in his arms." "Heavens and earth! Hilda, what do you mean?" "Only what I say. You are weak and he is strong as a polar bear you know, so he will kindly save you the trouble of walking." Zoe rose and bustled about anxiously for the different articles of her wardrobe, exclaiming, "Do help me, Hilda dear-there, that will do-tie this, please-button that if you love me"-tipl quite exhausted she sank upon the side of her berth, still caching after her shawl, saying, "throw it over my shoulders and let us go at once." Hilda, who had hardly restrained her laughter, now burst out in great glee. "What is your great haste? Do give good, gallant Mr. Sarran the felicity of feeling that he is all-important to you."   ZOE. OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.     61 I had rather administer to his happiness in some othe way. I must confess, Hilda, I shall be thankful when w, are free from his tender assiduities. The price he set upon them is quite too irksome for me to render. I avoid him as much as I can with any sort of decency, seeing we have put ourselves under his protection." "You do not like him, do you?" "Only at a distance-when he is so deep in his after noon nap, or in his game of whist, or his after-dinner dis cussion and wine, that I know I shall be safe from him. I wish old men would not make themselves so disagreeable for I always wish to love them." O never mind if he does pet you. I believe I am a born coquette, Zob, and if I cannot find any better subject te flirt with, why Mr. Sarran will answer very well; and the old gentleman likes the joke as well, I verily believe. We have got up quite a flirtation together, if you will believe it." "Take care, Hilda, or you will get into trouble." "Nonsense; we are merely joking, of course, just to while away the monotony on board. He understands it." "'Take care, I say again, or you may really pain Mr. Sarran. He has a very affectionate heart, is susceptible to kindness, and is almost alone in the world. There is no knowing what hopes you may awaken in him." "You are mighty tender of our friend all at once, it seems. I thought you only liked him at a distance." "True; I wish he would never kiss me. I am not will- ing that many persons should, and never a gentleman, unless I love him a deal better than Mr. Sarran. But I regard him quite too much to wish to see his feelings hurt, poor man." "You know I would not injure them more than you, Zoei. But I do really love fun, and so does he, and why should we not enjoy ourselves. This is the first time I ever thought you prudish." !   68    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUJMPH. "O don't call me so, for I detest the word. But, dear, we are left to our own guidance now, and I think we ought to be careful. Remember how kind and watchful Miss Ingemann was of our characters in this respect." "O yes," said Hilda, "I don't forget; but I am going to enjoy myself, nevertheless. I am as happy and joyous as the day is long, and if I know that 1 my heart is innocent and kindly towards every one, what harm can I do? One would think I was a Medusa to hear you -talk, my little guardian angel, only better, for you are not too good yet for naughty, human love, such as what I have ever for you, brimming up and running over;" and she threw her arms around her and caressed her until Zoe begged for quarter. "Anything but a Medusa, darling," said Zo6. "Away with you then! I'll not be a bughear to frighten even one little joy away. Come, we 11 steal a march on Mr. Sarran. He is not going to touch so much as his little finger to assist me," and arm in arm they went on deck. They seated themselves on a bench and looked about them. The ship's crew were busy taking in coal, and the luggage of the passengers, who had just come on board. The wharf was covered with drays, wagons, ormtnibusses, carriages and negroes, and the two girls sat making their observations. Zoe's eyes were for the most part riveted upon the slaves, as some of them brought their loads with slow, thoughtful faces, and such deep sad eyes, as made her sigh to see them. Others looked stupid and abject, as if either the soul-spark never had been awakened, or had been benumbed by cruel usage, while others, the larger number, cracked jokes among themselves, played tricks upon each other, and in extravagant fashion and lan- guage, exchanged the greetings of the morning. Hilda felt ill at ease at first, in the presence of Zoe, with them on every side, but she thought of her cheerful- ness since her first meeting with the Bermuda women, and   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    69 she was emboldened to speak when she saw their apparent happiness. "Those people look very happy, do they not? See that little boy turning somerset; and his playmate puts his cap on his feet while they are up in the air, so that he is a monster with two heads. What a shout of laughter fromn the whole group! They are happy, are they not?" "They are quite merry just now." - That American lady who visited Mrs. Pendleton last summer, who had. lived in a slaveholding state, said (that the negroes were, after all, happier than their masters and mistresses.? A "O, of course!" "And that they had an easier life, than those who held them in slavery." "' Of course, dear, it could not be otherwise." Hilda turned to look at Zoei, to see what she meant. She gathered no answer from the expression of her face, which was one of mingled thoughtfulness, pity and sadness. "What do you mean by 'of course.' I have not thought so, I am sure." "You cannot think that the unjust are ever happier than the injured, if innocent. If the slaves act as well as their circumstances will allow them, they are very near to ' Our Father,' which of itself is happiness; while the injurer, by his very injustice, shuts out God's presence from his soul, and what misery can be so great as that?" "But many of the slaveholders are very kind and indul- gent to their slaves, Mrs. Tayloi said.," Zoe said nothing. "Do you think it so very wrong, for such persons to hold them?" "Wrong, to pretend to own a human being, Hilda? If Jesus were on earth, do you think it would be right to hold him as a slave?"   E; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.           - " My dear, how different the two cases! You shock me, by such a question." " They are just the same, just the same." Hilda marveled at her friend, and looked serious for a moment, and seeing Mr. Sarran, ran to meet him. He drew her arm within his own, and they walked up and down the deck, chatting and laughing together. They soon approached the bench where Zoe was sitting, Mr. Sarran saying, as he handed Hilda to her seat, bowing at the same time profoundly, and laying his hand on his heart: " May your Viking hope that his Queen will preserve his image enshrined within her pericardium, while he roams for a brief period?" "Yes, if he return laden with the roses, jasmines and heliotropes of this halcyon clime, as a propitiation." " And orange flowers," said he, partly dropping on one knee. " Ay, and a vail of tulle," said she, letting her head fall orn one side, and looking very modest. " How unhappy I am that my bridesmaid is so far aloft, as to be unmindful of. my feelings, and thus neglect to spare them on this tender and delicate occasion !" Mr. Sarran laughed and called her roguish, looking pleased at the same time, as his simple, honest face was seen descending the steps of the vessel to go on shore. Zoe slowly shook her head at Hilda, but forbore to say anything. I am a sad trial to you, am I not? But what are life and liberty good for, uhless one can enjoy herself? Why, I am like a bottle of champagne that has been corked for years. The stopper is flying out just now, but the extra gas will puff off in a little time, and I shall remain a spark- ling, brilliant wine of the first order, that will be just the article to flush and brighten the semi-soberness. demi-   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    dullness of my wise, youthful Mentoress," and Hilda sang a snatch of a lively German air. " there are the new passengers," said she; " look, Zoe."  They now began their speculations upon them. " That mild, handsome gentleman in black is one, I sup- pose," said Zoe. "I like his looks so much. His face expresses high and refined thought and feeling. And see. how observant! he is of everything. He is pointing at something on shore, and directing that young lady's atten- tion towards it." "That younger and taller gentleman is his brother, I suspect. They resemble each other. Is not he handsome? and what a noble air he has!" said Hilda. 4' If he is his brother, he is very different; for he looks so much more like a man of the world than the first one." "And those two young ladies. Do you think they are married to them?" " Perhaps so. No, they resemble them too much. They must be their sisters." "What splendid eyes the taller one has! How they sparkle when she laughs! Do you think she is hand- some ?" "Yes. Her eyes are handsome, to say the least. Shb is what Miss Ingemann would call high-bred; and she is something better than merely that too, for I see she looks thoughtful, and now a shade of sadness comes over her face." "Yes, she is dressed in black, you see. I wonder what friend she has lost," said Hilda. " But the other one. I wish she would turn her head," said Zoe. "She has scarcely looked from that one point for the last ten minutes. 0, now I see! She has more regular features than the other, but it is not so easy to read the character of her face as that of the taller one."   ; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPh.  "They are like some Spaniards I saw once. I wonder if they are of that nation? The younger gentleman looks like a Don, does he not? I should like to know where they are going. But who is this? See, Zoi, see! May Odin protect us! Did my eyes ever behold such an imper- sonation of solemnity and woe-begoneness!" The individual, who now riveted their attention, was tall, elderly, and gaunt. His face was furrowed deeply, his eye was sad and lack-luster, and his hair but thinly shaded his high brow. But the most remarkable features were his cheek and mouth. The corners of the latter were drawn down, while the lips were closed with a perceptible pucker. These two combined expressions gave a hard, stiff look to the whole side-cheek, peculiarly repulsive in its character. But the most painful idea connected with the whole physiognomy was, that it was not truthful and natural. Not that-the man looked wicked, far from it; but through some superstition or asceticism, he had brought himself to suppose that to look very serious and solemn was the true expression of a child of God, and, therefore, he was determined to train his face to the idea. A life- long nurture of this mistaken notion had had the effect of thus disfiguring him, It was a cool morning, and he had a large cloak with a small cape thrown over him, and as he gazed over the ves- sel's side upon the scene on shore, he placed his arms akimbo under it, thereby extending it like a huge pall be- tween Hilda and Zoe and the view of the town. The girls looked at each other significantly. After standing thus a few moments; he half turned towards them, so that they could see his side face; his jaws moved, as if chewing some substance, when suddenly he expectorated a nau- seous fluid, which fell in a loathsome puddle upon the clean, holystoned deck, and then with measured tread he slowly walked away. "0 dreadful!" said Zoe.     " What is the matter with him.?" said Hilda. "(Hle must be very sick." "If he is not I am,"' said Zoij. "Do assist me to my state-room."  Her stomach was still suffering from the effects of sea-sickness, and this disgusting and heedless exhibition of uncleanliness was quite too much for it in its present delicate state. "Detestable' said she, as she sank on her berth, her face expressing the disturbance she suffered from. 6" What can ail the man ?" said Hilda. "0h nothing but a filthy habit," said Zoil. "I recollect Mrs. Pendleton said that her countrymen chewed the nasty tobacco-weed, and that there was scarcely a place in the United States clean from the effects of this disgusting practice. PahS" The ship was soon in motion, and Hilda was on deck amidst the excitement of leaving; Zoe, sea-sick again, re- mained below. Forthe whole day she was on her couch, too ill to rise, but well enough to enjoy the view of the ocean through her port-hole, Tennyson's new'poem, which Mr. Sarran had kindly purchased for her in the city, and Hilda's sketches of the passengers, which she gave her from time to time. She came into her state-room in a glow of excitement. " 0, Zoei," said she, "there is another new passenger, which you did not see." 'A lady?" "No, a young gentleman, equal to the Druid, in his own way, which is a very different one."   : "How does he look?" "liHe is tall-more than six feet, I should think. He must have been intended for a giant, but Nature forgot to fill out his proportions, for he is as straight and slender as a reed.Y  "Is he handsome?" "I hardly know what to say. He has a very clear, gray 7     74    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. eye, and handsome brow, and his nose is well enough. As for his mouth and chin, they may, or not be, for they are scarcely visible, being covered by a long moustache and an untrimmed beard, giving him a very shaggy look. But his hair, Zoe, O, if you could only see that! It is almost as long as mine; of a beautiful brown, and as soft as silk." "How does he manage this feminine accompaniment, pray?"i "In no woman's fashion, I can assure you. When it falls over his shoulders in front, so as to be in his way, he gives it a toss back, like a high-spirited horse, when on the' full run. When it drops upon his forehead, he runs his fingers through it, giving it a twirl on the top of his head, leaving it in a sort of loop, pointed at the top like a horn; the symbol of power, you know, and, in short, he plays all sorts of off-hand tricks with it." "A funny specimen of humanity, he must be." "Yes, indeed, you would have laughed to see our meet- ing. I ran up the gangway, and the first person I saw, was this figure. He was standing looking out upon the shore, one foot a little in advance of the other, the latter 'bent a little, as he rested upon the one behind, his arms folded, his head thrown back, and his eye taking in every- thing that passed before it. But his dress, Zoe, O! his dress! His pants are too short for him, so are his coat- sleeves. The latter garment, is a rather loose one, with a leathern belt around his waist. His hat is a soft, broad- brimmed beaver, with the crown all crumpled up, appar- ently by deign, just to look odd and strange, I know. He wears iteither on one side or else thrown on the back of his head?" Zo-A laughed. QHave you heard the phenomenon speak?" OO yes, and that is the best of it, I stood for a minute, taken completely aback, then moved forward a little, look- ing around for a seat. At that moment, he saw me, and,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPII.    75 quick as lightning, sprang for the only chair visible, and brought'it to me, saying, ' Take a seat, ma'am? Pleasant day!  "I said, thank you, yes, very pleasant-another spring, and he brought a stool for my feet; so there I sat, perched up, thinking I was wonderfully waited upon, and wondered if all the American young gentlemen were as polite as he." "Did you have any farther conversation with him?" "Yes, I could not avoid it if I had wished to. He was disposed to talk, and one subject led to another, until we were in great glee. It is like taking exhilarating gas to be with him. You have to laugh whether you will or not. There is no place like shipboard, to make friends. All conventionalism is dropped, and you walk straight into people at once." 'c Dear Hilda, you must be careful in making the ac- Y quaintance, of gentlemen, at least. Do be a little more reserved. It is but the part of a lady, I will assure you." Hilda looked thoughtful for a moment, and then said; "Those dark-eyed young ladies, and their brother, think so too, for they repelled me with a very dignified air, when I attempted to get up a little acquaintance- with them, and when I was talking with my knight of the waving lockls, they rose, and seated themselves at a distance from us."  "There, dear, let that serve as a hint to you, to be less hasty in forming friendships." "'It will be a hint to return the compliment to their dig- nity, in a similar fashion. I can erect my crest as well as they;" and Hilda straightened her tall and elegant figure to its full height. "I do not wish for their felldao ipy if , they are so saving of it." She paused a moment, :Ata broke out. "The fact is, Zoe, you must get welli:aftn:  come tup on deck, and take care of me. I never get on safely without you. There is one gentleman you will like, I know; the elder of that party, to which the Don and his   76   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONl'S TRIUMPH. sisters belong. He is dignity and affability combined, and talks delightfully." '4I shall do so, very soon. -The captain says, that we shall be in quiet seas, before many days, and I already feel much better." "Mr. Sarran has seen the list of passengers, and learned the names of the new ones. The Druid is the Rev. Dr. Chichester, from Missouri, United States. The younger gentleman in black, is Mr. Lindsey, and the name of the brother and sisters, is Pierson. As for the Pine Tree, I have not learned his genus and species, technically." Mr. Pierson and his sisters sat apart from the other pas- sengers. A gentleman from Boston, and a young English officer, bound to Barbadoes, had just risen from seats near them, to walk the deck. "I wish you to be very careful in selecting your associ- ates here. Keep a stiff upper lip, and do not be en- croached upon by any one. That young Danish girl is a perfect hoyden, I would make her keep her distance," said the gentleman. "She is fine-looking," said the elder, whose name wa Emma. "She is too little refined," said her brother. "Do you see how free she is with that rough-looking Young Amer- ica? She is just like a boarding-school miss set free, who does not know how to use her liberty." , Her companion is a colored girl, I should think,"' said the younger sister. '"She is so. -Of course you will not make a companion of her. Mr. Custis will introduce you to his mother, and the young English officer, I am glad to know." , There is Mr. Lindsey in conversation with Miss Stro. Fhea- and Young America, said Meta Pierson. " Yes," said her brother. "He is no rule for us you know, in this respect. He is a minister, and it belongs to the cloth to know and be gracious to every one. -Of course   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    7 I do not mean that this is in his disfavor, or that he is not the very best companion that we could have-but you under- stand m6. He is not quite up to the highest tone of society, you know, in his manners; and it is better, in his position, that he is not, for he can thus be more generally-useful. Let him, of course, do as he pleases.' Hilda was soon on deck again reconnoitering. Her stay was brief, however, for she was so fond of sympathy, that, as Zoe was not by her to receive every passing suggestion, she was continually running back to talk with her. "C I wonder of what profession those new-comers are. I thought Mr. Lindsey might be a minister, but as I heard him talk about politics, I thought he must be a statesman. Next he was talking upon agriculture, as if he had culti- vated land all his life; so I am puzzled." " Whom is he talking with?" "With my chevalier of the chair and stool. I am just as much at a loss about him too. I never thought he was a clergyman, it is true, but during the conversation, by turns, I thought him a farmer, a notary, and now I have come to the conclusion that he is an artist, he talks so en- thusiastically about paintings. By the way, he has got his easel with him, so he must be one." ". And the elder gentleman?" 4 He is the Reverend Dr. Chichester; there can be no mistake about him. But may I be spared from his minis- trations! He never would carry jne to heaven, I know, but leave me groping about in the darkest part of the under- world. Good-by." In the course of an hour she was with Zoi3 again. "Now I think I have it. But would you believe it? that mild, cultivated gentleman, Mr. Lindsey, is an instructor in gymnastics. He has bad his coat off for the last half hour, teaching le cheveluse-I may as well call him so- in that science. He has an empty decanter in one hand, and a pitcher in the other, to serve as clubs, ahd such   78   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. demonstrations you never beheld. His pupil follows his example exactly-now swinging the weights-now turning himself round about on a pole-now at his full length on the deck in strange contortions. I am hardly alive for the laughter I have been subjected to. Yes, Mr. Lindsey must be a gymnast." Zoe laughed. "I suspect," said she, "that they both belong to a class very common in America, for I remember that a writer in the New York Evening Post, which I read at Mr. Korner's one day, said that the ' Yankees --a name which some persons give to the people of the United States-are Jacks at all trades and good at none." "' Jacks at all trades and good at none,"' repeated Hilda. "If they undertake and carry everything through with as much spirit as they do those exercises, they will, in time, be good at everything, I should think. I am going to see what comes next on the tapis. O, Zoe, do get well and come up and see them." "I was just thinking I would go now. Mr. Sarran will come for me soon if I do not." They ascended to the deck, and the first person they met was Hilda's hero-Young America. He started on seeing them together-looked first at one, and then at the other, and half-questioning, half-asserting, said, "Zoe and Hilda?" The two girls looked amazed, then Zoe exclaimed, "George Stephenson!" "Yes, it is your old playmate. I hope you are glad to see him," said he, looking at Hilda, who, blushing, laugh- ing and half crying, extended her hand, to which he gave a hearty shake. They then sat down, and, for the next hour or two, were deep in reminiscences of the past.   "When the old world is sterile,  And the ages are effete, He will, from wrecks and sediment, The fairer world complete. He forbids to despair; His cheeks mantle with mirth; And the unimaginfed good of men Is yeaning at the birth."-EMERSON. strd-  next morning a group was seated on deck, con- sisting of Mr. Lindsey, Zo6, Iilda, and young Stephen- son. Mr. Pierson and his sisters sat a little apart, with the young English officer. Mr. Sarran walked to and fro, stopping occasionally to keep the thread of their conversa- tion in his mind, while Mr. Chichester, who was reading a Tract, looked from time to time over his spectacles at them. "This is the day of the election of President," said Mr. Lindsey. 6"I wish I knew who is the successful candidate." 'Paysons, of course," said Mr. Pierson; "everything tended that way, when we left." "Yes," said Mr. Lindsey; " we are not far enough along yet for a Freesoil man, but the next will be one with those principles." "Not as you know   of," said George Stephenson. "He '1l be a Know Nothing, I can tell you." "A Know Nothing!" said Hilda. "Do you want a dunce for a President?" (79)   $0   ZgOE; OR, THE QUARDMON'S TRI'UMPTI. "It is the name of a partyf'y said Zoe. "Do you not remember, when we called to bid Mrs. KtIrner good-by, that Fred said he had been trying to persuade his father to emigrate to America. Mr. Eorner objected on the ground that he should not, perhaps, have more freedom there than in Europe, since the Know Nothing party had arisen, as they had such a prejudice against foreigners that they were trying to restrict therm in the right of suffrage-" "O! I remember it," said Hilda. "Yes, we don't want any more ignorant Europeans, who know nothing about our principles of government, yet try to get the reins into their own' hands, and fill the fattest places in the country. Put them down, I say. They should not vote until they have been in the country twenty-one years. We will fix them. There shan't a mother's son of them have an office two years hence." 6"I agree with you that Amierican principles, interpreted in the most liberal and Christian way, with the increasing light which every age can throw upon them, should hold rule in the counsels of our nation. These are no less beneficial to the strangers, who flock to our shores, than to us. God forbid, that we should repeat through them the worn out policy of the old world governments. Our country was opened to the races for better things than that career! "Then we must put down the Dutch and Irishf" said Stephenson. "I am imuch more afraid of demagogues among our OWB people than of any body of foreigners. It is they who give the' latter the power to injure us. They mnake the ignorant among them tools for their" selfish and base designs, deceiving them by their misrepresentations, and setting them on to, -and joining them in the commission of deeds which disgrace us in the world's eyes, and retard the legitimate workings of our noble institutions'" said, Mr. Lindsey.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    81 "Yes," said Mr. Pierson, " politics have got to be such a miserable game for the demagogues of all parties, that I have concluded to have nothing to do with them. I did not vote at all this year." "There you was very wrong, in my opinion Horace ex- cuse me," said Mr. Lindsey. 1"What is to become of the country. if the most high-toned men thus neglect their first duty of a free citizen? It is virtually giving it over into the hands of its destroyers." "Whom should I vote for? I like neither of the candi- dates, and could not make up my mind which was the better one.? "On the fence, hey?" said Stephenson. "Yes, and it is so muddy both sides, that I had rather be excused from jumping either way." "Vote for the best man on the whole, is my rule. The fact is, we cannot live in-exhausted receivers. We must accept our lot with our fellow-men, and work with, and act for them as our most enlightened conscience guides us. If we stand aloof from them, from any dilettante notion of superiority, and wrap ourselves up in self-satisfaction at our purer and higher purposes, ten to one the wave of popular opinion will not make an unwonted swell onwards in some unexpected moment, leaving us stranded far be- hind.  Depend upon it, the average of popular thought is equal to, if not in advance of any single individual. I stand by the people, not of course, allowing them to arbi- trarily govern me, but simply acting up to my highest con- victions in my .choice. of leaders for myself and them" said Mr.- Lindsey. Mr. Chichester now spoke in a very deliberate and solemn tone: "I never vote, being a minister of the Gospel, as I think it is not consistent with doing my Master's work, to trouble my mind much with such worldly matters. But this, I will say, that the needless discussions upon the subject of our   82    ZOE; orE, TIlE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. peculiar Institution, is the chief cause of trouble in our county. Until the North ceases to meddle with what is not her business, we shall never be at peace again." "'The Abolitionists have done a vast amount of mis- chief," said Young America, '"Mr. Webster had the right ideas upon the subject. If we had followed his wise counsels, we should be better off than we are now. The Union is in great danger," said Mr. Pierson. "Three propositions," said Mr. Lindsey, " which we might discuss the whole length of our voyage, anid yet not change each others views; so I will simply say, that as a Minister of the Gospel, I deem it my first duty, to act the part of a man in the legitimate affairs of men; of a citizen, in what concerns the weal of myself and family, no less than that of my fellows; and especially to bear my testi- mony, as every Christian should, against the greatest sin and wrong of the times. Slavery- affects every part of the country, in its religion, morals, social well-being, and pe- cuniary prosperity. Farther than this, though I belong to no association of Abolitionists, I respect them as earnest, unflinching advocates for the rights of the slaves, and be- lieve that their leaders will fill a higher place in history, than many now called great through advocacy of compro- mising measures, instead of taking their stand upon eternal principles. As for the dissolution of the Union, I have no fears for it, but I say, dissolve it, rather than strike hands with injustice and wrong forever." Mr. Chichester shook his head, and said, "We had fallen on evil times, and that we needed a refreshing from the presence of the Lord. That it behooved his servant to pray that he might not stay his coming. That he would vouchsafe to come right down into our midst and save his elect, and especially scatter all wolves in sheep's clothing, who taught the wicked devices of their own corrupt natures instead of the essential doctrines of the Bible."   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI.     83 a Are you a clergyman?" said Mr. Stephenson to Mr. Lindsey. "Certainly, why not??" "I am astonished," said he, looking embarrassed. "Why, I have talked to you just like any other man. Yes, and I asked you to take a hand at whist last evening. I beg your pardon, by George---he-e-e! excuse me, but you were so cheerful, I never once thought of such a thing, as your belonging to the cloth." "Of course, I am cheerful, my friend. That is one of the privileges of a profession which brings one into such intimate communion with God, nature, and the deepest soul of- humanity. IIow could I be otherwise?" . Mr. Stephenson made no answer, but looked towards Mr Chichester, as a refutation of the remark. '"May I ask-what order you are of," he continued. "Of the Unitarian Congregationalist." Mr. Chichester drew down the corners of his mouth to the extremest possible limits, and looked over his spectacles at Mr. Lindsey's pedal extremities, to see if either of them were cloven, drew a deep sigh, and resumed the reading of his Tract, which was entitled, "The Swift Road to Ever- lasting-Burnings." "They call your sect infidels, up in our diggin's," said Young America. "O, yes," said Mr. Lindsey, " and when the children are refractory, tell them to be still, or the Unitarians will catch them; In the eastern States, too, we are called so by all who value their sect more than the truth. By such, we are told in one breath, that we are dying or dead; and, in the next, are preached against, prayed against, while the people are warned against us, as if we were living, rampant, and destructive in our influence still. We are very sorry to be regarded as such bughears, when we take for our motto nothing less than ' Liberty, Holiness, Love, and try to act up to it as far as is in our power."   84   ZO'; O1R; TIIE QUAD IOON'S TRIUMPH.       I Mr. Chichester rose and walked away, and the party   Ai separated, each to follow their' own inclinations, leaving Mr. Lindsey and Mr. Stephenson together. "I am glad to have an opportunity of .talking upon the subject of religion with a man of some brain,'? said the latter. c I am disgusted with it as it is presented by the religionists in our part of the country, and am often tempted to throw the whole thing overboard. And yet I know I have strong religious instincts." ,'You have simply outgrown the present creeds and forms in which this great good of our being is so much enveloped, hiding its simple majesty and beauty, and pre- senting a repulsive aspect to you."? "And I am not the only one in this condition of mind either. In the large circuit of which I am Judge, more than half the lawyers are skeptical. They contribute to the support of religion from various motives, for the sake of their families, because it is respectable for them to do so, and they regard it as a kind of police to keep the igno- rant and superstitious in order; but they laugh at the whole matter when they are together.'5 '"You must allow me to interrupt you a moment by ask- ing if you are really a Judge?" "Certainly, I am nothing else." "Yo u are young for that office." "O yes, but Young America is the order of the day, out West, you know. I went to Iowa five years- ago, when I was about twenty-three, as a soldier of fortune. I prac- ticed law, stumping it around the country, as occasion offered, and two years since the ' boys ' put me in as Judge. The old fogies made a great row about it, thinking such a harum-scaruim fellow as I would set the river a-fire at once. But I Eve taught them a thing or two.? "Do the people pay the office due deference, imperson- ated in one so young?" "Don't they? I make them toe the mark, I can tell you "   ZOE; 01R, THE qUADROONS TRIUMPEI.   85 There was n't a more disorderly community in the State when I was elected, and now I am willing you should ask my bitterest opponents if there is a better one." "How did you bring it about?" "By enforcing the laws, to be sure, and adding a few of my own.' "Will they obey those?" "Ye-es, they have to. If any one asks for a precedent, if he don't like my decisions, I come down upon him like a thousand of brick.2 We make laws in this office, I say. That is the way you have to do in a new country." "But the older lawyers?" "O we get on bravely together since I put one of them in jail for contempt of court. That is the way I do if all is not right. ' Sheriff, I say, take that man out -and he does not hesitate a hair. It is the only way, sir." These remarks were made with many gesticulations, with an occasional toss of his hat back, and an odd adjust- ment of the hair, which had so attracted Hilda's attention. "But about religion," he resumed. 6 I was bred a Calvinist. My father is one of the straightest of the sect. But I can't go it now any way. I won't have a God, as they represent him. He is a deal worse, according to them, than the most corrupt judge in the land, putting his own son to torture for others' sins. What kind of justice is that, I should like to know. And then, their three in one and one in three, I don't understand it, and I have made up my mind that it is all fol-de-rol, and that I'll have nothing to do with it, but give it the go-by. And yet-I can't quite do that either, for it seems to me that, when I resolve to do so, I hear my mother, (she was a real good woman, sir) calling me back to the faith she lived and died by." "Have you churches in your part of the country?" "' Yes, plenty of them. Heathen temples, I call them, with such priests as that old fellow yonder, with faces as   86   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIJUMPI.' long as the moral law. If their heaven is peopled by such specimens, I beg to be excused from going there. I'll try t 'other place." At that moment Zoe and Hilda approached them as they walked to and fro upon the deck. Stephenson jumped up and offered them his seat. 4" Will you join us?" said Mr. Lindsey. And they seated themselves beside him. " That poor old gentleman seems very unhappy," said Zoe, glancing towards Mr. Chichester, as lie stood looking bver the guards. " I don't wonder," said Stephenson, 4 with such hell-fire doctrifnes as he holds to. What I complain of is, that he is not half unhappy enough." " I should not think his worst enemy could wish him a more doleful physiognomy than he has,: said Hilda. "Yes, it is bad enough; but part of it is made up. Didn't you see how hard he tried to lengthen his visage down to the sanctimonious point while Mr. Lindsey was talking? -I'm up to 'em. They can't come it over me again. I was a subject of grace once, but I'm not the fish to be caught in their net a second time." " What do you mean?" said Hilda. "Why, that I was converted; went through the whole process, slick as a whistle. Convicted, wasn't I though; felt' awfully took the anxious seats; was pawed over; prayed over; whispered and groaned over by the brethren, the old maids, and the young sistren, to boot; obtained a hope; got religion, and was set up as an example of a saint of the first water, all in a day and a half. Lor, don't I know the- whole scheme of salvation from beginning to end, and yet, what does it all-amount to? I am no better but all the worse for it, fallen from grace, the elect say, and I don't know but I am." Hilda laughed, and said he bore his fate very coolly. "What is the use of crying for spilled milk. It is a settled point that I can't be religious in such a humbugging way   ZOE; OR, ThE QUADtIOON'S TaIUMPH.    87 as that is, and if the powers at head-quarters don't think me worth saving, why, I am not the one to dispute the matter with them.": "Is the revival system as much in vogue at the West, a it formerly was?" said Mr. Lindsey. "Not quite. The fact is, there isn't the material there onice was. People begin to see through the joke. Every spring, the preachers come together and try to get up a holy pow-wow, but it is no go, half the time. They pray to the Lord, as if he were the stump orator-general'of the universe, going the rounds from one section to another and when-they want to get up the steam in any place, they order him on to the field."  "Shocking!'" said Zoe. "It is just the way, malam. I don't pretend to- be pious, and don't mince matters, as you see, but it makes my bloods run cold to hear the coarse, familiar tone in which the re- vival prachers pray. And that is not the worst of it either; for they take the occasion to tell the Lord lots of things about himself which, I guess, he is surprised to hear, and about the people too." "I never heard of such things in Europe," said Hilda. - No," said Mr. Lindsey, "the character of our people  is a very intense and excitable one. They are eminently practical too, rapid in the execution of their business, and they have invested the subject of religion with the coarse, materialistic tendency of the times. It is v ery dishearten. "Ig to all of a more rational faith, whose religion is woven into every fibre of their souls, reclaiming, enlightening, guiding, and exalting, to witness such perversion of this great sentiment which connects us with God and the spiri-/ tual world. But I am  very hopeful, and regard it as a transitory phase of our civilization, which is to give place Losa freer and better faith than the world has yet seen." "You must be hopeful if you expect to see this Phoenix ising from tihe ashes of what we call 'the burnt districts,'   88   ZOE; OR THE .QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. ,where the transient fire of revivalism has passed over," said Stephenson. "I wish you could have heard- Elder Snow hold forth, a few years ago up our way. If he wasn't a burster! That old man yonder is not a circumstance to him. Such swearing I never heard, as came from him as he strove to frighten the people into the anxious seats." , Swearing!" said Hilda, "What do you mean?" "Just what I say. Now I, sometimes, in the heat of ex- citement take the name of his black majesty in vain, though I know that it is not just the thing. but never do I dare to use the titles of the Powers above in the heedless way they do. The fact is, the churches are a regular school to teach swearing." "It may be so," said Mr. Lindsey. I know it," said Young America. "Why, when the ministers curse and damn the people--excuse me ladies- as they do every three or four sentences, what can you expect of us sinners, I should like to know? If they use the holy names so glibly in denouncing us, why should it be strange that rude and thoughtless boys and young men should do the same? Reform the preachers first, I say, and then we 'll mend our ways in this respect. Elder Snow swore more in an hour's sermon than I ever did in my whole life." "That is a novel use to put churches to," said Hilda, very much amused at-his recital. "It is a fact. I have a good mind now to tell you my , experunce' of religion, as the old women call it.' "O dol" said Hilda. "' Well, the old governor, as I said before, is one of the straightest of the sect now, since he gave up politics and the world, which happened when he was disappointed of an office under government after hisreturn from Denmark?" "The governor! what, of your State?" said Zoe. i"Lor! no, ma'am, my father. That is the cant phrase we use in speaking of the old gentleman. He was always   ZOE'; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   89 at me to get religion. My mother was one of the excel- lent of the earth. You remember her, Hilda. She died when I was seventeen, but I never forgot her pious instruc- tions, and I know she prayed for my conversion every day of her life. So you see I was pretty tender upon that point, and I often wished I could bring it about, if it was only to please her; but I did not know how to go to work exactly, for the preacher mystified me so with his you-can- and-you-can't, you-shall-and-you-shan't, you l'l-be-damned- if-you-don't doctrine, that I was all in a puzzle. After mother's death, an aunt of mine, my father's sister, kept our house and took care of the children; and between you and me and the post, she was no better than she should be. She was a real termagant, and we youngsters had to stand round, I can tell you. Well, I went away to college, was gone two years, kicked up a rumpus with some of the boys, and was politely told that I might make myself scarce in those whereabouts; so, of course, I bowed my- self away from the premises. Went home, father was awful mad, wouldn't speak to me for three days. I did not care so much for that, for he was always rather stern with me, and I expected as much. But my mother's pic- ture hung -in my room, and when I awoke in the morning, the first thing I saw were her eyes (she had beautiful eyes, if you remember her, Zoei) looking straight upon me. Then I felt bad, I can tell you. I cried like a child; the first time since her death. Then I expected my aunt would give it to me in great style, for disgracing the family by my expul- sion, but to my surprise, she was as kind and amiable as she could be. I did not understand it at first, but my sister told me that she got religion soon after I went away, and that, since that time, she had governed her temper for the most part, and was real motherly to them. Well, as I told you, Mr. Lindsey, I have strong religious instincts, and often in waking up suddenly in the night, I would tremble all over to think how my life was flying away and I did not   90   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. know what there was beyond for me. Being tender too, at this time, thinking of my mother, and meeting my sisters, and my aunt being so kind to me, and knowing that my father had cause to be angry with me, made me feel more upon the subject. Just now I heard that the great revival preacher, Elder Snow, was in the township, and that a good many of my old Cronies, among the boys and girls, had obtained a hope. Thinks I, now is the time for me. So I went to the prayer-meeting in the evening, heard him preach, saw all my sins pictured out before me just as plain as you can see the different places on this map. I went to the anxious seats with the rest, and returned home to pass an awful night. I saw myself just ready to fall into everlast- ing flames, exactly as he painted it. Thinks I to myself, I can't stand this. If there is help for me in this world or the next, I must have it. So without saying anything about it to the folks, I went straight to the preacher." "Elder Snow," said I, "I want religion, and must have it, whether or no." "Well, my boy," said he, "I am the man for you. Do you believe that'you are the wickedest sinner on God's earth?" ' Yes," said I; -' and what is more, I know it," for I really felt so at the time. "Do you feel as if you deserved hell-torments now, and forevermore?" "Anything that you can name--and they have begun with me, I feel them this very minute." ; Do you trust in the merits of Jesus Christ, and that he is able to save you by his blood?" "I suppose so, as far as I understand. Heaven knows, I haven't any of my own to boast of, and I'm willing to trust in anything that will do the business for me." ' Well, my boy, I think you are a special case of God's grace." " Can you put me through, do you think?"   ZOE; OR, THE Q UADROON'S TRIUMPI.    91 "Yes," said he, " kneel down, and let us play." "I did as he said. He first took off his coat, rolled up his shirt-sleeves, and then went at it, and prayed for a full hour and a half, at the top of his voice. At the end of it, I was as light as a feather, my sufferings all gone, and I felt that I was on the highway to the land of Canaan-beyond the floods. I went to the conference. Elder Snow told the assembly, that I was a flaming instance of heavenly grace, and called upon me to relate my experience, which I did. "For two weeks, I -never enjoyed myself so much in my life; went to the meetings three times a-day, prayed, sang, and .exhorted, and was made much of by all the Christians, old and young." "Well, what was the end of it?" "The end of' it was, that when Elder Snow went away, my religion seemed to vanish with him. I never have been able to get up much since, and I feel as if I had been cheated and imposed upon. I did not fall into the reckless vices some of my comrades did, but I know well enough, that I am none too good for this world, much less for the other one. So that -is the history of my religious experi- ence."  "What a strange idea of religion such preachers as you describe, must have. One would think it was a mantle to put on and off, instead of being a principle, a sentiment, and a life. I never heard of a like absurdity." "  Yes, such mistakes have had'a most lamentable effect upon the moral sense of the community at large. It will take more than one generation to recuperate it to a healthy evangelical tone," said Mr. Lindsey. "  From what are such ideas derived?" said Zoe. "They do not get them from the Bible surely?" "O, no! they are the natural running to seed of the dogmatism of the past ages, united with the' more vital but extravagant spirit with which Wesley, Whitefield and others endeavored to galvanize them. These men did a   2   ZOE; OR, 'l'tiHE QUADlUu'i  -ArilUlNfui i. great work for Christianity by their fervor and piety, but they had not reach, of mind and simplicity of character sufficient to lead them to thrust aside all the incrustations around Christianity, therefore a new reform is necessary. The world has got to return to the simple teachings of Christ, casting aside their false philosophies and theolo- gies, receive, like little children, his unadulterated truths, and imbibe and imitate the spirit of his life," O 0, yes," said Z"o, " and they are so' beautiful, and speak so plainly and tenderly to the soul, how can men misunderstand them, or resist their call to the higher life, embodied in -them?"  "Only in Christ has the spirit of his religion been wholly incarnated. Ever since his death, has it been de- teriorated more or less by human admixtures, concocted by the darkened intellects and blind passions of men. I look forward, however, to a better future. My -own sect has thrown aside all the creeds of men's invention, and though their numbers are apparently in the minority, yet, through all Christendom- Unitarianism, or the belief in one God and in Jesus Christ as our great spiritual Leader, has acted as a powerful leaven to raise the masses to higher conceptions of religion than the dominant Churches give them," said Mr. Lindsey. "6 I should like to know your belief, for I am as much on the fence in religious matters, as that young Squire yonder is in politics." " I cannot better give you an idea of it, than by saying, that it is comprised in the precepts and parables of our Lord, enforced by the spirit of his example aifd life, recog- nizing with awe and gratitude, as I do, the seal he set upon his heaven-sent mission by dying a martyr's death for truth and God. These precepts, this holy, pure, loving and self-sacrificing spirit, it is my aim to embody in my ownf life, to set them forth in my Sunday ministrations to my people, and to develop them in accordance with the   93   march of God's Providence, as is seen in nature, history, and life, making civilization and the highest possible con- ception of Christianity one and the same, now and forever- more.' "'That- is beautiful," said Zoie.  "It is my ideal of Christianity, though I-.might not be able to express it so well. Why does not the world see and acknowledge this beautiful revelation? It is as clear to me as.noonday." "If that is Christianlity, why I feel that there is some hope for me. There is reason in that. But the doctrines that are preached in the churches that I have attended, upset nature and common-sense, and would turn the world into a complete Pandemonium if fully carried out. If you will believe it, our minister said one day, in answer to my sister, who referred' him to Christ's Sermfn on the Mount for her belief in the essentials of religion, that Jesus did not go    quite far enough  there,7" said Mr. Stephenson. "Fortunately the religionists are very inconsistent, see- ing that they cling to a pagantzed Christianity,' said Mr. Lindsey. Human nature is very vagarious in its imagin- ings, and bad enough sometimes in its perverted manifesta- tions; but, thank heaven, it recoils. from carrying out its most unnatural and diseased lucubrations into full practice. I doubt if our dismal friend yonder, though he looks more like Calvinism embodied than any other one I have yet seen, would not shrink fiom many of his opinions, if they were to be wrought out in the experience of himself or those dear to him." "I guess so; but these fellows always contrive to put themselves on the safe side, when they give out the Al- inighty's decrees.  They and their children are of the elect, while we, who don't believe their lies, are among the goats; they are the ones to look over the battlements of heaven, while we, who don't come into their traces, are   "   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. down below, gnashing our teeth in the flames. I know them, inch by inch." "One of them, a minister, whose child's funeral my father attended, before the separation between the Ortho- dox and the more liberal sects took place, consigned his own baby, of a year old, to the bad place very coolly," said Mr. Lindsey. "4 He said, while walking home from its little grave, in answer to some consolatory remark of his friend, that he 'supposed the little viper deserved to have its head crushed,' and then added, ' that hell was, paved  with infants' skulls not a span long!' " "Horrible! horrible!" said Zoe and Hilda in the same breath. "What form of paganism could be more dreadful in its results?"  "That'I call the legitimate working of the Calvinistic system. Thank heaven, that other influences more often come in to modify it," said Mr. Lindsey. "I guess that the Dr. there is of the same stock.@ Look at him! I should think he had eaten fever and ague damps for his breakfast, bilious miasma for his dinner, and the cholera cramps for his supper all his life." "Poor man!" said Zoe. "I think you deserve, at least, a dessert of those impon- derable miseries for caricaturing him as you do," said Hilda. "It is no caricature, and you will see that it is not before we get rid of him. I know 'em," said Young America. "I wish he 'd tip overboard. I've enough original sin in me for that. Fool, to think that we are suffering more for our first grand-dad's fault than for our own, or for our father's neglect of physiological laws, it may be!" "Perhaps he has the notion of the old man with whom I talked last summer. I spoke to him of what I considered the absurdity of the doctrine of imputed sin, and he said that his belief was, that when Adam and Eve ate the apple, g             ,. i i   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    95 all the souls of the human race Were present and consented to the deed. I asked him if he remembered the circum- stance, and he said he thought he had a dim recollec- tion of it!" The girls laughed at this instance of a retentive memory, and Stephenson said that he wasglad to see that one of the tribe was consistent. At that moment a cry was raised that a whale was spout- ing in the distance. Dr. Chichester turned to look at it, step- ping back, as he did so, to be free of some obstacles between it and the sphere of his vision, and was in immi- nent danger of falling backward down the gangway. Young America darted forward, caught him as he began to totter, and with his strong arm placed him on safe footing again. "'Does your mother know you are out? ' said he. "By jingo! a little more, and you had been where you would have seen stars. Take a seat, sir," said he, softening his voice, as he saw that he was growing faint from the shock. "I will go and get you a cordial." So away he went, and in an incredibly short time returhed with wine and water, insisted upon his drinking some, and attended upon him as if he had been an affec- tionate son; and when he was able, gave him his arm to lean upon as he went to his state-room. Thank you, my lad!" said he, as he assisted him to his couch. "An old man's blessing be on you!" Mr. Lindsey, Hilda, Zoi, and others ran to offer their services, but Stephenson was so assiduous that they were not needed. As the two walked away, Mr. Lindsey said: "A good heart beats under that rough exterior." "Yes," said Hilda; "  we liked him so much when Ire was in Copenhagen. His father was minister to that court when we were very little girls; and his residence was near Miss Ingemann's school. George staid but one year with his family, as his parents thought he had better be at home   96    ZOE; OR, TItE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. at school; but during that time, we became great friends. I was only eight, and he was sixteen, but he was my favo- rite playmate, nevertheless, and was always ready to do anything for us we wished himito. I never have forgotten him, though he has changed so much I did not know him at first. But I find he is as good and funny as ever." Stephenson now returned to them. it The old gentleman isn't so bad, after all," said he. "I wish he hadn't gray hairs, and I would get up an argument with him. I d knock his Calvinism into a cocked hat for him* for he is a deal better than his thunder-and-lightning creed." Mr. Pierson and his sisters now appeared on the oppo- site side of the deck. "There's a big-bug," said he, de- signating the former by a side toss of his head, as he seated himself by Hilda. "Where, where?" said she, jumping up and brushing with her hand her neck, upon which one of her ringlets had fallen. "That Don over there," said he, "brother to those young ladies. What frightens you?" ' "I thought you meant that there was one on my neck, and I can't bear insects. Why do you call Mr. Pierson a bug? I think he is a very elegant young gentleman." "Elegant enough! so are lady-bugs, but they have got a pretty considerable of a hum to them. He is one of the Boston chaps, I reckon. I had as lieve have a regular John Bull round, and a little rather, for he is genuine, ,while this is a counterfeit. I know 'em. ," Have you become acquainted with the- young ladies?" "Not I. They are too uppish for me. Don't they cut a swath?" said he, as he saw them with their brother walk backwards and forwards on the deck. "I wonder what they are thinking of!" said Hilda, as she saw them looking very serious. "Solving a problem," said he. sWhat problem?" said Zoe. ' What do you mean?"   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH.     97 c'0, whether God Almighty made them, or they made Almighty God!" - I think you are very irreverent," said Hilda. " They are to blame for suggesting it to me," said he. "I know those Boston fellows.- They think their little hill is the head-quarters of creation, and if the universe was to be destroyed, the most effectual way to begin the work would be to extinguish one of their first families." "I thought," said Hilda, "  that America was a republic, and that you were without an aristocracy." "O no! we have the codfish aristocracy in New York, the whale-oil aristocracy in New Bedford, the coal-trade aristocracy in Philadelphia'and Baltimore, the rise-of-land- and-pork aristocracy in Cincinnati, the F. F. V. aristocracy in Virginia, the cotton aristocracy down South, the literary, and best family, and fine-mannered aristocracy in Boston, and in every little one-horse village a six by nine aristo- cracy, founded upon whatever comes handiest in the set-up line. You are very much mistaken, Hilda; we are the most aristocratic nation on the face of the globe, I 'l ven- ture to say." "Is it so?" said Zoe to Mr. Lindsey. ' I hardly know how much to believe Mr. Stephenson." "Yes, in a manner," said he. "Human nature is very much the same all over the world, and until elevated and refined by Christianity and a true philosophy, these coarse and barbaric manifestations will repeat themselves, though modified more and more by the increasing light of higher principles. It requires a more elevated tone of character than exists under our present forms of religion, to see in its fullness the significance and beauty of the saying of our Saviour: 'Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.' Until this heavenly sentiment is incorporated into the soul, there must be lacking that true dignity of character, which 9 E       "   -    98   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.. seeks not to prop itself up by external demonstrations, in lieu of that celestial ascendency of spirit imparted by Christianity." "I am so glad to hear you say so," said Zoo. "I have always felt thus, and that is my friend Mrs. Liebenhoffs idea, but it strengthens my belief in them, to hear the same truths uttered by you, sir. I have not found them common among my associates." "You have not named the over-mastering aristocracy of our country," said Mr. Lindsey. "I should like to hear the tip-top one," said young America. "What is it?" "The ecclesiastical aristocracy! the Pharisaical pretensions of the predominant sects over those who differ from them in creed or expression of their religious sentiments, is but the same worldly and feudal temper transferred to the future world as the scene of its monstrous assumption. The spirit of the age and the common law forbid the penal fire, the rack and the thumbscrew, so the unsanctified imagination of religionists revels in the idea, that those whom they cannot bind here by the chains of their formulas and articles of belief, forged and drawn up by benighted and tyrannical minds, shall afford them horrible satisfaction in the future world, by undergoing the woes of an eternal inquisition. But the force of the idea is fast dying before the growing spirit of love and light of truth, and will, in time, like obscene birds and ravenous beasts be banished from the earth." "' Do you not think that a great reform is soon to take place throughout the world?"' said Zoe. "I do not know that any sudden improvement will be allowed us. But I believe the age is progressing towards a more complete realization of Christianity." 4 I think," said Zoe, " that there is soon to be a new era in the world's spiritual advancement, and that the spirit and  E   ZOE; O1t, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    99 instructions of our Lord will be recognized all over Chris. tendom as they have never been before. I think I see a great many signs of it." "You are a little enthusiastic are you not, my dear young lady. Let me warn you against fanaticism. I be- lieve in the advancement of society through Christianity, most heartily, but I do not know that there is. to be any sudden revolution." Zoe was silent, and Hilda, as was her wont, drew her into conversation upon some other subject. The group se- parated, and Mr. Lindsey rejoined his friends. "You do not get acquainted with those young ladies opposite. Let me introduce them to you," said he to Emma and Meta Pierson. "No, I thank you, sir. I don't care to," said the elder of the sisters. "You will find them very agreeable. The taller one is full of vivacity and spirit, and the other, very gentle, re- fined and spiritual." "She is colored, is she not?" said Mr. Pierson. "I suspect she is. Nevertheless she is a lady."  - "I must say, I have not yet surmounted my prejudice against the hue of the African, sufficiently to put myself on a level with any one of the race. It may be a weak- ness. It is not that I am not opposed to slavery, for I am truly so," said Emma. "Young America and Miss Strophel seem to have got up quite an intimacy," said Meta. "They are old friends," said Mr. Lindsey, " and for- merly knew each other in Denmark." "I think she needs some more mature lady-companion than the one she has," said Mr. Pierson, I should be very sorry to see my sisters as free and easy with all sorts of people as she is." "She has great frankness of character, and it is liable to lead her into some imprudence, yet I think that she has   100   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. been essentially well-taught and will not very far overstep the bounds of propriety." The young people said no more, but seemed indis- posed to comply with Mr. Lindsey's suggestion, so of course, he did not press the matter. They were very dear to him and his wife, with whom they had resided, as they were orphans, and were all that were left of a once large family. They were naturally reserved; repeated afflictions had bound them together very closely, as well as withdrawn them from a very extended social intercourse. .Besides, they had been brought up under very different influences from Mr. Lindsey, and were much imbued with the con- ventional exclusiveness of the times. If ever justified in any one, it might be in them, as they possessed all the qualities which gild the highest life in our country, respect- able parentage, wealth, position, beauty, refined manners, a high religious tone of character, and a broad intelligence. That they did not interpret in its whole length and breadth the spirit of Christianity, Mr. and Mrs. Lindsey attributed to circumstances, more than to afiy willful perversity, and they trusted to time and the events of God's providence, to bring to a complete flowering, souls whose budding pro- mise of beauty and excellence of no common order, were the delight of their childless home, and the joy of their united hearts. I?"   "A voice is ever at thy side, Speaking in tones of might, Like the prophetic voice that cried To John, in Patmos, 'Writel' "'-I-oPriow. the time sped on shipboard joyously to Hilda, with unwonted cheerfulness to ZoO. She had recovered from her sea-sickness, and was in good health. The tone of Mr. Lindsey's mind was more congenial with her own, than any one she had ever met, excepting Mrs. Leibenhoffs. Young America amused and exhilarated her. And what- ever latent prejudices there might be on the part of the other passengers against her caste and color, she, as yet, was not made, cognizant of them. The idea of her pe. culiar mission still governed her. The dissatisfaction of Mr. Stephenson with the prevailing forms of religious be- lief, and the hopeful character of Mr. Lindsey's faith, were, to her, a presage of'the triumph of her own life-long convictions. The skepticism prevalent in America, as well as Europe, convinced her that the want of a clear concep- tion of absolute Christian truth, was the vital need of the world. The consequent lack of enthusiasm and spirit in carrying out its requisitions, even by its professed disci- ples, to say nothing of the actual heathenism of a large part of the so-called Christendom, pointed, as with a finger of fire, to her duty and destiny. The only question was, how should she accomplish it! and the readiest answer seemed to be. by her pen. So she ( 101 )   102   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. gathered her paper together, and as she leaned over it, in the stillness of her room, her spirit was hushed to the quietness of thought, which flowed upon the page like the clear rivulet from its source among the mountains, reflect- ing the hues of the heavens above. No fire of Poesy, no passionate eloquence possessed her; but it seemed as if the spirit of Jesus, with which she had ever walked in reverential communion, had stilled her into submission to his own pure and sweet-toned elevation. No hosannas sang she like the multitude, as he entered the scene of his suffering, which was but the dark prelude to his world-wide triumph, but a like humble exaltation of spirit was hers, as she traced the history of God's dealings to his people to the time of his advent. Then she gathered up the forces of her soul, and with the trust which comes through commun- ion with the Highest, condensed his instructions, and rep- resented his spirit in the persons of a few simple-minded, holy and earnest beings, such as a young girl would natur- ally imagine, who was unused to the world and its many- sided manifestations, but who was filled more than by any- thing else, with the spirit of his character, and the desire of his glorified reign. At first she would lay aside her pen, as Hilda approached her, for she wished no one to come between her own soul and the Infinite; but as she approached the conclusion of her work, she yielded to the impulses of her love for her, and a desire for sympathy, saying nothing, however, of the deep significance she attached to her Tale. In her heart of hearts, she treasured the knowledge that its publication was to be an era in the religion and literature of the na- tions, and that through her, the age was to take an un- wonted stride onwards in the path of its advancement. In the intervals between her writing, she was on deck, drink- ing in the soft ocean breeze, and joining with more anima- tion than ever before, in the varied conversation of the passengers. i:.    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   103 "I have some engravings that I should like to show you," said Mr. Stephenson one morning to Zoe and Hilda. "Let us go into the saloon as no one is there now." "I am delighted," said Zoe, who had a true eye for the beautiful in art as well as nature; so they followed him, and soon after Mr. Lindsey joined them. They were not very rare engravings and were soon laid aside by all but Zoe, whose mind was less critical of the execution of a work than it was quick to seize upon whatever would serve as a nucleus, around which her imagination might weave its subtle web of poetry and fancy. So that with a child's delight would she recur again and again to any cheap and ordinary wood-cut, provided it was suggestive to her. Of course, if it were, at the same time, well wrought, she enjoyed it proportionally; but the spirit of any work, either in letters or the arts, was her main object of search and the natural food of her being. "There is great expression in some of those pen and ink drawings," said Mr. Lindsey; "did you trace them?" "Nobody else, sir," said Young America. "Do you paint, too?" "Yes, after a fashion. I never have had much instruc- tion, but it comes sort of naturally to me; so in my vaca- tions I use the brush a little." "What department of the art do you prefer?" "Composition; but I can take portraits, and when I get tired of the law and like the looks of a fellow pretty well, I just clap his phiz on to the canvas. I've quite a gallery at home-most of them oddities in their way, taken in all sorts of attitudes and costumes-one sitting with his chair tipped back, smoking, with his feet upon the mantlepiece-- another pretending to be drunk, with a decanter and wine- glass just slipping from his hand-another swapping horses, whittling while he makes the bargain-and I have a whole group of fine b'hoys of my acquaintance on a flat- boat on the Mississippi in a great frolic."   104   ZOE; OR, 'TIE QUADKOON'S TRIUMPH. "A singular taste your friends show, to be taker, in such situations," said Hilda. "But they are very suggestive, I suppose, of the habits and tendencies of the young Americans," said Zoo. "-Yes, in one sense," said Mr. Lindsey. "Our people have a great deal of love of fun in reality. They have had so much hard work to do since the settlement of the country, and, asceticism is so much the spirit of the domi- nant sects that we are sadly behind-hand in furnishing ra- tional amusements for them, so that their wit and. drollery leaks out in all sorts of uncouth and extravagant ways in consequence. The fact is, they have yet to learn how to entertain themselves in a hearty, yet graceful and rational manner, so one sees strange manifestations among them. But I hope that a better taste will spring up in time." "Yes, that's it," said Stephenson; "the preachers con- demn the theatre, preach against dancing, denounce games of chance and skill, and now they are going to put down, as a trick of the Devil, calisthenics, that the little girls find some pleasure and exercise in! I wonder they don't go out into the woods and fields and put a veto on the birds singing and the lambs frisking; or read the Assem- bly's Catechism to Watch and Fido, if they get up a gambol together! Confound their fire and brimstone notions that they are always dealing out to us! If they really believed what they said, I should not so much care, but to see one of your young dandy priests, with no blood in him but milk and water instead, get up, dandling his scented pocket- handkerchief, and consign to the lower regions all hut a few slim specimens like himself, just for enjoying them- selves a bit in some innocent way, why, I can hardly keep my hands from pulling his nose for him. I wonder what color the sun and moon would be if such fellows made them: dingy-black, I guess--the same that they are,  outside and inside. I am glad to see that you know how . :1 to laugh, sir," said he to Mr. Lindsey.       A X r- a I1   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   105 "I have not learned that it was more wicked for the mus- cles of the mouth to stretch latitudinally than longitudinally. Indeed, I think we commit high treason against the good Father, if we are not cheerful and at peace in his bright and glorious universe. I reproach myself every time I suffer a cloud to rest over my spirit; it seems a mark of ingrati- tude to Him. O! when will men open their eyes to the beautiful intentions of. God in their creation, and go hand in hand with Him and Jesus in fulfilling them?" "How happy we should all be then!" said Zoe. "Earth would be like heaven at once." "My sister and I sometimes talk over how we should like to live," said Mr. Stephenson, " and we have come to the conclusion that, when I 've made money enough, we will form  a community of such people as we like-put our business on such a plan that we shan't have to work but four hours a day to support ourselves, and enjoy life, the rest of the time, in literary and scientific pursuits, with fun thrown in as we want it. And we won't have a common- place person among us. I 'm tired of society, as they call it. I've been in the world enough to see how hollow and superficial it is. You may spend an evening out, every day in the week, and ten to one, you don't get a new idea during the whole time." "I have not the faith in communities that many have," said Mr. Lindsey.  "They involve such a multiplicity of rules, and there is such a complication of interests within a  small space, that, with human nature in its present con- dition, they seldom work well long. The Christian prin- ciples and spirit must be manifested in great perfection among the members, else there will be an unequal distribu- tion of labor, means, and power, and consequent clashing; and if there is a thorough appreciation of Christianity, why then society will need no such total revolution in its - outward arrangements, but all will go on well without it." : . i But there is a great deal of waste labor now," said   106   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. Stephenson, ( by each family living separate, as it does.  And what is the worst of it, the women have such a hard time, especially in the new districts, where it is almost ; impossible to get help. My eldest sister has a bright mind, X and she would be up to almost anything in the book line,  only that she has to- spend most of her time cooking and  drudging in every way for the family."  "I agree that here is a great evil. Still, the family seems to me such a holy and beautiful institution, and quietness and seclusion are so sweet to me in -my own separate home, with those most dear to me, after the labors of the day,  that neither I nor my wife would be willing to relinquish  them for the confusion of a monstrous Phalanstery." "But you might have your separate apartments and be just as retired as at home." "Impossible,' said Mr. Lindsey. "Then in the educa tion of children, you would have constantly to struggle j against the influence of an artificial association upon their  young and impressible minds. There is too little indivi-  duality now. Under such circumstances I should fear  their becoming a mass of conglomerates of the same    - quality and hue. No, the family is -the institution of God i for the development of infancy to its just and beautiful pro- portions. There it can be fitly nurtured in the religion of  home, which will prepare it to extend its sympathies, as it grows older, to other friends-to the neighborhood, the  church, the city, or hamlet; and from thence to the state,  the country, the world, and to be bounded only by Infinity / itself." "The system upon which society is founded, seems to    me to be very wrong, now," said Stephenson. "Competi-  tion, not cooperation, is the order of the day. Everybody ', looks out for number one; the fellow that can run the fast-  est race in business and office, seizes hold of the prizes, and 'the devil take the hindmost' is the motto. He does  not care, and more likely than not, he gives others a kick    ?   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    107 backwards to prevent their getting up with him. I'm sick and disgusted with the selfishness of the world. I 'll move into the wilderness, when I get home. I don't want a human being within twenty miles of me." "I am very much mistaken, if your nature is not quite too social to endure life in a hermitage long. But what you say of the labors of women in the new settlements, and indeed throughout the country, more or less, among the middle and poorer classes, is a subject worthy of great consideration. I wish some methods could be adopted to relieve them, for the old relations of master, mistress, and servant seem fast falling into desuetude in our country, and we must have something better to take their place." "Communities would do the thing for them. Each one would have her own allotted part of the labor, and each would have the advantage of every improvement going, and leisure to act out her own particular genius. That 's the true way, sir, you may depend upon it." "I can't relinquish the separate family yet. My wife has her own notions upon this subject. I should like to read them to you some time. She writes to me pretty fully during my absence. I found letters in Mobile for me from her, and expect others when I get to Jamaica. I will read you extracts from them some time, if you would like to hear them." "O do, sir!" said Zoe. "I should like to know if she thinks about such things as I do." 'I wish you knew my wife, Miss Carlan. I think you would suit each other very well." "Why did she not come with you?" said she. s"She was writing a book, which she was very much in- terested in, and she wished to superintend its publication. Besides, she had spent one winter in the West Indies, and as I was not ill enough to require her care as an invalid, she persuaded me to accompany our young friends without ,1   108  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. her. But it is the first time we have been separated, and half the pleasure of the excursion is lost by the means." "Are your friends ill?" said Hilda; "they look very well." "No, but the New England winter climate is intensely cold, and Mr. Pierson, who had some tendency to bronchitis, persuaded his sisters to spend the winter with him in the tropics, as much for the novelty as for health." "They look very interesting," said Zoe. "They are so," said Mr. Lindsey; "they are highly cul- tivated in mind, and their characters have great promise." "The trouble with him is, he has no boiler aboard," said young America; " he 'll never do anything." "He has very good executive abilities," said Mr. Lind- sey. "That may be," said he, " but he has no steam-no more than half those Boston chaps have. They run to seed before they are thirty. The difficulty is, they have too much money; I know 'em." "Mr. Pierson is not wealthy, though he has a pretty competence." "He never will do anything till he gets rid of it, and that won't be very long, I reckon. These fellows always fol- low one another's lead. If one worth a million makes a great splurge with his money, all the others follow suit, and that don't do as well for him who has but a few thou- sands; they are gone before hez knows it-but it is all the better for him. Then they have to go to work, and if there is the real stuff in them, it comes out and they make something, but not otherwise. My father did not give me a red cent to begin life with. It has been pretty tough tugging, I can tell you, but I've weathered the cape, and now it is plain sailing." "And you are going to South America?" said Zoe. "Yes, my vacation comes in the winter. I had a little * .             ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   109 spare pocket-money and I thought I would just step down to the valley of the Amazon and see what the ' boys' are doing. There is a new settlement there, you know. I shall stay and look round in those parts till half my money is gone, and then I shall turn my face homewards. I ex- pect to have rare fun hunting and shooting. I have got my easel, you see, and I mean to take the heads of some of the Indians in those diggins. If I like the country and climate right well, I may perhaps pull up stakes in Iowa and settle there." At that moment, Mr. Sarran came in and said, that the island of Cuba was visible, and they all went on deck. "Where?" said Hilda; "I don't see it." "Don't you see that high mountain, that looks almost like a cloud?" "O yes, look, Zoeo!" "O, there are the tops of the palm-trees!" she exclaimed. "They look as if they were growing out of the water. My beautiful palm-trees! my waving cocoa-nut palm-trees! how happy and joyful I am to see you again," and she clasped her hands upon her breast, and the tears gushed to her eyes. Seeing that she had excited the observations of the by-standers, she went to her state-room to give full vent to her passionate emotions. "Miss Carlan shows real feeling," said Meta Pierson. "Mr. Lindsey says she has cultivation and poetic sensi- bility." "Poor thing!" said Emma. "I am afraid they will not be of much service to her. I do not believe she will asso- ciate with the whites much, when she gets home." "No," said her brother; "of course not. It is no kind- ness to educate one of her class. It only makes her more sensible of her inferiority, and increases her suffer- ings. Strange, the colored people don't see this, and be contented in their twn condition." The steam-ship arrived off Havanna, and was met by a   "O  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. boat from shore, manned by the officers of health of the city, with inquiries, at what port they last touched; and when informed that it was Mobile, the passengers and crew were forbidden to land, as it was known that cholera existed in that city, and the Spaniards were afraid of in- fection. There was great grumbling and discontent on board, as a few individuals were intending to spend the winter there; but rather than submit to a fortnight's quar- antine, they decided to go on to some more southern island. Ali were very much interested with the view of the city; its Moro, the governor's palace, its cathedral and churches, and the cheerful light-blue and salmon and pink colors of its dwelling-houses, surmounted by terra-cotta vases, containing often some small tree or shrub growing, and at a distance, having the appearance of turrets. Let- ters and papers were exchanged between the ship and the officer on the boat, although they took the precaution of receiving them on the point of a long sharp instrument, and smoking them well before daring to touch them with their hands. The Americans laughed at this extraordin- ary caution, and as they steamed away from the harbor, threw out many an indignant fling at what they considered an old womanish timidity and whim. Stephenson said, that he would not land among such a set of cowards, if he could. Hilda was saucy enough to repeat the old adage--" sotir grapes," to him; but he made the rejoinder, that he should join the next filibuster- ing expedition, and take Cuba and carry it home in his coat-pocket to use as a sugar box, and set up the Hidalgos as ten pins upon his bowling alley, and by that time, he guessed, they would find out that young America was up to snuff. As Mr. Stephenson and Hilda were leaning over the guards, talking and laughing, while they watched the re- ceding island of Cuba, Mr. Chichester joined them. "Young man," said hle, "I can't help thinking of your   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    1" kindness to me the other day, when I came so near losing my life, as I should in all likelihood have done, had it not have been for you." "O never mind, it was nothing to speak of. A little more, and you would have kicked the bucket though. I hope you will be more cautious next time where you step, sir. It is no joke for a man of your years to get a tumble head over heels." "I've been moved, I say, to try and do something for you in return. I always feel a desire to, as it is my office, under God, to win souls to Christ; and I feel an earnest longing that your feet may be planted on the highway to Zion." Young America looked at Hilda, who turned from him for fear he would tempt her to laugh. "' Well, stranger, I rather guess we are on the way there, by the direction of the vessel. Rather slow rate we go at, I confess. Confound this clumsy British craft; give me a Yankee steamer, I say, that'll cut the water at the rate of fifteen miles the hour. There would be some hope of getting there then." "You mistake me, my friend. It was of your soul's interest, I wished to speak. Have you ever had a change of heart?" 4 O0 yes, lots of times, it changes once or twice every day.- What do you think it is made of? I ain't a granite boulder." "But do you feel that you have an interest in Christ?" "That I can't tell you, stranger. Those that know him better than I do, say that I ought to invest capital in that bank, that it is a very safe one; but I ain't much acquainted with him myself." "But you know that your eternal salvation rests upon his vicarious atonement?" "As long as we are on Scripture subjects, hadn't we   "2   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. better stick to Scripture truth? I know nothing about your vicarious atonement. It is not in my Bible any-how; and mine is one of the genuine sort, I reckon. My mother gave it to me on her death-bed." "I fear you sadly neglect the interests of your soul, young man. O, be warned to put your trust in the blood of Christ. He only can wash white your guilty stains." "When I can see my way clear to believe in your Pagan mode of salvation, I'll try my best to do so; but if I re- member right, my Book tells me to love the God that is anything but the cruel tyrant you set up for us; my neigh- bor, that, according to Jesus, is worth loving, instead of be- ing the monster you paint him; and do all the good I can in the world. As for Jesus Christ, I like the way he says he is going to save me, better than your new-fangled one. I'll stick to him if the time comes that I'm pious enough to. I don't intend to be impudent, sir, but as you make a pretty free with my private concerns, I suppose you vant a plain answer to your questions." "I fear you trust in the filthy rags of your own right- eousness!" "There you are entirely out of your soundings. I never set up for a saintyet, whatever others might do. But there is one thing, old gentleman, I never expect to get to heaven without some. And I'll be so bold as to give you a cau- tion, stranger. There ain't so much goodness in the world, that you need to decry morality as you preachers do. Many a fellow, to my knowledge, is on the high-road to ruin from good works being put down to zero. We are afloat, entirely, by your telling us in one breath that we can't do anything for our own salvation, till a miracle is wrought in us: and in the next, sending us to the bad place for not accomplishing everything in the godly line. What sort of consistency is that, I wonder!  Dr. Chichester shook his head, and walked away, evi- ,' '      i-   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TTSIUMPI.   113 dently thinking that Stephenson's was a doomed carse. He turned, after going a few steps from him, saying:, I shall pray for you, young man." E That's right, stranger. If I was much used to the busi- -a ness of late, I would do thesaine. by you. As .it is, I am m afraid my ticket would not forward you on the lightning train to Canaan." "I was afraid he would begin to question me," said Hilda, "' and although I am very frank, too unreserved, Miss Ingemann used to tell me, I must say it would dis- turb me very much to have my most sacred feelings pried into in that way." "Yes', said Stephenson, ," according to them, human souls must be put into the hopper of a regular grist-mill- and there is a great hue and cry if every one does not come out of it pretty much alike; labeled, Good for the New Jerusalem--this side up,' but without the care, mind you." ("I don't know what IZoe;would say to it," said Hilda, "with her delicacy and reserve.  I am glad she is not here." "You are as fond of each other as when you were little girls," said Stephenson. "A great deal more so," said Hilda. "'As we grow older we see in one another what the other lacks, and love and confide in each other accordingly." "She:;:the only colored person I could ever tolerate," said Young America. "  But somehow she never seems to me to have the negro taint." "What an unreasonable prejudice your people have against the Africans," said Hilda; '"it is incomprehensible to me."' "It is natural. The whites and blacks never can live together. I wish the slaves were free; but I would have every soul of them quit the country. We don't want them in the Northern States. I can't bear the .sight of a nigger."   "4   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. Hilda felt wounded by this speech,.but said nothing, yet pondered in her mind with anxiety and dread what the probable fate of Zoe would be in the coarse, superficial, misjudging world, and went down to her friend's state-room to lavish upon her the caresses which, as her fears for her increased, were multiplied in number and fervor.   "I like to hear the young talk on these matters; The new rings clear, the old but clatters ".-.OOETan. sketch are you taking?" said Hilda to Mr. Stephenson one morning, as she saw him sitting at his easel when she came on deck. "Just the people hereabouts," said he. "I am trying to get a likeness of Mr. Lindsey in the foreground. The old Doctor will be thrown in for a shadow to bring him out in better relief. I want you and Zoe to be sitting together, she leaning on your shoulder for the fancy part, and the Don and his sisters will do for the quality, you know. I shall make quite a master-piece of it, I reckon." "Iave you picture-galleries in America?" "Not to speak of. They give artists precious little en- couragement up our way. The fact is, we. don't care for much yet, but making money and getting a good living." "There is great improvement, however," said Mr. Lind- sey. "Picture-shops are multiplying among us, and young painters are starting up on every side, and there are embryo galleries in almost every large city. They only need cul- ture and time to develop the latent genius, which they really possess." "The great difficulty with our painters is," said Mr. Pierson, " that they are not patient and persevering in their studies. They need to copy the best masters and be willing to give up their crude pretensions. The fact is, our artists think they know too much ever to make much ( 115 )   "6(}  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. progress. Even if they go to Europe, they come back, saying, that they did not see much of value there, so they soon fall into a crude mannerism, and either degenerate or remain in a condition of mediocrity." "1 know that is the truth with regard to numbers of them; but there are some honorable exceptions. There are some young men from my own city who are doing much honor to themselves in the Dusseldorf school. Sev- eral beautifully finished landscapes, have been sent home by them as trophies of success in this department of the Art." "I don't think much of the Dusseldorf gallery myself," said Mr. Stephenson. 4 If you want to cramp American genius and inflict upon us a set of mannerists, send the boys there. If you want to develop American genius in its own legitimate way, let them stay away from the musty European galleries, and the old world tyrants, who think nothing can be done but to copy them." "And you would neglect the wealth of genius of all past times, from the vain notion of the necessary supremacy of our new giant country in everything, would you?" said Mr. Pierson. "It is this miserable assumption that pre- vents our rising in the department of high Art.' "I disagree with you in, toto, It is in this very thing that we forget that we are the western giants, but consent to be spaniels to crouch to those who by their tyranny have frightened us into the belief that they and theirs have exhausted the genius of all creation. Throw them over- board, I say, and begin anew. - We-Ill show them how the thing is to be done. We 'll paint landscapes that have some life to them, not like those dead, gray things from the school over the water, in which God's sunlight is all squeezed out of them; and faces that have some soul, not those mere flesh and blood saints of the ancient masters." "And the divine Madonnas of Raphael you designate thus, do you? and the celestial Murillos?"'   ZOE; OR, THlE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   117 "Yes, I do; were not they Raphael's mistresses, who sat to him for the CHoly Mother?' 'How could you expect from slich models a spiritual expression, I should like to know? I never have been able to see any. I could pick out twenty women of my acquaintance, who would make better Madonnas than his are. As' for the Spaniard's, I have seen copies of his, and they are neither angels nor women, but a sort of cloudy, misty, Castilian go-betweens. I would not give a picayune for the whole lot." Mr. Pierson walked away, thinking it waste time to par- ley longer with such a Vandal, and Stephenson continued. "'The idea of leaving our glorious western sunsets, which one would think God had tipped his whole box of colors over, to go to Italy to rave about scenery and skies! The truth is, these upstarts never looked at one of our own sunsets enough to know what. it is; so when they see a decent one over there, they make a great fuss about it. "I'll show them what a sunset and a sunrise, too, is, when I've practised a little more. I'll put in the tints. O won't it be beautiful, beautiful!" said he slowly pro- nouncing the words, as if too luscious to be abandoned, and moving his brush in the air, as if painting, his clear gray eye, meantime, lighting up with an expression of genius, toning down all the coarseness of his face to one of beauty, and refinement, and high-spirit combined. ' What do you think, Mr. Lindsey?" "That you are very extravagant in your Americanism. I allow t6o, that my friend, Horace, having been in Europe just enough to taste the beauty of its artistic life,'without encountering its evils much, sees everything there couleur de rose, without appreciating at their full value our own opportunities of working out for ourselves a more exalted life in Art, no less than in practical life. But if we ever accomplish a higher destiny in this respect, it will be by assimilating to ourselves the best spirit of the ancients, and indeed of all times, in order to reproduce a grander,   "8   zoiE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUiMPH. tenderer, and in short, a more Christian phase, of civiliza- tion in this regard." "Would you have all our best young men go to Europe, then, to spend their lives, copying the models in the Louvre? You won't catch me to do it, sir, if I can ever get money enough to give up the law." "By no means. Iwill agree with you so far as to say, that I should with no men or women to cross the ocean, until their souls are sufficiently awakened -to the idea of God's great designs in opening our continent to the nations, as to feel that the opportunity awarded them to do so was a great trust, so that instead of aimlessly flitting from one time-hallowed city to another, imbibing their vices and bringing home nothing but discontent and disease of body and mind, they might, like the bountiful earth, receive the good seed to give out a harvest, of not the Identical grain, but fourfold more in a newer, -richer, and diviner form." "I will agree to that, if they will but do it; but the trouble is, they don't. Another evil is, artists have to struggle along without help and a cheering word, now and then, till they get discouraged. Many a young fellow, whom I know, would do wonders in his line, if he could only be encouraged. The money bags are in the wrong hands, according to my reckoning. They get possession of it, who either hoard it, or' use it for mean objects, so that Art is kept in the background."  "All very true. There is lamentable lack of public spirit, no less than of private benevolence among us, judged by the highest rule, but you should at least give credit for what there is. I have no sympathy with the mis- anthropy which besets some of our young men. It is a proof of lack of power, no less than of an ungrateful spirit. Then, again, though there should be sympathy and readiness to cheer artists in every judicious way, yet if they ever wish to accomplish anything beyond mediocrity, they must live in the true sense of that word. Every one,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    119 to, be a genuine man or woman either, has got to work out his or her own salvation in the deepest and highest sense of that injunction." "I guess you would think some fellows of my acquaint- ance have a pretty smart chance at that same thing, if you knew the hard scratching they have to ke ep the wolf of pov- erty and starvation from the door. Confound the world, and most of the people in it! If I thought that Symmes' Hole was really open, as he said, I'd cut for the jumping-off place at once." "' How do you know you would find better friends there than here?" said Hilda. '"I advise you to stay above ground and make the best of us all." "Mrts. Liebenhoff would say--, We women will set all' things right,'" said Zoe. "No, that is the worst of it," said Young America. ,c In our place they have undertaken to open a gallery of pic- tures. Now, I don't, like some of my comrades, make fun of the whole matter, simply because it is a woman's plan. I am willing she. should take the position she can fill and do whatever she is capable of doing well." "Provided she does not come into conflict with you," said Hilda, with a sly look at Zoe. "Well, it Is something so. I'll acknowledge the corn. I was going to say, that instead of filling their gallery with native pictures, they have sent off to Europe and got some of those pagan divinities over there, in the shape of casts, anid imported some copies of the old masters, they call them, of the color of shoe-leather, and filled most of the other spaces with pictures after the style of the scarlet woman. Ha, ha, ha! Good for the ladies, I say. I hope they enjoy them! You won't catch us to go and see them, except to laugh at the copies. Who cares anything for a copy, I  should like to know? You can't learn anything from a copy. Give me originals, I say, and by our own artists too., /   120   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "I suspect, the-ladies in your place have very much such;^ a gallery as they have in the Queen City. I must read my : wife's musings therein. She seems to find 'copies and casts of pagan divinities quite suggestive?' "O do, pleased" said Zoe and Hilda in one breath. Mr. Lindsey went for his portfolio and took from it a letter, and read this extract: 6"Our Picture Gallery is at length opened, quite to our satisfaction. Its situation is very good-an apartment back of Mr. Weld's picture store, which makes a very agreeable entrance. The young proprietors are very gentlemanly and obliging, and the ladies prompt in sending in contribu- tions from their own collections of paintings. We antici- pate much pleasure ourselves from an occasional resort there, and hope it will prove an acceptable additioii to the scanty sources of refined recreation with which our city is furnished. After my last visit to it, I sat down and wrote the following, which I send you: "MUSINGS IN A PICTURE GALLERY. '"Hail Art! thou truest, best expression, by mortal mind, of the divine afflatus breathed into it by God. His highest manifesto is the human soul. O glorious decree of the Almighty, who ordained it to be an image, a reflection of Himself, the Infinite Artist! O! that we might be up to the very 'top of the bent ' of the great possible thou hast marked out for us-that fixing our eye on Jesus we might, with simple faith, but deathless purpose, follow his leadings, even to the point of his true art-perfectness. Hush, the very air is redolent on every side with his pure presence. Holy and loving hearts have caught a glimpse of, and skill- ful hands have traced his hallowed face and form in vari- ous guise and attitude; and, like a benison' their influence steals over my spirit, attuning it to a sister-melody with his own. Let me follow him by aid of sacred art, through dif- ferent steps of his great ministry.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   121 "TH ANNU NCIATION N  4'Pure and saintly Virgin! Meekly, but with strange joy, thou droopest thy head at the mysterious whisperings of the angel to thy still soul. Garner the secret in thy heart as joyful nutriment for the unborn, so that his inward life, through its inspiring power, may have more than recompense for the heaviness of his earthly destiny. Not alone to thee, O Mary! the tidings come of the great birth- right of thy child, but to every parent, if she would but heed the prophecy. Joy, joy to thee, young mother of humanity! Jesus has lived, sinless and sanctified-died, submissive and triumphant over the grim angel--enemy no longer-but a bright spirit opening the portals of a more transcendent heaven, of which earth, through him, is to be the clear and sunny pathway. "M ADONN A. "Thy big hopes have laid thy tender one within thy arms, a messenger to us all, that we, as well as he, have a celestial parentage. ' Our Father who art in Heaven!' We will lisp this prayer with him in infancy, on the cool mountain, upon the dusty highway, within the temple's hallowed courts, by the sick couch and grave of our beloved dead, leaning over the symbols of thy sacrifice, in mortal agony of loneliness, and gasp our last sigh out, like thee, in the glad requiem--' It is finished.' ' JESUS IN THE CARPENTER'S SHOP. "Gentle and faithful workfellow! Thus, thou beginnest thy great mission. Obedient to thy parents, doing the duty nearest thee, thus climbing step by step, lifes ladder, many rounded, until each one surmounted, thou ascendest with a wing plumed by the lowliest labor, as well as the sublimest. Joseph and Mary! well may ye watch with questioning tenderness, his grave demeanor, his eye, "   122  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. heavy with thought and feeling; for within his childish form is the growing germ of a new spiritual creation. Has the world, so clamorous for his supremacy and worship, developed his God-thought and aim sublime, his kingdom of heaven on earth? O, let us cease our babblings, and like him work, work with mighty faith, so that God at this late day, more truly may be glorified through him in us. "CHRIST BEARING HS CROSS. "Not alone toward Calvary, did he feel its weight, but all through life. It was made heavy by no self-inflicted pon- derousness, but by lack of the world's sympathy and aid in working for its own weal. May we learn of thee, O Cru- cified! how to mount to heights sublime, by meekly bear- ing each ill of life; for the cross planted deep in time, will bloom eternally with flowers of hue divinest in the upper sunlight. "JE SU8 IN AGONY. "Lo! all thy might of soul and conquering power of ge- nius, all thy transcendent knowledge and clear insight into the ways of God and the workings of man's nature, all thy vast hopes filled with the light descending on thee from thy Father's throne, and faith, which hitherto, hath lifted thee to dwell in the heaven of heavens, while walking meekly amidst thy brethren here helow-one with them, yet not of them-now whelmed in the blackest night of anguish! "'0, help me, God! he cries in this my deepest soul's extremity! Shine with one single gleam of light from off thy great white throne, whence beams thy clear effulgence. Rend the vault above me, and reveal thy purposes. I have called thee Father, and have taught the dear and hallowed name to my disciples. Have I deceived myself? I have poured out my loves a sea filled from no earthly source, I deemed, upon the world's struggling, suffering, wearied and diseased onesj and all save a few, have passed me coldly by. I have given them of Thy truth, from a well whose         v   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   123 depths no one but Thou canst sound; whose life would give them more than life, and they have scarce paused to sip even its sparkling foam. The healing that abides in my whole being, only requiring the gentlest touch of my person, freighted with life's elixir, to raise the dead and heal the corporal ills of man; the music of my voice, tuned by the choir above, to such potent melody, that the departing and sleeping reason stops and starts up again to soundness, and clothes the maniac in his right mind, are all forgotten and passed unheeded by. My mien, majestic in its serenity, has quelled the billowy waves of ocean and the more tidal surge of human passion. Yet the trifling world forgets all, and calls the noisy and rude destroyer mighty and great. "'And now, a fearful and lingering death frowns on me, near and sure. How short my ministry! Has the truth taken root, so that my death and time's allurements shall never wrest it from my own? Will the seed germinate and grow and become a tree for the healing of the nations? The poor, lost, darkened, wretched, God-forsaking world! Fain would I live to share with it my lot, my every blessing, vouchsafed by thee. O, who will nurture it as I have striven to nurture it? Who will brood over thee, my Salem, as I fain would, even as a hen foldeth her wing about her little ones? Even now, the fiat for thy doom unspeakable hath gone forth for thy stiff-neckedness and rejection of Him who came to save thee. O, my disciples! little ones of simple faith and trust in me, their Master, how will ye abide the shock to your worldly and selfish hopes? Even they will all forsake me, and leave me alone. O God! am I deceived? Have I in weak fanaticism and pride deemed myself one with Thee in counsel, in design and love of the Good, the True in the worlds without, and the universe within Thee and humanity, or am I alone, alone? O, help me God.' "Io, the heavens open, and brighten; winged angels   124  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. with holy eyes, and lips which glow with living inspiration, come to strengthen and reassure him, and point beyond the Cross, to the Crown of bliss and everlasting life and glory which shall be his forevermore. "So shall it be with every true and faithful soul, who, first of all things, follows with meek and reverend eye and patient, persevering step, the upward soaring of his glori- fied Redeemer, Saviour and Exemplar. "MAG DA L E N. "Much loving! Well mayst thou plead that purity, like a crystal stream, should again flow through thy whole being. For thou hast had strength and courage breathed into thee by him who knew thy gentle, loving nature, and, that thy fall was through its weakly yielding to the deceiv- er's promised good, more than through love of sin. He knew the virtue, so slightly buried, that his potent--"Go, sin no more; thee I condemn not"-would be no license to continued evil. For the pitying love with which his words were freighted, would, like a fire, thrill through each member, nerving to strength and freedom from pleasure's bonds. Beautiful lesson, taught by Jesus' clear-eyed vir- tue! that if the bruised worm can heal itself, and live with double life through the cruel foot's rude marring, how much more shall the eternal soul recuperate, and, mayhap through much forgiveness, burn with intenser flame among the cherubim, who chant the song of the redeemed. "MILTON. "Poet, blind to the outward, to be doubly wakened to the realm within thee! thou holdest strange parley with spirits of the upper and lower deep. Thanks to thee for thy rapt soarings towards the Infinite spring of power and beauty, for thy Eden and its blissful pair! Thanks for thy human devil, too, showing that no creature of a good God can be wholly evil, but retain sparks of the divinity from which it fell, hinting that even the direful principle   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    12 itself may, in the end, pale and fade away in the efful- gence of the future promised good and truth. "DON QUIXOTE. "Idealist, men call thee. So thou wert, yet in thy world of fancy, tinted with hues of rainbow and fragrant with perfumes, there is more simple truth than in the world- ling's actual. That shall pass, like a scroll, away at the touch of the true fire, latent in Christ's religion, while the pure visions of poets and seers shall become the common life of mortals. Only let noble deeds keep even pace with high imaginings, and no day-dreams can equal the bliss God has in store for us, even while on earth. "'THE  LAST OF  HS RAOE. "(Son of the forest! pushed with thy dear ones even to the verge of ocean, yet unblenched standest in thy free and graceful majesty, relieved by tender thoughts of woods and prairies, and the graves of thy fathers alienated from thee by the white-man's grasp! Pour out thy soul to the wild ocean's roar! Rend the vault above thee with thy heart's cry of agony, and articulate shall roll to thee this prophecy from their profundity: 'Slowly, but surely the ages will render thee justice, now wrested from thee. Then shalt thou stand forth a double power to the wonder- ing gaze of the short-sighted; for Israel's ten tribes shall be seen in thee, the lost but found again. And thy 'Great Spirit' shall show strange union with the ' One God' adored by them. Then, hand in hand, thou, in rude nature's panoply, he, in the patched and meagre garments of the olden past, shall together worship God in his Christ glori- fied, and the song of Bethlehem's angels shall echo through synagogue, and wood, and mountain to our remot- est bounds.' "THE WESTEBN  PION-EER. "Stranger! how fares it with thee in the rude wilds where thou hast reared thy cabin? Game in abundance,   126   ZOE; Of, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. more than sufficient to fill the sense of famine! But how does thy soul prosper in these vast wilds? Does God speak to thee so audibly from these majestic trees, and these blue skies, and the luxurious covering with which centuries have clothed earth's surface, that church, and school, and social bonds would be superfluous to thee? Or is that peril imminent of which the sage has spoken-bar- barism the first danger of the emigrant? O! heed each softening influence which comes to thee through nature interpreted by the Gospel, and thou shalt be a second Pro- vidence to re-create a world of thriving beauty where erst the swamp and thick-leaved forest sent their miasma far and wide. "Young artist! whose boyish handiwork in thee I recog- nize, let me, from thy picture cast thy horoscope, and deduce from it a kindly hint for thy direction. Strength, vivid conception of character, richness of tint, and won- drous skill for thy young years! What is lacking, say you? I answer not, but leave the response until a coming day, when hope whispers to me, that thy genius cultured, re- fined, deepened, and sanctified by the richest influences of earth and heaven, made thine through fidelity, shall' raise thee to the acme of completed power in Art and its high uses. Then will this picture, which filled thy youth- ful eye, shrink to its due proportions to make room for thy chef-d'aeuvre on which all eyes shall gaze with fullest satis- faction, as a rich trophy of a freeman's maturity of genius, revealing itself through a complete, sublime, harmonious soul. Shall this fruition be thine? The answer rests with thee.. "A OAST OF APOLLO. "Model of manly beauty! might and majesty shine tri- umphant through thy kingly form! Intellect is seated on thy brow, disdain congealed about thy mouth. I greet thee, glorious one, flower of the ancient manhood! But with thy perfect stature, strength, and grace, our century demands   ZOE; OR, TMiE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   127 in its ideal an expression more humane, loving and holy, showing the march of the ages heavenward, proving our race no stupid dullards in the great art-school God opened for his children, with his Messiah for teacher, ex- emplar, and leader toward the arcanum of all Poetry, Beauty, and Perfection. "D IANA. "Fleet of foot, and chaste as snow-flake! Type of a womanhood replete with spirit, energy, health, and active service! Thy thought ne'er curdles in thy being, but flashes out through every pore, enlivening, dazzling,'and commanding. Give to our slothful, inglorious fair ones, an impulse to new life and labor. Hint to them of the sweet luxury of woodland life, of the dewy morning breeze, of health and happiness gained through Nature's teachings, of wisdom, learned from birds and animals, and of high thought and feeling, breathed in with the moon's changes, and the constellation's twinkling beams. So, hand in hand, the Old and the New World, shall help to bring on the golden age, and open the spring where bubbles up eternally the per- petual life-elixir. "VENUS DEz MEDICI. "Thou woman toy! beautiful, but trifling. Nature and alluring affectation both unite in thee. I will not condemn thy style of character. All creation has its playthings; the sky its meteors, the sea its foam, the meadows their will- o0-the-wisp, the plants their feathery seed-down, the animal tribe its kitten, and birds their magpies. Thou art man's joy, coquettish, pretty one! Only, like them, cover with some serious intent, thy loving, sportive levity; let purity and principle keep fast hold of thee, and thou, even as the more serious and earnest, shalt be a true minister to our good, and dancing along the thorny, narrow way of truth, shalt entice us onward, when a more serious mood might damp our ardor in life's battle.   128   ZOE; OR, TIiE QUADR)OON'S TRIUMPH. "GLAD IATOR . "Bravo, stern pugilist! I take thee into my service, not to mar, by thy fierce blows, thy fellows, but to knock aside and pull down the evils of life at every turn. Ill remem- ber thee, in time of need; stand ready to be my champion. Au revoir! "VENUV OF MLO. "The antipode to the gay trifler! Model of serious, earnest, deep-hearted womanhood! too meek to attract the superficial gazer, too unconscious in thy high thoughts' ab- sorption, to care for unappreciatiBg eyes. Well was it, that mother earth concealed her loved one through all the noisy centuries, in which glitter and show usurped the place of worth and beauty of soul. Even now, our thrice repeated gaze but half reveals thy priceless, hidden worth. Yet when conviction matures into the glad, admiring truth, never to be lost sight of, that a pure woman's soul,that flower of our humanity, is treasured in thee; no indication speaks in thee of vain consciousness of our admiration for the high standard thou hast attained to, of true womanhood. Be unto us an inspirer, Venus Victrix, and we will more than match thy true ascendency. 4 NEGRO, WITH A GLASS OF WINE IN HS HAND. "' I pledge thee, friend! Health and success to thee, in the New World, time's cycles, spiral-lined, bring both to thee and me I Peep with thy sharpened eye, Massa, thou canst not see what maggots fill our brains in these new days. Might shall be right but little longer. Prepare for thy reckoning, not call for his, thou tyrant! Read and ponder well the story of Pegasus, and the coarse and clouted drayman of the olden times, and apply it to our own, which acts an equal role on monstrous scale. We'll see what we shall see! And now we come to thee, thou waiting Sibyl, that. thou   ZOE; Oi, THE qUAI)ROON'S TRIUMPH.   129 mayst trace upon thy unwritten page the coming fortunes of our gallery. (She writes, and lifts the scroll, and bids me read-this is its import.) "'Toil, poverty and solicitude have been the nurses of its infancy. But patience! the planets will in their course, revolve the horn of plenty, and pour it at its feet. She, the elder Patroness, shall joy in the fulfillment of her vis- ions of future good through it to the city of her adoption. The sister band who nurture and mature its life, shall, through its loving and refining influence, be knit more closely to God, to excellence in thought, and word and deed, and learn from holy Art to chant the tune, which shall unite in loving harmony all who resort to it, as an oasis from the world's rude labors and contentions. Cour- age and faith be thine, and naught shall fail thee in its ad. vancement J "I accept thy leaf of prophecy with grateful gladness. Come to its rescue, ye lovers of the Beautiful; lead on- wards its renown, all ye who aim at the uprising of our city Queen, for the destiny of this, its handmaid, is linked with its progression. "Artists! welcome all, within its precincts, who have caught a glimpse through the gift of genius within ye of the glorious behests of God in its bestowal. See ye through it what blessed fruits the renunciation it demands will yield you? If the vision divine hath dawned upon you, ye will cleanse your soul of all defilement, and make it a fitting chamber for the All Beautiful to trace his imagery upon its walls. Ye will heed your speech, that no rude babble mingle with His eloquent utterance through you. Ye will clear your breath that the pure spirit, as it hovers over our sanctum, may not start back aghast at its pollution. Ye will square your deeds, so that whatever your hand touches, shall start into a thing of beauty, and ravish all beholders. Let such be your high aim, and we shall learn of you how to add to our small stock of science in the Artistic,   130   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. and we will repay the debt as best we may, either by words of cheer or glad exchange of Mammon's transitory lucre, with your immortal efforts." "Is there any more?" said Zoe. "  No," said Mr. Lindsey, " but here is an article, pub- lished by one of her friends in the Herald of Freedom, which my wife sent me, to show the signs of the times. I will read it to you after dinner, if you are so disposed." The party assented. Young America drew his hand through his locks to hide a little perceptible embarrassment, then gave them a toss hack from his forehead, saying: "I reckon I have n't, after all, got quite the hang of the Ladies' Gallery. I'll just drop into it when I go homes and look over the pictures and casts again."   ?=-: "So, round their Queen, Move the triumphant Amazonlan train, In bright array, exulting, to the plain." reads to the group on shipboard, the follow- ing article, from the Herald of Freedom, written by a friend of his "In view of the severe labors of the gentlemen of the Queen necessarily preventing them by which these objects could beeffected. After all dueen, (131) Movm t', trtumen ani amazong a n train, In bright array, ex uting, to the pla in." out  its, grea  capailit reads to on lipbeoard ther evis e melasow by which these objects could be'effected. After all due City neessril prveningthe   132   ZOE; OR, THE (UADROON'S TRIUMPH. preliminaries, Mrs. Lumkins being elected President pro tem., they proceeded- to business. It is unnecessary to re- late, even the very brief discussions which took place, so I will simply record the almost unanimous decisions of the meeting. "Voted.-That a Committee of Ladies be chosen to sweep and thoroughly cleanse the streets of the city in every part, and adopt such measures as may seem best to them for its continued purification. "Voted.--That money be cheerfully and abundantly raised to liquidate every church debt within its boundaries. "Voted.-That the church edifices which are in need of repair shall either be completely re-arranged and beauti- fied, or else pulled down, and new, stable, and fitting structures erected in their stead. it Voted. -That all the public buildings in the process of erection shall be completed forthwith, with as honest and careful regard to Uncle Sam's money used for the purpose, as if it were the individual property of the builders. "Voted.-That all the buildings on a certain well-known square, excepting the single one which by right belongs there, shall be pulled down and the rubbish removed for a Park to be arranged for the use of the city to whom it of right belongs." "There was some discussion upon this point, and it was at length decided, that as the quantity of material strewn around the neighborhood by the destruction of so many large establishments would put to serious inconvenience the ladies as they promenaded the street, it was better to decide that public opinion should demand the full value of the property to purchase some tract of woodland in the neighborhood of the city, which -was to be immediately fenced and laid out in walks for the' aforesaid purpose. With regard to the propriety of the measure there was no dissenting voice; justice to the defrauded and the eternal safety of its present holders demanded the sacrifice.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   133 "Voted.-That a large tract of land in the Millcreek Valley be also purchased for a similar purpose. "Voted.-rTo see that the poor, who demand charity during the coming winter, be provided with working imple- ments, and directed by a committee of ladies to raise the aforesaid land to a proper level by means of soil carted on; and fenced, and beautified for the purpose. "Voted.-That another committee of ladies be appointed to communicate with the surrounding country for the pur- pose of finding suitable homes for poor women and young girls, who may apply for charity to the Relief Union, there- by putting it in their power to gain an honorable indepen- dence, instead of ruinously relying on the charity of the community. "Voted.-That a vigilance society be appointed for the purpose of protecting the property of strangers, especially emigrants, from the loss of their baggage by means of the carelessness or dishonesty of our public conveyances. "Voted.--That methods be devised by which the dis- gusting effluvia, issuing from our pork establishments, soap, and lard manufactories, and limekilns, be completely remedied. "Voted.-That large gas establishments be erected in the vicinity of the city, by which the coal now consumed in its crude state, may be converted into this element for the purpose not only of lighting, but heating manufactories, stores, public buildings, dwelling-houses, etc., etc., thereby removing, in a great measure, the nuisance of the smoky atmosphere from our midst. "Voted.-That stationary engines be erected on the levee to draw up burdens from the steam, coal, and wood- boats, and rafts, and thus relieve the horses which are now shamefully abused by being overloaded. "Voted.--That the present temperance law be fully carried into practice throughout the city, thus shielding   134   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROO()S TRIUMPH. fathers, husbands, brothers, and sons from a fruitful source of misery and guilt. "Voted.-That as most of the men and many of the women of the city have become raving crazy by the preva- lent miasma of worldliness, and as the ladies of the assem- bly have so much care and labor in consequence upon their hands, as to make it impossible for them to provide strait-jackets for the multitude, that each one of them should petition daily to our good Lord, that he have them in his holy care and keeping until their recovery. Then, if they choose to take their own work into their hands and do it efficiently and promptly, why, very well! But it has got to be done! and if they neglect it, we will immediately band ourselves into an army of Amazons, the fourth body of that name and character since the creation, and leave them to delve in their warehouses and banks sixteen hours per day, preparing for another crash, the consequence of their ignorance of the true laws of labor as well as those of commercial supply and demand of the world in which they exist." "These few items will give the spirit of the meeting. Many other reforms were decided upon, but we will defer the publication of them until a more convenient season. "Two of the ladies proposed an adjourned meeting to reconsider these resolutions; but as both were under unfor- tunate antediluvian influences at home, and the resolutions otherwise were entirely unanimous, after politely listening to their objections, the vote was passed in the affirmative, and the meeting adjourned. "The next morning the committee appointed met and arranged the different parts of the city into districts, with a view to its complete purification. The President made out the report of each one's duty in this wise: "High up on Willow street there dwelleth one, brave in   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   135 the cause of virtue, faithful in works of charity. She will, with her mighty besom, purge her precincts of all corrup- tion, even as far as the home for orphans. Lead out that many-numbered band, ye foster mothers, each with her little spade, and make the air pure and healthful to nurture them to a higher type of womanhood than their progeni- tors, mayhap, have given them for inheritance. "The portion of the city where dwelleth your Modera- tor, shall be given into the care of her Lottie, a child of but few summers, it is true, but so fond of rule and super- vision that the humble precincts of her home but dwarf her energies. She and her numerous mates, which swarm around, will do well the work, while her gentle friend the Copyist, will hint to her when she oversteps a democratic governance, and note, with tasteful eye, if ' well done  shall be the sentence for her reward. "All around the Park and farther east, shall be con- signed to two who have been noted for an energy, quiet, but none the less effective. One is the sister-mother in a home with a sign of the ' infant angel' over its second story win- dow. If the little one's wings chance to need brushing at the proper hour for labor, why, let the namesake of a most lovely damsel of olden time, who was not ashamed to draw the water for her father's herds, be her willing substitute. Who knows but she may find some generous stranger by the means, with jewels rare to adorn her neck and arms, and whisper to her of a home among her father's kinsfolk far away? "She need not work alone, for one with an ever-smiling face and brilliant eye, but a few steps onwards, will leave her little one in the care of her young brothers and wield well the broom and shovel, and no lack of merry jokes and cheerful chat will be there to while away the hour of labor. "A little south and farther west, she who believes in the   1386  2o; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. enlargement of woman's sphere, will gladly, with her handmaiden, do the part allotted her in the regeneration of our city. "Next comes a maid of order and decision, with too much pride to tolerate the refuse of the market near her door, so, though not so pleasant to arrange as 'the feast of reason and the flow of soul ' in books, yet for the sake of duty and the weal of the community, she will adorn the highway instead. "'But where are Minna and Brenda? I met them not lang syne, their lower persons enveloped in purple clouds, with an inverted rainbow from the waist blpward, their mourning for the sea-king doffed. Will they not aid to sweep our streets?. They may choose where it suits them best. It may be that some gallant (I know not) will aid them in their labor, ashamed to see the maidens thus em- ployed. Let them thus tr the chivalry of our Urban Knights. "And there is a matrbn, a friend, it may be, of their own, magnificent and stately; will she not do it with a grace? Even the stars might be excused if they peeped from their hiding-places at unwonted hours, as with vailed face she sweeps along the streets. Was ever city-soil thus honored? I ween not. "Mother judicious and gentle, who hath a sense of beauty beaming from thy soul! thy little ones so carefully trained may be intrusted to themselves an hour, whilst thou and thy companion-daughter, over whom a shadow hath fallen in her dew of youth, step forth with brush in hand to remove the slightest stigma from the stones about thy mansion. "And one of many eyes and thoughts for others! if I knew not she shrank from notice of her deeds, I would say that, after a careful memory of the wishes of her friends by day, and pleasures artistic during the hours of evening,   ZOE; OR, "ItE: QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.  187 she might steal for half an hour to the pavements to renew the boulders' tints, and, perhaps, reset what are awry, so as to better please the eye by their arrangement. "That young girl's school towards the setting sun must calisthenics practice. Here is a new kind with great im- provements. Brave teacher, marshal them in order for the amusement, for such we will call it, and we will see who most doth honor herself and her instructors by her zeal in our behalf. "On Damson-street there will be no lack of faithful laborers, though sorry I am that one is absent, whose growing purity and loveliness brooks not the least taint within the soul, or in its outward garments. "But our Fidelit6 will do well her share, for she has had no lack of training or practice in the work of life. The wee brothers, a numerous band, will aid her, and thus repay the cares, by day and night, of those who hover over them, almost with the love of her who plumed her wings and mounted to the heavenly sphere, to make ready a man- sion for her numerous brood hereafter. "The Minstrels opposite, must sweep a broad space around them; so many seraphs, hereabouts, claim the young matrons' time and thoughts. Let them sing merrily as they go, cheering their own labor; and, at the same time, by their clear melody, hushing each troubled dream of the tender ones not used, as yet, to the lower world's rude ways. "Two mothers I well wot of, farther on a little north, will, for the sake of the children's play-hours, safety and pleasure, make pure their neighborhood. No mountain will the labor be to them, but simply a thing by-and-by; a recreation in the intervals of their many household labors. "We will excuse the matron the next below, for'she has delved fully her share of work for the public weal in days gone by. 'I Tread lightly by the mansion high above the street, en- veloped by odor of honeysuckle, sweethrier and roses, for 12   138  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. the proprietress must be laid safely. away, for a time, to rest, else she will fail when all who sorrow or sicken come to her for relief and aid. So we will lay our orders upon the young mother opposite, who, with her stalwart baby, will brighten up the highway, that it may reflect the sunshine all over her dwelling, making it cheerful, health- ful, and beautiful. "Opposite, on the lower street, is another who will de- scend to do her part; and thus we will go on and on, until we find the mother and daughter who will complete the remainder of the city cleaning, ay, and rejoice in- the labor too. Good for the ladies! that those can be found among them who from no greed of pelf, but from artistic love, engage to keep our city pure and free from all defilement, the first condition to a healthful tone of public morals, and sure advancement in the soul's true life."   '*iiPi species I won't give my seat up to a crowd. There is nothing I like mnded women,  say," said Hilda "young is nothing Ito let them take any But if they choose to be men, let them take their chance with mren, and rough it as they do." "I thought," sa id Hilda, "you were willing to let them take any position that they can well fill, and yet the moment they attempt to, you scorn their proceed ings. -Not that I care much about the subject; I have ( 139)   "O   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. always acted pretty much as I choose, as yet, and I am sure I do not wish to sweep the\ city streets; I can enjoy myself much better in other ways" - and she turned to a sketch she was taking of a ship not very distant, with its sails fully set. "There have always been foolish women who have in- sisted upon unsexing themselves," said Mr. Pierson; " and there always will be, I suppose. But a true woman under- stands that her sphere is in her home. Only there, does she shine out in her fullest grace and loveliness; and only in feminine pursuits can she be ever attractive to us." "Which of course, is to, be the chief end and aim of woman,' said his sister Meta, a little sarcastically. "There must be a higher order of young men than the majority of those on the stage, if you expect women to fill the:r life in administering to their happiness and delight. They may be very proper and worthy, but there is not that in them to awaken enthusiasm, or retain it if once excited." "There is evidently a change coming over their for- tunes,1 said Mr. Lindsey. "Feminine women, of course, we would ' 've, but the signs of the times show that the sphere of pursuits included within the term feminine, is to be enlarged. As for their taking upon themselves those of an opposite character, if man wishes to prevent it, he must arouse to a greater and stronger style of action, and go forward himself in all noble enterprises. Until he does so, you may be sure there will be plenty of instances of women departing from their own sphere." "Come, Hilda," said Stephenson, " let's play a game of backgammon." They went apart a little and were soon deep, not so much in the game as in free and lively chat. Hilda was frank, social and excitable, and she put but little restraint upon herself in conversation with any one. Young America had sufficient respect for women in general, and her in par- ticular, to shun any coarse vulgarity; yet he had no very   ZOE]; OR, THlE QUADR.)OON. '8TRIUMPH. 141 deep conviction of the value of human nature in itself or as developed in a pure womanSs soul. The instinct of its worth was lying in him in a state to be easily acted upon, but as yet Hilda had shown him only the surface of her character, and she was to him like a beautiful plaything, which every day he sought more and more to pleasq him- self with. She was enlivened and amused by his quaint- ness, and his extravagances kept her perpetually laughing. Added to these, there were constantly shining out from his character gleams of genius and taste, though as yet quite untrained. Then he was generous- and frank, and she delighted more and more in his society. This was very evident to him, and itelated him so, that he never was so prodigal of his eccentricities as when tte-A-thte with her, or with Zoe sitting near, whom he liked to startle from her reverie and make her really, heartily laugh. "What a lovely day it is!" said Hilda. "I never felt such a delicious air." "Yes, I sent last evening to the clerk of the weather, on the top of the Rocky Mountains, for just such a day as this, and you see we 've got it." "Order a storm, do," said Hilda; 4 if-you have such influence, I should like to see the ocean in its sub- limity." "Shouldn't dare to. Women change their minds so suddenly, that in sending it back, as I should have to, the contrary winds would make a tornado which would swamp us all."  Hilda laughed.  "It is your turn to move," 1"What are you going to do, besides hunt and sketch, when you are in South America?" "O, make love-knots of the boa-cQnstrictors to send to the lady I like best!" 6 I hope you will send her a good strong bureau, with a lock on it, to* keep them in. What next?" "Help the boys dam up the Amazon to carry on our gristmn}ill with!    L42  ZoiE; OB, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.          i "I am afraid you won't sketch much," said Zoe," if you   attempt such mighty works as that. I have been depend- ing upon seeing your portfolio when you come to Santa  Cruz, as you say you will?' , The sketching I am going to set the sun to do, in   i regula new-fashioned style, not through your miserable  .i daguerWtypes, and if the old fellow don't put in the warm i; colors good, why, I'll just call in a streak of lightning to help him?' "I read to-day in the newspaper, that a petrifaction wa  found somewhere, which had a distinct impression of the surrounding scenery upon it, probably given it by a flash of electricity?'                     . "Lot, yes! that is no news. Didn't it take its lessons of me? The old governor never liked my pupil, for he  was afraid of his hay-crop nicely packed away in the barn. So I used to go and give it-to him in the very middle of the darkest thunder-cloud you ever saw." "I should think there would have been a scarcity of light, when he got so deep in his lesson as to forget to I flash," said Zoe.  "Yes, there was at first, until I caught Sirius, as he was i! whirling by, and stuck him into my inkstand, just as you would a tallow candle into a turnip, and he answered my purpose exactly, for I did not have to stop every three  minutes to snuff him. By the way, Hilda, I've got an ele- gant wreath for your head, made out of a part of that same lightning streak, and you shall have it to wear at your next party, The piece that was left of it, I made into a walking- stick, and, as it was rather hot for my hand, I topped it off with a slice of one of the icebergs that wall up  Polonia." "Thank you'." said Hilda. "I shall create a sensation with my new head-dress, surely. But what have you got  for ZoO '    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    143 "I am waiting till we get into more southern latitudes, and then I am going to steal the Southern Cross. It won't be missed much, I reckon, and she may have that to wear round her neck." "But she will want a chain to hang it on." "I have got one all ready for her. As I was riding through Franconia Notch, among our White Mountains, you know, I just scooped up that crystal waterfall by the roadside, and I have got ever so many strings of beads made from it. She shall have one of them." "I am afraid it would not become my dusky face," said Zoe. '( My taste is like Mrs. Liebenhoff's in this respect. I like pearls. Have you any of them?" "' I shall have lots of them, if you will only wait six months., As I sailed down the Ohio, I ordered the shell- fish to make a cartload for me of different sizes, and they fairly jumped out of the water for joy at such a grand chance for making their fortunes; for I told them I would pay them just what they asked me, if they were all of the finest water." "Where did you learn so much rhodomontade?" said Itilda. "I should think you had been born and bred in Jotunheim.' "'Not I. Don't tell me of any of your one-horse con- cerns, up north among the Laplanders, where the frosts put a veto upon their growing knee-high to a toad!" "The northern people of Europe are not all Lapps, I would have you to know," said Hilda, quite excited. "I defy you to present a nobler history and mythology than our northern people can." "They will do well enough for old times, but they can't shake a stick at America." "Can your America, that you boast so much of, the child of a day, as it were, compete with our time-honored Europe, think you?"   "4   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.         . "Don't be angry, EIilda, your country is well enough, but I could crush it between my thumb and fingerg, said he snapping them very provokingly. "'Are- objects always measured by size, pray? Then that great heap of charcoal, down in the hold, is worth  F more than the Kohinoor diamond."             : rI go for quantity and quality too; haven't we liberty in : America, while all Europe suffers a few upstarts to lead her by the nose? Do heereasonable and confess that ours is the greatest country the sun shines on. For what, pray,  are all the people coming there for, from over the water, if it is not A number one, and no mistake?"  ," They go as missionaries, to civilize and improve you, to-be-sure." 1 , That Is its ist? Queer missionaries some of them! At any-rate missionaries or not, we give them a walking- ticket, now and- then, and they go home a little wiser than they came. We are not going to have the prisons of Europe emptied upon our shores, I can tell you." Zoe rose and walked away. She had been troubled before by Hilda's free discussions with Young America, which, more than once, lad verged on ungentlemanliness  ; on his part, and anger on hers, but she had said all that  she thought necessary by way of check, and now she pre- [ ferred leaving wht she saw plainly would be a scene of excitement, and if Hilda chose to take a hint of her dis- approval of her course from it, she might. t You spoke of the liberty prevalent in your country', she said, as Zoe descended the gangway out of hearing.  . "Very consistent your America is in its proud procla- mation of freedom, when there are three millions of slaves in it! What kind of a republic is that, I should like to know?" Justthe best that can be. All who have a right to freedom, value it the more for seeing the niggers under the control they are and ought to be."   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    145 "That is just like the ancient Spartans, who made their slaves drunken that the youths might scorn intemper- ance. Pretty civilization that! Why, do you know that in Europe, in classing countries according to their advance. ment, we always designate those as barbarous who hold slaves?" "Who cares for Europe, or her opinions? She could not exist a day without us to prop her up and take care of her starving thousands. We ve no pdbr of obfr own, but old, worn-out Europe fills our almshouses bddily. If we were not as magnanimous as we are, we could knock her overboard any day. But we condescend to let her alone for the present, because she has a few workshops which we find convenient to draw from; but if she don't walk pretty straight in future, we 'll11 squeeze her flat for a pic- ture, put her into a frame, and hang her up in our big gallery at home. She would be quite suggestive to the artists, I reckon. "As for the niagers, we have not made up our minds yet whether they are human or monkeys. It will be timne enough to think of freeing them when we have settled that question. I, for one, think that they are in the best place they-can be. So, hurrah for Jackson! Clear the track. go ahead! I say. There, Hilda, you 're beat. Your last man is as dead as a door-nail. What do you say to that?" Hilda said nothing but walked away, with head erected, angry -at his last speech about the Africans, and resolving mentally to keep Mr. Stephenson at his distance in future, and went down to the saloon. Zoei saw how it was, but said nothing. Hilda sat down, tapped her foot in an excited manner on the floor, brushed her curls hastily behind her ears, and looked at Zoe as if she wished her to speak to her. "Braggart!:' she at length exclaimed, " rude, ignorant! Zoe, do help me to hate that impertinent fellow. I 'll never speak to him again." 13   "6  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S, TRIUMPH. Zoe laughed-"Until day after to-morrow, it may be!"   I 6"No, never. He is the most inconsistent person I ever saw.'                      ,  4' I agree to it."                    :  "I never could bear insolence, especially in one who calls himself a gentleman." "Stephenson does not intend to be insolent. He is  very free in his mode of speech to-hbe-sure, Hilda, espe- cially with you, who are the same."      i1 "I never shall be again. I've learned a lesson I shall i; not soon forget. He has deeply wounded my feelings." "How?" said Zoe, looking alarmed. "He surely-" "O no, no vulgarity-that you fear, of course. But the fact is, I never can like him again. He has no feeling. He is a cruel wretch." 1i "O no," said Zoei. '4 There you do him injustice. He is coarse, I allow, more in expression than in feeling, how- ever, and is, what Mrs. Lichenhoff would call, imperfectly developed, therefore inconsistent. But he is fresh and natural, and of a very bright mind. But, dear, I am glad you  have had this little quarrel, for you will be more cautious I with him in future, shall you not?" , Never fear me again, ZoO. I have made up my mind how to treat him henceforward."             ado Filled with this resolution to be very self-restrained, Hilda set about devising plans that all surrounding circum- -tances might strengthen her to be so. Mr. Stephenson had changed his original seat at the table, to be at her left f hand. He must be removed from it. "Zoe," said she, "I can't have George Stephenson near i me any longer at table. There are several reasons why it is disagreeable. He both smokes and chews, and thus makes himself a perfect tobacco manufactory, and I cannot bear the effluvia therefrom ;" and she turned up her pretty nose- a little retrouass at best, to quite an alarming extent.   ZOE; OR, TIIE QUADZ)(OON'S TRIUPII.  147 Zoo smiled to herself, for, in a discussion the day before respecting these offensive habits, she had strongly ex- pressed her aversion to them. Hilda, on the contrary, was quite lenient towards the cigar, and insisted, with some warmth, that she liked the scent of one of the best quality very much. Now, however, a great change had taken place in her constitution and tastes. "'Dr. Chichester is my evil genius in this way," said Zoe, " for you know I sit by him, and he chews, smokes a pipe, and takes snuff besides. I don't know how a man can expect to see the truth clearly, who shuts up his senses at so many avenues from the subtle influences of the uni- verse about us, or utter it with any power, while he is so little under the restraining influence of God's beautiful physical laws. I never could rely on a man's virtue in any respect, who had so little control over his appetites as these customs evince." " Let us ask the captain to remove their seats from our vicinity." "No, thattwill never do. If we wish to be rid of them, we had better remove ours." "No, indeed, not I; neither shall you, dear. Yes, I will have them banished from our vicinity, on the plea that they are nuisances. For they are so to the very point of disgust. I will go this moment to Captain Stedman." No sooner said than done. She swept her commanding figure past Young America, as she went on her errand, giving him only a dignified inclination of the head which made him utter a very expressive whew! as she whirlwind- like sailed by him. "Captain,"' said she, with her most fascinating manner, ' you will oblige Miss Carlan and me very much, if you will provide other seats, than those near us, for the two American gentlemen, Dr. Chichester and Mr. Stephenson." The captain opened his eyes, doubting that he heard aright.   "8   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRlUMPH. "We are extremely incommoded by the effects of the disagreeable habits they indulge in. My friend has very delicate perceptions, and she is inclined to sea-sickness, and really it is but the part of common humanity to do so, she suffers so much from any offensive odor." "I should be most happy to oblige you, Miss Strophel, and so far as it concerns the Dr. I can do so. For do you think, the Americans have so unreasonable a prejudice against the Africans, that he has but just now asked me to remove Miss Carlan from his side at the table on account of her color. He says that he never before sat at the table with a ' yaller gal,' that was the term he used, and he can abide her no longer."- "Did you consent to it?" said Hilda, towering up to her full height. "No, surely not, Miss. No Englishman would do that. I hope that our common-sense and humanity are more than skin-deep. But this request of yours gives me an oppor- tunity to comply with his wishes. I will give him a seat near Lieutenant Wilson, and you may be sure he shall know the reason of it too. A pretty good joke it is to have the tables turned on him so completely! But I really do not see how, with propriety, I can request Mr. Stephenson to change his," and he looked curiously at Hilda. "I desire it very much," said she, turning half away from him to avoid his scrutiny.' "The fact is, Mr. Stephenson is--somewhat rude in his manners and too free in his speech to make him an agreeable companion." "Has he insulted you, madam?" said Capt. Stedman, with a very serious air, as if not only the honor of his ship, but of all Britain, were involyed in the answer to his question. "Yes-no, yes," said Hilda with the recollection of not only her own wrongs, but Zo/es also, to give point to her answer. "Yes, so far as the expression of most unwar- rantable contempt for my country and the race to which ?   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    14g my dearest friend belongs, can be called insult, he has, Capt. Stedman. If Mr. Stephenson is allowed to take his accustomed seat, I shall not come to the table." "He shall be removed, Miss Strophe], depend upon it. Do you like to see beautiful shell-work?" said he; " if so I will show you a specimen." She assented, and he led the way towards his state-room. Hilda called Zoe to share the pleasure with her for a beau- ful toy-it was a basket, which he had purchased for his wife, made in the Bahamas of the small rice shells so abundant in the islands, ornamented with wreaths and flowers, with the bright-tinted mussel shells of various colors to give semblance to the roses, pinks, and lilies, imitated in their arrangement. As soon as they had left him, the Captain went directly to Mr. Chichester, and informed him that he would show him to a seat at the approaching dinner-hour, by the side of the Lieutenant. "Ay, ay, thank you," said he; "I am not used to keep- ing company with these Children of Ham, on such equal footing.  If she knew her place, she wouldn't thrust her- self where she isn't wanted, but would go to the kitchen, where she belongs. O! Captain Stedman, it is joining hands with the enemies of the Lord, to favor, as you Eng- lish do, this accursed race-fairly fighting under the devil's e banner. Has not Jehovah said, through the mouth of his servant, ' Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren?'" And he drew down the corners of his mouth, and wrinkled up his forehead to the extreme limit of sanctimoniousness. The Captain gave no direct answer to this Biblio-infi- del speech, the offspring of a slavish, mistaken adherence to the dead-letter of Scripture, leaving out of sight, en- tirely, its free, humane, and life-giving spirit; but he hast- ened to undeceive him, with regard to the cause of his removal from ZoeSs side.   150   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPIl. i"Miss Carlan has an aversion to the scent of tobacco, in all its forms, and her friend, Miss Strophel, has requested that she might be relieved from it. You will find the Lieu- tenant a very agreeable, cheerful person, and I hope you will enjoy your dinner in his company." Mr. Chichester made no answer, but brought his cane down twice upon the deck, with great emphasis; relieved his feelings by a heavy half sigh and half groan, and walked away. The Captain next went to Young America, with whom he was on familiar terms-the frank character of both par- ties having led to a rapid acquaintance. , What's in the wind between you and Miss Strophel?" said he. "I've been thinking we might have a wedding on board the Forth, but instead of that, one of the parties sues for a divorce before the bans are celebrated. She requests me to find a seat for you away from her. She as much as told me, that you insulted her and her friend. What's the fact of the case?" "I insult her! It is the last thing I intended to do. What! I insult a lady who joined the ' boys' in a regular dance round an old bonnet, away up among the Rocky mountains, a few years ago! I'm only too soft that way-- a regular spooney. I'm rather porcupiny, I know--rough as a chesnut-burr in my speech, but it is only skin-deep. I thought Hilda understood me. The fact is, I havn't con- sidered enough that she isn't the little sprite I used to hold on my knee, the year I spent in Denmark, among the great ones there. I must be more careful." ; But what about Miss Carlan? There the shoe pinched the hardest." ( Lor'! there's her strange fancy for that Quadroon, the only nigger I could ever tolerate. It is what I said about the darkies that's killed me dead as a musquito. Well, I shall have to be more prudent in future. What's my sen- ^ tence? Not more than hanging, I hope!"   ZOE; O0t, THE qUA!)J]OON'S TRIUMPH.  ' Just as you choose to consider it. You must take your seat by the reverend Dr., at the Lieutenant's end of the table " "Not I. I 'll go on the opposite side from her, if you say so, but I am not quite ready yet to make my pillow of coals of fire and rolls of brimstone. I can't go that, any way you can fix it. Seeing it's Zoe, I 'll not make a fuss about her color; I 'l sit by her." 9 "You will have to do as I say, my friend. One of the troubles is, that you and the Dr. are too odoriferous with -your tobacco, in its various forms, as you use it. So, you see your room is considered altogether better than your company." ; Whew! I was condescending to color a little too soon, wasn't I? There's where the shoe pinches, is it? Well, I must reform my habits. I 've been promising my sister that I would, for the last ten years." "Begin to-day, and set the Dr. a good example. Who knows but that you 'll beat him at his own trade of saving souls. Try it. Sit by him, like a good fellow, and make no trouble about it." "Well, if I ain't on the anxious seat now, I?m no born Buckeye. Who 'd have thought she would have turned up for trumps, the ace of spades in that style? Heigh-ho! I'll keep an eye cocked that way at dinner-time, and see how mucthe means by all this maneuvering." Zoe was sitting in Hilda's state-room, looking over a novel which Young America had lent her, and rendering her friend the little assistance she needed in attiring her- self for dinner. The latter was kneeling by her trunk, taking out from it one package after another, to find some. thing in its very lower strata. She was attracted from her book by an occasional exclamation of impatience from her companion. "' What are you looking for, dear? Can't I assist oon?"   152   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI1. "No, thank you. I have found it at last, my jewel box; I want my diamond pin." "On shipboard, Hilda! It is too showy for your plain chintz dress. They don't look pretty together." "I can't help it, Zoe. It is diamond cut diamond with Young America now, and I am going to reinforce myself with external brightness. I 'll see which is to carry the day, the old or the new world. Braggadocio! I imagine he thinks he is Jupiter Olympius, with his thunderbolts. Humph!" "And Juno is going to get up an equipage by herself, instead of riding second to him in his car. Bravo! I think I would not put on that red string, darling." "My camel's-hair scarf the handsomest part of my wardrobe, you call by that ignominious name, Zoe! You are too provoking with your radicalism. See how soft it is! Even you can appreciate that, though you won't acknow- ledge that it is very beautiful." "Yes, it is delightfully soft. Poor little victims to woman's vanity I I should like to know if it is true, as I have read, that it is made of the hair of the young camels, taken from them before their birth? If so, I think it is a great waste of creation to destroy so many useful animals as must be necessary for what is of no more intrinsic value." "I know nothing about that.' I only am cognizant of this fact, that Miss Ingemann gave it me when she was in one of her most queenly and magnificent moods, and I hope that it will act as an wegis to shield me from impertinence. Talking about his love-knots, with such a knowing look! Not so fast, sir!' and Hilda towered to her extremest longitude. At dinner the arrangement was made agreeably to her wishes, and she delighted Mr. Sarran, who had felt quite neglected of late, by her playful sociability as he sat by her side. She avoided glancing towards Mr. Stephenson, and   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   153 one might have thought he had dropped out of existence, she ignored him so completely, until the dessert was on the table. She and Mr. Sarran were preparing for a fillipeen, both in high spirits. At a pause in their merriment, she stole a glance towards a distant, diagonal corner of the table, and unfortunately encountered Stephenson's eyes, looking intently upon her from under his bent brow. What possessed him, who had an hour before resolved to be more reserved, respectful, and elegant, to carry his thumb and forefinger to his nose, thus stamping him as Young America stillt She understood the symbol, for the day before he had taught her it among other peculiarities com- mon to his countrymen. Her first impulse was to laugh, but she subdued the mirthful expression down to a con- tracted smile, and blushed, and rose and left the dining- saloon, passing him, on her way out, in rapid talk with Mr. Sarran.   ----for this object, that she arose-- n n A, r-,  In For coure mounteth with ocasionsary. : -SHANSPEARE. was proposed in the evening by Mr. Lindsey , that they should al get ups at an early hour dto se e Zoe was not a very early riser, but she was so desirous of being in season for this object, that she arose She called Hilda, and they were dressed and sitting in readiness to go on deck, when suddenly there was great commotion on board Rapid steps went to and fro; the Captain's (154.   ZOE; OR, 'TH' QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.  165 voice was heard, giving orders-"Reverse the engine, down with the sails, etc.," and then a violent resistance to the vessel's motion threw both Zoe and Hilda at their fill length upon their berth, upon which they were seated. Shrieks, screams, oaths, prayers, and passionate excla- mations went up from each heart of this moving little \world, whose crack of doom was sending dismay and ter- ror to so many human bosoms; whose life-pulse was, for the time being, so closely blended with their own. Zoe clasped her hands and bowed her head upon her breast. Hilda shrieked, then clung to her friend, crying, "Help me, Zoe! We are dying, drowning. O save me! save me P' and seemed as if she would go into convulsions. Zoe threw her arms around her, and soothed her as she would an infant. "Hilda," said she, " do you remember when we were little girls, that you feared to walk in the streets one summer time, lest the mad dogs should bite you?" "I remember." "And I told you that no evil could ever come to us, which God did not oversee and turn to good, if we but put our trust in Him. Then let us wait his will. Put on your cloak and hood, dear, and I will go and see what is the matter." She met Mr. Lindsey at the door. "What has happened, sir?" "The ship has struck upon a reef of rocks. There is no immediate danger for us, but we have got to leave it. The boats are being lowered. I will assist you and your friend." Zoe gathered her scattered articles of clothing together, and put what she did not immediately want into her boxes, locked them, and did the same for Hilda, with the assist- ance which her trembling hands allowed her to render. They were just leaving the rooms, when she caught sight of the camel's hair scarf, hanging on a high nail. She   156   ZOE; ()R, Tril QUAIROON'S TRIUMPH. seized it and hastily tied it round Hilda's neck. Mr. Lindsey took her arm to go out. At that moment came young America, striding at full speed along the passage. "Take my arm, Miss Hilda," said he. "I 'll place you safely in the boat, and then return for your baggage. Never fear," said he, as he felt her trembling hand. "We 'll weather this dry, sunshiny storm, and make better headway than ever, after it." They met Mr. Sarran in a great fluster a moment after- wards. Viking as he was, he had not sufficient control of himself to be of much service to any one, and was even very glad of assistance by the strong arm of young America, to help him into the boat, which was launched alongside of the ship. Poor little Mrs. Rose, the stewardess, a character in her way, compounded of gossip, green tea and weak good na- ture, whose life was made up of drudgery, complaining, and cordial-sipping combined, was frightened half out of her frail little wits. Mr. Stephenson took her up, as if she were a rag-baby, and placed her in haste, between the Lieutenant and the prim little Doctor of the ship, who each of them held an oar. Emma and Meta Pierson were in despair at first, lest the boat should leave them. They had been beleaguering their brother's door for the last ten minutes, refusing the proffered assistance of Mr. Lindsey, the Captain and others, feeling, that if either were to be drowned, they would all go down together. "Horace, pray hasten," said Emma; " we are lost if you do not." "I am coming. No danger, dear, at all. I see from my port-hole just the condition of the ship. She will live for hours yet." "D Do come, Horace," said Meta. "The last boat is just on the point of leaving."   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    157 "The Captain won't dare to leave us behind. He is toot much of a gentleman. Never fear." "Hdrace, for pity's sake, don't stop to clean your nails, only come. Come, come," said Emma, giving a most energetic knock at the door. It opened, and my gentleman walked out perfectly self- possessed, put an arm around each of his sisters, saying, '; There is not the least cause for feat. I have been in greater danger than this many a time. What troubles you? You should not be so impatient." "There is no place for us in this boat and the others have gone. See," said Emma. "Mr. Pierson," said the Captain, "I have reserved places for you and your sisters. Walk this way, sir." And with his usual dignity and coolness, with a tender, protecting oversight of his pale, frightened sisters, he made his way to the seat assigned them-the very best on board. "There!" said he as he sat down. "Don't you see that I was right? Be sure and never be too early if you want to fare well. Nothing provokes me like having people over-punctual. There is nothing gained by it." His sisters said nothing, but thought that if they lost no external good there had been a great waste of feeling on their part while waiting for him. And the passengers, one and all, felt it to be an injustice that the whole company should suffer exposure and inconvenience for the delay of a single individual of their number. "See how we feathers swim!" said Young America. "That's the way in this world. Head up, so as to look down upon it at an angle of forty-five degrees, and everybody runs to wait upon you and give you the best that's going. See him. How imperturbable he is. The first mark ofa gen- tleman, Hilda, is never to wink or move a muscle, if the Angel Gabriel blows his trump of judgment right in your left ear. I wonder if I shall ever be up to the trick!" They were a few rods distant from the ship, when the   158   ZOE; OR, THE QUADIROONS TRIUMPH. cook's waiter, a negro, whom they had taken on board at Mobile, appeared on the deck of the sinking craft and sent forth a piteous wail for help. He had been forgotten, and had overslept himself, and was, therefore, left behind. "Put back," said the Captain. "We are already full," said one of the officers, "the boat wont bear much more weight." "There is room for him by me," said Mr. Lindsey. ', Of course, put back for him." '0 do, do," said Zoe and Hilda. 'The Lord has been so gracious in saving so many lives," said Dr. Chichester, , that it may be he wishes to be glorified by the loss of this, his lowest servant. I really am afraid we shall sink," said he, clutching hold of the side of the boat and trembling with fear and the cold com- bined. "Turn back, I say," said Young America, catching hold of a spare oar, thus giving the aid of his arm to hasten the boat's backward motion. "What kind of piety is that, I should like to know, that has a sharp eye to number one in this world and the next too!" They found that the ship had drifted a little from its position, and that a heavy surf prevented the near approach of the boat. What was to be done now? The negro would not trust himself to the waves. Young America, quick as thought, tied a rope around his waist, put the other end into the seamen's hands, and jumped into the water. He struggled manfully a moment or two, ascended the vessel's side, seized the cook by the collar of his pea-jacket, and in a short time was on board again. Hurra! for Young America, went up from a dozen voices, and Hilda looked radiant with the pleasure and excitement of the deed. Stephenson, as he sat by her side in his wet garments, and noted the expression of her face, looked as if he should like a shipwreck every day, if it would bring him so much good luck as the present one had.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPIL.  159 Mrs. Rose sat ensconsed in her nook by the side of -Lieutenant Wilson, who, with a sudden movement of his arm, by accident, twitched the little woman's night-cap off, and a breeze just at that moment taking it, it went over- board. She cast a rueful glance, as she saw its exit, and put her hand to her head, whose locks were none of the thickest. "Let us give her one of the Dr.'s bandannas," said Stephenson, who sat directly behind him, and had a good view of his great coat-pocket, which was stuffed with tobacco, a bladder of snuff, three pipes, twice as many handkerchiefs of different colors, to meet the exigencies of his slavery to the weed; and last, but not least, a well worn Bible. The Dr. might not have heard him, but just at that moment he put his hand back to secure his pro- perty better by giving it a thrust farther into its depths. Hilda threw her pet scarf to her and had the satisfaction of seeing her cover her head and all of her face with it, excepting a narrow line about the width of the pupil of a cat's eye at high noon, and at last drop asleep under its comforting influence upon the Lieutenant's shoulder. "' Quashee, can't you move a bit from my neighborhood? said Stephenson. "Does he crowd you?" said Hilda. "No, but I can't help it, Hilda. I have a born antipathy to niggers. The fact is, they are different from us every way." "'Hush!" said Hilda, "he will hear you, poor fellow. What a singular inconsistency you show! Here you have just saved his life, at the expense of your own, and now you dislike to have him near you." "Another thing entirely! Who would not save a fellow- creature's life, when it was in danger? But I have a par- ticular objection to have the monkey so near me"-and he put his handkerchief to his nose. 1"Sit by me, friend," said Hilda, making way for him by her side. "There, that just balances this part of the boat,   160   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPt. Here is a thick shawl for you!" and she threw it over him. Stephenson looked rather envious at this preference, and thought how strangely different people's feelings were on opposite sides of the Atlantic; but, no doubt, accounted for it on the score of America being the nicest nation the sun ever shone on. The ship proved to have been lost eight miles from Ja- maica. The Captain had attempted a shorter course than the usual one, and had not made sufficient allowance for their drifting by the current. After an anxious night of watching, he had retired, for a brief hour, to his state- room. The sailors, while holystoning the deck, in the gray of the morning, were admiring the bright reflection of the moon's rays upon the waves, when, suddenly, they were appalled by the faint roar of breakers which they were approaching, whose white foam they had mistaken for the moonbeams. They did everything that men could do; but it was too late to arrest the vessel. She was carried upon the shoals. Hence this shipwreck. They soon reached the port with but little damage to health and comfort, but with many painful regrets for the destruction of the good ship Forth, and much sympathy for Captain Stedman's misfortune.   (nDA-En      XMOO "I chatter over stony ways, In little sharps and trebles, I bubble into eddying bays, I babble on the pebbles."-TENNYSON. J8[5} passengers of the Forth found another English ship bound to Barbadoes, lying at Kingston Harbor. The Thames, Captain Arnold, was to sail in ten days, and the gentlemen went immediately to engage berths in her. The next afternoon they took carriages and rode through the town and surrounding country; and Mr. Pier- son called on Santa Anna, who was then in the endurance of a sort of exile from his country, and lived in the vicinity of Kingston. He then rode out to a "Pen,"-the name given to the small country seats on the island--to see some old traveling acquaintances; and he brought an in. vitation to his sisters to visit them the next day, and meet the daughter and young wife of the hero of Mexican notoriety. Mr. Lindsey and his friends found letters and papers from America, and in the evening the party gathered around a table to read them and discuss their contents. ; What news from Mrs. Lindsey?" said Emma. "Has she sent you any of her musings? or any more signs of the times?" "Yes, both. Should you like to hear them?" The four young ladies assented, and he read the follow, ing, after premising that his wife was spending the few "              (161)   162   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPhI. days of Indian Summer at Tecumseh, that she might enjoy the fresh country air and the woods in their autumn glory. "RAMBLE .THROUGH THE RAVINE. "One sunny day, when the air whispered of all things balmy and aromatic, and the trees were decked as if to receive visits from the seraphim, whose home is in the rainbow, so much do they love a brilliant ether, I found this note on waking from my morning dreams. It was written on a white stone, polished to smoothness, with ink of elderberry and pen of reed. As it could not be folded, the writing was shielded from prying eyes by a vail of whitest frost, which only needed ten minutes' sunshine to reveal to me the characters. It ran thus: "' DEAR FRIEND AND LOVER: "' Come to me, I pray you, and let us take a stroll together. We are twin souls-is not that the phrase? and I am longing for sym- pathy, and simple and true affection. I know you live in the great city, where the big Ohio now rolls with swelling pride, now con- tracts to most penurious width and volume; now floweth clear and transparent as a cheap window glass, now turbid and opaque as brown sugar and water, very, very sweet. Still I think you are not quite spoiled by such capricious company, and if you are a little dingy soulward, by communing with such a dubious companion, I, with my clear-eyed purity and transparency, will look into your being, and banish hence each vile intruding parasite. Come, O! come to        "' Y'our loving "' BROOK.' "Could I refuse? I knew you would not be jealous of such an innocent country beau, especially as you know him well, and love his playful, simple wiles as well as I. So I donned my hat and mantle, and went straight forth to meet and greet him. "He looked so sweet and pure as I approached him, that I forgot my bashful modesty, and without blushing, said, 'Good morning, owny, deny Brooklet! If it were   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    163 proper, I would say how much I love you. You are my delight, my pride and admiration, and next summer-- "'What of next summer, say you? Brooklet answered. 'I know of no next summer. I asked you to come and see me now. The present is our time. Do not be naughty for me to scold you. O! do, for once, live in the present. Both of us may be asleep next summer--who knows? That comes of your city living. But cheer up; see how merrily, merrily I flow, now here, now there, now babbling with a wreathed bough, now curling round a mossy stone, and anon finding a broader space to make myself a mirror for the sky, and clouds, and trees to gaze into. Are they not pretty? I love them as well as you. Therefore, I drink in their beauty and receive tokens of their affection. And to-morrow morning early, mark me well, and you will see my incense of praise rising to heaven as thanks to the generous Giver of all this love and beauty, and for making me a portion of his living, fluent universe. "'O Brooklet! you are beautiful and good, and I will learn a lesson from you; and now, though I love to wander with you, yet by your bounty, you have made these trees so grand and stately, and they are so eloquent that I must leave you briefly and commune with them. Hark, Brook- let! hear them chant a strange, low tune, solemn, yet musi- cal and calmly rapturous, high up among their branches.' "'This is the Air.' "' Slowly wave we high above thee, Firom poisonous breaths of earth we save thee, From scorching sun's rays, close we guard ye, O I spare us, and we 'll farther teach thee. Love us, and we 'll ever shade ye, And point unerring to heaven beyond ye.' "'And this is the contralto of the firm trunk and ribbed bark.' "'No song, however joyous, can long endure, Unless it has its inspiration and support   164    ZOE; OR, 'THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. From consort with the rude but healthful work-day world. This sphere of common uses, men deem me, And yet, it is precisely as they choose to call me. I care not-but this I know, that God has made Each cell and vein and artery of my wondrous being Instinct with poetry. The music of the leaves and waving branches, And the sweet flowerets are but the subtle essence, The perfume of my power and strength; the bright-winged angels, To scatter far and wide, the germ of my continued life.' "' Listen to the Bass, resounding low and strong, among the roots extending under ground.' "'Strange joy have I, lonely and dark, unheeded by The vain and busy world in my retreat. On Mother Nature, generous and loving, I repose, and she feeds Me with her choicest elements, guarding my tender fibres From remotest harm; strengthening me to bear The sunlight and the fierce whirlwinds of the upper world; And when she deems me fit, she opens her bosom, And reveals to Man my origin, And her careful hand-and-heart-work, by the Strong, massive shoot, which, tall and broad, And high, towers upward toward the sky. Do men deserve me, God's own, his beautiful and majestic  If so, let them show it, by squaring their work To suitable harmony with Nature's holy artifice.' "But, Brooklet I what high walls are these, On either side? I thought you were free. I would not be thus imprisoned..' "'Imprisoned,' say you, ' don't you see me run, Obedient to no servile law, only restrained By God's own sense of beauty, and that suits me. They are fortifications, dullard, to conceal Me from careless, unappreciating eyes, And by surprise to heighten the delight, Of those, my real friends, who chance, Or take the pains to find me in my retreat. You might have known they were not Intended for my jail. Don't you see How prettily I have decked them With mosses rare, and vines and climbers, All in festoons, to say nothing of the shrubs    ZOE; OR, TIE QUAI)DRON'S TRIUMPH.   165 Which love to grow and bloom upon their summits, Just to please me.? You must be brighter Next time you criticise so smartly. "' Brooklet I I am very much ashamed. Forgive me.' ; ' Come to me, come to me,' Brooklet says. 'See my mosaic. Was any so lovely, ever? Shall I give you my receipt for it? I just heap up the pebbles underneath me, and flow a little roughly over them, the bright sun shining down to my depth, meantime, and any quantity, of different size and shape and hue are made- to order. But I ve got a patent for them, so if you think to steal them and carry home, with which to adorn yourself, why, you will be dis- appointed; for only on Brooklet can they be seen to be the jewels that they are. Look your fill on me. It is just as well, and better, if you would but think so-than stingily to crave them for your own, to lock up in your cabinet, two- thirds and a half of the time. That is no proper way. Brooklet does not do so. O, fie!' "'And now ascend the little hill,' my Brooklet says, ' and see what you can see.' "'O Brooklet! a broad and spacious natural park, with trees just numerous enough to shade, without gathering unhealthful damp and gloom. No underbrush to impede my walk, and tear my robe, and green grass plenty, for a carpet. Yes, and for these gentle kine's food too. They eat it as if they liked it. Patient animals! I love to look into your soft, dark eyes. I know there is more beneath their surface, than the soulless wot of. They tell me of some- thing very strange, yet what I love to ponder. We'll, keep it a secret, won't we, Mooley cow, my childhood's rustic friend?  "' And there's the mansion of the rich proprietor. It has been better in its day, and might be prettier now. Nathless it has an easy, insouciant look I don't dislike, as if the lady resident fled from her city fine one, to enjoy   166  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. more the woods and thee, O Brook! than dazzling walls and the world's foolish, costly gear. But there's a noble barn, showing that a careful farmer is he, who tills his lands, reaping a harvest a hundred-fold, I ween, more than he sows. Here is an orchard, and a vineyard, too, They say, he is very generous with their bountiful products. I wish he would send me some. Ask him, Brooklet! next time you see him. And hint to him in your most winning way, my sweet one, that he to whom God has intrusted this rich domain as his time-steward, should be liberal to every righteous cause-religion, morals, learning, art, science, and every good of life, as the bounteous lands he calls his own are to his easy culture. Now I think of it, I had rather you would send the message to him through his gentle lady, whose rapt soul dreams of perfection attained by mortals, even on earth. ' She will persuade him if he needs, I kriow.' "O cease your prosing,' Brooklet says, c and come to me here. Did you ever see a spring so powerful, clear, and health-inspiriting as this one? 1 call it mine in my presumption.' "' O where did you get it, Brooklet?' "Its source is in-the Andes, I dare say. It trickles down their sides, joining the river's flow, making strange meandering on its way, gathering the subtle essence of salts and minerals, down deep, deep in the earth, and. when well concocted by the great doctress, Nature, wells up with a strong flow-you would not believe me-much less remember-how many gallons in a minute, just for you, ungrateful men and women that you are!  "Why ungrateful, Brooklet? My best friend likes it well. So should I, only I have such a deep and living well of exhilarating gas within me, that when I quaff of yours, my head aches with the excess. Excuse me, but really it is quite unnecessary for me to put you to so low a pse. I love to look upon you, and I gain more than   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    167 corporeal life thereby, even a stronger, freer swell to my soul's flight. Pray, call me not ungrateful.' "'i Well, not you then, but your brothers and sisters, who swallow so many of the concentrated drugs found in carth's laboratory, that they sicken and die before their hour, or drag out a painful existence, worse than death a thousand times. Now, if they were wise, they would come and drink of me and my many sister-springs in the broad, ample range of this, your country. Tell them so, my friend.' "' They will not believe me, simple country Brook! They would dub me Quack, or, if they came to quaff you, it would only be after their physic's dose-by way of des- sert at best. The Doctor tells them that the great pills or the little ones have much more potency. I have warned them over and over again to be more chary of him. It is of no use. Please excuse me.' "(' I had some friends and followers once,' poor Brooklet murmured, ' whose trail stretched through these woods- sons of the forest, dear to me as my own music in the hush of even. But alas! alas! they are gone, all gone! -The white man swept them far away beyond my ken, and ever since there has been a note of sadness in my song which I cannot away with. Even though learning sits in yonder halls, and science, whose steady working just below in its hydraulic symbol, speaks of increasing purity and intelligence in my servitors, thus cheering my onward way, yet shall I never, never flow on in my old-time gladsome- ness, until the red men's children come hither, as of yore their fathers did, and share with equal lot with those the white man's blessings, and range these woods with free but milder spirit than before, befitting the Christian sons of nature. O bring them back to me and I will love and bless you evermore!' "' I will, my Brooklet! Already are- their eyes, with longing, turned to thee, and wait but thr the white man's tender-the silver coin-to accumulate, through industry   168  ZOE.; OR, 'THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. or just due's payment, to bring their sons, a goodly band, to be nurtured by your side. O sigh not so, my Brooklet! Not many moons shall wane before Tecumseh's children, brothers and sisters both, a goodly band, shall drink of thee as erst their father did. They will instruct the people in thy virtues, and then we shall return to nature's laws of health, from which we have so far departed.' "' Turn to the right, walk through the park,' the Brook- let leaps and answers, and I will show you how glad I am at the thought of greeting my own again.' "' Yes, friend, I know the way. Ah, now I hear thee, laughing louder and more gayly than e'er before. I will descend the bank and lean against this tree, planted on purpose for those who love thee, to lean against and look their fill into thy depths. Bravo! Brooklet, thou art glad and joyous indeed. Thy cascade need never hide itself for shame, for here it bounds and leaps and pours and soars. It dashes and sprays and shines and foams. It runs and drops and trickles and glistens. It shakes and waves and ripples and bubbles. It winds and glides and murmurs and gurgles. What can Niagara more?' "' If I might only say next summer, (now you are so good-natured you will not chide me,) I will get behind thy beady vail, and Naiad-like, see how the world appears through thee. But now thou art too chilly in thy embrace, for the first kiss of autumn hath left its mark upon thee. He is very generous in his gifts, raining them down, day after day, till we, if not ye, are almost weary of his profl- sion; yet, for all that, I love and admire you at this dis- tance better than nearer.' :" 'And now, my Brooklet Waterfall! I wish to follow thy windings, even as far as the Pool, a long, long stroll for these degenerate days of dainty exercise; and I am afraid to trust thy guidance, lest thou shouldst play me a trick, thou art so full of glee and frolic. I 1 even ask this lad the shortest way, for if you wander here, and there, and   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI.   169 everywhere, we'll separate for a time, only to meet again more happy than before.' "'He says I cannot cross you, and knows but very little about you any way, it seems to me. So don't be vain, as if you were the universe in a rill, and everybody lived by you. You are only my own, my darling Brook, just big enough, and none too little, so we 'll go together as far as best we may.' "'And so you widen and widen) naughty, provoking Brooklet! that I need not cross you. We'll see. I'm neither sugar nor salt to melt at your moist and softening touch, so 1'll e'en doff my hose and shoon, and wade across. I'm not at all afraid of you; but those sharp stones! And then, by chance, some gazer may pass by. Well, my foot is not so ugly, I would have you know- rather large I own--but only proportioned to my size; and I 've not squeezed it to make believe it smaller, therefore I am not ashamed of it-and pointed stones to walk on are not so bad, if you but get accustomed to them. So here am I in for it. I defy you, saucy Brooklet!' "'I see your drift. You are going to lead me many a mile, with your numerous crooks and turns, so I 11 just cut across, and meet you by-and-by. Au revoir! "And now begin my troubles. Here is a fence to climb. Never mind, they called me ' Tom-boy when a child, and now I reap the advantage. I'm over with a bound, my frock a little torn, but I'm a woman. I can at least mend that, without departing from my sphere. Another fence I and fiow a ditch, and next a field new plowedl Ive crossed them all with little damage; but dear, dear me I what pricks me so? Ten thousand pointed pins sticking to me and my wardrobe in the shape of vegetable vermin-- to give them a genteel name. 'Beggar's lice,' we called them in our school-days. -This host of Lilliputians is the worst trial after all. -I verily fear they will pin my clothes so close about me, that a new edition of the pillar of salt 15   170   ZOE; ORK,THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. will be advertised in the Morning Journal; I being con- demned to savory bondage for looking forward too much, instead of backwards, as was the sin of the olden matron. "I'll hie to the welcome wood near by, and rid me of my enemies, which, like the smaller trials of life, are harder to bear than great ones. I 'll sit in this cool shade; no, I 'm very warm, and the sudden change will give me fever and ague. Well, here is a sunny spot! no, that will cause the typhoid, bilious or intermittent! O dear, dear, dear I what weaklings we have got to be, that if Nature, kind and lov- ing, blows with her cool, refreshing breath upon us, we straightway tremble like cowards; or smile upon us cord- ially, and we melt into tenuity! I'll not be a slave to mi- asma or any evil demon which would mar me and make me useless in this busy world. I 've made a compact with creation, and am so docile to her behests, that she strength- ens me with her best spirit's might, which can withstand foes that a faithful oversight cannot remove. "Now freed from my Lazzaroni, I'll join my Brook again. But where is he? Hark! I think I hear him. No, it is the music of the trees. What harmony they have caught from each other, showing they should live together; for if one is absent the other always languishes. "' Now I see; here you are again, and another water- fall! Am I so near the Pool as this evinces? I fear not, so I'll take the highway to it another day. I'm rather crestfallen, I own, at my disgraceful failure to find a rural path to it. But this cascade! not quite so pretty as the first, is it my Brook? yet very fair.' "I see a mansion near. I'll cross the stone bridge just above, and reconnoitre, and then go home by the beaten path. What! two proprietors hereabouts, with such sur- roundings grand! "O foolish ino! It is the very, very same, and I ve but watdered round and a round to the same point again. I beg thn thousand pardons, Waterfall! I really thought you   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   171 your twin brother, only not quite so pretty; but the other side of your face is a little different, you know, from this one-and then I 'm weary, and objects are less bright in consequence. Besides, a shadow has fallen over my spirit, such as does sometimes in looking towards the future, and shall I say it, Brooklet? I will to you, though I 'n almost ashamed to, for I am no child. I woke this morning weep- ing, and my eyes are rather dim, of course. Do others cry as well as I, I wonder?' "' Yes,' Brooklet answers, 'Nature is very willful, and if she is dammed and dyked by day, so as to keep the tide from rising too far and overflowing, why, she has her own way at night, I ween, when all are sleeping. I would, if I were she.' "'And now we 'l return the upland way, in sight and hearing of you, my Brooklet, and meet the lowland path at the foot of the 'Camel's Back.' We've crossed the little stream, but which way now! I 'm puzzled. This way I'll go. No, the other. No, it will lead me wrong. What shall I do? 'Look at the sun,' I hear you say, my husband. Well, there is the sun in the heavens, and my abiding place on the earth, but how to put that and that together, I know not, so as to be an aid to me! O dear! I shall be late to dinner, and I, an authoress, pride myself upon being punc- tual like common people! My hostess, if she were not kindly and were not one herself, would say: 'What trouble a novelist is! Deliver me from such!' Well, she will have a subject for her next story, 'The Woman in the Wood;' and I will make a compact with the bluejays, as all the robins have flown, to bury me with leaves, for, Brooklet! you have completely hemmed me in, and where to go, I know not. So, of course, nothing is left for me but to lie down and die by thee. I m glad my fate is nothing worse.' "'Nonsense! here is the path, all plain as daylight, I know some trick has been played upon me. The earth   172   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. must have whirled around four times as often as it ought, and hence my blunder. I'll arrange my fluttered gar- ments. But here is wheel-grease on my clean, gingham frock. Ten minutes ago it was fresh and pure. Yes, here is the proof of mischief. Phcebus, whirling by, spattered me fromt his car. We came too near him in our whirligig. I wonder, and I wonder. "Two students from yon college overtake me. One says to the other: 'The earth in going round the sun makes a loop each day.' 'No, not each day, but once in twenty-nine. Yes, once it makes a loop, each nine and twenty days.' "Ah! that explains it all. I happened in the loop, in the smallest part, and hence my loss of way, and hence the wheel-grease from Phoebusl car. Good for the college! I I11 always live by one, and when I lose the points of com- pass, its philosophy will enlighten me of the cause. "'And now, my loving Brooklet! before we part, I ll tell you a little secret. My life began like yours, all poesy and dreams. But this is a rude world, and I was taught by lessons drear that a foundation, stable and strong, must, underlie them, so I turned aside to con the teachings of the work-day world. I ve learned them pretty well by heart, and now I return to -poesy and dreams again, and who knows but I shall make them actual? So, Brooklet! ne'er forget me, for many a stroll we 'll have together in the sunny, playday future. Adieu, for a day, adieu.' "And now for the ' signs of the times,' said Hilda." ( c "It is too late this evening," said Mr. Lindsey, " but to-morrow I will read them." On the arrival of the party at the hotel, Mr. Chichester had proposed that they should immediately unite in thanks- giving to God for their wonderful preservation from the dangers of the deep. But there was bustle and excite- mnent and work on every side, so it was declined for the   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    173 present by the others of the party. He thought it a sad sign of an ungodly temper and ungratefll spirit. Now, however, when all was quiet and they were about to separate, Mr. Lindsey, with earnest words and spirit, ex- pressed their gratitude to God for-his loving care, and felt the truth anew that his watchful Providence never sleeps but is on every side, caring for us no less on the fearful deep, with but a plank between us and death, than now in the still room, with the refreshing land-breeze passing through it, seaward, to return the tribute the ocean ren- dered it by day.   } UA] TP  IE tRN x  joo. -  I, "Is it possible, disdain should die, while she hath such meet food to feed it, as Signior Bene- dick 7"-SHAMSPEARE. .=i- fP f -g]j next evening Mr. Lindsey,  // i  Zoe/, Hilda, and Mr. Stephenson, were .sitting together around the center-table in their hotel; strewn - with their books, newspapers and  sewing, looking quite as if at home. .Fi..7 F    "Mr. Pierson and his sisters had gone to fulfill their appointment "i/ ,tJ ': S4 with their friends in the country.  'Please give us those 'signs of -;t the times' you promised us," said Hilda to Mr. Lindsey., "O yes," said Zoe, "America is the future of this world for the next. age, I plainly see. Do give them to us." ( 174)   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S T1IUMPH.    175 He assented, and read the following chapter purporting to be from the publication of Mrs. Pumpkin, entitled- "TOO MUCH MAN. "I read in yesterday's Journal, that 'a great mob of women' were assailing the printing presses, eager to have their works published. Now, thought I, is my time. I don't like to be conspicuous, and among a crowd a modest woman, who likes nothing so well as to do her work quietly in her own way, won't be painfully noticeable. So I '1 begin to write this very afternoon. "My little niece, Hattie, says that she is going to make haste and learn to write, because she has a story on her mind which she wishes to have published. I should be mortified to have her outstrip me in literature; therefore I will delay no longer. "Now, I am not going to write an elegant, stiff, prosy book, according to the rules of the critics, but an easy, conversational, and very frank one. Not that I am going to be a second Mrs. Nickleby and tell all about myself and the world that I know of, and a little more, but as far as I go I shall tell the truth. It is to have pictures, and as the sub- stance of it is to be so very plain, I have concluded to put a little touch of the genteel to it by giving it a French name out of compliment to my illustrator, who is from France. So I call it ' La V6rit6.' I mean to have the same publisher that my friend Mrs. Applebutter has. She sent him her work when she had completed ten chapterqput of the forty, and he agreed to publish it. Is there anotiher G the United States, in these cowardly and money-ma lig times, that would dare to make such an engagement with a woman? For you know it is very doubtful if it is bright enough to be salable, or, if that is the case, she might take a notion to bring him into it in some odd, freakish way or other. I shall be just as likely to as not, so he had bettar think twice before he dares to make a bargain with me.   176  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "Mrs. Applebutter has an idea that her Tale is going to have a great run, and she chose him, because he is the white horse, spoken of in Revelation, ' which goes forth conquering and to conquer.' There was a time in the summer, when she had some doubts about it, he appeared so slow and sleepy, but deary me, she says he pricks up his ears, and goes at such a gallop now, that it is as much as she can do to keep up with him. However, these were her words-' I should like to see the printers that can set types as fast as I can write. And, my dear Mrs. Pumpkin, there is one thing I am very set about, if he does not use the fortune my Tale brings him, in fulfilling the prediction concarning him in the sixth chapter of Revelation, second varse, by doing the great work which he is so well fitted for, he gets no more of my books to publish. Not that I am going to watch and pry into his affairs; I have enough else to do, but just to see that he sets out on the right track, and then he may go to Polonia, if he pleases, only I hope he won't jump over into the big pond, nor get stuck. to an iceberg up there, as then he would be of no more use hereabouts. For I am not going to be like some men, I know of, who have their property invested in a big or a little grog-shop, and then, if anybody gets murdered in it, or the drunkard's wife and children lead a life of misery, for the husband buying whisky in it, he waves his hand very genteel-like, and says, cVery sad, very bad, Mrs. Applebutter!' and then sips his tea and laughs and chats as if lothing had happened. No, no, my property goes -f^better uses than such-like ways.' q What could I but say, on hearing this last remark, Too much man, altogether! too much man! "For one of the pictures, I shall introduce the printing- press which helps me to give 'La Vrit(' to the public. It has a very knowing look, as it is waited upon by a com- pany of young women, who like nothing better than by its means to proclaim their own freedom. The friendly   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   1" proprietor does not frown a particle, as it winks first at one young girl, and then at another. His inward voice has told him, that it is none too early for that same publication, so though he may keep his broad brim upright in the midst of the general ogling, yet he will say, ' If thee has a call to preach this gospel, Mrs. Pumpkin, thee may as well do it in this way, as to use thy earthly organs of speech in the Quarterly Meeting. Thee must follow thy own light.' This God-speed is no more than I should expect of a sect which has always been a friend to humanity, whether found in the poor Indian, the Black Niggers, or the White ones. Not too much man there! "If I happen to like any of my lady friends better than my dead ones, I shall work them over into characters for mny bantling. Indeed I should like to have them all perpe- tuated in this way, (for of course they will be if I put them in my book,) but that would keep me writing too long. So for those that I omit I shall put a caret thus, A which means that they are all understood. I think they will make a very pretty bouquet, arranged tastefully as I shall try to have them. For a boutquet-holder, I shall take a stalk, very seedy at the end, (as I have a great fancy for symbols,) which means the men, and that brings me to the subject of my first chapter, ' Too much man!' "There are four great divisions of the human family at the present time. They are the Feminines, which include the very choicest portion of both sexes of all races, con- ditions, classes and color. Over against these are the Ani- MALS, or animated evils, just as you please to call them. Then there are the Big-eyes, which mean those who are always on the look-out for something wonderful, and who, at the present day, are mastered by the exciting subjects of Magnetism, Spiritualism, Psychology, etc., etc. The fourth, are the Commons, who have not much character or principles of any kind, but are moulded by the influences around them.   178   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "But I forget; I must go back a little, to be up to the times. "I know it is the fashion for authoresses to have their faces for the frontispiece of their books; but I am not handsome enough for that, so I shall put my heroine there instead. But supposing the public were curious to know how I look, I will gratify them so far as to say--so much like all the rest of the world, that nobody knows us apart, so I have to tell people when I speak to them, which is which. "Autobiographies too, are all the vogue, therefore I will just give a hasty sketch of my parentage and life. 1"I am of the good old stock of the Puritans, and that is what makes me so free and easy, for you well know that they liked liberty. My remote ancestors, my father, my husband and most of my relations are ministers, and that, of course, is why I am so very lively. I was born in the country, which makes me feel very much at home in the city. I am just old enough to feel very young, tall enough not to suffer myself to be trampled upon, and not too tall to cause inconvenient expense for my wardrobe in the present lean condition of Mr. Pumpkin's purse. ( I am a Unitarian Christian in religion, which makes me a believer in all the faiths which ever were preached. I am a Know Nothing in politics, which is the reason that I know something of what most interests 'Sam' in these days, and especially gives me a great liking for foreigners. "I have no children, so, having all creation to select from, I have a very large family. "' With regard to my attainments, having led a very in- dustrious life, much of it in the kitchen, I am, of course, mistress of considerable literature. I have no accomplish- ments, so I am quite an artist. I always like to read prose better than rhyme, therefore, I am a poetess. I have never had much time to observe and study nature, so I am   ZOE; OR, THb QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   179 a passionate lover of it and know a good many of her secrets; and though I am as sinful as my neighbors, I am very religious. "C With regard to whether I have genius or not, that will depend upon how it is defined. In a conversation with some of my friends the other evening, I said, 'A genius is one who knows what is what, and who is who, and how to do a thing or two.' A gentleman, who sat by, said it was one who knows 'beans;' another said it was he whose mother knows he is out' and yet is not anxious lest he should get into trouble. While an elderly lady said, that, in her opinion, ' it was one who knows enough to come in when it rains.' "According to either of these definitions, I am a genius, but I prefer my own, as being the most comprehensive. "I think that I have enlightened the Public sufficiently about myself, so I will resume my subject. If I think of any other items I will just throw them into the body of the chapter. "Some people of my acquaintance don't like to be classed with the Feminines, though they belong in that category. I should like to know which of the other classes suits them better. I suppose they would say: ' We wish to be manly.' But what is the great difference, pray, between manly and womanly, when the mal part of the animal is struck out? What are they going to occupy themselves about, if they are not feminine, or where are they going to live? There are to be no more wars, and fighting and murder make the great distinction between them now. America is a woman, and Religion is a woman, and the Arts and Sciences are women, and Literature is a woman. Ceres, which means farming, is a woman; Pomona, which means horticulture, is a woman; and Flora is a woman. "' Politics and law,' they say, 'will be left to them.' Not so fast. There is to be no more diplomacy, and log- rolling, and litigation. Justice and Truth are going to   180   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. carry the day, and they are women, so if they don't con- sent to be Feminines, they are in danger of being nowhere and nothing at all in the new times coming. But the trouble is they won't believe in the advent of the new era. They are too proud to look at the signs of the times, and be strong in faith. They had rather reason and argue of the future from the past. Too much man! too much man! "Then the Big-eyes are always running after shadows, such as twin-soulships, affinities, harmonies, and the like. The provoking part of it is, however, that each one has so many psychological mates. If they would remain true to their sublime theory and faithful to the twin-soul, one would have more trust in them. But no! they find any quantity here and there at the corners of the streets, sitting at the windows, or in the newspapers-just as it happens. Or perhaps they pride themselves so much upon their big- eyes that they get to think they are the Olympian Jove and can look down any obstacle in their way to their twin-soul, and so pick and choose as they please. But you may be sure they do it by night instead of in broad daylight, and are very careful to have no spectators, especially ladies. They, perhaps, know how sharp they are to detect them, though they may be as sly as Moses and treacherous as Judas. Dear, dear me! When will even Big-eyes, that call themselves wise, get developed to the point of seeing that there is one greater than themselves, who puts a veto upon such proceedings, or if they choose to break his laws, why they suffer the consequences, that is all. De. struction is not their forte. The ani-MALs can beat them at that, any time. To re-dreate is what they were born for. Matters will come right in eternity, if not in time, if they will but be patient and faithful. "My theory about twin soul-ships and true marriages is this: That if you are married, your husband or your wife, whichever it may be, is your psychological complement,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    181 unless the single cause which our Saviour speaks of, divides you. God had a hand in joining you for wise reasons of his own. It is for you to find out what they are, and get and return all the good from the marriage which was in- tended. If lie sees that it\would be better for either of you to be separated, why He will arrange it. But for Heaven's sake be quiet and do your duty where Provi- dence has placed you, and give up this disgusting cant, and these sickening, corrupting meetings and circles, and billings and cooings which disgrace yourselves, bring scan- dal upon the whole subject of spiritual affinities, (in which there is a great truth no doubt,) and lead to moral and physical death and destruction. "No, no, Big-eyes are not to be relied upon. Magnetism and Spiritualism have got the better of them-instead of their handling the subjects as great souls should-notwith- standing all their mighty power and wisdom, and advance- ment before the age, They wield the most subtle and life- inspiring element in creation, as if it were a plaything given them to make themselves and others fools with. Not so did Jesus; and until they learn of him the high purposes for which it was given them, and catch from his transcend- ent superiority the spirit with which he wielded it, they will remain no better than poor, blundering, blind, destruc- tive infidels and idiots. That is a piece of my mind upon the subject! "If I were a young lady, and Big-eyes offered himself to me, I would make a very safe compact with him, else I should expect if he got tired of me, and saw another'twin- soul I in the distance he liked better, he would stare at m:IF'l with all his might, and I should find myself in my windirkl sheet before my time. Supposing, for instance, he hadi  chosen to divide the happiness he expected firom me into eight portions, and he had got five-eighths, and chose to take -for granted that the other three-eighths would be with.   182   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. held, he would want no better excuse to put me aside for another ' complement,' "So I advise my young friends to make a very sharp bargain-something like this: Of course it is taken for granted that half of all the property and privileges of the partnership, as much of his society as she likes, and power to do just as she pleases, in everything, is to be hers. Leave the discussion of those points to the ani-mALs. He has got beyond that. "But after he has promised an unheard-of amount of love and devotion, just say to him 'there is one little proof more that I require of you before I consent to marry you.' "'What is it? It is yours, it is yours!' "I' Wait a bit,' I say; ' don't be rash!' "' What is it? I shall only be too happy! O! tell me what it is?' "' To die when I do!' "He pauses and seems taken aback. "' To die when I do P! "' But really, how can I promise that?' 'TO DIE WHEN I DO!' "He stands deep in thought for a moment, and then ex- claims joyfully: ' Yes, yes, I promise to die when you do I Yes, I die when you do; be mine, be mine P' Then very coolly get up, and bowing to him over your left shoulder, leave the room, saying 'I l11 think about it.' It is the only safe way, you may depend upon it, of treating the men., and especially Big-eyes. For if you should say, Yes, and perhaps give him your daguerreotype to save him from shooting himself, or you, and make him good-natured, then ten to one he does not go away and forget it after all. That is the way with the men. Too much man! "Now for the ani-xAs! I hardly know where to egin upon them, they need so many truths to set them right, that it will require more than ' La Verit6 ' to do it. But I   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    188 think their cowardice is their most glaring fault, so I'll commence with that. "In their wars they show this vice on a gigantic scale. They are afraid they shan't have territory enough, or they are afraid they shan't be thought the bravest people under the sun, or they are afraid they shall lose their kingship, or presidentship, or what not; or they are afraid the people will get to think themselves as good as they are, so they go to war like the ani-xnms they are. Too much man, man, man! "So in politics, instead'of being fair and open as if they were doing something right and proper and for their coun- try's good, they get together in little companies here and there and are mighty secret about their movements. Diplo- macy and pipe-laying, and lobbying and caucusing, and what not they call it, but it is just nothing but cowardice. And if a word is said about the women or the negroes and other sensible, innocent but courageous people joining them and putting in a word, why they absolutely turn pale and shake with fear, or grow angry or abusive, which is a certain sign of cowardice. Too much man, I say, too much man! "Then as to all the moral questions of the day, they are a set of arrant cowards. If slavery is spoken about, or preached about, or written about, or voted about, or labored about, dear me! they are half frightened out of their wits. They are afraid the negroes will rise and kill them, though they have had proof upon proof that they never do so when,their freedom is given them; so out of fear they keep them in bondage. They are afraid they shall come to poverty, or shan't be thought so grand if they do them the simple justice to free them, so they tighten their chains. They are afraid the Union will split to pieces if they even talk upon the subject, and try to devise methods to set this matter right. They are afraid thev shan't make so much   184   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. money if anything is said upon it, so they are either mum, or furious, or are so frightened that they hide themselves behind any screen they can find. Then there is the ever- present fear of losing office if they speak upon this subject. That haunts them by night and day; afraid of losing their fat places, or afraid of not getting one at the next election. "There is one thing I wish they had more wholesome fear of, and that is of breaking the commandments of God and of not doing their duty to Him, to their fellow-men, and their own souls. A thoWsand times too much man! "And that brings me to theirfear of being too religious. They are afraid the world will talk and laugh about them if they do their whole duty to their Maker and themselves. They are afraid they can't be so free to be wicked as they would like to be. They are afraid they shall lose popularity by the means; and they are afraid they shall have duties imposed upon them which they don't like to perform. They are afraid religion is a humbug, and are afraid they shall be taken in by it; and especially they are afraid it is a more costly luxury than they can afford to indulge in. Perhaps they make up their minds, years ago, they will keep free from the duties imposed by religion, so are afraid they shall not be thought consistent, or still farther, they are afraid of narrowness and sectarianism, if they come out and confess themselves Christians-' Too much man, too much man!' "Even in literature the ani-MALs want to carry the day and to frighten the publishers into their notions. Nobody must write more than a dollar and quarter story-book, especially if it happens to please the feminines. Pretty well too. Supposing when I invited company I should go round and say, you must not talk but just five cents worth, and you ten cents worth, and you twenty cents worth. But if one of the ani-MALs was present I should say, you   ZOiE; oR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   185 may talk a dollar's worth! what sense or propriety would there be in that? or will the world ever come right if you always give up to the ani-MAs? "So they try to manage me, but they don't find it so easy. No, no, Mrs. Pumpkin is not a ripe, round pumpkin for nothing. She is going to have .her say and tell it in her own globular way, and not feel when her work is done as a watchmaker would if he had left the main-spring out. Nobody need to buy her book if they don't want it. Young America need not buy it, if he likes his tobacco and con- fectionary better. The colored people need not buy it, if they like the first cauliflowers and new potatoes, and earliest green peas, and prettiest flowers better. The women need not buy it, if they like rich lace and moire antique cloaks better than they do ' La Writ,.' Just as they please.. This is a free country. But it is my book and I am going to write it in my own way. A dollar and a quarter! Pray where is the other seventy-five cents? Is it a luck-penny, for pity's sake, that they hug it so close? ' Too much man!' "Then with their corporations of all sorts, that squeeze the souls out of people and leave them like my bouquet- holder, very seedy at the end. "They are going to control lecturers, are they? And they get up a great rumpus if they don't speak just when, and where, and how, and for how much they want them to. What is the world coming to, with its suspicions, and its falsehoods, and its denunciation, and its tyranny? Next thing, they will be for putting a regulator upon the chest- nuts and walnuts, and especially the beechnuts, for drop- ping in the autumn where they see fit, and especially if they happen to light down in a little different way from what they have been accustomed to have them. They can't be made to believe but that there is mischief and wickedness in any other mode than their own, though beechnuts have never been in the statersprison for crime, 16   186  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. that I know of. , most righteous and pious community! Too much man! "A still farther instance of the cowardice of the ani-xALs is in committing suicide so often. If they lose their pro- perty, or their good-name, or their friends, or their health, or some favorite indulgences, or, indeed, if their wills are crossed in any way by a good Providence, who knows just what is best for them and deals with them accordingly, why, ten to one they do not throw away the life given them for the highest purposes. Too much man, too much man! "But the great fear of all which makes the ani-xAs miserable, is of the women getting their rights. They begin to be afraid of them at home and abroad, by night and by day, on sea and on land, in public and in private, in office, in business, and, indeed, it would be difficult to say where they are not in fear of them! "Now what is it that makes the ani-MALs, who have heretofore thought that all the bravery of the world was in their keeping, so timid? It really makes me uncomforta- ble, it draws upon my sympathies quite too much to be surrounded by so many trembling, frightened people. Do they want to be petted like a little baby, thus? 'They shan't be hurt, no, they shan't! The niggers shan't kill them, no, no; the women shan't hurt them, indeed they shan't! Hush, hush!' Why can't they be courageous, like a woman. She sees no bughears in the way. Slavery is too delicate a subject to think of, much less to speak of plainly, is it? A man is a fool, is he, if he gets up in a religious convention and speaks about three millions of slaves in a mild, Christian way? Again I ask, what are the men afraid of? I don't hear of any crack of doom, nor the Union falling to pieces if I cry freedom to the very top of my voice, when I take my walk in the woods, and if it were civil and in good taste I would just as soon do it in the largest assembly in the land. Is not this a free country? Too much man, man, man!   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    187 "Mr. Pumpkin is a great trial to some people for being a friend to niggers and women. It is very natural he should be, seeing his wife is a woman and a nigger too. Yes, I say, she is a white nigger. That is what makes her know so much about their character and peculiar wants. But that is thought no sufficient reason for his speaking a good word for them; so one slams the door at him, another shakes his head at him, another begs him not to say free- dom in his sermons, while another stays at home from church altogether, lest he should hear the word slavery. Again I say, what are they afraid of? To-be-sure Mr. Pumpkin has committed one most incendiary deed. He has given one woman her freedom, and that is Mrs. Pumpkin, and there is no knowing what may come of it! If she should take a fancy to dye her face black and crisp her hair to rectify a mistake of nature, seeing she is a nigger, he would only say: 'Is that judicious, my dear? How- ever, I wish you to act out your own genius.' "One great cause of the ani-MALs being such a nuisance in society, is their intemperance. Whisky, or wine, or brandy, or beer must supply to them the liveliness which the Feminines draw from the elements, from heaven, and from their own souls. I don't believe there is one of them that gets so heady as some friends of mine, I could name, do on these pure spirits, their native-born intoxication. And they never rave and murder their families like the ani-MALs, either. Too much man, man, man! "If any Feminine young lady receives an offer of mar- riage from an ani-MAL, I should advise her to conduct towards him something like this. You know the feminines have beautiful wings which set off their beauty to great advan- tage. They live in the third heaven, and one of their favorite employments, is to paint and draw the lovely scenes and faces around them, while the ani-MxAm crawl and stumble down on the ground. Well, an ani-MAL looks up, and says, 'Will you come down and marry me?'   188  ZZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "'No, certainly not. If you wish for me, you must let your wings grow, and fly up here.' "Perhaps he is not inclined to take the trouble, but hopes to succeed in his suit in some other way; so he says, 'I have got plenty of money, and you shall have some of it.' "' No'(she keeps on drawing.) "I have got a fine house and furniture.' "' No, I say.' "' I have got a carriage and horses, and servants in livery, and my coat of arms is blazoned in full sight on the coach-Shanghai triumphant! Humble-Bee couchant!' "' A very significant and startling device in these days,' says the lady aside. ' The common breed of fowls did not crow loud enough to proclaim the ignominy of Humbugs, so some individual of the species imported these monsters, whose harsh voices will finish the business of putting them down, in a way they little thought of. But I 'll not forget to call out, No no!' "' I have got a library, full of Book covers, which look just as well as books, and I 11 give the key into your charge, so that nobody need to find out the sham.' "'No, no, no!' "He offers more inducements of the same sort, and pro- tests that he loves her dearly, but she knows well enough, it is not of the quality to suit her, so she takes no more notice of him, which is the best way to cure a grown-up or a small child of teazing, and at length he leaves her. "'Dear, dear!' she says, 'what a trouble! now I have got to paint this over again. What a daub! All the fault of that Ani-MAL! when will the species ever get wings and fly up into the third heaven, where we enjoy ourselves so much.' Too much men, five million times too much men! "Now, I dare-say my book will be criticised by all the aforesaid classes of men. One will be sure to pick out all the little faults in it the first thing, and then very carelessly   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   189 finish by saying, 'the spirit is very good, and it answers the purpose for which it was written.' Another will say, 'pretty well, but a lady in our place is going to write one, which will be the best that ever was.' Another, (I think this writer was afraid of being dull and prosy some time, so she made a great effort not to be. If she had put a few more goody words in it, it would be better, and in one in- stance she travesties Scripture very sacrilegiously, which I am shocked at.' Another, 'a very remarkable style! a-hem!' Still another, Pretty good! Some folks can do more with an old jackknife than others can with a whole chest of tools. I like her better, after all, than one of your vinegar-faced Presbyterians. I'll shake hands with her,'-- over the fence. Indeed, very condescending isn't he? And supposing I shouldn't give him a chance? I have never wanted for agreeable acquaintances. Too much men! "I suppose some people will say, that I have stolen their thunder and lightning, and have not given credit for it. Once for all then, wherever they see and hear it, let them consider themselves quoted. I don't pretend to be a genius, sent on a mission express from God's great white throne, with a parchment all ready folded in my hand, a pen stuck in my ear, and a bottle of ink hung by my side, but I have grown up little by little, by seizing hold of and assimilating to myself odds and ends of all creation, men, women and children included, so that I am a living walking Olla-pqdrida, with a touch of glory from the heavens above, which everybody might have, if they would go the right way to work to get it. And for these reasons, most people will like something in me and my composition. "Other women will come up, who will write better than I do, but for this I shall always be remembered as having given old lady Grundy the go-by, as no one ever has before. Not that I would be disrespectful to her. She is a great deal better than no guide, and until the world has made up   190   SOEE; Ol, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. its mind to take Jesus for its master, and God- for its Almighty Sovereign, it had better keep fast hold of her apron strings, else heaven save us from the men, men, MEN! "I haven't said anything about the Commons, because there was nothing to say, as they have no settled opinions or principles of their own. When they get some, I 'll attend to them. I think this chapter is nearly long enough. They begin to be afraid already, I shall make two volumes of my book, so that it won't sell. I have tried my best to make whom it most concerns at this present time believe, that I am going to be famous, but it is no go. I suppose it is because I am only a common, healthy, happy woman, and not like the pictures one sees in vignettes, of Religion, clasping her hands and making wry faces as if it was dreadfully hard, disagreeble work to be pious and thankful to the best and most beautiful Being in the universe; or of Literature, very tall and pale, with her head hanging one side in an affected way, holding out a book; or Art, with her brushes and pallet, looking up at the sky as if she was quite too nice to do anything in this lower sphere. All my trouble comes from my liking my liberty so well and choos- ing to be mistress of them, instead of letting them govern me. Heigh-ho! However, my publisher has got so far as to say-' Seeing it is you, Mrs. Pumpkin, I will issue two thousand copies of ' La V6rt6,' for the first edition. Two thousand copies! Why don't he say two hundred thou- sand, so as to have them ready when they are wanted! Well, I shall have this consolation. When he is in a dread- ful hurry-skurry, ordering paper, and answering every- body's demand of-' Have you got ' La V6rit' on hand?' ' Where is 'La Vdr;t6?'  Will you send on five thousand copies of' La V6rit6?' then I can say-' I told you so.' I think the most prudent way will be to wait till ' La V6rite' is fairly out before I venture to say here, Too much men! And so ends .my first chapter."   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   191 "That is the way the women are allowed to write in your country, is it?" said Hilda. "What a funny woman Mrs. Pumpkin must be!" "I expect they are concocting a second declaration of Independence with the niggers to back them. Whew! Strong-minded, too strong-minded! A fellow would like to know under which category he is to be classed in these new feminine times. Whew!" and Young America took a cigar from his pocket, but looking at Hilda, and seeing that she had her eye upon it, he put it back, and asked her to play a game of backgammon with him.   "All thoughts, all passions, all delights, Whatever stirs this mortal frame, All are but ministers of love, And feed his sacred flame."-CoUERIDGE. 2 I3l 3)A. had become completely reconciled to Young America by his bravery and disinterestedness and tender care of her in the shipwreck, so she put very little re- straint upon herself in her intercourse with him. Not that she would have allowed, even if he had, in the remotest degree, approached any indelicate liberties, but she was, as Mr. Pierson denominated her, a hoyden in this, her first release from the somewhat rigid restraints of a punctilious, conventional boarding-school teacher. One half hour she would be joking and prattling with Mr. Sarran, and delight- ing him by her half-filial, half-coquettish way of receiving his caresses; the next, she would be listening with great gusto, to some of Mr. Stephenson's extravaganzas of speech, and impelling him on to his utmost limits of hyperbole, by competing with him in his own favorite sphere. He never was jealous of the favors she bestowed on her elder admirer, because in his more expressive than elegant phraseology he considered him a goney, and thought that if, like an old worn-out war-horse as he was, he liked to have the little colt cavortin round him, he wouldn't be the one to put the bits in her mouth and rein her in. Give her full tether and she would come back the quicker. The fact was, he was in love with Hilda as far as he was (192)   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH.    193 capable of being, while his own deepest feelings had never been stirred by the revelation of the rich wealth of soul, which really lay under her sunny, glittering surface. He had appropriated her to himself about as coolly as he would a brilliant tulip, or cloth-of-gold rose, by offering the tender of a trifling coin. In Hilda, on the contrary, love was but just stepping his tiny, graceful foot on the threshold, and laying his thrilling hand ou the portal of her fresh, maiden being. If ever, for a moment, the joyous, unreflecting present gave way to a dreamy glance towards marriage, it was made rapturous through a sentiment which spoke to her of more than all the poetry she had ever yet read or conceived of, and of the pure;hope of an added elevation of character, through the sympathy and companionship of another's gifted spirit, impossible to be attained by her own solitary efforts. Therefore she was as little prepared for the rude shock she received one morning, as Stephenson was at the effect of his really honest expression of prefer- ence for her. Zoi was sitting at her writing, when Hilda rushed in and threw herself on the bed, in an agony of tears and sobs, and broken exclamations. 4What is the matter, darling!" No answer-butf a fiesh flood of grief. "O! Zoe, Zoe! what shall I do? what shall I dot O, oh!" '"What is the matter? you frighten me. What has ha p- pened? said she, folding her arms about her. "OZoei! if I had only minded you! Fool, fool that I am! what shall I dot" Zoei caught a glimpse of the truth. ' George Stephen; son has said something to trouble you, has he not?" Another gush of woe. "He can't have dared to be disrespectful to you! If he has, I will appeal to Mr. Lindsey at once.' "No, no, don't; and if you will never breathe it as long as you live in this world or the next, I'll tell you"-and in 17   194   ZOE; )OR, TI1E QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. a voice scarcely above a whisper, she said: "He asked me to marry him!" And Hilda lifted up her voice and wept. Zoe must be pardoned if she could not avoid laughing, though she controlled her risibles as much as possible. "Is it so very bad?" said she. "I thought young ladies liked to have offers, and to be married"-and her own eye, for a moment, grew dreamy, and her voice faltered & little. "But he asked with very much the tone and look, and manner that he did one of the ship's apprentices, the other day, to swap jack-knives with him!"And she burst out afresh, and covered her face in her pillow. Zoe laughed again to herself, then said: "Dear Hilda, I fear I have done wrong, in not trying to restrain you more; but I knew, as you said, that your heart was innocent, and I could not bear to dampen your joy. Then I have been happier than ever before myself, in what I hope is the fulfillment of the purpose of God's giving me my life, and my spirit has danced in harmony with yours, my own, as it never has in the past. It has seemed to me that He was at last granting me a childhood and youth in one; for, O Hilda! I am old, old, measured as the harsh world does not stop to measure in its superficial gradua- tion. So how could I mark so sharply, if your gladness was leading you into danger, when it was but the expres- sion of my deep, still happiness, which has for its source no earthly fountain, and looks for its fruition towards no sea of this life, however blue and bright-tinted it may be? But now I see that even in our most harmless pleasures and purest delights, there must be some reserve, else we over- leap the bounds which our Father kindly plants around us. He does it, that when we chafe and grow weary of re- straint, we may look yearningly upward to the blue sky, whose unfathomable depths speak to us of the infinity of bliss beyond it. That shall be ours, if we meekly garner lip some of our brightness and wealth of feeling and affec-   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    196 tion, as seed to sow in the glorious future, where no rude foot shall tread, or rough tornado bend low its flowering." "Dear Zoe, you always do me good, and I will stay with you, and then I slall be safe. I have books to read, which my friends gave me, and there is my drawing and embroid- ery; and I want to translate the beautiful German poem Mrs. Liebenhoff gave me, into English, so I will seat my- self by this window. I won't hinder you in your work." Mr. Lindsey was sitting with Emma and Meta Pierson in the parlor, and listening to their account of their visit to Mr. and Mrs. Morgan. They described their impressions of Jamaica life from the glimpse which they had of it, and spoke warmly of the hospitality shown them, and admir- ingly of the beauty of the youthful wife of Santa Anna. "She has the true Southern eye," said Meta; " so fill of liquid softness, and yet there is a latent fire slumbering in its depths." "Have you observed Miss Carlan's eye?" said Mr. Lindsey. "Not particularly," said Emma. "I wish you would do so? it is so full of soul, which is such a characteristic of the African face." "The negroes look very much alike to me," said Emma. "I never used to be able to distinguish them; now I can, of course, since I have seen so many. Miss Carlan is not a negress, to be sure, but she has a decided taint of her race in her person." "She seems a very quiet, thoughtful little body," said Meta. "And for those qualities you would like her," said Mr. Lindsey. "'You do not appreciate those two young per- sons, nor Young America either!" He paused, and then said, "I wish it were the custom to have broader views and sympathies. Socity; in that case, would get along much better than it does now." "I don't pretend to be broad, I own," said Meta. "I   196   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. have my dear friends and associates, and try to think kindly of the world in general. Then, as an artistic pleasure, I like to go where I can see the common people, for human nature in them acts out so spontaneously, and if there is a remarkable specimen of any kind, I take it for a study, and often get a great deal of amusement from it." , Yes, and if you would do yourself justice, you would say, too, 'I find satisfaction;in sharing the bounties of my lot with the poor and suffering among them;' and I know you always gain the love of those you benefit. But you don't like to give up the distinctive, artificial lines which divide the different classes." "No, I can't say that I do." "In our own country," said Emma," there are very few barriers dividing different circles. I do not believe in the common distinctions, caused by wealth or rank, but in order to prevent the encroachment of the vulgar and ill- bred, one must by the power of character, of attainments, and of good manners, keep intruders at a distance." "I agree most heartily to your idea in part. One has a right, indeed, it is a spontaneous instinct of a pure and delicate nature, to fold itself up, as it were, within its natural defenses so as to guard itself from defilement. But herein we disagree. You would make the reserve, the exclusion of yourselves the rule of life, whereas I, having more knowledge of, more confidence in, and more hope of human nature would make it the exception. I think one great means of raising the tone of life in our country is by a more general mingling of the different classes." "I do not. In our village, for instance, society has always been excellent, you know. It is because a',few high-toned individuals have not only by their positive bene- ficial influence helped to make it so, but also because they have had the force of character sufficient to exclude infe- rior elements." C I disagree with you. Sects, cliques, and coteries im-   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    197 poverish and vulgarize individual life and character no less than the community at large, physically, intellectually, morally, and spiritually. Human nature is very grasping and capricious in its demands. If denied the legitimate connections which God allows it, by making of one blood all the nations and families of the earth, you will see the bitter fiuit, in the end, in the shriveled, deformed, diseased body, the narrow, one-sided, mean type of mind, and still meaner, more debased and groveling character." "How can one endure the disgust, consequent upon mingling with the masses on any terms of equality? .Society would lose all its charms for me," said Emma. 1"On the contrary, a broad outlook upon humanity, gene- rous sympathies, a quick discernment of the best points of character, an ever-living appreciation of the worth of our common nature, would enlarge your enjoyment beyond bounds. For you would then discover how much pure gold was on every side of you, which you have looked upon as only the baser metals. Life would have new charms for you. It would give you a sense of freedom you have never felt, and afford you an insight into the happi- ness and extended sympathies of the glorified state."' "I have a letter from Mrs. Lindsey here, and I will read an extract from it to the point, if you would-like." "By all means," said both of them. It was as follows: "As I look upon and mingle in social life in this new city, more and moic do I feel the necessity of the saving power of the religion of Jesus being presented with greater vividness and in a more thrilling way than any man, however high-toned and faithful, can present it. The masculine element, by which I mean coarse might, physi- cal and intellectual strength, has all along so predomi- nated, that men hardly begin to be cognizant of the mighty spiritual power which underlies Christianity. It has ever been taken for granted by the majority that these were   198   ZOE; OK, TIlE (tUADROON'S TRIUMPH. always to hold precedence. But it is not so. The femi- nine element, whose crowning glory is spirituality, is only gathering its gentle forces, to dissipate gradually, like the morning sun's rays, the threatening clouds which now envelop the cohntry. If men do not see this, if they do not read the signs of the new times, already dawning thlrough its subtle power, they would believe it no more, if it were proclaimed from the housetops. But there are women who know this, who have waded through their ' slough of despond,' have greeted with trembling fear and joy the flickering light upon its borders, and have found it no will- o'-the-wisp. They have trodden for long, to their own comprehension, on an equal footing with men in spheres of influence and command, smiling when forced to endure the grave discussions of philosophers, statesmen, and divines, who are too dull to see, or too proud to acknow- ledge their significance, but choose to wail at the incom- petency of their worn-out weapons of defense against error and wrong, and still rely on their own weak inven- tions for enforcing the truth. "There is an intelligence among such women little dreamed of, for it is more secret than Freemasonry, and more sure than Knownothingism. They come not abroad to proclaim their freedom, they spend not their strength in denunciations, they waste but few words with each other, but they know their own, and 'gaze with unblenchina eye upon the future, in which they shall enroll themselves for a victory, gained without battle, and an onward march in which they need no impulse but their own invincible trust in the all-conquiering spirit of their glorified Master. "Of this regiment will be many whom the world calls not worthy, who, from some pique and injustice, or, it may be for some fault have been tabooed from society, but who, in the solitude of their own souls, with their God for wit- ness and help, have struggled ep from one height to another, until, in the new order of things, they will be seen   ZOE; OtR, TlHE QUADROON'S TRIUMPII.  199 far aloft in the upper sunlight, while those who banished them with Pharisaical haughtiness, will, like Zobeide, look up dazzled and amazed at the winged flight of what they trampled upon as a creeping serpent. Birth, rank, fortune, elegance, genius, intellect, beauty have been the watch- words to band society together in the past, but in the future, the soul is to bear sway. He or she who is willing to give up everything earthly to save, enrich and enlighten his or her own, and the soul of the world, will need no other passport to enter into all its privileges and joys." At this moment, .dinner was announced. The party as- sembled, and there was no more said upon the subject. But Mr. Lindsey observed that both pairs of the young people were gradually approaching each other, and when the fruit was brought in, the mutual enjoyment of the in- comparable Jamaica oranges seemed to complete the sun- dering of the barrier which divided them. Emma, who was seated near Hilda, was evidently pleased to find her much more than a hoyden--an intelligent, high-principled young lady, while Meta and Zoe seemed gratified that their tastes squared so well in Literature and Art. Mr. Pierson was charming through his elegance and versatility. Mr. Sarran was made happy by his favorite's interest in him, though more subdued in its expression than before, while even Mr. Chichester, though, in his long grace he spoke of them all as lost and ruined souls, who deserved nothing but the wrath of God, yet brightened up somewhat through the urbanity of Mr. Lindsey, and, as Hilda said, "enjoyed his dinner as much as any of them, notwithstand- ing their threatened doom." He even got as far as, in the first place, to feel very sorry that such an amiable man as Mr. Lindsey should be eternally lost, and afterwards to conclude that he would not certainly be suffered to die a Unitarian, and retired, that he might pray in the secret of his chamber, that Godlwould let him see his way clear   200   ZOE; OR, THE Q1IADItOON'S TRIUMPH. to become a Calvinist of the good, old-fashioned type of the Assembly's Catechism. As for Young America, it was very evident to him, that his star was in its declination. There was no mistake now, in Hilda's serious wish to avoid him. Emma and Meta had never permitted his advances, indeed he had avoided them and their brother, no less than they him. Zoe knew well enough that he was polite to her, simply on Hilda's account; so when she saw him dejected and forsaken, she did not, as she otherwise would have done, enter into free and easy conversation with him. Thus it continued for several days. There was a grow- ing intimacy between the other young people, but he was entirely excluded. Mr. Lindsey, of course, was even more than usually social with him. He did not under- stand exactly the present state of things, but saw that something was wrong between him and Hilda. But it gave him an opportunity to see him in a different light from heretofore, which increased his respect and interest in him. He found him fill of information, judicious in his opinions upon society and life, and reformatory and humanitarian in his tendencies. All that he seemed to need, was a firm and rational Christian faith, whose principles were already his Iadmiration; and the softening, refining influence of feminine society, of which he had- been stinted for many years. Hilda said nothing of him even to Zoei. The latter re- joiced at the least indication in tier friend of self-reliance of soul. Of this quality in action, she had no lack, but it had been her disposition as soon as she was in hailing dis- tance of a thought or a feeling to report it to some one- thereby preventing her nature growing in depth in propor-. tion to other directions. One day, they were sitting in the common parlor, de- voted to their party. Hilda and Emma were playing chess. /   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    201 Zoe was translating some favorite German poetry for Meta to enjoy with her. Mr. Pierson was alternately listening to them, and attending to the game, hardly knowing which fair competitor to aid; for he had of late, found that Hilda was both handsome and agreeable, while Young America was walking in and out of the room, talking with Mr. Lindsey, and eyeing askance their proceedings. It boded no good to him, to see Mr. Pierson so attentive to Hilda as he had been of late, and, though she conducted towards him with great dignity, yet he knew his own defi- ciencies too well not to fear the effect which the assiduities of a handsome, elegant, highly educated man of refined principles, tastes and sentiments might have upon her. So, while there was increasing sunshine and laughter in the group before-mentioned, there was a very threatening storm in the west. It growled and thundered under the dark cloud, settling over Young America's brow, and only required a conductor of the slightest texture, from the op- posite point of the compass, to bring out an electric explosion. This was soon furnished. "So the women are going to take the ascendency in the United States, are they, Mr. Lindsey?" said Mr. Pierson, rising from his stooping position over the young ladies' chess-board. "i Such seem to be the signs of the times." "A   pretty kingdom we shall have then," grumbled Young America. '"A   chance world,' where a fellow won't know whether next minute he'll be standing on his head or heels." No notice was taken of this. "I hope the sovereigns will condescend to choose gentle- men for their prime ministers," said Mr. Pierson. "Queen bees must always have drones in the hive." Mr. Pierson straightened up at this, and looked very dig- nified.   202   ZVOE; OK, THE QUADROON'S TR1UMPII. "I am curious to know precisely in what form they will announce their decrees." "Burst out crying, I s'pose, if a fellow asks them a simple favor." Mr. Pierson gave him a withering look. "I wonder which of them will be next President?" "The greatest flirt that comes handy," said Stephenson. Perhaps he did not intend it, but his head, as he uttered this rude speech, very evidently inclined towards the young ladies of Mr. Pierson's party. "What is that, sir? repeat that again, if you dar!e. i The greatest flirt thereabouts." Then looking round the room, he provokingly added, L If the coat suits any one, she is welcome to it." "'You are an insolent-dog"--was so nearly uttered, that Stephenson caught the half sound of it, which Mr. Pierson changed to ' fellow!' i Do!'" said Stephenson, "I thought I did hear a little puppy bark just now." "Do you think I am going to have these ladies insulted, sir; or myself either?" Stephenson was provokingly cool. His wrath had sub- sided just in proportion to Mr. Pierson's rising. He walked to the window, looked out, and remarked to Mr. Lindsey, that it was unusually warm. He guessed the thermometer must be up to 90. "You shall account to me for this, sir," said Mr. Pier- son. "You have insulted my sisters." Mr. Lindsey rose to speak. "I haven't insulted them," said Stephenson. "My sisters shall receive no insult, which I have power to resent." "I haven't insulted them. You lie if you say solb said Young America. This was the climax. The cloud burst. Mr. Pierson   ZOE; OR, THlE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.  208 was high-spirited, of quick temper, though in his inter- course with those whom he respected, very self-restrained, and with a keen sense of honor. Anything which reflected upon that or his truth fired him at once, and when roused to the point of resentment, he blenched at no consequences in the fulfillment of what he considered its laws. He turned pale, and a settled purpose spoke from every lineament of his face. His sisters were in agony, for they knew him well. Mr. Lindsey tried to mediate, but he was not heeded. His young friend retired to hi. chamber, and in a few minutes Stephenson received a note from him containing a challenge to fight a duel. He accepted it at once, and the little party broke up in confusion and grief, each to act as he or she best might, in these unforeseen circumstances. Mr. Lindsey first went to Horace and had a long conver- sation with him, the close of which was this remark: "I confess that my conduct is at variance with the Christian standard, and that your principles are abstractly true. I honor them and the life you and Mrs. Lindsey are enabled to lead by their means. But I am a man in the midst of worldly men. I should lose my character, and by that means my influence for good should I rest ignobly with this stain upon my name. Nothing but an acknowledgment from Stephenson of its falsity would satisfy me. I com- mend my sisters to your care if I fall. You know how dear we are to each other, but I should love them less were they willing that I should live at the expense of honor. 'I thank you, for your friendship, and feel confident that it will never fail them." A gleam of hope came into Mr. Lindsey's mind when an apology from Mr. Stephenson was spoken of, as an anti- dote for Mr. Pierson's injured feelings. He went irnme- diately to him. He was standing upon the veranda which commanded a view of one of the ever-verdant mountains of Jamaica, his eye resting upon a white cluster of buildings   204   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. upon its side, where a troop of English soldiers were stationed, to be away from the sickly heats and malaria of the town. A lignum-vits tree stretched one of its branches athwart its pillars, and he had plucked one of its lovely blue blossoms, but was crumpling it up in his hands, appa- rently without consciousness of what he was doing. He turned as Mr. Lindsey approached him and showed the traces of tears upon his cheeks. He brushed them away indignantly and straightened himself up to his full height. 4"My friend," said Mr. Lindsey, " though our acquaint- ance is short, I do not miscalculate your generosity of character in appealing to it as I am about to do. I come from Mr. Pierson. I find him inflexible and-. ' If he wants to be made mince-meat of he can be. I never have missed my mark when I shot a coon. I have brought the tip of his ear down many a time.- I guess a diamond pin or a seal ring will be as good a target." "' Can you talk thus coolly and boastfully of taking the life of a fellow-being; a high-toned and truthful man; the dependence of his orphan sisters; the--A "; I dont want to fight with him, I say. Mr. Lindsey, the quarrel is of his own seeking. The challenge is his own, and do you think I am afraid of a rifle? I haven't been among the Indians for nothing. I 'l fight if he wants me to, but le has got to take the consequences, that is all. It isn't my fault." "Yes, my friend, it is your fault. You were the first offender." "How, pray?" "By speaking in the very tantalizing way that you did of him and the young ladies." "I have nothing to do with any young ladies of his. I was not thinking of his sisters. And I should like to know who is the oldest acquaintance of Miss Strophel, he or I?" "Does your length of acquaintance authorize you to I !'   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   205 fling rude remarks at her? Is that the way you show your interest in her?" "Iow can a fellow help being mad when he is sent to Coventry just at the minute he thought he was on the high road to kingdom come?" "I see where the difficulty lies. I have been something of a student of human nature. Supposing I could say a word to make you feel that your sentence of perpetual banishment to that comfortless place was not entirely fixed upon?" Stephenson started and look him full in the face. "I had occasion to pass Miss Strophel's door and I thought I heard indications, which, if I were a young man, would save me from utter despair." "God bless you--if I thought so-but it is too late, too late!" and he threw back his hat and wiped the perspiration from his brow. Mr. Lindsey paused a moment. "I came," said he, "as I had no success in changing my friend's determination, for he says, that without an acknowledgment on your part, he will never withdraw his challenge, to appeal to your magnanimity, by proposing that you should render what is justly your duty." "Do you think so?" said he, brightening up.  "I have no objection to eat my words, if they are 'of the sort to choke him so. I have no quarrel with him. I never thought of his sisters. The fact is, Mr. Lindsey, I was jealous and angry with Hilda, and I suppose, I whipped her too hard over the others' backs for their liking." "You certainly owe Miss Strophel an apology. Whip- ping young ladies, in person or by proxy, is not the most chivalrous way, to say the least, to treat the sex, much less gain their favor."' "Well, the fact is, I see I am a regular brute, and no mistake. I have been beaten about, most of my life, among rude boys in college, in the woods, on the Rocky Moun-   206   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. tains, in hotels, and circuiting round in a wild country, so that I am not more than half-civilized. I knew Hilda when she was a little, wild, free girl. I always threw out what- ever came into my head and she would laugh at it, and say that, when she grew up, she- would come West with me and live on a bluff. Of course, I thought then, it was childish nonsense, but I have never forgotten it. I have lain awake many a night in my buffalo robe, on the prairie, thinking of her, and when I met her, it seemed to me, what our minister would call ' a special Providence.' I don't believe in such myself, and told him once, when he kept dinging the doctrine into me, that a special Provi- dence had never got out west of the Alleghanies. But, as I was saying, I thought everything would go smooth between us; yet, somehow, I haven't been able to suit her, when I thought I was on the lightning-train towards suiting myself, at any rate." Mr. Lindsey laughed. "Women are strange beings, I own. I can't say I quite understand all that they are up to, though I have been married nearly twenty years. But I believe it is quite as much our fault as theirs, or, as my wife would say, out want of thorough development. Men, in these days, are too exclusively practical, intellectual, coarse, and common-place, while the soul, with all its feel- ings, affections, and sentiments, its soaring fancies, burning imagination, and religious aspirations, is left in abeyance. In a true woman, this is a vast realm; but if they live in that, and we in our cold kingdom of abstract thought ant prosy world of facts, why, of course, we are constantly iln danger of losing acquaintanceship altogether, or else of meeting at a great disadvantage. I am learning new les- sons every day, and I hope you will profit by your expe- riences also. But come, we forget that Psyche is on the tenter-hooks, this very moment." Mr. Stephenson, accompanied by Mr. Lindsey, went, in search of Mr. Pierson, and found him in his sisters' room.   ZOE; OR, THIE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI.  207 Emma was clinging to him, uttering entreaties mingled with expressions of despair. Meta was sitting like a statue tipped from its pedestal, and finding on his shoulder the support for the classic head which would fall to the dust if he did. Horace, with pale face and compressed lips which told his agony, was trying to soothe them. Mr. Lindsey tapped at the door, which was ajar, and then opened it. Stephenson walked straight up to Mr. Pierson. "I had no thought of insulting you, or your sisters, or- anybody else, but if I was impudent, I beg your pardon. I am a rough fellow at best, but my bark is worse than my bite. Come, shake hands and let us be friends." Mr. Pierson forgot his imperturbableness that had so provoked Young America's criticism, shook hands warmly, and responded heartily to his cordial greeting. Emma's eyes flashed diamond-rays, while she even clasped Ste- phenson's arm with both her own. Meta looked round bewildered at first, but recovered her wits, and sat upright with both hands raised and mouth partly open, but joined in the laugh excited by Young America's ending the scene, as he found his eyes growing inconveniently dim, with "Well, it is lucky, after all, I didn't have to fight, for the 'Doctor,' as I call my rifle, since it always -lets blood, is out of order, I am afraid, and'if I had disgraced myself by a bad shot, the coons would have hissed me next time I went into the woods, and accused me of turning Homeopa- thist, which don't do up our way. We go the whole figure in medicine and surgery up there, and take quinine so, as a regular dose, that we ring the church bell at noon for everybody to pitch into it." Hilda and Zoe were in the next room, and overheard all this conversation. Zoe begged her friend neither to go crazy, nor to eat her up entirely with her vehement caresses. Hilda kept aloof, knowing very well where her peculiar weakness lay. Zoe went to the rejoicing, and her more subdued happiness, at thile termination   208   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. of the trouble, was not thought out of place by any one of them. Stephenson looked repeatedly towards the door for an- other face, but as it did not appear, he went out seemingly disappointed. He need not be criticised too closely, to ascertain how much his renewed hope in that direction influenced him in this confession. That was in perfect harmony with his frank, generous nature; and as God is so careful of our virtue and true happiness as to grant us unnumbered props to sustain it, and impelling forces to seek after it, it would be but the part of ingratitude not to avail ourselves of them. Our only care should be to have the central principle of our actions one of eternal reference to Him. After seeing most of the objects of interest in Kingston, and bidding adieu to the few acquaintances they had made, they left in the Thames, much to Zo's satisfaction, as she was impatient to get home.   "Society requires, like mother earth herself, not one, but several strata for its perfection; not the masculine granite, or the Saxon sandstone alone, but fruitful limestones and clays of dark color, in which to grow her flowers and fruits."-- circumstance which at first threatened to be so un- toward, through the timely mediation of Mr. Lindsey, and the proper acknowledgment of Mr. Stephenson, proved the means of uniting the different elements of the two parties in the greatest harmony. The good effects of the recon- ciliation were seen on all sides. Mr. Pierson and his sis- ters unbent from their dignified reserve, and unfolded their richly-stored minds, as a contribution for the general pleas- ure. Young America, received on the footing his intrinsic merits deserved, and seeing hope for himself in Hilda's eye, though she kept at a  distance from him, laid aside some of his peculiarities, and retained only those which served to spice their interviews, and give them the zest so grateful at any time, but especially on board ship. They'were sitting together, looking at the receding city, when Stephenson said, with one of his expressive Whews P ' Glad am I to get out of that old tumble-down town. I was afraid to breathe a full breath while in it, lest it should fall about my  head and ears." "Emancipation has been the death of the Island?" said Mr. Pierson., - "I onzider it the firsf symptom of reviving life," said Mr. Lindsey.  ' The system of slavery had eaten oult all   210   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. its heart and soundness; and the freedom given the blacks, but revealed the rottenness of its condition. Now there is some hope, after it has rested from its former drainage and bad system of management every way, that it will eventu- ally revive." Then followed a long discussion between the gentlemen upon slavery in the abstract, no less than slavery in Ja- maica. The young ladies grew weary of the discussion, and retired; and at length Mr. Lindsey and Stephenson were left alone. Said the latter: "The blacks never have proved that they possess much mind or force of character, excepting a single one here and there."' "And he should be regarded as indicative of the capa- bilities of the race. When you paint a portrait, you con- sider that you have a right to catch the very best expres- sion you can get, the idealized look, else you disappoint the individual and his friends. So it is with these people. Look at those branches of trees floating in the sea, do they not surely indicate the vicinity of. land? So, if one Afri- can has manifested genius, to me, he is but a waif cast providentially upon the shore of civilization to guide to a full and tropical sea of mind-now flowing smoothly, fait ned by the gentle breath of the trade-winds-now rushing with hurricane-force to its object-now imaging upon its surface the variegated cloud-tints, or opening its bosom so lovingly to the sun, that it colors the sea-plants below with its intensest dye, so that they are reflected to the eye of the beholder. My friend, we speak of genius, talent, as dis- tinctive in gifted specimens of the race. But each of God's children comes from His hand with the germ of im- mortal powers, differing, it is true, in combination and char- acter, so as to make up a beautiful variety. All types of human nature are necessary to the perfect development of one, not in any subsidiary sense, but through a beautiful equality of influence. Let us not be so infidel. as to suppose   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   2" that so large a part of humanity as the African race is left out of his category of high and beautiful uses, but accept the indications appearing on every hand, that they are to be a no less mighty, than mild and Christian influence in uprising humanity." "But their skin is the sticking point with me. Now, confess, Mr. Lindsey, have you really got rid of all preju- dice against color?" "What color do you mean? There are several hues imposed upon the human face divine, which I not only pre-judge unfavorably, but my after judgment is entirely opposed to, also. "One is the ruby color of the drunkard; another is the chalky and green color of the sensualist; another is the light-yellow, or cadaverous blue color of the fashionable young lady, who dissipates, lies abed late, and whines at the musquito perplexities of life, without trying to raise her- self above them. Another is the mottled saffron and brown color of those who neglect bathing, exercise, and proper observance of the laws of health; to say nothing of the pink and powder'- tints dashed on to hide, in the quickest, though not surest way, the ugliness of these colors. And, my friend, you must excuse me, if I say that one tint very offensive to me, is the dirty snuff-color superinduced upon the sacred person of the image of the Most High by the use of tobacco!" Stephenson resorted to his hair, as was his custom when hie had pnot a ready answer, "Then amalgamation is a theory of yours, I suppose?" "I profess to have no tfhoral upon the subject," said Mr. Lindsey "I leave theories to you men of the world. 1, a student, an observer and a worker on the sphere of our deepest nature, deal withfacts; and I know, that from the marriage of the whites with the Africans, has sprung up a rape in our rqidst, who, by the development, in every direc- tion, required by physical, inthectual and spiritual laws,   212   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. are equal to the duties of a complete manhood and woman- hood. This class is, in the future, to be a power, no less mighty than subtle, to help carry on our country to its mag- nificent destiny." "Marriage! I did not know that there had been many marriages between the blacks and whites." "Not know it? Woe, woe be to this generation, who, seeing with their eyes, perceive not, hearing, hear not, neither understand. Not know it? It is because men live in slavish obedience to the mere letter of the Word, in Scripture, in Nature and in life, and are dead to their saving, inspiring spirit. Not know, that if an immortal spirit has descended from on high, it is the fruit of mar- riage, though no priest may have pronounced the bans nor ritual joined the hands, nor human laws proclaimed its sanction! Young man, God has another mode of judgment than that of sensual, mammon-ridden mortals, who think to go quits, though by the wicked indulgence of their beastly appetites they may tread the souls of their victims down, deep in the quagmire of wretchedness and sin, while the destroyer may ride on the popular will to the very acme of power and applause. The electric potency may be long in gathering, the lightning may restrain its sheeted flash or its forked finger, even until the earth fills up the measure of its preparedness, but, as surely as Nature never collects its forces but to scatter them abroad, so surely will the bolt be borne to its destined goal on the lines of conductors set up for it. In like manner, will the thunder and lightning of God's moral laws, for a time violated with impunity, just as surely and by just as natural means be sped to the points which the ignorant and disobedient have sharpened and multiplied to invite their approach. It will do its work as speedily, as surely as the first, and when the rude, but healthful conflict of the elements is over, then will be seen overturned and dismantled, the kingly oaks of the forest; while the violet and anemone look up with clearer eyes to   ZOE; OR, T1.: QJUAkDROON'S TRIUMP'I. 21T I the blue heavens, and glorify their Preserver by blooming with a purer and more beautiful sheen than before. That time is fast approaching. Let the unprepared quake and turn from the evil of their ways, before it be too late." "That is Unitarian preaching, is it? I have had hell-fire thrown at me by the Calvinists most of my life, and some- how it isn't of the quality to singe a hair of my head; but I feel scorched by the flames you conjure up, from the sole of my foot to the top of my crown." Mr. Lindsey threw a penetrating glance at his com- panion. "Not that I am guilty in the way you may suspect," said Stephenson. ' No, thank heaven, if my mother were alive now I could lay my head against her bosom, as pure of that sin as when I slept a babe in her arms. I do not owe this exemption from a vice which I can tell you, sir, is rampant in the land, so much to principle as to a deli- cacy, which, rude as I may seem, was implanted in me by the precepts and example of my saintly parent. But I have always despised the niggers, and I begin to see that I may have been putting the boot on the wrong leg. Seri- ously, though, as to their color!" "Well, then, seriously. I have long ago ceased to be prejudiced against any hue of the skin, which is normal, which God, through a true obedience to his laws, shows is best adapted to the purposes of a man's condition and country." "Should you be willing to have your daughter marry a nigger?" "I know of no negro to whom I should be willing to in- trust her, any more than to many an Irishman, German, or even to you, my friend, American though you are. Nay, start not. I would have my daughter marry one of such high tone of mind and character, and with such pure habits that I should know that, not only no dark cloud would ever come across the fulfillment of her maideil   2,14   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. dreams, but that her husband would be the priest appointed to aid her in her perpetual ministry at the altar of worship, which her whole life, in its every varied scene, should be." Young America looked serious then, shook his head, and said, "She may, perhaps, find such a rare jewel for a husband, but if I were her father I should be dreadfully- afraid she would die an old maid." "Let her, then, as I know that she can be very happy in a life of single blessedness. For she has been taught that happiness is not a thing of circumstance chiefly, hut the result of a true development of soul, more especially to be looked for by her in the future world. More especially still is her marriage indifferent to me as I happen to have no daughter but ideal ones, which, in these free times, when children are born, are married, and die with- out leave or license from those who should be their guard- ians, are quite as safe and more obedient to me than any tangible ones." "Ha, ha, ha!"Young America burst out. '"I began to think that if all the girls that I know, have set their stand- ard as high as you have, I might as well as not, say it was a gone case with me, for I shall never get up to that point." "Why not, my friend? Why should man forever grope about in swaddling clothes and go muling and puling through this glorious world, instead of proving himself its lord, the director of its forces, and, through a harmonious correspondence with it, be the recipient of its best blessings?" Young America was thoughtful for a few moments, then said: "Mr. Lindsey, I am not used to talking sentiment, or if I happen to have any deep feelings, laying them open to the world. But I feel impelled to say to you, that I have always felt a want, a void which I never understood. I have thought it was the love of adventure, which drives me from one part of the country to the other, and never   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    215 allows me to be at rest anywhere. But I begin to think it sticks so close to me, that going to South America, or getting rich, or being a great lawyer, or artist, or--or get- ting married even, will not free me from it. I am pretty fast making up my, mind that the want is in my own soul, and if that is about right, other things will come along well enough as a fellow happens to need." "That is it, friend, only be in right relations with God, nature, and humanity, through a full and Christian faith and the work of life is done. What do I say? It is but just begun on its truest, most blissful and glorious condi- tions. By means of that, existence is no longer a scene of disheartenment, inconsolable sorrow, and a constant, losing conflict with the powers of evil, but a high-school to prepare us to enjoy, to the best advantage, the future play-time of our being, when, through the complete disci- pline of our powers, the most active service in accordance with their peculiar character, will be a perpetual hymn of praise to the Most High." Zoei had now completed her Tale, for she simply had to pen it upon paper from a full and glowing, yet serene and joyful mind.  What to do with it now was the question. Hilda proposed that she should show it to Mr. Lindsey, and if he thought it worthy of publication, he would offer to take it to America and issue it from thence. To Zoe, who had written it, as she thought, by special inspiration, the bare idea of its being declined or disapproved of seemed impossible. It was not her work so much as God's, whQ had simply used her as an instrument, through the force of her natural powers and attainments, aided by his Spirit ever given to the trustful and asking soul. How could it then be rejected? She had an earnest in her own nature, living and burning in every fibre and nerve, that simple as it was, it still would be seen to be the condensa- tion of God's highest truth to the ages, and that the nations, taking their departure from that point, would iammediately   216   ZOE; Olt, THE QUADROONS,- TRIUMPH.     '  ;, advance with rapid strides to perfection. Hence, she was- not prepared for the very subduid judgment of Mr. ;Lind- sey concerning it. Its truths -were familiar to him, and he recognized not the significance pf 'Zoe's compilation of them. He saw not, in her quiet, passive features and mien, an evidence, which God vouchsafes to the earnest soul, that, if it consecrates itself to any work, vast and dif- ficult though it may be, if its accomplishment is longed, toiled for, and patiently trusted in and waited for, it surely will be granted. Zoe" lived in the future, in Christ's glori- fied reign. She asked for no worldly honor nor wealth to spend profusely upon herself. She only saw and wished for the time when, through the means acquired by the publication of her book, she could carry out the completion of Christian reform, but begun by the promulgation of its truths. It lay upon the table one day, for she cared not who saw it now, and Emma and Meta Pierson and Young America took it up. The young ladies turned it over and thought it prosy and deficient as a work of art, and Ste- phenson said he thought she used the word' soul,f and two or three others of the like import, too often. It was well enough, but if it was published it would never set the Ohio a-blaze, or the fame of it be hung out from the highest steeple. Zoe happened to overhear their criticism as she passed through the saloon, though she neither revealed by word or sign that she did so. The ship Thames was sailing gradually on its way, stop- ping at each island to deliver the mails. When off Hayti, there were some sneering remarks by the American passengers at the late disturbances on the island, and the sanguinary proceedings of the full blacks towards the colored people, and it was spoken of as an evidence of their incapacity to organize and carry on a. government themselves. Mr. Lindsey spoke of France as an instance of a Cau.   ZOBE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   2i7 casian- people finding that same difficulty in their attempts at a:perfect republican state, and spoke of the miserable condition of Europe generally in bothhir internal and external relations.. Then,' why should this country, so lately emerged from slavery, be judged more severely than the more forceful and'pritCical nations of Europe?? The party looked forward to being separated at St. Tho- mas. Mr, Lifndseyand his young friends would go on to Barbadoes, where they would -stay for a short time and then come back to Santa Cruz r. r Sarran and his young lady: charges would cross over to that island as soon as possible. Mr, Stephenson would :go:on to South America, sailing as far as Barbadoes :with Mr Lindsey's party., One- evening the passengers were enjoying the sunset from the deck, when gradually one after another: went below, leaving George Stephenson, Zoe, and Hilda' leaning over the guards, looking at the phosphorescent light, which rose and fell,:arid made perpetual motion by the rotation of the wheel. Zod was trying to recall all the scones of her childish voyage tot Denmark, by means of the shimmer it cast upon the waters. - She involuntarily parted a little from her ;companions in order to have no disturbance to the flow of her memory, and in the silence'of her own being to commune with the Infinite through this proof of the presence' of his spirit . Hilda on seeing that Zo had left her aide trose from her stooping position in which she was leaning over the guards and was on th/,: point of going below. ' Hilda," said Mr. -Stephenson, C; will. you always be afraid of me in the- future? Return me the confidence with which ,you, formerly treated me.. ,As: a. little, girl, I have always 'carried you, in the purest, part of my bhert. Do not let me go among rude and unprincipled ,men with- out the safeguard, which, thinking that you did not'despise me in your beauty and youth, would give me." "Despise you! O no, Mr. Stephenson! far from it. I 19   218   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONtS TRIUMPH. shall always remember my childish acquaintance with you, with great pleasure, and I shall certainly ever think very kindly of you in the future." 't And that is all, is it?" said Young America, giving his hat an involuntary thrust over his eyes. "Well, I know I don't deserve anything more, but--" Hilda was going. '"I must tell you what is on my mind, whether or no," said he, giving it a toss back, showing a face, in which love, bashfulness and bold determination were curiously mingled. * Hilda, I feel as if I had lived ten years in the last fortnight. I begin to believe in sudden conversions, and take back all I said against the Dr.'s saving grace. Even special providence, and the whole scheme of salva- tion, interpreted in Mr. Lindsey's broad, Christian way, I subscribe to, with all my heart; for I am a living instance of the working of them all. I think really, that I have met with a change now, and no mistake. You know I am a rough fellow at best, and am no more worthy of a wo- man's love-especially yours-than to have God's sun shine on me, as it does every day, but-but, if I thought I could ever gain it, Hilda, I would crawl on my hands and knees to Jericho!" -Hilda could not help smiling in the midst of her confusion-" or I could worship the ground you tread on, instead. May I hope that, some time or other, if it is not for a hundred years, I may make you happy in my shanty out West? Hilda had been growing, too, for the last ten days, and her ideas of love, though they might have lost some of their roseate hue and lavender scent, had not changed in their. desire for its fervency and strength, and she saw there was both in this characteristic offer of her childhood's play- mate, and now the lover of her youth. She did not accept it, finally, for, of course, she must consult with her parents first, and feel that her affection and hopes of the bright and dancing future were sanctioned by their consent. She   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    21 promised him, however, that if he would not urge her more, to let him accompany her to Santa Cruz now, he might return there on his way home. She did not forget to tell him before they parted, that "she should expect him to bring her the present he promised her, especially the streak-of-lightning wreath for her head-dress!" "Hilda," said Young America, "I never saw so perfect a man as Mr. Lindsey, in all my life. I could kiss the print of his footsteps. He is the only harmoniously devel- oped man I could ever tolerate; for I used to think they must, as a matter of course, be so smooth as to be stupid. But he is the farthest removed from that. He is a saint and Christian of the first water-and do you know that it was he that gave me the first glimpse of hope, when I was stuck in the snow-bank on the under-ground railroad, as I call those dark days not long back, that I might, possibly, some time or other, see daylight again? I wish I was rich, and wouldn't I give him a farm, and build a church for him, and give him three thousand dollars salary a-year? Nothing is good enough for him-that is a fact!" Zod rejoiced in Hilda's joy, and Stephenson's last preju- dice against her race evaporated, when she shook him warmly by the hand, and told him that if she did not wish so sincerely for Hilda's happiness, she should not congra- tulate him; that she had full cause to know a tomber friend than she, never breathed; and that he had but?0st begun to know the priceless worth of the jewel he had won. To all of this, he most cordially assented, and wondered that he had never before thought Zoe very pretty, as he certainly found her now. Young America had hardly ceased to be jealous of Mr. Pierson, though there was friendliness between them. But he knew well how dangerous is the comparison between elegance on one hand, and awkwardness on the other, and mentally resolved, as he saw him walking the deck the next day, to cultivate the graces more. He had scarcely  -220  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. yet come to the conviction that a pure and loving soul, whose highest aim is to do one's whole duty to God and man in the little, no less than the great affairs of life, is in a better school to learn a graceful and gentle demeanor than in any seminary, professing to teach those accomplish- ments by merely garnishing the externalsmanners. "Mr. Pierson is a -real good fellow" said he, " and I like him right well. He has been chosen Secretary of Legation to Chili,- it seems, and is going to cut across to that place from Santa Cruz as soon as he arrives with his sisters. Hthink he would make a first-rate minister, my- self. I hope he will get that office next." "And his sisters are so high-toned." "Yes, I know it. A little too much Boston stiffness 'and conceit about them; but one can't have everything, you know." "Mr. Lindsey says, he considers Boston the most ad- vanced city on the globe, if you look upon it in the light of its religion, its general intelligence, its high sense of the proper uses of money, its philanthropy, and--" "Yes,but the trouble is, it knows it all too well, and that more than half spoils it. However, among so many views as its ladies have, and so many notions as the men have, it is not to be wondered at that a little, self-conscious- ness should creep in with the rest. But I have no quarrel with them, Hilda, especially as you like them; so when I build my shanty, I 'l add a room on purpose for them, and I know of young fellows out in our diggins, real quality too, who would jump over the moon and toss up Venus as they would an India rubber ball to get acquainted with them! We 'll have them out there. As for Zo8, if kinadom-come don't claim her before I get polished up to the right Chris- tian tone, she shall come and live with us. And if any body dares so much as have the word color come into his head, I I11 knock him into the very heart of Africa. There he shall shell out the coppers and the knowledge too, and set   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPII.   22 such a first-rate example as a Christian missionary, that the real live niggers, and no mistake, there, shall crowd to the gates of heaven so fast, that Peter will have to let them in, and never think whether they would pass muster among the Calvinists or not! That's the way it is going to be, Hilda, in the future, especially if Young America gets the sove- reignty, as it ought to." "I shan't allow you to talk of sovereignty. I am a republican, you know." "I mean Mrs. Pumpkin's sovereignty of the Feminines, where every one is to do about right, or else be rowed up Salt River at once. All the States) prisons are to be. up there, and we ll see that they are properly ventilated, and if the keepers and other officers don't do their duty in pro- viding proper means for the reformation of the criminals, we 11 hang them on our big gallows up there, so high that they can see over the other side of the universe. That is the way, Hilda. Reform is the order of the day out West, That is the tune, and we 'll sing it till the Rocky Moun- tains burst out laughing so loud that the folks over the other side of the Pacific will have to join in it yVhether or no. So goes the world when Young America is engine- tender.'" They soon arrived off St. Thomas and were received into its pretty, sheltered harbor, and looked upon its red- tiled houses, set one above another upon its steep hill-side, making the town, as some one remarked, look like a colored lithograph. They all landed and passed the night at Bonelli's hotel. In the course of the evening Mr. Lindsey read to the com- pany the following lines written by his wife, upon the ' Steam Enginedl which he found in letters which had just come by a ship direct from New York.   ir Hurrah I hurrah I the waters o'er, The mountains steep decline, Time-space-have yielded to my power- The world the world is minel" CUTTER. THE STEAM ENGINE. A  shrill and shrieking sound comes echoing through these woods and hills at morning's dawn? It speaks to me of the might of our material life, of a civil state, gigan- tic in its energies, untiring in its " labor for the gain of gold, and set to the tune of a dominion over the rude powers of nature, undreamed 3hets and seers of older ages. Its rude blast h the air like a trumpet blown by Cyclops,                  L   zoE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    223 backed by every heathen divinity of the Pagan times. Jupiter is its name, fit cognomen for the engine whose food is fire, whose breath is boiling steam, whose race- course is the world throughout, its ministers every element known to the ancients, and its high-ptiest, to do its bidding, the shrewd intellect of the keen-sighted, forceful, daring hero of our century's civilization. "But hark! It gives a parting snort, as if scorning to be held in bondage. It snuffs the air and tries its power to be sure that, Samson-like, its strength has not been stolen in its sleeping. On, on it comes, faster and still faster, the rattling thunder of its wheels now mellowed by the shield of hill or wood, now sounding louder and still louder as it nears my vision. Thou genius, beautiful yet tremendous, of this age-which with Titan throes gave birth to thee! half war-horse and half eagle!-thou art the angel of the covenant made between man and nature, revealed and brought into familiar parlance with him by the laws of Science. Thy pillar of fire by night and cloud by day are the symbols to prove that heaven appointed thee to thy mission. Thou wilt lead on our hosts to a greater, more longed for, and richer inheritance than the promised land to those, who erst were guided by Jehovah. For, through thee, each continent shall open its stores of greater afflu- ence than Canaan offered. Not alone to a single people is the promise given, but every land through earth's remotest bounds shall, through thy aid, possess the Rich, the Good, the Fair, and the Beautiful of every tribe, and tongue, and nation. And thou shalt be the messenger to carry to the heathen the tidings of Christ glorified. "Ha! there thou art in all thy pride, and strength, and majesty! I greet thee with joyful awe, my bird of mystic form, and spirit-life, and power of double passage. I mar- vel at the sturdy meaning of thy machinery as it turns and turns, as if impelled by thought of the huge labor to be wrought, to finish the creation but begun by God, to be    '4   ZOE; OR, TIE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. completed by his children. Thy war-horse portion shall level the mountains, raise the valleys, scoop out the ledges to make a fitting pathway for thy eagle-mate to fly without impediment. Now she spreads her pinions, buoyed up by the dense air made palpable and visible by the frosty breath of Autumn. They stretch far hindward, reflecting brightly the rising sun's rays, then float into the clear ether and are welcomed to the bosom of the still atmosphere to be made for a time its own, and when replumed by subtle process, returned with added force and power again to thee. "Shall I dare to intrude into thy presence, Jupiter, and sue thee to act my servant to bear me to the city's whirl and strife? Yes, for though mighty, thou art docile as an infant to the mind which guides thee. Though thou art great, still greater is the force of the immortal intellect of thy priest and minister. Thus God appoints. "O  gloriously we speed through mount, ravine, and field, now dive into the tunnel dug for thee, now cross the bridge arched high above the flood, now skirt along the precipice, now speed through throngs of gaping villagers, who never tire of gazing upon thy lightning-train. My spirit blends with thine in wondrous unison, and fire and fancy, like a flame and flood, flow into my waiting soul as I feel thy electric thrill in every motion of thy potent being. Would I could consort more with thee, my Jupiter! For thou hintest to me of the time when, by a more ethe- real spirit than thine own propeller, I shall be borne from star to star, and be familiar with the vast spaces of the boundless universe. " But hark! a jog, a dragging motion and next a crash, crash upon crash, in horrible continuance, and then a plunge a hundred fathoms into the deep below. "O misery and perdition! Shriek upon shriek, groan upon groan, the dead and dying, the bereaved all huddled together with thy ruins in frightful, direful masses! How can'humanity bear the sight, the sound, the feeling of the   woe, woe of the mangled form and face divine, the bitter loss of near and dear by a fate so fearful; and last, not least, the pictured scene which, like a ghost, will haunt by night and day the memory of survivors! "What is the cause of this awful doom on every side of our wisest, best, bravest and loveliest? Does God frown on the workings of the intellect with which our demi-god is instinct? Does 'he condemn in threatening tones, and punish worse than the infant world conceived of, because the tree of knowledge has been seized upon and eaten daringly? "0 no! but this is his behest. Heed it, my countrymen! .an t Wnd ble wise; obey it Wai lt t oe e   -oj t' selyVes to the laws of nature, science, life, and your own souls. "There is a power above the intellect, greater than your most subtle skill and shrewdness, which should bear the sovereignty in the world in which God rules, in part, and gives in part into your keeping. It is his Holy Spirit granted to every one who knocks and asks, and opens his soul to gather of its fullness. The Holy Spirit! It will teach you to lay no rude and careless hand upon this sacred ark, freighted with the message of One God and the history of his righteous dealings to the nations. It will warn you to fashion it with true and honest purpose of the most precious of the matter lavished all around us, created for its special uses. It will cleanse your eye so as to de- tect each latent flaw, prophetic of destruction. It will give that careful conscience and tender moral sense to its priests and ministers, so that sooner than peril the lives placed by Providence at their disposal, they will cut off the hand, the foot, or pluck out the right eye and cast it from them. For what hell can be more awful to the awakened soul than that opening to him who, through selfish ease, or thirst of foolish fame, or paltry gain heaps up, demoniac like-his hecatombs of slain, and sends their spirits untimely to their last judgment! And more than all things it will utter ist   226   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. rebuke, in trumpet-tones, where most 'tis needed-on the rulers of this great and mighty, but blind and striving, wallowing, God-forsaking people; and on its rich and prosperous, and scheming full ones in this world's wealth and fatness. "Hark! do ye not hear the Spirit's awful voice, ye proud and presumptuous, but poor, weak, inglorious seek- ers for this world's renown, whose note of triumph shall die away into a hiss of scorn! Listen too, ye mammon- worshipers, who hug your gold for basest uses, and give your copper for the Lord's anointed, and the great pur- poses of his mission. Bow your heads and receive the sentence, blowing in the harsh autumn winds, pouring upon you in the raining floods, steaming up to you on the deadly miasma's breath, roaring to you in the destructive ocean's surge, while the six hundred shrieks and wails which, of late, scared the sun from the heavens, and set the thunder and lightning raving through the sky, shall be the seal of your condemnation!"Thou art weighed in the balances and found wanting! The kingdom hath de- parted from thee!" "O ye servitors of the mighty war-horse eagle of our civilization! Ye brakemen, flagmen, conductors, engi- neers, firemen! do well each one thy work, for God, for man, and your own souls! Relieve by your fidelity your worn and ever-watchful, anxious superintendent, whose soul is chained by sense of care and high responsibility, and firm determination to fulfill each trust committed to him, even though through neglect of his assistants a crush- ing weight falls on him. Silence broods over even his freest, happiest hours, for the trail of the serpent-fear of evil through unfaithfulness-haunts him, though she, the bright, sunny, ministering spirit of his home fain would chase it far away. May she not tire nor faint in her lov- ing mission, for a better time is coming, when the Holy Spirit's power will plume our eagle's pinions to safe and   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   227 rapid flight over the spaces, which our mighty war-horse, who snuffs the peaceful battle, will level far and wide for her victorious soaring." "Hurra! for the Feminines," said Young America. "Life-preservers will be at a discount at once, I see, if they get the direction of affairs; and a fellow will dare to go ten miles from home without making his will, or carry- ing his ascension-robes with him, or even getting his health insured, thinking he shall in all likelihood return to hobble round with two crutches the rest of his life. Hurra for the white Feminines, and black ones to boot! I begin to think the age of miracles has come back, that I should live to say that. Excuse me, Zoe! H I forgot, but never mind! Hurra for Zoe, and all her people; from Quashee up to Soulouque, the Emperor. Every mother's son of them shall be fieed, or I'll divide the Union, and shoot the south through my little brother's pop-gun, straight into a vacuum. America is to be a free counry in the future! She is to wave her stars and stripes in the breeze without having a long, black trail to them, with a slave-ship painted at one end, and a flying-horse, which means the Africans, and women of all hues tied to a plow at the other, with a coarse, brutish fellow holding it, cursing and swearing at the top of his voice, while a finely-dressed lady is on his back, and her little boy, with a whip in his hand, is giving him a cut every minute or two to make him go faster." Mr. Chichester, who was sitting by, rose upon this, shocked and angered, at the picture Young America had presented to them. "What is the country coming to?" said he, in a tone, in which wrath and sanctimony were strangely mingled. "What judgments from heaven will not be poured upon us, when those who call themselves God's ministers, advocate worldly amusements, talk in trifling tones with scoffers of the essential doctrines of the Bible, and try to turn aside the judgment of Heaven from those whom he has cursed,   228  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. and--" looking directly at Zoe--" seeking to place those who have the mark of this condemnation upon their very forehead on equal footing with the Anglo-Saxon race, whom he has commissioned to be the conquerors and rulers of the world!" "My friend," said Mr. Lindsey, " you have alluded very plainly to me in these remarks of yours; I will be equally faithful in asking, with all the earnestness which comes from a deep-seated solicitude for the welfare of my coun- try, what indeed is it coming to, when the dominant churches throughout the length and breadth of the land meet together in synod, council and convention, to con- demn calisthenics, dancing, and reading- of works of imagination, but are silent upon, if they do not applaud, the gigantic sins of the times-Slavery-which is but an- other name for lust as well as oppression, Mammon wor- ship and Pharisaical bigotry? I commend this great ques- tion, sir, to the consideration of the next meeting of the American Board, and Presbyterian General Assembly." Mr. Chichester turned on his heel and went out with a half groan and half execration, and appeared not again in their circle. "The spirit of Calvinism impersonated!" said Mr. Lind- sey. "Glad and grateful am I that the rude ages are pass- ing rapidly away, when this stern and mistaken minister of the ancient law, will be seen by our Heavenly Father to have fulfilled his mission on the earth, and be permitted in the course of his Providence to make way for the angels of Peace, Hope and Love."   -           - [l  ---'----- "Hearts are not steel, and steel is bent; next morning, the captain of the little sailing vessel, which plies back and forth between St. Thomas and Santa Cruz, came at. Mr. Lindsey put ian early hour to Zop and Hilda to inform them that he was all in There were were friendly and affec- saying: "These I give to both of you, if you will accept (229)   230   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. this joint present from me. They are the writings of our great and pure American moralist and spiritual leader, Channing. I know that you will derive both pleasure and profit from their perusal." "Have you none of your own writings with you, Mr. Lindsey? If so, please give me those too. They will do me double good from having known and felt interested in the author." He went to his room and brought from thence several volumes of Notes upon the Scriptures, which he had pre- pared with a view, first to the benefit of the young people of his parish, and then jvith the hope that, through a more extensive spread, they might do something to revive the failing interest in, and growing disregard of the sacred volume. .Then giving his arm to Zoe, they followed Mr. Stephenson and Hilda to the vessel. It was soon onr its way to the island of which they had all through their childhood and youth dreamed and talked, investing it with all the brilliancy and poetry which young, ardent, and susceptible natures are wont to throw over dis- tant scenes and beloved ones far removed. Mr. Sarran had seen to the safety of their luggage, and now came and took his stand by Hilda's side as she watched Young America waving his handkerchief towards her receding figure, while she returned in like manner his parting salute. She was holding in her hand an engraving-Stephen- son's last gift to her, just as they were separating. It represented a boat of antique form, filled with young maidens in poetic guise, in gay rejoicing mood, with palm branches and musical instruments of different form- in hand, just sailing away upon the smooth sea, enveloped in the golden sunset atmosphere, with the new moon's bright, silvery crescent clearly discernible just over their shoul- ders. In the foreground sat a dark, stooping figure looking grimly and mournfully at their enjoyment, his own lute   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   231 unstrung and useless by his aide, indicating that the freer, gladder song which these nymphs were tuning themselves to sing would forever silence his own weird, melancholy notes. "I have called that old gentleman, there, Dr. Chiches- ter," said Stephenson, in giving it to her; " but now I feel as if it were myself. Do have pity on him, Hilda, and take him into the boat with you as soon as you can. He will merely ask to be helmsman, or anything you think he is fit for. Only let him go." "Be patient," said Hilda, " and who knows but he will be captain yet. Those pretty young ladies don't look as if they were fitted for, or wanted to spare the time from their music, to row the boat or manage the sail." "It is more than I am fit for, I am afraid, to take any sort of control over those sylphs. But this I know; that if a storm should come up and darken that bright sky over their heads, which looks as if it were made on purpose for them, I Id reef their sails and row them into the snuggest harbor ever thought of." "There will be no clashing there about each one's duties," said Zoe; " for they look as if they had arrived at the sphere in which each one was doing what she was best fitted for, so that there is no room for discontent or jarring discords." "Yoou can interpret the picture as you please," said Young America,'" provided you will let me have a berth in her, and allow me to give a helping hand to the one I prefer above all the rest of the angels above or the saints below. I only wish I was good enough, to call for my pas- sage from the lady commander." "Captains don't have to call for their passage. They have only to prove themselves worthy to guide the ship safely round the world, and they take the supervision at once. Until that time, of course, the Feminines, as Mrs. Pumpkin calls them, must take the lead; but if they are   232  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. like me, I should be very glad to be excused from any such conspicuous position." Zoe smiled at Hilda's modest relinquishment of one of the governing qualities of her character-love of control- and marveled at the power for remoulding the temper, which a true affection gives. And so the Old and the New World parted to meet, ere-long, never to be separated. Mr.'Sarran took the picture from her hand as she now stood waving her handkerchief, excepting, as she lowered it from time to time, to wipe the gathering tears from her eyes. The title of the picture was: L Les Illusions Per- dues." He looked at it intefitly, then said, "the flight of the illusions-the flight of the illusions," kissed his hand to the nymphs and turned bitterly away. Then Hilda saw the injury and grief she had caused to a solitary and affectionate heart by her thoughtless coquetry. She was full of remorse and sorrow at the idea. "Who would have thought, Zoei," said she, that such an old gentleman would once think of a young flirt like me, excepting in a grandfatherly way? I don't under- stand it." "The pure, loving, and honest soul, if living in accord- ance with God and nature's laws, never grows old, dear, remember that," said Zoe. "Its environment may decay and drop to the earth to mingle again with its sister atoms; but the inner spirit, if obedient, is renewed, expanded and perpetually glorified, through its ever-nearer and closer communion with its Infinite Source. Never presume upon the want of susceptibility of any human being, for either the highest or the most ardent emotions of which human nature is capable, but treat every one, as before God, you would wish to be dealt with, knowing, as you do now, its quivering sensibilities, and then you will be safe from danger of wounding another, or degrading or paining yourself." Hilda was very serious, and wondered that there should   ZOEi OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    233 fidelity, shall be her shrine, from which shall arise her worship to the Most Iigh, and the hearts of her husband and children be the Lares to which she will award the tribute of her lifers devotion." "There has been a failure somewhere, for we are not so much in advance of the ancients as we ought to be, and as the whole spirit of Christ's teachings taught us to expect either in religion, morals, intellectual culture, or physical development."  "No, the ascetic element so rife in eastern countries, whose deities are monsters, whose nature is to blast more than to bless, has ever mixed with Judaism. As soon as Christianity left the bosom of its founder, in whom dwelt perfect love of God, invigorated only by a healthful, inspiring awe, it mingled in his imperfect followers' minds with this dark stream flowing from the perturbed, bewildered minds of Jews and Pagans. The Catholic Church, so called, by its penances and cruel, abominable restraint upon much that is innocent and beautiful in human nature, and by its bold assumption, in which glares the spirit of Lucifer, not beams out the encouraging glance of meek, disinterested, freedom- loving, liberty-giving Christ, has perpetuated this degrading principle. And not less grievous and wicked, but more insidious and life-crushing is the same in the prevalent Protestantism of the day, dubbed Calvinism, self-nicknamed Lutheranism, or with the presumptuous title of Orthodoxy, rolling like a sweet morsel its self-assurance under its blis- tering tongue. For it has by its worse than heathen dog- mas darkened our earth's atmosphere, set it awry upon its axis, wheeled it aside from-its proper orbit, so that the moon's dark side is turned towards it, the spots upon the sun are so magnified to the world's eye by their false position as almost to conceal its beams, and the planetary system and the stars seem not to shine by their heaven- appointed light, but have the lurid glare of Hell upon their spheres. O! it is awful that this perversion of the great 20    234   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. good of life, this connecting, binding link between man  and God, Religion, should be the chain and manacle to force him to tremble, and it may be curse, while he grinds ! out his daily degraded life in the prison-house of his   d spirit's bondage."          f "Yes, bondage it is, as the faces of its willing captives indicate; for they are full of unnatural lines and sad gri-  maces, as if heaven were to be propitiated by the disfigure- ment of his most perfect work, the human face divine.' I was looking to-day at some representations of the Nine Muses. They were beautiful in their full, harmonious de- velopment, and their expression of serenity and joy, as they stood with the emblems of their art in hand, indicating both  their mission on the earth, and the delight it gave them to  fulfill it. I then turned to a volume on Sacred and Legend-  ary Art, with delineations of the Christian saints, martyrs, i: priests, and principal nuns of the middle ages. These,  almost without exception, had the downcast, anxious, agon- ized expression of poor victims to the wrath of some avenging deity, and I closed the volume in disgust and sor- row that a religion so full of joy, peace, bright hopes, thrilling memories and glad anticipations should thus be represented by its believers so as to make the unthinking and superficial say: ' See how much better humanity throve under the former than the latter faith!" "Yes, and I range myself side by side with those whom you call shallow, and say that the idea of religion given by these ascetics, through assuming to be the only recipients, of God's truth, is lower, as it is more unnatural than even the excesses of the old idolaters, inasmuch as love, joy, and free abandonment to nature, though it may merge in lust, is better than hatred, persecution, hard-hearted, Pharisaical assumption, the sneer of bigotry, and selfish love of power. If either of these were the only true representations of Divinity on earth, I go back to the ancients" "Nay; but there is a strength of will, a command over   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    235 the baser passions, an invigoration of nature attained by those who believe in Christianity,'even if mingled with the popular theology, unknown of old. The stern law is neces- sary to hush the lions and tigers of our souls to due obe- dience, before the singing birds and flowers'which Christi- anity developes in us, can find a safe, fitting bower and garden to chant and bloom in. The simple majesty of law is sadly smothered by false traditions, it is true; yet for all that, there is more of it still in action to nerve us than the ancients had. Were there no sins and persecution, no bigotry and assumption then? History is not written aright if these were not rampant, even worse than now." "Look at Sebastopol; read the list of its hecatombs of slain; measure the humanity of Protestant England, who suffers thousands of her best and bravest to die rather than overstep a miserable conventionalism; see Catholic France lying so low within the toils of the spoiler as to suffer its life-blood to be daily drained that its tyrant may, concealed by the smoke and din of the battle, forge her chains more surely; and say, whether the asceticism of the nineteenth century has more of the love of God and humanity in it than the mirth, and free scope given to nature by the Pagan idolatry." "O, but does not a protest, never heard by the ancients, arise from the universal Christian nations against these horrid butcheries, set on foot by a few selfish despots, whom Providence, for inscrutable reasons, permits to wield powers which they shamefully abuse? And this protest will be heard, for it is the last war ever to be waged again by Christendom." Do you believe it?" - "Most sincerely." "Meantime, I wage my battle against the dark doctrines of the prevalent theologies. Born into this my latest trans- formation under the Talmud's rigid sway, nurtured, nay half starved, body and soul, by a grandsire, Pharisaical,   236   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. covetous and cruel, whose dire conformity to false tradi. tions made his whole ffature like a pool, stagnant and fetid; my being would have been poisoned had it not been for one backward glimpse, half faded but ever cherished of a most sweet and saintly father, who died before my infant eyes could fix themselves with steady glance upon his reverent face and form.. That gleam shed on my pathway from his angel-sphere conducted me to Jesus, in whose perfected truth I saw the flowering of my people's faith, the consummation of the law of Moses, for which} that was a preparation and a prophecy, and this the seal of the sig- nificance of all its rules, and rites, and ceremonies. So that in early youth the Christ became my ideal of human perfection, and this gradually led me to become his fol- lower. But after groping through a dismal Jewish boy- hood, it was by no flowery paths that I have reached what I believe his simple truth. For into the ' wild woods ' of the superstitious, popular theology I plunged where there is but a doubtful glimmer of light here- and there to tempt the wanderer on his journey. But on and on I waded through thickets of speculations, through briery paths of discour- agement and doubt until I found the elevated plain where beautiful Truth stands fully revealed, beckoning me on and on towards the source of its Eternal spring." "And now, having inflated yourself with this sublime element, balloon-like you- are sailing from one nation to another down the ages, dispensing as is needed of this ethereal gas with which you and your car are charged? Does not Father Time get tired of seeing you following his footsteps all these years? He is more lenient to you than to me, or he would scowl at you and say: 'Don't think to defy me, look at the wrinkles upon your face, signs all that my sickle is sharpening to reap you low.'" "] defy him until I have given to the world proofs of their gross idolatry in worshiping the letter of the Bible in no less than one thousand discrepancies within its pages,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    237 showing how vain it is for men to trust their salvation to anything so shifting as human language." "You will not be understood. The Priests and Levites will say that you are an infidel and scoff at Revelation." "Let them say whatever their bigotry and lust for power suggest; if these motives prompt them to reckless denun- ciation of all utterance which squares not with their pigmy rules. To God I commend my cause, who kndws that it is not because I love the Scriptures less but more, that I seek to tear from their simple majesty all lying preten- sions, patched upon them by foolish, ignorant men, that they may stand forth as they truly are, the record of a revela- lation to be studied, judged of, and obeyed with the same reason and common sense wherewith nature, man, the earth and its concerns, and our own characters and actions are weighed." "I hope the world will be ready to read your book, for it is sadly in need of its truths. It likes the positive, how- ever, better than the negative; for its feelings and imagi- nation are in advance of its reason and religious principles, so it is careless of laying its foundations deep on the rock of truth, but is forever putting new turrets to its apex, and thus it topples over continually." "Yes, the positive truth is' to save the world, but before its basis is thoroughly established, it must see clearly what its enemies have been in the past, and conquer and lay them low in the dust. This is my present work." "And I take the positive. Can I not, presumptuous woman that I am, lend you a helping hand in your hard drudgery. Supposing I advertise your work in the Tale which I am writing, so that if it should fail of descending far down the vale from its own lack of the life-principle, its memory may still be perpetuated through mine. (Aside.)  ("He frowns, I see, at that. What being in the likeness of man, though he have the wisdom of' the ages, ever   238   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. thought a woman could do anything for him but cook, sew, please and comfort, and amuse him in some humdrum way?) "For I write for nothing less than immortality. Or do you intend to outlive the world and keep fast hold of your book in your peregrinations, and so secure its life?l "I know not what may be before me. I live for truth, and take no anxious thought for the future. But in dreams of night, amid the hush of the-city's roar and tumult, when my clairvoyant eye is couched by the subtlest element of nature, and under the greenwood tree when time and space are annihilated and IE live in the eternal Present, ,* there come to me visions of cool waters in the distant future, bathing my feverish, aching brow-glimmerings of ambrosia fit to nourish the divinities, freed from all corpo- real substance, and sweet visions of the peace of God shed upon my weary, suffering heart of eld, yet ever young in its sense of agony and striving with itself and the all-present powers of evil. I will be patient, yet I know that happiness will, in the end, lift her coy face and smile her sweetest even on me." "I hope so. It would be nuptials worthy of publication: (Married, the Rev. Everlasting, Restless, Suffering, Wan- dering, Unbelieving Judaeus to Miss Serene, Loving, Quiet, Gospel Felicitas. 'the blissful pair have taken up their abode in the Valley of Christian Contentment, and the world rejoices at its own relief from his sad aspect and his low mournful cry about our dwellings of the 'old ra-ags, ra-ags!! of Judaism, no less than at their joyful prospects. " "Good morning, madam; I will return to-morrow at this same hour and hear you read your lesson ." (The pastor's wife alone.) "Verily a strange mixture of all the ages is this weird, mysterious man, and for this he interests me. My truant fancy, ever striving to release itself from conventionalism,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADPIOON'S TRIUMPII.  239 has full sweep with one whom no age, country, or nar- row sect can bind; and yet, with the freedom breathed from a' rarer atmosphere than what envelopes other men, he preserves a strict integrity of mind and man- ners. My husband has his female friends, sweet, gen- tle, loving souls, who have grown up within our heart of hearts, some of them in the sacred inclosure of our home. We love them  both alike; for jealousy! why it is a word not known in our vocabulary, so trustful are we of each other; and when they meet and part from him, it is with a sister's and brother's kiss of wel- come and farewell. And they write to him, 'So glad were we to see your dear face again.' But I Uave had no friend of his sex with whom I could think aloud, and though a broad sweep of my being is met by his, not all is exercised. For his life is-full of grave cares and labors, and though with marvelous power he frees himself of the dust and cobwebs of the study when he comes to me; yet soon he hies away to scatter his sympathies and gather an unnatural weight of solicitude from the multitudes, who find no friend so gentle as he to listen to their woes. And so it happens that while the world's anxious, sorrowful ones pour into his ear their tales of bereavement, sickness, or mayhap worldly trials and vexations, and never in vain, my soul goes ranging alone through perilous paths of question- ing and denial of what the sages have settled as finalities; and Fancy, its butterfly, now flutters in dangerous proximity to the sun, scorching its gauzy wings, till scared at its dizzy, solitary soarings, it crouches low, dimmed and dis- consolate, folding its pinions, and sighing for the dull, dark safety of its imprisoned, grub-life, then spreads them with a bolder, stronger sweep to gather sunlight and fervid heat from upper regions, which even his pure eye has not yea penetrated. "But this man of the ages has been there before me, and I see that into these regions we can soar in nmeet companion-   240   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. ship. And now, were I a young, undisciplined girl, and did not love my husband with a strong and true affection, and did not know that he was given me by my Maker who'read the temper of his child, and fashioned its fit training and due measure of earthly love, and if I had not long ag6 given all feelings not intended to be met by earthly friend into his keeping, who, with interest, richly has repaid me, then I might suffer a crude and a foolish sentiment to usurp the place of the true gold of a wife's love and duty. But strong in the might of God's support, my love, and clear perception of the beauty of the right, and direful con- sequence of wrong, let me, through imagination, gather some truth for the well-being of others less favored than myself. Let me, if I may become the interpreter of my sex and keeping fast hold of the anchor let down from heaven and fastened deep in time, cast a clear and steady gaze into the awful pit, ten thousand fathoms deep, where lie buried the virtue and happiness of frail women, beguiled and led astray by the bewitching cant about twin soulship, psychological completeness of sympathy, sealed marriages and spiritual wifehood, Cicisbeoism, and all other deceitful forms of breaking a commandment written on ouri hearts, and in God's word by him who made us singly, as well as gave us into each other's keeping in social bonds. And now I will reason, as many an unfortunate must do, before she oversteps the line of duty to herself and God. "My husband regards me not, or if he does, it is with such cool indifference and rude sense of ownership, that my soul is starved for sympathy or blasted by injustice. Here is his friend, who has leisure, gentle manners and love for my society, and wooes my confidence by his religious aspirations and high-toned thoughts. He seeks my friend- ship; gradually hints that we have tastes in common not shared with me by my more busy, practical husband, pro- poses a spiritual union, which shall lift us to the third heaven of purest bliss. Gradually grosser thoughts steal unawares   ZOE, OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   241 in piaying her various attentions in the way of invitations to visit, to ride, and to sail with them in the little pleasure excursions got up from time to time in that part of the island. Her pensive face glowed for a moment with resent- ment at this ingratitude and disregard of the common cour- tesies of life, but it was soon unheeded in the experience of what was of infinitely more moment to her; for the fearful and heartsinking feeling possessed her, that, by her blasphemy in likening herself to the Messiah, she had for- feited the favor of God, and therefore he had withdrawn from her his support, protection, assistance and commun- ing Spirit. Her debilitated health, the entire change of her associates, the discouraging effect of seeing the low condition of her people, her father's unhappiness and evi- dent disappointment of his last hope of rising in social life through herself, all tended to make her miserable. The memory of Miss Ingemann's dislike to her, her dis- approval of the style of her mental and psychological development, added to the condemnatory words of Dr. Chichester concerning her race, which she had overheard, the sense of its wide-spread debasement, giving apparently some sanction to the idea, increased her dismay. But the overmastering cause of her wretchedness was the conviction that, through an undisciplined imagination, she had brought ruin upon herself and dragged down upon her guilty head the retribution meet for the proud, pre- sumptuous, and self-exalting soul. Then came bitterly to her mind the warnings of Mrs. Liebenhoff against unre- strained fancies, and she saw, but too late, that she had sinned against the clearest light and the wisest counsel, and in the same proportion to her wicked neglect of them, ;  would be her punishment and doom. A less reserved and delicate nature and a less self-sacrificing temper would have relieved itself by expressions of some sort, even though it might not have met with full sympathy or appro- priate aid. But it was a part of her nature, as has been 21   242   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUM'H. already said, to reveal herself no farther than she met with a response, and the bare thought of increasing her mother's trials, and diminishing the comfort she could find in her recovered child, kept her mouth almost' entirely closed upon the subject of her misery. She entered with all the energy of which she was capable into her domestic occupations--for her father's diminished means made some personal labor necessary to them--both from a desire to relieve her, and bring her own mind also in contact with the practical and common-place. She would select the most difficult and disagreeable duties, and faithfully perform them, though her mother would beg her to desist, and would watch, with tearful eye and a heart full of tenderness, this fragile being stemming the current of the rude world's uses. A lily she seemed to her, sitting like a spirit of light above the thick river mud, or amidst the green slime of the stagnant pond inlet, with no defile- ment upon its pure petals, only its central star-rays folded from sight either by its own lack of power to open them in scenes so unmeet for it, or, by the sickly heaviness of the circumambient air. In her wish to bring herself into kindly relations with her people, she would frequent the market when the negroes brought of their produce for sale. But they loved not her father, they were jealous of her superiority of cul- ture, and they either coldly returned her greeting, or more decidedly evinced their want of friendliness to her by a muttered reference to her outlandish education. Hilda was with her daily for an hour or two, and sought indirectly to rouse and cheer her. Her mother pretended not to notice her visits to Zoe, though she well knew she was disobeying her wishes that she should drop the acquaintance; but an inferior spirit, if at all intelligent, learns to dread coming into collision with one superior to itself, knowing how it will be worsted in the encounter. As this was the only instance of her displeasing her, she   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   243 was silent upon the subject, though she strove to keep the friendship of Hilda for Zoe a secret from her conventional friends. One day she was sitting chatting by her side, telling one incident after another which would, she thought, interes Zoe, and not being over-careful of exposing the family jars which occasionally happened in Mr. Strophel's abode She lacked Zoies delicate sense of propriety, which, lik( the magnet, always settled at the true point of the comrn pass, and having been away from her family all her life she had not the peculiar pride in its appearing always t( the best advantage, that would be sufficient to counterbal ance her sense of the ludicrousness of some of the scene. enacted within the walls of her home. "O Zoe!" said she, " you don't know what a funny time we had yesterday at the dinner-table. Two English gen tlemen dined with us, of the true British stamp, seeing nothing but their country and her glory above the horizon every button upon their dress-coats an institution, and to b, honored in the closing accordingly. Papa, as he alway does, got upon- Denmark, and the court, and heir majes ties, and enlarged upon them to the satiety of the guests. "I tried to relieve them by turning his attention to some other subject, but did not succeed. Major Lahman, seeinj me in distress, came to the rescue, as he thought, by say ing, 'Mr. Strophel, I am delighted with Santa Cruz. I seems strange to me now, that I have never before give; myself the pleasure of visiting you (meaning the islan, of course). I have often been at St. Thomas.' "Papa smiled and bowed in his most courtiir-like way and said, "Indeed, I hope you may never have that pleas ure again!' :"The Englishman looked grim at first, but his feeling changing suddenly, I thought that he would burst, in tryin to keep from laughing, and then that he would certainl we   244   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. grow tipsy by seeking to cover his confusion by his wine- glass." She paused a moment, then said, "I see you do not think it is quite right to repeat these blunders of my re- spected relatives, but really, Zoe, it is quite a difficult matter always to be governed by the fifth commandment, in inter- course with those who have always been strangers to you, especially if they do such provoking deeds as papa did the last evening." 4 What was it, dear?" "Why, don't you think, that he has taken a fancy to making a gallery of the fine arts of our bath-house. He has the twelve apostles in Parian marble on brackets here and there, and this morning, I found he had cut out some of the handsomest engravings from that expensive and beauti- ful book, cousin Harry gave me, as we were leaving London, and stuck them up over the bathing-tub and washstand! Is it not too bad?" "I am sorry you left the volume where your father could appropriate it to himself. You know you told me before, that it was his habit to select for his own use, without regard to meum and tuum. It is a pity, surely." "O, Zoe, I need you every hour in the day, to prompt me to do right, and lead me into careful ways, instead of having to steal in the manner I do, to see you." Zoe started. "Then your mother is unwilling to have you visit me?" i"I thought you knew, dear, that there is no bottom to the iniquities and absurdities which the system of slavery has entailed upon the white people of this island. One is, it has eaten up their souls, leaving them with just about as much capacity of perceiving rightly the eternal truth of things, as my great century doll with Mr. Andersen's spec- tacles on. They see only people's skins, and their favor- ite hue is that of skimmed milk, very, very blue! It seems   ?;. ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.        2x to me, that the whites have only a skin-deep religion, skin- deep politics, skin-deep political economy, skin-deep litera- ture, skin-deep morals, skin-deep education, skin-deep tastes, feelings, affections, and judgment of character. There, dear, never dare again to think that I am not a philosopher. I have spelled that out all by myself, and I have come to the conclusion, that if some of the other races don't rise to their proper position and sway among the nations, that the world will shrivel all up like an old, dry piece of parchment and blow away into the sea in the next hurricane. What do you say about it, Zoi ?" "I am thinking, Hilda, that you ought not to come and see me, if your mother has forbidden it." "I am a woman, Zoe, and I must do as I think best." "But we must honor our parents here, and obey them, while we are under their guardianship." " It is of no use trying to make me think, that it is my duty to give up my love for you, or not to show it by com- ing to see you, and there is an end of the matter." " But can't you have a talk with your mother, and let her see that it is a settled principle with you, rather than a mere school-girl feeling? I think she can't but respect that in her grown-up daughter." "' That is true, Zoe. I will do that very thing, for I don't feel quite right to come to you so slily as I do. It is unjust to you, no less than to them and myself. You are always so good, dearest, and direct me so beautifully! How can I ever live without you?" "No, Hilda, don't call me so any more, I am wicked;" and her face expressed all the despair which this feeling caused her. "You wicked! Yes, as wicked as that white cloud sail- ing by, glorified as it is by the sun's rays shining upon it!" " Hilda, I am wicked, wicked !" Hilda took another turn to try to comfort her. " Well, dear, so am I wicked, as wicked as all out of  246   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. doors, as George would say. I despise my father, I hate my mother, and dislike all my other relations, excepting sister Warrington, and if that is not being wicked, I don't know what is. And as for this poor, forsaken little island, I feel so imprisoned in it, and weary of my bondage, that I should like to take it up in my hand and toss it over to the coast of South America. Then wouldn't I give it into the keeping of somebody, that would shake it into a sensible way of thinking and acting? Wouldn't I?" Zoe made an effort to smile. "And seeing we are both so wicked now, we will have a nice little time repenting of our sins, and to-morrow morning wake up all new, and pure, and good as need be.! Won't we, darling?' Zoe shook her head despondingly. "O my dear little friend!" said Hilda, folding her in her arms as if she were a grieved child; "I wish I were good enough, and broad enough, and deep enough to console you; but I am not; so I can only love you dearly and pray to our Father to take the very best care that he possibly can of you." "Yes, Hilda, nobody but He can aid me, and the worst of it is, I have gone beyond even his help, I fear. But why do I trouble you? It is better for me to keep my feel- ings to myself, and if I am ever to rise from my depression, it must he by communion with Iim alone." "That reminds me," said Hilda, "that mamma pro- posed that I should go to St. Thomas to-morrow, to see my married sister there. I did not like to leave you, but perhaps I had better on your account." "Go, dear, by all means, and before you come to me again, speak to your mother about it and get her consent." Hilda promised, and the two friends separated for a brief season.   "Arise, my God, and strike, for we hold thee just S. strike dead the whole weak race of venomou Wte are not worthy to liveweakraEN oON. "Arise,   had a cousin on the father's side, an officer in the Dan ish regiment stationed  at Santi Ii iCruz, who was educ ted      in onc of the German universities.  Hl had occasionally visited her whil( at Miss Ingemann's, and alway, manifested a good deal of interes in Zoie. She never had liked hin very much, as his style of character and his conversatior harmonized very little with her own.   He was' decpls   248   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. imbued with the latitudinarian philosophy, so rife at the pre- sent time, was ultra rationalistic in his religious belief, an advocate of free love, and quite superior to all church ministrations and ordinances. He came to see her now with Hilda occasionally, and showed an undiminished re- gard for her. Though Zoe never thought of love in con- nection with him, he was more tolerable to her than when in Denmark, simply from her having so few intelligent associates and from his being connected in her mind with many of the works of art in Copenhagen, which they had visited together. Mr. and Mrs. Carlan were members of the Episcopal Church, now under the care of a young clergyman from the United States by the name of Marland. The Danish government, as has been said, was striving to raise the free blacks by giving them equal social, as well as political privileges with the whites. In the churches it frowned upon any dividing lines, either by the appropriation to their use of inferior seats, or in the administration of the ordinances. Still old customs had great power, and it required more courage and effort than the majority cared to evince, to take the position in all cases allowed them by the laws. In the communion service, it had been the habit all along for the whites to come up to the altar to receive the ele- ments, then the free colored people, and lastly the blacks. One Sunday Mr. Carlan was at church. His wife was not well and Zoe staid at home to attend upon her. Pos- sessed, as he was, by the spirit of rivalry-knowing what his rights were as a free citizen under the Danish govern- ment-when the first communicants went to the altar, he also arose and mingled with them as they knelt to take the emblems of his meek and lowly yet sublimely tempered Lord. Mr. Marland was disconcerted at this unusual demonstration of independence from a colored person; he knew the prevailing feeling with regard to this very man's   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   249 assumption; he hesitated a moment, then passed him by, and gave of the cup and bread to the white communicants first. Mr. Carlan returned home very much incensed, threaten- ing to inform the magistrates of this disregard of the Dan- ish law; which menace the next day he carried into execu- tion, and the church, in consequence, was ordered to be closed, until the excitement among the colored citizens should be allayed. His wife tried to soothe him, but in vain. Zoo attempted to turn his mind to a higher view of this trying circum- stance; but stung to desperation as he was, it was of no avail, but, on the contrary, brought upon herself a verbal expression of his disappointment in her. It needed but this scene and those stinging words to complete Zoe's despair. She said nothing, but her spirit groaned in its deepest recesses at its incompetence either to direct aright her own meditations, or to strike the key-note which would reduce to harmony her father's dis- cordant nature. "Woe, woe is me!" she said to herself, " that with this fearfully quickened perception of what is the only true good of our being, I should be manacled and chained by the abuse of my powers so as to be nothing but a useless weight, an incumbrance in the sphere which I should fill to completeness, and adorn, in accordance with the privi- leges bestowed upon me!" When she was no longer needed by her mother, she walked out towards the sea-side and sat down upon a fallen tree in a grove whose boughs almost bent over the waves. Not a breath of air stirred a leaf upon the tree over her head, the sky wore a lurid look, and a stagnation was in the atmosphere such as betokens a hurricane. This was not, however, the usual season for one, so to Zoo it seemed but the sympathy of nature with her, or, rather, its reproach dramatized in this way, to enforce more surely to her   250   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRRIUMPH. deadened, powerless existence the fact of her being only a cumberer of the ground. She felt as if she should stifle in the heated unelastic air. She threw back the hair from her temples and bared her neck to be free from resistance to any possible passing breath, but it did not relieve her. She thought that the curse of God had settled thus palpa- bly upon her head, she felt its crushing weight, its stinging hiss and. mocking syllables were in her ear, its awful mes- sage was written upon the heavy,dark cloud which hung low and threatening in full view before her. At this moment the cousin of Hilda, Lieutenant Tileston, came and seated himself by her side. She half shrank from his presence as she always had, yet now that her being was awry as it were by disease and mental suffering, she had come to distrust the gentle warning which a pure soul gives out to its possessor of the approach of danger or defilement. It was a relief at this fearful moment to have any human form approach her. "Zoi," said he, "I am ordered to St. Thomas with my troop, and I have come to see you before leaving." "( Hilda has already gone there you know," said Zoe. "I have no interest in Hilda, Zoe; you are my soul's complement; without you I can no longer live. Do you not see how a magnetic sympathy drew me towards you. I knew not of your being here, but the force of the affinity existing between us impelled me towards you. O go with me, Zoei, my love, my twin spirit, and a true marriage with- out the slavery which priests or laws impose shall be ours through time and eternity." One cause of Zoe's wretchedness was the separation from her kind, which an exaggerated idealism, unrestrained by a proper discipline of the social and practical elements of our constitution ever imposes. She was solitary in the midst of living, sentient humanity-lonely and forlorn with the busy, pleasure-loving world on every side of her. And now, O soul-crushing, heart-quaking thought! Nature,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI.    251 whose fondling she had lovingly called herself, frowned upon her in every phase of its manifestations; and the In- finite, whose peculiar child she had reverently thought she was, turned rebukingly away from her, or chided her in each intimation of his Providence! What wonder, then, that she should catch at the slightest hint that the great Father above and the tender mother below were relenting towards her and indicating, through the sympathy of one human being, their pardon for her sinfulness! The young man saw the impression his words were mak- ing upon her. He was on the point of laying his arm on her shoulder to draw her towards him. She looked quickly in his eye, and started up as if a serpent had stung her, for she read plainly in its glance a selfish, unbridled pas- sion, a destructive, ungovernable lust. The spirit of divi- nation, which ever possesses one who purges herself from earthly pollution and looks up to the heavens calmly, long. ingly and perseveringly, came back to her with full sweep and potency. "O! Genius of the universe, of matter and of mind!" she exclaimed, as with form erect and arm up-lifted, she looked first up to the heavens, and then with withering and ma- jestic glance upon him who sat gazing astounded at her feet. "Now I know why thou sufferest the polluting breath of concupiscence to fall upon thy undefiled! It is that she may gather into her heart of hearts the multitudes of her poor, seduced, betrayed, abandoned, lost and ruined sisters. I see, them everywhere-a man-forsaken, woman-scorned throng. They cast their imploring eye up to thee, O pity- ing Father, in the field-they cower, frightened and dis- mayed, in the hut-they stand rigid and passive upon the auction block--they smile sicklily, in satin and lace, in the harem-they flaunt boldly that they may conceal their de- spair in the streets; and, O misery and perdition! they curse and wail, and bemoan their pollution of soul and body in the brothel, and die, and are cast out as worthless   252   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. weeds into the highway. Come to me, O come to me, ye poor, lost, ruined, man-forsaken, God-forsaking frail ones! I will lift you out of the mire of the roadside; I will bind up your wounds, both of the body and soul; I will place you in safety from the foot of the destroyer. And when, through the spirit of our tender, forgiving, life-inspiring, crucified Master, ye have come to be clothed in your right mind, O! then I will point you to the glorified Christ, and ye shall help to bring on his triumphant reign. While those, (and she pointed her finger with scorn at the Lieu- tenant,) who selfishy have torn from thee. Psyche, thy deli- cate wings and trampled them in the dust, shall cower and creep away into the thick darkness to repent for thy wrongs, and learn, in humiliation of spirit, how priceless is thy worth before God." She ceased, and before the man had recovered from the mental stupor occasioned by this new revelation of power in one whom he had thought so plastic and gentle as to be moulded as he saw fit to his purposes, she had glided from his sight and taken refuge in the embracing trunk of a silk cotton-tree near, where she waited until he should leave the vicinity. He rose, looked around, and seeing nothing of her, the thought came into his mind that she must have dissipated with the dense atmosphere. A bird of the parrot species, called by the negroes, the Black Witch,' at that moment flew out from a shrub near, circled over his head for a mo- ment, and then soared away. He put his hand to his crown, uncovered as it was, on account of the heat, as if a condemnation had fallen upon it, as the bird fluttered past him, he bent his form, so proud and self-sufficient but a moment before, and shrank away, a pitiable instance of high-flown imaginings, and most pal- try and mistaken doings. O miserable, short-sighted philosophy of the unassisted reason! which leavest the truths of the ages condensed in   ZOE; Ol, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH.    253 the sublime religion of Jesus, to piece out for thyself a shapeless, stained and meagre reliance for the ever-living soul; to form, for its guidance, a compound of fanaticism, superstition, pride, self-conceit, bigotry and Pharisaical as- sumption, with but just enough truth hanging loosely to it, to delude without saving from sin! why dare ye show your wrinkled, blear-eyed, harlot-front before the sanctified religion of the cross? How have ye the fool-hardy cour- age to come with your scarlet, blood-stained, bespattered garments into the precincts of the sacred courts, and com- pare your faded, tattered cloak, which but scantily hides your deformity, with the seamless robe of the Christ, or offer your stingy, mammon-crusted, man-seeking gift upon God's altar of the Holy of Holies! Ye shall roll up from inherent lack of ability to preserve yourself from unseemly furrows and folds! Ye shall pass away in the muttered sighs of the confessional, the dead forms of the rubric, the fiery, yet icy dogmas of the Ath- anasian creed, in the vain whinings after the leeks and onions of a dying and receding intellectual belief, and in the rappings and table tippings, which are but presages of the electric might of the rising majesty and sure victory of the religion of Jesus. The soul will, first or last, reclaim its full rights, and if it recovers them not in the legitimate way, it will scare and make fools of the gaping multitudes by wizard-like demon- strations and ridiculous or fearful manifestoes. It is for man to give it its just and proportionate sway over the pre- sent, and the future will be sure to slide gracefully and beneficently into its fitting and harmonious locality and state. Zoe came out from her hiding-place when she was sure of being left alone, the momentary 'excitement of her nature abandoning her to a still deeper and darker depression. She tottered a few steps, and then threw herself upon the ground in her agony.   254   ZOE;- OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH "Woe, woe! is me that I have lived to endure insult and the offer of pollution. This never would have been, had I not forfeited the favor of the pure-eyed One above. Were I worthy to be shielded by Him, I should pass unscathed through the direst dens of defilement without drawing upon me the evil glance of corruption. Why, why am I per- mitted to live in the universe of his holiness? Better is it that I should sink into annihilation than to be a blot on His lovely creation!" Her hand fell upon a manchineel apple, under whose parent tree she was prostrated. She seized it, and the thought of self-destruction rushed over her, for by swallow- ing that, she would soon lie lifeless under the bleaching, torrid sun. "And murder, too, is added to my catalogue of sins! O, that I should live to fill up the measure of human iniquity!" At that moment a vivid streak of lightning, followed by a crashing clap of thunder, rent the air. The wind swept down the gulleys and ravines along the declivity of Mount Victory, which bounded one side of the spot where she was sitting. A hurricane sent forth its fearful blast, as a signal of her everlasting damnation. She bent low her head for a moment, as if in submis- sion to its heralding trump of doom. Faster and faster fell the rain-drops, louder and louder shrieked the whirlwind in its sweeping passage by her. An instinct of self-pre- servation impelled her to look around for a retreat from its fury. She -discerned, at a little distance, a disused sugar-house, and she rushed frantically towards that, and had just time to enter it and crouch down in a corner when the full force of the tempest sped over her. In fearful unison with its raging was the frenzy of her mind. "Roar, O ye tree-tops!" chimed in her disordered   ZOE ; OR, THE QUADROON'S TKRIUMPII.  255 spirit with the sound of their waving branches. "Ye echo most fittingly the rage of hoary ocean at my youthful, yet old as Cain sanguinary imagining! "Scream out your scorn, tempest, at the weak virtue which cannot look the deceiver into Hades! Hurl your thunderbolts, dart your lightning, thou electrical Spirit, at the presumptuous one, who ascribes to herself a more than equal share of thy smiles! Rend the earth, uproot the kings of the forest, thou tornado, which shakest in thy fury the proud uplifting spirit of the presumptuous Zoe! O sea, which I have proudly called mine in tones of en- dearment! meet is it that thou upbraidest my pride by sweeping over thy barriers and threatening to overwhelm me! "Hush! what is that image, frightful, and cruel? It is the press where my poor, helpless people are ground to the dust, and their life-blood bespattered upon the pave- ment of stone. The caldrons, the caldrons! They are full of the mangled limbs of my own. The hogsheads are brimming with their terrible woes. In the distance I see the treadmill, where, faint and fearful they stumble, crying, 'Massa, pity me, dear massa! For God's sake relieve me!' And there is the scourge, all clotted with gore, its whip braided of the long hair torn from the brow of the murdered. And now the distillery stares at me. From its alembic of all conceivable horrors, exhales to the heavens, the souls tried as by fire! Ha! is it not right, that God should destroy the earth, steeped to the brim in its sins? Yes, yes, the wicked are cut down by the hot breath of his nostrils. Now it sweeps over the town, carrying destruction and ruin in its path! "The men and women tremble, as well they may, at this fearful retribution. We are overwhelmed, we are buried in the wreck of the world. Hear its frightful shock and shiver, as it splits and overwhelms the sinful, devoted nations! ' Father, forgive them, for they know not what   256  ZOO; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUJMPH. they do!" shrieked Zoe, as an uprooted tree fell across the roof of the sugar-house. The sound of her own voice above the boom of the ele- ments, recalled her a little to herself, and brought back the ever-recurring attempt to trace her mind's history back to the time when she first fell into her ruinous habit of day- dreaming, to which she had of late attributed all her sub- sequent trials. She clutched in imagination at the pe- riod, when she lay a happy, contented infant of three years in her mother's arms, or tottered by her side on the sea-beach, pleased and satisfied with the sight of the blue and violet-tinted waves of the sea of the Caribs. Ever since that time, she had spurned the pre- sent, and lived in the future, but that brief period of her remembered infancy, came up to her mind like a backward hope of retrieving the past by amendment in the  future. At that moment, her father rushed in, having come in pursuit of her, and had traced her to her retreat, by her scarf which had fallen from her, not far from the en--  trance. "My child," said he, "why are you here?" Filled with the recollection of her innocent, contented childhood,  she stretched out her hands to him as had then been her wont, saying, "Take me. into your arms, papa." The strong man folded her to his bosom weeping for joy, and as he strode homewards over uprooted trees, braving the encroachments of the ocean's surge and the angry force of the elements, ay, even treading upon the wreck of his goods by the storm, he felt a new thrill of joy through his being. For in Zoe's infantile petition and clasp of his neck, as she fell into unconsciousness, he felt that he had not only recovered his child in lieu of the changeling which she had brought to him in her sadness and reserve, but, that he had in a measure, found his own lost self as he was, when comparatively at peace, he had watched Il   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.     257 with Sophia, the gambols of their darling in front of their veranda. He gave her tenderly into the arms of his wife, who, as she laid her worn and wearied frame upon the couch, thanked God, who had thus brought her precious one " out of much tribulation." 22 * .    \   All her excellencies stand in her so silently, as If they had stolen upon her without her know- ledge. She makes her hand hard with labor, and her heart soft with pity. She doth all things with so sweet a grace, it seems ignorance will not suffer her to do ill, being her mind is to do well." OVERBnOR. lingering sickness fol- lowed this strain upon the physical and spiritual nature of Zoe. She lay unconscious of all outward scenes and impressions, though her inner world was peopled by a mul- titude of shapes, and was the sphere of incessant psychological work- ings. At first, she was in great distress, struggling with phantoms, and fighting with fearful dreams, but gradually (258)   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   259 she grew more quiet, her face recovered its placid expres- sion, and at length she settled into a deep and unperturbed sleep. Her parents watched over her, as if their life's happi- ness were chained to the frail tenement which inclosed the precious spirit of their child, and many were the ques- tionings which forced themselves upon the mind of George Carlan. He was learning at last the lesson of dependence, upon a surer stay than the world's breath of popular favor, a more certain mode of exaltation than wealth or ambition can furnish. Hilda heard accidentally, in St. Thomas, of the illness of her friend, and hastened home to be with her. "Mamma!" said she, with the decision which charac- terized her, while her commanding figure and noble face served to enforce her remarks; "I have disobeyed you in going to see Zoe contrary to your commands. I will comply with your wishes in what does not compro- mise my truth, my conscience, my honor, and my deep- est affections. The friendship of Zoie, I learned all by myself, when a little girl, was a sacred trust reposed in me by my Heavenly Father. Therefore, I know you will respect the convictions which impel me to more than ever cherish and care for her. You will suffer your daughter to judge and act in this matter, as her love and her sense of right require her, will you not, mamma?" Mrs. Strophel saw well how seriously Hilda viewed the whdle subject, and she dared not oppose her, therefore, she gave an ungracious assent, requesting her not to be seen more than was possible with Zoe in the street, as she felt very much mortified by her acquaintance with her. When Zoe recovered her consciousness, Hilda was sit- ting by her side, watching every indication of returning convalescence. She opened her eyes, fixed first a mourn- ful, troubled, inquiring gaze upon her face; gradually its expression brightened as if a cloud were slowly rolling   260   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. away its dark folds, leaving a sunshiny smile to cheer and rejoice those who lived, as it were, in its light. There was joy in every beating of Hilda's pulse; there was a sweet, subdued thankfulness in the heart of Sophia; and Mr. Carlan, as he kissed the pale forehead of his risen child, felt that he, too, had not in vain gone with her to the gates of the dead, for he had brought from thence a contrite spirit and an appreciation of something higher and better than was recognized by him in his most prosperous days. Zoe gradually recovered, so as to take part again in the duties of her home, and she sought, as much as possible, to extend her sphere of usefulness abroad. She gained by little and little the right idea of her con. stitution in each of its departments, and its true relation to God and humanity. She thought of herself'no longer as special and pecu- liar, either in nature, character, or destination, but as one of a grand company of souls, each invested with a more than princely right, under God, to develop itself to the point of Infinity. Only in the direction of evil and wrong does the Almighty Republican Governor interpose his beneficent influence to restrain and save his own from de- struction and injury; towards the ever multiplying spheres of the All-Good and All-Perfect he has placed no barriers to their progress, but on the contrary, has blazoned on high every inducement through Nature, Christianity, and his ever-watchful Providence for their advancement and com- plete felicity. Mr. Lindsey and his party returned from Barbadoes to Santa Cruz, with the exception of Mr. Pierson, who decided to go on with Mr. Stephenson to the Amazon, and from thence to Chili, his place of destination. Zoe and Hilda greeted them with cordiality, and they found comfortable lodgings in the hotel of Mrs. Howard. 'Mr. Carlan found himself very much reduced in his means, his losses by the hurricane being the last of re-    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   261 peated blows, leveled against his fortune. He re-arranged his affairs on a reduced scale, and his wife availed herself of her talent in making nice confectionary and pastry to increase their resources. Zoe's natural taste and idealism came into play in this occupation, and she was a willing and efficient aid to her mother in her work. "See, mamma!" said she, as she pointed to a wedding- loaf she had decorated to answer an order upon their skill. "Is not that a work of art? If I make a beautiful cake or tart, with a trqe aim after perfection in all its parts, I shall feel as much satisfaction,. so far as the effort goes, as if I had painted a beautiful picture, and who knows, if I begin and am faithful in this department, but that I may, in future, rise so high as to work over the sky, and the clouds, and the human form divine in a painting, as easily as I now mould this sugar to my purposes. I think I'll hang out my sign, 'Zoe Carlan, Artist in Pies and Cakes; and if people are bright enough to see a few years in advance, they will read through these materialized sylla- bles the golden letters underneath of, 'Zoe Carlan, Artist in Composition Pictures and in Statuary.'  "What confectioner did you employ?" said Mrs. Rut- gard to Mrs. Stinson, on the occasion of her daughter Ellen's marriage. "Mrs. Carlan made all these knick-knacks; are they not pretty? and this large loaf was ornamented by Zoe. What exquisite taste it evinces! By the way I heard you had had trouble with your servants?" "Yes," said Mrs. Rutgard, "' they are as impertinent as they can be. O this dreadful emancipation! We are all ruined by it." "Do you think so? My husband says his servants be- have remarkably well in the fields, and mine in the house never did half so much work as they do now, or half as well. They seem really to have risen in the scale of humanity since the emancipation." 4   262   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. "Mr. Rutgard says that it is all a mere fancy of enthu- siasts to suppose that the African race is capable of im- provement. Why, look at Zoe Carlan, educated as many years as she has been, who has settled down into nothing but a pastry cook!" Yes, Zoe was a pastry cook! for in this occupation did she see her way of duty in the present. She would array herself fitly for her employment and delight her mother and find satisfaction for herself in expressing, in this hum- ble way her ideas of the beautiful and truly tasteful. From her throne of labor, humble yet exalted as it was by her high principles of action, she surveyed the myriads of her sisters of every color and clime, who minister thus lowlily to the comfort, health and happiness of mankind. She thanked God that she could be thus brought into living sym- pathy with them, and at the same time with Jesus, their great workfellow and friend, whose words oftentimes cheered her in the heat and labor of the day: "For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? But I am among you as he that serveth?" How much nobler and truer, verily, is the rude life of the kitchen if its walls and its most unseemly work are hallowed by high endeavor, than the luxurious indolence of the hysterical drone or of the butterfly-belle, floating upon life's surface, on the fashionable promenade or in the midnight assembly! When the labors of the day were over she would either stroll with her mother--and father sometimes now-amid their favorite haunts, or sit under the shade of the tamarind tree and weave into artistic form the shining seeds of the mimosa, talking simply, yet ever beautifully upon the themes which enriched and gladdened her life. She was a pastry cook! but sometimes she would wander alone till she reached her most beloved seat on a large rock which had been washed up by the waves upon a point   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH.   263 extending far out from the main-land. Here she felt less bounded than anywhere else by the inclosures of time and sense, and her freed spirit would utter itself in jubi- lant strains with the breaking surf for an accompaniment, and the sea-birds' flight upwards to serve as the ethereal spirit of music to waft her notes to the throne of the Highest. "O glorious and ever-shifting, yet always the same ocean! venerable in thy hoary age, mighty in the propell- ing, uplifting force of thy world-encircling waters! Thou speakest to me of eternity in the past, and of a still more glowing eternity in the future! Roll on in thy majesty like the ages upon ages, ever bearing on thy varied front-now darkened by storm and made terrible by thy roaring surge, now reflecting the infinite and loving, universal smile of God-the image of His great and marvelous dealings with the nations. "Spirit of the universe! Ruler and parent of all the dwellers in the multitudinous spaces of creation! Thou ever givest us good from thy inexhaustible sources of sus- tenance. Thou breathest into us of the life-inspiring full- ness of thy being; thou invitest us to become co-workers with thy Omnipotence; thou grantest us a foretaste, through the soul's subtle sympathy, of thy Omnipresence; thou spreadest before us the means of sharing with thee in thy Omniscience; thou invitest us to be one with thee in thy sublimely beneficent workings, while all time, eternity, the creation without and the universe within us, cry out to thee to unite us with humanity and Deity by the everlast- ing bonds of thy love! "Jesus, thou pure and bright essence, descended from the Father on high, first-born of a new spiritual creation! Leader, Redeemer, Saviour, Elder Brother and Friend! fain would I clasp hands with thee and labor to bring on thy glorified reign. Intercede with our Father to aid me in erecting thy kingdom below, to lead on the time when   264   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. peace shall reign over the lairs of the forest and the habi- tations of men, and a little child shall lead on the hosts of our God to power and renown through the might of all- conquering love! "Elder Scripture of Him, who spoke chaos into order and harmony by the breath of his power! Nature, dear mother, sweet mother, careful mother of eld, bloom brighter, more beautiful, more fragrant than of yore, for God and man will unite as never before to prune away thy excres- cences, to deck out thy loveliness, and call forth thy fruit- ful stores to gladden the poor, and give more equally than now to all the dwellers below. "O wonderful Word! vouchsafed from on high! the clear message of God granted to guide us through the wilder- ness world! thou speakest to us now in thy every reveal- ing, in equal tones of command, of prediction, inspiration, warning and tenderest love, even as thou didst to prophet, historian, rapt-singer and seer, or to Mary sitting docile at the feet of her Lord. "O Life! thou art beautiful, befitting and grand. Through harmonious correspondence with thy Author and his be- hests, the hours glide away blissfully as eternity's flow. Thou art a grand drama, in which, if we have conned well our parts, every scene and each act chimes in without in- terruption or jar with the role of the great theatre Mana- ger, showing a fit work of art. Thou art a triumphant march, in which each one treads to music, who sees with couched eye how to keep step with the Infinite, whose everlasting arm we lean on. And an anthem art thou, in which God calls upon solo, duet, quartette and orchestra to sing in loving and spirited harmony to the never-ending praise of his mercy and majesty. "' Death! what art thou but a radiant angel, standing mid- way between heaven and earth to shadow its too brilliant effulgence from mortals Thou foldest the good to thy 1pving embrace, and then turnest thy face to the sky, and   ZOE; OIC, THE QUADROJN'S TR'1UMPJ.     265 lo! the freed spirit returns thy embrace wthl thanks for breaking the chain of its bondage. "Immortality! the other side of life's page, on which the faithful and pains-taking soul may be rid of the blots and erasures of the first, and illumine it with the truth and beauty of heaven. O! would that the sky-vail could be folded aside, that I might greet and rejoice with the souls of my own! for my frame is restless and worn with the chafing and struggling of the spirit within it. It flutters and pleads, and pants in its cage, saying, 'Release me; O free me, that I may soar far away!' "When, when will the hour come, so longed for by me, In which the spaces of earth will be given to the free I When the worship of the Father and the love of the Lamb, Will be the watchwords to labor for God and for man!" 23   1 M "There is a fire And motion of the soul, which will not dwell In its own narrow being, but aspire Beyond the fitting medium of desire."-BYRoN. O)  suffered from having too little opportunity to em- ploy the energies of her mind, and allow her to precipitate, so to say, the soarings of her imagination. She needed some occupation commensurate with her intellect, and equal to her capabilities of usefulness. She had perse- vered in her attempts to bring herself into pleasant rela- tions with her people, and she devised many little ways of raising their condition. But she worked in fetters, for the Danish government kept a watchful eye upon its colonists, to see that they did not overstep the lines marked out for them, either in religion, education, politics, or in their manufactures. She was like a highly-charged electric bat- tery, filling and ever filling with the subtle elements all around her, with which she was in harmonious correspond- ence, but having few points of sufficient power extending towards her from any opposite pole, by which she might discharge the superfluous ether, and thus relieve herself of the nervous restlessness which pervaded her being. She was one day expressing the wish to Hilda that she could find more to do in accordance with the working of the strongest part of her nature, and thus give expression to her ideas of what life, individual character and society ( 266 )   ZOE; OR, TIE QUADROON'S TRIUMPII.   267 ought to be, when her friend asked her why she did not write a book. "You know my attempt and failure in that line," said she, "I have not sufficient command of detail or dramatic power enough to make it striking and interesting." "O try again!" said Hilda, I know you will succeed, You may have me for one of the characters and make me just as foolish and ridiculous as you please. George will like nothing better, than to have you show him up with all his extravagances. Mr. Lindsey will make a beautiful minister for your use. Dr. Chichester, as my hero once said, will do for the background, to bring him out in better relief, and for the quality, to quote my Cid again, you could not desire more delightful specimens than Mr. Pier- son and his sisters. Begin with your school-life, and bring in our dear Mrs. Kirner, the pastor and his wife, and can't you weave Ben Ezra in, in some wizard-like way?" said she, looking slily at Zoe. "Yes," she answered, without changing countenance in the least, as Hilda expected; "he will do for the spirit of Judaism. I wonder how Mrs. Liebenhoff was going to manage him in the plot of her story. I think, dear, I will make a second attempt. Thank you for suggesting it." She selected her subject; one connected with the for- tunes of her people, and her pen flew over the paper with lightning speed, so that in a few weeks, she read her manuscript to Hilda, whose enjoyment of its incidents heightened her own satisfaction in this labor of love, and healthy discharge of a part of her nature, mostly hidden from the knowledge %f the world. Like plants, whose seeds have not germinated till near the closing of summer, and which hasten to do their life- work in a tithe of the usual time, lest the frosts should nip them untimely, and thus prevent their leaving behind them mementoes of their existence, so did she feel impelled by a premonition of change in her destiny to shed the past   268   ZOE; OR, TIIE QUADROON'S TRI UMPII. phases of her being by expression, that the future might grow into more symmetry and beauty unencumbered bytheir weight. She wrote from her own life, as much as her shrinking nature would permit her to embody herself in the form of Art, but far behind all its revelations, there was the holy of holies, in which no one entered but the Spirit of her God, in whose growing communion she had  more and more a foretaste of the heavenly world.     : She received about this time, a letter from Mrs. Lieben-  hoff, in which she told her of her own great loss, and then went on as follows: "Do you ask me, Zoi, how I bear up under an affliction so heavy, a loss so complete, of the object of my former continued reference, solicitude and respectful regard? You, at least, will understand me when I say, that though sinking at times from the lack of the ever-sustaining arm, watchful love and never-failing affectionate interest of my beloved, yet, deep in my inmost soul is there at times, a strange joy, never experienced in the happiest hours of our marriage. "For now I know that my glorified one, freed from the mortality which fettered and chilled his intensey being, can hold nearer and more loving communion with what most incloses my life, even the soul, which burns and flames upward, towards the spheres to which I know he has risen. I lack not for sympathy and most friendly interest, and oversight. As God gives to the trees, ere they cast their leaves in the chill autumn, a promise of fresher life, beauty and luxuriance after their winter repose, by draw- ing to them, through their own attraction, the forces of surrounding Nature, that plant on what seemed their deadened branches, the living, beautiful buds of hope and joy in the future, so my existence is enriched, as I once never could have believed possible, by the tenderness and affection of newly-found loved ones, added to the trusted and tried. He, I well know, adds a new swell of joy to his   ZOE; R()R, FIlE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.  269 cherubic song when he sees that I, no more than he, fail of the sympathy which, in my first hour of bereavement seemed lost to me for ever, with the sudden quenching of the light of his eye." Then followed some local information, which she thought would interest Zoe, concerning Miss Ingemann, who pre- served intact, her systematic mode of training all minds alike; of Miss Holberg, who had separated from her, and taken the care of a few girls whom she was seeking to de- velop in harmony with their own peculiar, natural charac- teristics; of the American minister, who had been recalled, and another sent in his place; of Mr. Koirner, who had emigrated to America; and lastly, of Ben Ezra, who had accompanied them to the same country. This had given her Illustrator an opportunity to exhibit him in a new light in one of the pictures in her hook. He is holding a cross in one hand, while a roll of parchment is lying at his feet. An intelligent-looking eagle is standing, by his side, to whom he is saying, "Reverence no longer, the letter of Scripture, but imbibe its life-giving spirit, and it will point thee ever to the crucified Jesus, as the ideal of human perfection, the inspirer and guide to a sublimely spiritual life and its consequent bliss." Mr. Lindsey came often to see Zo--so occasionally did Emma and Meta Pierson. The former would bring and read to her any tit-bit of literature she received from America, and Meta would play upon her guitar and sing in feeling strains, some of her favorite German airs. Zoi would join her voice to hers, and it seemed to them as they listened to it like the tones of a spirit hovering near and enticing them to heaven by the subtle melody of its strains. One day, they came to her in grief and affliction. Their brother, in whom their own being was wrapped, so strong and tender was the affection between them, had suddenly married a Spanish lady in Chili, after an acquaintance of a few days. They were much distressed thereby, as it   270   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. must, of course, finally separate them from him, and they feared that a foreign marriage would not be favorable for his happiness, more than their own. The lady was intelli- gent, of a freer soul than her education would indicate, ! and a poetess. "If she is all this, why be so troubled?" said Zoe.  "I cannot relinquish him, who is a guardian, lover and brother all in one, without a terrible pang. It seems to me, that I wish no longer to live," said Emma. "I can understand your feelings, dear Mists Pierson, for I know from a life-long experience, the soreness of a soul riven from its natural support. Still, such is the way of the world in the course of God's Providence. Who knows, but that a fresh shoot started in your new civilization may not grow into a noble tree, sending forth luxuriant and fruitful branches in the old worn-out one, for Chili is aged in its Spanish life." "But we have so few remaining friends, and Horace was such a host in himself;" said Meta. "Why do you not engage in some work which will ab- sorb your powers, dear young ladies, and leave you less at the mercy of the changing circumstances of your lot; you have both of you such richly stored minds?" "Meta does write occasionally," said Emma, " though only to beguile her private hours." Why should she not be the Sappho of your country; I see a world of idealism in the still life of her classic features, which hide only to reveal all the more, the con- suming fire which they cover- an earnest of passionate, burning song. Give it vent, and it shall at the same time, delight her friends, and save the tenement which enthralls it from ruin." "I live in the past very much," said Meta. "I fear you would not like my poems, your eye looks so much into futurity." "I love all times now," said Zoe, " for perhaps you don't   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROONS TRIUMPH.    271 know I dwell in eternity, as my friend Mrs. Liebenhoff once lold me she did. Do not look for poesy only in the distance, or in the times long gone by. O! see it on every hand, in the history of the past, in the living present, and the advancing future! Every part of creation is instinct with it, all times express to the awakened spirit its senti- ment, and all events, incidents and circumstances, assimi- lated into our innermost, form themselves through the subtle chemistry of the soul into rhythmical numbers, and flow to the point of the pen in the still meditative hour." "I am proud and grateful for my sister's genius, and look forward to her taking no mean place among the writers of our country." "And you, Miss Emma, your quick observation, your power of analysis of character, and the fire and force of your nature point, as it seems to me, to your sphere. Put them and your attainments into full requisition, and I should like no better resource for my leisure hours than a Tale from your stylus." They bade her adieu, as they were to leave Santa Cruz in a few days, and as they walked home with Mr. Lindsey, Emma said to him: "Never again will I judge a human being by the superficial standard of the world; for I now see that one may pass by an angel of light, hidden from the eyes of the vulgar by a dusky envelope, only to give out a more loving lustre to the spirit prepared and waiting for the blessing it can yield." ",Zoe is passing away!" said Meta. ' No power on earth can retain her, for I read in her eye the beckoning light, which the angels award to the sky-born. Before we reach our home she will have risen to hers." "It will be but a translation," said Mr. Lindsey) A when she departs. It is not disease that is wasting her, but the fluttering and beating of the imprisoned soul against the frail walls which inclose it. Thank heaven there are spheres, where conventionalism will not place its iron hoof   272  ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. upon the natural action of giant, spiritual natures. In heaven Zoe will shine as a star of the first magnitude, not to dazzle, but to lead to the upper mansions furnished for emancipated souls." Hilda came to Zoe one morning in a glow of excitement. : "I have just received a letter from George Stephenson,"  said she, "which is so characteristic I must read you a  part of it, even if it is somewhat lover-like, at times, in its  expression. It is from Amazona.    .         i "' Here I am among the boys, a pretty clever set of  fellows too, in this warm valley, into which God seems to have poured the fattest and richest of all his most luscious productions, with the giant river rolling its turbid length i within full sight of my hut. Didn't I think there was no end to the long brook as we paddled down it in our canoe? I can tell you, Hilda, the world is made on a pretty gene- rous scale, if we fellows would only get the cracks of out skulls open wide enough to let the notion of it shine into our muddy brains. The Southrons think that they are going to get possession of this country and slide slavery into it as slick as the water running over our great mill- dam here, But they 'll find that it takes two to make a bar- gain, and that Young America, north of Mason and Dixon's line, has a word or two to say before closing that contract. No, sir-ee; niggers, as niggers, don't come into these dig- gins. If they will emigrate here and set up a school for manners of the real Christian style, and soften us rough fellows down to a little more civilized stamp, and show us how to be 'jolly under creditable circumstancesf as none but a nig--I mean an Americo-African-can, and put some real genuine humor into our Yankee sobersides, and share the very best that's going with us, why, then we 'll give them a welcome. But we have had flying-horses long enough to plow our fields with. Give us machinery in the future, T say, that will go fast enough without having to lick it,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   273 which spoils the temper on both sides of the hedge. Until our steam engine and other tackling come from the States, I am going to have a real live elephant to plow my fields for me, and set the lions and tigers to plant the sweet potatoes, and the monkeys, of which there are any quantity here, will gather them into the cellar, provided they don't eat them all up on the way. What funny critters they are, Hilda, and no mistake-real caricatures of humanity. I think I must have been one once myself, I enjoy their tricks so much; and they seem to know it too, and wink at me as much as to say, 'Giggle, if you will! When we come to be men and women and set the reform-top spin- ning, you will laugh t'other side of your mouth. For we will have kingdom-come on the earth in a jiffy-not of the kind that some people want, in which all the women are to wear white aprons, and intone the litany with their heads and hands hanging down like fiost-bitten poppies, and the men scraping up money like dirt in the streets to shut up in their strong boxes, or to squander in some ruinous way or other, but a good, healthy, happy, frolicsome one, where everybody will do what he pleases, provided he does not tread on other people's corns, or throw pepper or sleepy dust in their eyes.' Hilda, I am getting to be such an anti- slavery man that I expect my hair will begin to grow kinky, as my sister's has ever since she became a freesoil woman, and I am such a pious Christian that I have to hold myself down by the force of one or two little bad habits, such as smoking a cigar once in a week or so, or I should balloon up to the third sphere before my time. However I intend to leave off entirely before I see you again. It is all owing to Mr. Lindsey, God bless him! He has saved me from infidelity and showed me how I can be religious without blotting out nature without, or nature within me. Now don't think, my dear Hilda, that I am going to bring you into this wild place to live, where you would be eaten up by the sand-flies and musquitocs,. to say nothing of the   274   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. other discomforts of a new settlement among half-savages. No, no, I don't see my way clear to make a martyr of my- self or of you to that extent. I have made friends in Iowa, and I am useful there, though I say it, that shouldn't say it, perhaps, and there I'll build you the prettiest little shanty there is between this and the full moon. "' I don't know what I 've done to deserve such good for- tune as to have one of the angels of heaven condescend to pity me in my wild condition, but this I know, that if think- ing of, and wishing for you ever since I was sixteen years old has given me any title to your love, why then it is be- stowed upon the right one. I feel as if I could do anything in creation in the finishing-off line, which Mr. Lindsey says we were put here for, with you to encourage and back me; and if I don't have a real Christian community in our place in less than ten years, where every one shall do about right, then I 'm mistaken in myself. "' I have written to my father and sister that I have found again the most precious diamond ever crystallized this side of the central fires, and I guess I shall have a little different reception when I return home this time, from what I did when I came back from the Rocky mountains. I never told you that story. "'Well, here it is: "'After I had been home from college some weeks, I got tired of hanging round my sister's rocking-chair, and hold- ing her yarn while she wound it, (blessed little soul as she is! every grain of her is pure honey). I thought I would join a company and just step off to the tall hills I had read about so much. I said nothing about it to the gov--, I mean my father, because you see, I was determined to go, and did not want to give him the trouble of refusing me for nothing. I was away two years. Had a pretty hard row to hoe, I can tell you, and was glad enough to get home with my rebellious top-piece safe in its place. I arrived in the evening. Sister and aunty were almost crazy with joy,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   275 but felt anxious about my reception from my father. I don't know in what way they managed to let him know I was in the house, deave women for such delicate business as that!) but the next morning I went down to breakfast, and he looked up from his coffee and beef-steak as calm as a clock, and said, 'Good morning, George I' just as if I had not been away a single day. That was his way of re- buking me. Didn't I feel cheap? . I should rather he would have given me a scolding or a round box on the ear by a long chalk. But I never ran away again, that is certain. "'I am collecting all the pretty things I can for you; but it is strange, since I met you, how my ideas have grown about what is good enough for a present to a lady. Don't despair of me, Hilda, and I will try and make something worthy of you yet out of myself. I only need you to lead me on and point the way to the higher regions, and if I don't make you happy in this world and the next too-if you don't get tired of me-it will be because the order of things is reversed in the universe, and effects no longer fol- low causes. Take good care of yourself, dearest Iilda, for you must remember you have charge of two lives in- stead of one, for the future; and if yours goes by the board, the other certainly will. "'Give my love to Zod, and tell her I am collecting all the poetry and romance I can for her, in the shape of sto- ries and incidents, and traits of character. "I have got one beautifil one about a bird called 'La Alma Perdida,' the lost soul, which I shall repeat to her when I come to Santa Cruz. "Your ever devoted lover,  G. S.'" "Mr. Stephenson has a noble, generous soul," said Zoe. "He will do all in his power to make you happy, I am sure." "I will read you one paragraph more which I hesitated to at first, but I wish you to see what a vein of tender   276   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. sentiment there is underlying his free, imaginative intel- lect and strong, impulsive character." "' Do not fear, my own Hilda, that you will find no ten- derness under the rough buffalo hide, within which I have wrapped all my gentler emotions. A man who had such  a mother as mine to watch over him all his boyhood, to share with him his sports, his little troubles, his studies,  and his work, and teach him about God and, all holy  things, though he may get crusted over somewhat by the   : wicked world, and slide into some of its evil ways, will  not need much urging to return to the right path by the woman he loves. My mother used to be anxious lest I was growing up irreligious and careless of all high subjects of reflection; and, somehow, I shrunk from letting her know how much I did think of them (I am sorry for it now as it would have pleased her,) but a fellow can't be out night after night as I have been under the stars without feeling himself in God's presence, and thinking that he had better take some heed to his ways, so as to have his character come within speaking-trumpet distance of his ideas of right. If she knows now of my love for you, it makes her happier in heaven. She will know that through you she will, some time or other, meet me again. So, though I have led a rough life, having slept upon the prairie, eaten bison meat, and drank out of the Mississippi, my heart tells me that there is a nice, warm, downy place in its depths where yours can nestle and find happiness, and repose in its most loving and sacred hours.'  "O Zoe," said Hilda, as she finished, "I feel very rich in the possession of so noble a heart, and I hope I have some proper sense of the responsibility with which I con- sider womanhood is invested by our heavenly Father. to be the leader of the beloved of the other sex in the moral and spiritual departments of life. If you would accom- pany us to America, dearest, my happiness'would then be complete. I shall go with him on his return." *   ZOE; OK, TIlE QUADIOON'S TRIUMPH.      2" "I can never leave my father and mother while I live; and Hilda, my soul warns me that my life is not to be long. Nay, weep not, I am butjust beginning to be fiee from the feeling of orphanage and forlornness, for, by the inner light, I see the home of my life's yearnings, and him whom it has been the passion of my whole life to reveal in his glory. Will you take my manuscript to-the United States and pub- lish it for the benefit of my down-trodden people. I know, Hilda, that you will always be a friend to them." Hilda could only enfold her in her arms and weep and sigh out hei love for her, and the promise of devotion to the cause of Christian fieedom  and holiness which Zoio had lived, moved, and had her being in ever since she was a conscious existence. After sitting silent a few moments, she took from her pocket a poem which her sister, Mrs. Warrington, had handed her, written by a friend of her own, a former resi- dent of the island, just before leaving for England. She had brought it that Zoe might share with her its sweet, affectionate sentiment and rhythm. ' Farewell! farewell! thou lovely isle! In tropic splendor richly drest- Still mayst thou brightly, sweetly smile, Thou garden of the glowing West! Isle of the Holy Cross, farewell! Gem of the sparkling Carib Sea  What mingled thoughts my bosom swell, As now I bid adieu to thee  '    How on my saddened spirit float, Dreams of the unforgotten past, Of scenes-of hours-of griefs remote, And faded joys that could not last. The dead-the lost--around me rise. The loved-the absent-the estranged, They pass before these aching eyes, To tell, alas! how all is changed! "fow oft, at such an hour as this, Beneath yon clear moon's silver ray, In social converse-tranquil bliss, Dear distant friends-'t was ours to stray I   278    ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. And in communion-silent-sweet- Have hearts not throbbed, and eyes not wet, Eyes, that no more on Earth may meet- Hearts-that in vain, perchance, regret. "Hark! borne upon the evening breeze, And on the murmuring ocean nigh, And mingled with the rustling trees What voices-long unheard--sweep by! Voices, that at such stilly hours  Have breathed in friendship's warmest tone, Voices, that midst soft moonlight bowers, Might, whispering, deeper feelings own.  Away, ye visions of the past!  Invoke no more sad memory's aid; Why may oblivion never cast Its spell o'er feelings when they fade! Isle of the Holy Cross, farewell! These eyes may never greet thee more, But tears-ay-bitter tears can tell, I grieve to quit thy sea-girt shore. ' To richer, prouder lands I go, To distant scenes that once were loved, Where my young spirit knew not woe, But led by Hope and Pleasure wooed, I go where merry England spreads Her smiling plains-her harvest-fields, Where Health midst Peace, its blessing sheds, And Plenty her abundance yields. i "I no where proud Augusta rears Her splendid domes in regal state. Where hallowed, though untouched by years, She stands and seems to scorn at Fate; Where Caledonia's heath-clad hills, In stern and rugged grandeur rise; Where dash her thousand mountain rills, Perchance, again, my footstep hies. Yet whereso'er my steps may bend, Whatever distant lands I roam; Sweet Indian isle! my heart shall send A thousand sighs to thy dear home. And oft shall fancy, lingering, dwell On thy blue wave-thy cloudless sky- On thy soft scenes, remembered well- On hours-and hopes-and dreams gone by.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.        279 "Thy shady groves-thy jasmin bowers- The music of thy waving canes, Swept by the wind-thy brilliant flowers, Thy clustering vines that nature trains, Thy golden sunsets, whose soft light- O'er foliage-flower-and rock is shed, In purple glow, to Fancy's sight Shall oft their tints of lustre spread. "  Then fare-thee-well! thou lonely isle! In tropic splendor, richly drest; Still mayst thou brightly, sweetly smile, Thou garden of the glowing West I Isle of the Holy Cross, farewell! Gem of the sparkling Carib sea! What mingled thoughts my bosom swell, As now I bid adieu to thee!" '- I.'T p   ; What is the chaff, the word of man, When set against the wheat? Can it a living soul sustain,  Like that immortal meat?"-WESLEY. the chief of the Danish forces in Fredericstadt, with a view to the enter- tainment of the men of his troop, got up little festivals from time to time, to which he invited the neighboring gentry. On one of these occasions, he came to Mrs. Carlan, to order some confectionary for it, and invited her and her husband and Zoi to be present. As a Dane, he was com- paratively free from the English prejudice against their caste and color. There was to be a comedy in the early part of the even- ing, then a hop by the Danish soldiers and the young colored girls from the neighboring families, and afterwards, Lieutenant Arnsen's friends were to adjourn to his room for music and dancing, and refreshments among themselves. They accordingly went. Zoe and her mother chose a seat in the back part of the room, resisting the friendly Lieutenant's entreaties to place themselves nearer the stage. The petty drama enacted was one chosen with reference to the quarrel between Denmark and Schleswig Holstein. As all present were good Danes, of course it was so ar- ranged that Denmark should have all the glory in each scene, and the unfortunate duchy all the disgrace and ( 280 )   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    281 'defeat. It went off very well, and caused much amusement; and the Lieutenant was thanked for his effort to throw a little additional life over the social circles of the island. Hilda was seated in front of the curtain with a gay group of her Santa Cruz and American acquaintances. Zoe saw her eye turning inquiringly from one side to the other, and she supposed she might be looking for herself. The invi- tation was given to attend the fete after Hilda's usual morn- ing call upon her, so that they had no communication upon the subject. At length, in a pause between the acts, Hilda, with her usual independence of action, when impelled by a strong feeling, stood up and turned completely around and gazed over the assembly. She had the earnest look of one seeking after some particular object, which redeemed it from the appearance of staring at the company. She caught a glimpse of Zoe's family party, and, quick as thought, she left the Count and Countess of Aliford, by whose side she was sitting, with an apology at her abrupt leave-taking, and made her way unattended, so sudden was her exit, and came and seated herself by Zoe and her group of colored friends. There were sly looks and winks among the members of the first circle, and her mother was intensely mortified. After returning home, she scolded her severely, in her first outhurst of anger. Hilda bore the torrent of abuse unflinchingly, saying, "Mamma, in this one matter of my affection for my dearest friend, I must act according as my love and my duty impel me. Zoe and I are one and inseparable, not only in our private hours, but whenever she honors any public gathering by her pres- ence. Let the superficial world despise her if it will. Her spirit dwells where neither the breath of popular favor nor the hiss of its scorn can affect her; and, thanks be to God, who has been so gracious to me as to permit my more terrestrial temper to rise so far heaven-ward as to be a sup- port and a source of enjoyment to her. I go with Zoie! The arrangements for the fete were very pretty and 24   282   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TIUMPH.  tasteful. The grounds surrounding the barracks were lighted , by lamps, inclosed within colored paper, giving a pretty effect to the scene; and the entrance was through agate- way arched with wreaths of flowers twined round a device I: expressive of loyalty to the Danish government and crown. i; Mrs. Carlan and Zoe declined the invitation of Lieuten- h ant Arnsen to adjourn to his own apartments to par- take of the after amusements, and then of the refresh- ments.                          . An instinctive delicacy and true self-respect guarded  :. them from forcing themselves upon those with whom they  i could have so little affinity, as with the self-exalting, social circles of a people who still hankered after the feudal usages and barbarous customs which the system of slavery entails upon its adherents. The next Sunday, the communion service was observed,  ! and Sophia and Zoie welcomed the opportunity of clasping : hands, as it were, with the Christ through the symbols of his love and self-sacrifice, and renewing, through this sim- pie rite, their devotion to his great and ever-expanding  mission on the earth.       ' To be entirely relieved from any possible cause of of- I: fense to others, and thus have their minds in harmony with the occasion, they waited until a few of the last communi- cants, some old, infirm negro women, who subsisted by  -] charity, went up to the altar. As Zo knelt by the side of X: her mother to receive of the elements, she felt a soft hand laid on her own, as it rested upon the chancel, and she ? knew it was none other than Hilda's. She had purposely , waited, that they might together pledge their Master in his : death-cup, which both of them had pierced so far to the centre of spiritual life, as to discern it was the true life- elixir, in its power of perpetual rejuvenation, while the j bread was the long sought for, yet never found by the world,  philosopher's stone, which gives to the partaker, when re- ceived in the spirit of our Lord's bequest, the command  -   Z(E; OR, THE QUXADROON'S TRIUMPH.   283 the wealth, not only of the earth, but also of the heavens erlastingly. There were whisperings and exclamations among the nates of Mrs. Howard's boarding-house, one morning, "ch Emma and Meta Pierson could not comprehend, til Mr. Marland came in to make his usual evening call, d said, that he was going to attend a wedding at Mrs. Gra- ske's, the next morning at six o'clock.. "A wedding! and whose, pray?" said Jane Rutgard, no had just come in from her brother'splantation in the untry. "Lieutenant Tileston's." "To whom?" "To Mrs. Graenske's youngest daughter." There was great wonder, then whispers again, and angry clamations on Jane's part, as if the reputation of Frede- :stadt society, of which she was a decided unit, to say 3 least, had suffered a stain. .Then there were half ex- anations about bayonets and pistols being put in requisi- n by the young lady's brother, if the marriage was not nsummated, etc., etc. But this fact was fully established Mr. Marland's mind, that the ceremony was to be per- rmed by him at the aforesaid unseasonable hour, as the i r were to leave for St. Thomas on the boat. He then entered into conversation with Miss Pierson, in hich he enlarged upon the excellencies of the rubric, the iths ofEpiscopalianism, the glory of, and venerableness the Church, and grew so eloquent, in his own estimation, to justify him in staying until quite an unseasonable our. Meta Pierson retired to her room--one by one, the her ladies and gentlemen left, and still the fruitful theme Is not exhausted. Miss Pierson was a heretic, and must i made to see the error of her ways. She tried the effect of silence, then grew less careful in e concealment of her yawns, until he 'slowly roused okn.   284   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. to. the idea of his untimeliness of stay. He got as far as- the door, hung upon the latch, still unwearied in his attempts at her conversion, when, not being able tobear it longer, she arose and took the candle, saying, "Good evening, Mr. Marland. You must excuse me if, at this late hour, I am not able to see the force of your argument. But really, in my present somnolent condition, I am not responsible for any amount of dullness of comprehension of the claims of your sect to plume itself upon exemption from mistakes in its creeds; much less do I see the justice of its assuming to be the ' inmaculate conception' of the Apostles of the Christian time. I may be singular in my taste, but if I am to lean on any uninspired authority, which your Church, as well as all the others, has proved itself very plainly to be, I shall go back a step or two farther and rest in the bosom of that of the Catholics. You will excuse me if I speak very plainly, but I must say that, if I ever leave that of my own simple faith, which God forbid that I ever should, for any less advanced one, I shall worship with them; for, if I am to be in bondage, it shall be to one tyrant, not to ten thousand. If dogma- tism and condemnation are hurled at me in the cathedrals, I can at least resort to the symbols, the pictures, and statu- ary for diversion and relief. It would be well if we, to a certain extent, as those' religionists do, aided ourselves in accordance with common sense and reason, by the use of these means. Instead of having nothing but bare walls to stare upon, or to echo back the mistaken and presumptuous insults of fallible men to my injured and indignant soul, when assailed, I have found them an acceptable resource. Good evening, Mr. Marland!" He went out with the full determination to write a ser- mon for the next Sunday, expressly for Mr Lindsey and the young ladies. He thought it over, determined where to put the flourishes of oratory, and where a half-whispered and half-hissing annunciation of their horrible future doom,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   285 which must certainly finish any disposition for free thought henceforth. He became so much interested in this mental occupation that he laid awake until a very late hour. His imagination branched off from the prospective delivery of the sermon to its being published, and to its attracting the attention of the bishop, who would, perhaps, grant him a good rectorship, in consequence, in the great metropolis of his country. And then how reverently he would fold his canonicals about him in the vestry! and how spotless should be his surplice, and neckerchief, and bands! With what devotion he would cover his face with his lawn before the great congregation, when he entered the desks hem.. stitched as it was by some fair member of the Church! and with what propriety he would read the service, and through what eloquence he would save dying souls! How -the hooped moire-antique skirts and fur cloaks, with the elegant matrons within them, would pet, and patronize, and court him to their sumptuous abodes! Especially how would the French hats, with young ladies in front of them, and the rich, trailing, silk robes inclosing-what should be, if they are not-souls full of immortal hopes, admire and look up to him!-And yet, for all this, Mr. Marland meant to be a pretty good and conscientious man. But the angels of Faith, Hope, and Charity, as viewed in the com- prehensive Christian sense were, in him, but of a diminu- tive and feeble type. They were ever liable to be smothered in his surplice, or scorched in the Puseyite candles, or trodden upon when he turned his back to the people as High Church demanded, or crushed between the purple velvet covers of the prayer-book, or precipitated in the repeated reading of the creeds. He was in con- tinual peril lest, instead of "Holiness to the Lord" being inscribed upon every part of his ministerial manage, even to '" the bells of his horses." there should be written all over himself and them in delicate letter-press, with fre-   286   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. quent Italics to give emphasis to the announcement-The Right 'Reverend Cream Cheese,' Lord Bishop of -- W. X. Y. Z. It is no wonder that, kept awake as he was, by these u1plifting meditations, he should oversleep himself in the morning. It was within a few minutes of the time set for the wedding when he awoke. He jumped up, threw on his clothes without having time for his ablutions, and with unkempt hair, with no perceptible white collar about his neck, and with the knot of his kerchief awry, he dashed along the street and entered Mrs. Graenske's abode just as they were dispatching a servant to hasten him. The company were all assembled, the ceremony must take place without delay, else the Lieutenant would lose his passage in the boat and outstay his furlough. So Mr. Marland tried to collect his scared and scattered wits to read the marriage form. In his flutter he called the bride, husband, and the groom, wife, which created a giggle among a group of nephews and nieces, and brought down upon them grave shakes of the head and wide open eyes at their naughtiness. But when at the conclusion he pronounced them, in his excitement, "a match," they laughed outright, and were taken out of the room at once by the head and shoulders, not to appear again until they had given such vent to their mirth as to make them safe inmates in the drawing-room. A hasty glass of wine was drank to the health of the bride, with rueful looks on the part of her relatives, while the groom was treated with sufficiently stiff politeness to announce to him that he was accepted as a necessity more than as a son or brother. Then commenced the procession seaward. Thefamily ark received the " twin souls," and drove lumbering away, while negroes, little and big, followed after, running with boxes, bags, unbrellas, baskets, causing a general excite-   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    287 ment through the town, for the people were, at this hour, chiefly on the market square, or going to or from it. They arrived at the shore just as the "Blue Peter," the small signal sail, was taken down. The bride was safely put aboard; but the Lieutenant, who chose to be married in his scarlet regimentals, with his sword on, in going hur- riedly up the steps to the vessel, got that appendage en- tangled in some way between his feet, causing him to fall into the water. He sank so as to cover even the very tip of his plume, but was dragged out by two stalwart negroes, who grinned from ear to ear at his sorry, draggled appear- ance; for the blacks had no very good-will towards the Danish officers. He retired to put on his citizen's dress, somewhat crest-fallen. Every time he appeared during the voyage, they would laugh, and it did not increase his equanimity to hear them say, "He 'gin to shake his plume again. Next thing him crow and tip backwards. Him sharp, iron tail feathers very much in way. Ha, ha, ha!" And this was the unpoetical conclusion to the marriage of our philosopher, whose system of morals was quite too extensive and sublime to be bounded by Christianity. His self-selected, psychological twin had the humiliation of feeling that she was now forced on him, as his companion for life, by his fear of being shot down by her incensed relatives. And the exalted idea of the true union with which he had deluded her, threatened to end in the separ- ation of their spirits, which a want of due self-restraint and disobedience to the highest laws laid down by nature and God will inevitably cause. His unseasonable matinal marriage was the seal to the unbecoming character of the whole affair. Formerly the devices for such events were, Cupid playing with a nymph; Cupid catching a butterfly; Cupid with a torch, etc., etc. In these prosaic days, when symbols and emblems seem to have lost their force and beauty, it should be Cupid on a   288   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. steam engine with eyes starting with fright at a threatened explosion; Cupid on a lump of ice in the middle of the' river, shivering from cold; Cupid in a cave, with a tallow candle in his hand, peering around at the darkness made visible; or Cupid in the kitchen among the pots and kettles all begrimmed and begreased thereby. I   ..   HMA[EPTi [       Xal tOo "LifeI we've been long together, Through pleasant and through cloudy weather, 'Tis hard to part when friends are dear; Perhaps 'twill cost a sigh, a tear; Then steal away, give little warning, Choose thine own time; Say not, Good-Night, but in some brighter clime, Bid me, Good-Morning."-MRS. BARDA ULD. and his young friends were about to leave Santa Cruz. They had been received and treated very hospitably and kindly, both by their hostess and the neighboring gentry, and had treasured up a store of plea- sant memories for the future, both of its perennial verdure, and its social and agreeable inhabitants. To Mr. Lindsey, it was a season of unmingled enjoy- ment, with the exception of his wife's absence from him. He improved this season of leisure in collecting information with regard to the history of the island, its system of ser- vitude, of the late emancipation, and its probable prospects in the future. He was a student in the natural sciences, and his eye was open and quick to perceive all that was rare, curious and beautiful in this tropical climate, and to read a fresh -page of God's love and wisdom in the new phases of Nature presented to him. The evening before he set sail for St. Thomas, he called on Zoe. She was sitting alone, (her mother having gone out to see a sick person near;) reading Dr. Channing's0 25    *              (289)   290   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. sermon on the future life. She spoke of the pleasure and profit she had derived from his works, and then went on to say: '* I think we dwell too much on the distinction between this life and another. To me, existence is a grand total- ity, a sphere without circumference, a universe without limitation. I know that this frail tenement which incloses my spirit, must drop from me, for neither my friends nor I have known how to keep it in exact accordance with my spiritual nature. But who knows, Mr. Lindsey, in the fu- ture, when through a more complete knowledge of the laws of a healthy life, by means of science and art, when the world shall become so subdued to order, as to be a more fitting abode than now, for God's most precious crea- tion, human nature, but that there may not be this apparent decided break in our being? May it not come to pass that the ever-growing, ever-refining soul may gradually and easily form to itself its fitting abode, and death be indeed, but a deep sleep for an hour, to revive itself, that it may awaken again, replumed and brightened for fresh com- munion with those with whom it lives in affinity below. We speak of the lower and the higher world, of heaven and earth, but this is simply to accommodate our feeble con- ception of spiritual things to ourselves and our friends. Heaven and hell are in the soul. The spiritual world is all about us. We are a part of it ourselves; we see and commune with what we are capable of appropriating. And we shall all through eternity see world within world rising to infinity, according as we are elevated to the capa- city of perceiving these successive spheres." "It is a delightful train of thought to indulge in, and it may be so," said he. "' But the world will not be satisfied with it, for the majority of our race are so discontented here, and see so little beauty or poetry about them, that they look for something entirely different outwardly, in the future life. And yet, did they but consider a moment,   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   291 they might see that those of different mental and spiritual characteristics here, are just as ignorant of each other as if in different worlds. Yes, it must be, that the soul makes its own sphere here and hereafter, and it may be, that it will become so superior to the elements of nature, that they shall never have the power to strike it down, but ever be the aids to carry it on to a more glorious destiny without any rude rupture or decay." "I think so," said Zoe; "I have great faith in the in- stincts of large classes of humanity, or of those of a few individuals even, who live to express and make them practical in separate ages, though in somewhat different forms. - The occasional eager search after the life-elixir points to something, we may be sure. It is a prophecy, that we shall find it some day. In my opinion, it is the ,electric fluid which pervades all space, and which the true, harmo- nious and spiritual human being is pervaded with, and which gives him ever-growing life and power. If it can have legitimate action and be regulated by other sympa- thetic beings, it will perpetually renew the corporeal part. But-" and she paused and silently pressed her hand upon her heart, while her voice lowered--" it may be so restrained by the confinement of an uncongenial sphere, as to burst the frail tenement which incloses it by the very force of its desire for expansion and response." "I have a letter from Mrs. Lindsey here of which I will read you a part in which she has inclosed some lines, which show the deep yearning and sympathy there is in the feminine heart of America for the oppressed of your people. I have copied them to leave with you, if you would like theem. "My wife writes as follows: "' There is nothing particularly new in the affairs of the country. There is the perpetual play, as is usual, of wheel within wheel, without the apparent possibility, on the part   292   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. of the men of the nation to rise to an elevated stand-point from which society can be viewed in all its relations, and a new, and higher, and more thrilling key-note be struck, from which shall burst out the battle-song against evil and corruption, and lead on the anthem commemorating our country's true greatness. This it is left for us women to do. You smile when I talk thus, and go on reasoning the next moment with your gentlemen friends upon the effect of this or that movement put in force by your sex. But for the next century, at least, and I know not if longer, man will, through the Providence of God, look to woman's spiritual insight to hint to him of God's will and design for the good of the world. There will be no rude change of the spheres of the sexes. Woman will remain as the best instincts, and reason, and affections of true men all point to her being, not his drudge, his toy, or unequal com- panionl, but the carefully cherished wife of his bosom, the mother of his children, the tender sympathetic friend, lover, consoler, and aid, and the sunny, beneficent, minis- tering spirit of his home. Besides all this, she is to be the priestess of the inner, sacred temple left in charge of humanity by the Most High./ She is to utter the oracle which is to direct men to purge, and purify, and exalt the counsels of the people, and, if need be, at first, until he moves with quicker Step than has been his wont, to lead on the peaceful armies to their bloodless and glorious victories over the forces of sin, and establish the spiritutal reign of Christ on the earth. 'c'Art will, through her consecrated genius, become what it is not at present, worthy of Christendom in the nineteenth century. Literature will rise to be the fitting handmaid of religion. Science will not only open re- sources for material wealth, but will bind the two former by indissoluble chains to the Author of the universe. And Christ, through the faith, character, and spirit which he bequeathed to the world, interpreted by all the light   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   293 which can be thrown around them by the advancing spiri- tual might of this era, will be, without question, the Leader, Exemplar, and Saviour of the world. ' "Since your departure I have made the acquaintance of a young man, a Hungarian Jew, who brought a letter of introduction to you from your friend Mr. Fielding. "' He is a person of education and a gentleman, devoted to the cause of Christianity interpreted in a very liberal sense, and to the good of humanity in every form. It is refreshing, in these times of dainty ease and self-aggran- dizement, and lowered tone of public spirit and sentiment, to find one who lives, through the force of a perpetual spring of enthusiasm, for high ideas and principles. In an age too, when the intellectual and practical engross so large a part of the best men and women of our country, it enlarges one's sphere of sympathy and ideas of the com- panionship possible in society between those of like inte- rests and aims, to find in him the Soul with its fire, poetry, insight, magnetic force, and attraction, occupying pretty nearly its legitimate proportion and sphere. "' Not that his nature has as yet reached its equilibrium upon the thousand and one points of investigation and dis- cussion in this thinking, curious, restless era. Women are to ascend first to the pedestal which is sustained by the Infinite alone, through a docile and joyful obedience to his various laws; but he approaches nearer to that position than most men. When he learns to trust more implicitly, than he now does, to the simple Christian precepts and less to the ancient philoso-phers and modern philoso-phies, he will work himself clear, and make his mark upon the world.' "This letter," said Mr. Lindsey, " is written in the form of a Journal, and comprises the experience of several weeks. She goes on farther to say of him: "He is a singular being from this fact, that the soul in him bears such sway as to modify very perceptibly his   294   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. external appearance from time to time. I have an opportu- nity to observe him narrowly, as I read German with him daily, in accordance with your parting wish that I should learn it. "' Sometimes I can think of nothing but of all the patri- archs impersonated in him, so venerable is his whole per- sonnel and manner. The next day he comes like the young warrior he was in the revolution of his country, and instead of expecting him to sit down quietly and hear my lesson, I am on the qui vive for the cry of 'To horse! bring my horse! Let us speed over the mountains! We will cut down the Russians and scatter the Austrians! See us sweep down the barriers to the freedom of the Magyars I Kossuth! come, Kossuth! Quick, quick, lead on our warriors!' "'Another day he comes in,the keen, acute, critical Rabbi, splitting hairs, dividing sharp-edged razor lines, and try- ing to look with his wizard-like eyes into the very depths of one's being. "' Still again, he is a tender, sympathizing friend in affliction and trouble, as I have occasion to know through some of my neighbors. "'Again, he is the poet, full of fire and fancy, reading the hidden meanings of flowers, and trees, and symbols of every kind, as none but an Oriental can, and scarcely able to repress the deep, and bitter, and ever-present sense of his loneliness and exile. "'Again, he is the reformer, reaching forth with every point of his fingers, no less than his subtle, wakeful intel- lect after new truths and intimations to aid him in his con- stant aspiring after excellence and advancement. "'He speaks of the past as having been the grave of many hopes and yearnings after happiness and peace, and occasionally expresses the desire and trust, that he shall yet find in affection and family ties a home in the future.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    295 "'But after one of these seasons of mysterious refe- rence to his destiny, he will bury himself in his studies, and one would think then to hear him converse or witness his absorption in learning-that Plato was to be the rule of the mind of the present-that Socrates was again to propose his ceaseless questions (Heaven save us women from touching even the hem of his robe!), or that the German philosophers were the Messiahs of the ages. "'And lastly, he evidently imagines himself, in his most excited moments, a Fate destined to cut the thread of the worn-out times that still linger, and to bury them out of our sight, and spin anew the warp and woof which will weave a more enduring and beautiful web. Hle says that in Europe, he fixed his eye on the map of the United States, and singled out the Queen City as the scene of his mis- sion; and he speaks in tones of authority and decision of his plans for its improvement. And yet, so different is man from woman, that when an inspiration is given to himfor his life-work, and an intimation of the theatre of its accom- plishment, what does he do but already begin to speak of going hence! ' Strange being is this descendant of the chosen people of God! Last week I read an extract of your letter to him, in which you spoke of the young Quadroon, Zoe Carlan- of her pure character and tender, imaginative soul, and he started up as if new life were infused through his being. He rushed out as soon as he could do so with propriety- leaving me amazed at the effect of a few detached sen- tences relating to her. I was wondering what connection there was between your innocent epistle and my Janus- faced German teacher, when in turning my eye over the text-book he has brought me to-day for my use, I found on a blank leaf written over and over again-Zoo, Zoe, Zoe, with Ben Ezra, Ben Ezra, in close connection. I now re- member his once saying that he had come last frornCoi)e4q   296   ZOa; OR, THE QUADROON*S TRIUMPH.    - hagen, and I conclude that she might have been -a pupil of his in Miss Ingemann's school, and that there is an attach- ment, on his part, towards her. Since that he has been in high spirits. The warrior part of his nature. is decidedly in the ascendant. "'Another phase has come over my Hebrew of Hebrews. Like Job he sits in sackcloth and ashes, no less dismal to him and dreary to others that they are not external but cover over his spirit with darkness and dust. "' Still another manifestation! This Israelite, whom I had thought without guile, came into our midst in the dimness of the last evening, his gloom having given way to cynicism and ire. Wrath sat upon his furrowed brow, scorn curled his lip and beard, and every word was a hiss and a sting. In my innocence I spoke to him of what occurred to me of the trifling incidents of the day, and you would have thought I had been Atropos, destined to cut the different threads of which his destiny is spun, and that he hoped to brow-beat me from the behests of the great arbiter who directs the Three Sisters, so fiercely did he receive and an- swer my unconscious and child-like remarks. I remembered the story of the ' Wandering Jew,' who scoffed at our Sub- lime, solitary and suffering Lord, and I then knew that this man was no other than he, and that the loneliness of his lot, the bitterness of his doom, was at times beyond his power of patient endurance. I pondered upon the strange and awful existence of this wonderful being, and said to myself, how long will men cling to the worn-out creeds and parch- ments of the past, and not see that in the religion of Jesus is the cure of all lifers ills, the sure hope of its perennial vigor and youth! For if he would hut receive this later gift of God in its purity and extent, then would he be relieved from his imaginary curse and be at rest from his wapderings.   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    297 "This morning I received this parting note from Ben Ezra: "' I go to the sunny south, and Hope whispers to me that when I kiss the shores of the isle of the Holy Cross I shall find the rest which, through ages, I have sought for in vain, and the bliss which flows from both forgiveness and love.'  Mr. Lindsey looked up as he finished, and something in Zoeis face indicated to him not to remark upon the con- tents of Mrs. Lindsey's letter. He relieved her from a perceptible embarrassment by saying: "By the way, Mrs. Lindsey says that Mrs. Pumpkin told her when she last saw her, that, as she was so exorbitant in her wishes for a large edition of her work, that her pub- lisher advised that it should first appear in a paper, which my wife and I are going to establish on my return, entitled the 'Independent Highway.' A chapter inserted weekly will answer very well to show the signs of the times;' so I shall accede to her proposal to introduce them."   been excluded from the pale of human sympathy from mistaken opinions of their quality, no less than from the unpretending lowliness of their position. '-SWALLow BARN. Now vast eternity fills, all herigh t; She floats on the broad deep with infinite delight, The seas forever calm, the skies forever bright." WATTS. arose to take his departure, and as he held Zoe's hand within his own in his final"They arewell a , she who sai eem to him, ave" thank you, sir, for the aidn sympathich your clear intellect, high adherence to truth and duty, and your ever cheerful tone of mind have afforded me. In you I have seen the combination of (298  ( 98 )   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    299 the broad, free views of life and society, a highly cultivated mind, a ready attention to the smaller no less than the larger obligations of our lot, high devotional sentiment and gentle affections, with the consecration of every part of your nature to the claims of the Christian religion. You have done me great good, and I shall always remember you with gratitude and love." So they parted-he and his friends turned their faces towards the invigorating breezes of the north-she cast her ever-clearer and more penetrating glance upward, where a more than tropical sun enlightened her by His beams and kindled to an ever intenser flame the spirit within her. She reverted to the manuscript which Mr. Lindsey had left for her, and read as follows: "Colloquy between the Africans and the deep Femi- nine Soul." "O miserable me! The white man tore me from my sunny home, where the leaves are ever green and shining, and the flowers and birds and shells are brightly tinted, to shiver in the cold north wind, which pales both man and them, and the poor Buckra freezes, and his soul grows stiff within him." "Poor, poor chilled Buckra," echo answers, very low and far away.  "My mother wrings her hands and weeps for me beside the cottage door. My little sisters stay their gambols on the sanded floor and look bewildered in her face, then utter a frightened cry as she wrings again her hands and shrieks-' The white man's slave-ship! See its black hulk scud, with guilty, murderous look, far with my boy away!' " "O wretched, wronged, and bleeding mother's heart! Pity her, O heaven! Soothe the wounds that never more will heal." 4 The memory of the vessel's hold, O God! it haunts me now. Fathers and brothers, in fearful file, the sweet   800   ZOE; OR, THE QUADEROUONS TRIUMPH. air of heaven turning to corruption; the touch of friend- ship changed to loathing by continual contact; the restless agony; the wearisome restraint. Cover the hateful scene, O Father! from my minds b ackward eye; I faint, I die." "Even so do I." "The long procession to the mart of sale! The brutish voice and stare of the unpitying bargainer! Struck off to the highest bidder like paltry merchandise! A human soul! A bleeding heart! God's image in his child! Our Lord's redeemed one. O me! and can it be! They have forgotten me! Woe! woe! woe! I am, indeed, forlorn." "Forlorn! forlorn!"  "The long, long hours of labor. No rest and playful ease under the tamarind tree. No freedom to sleep-then sport and gaze into the sunny heavens, or on the deep blue  sea. But work, work, rude, heavy work for him whom God designed for his brighter, freer, gladder labors.-And  he harsh whip. I see, I feel it now. Creep, O my flesh! Flow fresh, my gore, at the wicked, barbarous lash of the ,verseer!"  "Echo saysr, '0, oh! I feel it now! Forbear, forbear!'  "Ha! see my helpless sister struggling to be free from he lewd master's power! Sweet heaven! canst thou thus hine when, horrible to say! the worse than death betides Ler? And I thus manacled! Break, burst my bonds! ree me, that I may strike' the tyrant down! Swallow him, hou earth, from the sight of God and men! How long? ) Lord! how long?" "Echo repeats, '0 Lord! how long!" O" my dark, heavy soul! My ignorant, unenlightened "nd! Teach me, ye men of privilege and might, to be- ome the being God would have me be; a glory to his ame! I thirst for knowledge. I crave the wisdom that [e designed- for me. My heart and flesh cry out for the ving God, Show me the way to heaven. Teach me of is revealinga.'   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.    301 'Enlighten me, teach me, men of might! O teach me! rkness broods over the feminine soul!"  'I look beyond to Freedom's land. I start renewed to I run, I cut the waves,I reach the shore! Help me! lelp me, freeman! Thou knowest the untold worth, the alculable boon of liberty. Give me thy hand. I tire, I  The pursuer is close upon me. Pitiless monster! moniac lust of gold! Paltry man-worship! He hurls into the stream, whose current forces me back to bond- and perdition! Heart of stone! God will adjudge e!"p ;He will adjudge thee 1" Again I flee. The strong man welcomes me. I think ind a friend. But lo! he would use me for most vile I selfish purposes! I point to heaven and say, 'God's eman am I!' He curls his lip. He speaks with scorn- phrase: 'I love thee not! A slave art thou to greed I fame! I spurn thee from me? So he, who was to my leaning-tower in the new scenes, opening through freedom, shrivels at my simple touch, as reed at the )roach of fire. That curling lip! Those scornful words! nay I die! I weary of my aching life!" 'God help me! So do I," echoes the deep woman- 1. 'And now, poor bondman, whether in slavery's chains weighed upon by the stern white-man's laws and rude I darkened judgment, I come to thee. I have wandered the, years gone by, half-restless and dismayed, seeing soft and mournful eye on which my own could rest and I response for my deep, thoughtful sorrow." But now I gaze far into thine, and see the answer to life's woe and yearning wail for sympathy. O come to ,ye bondmen! Speak to me, captive women! Look derly, ye little ones in Christ, on the still waiting spirit, ) only pleads to be one with you in the kingdom of our rd! We will plant deep and rear high his standard in   802   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. our midst, and it shall be the watchword to lead us on to glory." - ':We come, we come!" Zoe was fast fading away from day to day. She rode on horseback, and loved to ascend to the summit of the highest mountain,-from which she could see the ocean on both sides of it, and be fanned by its vast, extended breath. When too weak for that, she would be placed in the carriage, and her father would drive with her for a short distance into the country, whose fragrant breeze never failed to revive her. One day she was going, as usual, to take her airing, when she felt that her hour of change was approaching. "Please, take me back to mamma," she said to her father. He looked into her face, and, without speaking, laid her head on his shoulder and turned towards home. Her mother and Hilda received her at the door and placed her in her favorite arm-chair, where she could look down the green slope through its trees, which but partially hid the Caribbean from her view. Mr. Carlan came and sat beside her. She, said to him, smiling faintly: "My father! you sent your child away from you that she might become learned in the world's lore and be fashioned by its rules. But she brought back to you instead a mind taught in Christes school. She could not learn to command by a haughty demeanor, but she sought the way to be obedient and lowly. She failed in gaining the good-will and admiration of her teacher, and such as she; but she has found abundant bliss in the approval of her Maker. She closes her short life on this beautiful earth, but she will find a fairer heaven above. My own good, generous, and much loved papa! you will build up the heavenly kingdom more and more within you; I know,' and then, ere   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH.   803 long, you will greet your own Zoe, where no disappoint- ment shall again mar the bliss of our re-union. Tell me that it shall be so and I will leave you in peace." He bowed his head on her hand, and, with faltering voice, sighed out, "Lord, I believe; help thou my un- belief!" "'Mother, for whom my soul so yearned in the days of my absence! you have taught me that the spirits are ever about us, whispering to us pure messages from the sky- born in the still hour of meditation. Be it so or not, I know that when I ascend I shall meet your pure twin angel above, who 4 always beholdeth the face of our Father who is in heaven.' She will reveal to me of your ever-growing love for your child. And when you are re-united with her, never again to be divided, O then we will wander together in sweeter fields than those of earth, and be refreshed b) the fragrant airs which fan the celestials." "I see her fair form, I feel her soft breath. O hasten the. hour when I too can depart!" said Sophia, looking upwards with a gaze of intensity and rapture. "Hilda, my brave, my beautiful and true I! who hadst faith in thy friend, when it was lost to herself--I have no need to tell of my heart's best love for my own-to thee I commit my most precious and sacred trust. Take this scroll, and let it be a legacy to my poor people in the coun- try of your adoption, who, like Tantalus, are nearly im- mersed to the brim in the liberty they pant for, and yet cannot'quaff of the stream. O see in each form, however defaced, the soul of your Zoe, pleading for freedom from the bonds which enthrall it, and speak thou the hope and courage which will give it new life." Hilda arose, seized the manuscript which lay upon the table, and holding it aloft in the enthusiasm of the moment, with the glance of a Skald, and the gesture of a Norny, exclaimed, "Thy people shall be my people, as thy God is my God! On his help I will rely that He may strengthen   304   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. my heart and the hands of my beloved, until we upturn every root of oppression from the land of their forced adop- tion, and make them equal partakers, with us, of each and all of its blessings!" Zoe gazed with kindling eye upon the rapt Sibyl before her, clasped her hands and looked upward, saying, "Father, I thank thee I die contept." The sun was just setting in a sea of glory. He slowly disappeared below the horizon, coloring the masses of clouds with purple and crimson as they sailed slowly athwart the scene of his exit. There was a hush in the room while all looked toward the pageant, which seemed to be a fitting accompaniment to the Quadroon's Triumph. She gazed silently upon it with placid eye, her breath growing fainter and fainter with the decreasing light, when, just as it seemed flickering like a candle in the socket, Ben Ezra stood before her. He laid his hand upon her shoulder, as if he would stay the parting spirit in its flight. "Nay, my friend!" she said, "seek not to recall me to the earth, but rather ascend yourself to the glori- fied spheres, where we will exchange with each other the sign of the soul, which will unite us forever and ever." She ceased to breathe, and when they looked upon her again, her face was, as it were, the face of an angel. When Hilda arose from her supporting position by Zoe's side, she looked around for Ben Ezra. He had vanished, but instead of him there lay upon the floor a parchment, his negative tribute to the value of the spirit of the Scrip- tures. She took it up, and started, for there came sound- ing to her ear from its deepest centre, in low, weird, dying tones, these words: "But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away." They laid upon Zoi's breast a sprig of the star-jasmin, and   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPI.   305 interred her in a corner of the Episcopal burying-ground, placing upon her tombstone the simple inscription, "Zoe Carlan, aged 20. She is not here, but is risen!" As the small procession was returning from the church- yard, Jane Rutgard said to Mrs. Strophel, as they sat at her window gazing upon it, "I hope this girl's death will be a warning to the colored people not to attempt to edu- cate their children beyond the point they need for their low condition of life. Zoe might have lived to old age and made a very useful pastry-cook for us, but she has, of course, died of disappointment that she was not received into our circle. I am sorry for her father and mother!" "Yes," said Mrs. Strophel, "I have no doubt she did. I can't imagine what Hilda ever saw in the girl to fascinate her so. She seems to me like one bewitched. Now I think of it, I remember that there were black parrots always flying about in the grove near Carlan's. I begin to think with the negroes, there is something superstitious about that bird. As for Zoe, of course, it was the most absurd thing that could be thought of to attempt to edu- cate her like a white person. It has only brought trouble upon herself and her parents, as we see." And is it true that we must measure the value of a soul's growth and expansion by the superficial estimate of a half- barbarous civilization, in which the letter bears sway over the spirit? That if conventionalism chooses to be owl- eyed and hoot at any other method of development than its own one-sided, frigid intellectualism, therefore, the world is forever to be barren of God's own harmoniously propor- tionate souls? No. There shall rise, aside from the pre- sent chaos of philosophies and theologies-which enlighten but to blind, which guide but to lead astray-the pure religion of Jesus. Like God's "Let there be light!" on the day of creation, it shall scatter the clouds and vapors with which poor, weak, presumptuous man has enveloped the ages. Then will bloom the flower of a new and 26 ,      ;   306   ZOE; OR, THE QUADROON'S TRIUMPH. ascending civilization. It shall be lovely as the lily of the vale, fragrant as the violet, pure and delicate as the ane- mone, regal as the rose, and surpassing all others in gran- deur, like the Victoria Regia. It shall be no hot-house ,plant, but it will exhale its perfume in the open air to those who are of the temper to receive it. It shall gladden by its beauty all classes of the people, and it shall be the homely but beneficent herb to heal all the ills of humanity. For God will be the sun to fructify and nourish it; Jesus the gardener to watch over its growth to perfection; and the dew of the Holy Spirit will distill ever upon it, per- petually renewing its life, so that no blight or death can befall it. THE END.     
         
       
   
