
    ----CITATION----
        Moore, David A. (b.1814). The Age of Progress, or, A Panorama of Time .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7273
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The age of progress, or, A panorama of time 
            
                 
                THE .   AGE OF PROGRESS; OR,    IN FOUR VISIONS. BY DAVID A. MOORE. NEW- YORK: SHELDON, BLAKEMAN & CO., "5 NASSAU STREET. 1856.      Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by SHELDON BLAKEMAN & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.  J. J. REED  PRINTER AND STEREOTYER, 16 Spruce St., N. Y.   To all those who sincerely acknowledge the general Brotherhood of MAN, and who desire, in their heart of hearts, the elevation of the entire HUMAN RACE; and espe- cially, to all true AMERICAN PATRIOTS, who, at the present critical hour, have a single eye to the Future success and integrity of the AMERICAN UNION, and who can see, in the prosperity of this NATION, the most efficient means of securing the welfare of Universal HUMANITY,-the PANO- RAMA OF  TIME is respectfully INSCRIBED, with the kindest wishes of         THE AUTHOR.   Phitio u 1. IE NEW EDEN,              17 t1i ion 2. IEE OVERTHROW OF SLAVERY,   -  -  45 tis i o an 3  HE TRIAL OF BEELZEBUB,  -  -  -  105 t i s iRo IIn O2. IE TRIUMPH. OF MAN, -  -  -  -  273    PREFATORY HAVING a few things to say to the world before I with- draw from it, I have no apology to offer for this publica- tion. Nevertheless, I submit it with extreme diffidence, know- ing its imperfections, its weaknesses, and its faults. Of course, I think it possesses some mnerit. But I confess myself an incompetent judge of that. I know one thing. It is not fit to be received as an oracle. The most that I can say in its favor is, that with considerable chaff I hope it will be found to contain, now and then, a kernel of some- thing more valuable. One other thing I know. It was written with a pun- gent sense of existing social evils, and a sincere desire to contribute somewhat to their melioration. Some of its numerous suggestions will, no doubt, be received with a smile. But there are others which seem to me to deserve "the most respectful consideration." That, however, is for other people to decide. Some persons may .call it visionary. And since it is entirely' made up of visions, there may be some show of   Viii        PREFATORY.               { justice in that charge. But since great events have, in all ages of the world, been foreshadowed by visions, and since all men,.from the Emperor CONSTANTINE down to the humble Author, and especially all women, have had more or less faith in them, I cannot possibly regard this as any disparagement to the work. Others may aver, '" that it is neither a Romdnce, a His- tory, a Poeen, nor an Essay : and, therefore, being of no approved order of composition, it should not be tolerated." Such persons I will answer bluntly by' denying the charge. In the first place, I claim it to be a genuine romance. The entire frame-work, and much of the furniture, of which it is constructed, are purely imaginary. And because it is not a story of love and Ourder, and therefore not a fashionable romance, I am not disposed to admit that it is any the less a genuine one. 'In the next place, strange as it may seem, I   claim it to be a history. And what may seem stranger still, I am prepared to place it in the very foremost rank as such. And why? The answer is very simple, if not very obvious. It is a history of three worlds; whether a correct history I will not undertalke to say. Let other ages determine that. Thirdly, I also claim it to be a poeqm. In fact, I sup- pose this to be its truest character. It is as a poem, main- ly, that I desire to offer it to the public. What more de-   serves that name, than a composition in which Sublime Realities and Eternal Truths, embosomed in the great Future, are seized and brought down to the present, and unfolded to the eyes of mankind? But I fear I shall be ac- cused of arrogance. Finally, It may be regarded not merely as an essay, but more. correctly, as a series of essays, upon different subjects. And it is in this character that the real object of the work is most prominently developed. And I submit, that this character is honorably sustained by the systems of argu- ment, in favor of the different changes proposed for the reformation of society, which constitute the body, or rather the heart, of the work. In a word, and without circumlocution, the Panorama of Time is intended as a bird's-eye view of the Social World, of some of its prominent evils, and of some of the modes by which these evils might be conquered, and the world rejuvenated. I have made this desultory statement in order to secure for my book fair play with the Public. Syracuse, N. Y., August, 1856.      D. A. M.    EXPLANATORY. VISION  FIRST. THE Vision of the NEW EDEN is a hurried exhibition of the world, as it may be supposed to appear in the year of our Lord 3000. Society, having been reformed by wise legislation, combined with other means, the human consti- tution is supposed to have gained in strength, and to have risen from one degree of excellence to another, until it has attained the highest state of earthly perfection;-a state analogous to that of our primitive Parents in Eden. VISION  SECOND. THE Vision of the OVERTHROW OF SLAVERY exhibits the progress of that Institution, in the Past and Future, and the metlod and means of its abrogation; together with the supposed condition of the African Race in the year 2000. The writer, in a vision, visits the City of Mexico; which he finds inhabited by Negroes. Among other ob- jects of interest, he observes a lofty Monument, in which he discovers an Inscription giving its history. After se- curing a copy of this inscription, he descends from the   12         EXPL ANATORY. monument and joins an immense concourse of people as- sembling to listen to an Anniversary Oration. This Oration, of which he gives a copy, embraces the history of American Slavery, and of its overthrow; and constitutes the chief interest of the Vision. The disposition of Slavery is supposed to be one of the first steps towards that state of the world which is pictured in the First Vision. VISION THRD. THE Vision of the TRIAL OF BEELZEBUB is an imaginary scene in the Infernal World, at a period corresponding with that of the First Vision. SATAN, having been absent from the world for many ages, on a grand tour of Exploration and Conquest, in the remote regions of the Universe, and having left BEELZEBUB in full charge of his earthly dominions, finally returns to his Infernal Throne. He inquires of his subordinate de- mons concerning the prosperity of his Cause in the earth; and learns, to his infinite surprise and mortification, that all' his Glory has been -turned into Shame; and that his Princes have been defeated, and driven, with all their In- fernal Forces, from the earth. He calls BEELZEBUB to an account for mal-administration; whereupon an altercation arises, in Which SATAN falls into a rage, and pronounces a fearful sentence upon BEELZEBUB.   EXPL ANATORY.         13 In defence of BEELZEBUB, several of the Prznces of Evil come forward, and give in their testilnony to SATAN, con- cerning the conduct of affairs during his absence;-how, in spite of all their efforts, the Angels of the MOST HGH had effected a complete revolution in the Earth, rescued mankind from the infernal domination, and achieved that state of Human Perfection described in the First Vision. In their historical statements, certain methods of reforming the various evils of Society are shadowed forth. VISION FOURTH. THE Visio4 of the TRIUMPH OF MAN is a scene in Para- dise, in which the Angels review the progress of Man from his lowest to his highest estate;-from his complete bondage under the Princes )of Darkness to the perfection of his earthly nature,--supposed to transpire about the year 3000. In the denouement, SATAN, with all his Legions, is shut up in the prison of HELL, to remain there forever.    THE NEW EDEN. The Scene is laid in Western New York. The-Time is A. D. 3000.    THE NEW EDEN.'  GLIMPSE OF THE WORLD IN THE YEAR OF OUR LORD THREE THOUSAND, WHEN CIVIAIZATON SHALL' BE COMPLETE AND UNIVERSAL, AND CHRISTIANITY, REIGN TRIUMPHANT. 'Tis a Land, of all Lands, the most pleasant and fair, Uncursed by dissensions, unclouded by care, Where Virtue and Truth reign triumphant, and where Man attains his true earthly glory; Whence the- demons of Want and of Hatred have fled, Where the spirit of Pride and of Av'rice is dead, Where prison walls grim, and where bayonets dread, Are known but in song or story. To me, the science of Geology was a new theme. It had fallen upon my mind with exceeding weight. It had also gained upon my attention, until it supplied the principal subject-matter of my meditations, by day and night. The slow and progressive steps of creation which this science reveals, of the creation of the vegetable and animal world especially, ascending gradually from the lower to the higher orders of being, as new conditions of life prepared the way,-so very different'   1S         GEOLOGY.        -    I from all the teachings of my earlier life,-awakened within me a new train of thought, profoundly, even painfully exciting. There was much in the subject of certainty, and yet so much of conjecture and doubt, as to leave the mind perplexed and unsatisfied. That myriads of ages had been consumed in bringing the Ipoulation of our globe to its present advanced state, a mere glimnpse of the subject was sufficient to place beyond a doubt. That each pro- gressive link, in this rising chain of life and intelli- gence, had once been the highest link in the chain, and that, too, for a period of time vastly extended, were truths established with equal certainty. But when and where is this chain to terminate? What number of links is yet to be added? By what process of development are these additional links produced? What are to be the geological relations of the human animal in the vast Future? These were questions which were constantly pre- senting themselves to my mind, without meeting with any satisfactory solution. One Sunday morning, having retired to my study, with the view of driving from my thoughts, if pos-   sible, by the aid of a new and interesting author, these topics, which had become so thoroughly annoy- ing as to render me, at times, almost insane, I seated myself in an easy chair by the table ; when, reaching forth my hand for my favorite work, suddenly, every thing around me was changed. I seemed translated into another world ; still, however, retaining in full perfection, a consciousness of my identity. I seemed to myself to be my own self, complete and un- changed ; but everything else seemed strangely and unaccountably novel. At first, I thought I was walking in the streets of a great city; whose edifices were all stately, and sur- rounded by spacious grounds, which were ornamented with all kinds- of shrubs and plants, loaded with de- licious fruits and aromatic flowers. I observed that these grounds and edifices were not enclosed by walls nor fences of any kind. Still, the plants and trees v were unharmed, and the grass was thrifty and un- trodden. But the chief objects of interest to me were the inhabitants. For it is only through the-intelligent world, that the physical, however lavishy, furnished and beautified, possesses thee least -value or impor-   20       THE INHABITANTS.      : tance. In stature, they were tall; in form, most elegantly perfect; in features, exquisitely beautiful; and in all their gestures, there was that perfection of ease, of gracefulness, of simplicity and yet of dignity, which gave them, as they appeared to the eye, a wide superiority over any inhabitants of the earth, which I had ever before seen; far surpassing even my beauz ideal of human perfection. The streets, gardens and groves, were all alive with people, both male and female. All of these were industriously occupied ; and every occupation seemed to afford pleasure as well as physical benefit. Whether in working the soil, planting, gathering fruit, mechanical labor, conversation, teaching, study- ing, reading, writing, walking or riding, they were all employed ; and whatever their employment, they all seemed healthful and joyful and happy. Cheerfulness and kindness were written upon every countenance; and envy, or hatred, or any evil passion, of whatever shade or name, was -no where legible to my eye. Something whispered me,-at least I was never without believing,-that these beings were not en- tirely human. The truly human, or rather the God-    THE NEW SENSE.         21 like of humanity, they did seem to possess ; but the baser-qualities did not appear to my observation; whilst in the stead of these, I was sure that they ex- hibited attributes wonderfully super-human. One power they evidently possessed, independent of the five senses, by which they perceived whatever transpired around them, irrespective of light or sound or any atmospheric agency. Language would fail me, to describe all the 'ad- vantages which they seemed to derive from this ad- ditional sense. Through it,- congenial minds had the power of reciprocal intercourse. In it, those deep feelings of the heart, those infinitely varied shades of emotion, which had never before been fully ex- pressed, found a successful medium of utterance. By it, the wisdom of age, the results of experience, the convictions of judgment, were transferred from mind to mind, with all their original intenseness and with the fidelity of the daguerreotype. The facilities which it afforded for the cultivation, as well of the moral as of the-lintellectual nature, not only prevented the commission of crime, but most effectually counteracted the vicious propensities ; of which, however, but few traces were discoverable   22        AERIAL CARS. in the conduct of any to whom my observation extended. Penetrated with the highest degree of wonder and astonishment, by the curiosities of the place, and wholly at fault as to the manner of my conveyance thither, I traversed the streets and public places, hoping to find some person who could enlighten me, and vainly taxing my memory for some data by which to determine my latitude and longitude. Turning my eyes upward, to see if'the same sun to which I had been accustomed was shining upon me, how was I transported with surprise at behold- ing in various sections of the firmament, and at va- rious distances above and around me, floating in every direction, aerial cars, each apparently contain- ing passengers of human form. If I had been in doubt hitherto, as to the reality of my impressions, every additional discovery but increased that uncertainty and suspense. Still, notwithstanding the cloud of mystery in which I seemed hopelessly enveloped, and all the as- tounding difficulties of my situation, I have no re- collection of the least uneasiness lof mind; but on the contrary, I distinctly recall' to memory a con-    OBSERVATION.         23 sciousness of delight and satisfaction, and a most com- forting degree of faith in the timely revealment of all needful truth, and the timely dissipation of all useless mystery. Impelled by curiosity, and apprehensive that in my time for observation in my new sphere was to be limited, I was eager to obtain all the information within my reach. I seemed to be invisible and en- tirely unnoticed by any person. Hence, I had free access to every individual and every assemblage, to every locality and every apartment. And this free- dom which I enjoyed, compensated, in part, for the privation which I seemed destined to suffer, of non- intercourse with those by whom I was surrounded. Understanding in a tolerable degree, the vocal language which I heard, I determined to gain what information I could by such conversations as might occur within my hearing, as well as by patient and studious observation. In the prosecution of this purpose, I never saw nor heard any indications of poverty or- estitution, or much suffering of any description. But every thing which came to my eye or ear, was indicative of happiness and plenty and peace. I heard no con-   24       A CONVERSATION. tention, saw no exhibitions of ingratitude, or un- kindness, or envy, or jealousy, or anger, or revenge ;  nor did I, during all my sojourn in that glorious land of dreams, ever make the discovery of a grated  window, or a lock, or a key, or anything else that : reminded me of a prison or a prisoner, of a criminal  or a crime. The conversations which I heard were, principally,  upon topics above my comprehension. Now and then, however, the information which they afforded  me seemed highly valuable, and gave me an exceed-  ing degree of pleasure. . Passing a couple of men who attracted my atten-  tion by their peculiarly chastened demeanor, I halted near them; when, in the course of their conversa-  tion, one of the two addressed the other, in the fol- lowing language: "Our dear father has entered a wider sphere of knowledge and enjoyment. We must be separated  from him a short period; but at the age of two  hundred years, we could hardly have wished him to  remain longer upon this lower planet, and be de- prived of those exalted pleasures with which he is now conversant."   A SPECTACLE.       25 Although from these words I drew the inference that I was in a new country-perhaps in a new world-a country or a world where the inhabitants attained to the age of two hundred years-yet what particular country or planet it might be, I had as yet arrived at no very accurate means of determining. Still, when I reflected t at the language of the place was the very language to which my ear and tongue were accustomed, the idea of its being any other than the terraqueous globe, upon which I stood, was quite inadmissible. Whilst thus engaged in the problem of my new existence, every step I took adding new difficulties to its solution, I heard a sudden, peculiar, and sstart- ling sound; when instantly, upon turning my eyes, I discovered within a short distance beside me, one of those aerial vehicles to which I have before alluded, just alighted. Devoid of fear, and actuated, as usual, by curiosity, I at once approached the new spectacle and scrutinized it, with a hurried, analytical glance. The passengers having all disembarked, and others taking their places, I perceived that the car was about starting upon a new voyage; when, with- -out any time for reflection, I sprang into one of the M2 26         A RIDIE. vacant seats, resolved to make myself one of their number. I had waited in my seat but a few moments, when one, who seemed to be the engineer, touching a spring in the bottom of the car, light as a feather  and swift as a bird, we ascended into the air, and  darted swiftly away. This voyage afforded me a bird's-eye view of the  country over which we passed. But such a country I had never before seen or even imagined. It was  one continuous, interminable city, as far as the eye  could stretch. Not compact was it, however; every  building being surrounded by a small area of ground,  with here and there also an open space, of consider-  able extent, all covered with verdure. Judging by the face of the country over which  we passed-the lakes, the vallies, the hills and the  streams-I at once recognized it as my own land-  my own State of New-York.   There, upon the   : bounds of view, lay stretching old Ontario, as broad iI and as blue as ever. I could not be deceived. Here  below, and gliding away to the east in quick succes- a ] sion, were Oneida, Cayuga, Seneca and many other  i lakes, which, alone, were sufficient evidence to me   MUSIC.         27 that I was traversing no other than my native world and the country of my birth. At length, after a voyage which might have con- sumed an hour or more, the conductor of our ethereal craft brought us to the ground as softly and gently as the lighting of a bird. In the midst of this fairy-like voyage, the recol- lection of which fills me vith ineffable pleasure, whilst all the senses were already pouring full streams of joy into the soul, from the ocean of humanity far below, came up and burst upon my ears a flood of melody more delicious and enrapturing than had ever before saluted my fancy, in the happiest dreams of youth. Description fails me to convey an ade- quate idea of the impression which this music gave me. During the continuance of those enchanting strains, our car suspended its progress; gently float- ing in mid heaven, over the spot whence they arose. Shortly, however, too shortly, they ceased; and again we pursued our aerial flight. But that music has never been effaced from my soul, nor will its magic influenceeover me be lost whilst memory endures. Our voyage terminated upon a mountain, which   I 28        THE TEMPLE. overlooked a vast expanse of country, covered all  over with buildings of every variety of beautiful form and architecture; with ifonuments of all forms and dimensions; with forest trees and shrubbery, agreeably intermingled; with fountains of water, and streams and beautiful lakes; whilst here and there, cutting the blue heavens, at all distances, the sublime spectacle was presented to my view, of numerous atmospheric ships, swiftly darting forward  in strait lines, or quietly floating in space; some sparkling with gold and silver in the bright sun; others, with flying banners and streaming colors, adding brilliancy and grandeur to the scene; and some pouring forth strains of music of heavenly  sweetness. But one object was here brought to my view which eclipsed every other. It was a building, whose extent and proportions were incomparably vast and  gigantic; whilst in symmetry of form, in richness of $ material and in architectural composition, it seemed  the very triumph of perfection. The main substance of which its walls were com- posed was brilliant and translucent-nearly of the  appearance of massive glass. q    HE!   DESCRIPTION OF THE TEMPLE.     29 Its form upon the ground was an oval. From the top of the main structure, which itself was of fearful height, towered an immense dome, whose glittering summit mingled with the clouds. All around this great central elevation, far and near, were lesser domes, and spires of various heights, and towers and collonades of various extent and form, and archways brilliant with gold, and shooting fountains of water, and galleries and verandas of every description of style and ornament; and all, so combined, as by their general effect to strike the be- holder with the impression of transcendent harmony. Altogether, viewed at a distance, in the eye of the sun, this wondrous structure appeared like a mountain of clear water, with a golden fleet upon its surface; and all in a blaze. When this vast and sublime spectacle first greet- ed my eyes, notwithstanding all the novelties which had hitherto crowded upon my senses-as if to pre- pare the way for others still more wonderful-I stood petrified and bewildered. My strength and vigor de- serted me ; and for some time, I was afraid to look upon such unearthly magnificence and beauty. At length, overcoming this paralysis of my senses,    30         A FRIEND.  and looking around me, I saw standing by my side a form of superhuman beauty. His countenance shone radiantly with light and also with the cheering rays of kindness and love. Instantly my confidence and presence of mind were restored, and all fear melted away, before the heavenly mildness and benignity of this new and dazzling presence. Presently, as he smiled upon me, he spake 'i a low sweet voice, and said: "My son, I meet thee here by the appointment of Heaven, to be thy Instructor and Friend, and to ordain thee a teacher of others. Listen and observe. The immense structure thou beholdest, in the dis- tance, is the earthly TEMPLE of the ALMGHTY.- Those moving forms thou seest, upon its dizzy heights, are the sons of men, who are duly prepared for the upper Paradise, and  ready to be translated thither, without crossing the gulf of Death." I replied, "Kind Teacher, I see the mighty Tem- ple in all its vastness and splendor; but I can dis- cover no moving forms, upon its towering heights, on account of its great distance." Then he pressed my forehead with his hand, and bade me look again.   I looked again, and saw a great number of men and women upon the roof, gliding about in its bLeau- tiful walks, or reclining within its recesses, too gor- geous for the eye to endure; all apparently in a state of bliss. Presently, looking attentively, I thought I saw now and then, a company of two, borne gently up- ward through the clouds, in a mist of light. And in the air above, and through all the golden-tinged clouds, were troops of angels hovering, some of whom accompanied them, as they ascended out of sight. Said my Teacher, "These are they who have no reason to be detained longer upon the earth. They have risen above it in their affections, their desires, and their necessities; purified from sin and depravity, by a Savior's blood, and exalted to holiness through vir- tue; and through holiness, to immortality. Behold studiously the transforming influence' of virtue. "At the base of this structure which fills thee with admiration and awe, for many leagues around, is the GARDEN of the NEW EDEN. There, are con- centrated all the beauties and joys of nature in-this lower world. There, the innocent and pure are dwell- ing in pleasant places-in balmy groves, whose wav-   32     INTERIOR OF THE TEMPLE.        4 ing branches load the air with the sweetest per- fumes ; where streams of crystal water rattle briskly over their pebbled beds, or flow smoothly, gently and silently along their flowery banks.   There abound fruits of the choicest flavor and all luxuries which yield true enjoyment. The Tree of Know- ledge and the Tree of, Life are there. Beasts and birds of all kinds dwell and roam there in all their primeval harmlessness, melody and beauty. Music has its seat and throne there, filling the air with charms so various and bewitching, that the angels themselves might listen with delight. There are the towering forest, the dashing cataract, the waving meadow, the mountain, the lake, the valley and the plain, and each in the beauty of perfection. Disease is a stranger, and old age and  sorrow, pain and. re- morse, are unknown and unfeared in all those peace- ful borders. Sin, with its baleful fruits, has never entered there ; and Satan vainly strives with all his ingenuity and his power, to gain admission through those gates. "  The Angels of GoD and the spirits of the just who have gone up through death to the Paradise above, love to come down, and mingle and converse    TRUE SCIENCE.       33 with the sons and- daughters of men, in those de- lightful and pure retreats. And, here and there, they may evermore be seen in that holy Temple, clothed in dazzling white, and shining with light from the heavenly Throne, gliding swiftly in mid-air, or softly whispering some tidings from above, in the ears of those whom they are sent to mature for the ineffable joys of the upper world. And from that cloud-capt dome and those lofty towers, they ascend with their sanctified and glorified bodies, accompani- ed by guardian angels, to the mansions above. "That Temple is the seat and true University of Science. There all the sciences, adapted for pursuit in the upper sphere, are cultivated. True Science is a ladder which reaches to heaven; and faithfully pur- sued, it can lead only in that direction. It is the great inexhaustible well of happiness for all the in- telligent creatures of God. And the vast depths to which it has alreadybeen explored, in that Univer- sity, is immeasurably beyond the fathom  of thy mind.." "I am bewildered with mystery," said I, " kind friend; if this be a dream or vision of the night, I pray thee disturb it not. It is heaven to me. But   34      A KEY TO THE VISION. tell me, in God's name, what meaning and purpose X hath it? Unfold this grand enigma, and I ask no more. Every thing I see is above me-stupendous, sublime, yet transcendently beautiful and lovely." Then answered me the bright Spirit, and said: "My son, thy dwelling place is the dawn of the Enlightened Ages, many-many centuries past. In the thick darkness of time, the Son of God was given to the world for its Redemption. Then was the beginning of that Light which hath continued to shine brighter and brighter for the space of three thousand years, unto this, the perfect day. "Thou art here-at the close of the thirtieth cen- tury-a visitorfrom the nineteenth." As these last words fell npon my ear, suddenly I came to myself, with my arm upon the table and my head resting upon my hand. THE SEQUEL, The subject of my new revelation absorbed all my thought. For many days I avoided all society, and traversed the fields and woods in solitude. My friends thought me laboring under a disease of the brain.    The magnificent objects and scenes I had wit- nessed and beheld, in fancy, (if it was fancy,) were so immeasurably superior, in every feature of inter- est to any realities I had ever witnessed or beheld, that I preferred the fanciful to the real for the sub- ject of my reflections. Realities had all become insipid to my taste. O how I longed and prayed to be placed again in those delightful regions! Could 1 have been assured that twenty deaths would have landed me there securely, how cheerfully would I have embra- ced them all! Could I have been allowed to con- verse a little longer with my heavenly Teacher,- could I have reviewed with him the past of that period, at which I was a guest, and traced with him those changes and their causes, by which so grand and triumphant a state could ever be attained upon this dark and dreary planet, I might then, at least, have employed my time in endeavoring to do some- thing to forward so glorious an event; and been re- lieved of the wearying suspense which now preyed upon my cerebral system. I knew it was not a dream. For it had none of that vagueness or incongruity essential to dreams.   36         A WALK.            * And I could not entirely relinquish the secret hope, or cease the earnest prayer, of being favored, some day, with another revelation, which might somehow serve as a key to this. Nor did my ardent aspirations long remain unan- swered. - A few weeks subsequent to the period of time indicated above, whilst I was pursuing through a secluded and picturesque landscape, the meander- ings of a little stream, I was, as usual, indulging this absent-minded mood, and turning over in my thoughts, for the thousandth time, the subject matter of my vision. I could form but a very imperfect idea of the distance I had strolled, when the weariness of my limbs and the burning rays of the sun arrested my attention. Looking about me, I oespied upon-Athe bank of the stream, and under the branches of a wide-spreading oak, a tempting bed of green moss. Here I courted a little repose. Gradually, as I reclined upon that moss-bed, in a position of the utmost passiveness, the landscape which stretched out before me, began to dissolve in my eye. Soon, I found myself mysteriously tjrans- ,ported again to that enchanted spot which I had so   THEI VISION RE-OPENS.      37 much longed to revisit and which the reader will find faintly described in the foregoing pages. Strange to say, I had no recollection, whatever, of the time which had intervened, nor of my prosaic visit to the world of realities. There I was, in the same ecstasy of mind, indulging the same train of reflection and observation, as when my angelic Teacher had uttered his last word of instruction ia my car. But he was not there. All else was un- changed. I regretted his absence, most deeply; for I had been charmed by his presence, and had hoped for other revelations from his lips. What had transpired, however, was safey treasured up in my memory, and afforded me unbounded satisfaction. I looked upon that wondrous Temple, and all the sublime and mysterious objects which surrounded me, with new and vastly exalted interest and awe. My heart burned with desire to visit the Garden of the New Eden, and the interior of the Holy Temple. And I started away with an unwavering determina- tion to proceed, to the extent of my power, towards its gratification ; thoughtless of danger, fearless of opposition, and confident of success.   38         THE GATE X Hurriedly I passed along, over hill and vale, through street and grove, amidst multitudes of beings, either human or superhuman, (who seemed entirely unconscious of my presence,) till I arrived before the wall which enclosed the garden. The material of which this wall was -constructed, seemed like the purest marble, as white as alabaster, and polished, all over, to the brilliancy of a mirror. I travelled on at its base, a great way, in a grove of precious shrubs, plants and vines,-all loaded with the choicest flowers and fruits,-fox the purpose ,of finding an entrance to the Garden, and confidently intending to pass in. At length I arrived at the object of my search, where I fell upon new wonders. The gateway was executed in a manner, which for richness and gran- deur, for architectural stateliness and beauty, gave it an effect, defying all the arts of description. Obliquely across the entrance, which was a lofty Arch, was suspended, overhead, a colossal sword,':* which seemed to threaten whoever might presume to pass beneath it. It was so bright and flashing,  * Genesis iii: 24.    HESITATION.         39 that the eye dare not rest upon it, and seemed like a live flame of the most dazzling fire. Then on each side of the gateway, by the boun- daries of the arch, were two angelic forms, :* whose eyes were as piercing as arrows. They had wings ; and their faces were clothed with unearthly beauty ; and their heads were encircled by a halo of light. Here I felt the first impulse of fear; and I halted, not for want of a wish, but because I was afraid to ad- vance. That flaming sword was before me, and those piercing eyes were upon me. Yes, my temerity, which had hitherto beel invincible, was conquered at last. The glories of the Garden which burst upon my vision through the broad and lofty archway, were above my admiration, and oppressed me with their sublimity and grandeur. I knew not which way to turn. My situatibn was becoming too severely resplendent for my senses.- Still, my curiosity " would not down." Fearful to advance, and whatever might betide, determined not to recede, I remained for a time,  Genesis iii' 24.   40       DISCOURAGEMENT.  motionless as a statue ;-the victim of doubt, inde-  cision and suspense.  Approaching from different directions, I saw many persons pass through the gate into the Garden. The sword, as they passed underneath it, would assume a most beautiful aspect, emitting rays of  soft and variegated light, which seemed a token of invitation. Others seemed afraid to enter; for the flaming sword, at their approach, would become,  more or less, an object of fear; sometimes sending  forth into their very faces, the most terrific flashes of lightning. These would turn away from the gate  with sad and affrighted looks, and soon disappear  from my sight.  Those who entered the Garden were received  within, by friendly hands and radiant faces, and led forth into the depths of Paradise, and were soon lost amid the wilderness of splendors which there rose to my view, and obstructed the field of vision. Longing ardently to visit those regions of beauty and of bliss, I at length approached the gate, with the hope of gaining admittance in company with others.  But it was in vain. The fiery sword began to  '    AN OLD FRIEND.       41  sparkle angrily, and the scorching eyes of the cher- ubim beside the gate rested upon me, and cautioned me, in a language which thrilled every nervous fibre of my system-to beware! My resolution was now broken; and I turned and walked away from that fearful presence, convinced that the atmosphere of the place was too holy for my imperfect nature. I now abandoned all hope of ex- ploring the Garden, and retired with feelings of dis- appointment and keen regret. But these emotions were soon exchanged for those of joy, as I recognized, by my side, the countenance of my angelic Teacher and Guide, from whose words I had formerly derived so much satisfaction and pro- fit. The same heavenly smile was there, and the melody of his voice was more grateful to my ear than before. ' My son," said he, "thou art favored of Heaven, to be a messenger of good tidings to the world.- Thou art appointed to behold the mysteries of Evil, the progress of Truth, and the instrumentalities of human advancement. Thou hast already beheld in the distance, the acme of earthly perfection. Go thou hence and study the Panorama of Ages."  42     TTHE VISION CLOSES.  Thus saying, he touched my hand, when we as cended together from the earth, and were borne swift- ly away from the Garden, the glorious Temple, and all the enchanting scenery with which I had been so long and so rapturously entertained. Again, suddenly, I was restored to my normal condition, and found myself stretched upon the bed of moss, chilled by the evening dew. I sprang to my feet, and by the aid of the moon, after collecting my  thoughts, made my way homeward. END OF THE NEW EDEN. : '  li    THE OVERTHROW OF SLAVERY.   The Scene is laid in Mexico. The Time is A. D. 2000.      THE  OVERTHROW OP' SLAVERY. BEING A SORT OF HSTORY OF AMERICAN SLAVERY) FROM ITS  ORIGIN TO ITS FINAL AND COMPLETE EXTINGUISHMENT. THS HSTORY IS ESSENTIAL IN THE CHAIN OF EVENTS WHCH IS TO TERMNATE IN THAT SOCIAL STATE DESCRIBED IN THE NEW EDEN. "'Tis their ambition to trample on All human feelings, all human ties;  To emulate the fiends, who will one day Requite them in variety of torturing." I had a new vision.    I seemed to be traveling in a rail-road car.- Silently and swiftly we flew onward, smokeless and steamless ; the trees and hill tops flashing by in the ' sunshine, like sparkling meteors. My fellow passengers, notwithstanding they were all black, exhibited traits of superior intelligence:  their features, though presenting a strongly marked      "        A JOURNEY.  African contour, were traced by the lines of cultiva- ted intellect and of gentle affections ; and their con- versation was conducted so agreeably, that their complexion and features, wNhich had at first repelled  me, seemed quite proper and unobjectionable. The vallies, plains and hill sides, along the way, were adorned with vegetation, to the highest degree of prodigality. From this, as well as from the track of the sun, I inferred that we were penetrating the region of the tropics.                  I had no recollection of antecedents; I felt it to be my business and the purpose of my mission to study current objects and events. And I was anx- iously inclined to discharge my responsibilities faith-, fully. I had no associates, and no one seemed aware of my presence. In the midst of a  crowd, I was alone. We were soon to arrive at a proud city, the metropolis of the country. From passing conversa-  tions, I  was not slow to perceive that the Govern- ment of the land was Republican. And I   awaited our arrival at the Capital, to which I understood we were journeying, with glittering anticipations. From various indications, I  gathered that this ,                           BANNERS.         47' sable nation was just then in'a great commotion of joy; on account of some extraordinary national event, the anniversary of which was about to be celebrated. It seemed hardly a moment after-bending my eye into the dim distance before us--I saw, peering into the clouds, the tall spires and monuments of the city, that we were ushered into its bosom. We weremet by the booming dannon, and swarms of humanity, all black as ink ; some in processions, displaying banners variously inscribed, marching to the sound of music. Among the inscriptions upon the banners, which I read, were the following : "Nil desperandum." C Trust in God and bide thy time.' "The Republic of Mexico." "The deeper bondage, then, the purer freedom, now." "Thank God and America." "One extreme follows the other." "Jordan is a hard road to travel." "Jordan is the road to Canaan." "The darkest time is just before day." v   48  -MONUMENTS. "Liberty, through patience, triumphant." "A long road, that, which has no turn." After enjoying the novel scene for a few moments, I went forth to explore the city ; and in all respects, I must say, that I found it a very proper one. It had its tall, majestic buildings, and its low ones; its awide and its narrow lanes; its brilliant avenues and those which were dingy; its fountains, shoot- ing streams of water, surrounded by beautiful and grotesque statuary; its lofty, waving trees; its noisy streets and rattling vehicles ; its public grounds and public buildings ; and its churches with their aspir- ing spires. In the vicinity of the capitol, which was a builds ing of considerable magnificence, I observed several stately monuments ; some of which were of colossal height. I was strongly attracted by these, hoping to derive from them some sort of valuable information. \ At the base of one of these commanding struc- tures, I found an entrance. Passing in and mount- ing a marble stairway which presented itself before me, I came at length into an apartment of singular beauty and elegance, which contained many curiosi- ties. Here I remained for some time, my attention   A  HERO.         49 wholly absorbed by the various objects of interest which appeared before mq for inspection. For the amusement of the curious reader, I will here copy an Inscription, which I discovered in this monument, prominently and beautifully engraved, upon a broad surface of polished marble. TIE INSCRIPTION. "This MONUMENT was completed in the year 1920. "It was erected to commemorate the character of one, in whose life was developed the most sterling philanthropy, in harmony with the loftiest patriotism. "The chief power of these virtues, he exerted upon the Africo-American race. "Through his means, principally, were our an- cestors brought out of the bottomless mire of Ameri- can slavery, and firmly planted upon the rock of Liberty. "He was a great conqueror--almost the greatest of modern times. But his weapon was neither the bullet nor the sword. His enemies were numerous; but whatever their mode of attack, however mali- cious or however confident of victory, whenever the 2   50       THTE INSCRIPTION. smoke and din of battle were over, his colors were sure to be seen waving triumphantly over the battle ground. "As ardent a friend of Freedom as ever periled life in its defence, over one subject he was an abso- lute monarch.  That subject was himself.  His temper was never ruffled. Amid scenes of strife continually, he was uniformly self-possessed, and pursued the even tenor of his way with a single eye to his great purposes, as though he dwelt in a sepa- rate element, and enjoyed a superior life, controlled by a higher law. 'Few men have ever performed so large an amount of labor, professional, political, literary and statesmanlike; and all beneficial to the world. C Commencing his career in obscurity, and gene- rally found upon the most unpopular and unpromis- ing side of the questions- in which he took an inte- rest, if he ever failed to render his cause popular, he always succeeded in gaining favor for himself; till at length, after many years, by invariably espousing the cause of the weak, and grappling with popular wrong, and by a long and uninterrupted series of triumphs, he builded a  fame, as substantial as the   A TRUE PATRIOT.        51 foundations of the human heart, and as broad as a continent. "Eight years he was PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. "But especially is it the object of this great work, to commemorate his pre-eminent services in behalf of the African portion of his countrymen.- He found this race in the lowest state of degrada- tion; and strange to relate, more than three mil- lions of them were slaves-owned as chattels, and bought and sold as such, by the whites. "'This man perceived, with painful sensibility, the inconsistency, as well as the barbarous cruelty of his nation, in maintaining such a system of op- pression, And he bent himself to the Herculean task of blotting it from his country's escutcheon. "But whilst his large, philanthropic soul was keenly impressed with the outrageous wrongs suf- fered by the African race, his patriotism brought into requisition all the power of his genius, and weight of his influence, to devise and execute a plan of emancipation, by which his country's glory should not be stained; nor her peace disturbed; nor her   52       THE INSCRIPTION, integrity marred; nor even her individual- slave- owners have any just cause of complaint. "The MEXICAN NATION, made up of Spanish blood, combined with aboriginal American, depre- ciated by age and the worst forms of hereditary de- pravity, had retrograded from a tolerable degree of civilization into a state of hopeless anarchy. Their National Government, after many protracted strug- gles, finally lost -its vitality, and expired for want of healthful sustenance. MEXIco became the thea- tre of innumerable blood-thirsty political factions, and bands of robbers. Presently, all the founda- tions of society were broken up; and no elements were left, suitable for its reconstruction. The De- mon of Depopulation flapped his bony wings over the land, and the Genius of Philanthropy, casting one long look of despair upon the doomed nation, took her everlasting flight. " The American Nation, under the administra- tion of him to whose illustrious memory this riONU- MENT is dedicated, raised an army in pity, and sent it forth, hoping to prevent the headlong ruin of this miserable people. But it was all in vain.  The stern fiat of Destiny had gone forth.  The cold   THE NEW SCHEME.        53 hand of Death, which never retracts, had already commenced its ghastly work. The waves of De- struction overwhelmed them, and they sank to rise no more. "The PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES, in his annual message to Congress, recommended, 'That Twenty-Five Million Dollars of the national rev- enue be annually expended in purchasing the eman- cipation of slaves, from such citizens as might be found willing to dispose of them; and Ten Million more, in aiding them to remove to the territory of MEXICO, andform a colony there, with the ultimate view of beconting an independent State.' "This great plan was strongly opposed in many quarters; and many formidable difficulties arose.- Some objected, ' That such a scheme would involve a great national injustice. Some, ' That the slave- owners, generally, would not sell their property at any price.' Some others, ' That when, in process of time, through the operation of this scheme, slave property should become less and less abundant, its price must necessarily advance, and finally become so enormous as to defeat the great object proposed.' "But the far-seeing projector of the Scheme had   54       THE INSCRIPTION. anticipated all these, besides many other obstacles, to be overcome ; and calmly, but perseveringly, urged it on, surmounting one of them after another, till at last its practicability came to be acknowledged by all. "Soon after this grand Scheme of Emancipation was brought into operation, strange as it may seem, the Slaveholders themselves were its most forward and active abettors-promoting its success in every possible way. The nation took new life. A better feeling pervaded its Councils; and joy, almost equal to, that which followed the achievement of the Na- tional Independence, prevailed throughout the land. The entire Cl ilized World partook of the glad feeling, as though a foul stain had been removed from the character 'of Humanity ; as though a huge Incubus had been driven from the World. u' Then did our fallen Race revive. Our claims to be ranked as Human Beings were no longer ques- tioned. After a few years' tutelage under our repent- ant Step-mother, we took our stand among the na- tions of the Earth. "The emigration of emancipated Slaves went on, increasing from year to year. Vast numbers   AN ASSEMBLAGE.         55 were liberated by their owners without compensa- tion. At length, the Peculiar Institutiong was thoroughly abolished in every State of the UNION. "This proud MONUMENT--looking forth upon the Land where two successive races have grown old and worn themselves out, and been extinguished by their vicious excesses, and have sunk into oblivion,-stands here, and here may it stand till the latest era of Time not only a Monument to him who should ever be regarded as thefat7ier andfounder of this nation ; it speaks forth silently, but eloquently, the charac- ter, the power, and the genius of the People who erected it. "He lived and died in the Nineteenth Century. His name need not be recorded here-it may be found upon another tablet-the tablet of a Nation's heart." Now as soon as I had finished reading this Inscrip- tion, I descended from the MONUMENT, in search of new curiosities; whereupon my attention was ar- rested by a most brilliant pageant. I beheld, at a little distance, in a beautiful grove of Cypress and Orange, great processions of people, assembling, with banners waving and music sweetly   56        THE ORATION. discoursing, forming an immense multitude, as if in anticipation of some Grand Entertainment. I was not long iii deciding to join the assembly; eager to see and hear whatever might happen to transpire. In due time, the Orator arrived and went upon the stand. And after the ordinary preliminaries were settled, he arose and addressed the multitude in the following OR A TIO N. ,c Fellowz Countrymen : You have a right, this day, to be the happiest People in all the Earth. It is not from the current scenes of life that man derives his most exalted emotions. There is a foun- tain of far deeper feeling and more elevated thought in the panoramic field of view presented by History. In that broad field we may study man in his com- parative as well as hispositive character. There the mere trifles of life are not visible ;-nothing but what has a bearing to exhibit the world in its true light. As a distant view of a landscape conveys a more just idea of its characteristic features, both as to their   THE NEW WORLD.         57 relative and aggregate importance, than we can gain from their more immediate inspection,-bothbecause it is more comprehensive, and because each object is there presented to the eye in its relations with every other,--in the same manner the distant and wide field of view which history affords is the truest me- dium of studying the general as well as the indivi- dual characteristics of mankind. In the light of History we should conclude that the Creator of the World had been actuated by the wisest and most benevolent motives,-not only in reference to this nation, but in reference to mankind at large,-in providing it with two Continents; and those so widely separated from each other. It was through this kind provision, only, that the Tree of ;Liberty, which was planted upon the soil of the New World, had space of time to take deep root and gather strength, to withstand the fierce tornadoes which were appointed to pass over it. The worst phases of Human Nature had gained ascendency throughout the world. The power of the Tens and the Hundreds was stronger than that of the Millions. And the Tens and the Hundreds, in order to maintain their relative strength, found it   58       THE ORATION. necessary to reduce the Millions to a very low state of dependency and degradation. Now when Human Nature hath fallen to a cer- tain depth of depravity, the moral principle remain- ing within it, hath not sufficient strength to elevate it again to its former level. When the prevailing Dynasties of the Old World had descended to precisely that moral depth at which this power of recovery was lost, how fearfully hope- less must the conditn of the Human Family have   l been, had not the discovery of a New World opened to their subjects, who were less depraved than them- selves, a field for the free development of their moral nature, and the establishment of new and rival In- stitutions, more favorable to the interests of Hu- mahity! In the New World, the subjects of Oppression remembered their tyrants in the Old. Here they soon became a Mighty Power them- selves; sworn to resist Oppression in every form even to their hearts' blood. In process of time they declared their Independence of all foreign Rulers ; and gloriously did they maintain it, through a strug-    .A1-.A i.M t. O O -l..l. J . d1 gle of unprecedented severity, which continued seven years. Their final success was the redemption of the world-the triumph of humanity over the powers of Hell. It was a paralytic stroke to Tyranny from which he never recovered. But Satan, though sadly frustrated, was not yet disheartened.' Promptly he set his wits to work, to devise some plan, and his emissaries, both Human and Infernal, to execute it, by which the promised good might be averted. This plan was to inaugurate a new set of Ty- rants in the New World, of a still deeper dye than the old; hoping to secure for them the ascendency here, just as their prototypes had held it there, sea- soned with even more intense and unmitigated cruelty. But how was this hope to be realized? If in measuring swords with the ardent lovers of Freedom, the field should chance to be lost, what, but inglori- ous submission to the Angel of Liberty, would re- main forever to the Infernal Crew? Obviously, there was a crisis, which demanded the most sagacious counsels and the most skillful and energetic action, of the Powers of Darkness.   60       .THE ORATION. The arts of satanic strategy were plied, and plied with a vigor and perseverance which had well nigh extinguished the last light of the world-which had well nigh overturned the noble fabric of Liberty, that had been so rapidly and so loftily reared upon the virgin soil of America. The citadel of the Human Soul was attacked in its least fortified section-the section of Avarice.- Herein the old Serpent fully sustained his character as an adept in the science of Human Nature. What intellect could have been found in the whole universe, but Satan's own, of shrewdness so exact, of audacity so daring, of malevolence so cruel, as to offer to the Civilized World, the Gkod-insuRting idea of traffic in the Bodies and Souls of Men! The African Slave Trade was introduced to the favor of the American People through the medium of Avarice, that most feebly guarded avenue of the heart. Gradually, silently and stealthily, it grew and expanded, and gathered strength and virulence and twined its serpent-like folds all around the frame- work of the affections and the sentimehts, diffusing its poisonous effluvia through all the substratum of' the soul.   CHARACTER OF SLAVERY.       61 Nothing was too sacred for it to violate, or too pure for it to contaminate. No earthly power seem- ed able to resist it. More intoxicating than wine, it subdued into obsequiousness the mightiest of human intellects. More seductive than women, it drew away from duty and from usefulness the firmest pillars of morality and virtue. It blinded their per- ceptions, hardened their consciences, and shipwreck- ed their hopes. More powerful than Rulers or Laws, Constitutions or Majorities, it wormed its way from South to North, overcoming obstacles, undermining walls, overleaping mountains, descending precipices, yielding one point to-day, to gain two points to-mor- row ; retreating timidly, then advancing fearlessly; now couchant and harmless, passive and stupid, then rampant and dashing, raving and foaming; presump- tuous, reckless, threatening, and roaring ; with wolf- ish fangs unsheathed and fiend-like eyes flashing, tearing up the ground, filling the air with dust, and frightening every living thing from its path. The fabled Proteus realized! the spiritual Devil incar- nated! with his blue brimstone flames and his Pan- dora's box and his pit of darkness, transplanted upon the earth!   62        THE ORATION. Thus had African Slavery progressed upon the soil of the New World, until the old principle of Despotism was about to triumph here, as well as across the great deep. It was then that the fate of Humanity trembled, as upon a needle's point. This crisis had been foreseen, with a shudder of alarm, by many a patriotic statesman and many a pure philanthropist; and various schemes had been undertaken, with a view to arrest the progress of Slavery or to abolish it altogether ; all degrees of enthusiasm upon the subject, prevailing, from the freezing point of conservative indifference to the boiling heat of fanatical excitement, to correspond with these different schemes. One of these schemes was called African Colo- nization. It originated with the friends of the In- stitution of Slavery. It was not designed to effect the demolition of this Institution, but had in view, primarily, to relieve it of some of its inconveniences, and to render it less odious to the sense of the world ; and secondarily, it was intended, no doubt, as a re- lief and a benefit to a few of the slaves-those who were to fall within its scope. The Scheme of Colonization proposed, to trans-   COLONIZATION.         63 port to a foreign shore such of the victims of Slavery as were unprofitable to their owners, such as were freely or by any means, legally, manumitted, and. such, finally, as were free by birth-right ; there to protect them, for awhile, and to prepare them for self-protection. In process of :time, this Scheme was claimed by another class of persons--a portion of those who pro- fessed to dislike Slavery-as an adequate method of removing this evil entirely from the land. It was proposed by them, to raise funds by voluntary con- tribution, on a large scale; fortlhe triple purpose, of purchasing the freedom; of transporting to Liberia, and there of sustaining and educating, as far as nec- essary to qualify them for Self-Government, all the slaves in America. This gigantic undertaking was not to be the work of a day, but of many years ; perhaps of ages. If it should ever have been brought to that height of efficiency at which the reduction of the number of Slaves should have exceeded their natural increase, by ever so small i ratio, it is clear that the period must have ultimately arrived when not a single slave would have been left. l   "        THE ORATION. But whatever its success in theory, or whatever might have been its final success in practice, could its free and vigorous operation have extended, undis- turbed, to the last of time, or, peradvenriture, into the cycles of eternity, one thing is certain. It never did attain to the accomplishment of any thing be- yond its original intent, upon the Institution of' Slavery. But GOD, the Almighty, had a purpose of His own to fulfill ; and this was the Instrument by which He was pleased to fulfill it. Sun-scorched Africa was not to remain forever the derided of Man, nor the forsaken of GOD. But, from her deep sleep of cen- turies-her sleep of stolid ignorance, of disgusting barbarism, of moral death-she wag to be aroused- resuscitated--by a light brighter than the Sun, by a voice, as from Heaven, calling her up from the grave, warming into vitality the germ of Humanity within her, dispelling the 'mephitic vapors which had settled ddwn upon her, and scaring away the slimy monsters which had been breeding and fatten- ing upon her corruption for ages. The Colonization of Liberia opened the gate of Civilization to the Continent of Africa. Her na-   ABOLITION.         65 tions are now in their youth; and thus far they have evinced a capacity of manhood at least equal to that of many other nations of modern times, and promise lo outlive, in vigor and in greatness, some of those proud sons of the North, with skin of light- er-shade, who once laughed them to scorn. Turn your eyes, for a moment, to those rising Republics stretching along the Nile, spreading over the Mountains of the Moon, and dipping down into their delectable vallies ; bearing Civilization, Chris- tianity and Science to the eager minds, the ex- panding hearts and the pleasant homes, scattered over all those sunny regions ; and then say, which is the land most favored of Heaven, now. But Colonization was not the only scheme by which oppression in the New World, in the form of African Slavery, was to be opposed. A party- at first small, weak, and despised, calling themselves Abolitionists, proposing and insisting upon the im- mediate Abolition of Slavery, it being unconstitu- tional, contrary to the Fundamental Principles of the American Government, and a violation of the' Laws of Humanity-grew, in the course of a few years, into a formidable Power.   "        THE ORATION. This party was greatly deficient in a knowledge of the arts of political strife, and not unfrequently indulged in the most extravagant and impracticable views, in regard to the great object of their enter- prise. They failed to accomplish, directly, any very essential progress towards its achievement. But they did excellent service, nevertheless, in exposing to the world the enormities of Slavery, and develop- ing the great principles of Christianity, which should govern alike the conduct of nations, communities and men.   Whilst, as a party, they were held in derision as ultraists, their doctrines, in a qualified sense, gradually gained favor with all parties in the Free States. Through the efforts of this party, combined with other great influences, the wrongs of Slavery, and the importance to Humanity as well as to the Na- tional prosperity, of its Overthrow, were at length fully conceded by all men and all parties, in whom true  patriotism  preponderated, against pecuniary self-interest, political ambition, or party ties. But the true method of operating against an evil so gigantic, so widely spread, and so deeply rooted, was a  question of such magnitude, as, for a time,   ALARM.          67 to cast every other National topic upon the back- ground.  Slavery had come to be regarded as a Moral Cancer upon the Body Politic, which, if ne- glected, must inevitably extend itself, or diffuse its deadly influence into every vital part of the en- tire Organism ; and finally kill, with a bitter death, the last hope of Humanity-the latest, most be- loved and most promising offspring of Heaven--the American Republic. A voice, from the great heart of Humanity, in- quired: "Is there no hope? In thd great MateriaMe- dica of the Universe, is there no Remedy for so foul and poisonous an Ulcer? After all the fond hope entertained of Young America, by the good and true scattered here and there over the earth, is Oppression, in its most revolting form, to hold the ascendency here, as in all the world? Is this to be the fate of Christianized Man?   Must the star of Human Progress forever set?   Must the angel of Human Liberty, after tantalizing mankind for awhile with her heavenly charms, bid the world an eternal Farewell, leaving the darkness more dismal than ever before Must Humahity despair?' Must Christianity fail? Must God be thus thwarted? Of               ,    ,   68        THE- ORATION. Must Satan thus triumph? And must the Human Race be surrendered to him en masse?" The Government of the United States was one of Majorities; and so great had become the strenoth, so extensive the influence, so successful the arts, so unscrupulous, so infamous, the measures of the Slaveocracy, that, notwithstanding it had hitherto been widely in the Minority, its prospect of a final and decisive victory, even when the entire Opposi- tion  had become thoroughly aroused, and had buckled on its armor for the great Life-struggle, was most fearfully threatening. The leadership of the Opposition had been wretch- ed,-unwise, impolitic, indiscreet, always passionate, always ultra, never practical. New Counsels, a new Policy, new Leaders, new Action, were demanded. The question of Slavery extension and increase- had suddenly become the great question of the day. It had been forced upon the Country by the alarm- ing strides of the Slave Power. The impudent de- mands of this Power had betrayed its purposes. Its bold recklessness of principle had opened the eyes of the world to its danger. When its infamous pur- poses were thus boldly unmasked, the North were   PROGRESS OF SLAVERY.      69 seized with wonder and self-condemnation, at their former stupidity and inaction. The natural and inalienable right of mankind to Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness, which. had been held sacred, next to Inspiration, by the Fathers and the Sons of the New Government, were declared by this new Power to be a fiction. All the progressive movements, all the advanced Landmarks, which had been established by the American System, of which the Nation and good men, every where, had been so proud, and which had given fair promise of enhancing the value of Human Life by a large per centage, were ruthlessly denounced and trampled under its feet. Old compacts, entered into by the Fathers of the Government, valuable to the cause of Freedom,-- sanctioned by all the succeeding generation, and re- garded sacred as the very Constitution of the Coun- try, upon the most fallacious pretexts, had been torn up by its commands and given to the winds. The time had now come for every man to choose his round. Slavery had hitherto been made a minor : question by the great Political Parties: it could now be -made so no longer. No man, who had eyes   70         THE ORATION. or ears, could any longer doubt its determination to gain every advantage possible, either by fair or foul means. Patriotism, nor Philanthropy, had now no time, nor no effort, to spare for any other enterprise but that of resisting and destroying this gigantic Enemy of the Country, and of the World. All parties, who laid any claim to either of these attributes, had now no choice but to unite and come to the rescue. The conduct of the Slaveocracy was so transparent, that even the mists of Sophistry could no longer obscure its purposes from the most ordinary eyes. There was much maneuvering by the different political parties of the North. They each had some darling principles to forego and many convulsive throes to endure, in severing the ties which had so long held them together. But a majority of all the Free States did at length join themselves together into one overwhelming phalanx, and did elect a majority of both Legislative Chambers at Washington,. pledged to wage war with the Peculiar Institutiosn and to employ every Con- stitutional weapon to abolish it. They also placed in the Presidential Seat that   -SLAVERY ATTACKED.       7] pure and persistent patriot, that true and clear-seeing Statesman, that unpretending philanthropist, that mighty conqueror who fought only with the weapons of love and peace, and gloriously saved his country, whose monument stands yonder, erected by a grate- ful People, but whose famous acts are recorded within a shrine which will outlast that proud Struc- ture ; the influence of whose character will reach for- ward to the latest generations of Mankind. The Houses of Congress proceeded at once to discharge the duties of their Mission, in  good earnest. 1, They restored the Missouri Compromise. 2. They repealed the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850. 3. They abolished Slavery in the District of Columbia ; but with a proviso, recommended by the President, that each and every owner of Slaves should be equitably remunerated for his Slave property out of the National Treasury. 4. They abolished the Slave Trade between the citizens of different States. 5. They enacted a law, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, *     '    72       THE ORATION. granting to all Slaves everywhere the Trial by Jusr, under any and every charge brought against them. 6. They bestowed upon the Slave, all the privi- leges and immunities guarantied by the Constitution, to the White Citizen, excepting only such as were inconsistent with the state of Slavery. 7. They proclaimed the new doctrine, That Con- gress possessed the power, under the Constitution, to abolish Slavery in all the States; on the ground that Slavery itself was Unconstitutional, at war with the spirit and first principles of the Govern- ment; and that it was a crime against Nature, and against God, and consequently could not be legalized by man.                  A The writhing of the Slave-Demon was truly aw- ful to behold. When he discovered his failure to hold the ascendency of power, at a moment when he congratulated 'himself that the final triumph was within his reach-when he had contemplated to secure it beyond all contingency by his very next step, having counted upon the dough-faces and divi- sions of the North, to further his ends, as formerly -when he saw how he had surrendered his lofty   "EVIATHAN.         73 position of power, without the least necessity, entirely through foolish self-confidence and bravado, by which the Lion of the North had been aroused at last-- when he awoke from his dream of Glory and of Uni- versal Dominion, and found himself shorn of his locks, and beheld the green withes, that they would not yield-then there was a scene of raving, of gnash- ing, and of self-torture, which might well have ex- ,;cted the admiration of the lower Tophet., As Leviathan, the Ocean Monarch-after long rJ.-r, irg unopposed throughout the Mighty Deep, causing all the inhabitants thereof to flee from his presence with fear--as he feels at last the whale- man's harpoon sinking deep into his vitals, admon- ishing him that the hour has come when his proud Sovereignty must cease forever-as he plunges and roars and lashes the ocean into foam, making it boil like a caldron, yet leaving his conquerors unharmed --so this Foul Monster of the Earth-when he at last found himself the captured instead of the con- queror, and felt the iron of Liberty piercing his bowels and tearing asunder his liver-you may well suppose that the tempest was a terrible one, and the struggle furious indeed. 4   74        THE ORATION. The people of the Southern States [it was in these only that Slavery existed] undertook to resist the action of the North, touching their darling In- stitution, in every way their ingenuity could devise. A Convocation was summoned, of all the leading Spirits of the South, to hold a Council in reference to the Disastrous Crisis; and if possible, by an in- tercourse between noddles, to conceive and bring forth a bantling, so horribly ill-shapen and so shock- ingly frightful, as to scare the timid North into quiet submission again. After a somewhat tedious and painful labor, the following Preamble and Resolutions were brought forth, To wit: (Whereas, the Abolitionists of the North have pursued their Brethren of the South with all man- ner of abuse and persecution, interfering with our domestic affairs, and causing us infinite perplexity and damage ; and whereas we have continually re- monstratedwith them and with the FederalAuthori- ties, against such unwarranted and injurious treat- ment, but without the least successful result ; and whereas, instead of any remission in this unkind and unneighborly conduct, we have of late been made to   SOUTHERN RESOLUTIONS.       75' feel more keenly than ever before, thee futility of all possible efforts, on our part, at conciliation; and whereas, finally, we of the South have endured these wrongs and provocations, which are too numerous to admit of, and too notorious to need recital, until forbearance has ceased to be a virtue: therefore, ' Resolved, that all Political Connection hitherto existing between- the Southern States, [here naming them] and those of the North, known as the Free States, is now, henceforth, and forever, solemnly Dissolved; and that the States above named, now cease to form and constitute part and parcel of the great Political Unity known hitherto as the UNI- TED STATES OF AMERICA. ' Resolved, that both branches of the Legislature -at Washington, be forwarded each an official copy of the above resolution, signed and sealed by the offi- cers of this Convention. 'Resolved, that all the Southern members of those Legislative:bodies, be requested to abandon their seats and return home to their constituents. 'Resolved, that the initial steps be now taken to establish a new Confederacy, to be called the UNI- TED STATES SOUTH, and to organize a Government for its protection.'   76        THE ORATION. When the news of these proceedings reached the Federal city, the entire delegation from the South, in both Houses, promptly resigned their member- ship. There was considerable alarm manifested at the North, and even at Washington, and much specu- lation indulged concerning the consequences of so high-handed a measure. It was now felt, and could now no longer be denied, that the South were really and desperately in earnest. A great variety of views were entertained, with regard to the importance of the transaction. But the course for the Admin- istration to pursue in this crisis, was a question which was generally admitted to involve interests of sta{it- ling magnitude. Some persons, in high position, advised a coup d'etat. They would march a large body of forces into the centre of the South, and all along their route proclaim Emancipation. Others, more considerate, argued, that such a step, although it would doubtless be crowned with success, so far as to subdue the rebellion, could never be justified, under the Democratic Creed, with the spirit of which it would be as much at variance   PLANS RECOMMENDED.        " as with. Slavery itself ;-that 'it 'would inspire the South with still deeper hatred towards the North, and would prevent all possibility-or, at' least, greatly increase the difficulty-of subsequent recon- ciliation. Some advised the immediate arrdst and condign punishment of the Leaders of the Rebellion, with so much promptness and severity, and with such an air of majesty, as to overawe the entire Southern Community.   But this was thought, by others again to be a very dubious policy, to say the least; as every arrest and execution would, in their opin- ion, be likely to produce at least ten new Leaders, each more desperate than the former. Another Class of people advised, to let the South go their own way, and manage their own affairs as they pleased-allowing them to proceed, unmolest- ed, with their proposed New Government. This course was confidently urged upon two grounds.- First, because it would be very sure to work a radi- cal cure of the evil, by demonstrating to the ardent South their inability to sustain themselves in their new relations ; thereby inducing a repentance which would be sincere and lasting.  Secondly, on the   78        THE ORATION. Democratic Rule laid down in the famous American Declaration, 'that every People, under Heaven, pos- sesses the inherent right to choose its own form of Government. The case, in every aspect, was sufficiently dis- couraging; and the entire country, North and South, was overcast with a thick cloud of despond- ency and gloom. The President of the United States, although more deeply than any other man involved in the re- sponsibilities of the occasion, was about the only in- dividual that could be found in the country who seemed fully to comprehend all the points in the case, and to possess his soul in perfect calmness. ' The course which he pursued was probably the only one which would have proved effectual, and he was probably the only man living who could have pursued even that course with success. Beyond all doubt, h6 was the chosen instrument of Divine Providence to save his country, and the rest of man- kind, from the Demon of Oppression and of Slavery. Conscious of his own strength, but leaning upon a Higher Power, and guided by a Higher Law than any human enactment, he calmly and courageously   PRESIDENT'S LETTER.         v addressed himself to the dangerous, but sublime Undertaking. First of all, he issued a Proclamation, ad- dressed to the People of the North, and especially to the Northern Press, in which he earnestly recom- mended a suppression of all unkindness and ill feel- ing towards the South; enumerating the many diffi- culties which surrounded the Slave States, and the sad embarrassments and cruel misfortunes which the Institution of Slavery had entailed upon themy and that without their own original agency. Then, turning to the People of the South, he addressed to them the following Communication. TtI E LETTER. Citizens of tVie Great South7 : Gladly would I meet you face to face and greet you, and hold friendly conversation with you. But a privilege so great being impracticable, with a friendly heart I send you this Letter. ' Since the beginning of the World, mankind have occasionally been visited by critical Epochs.- Some of these have been pregnant with the destinies   80        THE ORATION. of the Human Race through all subsequent genera- tions. Others, although affecting the direction of human affairs in some degree, have been of compara- tively trifling moment. Some Crises have an especial bearing upon the interests of nations merely, and affect the world at large but secondarily and partially; whilst others have no peculiar national interest, but , send forth their streams of joy or of woe into all lands and to every human habitation ; affecting pos- terity, perchance, even more than the current genera- tions. 'No Crisis which has visited the world, or any portion of it, in modern times, has sustained relations to the destinies either'lof a nation or of mankind, so transcendently important, as the one which at this moment rests both upon this Country and the World. 'No man living is exempt from responsibility. But the weight of responsibility which rests upon men, depends upon the 'extent of their power, for good or for evil, upon the Human Race. And the extent of this power is measured, in part, by the cir- cumstances which surround them, over which they have no control. By this rule, perhaps no People e   PRESIDENT'S LETTER.       81 that ever existed have sustained a weight of responsi- bility so immense as that which now rests upon this Nation. Well will it be for us, and fortunate for mankind, if we but comprehend, in due time, its just import and bevaring. ' Mankind, generally, possess the ability to com- prehend the events of the past, and by the light of History, to judge with much correctness of the for- mer acts of men. Some also enjoy such a shrewd faculty and taste, for combiningc and comparing the transactions of the past, as to predict, with consider- able accuracy, the events of the future. But we meet with very few persons indeed, who are gifted with both the ability and inclination to study and comprehend, with a just judgment, the circumstances and tendencies of the present time, especially those by which they are- immediately surrounded, and in which themselves are involved. ' It had been an inestimable blessing to the world in all ages, had this last mentioned faculty been more generally and more liberally 'bestowed. The present being the only period of which we can avail ourselves, to hold communion with the rest of the world, and present events being the only medium   82        THE ORATION. through which we can, by any possibility, affect the interest of others, the truest. ambition of all men would consist in studying, and earnestly desiring to understand the real and the relative importance of passing events; and in employing present instru- mentalities, most advantageously, to promote the welfare of their Country and of the entire human race. "et us look at the present Crisis of affairs in our Country, and of human affairs generally. The true elements of Society are sadly unbalanced throughout the world, and have been so from time immemorial. The masses of mankind, in all ages, up to the present time, have been uniformly degraded, to such a degree that life with them, to say the least, has been a barren waste ; yielding at least as large a revenue of suffering and sorrow as of joy and pleasure,-as large an aggregate of pain and misery as of comfort and happiness. The few, who stand in the relation to them of masters, contrive, it is true, to render their own lives, in some instances, happy, in many, com- fortable, and in most instances, tolerable. But, in general, the enjoyment, even of these--the rich and the powerful-falls far below the standard of happi-   PRESIDENT'S LETTER.       83 ness which they miygt attain, under a different and a better order of things. The history and present condition- of Europe, which represent the highest grade of civilization in the Old World, are forcible and glaring illustrations of this truth. 'The complicated, confused and changing strife now in progress upon that blood-steeped Continent, in which the two elements of Oppression and Servi- tude have at length come to be the principal contes- tants, although originating in other causes, has, be- yond all doubt, takenits present character and shaped its present direction from the proud example which this gloriousCountry of our own has furnished.- Would to God that the indications were more promis- ing of a final triumph of Liberty, and the ability to sustain it. ' But what is this example which we have fur- nished? Of all the steps from downright barbarism which man has ever advanced, the step which our Revolutionary Fathers took, was by far the most important, and if properly maintained by their chil- dren, by far the most beneficial to Humanity. They stepped from the platform of tMe Divine Bight of   84        THE ORATION. Kings, to that of Human Equality. It was a bold and far-reaching step. It took the world by surprise. But, for a long time, it was not regarded by the nations, as apractical one. It was regarded as a dream of the imagination,-a political flourish, merely. And the old Establishments curled their lips with a disdainful smile, and pronounced our Glorious Declaration as only one step, in a revolu- tionary career, which must ultimately land us, all covered with blood and shame, upon the old plat- form again. And they shook their wise heads and  : pitied us. 'But in spite of all their wisdom and pity, and in spite of all opposition, open or concealed, the great Experiment has succeeded gloriously.  Its success has advanced the value of life, to the masses of the people, by more than fifty per cent. The man who for the sake of any personal consideration, would sacrifice it, or wantonly reverse its results, or annul its influence, or obliterate the lesson which it teaches to the struggling nations of the world, must be of unsound mind,' or excited by passion,-,- or he must hold in his composition more of the demon than of the man.   PRESIDENT'S LETTER.      85 ' Citizens of the great South: Would you per- mit your names to be recorded in the annals of your country, as barriers to the success of this grand phil- anthropic Experiment? However partial to the In- stitution of Slavery your views, your interests, or your prejudices may be, are you willing to suffer mar- tyrdom in defence of those views, interests, and pre- judices? and with that self-inflicted martyrdom to ruin the superstructure of Freedom, so nobly reared upon our soil? and in this fearful ruin to bury the dearest hopes of mankind? Would you bequeath to your children the fragments of our glorious Con- stitution, and the bitter fruits of Anarchy? Is Sla- very preferable to Freedom? Do you prefer to be the owners and masters of slaves, rather than be free yourselves, and citizens of the most free and happy land that the sun ever shone upon? 'Can you derive from the teachings of History or the lessons of the present time, any encouragement in resisting a free and liberal Government, for the sake of maintainin7g oppression in its molt obnoxious form? 'Admitting the North to be wrong and yourselves to be right, upon this question of Slavery-admit- ting this Institution to be, not merely a harmless,   86        THE ORATION. but even a benevolent one, still you will hardly claim that it preponderates in value, against all the insti- tutions of a Free Government. Whilst a majority of the nation, and those who, not being personally interested in the question of its perpetuity, are best situated to judge correctly of its character; and whilst all the Civilized World besides, who are equally disinterested, unite, as with one voice, in con- demning it ; can it be regarded as less than arrogance or even presumption in you, to insist upon its pres- ervation? Will posterity--will your own consci- ences, justify the position which you have assumed? '"Where is your boasted Democracy?  Whilst in the ascendency, you have ever been great sticklers for the supremacy of majorities. Were you not so from principle? "'Come back, fellow-citizens, to your former dig- nified position. Give up Slavery; and as sure as Heaven is above and God is true, you shall have no cause of regret. It is not the intention of this Government to deprive you of your property-or what you may re- gard your property-in slaves, without ample remu- neration. However unjust and full of evil we may   PRESIDENT'S LETTER.        87 consider the institution of Slavery, it did not originate with you, and you cannot be justly charged with its guilt; unless you shall undertake to resist the course of events, wisely, safely and peacefully, tending to its abrogation. If any guilt be implied in its exis- tence and toleration up to the present moment, it fastens with far greater justice upon this Government than upon you. You may be well assured, fellow- citizens, that no law will be passed, with my appro- val, requiring the emancipation of even one slave, without full provision for a just compensation to the owner, fixed upon by some equitable rule. 'Should you have the misfortune to succeed in your sorry project of severing the Union, what, in the name of God, would you accomplish?- To the human souls 'in distant lands, all over the world, struggling, toiling and suffering under the cruel lash of Tyranny, the steady, serene light, beaming forth from our glorious escutcheon, advising them of peace and prosperity and happiness here, is a Star of Pro- mise ; inspiring them with new hope, and giving them new strength ; but piercing those ministers of Satan who hold the reins of Oppression, as with stings of scorpions.   88-       THE ORATION. 'Dare you extinguish this Beacon? It is a dark and cloudy night upon the sea; the waves roll high, and dangerous rocks threaten on every hand; and many a weary bark, freighted with a nation's last and most cherished hopes, is stuggling for the shore. Dare you obscure this Light? It is their only guide ; and if you quench it, they must go down. GOD is above! Be merciful to the poor mariner. o   '   [Signed]  THE PRESIDENT.' When this communication was received andi digested, by the fire-eaters of the South, ' behold there was a great calm.' Never did magician, with his wand, produce more marvelous results. Had those enchanted syllables which were wont to cause such strange metamorphoses, in days of yore, been sounded from the lungs of old Pluto himself--wav- ing his mysterious wand over all the realms of Slave- dom-a change more sudden and magic-like, in the countenances, conversations and feelings of the peo- ple there, could not have been wrought. Its language was so mild; the spirit which it breathed was so kind and Christian; it was so ex- empt from all authoritative ostentation and all in-   SURRENDER.          89 sinuations respecting physical force; it was so liberal in its sentiments, so just in its demands, so earnest in its appeals, so wise in its suggestions, so friendly and even affectionate, in its tone ; and last, not least, the assurances which it contained, of ample remu- neration for all slave property surrenderel--alto- gether, in general, and the last named consideration in particular-fell upon the great threatening thun- der-cloud which had overhung the entire South, and cast its portentous shadow. over all the North-fell lile the sunbeams of the morning, calling home its electricity, and converting the residue into the most harmless vapor, which soon vanished away. And thus the Storm-Spirit was laid ; thetempest was stilled ; and instead of the terrific hurricane and the rattling thunderbolt, behold, a sound came steal- ing up from the South, so gentle and so musically sweet, 'That Orpheus himself, could he have heard it, Had hung his harp upon a willow tree.' The Southern People, with all their presump- tion, had shrewdness enough to calculate, that Sla- very could not long be maintained, and flourish, in opposition to the united sentiment of all the civil- j     90        THE ORATION. ized world. Neither could they fail to perceive the disadvantages which they must unavoidably incur, on account of their peculiar institution, in separa- ting from the North and forming themselves into a new Confederacy; the very birth of which must convert four million Slavesinto prisoners of war. And when they received, from the very highest authority, an assurance of indemnity against all pecuniary sacrifice, in the surrender of their slave property, it was clearly the wisest policy for them to make a virtue of necessity, and to do it in as graceful a manner as possible. It was even whispered, that some shrewd Yankee had ventured to guess, that the great Southern Rebellion, with its overwhelming Convention, its Treasonable Resolutions, and all its tremendous bluster, was, after all, but a deeply laid plot-a bold stroke of generalship-for the precise purpose of saving all they could-of saving at least some- t7iing-from what they were compelled to regard in the light of a sinking ship. But be that as it may, the South were concili- ated, and the North were satisfied ; and whatever sacrifice the one party might have -incurred, in the   SHP ON FIRE.         91 surrender of their favorite property, or the other, in bearing their proportion of the incidental, pecuniary loss-compared to the substantial good which result- ed, either to the country at large, to the entire world of humanity, to the African Race, or even to the South itself, from so just, so judicious, and so ami- cable (?) a settlement of the question-the most difficult quqstion that ever vexed the world-it was a sacrifice'only to be regarded as you would regard a light cloud, obscuring for a single moment the effulgence of the sun, and then passing forever away. This was one of the most beneficent of human triumphs ; and furnished one of the most luminous pages in the History of the World. Behold that mighty Ocean Steamer! the Pride and Glory of the World! laden with precious freight and a thousand noble passengers. She rides forth upon the dashing flood, as though it had no terrors for her at all-dropping far into the distance, all competitors, of whatever name or power. Conscious of her supremacy, and pitying the toilsome and futile efforts of other Craft to keep within sight of her, she glides triumphantly on, her Keel deep in the billows, her Colors playing in the clouds, and   THE ORATION. her great Hulk spreading out upon the water, like a broad, floating island. The storm, which sends many a strolg vessel down, with a groan, to the chambers of the deep, disturbs not her motion, nor retards her progress. There is no fear, nor dread, nor irksome toil, aboard; but all is joy and happiness and hilarity.  She seems the height of excellence in the Shipwright's art, and her management, the per- fection of Seamanship. But behold, in the midst of all her security, a smell, as of fire, ascends from  the depths of the cargo, far down in the bowels of the ship.  At first it is regarded as a very slight thing, and attracts but little attention. But presently a fearful cradcklig is heard; and   smoke-real, visible smoke-bursts up through every chink of the cargo, and every aper- ture of the vessel. That splendid ship-the Queen of the Ocean Wave, is on fire! The alarm--the struggle---begins. The engines are brought out. Boxes and bales are tumbled over : and all the crew and all the passengers are striving, might and  main, to save her from the devouring flames. But in spite of all their efforts, the fire still rages   ITEE SHP? SAVED.       93 in the hold, and hope begins to die. The Life-boats are unshipped, and preparations are-in hasty pro- gress to abandon the noble Vessel to her fate. But stop! A passenger, of lofty and resolute bearing, steps forth, and speaks in tones of Author- ity and of Encouragement.   His face is clothed with a serene smile, and there is magic in his voice. All the passengers, as one man, listen to his words and await his command. ' Smother the fire.  Stop the ingress of air. -Close every avenue. Stuff in cotton. Throw on blankets, cushions, any thing within reach, to choke the fire!' Quick as thought, the command is obeyed.- Bales of cotton, clothing, curtains; cushions, ,all tlings, come to the rescue. And wonderful to tell! the flames are subdued, the fire is extinguished, without the sacrifice of a single life. Then burst forth a shout of Thanksgiving and Joy, which rent the air for imany leagues around, and went up to Heaven from that rescued Ship. And thus it was with the American Ship of State. A mighty and noble Structure was she ; unequaled in all the world, in symmetry of form, in strength, in motive power, and in the beauty and excellence   -94       THE ORATION. of her rigging. Newly built and constructed upon a new and improved plan, she was the Pride and Hope of the Nations. No attack from external foes could move her. They all feared to arouse her anger, and stood in obsequious awe of her. But she had an internal enemy. The fire of Alfrican Slavery lurked within her recesses, andltook hold of her entrails. It crackled and raged and smoked and gnawed away, creeping all through the net-work of the vessel, and fasten- ing upon every combustible thing it could find. A little longer delay of efficient action, and the Amer- ican Ship had been reduced to an unsightly and smouldering Wreck, in spite of all possible efforts to save her. But God was merciful. Just at the critical moment when the last gleam of hope was expiring, a Voice was heard ringing throughout the length and breadth of the great Ship, demanding a new effort in her behalf, and promising success. - That Voice struck the Key-note of the Human Heart. The vital enemy was attack- ed anew. The fire was extinguished. The Ship and all her passengers were saved, and thankfully proceeded on their voyage. And a shout of Thanks-   MEXICAN HSTORY.        95 giving and Praise ascended to God from   all the Nations. The old Mexican tace, which but a little more than a century ago, dwelt in this proud City, and overspread the mountains and vallies of this broad and stupendous Country, had, for matny years, been torn with intestine wars, by which they had been reduced to a state of barbarism and anarchy. The people divided themselves into small parties, which soon degenerated into mere banditti; and gradu- ally, but rapidly, they resumed the life of the savagc. All civil Government was abjured, and the cities and villages were deserted, and the fields were laid waste. As the principle of moral vitality lost its power and activity within them, so also did that of the in- tellectual and the physical. At length it became obvious to all the Civilized World, that Mexico was destined to be depopulated by her own hand. The American President inter- fered, with his power, and attempted to rescue her from so sad and pitifil a doom. But it was in vain. The seeds of Destruction had been scattered broad- cast over the land and had taken deep root, and in [    96        .THE ORATION. their exuberant growth, had checked and suffocated every other production. And inevitable Destruction was"the only fruit which they yielded. As soon as the Southern States of America had become acquainted with the policy of the General Government, and were fully reconciled to it, they proceeded to elect new Members to Congress, so that the wheels of State soon moved on again, harmoni- ously. It was then that the honored President of the United States recommended, in his annual Message to Congress, those Measures which consummated the Salvation and the Glory of his own Country, and secured for our persecuted Race, a national exist- ence; which laid the foundation for our present pros- perous condition and our advanced position in the scale of Civilized Nations. He proposed to Congress, that the Slaves should be purchased from their owners, by Government, at equitable prices,. and,- as far as possible, removed to the depopulated territory of Mexico,; and that they should there be assisted, at the expense, and under the direction of Government, in whatever manner and degree necessary, to secure their comfort for the pre- sent, and their prosperity for the future.'   AN APPEAL.         97 Although this proposition met with much strong opposition at first, it was finally adopted by both Houses of Congress, and became a Law of the Land ; together with the Appropriation of Thirty-five Mil- lion Dollars; to be expended, immediately, in the execution of its provisions, and in anticipation of a like appropriation, as nearly as convenient, annually. Many long and tedious years were- consumed in the prosecution of this work ;-a work which could never have been accomplished except by a people of the most indomitable perseverance and gigantic power. But the work is done. And herewe stand, a living, a glorious, and may Heaven grant, a per- petual, monument of the wisdom, the philanthropy, the patriotism and the vigor, which projected, di- rected and executed, the Scheme of our Liberation. Fellow Citizens of Mexico : You all understand the History of your own Race. You have all traced, in your minds, the long and winding way by which you have been brought from the savage state in Africa, through the rugged paths of American -Slavery, and landed ,upon this soil ;-this new home of Civilization, of Freedom and   98       THE ORATION. of Happiness. No other nation, upon this Earth, can claim a history, so full of strange and varied in- terest, as you. Mexicans: May this history never be your Op- probrium. May yourselves be the people who shall study it most carefully and profit by it most largely. So may you convert the enormous Evil inflicted up- on your fathers, into an infinite Good to yourselves and your children. Reflect not with severity upon those who have been instrumental in the fearful work of your Trans- formation ; but regard them as the ministers of God, whose plans have all been laid in mercy. If, by their instrumentality, you were made to pass through the Valley and Shadow of Death, by it also you were led forth from Egyptian Darkness, and brought safe- ly into the Promised Land. You are now beyond the reach of external dan- ger. Your former masters and persecutors have, by Heaven's decree, become your friends and protectors. Well have they atoned for the cruelty of- their past conduct towards you. And, in redeeming you from the Damnation of Slavery, and securing to you, this national Salvation, nobly have they redeemed their   ADMONITIONS.        9) own souls from a deeper curse, and conferred upon their own nation a glorious ,estiny. This day, Mexicans, is your Centennial Birth- day. On the Fourth day of July, in the year of our Lord 1900, your American protectors, having estab- lished for your fathers a form of Governmnent, simi- lar to their own beautiful and glorious one, and hav- ing discharged for you, during your National minor- ity, the responsibilities which it imposed-declared you independent of all Earthly Power, save that with which God Himself had invested you. - Then, and here, upon this hallowed ground, they delivered into your hands the reins of this Government, solemnly charging you to wield them with Firmness, with Moderation, with Fidelity, and with Faith in God Almighty. Thus far have you discharged your high trust faithfully and successfully. Thus far have .you giv- en the world assurance of a high order of Humanity. But indulge, therefore, in- no vain-glory. Re- member that the price of Libert s eternal vigilance. And Vigilance, to preserve so priceless a treasure inviolate, must be armed with the helmet of Wisdomf, the breast-plate of Temperance, the sword of Knowl-   100         THE ORATION.   j edge, and the shield of Virtue. And with such a sentinel, thus armed, you may- bid defiance to every Foe.  To sustain a Republlc in-its highest character, there is no alternative,but every citizen must under- stand his sovereign duties, and conscientiously and faithfully perform them. The measure of excellence which attaches to a Government, will always be proportionate to the average character of those from whom it proceeds. It. argues great folly in any people, to boast of their Government, or form. of Government, whilst Vice, or Ignorance, or Superstition, is prevalent among its constituency. No stream. can ever be purer than its fountain.         - The accession to a country, of new governmental  elements of infernor quality, in whatever respect, must inevitably lower the character and value of its Government, just in proportion as it reduces the average of moral and intellectual power, of the entire mass from which that Government flows. The rule is a mathematical one. And from the nature of things, it can never fail in its results. Let Education be made universal, and the Cardi- 4        , r * .   END OF THE VISION.       101 nal Virtues of Christianity, by their individual pre- valence, control the national Councils, and in the Name of God, I pronounce your Country safe.- Upon any other basis, you will sink to Ruin, to Shame, and to Perdition--or History is a lie, and God eternal is false." The Oration was finished, and the Orator retired. Every word which had been uttered was fastened in my memory as if written upon brass. But I heard no more ; for amid the sweet strains of music which then burst forth from the band, filling all the air with delight, I was aroused from my revery, by a still sweeter voice--when I found myself reclining, in the cool of the evening, upon a rustic lounge, in the farthest corner of my garden. nsD OF VISION SECOND.   t a   THE TRIAlI O       BEELZEBUB The Scene is laid in the Infernal World. The Time is A. D. 3000.     TRIAL OF BEELZEBUB. CONTAINING, AMONG OTHER THNGS, A DRAMATIC PERFORMblANCE BY THE,TNHABITANTS OF THE LOWER REGIONS ; IN WHCH ARE DISCUSSED SOME QUESTIONS OF TEhRESTRIAL IMPORT $ AND SOME HSTORICAL TRANSACTIONS3 RESULTING IN k SATAN'S EXPULSION FROM THE EARTH, AND IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NEW EDEN. A black and hollow vault, Where day is never seen; there shines no sun, But flaming horrors of consuming fires  A lightless sulphur, choked with smoky fogs Of an infected darkness." Why one so humble as myself should have been chosen from the rest of mankid; as a medium    of RevelationT I know not. I offer' the character of the matter revealed as the only support, and I may say as a sufficient support, of its authenticity. For myself, whatever others may be pleased to think, my faith in its supernal origin   106    MANNER OF THE VISION. is so deeply fixed that no human influence could pos- sibly stir it. Every man has his part assigned him in the Drama of Life. I desire to be true to mine. And whoever shall be counted worthy to read these pages may regard himself as holding a high rank upon the stage; and as being appointed to sustain in that Drama, an important character, which must be honored or degraded by his acting. I care not what you call it. A name is not much. Reader dear, take your choice. A dream ; a revery; a vision; a trance; a revelation. That is a minor point. I shall not be strenuous on that. It was night. I had just sunk upon my pillow. Thoughts of the great Future and speculations upon Human Destiny had been teeming throughmy brain. Suddenly, a new and mysterious Power encircled me; which raised me  up, like a feather, and bore me swiftly away through space. And yet I might be mistaken. Instead of dis- tance in space it might have been a change of scenery. Who can tell?  The very air we breathe may be filled with spirits. And only a few additional senses   OPENING RREMARKS.       107 may be requisite, for us to perceive a new, and per- chance, a far more interesting world than this. And it also might have been a distance of time. Poor mortals never think of that. Or they think of it only as a misty thing of the imagination. They can live in the Past only by History or by Memory; and in the Future, only upon the wing of Ideality. So men think, and so it ordinarily is"The transmis- sion of one's real presence from tfe present to any other period of time, so far from being regarded as a real occurrence, can scarcely be conceived of, except as an incomprehensible quality of God. How narrow is the range of human conception! How little do we think, before the curtain rises, what imposing scenes and what astounding tableaux are ready to burst upon our view! And even beyond those, what oomplications,-what magic-like changes,-are still in- reserve for us, behind thq next curtain! This Universe is the Theater of God! And if man, by his ingenuity, can overwhelm  us with as- tonishment, at his mimic miracles, may not the Om- nipotent Manager, if it shall please Him, raise a curtain, and open to our'view, scenes which our fancy never painted? and show us miracles which are real 2   108      A STRANGE LAND. THE VISION. I stood,--or seemed to stand-upon an eminence. The country around me, on every side, extended very far, and-was made up of hills, vallies and plains.- These were covered all over with sandy barrens, huge, unshapely rocks, frightful precipices, dismal swamps and morasses, dens and deep ravines, scragged, leaf- less trees, and old demolished woodlands. All of nature's hardest and most unsightly fea- tures seemed to have been collected here, and so ar- ranged as to produce the largest possible amount of horror in the beholder. It was twilight ;-not an ordinary twilight, such as morning and evening are wont to furnish the mor- i tal dwellers upon earth,-but a' mingling of dark- ness with a'purplish, lurid light; for scattered here and there, all about, as far as I could see, were burn- ing pits, sending up streams of blue flame. And they served to exhibit this most malicious combi- nation of nature's most unseemly parts, in their un- lidndliest aspect. The atmosphere was filled with smoke, mingled with a disagreeable sulphuric stench. The sky had   THE INHABITANTS.        109 neither sun nor planet, nor ray of light; and there was naught to be seen above, but a boundless expanse of inky blackness. Then there were innumerable sounds which har- monized well with the ghastly scene. There were sounds like the hissing of serpents, the howling of dogs, the bursting of artillery, the roaring of sub- terranean fires, the clashing of hostile armies, groans of agony, screeches of fright, and wailings of despair. And all through the air, and all over the ground, I saw living beings, of various shapes and sizes, but all most hideous and, revolting to the sight. They, for the most part, represented the human form, with an infinite variety of deformities, or combined, in the most shocking manner, with the forms of the inferior animals. There were great serpents, and crocodiles, and wolves, and leopards, and hyenas; all with human heads, and many with human hands and feet. And they all had wings. There were flying horses, and flying cattle, and dragons and satyrs, with black skinny wings, like bats' wings. And they flew about, flapping them slowly, in the air, just overhead. And now and then these beings would utter i   "O       MOUNT CHAOS. strange and unnatural sounds, indicative of deep anguish. And their countenances-which ever and anon were so turned that I could distinguish their features, by the light of the blue flames-were cloth- ed with expressions of remorse and of bitter woe; mingled with traces of every evil passion and infer- nal purpose. As I observed these deformed creatures atten- tively, I perceived that they could poise themselves in mid air, motionless; or dart away, swift as thought, through space, Many of them, at first, seemed engaged in some foreign enterprise ; as num- bers were constantly disappearing in the black dark- ness above, and others constantly emerging from it. For a long time I stood aghast and motionless; surveying with my eye the awful and mysterious scene. At a distance of several furlongs from where I stood, was a notable eminence. It was much better illuminated than any other point which I had ob- served, and seemed the great center-perhaps I might say, the Capital-,of the Realm. I observed that all who went abroad, first visited that Mount, as if to receive their commissgzon thence ; and that ...     .   A LOUD CALL. all who returned, first halted there, as if to pay their respects, and report the measure of their suc- cess, to the Supreme Power. At length, while I stood silently gazing upon this infernal scene, paralyzed with horror, my atten tion was suddenly arrested by a great noise-a voice, louder than a thousand trumpets-which seemed  proceed from this Mount. Itwas so very harsh and thrilling, that it jarred all the atmosphere, echoing fromathe hill sides and bluffs, and from the black vault above, rolling off in the distance, and inunda- ting the mountains and plains, to the farthest verge of Hell. Thus it spake  "PRINCES and POWERS of the great Deep! Black and Grey, Mean and Courageous, Small and Great ' Come forth from your Retreats! Come forth from your labors of Malice, from your dark Dens and your burning Caves! Come forth, and assemble upon MOUNT CHAOS! before the August Throne of the Majesty of Hell !" For a  single moment then, there was silence as profound as death. All the m  ultitudinous noises below and around, by some mysterious influence, had   "2     A MLITARY ASSEMBLY. instantly died away. I was shocked quite as much by so strange and sudden a stillness, as I had been previously, by the terrible din and uproar. But soon there was another change. All againwas confused noise and motion. But the sounds were now of a different character; being more like the bustle and clang of military parade. The different varieties of Spirits separated themselves from each other, and formed into military companies, with Leaders of different grades. Each company was composed of members, uniform in shape, size and appearance; with Leaders, in whom seemed concentrated and reflected all the characteristic vices of their respec- tive battalions. soon as these companies were formed, they all poceeded, in great regularity, to march forward in the direction of the Central Mount, in accordance with the Supreme Command. But they marched without any music. Nor did I hear, during all my visit in this infernal country, a solitary musical sound. For the space of an hour, these companies con- tinued to pour in from afar, until they had formed an innumerable multitude, extending as far as I   SATAN.         113 could see; densely covering all the mountain sides, rallies and plains. The Leaders then advanced, and assembled upon MOUNT CHAOS; in the immediate presence of the Royal Commander in Chief. Desiring to change my position to a more central point of-this great pageant, and feeling myself securely protected by a superior Power, fearless, I arose from the ground; and with the very slightest exertion, I found myself stationed upon an ele- vation, just in front of the great Throne, upon Mount - Chaos.  There I stood, conspicuous, but apparently unnoticed, surrounded on all sides by the assembly of monsters which I have very imperfectly attempted to describe. It was a spectacle whose every feature impressed itself too deeply upon my memory, for one jot of it ever to be forgotten.               \ Before and above me was the Monarch of Heil, sitting upon his great Black Throne. If you com- bine the forms of all ferocious and hateful beasts, and all disgusting reptiles, into one-then crown the imonster with a human head, and imagine him of colossal proportions, and his dark countenance preg- nant with every vile thought and baleful purpose--   "4     A BEAUTIFUL SIGHT. you will, even then, gain but a faint notion of the huge and terrific reality. From around his feet ascended volumes of smoke, as from ignited brimstone ; through which his iron- like scales might be seen, now and then, dimly glis- tening in the purple firelight. Over MOUNT CHAOS, in the black canopy, there was a small space of light, which I perceived was an opening. And it was exceedingly bright. Some- times it was intercepted from my view by the wreaths of dense, sulphureous smoke which were constantly ascending and slowly disappearing in the awful chasm of darkness which yawned above. But occasionally, by looking steadily through this opening, I beheld a most beautiful sight. It was a Great City, so brilliant and so glorious, and presenting so fearful a contrast with the regions which surrounded me, that I could hardly endure the sight of it. And, although situated at an immense distance, I beheld and could distinguish its inhabi- tants, who seemed to be angels. And there were thousands and tens of thousands of them, flying I about upon golden wings. Many of them had in  a their hands harps and others golden instruments.-  !^   SATAN'S OPENING HARANGUE.    115 And their motions were all indicative of great hap- piness and joy. This, I perceived, was the source of light, by which MOUNT CHAOS was so much better illumi- nated than any other locality in all the land of To- phet. When all the mighty Names of the Deep, with all their infernal Legions, were assembled in the presence of his Majesty, forming an array more tre- mendous and imposing than mortal eyes have ever beheld, or human imagination ever conceived, the KING OF HELL, with a voice whose deep, jarring thunder tones betrayed his supremacy, addressed the huge multitude thus: SATAN'S OPENING HARANGUE. "Princes and Potentates : The Occasion which demands this Convocation, is without precedent in the annals of Hell. Remember ye the unlucky Morning when your OMNIPOTENT PERSECUTOR thundered ye forth from those blazing battlements yonder, and plunged ye sprawling into this blistering mire? Since that   "6    SATAN'S OPENING HARANGUE. event, no disaster hath befallen us so direful as the one which threatens us now. What signify all our successes? What though worlds upon worlds are our trophies? Our richest gem lost, our strongest fortress surrendered, what security is left us?- What ground of confidence? Man was our proudest triumph?  The Earth was our securest fortress. Earned by the most tor- turing effort, the foulest'and most desperate means; loved dearest by our haughty Foe; relinquished by Him with the illest grace ; to be compelled to yield them back, must crown the climax of our Hell. POTENTATES! Whence these indications of dis- aster? Ye, to whose keeping I entrusted that priceless domain, speak! When, confident of your fidelity and skill, I left ye charged with that dread responsibility,- for to explore the boundless fields of Creation, in search of new Conquests, how came it, that upon my return ye have pierced me with this caustic grief? Whilst, by incredible toil and journeyings unheard of, upon the bleak outskirts of His fearful domain, I have gained a few small ad- vantages, altogether scarcely worth,the value of a single score of human souls, ye worthless devils   SATAN'S OPENING HARANGUE.    117 have lost me that golden orb, more prized than half my kingdom else. Bring forth your Defense. By what new wea- pons have ye been foiled? By whose fault has the current of our fortunes been reversed? I deemed the Earth impregnable with half your strength.- May ye not yet, by diligence, regain the ground which ye have lost? Perchance ye be fatigued with laborious service, and need a little repose. Then go lie down awhile upon the soft fires of yon lurid lake, and let the red, rocking waves dandle ye to sleep. Or, perchance, ye be weak, and faint, and indisposed with illness. Then go bathe in those healing sulphureous lavas which boil forth from yon beautiful sparkling fountains. Say, Demons! what new and strange causes have conspired to plunge us into this new Damnation? Princes of ALL EVIL!-of IGNORANCE, of Su- PERSTITION, of AVARICE, of PRIDE, of AMBITION, of ENVY, of REVENGE, of INTEMPERANCE, of LICEN- TIOUSNESS, of FAMNE, of DISEASE, of WAR, of OP- PRESSION, and of MURDER! Come forth ye, and vindicate yourselves from blame, or submit to be de- graded to the basest and most ignoble offices of Hell!"   "8     BEELZEBUB'S APOLOGY. When the great CHEF had thus concluded his opening harangue, which was listened to with un- earthly silence, behold, a monster, who, from his vast and multifarious proportions, his lofty head and peremptory bearing, I judged to be next in power, came forth and replied: BEELZEBU B'S APOLOGY. "King of Destinies and Autocrat of Hell: Verily the occasion is sad and doleful enough I Our favorite retreat is about to be closed against us forever! Our first adopted child, and dearest, is preparing to forsake-us! Our most dearly bought and securely guarded possession is soon to be wrest- ed from our grasp! Our most ancient and loyal province is, even now, in a. state of revolt! Our most impregnable fortress is in the act of yielding itself up to the Almighty Foe! The Earth, the glorious Earth, is deserting our standard! But censure thou not, O' SATAN, the infernal Princes. Under the guidance of thy servant, no efforts have been spared to save thy terrestrial do- nminion unmarred. The KING of HEAVEN--our   BEELZEBUB'S APOLOGY.      119 ALL-CONQUERING FOE! He it is who hath done thee this great harm. He hath taken advantage of thy long absence. He hath invaded the earth with new and unheard-of contrivances. His Engines of War no created power can resist. Not even thy awful presence, with all thy malevolence and thy craft, could have stemmed the overwhelming tide of Ilis Salvation. But while Hope has long been drowned in De- spair, still we have labored on and on, surrendering inch by inch, to the very last. And, even now, a secret Legion of the- most skillful and trustworthy fiends that Hell can produce, are there, holding a few minor positions, for purposes of mere annoy- ance. And thy servant had been of their number; but hearing of thy return, I must needs pay thee my respects, to report to thee our perverse For- tunes.  I Go forth, great SATAN, and review the ground. Witness for thyself, the overwhelming preparations which have been brought to bear against us. Try thy hand now against the Almighty. A little ex- perience; at the present time, may possibly modify thy views. Gko visit the earth thyself, SATAN."   120       SATAN' S REPLY. Satan disdainfully replied: THE -REPLY OF SATAN. "CBeelzebub : Forbear! I can listen to the story of thy dis- grace no longer. I once thought thee the bravest iof the brave. I yielded thee the highest honors in my gift, deeming thee the mightiest of all my Princes. I required the millions of our ranks to submit to thy word, even: as unto mine. I made thee my Vicegerent.  Then, with unscrupulous faith in thy genius and thy prowess, I resigned unto thee all power and responsibility, and plunged forth into the uncreated and unexplored Oceans of space, in search of new Continents, and for the achievement of new victories. For, in days of yore, thy great deeds were the ' theme of every tongue. Thy fame was even co-ex- tensive with Satan's. Many worlds acknowledged thy power, and tamely submitted to thy scepter.- Even He of the Fiery Thunderbolt beheld thee with fear and dread. He said to His angels, ' Rest not nor give over your sleepless pursuit until that most daring of Satan's heroes be driven forth from Elysian.' $   SATAN'S, REPLY.      121 Then I was proud to count thee the Leader of my hosts, and the right hand Counsellor of my throne. Oh, BEELZEBUB! hast thou drank of Lethe, and forgotten th!' deeds of thy youth? or is thy right hand withered:? or are thy joints rheumatic, that thou fleest the shadow of danger-of danger whose substance thy youth had been eager to grapple? If the Enemy had borne down upon thee with redoubled vigor, was thy own arm paralyzed? Were thy armies drunk with old Nectar, taken in ancient conquest? If new engines of destruction were  brought to bear upon thy lines, was the genius of the great Beelzebub asleep, that when the ground were all your own, no machinations were brought to oppose them, by which an Invader might be re- pelled, or His progress, at least, checked? That field which this right hand, unaided and alone, had wrenched from His grasp, and fortified as with walls of adamant, could not the puissant Beel- zebub, with his countless train of chosen imps, have retained it, against the power of Him only, from whose grasp I alone had wrenched it? O Beelzebub! the morning of thy fame was   122     BRETIZEBUB'S INVECTIVE. brilliant, and thy career has been full of glory and of pride. But mark ye; a cloud, black as the nether- most dungeons of Erebus, overhangs thy age. Worms shall gnaw thee in the fetid pools of corruption, and fiery scorpions shall be thy bosom companions. On the solitary isles of ice thou shalt roam, unfriended and foodless. The human souls, that in thy palmy days were drawni down to these chambers of death by thy matchless subtlety, shall turn upon thee, and tantalize thy starving soul with the mockery of dainty fare. Nauseous odors shall sicken thee; and sudden dangers affright thee. Menial devils shall pass thee by with a sneer, and thy name shall be a bye-word in Hell." Beelzebub had listened to this passionate invec- tive with evident surprise, yet with masterly calm- ness. Witha loftiness of bearingwhich cast a shadow upon Satan's dignity, he replied sarcastically: BEELZEBUB'S INVECTVE. "Imperial Satan : Thypower is supreme. These obsequious millions proclaim it so. And thy wisdom, no doubt, is enor-   BEELZEUBE'S INVECTIVE.     123 mous. For the glory of thy fame, and the wondrous happiness (1) which thou hast secured to thy follow- ers, stamp all other hypotheses with absurdity. But, SATAN, thy power has gained no strength, nor thy wisdom no laurels, by this most absurd and abusive speech which thou hast uttered. Language so hasty and ill timed, would scarcely have gained a breath of applause to one of thy obscurest Princes. How much less should the Sovereign of half a Uni- verse seek renown by an effort so unbecoming to thy dignified position, and so grossly unstatesmanlike! Thy Majesty has made allusion to the Ancient Wars; and claimed superior honors on account of thy single-handed success in Eden. But why not extend thy retrospect to a period in antiquity, a lit- tle more remote? when these exquisite regions, where thy  Majesty's sceptre is now unrivalled-- these lovely plains and cool refreshing groves-these purling streams and picturesque landscapes-when all this vast and delectable country which we now enjoy unmolested-by thy wisdom   and generalship were achieved? Hast thou drank of Lethe, and forgotten those brilliant deeds of thy youth? I re- member even so far back as when thy Majesty pro- k              , ,   124     BEELZEBUB'S INVECTIVE. posed to reign Supreme in yonder Blazing City; and raised thy arm to dethrone the Ancient of Ages; and when He, with His furious Lightnings and de- vastating Thunderbolts, hurried us away, pell mell, from those dazzling heights, and whirled us headlong down to these precious flames, and surrendered unto thee the absolute Sovereignty of all these delightful Realms. I remember it well. F    But notwithstanding these brilliant achievements, thy victorious Career has sometimes been interrupt- ed, SATAN. One memorable instance I may notice. It was a Single Combat waged by thyself. And it occurred not in Eden, but in a Wildern'ess. Thy antagonist was not a zooman, then. He micght have commanded the aid of Legions of Angels ; but single- handed, and under every mode of attack which thy ingenuity could invent, He baffled thee, unscarred and unsoiled. It was a clean victory on His part, SATAN, and on thine a shameful and ruinous defeat. For that very defeat was the beginning, aye, SATAN, it was the cause of all our disasters in the Earth. It has oecasioned these unwelcome tidings, which we have brought thee, of total discomfiture; soon to eventuate in our utter extermination thence. ,   BEELZEBUB'S INVECTIVE.      125 Pardon me, SATAN; I had not intended to re- proach thee. On the contrary, I have ever held thy indomitable energy and persistent temerity in pro- found admiration. BEELZEBUB is not of those who regard failure of success as a proof of fault. Bu I stand here in self-defense. If failure must be punished as a crime, then. the principal failure must of course deserve the greater punishment. That failure which opened the way to all others, and which yielded to an Enemy posses- sing inferior advantages, by ,which He not only ascertained His relative strength, but secured to Him- self the vantage ground, by which He has been enabled, evermore, to prosecute offensive operations on a scale of unparalleled grandeur and all sweeping power, and which has inevitably resulted in the an- nihilation of our cause,-such a failure, who shall es- timate its consequences? Who shall define the penalty which it deserves? Who shall declare its sentence? But, SATAN, it is not so. Neither thyself, nor any of thy followers, deserve to be punished for that which in itself is the severest of all punishments.- In all the countless ranks of thy Infernal armies, every individual devil is bound in this narrow com-   126      BEELZEBUB S INVECTIVE. pass. His only respite from the gnawings of the deathless worm is in the accomplishment of evil. It mitigates his woe. It stimulates him to increasing toil and Herculean effort. It insures fjidelity and $ub- ordination in all the rank and file of Hell. Whilst fields of enterprise are open to our hands, outside of these dolorous shades, we are relieved from the ne- cessity of mutual torture. Hence, all of us, from the least to the greatest, are interested in the success of foreign enterprises. And hence it is absurb to charge it upon any of thy subjects, that they have rendered indifferent service in thy momentous cause in the Earth. Every step which thy armies were compelled to retreat in that dreadful struggle in this ancient province of thine, did strike the center of every Demon's heart with a pang more fierce than the Enemy's deadliest steel. Behold thy faithful Princes!   Here in thy Majesty's presence they stand, to answer, each for himself, and to explain to thee the course of all our- misfortunes there, in which thou shalt see the hand of irresistible Destiny. But, SATAN, if reason have no virtue to sooth thy wrath,-if thy disappointment must needs be treated   ITS EFFECT UPON SATAN.      127 with a victim, and if blood be the only antidote for thy vengeance-behold thy faithful BEELZEBUB will not shrink. BEELZEBUB will furnish the antidote and serve as the victim. But not until he redeem his character for bravery,-not until SATAN shall be furnished with some personal exhibitions --some tangible evidence-of his prowess ;-not until thy Majesty shall have an opportunity of measuring the degree of his valor with thine own arm." iDuring this speech of Beelzebub, Satanfexhibited, in his countenance, a very wide range of emotion,- ftom the palest violet of Vanity down to the deep- est crimson of Anger. There were shame and pride and contempt and jealously and malice and revenge ; all, by turns, sitting there in triumph. Like a fierce Comet, whose ominous glare causes whole Continents to shake with terror--or like a long smothered Volcano, whose unchained fury suddenly overspreads a kingdom with consternation--so Satan, when Beelzebub had finished his caustic rebuke, burst into a rage, which made him to glow with an appallinC lustre. The atmosphere grew darker and more lurid. An intenser gloom settled down from   128     BEELZEBUB S SENTENCE. the black concave, overspreading the vast expanse of Hell. Thus he spake: BEELZ EBU B'S SENTENCE. "Loyal Princes of Satan! Ye long tried and faithful Servants! Listen ye to my command. Behold ye the audacious Beel- zebub? And hear ye his monstrous insolence and his lies? He is no longer fit for the service of your all- powerful King! Take ye the Apostate from my presence! Seize ye the Strong Demon and bind him with chains forged in the Central Fires! Then take him to the Adamantine Pillar of Tartarus and bind him. There let him remain four tedious months, to dwell upon the sharp rocks and the scalding cin- ders. And ye may extend the radius of his circuit to the Molten Cataracts; where he may now and then choose to break the dull monotony of the hours with a shower bath. There leave him alone, to reflect upon his strange and monstrous folly, through which he has dared to insult the Awful Majesty of Hell. )   PRINCE INTEMPERANCE.      129 There let him remain a fearful example of the consuming wrath of Satan! to be gazcd upon and pointed at by every straggling devil that passes.- And as they pass him by in the distance they shall exclaim: Behlloll the mightiest of Satan's Princes! B1eelzebub the Grcat! A spectacle for all Hell! An example of Satan's Power and his Wrath!" Now when Satan had ceased, behold, several of the Princes of Evil rushed forward to his feet, and besought him to suspend the execution of this terrific sentence, until he might receive an account of the Sublunary Wars from other sources. SPEECH OF PRINCE I N TEMPERANCE. "Great Satan :"             o. (Thus spake the Prince of INTEMPERANCE, whose disgusting form, bro9d, swollen features-and blood- shot eyes, proclaimed his sensual character and his 1name,) "C Give ear to thy favorite Prince ;-me, the most daring and. the most profitable of all thy noble Princes! Quiet thy 'erocity, dear SATAN, and lend Mne, for a little space, thv Majestvy's anudlience."   130  SPEECH OF PRINCE INTEMPERANCE. Satan smiled complacently, and bowed his as- sent. "O INVINCIBLE MONARCH!" continued Intemper- ance ' I claim thy special indulgence, because this veteran hand has conferred upon thy service many extraordinary benefits. Explore the deep laby- rinths of Hell, and in every section, far and near, ye shall hear my name pronounced with bitter curses, by numberless human souls who have, been piloted hither by me. Others of thy noble Princes, also, have derived much of theier success through my powerful aid.- Especially will my lords-POVERTY, LICENTIOUS- NESS, DISEASE and MURDER, confess to the potential agency rendered by me, in the very respectable amount of evil which they have severally accom- plished in thy service. The proudest intellects have I subdued; the mightiest arms have I withered; the fairest pros- pects have I blasted; the sweetest joys have I poi- soned; the happiest hearts have I broken; the purest minds have I corrupted; the noblest ambi- tion have I prostrated; the brightest names have I made a reproach among men.   HS EVIL EXPLOITS.      131 For many centuries I stood among thy proudest representatives in the Earth. All ranks and condi- tions, all sexes and professions, all tribes and na- tions, all languages and all colors, were accessible to me. No society excluded me. I was a favorite with all, from the lowest up to the politest and most pretending circles. The arts which I employed, together with the very valuable aid of my subordi- nates-those human souls which had been seduced hither by thy humble servant,-enabled me to pro- duce such an overwhelming tide of ruin and of woe in the Earth, that thy Eternal Enemy became alarmed, lest every vestige of His image in man should be finally obliterated. That was a proud day in my career. And even now, when I bring up by memory those innumerably scenes of human agony which I prepared, the blasting ills which I scattered broadcast over the world, the snares which I spread for the feet of the unwary,- and then, when I consider the abundant harvest which I gathered in, of death, and of woes worse than death,-of ruined characters, of broken hearts, ) of wasted fortunes, of beggared children, of grief- murdered wives, of demolished intellects, of brutal-   132    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. ized, demonized souls--when I call to mind the drunkard's home, that theatre of Delirium Tremens, that precursor and type of Hell, where all was bleak, barren and desolate, where devils, in scores, assem- bled and howered around, to enjoy the rare satisfac- tion of feasting their eyes and ears upon the torments of the damned, without bearing a part, as here, in enduring them-when I think of the promising youths whom I intercepted in the high road to honor and fame, of the gray hairs which I brought in sor- row down to the grave, of the parents' blight, of the children's shame, of the heart-wringing agony, of the freezing despair-and last, and best of all, when I think of the mighty army of human souls whom I bound with my strong chains, and marched straight down to these infernal precincts-when I think of all things which then and there I conceived, occasion- ed and performed, I am puffed up with pride, even now, and briefly forget my subsequent inglorious de- feat; and I seem to myself a great conqueror once more. Then, again, the dreadful reality rushes upon me. And it seems ten-fold more dreadful, because of these bright recollections, which I am compelled   DESPONDENCY.       133 now and then to indulge. Those glorious days are forever past! Never, O nevermore shall this eternal gnashing, this enormous woe, be relieved, by a field of glory and of victory, li1e unto that! Now it only augments the writhg of my agony and the despe- ration of my grief Better never to have known re- spite from pain, than, with the recollection of it, to suffer on, interminably and hopelessly. Better, far better for me, never to have gained those brilliant fields, sin6e the souls whom I have brought down to these murky shores are evermore to be my tormentors. But such is the grim destiny which forever pur- sues us. Our greatest victory must ever be our bitterest calamity. If victories were 'never to fail us, then, indeed, it were otherwise. Then, indeed, we might take courage and hope in the eternal re- lief which an eternal succession of victories must yield us. But now we know, too well, that our Eternal Foe must finally be our Conqueror ; and we know, also, that every victory we gain, though pro- ductive of present relief, must contribute to the sum of our future and everlasting woe. Doubtless, then, our true policy is this;-to hold, by the wisest counsels and ablest generalship, those *    134    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. possessions which we may chance to gain, without withdrawing any material strength, for the sake of attempting new achievements. Herein has been our great mistake in the Earth. And herein I must acknowledge my own error, as well as the great fault of thy Lieutenant, Beelzebub. Had I sought with less earnestness, to subvert the race of man ; had I wrought with less energy ; had I been content with fewer and less brilliant successes -perchance I then might have provoked less pow- erful opposition, and have remained longer in the field, to have rendered thy cause essential aid in the day of its greatest peril. For, -at the very moment when I was riding most triumphantly on the wave of universal fashion, presiding over public assemblies and in private cir- cles, in the light and in the dark, on land-and sea, in business and in recreation, at home and abroad- when I was allowed to supersede all other agencies, as a preserver of health, a dissipator of disease, an exhilarator of the spirits, a drowner of care and of sorrow-when I was accepted as a substitute for wealth, for food, for clothing, for friends-when I was regarded as a protector against heat, against-   XI           TOTAL ABSTINENCE.       135 cold, against dampness, against malaria, against pes- tilence-when I was invoked as a strengthening cor- dial, courage genderer, hope inspirer, brain invigora- tor-at the point of time when our cause was most popular, and seemed most secure in the Earth- then, thy Old Enemy, as I was about to say, sent down an Angel, called the Angel of TEMPERANCE; and she it was who commenced a warfare upon us. At the first, I laughed to scorn her childish weap- ons and liliputian strokes. As the proud forest oafk looks down in his loftiness and. his strength, upon the sickly weed, so I was prone to regard her beneath my contempt and undeserving my notice. As the years went on, numberless were the ex- pedients by which she attempted to damage my cause. But they were all harmless like stubble.- Her arrows and her darts were to me as the down of thistles. Her sharp-pointed' arrows fell at my feet like rotten wood. Then Wras my pride unbounded; and I lifted up my voice in exultation and defiance. Her first expedient was the Society for Total Ab- stinence. This Society labored for many years, and labored mightily, to rid the world of the curses which    136    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. I engendered. The chief weapon which it wielded was called Moral Suasion. And for a brief space, I was not a little nervous in apprehension of the fruit which it might bring forth; as from its mountain-like throes and gigantic heavings, I feared it might be pregnant with some formidable thing. Science lent the entire weight of her authority against me. Reason also, and all the other Good Angels which had gained ac- cess to the human heart, arrayed themselves, with all their tremendous enginery, upon the side of Total Abstinence. To a superficial observer, the odds, for a time, seemed fearfully against us ; and the current of our success was really turned. But like the current of a stream, which by some mighty impulse of Nature, had been driven backward, for a mrnoment, but only to gather new force for its declining flow again ; so the downward tendency of human nature, soon preponderated again, and our cause flow- ed on more prosperously than before. Whilst I possessed the advantages of early ed- ucation, and habits long indulged, and old associa- tions established in the mind, it was requisite that some new principle, stronger than reason, or religion,   FAILURE OF MORAL SUASION.     137 or morality, or humanity, or domestic happiness, or vagtue fear, or any of the shifts of Moral Suasion, should be brought to bear against my position, in order for the Angel TEMPERANCE to give me any real occasion of alarm. It became at length a source of downright amuse- ment to me, to observe the silly, but very laborious, and costly efforts, exhausted in useless opposition to my triumphant progress. Such were the various Secret Societies, Carson Leagues, Temperance Pub- lications, World's Conventions, and. other projects similar in aim and in result. But one quality, in the Angel, did really excite my admiration; and that was, her blind and obsti- nate perseverance. Whatever the result of any particular scheme, or engagement, or campaign, or howsoever unsuccessful in the aggregate, she seldom   exhibited the least symptom of discouragement or relaxation. All her hopes in Moral Suasion, which had ran through a lapse of many years, having at length failed, she hit upon a new idea. And although, from the very first, I entertained no great fear as to its ultimate working, I may as well confess that it   138    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. occasioned me some temporary embarrassment. It was the idea of Political and Legislative action. Some men had greatfaith in it. As soon as they reached the point at which they could fairly antici- pate the enactment of such laws as they desired, they seemed to consider the great battle nearly over, and the victory as good as achieved. But they were men of sanguine and impulsive temperament. Another class, with hearty hatred of my cause, favored this Legislative project merely as a forlorn hope. The Moral-Suasion principle had looked more feasible to them. And until they saw with their eyes, its insufficiency, they had clung to it with the tenacity of desperation. Indeed, in this new scheme they were mostly but passive followers. They were sometimes even accused, by the former class, of being secretly allied with me, preserving a show of oppo- sition, only for certain secret purposes. But they were in reality my most dangerous op- ponents.      i For, as a mammoth war-ship, though ponderous, and in her incipient movements, tardy, roused into action only by large and decided occasion, when she' has once determined to act, is more formidable to the   "EGISLATION.        139 enemy than the little dashing gun-boat, though never so furious ;-so, a mighty moral principle, deeply and firmly incorporated with the soul, though acting with less promptitude than the noisy and pas- sionate impulse, is far more persistent, more power- ful, more obstinate, vastly more destructive, and in- finitely more to be dreaded by us. But the experiment of Legislation must needs be tried. And so great was its" promise of success for a while, that whoever had betrayed doubt as to its ultimate triumph, had been branded, and set down as a friend of Intemperance. Even Jubilees and thanksgivings were proclaimed; anniversaries were celebrated; and joy flowed as in, great rivers from  the mountain tops down to the ocean ;-as though I were already subdued, and exterminated from  the mundane globe. Quietly and patiently I awaited the reaction, which nay scientific knowledge of human nature enabled me to predict, with confidence, as well as with downright satisfaction. And here I am constrained to declare, in pres- i ence of the infernal Royalty and all his noble Princes, that although, for a certain period of time during    - 140    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. this Legislative experiment, the direct proceeds of my hand suffered a very considerable abatement I have good reason to believe that some of my fellow- Princes, thereby, or at least simultaneously,. aug- mented their gains by accessions even somewhat larger than the diminution in mine. Reference to the records of at least my lords, the Princes of Avarice and of Falsehood, might either confirm or correct me in this humble suggestion. At all events, I shall indulge the belief, until convinced otherwise by the records, that thy aggregate in- come from the Earth, and from those sections of it, and during the period, in which this experiment was in progress, was at least as large as during a similar period, either immediately preceding or immediately following it. This experimental process was somewhat a tedious one for me ; as it extended itself, by repetition and multiplication, through a space of time formidable enough, especially in cases attended with so much suspense. Through the skillful disposition of my forces, to- gether with the mighty influence which I had adroitly gained over the souls of men, and the masterly man-   SUSPENSE.        141' ner in which I wielded it, the experiment did event- uate in failure. The wicked devices and machinations by which I compassed an event so prodigiously glo- rious, whilst they shocked the world with astonish- ment at the extent of my resources, I regret to ac- knowledge, did also inspire my human enemies with still profounder hatred towards mne. For awhile, then, on their part, there was a blank cessation of hostilities. But I understoodfullwell that there was a deadlier, a more desperate and determined spirit in them, than ever before. And from the pro- found and universal calm which prevailed, I not only predicted a sudden arid violent onslaught, but with very industrious prudence, I stationed and prepared my army of devils, high and low, spiritual and in- carnate, original and transformed, in such a manner as most effectually to resist it. In what manner and in what form, in what time and place, it might burst out, I had' no means to ascertain. Indications that the Angel of Temper- ance was still intent upon my destruction, or, in miscarriage of that, my greatest. possible damage, were so clearly apparent to my experienced eye, that during this wonderful calm, my anxiety was   "2       A 1NEW SCHEME. scarcely less painful than during the progress of the fearful storm which had just previously been raging. -Well, the long expected, and I must confess, the long dreaded, attack was finally made. But it came, not in the manner and form in which I was so amply, and I may say, so expensively, prepared to meet it. Not in the thunder and lightning did it come. I had my infernal batteries ready, and thunderbolts, red and fiery, forged by Vulcan's own arm, Uto have repelled it, in that form, with the ut- most certainty and with great violence. Nor in the hurricane and storm did it come.- These have no terrors for the Prince of Intemperance. All the Furies of Hell were at my command ; and I might have driven the raging elements back to their dark prisons, as with the breath of my nostrils. But it came like the breaking of the morning; or like the evening dew, distilling upon the' Earth. So gently, so silently and so peacefully did it come, with its beautiful rainbow light, its life-infusing warmth, and itsEden-like perfumes, filling all theair. In ' a still, small voice' did it come, breathing a whis- per so gentle and low, that it seemed like the breath of Zephyr, as he stoops to kiss the infant Spring.               HS MSMFORTUNES.      143 Old Vulcan had furnished me no arms of defense against such an attack; and Beelzebub had failed to advise me of its approach. All my ostentatious preparations were vain. My royal and veteran armies, with all their terrestrial allies, were powerless.-- The Angel of Temperance had out-generaled me at last. Like one of ancient renown in the Eartih, whose glory has dazzled mankind, like a star of mysterious brilliancy, who, boldly plunging with his countless chosen ones, into the boreal depths of his Cossack foe, confident of an easy triumph and universal do- minion, suddenly fell, with his armies, like leaves of the forest, from the loftiest Alpine heights of anti- cipated glory, into bottomless perdition; fell, with- out even the poor consolation of an honorable defeat ; so I, the hero of many battles, but all unacquainted with disaster, at a moment when a final victory, more brilliant than any of its predecessors, seemed wait- ing impatiently for my embrace--I, thy favorite, Prince Intemperance, with an army of devils as nu- merous and well-appointed as ever left the armory of Hell, was driven, as with a wisp of feathers, from the face of the earth : aye, without striking a single   "4    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. blow. Powerless, we fled like an army of pitiful ninnies. The manner in which my humiliation and ruin were effected, I am about to describe. The human devotees of the Angel had become ferocious. In their desperation, they assembled to- gether from all lands, for mutual condolence, and for purposes of consultation. Is the Prince of Intemperance invincible? Is even the abridgment of his power in the earth to be deemed an impossibility? These were the ques- tions which naturally arose for discussion: and right earnestly were they discussed. The strongest intellects in the world were present. For gradually had all men, of all sects and parties, who stood high upon the intellectual or moral scale, joined the ranks of my enemies, in fighting earnest. Never before had my character and that of my emissaries been so roughly handled, and my resources so care- fully weighed, by human hands. - But, for my own part, having been so completely triumphant in all my previous engagements, I really believed my ar- mies invincible, by whatever contrivance of man. Practically, I regarded myself as Omnipotent.-   1          TEMPERANCE DISCUSSION.      145 Still, wishing to be prepared for every maneuver of theirs, and indulging a little natural Vuriosity, I carefully watched all their proceedings. In the course of the great debate, all manner of things were saidi; and many things so ridiculously stupid, that your Majesty would hardly be pleased with the recital thereof. One gentleman remarked: ' That after so long a period of warfare against the vile and disgusting monster, Intemperance-after such mines of treasure had been wasted, and such gigantic efforts exhausted, and all without any per- ceptible good result-he should oppose the farther prosecution of the war, except with Christian armor, exclusively. He had lost all confidence in political, or any other merely human expedients. Although he would gladly sacrifice his all, and even submit to martyrdom to effect the demon's destruction, he had come to the conclusion, conscientiously and even re- ligiously, that God, in his providence, had so ordered the battle, that man should be humbled, and learn to wait, in the great work of moral renovation, for Divine guidance. For his part, he would counsel patient inaction, for the present, with earnest prayer,    "6    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. with Christian hope and with humble submission, to the most wise, but most inscrutable decree of Heav- en. He believed the work was essentially a moral one and had failed, as all moral undertakings must fail, unless ordered and conducted by the Divine Spirit.' Another Speaker arose and replied: ' That although he admired the gentleman's piety and Christian resignation, he could not agree with him upon the main question. He regarded it as the duty of every citizen, by every means which God and society had'furnished him, to set his face and raise his hand against every social evil; whether such opposition prove immediately successful or not. The Temperance war was one of great magnitude ; and, like all great enterprises, required much time and labor for its successful issue. Towards such an issue, he believed much progress had already been made. If this war were now to be abandoned, he acknowledged the world would reap but very little benefit from it; and the expenditure which it had involved, would in that case, be a total loss. They had gained much experience, only valuable in the further prosecution of the work. Their past errors   TEMPERANCE DISCUSSION.     147 would not be repeated. The enemy had already been made to fear and tremble. The very next campaign might, peradventure, accomplish his sub- jugation. His motto was Nil Desperandum.  -The gentleman previous, with all his piety, had exhibit- ed too little of Christian hope, and too much un- christian despondency. My counsel, (said he,) is to pray as much as you please, but don't forget to work. Use all the means to combat the Evil One which God has placed in your hands. Let us never be discouraged, (continued he,) in a good cause.- It is our duty to labor on till death. Whoever grounds his arms, or even suggests so weak a course of conduct, whether under the garb of Religion, of Policy, or of sheer Discouragement, I shall regard him an enemy to our cause. Such advice is both cowardly and treacherous. My hatred of Intempe- rance is so deep and uncompromising, that I am de- termined never to cease fighting till amy knees shall fail me. If my comrades desert me to a man, I shall still fight on, and make no compromises. ' My  opinion is that our cause might have tri- umphed long ago, and the dirty devil of Drunken- ness been reduced to vagabondry ere this, except    "8    SPEECH OF' INTEMPERANCE. for the lukewarmness and cowardice of those who call themselves his enemies, but who, in reality, are the most efficient friends he has. If the war be renewed, I doubt not, a new and more resolute spirit will prevail in our ranks, and overwhelming and glorious victory be the result.- But if we abandon it now, the losses which we must sustain, the shame which must rest upon us, and the evil consequences which must be entailed upon pos- telity, no figures can compute,-no imagination con- ceive. Therefore, " my voice is still for war!" ' When this Speaker had done, the great assembly remained for a time in profound silence, A gloom, nearly amounting to despair, had taken possession of all hearts. No plan had been proposed which gave any reasonable encouragement of success, in view of the failure of those which had already been tried. The empty assurance of the speaker last on the floor, or the despondency of the one which preceded him, had done but little to relieve the embarrassment which overhung the entire occasion like a dismal cloud. At length, an old man, long-favored, lank and infirm, but with a Joyful expression of countenance,   :E R           iEMARKS OF AN OLD MAN.  149 in an obscure corner of the assembly, arose, (curses upon his memory!) *Ad harangued the multitude, thus:  c' Men and Brethren : I have but a few words to speak ; and these few are very simple. I have to announce the simple truth, which every man should already know,-that the Law of God must be obeyed, though men turn into wild beasts. Not even to save the race from cannibalism and self-extermination, will the Great God allow one jot, or one tittle of His law to fail. Man's ignorance and neglect of this Law causes him a world of bootless toil, and floods of bitter tears. 'There are laws which God has placed beyond the human fathom--outside of the sphere of human action or of human ken. Such are those which govern the Spiritual existences, who traverse immensity, and do His errands in Heaven and Hell. Also, in the un- measured depths of the material Universe, where myriads of planets, and suns, and systems, dance through  space at His bidding, who shall presume to know His Eternal Purpose? 'But man has no right to be ignorant of the Laws which shape his own destiny, by which he is judged,   150    SPEECH OF INTEIPERANCE,. for weal or woe, for life or death, for Heaven or Hell. Such ignorance is a crime, which cannot escape pun- ishment. And in this age of advancement, as well as of boasting and of vain-glory, it is a shame to civilization. 'And the universality of this ignorance, as repre- sented by the wisest and most learned men -from all lands, here assembled ; and as exhibited in the pitiful dilemma in which this august assemblage is at this very moment involved, should make all Christendom blush. "Why has the Temperance enterprise failed?- And why are the friends of Temperance and Human- ity clad in mourning this day? Listen ye, and I till answer. 'It is because of the ignorance-the criminal and disgraceful blindness, which has pervaded, and mis- guided the Temperance ranks,-iignoranceof hle obvious and unchanging principles of Human Nature, which all men should know, and of which all who aspire to be rulers and leaders should be ashamed to be ignorant. 'It is a law of Nature, as constant and as obvious as the law of Gravitation, that all great changes,   I4          REMARKS OF AN OLD MAN.     151 wrought in the human soul and character, must be effected by slow and gradual processes. 'To transform a nation, or a world, from vice to virtue, from folly to wisdom, from sin to holiness, from drunkenness to sobriety, we can reasonably hope for success, only by beginning with a generation ; by persevering, with a steady hand, an earnest heart and . an unwavering purpose, through the forming period of life ; fixing, establishing and confirming, in the mind and soul-by the appliances of Education-the prin- ciples of Truth, of self-control and of Temperance; making them a part of the individual, by which the character of society is formed and maintained. ' I, who stand in my place here, am an old man. I speak not/merely as a theorist, but as an experi- mentalist. Forty years, have I been a temperance soldier ; and never, during that period, have I ceased fighting. Early, I questioned the efficacy of the popular weapons employed in the prosecution of this war. But being a young man then, I was only a theorist, and dared not, and could not, proclaim my convictions, in such a manner as the world would hear. ' But whilst the whole world has been turned up-   152    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. side down with the "pomp and circumstance" of this war, through a period of time surpassing,othe age one generation of men, and that without any very proud result,-I have wrought on in an isolated field, with the old fashioned weapon of Education.- And in this little field I have never lost a battle, but have uniformly gained the victory.  r 'I have sought out the children. In the primary schools have my battles principally been fought.- There have I labored patiently and silently, through- out a district of country, emblacing as many schools as my time and strength have allowed me properly to superintend, in the prosecution of my plan.- I have managed by my own exertions, and the aid of teachers, (whom I have generally found to be faithful and efficient co-laborers with me,) to keep -the subject of practical Temperance so prominent in their minds, during the stage of mental development, as to insure, in about every case, a life of total absti- nence. So potent, I had almost said so omnipotent, is the influence of early and persistent education, in forrinn the characters of men. "et this plan be universally adopted, and I boldly and confidently affirm, that the foul fiend of Intem-   I          . REMARKS OF AN OLD MAN.     153 perance shall soon spread his dragon wings, and make his final escape from the Earth. ' Many years ago, I became convinced, upon prin- ciples of moral philosophy, that no great progress in our cause, would ever be made by the reform of drun- kards, or even by moral suasion generally. So weak are the tendencies of the human heart towards dis- tant or unselfish good ; -and so- strong the power of the perverted and unbridled Appetites, and of edu- cation and habit. And later, when the strong arm of the Lawz was invoked, to aid you in opposing the grisly demon, I felt assured, upon the same princi- ples, of the impotency of even that. "The war, to be successful, must extend through a period of many years. But this war must also be properly conducted. Its present character must be discarded. From an aggressive it must be convert- ed into a defensive war.   The plastic strokes of Education, directed  by skillful hands, must fall upon the tender and susceptible material of the in- fant heart,-so softly and so delicately fall, that not a fibre shall be bruised nor a tendril broken, yet a system of defenses be formed around and within it, impregnable to all the batteries of Intemperance.    154    SPEECH OF - INTEMPERANCE.. i             *    .     .. 'You have been in too great a hurry. Natural laws must, and will, have their stated time to work. Yet you have thought to attain a great end which only through natural laws can be reached, in a period of time too short, by far, for these laws to achieve it. ' Whatever work you have done hitherto, has been only patch work. And even that is now about all frittered away. All the time which you have consumed in this work-this futile attempt to usurp the province of Nature-only leaves you standing. about where you started. ' Your wisest, your most advantageous act, this day, will be to abandon all your enterprises of the past, and to resolve, henceforth to place no value or dependence upon them. Let your time, your money, your labor, which you may have invested in them- let them all be counted as lost, rather than sink still more capital of the same sort in the same way. Repent of your ignorance and your folly. Your in- tentions have been worthy of better counsels, and need no repentance. Like wise and skillful physi- cians, let your efforts be hereafter directed to assist, not to counteract, the efforts of Nature. Like pru-   -1          THE OLD MAN'S CONCLUSION.    155 dent husbandmen, sow your seed in the spring time, if in the autumn you would gather a harvest of fruit. Plant the seeds of Temperance in the soil of the heart during the spring time of childhood; nurture them watchfully through the summer of youth, and in the autumn of manhood you shall not be disap- pointed. "In conclusion, (said he,) Men and Brethren: if you shall decide to prosecute the war upon any of the old plans, my heart will be with you, but my head and my hand must revolt. My capital is too precious-the cries of humanity are too importunate and too grievous. And scattered here and there, about the world, I have many pupils, who have entered the field of labor upon the plan which I have now submitted. And whether you shall con- clude to adopt this plan, or no, they will multiply. And the stone, which you builders shall set at naught, will one day smite the image of Intemper- ance, which men worship, and it will grow and grow, until it shall become a great mountain, and shall fill the whole earth. ' Men and brethren, I have done.' Such were the words of the old man: and they   156    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE had fallen upon my ear with excruciating enect.- Although, I must confess, that at the moment of their utterance, I had had no conception of their full import. The exceeding JoY which the Angel Temperance and all his crew had exhibited during the speech, greatly increased my forebodings of danger. I had observed, that now and then, during its delivery, angelic messengers were dispatched to the Upper City, as if to report the sentiments which it pro- mulgated. This had not occurred on any previous occasion; and I will not deny that it caused me some solicitude and perplexity.     t Education-combined with the operation of Na- ture's Laws-:-rather-than trust to individual trans- formation, or Legislative coercion,-these were ideas which instantly struck me as embodying a new Power-a Power, perchance, of irresistible momen- tum. And as I contemplated it, surveying its mighty proportions, as it rose in all its fearful mag- nitude before the eye of my mind, the atmosphere suddenly changed, to my senses, and became oppres- siye. And in spite of myself, so suddenly and so deeply had my clear sky of promise been overcast,   ]:^i      NEW FEAR AND NEW HOPE.     157 so severe was the blow which I had received upon my spirit, that for a moment I quivered and shook ;- though ashamed to confess it, I trembled like an aspen leaf, with frightful apparitions of impending danger. The Angel, observing my undisguisable alarm, grew ecstatic. The human countenances in the assembly instantly became cheerful; for, although they had as yet caught, but a faint glimpse of the tremendous advantage which their Cause had gain- ed, in the simple suggestions of the old man, even that faint glimpse, flashing upon them as it did, in their darkest hour, operated as a cordial of won- drous virtue upon their drooping spirits. The confident tone of the old man; his honest and dignified bearing; the corroboration of his posi- tions, however meagre, which was furnished by others lpresent who knew or had heard of his great success ; the hopelessness of all other sclemes hith- erto proposed; and finally, the eminent plausibility and obvious practicability of his plan,-altogether, by the unanimous consent of the Convention, served to sweep by the board all the old theories which had proved so worthless, and yet so expensive,    158    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. and to establish a new Temperance dispensa- tion. But as that new Theory was unpretending in its immediate results; entirely devoid of ostentatious display; possessed no machinery for manufacturing great public sensations; called for no lavish expen- diture of money; sought no governmental aid; and afforded no pabulum for selfishness,-it was obvious that all those who had not been sincere in their adherence to the Temperance principles, but had adopted them for selfish purposes, would now lose their adhesiveness, and fall off; and either remain aloof, or join my ranks. However, I could not regard their defection from the enemy's camp as any material diminution of his strength ; neither their accession to my own, as a very material occasion for joy. Curse me as you please-with imbecile or inac- tive recruits, or an open-handed, sincere enemy, how- ever implaca ','bBut save ine from venal, false or 'lukewarm friends. From the heights of self-complacency and confi- dent security I suddenly fell, as down a vast preci- pice, into a state of tremulous perturbation; and ; .   HS DECLINE.        159 from perturbation I slid rapidly into terror and des- pair. My courage, my confidence, my glittering prospects, vanished all away as by magic. Then, as I looked overhead, the great portals of the heavenly firmament were sprawled open, and from yon glaring City I saw myriads of Angels pouring down, in all possible magnificence and glory, rending the ele- ments with their torturing melody, and making the atmosphere all luminous with their shining faces. I was now overwhelmed with confusion. Many of my forces, in the most dastardly manner, desert- ed me, and fled back to the outskirts of civilization. And I was compelled to stem the flood of Tempe- rance with a feeble number of my veteran troops, whose courage overpowered their fear,-under every imaginable disadvantage, and with the gloomy cer- tainty of being eventually driven away from the habitations of men. The remnant of my earthly career I care not to review. It consisted, generally, but in a series of disasters and mistakes, which terminated in the crowning calamity of our utter and disgraceful ex- termination. All of which resulted from the new, the philosophic, and the irresistible mode of warfare ,.:.   160    SPEECH OF INTEMPERANCE. proposed at the Convention, by the long-favored, the lank and the Joyful old man. All this powerful and protracted struggle, throughout, thy Lieutenant-general, Beelzebub, was ever vigilant and faithful in the discharge of his vast and responsible trusts. His counsels never failed me, when dangers threatened. And to his wise and far-sighted policy may be attributed much of the brilliancy of my victorious campaigns. Many of the richest trophies which, through my agency, swell our infernal ranks, might now have been standing before the gorgeous Throne of the Eternal, basking, with the Seraphs, in His effulgent sunshine; had Beelzebub been neglectful of his duty, or un- mindful of the vital interests of thy kingdom. And during the decline of my power, his deep solicitude for our cause was constantly exhibited, in the numerous, though futile expedients, which he sug- gested for the successful conduct of the campaign. Much of my earthly success I owe also to the Prince of Avarice. He was ever ready with his mighty hand, when the issue of the- battle was doubtful, to secure me the preponderance. His serpent eye never slumbered, and his long, bony   ACKWNOL EDGMENTS OF INTEMPERANCE.   161 finger never failed, to point me to the weakest posi- tion of the enemy's line. Had it not been for his mnagic aid, the combined influence of Reason and Science and Self-Respect-to say nothing of Domes- tic Affection, or Honor, or Comfort, or Health, or Conscience, or the Religious Sense, would have blown all my hopes to the winds, and hunted me out of the world, ere any of my proudest victories were won, or half my immortal trophies secured. Neither should be forgotten, in this connection, the valuable incidental benefits rendered me by thy noble Princes, Licentiousness, Disease and Murder. They served, nwith the utmost efficiency, in turning my success to thy Majesty's very largest account.- They ever stood ready to' assist me in the disposition of my prisoners, and to forward them on to these thy undisputed domains; where no friendly aid can possibly reach them;, and whence no arm can rescue them for ever. More correctly, perhaps, I might say that those thy noble Princes derived great dvantages from my labors ;-that through me they obtained the most of their prizes, and that I was rather an auxiliary of theirs than they of mine. ]owever, the result is all    162    INTEMPERANCE CONCLUDES. the same to thee, whether I or they be regarded as the principal. And at all events, we have always acted together with the most cordial harmony. But the subject is too painful. I can pursue it no farther. O for a single drop of cold water!" When the voice of the Prince of Intemperance. was no longer heard, there was groan, as if all the anguish and all the malice which this earth had ever known, were condensed into one utterance, rising in millions of voices, and dolefully reverberating through all the regions of the Deep. Could the tortures of the intemperate damned be but reflected upon the ears of all Christendom, by one such groan as thlat methinlks all other arguments, for the cause of Temperance and the rescue of the poor inebriate, were superfluous. Then the Monarch of Hell replied bitterly to the Prince of Intemperance, thus: SAT AN S REPLY TO INTEMPERANCE. "True, Intemperance, once thou wast my favorite Prince. Once thv powerful agency was my most ef-   SATAN'S REPLY.      163 ficient aid, in peopling these infernal vaults,-these fiery, smothering quicksands,-these slimy dungeons, --these fetid, loathsome recesses,-these lakes and streams of molten sulphur, ever burning, yet ever un- consumed,-these bottomless pits of concentrated woe,-with the souls of men who once dwelt upon the earth, but now fill the Empyrean of Hell with the music of their gnashing and their howling. But now thy occupation is gone, Intemperance. I hate and loathe thee now; and condemn thee to depart hence and go welter, with the souls thou hast gather- ed in, with the trophies of thy pride and boasting; to inflict and receive the shafts of torture, which their fiendish ingenuity and thine pay evermore in- vent, in the filthiest mire of hell. Fit element that for thy brutal wallowing! Fit emblem that, of thy disgusting service! There, go seek thy reward." Now I saw after this, that the Prince of Intem- perance slunk away from the presence of Satan, crawling low upon the ground and disappearing from my view. Again I looked, and beheld a huge and frightful monster of immense proportions, having the body     164    OPENING SPEECH OF WAR. and claws of a Vulture, and the face and head of a man. He came forth and stood before the throne. There was a tiger-like and blood-thirsty fierceness in his countenance, which made the very devils to shrink back in dismay as he passed before them. Addressing Satan, he spoke in a gutteral voice, and said: OPENING SPEECH OF WAR. "Imperial Sovereign! My services belong to thee. I stand here at thy feet in readiness for thy bidding. For although it was I, thy loyal subject-the veritable Prince of War--who gave thee thy crown, thy realm, and the third part of the habitants of Heaven, for thy sub- jects, I still acknowledge and claim thee my legiti- mate sire and rightful master. And I offer thee my most obsequious homage. Blindly and fearlessly I obey thee. At thy command no power is too terri- ble for me to assault, as I proved to the Universe and to thee, in the very process of my birth. But the Planet Earth, which for so many centu- ries has been my principal theater, now shuts me out ; anid I find but little to do any more, outside of Hell   SATAN'S COMPTIMENTS TO WAR.    165 No otherPrince of thine, it is true, has ever wrought such fearful desolation in the Earth as I have done. But I claim to be thy favorite Prince, more es- pecially, because thyfuture glory must chiefly come through me, as thy past has already come." Satan answered and said: SATAN'S COMPLIMENTS TO WAR. War I acknowledge thee my favorite Prince. For notwithstanding it was thy instrumentality which dislodged me from those glittering heights of Para- dise, and established me here upon Mount Chaos, where, I must admit, the air is not quite so salubri- ous, nor the prospects quite so delectable, nor the luminosity quite so intense ; still I have this conso- lation, that my ruling passion has enjoyed a far wi- der latitude here than yonder. Besides, as thou hast already hinted, much of my hope for the Future centres in thee. Without thy faithful aid, how shall I ever advance against my Ancient and Never-failing Opponent? Whatever may have been thy indiscretions or neglects in the Earth, whereby my Rule there has   166   SATAN S COMPLIMENTS TO WAR. been crippled and finally overthrown, I shall never denounce thee, War. Because I cannot denounce thee without compromising, nay, without sacrificing my most darling schemes. But I desire thee to speak of the course of events which has led to this scandalous catastrophe ;- so I may decide, with the more judicious policy, con- cerning the conduct of my quondam General in Chief, into whose hands I formerly delegated my Supreme earthly dominion. How came thy strength to be broken-and thy terrors disarmed; after that I had instated thee in the Earth with so great power and authority, and after that thy character for efficiency had been so amply vindicated? Speak, Prince War, and let my ears be feasted a little with the story of thy human tortures ; and of the numberless and gigantic woes, which thy in- fernal ploughshare wrought in the fields which I had conquered from His Proud and Despotic Majesty. But O, the Catastrophe! How it scalds my en- trails! And stings me worse than a thousand infer- nal scorpions! But speak, War." To this request, the Prince of War responded as follows:   WAR'S EXORDIUM.       167 SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. "Magnanimous King : Since the Angel Peace' has got possession of the Earth, whence my rations were chiefly derived, a ter- rible gauntness has seized my inwards, and now, preys upon my strength.  Besides, this long-protracted bloodthirst parches my throat, and renders my voice husky. 'Tis indeed a very disastrous crisis, both for thy Majesty's Cause and for me. But at whose door the fault should be made to lie, falls not within my province to determine. This much, however, I can testify; to wit: That thy Prince Ignorance, first, then, Prince Superstition, next, Prince Ambition, and finally, Prince Avarice, did fail in furnishing me with a field and with sub- jects for my legitimate occupation. Whether by force, or otherwise, I cannot tell, but these Princes of thine did, successively 'and severally, ground their arms. Else I had never failed of returning, to thy Majesty's revenue, my full quota of blood, anguish and destruction. To what cause to ascribe this capital delinquency   168     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. in these thy noble Princes, is of course not for me to decide. I me'rely state what I know of the facts. And in these, I doubt not, your Majesty will find ample grounds at least for my acquitment of blame. From the very earliest ages of mankind, I had been the Supreme Magnate of the world. Every- where, my authority had been final. I was limited by no age nor social condition of men, by no section of soil' nor form of Government, by no phase of. Politics nor school of Philosophy, and by no Reli- gion, except one. The Religion, of Him who was the Son of the Invincible, did of course deny my Jurisdiction:.- But then, thy most adroit Prince, Supersfition, so successfully interwove even with this Religion, his ingenious sophistries, as to render it a most formid- able power in- thy Majesty's interest. ^ He not only opened its doors to my authority, but, for many ages, he made it the grandest instrument for my operations that was ever offered me anywhere. To what purpose I improved it, may be seen by referring to the Archives. It is true,. the ravages which I perpetrated in the Earth, during my long supremacy there, gave to thy   HE REVIEWS HS CAREER.     169 Great Enemy, directly; only temporary annoyance, as it inflicted only temporal paiw upon the children of men. But even this temporary annoyance and pain were no trifle. And then I gained many indz- rrect advantages there, which are permanent. A mighty host of souls were secured to thee through ;my instrumentality :--what time, with Caesar, Alex- ander, Napoleon, or other great representative of thine, I stalked over the Earth, and with my iron fingers, mny breath of fire, and all my infernal artil- lery, laid waste the nations; producing scenes of woe, froin which even ordinary devils shrunk aghast; washing do'wn the mountain sides and the vallies 'with torrents of human gore, and drenching all lands with tearts of undying grief; strewincg the Earth with gha i;stlyr murdered corpses; or despatching in gre-at piits, the wounded together with the dead ; or tearing asunder with my bombshells the fair and tender forms of innocence; or compelling starved mothers to devour their inflants-quaffuing their warm blood ; or abandoning great fields of the dead and di'scabled living to be torn by docgs, wolves, and vul- tures ; or, in the darkness of night, entering human dwellings, dragging forth daughters and mothers,   170     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. sisters and wives, and in the presence of their fath- ers and sons, their brothers and husbands, inflicting upon them the most savage and brutal treatment, the most cruel. and protracted tortures, and the bitterest and most revolting death-and each, after 'the most approved style of fiendish invention; or leading great armies of men into foreign lands, there, upon barren, shelterless mountains, amid fierce storms, to die by frost and starvation,-invoking with their dying breath the mercy of Heaven upon their widowed and orphaned families, far away, equally forlorn and desolate; or razing great and opulent cities to the earth, and driving forth their women and children, homeless, to wander, to beg, and to die in the way ; or with my earthquake ex- plosions, heaving into the air great masses of promis- cuous humanity, tearing and mutilating their bodies in every imaginable style, and leaving great mounds of the half dead and dying, to perish by the most agonizing and protracted death; or forcing dowr huge precipices, at the point of the bayonet, greal masses of human beings to be dashed to pieces ; o: holding, in the most torturing suspense, numberless families, scattered over great territories, and by th,   R             H .E EVIEWS I LS CAREER.  171 hands of merciless savages, harassing, desolating, butchering, mangling, burning with slow fires, flay- ing alive, digging out eyes, cutting out tongues, stealing away children for the torture, consigning to starvation and wild beasts, less cruel than savages, defenseless women and their tender infants: Or, what time, with my diabolical enginery, I wrought deep traces of moral blight throughout the entire fabric of society, reaching to its heart of hearts ; trampling upon the last hopes of the poor ; provok- ing to the highest pitch of excess the worst passions of the human soul; tempting into paths of the foul- est guilt, rulers and subjects; offering great preimi- urns for blackest crimes; mocking at Virtue, and Truth, and Temperancej- and even Humanity; roll- ing back the waves of Civilization and Christianity, and devastating whole continents with the blight of barbarism; closing the fountains of knowledge; poisoning the virtuous affections ; setting back, for ges the tide of improvement; darkening those windows of the soul, through which had entered a few rays of light from Heaven, to inspire it with hope, and give it assurance of a glorious and eternal destiny  and degrading, to a level with the brute,   172     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. those proud nations which had talked of the Angels as their elder brethren--that aspiring race which had claimed, unblushingly, to have been created in the image of God. I had lit up with my torch all Europe. Thy human tyrants, concerned for their dominions, had flown to me for succor. Then I gloated upon, the rich feast of blood and hearts, spread out before the eye of my imagination, so soon and so sure to be realized. Seldom in the history of man had so extensive a theater been offered me. And only think of the age in which it- occurred! The age of proud Civili- zation and of meek Christianity! This circumstance improved vastly, to my tas-te, the flavor' of the viands. Events rolled rapidly on, and I soon found my- self master of a scene which, for terrific grandeur, enormous cruelty, and unbounded suffering, seemed the very counterpartof hell itself; andhad well nigh driven me to madness for very joy. More especially had I reason to be hilarious upon that occasion, as no great principle of Truth, no holy cause of Liberty, no imposing claim of Justice, lay   WAR EXULTANT.        173 underneath the contest on either side. On both sides the Leaders were led on, and the contest was moulded, by thy own Princes. Although, for awhile at first, much restraint upon the barbarities of my rule was mntatained out of respect to ' the spirit of the age,' yet the purely infernal elements which entered into the quarrel, and all its complicities, ex- cluding all that was unselfish and humane, eventu- ally disclosed their origin and their character, by the mixed atrocities and rampant fiendishness which prevailed to the end of the awful conflict. After two years of wholesale slaughter and wide- spread, triumphant ruin, I humbled the pride of Europe, without securing to either or any party, except that of thy Majesty, any very marked advan- tacge over the others; but infinite disadvantage to all parties but thine. At length, being exhausted from sheer excess of good fortune, I gave the impoverished and demoral- ized world a little respite ; and I roamed abroad for a time, recruiting myself in preparation for a new field; soon becoming the more eager for blood and destruction, on account of the excesses in which I had just indulged.   174     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. North America, secure in the possession of well- digested Republican institutions, presented me no very vulnerable point. Excepting some occasional slight difficulties, by which I succeeded in effecting a very trifling amount of mischief, no question there could avail to provoke a resort to my arbitrament. Moreover, the great American Republic had learn- ed a way to dispose of controversies with an adroit-  ness which altogether eluded my authority. Having a high sense of national justice ; possessing a Con- stitution which tended to overcome the selfish pro- pensities, the spirit of which coincided pretty near- ly with that antiquated dogma called the Golden Rule, and which encouraged an honorable ambition to excel only by unexceptionable means; composed mostly of a race who possessed the noblest and am- plest qualities of soul; holding a position upon the globe favorable to the preclusion of foreign influ- ence ; and enjoying a power which insured her against all external machinations-she was conscious of her ability to shape her own affairs and create her own destiny. She was the first to 'set the example to the world of achieving conquests, in rapid succession, and on   'I! i          HE LOSES GROUND.      175 , a scale of great magnificence, without an appeal to my tribunal. This alarmed me exceedingly. I perceived that the Angel of Peace was elabor- ating a plan of operations of some sort, both novel and bold, to gain over the world to her most odious policy. A smile of unusual brightness and an ex- pression of confident hope sat upon hel countenance ; and a renewed vigor animated her movements, which, in connection with the other indications that I had shrewdly detected in the Western continent, filled me with the most dismal apprehensions, For a considerable period I had laid the flatter- ing unction of Slavery to my soul. Thy Prince of Oppression had settled his cold iron hand upon the West, and had gained there a deep and vital grasp, coeval with, and in spite of those liberal Institutions which had distinguished that portion cf the world. He, under the form of. American Slavery, had pro- mised me, for many years, a field of carnage and de- solation, such as I have seldom etjoyed in all my bloody career. The crisis at length came. But the Angels of Ed- ucation, of Invention and of Democracy, had so art-   176     SPEECH -OF PRINCE WAR. fully and so harmoniously played into the hands of Peace, and had brought about, by the wonderful Art of Printing and other equally astonishing discoveries, such a concurrence of untoward instrumentalities, that, wonderful to relate and most painful to confess, thy Prince 'Oppression grew disgusted; insomuch that he decided, at length, to loosen his grasp, and return to Europe. It was shrewdly suspected by our party-both devils and men-that thy Great Enemy in Chief, had, in some wayCT a very direct agency in bringinc about those untoward coincidences which made the climate of America so uncomfortable to thy noble Prince. For precisely the men, without whom successful resistance against thy powerful and well-organized forces would have seemed an impossibility, were pro- vided for -the occasion. These men, with a most marvellously clear eye-sight, (which was thought by some to be a providential endowment,) did also ex- hibit in their lives the most gigantic virtues--virtues, at least, which appeared gigantic to us. One champion, whose pre-eminence in these qual- ities gave him the principal leadership of the Angel's hosts, in spite of all the machinations of the great   A CHAMPION.        1" Beelzebub, serenely, but fearlessly, and against the most formidable odds, with his hand and his eye lifted to heaven, did, in behalf of his country and of AIan, undertake to dethrone thy Prince of the iron heel, and the cold, iron hand. He cleared away the accumulated rubbish and cobwebs of the old and helerogeneons schools,-which, to a great extent, were under thy patronage,-rejected their authority, and invoked in a voice which resounded through  the world, a Higher Law. The engagement was desperate. The suspense was most agonizing.  But Slavery was finally rout- ed.  The chains of Oppression in the Western world were broken asunder.  Peace hovered triumphantly over the land, and secured with her silver cords, the interests and the hearts of all the people. Then my fate in AMERICA was sealed. Thence- forward my power declined with a hurried pace.- For the Great American Republic, when once the hydra-demon of Slavery  was banished from  her shores, went forward as the great chosen instrument of the Eternal, conquering a Peace-a Republican Peace--in all her sister nations of the Western Hem- isphere. Finally, in a marvellously short period of    178    SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. time, the traces of my power upon that Continent could nowhere be contemplated, except upon the page of the historian. The example, furnished by America to the East- ern World, soon, also, wrought momentous conse- quences there. Thy Tyrants, through a course of many centuries, had diligently opposed the education of the masses of the people. They had labored faithfully, in con- junction with thy noble Princes of Ignorance, Super- stition and Poverty, to shackle and clog the souls of men, and to barricade all the inroads of Knowl- edge, Truth and Justice. But the ever-restless angel of Invention had de- scended from the heavenly City, and had whispered in the ear of man, the glorious art of Printing. And in defiance of all tfhe ingenuity of Hell, this Art had gradually dispelled the thick darkness which had evermore imprisoned the souls of the great masses of humanity, and let in ray after ray of new and heaven- ly light. The dormant spirit ot man was warmed into ac- tivity by these rays from heaven, and welcomed to its embrace the Angels of SCIENCE and INVEN-   TION. And the wondrous and innumerable applian- ces of Steam and Electricity, as well as of other natural Forces, were ushered upon the world in rapid succession; opening the floodgates of Knowl- edge to all people of all Lands, and revolutionizing revery thing. The success of AMERICA had furnished an object, the general dissemination of intelligence, had point- ed to the means, of numerous revolutionary move- ments in Europe. Tyrants began to dream dreams and to see visions. And some, it was said, were even thrown into most violent paroxysms of fear, by the mysterious appearance of a strange hand writing upon the walls. Now notwithstanding the desperate condition of things in the West, which, at the time, transfixed me as with a thousand poisoned arrows, when I turned my eye to the East, and beheld there the rich and extensive harvest field of human fruit, so fast ripening for my sickle, lo! they were all extracted as by magic. True, the holy cause of Liberty was to be the prime pretext of the promised Revolution. True, also, the triumph of that Cause had, in the West.,   180     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. riuned my prospects, and infinitely damaged thy Majesty's interests. Still, I felt assured that so mysterious a conspiracy of unfriendly influences as had there prevailed, would never again be likely to oppose thy noble Prince Oppression; and that, as in former times, the conflict must eventuate in his favor; and the field be left in a condition greatly improved for the prosperity of thy Majesty's cause, in all respects. So I looked forward to the promised struggle with real complacency. I will not deny, that a few circumstances, of ill omen, diluted somewhat my fiendish enjoyment. An extraordinary genius,--aman, gifted with angelic virtues and with a vision more than human, had risen up in the heart of Europe, and thundered forth upon the heads of all Tyrants the most scath- ing denunciations. When he spake, all the nations listened, as to the tongue of inspiration; and his wo rds roused into action myriads of congenial hearts, ready, life in hand, to engage in any undertaking which sought the levelling, of Thrones, and the establishment of popular Sovereignty. When he lifted his hand against the rod of the Oppressor, a nation flew to his aid, eager to spill their   A TRUE HERO.        181 lives at his word. And all nations joined in aspira- tions to Heaven for his welfare. IWhen overcome by the leagued myrmidons of Despotism, he walked unharmed through    their imidst; and friendly armaments met and conducted him, safely, to the'far off Land of the Free. Here, spontaneous honors thronged at his feet, and obstructed his passage. He opened his lips, and the world trembled with his eloquence from centre to cir- cumference. His new and startling dogmas captivated the consciences and the hearts of men, as by lmagic. Nurtured in the darkest corners of Despotism, his teachings illuminated the hemisphere of Free- dom with new brilliancy. A poor wandering Exile; the mightiest intellects were proud to do him hom- age. Flattery and menaces alike, fell harmless at his feet. Regardless alike of the praise and the cen- sure of men, all stations were equal in his sight.- The poor and the rich, the high and the low, were honored equally by him, only as they stood before him upon the scale of heroic virtue and hallowed intelligence. No glittering prospect; no kingly gift; no low- ering evil; no cruel privation ; no burning grief,-   182     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. ever swerved his true soul from her steadfast course, or ever beguiled him for one moment into forgetful- ness of his holy mission-work. The page of History has no ornament brighter than this name. Other spirits also, bearing a similar stampi arose, responding to the voice of this great Leader ; echo- ing his prophecies from various and far-distant lands ; careless of the threats, unmoved by the terrors, and indifferent to the bribes of Despotism. The world, at the period known among men as the, last of the Nineteenth Century, presented a moral aspect to which History could furnish no par- allel. No doubt, many great changes had arisen, in themselves palpably advantageous to us. Still, notwithstanding all the retrograde currents in the great tide of Human Development, it had been vain to deny the truth of a general advancive movement. The glaring example of-the great West; this advanced enlightenment of the world; the wonder- fill improvements of Art; the dismay of the Ty- rants, evinced by their increased cruelty and intole- rance; and, above all, this critical advent of these unselfish and giant-souled Heroes; together with   X        THE WAR OF LIBERTY- PREDICTED    183 the spontaneous and universal sympathy which they met in the great masses of mankind, ancd which ce- mented them together in bonds of more than brotherhood; these were -the circumstances which caused me, now and then, alittle trifling anxiety; and reminded me, but, too forcibly, of the Divine Inter- meddling which had been shrewdly suspected in the establishment and protection of the great Western Republics. Not that I allowed myself to doubt, in any view of the case, a season of unparalleled carnage, near at hand. I knew' the Tyrants too well to doubt that. I knew the mettle of the noble Prince Op- pression too well. I knew the blindness-the sto- lidity-with which he was wont to rule his votaries, too well to indulge any fear on that score. Espe- cially, as I had observed on the other hand, a spirit of unusual recklessness and death-defiance, uni- versally prevailing throughout ,the Nations of Eu- rope; overruled and directed, stimulated and nour- ished by the Angel of Liberty. So I had no room left for doubt that my reign was soon to begin in Europealmost, as it were, without check or bal- ance. But the duration of this reign was a more   184     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. questionable matter. It would be somewhat ex- tended, no doubt; but- then it must necessarily cease, or be suspended, with the triumph of either party. If of the former party, my prospects of subse- quent dominion might still be regarded as flattering ; but if of the latter, then, judging from the turn which matters had taken in the great West, they must be fraught with extreme dubiousness. On one side, te sinews of Despotism--Iron and Gold-in all their cunningly devised forms and complications; to allure, to intimidate, to coerce; supported by the most formidable regiments and ablest generals in all thy Majesty's infernal realms; on the other side, holy, self-sacrificing determina- tion; honest conviction of right-heaven-vested, in- alienable right; supported by the Angel Liberty, with her legions of heavenly hosts; to inspire the Armies of the Oppressed with wisdom from above, with unfaltering perseverance, and with a spirit of Martyrdom, which laughed at the terrors of Death, and claimed victory, even under chains and torture. Such were the elements, which were gathering, consolidating and arranging themselves, for the all- decisive conflict. , }   A RETROSPECT         185 The occasion, (if any thing upon so tame a tha- ter as the earth might be named in connection with the Infinite,) did remind me of that fatal Morning upon the heights of Olyrm]zus, when my eyes first beheld the light : when, accordingr to any sort of reasonable calculation which finite power, of what- ever grade, might possibly institute, thy positions, held by such an army as thine, were absolutely im- pregnable : so secretly, so adroitly and so speedily had thy defenses been chosen; and with such amazing facility had the subjects of the Throne been seducd into thy ranks. That Morning, pregnant with the fate of a Uni- verse, stands alone in Eternity, and must forever s and alone, for unapproachable grandeur and sub- -minty ; and witlh no desire to harrow up thy Majes- ty's unwelcome recollections, I may add-for un- parelleled Folly. The Folly perpetrated ty J Dy Majesty upon that dread Morning,- (with due regard I proclaim it, was the crowning and parent Folly of Eternity. By that one Folly, of opposing the Infinite with finite Power, the, foundations of Hell were laid, and thy Damna- tion was sealed-eternally-irrevocably sealed!   186     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. But thy true glory and excellence had all de- serted thee, whilst yet thy pride and vanity were unbroken. For upon that memorable morn, when first I sprang from thy right arm into existence, I saw with my eye the lustre fading from thy brow, and blackness and gloom gathering thick and por- tentous over all thy countless hosts; whilst glory, brighter and brighter, dazzled like a flame through- out the Enemy's field. After His Angels and loftiest Archangels had been repulsed again and again by the prowess of thy arms-even when the final victory seamed hovering within thy reach-behold, a new Leader appeared in the field against thee-the Son and Representative 'of the Omnipotent! This valiant Leader, whom many declare to be equal with His Father in Power and Glory, not only stood His ground against thy terrible artillery, but proceeded, dauntlessly, to assault thy strongest works. With thunders which shook the Universe, and with lightnings which pierced even into Chaos, igniting these unformed, sulphureous mountains, He forced thy positions, stormed thy fortresses, drove thee precipitately from the field, and with   A PARALLEL.         1.87 fiery vengeance pursued thee to the extremest verge of Olympus. There, essaying to spread the wing for other orbs in space, ye fell, in a dead perpendic- ular line, swifter than a comet's flight-fell and fell and fell, by the force of homogeneous gravitation, until here, upon this huge, unshapen continent, ye landed; where all the elements, in their fiercest ex- tremes, meet, and evermore contend for the mastery. Here is our dread, eternal home.  For whenever, in the prosecution of -thy behests, we have occasion to dart away into climes however distant, this ada- mantine chain of gravitation  still encircles us, and im'pels us hitherward still, with increasing momen- tum, and with unfailing  constancy. Now the struggle which was so unquestionably approaching in Europe, was not worthy to be men- tioned, in comparison with this first, and inconceiv- ably the grandest, in the annals of the Universe.-- Still, I must confess that a few trifling circumstances, in the course of the latter, did occasionally, in spite of myself, either from a sort of accidental similarity, or some indefinable cause, bring up, before the vision of my mind, the ghost of the former. It did also, once or twice, occur to me, that if, by any set of   188     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. new and unaccountable coincidences, the cause of the people should happen to trizunphl in tkis comling struggle, then thy power in the Earthmitht, possi- bly, sustain relations in some sort parallel with those which anciently resulted from the other, in Heaven. I know these speculations are distasteftulto thy Majesty. I know this from thy unusually distorted features. But I have not thus interrupted the thread of my speech for any inimical purpose ; but solely to prepare thy ear to receive the truth, which remains to be disclosed, in the direct line of my narrative.   ,  As the great War approached nearer and nearer, the subjects of Oppression grew in strength and in confidence from day to day. Not only was I suspi- cious of Divine interference for their benefit, but one fact soon became too notorious to -be doubted anywhere ;--namely, that they' were deriving sup- plies of all kinds, for the prosecution of the war, from the Western Republics. This policy, on the part of the Great West, was condemned, even by some people at home; on the ground that it violated the international laws of neutrality; and that it had, from the first dawn of   AMERICAN POLICY.       189 Republicanism, been regarded by all wise and pru- dent Statesmen, as most dangerous in its tendency. On the other hand, it was urged with much assurance : 1. That laws, higher than any of the semi-bar- barous enactments of Tyrants, had claims upon the regard of the great and powerful Republics of the West, paramount to all others ;-laws which the Gods of Humanity had Himself enacted. 2. That Tyrants were all usurpers. 3. That the only Sovereignty, which deserved recognition by a sovereign people, was that with which God, the Source of all power, had clothed  each and every man he had made. 4. That the only question in the premises, whicn deserved consideration, was that which related to the ability of the nation to assert and maintain their sovereign rights. 5. And, finally, That as it had been sufficiently demonstrated by the growing strength and transcen- dent prosperity of the Great West, under its pacific institutions, that the only way to establish universal Peace in the world was by planting and maintaining Freedom in all lands,--Therefore, the sooner so glo-   190     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. rious a consuminlation could be effected, by whatever expense of treasure or of blood, the better for the human race would it ultimately be. The last mentioned view of the case, became the prevailing one. And all the various forms of sym- pathy vied with each other, in furnishing material aid to the rebels of Europe. By all these causes, combined with others which time fails me to mention, the Thrones began to totter. The hireling soldiery, in many instances caught the fire of Liberty; and, rank and file, they wheeled upon the side of the people. Their mas- ters had not been successful in repelling the waves of intelligence which had flooded the world. And intelligence and Slavery had but little affinity for each other. The spirits of thy children sank within them.- A tide, resistless as the sea, bore down upon them, and they could only-fly to the mountains for safety. But as if, in desperation, they had given themselves up to madness, their fiendishness and cruelty tri- umphed over all their humane instinct%, and gave the Nations a lively foretaste of Hell.   C(ONSPIRACY O]F TYRANTS.     191 The crowned heads of Europe formed themselves into a Grand Alliance. This was their last and for- lorn hope. They flattered themselves that a formi- dable parade of power-such as they might possibly effect, by a general union of their resources, would overawe the democracy, as it had often done before, and bring all things into their accustomed channel. With one exception, this compact embraced all the Royal heads of Europe. Then stood I upon the loftiest pinnacle of my glory. Then was I ling of kings in the Earth, and lord of lords. My star had attained his zenith; and shone with a broad and fearful glare upon the abodes of men. But that lurid lustre was the harbinger of my eternal doom. The star of Peace was presently to emerge from the dark horizon, and mounting the heavens apace, to shed his radiant beams from that same meridian height, upon all the children of hu- manity, evermore. From that pinnacle of glory I fell down into the pit which has no bottom. With the most overwhelming ruin I ever wrought, I had the cap- ital misfortune to ruin myself forever. ' The bloodiest picture in the book of time,' was the last that I was ever-to trace upon its pages.   192     SPEECH OF PRIyCE WAR.      , The exception was Great Britain. A disaffection towards tyrants had, for many ages, been growing in the hearts of the British people. The most essential bonds of despotism,  they had severed" long before. With natural powers and proclivities, which encouraged'cultivation, For- tune had planted them upon a soil highly favorable to their development. Enlightened and enterprising, they had, centuries before, opened the way to the great Western Continent, and peopled it with their sons. The nations, there, had grown up, under their eye, as a child to man's estate. Isiberty, both in reality and in form, had there swept away all vestiges of Prince Oppression's rule. And the people of Britain were not ignorant of the unspeakable benefits which had resulted to the Americans from their own un- trammelled sovereignty. Although, in form, heredi- tary Royalty was still at the head of the British Nation, its real sovereignty had nearly deserted the Crown; and its syxmpathics, from the highest to the lowest, swayed gently, but firnmly, upon the side of Democracy and Freedom. In the gigantic Contest, whose low distant rum- blings were now beginning to jar the foundations of   THE POSITION OF GREAT BRITAIN.    193 Christendom, and to blanch the cheeks of mankind with terror, they nobly discarded all the old trap- pints of Aristocracy, which their sterling sense had condemned long before-as unworthy to be tolerated by a people so free-and threw the weight of their power and their influence upon the scale where their sympathies had already fallen.         : Bloody England had at length discovered the enormity of her former career, and become disgusted with her own character. After having led all the European Nations into the deepest and cruellest mys- teries of my art-the art by which she had raised herself to the very summit of greatness- at the crit- ical point of time when her adherence to thy standard was vitally essential to thy cause in the Earth, she treacherously deserted it, and solemly acknowledged herself a Republic ; closing all the avenues of my ap- proach to her Island, and lending the aid of her power- ful arm to the struggling subjects of Oppression upon the Continent. Upon the eve of this all-decisive struggle, the great Beelzebub summoned me to his Council. -Here upon this fvery height, sitting upon the Throne which thy supreme Majesty now dignifies,   194     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. overwhelmed with misgivings in view of the unpend ing conflict, thus he charged me: ' 0O Fait7ful Prince of War! Another precipice yawns before us. As, from our great Olympian struggle we stepped down from Heaven into these dark places, so may we presently step down from the Earth still lowers-into still deeper woe. Another era, blacker than any in the ': past, lowers before us, and threatens to engrave it- self upon the enduring pages of our History. I see with my far-reaching eye, a black cloud in the great distance, and in the body of the cloud I distinguish the form'of a mighty Angel of Light. His face is triumphant and joyful, and in his left hand, which he reaches benignly toward the earth, I see some- thing like a branch from an olive tree. And in his right hand I perceive a fiery sword, pointing fiercely towards us. And as the words drop from my ashy lips the cloud enlarges and grows still blacker and 5 more threatening.             - ' O, Prince War! hasten to the earth. And since, peradventure, it may be thy last visit upon her - shores, I charge thee, leave thy traces there so deep . a I, .: iI   BEELZEBUB'S ADVICE.       195 that centuries may not efface them. Fill all the vials of thy fierce destiuction, and pour them out upon the inhabitants of the earth. Let all human flesh quiver at thy rage, and all human souls be struck dumb with thy terrors. Far and near let thy bolts fly, far and wide let thy ruins spread. Let all the cruelties and all the tortures, inflicted upon the 'human race in days of yore, by thy bloody hand, be as the play of children-as the merest beginnings of evil-compared with the general earthquake, now to break up the foundations of society, and  to belch forth upon all lands the noisome lava of Hell. 'All the infernal engines are at thy command.- Ransack at will the Laboratory of old Vulcan I All the devils, high and low, shall obey thee. Even Beelzebub himself shall not scorn to serve thee, in this, the greatest and perchance the last of the sub- lunary wars. Speed thee, War, upon thy mission. Beelzebub will meet thee again in the valley of the Rhine.' To. describe the scenes which then befel in the earth, language would be utterly powerless. Imagi- nation will guide thee far nearer the awful reality. j           ,   196     SPEECHl OF PRINCE WAR. I may only say, it was the grandest and most terri-  ble of my earthly exploits. But, excepting only the immediate capital which it yielded thy cause, it not only resulted in stark barrenness of Evil, but   X His Celestial Majesty did, contrive to turn it to His own most incredible benefit, and of course, to thy Majesty's proportionate disadvantage. It also sub- served, prodigiously, to hasten the final catastrophe of thy Cause, and His final triumph over thee in   j the earth. For the Angel of Liberty eventually triumphed. And in the train of Liberty, Peace followed. The Earth at large felt the relief. After a System of Governments had been duly organized, according to the Western models, spread- ing its arms to embrace the entire of Europe, and even more, the next great question which demanded the attention of mankind, was that which related to 'nmy jurisdiction. It was first agitated in America ; but speedily enlisted the ablest capacities in all  1 Christendom. The revolting features of my tribunal, in its most  revolting character, fresh in the recollections of all ; men, earnestly engaged everybody in an, uncompro-   , /  *    '             -     j * ' I   / . INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS.      197 mising  determination to crush me out, if possible, from the entire Footstool of God.' All people in all civilized lands, were eager, in their bitter disgust, to listen to' any propositions, from whatever quarter, to join in any scheme, plausible or even possible, for the utter extirpation of my authority in the earth. A Congress of Nations was suggested.   And as the initiatory step towards the great consummation,  i so unanimously and so devoutly wished, it was ac- cepted and hailed by universal acclamation. It was an Era next in importance and sublimity to that of the Advent, at Bethlehem. The title of Icing, was destined, thenceforward, to be obsolete; Despotism, a barbarity; and my ter- ror-fraught reign in Christendom, purely historical. Each Nation, by its popular suffiage, delegated a certain number of its citizens, according to its rela- tive census, to this CONGRESS ; with the authority to propose and to consent to measures for the perma- nent establishment of Peace. As AMERICA had been the Pioneer of Liberty, for the Nations, AMERICA was designated as the seat of the great INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS. In due time, this fatal CONGRESS assembled; fa-   198    srEECH OF PRINCE WAR. tal to thy supremacy-pfe-eminently fatal to my authority, in the earth. August Convocation! unparalleled in the annals of Time! big with the Destiny of worlds! fit th be ranked with the Councils of Eternity! All the members of this mighty assemblage lent themselves, body and soul, to the accomplishment of the great object for which it had been convoked ; and each, assisted, with right good will, to settle upon a system of rules by which all questions, how- ever grave or difficult, should thenceforward be dis- posed of, short of an appeal to my tribunal. After long and laborious deliberation, a system was unanimously adopted. It was called the Inter- national Constitution. This: if it please your Majesty, I will here re- peat. INTERNATIONAL CONSTITUTION. In the name of God and man, now and forever : We, the Representatives of all Christian Na- tions, duly chosen, for the perpetual Abolition of War throughout the world, Do ordain this CONSTI- TUTION as the highest Human Law; until it shall   INTERNATIONAL CONSTITUTION.    199 be repealed or amended, by the voice. of two-thirds of our number, or of a future Congress similarly appointed. 'Article I. The INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS sha ll - consist of four Members from each of the Republics, designated as follows; to wit: 'The United States of. America, The United States of South America, Mexico, Great Britain, France, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Sardi- nia, Holland, Germany, Hungary. Austria, Turkey, Persia, Russia, Poland, Sweden, Prussia, Ireland, Denmark, Liberia, North Africa, Australia, and whatever Republic may hereafter be organized, and may desire to be represented in this CONGRESS, in any part of the world. 'These Members shall be chosen, respectively, in -the same manner that each Nation shall choose the Members of the most popular branch-of its chief Legislative body. 'Article II. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Constitution, each Nation shall support a well-disciplined Army or Navy, of not more than one soldier for every thousand, nor less than one for every two thousand of its inhabitants; '            '    "        '.   200   '  SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. and also, an arsenal, sufficient to equip and supply a body of soldiers, nbt larger than five times, nor smaller than three times, its established Army or Navy. 'Article III. All international disputes, which may not otherwise be amicably disposed of, shall be referred to the International Congress; and a ma- jority of voices in this body shall decide them. If either of the parties shall be dissatisfied with the decision, and, within three months after it shall be first declared, shall move for a reconsideration of the question or questions in dispute-in that case, the matter shall be reconsidered by this Congress, at its se ssion next ensuing but one. A decision then duly rendered by a majority of Representatives, entitled to a- seat in Congress, shall be final. If, in such case, the previous decision shall be affirmed, the Na- tion which'moved for a reconsideration shall be held answerable to the other party for all real damages suffered, in consequence of the delay necessary for reconsideration. 'Article IV. If any Nation or Government shall neglect, or shall obstinately refuse, to abide by the decisions of the International Congress, or by all   INTERNATIONAL CONSTITUTION.      201 the provisions of this Constitution; or if any Nation shall, without appealing to this Body for the settle- ment of its grievances, do any act of hostility by which human life shall be sacrificed; or shall in any way, by military leans, annoy or damage a sister Nation; it shall be the duty of Congress promptly to demand and to procure, from the offender or the ag- gressor, ample redress to the injured party,; and to levy a fine upon such aggressor or offender, suffi- cient to defray all expenses resulting, necessarily, from his act or acts of hostility, his neglect or his opposition. 'Article V. All the Military Forces and Stores, of any and all Nations, shall, as far as necessary for the suppression ofactual hostilities, and the enforce- ment of the provisions of this Constitution, be sub- ject to the control of Congress, and of the Gene- ral-in-Chief of all Military forces. The General-in- Chief shall be appointed, by a majority in Congress, once in five  years; or oftener, if necessary, from death, inability or misconduct.   And he shall be subject to the direction and control of Congress in all Military operations. 'But no Commander shall call into service any Military force, except by a special   202     SPEECH OF PRINCE WAR. act of Congress. Every Nation shall contribute, from its general Treasury, equally, to the compen- sation of such Commander, which compensation shall be fixed by CONGRESS. ' Article' VI. CONGRESS, until it shall otherwise determine, shall hold annual sessions of at least nine months; triennially, in NEW-YORK, in LONDON, and in PARIs-shall appoint its own officers-make laws for its own conduct-shall have power to punish or expel its members for reasonable cause--and shall fix the amount of compensation for its members ; provided that no member shall receive more than twenty, nor less than ten dollars per day ; and pro- vided that no law, changing such compensation, shall take effect in less that three years after its passage. Each Nation shall pay the per diem of its own mem- Iv bers ; together with an outfit for each, of not more than Ten Thousand, nor less than Five Thousand Dollars ; the particular amount of which shall be determined by each nation for itself. "article VII. The INTERNATIONAL COURT shall consist of the Chief Judicial officer of each and -every Nation which shall be represented in this CONGRESS, ; C This COURT shall never be convened.   INTERNATIONAL COURT.      203 ' In case that in the opinion of the highest judi- cial tribunal of any Nation represented in the INTER- NATIONAL CONGRESS, officially declared, this CON- GRESS shall, in its action, have exceeded its powers, as defined by this CONSTITUTION, then, the INTERNA- TIONAL COURT shall review the action of CONGRESS thus objected to ; each Member of that COURT separ- ately declaring his opinion in writing, together with the reasons upon which his opinion shall be based. The opinion of each and every Member shall be ren- dered within six months after the question shall first be raised. At the end of that period, the opinion of each Member of this COURT, which shall have been officially declared to the   secretary of State of his respective Nation, shall, by every such Secretary of tate, be officially published to the world. If a  majority of these opinions shall affirm the judg- ment of the single tribunal which shall have raised the question-then, the action of CoNGRESS, thus disap- proved, shall be null and void: the opinion of the tribunal which raised the question not being count- ed, except there shall be a tie without it; in which case that opinion shall be counted.'   204     SATAN'S REPLY TO WAR. May it please your Satanic'Majesty, when this CONS"TUTION was adopted by the Convention, nmy doom on the Earth was sealed. Strange as it may seem, it triumphed against all thy emissaries. And with it, triumphed God and Humanity. And Hell trembled with consternation." Now I observed in my vision that at this point in the speech of Prince War, Satan, evidently labor- ing under the most uncomfortable emotions, inter- rupted him thus : SATAN'S REPLY TO WAR. "Prince War : Thy words have fallen upon my spirit like fiery daggers. Their weight is too crushing, their pungency too suffocating for me to endure. Allow me a little respite, War,-a little change--to stifle the consuming fire which thou hast kindled within me. Still, I will not own that Satan is disheartened. I will yet be revenged for these disasters. I shall soon again have need of thy services, Prince War. Thou   PRINCE AVARICE INTRODUCED.     205 shalt yet go forth in-thy might and make the Universe tremble with thy valor. But give way, a little while, for the present, my most excellent Prince, for the next noble witness; and let the Trial of Beelzebub proceed." When Satan had thus spoken, another mighty Prince came forward and placed himself upon the stand, whose name was AVARICE. The form of this Demon was unshapely, gaunt and shrivelled. His head was small, his eyes were rest- less and drooping, his arms of extraordinary length, his fingers attenuated and bony, his face and features sharp, his gait was sneaking, his voice harsh and shrill. Altogether, he seemed the caricature of a man, the most hideous that can possibly be con- ceived. He came forward with many gesticulations ; not directly and straight forward, but side wise, back- ward, and by a crooked, uncertain rout ; changing his course at every other step, and putting himself into a variety of untoward and ludicrous attitudes At length he brought himself up, partially in front of Satan, and addressed that awful Potentate thus: I    206    EXORDIUM OF PRINCE WAR. 'Pozoerful King and most Admirable Ruler : As the noisy, babbling stream betrays a shallow depth,-so it is not the most clamorous and boast- ful of thy Majesty's Princes, who have wrought most effectually in thy loving service. Whilst others may boast of their terrific doings--of their thunder- ings and lightnings in the Earth, quaking it to its very center, effecting much temporary disturbance, no doubt-silently has thy Prince Avarice labored!, with a steady eye to accomplish the largest amount of real and permanent misery ;--ow successfully, the rank and file who evermore inhabit these fierce dungeons, may testify. But it is not to speak of the continuous flood of ruin which I poured out upon the Human Race, from the beginning of the world onward, nor to contrast the conduct of thy noble Princes, in thy service, that. I stand before thee; but rather to recite the course of events which resulted in the downfall of thy Majesty's kingdom in the Earth, and the extermination thence of all the infernal race. From the infancoy of the Human Race, I had held universal sway in the earth. Four-fifths of mankind had been my faithful subjects anri worshipers, from early-life down to the grave. And through my in-   EVIL BOASTING.       207 strumentality they were delivered over, in vast num- bers, to the tender mercies of thy other noble Prin- ces. My lords Wara and Intemperance and Oppres- sion and Murder and others also, are indebted for half their success to my preparatory influence upon those whom they finally secured. Through me, nations were excited to anger and jealously, and fell upon each other with weapons of death ; giving thy Honorable Prince War such won- drous occasion for boasting. By me the deadliest pas- sions were stirred into fermentation; and Murder and all his kindred devils gained their trophies. I hardened the heart of man towards his brother man, and taught him the strange doctrine that ' Might gives Right;' and through me, also, this doctrine became exceed- ingly popular: And thy excellent Prince Oppres- sion thereby fastened his fetters upon innumerable multitudes of erect men; and delivered them up to thy merciless Princes of Ignorance and Superstition and Persecution--and to thee. It was I who opposed, with my potent influence, the beautiful goddess who  waged war with thy glorious Prince Intemperance; and enabled him to postpone the day of his final overthrow by many human generations'; and to se-   208    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. cure, meanwhile, numberless trophies, which he now claims as his ownX Finally, I wrought with such constant, though silent energy, upon the heart, as to break down, one by one, the bars which conscience had erected; snapping, one after another, the delicate fibres of moral sensibility; stupefying with my spiritual nar- cotics, all the gentle and amiable affections which God had stationed as sentinels, upon the watch- towers of the heart; and then introducing, for its entire occupation, my own train of subordinate de- vils, who were such skillful and dexterous navigators of the human bark, that when once they were fully inaugurated in the command, it were 'easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle,' than for one of their subjects to 'enter the kingdom of heaven.' The wisest of men discovered, early in the course of time, something of my true character. I was posted by them as 'the Root of all Evil.' What testimony more flattering than that could I possibly have desired? Most men, knowing and acknowledging me as their most dangerous enemy, nevertheless, surrender- ed themselves up to my control.   ARTS OF AVARICE.      209 As time rolled on, the trunk which I threw up grew and expanded to the most magnificent dimen- sions,; and sent forth branches as far-reaching as the family of Adam. And the tree was never bar- ren. Every branch of it was fruitful. But notwithstanding I was both seen and felt, by philosophers, to be the most fruitful evil of the world, there was still a charm and fascination, in my presence, which paralyzed opposition. In all Na- tions, especially the most civilized and Christian, I was tolerated with an amazing latitude. Indeed I seemed to thrive best in the shade of Christianity. There was a seenting refinement in my character, which, however, was only seeming; for, on the very contrary, all my strength was employed in de- grading, contracting and dwarfing the noblest attri- butes of the human soul. There was always a show of plausibility, of some sort, in my operations upon the mind; and I always guarded my most flagrant acts with a kind of convenient, extenuating logic, which my lord Hypocrisy, was constantly at hand to furnish me ; and which, with the mist which I gen- erally contrived to cast before the eye of conscience, answered my purpose well.   210    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE: Society was compelled to enact laws against my unlimited sway, lest all civilization should speedily deteriorate into barbarism. These laws, whilst they checked me, considerably, in the execution of my purposes, still allowed me abundant opportuni- ties of evil. So successfully did I improve those opportunities, that I boldly affirm, in presence of this august Convocation, but chiefly of thee, O SA- TAN, had it not been for that cursed Restrictioni Code, enacted, first as an experiment, for the express purpose of overthrowing my power, I might have averted, of my own strength, that critical Catastro- phe, which has ruined all thy sublunary schemes. I had wrought so long, so successfully, and with so little opposition which deserved the name, that for ages I had counted upon an undisturbed career of increasing prosperity, to the end of time. Numerous, however, had been the devices of the great Philanthropists, to render my influence upon society nugatory. The ingenuity of man, in his es- tate most nearly approximating Divinity, in all ages and Nations, had exhausted itself in vain endeavors to intercept my triumphal career, and render me un- popular. I rode on, victorious, defiant of all human or Divine opposition.   PROOF OF OBNIPOTENCE.     2" In the remote ages of civilization, Lycurgus, and later in History, Fourier, and his followers, of va-  riously modified stamp, With great flourish of trum- pets, promising themselves an easy conquest, open- ed their batteries ,against me; but they barely suc- ceeded to disturb my equanimity, for a brief space; making no sensible impression upon my works, only to develop their strength, whilst exhibiting to the world their own insignificance. But thy ever-sleepless Foe had determined, in his Eternal Councilsj to display His Almighty Power; first, by effecting my complete subjugation, and then my utter extermination from the world.- For well do I know,-and here affirm it- as a verifi- cation of His Infinite and unapproachable Suprema- cy,-that no power, short of Omnipotence Itself, could ever have cozqutcercd me, in my labyrinthian fastnesses, which I had erected in the heart of man- kind. America, the Pioneer of political Liberty and Equality, was chosen also to lead the campaign which was destined to liberate mankind from my domination.   212    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. -In one of those Territorial Governn nt0, prepara- tcry t :!-' State rl which, one after annoPier, sprang up in the Western AWorld, to unite their strength to the general sisterhood of States, the great Struggle began. In the Council convened to establish the Funda- mental Law of the Land, was heard a Leading Voice, full of inspiration from Heaven, advocating a new and strange Theory. It spake thus,-addressing the Chief of the Council  'Mr. President' , It is time for a new Dispensation. It is high time for the Human Race to surrender its claim to Divine relationship, or else to support that claim by 'some perceptible progress towards the Divinity. ' The lips of men have long been eloquent with eulogies upon Human Progress; and many are the schemes which have claimed it as their own veri- table identity. But, Sir, I ask, now and here --in this Nineteenth Century, and in the most advanced country on earth,-what have we to show as evi- dence of real. P-rogress, made within the last hun- dred years?   TRUE HUMAN PROGRESS.       213 ' You will observe, Siri, that by Hu1man Progress I mean something beyond merely mechanical or scientific improvements.  These, although  they sometimes serve as general conveniences and bless- ings, (which would always be the case in a true state of society,) are more apt, under the present order of things,-while they benefit, in a minor sense, but sialil portions of the world,-to do greater injury to much laryger portions, by depriving them of labor and the means of comfortable subsistence; and by widening the disparity of conditionz among men; tlhus enctouraging their evil passions and practices. 'True Humn-an Proagress is measured by its en- hancement of the value of life; and life is increased in value only by increasingl the positive good which it yields. And this good must grow more and more g'eeral, and must also increase in durability. The evils which exist in socie-ty must gradually decrease. Fewer cases of sffeir ing must arise; and those which do arise must be of a milder form. Crime, and excesses of all kinds, must become less and less fri equent. ' This condition must be attained, not as the im- mediate result of Coercive Law, but as the fruit of   214    SPEECH OF PRnNCE AVARICE. a principle in all hearts,-a principle which indi- cates a relationship with the Divinity,-a principle of Divine gravitation. 'Whether, from the prevalence of some religious dogma, which denies the progressib'lity of Man, the effort has not been made with suffiaient earnestness ; or, whether from an ignorance of the true method of procedure, all efforts have been misdirected; or, whether because those who   have possessed the power and   the means of promoting Human Pro- gress have lacked the disposition to usethem,--it is a very sad and a very shameful thing to utter, but none the less true and necessary to be spoken,-that the world is standing still,-t;hat, with all the noisy pretention and vain-glory of man, which float upon every breeze, touching his own importance and the mighty works of his hand, he has infinitely more reason for humiliation and- shame, than for self- praise and congratulation. 'But, Sir, I  am no misanthropist. These plain words are spoken in kindness and in faith. Yes, Sir, I  have strong faith in Human Progress : not so much the Progress of the Past, as of the Future. Faith--that Humanity will yet attest her claims to .  I - - *\ 2 \,   THE ROOT OF ALnL EVIL.      215 the Divine relationship ;-that the dearth of the Past is'sbut the harbinger of a glorious harvest of Progress in the Future. 'But it were even worse than useless to give ut- terance to such sentiments as these, except as an in- troduction to some Theory of action which may fur- nish new occasion for hope. 'If the too palpable fact be admitted, that in spite of all Theories hitherto submitted for that ob- ject, real Human Progress has, for the last century, been a stranger to the world; and if no plan, at present undergoing experiment, has any such object ina view,--then, surely, there can be no harm in in- trocducin such a plan, however dim the prospect of success. ' It was written anciently, and has been confirm- ed by all experience, I that the Demon of Avarice is the origin of all Evil.' But, with the simple an- nouncement of this theoretical fact, all mnen have continually rested. A few, who have been termed fanatics,  have now and then projected certain tlceo- ries of action, some of which have given a momenta- ry flash of promise. But, in every instance, this   216    SPEECH IOF PRINCE AVARICE. flash of promise has presently subsided into deeper darkness. ' The Tree of Evil is yet vigorous and far-spread- ing. Sometimes its branchlets have been clipped off, and its redundant growth a little checked; but no man can show that the main trunk has of late been materially damaged, or the root injuriously disturb- ed. The attacks hitherto made upon it, however well intended, have too generally served but as healthful prunings, or as a gentle stirring of its root-fibres, just suitable to promote its more vigor- ous growth. 'Your benevolent institutions, so-called, and your 2rivate charities-whnat do they accomplish, Sir?- Barely, they sometimes relieve humanity, just suffi- ciently, of its burdens, to tolerate its existence and prolong its miseries. Indeed, they are mostly but compromises between Self-Interest and the decencies of Civilization ; and reachbut a. shallow distance to- wards the great deep of human depravity and woe. 'And your legal penalties--your gaols, peniten- tiaries andwork-houses-what of them? They stand as objects of terror-as scarecrows, merely to fright- en the depraved from the commission of overt crime.   THE LAW OF L OVE.       217 But do they transform the heart? Do they suggest a purer life? Do they encourage better purposes? Do they render Virtue more attractive? Do they inspire their subjects with hope and with that kind of repentance which begets reformation? What is the avowed object of these Institutions? Is it not solely to rid society of the overt acts of the criminal? Is there any beneficencen  in them? Are they not monuments of the selfishness of society?-living tombs for the burial of those unfortunates with whose education society does not care to be troubled, or with the expense of which it would prefer not to be charged? ' But understand me, Sir; I do not condemn them altogether. In the present condition of society, they are indispensable to its existence. And self-preser- vation is the first law. That is right; for Nature enacted it. But man makes it also the second, the third, and the last law. This is wrong ; for God hath said, ' Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.' Love is the second law; and its fruits are kindness and beneficence. ' These institutions serve, only, to lop off a few of the most obnoxious branches of the Tree of Evil;   218    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. nid then, within certain broad limits, rather to encourage its growth. It is so firmly rooted in the soil of human nature, and its branches are so inti- mately interwoven in the fabric of Society, that it has long -been conceded-by even the best of men- ^ to be a part of the Economy of God. And all attempts to eradicate it, or materially to impair the vigor of its root, have been abandoned as futile.;- But such concession and abandonment, Sir, seem to me, to savor most strongly .of irreverence towards God, and of unkindness to man.- ' Let but the second law of God prevail in society, as well as thefirst--let the law of love be adopted as a principle of social and legislative policy,--let the two laws of self-preservation and of charity pre- vail, in harmonious unidn, in all our public Institu- tions-and depend on it, Sir, we shall soon see them prevailing, also, in private life'; and triumphantly reigning throughout the world at large. ' But you ask, impatiently, "' What remedy have you- to propose? What practical remedy? The world isfull of preaching," say you, " and has always been so. Your complaint is just. We acknowledge all you ask and much more. Man is sadly depraved, and .1   I           THE TREE OF EVIL.      219  the regulations of society are consequently imperfect and full of evil. These things are beyond all contro- versy. But what else? Let us know your wonderful remedy. For surely to be a true remedy it must be wonderful." ' Well then, Sir, I will proceed to shadow forth the Remedy whichi have to submit, for your consid- eration and your experiment. 'I speak not with a spirit of assurance, Sir. I boast of no Divine favoritism ; but rather submit my views, with suitable humility and misgiving; lest being weighed in the balance, they too shall be found wanting. I merely ask in behalf of depressed Humanity,-as her humble but sincere friend,-that you weigh these views fairly, and then treat them in just accordance with their true weight; ' In saying that no progress, which deserves the name of Humnan Progress, has been made 'during the last century, I would except, Sir, those ameliorating movements whose purpose it. is to expel from the world .the Demons of Intempnerance, of Slavery and of War. These movements, though not radical in themselves, have, however, deprived, or bid fair to deprive, the mighty Tree of Evil of several of its   220    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. sturdiest branches. May they not also foreshadow the great,--and may God grant--the triumphant as- sault, ere long to be directed against the Root itself? ' The Root of the Tree of all Evil is the Love of Money. ' We are here, Sir, to form a new Government, and to establish laws for future generations. In this great work, let this be the paramount question with us ;-How shall we legislate most effectually to eradicate in the human breast, the love of money?- How may we prevent the future reign of Avarice? How may we exclude, from our virgin land, the De- mon King of the World? ' I answer, Sir, you shouldprohibit by LAW2 t7 e undue accumulation of money. ' I would either, '1. Directly forbid, by law, the acquisition of money, or property of whatever nature, beyond cer- tain prescribed limits, either by individuals or cor- porations ; Or 2. Require all the expenses of the Governmentu- all the public revenues-to be collected,-not from the necessities,-not from the comforts -not even from the LUXURIES of citizens,-but from their sur-   I    -         SUGGESTIONS.        221 plus wealth. Whoever should be found invested with more than a certain prescribed sum, by whatever means or in whatever form, should contribute to the public revenue, his due proportion. ' The latter proposition might be preferable, in the first stages of the experiment, as being the milder chcange ; but, of itself, would I fear be inadequate to i:  naccomplish the proposed object. It is. rather stub- mittel as the initiatory step to the former, which i@l  embraces the substance of my scheme. ' The sum, to which I would limit the acquisitive- ness of the citizen, must be graduated by the results of the successive stages of the experiment. It must be diminished, from time to time, until that amount shall be reached which shall be found most safe and most salutary for society. ' As the undue indulgence of any propensity of our nature will give that propensity an undue degree of strength and activity, so, by properly restricting the exercise of such as may have acquired an undue degree of strength, they will be reduced back to their normal proportions. It is by thus reducing the overgrown proportions of Avarice in the human heart, acquired by unlimited indulgence, .from time im-   222    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. memorial, that I sincerely and confidently hope the world may be regenerated. "These, Mr. President, are my opinions. When the first Speaker had thus concluded, an- vother member of the Council arose and replied: "Yr. President: I have listened with much interest to the gentle- man's speech. I fully unite with him in deploring the evils which afflict mankind. But is the remedy which he proposes, afeasible one? It strikes me as quite otherwise. If it were possible to reduce his plan into practice, it strikes me that the ills which it must necessarily engender, would surpass, in mag- nitude, those which already exist. 'Notwithstanding I hold myself in readiness to adopt whatever change from the beaten track of the world's policy, which by thorough examination shall commend itself to my judgment, as deserving prefer- ence ; still, I have no intention to be led by the mere charm of novelty, nor driven by a fault-finding and restless spirit, to exchange old institutions, which, though not laying any claim to perfection have yet   CONSERVATIVE VIEWS.       223 proved themselves quite tolerable and even beneficent ; for new and untried systems, which, though plausi- ble, will not bear the light of rational investigation, and only promise to add new fuel to the fire of social fanaticism, already burning with sufficient energy. cWhat does the gentleman propose?  If I un- derstand him aright, he would equalize the property z   of the different members of society ; by taking away a portion from some and bestowing it upon others; and then prevent, by law, its accumulation in the hands of any. He speaks, however, of certain pre- scribed limits. This will answer for a beginning- as an entering-weedge to the deep-seated purpose. But it is very clear that his system, in reality, is purely agrarian ; and will settle down and rest per- manently, only in that form. 'This is no new scheme, Sir. It has been tried and exploded, over and over again; in different ages of the world. 'But we will take the gentleman at his word.- We will suppose, for the sake of argument, a com- i promise between the present system and downright agrarianism. Let us see how such a system would work. ". '    224     SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. ' It would stifle all forms of enterprise. 'The hope of gain is essential to the healthful development of the human character. It arouses the noblest attributes of the soul ; and stimulates men to energetic action in all the departments of society. It sends the brave mariner, with his slen- der bark, across the perilous sea, to bring back to our shore the choice products of other climes. All the noblest and' most beneficent discoveries, in the Arts and Sciences, are its offspring. It is the bone, the sinew, and the nerve of Literature, of Science, and of the Fin,e Arts.  The chief monuments of Human Progress, in all ages of the world, have been conceived and buitt up through its influence.   It arms the soldier for the defence of his country's lib- erties. It tames' the fierce elements, and subdues them to our service. It converts the savage wilder- ness into the fruitful garden. It builds great, and proud Cities, whose -Commerce covers the Ocean; and. brings luxury or comfort to every fireside. It urges men to the cultivation of the higher intellectual pur- suits ; which have done more to humanize, to civil- ize and to Christianize the world, than all other causes combined. It builds school-houses and col-   CONSERVATIVE FEARS.       225 leges and hospitals and asylums, for the amelioration and elevation of all grades of humanity. In fine, Sir, this hope of gain, or, if the gentleman please, this love of nmoney is the chief incentive to all those en- terprises and pursuits which we are apt to regard as the foundation of civilized society, and the essence of social enjoyment. ' The System which the gentleman proposes, if adopted and enforced, would stifle, if not annihilate, this principle of action in the human breast : and thus deprive society of many of its present advan- tages and most valuable institutions. ' 2 It would be an infringement of personal Lib- erty and Constitutional rights. "It has been the boast of all civilized, and espe- cially of all free Governments, that they secure to every citizen full protection of person and property. The doctrine-that every man has an inalienable right to the fruits of his own labor-has seldom been questioned except by the most hopeless fanatics. :M r. President, should this gentleman's wild dogrma be greeted with favor by this enlightened (Council-which, thank  Heaven, can  hardly be co,0unted as a possibility-the heart of true 'Patriot-    226 '   SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. ism would burst with sorrow. It could only be re- garded as a gloomy indication of future calamities, more deep and direful than any to be found upon the page of modern History. For, if property might be thus torn from the possession of its rightful owners, by the capricious fanaticisfm of Legislators, for the very pestionable purpose of bestowing un- merited benefits upon the indolent, the implrovident and the vicious, who can tell but we might soon be listening here to gentlemen, advocating the doctrine -that personal liberty, yea, and life too-the life and liberty of the innocent--should be regarded as the property of the majority ; and should, in certain  cases, in which "the greatest good of the greatest number" might seem  to demand it, be sacrificed upon the altar of this new Social Divinity. '3. It would encourage Indolence, Vice and Crime; and thus deprave the physical and mental constitution of the race. 'A large proportion of mankind are predisposed to indolence already; and unless goaded to industry, by stern. necessity, would' settle down in idleness, and become useless drones-living upon the toil of others, and returning no equivalent for their support.    bvu, an  v A'LI V uiJ ARw.1 U lVlEN 'Tl. Z' . 'Arnother large class; who, by vice and misconduct, have reduced themselves to poverty, have such a strong relish for vicious pursuits, that if the means of support were furnished them, without any care of their own, they would employ the time in com- mitting depredations , leading others into mischief; and, in various ways, inflicting much evil upon soci- ety. Whereas, if compelled to labor for their live- liood, they may be, at least harmless, if not in some way useful. 'It would encourage crime, by furnishing a most stupendous example of crime, in itself. For what moral distinction exists between the act of the indi- vidual thief, -and the dispossessing, by law, a large proportion of the most useful and unoffending citi- zens, of the fruits of their honest- labor? If any, the latter must be the baser of the two-in degree, as the depriving a man-of his right byf/orce, is, in the eye of Justiee, a greater crime than taking it by stealth. 'It would be a superfluous task to argue here, that indolence and vice exert a deteriorating influ- ence upon the physical and mental System, which must re-act in the blood of posterity; since Science   228    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. has demonstrated, in a great variety of-instances, that almost every parental habit, of mind or body, is transmitted, in some sensible degree, by genera- tion. 'The gentleman claims, that the system, which he proposes to foist upon the world, will eradicate from the human breast the love of Money--which he denominates "The Root of all Evil." Of course, in his view when that is once accomplished, the Millennium will be upon us. 'Now this idea, to me, and I trust to other gentlemen's minds also, seems most visionary ; and in apractical view, extremely absurd, if not ridicu- lous. In the first place, " the love of money" is not "the Root of all Evil ;" but, on the contrary, as I have endeavored to elucidate to your understanding, Sir, it is the source of much good. Without it, society must eventually return to a state of oarbar- ism. That, Sir, would be the millennial state, wh-ich the gentleman's Theory would usher upon the world. No, Sir; it is simply an absurdity.- Already, we have sufficientt means, in the arm of the Civil Law, to restrain, in every suitable and wholesome way, this dreadful propensity, which he   CONSERVATIVE ADVICE.      229 so vehemently deprecates. Like all the other bless- ings which Heaven has bestowed upon man, for his Use, and not his abu'se, this principle should be tem- perately indulged, but not allowed to run into ex- cess; for then, of course, it will become an evil. 'In conclusion, Sir, I will give the gentleman one word of advice. Whenever he feels the spirit of philanthropic reform stirring his blood into a high state of effervescence-so that he must allow it vent, or burst-let him go directly to his library and read a few pages of History, either ancient or modern.- There he will find, scattered all -along, various systems of Social Reform, proposed by different minds, and tried and-condemned by Society. Some of them he will find almost identical with that very one which he seems to think has now originated in his own mind. This prescription I think, if faith- fully administered, will cure hi of his fanaticism. 'But, should it fail to produce the desired effect, let him try another, Sir. Let him go forth, and placehimself at the head of a new socialistic Com- munity-made up of elements favorable to his views- who will give them every possible chance of success. Let him work out the problem in his own way, and \   230    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. according to his own taste ; without at the same time overturning the present institutions of Society at large. Should he, contrary to the teachings of all Experience and of Common Sense, prove his sys- tem to be the Panacea of c all the ills that flesh is-- heir to," and the Gospel of salvation to thel world, there will be time enough for us to accept it then; and I shall be forward to aid in establishing the new order of things, and proclaiming a new and glo- rious era to mankind. 'But, on the other hand, if it turn out, like all its predecessors, of a similar stamp, which have been projected by the uneasy and restless minds, floating upon the surface of society-if it prove itself a bbD- ble of air, instead of a solid and priceless gem- then, society will have been spared the calamity of a fruitless revolution ; and the gentleman will surely be cured of his fanaticism. 'But, Sir, I protest against all radicalismn in this responsible and dignified COUNCIL. We are here, not for the purpose of experimnenting at the expense of our confiding and generous constituents, and of a long line of posterity; but rather to give   eA REFOORMER. 2R31 them institutions and, laws which will bear the light id of History ; and which experience will approve. ' The tinselry of elocution may dazzle, and the charm of novelty may attract, wealc and undisci- $ plqned minds; but for God's sake, Sir, and for EHu- m  anity's sake, let US show ourselves to be composed of materials too firn to be moved from our losition by any such airy and unsubstantial influences. ' Sir, I have now finished what I had to say.' May it please your Satanic Majesty, when this last gentleman had finished his powerful speech, I felt myself secure against any possible attack. And when the former gentleman arose again, to make re- ply, I regarded him with indifference, if not with a s light mixture of cotept. But as he proceeded from one height of argument to another, E ' A change came o'er the spirit of my. Dream.' Thus he replied: ( Mr. President: X . The gentleman who just now yielded the floor, has. most undeniably, gained a great triun7ph;-at least, in hisown estinlation. Judgin fro te tone !.' :I    "roux tj 1v 6EECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. of his remarks, lie now, no doubt, considers his posi- tions impregnable. But, Sir, I counsel him to be prudent of his remaining resources. The siege is not yet raised. His projectiles were every one anticipa- ted. We shall endeavor to clear away the smoke of his powder, and the dust which his bombshells have raised, and give him   an opportunity to look over the field.  And if he will only lay aside the smoked glasses of  rejucldice and self-conceit, and raise to his eye the pure transparencies of truth and reason, he  may possibly be greeted with a  scene to which he   is evidently 'unaccustomed-a  scene which may serve, in some   degree, to overcome his hostility, conquer a friendly peace, and save some drops of blood. But such are the habits, which he, in common with the great body of mankind, have long and uniformly indulged-his eye is so thoroughly accustomed to the deformities which a  semi-civiliza- tion, or (if you please) a deformed civilization, has tolerated and preserved, in preference to the propor- tions of beauty which Nature ordained-that Nature Herself appears deformed to his eye, and deformity seems to him the perfection of beauty. ' The worse appears the better reason.": ,j/   Falsehood has usurped the place of Truth. The cruel inflictions of Society are charged upon their victim, as though they were self-inmposed. 1Migfht has become a synonym of rig-it. Justice is degradeAd"b ' to a subordinate rank; and Gold now wears the crown which the King of kings had placed, with His own hand, upon the brow of Justice. v Scarcely can we hope to conquer so formidable an enemy, as the tyrant Avarice, without a long and fearful struggle.  Hardly do we flatter ourselves that the Root of all Evil, whose tough and elastic fibres lhave been stretching deeper and*deeper in the soil of Humnan Nature, from its earliest infancy- growing in strength from age to age--hardly may we hope- to tear it forth from its countless and its firm attachments, and tumble it, with its immense trunk and its innumerable progeny of branches, into the pit of Hell-whence old Satan transplantedl it -without the employment of the most exorbitant force-yea, indeed, without the aid of Omnipotence Itself. But, with hands uplifted to Heaven, and faith in God, we propose to continue the struggle, and bide the event. ' The gentleman attempts to stigmatize the plan   234    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE, which I have briefly submitted for consideration, as essentially agrarian, and therefore as beneath hon- orable notice; since agrarianism has long ago, on a variety of occasions, and in various forms, been ex- ploded into thin air. And he invokes, in a tone of sarcastic triumph, the lessons of ancient and modern history, as conclusive of the question. But in this, if I mistake not, he is altogether unsupported either by reason or truth. 'For in the first place, the system which I have the honor to submit here, has never, in its most es- sential featured, been made the subject of historical experiment. Neither, in the second place, is it es- sentially, nor in any sense 2whatever, an agrarian system. That system, if I understand it, proposed a division and equalization by Law, of lands, and also, perhaps, of other goods. And if you please to give the term a still wider latitude of signification, it sought to establish a community of property, in which all the members might share equally and enjoy equal rights. But, understood in whichever of these senses, that system is as different from the one here proposed, as from the one now prevalent throughout the world.  The system  here offered-which, for   A CONSERVATIVE ANSWERED.     235 convenience, we may term the EESTRICTIVE SYSTEM, --contemplates, not an equal distribution of pro- perty, either in the commencement or in any other stage of its operation. On the contrary, it is totally incompatible with such a distribution. It is intend- ed as much to encourage a wholesome pursuit of! wirorldly gain, on one hand, as to obstruct, and if possible, overcome, its illegitimate and Iurrt-fu pur-  suit, on the other. Neither has it any tendency to a community of property; unless the yielding up of one absurd extreme of a System, and adopting a imedium and just course, be regarded as a tendency to the other extreme. ' But: for the sake of argument," the gentle- mall condescends to review the Restrictive Plan, as a comqpromise between the present system and down- right agrarianisn. In that, Sir, " for the sake of ar- gument," he was simply just. That, indeed, is a true definition of the Restrictive System- -with the tri- fling condition, that you exchange the word cornpro- nmise forjust medium. 'Then, condescendingly adopting this definition, he proceeds to demolish, with his sweeping artillery, and a' g'reat flourish of small arms-to demolish   236    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. (at least in his own estimation,) the entire structure, in which, in otzr humble opinion, is lodged the choicest treasures which Heaven designs to bestow upon the future generations of mankind. ' But, should it turn out, in the dcenoement, when the gentleman's smoke shall all be dissipated, and nothing remain to obstruct his vision, that the noble structure shall yet stand erect and eunscathced- after such a terrific shower of metal-- I trust he will have the justice, or at least the zoisdom, to modify his views of the character of the fortress against which he has so ruthlessly discharged his fire. ' But, Sir, let us exanzine his positions. He ob- jects, ' 1. "That the RESTRICTIVE SYSTEiM would stifle all forms of enterprise, and thereby deprive Society of many of its most valuable inbstitutions." He denies that " the Love of Money is the Root of all Evil," and therein joins issue not only with the uniform teachings of fTistory, but also with the positive and direct language of Sacred Wriit.  However, that matter is not worth his passing observation. He is so fierce in his hostility towards this Nestrictive Sys- temn that he seems blind to all other considerations.   I          OBJECTION1S ANSWERED.      237 Now, Sir, I deny that this system would injure any enterprise of a laudable character. It must be admitted, however, that a certain class of enterprises would suffer some by its operation, and perhaps, be entirely ruined. The enterprise of the gambler, the extortioner, the thief, and the highway robber, would no doubt, be paralyzed, and perhaps, anrnihilated, by it. The enterprise of the midnight assassin, whose love, of money is so intense that the fear of punishment is overcome, and the voice of conscience is silenced, whilst for the sake of a few dollars, he plunges the deadly steel to his victim's heart,-that sort of enterprise, Sir, would also be severely checked, by the adoption of the RESTRICTIVE SYSTEM. When any propensity is indulged at the peril of the substantial blessings of life, or of any of the cardinal virtues, it becomes an evil, which if possible, ought to be restrained. This proposition no gentle- man will presume to deny. There is, unquestionably, some inciderntal good frequently resulting from the operation of principles in themselves wrong and o mainly productive of bad results. So we see many good results incidentally flowing from the inordinate love of gain, which is everywhere rampant in the   238    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE, world ; whilst its principal fruits are most injurious to mankind. 'Its direct and immediate tendency is to produce both the extremes of Wealth and' Poverty in the im- mediate vicinity of each other.. These extremes will naturally, of themselves alone, engender a progeny, which will embrace all the most formidable evils in the world. On one hand, there will be ervy and jealousy, and hatred, and intemnperance, and igno- -rance, and degradation, and want, and suffering, and desperation, and crime of every cfrade. On the other hand there will be pride and hazcghtiness, and unkindness, and cruelty, and profligacy, and intem- perance7 and licentiousness, and disease, and depraved constitutions, and a great variety of other vices and crines. On both hands there will be mental and physical degeneracy, which of course, in some form, will be transmitted to posterity. ' The various enterprises of the day, Sir, are the steps by which these two extreme conditions in Society are reached. And these steps are taken, with the great- er eagerness and the less scruple, in proportion as the extremes are wider and offnmore general prevalence. The greater the wealth and the deeper the p2overty,   I'F-        OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.      239 in any community, the stronger thetemptation will be, to seek the one, and the more desperate the measures taken, to avoid the other.  The yielding to these temptations and the employment of these mea- sures constitute what we call crime. 'Now, Sir, let it be well understood, that it is not to prevent a wholesome degree of business enter- prise, but rather to foster and protect it, while, at the sale time, we guard, by judicious legislation, agffainst those undue extremes of wealth and poverty --as well as those unwarranted measures, 'employed to secure the one and to avoid the other-which are so prolific of evil and so barren of good-both to the immediate possessor and to the body politic-that th- RESTRTCTIVE SYSTEM is urged upon the considera- tion of this Honorable COUNCIL. 'I now proceed to consider objection ' 2. " That it would be an infringement of our liberty and. constitutional rights." ' It is true, as the gentleman claims, that a Free Government is bound to protect the persons and property of all its citizens.  But the doctrine, That every man has an inalienable right to thefruit of his own labor, is subject to several conditions.  Man, in  240    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. the social state, retains no rights zohich clash with the common zoelfare. And in a free and Republican Gov- ernment, it is the prerogative of the majority to settle and determine the extent of individual liberty, upon this rule. 3. Moreover, as Society furnishes to its members the means of acqniring wealth, it is therefore, rea- sonable that Society should place around it such re- straints and conditions as its own safety and highest welfare demand ; with this one provision, however, namely : that all lawes be of general and equal alp- plication.  ' ' Under this rule, ho Legislature has a right to concern itself with private interests or with private questions, of whatever nature, unless they have'an obvious bearing upon general questions, or involve public interests. 'But it is not only the right of Legislators, but their imperative duty also, to legislate with refer- e-nce to the moral as well as the physical state of society=-in reference to the future as well as the present. For, in the broad sense in which Legisla- tors should act, the moral and the physical are but one, and the present and future, also, are but one.   CONSERVATISM EXPOSED.      241 I But the gentleman is alarmed, and even terri- fied, with an apparition ;-the imaginary phantom, tlhat if this dangerous innovation should be enacted by this enlightened and patriotic- Body, it would only be the commencement,t7te entering o wedge, to a. series of tyrannical usurpations and flagrant atroci- ties, unprecedented in Civilized History, and shock- ing' to human sense. 'Individual Liberty, and even life, he thinks, would be the next victims of capri- cious MIaLjorities; and no man could see the end of so unscrupulous a beginning. 'I trust, Sir, that the dolorific picture which the gentleman has drawn for your entertainment, under this head, will meet with all the consideration, at your hands, which it merits--and no more. While studying, with the mind's eye, the sombre traces of his pencil, I could not avoid the reflection, however, that the same picture would be just as appropriate for exhibition, when any other legislative act is con- templated-with the design of curtailing the unlim- ited license of any passion or propensity of human nature-as on the preaent occeion. At least, it might evermore glare upon us, with its dark and startling features in every new    and progressive   242    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. movement, however benign and philanthropic.-- Should we listen to such counsels, Legislation would be confined within its present limits to the end of time. In whatever direction we might propose to act, this apparition of Personal Liberty would block up the way, and if possible, frighten us back, with its ghastly pictures of the dangers beyond; and we should find ourselves forever in the same beaten track. ' But, Sir, they are all made of moonshine. And shall we allow such thin and vapory stuff to divert our eyes from the Pole-star of Universal Liberty, and swerve us from the path of Philanthropic Duty?- we, the chosen Representatives of Young America? -the Pilots and Pioneers of our. country, upon the dangerous Sea of Politics, and upon the frail barque of Constitutional Exploration? ' Ours is a position of extraordinary eminence: a position, as yet, more remarkable for the power and responsibility than for the honor which it confers upon its incumbents. It remains for us to achieve the honor by wielding that power and discharging that responsibility with commensurate wisdom.  We shall never find it by wading in the mire which the      *PATRIOTIC SENTIMENTS.     243 old systems have beaten with their immemorial usages, and by refusing to follow    any guide but long-established precedent. 'Neither do I claim    that it will be found by dashing forth, blindly, on the race of reckless and indiscriminate experiment.     The true glory of this exalted position must flow from   a firm  resistance against all sinister considerations, all surrounding temptations, all narrow   prejudices, all passionate excitement, all personal or cowardly fear; and from a high-minded, self-regardless, single-eyed purpose, to render the best possible service to our whole country; for the present time,-but more especially, for the Great Future. 'As our moral and political position is high, over all past or present eminences, so the eyes of the more distant Nations may reach us; and the world waits, in silent and dread expectancy, for the sound which shall go forth from this Consecrated Mount. cNow, Sir, are we the true men for this sublime occasion ? 'That question will be answered by the Nations and Posterity.    ' 44    SPEECOH OF PRINCE AVARICE, 'But the gentleman finally objeots: '3. "That the RESTRICTIVE SYSTEM would en- courage Indolence, Vice and Crime; and thus de- prave the mental and physical constitution." To establish this objection, he takes the old and superficial course of argument. He forgets, or overlooks, the great and controlling circumstance which -underlies the whole subject; and he unceremo- niously begs the question. ' This very indolence, depravity and crime against which he affects to warn us, is the identical burden of evil which Society already sustains, and which it is the proposed mission of the Restrictive Scheme to loosen and remove from its shoulders. Heforgets that this is the very foundation and substance of our complaint,-the very same disease for which our plan is the proposed remedy. "We  have amply verified the truth of the old doctrine-That the chief cause of social evil is the inordinate Love of Gold. We have found that the wide inequality in men's worldly circumstances, is the principal occasion of the vice and suffering of which we complain as a present evil, and which the 9 gentleman only foresees in the contingent future.   EVILS OF WEALTH AND POVERTY.     245 'We have found this to be the case, and have arrived at this conclusion, 1. By tracing the history of Nations, from their infancy; and by observing the correspondence be- tween the increase of wealth and poverty on one hand, and of indolence and vice on the other. We have seen communities beginning their career in a state of laborious, but wholesome competency, with their property so distributed as to escape both the extremes of individual wealth and poverty. During this period of their history, they have, uniformly, been characterized by their general industry, pros- perity, virtue, temperance, happiness and brotherly friendship; requiring but few laws for their pro- tection, and seldom requiring the forcible applica- tion of those fetz. But, in direct proportion and d3gree, as worldly competency has been gradually lost in individual poverty and wzealt7h, the evils of society have multiplied and increased ; stricter and more complicated laws and severer penalties have become necessary; and in spite of both, crime and depravity have more, and more gnawed and worm- eaten the social fabric, which at last, becoming in- capable of self-support, has required all manner of o   246    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. artificial props and ingenious contrivances to keep it from tumbling over. ' 2. By studying the operation of the old system, which now prevails, upon the human mind. ' Two neighbors commence the world together, in circumstances of equality. They are equally in- dustrious and equally deserving. One, however, possesses a larger development of the accumulative propensity than the other; or perchance a larger share of worldly tact; or, possibly, meets with some fortuitous advantage, which places him far in ad- vance of his neighbor. One step of fortune gained, another and another succeed with greater and greater facility. ' The other neighbor meets with an opposite for- tune. In spite of all his exertions, hefalls back.- One reverse after another pursues him, until his spirits begin to droop. He sinks rapidly into pov- erty, deeper and deeper. "Now, Sir, what are the respective tendencies of these opposite courses of fortune upon the mind and heart? 'I hold, Sir, that they are both sadly injurious: that the successful man, without extraordinary self- r-   EVILS OF WEALTH.        247 control, will be led into pride and self-conceit. The love of gain increasing upon him, all his' energies will be kept employed in the mere business of accu- mulating wealth. Those amiable and benevolent traits, which contributed to form his early character, lose their activity, shrivel up, and become dormant, for want of healthful exercise. He finally becomes so degraded, in his moral nature, as to regard the acquisition of money as the chief end of man. Other people are estimated by him precisely according to the amount of their pecuniary capital, irrespective of the manner by which it was acquired. His family --his children--imbibe the same spirit. He instils the same principles into their minds. And thus they enter life. His influence -upon iSociety, also, takes the same direction. 'His children, who may not be thoroughly trained in the industrious habits of their predecessor, will be likely to pursue a different, though equally disastrous course of life. The fortune which falls into their hands, by inheritance, will probably min- ister to those false sentiments upon the value and offices of money, which they acquired in childhood, and which have grown up with themselves; and to   248    SPEECH OF PRIM CE AVARICE. those animal propensities which, at the period of life proper for discipline, will probably have been allowed to grow without restraint. Intemperance, Licentiousness, and finally, the Game of Chance. will hurry them rapidly into poverty,- degradation, and disease. ' What will be the course of the neighbor who is unsuccessful? Ee,- on the other hand-having been  4 instructed, as all men now are, in the paramount necessity of wealth--when he finds all his honest efforts to obtain it, fruitless--will naturally lose his cheerfulness (and his hope, and indulge in feelings of envy towards his prosperous neighbor, and his former friend. His next step may either be intem- perance, with its hellish accompaniments, or it may be the dreadful resolution to gain, by dishonesty and crime, those advantages which he failed to secure by honest industry.  In either case, he becomes a scourge to Society. His children go forth in the world, outcasts among men, goaded on to crime and infamy, by every possible device which Society can employ. These are the monuments, living and in- numerable; of the cruel and mistaken policy which now rules the Civilized World. To   SOCIAL EVIL S.        249 ' Indeed, such is the present machinery of society, and such the manner in which this machinery oper- ates, that an observer, fresh from another planet, looking into its economy and studying its principles, would come to the conclusion, that it had been con- trived with a special eye to allure, to mislead, to entrap, to degrade, to ruin and to torture various classes of its subjects. ' We desire, in our heart of hearts, to do Huma- nity, thus depressed, Society, thus mistaken, some real service. For this the gentleman stigmatizes us as fanatics. But does he suppose that a cause so holy and a purpose so benignant may be extinguish- eL by epithets and invectives? 'c He admits that the Love of Money was bestow- ed upon man, for his use, and not his abuse.  This is our doctrine too. But he claims, that the arm of the civil law already affords a sufficient check against its improper indulgence. What a gross absurdity! The civil law, on the contrary, overshadows, with its protective wing, its most unbounded indulgence. It even furnishes it with all possible facilities to insure, it the largest success. It is true, certain means of obtaining money are forbidden. But wlhy? t3   250    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. Chiefly for the purpose of encouraging its unlimited accumculation. 'Now, Sir, it is the temperate indulgence of this propensity that we wish, by all means, to promote. It is against this very abuse that we propose to legislate. There is not the least occasion for alarm. We propose to begin and proceed, step by step, with the utmost caution, having only one object in view, and that object of the most harmless and bene- ficent character. We wish to confer a lasting benefit upon Society. Not merely upon one class of peo- ple ; not uponthe poor and degraded merely; but also upon the proud, the lordly, and the rich. 'If the human vision might extend over the Panorama of Time, I doubt not it would be clearly seen that those classes of men whose condition is regarded as the most enviable of all, under the pre- sent order of things, would find themselves, in this wider view, as largely benefited, as any others, by the operation of the Restrictive System. "Could the true character and tendency of this system be universally understood, I doubt not it would be welcomed by all classes of men with loud and joyful acclamation.   BEAUTIES OF THE RESTRICTIVE SYSTEM. 251 Once introduce it, Sir, and you will have the dawn of a glorious era. It will break down the bars of separation which Gold has erected in Society, and es- tablish one broad platform of true Democracy. It will soften the heart of adamant, and convert the human tiger into a real man. It will raise up the dejected, inspire the friendless with new courage and new hope, and make all men as brothers. 'It will work as by magZC, upon the present patch work of the social fabric ; by a gradual, silent, and genial process, harmonize the elements of the human character, hitherto so sadly discordant; and elaborate a beautiful, consistent, well proportioned system of things, by which the great problem of life will solved-the wide and triumphant preponderance of happiness over misery in the world, be finally se- cured to the generations of mankind. 'It cannot be, Sir,-God never intended that this glorious earth should be the theater of crime and tears forever! What would the gentleman advise? Can he look over the world and behold with indiffe- rence the depravity and woes which abound every- where? Let him propose a better plan. Let him make one effort for suffering humanity. But no-   252    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. he would have us remain on the safe side-upon the beaten track. This, he says, is no place for radical- ism. I know it, Sir, as well as he does. But what radical measure is proposed? We ask only for a gradual and experimental measure, to be adopted only in proportion as it shall bear the test of experi- ment: 'Why is the honorable gentleman so very sensi- tive upon this question? It cannot be that he has any personal or sordid motive in opposing it. That, surely, would be impossible. And yet, it would al- most seem that he dreads the experiment of the Re- strictive Policy. Can it be that he has --any fears for himself on account of his princely estate? Oh, no, Sir, it cannot be possible. No gentleman, who has the honor to form a part of this dignified COUN- CIL, could possibly entertain so unworthy a senti- ment. 'I will not attempt, Sir, to give any rational ex- planation of the course which the gen eman has chosen to pursue upon this question; but will con- clude what I had to say, by giving him a word of advice. "et him abandon his uncomfortable position.-   CONSERVATISM REBUKED.      253 Let him come over, from the narrow and clouded confines of prejudice, from the sandy and deceptive ground of selfishness, where his vision is obscured and distorted by the fantastic cobwebs which Ava- rice has woven;-let him come over to the broad platform of human brotherhood-of true philan- thropy, where the air is clear, and the prospect boundless and unobscured. When once fairly upon this platform, the sun of Truth will shine directly upon his heart, and inspire it with a new principle. Its rays of light will scatter the darkness and gloom of his mind,-unfold the true purposes of life, and open before him Gsenes of astonishing grandeur and beauty. The chilly and unwholesome vapors, to which he is now accustomed, will be exchanged for a bracing and salubrious atmosphere. New respon- sibilities and new duties-new mnotives and new hopes, will incite him to new and noble deeds. Life will become to him a real blessing, as it is now a cuirse; and the world will be some better, as it is now worse, on account of his presence in it. His influence is now felt on the side of oppression and injustice.- Then it will be felt on the side of kindness and love. Now it is exerted in behalf of a principle, unworthy   254    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. of the ]luman soul, as it is sordid in its nature, and pernicious in its operation. Then it will be wielded in behalf of the noblest objects within the range of human ambition. 'Now, Sir, leaving the subject with this Honor- able COUNCIL and with GOD, I shall say no more.' May it please your Satanic Royalty, this gentle- man's argument sealed my doom. After much far- ther discussion, the new and odious doctrine was ac- knowledged by the CONSTITUTIONAL COUNCIL. They enacted: 'That all taxes zohatsoever,for any and everypur- pose, under the law or Government, shall be levied and collected from such- estates, belonging to indi- viduals and corporations, as shall exceed in value the sumn of Twenty Thouscand Dollars.  Such estates as shall exceed in valzue that amount by Ten Thou- sand Dollars or over, shall pay double the propor- tion of taxes paid by the smaller estates. And for' each additional Ten Thousand Dollars the ratio ot' taxation shall be thus increased, geometrically!' This little section of Law, may it please the: Throne, opened the door to a new order of things in   THE REqSTRICTIVE LAW.      255 the Earth. At first, for a time, it was doubtful what its effect would be. But, when once it had come into fair play, results were developed which more than satisfied its friends, and utterly confounded its enemies. Mie,--thy hitherto unconquered Prince,- it transfixed with deadly terror. I knew not which way to turn myself; for, by degrees, as the Restric- tive Policy became- more and more prevalent, it also became more and more popular, spreading far and wide, frokn State to State, and from Nation to Nation. Never was magic more triumphant than this System, in the changes which it wrought, in Society and in man himself. Never was Military Chieftain, with his countless soldiery, so precipitated from the heights of power, so overwhelmed with disappointment and with utter hopeless ruin, as I was-even I, myself- in the course of the grand experiment of the RESTRIC- TIVE SCHEME. When the principle of the Law had been suffi- ciently tested, another step was taken. The indirect method of restricting the acquisition of money, by graduated taxation, was exchanged for that of direct limitation. The proper limit,-that which secured the most healthful condition of society-was found,   256    SPEECH OF PRINCE AVARICE. by experiment, to differ, in different States and Countries. It was not long, however, before a system of Legislation was discovered by which a proper me- dium was readily ascertained. Instantly, I flew for counsel to thy chosen repre- sentative, BEELZEBUB THE GREAT; deeming that peradventure, his transcendent genius might furnish some grand device for my relief; or at least, some partial support, upon which the shadow of a ioope might rest. But to this, my earnest appeal, BEELZEBUB the GREAT replied: ' O Prince Avarice-- Most honored and most valuable of great SA- TAN'S Princes!-Fain would I lift my hand in thy powerful aid, and summon up from the bottomless deep, also, myriads upon myriads of the mightiest sons of perdition. But thy GREAT ENEMY, who sits upon the blazing Throne on High, who formed the Universe and reared the adamantine walls of Hell- 'tis He who hath spoken. He hath commanded His strongest Angels to come down and defend the earth against our most formidable assaults. He it is who defies our blackest arts, and laughs to' scorn our   RESULTS OF THE NEW SYSTEM.     257 most profound devices. Prince OPPRESSION, with all his massive bars and chains, has been overpow- ered. "His chains are broken asunder, and all his prisoners have been released. Prince INTEMPERANCE, too, has been hurled from the earth. And Prince WAR now hangs, by a slender thread, upon the verge of doom. The arm of BEELZEBUB has ever been ready to aid in their defence. But what booteth it for finite power to oppose Omnipotence! \ ' O AVARICE! the rod :of my power is broken-- the anchor of my hope is lost. O that my master, SATAN, were present in the Earth, to witness the course of Destiny, and conduct the dreadful retreat.' Thus; Great SATAN, I was stripped of all conso- lation and all hope. Still I labored faithfully, to counteract the operation of the New ]Policy. Everyl appliance of Ridiccule, of Terror, of Pru- dencei of Politics, and of Custom, were held in con- stant requisition, for my service. But the RESTRIC- TIVE SYSTEM, at first so mild and unimposing, expanded, little by little, gaining vitality more and more, until I found my power in the Human Soul withering as by the touch of Death.   258    SATAN'S REPLY TO AVARICE. And, with my decay, the world aroused into newz life. A new and holy ambition supplanted me upon the throne of the human Heart, and drove me forth a vagabond from the Earth." Here endeth the words of Prince AVARICE. And I listened, when AVARICE had thus con- cluded his testimony, and heard Satan answer him thus: SATAN S REPLY TO A VARICE. 's O Prince Avarice! Meagre and downcast Prince; but pre-eminent hitherto, for thy unconquerable tenacity and univer- sal sway! Thy words have pierced me with pecu- liar anguish., No other Prince so largely inherited my confidence. No other Prince had been entrusted by me with responsibilities at once so delicate, so complicated, so various. and so momentous. Through thy magic arts, the human soul was forwarded along, swiftly--yet so gently and so quietly, as scarcely to perceive its own progress-from the pure and placid domain of Truth and Virtue, and handed over to   SATAN'S PLANS.       259 the sterner and more inflexible of my Princes; whose grasp was more deadly, yet who, without thy inter- position, had gained but few victims. If thou too, hast fallen, my cause in the earth must be indeed forlorn, and slender must be our prospects of re-in- statement there. But I have already formed, in my mind, a new campaign in the earth; in which thou art appoint- ed to a still more prominent and honorable position. BEELZEBUB shall be degraded to a secondary conzmand; where, under my immediate eye, he shall redeem his character, by courageous action, or shall return hither to suffer the execution of the fearful doom which I have already awarded him. SATAN, himself, will resume the sceptre, and conduct the War in his own proper personality. True, I regard the enterprise a most perilous one, bordering on despegration. For by the testimony of my Brave Princes, AVARICE and WAR, I perceive that the Enemy has redoubled His hostility, and greatly amplified His preparations, both offensive and de- fensive. There is, always, however, some advantage in waging war with Omnipotence, whatever the mea-   260    SATAN'S REPLY TO AVARICE. sure of our success, or however terrible our defeat. It is rather to annoy, frustrate.,and irritate, than to conquer, the Unconquerable, that all warfare is prosecuted against Him. We have proved ourselves at least competent to maintain this kind of warfare, having for Seven. Thousand Years, not only kept a foothold, but held thed advantage over Him, in His favorite planet. If  new energy, greater experience, and new and more formidable appliances, are to be employed for our destruction-new energy, greater experience, and new and equally formidable appliances, may also be 'brought into requisition, in our own defence and for His annoyance. It remains, however, for me to listen to the testi- mony of my famous Princes, DISEASE and LICEN- TIOUSNESS, my most adroit Prince, SUPERSTITION, and several other Noble Princes, also; in order to the perfection of my plans. Then shall all my In- fernal Forces be arrayed for the Grand Expedition, and for the all-decisive struggle." These were the last words which Satan uttered in my hearing.   PRINCE DISEASE.       261 To be faithful to the principal chain of events, which occurred to my observation whilst I remained in- the Regions below, I must next introduce to the patient reader the PRINCE, OF DISEASE : and a more disgusting monster can scarcely be formed by the human imagination.  Indeed, of all the pitiful sights which passed in review before me, during my sojoirnment in that most forlorn world---and their name is Legion-I think that this demon was, with- out exception, the most horribly revolting. His body, which was incredibly huge, could hardly be accused of possessing any specific form whatever; for, like a huge thunder-cloud, he was not to be seen twice of the same proportions; but was perpetually changing his old deformities for new ones. And so rapid and complete were his metamorphoses, that even during the prosecution of his story, in the audience of Satan, with my eyes constantly riveted upon him, it seemed hardly pos- sible for the mind to accept him as the same continu- ous Speaker. In a voice, which might be described as an in- termixture of articulate groans and sobs, he paid his address to Satan after the following style: r               /-   262    SPEECH OF PRINCE DISEASE. SPEECH OF PRINCE DISEASE. 'C Father Satan : 'Here at last I am---a permanent dweller in To- phet. The Earth has finally disgorged me : the earth, where from immemorial ages I had held a most notable rank; where, too, I have contributed, beyond all bounds, to thy mighty power and fame. But now (O shameful!) I am confined to these un- comfortable lodgings ; and compelled to breathe this suffocating and unwholesome air. The Human Race are no longer vulnerable to my weapons. They have become most obstinately healthLy. My deadliest poisons have become stale and inert. All my choice infections, malarious exhala- tions, virulent and noxious effluvia, venomous and malign vapors,--in- a word, all my most efficient and reliable agents, have become flat and innocuous. My  notorious Fever-infusion, my world-dreaded C7iolera-bane, my fatal Small Pox-virus, my sweep- ing Consumption-generator, my deadly Plague-in- stiller, and whatever concentrated venom I had proved to be most uniformly infallible, in supplying the hand of KING DEATH, have all lost their virtues.   AGITATION.   .    263 The prime Cause of our terrestrial disasters I know not. I will merely trace the chain of events which immediately preceded my own reverses, and leave its origin to be determined by thyself.' In the latter part of the Nineteenth Century of Christianity, mankind commenced a new moral career. In consequence of certain novel dogmas, .which some restless and contemptible agitators introduced into the world, man got a glimpse of the true pur- poses of Life. From such small beginnings the very saddest havoc was wrought with eGs' and the most radical changes effected in htuman society.- With resistless impetuosity, we were pursued by the Angels of the Most High, and by their infuriated human allies, until we were discomfited, disarmed and driven from the world. The Human mind, however, had been undergoing a preparatory discipline for these crazy revolution- ary schemes, long previously.  The field of action for thy Princes had consequently been sadly and irreparably damaged. Were I permitted to offer a conjecture, I suppose I should go back of any Human, and even of any   264    SPEECH OF PRINCE DISEASE. Angelic agency, and lav the charge directly to thy great Enemy-in-Chief, and to that strange Fatality which seems to shape every atom and direct every motion in the Universe. As thefalse and injurious pursuits of life were abandoned, its true purposes were apprehended, as by intuition. And they were made the chief busi- ness of all men. Physical Healtlh was cultivated, as one of the first duties. It was a curious circumstance, that when mankind had thus fairly started upon their new career, there was little or no clashing between their various interests and feelings. Such harmony resulted from the adoption of Nature, as the guide and rule of the physical Life. It was also remarkable, with what great facility those obstacles to health, and to all kinds of enjoy- ment, which had formerly been regarded as insupe- rable, were now overcome. As the heart and mind gradually emerged into the light which God had created for them, their discriminating powers were proportionably improved. But men were not contented with the attain- ment of health for themselves; rio,--their ambition   INTERMARRIAGE.        265 was not so easily pacified. The health of Posterity must be insured also. To that end the question of Intermarriage was brought up. All authorities, both ancient and modern, were ransacked to gain a lnowledge of the true path of Nature. And when this path was discovered, it was made the universal rule of action. The Natural laws of Intermarriage were adopted for the regulation of -all Matrimonial Con- nections.. This, of itself, was a measure of infinite importance, and secured incalculable consequences of good. The Family of Man was thus improved in its physical, and through its physical in its mental character, beyond all estimation. By discarding the authority of blind, and often absurd passion, and by seeking the light of Nature and of Reason upon the subject of Sexual Adaptation, with an eye to the improvement of the Hunman Constitution, all necessary light was obtained; and correct rules for the guidance of the Sexes, in their Matrimonial elections, were established for general observance. The result was, that in the course of two or three generations, the Human Constitution had become nearly impervious to all my weapons.             \   266    SPEECH OF PRINCE )DISEASE. The Despot, Fashion, was dethroned also. He had been an efficient auxiliary of mine. And when, by the universal overturn, he was reduced to subordination, I was convinced that mankind were really in earnest, in their reformatory projects. Never, before, had the reign of this Tyrant been suspended in any Civilized Land.!And although this circumstance, in itself, was not one of the gravest moment, yet as an indicator of coming events, and viewed in connection with those which were present, I regarded it with extreme apprehension. It was not until the Princes of Avarice and War had been thoroughly overpowered, that the Social System was completely remodeled. Mankind then, seemed to be fully aroused from their sleep; and to see, as with new eyes, the great beauties which sur- rounded them. They discarded all their old errors and foibles,-which, in fact, comprised the most of their former deeds and opinions,-and adopted a new philosophy: adopted it not in theory merely, but in earnest practice. The people were all educated. First, they were instructed in their moral and social dutiesf The foundation was thus laid for a character becoming a   sUMAN PROGRESS.      267 high order of rational beings. After that they were educated in the learning of books. They also culti- vated the Study of Nature. And in studying Na- ture properly, after a suitable moral preparation, founded upon the Holy Book of God, and with all the helps which Science, in her various departments, furnished, they found themselves upon the highway to happiness and to Heaven. The Institutions of Society were not merely re- formed-they were transformed-and brought to correspond with the meaning of Nature. In that way they were made to subserve, in a manner the most heart-rending to me, the Social Welfare. Not the welfare of the electfew, to the great damage of the millions; that was the way that the old Insti- tutions had operated. The old Institutions had not been framed aocording to the rules of Natzre; so they had been most admirably instrumental in popu- lating these thy dominions. But when the new order of things arose, the scales which had previously covered the eyes of men, dropped off. Then they could see things according to their real shape. Then they could perceive that the line of True Policy was always to be found in   268    SPEECH OP PRINCE DISEASE, exact juxtaposition with that of Duty. In equally faithful proximity to this line they also discovered another. And that was the line of [Humanity. Now when the three lines of Duty, True Policy, and Humanity, were found positively and invariably to coincide, the course of human conduct and of human events was changed at once. The world was no longer made a theater of bitter and deadly strife,' but one of active, generous and brotherly emulation. In direct proportion as this new order of things was cherished, its advantages were appreciated.-- The more its fruits were gathered in, the better was their character understood and the more highly approved. Now your Majesty will readily infer, that when the rules of Human conduct came to be thus tho- roughly revised, instances of extreme poverty and want must have been almost an impossibility. Such in fact was the case. But that was not the worst. The character of the commercial world was changed. Men lost their rapacity. Consequently, the crowded Cities which had ever before subserved, most pro- digiously, to forward my business, were abolished. Man conceded to his brother man, the same   THE LAW OF KINDNESS.      269 means to secure the necessities and comforts de- manded by Nature, which he desired for himself. Labor was made attractive. It was regarded as honorable. It was indulged in as a physical neces- sity-a natural duty--a healthful exercise, and a recreation ; rather than as a burdensome task--a punishment-or as a menial service. All the mem; bers of Society--both male and female, doing their I   part cheerfully, excessive or even constant labor was not required of any. Those necessary tasks which i   were less agreeable than others, were cheerfully des- patched under the operation of the principle involved in the Golden Rule. In fact, the great Secret of all these radical and revolutionary 'movements which have resulted in thy great damage, and in. my own hopeless ruin, may be expressed in a single word: that word is KINDNESS." Now it came to pass, that while the Prince of DISEASE was thus speaking, I beheld a Form more terrible than any which I had before observed; de- scending, with a most unearthly shriek, just by my side--dropping down, like an immense Spider, by his web.   270     THE END OF THE VISION. It was the PRINCE of SUPERSTITION. The terror, combined with the inexpressible dis- gust, with which I was shocked by his sudden ap- pearance, both deprived me of the matter of his speech and aroused me to the normal state. END OP VISION THRD. '   I t ' THET1RIUJMPHO0X'MAN.  The Scene is laid in Paradise. The Time is A. D. 3000. i   THE TRIUMPH OF MAN. IN THS VISION THE ANGELS; ASSEMBLED IN PARADISE, REVIEW THE HSTORY OF THE HUMAN RACE, UP TO THE PERIOD WHEN PEACE ON EARTH AND GOOD WILL TO MAN ARE TO BE FULLY REALIZED. THE EARTH IS DELIVERED FROM THE POWER OF SATAN, AND EDEN) IN ALL ITS PRIMEVAL BEAUTY AND GLORY, IS RE-PLANTED ON EARTH, AND TRIUMPHANTLY RESTORED TO MAN. "'There is perpetual Spring, perpetual Youth; No joint-benumbing cold nor scorching heat, Famine nor age, have any being there.' THE commonest things in the world are fre- quently the most mysterious. For example, take the principle of Light. This principle pervades all the visible Universe, and seems to be co-extensive with the Creation of God.   Yet how little do we understand its nature! The profoundest philoso- pher cannot tell you, positively, whether it be a substantial entity, or merely the result of certain in- fluences, too refined for human scrutiny. A few of   274         SLEEP. its properties we know; but what, or how many others it may possess, or in what it consists,-whe- ther itself be merely a property, or an independent principle,--no living man can tell. The same things may be said, with equal em- phasis, of Caloric, of Electricity, and of Magnetism. Who can explain the phenomena of Sleep? This power is so common, that it holds dominion over all things which breathe. With-it, every human being is intimately conversant. From the beginning of the world to the present day, it has remained the same simple, familiar and faithful friend; the same constant visitor; the same unapproachable mystery. It spreads itself out before us, and submits to every ingenious method of inspection which we can com- mand, and indulges the experiments which Philoso- phy has contrived, by which to detect the secret key of its power; and then, as if impatient of our dull- ness, gently lifts its airy pinions and flits away. Its velvety fetters are equally potent, to bind the nurs- ling in its impotency and the Giant in his might. A despot, the most absolute and imperious, no other monarch in the world is so universally popular as he.   DREAMS.         275 And why? Because he is the monarch which God, Himself, has anointed. Because his authority is never arbitrary, but always exercised for our plea- sure or our good. Because he frequently presents us with happy dreams,-those charming episodes in the dreary, or the monotonous, or the melancholy poem of Life,-those pearls in the casket of Memory, which in after years fall upon the mental vision with such peculiar, such fairy-like beauty,-those flowers along the rugged pathway of life, whose fragrance may serve to assuage the noisome effluvia which ever and anon infest our progress. Who will not acknowledge that the most unal- loyed bliss, the most exquisite moments, the most glorious scenes of his earthly life, have greeted him in the Land of Dreams? Who will not own, that many a time, he has been forced to quit that fairy land for the world of realities, with deep sadness and regret? Let the real world treat you never so dain- tily,-sustain you upon a couchofswan down,--over- hang your pillow with curtains of damask,--fan you with perfumes of roses,-surround you with cheerful and friendly faces,--greet your waking ears with strains of sweet music,-visit you with every variety   276        fARADISE. of propitious fortune,-have you not oft-times felt upon returning to wakefulness, that you were making a sorry exchange of worlds? Have you not felt, at that instant, the joy, and even the ecstasy, such as you never experienced outside of Dreamland, gush- ing out with your breath, trembling along your nerves, oozing from your fingers' ends? Such scenes of the dreaming imagination may, sometimes, be faintly sketched ; but the blissful emo- tions which accompany them, never can be. I had a vision of Paradise. I thought I was liberated from  the body, mv spirit retaining its consciousness. The senses were far more acute than when burdened with flesh, and cogni- zant of new systems of being. My powers of locomo- tion seemed limited only by the will. The impressions which I -gained of the place, though indescribable, may yet, some of them, be faint- ly shadowed. Those high degrees: of excellence, which on the earth are regarded as the nearest approximations to the perfect, I found to be the weakest--hardly per- ceptible-glimmerings of those inconceivable quali-   THE MUSIC OF PARADISE.      2" ties which composed the scene by which I was en- compassed. Combinations of sound, which by the first artists of the earth, have been esteemed as the. climax of melody, compared with the music which I heard, were insufferable dissonance,-harsh and grating to the nerves. Music, vocal and instrumental; falling upon the ear in!Eolian whispers; swellin5g to the rage of the tempest ; dying away in the distance ; echoing along the hill sides ; rolling down the vallies ; riding upon the winds ; looming over the mountains ; wild and tempestuous as the roar of the sea; plaintive as the song of the dove; calnming into repose ; arousing into action ; with changes and combinations so over- powering, and altogether so dissolving, that God, in mercy, withholds it from mortal natures! There I discovered how that Light, with its colors and shades, constitutes the essence of beauty. The most brilliant of Nature's efforts, here below, in developing the powers of light; the proudest tri- umphs of the first geniuses of time,--those superb achievements of Art, in which the tints of the rainbow are arranged in such masterly lines, as to captivate the human senses,-are but down-rightfailures, af-   278      LIGHT AND SOUND. fording only the merest hints of those transcendent exhibitions of the beautiful, which feasted my eyes in this anti-chamber of Heaven. All the varieties of Perspective, arranged and distributed with the most exquisite human taste or conception, are but the dimmestforeshadowings of that marvellous power, as I found it unfolded in Paradise. As the most dazzling dress of the loveliest daugh- ters of May,--the primrose, the violet and the lily,- in all their virgin freshness, as they burst into being, compared with their withered and lifeless stems in winter ; or, as the glittering hues of the most gor- geous sunset,-compared with the sombre duskiness of twilight ; so indescribably charming are the effects of light and shade and color, in the heavenly Paradise, compared with their very happiest exhibitions upon the earthly planet,--the most beautiful of all earthly objects. Light and Sound! prime and universal agents of the Creator! Neither material; neither spiritual; peculiar to neither world, but common and essential to both ; rudimental and crude in earth, refined and perfected in Heaven!   THE INHABITANTS.       279 In a word, all things upon earth, capable of af- fording rational joy -and pleasure, all beauty and ex- cellence whatsoever, worthy of preservation, I found in Paradise, multiplied and developed to the highest degree of perfection. Far away in the East, through a Portal of incon- ceivable sublimity, a flood of light, as from a thou- sand noonday suns, entered and inundated Para- dise with glory ineffable. This Portal connected Para- dise with the ALMGHTY THRONE.    Through it, also, amid the intensity of inflowing light, the spirit- ual inhabitants were constantly passing to and fro. Numerous as the leaves of the forest, and all exu- berant with joy, these spirits were equally at rest or in motion, upon the ground and throughout the fir- mament; enlivening the vast Empyrean with their presence, and imparting to the scene a degree and variety of splendor and heavenly magnificence, and a various and enrapturing symphony, of which no earthly nor no imaginary scene can convey to the mind, even at the ethereal heights of Parnassus, any true impression, beyond the merest glimpse or shadow. In the far West, also, at a point opposite the ETERNAL THRONE, was another Portal, through   280        MCHAEL. which I also observed many Angels both entering and  departing. Amid these scenes of rapture there was no ap- pearance of idleness ; but an air of business, and great activity, directed to some general object, was  apparent on every hand. But 'the employments were   various. Some I saw in solitary meditation, roaming upon the mountains ; some, in rosy bowers, conver- sing; others, in large assemblies, listening to the voice of instruction; and others, still, upon their glittering wings, like fairies of the imagination, dart- ing away to perform some heavenly errand, obedient to the Supreme behest, or returning from abroad,   I with messages or with tidings from distant worlds, delivering them to the Archangel and to the other Chiefs of the heavenly host.       / Of this innumerable multitude of Spirits, one appeared pre-eminent over all the rest, in power and command. This was the Archangel, MCHAEL. I saw him as he entered at the Eastern Portal, fresh from the THRONE of the ALMGHTY. With a great voice, as a trumpet, which resound- ed through Paradise, he called into his immediate presence all the countless millions of the blest., Then, addressing them, he spake and said:   MCHAEL'S HARANGUE.      281 "Ye Angels of God and Sainted Spirits of all Worlds! In the loving Name of Hirr that sitteth upon the Throne, I greet ye all! Know ye, it hath transpired, in His infinite mercy, and through the operation of His Eternal plans, that His dearly loved and severely tried chil- dren, who dwell upon that remote orb called Earth, who were torn from His Fatherly hand by the Arch- fiend, Satan, and held under the cruel power of that infernal Tyrant for many tedious ages--know ye that Man, the Redeemed, is soon to be released from the oppressive rule of the Archfiend, and reinstated, evermore, in the favor of God; to be made an equal with us in the praise of His All-glorious Name." The Archangel paused ; when there arose from the multitude, a shout of blessing arid praise, to the Lamb of God, as though the boundless Universe had conspired to fill the concave of Paradise with its concentrated Melody! Whereupon, Michael proceeded, saying : a Ye Angels of Light here assembled, who have held in trust the guardianship of Man, against his infernal Enemy; ye who have so worthily fulfilled the trust confided to your hands-in the Name of   282  MCHAELS ADDRESS TO THE ANGELS. our common Lord and Father, Stand forth! Let us hear from your lips of the great final conflict.  Ye Angels of LOVE, of BENEVOLENCE, of KIND- NESS, and of HOPE--ye Angels of TRUTH and of JUSTICE-ye Angels of LIBERTY, of HUMAN EQUAL- ITY, Of PLENTY, and of PEACE-ye Angels of PATRI-  OTISM and of PHL ANTHROPY-ye Angels of VIRTUE, of TEMPERANCE, of INDUSTRY, and of HEALTH-ye Angels of INVENTION, Of SCIENCE, of EDUCATION, and of KNOWLEDGE,-Stand forth and tell us-how came it that the terrible power of SATAN hath been  broken in the Earth? By what means hath the KING of kings vouchsafed to rescue His beloved hu- man offspring from the jaws of Eternal Death?" Now I saw, that all those Angels, whose names Michael had pronounced, came forth from the mul-  titude and-stood before him.  And the Angel of Love, whose voice was the   sweetest of music, spake thus : "Let all the honor and the glory be ascribed to 1 HM that sitteth upon the THRONE and to the LAMB, forever more." - Then all the others responded: a Amen and Amen."              ]   EXORDIUM OF LOVE.      283 The Angel of Love continued : SPEECH OF' THE ANGEL OF L OVE. "Great Michael: I made my dwelling place in the Earth from the very dawn of Time. From age to 'age, I walked abroad among the children of men, gently drawing them with my silken cords, away from all evil. My favorite purpose was, to establish throughout the Earth a universal brotherhood. Could I but have succeeded in effecting this purpose, it was plainly to be seen, that most, if not all, of the Demoniac Powers would have been compelled to retire from the con- test. Could I have got the sceptre into my hand, I knew that Hatred or Strife, Envy or Pride, Oppres- sion or Cruelty, Superstition or Ignorance, Selfish- ness or Avarice, could, neither of them, have long retained ground enough, in the world, to rest upon. But as soon as my presence and my plans were discovered, all the Spirits of the Deep were in arms to oppose me. Many long ages did the unequal contest rage; during which, I never succeeded to gain any very extended power. But, by my ever   284    SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LOVE constant and laborious efforts, I did sometimes man- age to keep the Demons in check; and if I failed to achieve a very large amount of positive good, I did, nevertheless, often prevent much positive evil. I held in my possession the keys of all real hu- man felicity; and offered myself to the service of all mankind; beseeching them to accept of me as their guide and benefactor; promising them an ex- ceeding great reward-a treasure far richer and more  durable than any other within their reach-a reward more to be desired than the crown of kings-a trea- sure laid up in Heaven.  Besides these better and more enduring treasures which I promised them, I also proposed to furnish the most indubitable proof that all their wTrldcly  happiness, also, was capable of material augmenta- tion, by my presence. To the rich, I proposed to double the value of their wealth. The poor I pro- mised to lighten the burden of their poverty. To the aged I offered a firm support. The young I presented with a sure and never-failing guide and defence. But the Demon of Appetite, with his momentary pleasures, clamored against me, calling the blessings   OPPOSITION TO LOVE.     285 which I proffered insipid and lifeless. The Demon of Pride, with his boisterous parade and empty show, declared them undignified and cowardly. The De- mon of Revenge denounced them as unmanly and puerile, adapted only to the condition of superannu- ated men, of women, and children. The Demon of Avarice, with his coffers loaded -down with solid gold, gave it as his opinion, that they were alto- gether too light and unsubstantial. And so on to the end. Each particular Demon had his particular reason for regarding the enjoyment which I had it in my power to bestow, as altogether inferior to his own; so that between them all, Wisdom was blind- folded, Conscience was smothered, and I was exclu- ded from the hearts of mankind. But all along the course of Time were scattered, here and there, a few who were wise, and who ac- cepted me as their chief good. And, as the life- giving rays of the vernal sun were wont to permeate the vitals of Nature, and awaken into action her dormant powers, annihilating the frosts and gloom of winter, filling the world with beauty, with music and with sweet odors; so I never failed to shed new light and genial warmth into every heart which I   286   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL L OVE. entered-driving away the Demons of Misanthropy, of Selfshness, and of Doubt, and changing, as by magic, the chilling blasts of February into the fra-X grant breath of May.  The infernal spirits held me in exceeding dread.  They knew I was the first born of all the Angels, and my FATHER'S favorite. They knew, full well,  that not one of their crew could dwell in the heart which acknowledged me as its queen. They were not slow to understand, that whilst many of my sis-  ters were utterly intolerant of some of the Princes  of Evil, there were others of these Princes who  might work on, accomplishing their wicked purposes unmolested, in their immediate presence. There was the Demon of AVARICE, for instance, who, although at sword's points with BENEVOLENCE, could operate very securely, as well as successfully, by the side of TEMPERANCE, of INDUSTRY, or even  of VIRTUE. Then there was the Demon of HYO- CRISY, who could not endure the sight of TRUTH, but had no particular objection to the Angel of PEACE, or TEMPERANCE, or HOPE. The Demon of POVERTY also, although he would fall into convul-  sions at the presence of the Angel of PLENTY, yet,   THE COURSE OF LOVE.      X287 never ceased his gnawing a moment, for PEACE, or VIRTUE, or INVENTION, or TRUTH. But all the Infernals understood that my pre- sence was the' harbinger of their doom ;--that all the other Angels were sure to follow, sooner or later, in my train, when once my authority was well es- tablished in the heart. So my general triumph in the Earth was, and was regarded to be, a sure indi- cation of the discomfiture of all, and each, of the Powers of Darkness. Now the Councils of the Deep, although they were thus keenly sensitive in relation to my move- ments, and fortified themselves strongly against me, were not, by any means, indifferent of the progress of the other Good Angels. Still, they evidently regarded me, as, in a certain sense, the embodiment and soul of all the others.  And I discovered, that, iv their extraordinary vigilance to intercept me, they did somewhat, perceptibly, relax their ener- getic opposition as against some of my Good Sisters. It was therefore, that I found it necessary to change my policy of action. I thenceforth sought to gain possession of the world, not so much by my own direct operations, as under the auspices, and ^   288   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL, LOVE. through the less suspicious efforts of those Angels of Good, whose natural and appropriate sphere of operations was secondary to mine,-whose proper office it was to execute the details of mine. Thus, for the sake of restoring Man to the favor of Heaven, the natural order, of Angelic precedence and succes-  sion, was reversed.  At an unguarded point of the Enemy's defences, the Angel of INVENTION, through my instance, en- tered the world, and gave birth to the Arts of Civili- Zation. These Arts opened the door to Knowledge. And when KNOWLEDGE had entered, with her radi- ant face, INVENTION took courage, and gained new strength. These two Angels were mutually instru- mental of good; conferring strength and courage  upon each other. And thus, the good work was greatly forwarded                 i In process of time, when KNOWLEDGE, through the Arts of INVENTION, had lifted the mists of IG- NORANCE from the minds of the masses of men, so they could begin to see each other, and all things, in their true, natural shape and color, then the Angel- "BERTY, with her heavenly smile,-though timidly and distrustfully,-ventured down, to the earth; and  , .         X:   DEMONIAC OPPOSITION.     289 in exceeding pity towards mankind, attempted to establish her Government upon the hills of Rome. But the cruel Demon of OPPRESSION, whose rank in the infernal dynasty is near the right hand of SATAN, flew to arms, and mustered to his aid all the Legions of Darkness. LIBERTY, overcome, departed in sadness from the earth. The great achievements of INVENTION and KNOWLEDGE were also well nigh extinguished from human memory. For several ages, then, these kind Angels wrought silently, and their deeds were recorded only in the cells of monks and by the glimmer of the midnight torch. Again, in the course of ages, they attempted to dispel the clouds of IGNORANCE which enshrouded the world. In BRITAIN, the contest was renewed. TRUTH descended to their aid; and the work pro- ceeded with new vigor, in spite of all the combined fiendish Powers. Firmly, now, did the good Angels hold the ground which they gained. Various were the expedients which SATAN and BEELZEBUB devised, to maintain their dominion. Sometimes the Demons did seem to succeed, for awhile, but were always, in the end, com- pelled to yield a little more than they had gained.   290-   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LOVE. ,At length LIBERTY, with her chosen train, once more descended to the Earth, and alighted upon the shores of America.  This time, her expedition was successful. All things there, conspired, un-   il der the direction of the All-seeing One, to favor  I her cause. Her triumphs extended all over the Wes-  ? tern Continent, and then flew across the ocean, and I in process of time, filled the whole world.      The Angel of Peace next established her Throne,   in the Earth. She moved the nations to convene,   I in General Congress, for the purpose of forming a  : code of rules, to serve in all cases as a substitute for X the sword and bayonet. The plan succeeded, and : the Demon of WAR took his departure from the earth, neter to return.  Next followed the great victory of HUMAN EQTTA L-  ITY. AVARICE had gained possession of all the world. !I No Demon was so destructive of happiness, so fruit-  ful of mischief and woe, or so hard to conquer as the- ; Demon of AVARICE. It was only through the corm-   / bined strength of several of the Angelic powers, that ;. the great chains, which he had riveted upon the hu- man form divine, were ever broken off. -PATRIOTISM,  i PHLANTHROPY and TRUTH, wrought together, with s1   TRIIUMPH OF L OVE.      291 harmonious energy, until their power became irresis- tible. They moved the hearts of certain Legislators in the New World to enact the RESTRICTIVE CODE. This acted like a charm, It gave a new direction to human ambition. It dissolved the prestige of Gold and it withered the Demon's power.     i Upon the expulsion of AVARICE from the heart I was welcomed in; and out of chaos I soon brought order and beauty. The world was changed from a theater of hostile strife into a field of virtuous emu- lation,--from a wilderness of suffering into a garden of pleasure. When I had become well established upon the Throne, with LIBERTY AND PEACE and EDUCATION, for my guard, the Demons of the Pit were struck with consternation. At the instance of Beelzebub, their Chief, they fled home to attend. a Council of all the Infernal Powers, to devise and institute a new system of operations, for another campaign. But may our Heavenly Father assist us to defend our Citadel in the human heart against all their ma- chinations. Adieu, Michael, I must away to my earthly charge."   292     THE ANGEL LIBERTY. Now I saw in my vision that the Angel of LoVEt disappeared as in a rainbow of light, Next, came forward the Angel of LIBERTY, and spake to the following effect: i SPEECH OF THE AN GEL LIBERTY * d' MichaelZ :' Our Father created Man in his own image ; which all the posterity of Adam inherited. In him the work of creation was complete. God never vouch-  safed any appendage whatever to a portion of the human race. All subsequent additions and accretions, however full of pretention, or however guarded by sanctimonious rites, were of Satan's own contriving. Hence, they could never, by any possibility, con-  tain a sipgle feather's weight of worth, of dignity, or of real authority; but were designed, each and all, to strengthen the dynasty of Satan, and to forward some infernal interest in the human soul. All titles worn, or claims set up,. on account of his ancestral  merit, or whatever extrinsic circumstance, grew with  success, solely by the cunning and arch wickedness  of Satan and his sleepless emissaries.    ANGELIC AID.       293 Numerous were the Princes of Evil which oppo- sed my course. But the most formidable of them all was IGNORANCE. Having no armor of my own with which to assail that Fiend, I was compelled to wait for the triumph of EDUCATION, who was ap- pointed by the great Overruler, and provided with appropriate arms for that purpose. The time con- sumed, in securing this conquest against IGNORANCE, was much protracted, on account of the combined forces which OPPRESSION and SUPERSTITION contri- buted to his aid. On the other ha d, however, the Angel of IN- VENTION came to t/e relief of EDUCATION. With a weapon, named tie Art of Printing, he gave the Demon-such a thrust as brought him reeling to the ground; and sent a thrill of terror to the very center of Hell. EDUCATION followed, with her gentle but persevering strokes, which she plied from age to age, until the Demon's power was pretty well subdued. Then commenced the great struggle, which, century after century, I waged against the Demon of OPPRESSION. I had gained several partial successes, in the Eastern Hemisphere;-had given man a taste of my /   294   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LIBERTY.  nectarian delicacies, which inspired him with a burnm- ing and unquenchable thirst for more. But my first permanent triumph-that one which opened the way to others and others, until OPPRESSION, with his iron-armed and flint-hearted legions, was completely and effectually subdued-was destined to be achieved in the Western Hemisp7ere. Wearied and discouraged with my long and boot- less struggle in the Earth, I was about to take my everlasting departure to more congenial worlds;  when the ETERNAL KING, by His inscrutable Pro- vidences; collected-upon the new continent, called  America-which, as it appeared, He had reserved  through the Dark Ages, to be the theater of my grand Triumph-collected there the germs of a mighty Nation, to be composed of the healthiest blood, and all the elements most favorable to my success.  Then and there renewed I the struggle, hope-  fully, and GOD ALMGHTY prospered my cause. He   pointed me to the sainted WASHNGTON, as my chosen  Leader, who faithfully and most gloriously led my armies to victory; and then established my domin- 1 ion upon a broad and enduring basis.    -A FALSE FRIEND.      295 Over and over again, by various artifices, did the Demon of OPPRESSION most desperately undertake to wrest from my grasp this glorious prize; and once or twice had I almost given it up for lost. But ever, at the gloomiest moment, some Providential aid was furnished me, by which I was enabled to drive back the Powers of Darkness, to establish my authority still nmore firmly in. the land, to extend my dominion wider and wider, and to wave my ban- ner more and more proudly over the children of men. Once, in particular, the Demon transformed him- self into an Angel of Light; and through the decep- tion of his stolen garb, my Cause was brought to the very verge of ruin. He presented himself in my presence, as a messenger sent from the SUPREME THRONE, with advices, for the conduct of my cam- paign against the Infernal Powers. At first, unsuspicious, I received him with ex- cessive delight, glad of the much needed instruction which I promised myself from his lips. He told me,falsely, 'That our Common Lord and Master had directed,-That, as the Wicked One had already gained such alarming advantages   296   SPEECH OF TIIE ANGEL LIBERTY. over us, and the prospect of our ultimate overthrow was becoming so very imminent, I might, as a mea- sure of prudence, deem it advisable to make a corm-n promise with the Enemy :--That I might retain-to  myself the form of Government, the names of Re-  public, Republican Institutions, the Universal Suf-, frage, the Trial by Jury, the Habeas Corpus, and  4 a few other of the most euphonious trifles connected  with my administration; and might, if deemed ex-  X pedient, yield the main substance of my prerogative, and all the treasures flowing from its full enjoyment,  to the Fiend of OPPRESSION :-That the Demons of AVARICE and AMBITION were combined with OP-    % PRESSION, and together, they formed an alliance of strength which I could not reasonably hope to re-   sist :-That, although my triumph had been wide- spread and brilliant, upon the surfaces it was, after  all, mostly superficial :-That the Enemy had mi- I: ners, and secret, infernal machines, against which I possessed no adequate means of resistance :--That,  at all events, whatever my  final destiny in the Earth might be, the Human Race was, as yet, alto- gether unprepared to give me their undivided hearts, and yield themselves up to my exclusive guidance.'   A NARROW ESCAPE.       297   .. I had listened to this pretended message with      ! the most profound astonishment and alarm. It con- tained so much apparent reason, and the source from which it had emanated seemed to be so unquestion- able, that in the deepest sadness of heart, I had nearly consented to accept the proposition, and en- ter upon the indicated compromise. But at the critical moment, while hope was yet     ', trembling in the balance, the Angel PRUDENCE whispered in my ear, ' That a measure of such       ! grave import demanded the utmost caution as well as the profoundest deliberation.'  She counselled me to leave the question of Compromise, for a time, un- . settled ;-to review my positions ; to estimate my      i resources,-and to ascertain, as far as practicable, the  : strength and resources of the Enemy. Accordingly, I dismissed my supposed megsen- ger, with much gratitude and good will; intimating     , to him, That the subject matter of his message should receive the prompt and careful consideration which it deserved.                    ! Upon this saying, he turned away to depart.- But just as hewas in the act of turning, I caught, with my eye, a most terrific expression upon his       ':{ '      '             :}10   298   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LIBERTY. countenance, indicative of emotions all unfamiliar to me, except in the ranks of the Enemy. And as my swift eye followed him in the' distance, I ob- served that his course was not direct, toward the heavenly Throne, but varied and unstable,-gradu-  ally changing to a point downward.  Then I fancied that I saw his form and his appearance changing, also; assuming a greyish or sombre aspect, and becoming hateful to the sight. And finally, as he dwindled away in my eye to a mere point, instead of a point of sparkling radiance, it was jet black. Then I lifted up my heart in thanksgiving to God, both for my narrow escape from the snare which had been spread for me, and for the new ground of hope, with which so desperate a resort on the part of the enemy had furnished me. Upon reviewing my ground, I now discovered, at every step, more and more occasion for encourage- ment. My domain lay upon an isolated Continent, stretching from Ocean to Ocean,-beyond all danger from external attack by the legions of Oppression. It was only from their indirect, internal machina- tions, conceived and wrought in darkness, and I  '-   AUXILIARIES TO LIBERTY.    299 strategical maneuvers, executed under false col- ors, conspiring with the marvellously impressible material of the human heart, that I could discover any serious danger. Then most indisputably, my domain embraced that very Nation of people which, by their physical constitution, as well as by their high degree of mental culture, were the best adapted of any in the Earth, to abide by me as their controlling genius. The Angel of INVENTION had preceded me with the Art of Printing, the Mariner's Compass, and the Practicability of Steam. She accompanied me with the Magnetic Telegraph, the Application of Steam to the Railway, and innumerable devices, in a greater or less degree, promotive of my success. The Angel of EDUCATION, also, had done me in- dispensable service. Through her means, the masses of the people were enlightened, beyond all prece- dent; not only in the peculiar advantages flowing from my administration, and in the evil character and cruel government of PRINCE OPPRESSION, but also in general and scientific knowledge. With such helps as these, with such a people, and upon such a field, I might have gained an easy   300   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LIBERTY. triumph against the Demon of OPPRESSION, had not that gigantic Fiend been surrounded by adherents equally numerous, equally faithful, and equally sagacious. 1st. There was the Prince of SELFISHNESS. It was his exclusive office to give the lie to my most cherished and vital maxims; to mar, and, if possi- ble, to demolish the glorious Temple which I had erected for the repose of my children; to instil poison at-the root of the tree which I had planted for the healing of the Nations. The cardinal truth, That all men are created with equal rights---he denied, and by the veriest sophistry, argued, to the conviction of multitudes, That Nature never entitled all men to stand upon the same political level ;---That as some are endow- ed with an aptitude to rule, and others with a facility of obedience ; some with a tongue to teach, and others with a willing hand and heart to labor; some with ambition towering on high, and others who prefer humiliation rather than exaltation :---so each man is both permitted and required, by his absolute and resistless destiny, to seek, by whatever means and at whatsoever expense, any position, upon   OBSTACLES TO LIBERTY.     301 the social and political scale, for which he may dis- cover in himself an affinity or relish ;-That the general good, so much eulogized by students and politicians, is but an ignusfatuus, for the amusement of Fanatics-an enchanted cloak, for the wondrous convenience of Demagogues,-a fine theme for Poetry and Elocution, well adapted for abstract dis- quisition-but wholly unsuitable to constitute the basis of a sound, practical philosophy. These and other teachings of- the Demon Self- ishneess, equally false, greatlyincreased the difficulties which I had to overcome, before I could regard my- self master of the field, or my position in the Earth secure." I observed in my vision, that, at, this point, "BERTY made a momentary pause in her narrative, when MCHAEL interrogated her, thus : "Sweet LIBERTY : Where, in thy moment of need, was thy sister TRUTH? Did she ever fail thee, at thy right hand, with her mild and heavenly light, to dispel the thick darkness of FALSEHOOD, and the false glimmerings of SOPHSTRY?" The Angel LIBERTY replied:   302   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LIBERTY. ( O MCHAEL: My sister TRUTE was ever ready - with her lamp, to dispel the mischievous vapors with which ERROR and SOPHSTRY, obedient to the man- date of our Imperial Enemy, had inundated the land. And without -her mild radiance constantly beaming down upon my footsteps, through that fearful struggle, never had my banner been inscribed with Victory; and to-day had the' human nations been overwhelmed in the deepest gloom. Moreover, the Princes of AVARICE and AMBITION possessed some secret magic, of wondrous potency, by which they contrived, so to pervert the moral vision of their subjects, that the light of TRUTH, SO clear, so brilliant, and so beautiful to others, gave all objects which these infernal magicians displayed to their view, an unnatural color, a distorted form, or a false position. 2d. Another of the infernal Powers who exerted a wide and most pernicious influence against me, was that gigantic monster, the Prince of AVARICE. As well in the most refined and educated circles, as in the most ignorant and degraded, this gaunt and voracious Demon was ever present, insinuating his poisonous counsels into the hearts of men. The '=    FAITH IN GOD.        303 lights of- REASON and TRUTH were sadly dimmed and perverted by his illusive arts. LOVE and PEACE and JUSTICE and myself, were long held in shameful subserviency through his matchless subtlety and Protean hypocrisy. Centuries ago had my victory in the earth been complete, and Man had stood upon the triumphant eminence which he now occupies, had only this De- mon been securely chained. It was only through his subjugation, first, that this glorious consummation was achieved, at last. Through a long series of generations, I waited and labored among the Nations, with no manner of encouragement, but an immortal faith in JEHOVAH. I could not perceive, with my finite vision, how, amidst the apparent retrogression of the celestial phalanx, and the increasing barriers to human pro- gress, erected by the powers of Darkness, that the Infinite -ifnd was so directing and overruling His instrumentalities, in Heaven above, and also in the fathomless deeps of Hell, that His Own glory should be best vindicated, and Man, His favorite and unfor- tunate offspring, be finally raised to the delectable heights of Paradise.   304   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL LIBERTY. Such, however, was the magnitude of the work; so momentous the interests involved; so precious to the heart of the Heavenly King were his rebel sub- jects in the Earth; so wide and deep the defection which had been wrought through the agency of the Arch Enemy ; that a period of time widely protract- ed, a circle of instrumentalities 'broader than the Angelic ken, and a Wisdom and Power to direct them, only wielded by the INFINITE MND, were re- quisite to achieve the Restoration of Man, and the full triumph of LIBERTY. Great Michael, I have done." Now, I beheld, that as soon as the voice of LIB- ERTY was still, the Angel of REASON, who in majesty and greatness, seemed in nowise inferior to the Great Michael himself, came forward with an air and tone of dignity and conscious power, unrivalled by any of the other Angelic speakers. I observed that the Angel REASON commanded an extraordinary degree of respect and even veneration, both from the Angels, all, and from the Archangel himself He spake as follows:   THE MSSION OF REASON.     305 SPEECH  OF THE ANGEL REASON. licliael: At the creation of Man, I was inaugurated by the HGHEST, as his appropriate and absolute Sov- ereign. I was commissioned to lead him, to restrain him, to guide him, and to protect him, in every time and place. Him, God commanded to accept me, as his proper and supreme dictator, and through all the labyrinths of life, in all the periods of dura- tion, never to disregard my voice-never to recog- nize any rivalship of my authority. It was my exalted mission, to conduct him along the highway and through every lane of life, despite the eager and threatening foes and the false guides, which thronged his passage, safely to the gate of Paradise-where all dangers and all enemies are eternally excluded. I was likewise commissioned, even in such acceptation as I minister evermore to the felicity and glory of Paradise, and to all the faithful in God's intelligent Universe, to furnish to Man, during his earthly and probationary career, ileasurable and joyful exercises, and heavenly fore- leadjyuleecss   306   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL REASON. tastes, suitable to his condition, and unconnected i with all sorrow, grief, and pain. But God, in His hidden but all-harmonious plans, permitted Satan, with his Demons of Excess and All Evil, to enter the lovely Earth, and to wrest from me, the sceptre which had been confided to    my hand.  Throughout the entire history of Satan's reign,  upon which I was but too seldom able to exert much  actual restraint, few, however, were the instances in which the human character was so much degraded  as openly to confess allegiance to the infernal   j Dynasty, or formally, to repudiate my authority.- - Strangely enough, in theory, I was held by mankind in admiration, almost to idolatry; whilst in prac- tice, I was most shamefully disregarded and even persecuted. The Demon, FASHON, was the accepted, tyrant of the great masses of Men. And under his rule, the various other Princes of Evil wrought out their baleful purposes, with wonderful facility. It re- quired the possession of a liberal degree of that quality, called Courage-which quality, generally, entered but too sparingly into the nature of Man- -   EARL Y EDUCATION.      307 to stand out in firm opposition to this all-popular Tyrant. His fiat would drive most men-even while they professed to submit to my authority-to the most childish, and even vicious, absurdities-absurd- ities, which, had they not been dictated by FASHqN, had been scouted from the civilized world, as beneath human tolerance-and how much more, as unworthy the adoption of the enlightened and the virtuous. The Demons of the -Appetites and the Passions, generally combined, and generally succeeded, to keep me in a subordinate station. But whenever I gained the ascendency over them, I never failed to ameliorate, to elevate, and to dignify, the human character, and to secure the happiness and well- being of the race. In one most essential particular of human gov- ernment, I but very seldom gained my point; be- cause the Satanic Powers, well understanding its importance, were always careful to guard it with a double sentry. I mean the management of the young. This, in fact, was the great key to the Uni- versal Sovereignty of the world ; and without it, I discovered at an early date, that my cause would suffer incalculable disadvantage.   308   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL REASON. The Devils, small and large, applied themselves, with an activity and perseverance, worthy of imita- tion, not only to preclude from the conduct of men, all virtuous and holy influences, but so impatient were they to secure their victims against all possible chances of reformation, as to occupy and crowd the mind, during its nascent stages, even to precocity, with the germs of evil. As the parental influence was unbounded, so it was essential in the purposes of Satan, that this in- fluence should either be lulled into harmless neutral- ity, or secured, as a direct instrument, in the diabol- ical work. In theory, it could hardly be supposed that any intellectual being, of however low a grade, would voluntarily permit himself to be made the agent of ruin, to the chief objects of his love, either in a posi- tive or negative sense. But in real life, this was quite frequently the case. Not only the lowest orders of mankind, but those also in whom many of the virtues predominated, were frequently, in this respect, the efficient ministers of Satan ; being the chief agents in the ruin of their own offspring. The Princes of Evil beclouded their mental vision with a mist, nar- .    .             .  k   THE GREAT EVIL.       309 cotized their sensibilities, and paralyzed their moral energies. During that period of existence bounded by its first twelve years-when, as all men, from their own experience, could not fail to understand, the ruling principles of the immortal mind for good or evil, were for the most part, indelibly stamped upon it- when by an enlightened and propitious guardianship, and discipline, the world, in a few generations, might have been gloriously regenerated, physically, morally and intellectually--when the Angels of TRUTH, of LovE, of JUSTICE, and of all the Virtues, should have been secured in their harmonious and perpetual do- minion--ah, then it was, that the thirsty and fertile soil of the heart and mind was abandoned to the oc- cupation of such influences as might chance to fall upon it. And it may well be supposed, that Satan would not neglect so desirable an opportunity to plant the seeds of error, of vice, and of all Evil. The proper cultivation of the young, as a general practice, would have secured to mankind the benign purposes of Heaven, in spite of any measures which fiendish ingenuity might possibly have invented.- But unfortunately, it was not a general practice.--   310   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL REASON. On the contrary it was extremely rare. Seldom, in- deed, was the early training of the human race di- rected by wise counsels, or conducted by judicious tutors. The general disinclination of men to attend to such duties, as promised their reward only in the distant future ;-the natural desire to favor the in- clination of their offspring, whom they tenderly loved; the vain hope and puerile belief, that such uncommon loveliness as that, which they flattered themselves appertained to their own children, could never be seduced into vice-that their children were exceptions to that general rule which demanded a severe restraint upon the childish nature, to insure a virtuous and correct life-these and other influences were employed, by the Princes of Evil, to defeat the purposes of Heaven. The children of all men, during the forming periods of life, by a generally approved Law, found- ed upon the conceded rights of the social compact, SHOULD have been subjected to a strict and judicious discipline, aside from, and irrespective of, the Pa- rental Authority. The training of the infant mind should have   EDUCATION BY LAW.        3" been considered, as it really was, the most moment- ous of all human undertakings--the most sacred of all human duties. The doctrine,-that all men were created with equal rights,-should not have been confined to theory. If society had a right to proclaim such a doctrine, it must also have possessed the right to enforce it. If all men were created with equal rights, then surely, the most valuable right of all- the right to receive a suitable and timely education- should have been secured to all, as paramount to all other considerations. The right to educate all children, as a public social measure, once admitted, the duty must have followed inevitably. The imnportance of this duty must have towered aloft, leaving far below it nearly all others upon the social and political scale. If it were a general rule, and a rule so general that the exceptions could never have seriously mar- red the harmony of its operations-that a good, thorough, and timely education, would, as a nfatural consequence, have secured a correct and wholesome life--it followed, necessarily, that if'such an educa- tion, had been furnished to all the members of ,   312   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL REASON.  Society, then Society, in the aggregate, must have been purged, by the universal adoption of this rule,  i of most of the evils by which it was afflicted. The adoption of this rule would have been free  t ^ from all those incidental evils, which not unfrequent-  ly attended the adoption of new measures, however beneficient in themselves.               : The only objection which was ever offered aglinst it as a Law of the Land, was the Natural Parental  Auth7ority.  Under this objection it was urged, ' that no earth- ly power, whatever, besides the one power of society, to protect itself against crime, could ever be right- fullyinterposed to supersede this Parental Authority, which is above all earthly power.' In answer to this objection, it was claimed, that  the law in question might be adopted upon the basis of the very principle admitted by the objector,--the principle, that Society had a right to protect itself against the Culprit. For it is equally legitimate, and "s/iee as beneficent, to legislate for the prevention as for the punishment of crime. It might have been further urged in favor of such a law, 'that it reqluired no real sacrifice from any   THE DUTY OF MAN.       313 pary ; but only contemplated the good of society, and that, through the welfare of the individual sub- ject. Not only was my authority essential to the recla- mation of mankind in their early mental education, but also in the proper development of their physical nature, upon which the mental character was greatly dependent. Herein also was my authority generally disregarded. The immediate pleasure of sensual gratification, however momentary, had more influence upon the conduct of most men, than its remote consequences, however sad and revolting. Had the full punishment of sin invariably attended the act of its commission, not only had the redemption of the race been achieved, with infinitely less difficulty, but no necessity for its redemption had ever existed at all. Man had never disobeyed his Maker. But Infinite Wisdom ordained that man, to se- cure happiness, suitable to his capacity and his de- sires, should study the operation of naturalLaws; and listen to my voice ; and discipline his nature by the lessons which I taught ; and trace and examine and weigh each link, in the chain of causes and effects,   314   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL REASON. connecting all the past and the future of his exis- tence.  The consequences of disobedience were very terri- ble,-extending through a long line of posterity, and sometimes terminating in the extinction of entire fam- ilies. The demon of DISEASE was ever at hand, with his vials of poison, to introduce it, by the most artful and insidious appliances, at every unguarded point of the physical organization. And although the Angel HEALTH, in pity, furnished many antidotes, by which its virulence was sometimes overcome, still, its evil effects could never be entirely eradicated from the system nor from the race. In this manner it was, that an infinite number of ills had been fastened upon the human family.- Fever, with its various progeny of sufferings; pro- tean Scrofula, weaving itself through every mortal tissue-here boldly assuming the form of ghastly Consumption, there of the cruel theumatism- -now loading 'the human form Divine' with dreadful tumors and eruptions, then gnawing it away, slowly but surely, with the tooth. of the remorseless Cancer; Contagion and Malaria, still as the falling dew, and supple as electricity, unperceived, decomposing the   PROVIDENTIAL AID.      315 vital connections, or corrupting the springs of life ;- these and various other agencies did the Demo o Disease employ, to sap the human constitution, End instil into the soul many deteriorating and destruc- tive forces, which combined, at once, to destroy my influence, and to overwhelm humanity with a flood of misery.  The effect of disobedience, thus, m its turn, operated as the cause of disobedienp  And so eventually, would the Powers below Bave been en' abled to reduce the entire human race to a state of barbarism, and even of cannibalism^ and finally, al- together to have extinguished it upon the face of the Earthy had not the All-seeing Creator provided against that fatal catastrophe, by the interference of His providential hand, and the combined and gentle appliances of the ever watchful angels of His appointment. His first important conquest was gained by the Angels of GENIUS and EDUCATION over the Demons of IGNORANCE and SUPERSTITION; by which KNOW- "EDGE was promoted to high authority, and the way opened for other conquests. The Demon of INTEMPERANCE also, through the   316   SPEECH OF THE ANGEL REASON. combined influence of EDUCATION, PHLOSOPHY and TRUTH, was gradually driven back and overpowered ; and finally was forced to yield his ground to the Angel TEMPERANCE; who subsequently requited the assistance, through which she had been promo- ted, by performing the most valuable services, throughout all the ensuing struggle, upon the side of Holiness and of God. Next, the giant monster OPPRESSION was attack- ed, by the Angels of TRUTH, of ETERNAL JUSTICE, of PATRIOTISM, and of PHLANTHROPY. Far ex- tended and desperate was the struggle, and for cen- turies, the clouds of doubt and fear hung heavily over the contest, darkening all the field.- But the Angels triumphed, the Demon was dethroned, and "BERTY was crowned Queen of the Nations. Then came the struggle against WAR. The Angel PHLANTHROPY projected and urged on this expedition, and TRUTH, and LIBERTY, and LOVE, conducted it. WAR was finally deposed, and PEACE was exalted to universal dominion in the Earth. The severest conflict of all, however, was with AVARICE. For through this Mighty Fiend, SATAN had been-- enabled -to- hold his, power in the: Earth;   THE HOLY BIBLE,      317 and it was. also upon his skill and deep subtlety, that BEELZEBUB greatly relied, to reinstate his Princes, which had already been disarmed. PATRI- OTISM made the first assault, and LIBER1TY, and, TRUTH, and JUSTICE, and in fact nearly all the Angel Chiefs, were active, in prosecuting the, war against this mighty and tenacious Demon, to a final and unconditional victory. In all these various and protracted struggles, my counsel was frequently sought, and my authority, when invoked, was final. But had my authority and counsel been more frequently invoked, our cause had met with fewel' reverses, and our trium- phant career had been even more brilliant. But above all, and coincident with my authority, was that Divine Book-the HOLY BIBLE. In that Book, God had revealed His will to mankind. And as the Angels, one after another, overthrew the Princes of Darkness, its pages grew brighter and brighter in'the eyes of Men. TRUTH. gained more and more upon their hearts, and LOVE and CHRISTI- ANITY have at length risen to Universal ascendency." Whilst the Angel REASON, in the course of my   318       A MESSAGE. vision, was thus pursuing his narrative, my eye caught another Angel of unusual brightness, enter- ing the far-off Portal of the West. Swift as a sun- beam, he approached into the presence of Michael- the speaker, upon his arrival, suspending his dis- course. The newly arrived, addressing the Archangel, spake and said: All honor, praise, and thanksgiving to God, forever and ever. I come, most excellent MCHAEL, to announce the entire recovery of the Earth, the utter demolition of the Legions of Hell, and their final departure, in the ritmost confusion, to their infernal home. We pursued them, in their inglo- rious retreat, to the yawning mouth of Tophet, and saw them enter. There Satan and Beelzebub, with their numberless followers, are now involved in pro- found debate, upon the great questions of their future policy; projecting new modes of attack, by which to regain, if possible, their earthly dominions. Let the KING of HEAVEN, Himself, command the defence; and let the ablest of the Angelic Chief- tains be appointed to the charge; that when the grand assault shall be made, a final blow may be {   ANOTHER MESSAGE.      319 given to SATAN'S power upon that ancient and war- worn field. Ten weeks of centuries ago this day the subtle Fiend achieved his first conquest over man ;-a con- quest which made the Universe tremble, leaving only the Eternal Throne unshaken. This day let him be made to feel that a victory against the KING of HEA- VEN is, in its final consequences, even more dreadful than defeat." Whilst this messenger was yet speaking, behold another, swiftly entering at the Eastern Portal, (the portal of Light) presented himself also in the presence of Michael and thus proclaimed his message: "Great Michael: The FATHER of LIGHTS, with His omniscient eye, beholdeth the overthrow of SA- TAN in the Earth, and the glorious victory of His own faithful children, over that mighty and inveterate Chief. He seeth all the discomfited armies, even now, assembled together in their infernal home, con- sulting as anciently, when first they fell from these blissful heights, how most effectually to mar the beauty of His works and disturb the harmony of his plans. It is no longer the purpose of our KING to permit His proud and boasting Enemy to range, at   320     MCHAEL'S COMMSSION. will, the boundless regions of space, infecting all worlds with the poison of Sin, and afflicting them with the scourge of Death. The annals of his earthly career will stand upon the pages of Eternity, as perpetual testimony of his colossal power and his unbounded depravity,--an abundant confirmation of his enormous guilt,-an eternal vindication of the justice of his doom. MCHAEL, make haste, (thus commandeth the KING ALMGHTY,) go forth, swifter than Light, even before the grand Convocation of the Infernal Powers shall be dissolved. Take with thee a Legion of strong Angels. Fear not;--in the far off deeps of un- created night my presence shall surround the9.- Close, with thy Mighty arm, the gate of Hell, and bar it with bars of Adamant,-never never, never- more to be broken." Instantly, then, the scene changed. A partial dimness overspread all the Land of Paradise, as though a veil had suddenly intervened, to obscure the source of Light. A shade of solemnity rested upon every countenance, and an awful silence reign- ed, for a short space, throughout all the regions of y                     , -    THE END.        321 bliss-as Michael arranged his troops in military order, and proceeded to depart at the Western Portal, to execute the command of the ALMGHTY and seal the eternal doom of the Unfaithful. END OF VISION FOURTH.    
         
       
   
