
    ----CITATION----
        Ridge, John Rollin, (1827-1867). The Life and Adventures of Joaquin Murieta, the Celebrated California Bandit .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7584
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The life and adventures of Joaquin Murieta, the celebrated California bandit 
            
               -I~O

'l

THE CALIFORNIA jIGf4W4YMEN.

SAN FRANCISCO:

OF

AND

Iz/

K

.01-

7Lr


THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

-OF---

JO.AQU-IN,, MURI.ETA-
TIIF  JL4 ,Vuit A iIO~A BNI

9

 I

f

O

'.1

:4

THIRD EDITION.

REVISED, AND ENLARGED BY THE AUTHOR,
THE LATE
JOIN R. RIDGE.

SAN; FRANCISCO
FRED'K MAcCRELLISH &amp; CO., PUBLISHERS.

-osy". W110,
JI
my
CIL
tool,


HAVARD COLLEj URI
6abared according to Act of Congress in tba yen ISM, by 1'.MACCUw&amp;M &amp; Co., in
Oce of the District Counof the United S otr for the DbCct of C ,in a. i

'

0

The undersigned, having purchased the copyright of the "Life and Adventures of
Joaquin Murieta," deem it proper to preface this publication of this latest edition
by some brief mention of the lamented author, JoHN R. RIDGE, who was a Chero-
kee Indian. His Indian name was Chee-squa-tah-lo-uee, which, being interpreted
into English, is "Yellow Bird," and this name, which the reader will perceive is not
a fictitious signature, was that adopted by Mr. Ridge in the title page of most of his
works. The father of Yellow Bird was' a Chief, his mother a white woman, a na-
tive of Connebticut, in which State she married the young Chief, he being at the
time at the institution of Cornwall, where he had just finished his English educa.
tion. When Yellow Bird was ten years of age his father was assassinated, at the
instigation of a rival Chief, and his mother fled with her children from the Indian
territory. Yellow Bird was sent to school in Massachusetts. At the age of seven,
teen he returned to the Cherokee Nation, which had been ever since his father's
death the scene of fierce contentions between rival factions. In these contests,.
which were bloody, the young man niingled, with varied fortune, until the age of
twenty-three, when, his patrimony being wasted in the struggle and the scale turn.
ing against him, the power of his father's enemies being too firmly secured to be
shaken without a strong military force with which to operate against them, and he
being himself hunted from pillar to post by the stronger party, he turned his steps
once more to California. Doubtless he cherished still some plrn for obtaining what
he considered his -just rights in the Cherokee Nation, but what they are none now
can tell. His sudden death, while he was yet in the full vigor of manhood, took
him away from many unfinished and long-cherished plans. In California his career
was a literary and political one, and many of his poems will always remain as
an enduring portion of American literature. , Before. his death he had prepared a
revised edition of his story of Joaquin Murieta, to which he had added much new
and heretofore unpublished material. The manuscript has been purchased by the
undersigned. and with the following preface, written by the author for this -edition,
the narrative Is laid before the public.
FEE .MACCEELMsH     C.
AUTHOR'S PREFACE TO THE PRESENT EDITION.
The continued and steady demand for the "Life and Adventures of Joaquin Mu-
rieta" induces the author to issue a third edition, revised and enlarged, according to
the scope of additional facts, the knowledge of which has been acquired since the
publication of preceding editions. This would seem to be the more necessary, as a
matter of justice both to the author and the public, inasmuch as a spurious edition
has been foisted -apon unsuspecting publishers and by them circulated, to the in-
fringement of the 'author's copyright and the damage of his literary credit-the
spurious work, with its crude interpolations, fictitious additions and imperfectly din-
guised distortions of the author's phraseology, being by many persons confounded
with the original performance.

t

PUBLISHERS' PREFACE.

I


4I

'1
I
-f
I

I

I

mts 1YTHOOD, EARLY EDUCATION AND
PERSONAL   APPEARANCE-HIS AC-
QUAINTANCE WITH AMERICANS IN
MEXICO-HiS WINNING OF THE BEAU-
TIFUL ROSITA-HIS ARRIVAL IN CALI-
FORNIA-HIS HONEST OCCUPATION AS
A MINER-HIS DOMICIL INTRUDED
UPON BY LAWLESS NEN-THEIR OUT-
BAGES UPON HIM AND, HIS MISTRESS
-HIS REMOVAL TO A NEW LOCALITY-
NEW INTRUSIONS AND OPPRESSIONS.
Sitting down, as Inow do, to give to
the public such events of the life of Joa-
quin Murieta as have come into my pos-
session, I am moved by no desire to ad-
minister to any depraved taste for the
dark and horrible inhuman action, but
rather by a wish to contribute my mite
to those materials out of which the early
history of California shall be composed.
Aside from the interest naturally excited
by the career of a man so remarkable in
the annals of crime-for in deeds of dar-
ing and blood he has never been exceed-
ed by any of the renowned robbers of the
Old or New World who have preceded
him-his character is well worth the
scrutiny of the intelligent reader as being
a product of the social and moral condi-
tion of the country in which he lived,
while his individual record becomes a
part of the most valuable, because it is a
part of the earliest history of the State.
We must here premise that there ex-
.isted another Joaquin, contemporaneous-

A

A,

ly with the subject of this narrative, who
bore the several titles of O'Comorenia,
Valenzuela, Botellier and Carillo. His
true surname was Valenzuela, and he
was a distinguished subordinate of Joa-
quin Murieta. He used, however, by
many persons to be mistaken, for his
chief ; and certain individuals who knew
him simply as "Joaquin, " and who saw
him after the announcement of Murieta's
death, insisted with great pertinacity
that the terrible bandit was still alive.
Joaquin Murieta was' a Mexican of
good blood, borne in the province of 86-
nora, of respectable parents, ,and edu-
cated to a degree sufficient for the coin-
mon purposes of life in the schools of his
native country. While growing up, he
was remarkable for a very mild and
peaceable disposition, and gave no sign
of that indomitable and daring spirit
which  afterwards characterized him.
Those who knew him in his school-boy
days speak affectionately of his generous
and noble nature at that period of his
life, and can scarcely credit the fact, that
the renowned and bloody bandit of Cali-
fornia was one and the same being.
The first considerable interruption in
the general smooth current, of his exist-
ence, occurred in the latter portion of his
seventeenth year. Near the rancho of,
his father resided a "packer," one Feliz,
who, as ugly as sm itself, had a daughter
named Rosita. Her mother was dead,
and she, although but sixteen, was bur-
dened with the responsibility of a hovse-

"

k

oAQUIN MURIETA.

dIAPTER I.

:4

I

I


I

6              JOAQtJIN ifURTETA.

keeper in their simple home, for he
father and a1 younger brother, whose
name will hereafter occasionally oc
cur in the progress of this narration
Rosita, though in humble circumstances
was of Castilian descent, and showed he
superior origin in the' native royalty o
her look and general dignity of her bear
ing. Yet she was of that voluptuous
order to which so many of the dark-eyed
daughters of Spain belong, and the ric
blood of her race mounted to cheeks, lips
and eyes. i Her father doted upon and
was proud of her, andit was his greatest
happiness, on returning from occasional
packing expeditions through the moun-
tains of Sonora (he was simply employed
by a more wealthy individual) to receive
the gentle ministries of his gay ~and
smiling daughter: Joaquin having noth-
ing to do but ride hisfather's horses, and
give a general superintendence to the
herding of stock upon the rancho, was
frequently a transient caller at the cabin
of Feliz, more particularly when the old
man was absent, making excuses for a
drink ofwater or somesuch matter, and
prolonging-his stay for the purpose of
an -agreeable chit-chat with the by no
means backward damsel. She had read
of bright and handsome lovers, in the
stray romances of the day, and well in-
terpreted, no doubt, the mutual emotions
of loving hearts. Indeed Nature herself
is a sufficient instructor, without the aid
of books, where tropic fire is in the veins,
and slowing health runs hand in hand
with the imagination. It was no wonder,
then, that the youthful Joaquin and the
precocious and blooming Rosita, in the
absence, on each side, of all other like
objects of attraction, should begin to feel
the preserce of each other as a necessity.
They loved- warmly and passionately.
The packer being absent more than half
the time,' there. was every opportunity
for the youthful pair to meet, and their
intercourse was, with the exception of
the occasional intrusion of her brother
Reyes, a mere boy, absolutely without

or restraint. Rosita was one of those
e  beings who yield all for love, and, ere,
C- she tobk time to consider of her duties to
n. society, to herself, or to her father,t she
s, found herself in the situation of a mere
r  mistress to Joaquin. Old Felia broke in
f  at last, upon their felicity,-by a chance
-  discovery, Coming home one day from,
s  a protracted tour in the mountains, he
d  found no one in the cabin but his son
Reyes,' who told him that Rosita and
s  Joaquin had gone out together on the
path leading up the'little stream-that
t  ran past the dwelling. Following p
the path indicated, the old man came
upon the, pair, in a position,' as  yron
has it in the most diabolical ofhIris
works, "loving, natural and Greek."n
1 His rage knew no bounds, but Joaquin
did not tarry for its effects. On the con-
trary, he fled precipitately from  'the
scene. Whether he showed a piiper
regard for the fair Rosita in so doing, it
is not our province to discuss. All.We
have to do is to state what occurred,
and leave moral discrepancies to be har.
monized as they best may. At any'rate,
the loving girl never blamed him for
his conduct, for she took the earliest op-
-portunity of a moonlight night, to seek
him-at his father's rancho, and throw
herself into his arms.
About this time, Joaquin had received
a letter from a half brother of his, who
had been a short time  in California, ad-
vising him by all means to hasten to
that region of romantic adventure and
golden reward. He was not long in Pre,
paring for the trip,  Mounted upon-a
valuable horse, with his mistress by his
side upon another, and with a couple of
packed mules before hini, laden, with,
provisions and necessaries, he started for
the fields of gold. ~His journey was at.
tended with no serious difficulties, and
the trip was made with expedition.
The first that we hear of him in the
Golden State is that in the spring of 1850,
he is engaged in the honest occupation
of a miner in the Stanislaus placers, then

I

rf
ti
o
a
n
c
i'
e
t
a

JOAQUIN MURIET4.
eckoned among the richest portions of  One pleasant e     sJoqinwa
aemines.. He was then eighteen years  sittingAn his dooway,  er a
f age, a lttle over the medium height, work, gazing forth  n'othe a
lendexily btgracefuly built, and active  waters of thetapilaus  ver
s a young tiger.  His complexion was tending to the nrue eal oie
either very dark nor very light, but who was singling a dre  lawes fe
lear and brilliant, auyd his countenance  native land, a bad c the
s.pronouneed tp have been at that time, above alluded to approached the h e
xceedingly .handgpme and attractive. and accostedits ownerain a very un ut-a
Hislarge black eyeskindling withthe en- ing and supercilious manner, asking
husiasm of his earnest nature; his firm  by what means hea d-d  ca
-nd wellformed mouth, his well-shaped  sued to be work*g a minmig claimon.
head, from which the long, glossy black  American ground. Joaquinwho pke
haWIhung down over his shoulders, his  very good English, having ofte  met
lery voice, full of generous utterance, with Americans in Sonorareplied'agt,
and the frank and.cordial manner which  under the treatyOf Guadalupe ldalgo,
distinguished him, made him beloved by  he had a right to become a citizen ofh
aIl with whom he came in contact. He  United States, and that as euch he con-
had the confidence and respect of the- sidered himself,
whilecommunity-around him, and was    "Well, sir," said one of the party, "wO
fast amassing a fortune in his rich Miing  allownoMexicans to work inthis region,
clim. 'He had built him a comfortable  and you have got to leave this-laim.e
dining residence,,in which he had domi- As might have been expected, tha
ciled his heart'streasure-the beautiful  young Mexican indignantly remhonstra
girl whom we have described.         ted against such anoutrage. H  had
The country then was full of careless learned to believe thatto beanAmerian-
and desperate men, who bore the -name  was to be the soulof honor andmagnan-
of Americans, but failed to support the  iniity, and he could hardly realize that
honor and the dignity of that title. A feel- such a piece of meanness ad in1ustce
ing was prevalent among this class, of. could be perpetratebeyany port tof
contempt for any and all Mexicans, race whom herhabeenled so highly to
whoin they looked upon as, conquered  respect. His remonstrances only.pro
subjects of the United States, having no  duced additional isult and insolence,
rights which could stand before a .and finally a huge fellow steppedforwar&amp;
haughtier and superior race. They made 'and struck him violently inIhe face. Joa,.
no exceptions. If theproud blood of the  quin, with an ejaculation of rage, spa'
Castilian mounted to the cheek of a  toward his bowieknife whichlay caOthe
partial descendant of the Mexiques, bed near by where ho had carelensy
showing that he- had inherited the old  thrown it on his arrival from w ark, when
chivalrous spirit of his Spanish ancestry, his affrighted mistress, fearing that his
they looked upon it as a saucy presunp- rashness, in the presence of suchan ov
tion in one so inferior to them. The pre. powering force might be fatalto him,
judice of color, the antipathy of races, frantically seized and held him. Atthis
which are always stronger and bitterer moment his assa   agai
with the ignorant and. unlettered, they  and, rudely throwing the yong Womlw
could not overcome, or if they could; aside,Ae  hr 'csd ofdblowd
.would not, because it afforded them a  which soon felled him, bruised adleed-
convenient excuse for their unmanly  ing, to .the floor  Rositaa s   e
cruelty and oppression.              outrage, suddenly seemed traneformd:

(.


-

8

ito a beingof a different nature, andher-
self seizing the knife, she made a venge-
fal thrust at the American.  There was
fury in her eye and vengeance in her
spring, but what could a tender female
accomplish, against such ruffians ? She
was seized by her tender wrists, easily
disarmed, and thrown fainting and help-
less upon the bed. Meantime Joaquin
had been bound hand and foot, by others
of the party, and, lying in that condition
he saw the cherished companion of his
bosom deliberately violated by these
very superior specimens of the much
-vaunted Anglo-Saxon race!
Leaving him in his agony, they gave
him to understand that, if he was found
in that cabin, or upon his claim after the
expiration of the neIt ten days, they
would take his life. The soul of the
young man was from that moment dark-.
ened, and, as he himself related after-
wards, he swore, with clenched hands,
as his mistress unbound him, that he
would live for revenge. She, weeping,
Implored him to live for Jer, as he knew
she only lived for him, and try to forget
iW some other and happier scene the bit-
ter-misery of the present. He was lre-
vtiled upon by her kindness and her
tears, and soon" after the young couple
took their departure for a more northern
portion of the mines.
The next we hear of them, they are
located on a nice little farm on the banks
of a beautiful stream that watered a fer-
tile valley far out in the seclusion of the
mountains of Calaveras. Here the some-
what saddened adventurer deemed that
he might .hope for peace and again be
happy. But it was not so destined.
One day, as le was engaged with axe
and mattock in clearing his ground, sev-
eial-Americans rode up to the fencing of
his little rett-eat, and notified him that
they allowed no infernal Mexidan intrud-
ers, like hin, to own land in that sec-
tion. Joaquin's blood boiled in his veins,
but he answered wildly that the valley
was unoccupied save by himself, that he

acknowledgedallegiance to the Ameri-
can Government, that the treaty of peace
between the United Statesand Mexico
gave him his choice of citizenship either
in California or in Mexico as he liked,
that he had been already driven from,
the mines without any erime or offence
on his part, and allhe now asked was -a
very small patch of ground and the shel.
ter of a humble home for himself and
"wife." He was peremptorily told to
leave, and, we blush to say it, com.
pelled to abandon the spot he had se-
lected and the fruits of his labor.
It is honorable to him to say that his
spirit was still unbroken, nor had the,
iron so far entered his soul as to sear up
the innate sensitiveness to honor and'
right which reigned in his bosom. Twice,
ruined in his honest pursuit of fortune,
he resolved still to labor on with unflinch-
ing- brow  and with that true moral
bravery which throws, its redeeming
light forward upon all his subseqimatly
dark and criminal career. How deep
must have been the anguish of that
young heart, and how strongly rooted
the native honesty of his soul, none can,
know or imagine but they that have been
tried in like manner.
- He bundled up his little moveable
property, and again started forth to
strike once more, like a braveand-
honest man, for fortune and for happi-
ness. He arrived at Murphy's Diggings,
in Calaveras County; in the month of
April, 1850, and went again to mining,
this time- without interruption; but
meeting' with nothing like his former
success, he soon abandoned that 'busi-
ness, and devoted his time to dealing
"monte," a game which is common in
Mexico, and had been almost universally
adopted by gamblers in Mexico. It is
considered by the Mexican in no manner
a disreputable employment, and many
well-reared young men from the Atlan.
tic States have resorted to it, in time
past, as a "profession " in this land of
luck and chances. It was once in much

I

/

/

JOAQU17 MURIETA.            .9

better odor than it is now, although it
is at present a game which may be
played on very fair ad honest principles,,
provided anything can be strictly honest
or fair which allows the taking of money
without a valuable consideration in re-
turn. It was therefore looked upon as
-o- departure from rectitude on the part
of Joaquin, when he commenced the
dealing of " moute." Having a very
pleasing extdior and being, despite of all
his sorrows, very gay and lively in his
disposition, he attracted many persons
to his table, and won their money with
such skill and grace, or lost his own
with such perfect good humor, that he
-was considered by all the very beau ideal
of a gambler and the prince of clever fel-
lows.  His sky seemed clear and his
prospects bright, but Fate was weaving
her mysterious **eb around him, and
fitting him by the force of circumstances
to become what nature never intended
'he should be.
His half brother, of whom we have
spoken, resided on a small tract of land
in the vicinity of Murphy's Diggings.
Joaquin had paid him a visit, ad. re-
turned to the Diggings on a horse bor-
rowed from lis brother. The animal,
-which his brother had bought and paid
his money for, proved  to have been
originally 'stolen, and being recognized
by a number of individuals in town, as
well as by the owner, a stout rough.
grained man, named J-s, an excitement
was raised on the subject. Joaquin s'ud-
denly found himself surrounded by a
furious mob, many of them strangers io
him, who were by no means sparing, o
their threats and insults
"So ray covey," said J-s, laying hi
band on Joaquin's shoulder, "you ar
the chap that's been a stealing horse
and mules around here, for the last si
months, are you?" -     -
"You charge me unjustly," replied
Joaquin. "I borrowed this horse of m3
half brother. who bought it from at

L1

JOAQUIN MURIETA.

American, which he can easily prove, as
well',ns show a bill of sale besides.
" This is all gammon," said 3-s " and
you are nothing but a dirty thief."
"Hang him!" "Hang him I" cried
out several voices from the crowd, and the
young Mexican was at once seized and
bound. Some one, more moderate than
the rest, suggested that it would be bet-
ter, before proceeding to extremities, to
see what the half brother had to say for
himself.-
"Yes, nab hin too I" exclaimed vari-
ous persons in the mob, and they at once
started for the half brother's house,'tak-
ing their prisoner along with them.
" All I want you to do, gentlemen,"
said Joaquin, "is to give my brother a
chance to provp hi A d my innocence,
Let him have time to sut" on .hi wit-
nesses."
This remark was oly. answered with
jeers and contempt.  p4rv ing at the
place sought for, the, brother of Joaquin
being readily found, he was seized, with
scarcely a word of explanation, hurried
to a tree and swung by the neck, amid
the hootings of the mob, until he was
dead.  Joaquin shed tears of agony at
-the sight, and begged that they would
proceed at once to deal out the same fate
to him. But the original intention, with
regard to him, ,was changed, by some
sudden revulsion of feeling in the crowd,
and a far more humiliating punishment
inflated. The unhappy young man was
bound to the same tree upon which the
lifeless form of his brother was swinging,
and publicly disgraced with the lash. An
eye-witness of this scene declared to the
author that he never saw such an ex-
s pression ir all his life as at this moment
passed over the face of Joaquin. He cast
a look of unutterable scorn and scowl-
x  ing hate uponhis torturers, and meas-
ured them fromhead to foot, as thoughhe
d would imprint their likenesses upon his
y memory forever. In grim silence h re-
n  ceived their blows, disdainin to  ter a

0

I


10              JOAQUIN MURIETA.

JO AQUIN' .MURIBTA.                11

groan.  The deed being over andiis
hands unbound, he resumed thgarb
which had been stripped from his shoul-
ders, and was left alone with his dead'
brother.
Who can tell the piercing grief of his
now'desolate heart, and the tempest of
angled wrath and woe which swept
over him as he lowered the dead form of
his brother, and, with the few friends
who came to his assistance, proceeded to
pay him the last sad rites of rude and
humble sepulture? - Standing over the
grave.of his last and dearest relative, he
swore an oath of the most awful solem-
nity, that his soul should never know
peace until his hands were dyeddeep in
the blood of his enemies I Fearfully did
he keep that oath, as the following pages
will show.
CHAPTER II.
A CHANGE IN JOAQUIN'S CHARACTER-
MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCEs--MUR-
DERS 'UPON THE HIGHWAY-AN OR-
GANIZED BANDITTI-RANCHES LOSE
THEIR STOCK-THE KILLING OF THE
DEPUTY SHERIFF OF SANTA CLARA
COUNTY - ENCOUNTER WITH THE
BANDITS BY THE SHERIFF OF YUBA
COUNTY.
A change came over the. character of
Joaquin,suddenlyandirrevocably. Wan-
ton cruelty and the tyranny of prejudice
had reached their climax. The soul of
the injured man grew dark, and the bar-
riers of honor, rocked into atoms by the
strong passions which shook his heart
like an earthquake,crumbled around him.
Ile was no. more the genial, generous,
open-hearted Murieta, as of yore. He
walked apart in moody silence, avoided
all intercourse with Americans and was
seen to ride Qff into the mountains in
company with such of his countrymn~p
as he had never before condescended to
be associated with.

dt was not long before an Americamr
was found dead in-the vicinity of Mur-
phy's Diggings, having been almost liter-
ally cutto pieces with a knife. Althougln
horribly angled, he wasrecognized as-
one of the mob engaged in the whip-,
ping of Joaquin and the hapging of his-
brother.
A doctor, passing in the neighborhood
of this murder, was met shortly after-,
ward, by two men on horseback, who-
fired their revolvers at him, but, owing-
to his speed on foot, and the unevenness
of the ground, he succeeded in escaping
with no further injury than having a bul-
leti shot through his hat, within an
inch of the top of his head!  A panio
spread among the rash    individuals
who had composed that mob, and they
were afraid to stir out on their ordinary
business. . Whenever any one of them-
strayed out of sight of his camp,.
or ventured to travel on, the high-
way, he was shot down suddenly aid
mysteriously. Report after report came
into the villages that Americans had been.
found dead on the highways, having been
either shot or stabbed, and it wAs invaria-
bly discovered for many weeks, that the-
murdered men belbnged to the mob who,
had outraged Joaquin. It was fearful
and it was strange, to see "how swiftly
and mysteriously those men disappeared.
J-s, the'owner of the horse which had
been the occasion of the mob, was among
the missing, but whether he slid off for
distant parts, in fear of his life, or fell a
victim to the wrath of the avenger, I
have never learned. Certainit is that
Murieta's revenge was very nearly com-
plete. Said an eye witness of these
events, (an acquaintance of mine, named
Burns,) in reply to an inquiry which I
addressed him:
'I am inclined to think Joaquin wiped
out the most of those prominently en-
gaged in whipping him."
Thus far, who can blame him? But
the iron had entered too deeply into his
soul for him to stop here. Ile had con-

treated a hatred for the whole American
race, and was deeinined to shed"their
blood, whenever and wherever an oppor-
tunity occurred. It was no time now,
for him to retrace his steps. He had^
committed deeds which made him amen-
able to the law, and'his only safety lay
in a persistence in the unlawful course
which he had begun. It was necessary
that he should have horses, and that he
should have money. These he could not
obtain except by robbery and murder,
and thus he became an outlaw and a ban-
dit on the verge of his nineteenth year.
The year 1850 rolled away, marked
with'the eventful history of the young
man's wrongs and trials, his bitter re-
venge on those who hadperpetrated the'
crowning act of his deep injury and dis.
grace; and, as it closed, it shut him away
forever from his peace of mind and purity
Of'heart.. He walled forth into the fu-
ture a dark, determined' criminal, and
all his proud nobility of soul, save in fit.
ful gleams, existed only in memory.
In 1851 it became generally known
that an organized banditti were ranging
the country; but it was not yet ascer-
tained who was the leader. Travelers,,
laden with the produce of the mines,
were met upon the roads by well dressed
men who politely requested them to
"stand and deliver; " persons riding
alone in the many, wild and lonesome re-
gions, which form a large portion of this
country, were skilfully noosed with the
lasso, (which the Mexicans throw with
great accuracy, being able thus to cap-
ture wild cattle, elk, and sometimes even
grizzly bears, upon the plains,) dragged
from their saddles and murdered in the
adjacent thickets. Horses of the finest
mottle were stolen from the ranches,
and, being racked up, were found in the
possession of a determined band of men,
ready to retain them at all hazards, and
fully able to stand their ground.
The scenes of murder and robbery
shifted with the rapidity of lightning.
At one time the northern counties would

be suffering slaughters and depredations,
at indther'the southern, and',before one
would have imagined it possible, theeast
and the west and eVery point of-the com-
pass would be in trouble. There had
been before this, neither in 1849'nor in
1850, any such thing as an organized
banditti, and it had been a matter of sur-
prise to every one, since the countryy was
so well adapted to a business of this kind
-the houses scattered at such distances
along the roads, the plains so level and
open in which to ride with speed, and the
mountains so rugged with their 'ten
thousand fastnesses, in which to hide!
Grass was abundant in the far-off valleys
whichllay hidden in the rocky gorges,
cool, delicious streams made music it the
feet of the towering peaks, or came leap-
ing down in gladness from their sides-
game abounded on every hand, and nine
unclouded months ofthe year made a
climate so salubrious that nothing could
be sweeter than a- day's rest under the
tall pines, or a night's repose under the
open canopy of heaven. Joaquin knew
his advantages. His ~ superior intelli-
gence and education gave him the re-
spect of his comrades, and appealing to
the prejudice against the "Yankees,"
which the disastrous results of the Mex-
ican 'war had not tended to lessen in
their minds, he soon assembled around
him a powerful band of his countrymen,
who daily increased, as he ran his career
of almost magical success. 'Among the
number was Manuel Garcia, more fre-
quently known as" Three fingeredick,"
from the fact of his having had 'one of
his fingers shot off in a skirmish with an
American party during the Mexican war.
He was' a man of unflinching bravery,
but cruel and sanguinary. His form was
large and rugged, and his countenance
so fierce that few liked to look upon it.
He was different from his more'youthful
leader, in possessing nothing of his gener-
ous, frank and cordial disposition, and
in being utterly destitute of one merci-
ful trait of humanity. His delight was


JOAQULN .&amp;URIETA.

11

in murder for its own diabolical sake,
and-he gloated over the agonies of his,
unoffendingvictims. He would sacrifice
policy, the safety and interests of the
band for the mere gratification of this
murderous propensity, and it required
all Joaquin's firmness and determination
to hold him in check. The history of
this monster was well known before he
joined Joaquin. He was known to be the
same man, who, in 1846, surrounded with
his party two Americans, young men by
the names of Cowie and Fowler, as they
were traveling on the road between So-
noma and Bodega, stripped them entire-
ly naked, and, binding them each to a
tree, slowly tortured them to death. He
began by tllrowing knives at their bodies,
as if he were practicing at a target ; he
then cut out their tongues, punched out
their eyes with his knife, gashed their
bodies in numerous places, and, finally
flaying them alive, left them to die. A
thousand cruelties like these had he been
guilty of, and long before Joaquin knew
him'he was a hardened, experienced and
detestable monster., When it was neces-
sary for the young chief to commit some
peculiarlyhogrible and cold-blooded mur-
der, some deed of hellish ghastliness at
which his soul revolted, he deputed this
man to do it; and well was it executed,
with certainty and to the letter.
Another member was the boy, Reyes
Feliz, whom I have before mentioned, as
the brother of Rosita, and who wasleft by,
his fugtive sister a year or so before in
the province of Sonora. The old father,
the Packer, was dead, and Reyes, hav-
ing no ill-feeling whatever against Joa-
quin and his sistei-, had hastened with
the remnant of his father's property, to
join them, and had arrived in California
a few weeks after the affair of the mob at
Murphy's Diggins. He was now a
mere youth of sixteen years, buthhe had
read the wild romantic lines of, the chiv-
alrou s robbers of Spain and Mexico, un-
til his enthusiastic spirit had become im-
brued with the same sentiments which

actuated them, and he could conceive of
nothing grander than to throw himself
back upon the strictly natural right o
man and hurl defiance at society and its,
laws. There isniany a villain nowadays,
for the mere romance of the thing.
Reyes Feliz was a devoted follower of
his chief; like him, brave, impulsive,
and generous.
A third member was Claudio, a man
about thirty-five years of age, of a lean,
but, vigorous constitution, a dark com'
plexion and possessing a somewhat sav-
age but lively and expressive counten-
ance. He was indisputably brave, but.
exceedingly cautious and cunning,
springing upon his prey at an unexpected
moment and executing his purposes
with the greatest possible secrecy as well
as precision. He was a deep calculator,
a wise schemer, and could wear the ap-
pearance of an honest man with the
same grace and ease that he would ex-
hibit in throwing around his command.
ing figure the magnificent cloak ir4
which he prided. In disposition he was
revengeful, tenacious in his memory of a
wrong, sly and secret in his windings as
a serpent, and, with less nobility than
the rattlesnake, he gave no warning
before he struck. Yet, as I have said
before, he was brave, when occasion,
called for courage, and although ever
ready to take pa advantage, he never
flinched in the presence'of danger. This
extreme caution, united with a strong
will and courage to do, made him an ex-
ceedingly formidable man.
A fourth member was Joaquin Valen-
zuela, named in a preceding page. His
chief threw  upon him much responsi-
bility in the government of the band, and
entrusted him with important expedi-
tions requiring in heir execution a great
amount of skill and experience. Valen-
zuela was a much older man than his-
leader, and had acted for many years in
Mexico as a bandit under the famous
guerilla chief, Padre Jurata.

Another, 4istinguished member was
Pedro Gonzales, less brave than =Any
others, but a skillful spy and ,expert
horse thief, and, as such, ,an'invaluable
adjunct to a company of mounted men
who required a continual supply of fresh
horses, as well as a thorough knowledge
of the state of affairs around them,. ,
There were many others belonging to
this organization, whom it is not nee-
essaryto describe. It insufficient to pay
they composed as formidable a force of
outlaws as ever gladdened the eye of an
acknowledged leader. Their, number at
this early period is not accurately known,
but a fair estimate would not place it at
a lower figure-than fifty, with the advan-
tage of a continual and steady increase,
including a few renegade Americans,- of
desperate characters and fortunes.,
Besides Joaquin Murieta, there were
others of the banditti who were accom-
panied by their mistresses. The names
of these devoted but fair and fraif ones
will be of frequent occurrence in the sue-
ceeding pages.
Such was the unsettled condition of
things, so distant and isolated were the
different mining regions, so lonely and
uninhabited the sections through which
the roads and trails were cut, and so
numerous the friends and acquintances
of the bandits themselves, that these
lawless men carried on their operatioAs
with almost absolute impunity. It was
a rule with them to injure no man who
ever extended thdm a favor, and whilst
they plundered every one else, and spread
devastation in every other quarter, they
invariably left those ranches and houses
unharmed, whose. owners and inmates
had afforded them shelter or assistance.
Many persons who were otherwise hon-
estly inclined, bought the safety of their
lives and property by remaining scrupu-
lously silent in regard to Joaquin, and
neutral in every attempt to do him an
injury. Further than this, there were
many large rancheros who were secretly
connected with the banditti, and stood

JOA Q UIN M URJBTA.

ready to harbor them in times of danger,
and-to furnish them with thebest animal
that-fed on their extensive pastures. The-
names of several of these wealthy, and
highly respectable individuals are well
known, and will transpire in the course;
of this history.
&amp;t the: head of this most powerful
combination of men, Joaguin ravagect
the state in various quarters during the
year 1851, without at that time being
generally known as the leader; hi* sub-
ordinates, Claudio, Valenzuelaand Ped
Gonzalez, being alternately mistaken for.
the chief. Except to a few persons, even
his name was unknown, and many were
personally acquaited withhim, and fre-
quently saw him in the different towns
and villages, without having the re-
motest idea that he stood connected with
the bloody events which were then fill-
ing the country with terror and dismay.
He resided for weeks at a timein differ-
ent localities, ostensibly  engaged in
gambling, or eniployed as a vaquero, a
packer, or in some other apparently hon-
est avocation, spendmig mu-chof his time
in the society of that sweetest of all com-
panions, the woman that he loved.
,While living in a secluded part of'the
town of San Jose, sometime in the sum-
mer of '51, he one night became violent-
ly engaged in a row at a fandango, was
arrested for a breach of the peace, brought
up before a magistrate and fined twelve
dollar. He was in charge of Mr. Clark,
the Deputy Sheriff of Santa blara coun-
ty, who had made himself particularly
obnoxious to the banditti, by his rigor-
ous scrutiny into their conduct, and his
determined attempts to arrest some of
their number. Joaquin had the com-
plete advantage of him, inasmuch as the
Deputy was totally ignorant of the true
character of the man with whom he had
to deal. With the utmost frankness in
his manner, Joaquin requested him to
walk down to his residence in the skirts
of the town, where he would pay hm
the money.

H]'
iii


In

proceeded together, engaged in

They proceeded together,-engaged In'
pleasant conversation, until" they
reached the edge of a thicket, wheni the
young bandit suddenly drew a knife and
Informed Clark that he had brought hiti
there to kill hm, 'at the same instant
stabbing him to theheart-before he could
draw his revolver. Though many per-
sons knewthe author of this most cool
and bloody deed, by sight, yet it was a
longtime before it was ascertained that
the-escaped znurderer was no less a per-
sonage than the leader of the daring cut-
throats who , were then infesting the
country.
In the-fall of the same year, Joaquin
removed' up in the more nbrthern'part of
the State, and settled himself down with
his mistress at the Sonorian Camp, a
cluster of tents and'cloth houses, situated
about three miles from the city of Marys-
ville, in Yuba County. It was not long
before the entire country rung with the
accounts of frequent, startling and dia.
bolical murders.
Seven men were murdered within three
or four days in a region of country not'
more than twelve miles in extent.
Shortly after the murders thus men-
tioned, two men who were traveling on,
theroad that leads upFeather River, near
to the Honcut Greek, which puts into that
stream, discovered just ahead of them
four'Mexeans, one of whom was drag-
ging'at his saddle-bow, by a lariat, an
American whom they had just lassoed
around the neck. The travelers did not
think it prudent to interfere, and so hur-
ried on to a.place of safety, and re;&amp;rted
what they had seen. - Legal search being
made upon this information, four other
men were found murdered near the same
place, bearing upon their throats the
fatal mark of the lariat.
Close upon these outrages, reports
came that several individuals had been
killed and robbed at Bidwell's Bar, some
ten or fifteen miles up the river. Con-
sternation spread like fire,; fear thrilled

the hearts ofhundreds, and all dreaded
to travel the piablic rads.
Suspicion asidirectedtorthe "So1horian
Camp,"'it being occupied exclusively by
Mexicans, many of whom had no ostei-
ible - employment, and yet rode fine
hores, and: spent money freely. This
suspicion was confirmed by a partial t on-
fession obtained from a Mexican thief,
who had fallen into the "hands of the
O Vigilance Committee" of Matysville,
and had been run up with ,. nope
several times to the limb of a treedy
otder of that forinidable body.'
He confessed to the commission of no
crime himself, but pointed to the Sonor-
ian Camp as theretreat of certain parties
who had been carrying on the system of
robberies 'and murders' complained of.
Obtaining a description of the principal
characters at the suspected camp, the
Sheriff of Yuba County, R. B.Bchanan,
accox -anied bya man familiarly known
as "I e Bowen," proceeded on a iion-
light night to examine the premises, and
to consummate an arrest of one or more,
by surprise.  Hitching their horses a
half mile distant, they advanced on foot
to the dangerous neighborhood. 'Comn-
ing suddenly upjon a small tent a few
hundred yards from the main camp, not
having observed it in the obscurity of
the bushes, they were barked at by a
ferocious dog, who appeared likely by
his fierce' outcries to arouse the whole
encampnient."
"It won't do," said Buchanan, "to be
bothered with such a howling as this,
and we musta kill that dog. : 1Astrikes
me that I dah manage it. if we appear
to be frightened, and beat a retreat, he
will come directly up to take'hold of one
or the other of us; then we must let him
have a little cold' steel."
Accordingly the two moved off hastily
and, true to the prediction of Buchanan,
the animal -rushed forward with frantic
ferocity.,- Bowen, being a little behind,
he sprang - with one floun.l upon hia

14

JOAQUINHT LTJtrA.

back, got him down. in an instant, and
,was giving ,him more than under the
ircumstances, was at all comfortable,
when Buchanan, having the beast at a
disadvantage, drew a bowie-knife, and
plunging it into his heart laid him
-dead on the spot. This done they con-
tinued their advances, but by the stir-
ring to and fro on the outskirts of the
camp, they soon perceived that the dog
had given a little too much warning.
In a somewhat isolated corner near a
piece of fencing they discovered stand-
ing-by a fire near an open teit, a Mexi-
can *rapped in his aerappe who was
peering out anxiously into the shadows,
and who appeared to answer to a des-
,cription of one of the Sonorian des-
-perados, as given by the thief hereto-
fore mentioned. as having been in the
hands of the Vigilance Committee.
"Let us get down on our hands and
knees," said Buchanan, "or we may be
discovered."
Crawling in this manner they reached
the fence, and looking through they dis-
'covered that the Mexican was missing.
The fellow has seen us," observed
.Buchanan, "and we must look sharp or
lie and his crowd will have the advan-'
tage."
He and Bowen. then commenced craw-
Ing through the bars 9f the fence, and
while in the act were startled by three-'
distinct shots, which were soon again re-
peated. Extricating themselves as soon
.as possible from the fence, they rose to
-their feet, and discovered three Mexicans
,blazing away at them with revolvers
from a point near a bush, behind which
-they had been hidden. Of course the
Sheriff and his assistant were not long in
returning the fire, and a very brisk on-
gagement ensued. The Mexicans, ap-
parently unhurt, retired, and Buchanan
and Bowen were left to their own com-
pany. The former then found that lie
had been severely wounded, and after
walking a few hundred yards from the
scene of conflict fell to the earth, and

JQOAQ~TIN MENLO.!TA

was unable to rise. The ball had struck
him near the spine, and passing through
his body, had come out in front near the
navel. He had evidently received it
while in 4 stooping posture at the fence.
Leaving him as he lay, Bowen hastened
to his horse and hurried to town for as-
sistance, which shortly arrived, and Bu-
chanan was taken back. to Marysville
and properly cared for. He lay a long
timein a very dangerous situation, bit
eventually recovered, much to the grati-
fication of the comnunity,'who admired
the devotion and courage with which he
had well-nigh sacrificed his life to the
discharge of duty. MHe was somewhat as-
tonished to learn, a considerable period
afterward, that he had received his wound
in an actual personal encounter with the
redoubtable Joaquin Murieta himself.
He it was who had been standing before
the fire in front of the tent, and had
with his quick eye discovered the two
hostile formd as they approached him
through the patches of moonlight.
CHAPTER IH.
DEPARTURE OF THE ROBBERS FOR THU
COAST RANGE-MOUNT SHASTA THU
GREAT LANDMARK-THE ROBBERS
AMONG THE INDIANS-THE TALL MIS-
SOURIAN A DEAD -SUOT-BLEACHING
fSKELETONS AND PERFORATED SKULLA
-REYRS FELIZ AND THE FAITHLESS
SPOUSE-OLD PETER AND HIS TWO
DAUGHTERS-THE LASSOING OF AN
ELK BY THE ELDEST DAUGHTER-
SHE FALLS INTO THE HANDS OF THU
ROBBERS--HER TIMELY ESCAPE.
The bandits did not long remain in
the vicinity of Narysville. after this oc-
currence, but rode off intothe coast range
of mountains to the west of MountSham.
ta, which rears its white shaft, at all sea,

I'l

I I I I


sons-of the year, high above every other
peak, and serves at 'a distance of two
hundred miles to direct the course of the
mountain traveler. Gazing at it from
the Sacramento Valley, it rises in its gar-
ments of snow, like some mighty arch-
angel, filling theheaven with his Polemn
presence.
In the rugged fastnesses of the wild
range lying to-the west of this huge
mount, arange inhabited onlyby human
savages and savage beasts, did the out-
laws hide, themselves for several long
months, descending into the valleys at
intervals, with no further purpose than
to steal horses, of' which they seemed
determined to keep a good supply. They
induced the Indians to aid them in this
laudable purpose, and so effileiently did
these simple people render their assist-
ance, that the rancheros of that region
loaded the very air with their curses of
the " naked devils," who tormented them
to such an intolerable degree. On one
occasion, during these depredations upon
locomotive property, an  exasperated
party of Americans, who had been on
* the track of their stolen animals, came
up with the Indian thieves, and man-
aged to hem them in between a perpen-
dicular wall of bluffs and a deep river,
so that there was no escape for them but
to swim the stream, which swept by in
a mad and foaming torrent. -They fired
upon the Indians, who .leaped into the
water, many of them dyeing it with
their blood, and a few successfully swim-
ming across. In the midst of the firing
a tall Mexican, mounted upon a fine
horse, dashed down the banks, firing his
revolver as he went, and plunged into
the stream, His horse struck out boldly
with him for the opposite shore, and he
had gained the middle of the current,
a distance of a hundred yards from his
pursuers, before any effectual shot at him
was made. He was about to escape, and
nothing would now avail but a dead aim
and a-steady nerve. The best iarks-
man in the crowd, a lank Missourian.

dismounted from his horse,'drew hisrifle
ft his shoulder whild the others looked
anxiously on, and taking a long " bad,r
fired.,. The. Mexican leaned Ib-rward a
moment and the next" Instant floated.
from'the saddle-and sunk, while his fine-
charger breasted tie waves and ascended
the bank with a snorting -nostr'il and
dripping mane., lNo one was willing to
risk the dangerous passage evento pos-
sess so noble an animdl, and they re-
turned with their recovered property to-
their homes. This tall, Mexican was a.
member of Joaquin's band, who had led
the Indians in 'that very unuiecessful'
thieviiig expedition.
. In that desolateregion, through which,.
at long intervals, only few straggling-
miners passed, on. their lonesome pros-
pecting tours, human skeletons'-ere
found bleaching in the sun, some lea ving-
no trace of the manner in, which they-
perished, while others plainly showed.
byAhe perforated skull that thewleaden-
ball had suddenly and secretly done its.
work. The ignorant Indians suffered for
many a deed which had beein perpe-
trated by civilized hands. It will be re-
collected by many persons who 'resided'
at Yreka a-id on Scott's River, in the fall
and winter cf 1851, how many prospec-
tors were lost in the mountains and never-
again heard from; how many were found.
dead, supposed to have been killed'by-
the Indians, and yet bearing upon their,
bodies the marks of knives and bullets.
quite as frequently as arrows.
In one of the descents of the banditti
into the valleys,, they ventured -into the;
plains which skirted Feather River, and.
on the edge of which is situated the-
town of Hamilton. This was along dis--
tanco from the coast range, but the fall.
months of 1851 were clear and ild, and.
camping out was a mere pastime. Here.
the bandits were frequently scattered,.
two or three riding together, others' re-
maining at the temporary camp, others.
again running off horses from Neil's-
Ranch, and others playing cards in 'the-

&amp;ig hesitatn' to link heor 4oungp
the     thegay and galant egialier
ner to hi races. "'he
i  tQ 'S p hhefog ,ea t
y surprised to lee him one eyeng an-
him, whoi he deposited in tedi  ,
ith a nonchalent air and thebriefefiO
luction-" Therp' my wife."
Residing in the vicinity of Hamiton
-was ahter, who was known bythe
,simplename of "Peter." He was half
Wyandot and half French, and had two
daughters, aged respectively eighteen.
,And sixteen. Old Peter was probably
the most honest man in all that section
.og.-country. Ever since the death of his
wife--half French and half Wyandot
like himself-which had happened in
Iowa many years before the time of his
introduction to the reader, he had fol-
lowed the life of a trapper and hunter,
taking his two girls along with
im. Ie had remained some years in
the Roeky Mountains, and thenae had
ranged dovn by gradual removes, into
'California. He had horses, a heavy
tent, plenty of clothing, and a purs
generally well filled with money. This
he earned solely by hunting, there be-
ing a good cash market for all the-veni-
P o  "     -   II'   -
son and bear meat which he dould fur.
nish. Peter prided himself upon ,two
* 4Mngs, his own honesty and the virtue

many Pesons now ling
who remember the girl, ,n i
the  younger sister, AI oug nslkfledin
the Luierit oftewoos, was not so
daring, but was exceed 'yseftdtoer
father'by her nacat co  gpasylng
and attbndingtothe domestic affairs of
the camp. The "father isualy wore a
buckskin suit, whilethe garbof the girls
consisted of a calico or woolen skirt ad
bodicea silk handkerchief care  ytie4
under the -chin,;and-upon their small
and well.shaped feet handsomebead
moccasins.
A couple of the bandits werd one morn-
ing galloping overthe plaIn, i.the direc-
tion of a band of lopse bos   with a
view of lassoing one or two of them,
when a huge ellc rapidly crossedthe line
of their progress. The animal w mask-
ing the best speed he could, and well he
might, for not more than fifty yards be-
hind there came thundering after hia a
mounted Aigure, witlh disheveled hair
and eager eyes and urgent pressingap9f
the pursuing steed. s the
ter's daughter, lasso in hand, njoymg

I!
11'

16              JOAQUIN MiTRiETA.

.16

I JOA Q U&amp; MVRtBTA.


18                 301 QUill .3rrJtIETA.                                                JQ4~U~ MURIETA.             .,    ~19

her favorite pastime 9f'elkchasing. It
may well be conjeid that 'the ban-
dits were somewstastonished at this
unu   sight, forhey had never seen
or heard of this extraordinary maiden
befr.' Neither the elk nior the girl
paid any attention to them, but dashed
6"pQursued and pursuing. The robbers,
exhilarated by the spectacle, put spurs to
their horses and folowed in the chase:
Onward sped the wild hunters for a mile
or more, till now she gains upon the
panting beast, reaches within twenty or
thirty feet of him, whirls the. adjusted
loop around and around her head to give
it impetus, and lets loose the springing
coil. Forth it flies on its lengthened
mission, and the noose drops down over-
the branching horns. The well-trained
mustang stops short in his tracks, the
cord tightens at the saddle-bow, and the
flying elk, suddenly jerked backward,
falls heavily to the ground. With a
shout of applause the robbers recognize
the capture and rein their chargers to
the spot. Addressing the girl in Span-
ish, they found she spoke English, and
so conversed with her moderately well
in that language. The elk being some-
what refractory, they politely offered to
help her home with it, and did so, driv-
ing it forward while she galloped on
ahead. Arriving at her father's camp,
it was courtesy to ask the strangers to
alight and refresh themselves. They
partook of the wholesome repast spread
before them by the younger sister, and
had finished their last cupofcoffee, when
old Peter entered. He looked at his new-
found guests with a degree of suspicion,
and saluted them but coldly. He took
no apparent interest in the rehearsal of
his daughter's adventure, and, when the
strangers arose to depart he did not ask
them to call again. One of them, how-
ever, the smooth spoken and graceful
Claudio, did call the next day, and old
Peter peremptorily ordered him away.
There was something in the old man's
look that even as brave a scoundrel as

Claudil did notlike necessarily to
ley with, and thinking  discretion the
better part of "loIr,' ho left  la Peter,,
it sees, knew instntiely that he war
a rascal, and was, not disposed to waste
any ceremonious c6urtey upon hn.
After the expiration of a few '4ays, the
young Diana concluded to ride over in-
to the woods that skirt Butter rei;e' a
clear, pebbly-bottomed stream that em-
pties into the Feather Riter, some dis-
tance above Hamilton.  She took her
rifle with her--a- small-bored,. silver-
mounted piece, with an elegant curly
maple stock-thinking that she would'
bring in a number of the gray squirrels'
with which the grounds abounded; for
the purpose of converting them into a
pot-pie. The sharp crack of her rifle was
the death-knell of many an "adjidaumo,"
and soon, with a string of the bushy-
tailed "varmints,". at her saddle-bow,.
she grew weary of the sport, and reclined'
for* brief rest upon a plot -of dry grass
underneath an oak tree, leavingherdoelle-
pony to feed at his discretion in the
neighborhood. It was not long before-
she fell asleep. How long she had slum-
bered she could not say, but she was sud-
denly awakened by a strong pressure up-
on her wrists, and opening her eyes ina
fuller consciousness, she found herself in
the grasp of apowerful man. It was the
late companion of Claudio, in the matter
of the elk adventure and the subsequent
repast at old Peter's camp. The villain
had secured the girl's wrists with a
piece of cord, and now held a knife at
her throat, threatening to kill her in-
stantly if she dared to scream out. Never-
theless she did scream, until a gag was
thrust into her mouth by a second party
whom she had not until then discovered,
and who proved to be Claudio. The two
were proceeding to drag the terrified girl
into an adjacent thicket, rendered well
nigh impervious by a mazy entangle-
ment of wild peavines, when a horsernam
dashed up, and cocking his revolver,
commanded the rascals to desist.. The&amp;

girl was surprised to @ee that.tihey In-
stantly obeye.g She was unbound, her
flertored to head dhePOnyled'to
whee she was standing. After she was
mounted, and on the point of departing,
her strangerescuer rode dosely up to
her and said:
oi lYoung woman, you've heard of Jo-
quin Mreta. I'm the man. When
Youear peoe abusing me; hereafter,
perhaps yo'll think I'm not quite so
big a scoundrel as they say I am, after
all. ,Now, hurry, home, before some
other danger overtakes you.",
With a grateful heart, the maiden
bade him adieu, and galloped off. When
at a distance of about a hundred yards,
the group still gazing at her, she sud-
denly halted, and turned around as if to
come back, but stood still, facing them.
While they were wondering what on
earth she could be at,they soon perceived
that she was deliberately leveling her
rifle to draw a "bead " on some one of
the party. Claudio instinctively w~eled
from the front of the tree, where he was
standing, with a sudden effort to slide
behind it, when the rifle cracked, and the
bark flew from the exact spot at which
he would have been struck to the heart
if he had remained a moment longer.
With a sharp feminine whoop and a gay
laugh of defiance, the spirited damsel
put wings to her- horse's feet and was
soon out of sight.
Old Peter, I have already said, was an
honest man, but, much as he hated vil
lains he was never heard, so long as
he remained i the country, to speak a
harsh word of the robber Joaquin.
If any are curious to know of the sub
sequent history of the old hunter an
his two daughters, they will find it,I
think, in the first series of the published
sketches by A. .Delano, Esq., entitled
"Chips of the Old Block."

7i

CHAPTER 'IV.
TRW  or  sDiorrDT6 soiA-'tsi
TAKE UP M      UTiAT,       Au-
noxo ci bTA-Joi&amp;qUINS FELICI-
TY UNDER THE EVERGnE OAKs-
MEDViEstIs COMANIiT      ER
BANDS, UNiDtR CLAUDIO    ALNU-
ELA AND IEBEEIfNGEED     ACK,
LEAVING HIMSELF oNLY A FEW AT-
TENDANTS-JrHE WOMEN DRESSED IN
MALE (THE.-JoAQUIN A VISITOR
IN THE: TOWNs, UNREcOGIZE-
DARING FEAT AT MOKELUMNE H   --
ETURN TO rHE rINDEzVoUS--ILL-
ING OF RUDDLE-COMIC ADVENTURE
AMONG THE DIOLER INDIANS.
As soon as the spring opened in 1852,
Joaquin and his party descended from
the mountains, and by forced marches
in the night, drove some two or three
hundred horses which they had collected
at their winter rendezvous, downthrough
the southern portion of the State, into
the province of Sonora. Returming in a
few weeks,,-they took up their headquar-
ters at the Arroyo Cautoova, a fine tract
of rich pasturage containing seven or
eight thousand acres, beautifully wa-
tered, and fenced in by a circular wall
of mountains, through which an entrance
was afforded by a narrow gate or pass,
at which a very formidable force could
be stayed in their progress- by a small
- body of men. This rich and fertile basin
lies half-way between the Tejon and the
Pacheco Pass, to the east of the Coast
Range, and to the west of the great Tu-
-lare Lake, thoroughly embosomed in its
I  rugged boundaries, 'and the more valu-
I  able as a retreat, that it was distant at
d  least one hundred and fifty miles from
d  any human habitation. From the sur-
rounding eminences an approaching ene-
my could- be seen for a long way off.
This region was in one respect in partic-
ular, adapted to the purpose for which
it was chosen, and that is, it abounded

i8

JOAQUJIf if 1YRIETA.


20              JOAQUINf MUETk.

in game of evegy  d :ik, antelope
deer, grizzly bears, 'quails, grouse, am
evexy specierafsma      4ap     o
desimJ  f9Kafor1ed, g fpsluqit selec
e94AOamp cqgvrregs    oie
dence asM rpa'y gg glesaniiday foun
r ou
him R&amp;Ia        Fl9     goInpa ioi
rephnXng upon   mprelu
qarpt thapA ever blossomed with it im
tatiyp flowers beneath the sati,sli
pe 4p
pe9d feet jf the fairest daughters o
San Francisco.' The brow of h~is swvee
athu friend    old sometime
grow sa4, as she recurred to t)he bapp:
and peaceful lives which th'y hd
livedbitwith, once
lvedbut him i  woman's true nature
1he loved him inspite of all his crimes
aud her soul was again lighted up as sh
gazed into those dark and glorious e
which had neverquailed. before morta
man, and lost their fierceness only, when
they looked on -her.  Besides, in her
tender heart she made for him many al.
lowances; she saw-many strong pallia-
tions of his conduct in the treatment
which he had received; she knew the
secret history of his soul, his sufferings,
and his struggles with an evil fate, and
the long agony which rent up by the
roots the original honesty of his high-
born nature. More than this, he had
told her that he would. soon finish his
dangerous career, when, having com-
pleted his revenge, and having accumu-
lated an equivalent for the fortune of
which he had beenrobbed by the Ameri-
cansi he would retire into a peaceful por-
tion of the State of Sonora, build him a
pleasant home and live alone Ior love
and her.. She believed him, for he spoke
truly of his intentions, and wonder not,
yadenizens ofcitiesi she was happy, even
in the wilderness. It mattered not how
the world regarded him, to her he was
all that was noble, generous and beauti-
ful.
After spending a few weeks at the
rendepxous, Joaquin divided his party,
then consisting of about seventy men, in-

t- te, it '
i-             1iq . tea t  tan   sas
Ld  he 'had a pigrpose to effeptwhch re-
R, 4   T64 least PPR fiten, ~mred 9r, two
s, jhqq~ndAni  s    I hhnI fT a~e
s5 qns a aepee  e cpre      n~idb
i- eygss g'eliz,.Pgyo~enza!  and Jan.
~-    gTiee femalpqs, gho were dresie4 iu
f  ae attire and well armed, w re also in
itCompany; ht stos,"   Jaun~mi.
1 14 1 MIS a
s1 tress, and th'o fh ye  eiz,"m  Ppdro
7  (*onsle.  41,jths py w        w1l
e  mounted, a4 rode no one knew whither,
, except Joaqxin himself. Arrivig at
,Mokelurpne Hill,in palaveras County,
e  they ttook up qua Iters with oM  of their
Mexican .nequaintances in that plsep,
l an4, pwsqig through the streets, or
,visiting the saloons, were looked upqn
-as n4hngmore $han pcable Mexi-
- cans residing in the town. This was
- in the month of April. While here, the
women appeared in their ,popettire,
and were admired for their exceedingly
modest and quiet deportment. The men
issued forth at night upon no praise-
worthy ,missions, and, mounted upon
their magnificent chargers, .scoured an
extent of many miles ere they returned
stealthily back to their hiding place,
and the arms of their languishing loves.
Joaquin bore the appearance and charac-
ter of an elegant andsuccessful gambler
being amply provided .with means from
his night excursions.
In the meantime his men were, in
different directions, prosecuting with
ardor the business uppn which they had
been sent,; and there wa a universal cry
throughout. the lower country, that
horse thieves were very nearly inlpover-
ishing the ranchos. Joqquin gathered a
pretty good knowledge of what his fol-
lowers were about from the newspapers,
which made a very free use of his own
name, in the accounts of these transac-
tions, and handled his character in no

/

1.   ad   lae i  t
cernedly in'A "crowY  -lstnt
long, and-earnest conversations in re-
lation to binelt;e"nd lapjghed in l'is
sleeve at the m"any" conjectures which
were mae as to his whereabouts and
intentions.
Alfter remaningas long as he desired
at Mokelimne Hill, about the  rs
May he prepared to take his departure,
which he resolved to do at. the hour of
midnight. Ils horses were saddled, the
wonien dressed in their male clothes,
and everything ready, when Joaquin
sauntered out into 'he streets, according
to iis custom, and visited the various
'dinkiig and gambling salons, with
which every California town and village
abound. Whilesitting at a monte table,
at which he carelessly put down a dollar
or two to while away the time, his atten-
tion was suddenly arrested by the dis-
tinct pronunciationof his name just op.
posite to where he sat. Looking up, he
observed; tree or four Americans en-
gaged in loud and earnest conversation# in
relation to himself, in which'one of them
a tall fellow, armed with a revolver, re
marked, that he "would justlikeonce in
his 1ie'to comtie across Joaquin, and that
he wonl kill him as quick as he would
a snake." The daring bandit, upon hear
iug thisspeech, jumped upon the mont
table in vier of the whole house, an
drawing his six.shooter, shouted out
"Iami Joaquin ! If there is any shooting
to d leain in 11" So sudden and startling
was iiis movement that every on
qu-iledbefore him, and'in the midst'o
the consternation ,nd confusion which
reigned le gathered his cldk aboutii
and walJ-ed out unharmed. After th
od avovaw of himself, it was necessary

he  hey of,'itd ikth  rsiiiMI ,fhat
they hadjning gf      teadd  i- eir
very  idst the man   ho, bovi
others, they would have
secure
Returning tolsredzv1atAoo
Cantova, he f und thats'iiaiauding
bands had gathered some two or three
hinredheadofhorses,andwere patient-
waiting his further orders. He de-
a potion"of them to take the
animals into Sonora for safekeeping, and
made remittances of money at the same
time to a secret partner of his in that
State.
Towards the last of May, becoming
again restless, and tired of an inactive
life, he started forth upon thehighroads,
attended as before, when on his visit to
Mokelumne Hill, simply by Reyes Felhz,
Pedro Gonzalez, Juan and the three
bright-eyed girls, who, mounted on very
elegant chargers, appeared as charming
a trio of handsome cavaliers as ever de-
lighted the visions of romantic damsels.
Meeting with no one for a week or two
but impoverished Frenchmen, and dilapi-
. dated Germans, in search of "diggins,"
and having sent very nearly all his
moiey to Sonora, Joaquin's purse was
I  getting rather low, and he resolved to
attack the first man or men he might
e  meet, who appeared to be supplied. He
d was this time on the road to San Luis
Gonzagos, to which place a young Amer-
g ican, iamed Albert Ruddle, was at the
g  time driving a wagon loaded with gro-
.e ceries, -Overtaking this young man on
Df an open plain, Joaquin,1eavnghisparty
h behind, rode- up to him where he sat
m   upbn one ofthis wheel horses, and polite-
is - ly biddinghinii" goodmorning," request-
ry  ed of hinM the loan of what small change

_________

I


22        JOgULV *tT1zTA.

he mig    ave about  m   marking at
" It is true I amn a robber, but, as sure
as I lve, I merely wish to borrow' this
money, and I will as certainly pay it
back to you as my name is Joaquin. It
is not often that I am without funds, but'
such is my situation at present."
Ruddle, without replying, made a sud-,
denemotiontodrawhispistol,upon which
Joaquin exclaimed:,-
"Come, .don't be foolish-I have no
wish. to kill you, and let us have no
fight."4.              '
Ruddle made another effort to get his
pistol, which,from excitement, orperhaps
from its hanging in the holster, he could
not instantly draw, when the bandit,
witha muttered oath, slashed him across
the neck with his bowie knife and dash-
ed him from the saddle. Searching his
pockets, he found about three hundred
dollars. His party coming up, he rode
on, leaving the murdered man where he
lay, and his wagon*'and team standing
by the road. Joaquin's conscience smote
him for this deed, and he regretted the
necessity of killing so honest and hard
working a man as Ruddle seemed to be.*
It happened that just. at this period,
"apt. Harry Love, whose own history is
one of equal romance with that of Joa
quin, but marked onlywith events which
redound to his honor, was at the head of
a small party, gotten up on his own re-
sponsibility, in search of this outrageous
bandit. Love had served as an express
rider in the Mexican war, and had borne
despatches from one military post to an-
other, over the most dangerous tracts of
Mexico. He had traveled alone for hun-
dreds of miles over mountains and des-
erts, while beset with a no less danger
than the dreaded."guerillas," who hung
upon the skirts of the American army,
laid 'in wait at mountain passes..and
watering places, and made it their busi-
a"This e'ircimstan wa relateito the writer by
n amd brown whowasthieottbraite with Jea-
quin, and to whom tMe robber talked freely.

Aes to merderevery un         ate jt MP
glOF,"er that fellInt*_-their lns  tdn
fleet horses and eprt In the useof Nle
lasso, it require a well mounts hoise-
man to escape them on the open plains,'
and many a hard race with themhas the,
Captain had to save his neek and the
valuable papers in his charge. He had
been, moreover, fr9m his early youth, a
hardy pioneer, experienced in all the
dangers and hardships of a border life.
Having these antecedents in his favor,
and possessing the utmost coolness in
danger, he was a man well fitted to con-
tend with a person like Joaquin, than
whom the lightning was not quickerand
surer in the execution ofa deadly errand.
Love was on the direct trail of Joaquin,
when Ruddle was murdered. With the
utmost speed consistent with the caution
necessary to a surprise of the bandit, he
pursued him by his murders and robber-
ies, which left a bloody trail behind him,
to the rancho of San' Luis (fonsagos,
which is now well known to have been
a place which regularly harbored the
banditti. Arriving at that place at
night, he ascertained by certain spies
whom he had employed, that the party
of whom he was in search, were staying
in a canvas house on the edge of the
rancho.
Proceeding cautiously t9 this house
with his men, the Captain had just
reached the door, when the alarm was
given by a woman in a neighboring tent,
and in an instant Joaquin, Gonzalez,
Reyes Feliz and Juan had cut their way,
through the back part of the canvas and
escaped into the darkness. On entering,
no one was-to be seen but women, three
of whom, then dressed in their proper
garments, were the bandits' mistresses,
of which fact, however, Love was igno-
rant. Leaving. the women to shift for
themselves, the fugitives went to their
horses, which were, hitched in an adja-
cent thicket, mounted them, and rode
directly over to Oris Timbers, a distance
of eight miles, where they immediately

28
st~etw~1t ~had f ior~0,and~dXY0SSpSat.,rawas inormued 14Pt a  y, ,of
0~h~neig  boring uonan-Iea ire~h*C              a   ogas~.
They~~  ~    ~~~ reandcne~0  the Anext terin hs d~5ta     hywr
 atnig  e back (a movement  only a few innumbernd tey horsen
whly unanticipated by. Love) to the  their poesssioh twenty splelngd horsee
,c19th house where theyt had left their  one     coveredhi he whole number
who quickly doffed their female  chief Ihrcere    e     ho neme
attie and rode ofwiththeir companions  Tisarrangement wasspedilyefsectedp
n thbills, from which they had just  and the  ag ctisfaction and mutual
Scone. Driving the stolen horses before  ted with great sat is ed regal
'them, the parties started in high glee  assurances  heir a couil  regard.
.across the Tulare Plains, for Los Ange-  whichrsuld acncil o shis
lee.L'oe flloed hemno  urterwhich resulted in, sending spies Over his-
less V'ye, followed, them no further,#    nins o'dscover traces Of the ma,
-having business which recalled him. dominions tdiscortrae       ured
The owner of the Oris Timbers Rancho, raudingband. Infotmatiowas returned
however, attended by a few Americans, i a day odresse, han sverexwith
fell upon their trail, indicated by the  suPen  deed, and covered wit
Captain, and pursued them    without -splendid jewelry, andeh-eicampedarn
mch daiffcut into the country Of the number of fine horses,9 welie camped On
much difficulty  Not coun   p wth    lite stream about fifteen miles from
Tejon Indians. Not com    i   us wto  he capital.  The cupidity of the old
,them, and perhaps not very anxious to he and his right-haiad men was raised
'do so, the owner of the horses proceeded  che hi s rit.hand me resolved
'with his attendants to the seat of gov- to the highestpitcheand the?  rea
eminnt f te TjonUco DigerNa-to manage the matter in hanld with great
ernment Of the Tejon Root Digger Na- tk1.adcuin;Which last, by the
ition", in order to see the old chief, Bapa-  skillsand caution; whchparticula
.tarra, and if possible to make an arrange-  a is a q    California Indians,
ment with him by which to' recover his  distinguishes thex lrna d  a
,prpery.  heysoo reche th  cai-amounting to so extreme a degree that
.property. They soon reached the capi--  might safely be called cowardice. Joa-
,tal, which consisted of twenty or thirty  it   ty be   aceained that
.very picturesque-looking bark huts, scat- quin and pary, having ascertaied that
.tered along the side of a hill, in front of Timber Ranchero, and feeling perfectly
,the largest of which they found old Sa Tir anget so harmless a people as
,patarra, seated upon his haunches in all secure ons disencumbered themselves Of
the grandeur of1" naked majesty," enjoyed  their  weapons andresovd hesend o
.ing :a very luxurious repast of roasted  fewas   n d reosed   gendin
_a9 n addie     nl-wow15. Hlis swar- few days in careless repose and genuine
-aCorns and dried angle-o  various di- rural enjoyment- Juan was one evening
.thy suWjects were scattered in vrosd-    ithgas watching, the horses
rectins-round him, engaged for the   lying in the grass  athig Ihehose
rtionsaondhmeggehorte                y gfed1 around him, while Gonzalez,
most part in the very arduous task of as they f4 Muriet  wereeach of them
,doing nothing. The little smoky-look. Felz an    ea   wer a     of tem
ing children were sporting, like as black  separately seated under a liveoak tree,
,species of water fowl, in the creek which  enjoy and loving partners. Theeven-
,ran a, short distance below, while the  beloved adlvn  ates      heel
woen wehre pudisnce belo, se ng shades were softly stealing around
women   werein   pounding  with  stone  inhem, and all nature seemed to lull their
,pesles n sone  ortasndustniously  te,ietdallspiritstosecurty d reo.
preparing their acorn bread. The dell-  unquiet Spirits tomencury ad figures
cacies of the chief's table werehsoon  Just at e this meent e butunfortuately
~spea beor hs gesswhich, though  might have been seen, btufru~l
spread before his guests, whch t.nd   weeno, r      epncat-like in the direc-
,tempting, they respectfully declined, and   wereothcee pctingie i and the
.entered immediately upon their business.tion Of the UUPetin u


24-
1 U4

b   b Y i s IoA e  bogj rd&amp;
Ufl~h~   oes~~ officed tNib ]feast
sis&amp;Wheediside ashnlijistolcdeka
or ainife drawn, they wdul&amp; h've ef
the gi    ondthe wing  of th windd-
so g~iely deeloPed iS the bum'p of cau-
tiono1the headof a Californfi Indian!
But cuking I ejlly dveloped, and
serves teifpirposes quite as well some-
 as downright courage. As soon
as this feat was acsmiliehed, the woods
became alive with forms, fads and
voices. A trumpial march was )ade
with the captives to tIe capital. - 'hey
were stripped entely naked, and their
richlo0thing covered .ie wether beaten
backs'and scaly legs of the tejons; but
grea wa's 'the astonWishment of tne6
natiyes, Whenthey didovered the sex of
the three youthful naiiibrs,;who Weie
kindly periiitted, in pity for their mo-
desty, to wear some of the old cast-off
shiftsthat lay around in the dirt among
the uits. ,The woen were robbed of
their jewelry to 'the amount'. of three
housand dollars, ind the men of seven
thousand dollar&amp; in gold dust, besides
their idhij animalS and stolen horses.
They were left also withotit a solitary
weapon. sever were men no humilia-
ted. The Poor, iiserable, coWardly To-
jons had ablieea- greater triiph over
*   themilinnall thelmericansput togethner-
Joajtdlid lbck'ed grim for a while, but
fially buqrst into a loud laugh at his
ridiculous position, and he eVer after-
wards endured his captivitywith a quiet
smile.
The "mAost potent, grave and reveisehd
seign~r,  Sapatarra, immediately des-
patched' one half of the -toleh horss
it the' OHs Timberd, while he  etained
the 'the' ;  ccotding to  agi6e6niht.
1e 16e -his 'prisoners of wai' ' in cus-

li d fha f dentWrd       "the he"
S   ta '  I tfh d'untyJIudge Oi'LoA
dithat 1ie had i    apary of Mfiens-i
- in custody,'and wnted his advie a
whit todo with their. The-iadgeeup-
bsing that tahe capture was the resul
of a little feud between so'the "greasers"
and the Tejons, advised him to release-
them.  Accoidingly'one fine morning,
I the prisoners under the supervision Ot
Sapatarra, surrounded by his guard; who
were aimed with 'the reVolvers and
knives which they'had taken from the
bindits, were led forth fIom the village
with suoh solemnity that they imagined
that they were going to none other than.
a place of execution.' Atired at a group
of live.oaks, they were bound, naked, the-
wornen included, each to  tree.  Sapa-
tarra, dressed for the' oeeasin with a
broad-biimmed hat and a bob-tailed red
flannel Shirt,-which gave hisancient aind.
venerable legs a mostunique appearance,.
madea aoig speech, which was a; tix-
ture of Digger and Spanih, 'on the
merits of the'transaction that was about.
to occur, enlarging upon the eno mity
of -the crime which had been committed,u
(although it looked very much like selfv-
condemnation'5n him to denounce steal-
1 Ing, inasmuch as the old fellow-had hibi.-
self stolen many a horse and eaten him.
besides!) And went off into extreme
glorifbation over the magnanimity which.
wobld allow such great riAsals to escape-
with their lives.. He then gave ordersto.
have them whiped, and seven large,.
stout fellows Sstepped forth, shed their'
newly acquired shirts for a freer play of-
limb, anid; with a bunh of willow rods,-
each to his place, gave the unfortunate'.
party a very decent and thorough flog-
Sagatarra then declared the ends of
jistice'satisfied, and dIsmissed'the 1piin-
oners fi6nie custody.

q         gg06ke111goonegt9
jggw8Wief gn * ' %
a       e   t   tBl     dthbeg- I
shdab E'Eo!#fNew    *
W~eb1ed, ind'lo~d#id di5~ eetde I
- br##'wkIuc Fii; 'Jtian ~d 4onkelez  1
pt6i6theed yip '8Iiatari&amp; sud Ethe 1
*616T Tejoi nation. Bid Joautin mub- s]
bed hiS ma'thig bck ad laughed-pro- t
digiously, delaing upon his lionr as a 
man that not a iaS of old Sapaarra'sa
heMd sbdid be harmed at any time in i
ttb Nture.
CHAPTER V.
orok
8Aa OTHa16Abnoi nii
R3YE5 aLZ MS *IaC       A    --D ZZ
-    -ZL5A etFIIN  ML
- cdNENESI T  rA~6OR-N
01PTE DjjbPbouTy SF1  OP SkBAA
]AW1ACOUNT  WIDhn(J ' RN
3iEAN 3BY T=BS:.F'DGF1tRD JAO1% AND
JOAqMJIN--EETiNG  EAlWREN JoA-
QtTINAND JOBI LAKF-DFAbirO' Iiiin
Th   nghit sueceeditn third dismissal
byodI Saarra, they alept in the
w   d; naked as they wefrithdta
titell -6fcoi-ring; bat fortffgitelyit wis
near'the uner, anA the ir podseised
a rrtfelg spl~aiit icoolnes. 'The -iext
day Iissne  t  ghid naoya, Reys
reli*ho&amp;was behind, Was -Mitnokgd by
afzslf bda, id iftei'behig horribly
ii'6din th  ltws 6f e"thofrdcious
di Snl usekbil hta   dstrudioh
-b fegnh dW  h. TMe bst lavibg
turned him over two or thfSe tiMnes with

The cril dt061WfJheI
diTO8 btL9yhth     1 el'hi oj eSf. The
bleedfigfy6iut'h with stoical enduidnee,
legged hioe6ipanionis to leav-e-irt6.
hti fitt&amp;, sshS believed that, etiit oet-
tainly di6, nd their attendance could be-
f nobenefit to'hm.'Seeing the neces-
sity-of living on to some place where
bhef c6tild obtain food and clothing,
they restoved himi to a shady plase
dinong some rocks near to -astreamof
Watr and-left him to (ie--a11 but1 his-sor-
towing thistress, who resolved toremain,
Withhimir whatever might befall. They-
tnnied to look as they depArted, and the-
last they saw was the faithful girl -iith
the lover's ,heaa upon herlup;,pouring
her tdars dipon him like a healing bitn
*6i her heart. Give me not a, sneer
thourtigidorighteoiis  for ithe' love of
wvomaan'is-beautiful at all-tinies, whether-
she sniilek under gilded canopies, in her-
satin girments, or weeps over ; world-
hated criminal, slone and naked in a.
desert.
After! a day or two's trave, .Joaquin.
and party-arrived; nearly worn outing.
the vicinity of the San Francisco Rancho,
at the Tejon Pass, where they metwith
Mountain Jim, an Americati desperado-
and co-operator with Joiquin's band,
who had beenont upon his "own hook,"
robbing - and stealing for safew weeks
then past. He- was astounded at the-
spectacle which they presented; and.
begged Joaquin to allow him the privi-
lege of laughing one good'hearty laugh
before he listened toany explanation of
the mysteig.' The rfiviled  Was readily
granted; aid - the jolly bandit went
through the performance with-great seit
and unction;making the woodsechban4
reNecho with his uost refreahing'eald1of
utnerrinient.' The women hid themselves
inthe brush; and wee like motherEe,


26                      JQAQUig
&amp;.d~ensswithest -beingslddofit.
The uyatery being eleaxpd up nd ex-
plaa#o, being ven -in'detail, Mpun-
tain Jim,-rodeof to the rancho, or rather
to iis hiding place in its vicinity, and
soon returned with clothing fr4e party
-shirts andpantaloons-but no dresses
for females, at which, however, they did
not grumble, preferring these garments,
perhaps, to any other-at any rate, .well
satisfied to adopt any sort of dress which
would relieve them of the very primitive
.style in which they- then appeared.
.Mountain Jim also brought a couple of
horses, one of which, a fin black animal,
saddled and bridled in a most superb
manner, he designed for his chief. He
handed him at the same time with pre-
senting the horso, a Colt's six-shooter and
,a silver mounted bowie knife. Thus, in a
few moments, was the naked and defence-
.less fugitive booted, spurred and fully
-equipped-in an instant transformed into
a powerful and dreaded outlaw ; and this
-by the efficiency of that combination'
-which his own daring genius had set on
foot and successfully maintained. Hav-
ing some mysterious power over persons
then connected with the two wealthy
ranchos, Camula and San Buenaventura
-whether through a sentiment of fear
with which he inspired them, or from a
distinct understanding that they should
harbor  and assist him, in consideration
of a share of his plunders, I am not pre.
'pared to-say-he sent Gonzales and Juan
-with the women to visit those ranchos
and obtain an outfit suitable for their
business,'with instructions for them 2to
remain there until he should call or send
for them. He and Mountain Jim rode
back into the woodsto the place at which
he had left Reyes Feliz and his weeping
companion. Contrary to allexpectation
They found him not only alive but able
rto.sit up; His faithful mistress had sup.
-plied him with the only food she could
.obtain, but which served much better
Ahan none-namely, a sweet-stnelling

ioot whiop gpews i grag   dagarall1
over -tba4region, p gese"ihig 1   In
taste an4 dppa rages thecpugnjP cely
ofourgrden. and also some     lber-
ries which grew w $   bus    around
her- She*,asuring bimtenderly; and
dressing his woimds with leaves-anx-
iously 'oping that he 'would soon be
well enough to proceed on theirjourney.
Mountain, Jim drew from his wallet
some shirts and pantaloons, which he
presented to, the unfortunates-a most
grateful sight, and an opportunity to
look decent, of which they immediately
availed themselves. With- difficulty
Reyes Feliz was mounted behin4 his
brother-in-law,- and Carmelita took her
seat behind Mountain Jim and off they
rode in a gallop in the direction of the
Mission of San Gabriel. Arriving in San
Gabriel after nightfall, they went imme.
diately to their nsual meeting place in
an oiit-of-the-way house, and there very
unexpectedly found Claudio and his
band, who had returned from the State
of Sonora sooner than expected, and not
finding his leader at Arroyo Cantoova,
preferred going out on a marauding ex-
pedition to remaining idle. He had,
placed the horses with which'ie had
been sent to.Sonora, upon, a rancho well
known to Joaquin, and where they
would be perfectly safe. till called for.
In the vicinity of San Gabriel he had
committed many robberies since his
return, and had a purse amply filled-with
the needfuZ, which he immediately ten.
dered to his leader. But he had been,
greatly harassed by Gen. Bean, of, thAt
neighborhood,,who had used every exer-
tion to apprehend him, and had com-
pelled him severallimes, with his whole
party,toseeksafety in flight. The greater
part of this news was highly gratifying
to Joaquin, and he shook his faithful.
subordinate most cordially by the hand.
"But," said he, " we must never leave
hero, Claudio,, till that man is killed.
ie is dangerous and, we must put him
out of the way,"

I

JVA4' vt 2?4tTIA.

'his-h'd.
Wl 'proidyde&amp; with biaket, proi-
sion ad lenty  f brandy, the ban-
disco~ine'hemsalfod'to stay of
some6 two weeks at the Mision of San
Gabriel. lyes Fells r4nad inactive,
still attended by his faithful aNmeliti.
Horses were sent over to Cimula -and
Santa Buenaventura after Joaquin'sgen-
tle love-mate, and the wife of Gonzales,
who arrived In due time at the Mission,
restored to their usually elegantappear-
ance, and glittering with jewelry, Gon-
zales and Juan were at this time very
carefully hiding from the lynx-eyes of a
man whom theydreaded-namely, Capt.
Harry Love, then Deputy Sheriff of Los
Angeles County, who knew Gonzalez
personally, and had caught a glimpse of
that noted tlief and his worthy colleague
Juan, on the skirts of the Buenaventura
Rancho, which was known by a very few
to be a harboring place for Joaquin, and
closely watched on that account. ~ In a
day or two news reached Joaquin that
Gonzales had been arrested by Love
while on a careless spree at alittle "one
horse " grocery on a by-road that led up
lnto the'mountains, and that Juan had
made his escape after a very close clip
ping along the top of his head bya
bullet from the Captain's revolver. Hc
learned, in addition, that Love was hur
Tying off atothat moment with his un
fortunate confederate, in the direction o
the county seat of Los Angeles, wher
he would certainly be hung. Deter
mined to rescue him at all hazards, hi
.commanded Claudio to get his band i
readiness, aiid attended by Mountai
Jim, he started at full speed to overtak
Love, and to save the life of his valuabl
subordinate. Having ridden all night
*and with the utmost urgency-as their
bloody spurs' and the foam of thel
,orses attested-they came in sight o
the objet of their pursuit just at day
break in the morning. Gonzalez, ant
cipating a rescue, looked back, and see

5      1'

wigatiain, aedhM&amp;n kertilif. E
whisitiding bfthesie aof e nufebtere,
but totatin the powe of his epto,
beinginaied. Thismidement costi0 a
his ife; forLove, knowlngtheiminiient
risk which he ran 1 proceeding alone
with a member of so formiible a; frat6r-
nt, no sooner saw the act than hidriew
his pistol and drove a ball through the
villain's heart. Casting a glance behind
him he discovered a pursuing party, en-
veloped in a cloud'of dust coming like'a
whirlwind, and putting spurs to his
horse, rode off at the top of his speed.
The bandits dashed up in a few moments
to the place where Gonzalez lay, and
found him a ghastly corpse. They shed
no tears, but gnashed their teeth, with
rage and disappointment. It was no use
to follow Love, for his horse was fresher
than theirs, and he had already left them
far in the distancQ,  Leaving the now
worthless carcass of their comrade, they
rode over to the nearest rancho, and very
coolly informing the owners that there
was a dead man lying on the side of the
road, proceeded on their return to San
- Gabriel. Arrived at that place, ,Joa-
quin Immediately learned two important
facts-one of which was that Three
. Fingered Jack, with his party, was at
a  Los Angeles, and the other that Capt. -
e  Wisoja, Deputy Sheriftof Santa Barbara
County, had been at San Gabriel making
- inquiries as to his whereabouts, and most
f. diligently intent on capturing him,. If
e  possible.  Wishing to avoid Captain
Wilson, and anxious to see Three FiAg-
e  ered Jack, he selected three of his best
a  men out of Claudio's band, and started
n  down to Los Angeles. He there met
e  with both Three Fingered Jack and Val-
e  enzuela, who each gave a good account
, of their operations, and were excessively
r  glad to see him.
r    Remaining for a day or two at a regu-
f lar hiding place which he had in that
- town, and sallying out occasionally at
i. night to' tike his latitude;Joaquin ascer-
e- tained that Captain Wilson was at one

27


II

~~T~49U   X4qw

e ny
a r u
entw Ve  nh 4i&amp;  st figt   o
dianiR ro  t   te hotel t,,whic lo
son Waf3~piqg. He, ir    M epnon with
W D
e  iv seped,, out to -witne~siin
was looking on with Much: interest,
wen a dashing young fe  wode u bv
his side on a. fine hors, and stopping
over his saddle bow, hissed i hi9 ear,
am Joaquin." The astounded hearer
started at the sentence, and had scrcely
looked around before a pistol ball pene-
trated his skull, and he fejl dead to the
earth. With his accustomed whoop, the
daring murderer put spurs to his ani-
mal and galloped off. The fight between
he Indians was a sham affair got up, by
Three-Fingered Jack to effect the very
purpose which was consummated.
4the immediate consequence of this
9, Los Angeles became.too hot a place
for die robbers to stay in; for the whole
community was aroused and thirsting
for vengeance. Accordingly Joaquia
held a hasty conference: with his follow-
ers,. which resulted in sending Valen-
ziela and band, accompanied by MUoun-
ain Jim, into San Dipgo County, with
directions to steal horses and convey
thiemn to Arroyo Cantoova, while Three-
Frpgered Jack with his band should
accompany his chief wherever he might
choose'to go. .Choosing to return once
wore to.San Gabriel, they started in that
direction,, and met with no incident or
individual on the road until they came -
to a dark hollow, walled on each side
with precipitous rocks, through whjch a
n6isy stream was leaping and gl4icing
-n the moonight; at this place two
helpless Chinaman were ncampe4 by
the loot of a sycamore tree, and it being
,near eleven o'clock, at night, were sleep-
ing off their fatigue and the effects of
their uxurious pipes of opiumb. Thoir
pick and prospecting, pans showed them

supplied  ha due amount
prqy Was
##!W    9R    fre aits,  untpa
wlk eduI y the unconsidous Celeptipla,
twhoyvprp  nor  7
blanketsadsoktlz.       p~~o~
and seing a horrible looig     vi
Standingqvei, and glaring upon them;
raised.a hideous shrien, arising, fell
upon theb- knpda before him, 'with the
most lugubrius .supplicstions, in a: by
no means euphonious tongue. Jack
told them to "dry up,' but thy con-
tinued -pleading for "nrcy when he
knocked one of them, down with his re-
volver, and cocking # presented it at the
head of the other, o closed his eyes
in an agony; of despair. In a voice .f
thunder he 14 fhe terrified Chinaman
to "shell, out," or hewould blow a hole
through hirrin a minute.Readily con.
vinced of the truth of this remnarkthe
poor fIllow nervously jerked out, his
purse and handedM *Athe robber, and
searching the pocet of his companion.
who lay, stunnd by his kde, took put
his also and presented it witha shudder.
The amount was small--not more than
twenty or thirty dollars-which so en-
raged the sanguinary monster ,that he
drew hip Inife and cut both, of their
throats, before Joaqui4 could possibly
interfere to prevent it.. The youngehief,
who always regretted unnecessary
cruelty, but knew fall well that hecould
not dispense with so brave a man as
earcia,;said nothing to him, but-only
groaned and rode on. The party reached
Sa 'Gabriel without further incident.
and there related this last adventure.
*eneralBean, a mnan of infience and.
wealth, had, during doaquin's abosnge,
een giving serioustrouble to. (laudio,
and band, who had been -compeled to
lie put isi thQ woods to avoid him., pJa-
quin himselfthought it prudenttq keep

49

out of his .,wy     0Jay concealed
with Claudio for the space of six weeks,
ogi&amp;daU .  A1rtlftd  The baadittk had I
sig"IyI 4fkied- neve'ryatenit:. One A
egg g    ~~a e      y haiigr    hm
starC 'frdv&amp; ,his at*om at aiibW1 GO* on
hkit6bee lintthevUdItedien fdhist home,I
t few ttlole ofihrei~ingeedJa'ck and
JtidistftedJby tnih selves to 'head
atoftd himoand wayily him on the
road. They had scarcely taken theitposi-
tions behind some rocks before Bean rode
up. 'J    14at1iUfli ,ut'fhii nt6fim
and sel tIiiaf, hihada@pan-
ISlei ~tIid' i'o he 1~k u#6n his
hafnches, ad jus titth~inihent Thi-e-
F146red'     oflaqgda   from th6 e sad-
&amp;  ant       h   upo the groAd. At
the mom enit titJack iMd'hoid of hin
he was hith     ff9i;th at q6aquin,
but being pulled bick 06 suddenly, his
pIstol fieup many f et above the prop-
er level and: .fra discharged into the
empty air. Bean beihg a powerful man,,
rose this feet with Three-Fingered Jack
upon him, and, drawing his knife, en-
deavored to use it, but his equally p6w-
erful antagonist seized his wrist with his
left hand, and drawing in his turn a glit-
tering bowie knife, sheathed it three
times in his breast, then withdrawing
the bloody blade he rudely shoved him
back, and the brave but unfortunate man
fell dead athis feet. The ighoble wretoh,
not satisfied with the successful termi-
natiobi of the combat, displayed his brut.-
al disposition by kicking the 'dead body.
ii the faco, 'nd discharging two loads
from his revolver into the lifeless head.
'Thus perished General Bean, a gener-
ous, noble hearted'and brave man. Had
he been less brave, he might have exer-
cised more caution and preserved' his
life'; but he was a man who never knew
fear.
After this outrage, which though dark
enough, was yet only an act of self-pre-

tid  t                 a &amp;
ao         n   at  MWr   o li   e
hdh Tibd dikffioyiif rd aM4&amp;Wtik
Wrh0, d i   ih eintf thrW   h io  df
JA6h'6ilifn it ktei fA1t'o'f t'IW drith
of August.
ltdiig ang obte evening in adiaice
of his men, as was freientil hi,
tom  he met an'old acquiintaince who
had bei ati estee6aed trill ci his more
honest and happy days, a yonn   Iifia
rhose naine. wa Joe take. Joeug
was delighted to see him, ad rode up
to hinm and embrsped hun, as th9y'UIO
sat on theii 'horses, witl tlat generidus
warmth of feeling whichmage af bter-
wise unmesningcusatom of the Mexica s
beautiful,
"Joef said he, as' he bridlied-a' tear
fr M his eyes, " I am net theihnin that I
was;  I am a deep-dyed scoundai but'so
help me 1odI- I was driven to it by op-
pression and wrong. I hate my enemies,
who are almost all the Ameicans, but I
love you for the sake of old times. I
don't ask you, Joe, to love or  respect me, -
for an honest man like you cannot, but
I do ask you not to betray me: I am un-
known in this vicinity, and no one will
suspect my presence,- if you do not tell
that you have seen me. My former good
friend, I would rather do aniting In
the world than kill you, but, if you be-
tray me I will certainly.do it."
Lake'assured him that there was no
danger, and the two parted, for the wide
gulf of dishonor yawned between them,
and they could never again be united.
Lake rode over to the little town of
Hornitas, and feelingit to be his duty to
warn the citizens that so dangerous a


:8s

jkfO49U, W~4.

wan waeMfr a~tdo    4w fp     r-
leans gealer privately'thpt be. baksqn
the bloody put rioat )(ufetsi A )gexi-
can was standing by wrappd In his
serape, who bent his head onhis bosom
and smiled.   About sundown of the
neist day,  solitary horseman   ose
head was covered witla a ps fusion of
red  air ode up very leisurely to the
front of a trading -post, at which Lake
and some other gntlemeu were stand-
ing, politely raised blishat, and addressed
an inquiry to Lake, which caused him to
step forward from the crowd the better
to converse.
"Is your name Lake?" said the red.
haired stranger.
"The same," was the reply.
"Well sir, I am Joaquin I you have
lied to me."
Lake being unarmed, exclaimed, "Gen-
tlemen, protect me," and sprang back
towards the crowd.   Several persons
drew their revolvers, but not before the
quick hand of Joaquin had presented his
and pulled the trigger. The aim was
fatal, and Lake fell in the agonies of
death. The niar'derer wheeled his horse
in an instant, and by a sudden bound,
passed the aim of the revolvers which
were discharged at him. In another in-
stant he was seen .on the summit of a
hill, surrounded by no less than fifty
well-mounted men,-with whom he slowly
rode off. Such was the magical luck
which pursued this man, following
him like an invisible guardian friend, in
every hour of his peril, and enabling
him to successfully perform deeds which
would turn any other man's blood cold.
So perfect was the organization which
he had established that that apparently
harmless Mexican who was standing
near while Lake betrayed Joaquin, and
who livedgnsuspected in that very town,
was none other than a paid member of
his'band, who acted as a spy.

VHAPT2E1~ VI-..
AQA4WX a    .u 1ToE aMMaror-
4NCZ.s-UnT*Avass Irio EITRU1TO
UNIPLOGREDF IEGIojEg---rD5 Tgg
ySIO AZM ospwg~o-sawm
s19T4sNDWoWDERs.-4WARVpoUS.
XOVTW', BINo eBEN BYOTUERS--
D.MORIPTION :O',r:s. SINULAR AS-
 Eor 'AND P EWNOMENA-DscovERT
or 2CUL1 ~lWs  A   zor uvs A1
ANCIENT BIRIL PLAC--NO.ER
DOMOILE -0IR A TOAD--A WEIan)
Such daring fpets as the one last.
recorded, and such equally daring and
bloody ones as those which Immediately
preceded it, caused the organization of,
so many formidable companies of arme&amp;
men, In the difreni counties through
which the robber chief had more recet--
ly passed, swora to capture him, that he
became somewhat tired of the exercise.
of so' much vigilance a" the circumstan-
ces required of him, and concluded to.
spend the remaining portion of the dry
season in some spot in the mountains'
which should be absolutely free from in-
trusion. Accordingly, not ring whith-
er he went, so that he reached a secluded.
place, he struck out, with his whole
band, in an easterly direction, taking.:
along with the company, at the request
of certain members whom he wished to.
please, a number of free and easy senori
tas from the town of Jackson. Beside
these were his own beautiful partner,.
and the wife of the late Gonzalez, who,
had already consoled her widowhood
with an ugly, brutish member of the-
band named Guerra. Carmelita remained
at San Gabriel with Reyes Feliz, who.
was still languid and feeble by his
wounds from the grizzly bear.
The party, after two days' riding found.
themselves at the summit of the Sierra
Nevada, whence they descended towards
the great Utah Basin. Pasing, down a-
succession of slopes,. wooded with pine.

-1

I

and juniper, thoy suddenly entered into
an eidently n *and'unbxplored region,
aitenetieg in saiN#j4 plin  overed with
~  g bushes and rocky,intereninghils,
dotted with stinted cedai, and eilitened
with small valleys, which4vere *atered
by bright and sparkling, streams. Fol-
lowing one of these they 'discovered that
It emptied-as they could trace it for a
long distance by its willowy margin, and
gradual descent- into a vastlake. As
they approached this sheet of water they
felt an increasing warmth in the atmos-
phere, and pretty soon a hot wind from
the direction of the lake. Suddenly, as
if to belie the heat, there came down
upon them what appeared a terrific snow
storm, but they soon discovered that
there was no moisture in the flakes, and
that they did not melt either upon them-
selves or their horses, but left both with
Aa ghastly whitehess which it was diffi-
cit to shake off. When they told of this
event afterward they did not even then
know what to make of it, but the writer
has since learned that a similar phenom-
enon has occurred at Washoe and other
points on'the rim of the Utah Basin, and
is simply a shower of alkali dust caught
up by the whirlwinds In the adjacent
deserts, and descending; when their
force is spent. Astonished beyond meas-
ure at this circumstance, so much so that
even Three-Fingered Jack crossed, him-
self, and prayed to the Virgin Mary,
while the hitherto gay feminines offered
at the shrine of the same -Virgin vows
of eternal chastity. They rode on,'and
the sham snow storm being past they
reined up o1 the margin of the expanse
of water to which they had been for so.
many miles 'tending. 'Here, although
prepared for almost anything that might
happen, by what they had recently
passed through, they were struck with
new wonders. And well they might be,
for they were on the shoe of an inland
sea, as mysterious as might have been.
-the dira lake of Awubet,
In the ghoul-haunted woodland of Wier.'

They stood by what 1s nowrknowns*a
lAke Mono, the name which was giA
it by the Indians who iAshabit that
region.
This lake, now included in the newlyr
organized county of Mono, marked at
that time the probable junction of the'
somewhat vaguely ~-defined- boundary
lines of Calaveras, Mariposa and Fresno
counties. It is twenty-seven miles long'
and sixteen broad, curving somewhat la
the shape of a crescent , with a large'
island in the middle,'five miles in length
and whitened on the edges with peculiar
incrustations. A white vapor, like in-
cense from an altar, continually rises
from this island, caused by the- presence
of the hot 'springs which it contains;
and the subterranean heat is such that
although a night's lodging on the island
is tolerable, it is not altogether comfor-
table. Nevertheless there are also springs
of fresh water in the island, and some
salt. Near by is a smaller island, lying-
dim  and dingy by the side of the-
other.
Although the waters of the lake are-
clear, they have a Lethe-like and drowsy
appearance, and within their slumbering-
depths no living thing is found, with the,
single exception of an insect, which is'pe
culiar to the lake, and which has been dis-
covered nowhere else in the world. This,
nondescript is shaped somewhat like a
snail, has something like rudimental
wings, is about three-quarters ofan inch
long, and of a brownish color. They
skim in swarms over, the surface, or
crawl upon the bottom, and in mild
weather myriads are heaped upon the
shore, and stretched out at times in liv-
ing masses, as many as three feet deep.
They constitute food for the miserabl'e-
Root Diggers who haunt those parts,
and also glut the innumerable gulls.
that roost on the island and occasional
rocks which break the mirr9r of the'
water. The birds natied form the only
life above the surface, unless we except
a few desolate and lonesome looking


JOAQUI2(MURIETA.                                ~S'6

wineri9pa P, 08iiou4*  ulfuv    9I
-ducks and geese flock thither andIMP4
lerMuAPp  Ahe   plp  t MWlib-
Ib   # Wv Trpj  izq  le  pu iy4ge
th etre, ibih is,9fp        g
14ert ih. 4Ipe epp1ble 4 iffe ge4P   in
he         them     s       plae.
though nuerqpT   4treai  of f4esp
wAer ot illy dispnbog" 'in the
lak~eA~a contents tredsQ stggnglyirnpreg-
nated with alelie matters 8tQbe A int
for, us. This curious lakei an ou94ight
thousanil feet , bove the legeI of the
Seeing, curling'  pfe on a piep of
,e land btped, with pies and ceqlars,
about a milg dist at, #9aquiand party
galloped in that direction.  Ariving at
the spot they discovered an Indian vil7
lage opmppsed, of, a fw  battered  rush
houses, from wyhisch a, set of scraggy fig-
urs, big and little, males and female,
were scansipering in gre;t consternation.
Joaqiintold Juan to catch oneof them
and bring him back. Juan dismounted
and started to execute the job. After.a
hard race he succeeded, and -Ireturned
with a terrified native, a weather beaten
veteran, whom he jerked, along some-
what unceremoniously ;by the top of his
head, and wheeled into the circle of the
admiring. spectators, for the purpose of
having him give an account of himself.
It was difficult to persuade the poor fel-
low that he was not to suffer instant
death. But hismind being relieved, he
proceeded to make himself as intelligible
as the nature of the case would admit of.
Hearing him call the lake, to which they
pointed, "Mono," which is a word in the
Spanish signifying  monkey, Joaquin
addressed him in Spanigh, but found that
he knew nothing of the language. The

pAoce.ded to a life v    ,y, where t1ere
wp, sppie bunch gass,  d   eampd
for thed4h. 1v4%ig pag ~    iththezn
a pupply f prPyisio s  gich weFe not
ypt gexhpustd,            ,   *Ing femne
hands to prqpfre IPeir g eal, the time
pased ofi pqast1tlg enough, and jeet
Tpe cFriosity 9f the bandits beingsst-
is#qd,after a few day' exploration of
this region, and  1nkij g'hy i6ng
see As new ail as; stangp gights fudpr
on,;thpy broke up camp ad jorApe4py
alog  the, eastern slopes of the Sierra
Nevada southward. They fpund nmany
beautiful resting plaes, here theytAr-
ried for a day or twoac ording as the
fancy seized them. Still in search of in-
cident and novelty, they kept their course
southward-the character of the country
varying between that of undulating
plains, covered with sage brush, and rug-
ged hills and mountain spurs, together
with abyssmal vales, through which pre-
cipitous streams thundered--until -they
arrived at the eastern verge ofTulare
county. HFere -they again, came into a
region of striking desolation, and were
destined to meet with new and un-
dreamed of marvels. It was a rough
tract of brOken mountains, seeming to
be separate and apart from the Sierra
Nevada Range, whose sublime ,peaks
rose on the right, erowned with snow,
and its entire face was blackened and
crisped from the effects of volcanic action.
It was a region treeless and waterless
withnthe exception of boiling springs,

-which bubbled up in the most unexpect-
,ed places. Birds there were none, save
a species of lonely snake killers, which
half run and half fly over desert spots,
,and make war upon every reptile and
serpentt they meet. Having traveled with
great difficulty, owing to the treacher-
ous character of the encrusted ground,
for about twenty miles, they reached a
-scene which had probably never before
been witnessed by civilized or semi-civil.
-ized eyes. But there it was, and the re-
port of the robbers with regard to it has
since been abundantly confirmed., It
was simply a huge mounfin, as com-
pared with the surrounding objects, ris-
ing say'some fifteen hundred feet in
height and terribly excoriated, if we
may so use the term, by the demon of
fire. Like a vulgar monster, sick at its
stomach, it continually vomited forth
from numbers of mouths large volumes
of mud and steam; a regular mud vol-
,cano ; and, in its belchings, it sent forth
different colors of mud-scarlet, yellow
and indigo, which, thick and glutinous,
rolled dowi its sides and hardened.
Near its base there was an opening which
they had not at first observed, it being
on the opposite side, which revealed a
tremendous boiling pool, forty feet long
by twenty feet wide, 'nd reaching down
into cavernous depths from which low
rumblings came up like muttered thun-
der. The ground was hot for a mile
around this mud monster, and all the
small peaks adjacent were heated. This
region, so apochryphal then, has since
been thoroughly explored, and the cele-
brated "Silver Mountain" of the Coso
mines lies to the north of the spot de-,
scribed, about-twenty-five miles.
On the edge of the big cauldron above
named the party saw tracks of naked
feet, and the bones of rabbits," and such
small deer," which had be6n'apparently
cooked on the heated rocks that formthe
rim of the cavern. There was, doubt.
less, a tribe of people somewhere in the
vicinity who adopted this unique mode
3

of converting the sublime and terrible
into the useful. Following the tracks
over the crispy ground, and circling the
bed of an extensive lagoon, now dry,
they reached a footpath and descended
suddenly, and with a transition truly
wonderful, into an exceedingly beautiful
valley; and here was an Indian village.
The inhabitants were entirely naked,
men, women and children, of pigmy size,
very dirty, and altogether a very inferior
specimen of the sufficiently inferior Root
Digger race of California. This tribe
live on lizards, crickets, roots and worms,
fish and occasional rabbits which they
snare. Giving these poor creatures a
few presents, the bandits passed on in
the path which led through the village,
and reaching the pine-clad spurs of the
eastern slope, were gratified 'with the
sight of what is now known as Owen's
Lake, a body of water filling a huge
basin scooped out for it in the elevated
land. It is forty miles long and from
five to ten miles wide. The waters are
clear and brackish, and abound in fish.
On one of the streams putting into this
lake the robbersfixed their camp. . They
were supplied with fish by the Indians,
and hunters of the party brought from
the hills, 4ot unfrequently, anms of deer
and antelope. Here the -obbers rested
and luxuriated, converting the Indians
into servants, laughing at their oddities,
and riding or strolling around at their
pleasure. In one of his excursions out
into the weird realm, upon whose con-
fines he was quartered, Joaquin noticed
on a wall of cliffs sculptured figures, of
life size, of men and animals. They ap.
peared to be ancient, and rude as they
were, were certainly above any art in the
possession of the miserable race then
living in those parts. He also found, in
an obscure crevice, a rough earthern pot,
in which a horned frog had taken up his
abode. For how many centuries he had
lived there, a venerable hermit, it would
be hard to tell. Similar earthen potshave
since been found in theneigborhood,and

-0 A Q UIN. M

WS


&amp; I

iv

ancient burial places are visible, with
circular-mounds of stones heaped upon
them, about ten feet in diameter, and,
mouldy with time.
CHAPTER VII.
THE BANDITTI LEAVE THEIR REsTING
PLACE-INDIAN GUIDE-ARRIVE ,AT
TULARE RIVER-VALENWZUELA -DES-
PATCHED ON A SPECIAL MISSION-
REYES FELIZ HUNG-ANGUIsH     OF
ROSITA-FATE OF CARMELITA-DES-
PERATE CONFLICT BETWEEN THE ROB-
BERS AND A PURSUING PARTY-JOSE
RAMUNE CARREJO'S RANCHO A HAJt-
BORING PLACE FOR JOAQUIN-CAP-
TURE AND EXECUTION OF MOUNTAIN
JIM-MESSENGER SENT TO VALEN-
ZUELA-ROBBERY NEAR DEAD MAN'S
CREEK-TERROR OF A CHINAMAN-
THE ROBBERS GO INTO SAN JOAQUIN
COUNTY-GENEROSITY OF MURIETA.
In this locality, described in the last
chapter, the banditti remained until the
end of the month of September, when
they obtained an Indian guide to lead
them through the mountain passes of
that quarter, over to the western slope
of the Sierra Nevada. The guide 'took
them through a broken mass of volcanic'
ground to a deep gorge, now known as
Copper Cafilon. The passage is only
wide enough, in many places, for a man
to ride through, and the rocks tower up'
on each side to a height of three hundred
feet. Thence he led them through some
rugged mountain spurs into the Mescal
Valley.  Thence to another patch of
crisped and blackened soil into a second
lovely valley, whose name I have for-
gotten, but which is five miles long and
well watered; thence over a gradual
rise, into Kern Pass; thence down the
western slope of the Sierra Nevada;

thence along the low, wooded foot-hills
that skirt the Tulare River, Here they-
were within sixty miles of the little
town of Visalia, and here, they being-
then well acquainted with the country,.
the guide left them.
From this point Joaquin despatched
Valenzuela to the Arroyo Cantoova,.
there to make encampment and collect
herds of horses. He himself with Claudio,
Three-Fingered lack and the rest of the
band, struck over into San Luis Obispo,
county, with fifty followers he rested at
the Mission of San Luis Obispo, where
he recounted the adventures related in
the preceding chapter. A portion of his-
band in a short time went over and
stopped at Santa Margarita, about fifteen
or twenty miles distant. There were
persons connected with both of these.
extensive ranchos who knew more
aboutJoaquin's concerns than they.cared.
to acknowledge.
While at San Luis Obispo, Joaquin one
day took up the Los Angeles hta/, and
was. reading the news, when his sight.
seemed suddenly blasted, and he let the
paper fall from his hands.
His affrighted mistress-sprang to his
side, and clasping his hands, begged
him to tell what was the matter. He.
shook his'head for a moment, and the
tears gushed from his eyes-aye, robber
as he was-as he exclaimed, with quiver-
ing lips:
"i Rosita, you will never see your broth-
er again. Reyes Feliz is dead. He was
hung two days ago by the people of
Los Angeles."I
Pierced with anguish, the fair girl
sunk upon his bosom, and from her dark
eyes, overshadowedby the rich, luxuriant
hair, which fell around her like a mid-
night cloud, the storm of her grief poured
itself forth in fast and burning drops,
which fell like molten lead upon her
lover's heart. Why should I describe it?
It is well that woman should, like a
weeping angel, sanctify our dark and
suffering world with her teaTs. Let

JOA UIN MURIETA.

35

34

them flow. The blood which stains the
fair face of our mother Earth may not
be washed out with an ocean of tears.
It was indeed true that Reyes Feliz,
in his seventeenth year, had met with
what is almost always the outlaw's fate
-an ignominious death upon the gal-
lows. Having recovered from his wounds,
he left San Gabriel and went down to
Los Angeles, attended by his faithful
Carmelita, where he had been only a few
days before he was recognized by an
American as one of a party who had once-
robbed him in the vicinity of Mokelumne
Hill, Standing without the least suspi-
cion of danger, in a "fandango house"
at Los Angeles, he was suddenly arrest-
ed and covered with irons; he was
charged with being a party to the assas-
sination of General Bean, and although
no evidence appeared to'implicate him
In this transaction, yet enough was elici-
ted to show that he' was undoubtedly a
thief and a murderer. He was according-
ly taken to the gallows, where he kissed
the crucifix and made oath that he was
innocent of the murder of General Bean,
but guilty in many other instances.
Though doomed to die at so early an
age; young, healthy and full ofthe fine
spirits which give a charm to early man-
hood; beloved as men are seldom loved;
a wild untameable boy; he quailed not
in the presence of death, but faced it with
a calm brow and tranquil smile. 'There
came over him no shudder or paleness
as the rope was adjusted around his neck,
and he himself leaped from the platform
just as it was about to fall from under
him. Alas, for the unfortunate Carmel-
ita ! She wandered alone in the woods,
weeping and tearing her hair, and many
a startled ear caught the wail of her
,voice at midnight in the forest. She fled
at the approach of a human footstep, but
at last they found her cold- and ghastly
form stretched on a barren rock, in the
still beauty of death. The Mexicans
buried her by the side of her well belov-
ed Feliz, and the winds shall whisper as

JOAQUIN MURIETA.

mournfully over their graves, as if the
purest and best of mortal dust reposed
below. All-loving Nature is no respecter
of persons, and takes to her bosom all
her children, when they have ceased
their wanderings, and eases their heart-
aches in her embracing arms. We may
go down to our graves with the scorn of
an indignant world upon us, which hurls
us from its presence-but the eternal God
allows no fragment of our souls, no atom
of our dust, to be lost from our universe.
Poised on our own immortality, we may
defy the human race and all that exists
beneath the throne of God!   -
A few days after the distressing news
which they had heard, Joaquin and his
sweet Rosita were sitting in front of an
old building at the Mission, enjoying, as
well as they could, the cool of the even-
ing-for the month of November was
still pleasant in the southern counties-
when a Mexican rode up on a gallop, and
hastily dismounted. : He advanced to-
ward Joaquin, who rose at his approach
and, seeing that he was a stranger, gave
him the secret sign by which any mem-
ber of the organizationmight recognize
another, though they had never met.' It
was satisfactorily returned, and the
stranger immediately inquired for Joa-
quin, and expressed a wish to see him.
He was of course informed that he was
addressing that individual himself,
whereupon he proceeded to unfold the
object of his mission.
"I am," said he, " most worthy Senor,
deputed by a person whom you wot of,
residing near the rancho of Gen. Pio
Pico, to say to you that there is danger
where you now are. A party of Ameri-
cans, well armed and mounted, have
passed the rancho Los C6yotes in- this
direction, and it is no doubt their inten-
tyon to surprise you at your present re-
treat. I'myself passed them this morn-
ing, without being perceived, encamped
about fifteen miles from this place, and
I seriously believe that you had better
look out."


36 .

"Very well," replied the chief, with-
1/    out changing countenance, "this is as
good as I want; hold yourself in readi.
ness to serve me as a guide to their
encampment, for I intend to surprise
them."
Summoning Three-Fingered Jack and
Claudio, he informed them of the facts
which he had heard, and of his inten-
tions, directingthem to prepare the band
immediately for action. In an hour
afterwards the different members came
galloping up from various parts of the
rancho, booted, spurred and equipped in
brilliant style, to the number of forty-five
men. They were fine looking fellows,
and scarcely any of them over thirty-five
years of age. Under the guide of the
Los Coyotes messenger, who was fur-
nished with a fresh horse, they started
just as night set in upon their danger-
ous expedition. After a ride of two
hours and a half they arrived at their
destination. The fires were still burning,
but the camp was abandoned. It was
too dark to follow a trail, and they
stopped for the night. At daybreak
thby arose, mounted their horses and
pursued a very fresh trail which led
through the woods, as if carefully to
avoid the main roads. By the number
of tracks it was evident that they were"
in pursuit of a strong force. . The trail
led precisely in the course of San Luis
Obispo, and it was apparent that the
Americans had started for that place
about the same time that Joaquin had,
left it; but he having traveled the main
road, thus missed them on the way.
Arriving at ten o'clock within two miles
of the Mission, he halted and sent a spy
forward to examine and report, who re-.
turned in a short time with the informa-
tion that the party, consisting of fifty,
men, had left the Mission at daylight on
that morning, with the evident purpose
of taking the beaten road straight back
to their encampment of the day before,
the tracks of the banditti being still
fresh on the ground. It was plain there-

fore, that finding unmistakable indica-
tions that the bandits had stayed at their
encampment, and had' followed their
trail toward the Mission,' they would
hurry on to overtake them, and would
be able to make the entire circuit before
sundown of that day. The young chief
clapped his hands together in perfect
glee.
"We have them boys! we have got
them dead!"
He wheeled his horse directly around,
and led-his company' about three miles
back on the trail which they had just
come, and halted at the junction of two
deep gulches, rugged and shaggy with
overhanging rocks. - Directing his men
to hide their horses at &amp;distance of three
or four hundred yards from the trail, he
ordered them next to conceal themselves
in the nooks and crevices of the surround-
ing bluffs. They lay there as still as
deatlr for about two hours,' when the
clatter of horses' feet was heard distinct-
ly in the distance. Nearer and nearer,
they came, and in a few minutes a fine
looking young man, with blue eyes and
light hair, rode up within twenty yards
of Joaquin, followed by about fifty other
Americans, armed with rifles and revol-
vers.
" I don't like the looks of this place at
all,"' said the young man, and hardly
had the words escaped his lips, 'before
the rocks blazed around him, and the
sharp reports of twenty or thirty pistols
rang in his ears. His hat was shot from
his head, and his horse fell under him.
A dozen of his followers bit the dust.
"Dismount, boys, and scald the rocks!
Give them no advantage! Fage them
in their very teeth ! It is our only
chance."
They 'sprang to the rocks at the word,
each man to the quarter which he chose,
and hand to hand bearded their hidden
foes in their dens. It could scarcely be
called a battle between two distinct
forces rit was rather a number of separ-
ate single combats, in which nothing

I

I

31

could avail a man but'his own right arm
and dauntless heart. Joaquin sprang
from his hiding place to have a freer
sweep of his arm, when he met at the
very threshold the young Anglo Saxon.
A flash of recognition passed between
them, and Joaquin turned as if to leap
upon a rock at his right, but at the mo-
ment that his antagonist jumped in that
direction to intercept the movement, he
wheeled to the left, and throwing out
his foot with a sudden and vigorous
stroke, knocked the young man's heels
' from under him, and he fell with violence
upon his face. Before he could rise, the
wily bandit leaped upon him like a pan-
ther, and sheathed his knife in his heart.
It was too sad, but as I have said before,
an invisible guardian fiend pursued ev-
erywhere this extraordinary man. Hav-
ing no time to repeat the blow, especi-
ally as it seemed unnecessary, he drew
forth the dripping blade, and rushed to
another scene of the conflict. He was
met at almost every step, and fought his
way like a tiger, gashed and bleeding,
but still strong and unfainting. Dead
men lay upon every side, both Amer-
cans and Mexicans, and in front of Three-
Fingered Jack were stretched five men,
with their skulls broken by the butt end
of his revolver, which he had used as a
club after emptying its contents, and at
the moment that Joaquin's eye met him,
he was stooping, with glaring eyes and
a hideous smile, over a prostrate Ameri-
can, in whose long hair he had wound
his left hand, and across whose throat he
was drawing the coarse-grained steel of
his huge home-made bowie knife. With
a shout of delight he severed the neck
joint and threw the gaping head over
the rocks, He was crazy with the sight
of blood, and searched eagerly for an-
other victim. He scarcely knew his lead-
er, and the latter had called to him three
times before he recovered his senses.
"Ah, Muriet," said he, smacking his
-lips, "this has been a great day. Damn
'em! how my knife lapped up their blood."

JOAQUIN MURrETA.

JOAQUI1N MURIETA.

The fight now having lasted half an
hour, and there being no 'prospect that
either party would conquer, so equally
were they matched,' it gradually sub-
sided, and each side gradually drew ofT
from the other, with a tacit understand-
ing that they were mutually satisfied to
cry quits. Joaquin looked around and
saw that he had lost twenty men, among
whom was the invaluable Claudio, and
ascertained the loss of his enemies to be
very near the same, perhaps a little over.
Mounting their horses, the bandits rode
off in silence toward San Luis Obispo,
while the surviving Americans found as
many of their horses as had not left
them during the conflict, and retired to
their homes in'Santa Barbara, County,
having made arrangements on the way
for the burial of their deceased comrades.
During the following night a company
from the Mission went over to the bloody
scene with picks and shovels, and buried
the dead bodies of the bandits near the
spot where they fell. On the next morn-
ing Joaquin summoned the Los Coyotes
messenger, and said to him:
" Go back and. tell my friend, who
sent'you, that the 'danger is passed, -and
hand him'this purse. For yourself, take
this one," handing him another well-
filled bag.
Attention having being attracted to
the San Luis Obispo rancho, the bandit
thought it prudent to go elsewhere.
Accordingly word was sent over to their
friends - who were rusticating at Santa
Margarita, to join them, and they forth-
with started to a well known harboring
place not more than a thousand miles
from Jose Ramune Carrejo's rancho.
ilere they remained until such as were
wounded recovered their usual health
and strength-and here, again, Joaquin
heard news similar to that which shocked
him at San Luis Obispo, namely, that
Mountain Jim had been hung at San
Diego. This misfortune happened to the
jolly robber from his own carelessness.
He and Valenzuela had stopped at a

7(


39

-8JOAQULIN }{URIETA.

drinking shop on the San Diego River
some fifteen or twenty miles from th
bay of that name, and had taken a glase
of execrable brandy, when a party of four
or five Americans rode up and alighted,
who looked so very suspiciously at
Valenzuela and partner, that the former
took his friend out, and told him that it
was his opinion they both had better
leave as quick as possible. Mountain
Jim was under the influence of liquor,
and laughing at what he chose to term the
silly fears of Valenzuela, he went back
Into the house swearing and swagger-
ing. Pretty soon after, a dozen more
Americans approached on horseback, see-
ing whom, Valenzuela mounted into his
saddle and called to Jim to come along.
But Jim only laughed, and took another
glass of liquor.
"Curse the foolI" muttered the ban-
dit, " he will. be the death of both of us.
For my part, I will keep my own dis-
tance from those scurvy looking fellows,
at any rate." -
The new party no sooner arrived than
they rushed up to the door of the drink-
ing house and drew their revolvers-a
scuffle ensued inside,and Valenzuela, well
aware of what was going on, and that it
was uselessto contend against such great
odds, merely fired one shot into the
crowd at the door, which took effect in the
abdomen of one of the party, and wheel-
ing his horse broke off like a thunder-
bolt. - Several of the Americans.pursued
him, but his fine, swift animal distanced
them so far, that they might as well have
attempted to catch the red-winged spirit
of a storm. Poor Mountain Jim! He
was never destined to tread the moun-
tains again. He was taken to the town
of San Diego, and hung with as little
ceremony as if he had been adog. Well
fitted was he to grace a gallows, for his
merits certainly entitled him to a distin-
guished elevation.
From his present stopping place Joa-
quin sent messenger,oabout the first of
December, to the Arroyo Cantoova. to

see Valeuzuela, if he was there, and if he
e was absent to await his return, in order
s  to inform him that it was made his duty
to continue the business in which he was
engaged, through the entire winter, or
until such time as Joaquin should arrive
at the rendezvous. The messenger re-
turned after a few days and stated that
he had iound Valenzuela and band at the
Arroyo, with tents pitched, and a herd
of fine horses amounting to between five
and six hundred, feeding on the pasture,
and that the bold leader had signified a
willing obedience to his chief's mandate.
"He is a glorious fellow," exclaimed
' Joaquin.  "He didn't practice under
that hardened old priest, Jurata, without
learning something."
Spies were now ranging the country
every day, picking up valuable informa-
tion; and among other things, it was-
ascertained that an opinion prevailed
that Joaquin had gone to the State of
Sonora.' Thinking it a favorable time,
he issued forth with his whole force, uni.
ting Three-Fingered Jack's party with
Claudio's, which last was now under the
leadership of a member of the band
named Reis-and startedlip into Mari-
posa county for the purpose of plunder.
On the. road that leads from Dead
Man's Creek to the Merced River, he met
four Frenchmen, six Germans and three
Americans, walking and driving mules
before them, packed with provisions,
blankets and mining utensils.rHaving
so large a party with him, numbering
about thirty men, he had no difficulty in
stopping the travelers as long as he
wished to detain them. His men stood
around with pistols cocked, while Joa-
quin dismounted, and walking up to a
terrified Frenchman, 'who was armed
-with a revolver which he was afraid to
use, took him by the top of his head, and
jerked him around once or twice, slapped
*him across the face with his open hand,
andtold him to '-shell out." TheFrench-
man hauled out  well-filled purseoand
was handing it over, when others of his

.4

-companions made a show to draw their
pistols and defend their gold dust. The
robbers were too quick for them, and 
more than half of the unfortunate miners
were shot down in their tracks. Joaquin
brandished his glittering blade in the
faces of the survivors, and threatened to
to cut every one of their windpipes if
they didn't hand out " what little loose
change " they had about them, in half a,
minute I His polite request was com-
plied with, and the little loose change
.amounted to about $15,000. He then
bestowed a kick or two on some of the
.number as a parting tribute of regard,
:and told them to "roll on." Three-Fin-
gered Jack insisted on killing the whole
'company, but the clgef overruled him.
Riding forward after this transaction,
they had not gone more than two miles
when they met a Chinaman with a long
'tail, carrying a large bundle suspended
at each end of a stick laid across his
shoulders, walking leisurely along with
his head bent to the ground. Looking,
up and seeing so large a number of armed
men before him, his eyes rolled in sud-
den fear,.and he ducked his half shaved
head in -nmistakable homage and re-
spect to-the revolvers and bowie knives
which met his vision. No one harmed
him, and he shuffled on vastly gratified
and relieved. He had passed only a few
minutes when he was heard howling
and screaming in the most harrowing
manner; and looking back they .discov-
ered the horrified Celestial, with his tail
flying in the wind, running toward them
.at the top of his speed, with arms saw-
ing the air, and bundle le88, while the
ground clattered under his wooden shoes;
and just behind him, with blazing eyes,
and his huge home-mad6 knife in his
right hand, appeared Three-Fingered
-Jack, who had stopped at a spring and
was.tying his horse to a bush at the mo-
ment that the Chinaman came up. It
-was toogood an opportunity to be lost,
andhe darted likea wild hyena at the
astounded Oriental, who applied himself

to his heels with the utmost vigor that
he could command. Joaquin bowed him-
self upon the saddle in a convulsion of
laughter at the ridiculous appearance of
the Chinaman, but speedily confronted
Jack and told him to stop. Woh Le fell
upon his knees in deepest adoration of
his preserver. Joaquin bade him go on
his way, and laughingly reprimanded
Jack for wanting to kill so pitiful a look-
ing creature.
"Well," said Jack, "I can't help it;
but, somehow or other, I love to smell
the blood of a Chinaman. Besides, it's
such easy work-to kill them. It's a kind
of luxury to cut their throats."
Proceeding across the woods and moun-
tains, the banditti n a few days struck
the main road leading from the town of
Mariposa to Stockton, in San Joaquin
county. Robbing once in a while as
they went along, they arrived late one
night at a ferry on the Tuolumne River,
Tuolumne county, and finding the boat
locked to the shore so that they could
not exercise the privilege of crossing
themselves which was their usual cus-
tom, they rode up to the ferryman's
house, and very nearly beat the door
down before they could arouse him. He
came out at last with a terrified look,
and asked what they wanted.
"We want to cross the river," replied
Joaquin; "and before doing so we wish
to obtain from you the loan of wlat
spare cash you may have about you. You
have the best evidence of the urgency
of our request,", cocking his pistol'and
presenting it close to the fellow's
head.
" Never mind the evidence, Sefior; I
believe you without it. I will certainly
loan you all I have got."
So saying, he lighted a candle and got
out a purse from under his pillow, con-
taining a hundred dollars.
" Come, said Jack," bursting a cap at
his head, "Iyou have got more;, And was
cocking his pistol for another trial, when
Joaquin very fiercely told him to know

ctOA QUIN X UBIETA

8


40

his place. Turning to the trembling
ferryman he said: "Isthis all you have
got?"
Precisely all, Seflor; but you are wel-
come to it."
"I won't take it," said the young
chief, with a flush of pride; "you ate a
poor man and never injured me. Put us
over the river and I will pay you for your
trouble."
I mention this incident merely to show
that Murieta in his worst days had yet
a remnant of that noble spirit which had
been his original nature, and to correct
those who have said that he was lost to
every generous sentiment.
CHAPTER VIII.
ARRIVAL AT STOCKTON-JOAQUIN RIDES
BOLDLY THROUGH THE CITY-DARIiNG
ATTACK ON A SCHOONER IN THE
SLOUGH- DEPARTURE FOR ARROYO
CANTOOVA-HAPPY REUNION OF THE
BANDITS-JOAQUIN REVEALS HIS FU-
TURE PLANS- GUERRA'S WIFE BE-
COMES RESTIVE-AMERICAN HUNTERS
FALL INTO A TRAP-HOW THEY GOT
OUT OF IT.
The party arrived in the neighborhood
of Stockton after two days' travel, and
camped on the plain, uuder an oak grove,
about three miles from that city. They
were seen at their encampment, but not
suspected. Indeed it was then, as it is
now, so common a thing to see compa-
nies of men engaged in the various occu-
pations of packers, cattle drovers, horse
traders, hunters and the like, stationed
by the banks of some cool stream, or rest-
ing under the shade of trees at a distance
from any 'house, or with their tents
pitched in some lonely place for weeks
at a time, that it was scarcely just to

__~~

suspect a: party to be criminal, merely
from  circumstances like these.  The
knowledge of everybody that it was the'
habit among all classes to go armed and
to camp out, in every sort of a place,.
materially aided the banditti in their-
movements, for it gave them the oppor-
tunity to remain perfectly, safe until.
they chose to avow their real char-,
acters by some open outrage and vil-
lainy.
One fine Sunday morning, while the-
bells were 'ringing for church in the
goodly city of Stockton, and well-dressed
gentlemen were standing at the corners.
of the streets, marking with'critical eyes-
the glancing feet and the flaunting dres-
ses of the ladies who swept by them in
the halo of beauty and perfumery, a fine-
looking man whom they had never.,seen
before-having long, black hair hanging-
over his shoulders, and a piercing black
eye-rode through the streets, carelessly-
looking at the' different objects which.
happened to attract his attention. So,
finely was he dressed, and so superbly-
was his horse comparisoned, that with-
out seeming to know it, he was the ob-.
served of all observers
"What- a splendid looking fellow V"
observed the ladies.
"He must be a young Mexican gran-
dee, at least, on a journey of pleasure,"
said one.
"I think," said another, "it must be
Gen. Vallejo's son."
' " I don't believe he has any," said a
third; and they became so much interes-
ted in their conjectures about the young-
man that it is doubtful whether they-
paid much attention to the very prosy
minister who was then acting- as the,
"bright and shining light" amidst the,
surrounding darkness.
The youthful cavalier, after attracting:
uncommon attention, by riding over the
city, finally stopped at the side of a
house, upon which were posted several
notices-one reading as follows:

JOAQUDT MURIETA.               '41

.1

"FOR SAIL.
"the surseribur ophfers for sail a yauf
boterhiclit at the hed- of the Slew terms
cash or kabbige turnips and sich like will
bea taykenr."
To which   fine specimen of polite
literature was appended the name of a
worthy citizen, who was then fishing for
his living, but has since been fishing for
various distinguished  offices in that
county.
Another one was a "notis" that some
person either wanted to hire some one
else, or be hired himself, as a cook-it
was impossible to tell which.
A third was an auctioneer's notice.
"lonor before the 25 da of Dec I will
offur to the hiest bider a brownmuleaate
yeer old, a gilding 16hans hie and a span
of jack~ consistin of long years and a good
voyce."
I have a notion to publish the name
signed to this rare advertisement, espec-
ially as the auctioneer 'seems to have
been something of a wag as well as ig-
noramus. But, perhaps, it will be bet-
ter not. A fourth was headed, in good
English, and a fair running hand.
"Five Thousand Dollars Reward for Joa-
quin-dead or alive."
And stated that the citizens of San Joa-
quin county offered that amount for the
apprehension'or the killing of that noted
robber.
Seeing this, the young Mexican dis.
mounted; and taking out his pencil,
wrote something underneath, and leisure-
ly rode out of town. No less than a dozen
persons, stimulated by curiosity, went to
the paper to see what was written, when
they read the following in pencil:
e" I will give $10,000. Joaquin."
Numerous were the exclamations of
astonishment at this discovery, and
nothing else was talked of for a week,
among the ladies at least, who- got hold
of the fact almost before it. was die
covered, and insisted each to the other
that they had remarked that the young
man had a peculiarly wild and terrible
*See newspapers of that period.

JOAQUIT MURIETA.

look, and  they  had suspected very
strongly though they had never men,
tioned it to any one, that it was 'none,
other than the noted personage whom it
proved to be.
Joaquin appeared on this occasion mbis
real features. He frequently went after-
wards, however,into that city completely
disguised, and learned many things im-
portant for him to hear. Ascertaining
one evening that a schooner would go
down the slough in a few hours, bound
for San Francisco, on board of which
,were two miners from San Andreas, in
Calaveras county, with heavy bags of
gold dust, who designed to take their
departure for the States, he took three
of his men who were lounging around
town, with him, and jumping into a skiff
shot down the slough, and tying up his.
boat in a bend of the water, hid in the
tues and patiently waited for the schoon-
er to come along.  The mosquitoes bit
him unmercifully, and he was almost.
tempted to abandon the enterprise on
their account, but the prospect of so
good a haul was, on reflection, not to be
resisted. . He cursed , himself for not
bringing some matches with which he
might have kindled a fire, and sought
the protection of its -smoke ; but perse-
verance is always rewarded, if the object
desired lies in the bounds of possibility,
and waiting like a martyr for three mor-
tal hours, in those tudes, which are a per-
feet "mosquito kingdom," where huge-
gallinippers reign as the aristocracy, he-
at last saw the white sheeted schooner
stealing along in the crooks and turns
of jut the crookedet strem  in the wiwle
'word, so narrow and so completely hid
in its windings by the tall flags which
overspread the plains for many miles to
the right and left that the white sail
looked like a ghost gliding along over
-the waving grass. As the vessel came
opposite, Joaquin and companions slyoved
their boat out into the stream, and tying
it to the schooner's side, leaped on board
of her, and commenced firing without


42

saying a word. They shot down the
two young men who managed the vessel
'before they had time to use their double-
barreled shot-guns, which they always
carried for the purpose of shooting water-
fowl in the slough and up the San Joa-
quin River, and rushing aft attacked the
two miners, who had risen at the the re-
port of the pistols, and were-standing
with their revolvers drawn and cocked,
ready for action. They and the robbers
fired simultaneously. Two of Joaquin's
men fell dead on the deck, and the
miners fell at the same time. Their
wallets were soon stripped from them by
Joaquin and his surviving companion,
and finding some matches, they set fire
to the vessel, and left her to burn down.
They rowed theirgkiff to the head of the
slough in Stockton, and wended their
way back to their encampment.'Ere day-
light there was no trace of murder on
the slough, but a dark hulk which was
hardly visible on the water's edge. By
this operation Joaquin realized twenty
thousand dollars. Having now between
forty and fifty thousand dollars in gold
dust, he ordered his bands to pack up,
and started for the rendezvous of Ar-
royo Cantoova, passing by Josd Ramune
Carrejo's rancho, and taking the lovely
Rosita along with him, who had been
staying there during his trip to Stock-
ton.
He reached the Arroyo about the mid-
dle of the day, and it was a beautiful
sight that met his eye as he gazed over
the extensive valley, and saw a thousand
fine horses feeding on the rich grass, ot
galloping, with flowing manes and ex-
panded nostrils, in graceful circles over
the plain.
"Valenzuela has done his work well,"
said the elated chief, "ten times better
than I had expected he would. "
Seeing one of his herdsmen looking at
him a short distance off as if endeavor-
ing to recognize him, he rode up to him
and asked him in reference to Valen-
suela.*

"He has been gone,"-said the vaquero,
" about a week-we expect him every
d a y . " I+
The newly arrived party then rode up
to the tents under the trees, and dis-
mounted. The busy cooks hurried up
the fires, and the fresh venison and bear
meat was soon smoking on the irons,
and emitting a most delicious savor, such
as tempts the appetite of a hardy moun-
taineer. Broiledquails and grouse, sweet
and oily, the *latter of which had been
brought from the,'tall spruce trees at'a
height of three hundred feet, by the long
maple-stocked and silver-mounted rifles
which stood at the corner of one of the
tents, were hanging in front of the blaze,
suspended by their necks to branching
sticks driven into the ground. The hot
coffee steamed up from the large pot
with a most stimulating 'effect; every-
thing was spread forth in superabun-
dance, scattered over a large white cloth
that covere# a,-few yards square of green
grass, and ;t a signal from the cooks,
who were also the waiters, forty fierce
and hungry brigands sat down, and with
the utmost expedition consistent with
respect for their leader, made havoc
among the victuals. Just at this mo-
ment a mounted company dashed up at
full speed, giving the well known whoop
by which they could be recognized as
friends, and dismounted. It was Valen-
zuela and a portion of his band, the re-
mainder of whom soon after came in,
driving two hundred and fifty fine Ameri-
can horses before them. The circle was
enlarged, the cooks went to work afresh,
and soon the whole banditti were seated
at theample banquet. Generous wines
stood sparkling in their midst, with
which scarcely any refused to refresh
themselves. Conversation flowed freely,
and each one had a tale to tell of liair-
breadth escapes and daring deeds.
On the following morning Joaquin col-
lected his bands arQund him, numbering
from a late accession of "fighting mem-
bers," as he called them, one hundred

I

men and explained to them fully his,
views and purposes..
He informed them that he could com-
inand, if he desired,'in all two thousand
men who were ready to organize in So-
nora, Lower California, and in this
State, that he had money in abundance
deposited in a safe place, meaning with
his secret partner in Sonora; that he
intended to arm and equip and make a
clean sweep of the southern counties;
that he intended to kill the Americans
by wholesale, burn their ranchos and
run off their property, at one single
swoop, so rapidly that they would' not
have time to collect an opposing force
before he would have finished the work
and found safety in the mountains of
Sonora; that when he had done this he
would wind up his career, divide his
substance with the band now attending
him, and spend the rest of his days in
peace; that he was now preparing for
this grand climax, and that this was the
reason that -he had been so steadily col-
lecting horses.
These avowals leaked out through
persons not sufficiently reticent on the
ranches in the habit of harboring Joa-
quin, and came to the .ears of Captain
Harry Love, whom we have before men-
tioned, and others, causing them to use
renewed exertions to capture or slay- the
daring robber.
The-banditti shouted in loud applause
of their gallant leader. Their eyes kin-
dled with enthusiasm at the magnificent
prospect- which he presented to them,
and they could scarcely contain them-
selves in view of the astounding revela-
tions which he had made. They had
entertained no 'adequate idea of the
splendid genius which belonged to their
chief, although they had loved and ad-
mired him throughout his dangerous
career. They were fired with new ener-
gy, and more than ever willing and anx-
ious to obey him at all hazards, and
under the most disadvantageous circum-
stances.

I

On this same day he dispatched a re-
mittance of $50,000 to his secret partner
in Sonora, under, a strong . force com-
manded by Valenzuela, and directed
Three-Fingered Jack, with fifty men, to
drive off to the same State a thousand
head of the horses which had been col-
lected. Joaquin was accordingly left at
the rendezvous, with twenty-five men,
who had nothing todo but kill game,
and attend to their horses, and clean their
arms.
The widow of Gonzalez, and present
wife of the brute Guerra, who looked
more like a grizzly bear than a human
being, wished to go off with Three-Fin-
gered Jack, but Guerra begged his bro-
ther bandit, of whom he was afraid, so
hard to leave her with him that Jack
forced her to stay. Guerra was by no
means so kind to her as Gonzalez had
been, and one night while he was asleep
she was about to cut his throat, when
Joaquin, who was lying in the same tent.
fiercely told her to behave herself, and
assured her with, an emphasis that he
would hold her responsible if Guerra
was ever found dead about camp. She
threw her knife spitefully toward Jea-
quin and laid down again by her adora-
ble spouse, who snored in blissful ignor-
auce of his wife's affectionate purpose.
Lounging in his tent one misty day-.
for the rainy season had set in-Joaquin
was aroused from the luxurious lap of
his mistress by one of his sentinels, who
galloped up and informed him that he
had just discovered a fresh trail through
the grass, about a mile and a half below
on the Cantoova Creek, and from appear-
ances he should judge there were eight
or ten men. It was important to keep
a sharp lookout, and to allow no Ameri-
cans to leave that valley with the knowl-
edge that it was occupied by any body
of men whatever, as such a circumstance
would materially interfere with the gi-
gantic plans projected. Accordingly, it
was not long before Joaquin was mount-
cd upon one of his swiftest horses and

JOAQUIN MURIETA'

JOAQUIN .MURIETA.

43


44              JOAQUIN MtRIETA.

accompanied by fifteen picked men.
They proceeded to the-trail indicated by
the sentinel and rode rapidly for two
hours, which brought them insight of
ten Americans, who halted in curious sur-
prise and waited for them to come up.
"Who are you?" said Joaquin, "and
what is your business in these parts?"
They replied that they were hunters
in search of bears and deer.
"We are hunters, also," rejoined the
bandit, " and are camped just across the
plain here. Come over with us, and let
us have a chat. Besides, we have some
first rate liquor at our camp."
Suspecting nothing wrong, the hun-
ters accompanied them, and having dis-
nhounted at the tents and turned out
their horses to graze, found themselves
suddenly in a very doubtful position.
They were 'surrounded by a company
more than double their own, who made
demonstrations not at all grateful to
their sight, aid in a few moments they
realized the bitter fact that they were
driven to the extremity of a hopeless
struggle for their lives. They remon-
strated with Joaquin against so shame-
less an act as the cold-blooded murder of
men who had never injured him.
"Yibu have found me here," he replied,
"and I have no guarantee that you will
not betray me. If I do not tell you who I
am, you will think it no harm to say you
have seen a man of my description; and
if I do tell you, then you will be certain
to mention it at the first opportunity."
At this moment a young man, original- -
ly from the wilds of Arkansas, not more
than eighteen years of age, advanced in
front of his trembling comrades, and
standing faee to face with the robber
chief, addressed him in a firm voice to
the following effect:-.
"I suspect strongly who you are, sir. ,
I am satisfied that you are Joaquin Muri-
eta. I am also satisfied that you are a;a
brave man, who would-not unnecessarily  l
commit murder. You would not wish     f
to take our lives unless your own safety  l

I

JOAQVIN MLRIETA.               4

demanded it. I do npt blame   o, foI
lowing the business you do, for desiring
to put an effectual seal of silence on our
tongues. But listen to me just a mo-
ment. You see that I am no coward. I )
do not look at you with the aspect of a
man, who would tell a falsehood to save
his life. I promise you faithfully for my.
self, and in behalf of my companions,
that if you spare our lives, which are
completely In your power, not a word
shall be breathed of your whereabouts.
I will myself kill the first man who says
a word in regard to it. Under different
circumstances I should take-a different ,
course, but now, I am conscious that to
spare our lives, it will be an act of mag-
nanimity on your part, and I stake my
honor, not as an American citizen, but
as a man, who is simply bound by jus-
tice to himself, under circumstances in
which no other considerations can pre-
vail, that you shall not be betrayed. If
you say you will spare us, we thank you.
If you say no, we can only fight till we
die, and you must lbse some of your
lives in the conflict."
Joaquin drew his hand across his broW,
and looked thoughtful and undecided.
A beautiful female approached him from
the tent near by, and touched him on
the shoulder.
"Spare them, Joaquin,   she tremu-
lously whiappred, and looking at him
with pleading eyes, retired softly to her
seat again.
liaising his fine head with a lofty look,
he bent his large clear eyes upon the
young American as if he would read him
like an outspread page. He answered his
glance with a look so royally sincere that
Joaquin exclaimed with sudden energy:
"I will spare you., Your. countrymen
have injured me; they have made me
what I am, but I scorn to take the ad-
vantage of so brave a man. I will risk
a look and voice like yours, if it should
ead to perdition. Saddle their horses
or them, " he said to his followers, "and
et them depart in peace."

-The party were very soon mounted
again, and showering blessings on Joa-
quiu, who had become suddenly trans-
formed into an angel in their estimation,
they took their leave. I have never
learned that the young man, or any of
his party, broke their singular compact,
and indeed it seems to me that it would-
have been very questionable morality in
them to have done so, for certainly, how-
ever much they owed to society, it would
have been a suicidal act to refuse to
enter into such an agreement, and as
nothing but a firm conviction that they
intended to keep their word, could have
induced Joaquin to run so great a risk,
they were bound to preserve their faith
inviolate. If they had a right to pur-
chase their lives at the price of silence,
they had an equal right, and not only
that, but were morally bound to stand
up to their bargain. It would be well
if men were never forced into such a
position, but society has no right, after
it has happened, to wring from them a
secret which belongs to Cm, and not to.
the world, In such matters God is the*
only judge.
CHAPTER IX.
ARRIVALS FROM soNORA - THE MYS-
TERIOUs DEATH OF GUERnA-o1ER-
ATIONS IN CALAVERAS COUNTY -
HAm-BBEADTH ESCAPE OF JOAQUIN.
The month of December was drawing
to a close, and the busy brain of the ac-
complished chief had mapped -outthe
full plan of his operations for a new
year just at hand. It was the year
which would close his short and tragical
career with a crowning glory,-a deedof
daring and of power, which woeld re-
deem with its refulgent light the dark-
ness of his previous history, and show
him to after times not as a mere outlaw,

committing petty depredations aud rob-
beries, but as a hero who has revenged
his country's wrongs, and washed out
her disgrace in the blood of her enemies.
It was time for Three-Fingered Jack
and Valenzuela to return from Sonora,
and'he waited patiently for their arrival,
in order to replenish his purse largely
during the first months of the new year,
so that he might execute his magnificent
purpose without embarrassment or ob-
struction. In a few days Garcia and Val-
enzuela returned, accompanied byan old
guerrilla comrade of the latter, named
Luis Vulvia. The two had lost five
men from their bands, killed in several
skirmishes, on their way back, with the
citizens of Los Angeles county. Further
than this they had received nqinjury, and
were in fine health and spirits, although
their horses were somewhat jaded. Each
leader handed to Joaquin a well-filled
purse of gold coin. Having rested two
days, the major portion of the banditti
mounted fresh horses, and leaving the
remainder, numbering twenty-five men,
at the rendezvous, under the command
of Guerra, with whopi- they also left
the females, not thinking it prudent, in
view of the bloody scenes -which would
be enactedto take them along, they set
out for Calaveras county.
They had not been gone more than
three daysbefore a quarrel arose between
Guerra and his affectionate wife; which
ended in his giving, her a wholesome
thrashing. Shesubmittedtotheinfliction
with great apparent humility, but the
next morning at breakfast time, when
Guerra was called and did not come,
several of his companies went in-
to his tent to arouse him and found him
stone dead. There was no sign of vio-
lence on his body, an d it remained a
complete mystery how he died.: He had
been a hard drinker, and finally his
death was attributed to an over-indul-
gence the night before. But the fact of
the case was, that the unconscious sleeper
had received at midnight just one drop


A

of molten lead into his ear, tipped from,
a ladle by' a small and skillful hand.
Byron hassaid in oneof his misanthropic'
verses:
Woman's tears produced at will,.
Deceive in life, unman in death,"
and the truth of this bitter asseveration
was partially illustrated when the incon-
solable widow wept so long and well
over, the husband, whom she like a
second, nay the thousandth Jezebel, had
made a- corpse.  It is barely possible,
however, that her tears were those' of re-
morse. .She accepted for her third hus-
band a young fellow in the band at the
rendezvous, named Isidora Conejo, who
loved her much more tenderly than did
the brutal Guerra, whom she so skillfujy
put out of the way. This young man
was afew yearsherjunior, but she looked
as youthful ashimself. Twice widowed,
her sorrows had not dimmed the lustre
of her eyes, or taken the gloss from her
rich daik hair, or the rose from her
cheeks. Her step was as buoyant as ever,
the play of her limbs as graceful, the%
heave of her impulsive bosom as entran,.
cing and her voice as full of music, as if
she had never lost Gonzalez or mur-
dered Guerra. There are some women
who seem never to grow old. As each   t
successive spring renews the plumage  c
of the birds, so'with them the passing
years add fresh beauty to their forms, t
and decay long lingers ere he has the  f
heart to touch their transcendent loveli-  o
ness with his cold and withering fingers. o
The fascinating Margarita was one of v
these.   .d
Joaquin with his party, fully bent on  a
the most extensive mischief, reentered  'g
Calaveras county about the middle of  a
December. This county was then, as it t'
is now, one of the richest in the State of  a
California. its inounntains 'weie veined  a
with gold-the beds of its clear and far- s
rushing streams' concealed the yellow  Im
grains in abundance-and the large it
quartz leads, like the golden tree of the  F
Hesperides, spread their fruitful'branches ti

abroad through the hills. Its 'fertile
valleys bloomed with- Voluptuous .ffow-
ers, over whieh you mightwalk as on a,
carpet woven of iainbows-e-:--r waved
with the green and yellow harvests,
whose reedy music charmed' the ear.
The busy whels of the sawmills, with
their glittering teeth, 'rived the mighty
pines which stood like green and spiral
towers, one above another, from base- to
summit of the majestic peaks. Long
tunnels, dimly lighted with swinging
lamps or flickering candies, searched far
into the bowels of the earth for her hid-
den secrets. -Those which were aban-
doned served as dens for the cougar and
wolf, or, more frequently as the dens of
thieves.       -I
- Over this attractive field of his enter-
prises, Joaquin scattered his party in
different directions. 'He entrusted Rels
with thecommand of twenty men; Luis
Vulvia with that of twenty-five, retain.
Ing about fifteen for his o'wn use,'among
whomn was the terrible Three-ingered
Jack, and the no less' valuable Valenzu-
ela, and employed the remaindeas spies
and bearers of news from, one point of
action to another. Reis went up to the
headwaters of the Stanislaus'River, be.
tween whose forks the rich valleys, cov.
ered with horses, afforded a fine theatre
for his operations. On all the moun-
ain-fed branches and 'springs of these
orks, the picks and shovels of thousands.
)f miners were busy, and the industri-
us Chinese had pitched their littleloth
illages in a ,hundred spots, and each
lay hurried to and fro like innumerable,
ints, picking upthe small but precious,
rains. ' Luis Vulvia-as daring a man
s'Claudio, and'as cunning-proceeded to
he headwatersIof the Mokelftine River;
nd detached portions of these twro bands,
t intervals 'ranged the intermediate
pace. Joaqiin himself had no particu.
ar sphere, but chose his ground, accord.
ig to circumstances. Keeping Three-
'ingered Jack with' him" most of the.
!me, he fet once in ia while gavre him-

the charge of small party, with liberty
to do as::'he pleased-.-a favor which thed
bloody monster made good use of, sof
much so that scarcely a man whom hei t
ever met, rich or poor, escaped with hisf
life. The horse which this, hideous fel- '
low rode might have rivalled ." Buceph-
alus" in breadth of chest, high spirit and
strength oflimb, united. with swiftness.
No one but a powerful man could have
rode him; but Three-Fingered Jack,
with a fine Mexican -saddle, (the best
saddle in the world) fastened securely
with a broad girth made of horse hair,I
as strong as a band of iron, and curbing
him with'a huge Spanish bit, with which'
he might have, rent his jaw, managed
the royal animal with ease. To see this
man, with his large and rugged frame,
in which the strength of a dozen com-
mon men slumbered, his face and fore-
head scarred with bullets and grooved
with the wrinkles of grim thoughts, and
his intensely lighted eyes glaring malici-
ously, like caverned demons, under his
shaggy brows; to see such a man mount.
ed upon a raven-black horse, whose nos-
trils.drew the air like a gust of wind into
his broad chest, whose wrathful hoof
pawed the ground as if'the spirit of his
rider inspired him, and whose wild orbs
rolled, from side to side in untameable
fire; would aptly remind one of old Saan
himself, mounted upon a hell-born beast,
after he had been "let loose for a thous-
and years."
'Among the many thrilling instances
of the-daring and recklessness of spirit
which belonged to Joaquin, there is one
which I do not feel at liberty to omit,
especially as it comes naturally and
properly in this connection. Shortly
after he parted  from  Reis and Luis
Vulvia, he went up into the extreme
north of the county. There, at the head
of a. branch of the South ,Fork of the
Mokelumne River, in a wild and deso-
late region near the boundary line 'of
Calaveras and El Dorado counties, werd
located a company of. miners, consisting

of twenty-five men. They were a lopg
distance from  any neighbors, having
gone there well armed on a prospecting
tour, which resulted in their findiAg dig-
gings so rich that they were' persuaded
to pitch their tents and remain. One-
morning while they were eating their
breakfast on a fiat rock-a natural table
which stood in front of their tents-
armed as usual with their revolvers, a-
young fellow with very dark hair and.
eyes, rode up and saluted them. ,He-
spoke very good English, and they could
scarcely make out whether he was a
Mexican or an American. They requested
him to get down and eat with them
but he politely declined. lHe sat with
one leg crossed over his horse's neck
very much at his ease, conversing freely
on various subjects, until JimBoyce, one
of the partners, who had been to the-
spring after water, ,appeared in sight.
At the first glance of him the yoIng
horseman flung his reclining leg back
over the saddle, and spurred his horse..
Boyce roared out:
" Boys, that felloW is Joaquin I --n
it, shoot him!" At the same instant he-
himself fired, but without effect.
Joaquin dashed down to the creek be-
low with headlong speed, and crossed
with the intention, no- doubt, to escape-
over the hills, which ran parallel with.
the stream, but his way was blocked up,
by perpendicular rocks, and his only
practicable path was a narrow digger-
trail, which led along the side of a huge
mountain, directly over a ledge of rocks
a hundred yards in length, which hpng
beetling over the rushing stream be-
neath, in a-direct line with the hill upon
-which the miners had pitched their
tents, and not more than forty yardsdis-
tant. It was a fearful gauntlet for any
man to run. Not only was there dan-
ger of falling a hundred feet from the
rocks, but he must run in a parllel line
with his enemies, and in pistol range for-
a hundred yards. In fair view of him
stood the whole company with their-

4OAQUIN MURITA.      '     4

46

MA Q UZZY A(MURTA.


:I

48

revolvers arawn.  He dashed along
that fearful trail -as if he had been -
mounted on aspirit-steed,shouting ashe
passed:
I am  Joaquin!I kill me if you
X0      a an"     ~ch
Shot after shot came clanging around m
his head, and bullet afterbullet flattened  the
on the wall of slate at his right. In the  caP
midst of the first firing his hat was  tw
knocked from his head, and left his long  mil
black hair streaming behind him.  He  ma
had no time to use his own pistol, but mi
knowing that his only chance lay in the  wb
swiftness of his sure-footed animal, he  the
drew his keenly polished bowie knife in led
proud delance of the danger, and waved  the
it in scorn as he rode on.  It was per- ma
fectly sublime to see such superhuman  nig
daring and recklessness. At each report, lia
which came fast and thick, he kissed the  out
fishing blade and waved it at his foes. pu
He passed the ordeal, as awful and har- tez
rowing to a man's nerves as can be con- tra
,ceived, untouched by a ball and otherwise  bui
unharmed.   In a few moments a loud  da)
whoop rang out in the woods a quarter  in
of a mile distant, and the bold rider for
was safe I                          ani
ut
mo
in
rid
on
CHAPTER X.               rov
tan
JIM  BOYCE AND COMPANIONS MAR      pla
1mAIY AND FOLLOW ON THE TRACK    hit
OF JOAQUIN-BRILLIANT STRATAGEM   lef
OF THE ROBBER CHIEF-HIS INGEN- lat
IOUS MANAGEMENT IN RELEASING     hit
LUIS VULVIA-HE PASSES HIMSELF    rie
OFF AS S. HARRINGTON, OF SAN JosE  doi
--THE 4qUIEN sABE RANCHO, MUNOs,' the
AND JOAQUIN GUERRA'S RANCHO sat
HARBORING PLACEs FOR JoAQUIN tov
MURIETA-THE ROBBERS IN AN ABAN- ag
DONED TUNNEL-LOVE SCENE ON THE in
SOUTH FoRK oF STANISLAUS RIVER, sai

A2ND ROWrr WAs-BRoKEN IN UPON-
GIRI ABDUCTED BY THE ROBBES-
HER SUBsEQUENT FATKL
Joaquin, knowing well the determined
aracter of Jim Boyce, and deeming it
)re than probable that he had hoard of
differentlarge rewards offered for his
pture, or death, amounting to fifteen or
enty thousanddollars, he madeup his
nd speedily, that an attack would be
de upon hirai by the whole party of
[ners,if he remained at his encampment,
ich was some five miles distant from
eirown. Concludingtheycouldnot col-
t their horses together and prepare
eir arms and ammunition in a proper
nner for an attack or pursuit, before,
ght, he conceived a plan, the most bril-
nt and ingenious that ever entered an
tlaw's brain, by which to defeat their
poses andcarry out his own originalip-
tion of robbing them. Knowing that a
il could very well be made In the night
I that it could only be followed in the--
ytime; he ordered his Inen, number-
g fifteen, to saddle up and make ready
a ride.  They obeyed with alacrity,
d without question, andin a few min-
es were on their horses and ready to
ive forward.  The chief led the way
silence, proceeding over the pine
ges in an easterly direction. He rode
vigorously until night,, over very,
ugh ground, having traversed a dis-
ace of twenty miles; but wishing to
ce a still greater distance between
m and the encampment which he had
t, he did not come to final halt until a
e hour. Building a, huge fire, and
ching their animals near by, the wea-
d bandits hastily threw their blankets-
wn and stretched their limbs upon
em for repose. Sentinels alternately
up until daylight, so that at the first
uch of dawn the whole band arose and
aIn started, havinglost only four hours
sleep.  They journeyed on in the
me course, as briskly as possible until

49

JOAQU2h MURIETA.

JOAQUIT MURIETA.

I

I

moon, when, having reached a nice little
valley, covered-with grass and wild clo-
ver, and watered by a beautiful spring
which bubbled up from the roots of a
-clump of evergreen oaks, distant about'
twenty miles from their last encamp-
ment, they stopped for two hours to let
their horses graze, and to refresh their
own rather empty stomachs with the'
sardines and . crackers which they
.generally carried with them. Here they
left strong indications that they had
spent the night, but established the con-
trary fact by riding on for the remainder
-of the day, whose close found them at
.anotherdistanceoftwenty miles. Build-
ingfiresas before, and eating a hasty sujp--
per they again mounted, and having
made a circle of five miles in their course,
-suddenly turned to the westward, and
encamped about three o'clock in the
morning at a spot, distant another com-
mon day's journey from the last starting
point. Thus traveling and resting, after
the lapse of afew days they found them-
selves in the original trail upon which
they started.
Jim  Boyce and company had struck
the path of the robbers on the next
morning after their departure, and had
encamped'each night at the fires which
they-had left, expecting, as was natural,
thAt they would core to a final stopping
place when they had proceeded as far as
they liked. Joaguin smiled with exquis:
ite satisfaction when he perceived that
Boyee was certainly ahead of him, and
from every -indication unsuspecting in
the remotest degree, that his arch enemy
was at that moment in his rear.
At night, after a long day's ride over
rugged mountains and deep gulches, Jim
Boyce and his company, numbering twen.
ty-five men, including himself, were
seated around one of Joaquin's late fires,
which they had re-kindled, quietly en.
joying their pipes and laughing over the
stereotyped jokes which had descended,
like Shakspeare, from one generation to
another, and are too good ever to be

worn out. The heavens -were cloudy,
and a boundary of solid darkness lay
around the lighted ring in whibh they
gat. In the ragged clouds a few stars.
dimly struggled, and the lonesome
scream of the cougar, like the wail of a
lost spirit benighted in the infinity of
darkness, gave a wild terror to the sur-.
rounding woods.
Suddenly and startlingly, the simul-
taneous reports of fifteen pistol rent the
air, the dark outer wall of the fire circle
blazed as if a cloud had unbosomed its
lightning, and the astonished survivors
of the company bounded up to-seefif-
teen of their number stretched upon the
earth, and to meet with the deadly repe-
tition of the fifteen revolvers. Panic
stricken and bewildered, the survivors
of the second discharge, numbering three
men, anong whom was Jim Boyce, fled
headlong into the darkness, and taking
no time to choose their ground, hurried
madly and distractedly away from the
horrible scene. Joaquin stepped quietly
into the circle to see.if Jim Boyce was
killed, but Three-Fingered Jack leaped
in like a demon, with his huge knife in
his mutilated hand, which had lost none
of its strength, but did its three-fingered
work far better than iany other whole
hands could do it, and soon- quenched
the last spark'of beating life in the pale
forms around him. . Every one must
know that death from a bullet flings a
sudden and extreme paleness over the
countenance, and thus the light from
the fire falling upon the ghastly faces
around, displayed a sight so hideous and
harrowing, that Joaquin exclaimed, with
a shudder:
' Lot's leave here. We will camp to-
night somewhere else."
Searching the bundles upon which the
company had been seated, he found in
different buckskin purses a sumramount-
ing to not less than thirty thousand dol-
lars. He also added fifteen exceUent
horses and ten powerful mules to his live
stock.


Jim Boyce and his surviving compan-
ions wandered to the distant settlements,
which,' after, many  har4s'hips, they
reached in safety, and it is pleasant to
add, that in a short time they raised an.
other company with whom they went
back to their rich diggings, and spite of.
their immense loss by Joaquin's rob-
bery, made for themselves ample for-
tunes, with which they returned to the
'Atlantic, States.  Should Jim  Boyce
chance to read-this humble narrative of
mine, I beg him to receive my warmest
congratulations.,
On one of the head branches of the
Mokelumne Rnver, on the last day of
December, a large crowd was gathered
in and arounda cloth building, in a little
mining town, which looked like a half
venture towards civilization in the midst
of that wild and savage region. A tall,
dark-skinned man sat in the middle of
the room, with a huge log chain around
one of his legs. His brow was tall and
massive, and his large gray eyes looked
forth with that calm, cold light which
unmistakably expresses a deep, calcula-
ting intellect, divested of all feeling, and
independent of all motives which arise'
from mere impulse or passion-an intel-
lect which is sole in itself, looking at
the result merely in all its actions, not
considering the question of right or
wrong, and working out a scheme of un-
mitigated villainy, as it would a math-
ematical problem. To the right of this
man sat a huge old fellow, with blue
eyes, sandy hair, and a severe look, whose
scattered law books and papers on the-
table near by, proclaimed himtheJustice
of the Peace in that district-an office, by
the way,asimportant at that time in Cali-
fornia, and possessing a jurisdiction as
extensive as many of the County Courts
in other and older States of the Union..
The prisioner was none other than
Luis Vulvia, who had been arrested on
a charge of murder and robbery in that
town on the day before, under the fol-
lowing circumstances:

AGerman, living by himself in a1w iso-
lated tent, was heard to scream " mur-
der"-three times; hearing which horr-
ble cry, fiv6 or ix men -some two hun-
dred yards olitran upto the place, and at a
glance comprehended the whole scene.
The German lay'withhis throat cut from
ear to ear, and his pockets turned inside-
out.   Lookipg hastily around on the-
outside, tbey  discovered  two  men,.
apparently Mexicans, who dodged on,
the fuiher side of a deserted cabin.
and disappeared. behind some,, rocks..
Going to the rocks and finding no fur-.
ther trace of the fugitives, they went
back and alarmed the whole town with.
a statement of the circumstances. Elery
eye was vigilant tin every quarter, andn
just as Luis Vulvia, who had observed,
the fast increasing excitement, and.
guessed pretty nearly the character of
its cause, was mounting his horse in.
front of a liquor saloon, he was suddenly
knocked down with a bludgeon, disarmed.
and securely bound.   The people -
massa securely guarded him during the
night which was just at hand, intending
to hanghim without a trial on the mor-
row, but were dissuaded-by Justice
Brown, the tall, severe looking man spo-
ken of, who being a man of influence,
and a good speaker withal, convinced
them that it was betterto proceed with
him legally, as there was but little;
doubt of his being found guilty as one
of the murderers,.in which casehe would
deliver him over to theirjust vengeance.
Thus the case stood, up to the moment
in which the subject is introduced,
,The witnesses, who ranat the cry of
murder to the tent, and saw the two.
Mexicans dodging around the house,
could swear no further than that oneof
them was of about, the 'same size and.
shape'as the prisoner. -The barkeeper of
the liquor saloon testified' in addition to
this, that the prisoner rode up to his,
door and dismounted just before his ar-
rest. It was well known also, that a
dozen or more robberies had lately been

I

50

JOA Q UIN N UBIETA G.

JAJQOi TAI        A
committed in that :neighborhood, and
that various personshad met upon the
roads a gang of suspicious looking Mexi-
cans armed to the teeth. This constitu-
ted all the testimony against Vulvia,,
whose person-was unknown to the com-
munity, but whose name was familiar to
all by reputation. Had he been. recog-
nizeg4 as that noted character, no further
inquiry would have been made, but he
would have, been hurried to the -first
convenient tree and hung instanter.
He stoodon a dangerous brink. Being
asked by-the Justice if he had any proof
to offer in his own behalf,.he replied that
hedepended upon sone of his acquaint-
ances coming in during the day, who
would establish his character as an honest
man to the satisfaction of the Court.
He affirmed his innocence in a calm tone,
and an unflinching manner, although,
could-his heart have been read, he relied
upon the possibility of a rescue by his
comrades,. which was indeed a feeble
hope, looking at the immense crowd who
stood scowling upon him from every
side. -A silence of half an hour rested in
the Court, while the Justice was en-
gagedin drawing up a transcript of the-
case as far as it had proceeded, when a
yeongman superbly dressed, and adorned
with a splendid gold watch and chain,
entered the room with gentlemanly dig.
nity,'and politely addressed the Justice
to the following effect:
I"My name, your Honor, is Samuel
Harrington. I am a merchant and
packer in the town of San Jose, and I
am just now on my return from the more
northern mines, to 'which I have been
packing flour and other provisions. I,
am encamped within five miles of this
place, and having heard from a citizen
of your town this morning, that a dark-
skinned man, with grey eyes, was in cus-
tody on a charge of murder, and that al-
though there was no positive proof
against him, yet there was so strong a
prejudice against Mexicans, that there
was great danger of -his being hung by

theinfuriated poplacpit just struckme
that the prisoner ,ggh  , eqpe6f my,
hired men, a Mexican whom j sen4 5rto
town last, night, and:who, much -tmy
astonishment,- did not return. It is in
deed the case. Your prisoner is none
other than my.packer,.and, consequently
cannot be connected with any robbing or
thieving band around here He has
been with me four years, and no man
ever sustained a ,better character. .
shall wish, your Honor, to testify in his
behalf, but before I take my oath I
would like to prove my identity as Mr.
Harrington of San Jose. Please exam-
ine these letters."
He here presented to the, Justice, who
was already favorably impressed, five or
six letters, addressed in different hands,
to "Mr. Samuel Harrington, San Josd,"
and bearing jhe marks of various Post
Offices inthe State. The Justice showed
these letters to several of the crowd,
whose countenancesimmediately relaxed
towards the prisoner.
"Mr. Harrington,".said Pquire Brown,
"your evidence will, be taken without a
moment's scruple."
Harrington accordingly .testified to
the facts which he had already related,
and the prisoner was discharged. ~Many
apologies were made to Mr. Harrington
for detaining his hired man so long, and
after many compliments he aild Vulvia
departed. As'soon as they were clearly
out of town, they both indulged in a
hearty laughs
"How came it," said Vulvia to Joa-
quin, "that, you arrived in such good
time? I had no expectation but to be
hung.
"I happened to reach your camp oit
here in the mountains lastnight, having
met some of our spies who guided me to
it. I had not been there more than two
hours before two of your men came in,
and reported that they had killed a man
in that zittodota totwn and inquired for
you. Your being absent immediately
created apprehension, and having wait-

alWWA

51"


5                        ,JOAQUMlN
ed for you anxiously till morning, we
were at once convinced that ou' had'
been captured. Having most fortunate-
ly in my possession a package of letters
addressed to Samuel Harringtoni San
Jos4, which I had the good sense to
keep, thank God! to preserve at the,
time't got them into my hands,-it imme-
diately flashed on me that in case I
found you arrested, I could pass myself
off for a respectable merchant, and so
save your life. It worked to a charm, as
you see. I make it a practice to preserve
documents of this kind, and I find that
they come in pretty good play."
"But how did you come by them?"
inquired Vulvia.
"Oh, easy enough. I killed a fellow
O  may way down here the other day,
and found them inhispockets ; and d--d
little besides, too."   .
"You remind me," said Vulvia, "very'
much of Padre Jurata, God rest his soul!
He saved many of his followers by being
present at their trials, or introducing
winesses topieve an aWi, orpresenting
foged pardons on the day of execution,
signed in the exact hands of the Provin-
cial avrnors. His knowledge was ex-
tensive, and during his' monkish life
the confessional had given him so many
important and vital secrets connected
with great personages, that he could fre-
quently command the services of the
wealthiest men and the bes) born dames
of Mexico. Besides this, he sometimes'
officiated as one of the Fathers in the re-
mote towns and villages."
Thus conversing, they rode on to Vul-
via's camp, some ten miles in the moun-
tains, and were met by a welcome shout
from their subordinates.
While at this camp, resting his horses,
a messpnger arrived from Reis on the
Stanislaus, with the news that hehad
killed one hundred and fifty Chinamen,
and had sent-to the Arroyo Cantoova two
hundred horses since he- had last seen
his chief.

fURIETA.
"Tell him," said Joaquin, "it is all
right, and to go ahead; I-will send him.
word before long. Tell 1him hereafter
to send his horses for safe keeping to
Quien Babe Rancho, Rancho Mulos, or
Joaquin Guerra's Rancho, either of the
three."
Reis had managed most cnungly.
Hid in an old abandoned tunnel, out of,
which he had whipped a gang of wolves,
he nor any of his party had beeAn seen
by daylight at all.  All his thefts and
robberies had been: done in thenight.
The miserable OChinamen were.-mostly
the sufferers, and they lay along the
highways like so many sheep with their
throats cut by.the wolves. It wasa pol-
itic stroke in Reis to kill Chinamen in
preference to Americans, for no one cated
for so alien a class, and they were left to
care for-themselves.
One moonlight night at the houz of
twelve, when silence had fallen upon the
world of mountains, woods and valleys,
and all quiet spirits were asleep, Reis
issued from his tunnel, three hundred-
feet under ground, with three men, and-
getting out their horses from the corral
of a friendly rancho near by=-who was
kind enough to take care of them, no
doubt from disinterested motives-they
started on a pleasure trip up a rather
lonesome road, which led along a branch
of the SouthForkof the Stanislaus River.
Coming in sight of a neat looking frame
house, Reis, bent upon an adventure,
dismounted, as did also his followers,
and hitching their horses on the roadside
walked stealthily up to the house. At
the first there appeared to be a dead
silence, about the premises, but going
around on the east side, Reis discovered
a light burning at a window, and draw-.
ing nearer heard the murmuring, of
voices. Not caring particularly what he
did, curiosity led him to look in; which
object he readily effected,'being. a tell
man. The sight that met his view was,
something no less-ravishing than a love

U

scene. Upon a settee onthe further side
of the room, half-reclining, sat .a blsh-
ing girl of seventeen years, her golden
ringlets showered down upon her neck
and shoulders, and her bosom heaving
as if it would burst its gauzy covering
and strike the gazer blind with its un-
speakable loveliness. At her feet, upon
the carpeted floor, knelt a handsome
young man, not more than twenty years
of age, holding her small white hand in
his, which ever and anon he hurried to
his lips, and seemed to devour it with
kisses. Shb could not restrain his wild
transports, for he caught her with a
lover's fierceness around her beautiful
neck, and' breathed his soul upon her
lips. He sprang to her side and pressed
her to his bosom as if he would blend
his very body with her own. She looked
bewildered, the beautiful creature!I one
moment gently striving to wrest herself
from his arms, at another leaning her
head upon his bosom with a sigh of un-
utterable love. It was a light which
might well disturb the equanimity of
any man, and it is not to be wondered at
that Reis looked on like one bewitched.
Fate at last had some mercy on the ban-
dit for after he had swallowed his up-
rising heart a hundred'times with look-,
ing on the.enchanted beauty of the pas-
sionate. girl in her lover's arms, the
latter tore himself away and started forth
from the house. One of the bandits fol-
lowed him as a matter of course, while
Reis hastily concerted with the others
how to act-for he was determined to
abduct the girl at all hazards.
. The young man was walking very
leisurely along In a bend of the road,
when he heard a sharp click just behind
him. With sudden su-prise he looked
around, and there, face to face with him
stood a man, or devil, or whatever else
it night be, with a cocked pistolpoited
within six inches of his head.
"DoWn on your knees, or I will blow
your brains out."

The young man knelt now    from a
different motive to that which made-
him kneel a short time before.
"Shell out you dastardly scondrell"
said the accomplished highwayman.
" There, take it," and threw his pr;se
a few feet from hih on the ground.
,The robber stooped to pick it up, and
while he was bent the young man drew
a small dagger from his -bootleg and
plunge it into his back. It struck him
directly in the spine, .,and the huge-
bodied villain sunk without a groan.
The young man, vaguely suspecting
that there might be dangerlurking near
his Rosalie, went back to the house. To
his horror, his ears were sAluted with a
loud and piercing scream. Like a mad-
man he rushed to the house, and had-
just entered the door . of Rosalie's room.
and taken one glance, Which showed
him the terrified girl struggling in the
hands of a savage-looking monster, when
he was knocked senseless to the floor.
The gray-haired old mother, a lonely
widow, whole . only pleasure was her
daughter, cl'ng to the robber's arm, and
in the tremling accents of extreme old
age, beseeched him-whilethe tears
flooded the wrinkled channels of her
face-to spare her child, her only child.
"Cease your gabbling," said one of
Reis' men, who knocked the old lady
speechless at his feet.
"Who told you to do that ?" said Reis,
and instantly shot the officiouS scoun-
drel through the heart.
"Now my pretty duck you can come
along with me," he said turning to his -
captive.
B'ut at the sight of the ruffian's blow,
which felled her mother, Rosalie's blue
eyes had closed in a swoon, and paleness
as of death had overspread her features.
" It makesmno diference," sad Ieisto
his surviving companion, "she  1ll- soon
get over it anyhow; let usIgo along."
"I 4W't kn9w that I care outgoing
just now," the cut-throat replied, looking

JOAQUI MURIETA..w


as blabk as a thunder cloud, " after what
you have done to Poor Francisco there,"
laying his hand onhis stolat the same
ime.
"You don't, eh ?' said Reis, "then
you are as trifling a scoundrel as he is."
The two fiied at once; the subordinate
fell dead, and Reis was grazed on his
right cheek with a piece of hot, lead,
which made him blush, if his own vil-
lainy did not.,
" Blast the two-miserable scoundrels,"
said he "it actually seems as if some
men had no humanity at all."
Tying the rounded wrists of his lovely
drooping captive with his handkerchief,
he proceeded to the spot where the'
horses were hitched, cut them loose, all
but his own, and mounted into his sad-
dle with his precious booty before him.
The loosened horses dashed back to the
corral from which they had been taken,
and Reis rode on by himself, till within
a quarter of a mile of his tunnel, when
he got down with his now weeping bur-
den, turned his horse loose, which fol-
lowed after the others, and proceeded on
foot at his leisure.
R6salie begged him to release her,
with so mucli sorrowful sweetness in
her voice, With so beautiful an agony
expressivein her whole enchanting form,
that the rocky-hearted Reis almos  're-
pented.of what he had done.
"It won't do," he thought, "to let her
go no, for I will have nothing to show
for my night's work, and how should I
account to the band for the missing
members?"
"Ypu sha'nt be hurt," said he, turning
mildly towards the trembling maiden,
"I an going to keep you'ifya few days,
until I canget a ransom ' for you, which
soine of your friends will no doubt pay,
Wion you send then wa ti byone of our
nunibe-." "
'Theyedn eanhedtheentraice of the
tenel, ifto whidh he dra ed the'shud-
dering giriaild led i halfded' with
terror, into the extreme end, Where sat

his fierce-looking companions in a well
lighted apartment.
The bandits, much interested, gathered
around their captain, who infrmedtlrem
-" that he had attacked a certain house
on the road and succeeded in entering,
but found no money, which disappointed
him so much that he took this beautiful
girl in the place of it ;'' and further sta-
ted, "that in the struggle at the house,
two of his men were killed before his
face, and one was missing, he being pro-
bably killed, as well as the others. As
for this handsome girl," he concluded,
" we may as well keep her for a ransom,
or one of us may marry her, just as we,
see fit."
Poor, poor RosalieI may Heaven pro-
tect you, for man cannot.
Rosalie on the second night after her
capture, resolved tohelp herself. Rising
from a warm couch of blankets already
dressed, and unperceived by the bandits,
who lay slumbering around, she started
into the throat of   the tunnel in
order to find her way out. Pressing her,
hand to her heart to still its.loud beat.
ings, she stepped noiselesslylong, until
she had left the sleeping apartment,
'when looking forward, she saw that
every light in front of her had been ex.
tinguished. Pausing with indefinable
dread at the-thought of walking that
fearful passage alone, she heard a loud
yawn from one of the sleepers, 'as if he
were waking,.and with a sudden move-
ment, which was scarce voluntary, she
shot like an arrow into the blackness
which lay before her. On and on, and
on she moved with trembling footstep ,
feeling her *ay on the sides of the tun-
nel, and placing her feet each time with
tihe idescribable terrible felingthat she
might be stepping off Into some deep
abyss below  It seemed ages to her, be.
fore she could reach the entrance. Oh,
that she might but catch one friendly
glimpse of light I Itapeara a faint,
flickering gleam in the 'distance. Wiih
hurrying feet she approaches,-larger

I

andlarger it grows,- until shesees the
lamp, like a full-blown rose of light
-swinging from the arch;. joy I her escape
.is ertain. She stands now in the fall
!blaze, shjIe-sees no one, and with a more
.confident heart pursues her way.. She
was now near the entrance. She saw the
moonlight flooding the world without,
and rushed eagerly forward. A huge
.fIgure started suddenly before her, and
rthe beautiful girl fainted. It was h bad
.titne to swoon, but how could so delicate
.an organization, fit only to be played
,upon by the subtlest flashes of thought,
.sporting in rainbow-fancies, sustain so
,rude a shock ? She fell gasping for
breath, and the sentinel, for it was he,
.carried her to the apartment which she
had left, and tenderly laid her upon her
.eguch, without disturbing any one in
the room, and hurried back to his post.
So tenderly delicate was this innocent
-creature, so divine the appealing spirit
of her eyes as he looked into her face, that
eis could not find it in his heart to treat
ber with anything but the profoundest re-
spect. He had seized her in a moment
'of passion, stung with her voluptuous
-beauty, and would at that moment have
-fought for her, as for a conquest of so
anuch of Heaven itself. Such is the mad-
,dening effect of beauty upon the hearts
of menI But on sober reflection he ban-
ished the vain idea, which he had -been
foolish enough to vaguely entertain, that-
.she could ever love a man like him, rude
.and uncouth as he was, and seriously
,contemplated restoring her to her aged
and widowed mother, and one whom he
knew that she loved. Confused and tor-,
mented with 4oubt, she was a continual
trouble on his hands. He was not scoun-
drel enough to force her into a vile posi-
tion, and he was afraid to leave her for
a momipt in the hands of his less scru-
pulous cgqrades. Already had they be-
'gant"iVnragr athim for his weakness,
and be ad-boon forced to threaten some
of their lives, if they did not keep their
stance from the girl. There was dan-

.55

ger of a mutiny, and-so: critical wasbis
situation, thatnotwithstandinghediead-
ed Joaquin's,'ppinion of his' conduct in
this specific matter, yet he longed to see'
him.
Reis was sitting one~night, moping in
his tunnel like a grim wolf, and scowl-
ing discontentedly, around him, for he
had done nothing for a week, when, the
sentinel came .in attended by two per-
sons, whom he left standing before Reis,
and returned tQ his post. The melan-
choly bandit raised his head, aid beheld
his now dreaded chief before him. Joa-
quin glanced hastily around the room
and beholding th6 captive girl reclining
mournfully upon her couch, he started,
and with a sudden fierceness, which
made every man in his presence quail,
turned to Reis, and said with 'a look that
rived his soul:
" How is this? Did I ever instruct
you to engage in a business of this kind?
Explain yourself, or by G-d, it will not
be well for you."
Reis begged him to listen patiently;
and related every circumstance connected
with the girl's capture, his killing his
two comrades at the time, and everything
which followed subsequently.
Joaquin"was in a tempest of anger.
"So you have done nothing but Mope
for the past week,---essential service you
have rendered to our organization. Reis,"
he continued, convulsively clutching his
pistol handle, "if it was any other man
but you, I would kill him on the spot.
.1 would shoot him like a dog. - But d-n
you," he exclaimed with sudden vehe-
mence, while his eyes blazed as none but
his could, "have you done her any in-
jury ? Have you taken any advantage
of that girl, sir?"
"No, no.  You know that I would
scora to do that," replied Reis.
"I believe you, and it is'well that it
is so Reis;" he, continued in  calmer
tone, ,".I Am surprised, at you. W I ay
never done a thing of this kind. I have
higher purposes in view than to torture

- AJtOAQUW MURIETA.

J0 AQUINM .MURIETA.


58                   JOAQULh! URIETA.

innocent females. I would have no
Woman'sperson without her own consent.
I have ead of robbers who deliberately
ravished tender and delicate females, and
afterwards cut their throats, but I des-
pise them. I am no such robber, and I
never will be. Reisk I ought to kill you,
but since you have had 8ome honor and
manhood about you in this rascally mat-
ter, I will let you off this time. Get you
in readiness, and we will, you and I
alone, return this girl to her mother, if
the poor old woman be alive, and forth-
with set this matter right. I wouldn't
at such a time as this, be bothered by a
frivolous matter of this kind, for all the
women in the world, spread out in a
perfect sea of bosoms and lips !"
Rosalie, who had been listening with
intense interest to every word, at this
moment sprang towards the young chief,
whose appearance was far from forbid-
ding, even to the most refined female,
and in a fit of uncontrollable gratitude
and rapture, at the prospect of her deliv.
erance, threw her arms around his neck
before she thought. Recovering her-
self instantly, she thanked him in a dig-
nified manner for his noble conduct, and
told him that she respected him from
the bottom -of her heart, robber as he
was.
Joaquin looked at her proudly, as he
laid his hand upon his breast, and said:
"Yes, Senorita, I am a man. I was
once as noble a man as ever breathed,
and if I am not so now, it is because men
would not allow me to be as I wished.
You shall return to your mother and to
your lover, if I die in bringing it about."
,On this same night at eleven- o'clock
stood the frane house on the road that
leads up on a branch of the South Fork
of the Stanislaus River, the same as it
was on , that happy, sorrowful night,
when Rosalie was embraced by her
lover, and torn from -his presence. In
one of the rooms sat her old disconsolate
Another, whose withering life was alone

sustained by the hope of seeing her
daughter again, and near her the young
man Edward      . He was comforting-
the old lady with assurances, -which did
not quiet his own heat, for he had rid.
den day and, night over one-half of the.
county, making inquiries in every quar-
ter, but'not a trace could he find of the
missing girl or her abductor. His face
was pale and thin with anxiety, and his.
voice had something hollow in it, as-
though the vampire of despair was suck-
ing his heart's blood. lHe began to. be-
lieve that his adored Rosalie was lost to.
him forever, and wandoomed to a fate he-
could not contemplate without ashudder-
ing chill. . After soothing the feeble-
brain of the old woman with what he
knew to be the merest illusions, he had
subsided into silence, and was eating his-
heart in bitter regret, when a sudden
tap was heard on the door and in a
moment leaped into the room the very
object of his thoughts. The neeting-
,was such as might be expected.- But I
will not fill this sheet with an attempt
at a description of it. Edward's rapture,
astonishment, bewilderment of joy I-the-
old decrepid mother's scarce audible-
syllables, and her far more expressive
tears. Rapidly was her story recounted
by Rosalie, and with such enthusiasm
did she dwell on the heroic conduct of'
Joaquin, that her lover almost became'
jealous of the young robber. She made'
him swear that he would never Injure-
that man, whatever he might do to.
others.t
"I won't touch Joaquin," he replied,.
"if he lets me alone, but as for that other
bloody beast. I will kill him the first
time I lay my eyes on him."
Joaquin at this moment walked in,.
and stood before the young mah. Reis.
very prudently remained on tha outside,.
after hearing the 'obseryation which haA
just been made respecting him.
"I have done you a favor, Sir, said
Joaquin, "and now I want you' to keep

this matter a profound secret. Never
breathe my name out of this house. I
will be iut this county for some time, but
you apid yours shall not be troubled.-
But if you betray me, I will scatter to
the winds all that you have, and all that
you love."
" It is hard," said the young man, "to
be under'obligations to.a man like you,
but I will be silent."
"1And who are you, pray, that talk as
if it were stooping to be'under obliga-
tions to a man like me ?" and the fiery
spirit of Joaquin leaped into his eyes.
He touched the hilt of his bowie-knife,
when a supplicating look from Rosalie
checked him.
Edward--drew his revolver half out,
but Rosalie touched his arm, and with a
reproachful look, said to him---.
"Fie, fie, Edward, you forget yourself.
You wouldn't harm the man whohas re.
st9pred me to your arms?. Why, Ed-
ward, would you make me despise you?
I care not If he were a robber a thousand
times, he is a noble man; shake hands
with him," and taking his hand with her
left, and the robber's with her right, she
joined tyem together with a gentle force.
Sternly the young men looked at each
other for a second, and then,-with a half-
friendly, half-defiant smile, they parted.
Joaquin and Reis rode off, the one
somewhat reconciled to his subordinate,
since the issue had been good, and the
other delighted beyond all bounds at the
happy turn which things had taken.
"I would have given her up long
ago," exclaimed Reis, " but my men
would have killed me for it, I am certain.
It was fortunate that you came wheli
you did,'or the poor girl would have been
far worse off than she is now, the beauti-
fulcreature that she is!" said he, with
enthusiasm.
Iosale and Edward-, were shortly
afgr married. They kept their secret
wWile Joaquin lived, and for my par, I
do not blame them.

CHAPTER' XI.
TERRIBLE1 SCENES IN CALAXERIA5 COU1N-
TY-MORE HARBORING PiACES ?OR
THE ROBBERY NAME--DSPiEATE.
CoNFLICT OF DEPUTY s,HERIFfhLLAs
WITH JOAQUIN AND EIGHT o       UIS-
MEN.
The new year opened-the ever mem-
orable year of 1858-and by the middle-
of January the bold -and accomplished
bandit was ready to enter upon a series
of the bloodiest scenes that ever were
enacted in the same space of time, in
any age, or country. Calaveras county,
,as I have said before, the richest, 'or
among the richest, at least, in the Gold.
en State, he chose as the theatre of hla
operations, and never as a region so.
scourged and desolated. Detached par-
ties numbering four, five or a dozen men
were scattered over the face of the whole
country, apd so diverse were their opera-
tions, so numerous and swift that TshaII
not attempt to give a minute account of'
all of them, but shall confine myself par-
ticularly to the individual movementsof'
-Joaquin, and strictly to those facts which
are absolutely knownw, and traceable to
their original source.. It may be dis-
tinctly set dovn, however, in the outset,
that though many villainous deeds which
transpired in the short period which I
am about to make a sketch of, were mys-
terious and unaccountable; many mur-
ders committed in parts remote from
each other, robberies here, thefts there,.
and destruction, lightningfooted, tread-
ing everywhere, invisiblein its approach,
ptnd revealed only In the death trail
- which it left behind, yet all this mighty
and seemingly chaotic: scene had ,ts
birth in the dramatic brain of Joaquin-
an author.who acted out his own trage-
dies I Pivergent so were the innumer-
able lines of action, yet they wws, YAl
concentrated, morally, uponaqnpoint,
and directed to one purppse,tbAt whi
existed is the breast of Jvaquin.

JOAQ UM- MURMTA.                 5T


J#AQUIN AUTIETA.

There was not a town of any import.
ance in that whole region in which he
had not a spy, one or more, located; not
-pue in which he had not his agents and
secret friends. He lacked not for har-
boring places in which to conceal his
wounded men and stolen animals. Nu-
'merous ranchos, owned by " wealthy and
respectable men," as the world goes,
hhave been mentioned to me as places
whichh afforded him refuge and assis-
tance whenever needed.  Among the
'number which were named with particu-
dar emphasis, were the Los Alamos Ran.
.cho, on the Rio .Napoma, the Ortego
Rancho and the Concho Rancho. Some
-of the suspected ranchos, it is but justice
Ao say, have since changed hands.
Around San Andreas, Caliveritas and
'Yackee Camp, numerous thefts and rob-
beries had been committed in the space
'of a ew weeks. Property was missed,
but no one knew whither it was gone.
Men were murdered, and the bloody
hand- remained unseen. Yet everyone
knew that thieves and murderers walked
Amknown in the midst of the commu-
nity.  The strange dread hung - over
-every face, and gave vigilance to every
-eye. The fearful shrunk back from a
'danger which they could feel, but not
see. The bold stood forward with their
.ive in their hands, to search into, find
"and face the perils which existed around
'them, the more terrible that they were
disguisedd and concealed.
Among the boldest, most'firm and en-
-ergetic, whom the crisis brought forth,
-was Captain Charles H. Ellas, of San An-
Areas, who -in his capacity as Deputy
Sheriff'of Calaveras county, took the lead
tli ferr ting out the perpetrators of these
Ioul deeds. He was a young'man of fine
asieaance, slenderly formed,butniaking
Fup fbr'the want df sUperIor' strenigth'in
Mget ctvity and a"toishing 'power-s of
'e6ndurande. His eyes "were keen, quick
Miidifiahing, touched with itfi&amp;eeness
-4life'itttinfes seeimed'td scofhhebe
it fell. "- f i iAa son of the Soith,

he had grown up under a discipline
which taught him that honor w~as a
thing td be niaintained at the sacrificeof
blood, or of life itself ; that fear *is a
keeling toobase to harbor 'in,   manly
breast, and that ,Ae was a coward who
would not give the question of his rights
to the arbitration of steel or of the dead.
ly ball. Already did his bqsom bear the
marks of severe and dangerous hand-to-
hand conflicts,. a trial of muscle, nerve
and skill, in a game whose stake is hu-
man life, and whose hazard is eternity.
At a juncture so important as the
period of which I speak, a man like Elluas
was most naturally looked to as a lead.
er, and entrusted with a large amount of
discretionary power, so necessary to be
used in perilous times, when the slow
forms of law, with their snail-like pro-
cesses, are altogether useless ind inef-
ficient.
The first opportunity which presented
itself for anything like determinate
action, occurred about the middle of Jan-
uary. Some horses were stolen at the
town of San Andreas, and a description
of the Mexicans who took them had been
given to Captain Ellas,'who In the
course of a day's ride -on the various
roads, accidentally discovered the party
on the road leading from Yaekee Camp
to Chaparral Hill. They had added two
to their number, who were not per-
ceived, however, by the captain at the
first glance. Seeing two mounted men
on a small hill to the left of the road, he
hailed them, and requested then to come'
down as he had something to say. One
of them replied:
"If you want to see us more than we
do you, come to us."
Whereupon Ellas advanced, but the
intermediate space being marshy, much
rain having lately falen, hs hoPrse miredI
st) bad'tha he" dlimoiintel."FProeedn
on foot, he heard a rustlingin telbi-ush-
to the rilhthich sounded 4ery muc'h
like an ambush, ready to brstfort4 , t
he kept on. his way. When within

~JOAQUIN MURTET A.                          59
t  wh   he had  scoundrel, and leaving the country in a
spoken, he saw that they had drawn  few weeks after his connection wih7a-
Srevolvers. This hostile movement, quin was discovered, he joined &amp; n#, a
e the rul    Tin hse mrush to the  petty robber of some note in the south.
right convinced him that he was acting  He had not been with that leader lng,
veryimcprodent part, and that he wa before he secretly assassinated him cut
even then in  t vr imminent danger. off is head, and delivered it to the civil
With much presence of mind he looked  authorities of the town of Los Angeles
behind him, and gave a signal-whistle, for a reward of five hundred dollars,
as if he had a company in waiting, which which had been offered for it.' This act
,stratagerm succeeded so well that the two  of treachery did not avail him much, for
Inopen sight rode slowly over the hill, he was afterwards arrested on a grave
and those who had been concealed pre- charge, and thrown into prison, and
,eipitately left the thicket  Going to .afterwards hung,
where his horse was feeding, he mount.
-ed and rode over to Yackee Camp, a lit.
tle mining town a few miles distant, in
order to get men to go out with him in
further pursuit. He found no one at all
prepared to accompany him, but a Mexi          CHAPTER XII.
can merchant in the place, named Atana- -
cioMoreno, a man who was worth money, ATTAoK OF JOAQUIn UPON A.MERTOAI!
and stood well in the community. Un-   IN y&amp;cKEE&amp; CAMP-JoAQUqN EMTIES
suspected by Ellas, this man secretly be,  gis srx-sHoOTER, AND THROWS HIS
longed to th6 band of Joaquin Murieta,  SWORD IN THE FIGHT--CAPTURE OF
or, I should rather say, to the tremen-  JOAqi's FRIEND, THE GAMBLER
dous organization which that bold chief- IL,, D DHIS SUMMARY EXECUTION
tain had established throughout the    .-H.A=&amp;ORING PLCES AND DENS OF
country.  The Captain had unlimited    THE ROBBERS MOBBED AND BURNED.
confidence in this individual, for he had
previously assisted him in the capture  It was soon ascertained, that an organ-
of a horse thief, and besides giving him  ized band of robbers was in the com-
much valuable information, had fur- munity of San Andreas and vicinity.
nished men and horses in various expedi- Yackee Camp was discovered to be their
tions started by the honest portion of rendezvous, situated about two miles
the community.                      and a half from San Andreas. .Upon this
He was treacherous, and though assist- discovery, Captain Ellas employed a
ing to capture individuals sometimes  number of spies to gather al the infor-
who belonged to his own fraternity, mation that they could in relation to the
th   were always those whom he hated  thieves and robbers, whose, leader ras
personally.' A  angeious companion In  notthen know. While thee peswere
lon ely ride I Moreno, pretending to  on0, aptain Ellas oe day rodeteYac-
ave watched through his spies the  kee Camp, and was seated on hi horse
movements of the depredators, led the  near a little drinking hone,  eprvng
wayr over the mountain  rays pd. m      aters nd thung  n that ve  puspi-
gulches, until,,siiset, but no trace of  ius  cig    en h  peived
he    c  o    t  as ond, an the   y9'ng,, bJ~*ayeda,
pysedt ws here enquylhed.
It becmenownefragatwebh64Me pin                     As an     uoDR
for a certsanty., that this man was a  himself, the Captain.  As soon as their


60                  JOAQ TIN M UREIBTA.JT

eyes Met, the young fellow drew the ri
f- shatt over his face, and flinging hi
cloak a little back from his should
dropped his arm down carelessly toward
the butt 9f his pistol. In a moment mor
he turned and walked off. Captain Ella
will no doubt recollect the circunstan
ce, and nmst not be surprised to lear
that tls was none other than Joaquin
himslf, who thus took"hip daguerreo
type upon Imemory, and found it after
wards of much avail n aiding him t
escape danger, and to keep out of th
way when he saw the original at the
head of an armed party, or otherwise to
direct his movements to the best advan
stage.  The Captain did not at this time
even know Joaquin was in the county,
although the renowned robber's name
was familiar to his ears, by the report of
his depredations in other counties for a
long time back.'
The spies,, after the lapse of several
days, returned with the information that
they had discovered several lurking
places of the robbers, among which was
Chaparral Hill, a description of which it
may be as well to give, inasmuch as it
was the Scene of quite an interesting
event.  It lies to the southwest of San
Andreas about four miles, and is nothing
more than an elevated pass between two
steep ridges, which are crowned with
precipitousrocks, whoseintersticeswould
effetually conceal a man from observa-
tion.'Thickets of chaparral cover vari-
ous spots on the tops of the ridges, with
open spaces between, and in many places
the liveoak trees with low branches, and
crooked knotty trunks, form a kind of
natural fortification, almost as perfect as
i they had been arranged expressly for
the purpose. The pass itself is but a
loweringof a long cnrving wall(a natu-
ral wall) whichednnects the two ridges
together, andbetween these ridges a Ing
hollow leads up, and terminates at the
pass. By the foot of the hollow run a'
dear little stream,,margined with green
alleid Willwareek, because it is

.

m   fringed so beautifully with the lithe and
is graceful trees of that name.  ehindthe'
r, curving wall described a steep dyseent
d  goes down to the valley below  and is
e  covered  with nimense ,rease ood
s  thickets, taller than a mai's head,
- through which a party pursued could
a  make a safe retreat, and though which
, it would be dangerous to follow them,
A few tall pines stand isolated here and
there, on the different eminences, which
o  shoot up in rugged majesty from' the
e general outline. Oneridgeterminatesat
the connecting wall, but, the other
stretches on a mile or two beyond it,
marked by a bridle trail, which suddenly
plunges into a succession of deep ravines
and gulches, lined with greasewood and
low timber-lonely and sombre looking
places I From this pass, or any place
adjacent, a view of the country is com-
manded many miles in extent.
A few days after the return of the
spies, a gentleman by the name of Hall,
who kept a rancho on the road leading
from Mokelumne Hill to San Andr
called on Ellas and- informed him that
three Mexicans .had passed his house
that morning, who looked suspicious,-
they having but two horses, and one of
the men in consequence mounted behind
another. One of these men hiad been
detained by him at his house, having
stopped but a few moments while the
others rode on, but remained no longer
than he saw fit after all, foi upon the
first movements towards preventing his
free agency, he drew a revolver and
walked out. Hall and a man named
Davis followed the party about a mile,
and saw where thef had left the main
road, and  ione up Murray's Creek. '
Ellas mounted his horse, accompanied
by his fiend, a young lawyer of fine
parts, by the name of Why. J. Gatewood,
who had practiced at squirrels and tur-
keys In the woods as much as he had
practiced at the bar, and was as  killful
in drawing a."bead' as i drawing a
brief-and attended also by Hall, Dayls

JOAQULY XUBMTA.                 61'

and another man whose name is not re.
membered--HaU being proirided ,with i as
pistol =Davis with a'rifle, and the other
man-with ayager.- -The party numbered
five',-hastily gotten up,; and but, poorly
preparedfot a combat ; but supposing he
was only on the track of three Mexicans,
the Captain proceeded- o4 their trail.
Immediately after; starting he met a
gentleman named Peter; Woodbeck,
whom, having a little business with, he
requested to ride back a short distance
withthe company. Arriving at Murray'sI
Creek he struck a fresh trail of two
horses, se expected, about a mile from
San Andreas, leading behind, a ridge of
mountains that skirted -that little town
-showing that the riders had kept them-
selves concealed from view of the main
road, until immediately opposite San
Andreas, at which point they had evi-
dently ridden to the top of the ridge, and
who no doubt saw their pursuers start
out, and at the same time counted their
number. The trail from this point led
over the mountains towards. Yackee
Camp, which'gaveEllas to suppose they
were a part of the band said to, be' lurk-
Ing about Chaparral Hill. He immedi-
ately sent Peter Woodbeck . to San
Andreas with a request to Alcalde Talia-
ferro to send two parties of men, each
numbering five, and have them stationed
on the different trails leading from the
Chapairal Hill. The Alcalde being ill,
was unable to attend personally to the
request, but used every exertion in hi
power by his agents, to raise the tw(
iwrties needed, unfortunately withou
succes.,'Under the impression that th
men would be stationed as desired, th
Captain rode on. The trail wound alonh
in a very circuitous manner over thi
roughest possible places, so that it wa
in the afternoon before he reached th
foot of the hollow before spoken of, a
Willow. Creek, only four miles from Sa
Andrews Ascending the hollow, th
pursuing party immediately saw on tb
curve of the pass of Chaparral Hil

several Mexicans mounted upon fMe
horses and -rode up towards them until
within .rifle shot,, when they halted.,
Two or three of the Mexicans rode down
behind some bushes and rocks on the
slant, and commenced firingS at them,
with :Colt's heavy pistols, bat without
effet  Ellas and party immediately
shifted their position to a place within
fair pistol shot, during which movement
Davis levelled his rifle at a fellow par-
tially hid in the rocks, and evidently hit
him. The man with the yager in;vain
tried to fire it-it would not " go off'.
and  the  weapon  remained   useless
through the whole fight, as well as the
bearer of it, who had. nothing else with
which to do battle.   Though -sadly
needed he stood neutral, as far as any,
service he could do was concerned, but
served admirably well as a target for
the bandits to -practice at, nevertheless.
To aggravate the state of things, Davis,
after discharging his rifle, could find no
more bullets in his pouch, and was thus
also rendered unable to do anything.
Only three men therefore were left to do
the, fighting I The Mexicans -noticing
this dilemma, dashed along ' the curve
of the hill,'nine in number, splendidly
mounted and well 'armed-some were
observed to have two -revolvers each.
While passing they fired about twenty
shots, but were riding so rapidly that
they could notshoot with much precision.
As it ;was, Gatewood's mule was se-
s verely wounded in the neck, and bled
o  profusely. A ball passed across Ellas'
t  breast, burning a hole in the side of his
e  vest, and another went through his hair.
e  After this swoop of theirs they retired
g  to their first position. Aportion of them
e  then dismounting, crept down behind
a  the bushes, so as to get near enough to
e  Ellas' party to make a dead shot, and
t . commenced firing, but not with the de-
n  sired certainty, for Ellas and Gatewood
e - had dismounted, and were somewhat
e  protected by their animals. The Cap-
l, tain finding an opportunity for the first


tine to fire with any chance of' hitting
'shotdat! large Mejiean who stood or
the edge of a bush, who suddenlyretire
to thetop othehe hil.  ipon the repor
of his pistolhis ma;rea-fine, well traine
animal, went down the hollow abqui
four - hundred yards towards Willovw
Creek; when one of the mounted Mexi
canssdashed around as if to secure her.
She-ran- back towards Eilas, and the
Meican followed to within seventy
yards, immediately below him. Ellas
fireal, and the fellow sunk on the neck of
his horse, apparently badly wounded.
Four or five of the Mexicans noticing
this, galloped along the ridge towards
the side of the hill to which the wounded
Mexican had retired, and effeetually cov-
ered his position, so that it was impossi-
ble toapproach him without receiving
their fire. He was then wrapping his
red scarf around his breast, as if endeav-
oring to- stop the blood. Ellas' horse
soon dashed to the left of the Mexicans,
and came up to him, when he mounted
and led his party around towards the
right hand ridge, in order to gain the
summit, if possible, which object he
hoped to 'effect while the opposing force
was somewhat separated. In passing
under a steeprocky place, Gatewood ex-
claimed, " There is a Mexican above us I"
and had scarcely finished the sentence
before the fellow commenced firing with
his revolver. He fired three distinct
shots at a distance of not more than forty
yards. Ellas suddenly wheeling his
horse, discovered him almost perpendic-
ularly over his heai not more thin
thirty yards distant, mounted upon a
white horse; and taking a steady aim
with his six-shooter, pulled the trigger.
The Mexican fell back 'upon his saddle,
wounded in the breast, but soon recover-
ing himself put spurs to his horse and
darted out of sight.      0
Up to this'time the Captain had -con-
cluded to risk this very disadvantageous
battle, in the hope that the two parties

, sent by Peter Woodbeck wold; maite
a  on the two trails in,,the rear of theerobe
d  bera ibut ;finding that they wroe ,not
t likely to come;, and knowing~that'hewas,
I  exposing himself and his comrades to be:
t shot down in detail from behind the rocks
and bushes, he decided to retire ,to the,,
foot of the hollow, where his opponents
could not assail him without exposure ta
themselves  They did not follow him,
and after a shortconsultation with his,
comrades, he started back for San An.,
dreas, which he reached withoutdifficul1
ty, and immediately proceeded to organ,
ize a party. While doing this, word
came from Yackee Camp that six men,
evidently, of-the, same band, had come
down into that place from the -direetion
of Chaparral, Hill, and without, a mo.
ment's parley, had commenced killing
the few Americans with whom they hap.
opened to meet. Joaquin (for it was with.
him that Ellas had been fighting with.
out knowing it) rode among the houses
during the shooting, and remarked:
"This is not my fight; this Is Bill's
fight," alludingto an affray between one
of his friends, named Bill, who was a'
Mexican gambler in the place, and some-
Americans, which had occi-ded a short
time before.
When this remark was made Three.
Fingered Jack discharged his pistol at,
an American who was standing near,
and killed him on the spot. Another
American whom   Joaquin recognized,
started to run; he was on foot, but ran,
with as much speed over 'the rough
ground, which had been dug up and
ditched in various places by the miners,
as did the robber chief, who pursued him
on horseback. Leaping and plunging
through the holes and ditches, Joaquin
shot at him six times without effect, and
having thus emptied his- six-shooter.
finally threw athim histwo.edged sword,
which barely missed the poor fellow's
neck just as he escaped in a ledge of'
rocks It was a trying scene for any

rJoAQU~ffjfU1WZTA-i,

A.AQUI-XIMBIRTA.,

one tq pss thorugh).sa,,of a character,
such as he would n9t soon forget. Joa-
quin reloaded hisrevoler, recovered
his sword, and rods a    into town,
swearing that he would get even on that
day's work ifit took him twenty years
for he had lost three of his best men on
Chaparral Hill.
"G.-d d----n that little Sheriff of San
Andreas," said he,, "Iknew him all the
time"
Soon- after, having cleared out the
Americans in Yackee Camp, he galloped
off with his men, numbering six, over
the hills towards the mountains, leaving
one wounded horse, which had been
shot at the late skirmish at the pass.
Upon receiving this information, Ellas
-started for Yadhee Camp with his party,
consisting of six mounted men, followed
by some thirty citizens of San Andreas,
on foot. Arriving at the tragical scene,
they immediately seized the Mexican
gambler Bill, who had been foolish
enough to remain after Joaquin's remark
about him, and having subjected him to
a California trial, they sentenced him to
be hung "forthwith," as a member of
'Joaquin's band. He begged them earn-
estly to spare his life, but finding it was
in vain, his brow darkened, and with an
air of proud defiance he told them to do
their work.
" By going to my trunk," said he,
" you will find a knife, from whose blade
no handkerchief has yet wiped the d-d
American blood."
This speech did not serve to, mollify
the state of feeling toward him, and he
was jerked up into a tree, and strangled
with very little ceremony.
It was now a late hour in the night,
but there remained a finishing stroke to
be put upon the proceedings before retir-
ing to rest. The harboring places and
dens of the robbers were found out, and
the enraged citizens went to work tear-
ing down and burning up the houses of
this character. The cofiagration lit up

the vault of heaven, And its sound roared
among the mountains for iiles-around
Around theasmnouldering ruins, guards
and pickets were stationed till morning
and the wearied citizens slept.
CHAPTER XULI
THERE CoMPANIES -oF AMERICANs oR-
GANIZED -PURSUIT OF ROBBERS
DESPERATE CONFLICT AT THE PHm -
NIX pqARTz MILL-ONE OF THE ROB
BERS WOUNDED AT OCAPARRALHII
FOUND AND TAKEN' PRISONER- HIS
HARBORED -SHOT AND, EILLED-A.
MEXICAN HONG FOR CONFESSION-
HE CONFESSE'S-A SPY CAPTURED-HE
FALLS INTO THE HANDS OF CHEtO-
KEES-MURDERSAND HANGING--DIO-
GER INDIAN AND "PAPER TALK "--
BAD JUDGMENT OF TWO AMERICANS'
AND A GERMAN-CHINAMEN SUFFER-
-THREE-FNIGERED JACK HAS TWO-
TREMENDOUS RACES ON HOIRSEBACK-
MORE , HANGING - SLAUGHTER  0P'9
CHINAMEN-COMBAT BETWEEN PRES--
COTT AND1 JOAQUIN
At daylight three companies were or--
ganized, two mounted and one 'on foot,_
whose object was to'break up the whole
confederacy of robbers and their harbor-
ers, and never to rest uftil the neighbor-
hood should be free from them. A man
named Henry Scroble took charge of one
mounted company, and, Ellas. of the,-
other. The former proceeded over the.-,,
mountains, and Ellas over the lower hills
in a different direction. It was some-
time before the companies could be -fairly
started, and meanwhile'Joaquin, accom;
panied by the five men who were left
to him after the fight at Chaparral Hill,
and who had seen the burning of his
friends' houses at Yackee Camp, had


JOAQ Un MUR tETA.

edmedo*n- full of vengeance, as far? as
the Phoenix Quarts Mill, , few miles
from.Yackee Camp; and there had met
tw  Americans whoin he had immedi-
ately attacked. One of them was Peter
Woodbeek, who was known by the rob.
bears, having been markedby them when
-on the day before Ellas had sent him back
with word to Alcalde Taliaferro. He
was just mounting his horse at the
quartz mill, when Joaquin rode up.
You are my meat," said Joaquin, and
drew his-revolver.  Woodbeck replied,
We will see," and drew his. Three.
Fingered Jack rode towards Woodbeck's
companion, who, being on hoot, fired one
shot from a derringer pistol and dashed
into the mill. Three-Fingered Jack, after
emptying two loads at him as he fled,'
which perforated the building near the
door, dismountedand rushed, with bowie
knife in hand after him. There a des-
perate hand to hand conflict ensued, the
American defending himself with a short
bar of iron. ButThreeFingered Jack
triumphed, and his bowie knife drank-,
the poor fellow's heart's blood. He came
dragging- him out by the hair of the
head, ans1 the fight between Woodbeck
and Joaquin was still going on, the re.
lative positions of the two not allowing
any chance for Joaquin's friends to as-
sist him.  Woodbeck being wounded,
and havingemptied his revolver at his
antagonist without effect, now put spurs
to his horse to fly thefield, and was nearly
out of pistol range when Three-Fingered
Jack fired at the horse andstruck him so'
centre a shot that he fell dead in his
tracks. The bloody monster then rushed
up and"finished " the unfortunate rider
upon the spot-
The bodies of these men. were yet
warm when Ellas and his company rode
up, and "stood horrified at the bloody
spectacle.
The trail of the murderers from the
Qu4rtz Mill was plain, leading over the
San Domingo Creek range of mountains,
following which Ellas and company met

with the foot company, which hadi be
detailed to gothrodgh the toigher pit
of the mountaius section near thie
Cherokee Plat. They gavehim sein -
teresting Informatton, whi'ch- wdW,"ther
they hid found clothing which had e l-
denfly been thrown froti a woundedmn;
and upon the discovery had proaseded
immediately to a camp not far off, where
they found two Mexicans, one of them,
badly wounded. The sound one rose to
his feet, and started at full speed, but
was shot,.so that he died in a short time
afterwards in an adjacent ~thicket to
which he ran before he fell. This indi-
vidual was not a "fighting member.,"
but rather a sly and secret friend, who
had volunteered to take care of one of
Joaquin's wounded men, wfio had been
hit in the skirmish at Chaparral Hill the
day before. They also saw in a neigh-
boring thicket of chaparral three other'
mounted men of the robber band, whom
they did not find an opportunity to at-
tack. The wounded man was still lying
at the camp, unable to get out of the
way without help. It was dark when
Ellas received this information, but do
termined to lose no opportunity of meet-
ing with the scoundrels, he stationed
men around the chaparral thickets to
watch during the night, sent others to
arrest the wounded robber at the camp,
and to convey him to Cherokee Flat, and
hurried off two others to! two different,
ferries on the Stanislaus River, with
orders to the ferrymen to allow no one
to cross. The wounded man being a
trouble upon their hands, and no doubt
being entertained as to his character, the
Cherokee half-breeds, and others at the
Cherokee House, concluded to hing him,
a very necessary ceremony, which was
soon performed
Ellas lay watching the camp from
which the wounded robber had been
taken, all night, in the hope that some
of his companions might come; but none
arrived. Early in the morning he gath-
ered his party and started on a bush

..^ A .

JOAQY MURI

trali6verthe Bear Mountain, scaling its'
i oi.In several paes along
this trilhe found spots whee men had
en~iifstl stppd, and thrownf up clot-
ted blod from their stomachs. Track--
ing on he reached a Chinese Camp,
which the Chinamen informed them had
just been robbed by three Mexicans, who
took their'last dime, and barely allowed
them to escape with their lives. Hurry-
Ing forward from here, he found that
they had crossed the river at Forman's
Rancho, despite all efforts to prevent
them. Upon the other side they struck
the main road which led along its banks,
ajdtheir distinct trail was lost among
the number of tracks common toV a Pub
.1ic highway.a On the next day, still in-
dfatigably searchingthrouighthe woods.
lhe again, found their trail which con-
ducted him within amile of San Andreas,
and  -as again lost in the main road.
All trae of them was then lost for three
,or four days, at the expiration of whicb,
.as the Captain- was riding along with
three followers, a friendly  Mexican'
named Jesus Ahoa came up to him, and
infomed him that he had noticed some
cans leading horses over amountain
near Greserville on the Calaveras River,
who   looked  exceedingly  suspicious
Following Jesus Ahoa as a guide, Ellas
and his three comrades rode tothe moun
-tain indicated, and very readily fellupol
the trail Proceeding a few miles the
found three horses which had been lari
ated on the way in a sequestered spot
bet*en two'steep ridges.
Further on they found two or thre
-mericans, 'who had seen Joaquin an
twoethers pass them not a great whil
before, riding at full speed down th
river,Joaquin being mounted on a tho
oughbred mare. Ellas, with his usu
en igy diligently pursued their trail unt
the dusk of the evening, when he arrive
at an'la lated drinking house, whoseit
mateS refused to give any information
whatever concerning the pursued part
The trail was yet visible, and led dow

to- the bank of the Calavera BVeii
which he crossedfinding the trail With-
out much difficulty. It ranup theriver
a shot distance, and re-crossed it. The
Captain did the same,.and found itagain
upon the first bank. It led out a short
distance towards Angel's- Camp, a little
mining town a few miles off,but doubled
upon itself again, and again crosedlie
river. It was now dark, and Impossible
to find the lost triil, even if it had been
practicable to follow it when found. The
pursuit was accordingly given up for
that night. The next morning -the Cap-
tain rode up to an isolated house in a
wild section of the mountains, where
lived a rough looking Mexican, solitary
and alone, and discovered at his door
the tracks of several horses, which he
knew were the same horses that had
made the trail of the day before, from
the peculiarity in one of the hoof, which'
was very distinctly impressed at every
step. The ill-looking fellow denied all
knowledge of any mounted men havizf
been to his house. A lariat was speedily
attached to his neck, and he was sent up
into atreetoseeifhe culldmot obtain the
desired information. Having boe s6nt
up twice, he ascertained the important
fact that Joaquin had passed his house
the night before with two other men,
- and had told'him that he wa   u going to
n  Campo Seco, on his way to the city of
Marysville in the northern country-
that the neighborhood was getting too
warm for him, and he wanted a little
fresh air ; that he intended to return,ftr
e  he would never rest satisfied until he
d  had the heart's blood, of Elks and the
.e  Mexican who had put the Captain on his
*e trail, etc.
r.   The next day after this the Captain
al  ascertained that Joaquin had crossed the
il StanislausRiver at Lancha Plana with
d  his party,. forcing the ferryman; to- act
n- contrary to orders, and put him over.
n  He had scarcely landed on the other
y. side when he was attacked by Ament-
n  cans, for it-must be bone in mind that


t;h whole country was aroused, who be-
ingsuperior in number, poured hot lead
into his midst with such bewildering
rapidity that he was compelled to fly
with the utmost precipitation, leaving
in, his hurry several very fine loose
horses. It was supposed that -he soon
, afterward swam the river at another
place, andwas still in the neighborhood.
Accompanied by a gentleman from An-
gel's Camp, Ellas went to the fastnesses
of the Bear Mountain range, in the hope
to disOver fresh trails; found one which
led towards a camp called Los Muertos;
the tracks indicating that there were
five mounted men. Being in no, condi-
tion to follow them, he rode over to Cher-
okee Flat,. and requested a number of
Cherokees, locates there, to go out and
way-lay-the different trails between Bear
Mountain and San Domingo Range, to
,which they readily assented. In the
meantime a meeting of the citizens was
held at Carson's Creek, to take measures
in.the pressing exigency, which was up-
that district, in common with others.
AMexican was noticed in the meeting
attentively noticing its proceedings, who
as soon as it was broken up, was seen to
gq to a bakery, purchase a quantity of
bread; and start of on foot toward Bear
1Mountain. He was followed and seized
on the side of the mountain,' and at the
same time his captors discovered three
Mexicans riding on the ridge a few hun-
dred yards above them. One of these
was Joaquin, and the others were Reis
and Valenzuela. The captive ,Mexican. -
was hurried away to Cherokee Flat,
where he was questioned closely in re-
g   d to his conduct. ' He played the
part of an idiot, and would have sue-
ceeded in convincing  the attendantI
orqwd that he was really a poor imbecile,-
had he, not been very well known byI
some of "the boys.", -To bring him toa
his senses, hemp'was suggested as a very
e~caious thig in such eases, and hea
wasjaecordinglyelevatedinto the top of I
a treeto, takea view of the surrounding  i

country. The remedy operated upon hi.
ailment like a charm, and he confessed
without hesitation that hekiew Joa-
quin, Reis, Valenzuela and numerotp,
others of the banditti-: and that; Joaqula
was at this time not far off,, to whom he
was taking provisioxis when he was ap-
prehended. -A  doubt arising In thea
minds of some persons, not noted for de-
cision of character, as to whether it was
right to put the fellow to death, Ellas
left him in charge of the two Cherokee
half-breeds, with the request that they
would give a good account of him, were-
upon the crowd dispersed.'At about
twelve o'clock in the night, the Chero-
kees went to Ellas' house in San An-
dreas, and informed him tlgt they were
ready to give "'a good account "6f the-
Mex;ican. Nothing more was said on
the subject, and the next day ie was
found hanging on a tree by the side of
the road.
Several weeks had now transpired
since the fight on Chaparral Hill, and
notwithstanding the most diligent pur-
suit had been made after the robbers yet
during the whole time they had been
busily engaged in murder,A-eft and
plunder.  They left a broad and bloody
trail wherever they went, and comit-
ted their outrages at times in the very
sight, of their pursuers. Frequently
were the harrowing cries of "murder '
heard just ahead, and hurrying -to the
spot, citizens were found weltering in
their blood, while the audacious bandits
were seen riding off with no great evi-
dence of fear at being overtaken. The
bAnditti were divided the greater part of
the time, into small companies of four or
five; and Joaquin was, seldom seen with'
more than three followers.. Three-Fin-
gered Jack was his constant attendant.
Vulvia was-in the field ; Reis was active,
and Valenzuela was far from idle.
On the 5th of February a Mexicanwas
arrested-by the citizen's at Angel's Camp.
As soon as it was done, a young $onor-
an gambler ran to a horse, hitched ats

JOAQUDNW XU&amp;TA.           67

rach, and was preparing to mPount, nO
doubt to carry information to Joaquin of c
what had'tfianslred, when a pistol-was  tI
cociekdin his face, and he was stopped. n
Inn a few moments it was ascertained  d
that the inA  arrested was one of Joa- u
quiti's band and hei soon made his exit t]
into eternity, from the braili of an oak '
tree, which yet stands at Angel's Camp  f
as one of its memorials.             a
Three or four Germans sleeping in -a  s
tent on a rather lonesome ravine, near a
to Angel's Creek, a few nightsbefore the  t
eveit-last mentioned, were surprised to  f
find themselves suddenly tied hand ande
foot, in their beds, and still more horri-
fied when a scowling band of ruffians
stood over thiem with drawn sabres,
which they drew across their throats soI
'arelessly that it started the blood. The
Gefmans eagerly  ,delivered up what
tontiey they had, which amounted to the
piifus aii of two hundred dollars; at
whihthre-Fingered Jack, for he was
there with his leader, jumped up with an
oath that _nade the poor fellows quiver
whefe they lay, and declared that he
' would aig their hearts out of them for
not having any more, suiting his action
to the word by brandishing his knife over
their heads, and waving it to and fro
withinn an inch of their windpipes. Joa-
quin, however, interfered and prevented
him from executing hii threat, remark-
ing that it was better to let them live,,
Ashe might wish to collect taxes off them
for "Foreign Miners' License,". at some
other time.
One Alexander Bidenger and his friend
G. J. Mansfield, residing at a little place
called Capulope, having learned from
two friendly MemIcans that Joaquinlad
slept there on the night of the second of
February, with other important informa-
tion; concluded to send word to Justice
Beatty the presiding magistrate  at
Campo Seco, not a great way off, and
having written a letter despatched it by
" Diggei Mxpress."

To those unacquainted with Califorida
ustomspit may be necessary t plain,
hat it is common in theimountainsard
dining districts to employ Digger Iu-
ians as bearers of letters, or runners
ipon errands,-from one point to another,
heylbeing very expeditious on foot, and
willing to travel a considerable distant
or a small piece of bread, freshmeator
ragged shirt. I have known ,thtmto
swim rivers, when the waters were high
and dangerous, in order to carry a letter
o its destination. They are exceedingly
faithful in this business, having a super-
stitious dread of that mysterious power.
which makes a, paper talk without a.
mouth.
The naked expressman having been
hunted up, he was charged by Bidenger
to proceed to Campo Sedo without delay,
and to allow no one on the way to read
the paper.. The Digger, as in usual
with these native expresses, got him a
small stick about two feet long,.and split-
ing the dud to the ddpth of an inh or
two, stuck the letter into it,-and, old-
ing it out i front of him, started olr',in
a fast trot. One Of.Joaquin's party -dis-
covered him on the road -abot there
miles from Campo .eco, and wishedto
speak to him, but thelIadian, remember-
ing his charge, broke off at full speed,
bearing the letter triumphantly before
him. The robber fired       c two shots dt th
terrified native, which only -acce ht
his flight.  Arriving at Campo Seco he
entered Beatty's office,and'handed-him
the following unique epistle:
FnnVnART the81858.
I hereby gave notice that there is a thief
and-robber In this Capllpe by the name
of wakeen he siep here last night and he
is Expected to sleap heare tonight thar is
not meu enough here that will Assist in
taking him he has horses tide bask hear
in thehills and six more Men.
i think it my duty to make It known..
Alexander Bidenger and!
G J. Mansfieidr
Rio Carrimo. Bernardo Carasco.

JOAQUTJA V7IYT4


68                      ~TGAQrJLY )ifURIBITA.

JOA Q1JMYMURIETA.6

The   istice having-deciphered th
hieroglyphical characters of thisletter
aatisfactoril'as he dould;,sent aImes
singer t  the keepers of the ferry a
Winter's Bar, toilet io one cross during
the night, believing that, from its prox
imity, "that point: would' be selected by
the robber-for the passage of the river
in case he wasclosely pursued, and hur
ried off -the Constable with a posse to
rescue the six unfortunate men whom
Joaquin had "'tide" out, in the hills.
Arriving at Capulope in great heat, the
Constable ascertained that there were no
-six men tied out talll, but that the let-
ter had designed to inform the Justice
that Jopquin's party numbered six men.
"It's a pity," -said Bidenger, "that a
man of the Squire's-larnin' can't read no
better than that.  .,-        .
t Nothing was seen of Joaquin in. the
neighborhood,. though diligent, search
was made for him by the Constable froni
the time he left Campo Seco util dark,
but at midnight he rode up to the ferry,
at Winter's Bar, and requested to be set
over. The keepers informed him, that
they had orders from-the civil 'authori-
ties to let no one pass; not even the Gov.-
ernor of the State, whereupon the impa
tient outlaw made such unequivocal, hos-
tile demonstrations,_that the ferrymen
were glad to.set aside the civil author-
ities, and for the time being, to obey
martial law.
L A few days after this, riding .along
with Three-Fingered Jack, and another
member named Pedro, Joaquin met two
Americans and a German coming on foot
from the direction of Murphy's Diggings,
and bound for Australia; as their fgnal
destination. They were laden with gold
dust, which they iend'ed to convert
into bills tof exchange at SanFrancisco,
and committed the great imprudence to
run at the approach of the bandits, who,
having been hotly pursued a few hours
before by a party of citizens, might have
passed on without harming them. See-
ing them take flight, Joaquin said:

s "Those fellowshavemoney; we i 1s"
kill them."p
.    T-he poor, terrified.fugitives each  Op
a, separate course,and it wasiotn0 g
before- they miserably peishedunder
- the murderous-pistols and knives of the
bandits. Dragging fhen;by the hees,,
the robbers, who had sweured-thirteayy
- purses, threw them into a hole rhich:
had been sunk by some prospectors, nd
L covered them partially with leaves and
bushes.,
Riding on a little farther, upon nar-
row pack-trail, which wound along on
the bank of a foaming'- stream that was
almost hid in the deep gorge through
which it ran, they suddenly came .upon
a Chinese camp, containing six China-
men. Though qach had a double-bar-
srelled shot-gun, they made no effortto
defend themselves, but begged for 'their
lives. Joaquin was disposed to spare
them,-but not wishing to leave his por-
trait impressed upon too many memories,
which might prove some day quite too
tenaciousforhis good,hiconcluded to kll
Jack, by a nod from Joaquin, stepped
as well as rob them. Three-Fingered
upto each one, and led himbut' byhis-.
long tail of hair, repeating the ceremony
until they all stood in arow before him.
He then tied their tails securely together,
searched their pockets, while Pedro ran-
sacked their tents, and, drawing his
highly-prized home-made knife , com-
menced, amid the howling and shrieksof
the unfortunate Asiatics,; splitting their
skulls and severing their neck veins.
He was in his element, his eyes blazed,
he shouted like a madman, and leaped
from one to the other, hewing and out-
ting,,as if it afforded hint the most ex-
quisite satisfaction to revel in human
agony.
" Come," said Joaquin, "that's enough,
mount up, and let's be off."
Reaching the main road again In a
few hours they met the mail-rider be.
tween Jackson and Volcano, who, on per-
ceiving them laid whip t6 his very flet

animal and narrowly escaped Three-
td6iiotl the whole race get neare to
hiftthnfiftfy ardsand 'finally halted
'at that distance, addischarged thee
loa of his'revoiver at his slight figure,
ag.he leanedforward withjapparent anx-
ieyt  faster than his horse wats car-
By   odo said Garcia, as he rode back
to oaquin, "Iwouldlike tohave caught
that fdlowif nothing more than to get
his horse.  He flung dirt into my face
faster thi I ever sawit fly from a horse's
heelsbefore."
hil laughing over the very exhilar-
atingrace which they had "just had, a
m   nam edllorsely came in sight, and
was within one hundred yards of the
brigands before he perceived them.
Three-Fingered Jack's appearance was
enough for him without any-further ex-
amination, and wheeling his animal, a
splendid bay inare, he proceeded to plate
as: Auch ground as possible between
himnelf anrdthe dreaded party, whichthey
on the other hand, undertook to dimin-
ish; Neck and heel they had it, for five
miles, up the hills and down, Joaquin
and Pedro a short distance behind, and
the "Knight of the Three-Fingers" close
on to the fugitive, who spared neither
whip nor spur; at one time grasping at
his bridle-rein, at another falling beld
his horse's tail, and at another shooting
at him with an unsuccessful aim. Strag-
.gling travelers on'the road, Jew ped-
deis, almond-eyed Chinamen, and de-
plorably ragged looking|Frenchman, all,
and'everybody who happened to be on
the road, gave way to the frantic rider
and his head-loig pursuers, gazing at
them with unmitigated astonishment,
and thanking their stars that they hap-
pened 'to 'be poor obscure foot-men.
Horsely rode on, and on, and 'on, with
inbated ardor on his oWn part, and no
erceptible failure of vigor on the part
of"his horse, untiiil within signt of a
tbickly populated mining district, when,

giving him a farewell shot -which rang
Fingered aekroare dout tobim:
t You deserve to-, cape old fellow
success to you!" andfalloped back to-
his'-omrades, whohad haltedafewmin-
utes before.  " There's another fine
horse;".said he to his lander, " that we've-
missed getting.
XxNumerous murders having been corn-
mitted, and many parties having failed
to capture the leasling desperadoes, an
excitement prevailed, almost too intense
to be borne, in the whole - county of
Calaveras.
About 'the 19th ,of February, a large-
meetint was held at the town of Jack-
son, at which it was resolved that every-
body should turn out in search of the-
villain Joaquin. A committee of six ien
were secretly sent at midnight to Mokel-
umne Hill to secure a concert of action
there; upon whose arrival, the citizenis
immediately assembled, andbefore morn-
ing two companies were organized, hose
and foot, and placed under the command
of Charles A. Clark, Esq., then Under-
Sheriff 'of the 'county. Thus was the
whole couritry alive with armed parties
whose separate movements it-would be
impossible, 'without - much unneessary
labor, to trace.' Arrests were continually
being made popular tribunals 'estab-
lished in the woods, Judge Lynch in-
stalled upon the benchI; criminals ar-
raigned, tried and executed upbn the
limb of a tree; pursuits, flights, "skir-
mishes '7nd a topsy-turvy, hurly-burly
mass of events, that set narration at de-
fiance. It remains only to give a few
touches here and there, that anidea may
be- gathered of the exciting ,picture
which the state of things then presented.
The Jackson Company Went down on
the west side of the Mokelumne Iiver,
while Clark directed his companies to
sor the woods, and mountains in the
direction of Clampo Seco. ,Fiom Cainpo
Seoe he went to Winter's Bar, crossed
the river,' and rode up to Stone &amp; Baker's

68

tTOAQ','U, ZY %kURI,?9,TA-


av

70.                      JTOAQUIN TURIETA.
I~ancho4we Me1l4e z p heJaksonCoin-  pisol cokea Lu the, vlllai"',fWaee aret-
pany  Lern gtl~.Joa~inhad lttely  ed him, an4 took'hmt$a
d!himt ntoPn.A
been seen aC p Qppra, The united   Tpe pe ple of that place appogisd a
parties surrOunde41 tha*place about day- C committee to
liht ad ~idld llth  ihaitnt,  eprt     ineslge the ca"', az
whoand-               "e      tansreporttheir judgment as to whatihpuld
who were mostly Mexicans, together in  be done in the premises. The Comtzt-
a large tent, depriving them, of their tee ascertained thate was wounded, a
arms, and upon questioning them, ascer- pistol ball having pierced him in such a
tamed that a, Mexican horseman had   manner as to make four different holes
come Lte town the day before' and in- from a twisted posture no doubt which
quired of some women, who were wash- he had assumed, and being able to elicit
ing at the branch near by, if they had  no satisfactory account as to howhe hd
seen Joaquin, and that he paid one of received the wound, they reportedto the
them fifty cents for washing a handker-  crowd that it was their opinion that it
chief deeply stained with blood. Upon would not be amiss to hang him and risk
closer questioning, it appeared that the it any how, whether he was guilty or
Mexican spoken of was himself present not. Finding that he had to go, he con-
in the tent, and he was accordingly led fessed that he was the man whom, Ellas-
forth for the especial consideration of his had shot on Chaparral Hil1, while he was
case. Finding that the trial to which .endeavoring to catch his mare, and that
they subjected him was no farce, and  he was with Joaquin when the, two
that they were actually going to- hang  Americans, Peter Woodbeck and,another
him, he confessed that he was one of the were killed at the Phcenix Quartz Mill.
brigands, and submitted with great com-  The time-honored custom of choking a
posture to be choked to death, This was man to death was soon put into practice,
the end of the hitherto very lucky   and the robber stood on nothing kicking
Juan," for lie seems never to haye had  at empty space. Bah I it is a sight that
a surnae.                          Ineverlike to see, although I'have b9en
While their Comrade was undergoing  civilized for a good many years.
the penalty of death, Valenzuela and a  On the 22d day of the month, one of
few others, ignorant of the circumstance, the pursuing parties mentioned before,
.were robbing a. Dutchman only a few came upon five Mexicans,who were halt
miles off, from whom they "took six hun- ed a few moments at a plape called
dred dollars in beautiful specimens, for Forman's Camp, and immediately fired
which the poor fellow had honestly   upon them, wounding one of them in the
labored six months in the mines. He  hand. Outnumbered, the robbers, among
was fortunate, however, in meeting with whom was the chief himself, rode, off at
Valenzuela instead of Three-Fingered  full speed.  The Americans followed,
Jack, for he escaped with his life after a  and had not proceeded far when pistol
Iong debate between the robbers as to' shots were heard in rapid succession at
the propriety of letting him live, in  a Chinese. Camp at the foot of a hill
which, the Dutchman afterwards aq- upon wAich they were riding. Hasten-
knowledged, he was more interested   ing down to the spot, they found three
than in any question he had ever heard  Chinamen dead, and five others writhing
discussed.                                                            9 -
In their last agonies. The murderers
Captain Ellas about this time heard of were not more than ten. minutes aead.
a suspicious fellow lurking around the  A dying Chinaman gasped out that they
lim onr' Camp of Los Muertos, and  had been robbed of three thousand dol-
mounting his h arserrode over to the tent  lars. Exasperated bend measure at
in1whlich he wa harbored, an'd, with a 'such aud acity, 'the party rode furiously

jiAQTetr&amp;   fURhFTA6                         4
40k hp   'sitt, tterhre'hd~tlives, and:whom nothing can kiA1  bitt
-the~mttl, ipte wthhose o h e  ilebldit
1brigands, anid they vvere forced -'tb  'give -"boiit the flistof Apri, it  ithe i+,tl
iap for thaftay'. On the 29d ltley re- towriof Hrnita'' or t'Lttl Ovit56"ai
s   e thi jtuidiilt passing no less than  American named resbot a
aaio  thoirrnese camps which had been  indriesoilto man,  wa' one niiit
reetyplundeed, and  wardseeni     tinjd. i  formed - by a friendly Mexicaa, who was
cht light of th rascals on  he sun-  a miner" in that district, that Jbaqifn
.git of ahill,engaged atthe moment in  and four or fie ohis men were at thit
jokingg    l down some Chinamen, and  moment sleeping in a hou'  kept la
nobbing them. With A whoop of defi. Mexican woman, on the edge ofthe toW.
on, the daring chief ledof his men be-  "If I point him out to you," said le;
foe theirnfaces, with such speed that  be sure and kill him, for if you don't, my
fthey could not hope ontheir own scrub  life is not worth'three centS.
horses to overtake him.                Prescott raised some fifteen men with
The Chinese, beginning to believe   secresy and despatch, and guided by the
that they were singled -out for destrue- Mexican,gainedthe housewithoutie
tion, were seized with a general panic, ing an alarm. h sttioning his dmen
and by the fifth of March might have been  around the house in every neeusstryi-
-seen flocking from the mining districts in  rection he andlefew'others  utiiny
'hundreds -and thousands to the towns  entered. Candles were still berningt ,
and cities. Mention the name of Joquin  and everything was "isblein the room.
-to one of these Chinamen now, and his   There theyare,"whispred the trem-
knees will quake like Belshazzar's.   bling Mexican, pointing to sev oualheps,
Having ravaged the country for sev- rolled up in blankets, and slippingout
'eral long, and, to the people, distressing  as soon as he had spoken.
weeks, and having lost some of the bray-  One of the party, holding IL candle
.est and most useful members of his band, over Joaquin's face, in his anxiety to see
and having aroused his enemies so that  if there might, not possibly be a mis-
hey met him on every trail, and sur- take, startled the formidable chief from
pricedd him at almost every encampment; his slumber, ah6iwithna rapid  return of
:having, besides this, collected 'by his  consciousness, which belogsto menia-
plunders a large amount of money, Joa- customer to danger, rose like ligtnig
quin concluded to abandon Calaveras, to his feet, cocking his pistol, as fitwere,
.and try his hand awhile on the citizens  in the very -act of waking, and fired.
.of Mariposa. ' Of course that county suf- The astonished caundleholder staggered
fered. but it will not be necessary to re- back, severely wounded in the side.

count anything like the entire series of
his fearful deeds, in that devoted region,
.as it would only be a repetition of the
bloody and harrowing scenes which have
.already sufficiently marked these, pages.
His guardian fiend seemed never to de-
'sort him, and he came forth from every
emergency in triumph. The following
incident is but one'among many, which
.shows' the extraordinary, success that at-
tended him and would almost lead -s to
adopt the old Cherokee superstition; that
there were some men who bear charmed

CHAPTER XIV.
COMBAT BETWEEN PRESCOTT AND JOA-
QUIN--ROBBER ' TRANSACTIONS IN
TUBA COUNTY
Prescott, at the moment Joaquin fired
at the candle holder, discharged both
barrels of his shot-gun into the robber's
breast, and was amazed to see him staid

f


JOAQU  MUR TA.

lrga after a momentary stagger, and' re
tmrn the fire.  Prescott very nearly fel
to the floor, a ball having passed clean
through his chest.. The other bandits
inthe mean time having sprung up, blew
 out the lights,'and firing their revolvers,
shifted their positions, so that the Ameri-
cans. discharged their pistols' into the
space merely where their enemies had
stood., Joaquin shot twice -after the
lights were extinguished, hitting a man
each time, and with his pistol clubbed,
troderesolutely for the door., Here he
met an Amw-rican, over whose head he
shattered his pistol, very nearly killing
him on the spot. It happened that at the
Same time that the bandits made their
egress, a few Americans were also com-
ingout, andbefore the two parties could
be fairly separated, so as to render it safe
to fire, the bold robbers had made their
escape.-
It is significant to add, that in a; few
days after this occurrence, the Mexican
informer was found hanging -to a tree,
near the highway, his dead body bearing.
the marks of a recent terrible scourging.
Joaquin was badly wounded by the dis-
charge of Prescott's double-barreled shot-
gun, and Three-Fingered Jack, who was
now continually with hlrp, was engaged-
as he laughingly remarked to an acquain-
tanceafterwards-for threeweeks,offand
on, in picking out buck-shot from his
breast.
"How it come not to kill him," said
he, "the devil only knows., I'm certain
it would have done the job for me."
But subsequent events will show that
Jack himself was equally hard to kill.
Prescott lay for a long time in a doubtful
state, and Joaquin sent spies daily from
his own siek-bed in the woods, to see if
there was any prospect of his dying.
Much to his disappointment l rescott re-
covered, and surely, after all he had suf-
fered he is entitled to live along time.
Valenzuelawasatthistimein thecoun.
ty of Yuba, in obedience to the order of
his leader, who told him to do his best

- in tly space of two weeks, and then t4.
l meet him at the Arroyo Cantoov   r
dezvous.
A description of one or -two scenes
which happened oia Bear 'River, about
twenty miles from the city of Marysville,.
will serve to give an Idea of what be-
was about.  This stream heads in the-
Sierra Nevada foot-hills, and crossing a
broad plain empties into Feather River,.
near the town of Nicolaus. It waters a.
fine agricultural and grazing region, and
housesin the spring of 18A$, as now,.
were scattered at intervals of four, five-
and six miles along its banks. In one of
these hoUses lived an old widow woman.
with her son and daughter. These threee.
seated in their door on a pleasant even-
ing, were surprised, as they lived off the
public road, to see four huge fellows ride
up, splendidly dressed, and armed to the
teeth. One of them had four revolvers-
and a bowie.knife. Dismounting, they
requested supper.  It was soon got in-
readiness by the brisk young lady-and
she was as fresh and rosy a creature as
ever one had the happiness to see-and.
the travelers partook of it most freely; the.
fellow with the four revolvers, who, not-
withstanding his fierce look, was quite-
gentlemanly in his manners, conversing:
with her agreeably, as she politelywaited,
upon them.    The old woman looked
rather suspiciously at the well-dressed
eaters, from under her spectacles, but
said nothing. As soon as they had fin,
ished, Valenzuela, for it was that.worthy
and none other, stepped up to where the-
young man was sitting, and cocking'a,
pistol between his-eyes, asked him if he-
had any objection to having the house-
robbed; if so, to name it.  The old
woman here screamed out:
"Oh Lordl Iknowed it; I seed the-
cloven foot a stickin' out all the time,"
and-continued to cry 'it with such veh'e-
mence that they were forced to put:agag
in her mouth. The young lady saved
themthe trouble~ of using that. precaW-
tion in her case,. by fainting.

.  'he yop ipapnot relishing a cocked
p   n lsp face, witha man carelessly
fingering the trigger, very readily gave
bi   p sentpto have the house searched.
-Bvry drawer was ransacked, and every
trtn* burst. ope, and having obtained
a few hundred dollars, the robbers left.
At a late hour in the night another
house was burst open, and the terrified
inmates were dragged outof their beds,
and securely bound hand and foot, be-
sides being gagged, before they awoke
sufficiently to know whether it was a
dream or.a reality. There was only one
man at the house, the rest were women
and children. - All the money and jewel-
ry was taken that could be found, and
among other things, a gold watch, the
chain of which Valenzuela very 'cooly
put over his neck.     I
"Go to that old woman and take the
gag out of her mouth," said he to one
of his men, "she looks as if she were
choking herself to death in the effort to
say something,".
As soon as the gag was removed, she
begged Valenzuela with many tears, to
*give her back the watch, as it was a pres-
ent from a dear friend, and contained a
precious lock of hair.%
,"iCertainly," said the robber, "if that's
.the case, I don't want it," and handed it
to her.
Strange as it may seem at the first
glance, the agel widow felt a sentiment
of gratitude. towards the robber, who
steeped in villany as he was, had soul
enough to answer an appeal of this kind.
The unfortunate family were found the
next morning by their neighbors, still
lying upon the floor,boundhand and foot
Such terror possessed that neighbor
hood for sometime afterwards' that
traveler, no matter how peaceable hisin
tentions, could no more get a hance t(
stay all night on that part of Bear River
than he could fly.- A young fellow from
the mountains, on his way down th
valley, happening to be belated in tha
vicinity, called one night at every hous

in every direction, and was Tefisqd
migtane, Qr hospitality, th ag obpti
'acy which astonmse  ii. sTdoo
were barred on his aPppoah, sfhehad
epa a bearer of4estilsace, and to his-
loud halloos and earnest solicitations for-
protection from the night air, he receiv-
ed the response thatthey had "noacom-
modation for travelers;" and he began to-
believe that, indeed, they did have but
little accommodation, sure enough. It-
was drizzling rain, the hour was late, it.
was dark, and there were many deep-
and miry sloughs, which it was danger-
ous to pass unless In broad daylight.
Directed at each refusal of " accommoda-
tion," to go to another house jist across.
the slough," or "jist beyant that pint,
the poor 'fellow wandered around nearly
all night, narrowly  escaping being
drowned a dozen times, and finally, tow-
ards morning, leaving his horse, tied  o
the bank of aslough and crossing to the
other side in a canoe, he succeeded, after-
fighting a pitched battle with a gang of
fierce dogs, in reaching an old shahty in-
a barley field, whose occupant, a bache-
lor, consented, to his great surprise, to-
let him stay. It seems the young fellow-
was dark-skinned, and unfortunately not-
a very amiable looking .fellow at best,.
and he was accordingly taken for Joa-
quin or some one of his band, traveling-
around as a spy.
CHAPTER XV..
ADVANCING TO A CLOSE-STATE LEGISLA
TURE TAXING ACTION TO PROTECTTH3'
COUNTRY - MoUNTED) BANGEIRS OR-
GANIZED-HARRY LOVE IN COMMAND'
-ON TRACK OF THE BANDITS-"IANG-
o ER8 DIVIDE INTO TWo COMPANIEs-
We come now near to the closing of
e- the bandit'slife; and, for the reasonthat
t  unauthorized and fictitious accounts tf~
e  the manner of his death, have been set

JOAQ U Y N U =,T


afioat, Ihate takeri  r               igaconiipiled, for convelienc  ske,
p  iotng and siftingthefafcts  and gpiroseof reater sed rec, byag'lla
connected with that event,'andth~readei  bodiesofien.
moay rely uponth acouut givii in these  Notrithstadming the slender amont
-ohapters as abisoltelj correct in eyes.  of wages allowed, each-member  ase-
partcul-                            cuired to furnish his own horse, rovis.
So burdensome werethe tributeslevied  ions and equilmeits, at his individual
upon the citizens, that it became a 'fit expense.
subject for Legislative action. The offi-  Without hesitation, nay, with alacrity,
cers of the law in the different counties for it was in consonance with his daring
were either shot down in cold blood or spirit, Love Immediately took the com-
openly defied by the bandits. The con- mand of twenty choice men, selected for
stant arming of private companies for their well-known courage, and led them
the protection of the lives and property  forth to meet .as formidable - a man
of citizens was become too extensive a  as ever figured in the arena of crime.
drain upon the pockets of private indi-  The following is a list of their names:
visuals. In many, agrcultural districts P. E. Connor, C. F. Bloodworth, G. W.
both mMining and agricultural pursuits Evans, Wm. Byrnes, John Nuttal, Win.
were in a measure suspended. Travel S. Henderson, C. V. Mcown, Robert
became absolutely dangerous in the most Masters, W. H. Harvey, George A. Nut.
Open highways, and communication had  tal, Col. McLane, Lafayette Black, D. S.
nigh ceased between important   Hollister, P. T. Herbert, John S. White,
'points. . Women and children in lonely  Willis Prescott, James M: Norton, Coho
Places, suffering from constant fear, were  Young, E. B. Van Dorn and S..K. Pig-
,often removed to more thicl pplae'.ot
iky populated .gott.
localties, with great trouble and at   Several of the names in the foregoing
heavy expense.  American owners of list will be recognized as those of men
ranches were impoverished in a night by  already prominent In the cotnes. in
having every hoot of their stock driven  which they lived, and afterwards occu-
ointo the, mountains and afterward into pying positions of more or less distine-
Sonora.  The condition-of things, in  tion* in' the State. One  of -them repre.
short, became intolerable, and a petition, seated California for two yearsin the
numerously signed, was presented to the  Lower House in the United States Con-
Legislature praying that body to author-  gress, and became involved in a serious
ize Captain Harry Love to organize a difficulty at Washington, in whichhe
company of Mounted Rangers, in order  drew a derringer and killed an  rish
to capture, or drive out of the country, waiter at one of the hotels, who had for
or exterminate the highwaymen. A bill some reason or other attacked him.a The
to this effect was passed, sgned by the  affraywas variously represented biy .the
Governor on the 17th of May, 1853, and  partisan prints of the day, some justi y
a company organized by Harry Love on  ing the act of the California- member
The 28th of the same month. The pay   and othaeersrdenouncingit As&amp; cold
was set down at one hundred and fift   oodedmurder. At any rate, Mr. Her-
4ollars per month per man, and the legal  bert was tried and acquitted.
montence o the company hiited to three  This brave but small party of Mounted
nths,  ile the number of men was  Rangers were looked upon by the anx-
t to exceed tenty, th   object being  ious eyes of the community, from whose,
to surprise andtae, or kill, Joaquin, in  midst they started, as almost certainly
o     en ohe oae numerous expeditions  destined odestriiction. But they forgot
in, whih he wasin the habit of engag- that a leader was now in the field, and

JOAQU(t~tfA
the authority of      , this    leader was bringinglispMlans
Whwh'xPQ~e~P wasapart of the storm- to us is aptly elicited in the foi
l wgcomipritive little incid Ont.I
Wtori   ofpr te frontier settlements, lowig conrvenincidn       -
the civilcommiotiois,,of Texas,land'te Feigoeeeigsmwa                n
t events of the Mexican War; lined for a dram, andunwilling to show
w  as rugged and severe  his own person, he sent from Guerra's
dscpie through wlich it had  raneho an Indian, to bring him a botte
assed dispe strong           and  of liquor from San Jose. After the Dig-
clae i thse mi ws das, as that of ger had started, he became a little un-
the daring robber against whom he was  easy lest the fellow should betray him,
t dand ro posesed a glance as and mounting his horse, 9vertook hiM
qui, and ahband  sudden in the execu- on the road to Coyote Creek, and killed
qicki, and                         himassud
tion of a de adly purpose.         him.
'With untiring energy and most steal-  On the first day of July, seventy of his
thy movements, Captain Love set him- followers had arrived at the Arroyo Can-
self to work to obtain a full knowledge  toova, with fifteen hundred horses, and
of'the haunts of the bandit chief, the  in another part of the valley, Joaquin
latest traces of his steps, and all that was himself, with Reis, Three- Fingered Jack,
necessary to enable him to fall upon him and a few other men were waiting for
at the best possible time and place. the final arrival of all his forces from So-
While on this lookout for him, Joaquin  nora and other quarters. His coires-
was busy in making his preparations pondence was large with many wealthy
for thegrand finale of his career ip Cali- and influential Mexicans residing in the
fornia. After robbing extensively on the  State of California, and he had received
Little Mariposa, and the Merced River, assurances of their earnest co-operation
he proceeded to the rancho of Joaquin  in the movement which he contemplated.
Gluerra,near to San Jose, killing a  A shell was about to burst, which was
Fronchman on his way, who kept the  little dreamed of by the mass of the pee-
Tivola Gardens, and there stopped for a  pie who merely looked upon Joaquin as
few weeks, lying concealed. The Major the petty leader of a band of cut throats !
Domo of this rancho, Francisco Sicarro,
was secretly connected within his band,
and this accounts for his staying there.
In the meantime head despatched Luis
Vulvi to the Arroyo Cantoova, with         . CHAPTER XVI.
ia                                              , t  emv tewoe -t
Orders to remove the women to a place CAPTAIN LOVE WrrH ONLY EIGHT MEN
of. safety in the province of Sonora ; to  COMES UPON THE ENCAMPMENT OF
send Valenzuela, as soon as he should          - REMARKABLE COOLNESS
arrive at the rendezvous, to the same  OF THE BANDIT-DESPERATE LEAP
State with remittances of money, and   ON HORSEBACK-DEATH OF JoAQUIN
with instructions to arm and equip his  ---DEATH  F THREE-FINGERED JACK
followers and adherents there, who'stood  SUBsEQUENT MOVEMENT       A
M waiting, and to proceed himself to the
diferenit harboring ranchos inCalifornia, - GER"-,-OCUIN
and Icollect at the Arroya Catoova all On the fifth of July, Captain Love,
the hores which hlad been left ,upon  who had been secretly tracing the ban-
them fro time to tiine. 'itwashis own  dit in his movemetLts, left with his com-
intention to go to the rendezvous in a  pany the town of San Josd and camped
eli~rttimeand wait for thearrival iofhis  near San Juan for four or -five days,
forces. The extreme caution with which  scouring the mountains in that vicinity.


-70OAQ         MTRIETA.

From San Juan he started in the night
on the coast route, In the Ilirection o
Los Angeles, and tarried anightor two
on the Salinas Plains.'Thnce'boebrWent
across the San Bonita Valleycpibing
just before daylight, without being dis
covered byany one, in asanmll ally in
the coast range, near to Quien Sabe Ran-
cho. Leaving this place, after a short
survey of the neighborhood, he proceed-
ed-to the Eagle's Pass, and there came
upon a party of Mexicans, who were
going, or said so at least, in the Tulares
to capture the wild mustangs, which fed
there in great numbers. From this point
the Rangers divided, a portion going to
the Chico Panoche Pass, and the others
taking a course through the mountains.
They found trails which led both divi-
sions to the same point, that is, to the
Bayou Seetas, or Little Prairie. Before
reaching this point Love stopped a few
Mexicans, who were evidently carrying
forward the news of his advance into
that wild and suspicious region. Sepa-
rating again, the company again met at
the Grand Panoche' Pass, from which
they went on in a body to the Arroyo
Cantoova. Here they found theseventy or
eighty men, of Joaquin's band, spoken
of above, with the fifteen hundred stolen
horses. These men, it would be fair to
nfer, could have annihilated the small
party of twenty men opposed to them,
had they seen fit, and it was a wise act
in Captain Love to deceive them as he
'did, by informing them that he was exe-
cuting a commission on the part of the
State to obtain a list of all the names of
those" who were engaged in mustang
hunting, in order that a tax might be
collected from them.for the privilege, in
accordance -yith a late act of the Legis-
lature. With this explanation, and
going through the farce of taking down
a list of their names, which were no doubt'
fictitious, every one of them, he started
on in the direction of San Juan, but
turned about seven or eight miles off, at

the head of the Arroyo, in orderto watch
f their mbvemenits. It was now the 24th
of the month, on the 'morning of which
tdy he went back to their encampment
and found it wholly  desertedrlota inan
- or horse left. - Fully convinced frm this-
sudden abandonment of the plee; that
- they were nothing'less than a portion
of Joaquin's band, he resolved to follow
their trail. On the 2th,"which *as
Sunday, at three o'clock in the morning,
he reached the Tulare Plains, where he
found they had parted their company-
some going south towards the Tejon
Pass, and others north towards the San
Joaquin River. "Detailing a portion of-
the Rangers to proceed to Mariposa
county with some stolen horses which.
had been recovered on the way, the Cap-
tain, with the remainder of his party,
numbering only eight men, dauntlessly
pursued the southern trail, which led
in the more proper direction for finding
Jfoaquin. Just at daylight he saw a
smoke-rising frqm the plains on his left,
and wishing to allow no circumstance,
however trivial, to pass unnoticed, at a
time so much requiring his utmost vigi-
lance, he turned from the trail an~d'rode
out towards it. He saw nothing more
than some loose horses, until within six
hundred yards of the spot from which
the smoke proceeded, when rising a
mound, he discovered seven men scat-
tered around a small fire, one of whom
was a few steps off, washing a fine look-
ing bay horse with water which he held -
in a pan. Theii sentinel, who had just
been cooking, at thirnoment caught
sight of the approaching party, and gave
the alarm to his comrades, who all
rushed forth in the direction of their hor-
ses, except the man who already held-
his by the lariat at camp. Dashing up
in hot haste, the Rangers succeeded in
stopping every man before he got to his
animal. The Captain, riding up to the
individual who stood holding the horse,
questioned him as to the course upen

JOAQUIN MURIETA. 7
whidhihe and the others were traveling, great and imminent, yet ,no sign of fear
He answered that they were going :to  played upon his c9untenance   le heW
Lot Angeles, Giving the nod to two of his head fyrmy,fnd looked around  rn
bis youg men,,Henderson and White, with a cool and unfiinching'glagieg asif
they stood, watching this individual, he calmly studied the desperate chances
aWhile the Captaiu rode-toward others of of the time.  He patted, from time to
the suspicious looking party, who, I have  time, his horse upon the neck, nd the
omitted to# say, were all Mexicans,, su- fiery steed raised his graceful head
perbly dressed, each wearing over their  pricked up his sharply pointed ears, and
ilnery a costly broadcloth cloak. Ad. stood with flashing eyes, as if ready to
dressing one of these others in relation  spring at a moment's warning.  Lieut.
to their destination, he replied in direct Byrnes, who had known the young rob-
contradiction to what the other had just  ber when he was an honest man, a -few
said, who, flushing up with an angered  years before, soon rode into camp, hav-
look, exclaimed:                     ing fallen behind by order of the captain,
No!I we're going to Los Angeles;"  and immediately on his approach, Joa-
and turning to Love, said: "Sir, if you  quin, who knew him at the first sight,
have any questions to ask, address your- called out to his followers to make their
self to me. I am the leader of this com- escape, every man for himself. Three-
pany"                               Fingered Jack bounded off likeamighty
Love answered, "that he would ad- stag of the forest. He was shot at by
dress himself to whom he pleased, with. several of the Rangers, and attention
out consulting him."                 being momentarily called -away from
The leader, as he called himself, then  Joaquin, he mounted his fine bay horse,
advanced a few steps towards the sad- ~already eager to run, and rode off, with-
dles and blankets, which lay around the  out saddle or briddle, at the speed of the
ire, when Love told him to stop.  He  wind.  A dozen balls: from the Colt's
waited on without heeding the command, repeaters whizzed by him without effect.
when the Captain drew his six-shooter, Rushing along a rough and rocky ravine,
and told him if he did not stop in an in- with that recklessness that belongs to a
stant he would blow his brains out. bold rider and a powerful, highspirited
With a proud toss of his head, and grat- animal,.he leapied froi a precipiceten-or
Ing his teeth together in ragebAstepped  twelve feet high, and was. thrown, vib-
back and laid his hand again upon his lently from hishorse, which trned- a
horse's mane, which had stood quietly  half somersault as he touched the ground
during the moment he was away. This and fell on his back with his heels with-
individual was Joaquin Murieta, though  in a few inches of his master's head,
Love was ignorant of the fact. He was  Horse and rider recovering themselves in
armed only with a bowie-knife, and was  a moment, Joaquin again mounted with
advancing towards his saddle to.get his the quickness of lightning, and was
pistols at the time Love -covered him  again on the wing.  One of his pu-
with his revolver. A short distance off suers, named Henderson,fearlessly leaped
stood Three-Fingered Jack, fully armid after him, while others who were not so
and anxiously watching every movement close behind, galloped around to head
of his chief.' Separated by the Rangers, him at a certain favorable point.  Hen-
surprised, and unable to act in -concert ; derson and horse went through the same
on foot, and unable to gei to their horses, tumbling motions as in the example
were scattered here and there others of - which had preceded him. He was not
the party. The danger to Joaquin was mounted so soon but that Joaquin. was


some'distance ahead before he was fairly
ed -o ren*e the cha e.  The 'bold
iaffi*as fast' escapngdanger on his
swift aad b Intil'seded; and afew more
grous bunds would c     hi beyond
,the, reacehtof gun.-shot, when one lof th
nuui gParty, finding that they could
dt hit 'the rider, levelled his tifle at the
Iorseand sent a ball obhquely into his
side. 'The-noble anmmal sunk a moment,
but rose again, still vigorous, though
bleeding, and was bearing his master as
'if heknew his life depended upon 1him,
clearly outof all reah of a bullet or any
fear of a capture, -when, al'as!I for the- too
exulting hopes of the youthful chieftain,
the poor beast, with a sudden gush of
'blood :from his mouth and nostrils, fell
dead' -beneath him. A fortunate shot,
-whoever aiaed that rifleJoaquin, now,
far'ahead of '1is pursuers, ran on, on
foot They outran him upon their horses,
and:coming again within pistol-shot dis-
carged ,several balls nto his body.
nWhe  the third ball struck him, he
. turned around facing them, and said:
donDon't: shoot any more--the work Is
*done!-"
He stood still a few moments, turning
pale as his life-blood ebbed away, and
sinking slowly t qthe ground upon his
right arm, surrendered to-death.
While their beloved leader was proudly
submitting to the inexorable Fate which
fell upon him, if we may call it Fate,
when it was born from his own extreme
carelessness in separating himself from
the main body of his men, and in a
habitual feeling of too much security at
-bhis rendezvous, his followers were strug-
gling for their lives against fearful odds
'In all directions over the plains.
Three-Fingered Jack;-pursued by Love
himself and one or two others, ran five
miles before he fell, pierced with niie
balls. lHe leaped over-the ground like a
#,wild beast of the-chase, and frequently
-'gained considerable distance ion his
&amp;pursuers,-id'hose horseswould sometimes

stumble in the gopher holes;,and soft
soil of the plain, andi throw their rideis
headlong in the dirt.' When ovprtaken,
he would wheel with glaring eyes and
with a whoop of defiance, diseharge'his
sirhooter. 'Though good shot, oit of
five trials he missed every 1tine.-' Cir-
cumstances were against :him, but- he
was determined never to be taken alive,
and to no proposal to surrender would
he listen a moment, but rian aon aslong
as his strength would: sustain him, and
fought till he fell, dying with his hand
on, his pistol, which he had emptied of
every load but one. He was at last shot
through the head by Captain Love, who
had wounded him twice before in the
long chase. Three-Fingered Jack, anom-
alous as it may seem to be, while he was
the very incarnatioA of cruelty, was At
the same time as brave a man as this
world ever has produced,,and so died, as
those who killed him will testify.
Shortly after the chase of Joaquin and
Three-Fingered Jack commenced, three'
of the band not before discovered, gal-
loped out into the plain from a point a
little below Joaquin's camp fire where'
they had probably-made a small seeprate
encampment the night before, and' dis-
mounted in full view of several of the
Rangers, who approached them on three
sides.  They stood still until within
reach of pistol shot, when they suddenly
sprang into, their saddles, and firing
their revolvers at the approaching Ran-
gers, rode off. The Rangers returned'
the fire with effect, wounding two of the -
men and one of the horses. Their ani-
mals being remarkably swift,%they dis-
tanced their pursuers, and reached the
foot of the mountains without further
injury.: But just at this point one'of the
wounded men grew so faint that he fell
-back in the flight, anda comrade falling,
back also, to assist him, thus gave- the
Rangers an opportunity to come within
gunshot. As he galloped 'off with his
wounded companion to rejoin his broth-

-JGAQVIIT.tt!ZWTA.

i

JOAQ&amp;IN     !URIETA.                        owl
a niliillfulnmarkman called  of Imany an agonized victim, 'and'had
svifle'-At his retreating figure and sent shadowed itself forth upon the horrilied
a; lil it ahis back that made him reel imaginations of thousands who ly
upo4 his horse, and thus added one more  knew that it listed. The head, which.
to the wounded list, which now' coM- for a long time retained a' very natural
prled the whole party. They succeeded appearance, was thoroughly identfed, in,
in escaping, but one of them fell from every qirter where its owner was
hes    s during the following night  known. The hand was also exhibit edin
aid died in a solitary place among the  a glass Case, not to prove its identity,
ioentans                            'though eten that was done, but to give'
The pursuit being ended on all parts the public the actual sight' of an object
'of the field, the lRangers returned to the which had flung a strange, haunting
oint from which they had started. As  dread over the mind, as i it had been a
yet all were ignorant of the true charac- conscious voluntary 6gent of evil ang
ter 6f the party which they had attacke'-. superstitious persons, ignorant "of "the,
DBrnes did not happen to be looking at phenomenon whh. death presats in
Joaquin' when he first rode into 'camp, the growth of the "hair and' nails, were
aid consequently had not recognized  seized with a kind of terror to obspve
himrat all, not being with thoe individu- that thd moustache of the fearfulrobber
als who succeeded in killing him. When  had grown longer since his head had
they .ll got together it was ascertained  been cut off, and that the nails of Three-
that four Mexicans had been killed and Fingered Jack's hand' had lengthened
two'6thers taken prisoners. Going uP  almost an inch.
to-the dead bodies, une'was immediately  The bl9ody encounter being overly  e
recognized by Byrnes as that of Joaquin  gathered up the spoils, which consisted
Murieta, and an-other, by some one else, of seven fine animals, which were after-
as that of Three-Fingered Jack.,    wards restored to their owners, six
It was important to prove to the satis- elegant Mexican saddles and bridles, Six
faction of the public that the famous  Colt's revolvers, a brace of holster pis-
and bloody -bandit was actually killed, tols, and five or siz pairs of spurs. Three
else the fact would be eternally doubted, splendid horses w re killed under their
and many worthy suspicions would   riders in the case.  Five or six. fine
attach to Captain Love. He accordingly  broadcloth cloaks were 'found at the
acted as, he would not otherwise have  camp. Money, there was none. One of
done; and I must shock the nerves of the prisoners,. however, declared .that
the fastidious, much against iy will, by  Three-Fingered Jack; during the chaser,
stating that he caused the head of the  threw away a very large purse of gold,
ienowned Murieta to be cut off, -and to which was encumbering .him in his.
be be hurried away with the utmost, ex-  flight; and it is'probable that others did
edition to the nearest place, one hun-  the same.
dred and fifty miles, at which any alco-  Upon the return of the Rangers from
hol could be obtained in which to pre- this expedition one of the prisoners, after
serve it. Three-Fingered s back's head  vainly endeavoring to persuade his com'
was also cut off, but being shot through panion to follow his example, suddenly
soon became offensive, and was thrown  broke loose from his captors, and plung-
away. His hand, however, was preserved  ing into a deep slough near by, bravely
' terriblethree-fingeredhandwhich  drownedhimself. The other was taken
had 'dyed itself In many a quivering  to Mariposa county jail, and- there, con--
heai;had'torn with itstaloristhe throats fined until the company were ready to-


0  .tTUOA-   rV hU I.

disbandd, when, he was transferred to
2Martez. While the ehe znade, acon-
fession, implicatingl a large numbe gf
Ids cpuntrymen inthe, villainies which
had been perpetrated 'and .as prepared,
to make still more importantdisclosures
-perhaps with the view of kingg the
value of his information weigh against
his execution-when he was forestalled
in-a mysterious manner. The jail was
broken open one night at the dead hours,
,and the prisoner taken out by an armed
mob and hung. The Americans knew
nothing of the hanging, so that the most
rational conjecture, is that he was put
-out of the way by Mexicans, to prevent
the, damping revelations which he cer-
tainly would have made.
Among the numerous affidavits, iden-
tifying the robber's head, the reader may
take the following as specimens of the
remainder. The Reverend Father Dom-
 inie Blaine, who knew Joaquin well, and
who had often confessed wounded mem-
bers of his band, testified as follows:
STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
County of San Joaquin,   1  ,s
on this,- the, 11th day of Atgusto, 1853,
personally came before me, A. C. BAINU,
a Justice of the Peace in and for said
county, the Reverend Father -Dominie
Blaine, who makes oath, In due-form of
law, that he was acquainted with the ho-
torious robber, Joaquin; that he has just
examined the captive's head, n6w In the
ssesion of Captain Connor, of Harry
Love's Rangers, and that he Verily be-
lieves the said head to be that of the id-
dividual Joaquin Murieta, so known by
him two years ago, as before stated.
D. BLAINE.
sworn to and subscribed before me the
day and year aforesaid.
A. C. BAINE, J. P.
Ignacio Lisarrago, of Sonora, well
known in the lower part of the State as
follows:
STATE OF CALIFORNIA,1
City and County of San Francisco.' S
Ignacio Lisarrago, of Soniora, being duly
sworn, says: That he has seen thealleged
head of Joaquin, now in-the possession of
Messrs. Nutail and Black, two of Captain
Love's Rangers, on exhibition at the
saloonii of Johnw King sansome Street.
That deponent was well acquainted with

Joaquin Miirista, and that-the head, se
exhibited ismdwas the eritab e head 6f
Joaquin Marieta, the eelbrated bardls.,
IN410LIAZ4O
Sworn to b0foreme, this 17thdayoftAu-
gust,4185&amp;-
CHAILES D. CARTER
Notary Public.
Affdavits like these, together witb
certificates from sworn officers of the
law,-and the voluntary verbal testimony
of hundreds#of visitors at the different
exhibitions were more than sufficient to
satisfy the legal authorities of the death
of, the noted cbieftain. Accordingly the
Governor of the State, John Bigler,
caused to be paid to Captain Love the
sum of one thousand dollars, which in
his official capacity he had offered for the
capture' of the bandit, dead or alive.
And subsequently, on the 15th day of
May, 1854, the Legislature of California,
considering that his truly valuable ser-
vices in ridding the country of so great
a terror were not sufficiently rewarded,
passed an act granting himan additional
sum of five thousand dollars.   I,,-
The story is told.  Briefly, and with-
.out the aid of ornament, the life and
,character of Joaquin Murieta have been
sketched.  His career was short, for he
died in his twenty-second year; but in
the few years which were allowed him
he displayed qualities of mind and heart
which marked him as an extraordinary
man, and leaving his name impressed
upon the early history of this State, he
also leaves- behind him the important
lesson that there is nothing so danger-
ous in its consequences as injutic to in.
dwiiduala-whether it arise from preja-
dice of color or any other source,; that a
wrong done to one man is a wrong to
society and to the world.
It is only necessary to add, that, after
the death of its chief, the mighty or-
ganization which he had established
was broken up. It exists now enly In
scattered fragments over California and
Mexico. Its subordinate chiefe-awmong

whom is the yet living Valenzul-
lacking the brillinCy and unconquer-
able will of their leader, ill never -be
ble'to revive it in its fullforce; and al-
though a11.the elements Are still in active
existence, they will make themselves
felt in nothing more, it is probable, than
petty outbreaks here and there, and
depredations of such a character as can
easily be checked by the vigilance of the
laws.

Of Rosita, the beautiful and wdl-be-
loved of Joaquin, the writer knows no
further than that she remains in the
Province, of Sonora, silently and, sadly
working out the slow task of a life for-
ever blighted to her, under the rof of
the parents of her dead Jkver.,Alas t
how happy might she not have been had
man never learned to wrong his fellow-
man !

JOAQUIN MURIETA              8

,


O

BANDIT OF' SOLEDAD, SALINAS AND TRES PINOS.
WITH SOME ACCOUNT OF
HIS CAPTURE BY SHERIFF ROWLAND
OF LOS ANGELES.
COMPILED FROM THE NEWSPAPER ACCOUNTS.
SAN FRANCISCO:
FRED'K MACCRELLISI;1 &amp; Co., PUBLISHERS.
1874.

OF
-TIBURCIO VASQULZ
THE


I

As the second greatest bandit of Cal-,
ifornia Tiburcio Vasquez will stand on
the pages of' the history of our State.
It should be remembered that when
Joaquin Murietta roamed, robbed and
murdered, there was but little law in
our State, and the means of arresting
and bringing law breakers to Justice
were scant and inadequate. On the other
hand, the decades that have elapsed be-
tween his time and the years 1878 and
1874, in which Vasquez committed his
greatest depredations, has witnessed the
complete organization of the counties of
our State under the proper authority of
law, police, judges and jury. Hence it
is that the exploits and escapes of Vas.
quezexcel those of Murietta, in being,
performed at far greater hazards, and
against greater odds. One thing, however,
was greatly in his favor,-as was also the
-case with Murietta : in all those, counties
where he operated, he had the moral
support and physical aid of his country-
men, and- especially his countrywomen,
the native Californians. There seems to
be an ever present hostility of -these la-
ter remnants of the early mixed Indian,
and Mexican stock that roamed the hills,
cafions, and all the valleys of California;
- who owned the mighty bands of wealth-
,producing cattle, and whose hospitality.
was ever generous to the stranger knock-
ing at the gates of their haciendas.
.The bitterness and hate engendered by

the Mexican War, is as strong as when
General Scott entered the walls of the
City of Mexico, and Commodore Stock-
ton's flag of conquest was raised in the
bay of Monterey. The .influx that' fol-
lowed the announcement of the discov-
ery of gold, bringing with it new energy,
industry and progress, but.also vice,
crime and outlawry, spreading in every
direction, the evil being felt a thousand'
times more exquisitely than the good
among the quiet loving and indolent Na-
tive Californians, served to intensify the
original feeling of dislike and distaste to
everything American, and caused them-
to view with sympathy-and to lend prac-
tical aid to any man of their own lan-
guage, who madeas his prey the hated
interlopers. With ideas of right and
wrong mixed and sadly confused, wheth-
er he, to whom they granted comfort and
assistance, was a ,bandit. or a patriot,
was of small consequence. Of course in
the higher degrees of the Native Cali-
fornian social order, this feeling was
not shared, but in the grand-majority of
thesp people who were of the poorer and
less thinking class the feeling was of the
strongest in favor of such men as Muri-
etta and Vasquez. For , this particular
reason alone, and not taking into con4id-
eration any other, it may be understood
how for so long a period in the heart of
civilization, Vasquez was enabled to set
the laws of God and men at, defiance.

TIBURCIO VASQUEZ.


Timurcio VASQUEZ
was born August 11, 1889, in Monterey,
perhaps the most thoroughly Mexican
town in appearance, the ways of its in-
habitants, its changes, vicissitudes and
its religious tone, in California, and is
now, at the date of his capture, after a
noteworthy career of murder and pillage,
35 yeaixs of age. - His parents are both
dead, several of his brothers and sisters
are still living, one brother residing near
Monterey, and another in the vicinity of
Hernandez Valley in San Benito County,
and one brother lives in Los Angeles Co.
Of his two, sisters, both are married;
one lives at San Juan Baptista, Monterey
County, and the other at the New Idria
Quicksilver mines.   Vasquez, when
youig, is said to have been unusually
bright, intelligent and smart for his
years. He went to school and received
a fair English education, which he con-
tinued to cultivate and improve in later
years. As a man he possessed more
than an average command of the Eng-
ish language, while his handwriting
was'beautiful. - His parents were people
in ordinary circumstances, owning a
small tract of land and always had
enough for their wants.
The appearance of Vasquez, as he
laid In' the Jail at Los Angeles on
May   fifteenth, the  day  after  his
capture, was that of- a man -with
nothing of the red-handed and fe-
rocious brigand demeanor that his repu-
tation has given him. He is a man of
about medium stature, with a well knit,
wiry figure. He does not weigh over
140 or 150pounds. His complexion is
much lighter than the ordinary Mexican
His features are clear cdt, with an intelli-
gent expression. His eyes are rather
large and of a light gray or blue color.
His forehead is high and his head well
shaped. In manner he is frank and earn-
est, with no disposition to make him-
self a hero His general demeanor is
that of a quiet inoffensive man; and but

for his calm, steady eye, which stamps
him as a man 9f firmness and great de-
termination, no one would take him for
the terrible Tiburcio Vasquez. To show.
how diverselytwo men, different persons,
will describe a third, we give the follow-
ing description of Vasquez, furnished to
a San Francisco journal from official
sources:
A low forehead, and a head of coarse
black hair are little indications of intel-
ligence, and from beneath a coarse, over-
hanging brow gleam two deep-set,.
treacherous, cunning eyes, of which even
a Madagascar cat would be ashamed.
The whole-contour of his fAce suggests-
Indian blood; his cheek bones are high,
his mouth large and coarse,~his beard
and mustache (and the latter extends far
on either side of the upper lip), are of
straight, black hair, and so far from re-
lieving, only serve to render more re-
pulsive his ugly countenance. He stands
5 feet 51 inches high, and is of good fig-
ure, proportionately, but with large
hands--an unusual feature in those of
Spanish blood. Like all of his class, he is
fond of finely and ostentatious display ;
vain to an extreme, and 4 thorough bully.
Perhaps the best description of the ban
dit would be one which would strike the
golden mean between the. two above-
given., Up to, his fourteenth year, al-
though considered very reckless and un-
principled, he had never committed an act
which could bring him within the pale
of justice. But at this period of his ex-
istence an episode occurred which show-
ed the natural bent of his inclination.
HIS FIRST EXPLOIT.
This was in the year1854. . One night
Tiburcio attended a fandango. Insthose-
times scenes of bloodshed at these gath.
erings were of frequent occurrence. A
difficulty occurred between Vasquez and
another Californian about one of -the
pretty senoritas in the rooms. The ,con-
stable of the town, attracted by the noise

a&amp;
cm

TUR UR 010 VASQ UBZ.

enteredthe room, and at once endeavor- although theoffcers wege at one timn
ed to quell the ,disturbance, when Vas- close upon him. In.1864 he vatedbe-
qe turned upon him with a knife and tween the New Almaden, the Gada-
stabbed him to the heart. He fled and lupe. and the  Enriquita5 quicksilver
kept conealed for a long time, but ow- mires.: In the htter part of this year a
jigto the. efforts of his friends, was at muder was . committed at Enriquit'a-
length allowed to roam about as of yore,    A  ITALAN BUTCHER
,withoutfear of - official molestation.
The case was misrepresented to the Was found in his shop one morning
The-cae ws msreresitha bullet hole in his head, and-sever-
Courts, as the witnesses were all country. w  a  -             nd sever-
men of the murderer,. and the matter al knife cuts in his throat and breast.
was merely winked at and looked upon About $400, known to have been in his
as but an evidence of the precociousness shop, was missing. A Coroner's inquest
of the average young Californian of the was held, and Vasquez, who was
times. Shortly after this, 'Vasquez asso- only Californian who could talk Eag-
ciated himself with a band of desperate lish with any degree of fluency  was
characters who were then the terror of sworn as Interpreter. He interpreted so
Monterey County. Stealing horses was well that a verdict was returned that the
their specialty.  The Vigilantes at "deceased came to his death from a pis-
length thinned out the gang, but young tol-bullet fired by some person or er-
Tiburcio, who even then looked out for sons unknown."  A few day afterwards..
number one, managed to escape. He Sheriff Adams, who at present holds the
then transfered his field of operations to same office, received information which
the country north and east of Monterey led him to believe that the murder wan
County, and for two years gave the large committed by Faustino Lorenzano and
stock owners a deal of trouble. In 1857 Tiburcio Vasquez. He had not then ev-
he took a trip to Los Angeles County, idence enough to warrant him  mIak
and for stealing horses, was arrested, ing.the arrests; but even if he h,
tried, convicted, and sentenced to five would have experienced some difficulty
years in the State Prison. He arrived in the matter; for precisely at this time,.
at San Quentin on August 26, 1857, Faustino and Tiburcio mysteriously dis-
Vasquez escaped from prison in a break appeared, and never showed themselves
made by the prisoners on -the 25th of to the officers again"
June, 1859, and for a few weeks kept     AIMR     STYLE or VrLLAY.
quiet at his mountain retreat, near old    anT   Th   OF      uAt.
Dliablo. Chafing under the restraint of  The bandit then chongedhis quarters
his self-imposed seclusion, he burst the to Sonoma and Contra CostawCoutie
shackles and started out on a tour of in- In 1865, after making one or two preda
spection through Amador. He was un- tory excursions near the base of Moun
fortunate enough to be arrested for un-  f    l in th ay of a ranehere
lawfully appropriating a horse, and atuenoia, then father good looking
ter a speedy trial was again taken to  sas   e re easy, graceful, and da
San Quentin, arriving there on the 17th His waysa wor, ayrceuadds
' ofa  Auunti,  18 .  Btherer ms expired  ing, and he had  long  years  before  bee
o    t18of August,    h1863, and on regarded a lady-killer of the ultra typ
.on the 13th Of August.,1   ,6e and  Hiweganes alwd ays was- woman. Th
that day the prison doors opened and His weakness alwaswsonz.T
Tiburc Vaysqhe prisodorthe free father of this girl disfavored Vasquez
minrHe had not been out two months attentions, so one night when everything
befoe he rd o bfih peddler on the was quiet about the ranch, 'Vasquc
nbeforeuhe robbed a nagedt.e eloped with his inamorita. Hedtook il
San Joaquin. He managed to escape, eoe      ilhSia~i

88  TE LTLIIOYASQ~iIZ                      TIUROIO Y ASQ UEZMs'

I

4

hr.


din                   TIW -U 710VA SQUEZ.

rad for Livermore, butin the morning
as overtaken -nsar themission San
Jose by the irate father; Shots-wore ex-
changed,,and Vasquts was woundedin
arn. The girl was struck just
Abovethe right temple by one of, the
shots intended for her lover,which caus
ed her to fall senseless to the ground.
SSlie'recovered in the arms of other father,
the woundedd being -but trifling-while
Vasquez sought safety ini flight.
The next we hear of Vasquez is in
1867. In Sonoma County he headed a
smfaall band of horse thieves, and for a
time carried on things with a high hand,
but in an attempt to run off a drove of
battle, he was caught, tried, and' senten.
ced to four years in the State Prison,
Hearrived there January 18th, and was
discharged June 4th, 1870, by Act of the
LegislaOture. - RA
AGAIN'ON THE ROAD.

they wOrt torMexico, butreturned almost
iminediAttelyiby steamer to Sanfjrancis-
- co. Here PriocopIo remained,A but Vas-
-ques taking a broader viewkof the situa-
tion, resolved to -anke ifor the moun-
tains at-once, which resolve he put into.
- execution, Procoplo was shortly after-,
ward captured in a-restaurant by Sheriff
Morse, and is now serving out a asen-
tence in the State Prison. -Vasquez now,
selected the Cantua Cafion, near the New
Idria mines, as his rendezvous and hid-
ing place. The place is wild and almost
inaccessible, and the entrance is so nar-
row that any one within has phe advan-
tage. One man well armed could easily
keep at bay a dozen persons. But our
subject did not- long remain idle.
A NEW BAND
Was organized, with himself as leader,
Narcisso Rodriguez and Fr'ncisco -Bar-
zillas being members. About the first
move Tiburcio made was to abduct the

From this date the red-handed career dagtro   ero.Gardia, of San Juan.
of the bandit properly begins. Shortly Tiring of the girl soon after, he turned
after his release he joined a band headed her over to the tender mercies of Fran-
by Tonaso Rodundo, better known as cisco Barzillas.
Procopio, -or Red-handed Dick. Some
of the boldest outrages and robberies on     A STAGE ROBBERY.
record were perpetrated by this gang in  The Visalia stage was stopped by the
:the counties of Santa Clara, Monterey, brigands near Soap Lake and all of the
Fresno and Alameda. The murder of passengers were robbed, after which
the Ftenchman at Pleasanton is accred- they were tied and laid on their backs
itedi to this gang. Stages were robbed, in a fielcd and the stage driven- out of
ranches were plundered, horses were the road and around the corner of a hill
run: off - all in alarming succession. out of sight of passing teams. They
Sheriffs Morse of Alameda, Adams and then robbed three or four teamsters o4
Harris of Santa Clara, had made several the road to Hollister, but passed by Was.
excursions after the bandits, but with- son, of Monterey County, who wak then
out success until the spring of 1871, when a candidate for election; without molest-
-Morse, in a pursuit after Procopio, Vas- ing him. He affirms that he had not
quez and Juan. Soto-a terrible trio-  lost three mob. The same- day, on the
came upon the latter in a cabin near -San Juan mountains, Vasques, *ho had
the Panoche Grande. Soto made a gal- -separated from his companions stopped
lant resistance, but Morse . finally got a and robbed-Thomas McMahon, at pres.
bead on him with his Henry rifle and ent a leading merchant of -Hollister, of
the-outlaw fell dead, shot through the $750. When:the news of these daring
brain. Vasquez and Procoplo -escaped. 'outragesreached the -offioers, measures
Thinking the country too hot for them, were at once taken to hunt -he bandits

ing his place of conceahnent  as su
da. The man they wanted, but they  leas
Heny rifle.ote made a motionto draw  knew  it not.  After traveling until
Henryne.    efre     ould do night-fall,a "halt was made near the
his own pistol, ,utk before he: t  bul- Panoche Valley. In the morning their
let. e a-e ineturid wit moving horses were gone-stolen.-it is need-
,Jet. He fired in-return Without motelest  emark that the thief was Tbr
-a muscle, and- the officer dropped to the less to renakta h  he  a  inr
grousd, dangerously though not mortal- cio Vasquez.
lyround dngeously-                  In the Spring of 1872, VasqueZ mage
lyounde D    T              hisheadquarters for some time with Jose
 VASQUEZ RODE SIXTY MILES ' Castro, on the San Benito, midway be-
Tat day, and reached his headquarters, tween Hollister and the Picubo mines.
near the New Idria mines, nearly dead In a short time a new band of foragers
frloss of blood, but about the "gamest" was organized, and one day the inha
seen  Within a tew days of tauts of Hollister were startled witth e
this occurene Brazillas was shot and report that the San Benito stage, and
killed by the officers in Santa Cruz Coun- several people on the ro  had hie
ty;andRorigez  captured, and: at-stpe and robbed by Vasq1lez and, his
ty ; and Rodriguez was               stopepen ad rob Id       ro used ; a
terward tried and convicted of the rob-ag. The citizens Were aoused; a
beries, and sentenced to a term  of gtenp
years in the State Prison. He died scoured, and Jose Castro was capture
there about a year ago from drinking and lynched. Vasquez esctpedas u aseu-
pure alcohol to excess. Vasquez kept About one month from this time Vas-
himself very                         quez, whb had- several feMa  ' acquaint-
IETFREVRLONS        ances in Hollister, paid a visit to the
QUET OR SEVERAL MoNTH.                    'h   ieaderyi        h
town in the night time, andedearly Inthe
He lived in the Cantua Canon and at morning quietly departed, He repeated
the New    Idria mines. The officers thesevisits several times,   gr  he
were informed on many occasions that emboldened by a sense of security, he
Vasquez could be found at or near the actually remained until the latter part
New Idria mines, and several attempts of the afternoon. The Constable of the
were made to capture him, but without place got wind of theproximity
avail. The Mexicans, wo constttredoubtable brigand and or   ir the
almost the entire population of the min  re  of four menrhei a oaneizi
and  the  m ountains  adjacent, were,  with ,Posse , the fur o n , e p r t e  lo t
house, the front Part of wnch-ws a -
but few exceptions, partial to Vasquez. loon. Vasquez, who was on the lookout,
On one occasion, to~illustrate, an officer saw them coming, and, mont h
f the law and two companions went to hours           already sailed and
-the mine to capture the bandit. They standing in front of thehoue
knew he was there, and on their arrive  ingl  anw f an h  se    ede
leisurely awayanwanofloed
the superintendent was sought and ques-  In January, 1873, Vasquez organied
tioned, but he knew nothing of Vas-.ospradoesfranoer
quen's exact whereabouts. After sever- a new gang of'heperdmewaslaidgut
al hours of unsuccessful se          n the Cantoa Cam.
started to return. They ascended a hill

T   URU-O VASQUEZ.
u   c o  none side of which was. a-creek., As
ow.Vagsquei, as Usual, .Could not b yre  aogaMni
capturedd, btd came very near getting in  the roppde  otherealongrAmnin
limbo. He w stoppedby t  Constabled on the oppositese of the ok,
of Santa rs County, whoh   tracked flatlooked outof a wino-
and waited for him. Vasques, on leav   -      TA     AsqEZ

80

.


TBURC  .O YASQUVZ.
THE ROBERY AT -FiaAUGH's FERRY   train on the Southern Pacific Rairoad.
it occed. The band then consisted The banditti selected a spot between San
of August De Bert, Aidon Leiva, Rom- Jose and Glroy, known as "the Divide"'
ulo Gonzalez and Jose Garcia. 'De Bert,- for offensive operations. The plan includ-
after" the robbery, left for Mexico, and ed the cutting and removal of a section of-
has not since been heard from. At this the rail. This was the first exercise on
juncture Cleoraro Chavez and Teodoro the programime. The characteristic lazi-
Moreno joined Vasquez,- and the former ness of the Californians delayed their-.
has since acted as the bandit's Lieuten- preparations, and, as the train was ten
ant and right-hand man. The robbery minutes ahead of time, the affair was an
of the Twenty-one Mile House, between utter failure. As the train approached,.
San Jose and Gilroy, was the next move. the members of the chosen band were.
The hotel was entered in the day time busily engaged in damaging the track..
and four men were robbed, and after- It came thundering down and passed
wards bound and thrown on the floor. them as they sprang back, and whisked.
SheriffAdams started out in .company out of their reach ere any harm could be
with Under Sheriff Sellman to look up accomplished. The officials on the train
the matter, but after scouring the coun- noticed the bandits, and divined the,
try from the Pacheco Pass to the New  true reason of their presence. On the-
Idria they were obliged to return empty eyening of the same day the tragedy at-
handed. Vasquez, Chavez, Leiva and Tres Pinos occurred.
Moreno were at this time arranging for    THE TRES PINOS TRAGEDY.
the expedition to Snyder's store, and On the 26th of August, about 7 o'clock
they* raw Adams pass their hiding places in the evening, two Mexicans rode up to.
ofeters was k ownve  movement of h e Snyder's store from the direction of Pa-
tIhey  was known to telditsture  noche Valley and the New Idria mine,
ey were prepared to elude capture. Dismounting from their horses, they en-
Theyknew when Adams and Selman tered the store and engaged in conversa.
started forHfollister, when they arrived tion with John Utzerath, Snyder's clerk
on the San Benito, where they stopped, In a few minutes five more rode up and
and, when they returned to San Jose- dismounted. Three of the gang-one of
Leiva (at present confined in the Coun- them being the noted Tiburcio Vasquez,
ty Jail, "and to whom we are indebted remained on the outside, while the four
for many interesting facts) says that the others entered the store, leveled their-
Mexicans living in the hills thereabouts pistols at the inmates, and compelled
were, nearly all, either confederates or .h.to lietdownaterwhicmlled
them to hie down, after which all were-
so afraid of the bandit chief as to prevent securely tied. Two little sons of L. C.
them from giving any information that Smith, coming in at this juncture, were
would-leadto his capture.          ordered to lie down. One of them was-
B'ut the crowning conception of Vas- tied.
quez remains to be described. He as-  The robbers went through the, st're,-
pired fo a higher position than that of an appropriating all the cash, and consider-
ordinary highwayman, and evidently able clothing, provisions and tobacco
aimed to perpetrate a profitable outrage The parties on the floor, five or six in all,
that should place him in independent fi- were searched, and their money, watches
nancial position and perpetuate his infa. and -rings taken.
mous memory. Accordingly he gathered  While this was going on in the store,
about him the bravest of his band, and Vasquez was inaugurating a carnival of
prepared to attack-and despoil the pay- blood on the outside. A Portuguese

sheep-herderiknown as Martin, who had
put up his flock and quartered at David-
50d'Hotel,innnkediately adjoining Sny-
deis store, not knowing the character' of
the new-comers, attempted to enter the
store, but was ordered to stop on the
threshold by Vasquez. The Portuguese,
who could not speak English, paid no
attention to the order, and reached the
steps, when Vasquez fired a pistol ball,
which took effect in the herder's mouth,
causing him to fall.' Attempting to rise,
he was shot again- through the left side
of the neck, apd deaths instantly put an
end to his sufferings.

ke
ed
pa
an
pa
ca
st~
fa5
th
st
Be
s
l:

Haley, a teamster who was on the V
road, was ordered to lie down, and, on t
attempting to argue the question, was
knocked down by a powerful blow from
Vasquez' revolver, and remained in a
state of insensibility for some time.
George .Redford, a teamster, at the
time df the initiation of the shooting,
was occupied, in attending to his team,
which stood in front of the store. Vas-
quez, the leader of the gang, who did
allthe shooting, and guarded the ap-
proach to the store, approached Redford
and'ordered him to lie down. The un-
fortunate man, -who was troubled with
deafness, did not hear the order, but, ap-
parently realizing his danger, started for
the stable on a run. ' Just as he reached
the buildinga shot from Vasquez' pistol
passed, through his heart, killing him
instantly. .
When the shooting. commenced L.
Scherrer, a blacksmith, was in front
of Snyder's store in the road. He
started to run and Vasquez fired at him,
'but the'shot whistled harmlessly by and
Scherrer gained entrance to the hotel.
Davidson, his wife and brother-in-law
were inside, and urged them to shut 1,h
door, which was then open, as their live
were in deadly peril. Just as Mrs. Da
vidson was about to do as he requested
one of the gang stationed at the door o
the store yelled out: "Close the door an

A
I'

ep it closed, an yousba'n'  ehih'
." Mrs. Davdson ba got'660, o
rtly closed, when Vasque  rused b
d fired though the dooi thevbil
sing through Davids'on  Ii hrt'id
using instant death.  swif
oddirectly back of-him, received is
lling body in her arms, and together
ey fell to the floor.
Scherrer then started for the second
ory, and from a window anxiously ob-
erved the further movements of thebu-
aws, who were now devoting' thin-
elves entirely to robbing.-. Snyder was,
ne of the men bound in the store, and
was ordered, under the penalty o  eath,
o produce all the available cash nd
notes on the premises.   He gave 'the
obbers $500 in domnd a9'umber of
drafts, after which he was again'bound
and placed -on the floor.
Having secured all of the provisions,
clothing and tobacco that they, wanted,
the robbers started for the stables and
took therefrom seven horses, after which
they decamped in the direction of the
New Idria mines.
THE KINGSTOX ROBBERY,
One night   in December, Vasquez,
with eight native Californians, two Ame-
icans and a negro: tied their horses-on
the bank of the river- opposite Kings-
ton, Fresno county7 crossed a -bridge ion
-foot, and took posession of a hotel: and
two stores on the main street.5 Thrty-
five men were bound by the gang  and
relieved of their money aud.valuables.
The safes and drawers were also rob-
bed of their contents. In this raid they
obtained $2,000 in coin, besides watches
and 'other jewelry. The citizens offthe
. village, on hearing ef the robbery, varied
themselves andopened fire on the band
e its from the opposite side of :the street,
and the fire - was returned  Vasque
- himself was armed onthat occasionwith
1, four navy revolvers, and, though hotly
Df followed up, the gang rnanaged to tiake
d  good their escape and fled in different

TIBURCIO 'ASQUEZ-


Ortiogs. Whe.iz31i0      followed ,in
lose parsvit      ,t;,odays afterwards
o    *eVofdhe baA4t4 ,was captured, ,sodis
A    in he State Prison., Others of the
ad haye bee captured by Sheriffs in
,sothern counties. But until the late
rlljigtachievement of Sheriff Row-
a4' ParPty, the chief defied pursuit.
After the Tres Pinos robbery, Sjerifs
A  s and Watson organized a party
a~d stated in purse it. After crossing
the hillSinto :Tulare County, Watson
gave up Jhe chaseq, and- returned to
Salinas City. Adams, however, press-
ed on. Near Bakersfield, he arrested
omulGonzale, but was obliged to letI
him go, as there was no jail nearer than
Vissliaand by taking the back track
hisehances for catching Vasquez wouldI
be slim  He spentseveral weeks in the
saddle, and at last in Rock Creek Canlon,f
San Bernardino (County, came upon theta
robbers and.
A'IGHT ENSUED.
hriff owlan4, of Los Angeles, was
o
with the party, and if a charge, suggest-
ed and urged by Adams, had been made,
Vasquez would have been captured  As
it was, a- parley waa had, and when
Adiams charged alone to the patch of un.-
derbrqsh where the robbers wereconceal-t
4ed, die found that they -had abandoned o
the horses stolen from Tres Pinos and ,
escaped. That-night, 4eiva's wife wase
abducted from Jim Heffner's, near Eliza-'
beth Lake, by Vasquez, and the next a
day :Leiva surrendered, himself to the
officers, He stated that he had the day
before the abduction caught the bandit
an diis wife in flagrante delictu and he h
-desired-to be revenged  on the bandit
Adamsreturned, after- a week's .further
search but soon after, hearing that Vas.-h
quew had returned to his old haunts in
San Benito County, organized another
party and;spent two weeks. in a further
search. Sogn,after this came the rob- Fr
bery of Jones' store, on the San Joaquin, ga
followed by the bold attack on Kingston. sti

The care the depredations in Pulate
and Kern Counties,'and latterly the rob.
bery it Coyote H)oles Station, and the
still'more recent depiedations-nearLos
Angeles. Chavez is stillat jarge.  els
regarded as.fully theequal of-his-chief in
every essential pf wickedness and cun.
ning, and far more bloodthirsty.- He Is-
a powerfully built man, and is but twen-
ty-four years old.
After Andon Leiva had delivered hin.
self to the officers he gave information
concerning tho whereabouts of Vasquez's
gang, that resulted a week after, in the
arrest of Teodoro Moreno, near Hon; E.,
C. Tully's ranch, forty-five miles south-
east of Hollister. Marshal Orsen Lyon,
of Hollister, was the arresting officer.
Moreno was tried at Salinas City, found
guilty of murder in the second degree,
and sentenced to a life term in San.Quen-
tin.
CONSTANT SURVEILLANCE
Was exercised by the Sheriffs of five or
ix counties with a view to the capture
Df Vasquez, but without avail.  Several
expeditions went to the New Idria mines
ind other points, to hunt him, but always
found that he had been notified of their
coming and had fled. It seems certain
hat he kept informed of the movements
f the officers by native. Californians,
wherever he went, and it is, even believ-
id that some of the white settlers in the
southern section of the State aided him
his avoidance of pursuit. He was,
ble to find a refuge at all times, and to '
ummon around him, whenever needed
)r his desperate purposes,. a band of
ind and faithful followers; willing to do
s bidding, whatever it might, be.
henever any one in the slightest de-
ee ventured to disregard his commands
e shot the offender down in cold blood.
ONE 1OF THE.GANG LYNCHED.
Some of the settlers in Tulare and
esno counties, some months since, or-
nized a Viglance Committee 'and in-
tuted an effort to rid that region of

R2 T10 URII V7AQUEZ.

TIBUfiWO TAQUEZ
te outlaWe but did nothing  rather tyhopingtO surprise"a4ju&amp;,  UM
'thandridngaWaya number ofworthle    ub        ntaThetrobbearsfona
Mexicans. :There was soine comant he, roandept!n a sa p
that peaceful and lawabiding ead it suit nThe boy hurled heakpanIiadI af
were driven from their ,homes wanr itsm.ney oy th-rasd    adw
was so difficult to determined who   looku     on the alrn stei     t
the bandits and their allies, a  who partyoko   ithiailend    ief
were unconnected :with. them,ht mche pary pprowchin ah mold   T   ,ath-
 movement did not accomplish muc. eidlyapproabehing the oe, t tob-
One morning, however, a fexit   a    s o       the  oey, hWthm
foundhanging to the limb of a tree,and selves 0otheir horseatd thtved-
th  91s11 bn  nmered one less. At -the ArroyOSeecthottee
the Vasquez band numbento Fresno four men in i wagon, ande         a' stOd and
Soe  excaswh  cmeibrought robbedtheni -of 'their tmogetfidh Ldacheef
and demanded legal protectionhbout  roaned  thenr toward thols
in and delivered up a fellow w  theyandotry.
stated to have been one of the gang countryy.
wheoave   igentoi but 'what has        rURSUIT AXD orid0E.
which sacked E rd ni $
been done with this prisoner has  y    After theseoutrages a rea
been stated.                         was offered for the captur efr
ThE   "LAST  STRAW '-A    BETIAYING ing bandit, ad then iAd thetepe# 4
CHECK.                 if ioganizedpto rid t teor
Only a few weeks before his capture, law whose nme inpher     wland
Vasques and four of hisfollowers appear- er it wae uttered.  ineriff jowluo
ed at the residence of a wealthy Italian Los Angeles, worked in cAnjuncteant
shee-Ownr naed~AlexnderRepetoShieriff Henry N. Morse, of Almoa, n
sheepoMwer named Alearl some si     their plans finally resulted in success.
-me fro Lsioes ''hey pi-etend- About 8 o'clock on the night Of Ale
ed to be sheep sheared -looking for em- 14th of ay, . K Smith arrive ISher
ploybme  ht, bet afterconversing' a few  Angeles with news which justified
minue,    taedfRpetto and hisnephew, iff Rowland in sending out a p9Ay  t
 mnrteboyoveredhRexhooter5s and de- captue Vasquez. The inforjnationi was
manded what mohey there was in the of a character to ta'lly with reliabe ad-
house Theyatied the old man to a tree 'vices about ihe whereabouts-of the ga
in front of the house. The boy gaye received on the previous day.      en
them $o  all the money he could find. o'clock the folowing-naed paty  er
Vae $8,the gave Repetto his choice- mounted for the  Epeditioln
toab killed, or pay a ransom  of.$800.7 Sherif Albert . Johnstn, ajo
to e     sunteo A and drew an order Mitchell, Emil. Harris,, Frank a
onpt bank nLos Angeles for the Sam. Bryant, D. K. Smith, W. Xod&amp;
aont ,e whih  Lwas  given  to  the  boy  to  er, and  G. A.  56ers . T hy prc e d
aveouneed, with strict injunctions not the vicinity of Greek George, on
to give the alarm to any one  The boy Brearancho, and cached themselves I   a
hurried to thebank where his agitation place where they had a good view of the
awakened suspicion. The Sheriff was sent country ndould notbe seen themsplvp.
oand the state the caewas elicited The net morning, ,ivemets were no
byr hi. The Sheriff sent . one party tied on the road, and the party  n a
around him ad the rear of the robbers, al- .bushkept the house of Greek Georgeu
ed  e    toretgrn to the'ranch with der view all the while. About non P
oney,and followed him with a par- party of Mexicans came along on horse-
the moneyy f                                   xi


g&amp;.                TiMURCIO VAdSQUEZ.
baa   it was observed thatsamong claiming There he goes through the
theibwsensas aktltanearwhh Mitahe window." The partyleft ihp house as,
e~l~esnnise. artheanimal hidden by precipitately asethey entered it. Vas.
iuesinbiaprevious -encounter with quesstood for a  econd,,of- tine irreso
9ted clief,  One of the Mexican lute.Whether to seek cover in the-
paryderte4ofk, andMajorMitchell-and monteer rushfor his horseemed the,
tw   hera  en~tin his pursuit. They, all important questionHe seemed to
DovU4ted him andbroght hii back. dedidefoi the horsme-oubtless he would
Hissname-was Reales, And he protested havegiven ten kingdoms if he had had
hisinocenue. In ethe meantime, the them, to -be astride e him-and -started,
~Shewi   party saw a wood wagou com- when - Mr. ;Hartley fired; turning, he
g-alg the road; and they made a de. sought ,another : direction, .when, one
teuandcaturedAit; Itwas not long after another, shot after shot, showed
before-the plan of capture was decided him the utter hopelessness 'of escape.
upon. Six of the party remained. The  He had already been wounded. He-
extra man with the wagon madeseven. had fallen but recovered himself; blood,
Mr. Hartlywho speaks Spanish fluently, was spouting from his shoulder and
was instructed to inform the driver that streaming from his wounds.' He threw
hewas to turn his horses' heads, allow  up his hands, approached the party and-
a ix of the party and his extra man to said with a -cold, passionless. smile
lie down in the wagon bed andthen wreathing his thin lips, "Boys you have
drive baek to Greek George's and as done well; I have been a d-d fool; but
closeo the house as possible; that if he it is all my own fault." He was taken
Save a sigaor maade an alarm his life to the courtyard on the southern side of
would pay the forfeit. ' In due time the the house, and laid upon an extemported
house was reached. In a moment the pallet." Not a murmur, scarcely a con-
partywas out of the wagon and on their tortion of the visage, bespoke either pain,
feet with shotguns and rifles cocked, remorse, or any other emotion of the
and ready for what might offer. Mr. mind or soul.
Haftley and Mr. Beers went to the west  About this time, another young fellow
side ofthe house, the other four to the was captured, whose name is believed to
southern, passing around the eastern end. be Labrado, ard who joined the Vasquea
The foremost of the- party had hardly gang some time since. He was taken
reached the door opening into the din- without resistance. Vasquez, wounded
idg-room when a Woman opened it part- as he was, was placed on a mattress and
17. Seeing the armed party of four ap- carried to the city. In a room adjoining
proa9hing she gave an exclamation of the one wherein Vasquez was captured'
S fright ad attempted to close it. The was a large number of arnS, corisisting
party burst in, Mr. Harris leading the of Henry and Spencer _rifles, globe sight'
way nd saw the retreating form of Vas- rifles, double-barreled shotguns and six.
querz leaving the table and plunging shooters. These were all brought to the
through the door Ieadingintotlhe kitch. city.
en.
arris'was close upon his heels, and , EXCIEMENT IN LOS ANGELES.
Vsquez withthe agility of a mountain As soon as it was known that th6 great
cat had jumped 'through the narro* robber chief was captured, the utmost
window or ragter'opening which admit- excitement prevailed in town, and when,
ted the light, when Harris \fired at the a few minutes before five o'clock, the
vanisking form with his Henry rifle, ex- cavalcade was seen to make its appear-

I

ance comingup Spring 'street omthe
southga great multitude rushed to the
vicinity of the jail. The, prisonerssidwho
-Wg5 not disabled were hurried inside
the prison, butVasquez, who wasstretc
edout on th  mattress and suffering,
from his wound,: was lifted by four me
and carried past the crowd. Ashepasoed,
he tried to -shut out his face ro
pulic-view, by pulling his hat over  .
It was momentarily pulled aside by One
-of the officers, when Charles E. Miles,
who was compelled to fork over to him a
fewdays ago his magnificent repeater,
-cried out, "That's him I'thas Vasquez I
that's the fellow"e
Xt this the inmense throng felt relieve
.ed, for there still existed a doubt as t
the identity of the robber chief.

SheriffRowland's'plan was to watcl
an Shwait, and'so  careful and discreet
was he that his most intimate friend
supposed he was giving the Vasqu
setter very little attention. This was
mistake; rwland had a little bird wI
told him every movement of the band
and his ga, and on several nights I
has ridden out and reconnoitered tI
Vasqu enmop, but on each occasion t
little bird told him not to attempt t
capture. This happened so often ti
he began to suspect the bird might
playing him.uThis, however, wasI
true, as the sequel proved that the b
told the truth in every instance. I
reports that Vasquez was in the habit
visiting the house of a woman in this
after nightfsll, had no foundation in f
but if it ga been true, Rowland wo
have captured him, for he knew of
stry an the house, and watched the
tenor of the woman's room night a
night.
Vasquez hAd two men consta
watching the Morse party while In
portion of the State, ndno one
More thoroughly posted on the w

TIBEURtCIO YASQETZ

-AOWLA=f$'rLAX-

F'

of xoroe ad cuagham iA
te bandit. It was Ro elnd w baed
Vasquez. He was so cool ankapparet
ly indifferent as to whether the Tbbe
were captured or not, that the b:hdit
times really thought he had, no *g
fear from  him.' He wasmistake
Like prosperp's Ariel, Rowland's lile
bird was obedient to his slightest corn
mand, and flew here,Athere, and every
where, collecting information and deli
ering it to its master. It toldhitha
for the past two weeks Vasquez and his
gang had made their beadquarters at the
house of Greek George, on ite rea
Rancho, ten miles frQm the city; that
Vasques spent most of hi  ays in ti
o house, but slept at night some distance
away, in the open sir, with his horse
always saddled and his Spencer rife by
his side. It gave hiw an exact diagram
h of the house, told him in what roo
A Vasques slept, in what room -his- arMs
Is were, and the number' and quality of
ez those arms. It told him, how Vasquez'
a horse was always kept saddled agdready
o for'traveling, in the tall weeds near to
lit a window, through  which: Vasnes
he would jnmp in-case of surprise.. It told
he him on Wednesday'night, that on Thurm-
he day Vasquez would be at the house play-
he ing cards, but that he-must not leav6
iat the-city, as he was constantly under the
be eyes of one of Vasquez's spies. Her
not Rowland's detective shrewdness did him
ird good service; he quietly directed bispar-
'he ty, detailed his instructions, and contin-
of ued to walk about the streets in his
ity usual apparently unconcerned manner.
act; In a little time. the Vasque' spy die-
uld appeared. His friends supposed he had
the got drunk  and gone to. some of the
in- many houses he knew of to sleep o
.fter whiskey. They knew he was not i1
jail, for they sought him- in that'struc-
ntly ture. Subsequent events proved that he
this did not get drunk, neither did he leave
was town. Rowland had shanghaied him-,
ove- and kept him under close guard where


his-friends could not find him, untll the-
*vrt*ietdrned wi ththeir game from
Gteei George's.house.
AsA~squtz and his three associates
*6re ten into the jail, the spy, the
blinhhiadibeen sent-in to watch Row.
laind, was also arched into the same
diflcie; then it was discovered that Row-
ldiid had been watching the spy more
clbely than the spy had watched him-
Vaiqueisaw that he was trapped, and
h1eit was done. He says he was be.
ti'ed, and assures Sheriff Rowland that
butfoithe treason of some friends, he
WOid not have been cAptured.
HOW  THE BANDIT CAME TO BE SUR-
PRISED.

The following report of an interview
between Vasquez and a reporter explains
how it was that the Sheriff's party sur-
prised him.
Reporter-How was it that you were
so unprepared for a fight yesterday.?
Vaquez-I had just taken of my re-
volfers and set my rifle down to go into
the kitChen and get some dinner, when
thefirst alarm came. I had no time for
arhing myself. I saw the wagon com-
ing up the road, but didn't pay any at-
ttntion to it. At no time before since
the -Repetto affitir have I been unprepar-
ed to-fight. I have robbed for twenty
Ydais, but I have never killed anybody,
and Ithink they might have given me a
show. 'I tied up twenty men at Coyote
Holes, and though aman shot and wound-
ed Ie there, I did not take his life,
though I might have done it easily, for
I had hin completely at my mercy. I
regret.beingtaken in this way, for I al-
ways expected to sell my life dearly.
New, Isup'ose, I will behung up like a
dbg."
At this'point Vasquez intimated that
he was tired, and the interview termin-
ated.

ADDITIONAL PARTICULAES5 O  TRE OAPWI
I findon conferfing with diferentiem-,
bere of our party today, that after I was;
posted at the northeast corner of the-
house, larris, Hartley, Johnston and Bry-
ant pa#ed around the eist corner of the-
house. Hartis, looking across the an
gle, saw a man sitting at the-table in- the-
little kitchen. Harris, Hartley And John-
ston, reached the door fifst, and the wo-
man, discovering their approach, sprang;
toward the door with outstretched hande
and attempted to close it. Harris pried
it open with the muzzle of his gun in'
time to see Vasquez go flying through
the narrow opening in the south end of'
the wing, and instantly fire. 'The four
men sprang around the end of the build-
ing and caught sight of the astonished,
outlaw at nearly the same moment that
he sprang toward his horse, only to find
himself confronted by me. At the same.
instant Rogers sprang upon him from
the west. The firing was simultaneous.
He threw up his hands, exclaiming.
"Don't shoot ; you needn't shoot; you've.
got me." He was perfectly collected, and
was never on his' knees for an instant,---.
nor knocked down.   Harris said, "come
along, then," and started at once with
the party around the building. On the,
way he repeated, "You boys have got.
me; my name is Alejandro 'Martinez.""
Johnston said, "I have had your photo-
graph for years, and know you to be Ti--
buicio Vasquez."

p

STAUNCHING THE BANDIT'S WOUNDS.
After examining his wounds, at John-
ston's direction, the woman came to the.
wounded man's succor. Johnstoa pro.
cured a rope and tied Lebardo to a pest
and then entered the house, took the -
dagger from the floor and with it ripped'k
a sheet from the bed and hastily prepared.
some bandages and helped the wo-
man to bind up the bandit's wounds.
While the house was being searched,.

197

(

W,                  -TJBURIIO VASQUEZ.

TIE UBCO,,10 YA SQUI0X
st tbock~n'haai~tbroughtim
hd  docured a -past 1 o'clock and  ye  g
ospin wen Of a nnaed Perrwho in badlY ,ouWede
and mles only OA Cor-I    dt           t
pei thewag  the p infi journeY countenance assumed e0
pulsoJohnston drove the expression and       t GreekTeor'
backlt andallie freely with thee captive. heart went i e al
ade afuber oftatements, land bastene  to te e
bttoe hey dife n orepce andi                e     br

bu they ifr     o rePec       Row-
r o m1                    4 . eN                 ,,
detailed I the above interview. Row-              -          ,"!
d. has been cnany plotting for the
pure for the past year, and it has been  The bandit's  and   d
of the most .remarkable games of very serious, and he w  ahe
t    between these two men on rec- into Los Angeles and  co9P, #U lt
rd   t has ended in the discom'fitre county jail. The city pwasfufe
he bandit, but the details cannot be meant when the e         gfhi aePure A
von to the public until thO capture or received, and alarg ewhe gatbro
death of Vasquez' immediate acco- get a look at him wen he sbog
police.                     ~in. During the wee  htiO~O
S- the.prin                                     he was   visited
nyAe psons.   of whom he received
HOWGREK GORE Ws BM~o   -  anyperon     ing to, look., Pu
Rowland's' management of     Greek ch'erfullym sort hero. o  ugne
George on the day of the capture is of self asbinic   he ro. Ide ne  rsa-
decide interest. When he entered town, tion, whh hd,;heies
decided                     a   aso    edhvig                     ile   n
Rowland knew that a movement was onted having com     cited mno
o    ad ordered Sanchez. to shadow    but declared rthathhead never nardesy
footi d Aout n    nanchea reported .one, throwing the blame forthe-shulrders
that he thought George was on the point committed by his gang  e   soafte
t leaving  wo and engaged him in of his companion    A fedayspp asr
conversation, taking him to the billiard his incarceration he 1
saloonof Rayfeld &amp; Vanderlip, under "anunfortunatemary, sik a    p
theClarendon Hotel, and whiled away asking for pecunary a d i 0onHecwas
the time by astonishing the wretch with his defence  i   h  o      e  pla
&amp;inofvisited by nearly aitheMxcnpol
a minute description of the location of
everything in and about the house, even of Los Angeles,ymead        a   d
to the number and character of Vasquez' many       Rowlanbtd tookathyefu.
equipment, the time they were brought him-   e       the  ookibll ofehis
there, etc.' When I entered the saloon tions to prevented po     t     o
fthe eCa  ennHotel after our caval.- escape. or rescue.. After a oudafor
Cade had arrived at the jail, Rowland night of confinement
up, had healed and he habd
and Greek George were just coming     had he    n     o       ve
out of the billiard room. Stepping up.to dent  rned,  trared    b  er
the Sheriff, we shook hands, and I re-haiyioe,6n gaddb-Seil-
markted, "I suppose you congratulate us." Rowland and three, assist nts, was-put
on board the local train, tae atoeWil-
"What on ," wmington and on board the rSteamer
"On our success."             .    &amp;nator, bound thencefor SanFr9;
ow so &amp;a
We"Howpso red Vasquez about half and way ports.
" We captured  VaqeZ          n


98o

LYNCE LAW   EARED.
t way intendedto debark at Monterey
ani tangt r the prsoner tothe care of
Ih6e14rIS'10i- of IontereyCounty.
Whienthe'teamer reached Monterey,
howeverSeriff R~wland became satis-
fled that his, prisoner would not be safe
if takenashore. 'That the bandit should
not fall a victim to mob law while under
his charge, the sheriff changed his plan,
i-eMained on board the steamer, and
brought hie prlaine- to San Francisco,
whee liewIv lodged in a secure cell in
the dtyei"on. He arrived early in the
morniig,--d before noon a large and
u'tcrie  d had collected at the prison
desitrns*6of getting a look a-- the noto-
Atsotlaw. Their wish was gratified,
and fbr four- or fie hours a stream of
visitois passed iiito the prison and were
allowed'to gate on the bandit as he lay
upon 'pallet-in the cell. He conversed'
freely with a number of visitors, repeat-
ing his previous declarations that he was
innocent of'murder, and claiming that,,
if a fairtrial were given him, he could
notbe- condemned' to -any punishment
more severe than imprisonment.
TAkEN TO MONTEREY.
Sheriff Smith, of Monterey, arrived-
the same'dayj a to him Sheriff Row-
leind"turned 64er his prisoner. Next
day, after ironingthe biditveryheavily,
heriff Snith started with him, by the,
route 6f the Southern Pacific Railroad,
'foriMonterey." It Wafeared that there
night ean attempt to lynch the prison-
i at dome,'point on' the way; and a
guard enfileitly strong to resist any
suchaitta'ke accopanied the Sheriff. No
efroft of the kind was made, however,
andthe party reached in'safety Salinas
City; the county seat of Monterey, where
the prisonerr was lodged in the county
jail.. There, ironed securely and closely
watched and guarded, he has since re-
mained. In his, trial, which will soon
take place, he will be defended by P. B.

Tully, Eq., of Hollister, and Charles
Ben Darwin, Esq.. of San Fraciso.
The prosecution will be conducted by
John LordLove, Attorney-g6neral of the
State, assisted 1y the District Attorney
of Monterey County. Vasquez' counsel
hope to save him from the gallows,
owing to the difficulty of fastening upon
him the direct responsibility for the mur-
ders committed during his raids.
HIS FATE.
His fate will probably be determined
before this account is in the .hands of
the reader-the trial is set for the 20th
,of July-but whether:the great bandit
be executed or only imprisoned, the peo-
ple -of Southern California will feel that
they owe a debt of gratitude to the ener-
getic sheriNf who-tracked him to his lair,
and rid the highways of a desperado who
did not ,confie himself to taking the
property of his victims, but wantonly
sacrificed life when there was not even
the excuse that his own person was in
danger. ,,The sherifffi  undertook the
work of capturing the outlaw when the
amount of the reward would not balf
compensate them for the outlays they
were obliged' to make-they devoted
weeks of time,suffered many privations,
ran great risks of 'losing their lives, and
succeeded in making prisoner a bandit
whose crimes parallel those of Joaquin
Murieta,
The'murders at Tres Pinos cry for
vengeance, and it is to be hoped that the
law cannot be so tortured as to protect
the ruffian who is manifestly guilty of
crimes which should long ago have
consigned him to the gallows. His end-
ing should 4be such as to deter other
aspirants for reputation as highwaymen,
and in this respect it is better that Vas-
quez should have been taken prisoner
than to have been killed in the en-
counter. There is little romance in
dropping from a scaffold with a 'rope
around the neck.

THE END.

TiURCIO VASQT EZ.

N

41

I


  
             
         
       
   
