
    ----CITATION----
        Ritner, William D.. The Rival's Revenge!, or, The Lovely Quakeress, Catherine Middleton, the Skilful Gamester in Disguise! .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7596
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The rival's revenge!, or, The lovely Quakeress, Catherine Middleton, the skilful gamester in disguise! 
            
               RIVAL S REVENGE.
THE LOVELY QUAKERESS
CATHEIRINE MIDJLETON
THE SKILFUL GAMESTER IN DISGUISE"
Hsr singular ca-eer vzti te starting aevelopments
in the -lzfe of
DON SENOR JACINTO, "THE MANIAC PRIEST;"
BEING   .
A.' work of thrilling interest translated from a
Manuscipt fo   among the
EIINS OF AN OLD CLOISTER
near Havana.
PRICE 12I CENTS.
PH[LADEUPHIA, 01CINNATI &amp; RICHMOND: VA.
PUBLISHEDBY M. L. BARCLAY.
FOR' BALE BY T'RAt!ELLJNG AGENTS ONLY.

.,         f

h
w
:


C-\\

Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by
M. L. BARCLAY,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court, for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. '

CATHERINE MIDDLETON,
TIE LOVELY QJAKERESS.
THE TWO FRIENDs.-THE CoNFEssIoN.-LoVE.
OH! what a world is this !-Here am I in a large city without
money, and. no one =to care for me,--yes, one, but even her friendship
and love is denied me.-Nothing, now to live for. Oh! would to God
I were dead." Such were the desponding ejaculations of my friend
Harold Defoe, as, I entered his room at the Bolivia House, in the
evening, as 'he threw himself upon the bed in a paroxysm of mental
despair and anguish. ' Tut, tut," said I, familiarly, "why Harold what
means this lonely rating, eh .
As he heard my voice he sprang again to his feet, and turning,
endeavored with a forced smile to laugh off all signs of grief. The
weak"'effort was a vain attempt, for in that w'id, desponding look it
was too evident he had already allowed the, demon despair, to sport
withhisbrain too long.
"1What was that I heard just now? ' Out of money, and. without a
friend!' Harold Defoe, you know this is not so. Without money
you may be, but-without a friend, never. Accept this, and let silence
and friendship repose the signet on our mutual confidence;" I said,
proffering him the half of what money I then" possessed, as a weak
smile'flitted over his facehe said': "Flmner Reynolds, what mean you
by this ?-No, no, I believe your friendship, but-cannot take that
of you."
"Pshaw man, don't play the boy. Take and use it." Saying which
I placed it-within his almost trembling fingers, and closed them.
" Harold Defoe," said I, "I do not this to purchase your confi  r:6
but come now, sit down and give me the cause of your late troubles"
cast back his disordered locks, and his eyes moistened, as he commened.4
"Elmer, for this Heaven bless you. Your sympathy is kind.  ou
(9)

}
.ti
'
t
t,
t


rATHERINE MIDDLET0o
-       seem  nosessed of the proper feelings, and vo     h
difficulte.     .gshas snow my
Y You are already aware of my attachment for the beautiful Gather.
ine Middleton. But, 'tis my own soul onl that eatl h   awher-h
indeed, I love her. Since irstw  mt     y   a  a   el how ,much
indeed,Iloehr      Sicfrs we met some three months ago, m
passion enkindled at first sight of her, has onthred tons ag n
glow until her angel prsnehsb'a continued to iritease and
glowuntl hr agelpresence has become essential to myvery exist
ence. Our destinies must unite.. Without this I care not to live
another day, for unless. she becomes mine alone, all om happine
gone. Oh    lmer, I feel that mine is ,amasye appinessis
I love her as a woman, and would love her as a wife.
"Reynolds, when ['came to this city I had
disappointed in obtaining, a proper situation. money but have been
of this you know. And though I have written home to the old gen
tieman, for some cause to me unknown, he refuses any further assistance
and writes back that it is now time for me, as I voluntarily e assistnce,
-to learn to depend upon myself. Elmer, I have before told hyouof
the obscurity in which my parentage is involved, that Mr. Defoe,
whose name I bear, is not my father. I need say    r      Den e a
present, u'p to this my pecuniary difficulties, have not see  o lessen
in the least my affection and regard for Catherine. But e have hoped
as it were against hope, and tried to be cheerful and ha  p  her
presence.  Aye, forgetting every thing else, I am  happy i her
company. '.And this very evening, as we sat together at the front
casement of her father's house, looking out upon the bent
Right, watching the twinklingofthestas      nd  b eautiful, moon-
light, wthn    h   inkling of the stars,- and tireathing intohr
willing ear my ardent vows, she rested gonfangl on    m    ,her
itthe gentle throbbing of her heart to mine,-the full, yelding faith
with which she so trustingly reposed on my breast,  se dinguagh-
she more than half consented to be mine. I was abotssto calangsuage,
my arms, in a long atid fond embrace, and seal our bethrtas wi n
kiss upon her pure white brow, when we were rudely dturbywith a
te paror door opening suddenly, andl Mr. Middleton strode into te
centre of the room hastily, regarding u a moment as if ce    te
astounded, he thus loudly spake:  g       completely
" So my conjectures have not been false, nor hastil for
no longer deceived. Catherine, arise and leave us."yormed.   am
He spoke with an 'all commanding authority, and the faithful girl
tremblingly arose and 14t us alone, we were togth  be fai    girnt
forhe advanced nearer t me and angrily addressed mer rut a isen
the way thee steals into my premises? Arise and get thee gone, ere

THE LOVELY QVAKERW                      11
I place thee in care of the author'.,es appointee o take charge of
as thou. Arise ! I say, thou d 4-and begs'-!"
"Eltner Reynolds, while t'4 addressed, a thousand impulses rushe
loose through my soul at o --.-  But they overcame each -other--and
without articulating a b:ngle-w'-A of. explanation or apology, I
hastily left the room, passed throag' the large hall to the front door,
entered the street, and in a perplexing maze of doubt-fear, love, hope,
hate, and despair-turned away from that stately mansion, the home of
all my heart holds dear and sacred upon earth.
"Crossing the railway, I fain would have thrown myself beneath the
iron wheels of the passing cars-but they fled by me. In a frenzy, I
hurried on, and thirty minutes ago entered this room as you have found
me. Oh! Reynolds, would"to heaven I now possessed the power--the
ready means-of ridding myself of this 'aching thing called life: for,
having nothing to live for now, I care not to live another day.
"Do not speak so, Harold. Middleton's treatment is disrespectful
and cruel, I'll allow. But, then, it is not wise for one so young as you
to despair-Ha, ha ! Shake off that dismal gloom,-'tis only the
blues! Harold Defoe is better than two dead lions yet. Cheer up, my
boy: faint heart ne'er won fair lady ! Try again,'-make another effort.
If Kate loves you (and I do not doubt it) you can yet call her your's."
 "How, Reynolds !-how? .If you seea way by which we can meet
again, speak; let me know it."
'Tis easily done. Address her a note, requesting an evening inter-
view, at some place away from home-do you see ?"  ,
" Thanks, Reynolds-I do ! The fates forgivemy stupidity !"- Youm
words'have breathed -new life into me, and -I feel something like Hope
about my heart. I'll try it. I'll wrik' it to-night, and .dispatch it.in
the morning. But, then, the old man has become so watchful of her
every movement ! She will scarcely feel sufficient courage to venture on a
clandestine'meeting: for, although she loves me, she fears him, I know."
"'Still, there'll be no loss in writing."
"No,-I'll attempt it."
Thus. concluded Harold Defoe, a gay young man of one-and-twenty,
upon my advice, not yet knowing the burning passion which coursed
through my Own veins, for the fair gay Quakeress, Kate Middleton, nor
that my appearance of " Friendship" was but to for ward my own game
in 'the play of Love. In a word, as he had bee me, perhaps, uncon-
sciously my rival, I was proud enough to kerf my own secret,, and
permit him to att as a "tool," to accomplish my dearest wishes -the
possession of the gay Quakeress.


r

THE LOVELY QUAKERESS.

CATHiERINE MIDDDETON,

TIlE INTERVIEW  BY .MOONLIGHT.--.THE UNPLEASANT ENCOUNTER.
THE MINIATURE.
REcEIVING a favorable answer to his note, Harold Defoe started on
the following evening for their place of meeting, which, strangely
romantic, was near the bridge at Fairmount. He had been waiting but
a few moments, ere he espied the beautiful Kate, faithful to her promise,
coming gaily along. At a glance they recognized each other, and
Without scarcely saying a word together, they crossed the bridge.
But as they mutely turned down the quiet river road-.
"Oh, Harold," exclaitned Kate, "why hast thee requested this of
me ? I am in constant dread that. Pa has suspected -us, and watches
us now closely."d
"Fear not, dearest Kate, but .trust me, no harm shall come nigh
thee !" murm~ired Defoe, delighted to meet her again.
" Harold,.when I received thy note, I scarcely knew how to.act-
but owing to our sad parting the last time, I felt that I ought to see thee.
at least once again. But in doing so, have I not acted unwisely, at'
least impruadently ?"
"Dearest, you have not. 'Tis kind in you, and confirms our attach-
wnent."
So deeply interested in each other had they become, that, unper-
ceived by them, I gained a hiding place within sound of their voices.
Stepping out from the side path, they sat down upon a tree which
had falleti to the earth, and so formed a rural and interesting seat for
them.
Sitting down, she continued:                 ,,.
" But, Harold, I feel at this momentthat in meeting thee thus, I.
have but followed the example of others, ere my time, of which, gn..
known to Pa, I have so frequently read. But, Harold, it is late---let
us not remain here long."
"Oh, Catherine !" interrupted Defoe, half kneeling before her,
"Your father is irreconcilably ainst our union. Obeying him yon
never can be mine. Oh, fly wit me, dearest Kate, and you will never
want for a protector. I will shied you with my life. Away from all
opposition, we shall live most happy."
" Oh, Harold, speak not thus ; rise, come--we should return."
As he raised himself from his prostrate posture, her miniature, which
swung about her neck, dashed against his face. He clasped it eagerly,
exclaiming:
"This is your miniature,--shall it be mine ? Grant me this, and it
will saake me happy."

She removed it from her bosom, and cast it round his neck. They
arose to their feet, and were aboutto step out on the path, when they
encountered the fierce gaze of Mr. Middleton, rivetted upon them in
devouring rage. Kate screamed and fell to the ground, while the old
gentleman railed out fiercely at Harold : " Thou impudent villain! is
it thus thou art bent on stealing away my child? Did I not charge
thee never to see her again? How hast thou contrived this unholy
meeting, thou sinful man? Kneel here on the spot, acknowledge4hy
faults, and repent thee,-or with this cane I will strike thee to the earth."
In his uncontrollable rage, he did not wait for Defoe to speak, but as
he slightly cowered beneath his angry frown, he let fall a severe blow
upon Harold's shoulder.
"Stay, old dotard !" cried Defoe5 maddened by the blow. "Strike
again, and I'll strangle you in an instant !"
" Ruthless insulter ! wouldst thou threaten me ? This for thy impu-
dance! This, and this," continued the old man, his silver-headed cane
descending in heavy and quick succeeding blows about Defoe's head.
Harold partially fell beneath them, but rising again, and while the
blood spurted from his.nose and mouth, maddened to desperation with
the pain, he closed in, and dealing Middleton a severe blow, stretched
him senseless in the road.
Kate, aroused by the combat, recovered from her swoon, and fell
almost frantic across the prostrate body of her father. At this crisis
of the affair, though scarce able to repel a rising impulse to rush to
the rescue, I mastered the inclination, and unseen by them, hastened
away to my hoteithere to wait Defoe's return, to get from his own
lips the account of his lnterview with his charming Kate, the fair Qua-
keress. But the whole affair terminated nearly about as I wished. It
was I, who, by a hasty note, informed the oM gentleman of the intended
clandestine meeting of his daughter and HarokI Defoe. Harold after-
wards informed me that he remained on the ground until the old gen-
tleman revived, and was on his way, assisted by his daughter, to their
home in Arch street, near the Schuylkill.
Harold was not injured so much as I at first thought. He recove.ed
entirely from the effects of the blows he received, in a few days.

13

12

}
'
,
r
li
V
V
Z
k
i
r


C-ATHERINE MIDDLETONI,

TamEGAMBLING SALOON -IN SOUTHWARK.--A TRICK.-SWINDLE AND
EXPLOSION.--ELOPEMENT.
THoUGH Mr. Middleton's additional cruelty upon Defoe had the effect
of nearly curing him of the epidemic of a clandestine union with the'
"lovely Kate ;" yet, with a little more planning and counsel, I soon
brought him to the renewed resolution of possessing her in "spite" of
whatever the "old folks" could say or do. He believed the course of
true love never did run smooth, but as he had gone so far in the "tide,".
he would follow the stream farther than the present "lock" at least,,
and see what the end would be, "any how." Have the charming Qua-.
keress, he would.g
. But in the meantime.-~~for he was engaged at least a month in bring-
ing things to bear favorably upon the project between himself and Kate'
--smoothing away his ill-respect by the roadside to her parent, obtain.
ing her forgiveness, appointing the time, etc.-we grew closely inti-
mate, when I informed him more fully than I yet had done, of myself'
-of my connexions and resources-the manner in, which I " put in
my time"--my profession, etc. I told him, not a little to his surprise,
that my father was a clergyman, then presiding over a large and
wealthy congregation, but a short distance from the city,: and who was
always ready and willing to assist me, whenever I desired pecuniary
aid. He appeared pleased with this information. We tipped glasses'
together, and tossed off a social drink. Passed out, and were soon
ningling with the fashionable, beautiful and gay of Chestnut street.
After tasting the best wines of several 'select ",bars" on this crowded
thoroughfare, we turned down 'into Third street, and proceeded direct
to the Southwark Gaming Saloon. We entered--and the bar was
quite crowded. Liquors of varied and the choicest brands sparkled
with, inviting hue and brilliancy against the bright light, 'as the
-Gamesters" of almost every age drank with a deep relish.
.Again Harold and I joined in a glass, and then left for the gaming
able. Entering the hall through a rather private and quiet passage,
we were at first dazzled with the immense glitter of the entire saloon.
it was a large room richly carpeted, and containing not less than thirty
gamesters, in groups of threes and fours, and sixes, shareing gold by
the :thousands of dollars, in the various games of cards.
Gfncing around the apartment, heavy gilt mirrors, in panoramic
vie: reflected to us the interested countenances of the winners, wreathed
wit. 'miles of pleasant success, and the varied contortions and

14

0

THE'°LOVELY QUAKERESB.
frowns depicted in the sad physiognomy of those who were rapidly
losing
Pictures of- obscenity, revealing nature in all her most gross con+
ceivable lewdness lined the walls. Not that this is a new attraction
to the vulgar at such places of resort and debauchery ; but never did I
see such a profusion- of obscene designs centered in one building before.
Nature, in every licentious view, reflected in voluptuous colors and
shape, from the French, the Spanish, the German, and almost every
nation under the panoply of the Supreme Ruler. Age among 'them,
too ! An old relic, picturing in extravagant coltoring and features, Bel-
shazzar, the Babylonian king's great-lascivious feast, said to have' been
indulged in on the night that he beheld the mysterious wr~tg -of an
invisible hand upon the palace walls;-and which piercer shis soul with
such superhuman omen, that, to him, at least, the b?'An;anal and lieen-
tious banquet was turned intoggjip eng, dread a  fear
Harold and I sat down ,with i0couple of others, 'and in the' short
space of one hour and a half, left the su''.on with an addition to our
stock in cash of three hundred dollar
We looked round the place a f-'a minutes Longer, ana examined a
number of very old curiosities n a large glass case. Among 'them,
were implements of murder based in crime 'by the blood-thirsty felons
of bygone times. Frogr these relics of sad association we turned away,
and 'steered our courq for Chestnut street.' On our way thither, Harold
dropped off in a rdtlective mood, and commenced giving me'a partial.
history of his 1i , expressing his desire to know who he was," &amp;c., &amp;o
" Reyo-" said he, " as Defoe has refused to render me any more
assistance; and as he has been only a kind of guardian to me, and is
not my rather, call me no longer Defoe will you, but call me ' Harold.'"
"lia, well !" smiled . "I will do so, Harold, if you wish. I
shadit endeavor to be agreeable."
" Well, my name, then, is only Harold."
"Yes.. I'll remember."..
Saying which, he turned into a small, dark street, and within sight
of Washington Square.' We entered another Gambling Sdloon, more
extensively "equipped" in every attr ction than the "Brilliant" 'of
Southwark. -We- joined a number oF our associates here, among them
Charley Wiristanley, who, with three or four more, were busily engaged
in fleecing a "green 'un," who (as they afterwards informed us with
side-splitting laughter) they inveigled in the foLowing easy manner:
They found him putting up -at Guie's Hotel, where Winstanley an' '
confeaerace were also stopping upon a professional visit.


10                  OATHisINE IMDDETON,
Seeing that the ohe from the "kedentory," as we say, was "fresh,"
they gradually made themselves sociable, at which, in the course of
hall an hour, "being 'strange in these- parts," as he expressed himself,
'he was highly pleased; ind conclurded"that they were all "golly good
Eatered fellers,"and hoped they'd not think him asking too uch to
take him round a little -to the theatre; the circus, or most anywhere,
where' there was anything' good going on."
"Oh, yes, yes 1 glad to have you walk round with us; we'll show
you sights, too: but".'--(rnodestly, and in a confidential manner whis-
pered)-.-" I say, Mr. Jenkins, could'nt you change your rig a leetle,
'eh ? Come round with us here in Market street, and we'll see that
pou are fairly dealt with. We'll direct you where you can obtain a
good suit, and cheap,-cheap as dirt. When you see it' on you, you will
ayso,t4!    Come, shall we go?  It's a ' bargain,' you may depend.'
Each    e dropped a whisper ofencouragement, and it was not long
after drinking again, ere they were all in the great clothing bazaar,
assisting Mr. Jasper'Jnkins to-draw orn his new suit of clothes.
Two of the company were actually salesmen 'or drummers in the
eatablishinent. 'A d's the gaming league entered with a perfect secret
understanding with each other. "Jsper, .having donned a neat suit of
blank, he now appeared, indeed, like a gentleman. Unclasping his
port monnaie;j a single 'sly glance told the "burners" he was flush
with' the rndful, and juest'their victim. They gallanted him round the
"village," skewed him the theatre, the circus, and the "elephant"
generally : plyed him  well with' etherized champaign, and finally
brought up 'at 'the gambling hell, where we have found Mr. Jenkins
herry and'j6lly, and quite unconscious of reckless gaming with a circle
of sharpers andprofessional blacklegs.
o Haroldand myself 'played several game with a couple of strangers
who entered about the same time we did. We left them  with two
hundred dollars more.
Thus, in gaming and drinking, we whiled away the time intervening
'the period 'of 'his 'intended flight with the 'charming Quakeress.
But ere that occurred, we joined in a co-partnership, took an offlhe
tn Walnut street for a profitable 'and rather a peculiar business, for ti e
'success of which look at the "winding up"' and the "explosion" which
ap eared in some of the city journals, a short time after we were not to
be found :.
7The Swindle and Explosion.--For sfme weeks back, a firm styled
Paytbn, Brown &amp; Co., hailing from one of the offices at 58 WalnAt
street, have been advertising largely in the public papers, offering gr&amp;at

r
W4

-I

1
L
S
t
i
y 1
i41 ,;3F
"S yv
aA x
t
' f )S J
r iiY
. irYY
r
i
3

{                THE LOVELY QUAKERESS.               .   J1
inducements to persons out of' employment. They professed to have
the most eligible situations =for{clerks and'  salesmen withintheir know-
ledge, and promised to furnish intelligence of them to applicants; ut
reasonable rates. Indeed,-they 'professed' to have peculiar advantages,
having a special agent who made it; his-business to make applicatiorito
the principal businessmen in the city, and' ascertain=who were inwant
of assistants. Transparent as these inducements; must have been,: it
being a matter of notoriety that.no merchant need be an hour without
a ceerk or.salesmen, so many applicants are there -for such .situation!,
yet "Payton, Brown &amp;. Co." succeeded in attracting, many, who paid
them $5, $10 and as. high as $20 to be' guarantied situations, with.
salaries varying from $300 to $1500:a year.. Their general course
business seems to have been, to fix the first of October as the day in
which the seeker was to be inducted into his' new situation, and .each
one was requested to call at that time, when the whereabouts.of 'his
place should be furnished him. Yesterday'being theappointed. time,
groups of men began to gather about the office of Payton, Brown &amp; Cd.,
at an early hour in the morning. By nine or ten o'clock, the -throng
had become dense ; it filled up' the entry and crowded the pavement :
loud knocks were made at the door of the office, but withono response.
At length it became evident that Payton, Brown &amp; Co., were -non es4
and the duped crowd slowly dispersed, deploring their'luck, and in no
enviable state of mind in regard to'the deceivers. Itis calculated that
at least a hundred persons called at the, office yesterday,:toobtain the
location of their situations, and the rognes reaped an exceedingly pro-
fitable harvest. The whole affair reveals a phase in city' life, which
may be acted over again, and should be a warning, to-those-who are
unfortunate enough to want employment.
The firm of Payton, Brown &amp; Co., were none othetthanElmer Rqp
4olds and Harold Defoe.
Before the "explosion" occurred, and on a dark and cloudy night n2
the month of September, Harold, having struck. a farewell glass of
champaign with me,-hastened to' join Catherine' Mikdleton. in thehr
midnight flight for the Empire city. Entering a chaise engaged for the
occasion, they were soon rolling away with throbbing hearts towers
,the Walnut street ferry, where they designed c ossing'to 'the Jersey
side of the river, and there. take the' cars direct for, New York, where,
ere the " old folks" could possibly miss them, Kate and Harold twoue
sleep encircled with the balmy and. love-.soothing hand of hynen.: Such
was their highest aim, their fond ambition. But how often, in an affa4r
of this character, has the-saying,. "i.Many a slip, betwUtkeeuprgy''

s


18                 rCATHERINE MIDDLETo1,
the lip," been verified ! It was destined to prove so with Harold ano
Kater-the long desired chalice of their" fondest desire, destined by'a
strange Providence, (shall we call it?) to be -dashed in a moment from
their longing and impatient lips, and .they separated, perhaps forever.
We said the night was dark. It was. Dark as Egypt's blackest
night, it might 'almost.be felt. It had been raining during the after
part of the day, and it was still drizzling, and . per consequence, the
*"sib"as welWas all out doors, was wet and. disagreeable. The chaise
gained the ferry just as the boat was "letting up" steam. They sprang
lightly, though: timidly, from the vehicle. Kate's heart throbbed quick
and. high with:trembling affection *for Harold, and 'with fear that the
old gentleman might still be on: the watch for them. In their haste to
:board the waiting stewtner, by an ill-fated step, they mistook the gang-
kway, and instead of walking ,on the :bopt,'walked into the deep dock
below. Poor Catherine gave but one piercing scream as they went
dowh. Harold groaned, and 'both disappeared in the dark waters.
Being near, I ran to the rescue sprang overboard, and with the aid
f.fa 'light which chanced to -'be lowered from  the boat immediately
Aver her, I hastily seized the unconscious girl, just'as she was disap-.
pearmg, as I. thought, 'for the lasttime. From  the angry and wind-
Dashed. surges, I speedily bore her in triumph to the shore, called for a
coach, and placing her within, ordered the, driver to, proceed with all
haste to No.'Juniper street, below 'Walnut.' He obeyed, 'and we
soon gained ;the premises, and carried her within. From the tossing of
the vehicle she- partially revived. I breathed freer, and my pulse.
quickened' with-the rapture of my hopes so soon to be realized. 'I tossed
the gazing coachman a dllar, and he' left. I heaved a sigh of relief,
for I was now alone with her I-loved with my whole being-Kate Mid-
dieton, the 'beautiful Quakeress! -.She had at one time looked 'on me
with scornful pride, but I now felt proud of my victory.
I called Madame De Estelle, who expected 'us, though not in quite
so damp a condition. A few words explained all to her fullest satis-
faction, and she hastened to change my favorite's damp robes for those
more comfortable and dry.
Bending over her to assist in 'conveying her to "our apartment" on
the second floor, I imprinted upon her cheek my first kiss. Oh, the
thrill of joy, the pure gem' of victory gave'mee ! Not yet fully recov-
ered, she clasped, me about the neck, and quietly murmured, "Harold
--Father !" I now left her in charge of Madame E., to procure a change
of clothing for myself.

MUBDB3 OF THE JEWELLER.

r
i
c
hr
:fit
z
, ;
is
K


4   1
THE SURPRISE.-SINGULAR ENgoUNTER AT
OF TWO RESPECTABLE. "-THE
ON my return, my SSiant had managed so
recovered quite from the paralysis produced b
ferry. She was lying on the couh, mournfully
tain fate of Harold. As I entered, she started
towards me joyously.
" Oh, Harold-Harold! you are saved !" sh
about to embrace me. In a moment she saw he
from me with a convulsive shudder. With a hiss
Reynolds, how is this?  There's some mystery
to herself. "Harold not yet here: and in his
Where am I, madame? Whose house am I
are friendly, inform me, ere I wring the words f
".' Of that, Mr. Reynolds will inform you fully
now leave you alone.
" Nay, nay, madam! do not leave me alone
I beseech you, stay!" cried Kate, approaching
she hastily closed and locked the door after her.
"Nay," said I, endeavoring to speak kind
not from me thus,-Core !"  I cast my arm ar
calm, and listen while I explain our present stra
position towards each other ?"
She sprang froI me, and reeled to the opp
sinking down upot a chair.
" Catherine," said I, slowly and collectedly,
you to-night from a watery grave." She lo
"Where is Harold ?
"I know not, though most probably drowned
f                                                                              after he went down."
She "burst into a flood of tears on hearing
minutes sobbed piteously. But growing gradually
"So you saved me from drowning, to-night ?"
"I did."
"I should not, then prove ungrateful. Elmer
great obligations to you for this, and can no lon
" Thanks, Catherine. Dearest, I love you."
Approaching, I attempted to kiss her truant h~
gaiid and passive at her side. Oh ! the rapture

21
!DAME DE ESTELLE'S
DILEMMA.
wisely that Kate had
y her accident at the
bemoaning the uncer-
up wildly, and sprang
te exclaimed, and was
r mistake, and shrank
she shrieked, "Elmer
here !" she murmured
stead the man I hate !
in ?-speak ! If you
rom you."
With him I would
with the man I fear.
Madame De Estelle, as
y, " Catherine, shrink
)und her waist. "Be
inge meeting, and our
site side of the room,
"It was I that saved
ked up, and asked,-
, as he was not seen
this, and for several
y calm, again she said:
Reynolds, I feel undcr
ger hate you."
and, which hung lan-.
of that moment ! Her


THE LOVELY QUAKERESS.

tears of gratitude bathed my hands and temples ! She was in my power
-the morphine which Madame De Estelle had given her in a drink,
after exhiliarating her spirits, now soothed her into sweet, unconscious
sleep. She awoke not again until near noon, next day.
The following evening, about' nine o'clock, I was suddenly startled
from our pleasant "chit-chat," with the surprise of a well known
voice addressed to a young girl of the house, in rather audible whispers
of familiarity.
"What!" I muttered, half aloud, losing for  a moment all thoughts
of the presence of my charmer. " As I live, 'tis his voice ! What's
up now ! Can he be in pursuit of ---"
"What voice, Elmer? of whom do you speak ?" interrupted Kate,
catching my surprise.
"Oh, ah-ha, ha !"   I endeavoured to laugh, vhen I discovered
she noticed my embarrassment. "Ha, a little absent minded, just
then !"
We again resumed our pleasant converse, and though I did not betray
myself to Kate, yet I was fully satisfied that the familiar voice in the
adjoining room, which I then heard in amorous whisperings, belonged
to none other than my own father. " Just heaven !" thought I, " can
it be so: that father and son should thus meet to-night under the self-
same pavilion of profligacy ?- My father, the clergyman, in a house of
assignation!, What hypocrisy ! I would not encounter him thus for
the extravagant wealth of Peru."  -
Kate continued her story: in which, after sighing two or three times
for Harold, she told me among other things the cause of her parent's
,dislike for Defoe, that his true lineage seemed wrapt in g peat obscurity
-that he lacked ambition, and so was quite incapable of making a
good and worthy husband for his only daughter. She here repeated
her father's threats of disinheriting her if she ever admitted Defoe to
her presence after his unceremonious ejectment from the house. Then
she went on, relating a few cir mstances in order to show the great
inconsistency of the "sect"  which she had been a member after the
strictest fashion, but grew too gay. Among the "items" which she
related, the following stood prominent:
"In a branch of the Society of Friends," said Kate, "there existed
an institution very pleasantly situated, and purporting to be conducted
for the cure of those ' who have been deprived of the use of their
reason'-but it rather proves a scheme,' she continued, " managed for
the sole purpose of depriving many of their money and wealth. The

Asylum for the Insane seems rather the cloak beneath the screening of
which they are the better able to, filch the fortunes and goods from
those whom they deem too weak to resist their 'holy' and chartered
aggression. There are those within its prison-like walls, who, at the
period of their entrance and incarceration, were indeed rational: but
by the peculiar and deceitful course of' discipline, medicine, &amp;c., they
have really become raving and confirmed maniacs.
" Then go through and examine the institution," she further said,
"and you'll find that nine-tenths of the so-called invalids, are, those
who are either rich themselves, or are of wealthy connexions : and this
for the simple reason, that there is no room there for the poor insane-
for they cannot pay exorbitant charges for boarding and quack medical
treatment..
" Oh, Elmer Reynolds !" exclaimed she, with proud disdain, "'tis
just such gross hypocrisy that has induced me, the child of a Quaker,
to almost hate the sect-so inconsistent are they, and such praters for
the prevalence of prison-like discipline and law through the land.
They would bind in the fetters of tyrannical law, the spirits of those
who are "born free and equal.' Their civilization by law, is but refined
barbarism. -Their discipline of 'order' more sinful than the free life
of the savage. Elmer, Heaven created man free, and not to be
restrained in his liberty by man-made, tyrannical law-yet his freedom
is a code of order, so to speak, though not that of sovereigns and kings:
but, 'tis the order of Heaven, free as the stars to move in their own
orbits. Man's law should be Heaven's first-his life,.liberty !"
At this juncture of her story-which I really admired for its deep
spirit of patriotic love of the free-I felt relieved at hearing tomy father
leave the next room and descend to the parlor : entering which, as I
was afterwards informed, he was taken quite aback upon meeting a
pleasant 'looking "broad brim" of the "friendly sect," holding forth
in reformatory tones to some three or four girls belonging to Madame
De Estelle, and as Paulwould say, rather of the " baser sort." I would
say they only were gay..
Notwithstanding the ludicrous.dilemma in which both were now
placed, 'yet they met and recognized each other with a clever grace.
"Ha, ha !-why, brother! really you seem quite, besieged by the
fair ones. Giving them good counsel, I hope: a similar errand here to
my own," laughed Mr. Reynolds, senior, bowing politely to the smooth-
fied Quaker, who, not less surprised than his new acquaintance, apolo-
gized for his seeming gay disposition by informing his clergyman friend

e
r

1
2-3

22

CATHERINE MIIIDDETON,

-rS..
f= _


1-         Yf
17
r.el
t       1
1"
[ 1      '1fxRSF         r
Y         .
A" .
.rY -

25,

very blandly, " That he was upon an errand of mercy and reform on
behalf of the Rosine Association !"
" Ah, yes," said Mr. R., "Ihave heard of it. Well, how do you
succeed ? Doing pretty well, eh ?"
0, yes ! remarkably successful ! And now, if I could but"pr vail
upon.some of these young ladies to" place their names to this certificate
as evidence of the sincerity of forsaking tlieir present course of life, I
should feel most happy indeed."
"No doubt--not the least doubt, brother, of your love in the  od
work. But I am now in pursuit of a reckless son, who, .1 hear, has
been deceiving me in reference to his general course of life. I a
here this evening hoping to find him, but as yet I have not. Ma came
friend, be more successful in your laudable pursuit : good evening!'u
Feigning to be deeply affected at the thought of his son's profligicy
my worthy sire turned from broad brim, and hastened to the street
"Good evening," said-he: yet Madame De Estelle assured me it
was then past twelve o'clock!
.Broad brim did nqt progress much in his attempts to reform the g'rls,
for though they grew very "friendly" and social, yet soon preva'ing
upon him to sip a little wine with them on condition that then  ey
would sign the "paper," they succeeded, though not really to in  i
cate our "friend"-yet they did make him sprightly and merry; nd
it Was'nt long, ere awaking from a pleasant sleep, we heard him co ing
up stairs, and entering the before-mentioned room adjoining us. He
Wjlly, and whispered to his companion for the night, quite: 1 d.
He conversed with her in subdued tones for a long time, while te,
no longer in doubt, and unable to restrain her- feelings, exclaime
"Heavens ! Elmer-I hear my father's voice ! 'Tis he ! Oh, I
would fly to him, throw myself at his feet, and ask his forgiveness.
le will hear and receive me ! Oh, Elmer ! I would rise ! Let me
go to him-'tis my father !"
She would have sprang from the couch, and entered the presence of
her father, but I restrained and entreated her to be'quiet: told her
hastily of the sad consequences of meeting him in the" place where we
then wed She became quiet, and upon the sad  reflection of the late
'events in her life, wept herself into a half swoon. I now lay in uneasy
embarrassment, produced by the singular coincidence of the two parents
being in that self-same room on the same evening, and so near us. I
was puzzled.. Could they be on our track, and watching us ? I finally
concluded it best to leave the city.

THE LOVELY QUAKERESS.

Thie next morning, Mr Middleton, the harlot reformer, left the
couch of his adultery, minus. his watch.
When Kate-was missing from home, of course the family were all
agog with doubt and consternation, as to the causes of her mysterious
meant. The old gentleman rightly suspected Defbe of the run-
away, but he brooded over it in quiet grief; for, though he lovd his
child, yet he knew not what course would overtake them.
THE MIDNIGHT MURDER.--FLrGHT.-THE Puasurr.-K--ATE IN
MALE ATTIRE.-IER STORY.
ON the evening following the dilemma at Madame De Estelle's, I
chased to' he again in the company of Charles Winstanley, at the
amblin hellin, Southwark. We played several games, but cards,
nd everything else, appeared to be uncommonly dull. So, drinking
once more together with the mutual hope of dispelling a feehng com-
in over us nearly akin to the blues-arm-in-arm we leisurely stepped-
from the bar into the street, and loitered up Third street, each in silence
ed u in himself, scarce realizing our whereabouts. But nearing
South street, we carelessly turned into that dim lighted thoroughfare.
As we did so, Charley was the first to break the silence, and I was
startled from my vacant revery by his saying
"By the way, Reynolds, it has just recurred to my mind again.
"What is that ?" I inquired, quickly, quite aroused from my stapor.
SWhy, a little business of speculation, which I had been thinking
of during the last few days."
"Well, go on ; what is it ?"
"You can assist me.' Will you do so
" Can it be done to-nht?"
"It may.
"I am with you. But is there anything to be gained ?"
"There is: but it may involve murder."
As he whispered the concluding sentence in my ear, I  .ou  not sup-
press a rising shudder--but remembering my promise, I shoo  offtthe
feeling, and replied:
" Charley, I feel strange, this evening : but I am with you even to
that, if it will create a change in this monotony of things."'
"Then come along," said he ; " I do not ask you' to dispatch him.
I'll do that, while you secure the box of valuables which he Carres'
under his arm,-but here, this way-we are near his.place.

CATHERINE MIDDDETON,

24

C

4
,       ;
'
.
,_
s
,
AAY
SV
yy   t ^
1
}
h1
Y  "
--T
'!     j3
1  '
b
S                e
d'
,'      Y,,           ,r
y
~N                    _
'                             L
3;y'    ,
l
1
tf9     .q',
"
.h
..
l       (w
_
t
R    y,
}
1 'r


s26

CA'THERfINE MIDDLETON,

We turned up Fifth street, and passed the store of Bird, the jew..
eler, just as he was extinguishing the light, prepai-tory to leaving.
e proceeded to near Gaskill street, and stopped beneath the shadow
of a dull glimmering lamp on the side walk. Five minutes more had
scarcely elapsed,!when he passed us,
"Follow me, nd when I strike, you secure the box," he said, in
an under tone, as we crossed the street about half a square behind him.
In three minutes more we had reached him; it was near Gaskill
street, and the solitude of the place seemed to favor our design,--the
loneliness of the hour assisted us. - We hastily brushed against him,
and as Charley's keen dirk quietly pierced his side and entered his heart,
his grasp on the box relapsed--t it dropped into my hands. He fell to
the pavement, and we decamped with all speed. But, Oh, God! it
was a horrid deed of blood: a  anton murder, and most fo
Hte was a young man, and but lately married. That crime has since-
caused me many and severe regrets.
We hastened to divide the contents of the box, which were-composed
catches, and very valuable ear and finger rins-in all amo -
to over two thousand dollars !          g               untag
The day following, Kate and I dined in the city of Baltimore, and
during our rambles over the City of Monuments, we visited the splen.
did Washington Monument, based upon a lofty eminence, and stretching
heavenward in mid-air, near two hundred feet, in noble grandeur. We
to the top, and advancing to the edge, looked below. The
d       ght at which I now found myself, for a moment caused my
brslh to whirl. I drew back, and once more casting a perspective
lance over the beautiful landscape of the surrounding country, which
appeared visible for at least forty miles round. We turned from the
ofty pinacle erected to the memory of the Father of his Country sat-
ed ofits ariej altitude. Reaching the Hotel, Kate retired to her
aro, end Is turned down the street alone. Gaining Baltimore, or
dbt sreet, who should I encounter, but the parent of mny mistress,
doubtless in quest of her. "If not," thought I, "why is that man so
close;upon my track : can it be, that he suspects tne in
ut he neared me, and as his latepositionof " reform" flashed
ugh my nmd, I could scarce suppress an involuntary smile. He
received it in evidence of my good nature; and extreme pleasure at
t        him. Smiling, also, he reeived my proffered hand most gladly
and sh   heartily. Though slightly depressed, he addressed me
cordially, while, to the many who passed, we stood the "observed of

I

27

THE LOVELY QUAKERESS.

t

all observers, caused, no doubt  y   novelty of a foir-inch briired
musty beaver, and a sweeping h      and expansive  head gear, and
ton appeared in an uncommon argcut with an awful slope, from the
a coat of the full shad-belly shape,  t  etremitslope rar.
little neck of stiff buckram, to the parted extremitiesing da r,
As I had suspected, he was n search of his absconding daughter,
who, as some person had informed him,s    t  een in compay  for
a   4oug gentleman," whom he supposed to be Defoe, in the cars for
a younger "  nen  whm th   thought it must be a mistake, as the
.  altimtore. I informed hun that I t gontNe       York, and that I
last tim Isa  Mr. Defoe, he s poke of going to New Yradta
was  not  awa   r .th e  sp   oke  o f the  beautiful Catherine, until I
read the brief account in one of the morning journals."
New York !" repeated the old gentleman. "The profligate scoun-
" ew    ok!    eetdteogIi            --have him imprisoned, I,
drel1 if I can only get hold of him,i11e-i-t h amp !"
will, for the balance of his entire l u   oe  for a moment suppose
"cBut, friend Middleton," said I, "you do n
that Catherine would go wit hi                      that ere this,
"Ac   als friend Elmer, I fear it is but too true, and ht  r  hs
"A h ,  a la s,  f ie dilm r
my only remaining child is ruined, ruined ."
His eyes moistened at the sad reflection, and I saidIhoped
not prove so bad as he appeared."children appear
"Ofred      ihr," he continued, "1the fate of my cide  per
verh, friend E ie , indeed!     It seems I am not to raise any.
.  very strange  o    a   ims n    h    as but four years old, and made
I possessed a darling boy, once: he wan b  res   ol, andmae.
heart glad, by his innocent prattle an  prene. Alame   W
drowned, and his body neverrecovered  But, friend Elmer,:edlt
t dwell upon this. He is   ad-I rust seek the livingfarewell
You say he has gone to New York
"6So he informed me."
Sw     ee imto the ends of the earth ! Fare-thee-well
We separated in cordial friendship. I turned towardmy hotel.  l
we epaate incor ai re  efrom dinner, and were seated- plea _
the afternoon, after we had retired sminer ad watodisarm
sanly n or pivae" aartment~ I questioned Kate (in awy todiar
santly in our privy ate apar  n'a teonly child of her .parents ?
her of all suspicion,)  if she was the ny      e
"At this time I am the only one," brhe re?
"Have you never had a sister or brother "tthro
At hewod-cboter"-- I noticed a slight tremor pass ho)gh
At the word" brother     ln     blanche her features. "What a
question" she rather mused to herself than asked aloud. "But,Elmer,"
said she, "why do you ask ?"

I


28

CATHERIN~E IDDDETON,

mid, nothing !" said I, carelessly, " the thought just then entered my
"Eid , andthaedthe ws estion without reflection."
"ulth era there was a period when that thought was the most pain-
fltamyher could know. Jr had_ a brother, ne    lmrpn
would now tell the story of that onl b brother He, Elmer ; and I
years old, when he was lost. Ie was droear              four
tendel  It-          wa droned. My father loved us
tenderly. It duringg the warmest days f summer, and we were
alMoourning at our place in the country. I was- alwayexeml
fond of accompanying my father on his frequent rides around
country. One day, we had gone farth r on the road   an    thel
and were some riles from home. As    ttle Harr  or Renryuafor
that was his name,) loved to be upon th water, he was feny
permitted, in the care of Patty the nurse, or  erome, t  quently
on the river. In their guardianship, my father fe the sur st trust.
e rode on, and on, not once noticing the sudden change of weather
until tirrumbling sound of distant thunder warned us to return. The
toughts of both of us were excited for the dear one upon the water.
Wet and weary, we at length reached home. -Elmer, I cannot describe
my mother's agony, my father's anguish, my own loneliness  wh
Were told that little Henry was no moe,--that a boatman had seen
our pleasure boat capsize, and sink immediately, a short distance
the shore.yance from
" The following morning, I remember it well, the sun ascended most
the heavens were clear and beautiful. The search of the
day was renewed with unremitted vigor, and  la   with
n.    ess. The keel of the ill-fated craft wa found imbeddd
en    the surfpe, at no great distance from the
on dragging the river, Jerome's body was found--but no tace of  adt
or her darling charge could be obtained."
This plain recital of Kate, cost her, ere shellosed, great effort
suffusion of tears, tiat Could not be restrained. I  athe  t, and a
ber, hy saying, " that those whom the gods love,. die early."
n a few days we left Baltimore for Washington City, where we
visited the Capitol, the Patent Office, and the President's house  We
then left for Richmond, Va, -should itbe asked hoV  so ted
my expensive traveling, I answer, with the -skilful  -  pporedI
galed! Kate throwing off all educational restraint, also became,
under my tuition, a skilful adept in gambling. It was while yetstay-
ig i Richmond, -she played ime a trick little dreamed of by me  In
the evening after I left, she went to my wardrobe,'donned one of my

29

THE LOVELY QUAEERESS.

best dark suits, done up her hair alaolka, secured a heavy moustache
on her upper lip, put on a neat silk glazed cap, and stood before
the mirror in the character of a gay lieutenant off duty. Surprised
and pleased, she sallied forth in pursuit of me.
SUccESs AT "BLUFF."-CHANGE OF NAME.--THE DUEL.
AFTER passing through several saloons, Kate found me, too intent
upon fleecing a stranger at "bluff," to observe her debut. She
leisurely walked round the hall, in which were several circles of
gamesters. Presently, my customer growing satisfied that he could
not retrieve his losses, arose, and left in disgust.
His seat was scarcely vacated, ere it was filled by the "saucy Kate."
She bowed politely, and tossing the cards in a challenging manner,
said in an easy and inviting tone :
"Do you play, sir, this evening ?"'
"I will-one game."
"Shall it be ' bluff?' "
" As you please," said I: " 'bluff' if you wish."
We commenced, and strange to tell, she won the game. And st
we continued FIFTEE successive games, she winning ELEVEN   uz-
zled at this, as she laughingly tossed the cards, I caught a view of her
face. It seemed like an apparition. I started. The moustache puz-
zled me! I was about to speak, when she placed'her finger to her),4.
indicating silence. We arose and left for the street, entering
I. said
"Why, Kate, is it possible ? what in the world do you mean ?"
" Ha, ha, ha !" rang out her hearty laugh.
"Elmer," said she, "igot Kate, but Harold-I like it better!"
And as she archly asked me how I liked her change p character, I
could but join in her good-natured mirth. She had indeed played well,
and had won not less than one hundred dollars from meI
"Kate," said I,." I love romance, sometimes."
"Not.Kate," she interrupted, "if you please, Elmer-but ar dd
" Harold, then, it shall be !  o, Harold, I hope this is niit_ be
your only appearance in this character, for you are charming in it5'
" Am. I? I feel perfectly at home:- how did I act at the saloon ?"
"0, admirably ! you acted your part handsomely, indeed."
"Then it shall not be the last of my adventures, iZ cog, eh ?"
"Indeed not. Can you nct assume it while travelling ?"

sw


7 'f!! a  wr-'"  W-, .rr.: ,. ;  r.isv +r w~ "  r

t    , e
Y
Y
Y
i r
rya' .
i
f
f              n
Y
1
a
J.T
rlt         .f
A" .
y         ifr
}
l          } -
yi
r ffSr
ty                         /
C)
R
I
1
i
f+
I
t Y
4
4F 7777
'A

CATHERINE MIDDlEToN,

" Just as you wish, my dear," she continued, laughing gaily.
Suffice it, that thus we left Richmond for Petersburg-thence for
Wilmington, N. C. Thence to South Carolina. Leaving Charleston,
we visited Columbia, the capitol, and passed several days at the Ameri-
can Hotel in that city.
This was in early Autumn, and having long had golden dreams of a
life of luxury in the Antilles, we steered our next course for Havana.
Stopping at  New Orleans, we visited several masquerades of the most
elite and gay. At one of them I'was drawn quite precipitately into a
duel with a savage Spaniard, in the following manner : Kate attended
the masque in a pink domino of splendid satin, gotten up expressly
for the occasion. The ball was, indeed, throughout, a most magnifi-
cent affair, and tolerably well conducted, until the aforesaid Spaniard
began flirting rather familiarly with Kate,-and roused my jealousy and
pride. I once chanced to be near enough to overhear him make an
insulting proposal to her, when, as he glanced towards me, I gave him
a withering frown.. He simply shrugged his shoulders, and exhibiting
his clenched teeth beneath a heavy moustache, grinned a horrid smile.
Enraged by his insolence, and maddened with jealousy, I threw my,
gloves in anger at his feet. He'kicked them to the opposite side of the
crowded hall. I rushed upon him with my brandished weapon; he
instantly drew, and parried the blow intended for his heart. Kate,
now frightened, sprang to my side, and ere we could come up again,
we were separated by the managers of the masque. But before I left,
earned his address, and next day sent him a challenge.
'rom this Kate did hers utmost to dissuade me; but seeing at length
that I was determined to protect her from-insult with my life--
" Oh, Elmer !" she said, " you once saved my life at the risk of
your own. If you will meet this haughty Spaniard, let me accom-
pany you, acting as your second. Should' he kill you, die with this*
truth on your mind, that I will avenge you : he shall not leave the
spot alive."
"Thanks !" replied I, " my noble Kate, you are brave-but should
not risk your more precious life by going with us."
Yet, in here devotedness, she wasinvulnerable, and at the time
appointed, she appeared again in her male attire, and accompanied me
as my second to the place designated for the duel.
The word was given-we fired !
Kate fairly screamed with joy when she found that I was yet alive.
My well directed weapon carried the ball to his heart, and her insulter
fell dead His ball struck a metal button on my coat, and glanced off.

31

THE LOVELY QUAKERESS.

SCENES IN CUBA.-A NEW TIDE IN ELMER'S AFFAIRS.--HE JOINS
THE ARMY.-SAVES THE LIFE OF QUEEN ISABELLA.-IS AF-
FIANCED TO A CoUNTESS.-APPEARANCE OF HAROLD DEFOE.-
HORRIBLE MURDER OF KATE.
IN three days subsequent to the duel, we were on our prosperous
way to the balmy clime of Havana. Arriving safely, we soon formed
many valuable acquaintances-andT by a succession of favof ble circum-
stances, I found myself advanced to lieutenancy in the Queen's service.
We were prosperous, and had hosts of friends. Upon one occasion,
as Kate was not yet known to any except as a familiar friend, we were,
invited to the residence of a wealthy acquaintance, some distance from
my post. I was granted leave of absence. The pleasures of the day
had scarcely commenced, when I received an order occasioned by the
-sudden Lopez expedition, which compelled my immediate return. We
had proceeded but a short distance on our way, when the heavens began
to lower, and very soon the threatening storm burst forth with terrific
violence. . At this moment'I descried a horse without a rider dashing
furiously by, yet sufficiently near to discover that he was caparisoned
with the Queen's livery. I immediately checked my steed,--and what
was my horror, to see rushing directly towards me, a carriage drawn
by six white Arabian steeds, dashing over rocks and precipices, threat-
-ening at every moment to hurl its inmates to destruction.
I told my attendant (Kate,) to seize and make ready one of the pis-
tols, and at a signal from me, togshoot one of the foremost horses; at
the same time, I unloosed from my saddle-bow a lasso, and-41 ni il
was prepared, we silently awaited the approach of 'the frantic steeds.
On they came, and at the proper moment I cried, "Now's our time!"
and with the sharp crack of Kate's pistol, down tumbled one of the
foremost horses, and whirling the lasso around the forelegs of the other,
they were soon tightly bound within its coil. The others, rushing
upon the prostrate bodies of their companions, were completely
entangled, and forced to stop. We immediately rushed to the car-
riage, and wrenched open its doors, There lay the Qu n, with one of
her maids of honor, senseless and prostrate. We lifted them upon the
damp green swarn, having spread my cloak to receive them. ;,,It was
some time ere we discovered the least signs of returning consciousness.
At last, the Queen opened her eyes and gazed wildly around her, and
in a feeble voice, asked " Where she was? What had been the horrible
scenes through which she had passed ? or was it all a dream ?"

30


CAT IRIiNE  IDDLETON,
-1endeavored to tranquilize her, butxthis was impossible; she again
demanded, 'Who are you, sir, that rescued me from death?  Speak,
sir-speak! I inplore you !"r
I saw from her manner- it would irritate, rather than benefit, to
attempt to parley any longer, and at once told my name and rank.
;..          " Accept this small token of our faiTor and esteem !" said the Queen,
casting an elegant gold chain around my neck. Then turning, agd pre:
seating me to the beautiful creatureger companion, she told her to
thank me. - The fair Countess, witf'sri le so bewitching that I could
not object, said-" Kind sir, I must be permitted to join our gracious
Queen in thanking you for your generous self-devotion, in rescuing us
from a most terrible death."
I bowed my head in silence ; my lips refused utterance to the feel-
ings of my heart. To me, that smile, and speech were more priceless
than all the gifts and honors of the Queen.
Several lords in attendance now riding up, they expressed in earnest
tones their congratulations at her Majesty's almost miraculous escape
"My lords," said she, "I, haveonly to thank this gallant .young
officerr here, and his faithful attndant, not only for my own life, but
also for the life of my dear'littleyLbentess."
I at once read in.he  Majesty's tone, a reiruke to those lords for a
conceived w_  of proper attendance in the morning's excursion, The,
Queen, turning to an.elderly, dignified officer, said-" My lord: seen
that this young officer is confirmed in the rank which he deserves, and
which I have given him, and that hi,,faithful attendant be promoted to
the rank vacated by.hini."
It is useless-to dwell upon events as they occurred. I will only state
that I became day by day more highly honored and favored; it was
like a dream-and happily did life they glide away, and I only awoke
to find myself the affianced of the lovely Countess.
Alas ! of Kate I had, grown tired ;-"-and in event occurred in the regi-
ment "of which, in her disguised character, she was as member, which
forever removed her from between the Countess and myself. One day,
getting into a misunderstanding wit one of her-command, and correct-
Ong him harshfj, he watched his op  unity, and secretly and murdei---
ously dispatched her ! Her murderer was Harold, once her protector -
and lover!  Strange to say,'notwithstanding the many months they
were in constant inter-course, they had never -recognized each other.
It appears that on tonight of the accident at the ferry in Philadel.
phia, he was rescued-but supposing Kate was drowned, and crushed in
dlhis hopes, he sailed for Cuba, and joined the Queen's army.


VMS LJYRLV QUAK5uM55~               0

THEs  StmAoau's   SToaR.-1IA oLo A    FeuNnLac .--"ntrI  t
HARorL'* SNrM.I-llAaW.D Lovaa ?I     Couras.-Marxa
ncoeurtn-Tun    CtoNv.IcT.- -D:arn  or, Hantw .asiJ ils
Cottress.-Tna CoxeLsiaow.                             r
Ot evening, I chanced to enter one of those magnificent places of
amusement ande creation, so common throughout the island. I took
a seat at a small table, on which were a pack of playing cards. A
ine., tall andii dignilled looking signior. wrhaps not less than forty years
of age smilingly took a seat opposite me. lie evidently possessed an
ntjvantage over me-le knew ne ! while to te he was a perfect
strange r.  ie addressed me familiarly, and gave aie his name and posi.
tion. Ills une was Defoe-'once the guardian of harold-his position
its society, thnt of a retired gentleman.
lie inforned tue, that hisl property once becoming Involved by poli-
ti.ail ai delised litigation, he left for the United States, where he
rei1minedl until he heard of the favorable termination of his affairs,
anl then returned, andt retired upon his. wealth. Though astonished
at his words, I was agjenibly interested, capecially when he spoke ot
his reniclewe In the Uinited States., I felt stire he must be the saNte
gent leatnn whose r  ni arold had'assumed, and of whom he friqueit-
ly spoke as lis guardian. At the conclusion of his story, I enquired if
he hioi not oice been guardian to a young man called Harold.
"' larold I" said he, " Yes: a wild, unsettled and ungrateful found-,
ling. Did ytu know him, .ignlor ?"
" A founling .", Irepeated, with surpris.  44Know hni? I diid,
sigior-umid would hear firtlewr-of himr."
" You shall. lie wats taken, wbin about four years old, from the
water, in an almost Insensible condition, by one of my farm  iandls,
who broighit him to the manor. I received him, as I supposed, until
his parents could be tied, But none of his kindred elasimned hii-
and liking the boy, ve reared him as our own, and called hiimi Harold.
I doated upon hin, hand gave hinm a liberal education.-hit he grew
reckless, ad I liscsredi's him, and he left me, to reside in I'hiladelphin.'
Nyt liing so fortunate sa lie expected, he soon wrote back to us that
hoe was in pecuniary distress, and desired aid. My reply was a prompt
dsiadal of all further assistance or support. Suich were ny last words
to Harold l)efoe, as he was tlen called. I afterwards learned he had
rennuntced smy nme, andl was known only as larold. DId you know
him, signior ?"
"I think so-wiilfout doubt."
"* When, ani where, did you see his last I'

C

r
33


1HS tLOVSLY QUA'V5I    .

b
Kj

"In the city of Philadelphia-about nine years ago."
8o long! How did he appear -- but no matter. My natre,
uugnior, hat always been decisive.-I would not know him again. Come,
gli up, ant let us drink to the health of our Queen."
We did so, and drank with a hearty seat to the adorable fsbella.
After playing several games of pelke, we separated-he for his quiet
nad wealthy mansion, andK Ibkr the caresses of my hir and lovely
Entering a secret pasage, whichled toher sumptuous apartments, I
moved secret panel, and stepped N i into the rom. I was satounded
at beholding at her het a dark-elad mate gure. As KIentered, he rosa
quickly, turned ad cnfronted me. , Our eyes met., For a moment,
every muscle in my body seemed paralysed: my hand involuntarily.
grasd my sword more tightly. Another speechless gase satisfied
me it wamm-dareid! While each straining ball of sight seemed burst-
Ing from his head, he drew-.and each, maddened with jealousy and
revenge rushed to combat.
4% Villain,"cI erled, "twice my rl1al-the enamored and murderer of
your sister-aassin and foundling--draw, and. defend thy miserable
lib."
"Perjurid vhallanS do we meet again?  W ere's at thee!" he ground
his teeth in mad rage, and out swords crossed with a tkrious celatter.
The Countess, alarmed, shrieked "Murder!t oh, kill him not, but spare
him-spare him?" She sprang between us. Fatal bound?! With the
flow aimed at his heart, tsy sword pierced her breast, and she kil
dead at my feet!
Oh, God I and am K her murderer, too !
Another powert thrust, and my rival, Harold, lay quietly in, the
sold embrace of death.
I rushed wildly from the apartment. The air seemed Alled with.
hissing serpents,and my track closely fidlowed by howling demons! It
seemed as though a dend had Aied his talons into my back, and I1 fell
assele. to the earth  * *  *  *'When I awoke to consciousness,
I found that K had been an inmate of the nwed Awose for years. 'eas
now pronounced nured, and told I might leave the institution when K
pleased. I determined to pass the few remaining days of my miserable
lib, in the service, and in the house of God, and besought the Superior
of a band of holy men, to admit one who sought the consolations of
Religion, and the privilege of living and dying apart from the world.
My prayer was granted-and daily, and hourly, within these sacred
walls, I do penane for my crimes

0'

r~r

4W

$4

4 7  $ *   ,! .f r            .  ak Y~MIil   ~  '411 )
Lv 4
R.^? ' Y

K/
*4'

TTr1LJ_ TTI

;
cvr '


  
             
         
       
   
