
    ----CITATION----
        Russell, Charles Wells, (1856-1927). Roebuck .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7684
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Roebuck 
            
               \ I'

~ROEBUCK:

/

NEW' YORK:
M. DOOLADY, t~UBLISIIER,
448 Bmxmn~ STR~RT.
18f56.
~  S          /


* I

4

I

i.

CONT~TTSM

4

~Eritered according to Act of Congress, in the year I BGG,
BY *M. DOOLADY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States,
for the Scutbern District of New York.
In ~OhBDge
Puke U~iver0itF
J1it4 23 1932

6/
j;

I

W. GANNON, 8TEREO~FY PEU,
- No~1D5NMsRW8t.,~N. Y-

JOIfl~T .7. REED, PRINTh1~,
I~earA3 Coutz~e St.. N.Y,

CIIAPTRR
I.-The Fairflixes of Roebuck.                  5
II.-$laves at Roebuck.                  -     13
III.-Visitors at Roebuck.   -               -  28
IV.-Table-.Talk at Roebuck.   -          -     43
V.-Roebuck Threatened.     -    -     -
VI.-War.         /                  -          65
VII. -Secession.                             -  71
VIII.~-Drink.         -    -.        -     -~   84
IX.-Poor Whites near Roebuck.    -     -    -  97
X.'--Willowbank.    -    -                   .106
XL-..Tlie Volunteers.  -         -     -      113
XII.-Manassa.        -    -          -         121
XIII.-A Duel.      -                          - 133
XIV.-Roebuck after M~tnassa.    -     -         150
XV.---Bonibyx at Roebuck.    -                 161
XVL-Conspiracies.          -         -     -    172
XVII. ,-Insurreciion      -         -    -     - 183
XVIII. -Love itt Roebuck.         -    -         198
XIX.--Treuiaizte.       -                     - 210
XX. -Gabriel.        -    -          -    -    223

*

a 4


4                    CONThNTS,
rn~APTEfl
~ at RoebuCk.'. -
~~IL~V'engeaflCO.              -
XXIII -Baxter.     -         -
XXIV.~-A1berL Palrnet~'S Lo'~e. -
XXV.- Marlc Marlin.   -     -
XXVL-TIIe Journey. -      -
XXVIL~.~Doctor Dick.          -
~~~x.~Washingt0rI.     -     -
~XXX.~FrederiC Fairfax.   -    -
XXXL-Tlle Thid.

-Ie

PAG1~
-    - 233
243
- - 251
-    260
-   ~- 270
-    281
- 291
-    297
306
316
-    - 323

ROEIUCK.,.
CHAPTER~ I.              /
THE PAJRFAXES OF ROEBUOW.
ROEBUCIC was one of the fiuiest estates in the ~coun-
try. Its~, aores were reckoned by thousands, and, the
slave upou it were nuinlered by Iiuu4re4s. It h~is
been equally admired for beauty~ anaferlMiV. i3efore
it was laidi wa~te by the ravages of invasion~ taste,
~kill ~id indu4ry iu improving, cultivating and
adorning ~t had brought the ~ects of art to rivid the
luxuriant beauty of nature. In front of the plantation
Deer River sweeps with gentle curves-apretty
st~earn, scarcely entitled to ~ appellation of a rWer.
,From the margin ofthestream spreads. out~, a wide
and fertile bottojn t9~a bluff~aboi t fifty f~et high, and
from. the bluffa table of iuidn~ating land extends to
the foot of a hill called ~lk Ridge. Several brook;
flowing from the ridge to the river, cut the plateau
with ravines i~nd delis, and supply the flei4s with
water. The native forest, covering many hundred
acres together, and scattered here and there in small
groves, i~ont4butes to the various beauties of the land-
scape and to the more ~ubstantia1 uses of ~the planta-
tion. Upon the table land, a furlong from the bluff,
and surmounting a gentle eminence, staxi~ds t~tood.

9


/*

flOfll3tTClC.

alas !) a large and elegant mansion, whiob, a few years
ago, replaced a more ancient edifice, then destroyed
by accidental fire. Before the house a grassy lawn
extended belo:~v the blufl which there declined into
the bottom with gradual slope. About the mansion
trim walks, edged with box, led among evergreen or
flowering shrubs and trees of rare foliage or stately
altitude, both of native and foreign origin, and
through a flower-garden blooming with all the floral
glories of Virginia. At a~ greater distance orchards,
vineyards, meadows and fields of corn, tobacco, wheat
and other crops, in the orderly circle of their seasonS,
rewarded the busy hand of skilful culture with the
ripe gifts of a genial climate and prolific soil. In
various directions might be seen the negro quarters,
hamlets of white cabins, with' their "patches," or
kitchen-gardens. attached. On every side the build-
ings, fencess, irnplenwuts~ kind mc~des of cultivation,
showed the intelligent spirit of modern improvement,
th~.igh here and there might be detected, also, ~traits
of the pride of inheritance and marks of veneration
for old usages and traditions.
The new mansion and the modern improvements
were the work of Colonel Frederick Fairfax, the
last who has borne that name. Both the name of
Frederick and the title of Colonel devolved upon him
by a kind of lnheritane0, as if they were annexed to
the estate. During three generations they designated
the proprietor. The first Colonel Frederick had won
the rank in actual service. The title was transmitted
by country courtesy to the son, who inherited his
name and estate, and, after two generations, it became
an easy trick of inheritance, by custom,, to invest Fred-
erick, the succeeding son and heir, with the same title

6

1~G~BUCK.                   7
when he came into poSsessipn. of the ~anie estate.
This was a natural expression of courtesy on the part
of a community that always respected pedigrees,
nourished traditions, admired martial virtues amd
afi~ected military hono~s. But the title, thus derived,
was seldom conferred with his name in i~ll upon ~the
third Frederick Fairfax. lie w~is usually but "Colonel
Fred." to his neighbors. The hi~mblest of them eften
saluted him with that familiar brevity, and he was
thus commonly styled throughout tile country. It
may be thence inferred that he bad effabJo manners,
and a frank, cheerful, sunny disposition. This happy
temper relieved, without disguising~ 14s pride of birth.
His fortune excited n~ envy, yet familiarity never
degraded the dignity of his demeanor. He was a
mnan of tall, commanding stature, of vigorous frameand
graceful action; with bold,, but regular features. Ifls
complexion was f~ir~and fresh, but imbrowned by the
sun. His eyes were blue, and his hair,, of light brown,
was SQft, wavy and inclined to curL It began t9 note
the years with ~ few silyer thre~ds-..-.white ~mark~ of
happy years. Lte~va~ nearly 8L2~ty. his imnd w~.s
large, penetrating and remarkable. for. seuu4 j4dg..
ruent in the affairs of life. In. cirncliict he wa~ gentle,
honorable, brave and energetic. When he was young
he carried away the honors of the University. Then
he spent in the healthy pleasures of the c
country and
in visiting cities, the period assigned by custom to
young gentlemen of wealth for recreation between the
discipline of youth and the responsibilities of man-
hood. Whilst he was thu~ en~joying. leisure~, his popu~.
lar manners, the reputation of bis scholastio~'&amp;iumphs
and the general respect. for his faaniy,, induced the
him. as their
people Of th~ county to elect         repre~en.


8        ROEBUCK.

tative in the legislature' of that State. lie had served
several sessions in that body with rising 'credit, when
the death of his father calle~1 him, at the age of thirty,
to the care of his estate. Thenceforth he dev6t~d
himself to agriculture and to the duties of a private
citizen. In the management of a large e~tate,~and in
the performance of his proper part as a gentleman of
prominent position and. leading influence in his
county, he found employment~ for his ability and
energy. He was among the most successful planters
of Virginia. Free fi~om the canker 'of avarice, he felt
an honorable ambition to excel in whatever he at-
tempted and a liberal pleasure in the profitable. em-
ployment of all the means[ entrusted to his care. lie
was proud of the public benefits which resulted from
the improvements he introduced; he had pride in a
princely revenue; but his benevolence was not' lees
princely.
As a slaveholder a numerous population depended
upon him, and, with his accustomed energy, he exer-
cised over them the functions both of guardian and
governor. N~o slaves had their wants' supplied with
more judicious or provident liberality than his; none
were more contented, or with better reason; but none
yielded larger profits from their labor. By regulating
their industry~ according ti a ~velbdevised system, by
attention to 'th&amp;ir health, comfort and cheerfuluess-
by the. employment of proper overseers, axid by the
constant supervision of his own intelligence, he de-
rived from the moderate exertions of all ample pros-
'perity, of which they all partook. Believing the ser-
vitude of negroes under a superior race to be a need-
fbul supplement to their improvident natxire, he 'did
not, with sentimental inconsistency, shrink from the

exercise ci' the authority and discipline which servi-
tude implies. He was a~ humane master, but he was
master. The community under his control was bur-
dened with no drones, unless two or three able.~bodied
but idle pensioners deserved that opprobrious epi-
thet. It was a community which produced within it-
self nearly everything that its essential wants. re-
quired. Among the~ servants were carpenters, shoe-
makers, smiths, weavers and other Mtisans, skilful in
their trades. Besides the staple crops, the plantation
produced flax, wool and other materials, to be fabri-
cated for the use of the negroes. Evey married
slave was allowed 'a "patch," or kitchen.garden, pro-
portioned in size to the number, of his family, ~and the
most thrifty among them i~nade more profit from these
patches and from sales of fowls and eggs, than the
ordinary wages of laborers. They were, of course,
supplied with food and clothing by the master.
He was not the least industrious member of the~
community. It was his habit to give the day to busi-
ness, until near the hour of dinner, which was about
four o'clock. He spent the morning in correspond-
ence, or examining accounts or other in-door work,
or, more commonly, in riding over his plantation, and
giving his personal attention to all its operations.
This had been his 'habit for many years, and now, as
he approached the age of three score, his industry was
not relaxed. So benignly. crept the -shadow"'of age
over his active and useful life that "his eye was not
'dim nor his natural force abased."
'~His wife, some five years younger thauhirnsel~f; was
a lady of comely person, and, in character and mau~
ners~ ~an agreeable type of mature womanhood. She
was the daughter of a distinguished public nian, and


10              ROBBUOK.
before her marriage had been a toast and a belle in
the most elevated circle olr society. But when she
was led to the altar, she left upon it all the gay gar~
lands of maidenly vanity, and, with the ring, she wore
thenceforth the graceful dignities of wedded love.
As a matron, she was proud of matronhood as the
proper consummation of a woman's ambition-the
natural sphere of her highest duties, honors and de-
lights. In Virginia, by the grace of God, women are
feminine. They aim to excel in the lovely qualities
of their own sex, without competing for the prizes of
the other. The form of Mrs. Fairfax had once been
delicate, but years, which threatened wrinkles,
brought a smooth and pleasant roundness to her
cheeks and a more ample dignity to her form. As
the wife of a planter and mistress of an extensive es.
establishment, she had many responsibilities and -not a
few anxieties. 1~ut a sense of responsibility, suited
to gitch a station in life, ha4 been cultivated as part
of her education, and had been exercised ever since
her marriage. Sustained by her husband, she fulfilled
the duties of her position with constant and cheerful
fidelity. Her life was one of daily usefulness, and
her servants were scarcely less indebted to her
W9lnanly kindness'than to the provident care of their
master. Yet, the nature of this gentlewoman was of
such delicate texture that ~he leaned continually upon
the strength of her husband, and was dependent upon
his society and affection for every hour of her happi-
ness. She, to whom so many feeble creatures looked
up for protection, looked tip to him with a trust
almost religious~
There was no living son to inherit the name and
title of "' Colonel Fred." Several children had died.
There remained only one daughter. The loss of chil-

~ROE13tTCK.           11

dren h~id bQen almost the sole affliction of Colonel
Fairfax and his wife during their married lives*
Their parental affection was now concentrated upon
their daughter, Julia. She ~ about the age of
twenty. She had the fair skin and browh hair of her
father, with the hazel eyes of her mother. In person
she rather surpassed the middle height of woman,
but was not quite tall. Her form might have keen
deemed too lender for perfect beauty, but its outlines
were round enough for grace. Her face cannot be
described feature by feature, without prodm~ing a
false idea of its character. All who saw it pro-
nounced it beautiful; bi~t those who saw it only once
might dispute with each other what was its chief at-
tribute. Such was the transparent sincerity of her
countenance, that the E )ecial charm of her beauty
changed with her emotions. Her customary manner
was one of modest and winning gentleness.. But she
often displayed the gaiety of girlhood and innocence.
Every tender sentiment, every pure passion impressed
itself upon her heart, and flashed its expression in her
eyes as pictures are made by a glance of sunlight.
Under this versatile delicacy, however,, her essential
character had the firmness of high principle and
almost masculine courage. Being an only child, and
loving her parents with reverential devotion, she
deavored to fill for them the vacant places of sons
and daughters. She interested herself in all her'
father's pursuits, promoting his plans and sharing his
counsels. She often rode with him over the planta-
tion, chatting of crops with a tongue as lively as
maidens use to discuss the latest fashion of artificial
flowers. By frequent association with her father in
manly avocations and pleasures, she may have eon-

*


:12

ROEBUCK.

treated some -modes of thought and feeling somewhat
more masculine than the native traits of her char-
acter.
In introducing to the reader the Fairfaxes of Rqe-
buck, we should not pass over the Colonel's bachelor
brother, Richard; but his loquacious habit will make
him. known to all who come within the sound of his
voice. He had an estate of his own, and kept up a
domestic establishment upon it; but the greater part
of his time was spent at Roebuck, or, in winter, at*
Richmond.' He was two years younger than his
brother, the, Colonel, and was a man of small stature.
9But by some f~rg&amp;tten trick of nursery nomenclature
he had been called in childhood "big brother," and
so he was still sometimes playfully styled by the
larger and elder Frederick. He had been educated
as a physician, and entered upon the practice of his
-profession under the influence of young ambition.
But, after a few years, the easy independence 'of
hereditary acres tempted him away from a voca-
tioi~ so laborious. He was once disappointed in an
affair of love, and that ordinary event, touching one
of the keys of a whimsical nature, made him forswear
matrimony altogether. lIe retained the' title of
Doctor, and as he grew' to be an old bache~r,' he was
generallyy named, with curt familiarity, Doctor Dick.
His style of conversation did not repress the liberty
which men were 'inclined to take with his name; for
it was frequently a style of satirical banter and half-
com~c extravagance, lie sometimes affected a bitter~
ness of invective that might have convicted him of
extreme ill-nature, if his. conduct had not proved that
- the roughness of his tongue was to his heart as a
crabbed preface to a generous volume.

ROEBUCK.

13

CHAPTER II.
SLAVES AT nOEBUCIC.
ONE morning in the spring of they year eighteen
hundred and sixty-one, Colonel Fairfax, accordingg to
his custom, rode out from his house to make the
grand round of his plantation. We are not to aecom-.
pany him with a view of' observing the scenery of the
farm, or of noting the information he obtained or the
orders 'he gave or the progress of cultivation. Those
who would learn in detail how the agriculture of Vir.
ginia was so greatly improved,-.as it ha~ been during
the last quarter of a century, with immense advantage
to both races who inhabit there, will find more
authentic sources of information. We are to chroni-
ole only a few incidents of' the colonel's morning ride
that have an interest more personal and less grave
than the topics of an agricultural report.
Not far from the mansion stood several negro cabins
in a cluster, and around them swarmed a number of
young Africans, looking like bees about their hives,
but idling like butterflies in the early sunshine. Rid-
ing to the door of one of those cabins, the colonel dis-
mounted and entered it to make a visit, which he re-
peated almost daily. Within was an old negro - man
lying upon a bed, from which he rose when he saw
his master coining to the doors His age was evidently
very great, and he reckoned it roundly at a hundred.
lie wore a long white beard, which he preseiTed at

II


U

RO1~B.U OK.

ROBBUCI~.

the request of his master. His hair was nearly as
white as wool. Rising from the bed he walked feebly
with the help of a long cane to a ~tool, on which he
seated himself in obedience to a gesture of the cob
onel, after they had shaken hands with each other.
The master stood while they held the brief conversa-
tion which was so often repeated, and for which old
Valentine looked forward as the leading event of his
daily life. J3efore age had impaired his faculties he
had been a fair though rather favol ble type of his
race in Yirgin~a. It was his pride to have served
three generations of the Faixfaxes of Roebuck. All
the respectability of the family was appropriated to
himself, but only in comparing his station with tha~t
of other negroes. He yielded the place of superiority
to the white race without doubt or reluctance, and as
he assigned the highest rank in that race to the Fair.
fax family, he and the other servants of that family-
were at the top of t1~ie black ladder. Fidelity and
obedience were the two prime virtues of hi~ class,
according to hi~ moral code. For the rest of morab
ity the masters were responsible. Reason, principle
and free will would not have J~ept him in a Tight path
long if left to himself, but he was capable of under-
standing and. practicing such simple and direct duties
as fidelity and obedience to a master. Through them
he was made useful and happy, and wa~ civilized
beyond the highest conception of his grandfather,
who was a native African, and above the independent
attainments of his race during forty centuries. The
brutality and treachery of savage blood were nearly
extinguished in him, and, as a docile and contented
slave, he spent his life in cheerfttl labor with many
merry holidays. In servitude lie. had the pleasures

which his better nature craved, but not those higher
enjoyments which could not be his in any condition.
Among temples which all the tribes in Africa could
never hav~e built, he learned the practical precepts of
a religion whose sublime dogmas his ancestors could
not have preserved in memory from the rising to' the
setting of the sun. And now it was his boast that he
had been always a faithful servant, and his master,'
recognizing the claim which such servitude estab..
lished, treated the old man with the kindest 'care and
with sincere respect.
"How are you today, Uncle Valentine ?" he asked,
when the antique African was seated.
"Pretty mis'able, thanks be to de Lord, Master
Fred."
"What's your misery, Uncle?"
"On'y waiting' for de Lord to take his servant to
hesef."
"Do you want to die then ?"
"Never, Master Fred., Lord bless 'your dear soul,
never."
"How old are you, new?"
"Well, you can count it up. I seed Gin'al Wash-
inton a crossing ' de' Delaware when I was seven or
fifteen or along thai~, and I seed de ~hlack filly dey
called Flora beat Colonel Dixon's hoss Thunder, but
you know ef black Dick he had rid Thunder "..-.----..
"Oh, I r~niember, Uncle. Do you get everything
you want ~ Do the chaps wait on you' properly? Is
your bed attended to, and your fire and everything ?"
"Yes, everything, Master Fred., thank you. Dis
mis'able oad nigger gits everything he wants till de
Lord he do come."
"Very well, make them attend t~ you. Don't for-

14

15


16  ~       ROEBUCK.

get, Unde Valentine, when that white beard grows a
little longer I am going to have your pictui~e taken to
be hung up beside my gra~dfathe~'s."
"Your grandfather, he was de first Colonel Frede-
rick. When he tuk me to de army i~or his body sar-
vant, he rode de Engli~h hoss 2Rover, and when we
come to de camp"-
"Tell me about that to-morrow. Now come out
here into the sunshine. Let me carry your stool for
you. There-..good-bye."
"Lord bless dat boy," said the old -man, as his
'master rode away, "and bless old master, too; but
h&amp;s gone afore me long ago to Abram's bosom, thank
de Lord for all His marches."
At a later hour, and in another part of the pianta-
Lation, the Colonel saw a negro fellow jtimp up from
the ground where he had been lying on his back
with his face turned to ihe, sun as duly as a sun-
flower. He ran towards a gate through which his
master was about to pass and held it open. lie was
very black. His head and heels b6th stood out rear-
ward ahuost as far as his hips, and his nose lay iii
ambush behind his lips. An elaborate bow and a
sheepish twinkle of his eyes denoted to the Colonel
that Ben was waiting the~e to ask some favor.
"Well, Ben,"he said when -he came to the gate,
"what do you want?"
"Nuffin, Master."
"You do wa~t something; why can't you t~1l the
truth.?'?
- "Dat's it, Master," replied Ben with a grin, show-
ing more red than white, "no nigger don't tell truth;
on'y you's found Ben out, and you knoWs he lies."
Ben giggled as if he relished his own satire, or would
laugh hi8 master into favorable humor.

RO]~BUCK.                 17
"What do you want, Ben ?"
"I bin a thinking , Master, maybe you'd like to soil
this 'ere lazy, lyin' nigger."
"Sell you! Do you want to be sold ?"
"Yes, Master. I can't keep from lyin', an' I ain't
good enough for you."
"That's not your reason; but what master have
you chosen ?"
." Dar's Squire Anderson, maybe he mout buy me,
'case he don't know much about me ?"
"Tell me, Ben, why you wish to be sold? Are
you, worked too hard t Are you not well treated?
Has the oVerseer done anything to you ?"
"No, Master, de God's truth is, it's jis my wife."
"You want to get rid of Nancy?"
"Dat's a fao'."
"Why ?"
"'Case she's done got religion; and I can't bide her
no how."
"When did she get religion, Ben ?"
"She done voine through last Sunday night."
"Religion should make her a better wife."
"No, Master, beg your pardon, religion ain't good
for nigger w men. She goes praying' and singin~and
begin' among them religious fellers, aud when she
comes home from de prayer-meetin's she goes a rollin'
on de floor and kickin' up her heels, and~w~n't come
to bed all night. She never gives me a good word
no more, on'y poor sinner, poor sinner."
"And what have you done ?"
"I. done switch her two, three times, but de reli-
gion ain't switched out of her yit. I can't stand it,
Master, indeed I can't. 'l's ~feard I'll drow~i my~e'f,
and you'll lose dis nigger ef you don't sell me."


18              ROnPUCIt.
"You have your eye on another woman at Squire
Anderson's."
"Lord, Master, I have never spoke. to hi~ Jinfly,
but once."
"17 imderstand you, Ben. You are tired of one
wife and want another. You are married to Nancy,
and have two children. You must stay with her.
You make religion an excuse to quarrel with her.
You must treat her as a good husband ought, and
she shall behave herself as a good wife. If you
switch her again I'll direct the overseer to switch
you. Go to* your work.' ]3egone !"
Another police case came 'before the Colonel the
same cay, that may be worth reporting, as the ~ub
~ject of it will appear~again in this narrative. On this,
occasion he came Ainning up from a ravine to inter~
cept his master as he rode along. He was a tall feb
l~w with a powerful frame and abullet-head. On his
head he wore nothing but' a circular fringe of rav~
elled straw which had been the rim, of a hat. Even
this 'he. doffed as he approached his, master.
What's the matter, Jubs V'
"1'sjis gwine to find you, Master."
"Where do you come from flow ?"
"Fromde, bush, Master, dat's d~ trulh."
"Jiow long )~aye you been in the bush 1"
"Mighty nigh. on to three days."
"Why did you run away, Juba ~"
"'Case de overseer was gwine to whip me."
"Didn't you deserve a whipping ~"
"I reckon I did, Master, but I don't like to be
whipped by dat overseer n~.o how. He's come o~' a
mighty mean family of poor white "folks.aud he don't
know JIQW 2t0 treat ~ggers."

~OEh1UcK.                  10
"You are impudent, Julia. Don't you think you
ought to be whipped now ~"
"Sartin I ought. But now, Master, would you jis
please to switch me yourse'f......jis 'dis Once, Master."
"No, Julia; go, ask the overseer to come here."
He obeyed and soon returned with the overseer, a
man not so tall as Julia, but of stout, athletic frame.'
* "Mr. Higgs," said 'the 'colonel, "Julia confesses
that he deserves to be punished and I wish him to
know that you have my special authority and. request
to punish him now. Please attend to his case: wJ~en
you have time."
"Now, Master, please whip me course'~ do; I'll
fetch de switches."
Juba ran away toward a wood and the colonel sup..
posed he was taking to the bush again. But he was
soon seen returning with an honest,~ bundle of
switches in his hand. Whilehe was absent, the oLvej,..
seer said:
"Colonel Fairfax, it seems, useless 'to whip Juba~
He is a strange fellow. I have had a great 'deal of
trouble 'i~ith him, and have tried every way I 'could
think of to manage him. He is a capitall hand to
work when he 'is         Lunor, but he paysf~ no
respect to my authority. He is very p~oud of his
strength, and 'sometimes looks at ~me as if he was
thinking that he is a bdter man than I am. One
more plan to bring him to subjection has occurred to
me, 'and, if you. ~have no objection, I will try it on
him."
"What is it ~"
"For me l~o. flght him on equal terms and whip
him. That wilt take the conceit out~ofbj~ and make
him respect me."


20              IIOE]3UCIC.

-i

"That will never do, Mr. Higgs."
"I believe nothing else' will do with Juba."
"If there were -no other objection, he might beat
you.~,
"Then you will have to get another overseer. I am
willing to take the risk, if you consent. I was once
active and had some skill at boxing. I am older now
and out of practice. But I'll risk it."
The colonel, shook his head doubtfully at this novel
proposition, but Juba crime up and he merely said,
"go with the overseer" as he rode away.
"Now, Juba," said Higgs, "lay down the switches.
You wiW need your fists. You must fight me. I
give you a white man's chance. It's a fair fight."
"Fa'r fight ~ White man's chance '~ Sure enough s?"
"Yes, that's what I say.'~
"Whoop 1" shouted Juba so loud that he was
heard by some of his fellow-servants in a neighbor-
ing field, and, leaning on their hoes, they became
spectators of the scene.
"Get ready, Juba."
"l's always ready for a fa~r fight."
"'Come-on, then."
Juba was not slow to act upon this hint. He made
a lunge with his great maul of a fist a~ the overseer's
face, and would have flattened his features if the blow
had not -been dexterously parried. Juba opened his
eyes with wonder to see that so much force had done
no mischief. He repeated the effort several times
with little variation and with no better ~uccess. Then
the overseer in turn began tp plant his plows. lie
struck Juba on the head-his least vulnerable part-
and Juba fell flat on the grass. He rose and -came to
the scratch again, but almost instantly he zneasured

ROEBU~CK.                 21
his length upon the ground. He took a third fall, but
then, when he rose, he turned his back upon his
adversary and took to his heels. He did not stop
until he joined the laborers in the adjoining field.
He there seized a hoe and went to work without
saying a word. After a long time he looked round
and said with a rueful grin:
"Dat ain't such a mean overseer after all; I reckon
his folks
In the is pretty decent for poor white folks."
meantime Colonel Fairfaic passed into a field
where a dozen slaves were at work under the lead of
one of their own class, who acted as headman of the
gang. He was a co~emporary of the cok~nel, and
they had played together, -and sometimes fought too,
irhen they were boys. As he remained a boy all his
life, and would have protracted also the boyhood of
his master, he continued to call him "Master Fred."
His nose was like a pack-saddle. He was short, and
though not corpulent, his head, face, body and limbs
were afl round, and his plump little figure might have
been rolled about like a ball. He was called Joe.
With the bland serenity of ancient and undisputed
authority, he led a bevy of sleek, well-fed negroes,
who whistled or sung at their labor, quite satisfied
with their prospective share of the products of the
plantation. When the colonel approached Joe, took
off his hat and saluted him with a grave bow, saying,
"yo'ur servant, Master Fred."
"How goes it, Joe, and how do you get on with
the work to-day ?"
"Mighty well, sir; de boys is working' up lively to-
day, lively, Master Fred. But I bin thinking , sir,
maybe you'd allow old Joe to presss his 'pinion on
dis 'ere corn-plantin' subjee'."

I

I


22       ROEBUCK.

"Certainly, Joe, I would like to hear your
opinion."
"Den, Master Fred, my 'pinion 'is dat dis 'e~'e way
of planting' corn, what the overseer is gwine to make
us plant corn, is a new way, and it ain't the way the
Fairfaxes always planted corn, and my 'pinion is, sir,
we won't git no crap."
"Then, Joe," replied his master, laughing, "you
think we ought to plant corn still just a~ the Fair-
faxes did 'when you were a chap 'P'
"Well, my 'pinion is, Master Fred, dat a family as
old as ourn oughtn't to take up with these new ways
of the upstarts-no offence to the overseer, sir."
"The Fairfaxes," said the colonel, laughing again,
"were always a very good family, Joe, since you and
I knew them, and in the ways of honor and duty we
cannot do better than follow their examples. But as
to planting, perhaps we may learn something by ex-
perience which they' did not know. The fact is, this
new way is one of my own, Joe."
"Oh, dat's another thing,. Master Fred. You's one
of the same old Fairfaxes yours&amp;f, and you has a
right to think for yourself and for your folks too.
I's got no 'pinion on dat subjee' of it's your subject ,
sir."
The colonel was about to ride away, when Joe sig-
nified by a respectful gesture that he had something
more to say.
"What else, Joe ~" he asked.
"One of my gang-it's roundhead Bill-says he's
got~two children over his patch, Master Fred, and he
wants, ef you please, to git his patch made up to his
family."
"Is tl~at so, Bill ?"

23
"Yes, Master, I done got two 'sponsibiities Since
you give dat patch, and I most 'spectin' another."
"Very well, Bill; your patch shall be enlarged to
fit your responsibilities~~
"Thank you, Master," said roundhead Bill,
"Bill is a mighty good boy, Master Fred," added
I-Ieadman Joe; "he's worth twelve hundred dollars
dis blessed day; dat is, ef you was a gentleman would
sell a servant while he behaves hese'f."
When lie had moved away, the colonel saW a
young lady riding at a canter across th~e fields
towards him on a white horse of high spirit and
beautiful form. She was* followed by a gentleman
who, in turn, was followed by a servant. "There,"
said the colonel to hirnselg "comes Julia, worrying
her Uncle Dick with a gallop over plowed ground."
He gazed at her with affectionate pride, and his
cheertlil face beamed with a smile. "What are you
after, brother Dick ?" he exclaimed, as they drew
fear.
"After Qolonel Julia, of course. She would niake
a cavalry raid on the village this morning, and I had
to follow my colonel."
It was one of his whims to caU her coloneL,', as the
destined heir of an estate which should always have
a Colonel Frederick for its proprietor, 'according to
the citstomary law of descent in the family. In de-
f~i~iIt of a Colonel Frederick, he dubbed the niece
~honi lie admired and loved, "Colonel Julia."
"Papa," she said, "your big brother and I have
COIui~ to take you home. We think you have done
work enough while we wore at play. Unele Dick
says ho intends to prea~,Ix up a new abolition society
for the eiualleipation of masters."


E flU C K.

"Certainly," the doctor added, "the masters are
the real objects of compassion in this peculiar institu-
tion f oum. My heart bleeds for them. Behold me,
an apostle of emancipatiOn, and be the first of the
wretches I am to rescue."
"What, brother Dick," said the colouel,  ' have
you done with your old theory that the negroes have
the natural right to~ be slaves and therefore to have
masters, servitude being necessary, as you have often
affirmed, for their pre~ervatiOn and happiness accord-
ing to the constitution of nature ?"
"I have thrown up the constitution of nature and.
taken to abQlltionist tracts. But I improve on the
plan of the abolitionists. I am convinced that the
emancipatioiK'Of masters is the, shortest way to the
grand resul~L"
"Pray, ~hat is to be this grand result ?"
"The extinction of the negro race on this con~
tinent."
"That is desirable, is it ?" said the colonel, laugh-
ing.
"Root out the blacks and you know we shall have
a more intelligent and profitable set of laborers."
"But humanity, my big brother 1"
"Nonsense, my little brother! Humanity was in
last year's almanac. It is out of date. Abolition
takes its place this year. Free the negroes! Perish
mankind Come, Julia, you shall turn lecturer.
What will a humanitarian society~l.uimaiiitarial1.
mark you, not humane-be worth unless it turns the
world topsy-turvy and makes women perform the
functions of men ?"
~~Will you emancipate me without my wife ?"
asked the Colonel. "She is a greater slave to our

24

flOE1~UGI~.
dep~idehts than I am. ~See, there she goes now to~
that ~cabin, probably to look after a sick child or to
render sbme other service to her numerous family."
"No; it is useless to offer freedom to women.
They all rush into matrimony, the most galling kind
of bondage. Let them alone."
"Begone, you heathen," said Julia, flourishing her
riding-switch.
"Yes, I am a heathen and a republican~I confess
all my sins at once. Ostentatious confession is a trick
of the Pharisees whom I am going to imitate. It is
a proclamation ~f ht~mility-.....a proud virtue.".
"Ah, brother Dick, you jest, but these ~roes are
the po6r whom we have always ~with us."
"Unless they run away."
"Well, if they run away from their homes we must
pity their folly. And here comes Dainty Dave.
What place will there be for hi
scheme ?"                      m in your new
"A fellow you have ruined and made a fool of by
discharging him from all labor because once upon a
time "..-..
"He saved my dear daughter's life by an act of
devoted courage when our old house was burnt."
"Be it so. Here he c6me~. riding his fat mule and
dressed fantastically, as usuaL Where are you going,
Dave?"
Before answering Dave lifted his high-crowned
hat from his head and thi'ee times bowed profoundly
over the mule's neck, saying, servantt, Mast~r; sar-
vant, Miss Julia; sarvant, Master i~ick." Straighten~
ing himself up, he gravely added: "I'm gwine to be
wazinated, sir."
"Vaccinated? Are you afraid of taking aniall.
S


I
26              ROEBtOK.
~' ~o, Master Pick, but dere is a dirty nigger ~n
dis 'plantation wat's got do itch. I reckon, ef 4e
smalUpox is do killingest temperr of dem two, w'at
will lieep off do small-pox will keep off de itch."
"You draw conclusiOnS, Dave, with the force of a
a mule. You ought to be a doctor."
"Same as you, Master Dick ?" said Dave with an
impudent leer in his eyes, sheltered by the, projecting
gravity of his lips. The doctor rode at him ~jth a
threatening gesture and Dave rapidly receded from
the scene.
"Yes, Julia,'~ said the doctor, "there's your own
maid, Grace, you make a fool of her too with your
indulgence and. your presents and finery and all that."
"But, Uncle Dick, she loves me so truly and then
we were play-mates in childhood, you know. She is
really a good girl and altogether devoted to me."
"Fudge! She will run away the first time she has
a chance-for that I'll wager my horse against your
~Wit~h."
"Never, Uncle Dick."
"You will* find there is a greaL deal of humafl
~iiatiie in these negroes when they axe free to show
"What do you think of that, Caleb ?" said Julia,
turning towards the servant who followed Doctor
Fairfax, and who now sat in stately fashion on his
horse near them. lie was dressed quite foppishly,
*    though his master was rather slovenly. Caleb pro-
nounced his opinions
"Miss Julia, when extremes meet, the ebullition of
human nature explodes in a cataclasm of the ele-
ments."
"There, now," exclaimed the doctor, "Caleb gives
opinions tI~at cannot be reft~t~d, becal4e they caw~Ot

ROEl3tTci~.

27

be understood. There is matter in his words, no
doubt, if we had the wit to find it. There is a fellow,
Colonel Julia, who has served me, man and boy, more
than forty years, and in all that time he has not ut-
tered an intelligible sentence or failed of a single
duty. Tie is the best servant I ever saw."
Caleb, accepting the praise as customary ~in~1 w1~'.
replied to the doctor.
"Master, if you would investio'ate the collateral in.
heritance of my signification, you would see that
virtue is the better half of wisdom."
"Why, where did you filch that apothegm? IL did
t~ot know that I ever entertained a sententious philo~
sopher, though gentlemen do sit at my table some-
times who supply you with sesquipedalian phrases.
Now, Julia,' there is a long word that he will lug in
the next time he discourses to the servants."
A' Pardon, Iiia~er; I never talk the high English to
the niggers. Their craniums is so transfigured by
the burnished livery of the burning sun that they
cannot prefigure the sentiments."
"Come away, Julia; we shall need an ark to save
us from a. deluge of words if we remain here."
"Will you go with us, papa ?"
"Not yet'; I will follow you in a short time."
"Remember, brother, Fred ! No more talk of hu-
manity in relation to youx betters. The negro is not
only a man and a brother, but the elder brother of
the human family. I am sure," he muttered. as he
i ode off, "nature learned on the negro, before she
made the white man, and a black botch she made of
her first experiment.......a mere mud-pie."
"Come, Arab," said Julia, touching her horse, and
he galloped away, Doctor Dick following at his
heels.


ROEBU CK.      2

CHAPTER III.
vs ITOUS ATs UraOm BUeK.
* FoM he ounryroad or highway a broad avenueo
hnof atmie inontyh led up to a gate below the bluff
inlfron  ofl inen mansion of Roebuck. -On each
sdofthe avenue was a row of lombardy poplars--
tall, ointd steele-like frees, but already stricken at
tolp ith that early decay which afflicts those aspiring
frtesof the last generation. When Julia touched
Aavorith her switch two young gentlemen were .
meeting at the entrance of the avenue.
" Good morning, Mr. Pahnar.".
"Goo  moringMr. Fitzhugh."
At tGoesad moment they turned the heads of their
Atorses ade together between the poPlars. At
hrsetheydtalked of the weather, their horses and other
tirttey  trval matters, and, while their conversation
ite unortant, there will be time to describe them.
Theynimre about the same age, of twenty-six or
Thsevey andwere both handsome and tall; but Fit-
even, was not quite as tall as his companion ;. the for-
mnrhad dark hair, eyes and complexion, and those of'
thmter  wer liht. The dress of Palmer was faxsh-
ioae land werecise;I that of Fitzhugh genteel but
nglent Ashorsemanship is 'the passion of all
clein Virginia, but especially of gentlemen, they
were boh well mounted.- The horse of the dark-
haired rider was black,. of moderate size and evidently

41
f II

~ol~BU Cii'

28

29

of fine blood, while he of the fair complexion rode a
.stouter animal of chesnut color. Palmer's features
were exactly regular and without an apparent blemish,
except that his light blue eyes displayed rather too
much white. They expressed no decided character,
and even the doubtful negation of expression might
signify either apathy or prudence, and his face might
be a mask or a mirror. That of Fitzhugh was less
rgular and more flexible in feature and it was more
responsive to mind and heart. Its Jhabitual express
sion was one of dreamy idleness. But it caught the
change of every passing influence so readily that a
stranger might have suspected his character of levity
if another nature more profound had not been indi-
cated by the breadth of his forehead, the depth of the
eyes and therm lines of the .mouth.
"There goes Miss Fairfax towards the house," said'
Paler
"And her uncle with her," added Fitzhugh.
" But he shall not assist her to alight. I[intend to
perform that service myself.
" If you are at the house before me, you may."
" Agreed."
" Show him youi heels, Sultan," said Fitzhugh, and,
at a touch of The cane, his horse bounded away.
Palmer also, humoring the banter, put . spurs to the
chestnut. If they were seen ~it all by Julia and her
uncle, they were soon out of sight as they approached
the bluff. For a short race there was not much differ-
ence in speed between. the horses, but the black held
the start he had taken. .As no personwas seen' at* the
gate,it appeard that the necessity of stopping to
open it would end the race and set the riders even.
But from each side of the gate ran a stone wall or


80

ROEBUCK.

ROEBUCK.

fence, about four feet high. Fitzhugh, swerving his
horse from the middle of the road to the sward at the
side, came up t6 the fence andSultan cleared it at a
~leap. Palmer declined to follow, and his companion
halting, turned and waved his hand with a good-.
humored laugh. He waited for Palmer to pass
through the gate and then they rode together up the
bluff. Miss Fairfax had already dismounted and was
not to be seen. The gentlemen, giving their bridles
to a servant, entered the house. They had not sat
long when the young lady made her appearance.
For some niinutes the cost of the conversation was
defrayed almost exclusively by herself. The thoughts
of her visitors were so engrossed with admiration of
her beauty that they talked but little. They had often
seen her before. Fitzhugh had known her from her
infancy. His family and hers had long been neigh-
bors and intimate friends. The acquaintance between
her and Palmer was ~of some years' standing, though
it was little more than formal. Neither of the gin-
tlemen professed a warmer feeling for her than friend-
ship; but, in her presence, they felt the fascination of
a kind of beauty alWays new and surprising. At
length they found their tongues and for half an hour the
conyersatiOfl flowed fluently enough. They talked of
neighborhood news, recent publications, new music
and a variety of other topics of transient interest.
Julia had the pleasing talent of her sex, and her con~
versation, like her dress and manners, had the unobtru-
sive charm of simple elegance. Not fronv any parade
of.l~arning or accomplishments could it be discovered
that her education had been as complete as wealth
could procure for her.. She had received also that
better education which girls acquired in those happy

31

homes in Virginia (happy now no more!) where gem-
tie manners were framed to. modesty and purity, and
where characters were attempered to the duties of
life. Palmer, in conversation, was sensible but for-
mal. lit was apparent that his moderate faculties had
been carefully cultivated in schools,. He was versed
in the fashions and affected the manners of cities.
His imag~ation was dull and he lacked the versatile
and various ease of an agreeable talker. . In that re-
spect ho was excelled by Fitzhugh when he was in
his lighter mood and was excited by congenial com-
pany.
Julia, being requested to sing, sat at the piano and
sung an Italian song with brilliant operatic music, at
the desire of Palmei~, whose musical task had re-
ceived as elaborate culture as his intellect; and then
she sufig an English b~lad to gratify Fitzhugh, who
was an enthusiastic lover of melody, but without
much musical science. Her skill satisfied the judg-
ment of the critic, and her sweet voice thrilled the
nerves of the enthusiast. One of the gentlemen then
requested her to sing something of her owi~selection.
"Then hearken," she said, "for I am going to sing
you a song with a moral~-a homely little son~g that
was sent to me the other day." Whether she took
it up by accident, or chose to amuse herself with the
part of a playful moralist, or was influenced by some
thought of Fitzhugh, who was settling into an atti-
tude of indolent di'eaiuing, may have been uncertain
to herself~ She esteemed Hugh Fitzhugh very
highly, and treated him with as much. familiarity as
life-long, friendship might Warrant . between young
persons of different sexes. She shared the regret of
his friends that, after leaving the University with a

k


f~\)

82

ROEBUCK.

brilliant reputation, and traveling in Europe a year
or two, he seemed to have given himself up to list-
less id1en~ss. Not even the estate which he inherited,
and on y~hich he resided with his widowed mother,
appeared to engage his serious attention. 5ulia often
heard her father express a fear that the ..bright pro-
mise whith his young friend Hugh had given would
be disappointed through~1, mere indolence and a love
of idle pleasur~S. Whether she remembered this or
not at the moment, she sung her song "with a
moral "-
THE SONG OF THE BEE.
In sipping sweets and kissing flowers
The nimble-winged bee
From morn till night beguiles the hours-~
And who so blithe as he?.
0, might we pass this life of ours
As gaily as the bee!
]~rom every flower, with ~very kiss,
A treasure sucks the bee,
~or wastes an hour in idle bliss-
And who so rich as he?
Thy roamin~ revels come 'to this-
To fill thy hive, 0 bee.
So love and song, and all delights
That clear the spirit free,
May sweeten toilsome days and nights
That store the hive for thee;
But life i~ naught if pleasure blights
Its fruit-for man or bee.

I~OE13UOK.

3

gg That song, I am 8ure, was Suno'
marked Fitzhugh.                      me," re-
"Does it please you ?" asked ~iiss Fairfax.
"The moral, not the music, was meant for me.'~
"Do you suspect me, then, of preaching to y~u or
at you?"
"Perhaps it may turn out a song,
Perhaps turn out a sermon."
~ And why do y~ou take it as a serihon rather than
as a song ?"
"I will think of it," he said, musingly.
"Do, Mr. Fitzhugh," she replied, in a tone which
seemed at once to apologize for 1~he candor of her
Sermon, and to insinuate au interest in his career.
"I wish so fUr a preacher would level a sermoti at
me,' said Alfred Palmer.
"If I am suspected of such presumption I must
nevef transgress again, Mr. Palmer~ flut here comes
I~pa-and Uncle Dick with him, too. Between
them they shall teach you all wisdom, whether the
amiable or the satirical."
Colonel Fairfax n3et the young gentlemen wit~h a
hearty greeting, and the doctor said, "Brother Fred
and I have just had a pretty quarrel about the com-
parative merits of your horses; gentlemen; take care
that we don't finish it over you."
"You must not call it a quarrel," said the colonel.
"Well, a discussion..the milder synonym."
"I would like to show the gentlemen a horse of'
mine ;" and the colonel was about to dilate' upon
horseflesh, for it was one of his vanities, and the
number of fin~e horses on the plant~ti~n formed one
2*

I.


34              ROEBUCK.
exception to the judicious economy of his manage-.
ment. But he checked himself, and, gliding with.
easy urbanity to a more appropriate subject, he led
th~ way in an animated conversation, to which all
present contributed. Julia, who always showed most
vivacity in the presence of her amiable and cheerful
father, talked with sparkling gaiety; the guests imi-
tated her vivacity, and Doctor Dick let off' som3
squibs at intervals. Colonel Fairfax was fond of the
society of young people, and they enjoyed his frank,
entertaining and intelligent conversation. The young
men of his acquaintance loved him, and admired his~
character. hugh Fitzhugh had been accustomedd.
from boyhood to look upon him as his best friend,
almost as a guardian. His mother, left a widow with
no other child when Hugh was very young, was his
legal guardian, but Colonel Fairfax was her constant
adviser. Albert Palmer was born in New England,
and, though he had lived a great part of his life in
Virginia, had no intimate acquaintance with the Lam-.
ily at Roebuck.
At length the current of conversation was interrupt-.
ed by Doctor Fairfax, who remarked abruptly, "that
is a Yankee horse you ride, Mr. Palmer-a Yankee
Morgan."
"You would not, imply," said Julia, "that he is
the worse for a Northern origin, Uncle ]Mck.".
"By no means; I like the Yankee-bred Morgans."
But the irritation of sectional controversy had made
men sensitive to every comparison between the North
and the South, and the most inoffensive allusions
'would sometimes rub the raw and. provoke resent-
ment. Palmer had certain reasons for being more
sensitive than others when lie suspected that a slight

ftOBBUCX.                  35
was east upon his Northern birth, and the abrupt
manner of the doctor, which. startled even Julia, had
irritated him. 'He said with asperity: "you are mis-
taken, sir. I am a true Southerner. I use nothing
from Yankeedom that I can obtain in the South. In
fact," he added with a rising voice
Yankees."                      , I despise the
There was silence, for all present were shocked and
embarrassed. Virginians cherish the love of native-
land with romantic fidelity. They could tolerate, in,
stranger the utmost devotion to the country of his
birth, though it might be the country they most dis-
liked. They could 'not comprehend the contempt
expressed by Palmer for the land of his nativity and
the people of his blood. . After an awkward pause the
doctor, who delighted to abuse the "Yankees," iroke
the silence.
"Wcil, since the Yankees have no friends here, I
~ will air my opinions of them."
"Come, Uncle iDick,.be charitable. We know you
keep the North as a woman keeps. a pin-cushion, to
stick pins in."
"Acer te1igi~, Colonel Julia, which, being inter..
~reted, signifies that you are as sharp as one of your
needles this morning. But I'll.balk your penetration
this time. I shall use none but a blunt instrument-...-.
a mere maul. I shall simply take the liberty of saying
that the Yankees are the meanest, the most ~o~ant,
the most hypocritical, the most meddlesome and the
most corrupt branch of ~the human fa~mily....4f I must
acknowledge them as men and brothers."
"0 fle, Uncle Dick, 'they are a religious people."
"Their religion is fox-fire, a superficial light from
rotteuness-.-...thefr morals a science of fraud. Their


80         ROEBUCK~                                    flO]~BUOIC.        $7

credo is a long face on Sunday and a long purse on
week days. Their w~er of baptism is water of pe-
trifaction, turning their hearts .t~ stone. Look at
those three thousand preachers who petitioned Con-
gre~s recently-their petition was a howl of hate
against the South. When they stretch out their holy
hands over this half of the country, their benedictions
are bans and their very halleluiah is a doxology of
devils. ' They have almost canonized the bones of old
'John Brown, a robber and assassin, because they were
Southern women and children whQin he would have
incited negroes to murder in their beds. Like priests,
lite people. The better class of preachers at the
North are ransacking' them Apocalypse to prove that.~
the end of the world 'is at hand, and they confirm
their predictions by citing the unparalleled, depravity
of mankind-~a depravity which they actually see at
their own doors, though it is not seen in the South."
"But, brother Dick," interrupted the colonel,
"those are only their fanatics whom you describe. '~
They drown the voices of all others. And then
Yankee politics-~-a corrupt despotism o  demagogues
-professing but one 'principle, the rule "of a nThjority,
and practicing but one, public plunder. Fanaticism,
however,' will soon dominate, politics. Already most
of the religious~ societies there are political clubs.
Priests are sure to be the tyrants of a land where'
pure religion does not pre~rail."
"The spirit of caricature runs away with my big
brother to-day," said Colonel2~airf~x, laughing.
"Caricature! What I say is as true as daguerreo-
type."
"And not more life-like, I dare say, Uncle Dick."
"Julie, a good girl like you cannot imagine such

evils ns pollute Northern society. Their cities are
sinks, their towns ape their cities and they poison the
country. They abound with haunts where men have
exerted their ingenuity in perfecting vice as they have
elsewhere in improving machinery. What is their
society-what must it be from its structure, even
aside from religion and politics ~ A confused popu-
lace struggling for wealth or life~-a perpetual prize-
fight, with millions, in the ring-..a mob without ge~-
Hold, there, brother ])ick, you won't say there.
are no gentlemen in. the North," cried the colonel,
laughing at the doctor's notions.
"Gentlemen.-..yes, many of them, as there are
many good Christians. But there is no class of gen~
try with a recognized position and influence. Here,
you know, the gentry, rich a poor; without the
support of unequal laws, exert a direct and legitimate
influence upon the movements of society with the
open approbation of the people, and with open re-
spon~ibi1ity, under the correction of' public opinion.
'There, gentry is ostracised. Wealth, everywhere a
power, rules there by indirection an4 eorrtiption. It
buys the press. It subsidizes
the demagogues. It          the pulpit. It bribes
lic. When coi'i'upts all leaders of the pub-
fanaticism is quiet, the force that rules ~
the Ya~ikees is money and a mob. In fact, there can
be no gentry, where nothing is stable, and gold is
the standard of aIl~ worth. Gentry is the peculiar'
flower of an old agricultural community, Where nature
shines on agriculture. fl~ow" .
"Pardon me, Uncle Dick, you ar~ making a
speech."
"Heaven for~fend, Colonel Julia; if I ge~ to

p


1.

38              flOEBIJOK,
speech-making, I shall become as great a bore as a
Yankee professor, a superficial coxcogib who lectures
always, about everything and~-.nothing."
"Brea~e a while, Uncle Dick. Papa, I have not
told. you that I saw Mr. Ambler this morning, and.
invited him to dine with us to-day. The oarxiage
has bech sent for him, and he should be here soon."
"I am glad of it, daughter. Our venerable pastor
is always a welcome guest. You must remain and
dine with him, gentlenien. Do not refuse. You
know the good. old. clergyman, and. you must enjoy
his society."
Fitzhugh accepted the invitation, but Palmer, with
a polite apology, declined. it, and took his leave.
When the conversation was resumed, Fitzhugh
said..-..
"It gratifies me to infer, Doctor Fairf~x, that you
think the time has arri~red when we should. dissolve
our political connection with the North."
"What t follow~ South Cawolina in secessioTh 1"
"Certainly."
"No?"
"Never."
"You amaze me. Would. you prolong our asso~
ciation with such communities as you have just d&amp;
"I have not read in any book of surgery that to
cn~ off the head is a safe cure for tooth-ache."
"Do you think, then, that to out off the North i~
to cut off the head. of the 5outh ?"
"No; you are too literal in spelling a metaphor.
Thit secessiOfl will be fatal to the Southern States.
The North will su1~jugatO them, and then where will
be your remedy ?"

0 B U C K.

89

"How can such a people, fighting for independ-
ence, be conquered? They would be exterminated
first. See how their patriotic zeal already burns with
martial fire. Many men pant for war with the
North."
'I have heard such men talk. They will serve as
light-wood to kindle a revolution, bu~ we shall need
more durable fuel to keep it up. The South is not
7 f~inatical, or malignant, or corrupt like the North, but,
what is worse in view of such a conflict, it is weak.
It is weak just where many imagine it is strong.
Besides the ~hvious disparity of numbers and mate..
rial between the North and South, consider that you
would link Virginia with States that must fail her
in a long and exhau'~tive war. One of them h~s a
gentry and no people; another, a people and no gen-
try, and a third, neither people nor gentry-~neither
body nor spirit. The very vices of the Yankees will
contribute~to their cruel success in such an enter-
prise as the conquest and plunder of the South.
~ Think you I wo~mld provoke a horde of Northern bar..
barians to overrun Virginia with fire and sword ?"
"Shall we, then, submit to oppression through
fear? The Northern States,, as you have descrlli~d
them, are unfit associates of a Commonwealth like
Virginia. They have repeatedly nullified the laws,
and broken the Federal compact in points essential
to our security. Ey a perversion of constitutional
forms they have seized the common government with
an avowed. design of wresting its tremendous powers
to their aggrandizement and our oppression. The
wrongs they have perpetrated would justify wai~-
much more simple separation. The danger that we
shall lose all the rights of our States if we acquiesce


40       ROEBUCK.

in their aggressions is manifest and imminent.' There
appears to be no way of escape from it, but by seces-
sion. The right of secession is clear. The right of
self-government is inalienable. By 'seceding, we
shall give no just cause of war. I hope war will not
come. If it should come, I 'believe the South will
not be conquered. But, whatever may be the pos~
sible event, it is better in such a cause to invoke the
justice of the E~od of Battles, than tamely to await
our inevitable doom in the Union."
Fitzhugh had risen, and. while he' spoke his eyes
beamed. with enthusiasm, and his rich, mellow voice,
swelled into a tone rather too oratorical for private
conversation. Suddenly becoming conscious of this,
he paused and turning to Julia said-" pardon me,
Miss Julia, I am making a speech."
"It is easy to pardon the warm expression of patri-
otic feeling," she replied.
"Ah, Hugh," observed Colonel Fairfax, "you agi-
tate a perilous question, that requires for its solution
eminent wisdom and~sobriety of judgment. A young
gentleman of your spirTh and principles naturally
feels indignant at the wrongs and insults which our
States have suffered from a portion of the Northern
people, and alarmed at the danger which threatens us
from that quarter. The anrnsing caricatures of
Northern society which have' been sketched by my
brother are not withoi4 a partial resemblance to truth.
'I do uot doubt the ri~tft of secession, and I regard it'
as the only effectual check 'upon the Federal govern-
ment whenever it shall become-.--as all ~governments
are liable to become-dangerous to 'liberty. l3ut this
is not our whole case. Is it necessary 6r wise to
secede now? Will secession cure the ills we suffer or

ROEBUCK,                   41
avert the dangers we fear? Is there no remedy within
the Union? Shall we relinquish all the advantages of
the Union without further efforts to preserve it while
.saving also our rights, honor and security? The Union
is very dear to me. I have been taught to lov.e it from
my cradle upward. As Virginians, we should cherish
it as especially the work of our fathers and the monu-
ment of their glory. Secession may not bring war
but war is probable. Subjugation may follow with
its train of' indescribable horrors. War at best-.-ci'vil
war above all-.is terrible. Let us not be rash. Let
us confide a little longer in the returning reason of
our Northern brethren. Let us look an'd wait for
some milder remedy than secession. Let us, ~f pos-
sible, preserve this great country entire and not afflict
mankind with the destruction of our Union."
"Ought Virginia, then,?' inquired Hugh Pitzhugh,
"from timidfty or sentimental recollections to lag
behind her sister States in the assertion of right.-.in
a contest for independence and freedom ?"
"Prudence, my dear sir, is not dishonorable;
neither is reluctance to abandoii a system which has -
produced vast benefits. I have no fear that our ven-
erable Commonx~realth will ever be dishonored by any
act of her own. If she shoiild-...as I trust she may~
restore to the Union the seven States which have
seceded, and, at the same time, secure the rights of
a11 for the future, that will be a work worthy of her
ancient renown."
"But will tiie fierce passions of the North permit it
to be done ?"
"Forbearance, statesmanship, and patient, persever-
ing effort must prove whether it is possible. At all
events, I shudder at the thought of breaking up the


42              ROEBUC1~.
Union until every honorable experiment for its pre-
servation has been tried in vain."
"But suppose, Colonel Fairfax, that while. Virginia
is endeavoring to restore the integrity of the Union,
the Federal government should attempt to reduce the
seceding States .to obedience by force ~
"Then we must fight. An attempt to subjugate*
those States by arms after what has happened will I
annul all claims of the Federal government upon the
support of any Virginian or any friend of Republican
liberty. I4iberty cannot survive a triumph of Fede-
ral force in such a contest. No State can be neutral.
If the North constrains Virginia to fight for or against
the South, she must fight fQr the South at every haz-
ard. Then secession will become a secondary ques-
tion. War will be the first. We cannot aid in the
subjugation of our sister States."

fCOEIIUCK        43

CHAPTER IV.
TABLE~TALK AT ROEBUCK.
THE carriage returned, bringing the Rev. Charles
Ambler. lie. was nearly fourscore years~f age. His
hair was white~ and his appearance venerable, but his
foi~m was erect and his step firm. His keen grey
eyes, dimmed but not bleared by age, his aquiline
nose and his si~piare chin expressed decision of char-
acter, and saved his mild demeanor from a. charge of
apathetic dullness. In early life he was a successful
lawyer. Then he served as a captain of volunteers in
the 1a~t war with EngJand. Afterwards, from con-
scientious motiV~s, he became a student of divinity,
and, in due time, a minister of the gospel. For more
than forty years his life as a clergyman was one of
apostolic poverty, of active usefLil~,e~ and modest
godliness. He shunned the san6~imonious affecta-
tions by which some preachers advertise themselves
as ready~made saints. His goodness became known
by its fruits.
Soon after he had been received with respectful
stationn by Colonel Fairfax, and the other persons
present h~d exchanged greetings with him, Mrs.
Fairfax joined the company. After expressing to
the clergyman her pleasure at his visit, she said-
"Julia tells me that you would hardly leave your gar-
den to dine with us."
"I confess, my dear madam," he replied,. "I was


44              ROEBUCK..
a
inclined to linger among my plants and flower-beds
this fine spring day if I could have resisted the fair
Julia. But, you know, from the beginning the
woman has had a knack of turning the man out of
the garden."
"When I tempted you with mamma's dinner," said
Julia, '4 felt sure that you were well acquainted with
the wa~ back to Paradise."
"I see," said the doctor, "'it is now as it was ~of
old-the man lays the blame on the woman."
"And the story runs," replied Mr. 'Ambler, laugh~
ing, "that you, doctor, are more impartial, and lay
blame on everybody."
"My big brother was fairly hit then," said the
colonel.
"What! Have I the character of a common
scold ~ I willreform forthwith, under the rebuke of
my pastor."
"Nay, brother Dick," said Mrs. Fairfax, "that
character is one which your gallant sex assigns to
ours exclusively."
"But that, I maintain, is a slander," cried Hugh
Fitzhugh.
"You shall be the favored champion of dames and
damsels," said Julia.
"When I have learned the lesson of the bee ?"
"Forgive me; I did not think the bee could leave
a sting. I see to-day that you anticipate stirring
times, and your soul is already stirred."
"I would notbe idle when my native State is in
danger."
After some further conversation dinner was an-
~ bounced. The good cheer and generous hospitality
of Virginians are proverbial. Of course, they were

ROEI3IYOIC.                45
not dishonored by the Fairfaxes of Roebuck. The
table exhibited the tempting abundance common
to the country, and a costly elegance peculiar ~to the
rich. Colonel Fairfax was an observer of all gene-
rous usages, and considered the honor of his family
engaged to excel in hospitality. He valued the ~
ver upon his table chiefly because the greater part of
it had been upon the tables of his ancestors. He was
himself temperate in all things, but he dined with a
healthy. appetite, stimulated by active employment,
and he took his wine, not exclusively for the
stomach's sake; but to make glad the heart. So far
was he from moroseness, that he thought pleasure to
be the playmate of virtue, though excess is the hand-
maid of vice.
When Iho vi~tTh cea~zd t~ hold the first place in
the attention of the company, and conversation be-
gan to range, a remark of Mrs. Fairfax gave occasion
to some reflections of Mr. Ambler upon the social
condition, of Virginia. "I believe," he said, "there.
is not a happier or better community. Nature has
been bountiful to our people, but not prodigal; re-
warding industry, but not dispensing with exertion;
bestowing health, ~nd requiring vigor. Fortunate
circumstances make agriculture our chief occupation,
but also render commerce and the arts profitable to
those who prefer them~ There is wealth enough for
leisure to cultivate the higher faculties~ and yet even
the rich among us are incited to lead active lives un-
der the open sky. Property is so. diffused that the
scale is gradual from the richest to the poorest. Even -
the poorest sddom turn beggars. or thieves, for., pov-
erty here is neither extreme nor hopeless. Content-
ment is almost universal Perhaps the pressure of

~1


46       l~oEntOi~.

necessity is scarcely sufficient 'to stimulate as rapid
improvement in useful arts as we might rationally
desire. Morals are generally simple and pure.
Truth, honesty and mutual good-will--the main ele-
iiients of mdrality-.-are generally enforced by usage
and opinion. Even the blacks have been raised to a
degree of well-being and of~virtue hitherto unknown
to their race. 'They really seem to be happier in their
.way than their masters. Most of the evils xvhich ex-
ist appear to be common to mankind, while many of
our blessings are peculiar to Virginia."
"And yet," exclaimed the doctQr, "the Yankees
are eager to subvert our social system and foist upon
us their superior civilization! A sordid civilization,
glittering with a thin surface of gold-leaf.---having
circulating gold for its life-biood, a golden calf for its
God, and a material New Jerusalem with pavements
literally golden for the heaven of its hope. A cizili-
zation in which men, with fierce and grasping compe-
tition, grovel and jostle each other as men do in the
gold-diggings. Every man in the North is let loose
against his neighbor to become victor or victim in a
~truggle for life. Of course, all society becomes mer-
cenary, and honors, laws, verdicts, religion, everything
is on sale in the vast auction-mart. But because the
general scramble of sordid selfishness assists the teem-
ing fertility of a new continent to produce cities and
palaces, they vaunt their vicious civilization as the
final product 9f consummate wisdom."
"Let us be cautious as well as candid, my dear doc-
tor," replied Mr. Ambler, "in passing judgment
upon entire coinnnin'ities. In those of the North, as
in others, there are conspicuous evils which are easily
censured. Some men there flaunt their follies and

kOERUCIC.                  47
vices before the world with singular hardihood. But
my acquaintance with the Northern people has not
been general or intimate and we cannot judge them
rightly Without knowing them thoroughly. Without
such knowledge, it is fair to presume that, in the
main, they are like other men-like Ourselites. Re.
member how we have been tra~Iuced among them
when accidental anomalies have -been culled and cari-
catured as characteristics of our social system. Thus
deplorahie animosities have been kindled and fanned
into a dangerous 'flame. We should not repeat- tho
~error in censuring them. ~Charity forbids it, and,
since mistakes here' endanger the public tranquility,
prudence and patriotism enforce the lesson of
charity."
- "Is it wise then," inquired Mi~ Fitzhugh, "to shut
our eyes to the faults of our associates when they
affect our safety '~ Should we not consider whether
the corruption, or the passions, or the policy of the
North requires us to dissolve our connection with
that country s?"
"A truce ;" cried Mr. Ambler, "since the conver-
sation is drifting into a political discussion, I must
i'etreat from it. Will you not help me out of the
scrape, Julia ~"
"I hope to have Miss Julia for an ally in supports..
ing my political opinions upon a' proper occasion,"
said IF'itzhugh.
'~ I refer you to papa for my politics. lie is my
political conscience-keeper. 'But I am glad to second*
Mr. Ambjer's desire to converse upon less exciting
topics; especially as I have wished to hear the con-
clUsion of an incident which he had begun 'to relaw
when dinner waalaanoiuieed. You were~speaking,


48               flOI~I3UCIt.                                                       IIGEBUCK.                    49

(I

- Mv. Amb,1~r, of a companion you ha9~ in the carriage
this morning."
"Yes; you, Colonel Fairfax, know Abraham, Mar-
lin; the:cooper?"
'~ Very well; an odd character, but a good man and
a good mechanic."
"Have you ever heard him peach ~" asked the
doctor.
"Preach I" exc~imed Mrs. Fairfax..
"Preach or exhort, as you prerei~. iI~ is ~.a
ate enthusiast who has stumbled into a sect of New-
Lights and forthwith taken to exhorting~ his neigh-
bors. They are beginning to style him pas~on, I am
told."
"I dare say he is a worthy man," mildly observed
Mx. Ambler, "though h~ may be presumptuous. In
all times there have been honest men who felt them-
selves called to preach religious truth because their
souls were Jii'ed with religious zeaL"
"They mistake the fever of fanaticism for inspira-
tkrn," said the doctor.
"Uncle Dick, I fi~ar you.r late reform needs reform-
ation.".
"True, Colonel Julia; you are as good as a second
conscience to me. Since you are not satished with
my reformation, I promise not to reform any more~
reform myseli; I mean."
"However," continues Mr. Ambler, "it was not
of Marlin, the cooper, that I was about to speak par-
ticularly, but of his son, Mark."
"Mark Marlin-I know him well,' xe~inarked Hugh
Fitzhugh; "tie i~. a fine young fellow.~ I met him
first in-hunting. His father lives in a cabin ~ a aniall

"Well, as I came from the ~village to-day I 6ver-
took a youth walking on the road-side. My attentionn
was attracted by his fine athletic form and his elastic
step. When he turned his- face to mej and, raising
his hat, saluted me with, the title of pauom t~my dear
doctor) I thought his countenance displayed more in-
teIlig~nce than we are used to find in such homely
garb as he wore and at his age, for he could not be
more than seventeen. Curious ~o learn something
about him and willing to give the pedestrian a lift at
the expense of your horses, Mrs. Fairfax, I invited
him into the carriage. He courteously declined at
first, but when I asked him to grant me some conver~ -
sation as a favor to- me, he came in. I soon learned
that his na~ne was Mark Marlin, whose father I knew
slightly, and I drew him on to such other disclosures
as might enable me to judge of.my duty to my young
neighbor."
"We, young men," interposed hugh Fitzhugh,
"have to thank you for treating us tll as soiis rather
than as neighbors only." -
"It is one of my pleas~2nt duties, Hugh. I 4is~civ.
ered that Mark had an acute intellect, and that he
had reflected much on sOme of the knotty pr~blerns
of life. From defect of edneation his ideas were
t~omewhat confused and imperfectly expressed. I-saw
that he had some ambition, and' I asked him what he
aimed to make of himself as a man. 'A gentleman,'
was his brief and ready response. I endeavored then
to gather from his talk what conception of a gentle-
man had fired his youthful ambition. He neither de-
fined nor described the character, but simply said.-.
'Colonel Fred is the sort of man~" Thus, you: per-
8


60              ROEBUCIC.
ceive, 'my fi'i~nd, that you are the model of our youth
-even bf the SonS of our mechanics."
"And I am 'sure," Mrs. Fairfax hegan-~ -
"flush,' my dear," cried the colonel with his cheery
laugh, "if you open your lips about your husband,
Mr. Ambler, as a faithful pastor, will, have to rebuke
us both for my manifold perfection. At present I
stand charged only~with being a gentleman, as, of
course, I am bound to be."
Mrs.' Fahlax replied with a look such as loving,
wives have often bestowed on worse husbands, and
the clergyman proceeded-
"I reminded Mark that Colonel Fairfax had an
an~ple fortune, which secured'to him the social posh
tion of a gentleman. He looked at me, au~d said with
some hesitation-'.YoU are not rich, but you are 8
gentleman.' I could not, of ~oume, repel this arg~
,nenlum act Iiominem. But I observed that the colonel
sprang from an ancient faintly. He did not shrink
from the reflection implied upon the humility of hi~'
own family, but, in awkward phrases, went on to say
that birth obliged Colonel Fred'to be'a gentleman in
character and' conduct, while it secured to him the
consideration due to a gentleman without ettort on
his part in the beginning. 'But;' he added, 'a poor
man, and the 'son of a poor man, in a free country,
* can rise to a gentleman's place if he behaves like a
* gentleman.' lie thought that wealth would help him
to his object, but he had a suspicion that the ways by
which men get rich suddenly are unfrIendly to the
sentiments and habits that* should distinguish a gen-
tleman. He believed it would be better to aim at /
one of those professions which people look up t~ as
carrying the idea of social ranks If we should have

ROEJ3UCIt.                61
a war in which it would be creditable to volunteer,
he would be inclined to go as a sQ1dier,~ and fight his
way up to a Conunissioi~, as that would entitle him to
the position of a gentleman, and, for the character of
a gentleman, he would keep Colonel Fred in mind as
his model. Be~ides, he said, he was studying book~
at home every evening after bis day's work was done.
The conversation by which these thoughts were
brought to light, one after another, occupied the tii~ie
until we caine to the end of the avenue. Mark then
left me, after promising to visit me at the par-
sonage. ~'
"I hope,'~said the Colonel, "he will prove to be
worthy of the care which I t'oresee you will bes1o'~v
on the development of his character."
"Can you doubt it, brother Fred, when you rdinem..
ber his model ~"
* "I will be surety for him," said Hugh Fit~hugh,
though I believe Mr. Ambler, after ~ single half-
hour's ride with him, knows him. better than I do.
In tracing the springs of his conduct, Mr. Ambler,
you have shown~ an art which I do not possess."
"I learned something of that art in my arst pro-
fession, the law, and I have learned the best uses of
it in my present profession."
"Have you heard what happened last night to our
neighbor Eckles ?" inquired Colonel Fairf~x.
"I have not. What'WasitV'
"Eeldes, you may kno~, has for some time been
excluded ii'oin society by the gentlemen of the county
on account of his cruel treatment of his slaves."
"He came from Massaohus~tts," grumbled the doe.
tor; "those Northenu men, when they seWe among
us, do not know h~w to 'treat ne~roea, because they


flOBBUOK.                      .53,

52         .    1tOEBUOI~.

have not been bred as slaveholders. They, ~ith a
few native reprobates, give the only color of truth
there is for the enormous calumnies upon ~u.i' society
that are circulated at the Nerth."'
"Yesterday," resumed the colonel, "he maltreated
one of his slaves, and, to punish~ him for it, some
young men of his neighborhood went to his house in
the evening, and7, inviting him. out, they ducked him
in the river-by way ofa warning, They told him."
- '-"Ihope he was not seriously hurt," observed Mrs.
Fairfax.
"No; he got a thorough wetting only, I under~
stand. It is probable, however, that he will sell his
property and leave the coutmtry."
." No doubt," said the doctor, "he wrn return to
the North, turn abolitionist and deliver lectures on
the hoiTo~s of slavery-admittance twentyilve cents
a head."
* ~C Might we not, Colonel," asked Mr. Ambler, "pro
tect the negroes by law more effectually against such
* masters ~"
"It is doubtful. Good as well as evil results from
the large discretionary authority allowed by law to
the masters, as in the case also of parents. Opinion,
religion,-custom and time are- safer as well as surer
forces than law for the melioration of such social insti~
tutions.. Qzdd leges sine mbribu* proficient? During
the last two centuries the condition of our slaves has
been greatly improved without m~uch aid from legi~-
lation. The authority of the masters, in point of
fact, is seldom abused in. Virginia. We may expect
improvement to be p~ogr~essive. The trenchant oper~
ation of positive law upon theintricate and delicate re-
lations of i~ooiety is' apt to be mischievous, unless the

I

law merely sanctions or completes what time has
proved and usage enacted. Then, though law does no
harm, it is almost superfluous. Thus, when time had
left little for law to do, slavery was abolished by law
in the Northern States. In England it was abolished
insensibly by time alone, without1 law."
"At all events, colonel, perhaps, our legislation
might be amended with respect to the marriage of
slaves and the separation of their-families."
"Possibly, if the pestilent agitation of more vital
questions connected with the institution did not pre~
vent a calm consideration of such subjects, some
practicable amendment might be devised. But it
would be difficult to frame a law that would not do
more harm than good. The practical evils to be cor~
reoted have been in. a great measure removed already
in Virginia by the silent influences to which I have
adverted.- Families are seldom separated without
their consent, - except in circumstances of necessity,
such as must separate families in all communities and
under whatever .laws. Marriage is more generally
enforced by the authority of the master~ than will- -
ingly observed by. the negroes:. Their natural iridif..
ference to marital and, parental obligations is more in
fault than our laws. If yom~ absolutely foybid the
separation of families, will you not condemn both
masters and slaves to unavoidable suffering in many
casesV'
"But a Christian State should protect the sacred
bond of matrimony."
"The purely religious idea connected with marriage
by many Christians ~s not a proper subject for legisla~
tion. It is to be inculcated and enforce4, as it i~
now among whites and blacks, by the teaching and
*1


ROEBUCK.       55

ROEBT.TCIr.

discipline of religious bodies. I believe that, when-
ever the slaves are prepared to perform the duties of
the family, there will be little need of law to protect
their family ties. Probably they are better protected
and more faithfully observed now in Virginia than
such ties are among free negres anywhere or among
~the poorest classes in other countries."
"Nov, my dear husband, I think we may lay these
grave themes aside. Julia and I have been silent a
long time."
"Place auz dameS. I yield the floor to the ladies.
Shall We talk of a wedding ?"
~" I can~tell you something about a wedding nearer
home thaa you think, perhaps, papa, and not so
foreign to your own grave discourse as your mode
of putting that question implies;" said Julia.
"A wedding it shall be then, daughter"
Julia gave a slight and humorous description of
the last grand wedding among the servants when
her maid,. Grace, had been taken for better for worse
by carpenter Dick, with every vow that should bind
~two lives together and with a disinterested' contempt
of marriage settlements; when all Africa of Roebuck
held high festival; when the women, "black but
comely like the "tents of Kedar," arrayed themselves
in gorgeous colors, and when Mrs. Fairfax, having
supplied a great supper, gave a smiling care to the
entertainment of her servants. The slaves had jollity
and sensuous pleasures which a Luegro loves; master
and mistress assumed the careS which a negro abhors.
The children of Ham were cursed with servitude but
their nature was adapted to make it easy. The rose
'of a blessing often blooms on the thorn of a curse.

* CHAPTER V.
ROEBUCK THREATE~EX~.%
O~ evening, a few days later, Albert Palmer sat
at home with his father and mother. The parlor in
which they w'ere had costly furnitur~, and the house
was large and commodious. The father, Mr. Israel
Palmer, was a little over fifty-five years of age, and,
in appearance, might have been his son, grown older,
rich and wary. Some score of years before that time
he had come from New England with a little capital,
and settled in Virginia as a merchant. lie had
thrive, aiid, a few years ago, he purchased land in
the county with a hope of crowning a life of success-
ful business with the respectable enjoyments* of a
wealthy planters He now coveted, as he had once
envied, the social rank which he regarded as aristo-
cracy. He was hospitably received in the county,
but, by degrees, a difference of manners and tastes
rendered the intercourse between him and his neigh-"
bors more constrained and less frequent. J3eing
jealous and suspicious, he imagined offence where
none was intended. 2f~strangement and then
dislike ensued. Stung by fancied insult, he medi-
tated retaliation. He was not a man to yield to a
real or imaginary conspiracy to exclude him from the.
society of the "aristocracy." He wa&amp; resolved to re-
tain his estate and Teside on it. He would watch for
opportunities to elevate his own family and to avenge


56       ROEBUCK.                             ROEBUCK.       57

himself on others. His feelings had become almost
morbid when the pro~peot of~ 5ec&amp;sion and war set
his shrewd and active mind to calculating what ad-
vantages he might; dei'ive from thos~ events. He
was so cautious and secret that his thoughts were not
freely disclosed even tQ his family.
His wife was a tall, slender woman, with many ~
gles and no curves. She wore her hair, her eyes, her
lips, her limbs and her gown with formal precision.
She sat erect' in a square, high-backed chair. She
placed her hands on her lap smoothly along, palm to
palm. She set her feet ~at en the floor, near toge~
ther, and making with each other the very angle
which, according to her notion, was proper. When
she moved from one seat to another, she elongated
her figure in rising with the jointed, hinged and
oiled exaetness of a mathematical instrument, glided
away on a straight line, with mechanical regularity
of step, and let herself down like.a jointed instrument
again. When she talked, her voice ran' out in a level
stream without break, emphasis or cadence. The
~entiments she uttered were always frigid, but never
wrong, according to the ~tand~rd of right which slj~e
had studied. The warmer and-nobler emotions were
represented in her discourse by eulogies of them.
~She deprecated their opposWes with little hitches in
her utterances that were hints of horror. She passed
for a saint~ in her family and in her conscience too.
She practiced the politeness of elaborate flattery. ,She
was a woman of learning, for she had been educated
in fl~ston, an4 talked rather "like a book" than like
a lady. She remembered some scraps of Latin, which
she lugged into her conversation in season and out
of season.

Husband, wife and son were discussing the latest
news. The same subject was discussed that evening
in every habitation of Virginia where the intelligence
had been received, The commissioners deputed by
the Confederate government to visit Washington and
solicit an amicable adjustment of the questions inci-
dent to secession, after ljeing detained with delusive
art until certain warlike preparations were secretly
made, were rejected. A defiance and provocative
of war was offered to the South by sending vessels to
Charleston harbor to be fired 'upon,: and finally it was
announced that the Presid~nt of the United States
had, by proclamation, called forth an army to be em-
ployed against the Confederate States, and that, in
consequence of this proclamation, the Convention of
Virginia had passed an ordinance of secession, sub-
ject to ratification or rejection by the people at the'
polls. It was also rumored that the State authorities
had dispatched a volunteer force to seize the armory
at Harper's Ferry.
"This. means war," pronounced the paternal
Palmer.
"Undoubtedly war," echoed the 59U.
"The ordinance of secession will be ratified by the
people."
"Almost unanimously."
"We should be prepared for those events," said the
father.
"We must choose a side, no doubt~" replied the
son.
"Or sides."                                )
This brief, ambiguous qualification, added by h~s
wary father, was not quite intelligible to Albert~, b(it
he asked no explanation and none was offered. TIia


ROTh BUCl~.              59

flOEBUCIt.

old gentleman sat for some minutes in silence looking
at his son, as if cautiously pondering how far he might
trust his own flesh/and blood with his thoughts. At
length he quietly remarked.-.-
"The North will subj agate the South."
"Do you really think so V'
"It is mathematically certain."
"You scarcely appreciate the Southern people,
father."
"I appreciate. statistics."
Again there was silence. The thin lips of Mrs.
Palmer parted, as if to open a passage for the steady
little breeze of words which usually flowed without
apparent impulse from her mo~tith, whenever it was
open, like the breath of the Blowing Cave. But she
saw that the gentlemen, while gazing at each other,
were revolving thoughts which might not brook
interruption from her just then; So the lips were laid
together again in a straight seam. Her husband re~
sumed the conversation in the same quiet tone.
"This war will destroy slavery."
"I do not foresee that as a necessary consequence,"
replied Albert, "-even If the South should be con-
quered, etill less, if the independence of the South
should be successfully maintained."
"As hostility to slavery was the origin, the ctestruc~.
tion of slavery must be the end of the, war. If it
should have they magnitude and duration which I
anticipate, it will destroy slavery even if, in the final
result, the South should retain its independence."
"My dear husband and my beloved eon," Mrs.
Palmer slipped into a slight pause in the conversation
of the gentlemen, "my conscience prompts' me to
observe that we ought not to grieve at the release of

millions of our fellow-beings from the shackles of
bondage and the lash of cruel task-masters; all men
are created free and equal; man cannot lawfully hold
property in man; traffic in human flesh. cannot be
blessed with the approval of heaven; this reflection
occurred to my mind, my dear husband, when you
sold Tom, to be carried to Lousiana without his wife
and children, but it was true, as you said, that he was
quite disobedient and he did not want his family to
go with him and his wife did not want to go, and that
last family you bought you got at a low price, because
the owner did not wish to' separate, them and could
not find another purchaser for them all; it was very
humane in you; I hope the day will soon come when
the whole family of man will enjoy the sunshine of
universal freedom under"
"We should be prepared for these events, Allert,"
repeated the father.
"Prudence requires it," prudently echoed the son.
"I will sell my slaves."
"The money might be more secure in any event of
the war."
"But, my dear husband, would it not be more con-
sistent with our principles to emancipate them 'p?"
"To be denounced as an abolitionist ?"
"True; that is a~n insuperable objection ; we must
preserve our respectability in society'; my sensibility
i~ deeply wounded when I think of the painful neces-
sities. of our positioniaere ;I sometimes regret that we
left New England, coelun~ nom animwri mutant qui trans
mare current ;to be sure we have improved our worldly
condition here, but nothing ~is so sweet as a calm
and quiet conseienQe; I suppose me must 0e11 the
ueaToes"                               -


60         flO1~BUCK.                                   ROEBUCK.           01

"I will invest the money abroad," added Mr.
Palmer.
"Would it not be prudent to sell your land also
and invest the money abroad ~" asked Albert.
"Never !" exclaimed the father, rising and walk.
ing about the room in evident excitement. It was
part of a cherished plan to retain his land as the
territorial foundation of that social supremacy to
which he aspired. The proposal to sell it pricked his
most sensitive nerve. But, with habitual self.control,
lie restrained the expression of his thoughts, and,
after some time, resumed his seat atid his composure.
"You have said, Albert, that we must choose a
side in this war."
"'Or~ sides,' you added, father."
"Why should a man risk his fortunes with one
party exclusively? Or why should you and I both
appear on the same side ?"
These questions surprised Albert. lie had taken
for granted that, in such a contest, it would be neces-
sary for him to act a decided part, and he had not
dreamed of acting in Opposition to his father. He
ha~d made some progress toward a decision fir him-
self, but with a mental reservation that his father was
to approve his final choice. He had been educated at
a Northern University, but even there, he had affoc~ed
to play the Southerner. The young men of Virginia
always treated him with cordial friendship, and, by
their frank manners, high spirit and honorable cow.
duct, they won his esteem and excited his emulation.
From them he borrowed some sentiments of local
patriotism, such as the young always cherish, and he
was ambitious to appear among them as a tine and
ardent Virginian. He adopted his fathers aspiration

a

to improve the social position of the family, and
thought his own marriage might promote that object.
He was not insexisible to the charms of Julia Fairfax,
and, with hereditary thrift, had calculated the advan-
tages which the hand of that heiress could bestow.
Under the influence of various feelings and calcula-
tions, he had accustomed himself to make loud pro-
fessions of violent Southern, sentiments, and he could
scarcely have told how far they were sincere and how
far affected. He was inclined to range himself still
on the side of Virginia in the war that was now imnii~
nent, but he was ready to weigh all advantages on
each side before taking an irrevocable step. It ha4
never occurred to him that lie might secure the
advantages of both sides or of neutrality. Perplexed
by his father's questions, he looked at him as if he
would read an explanation in his face, but that was
not to be read like the face of a cloek. Mr. Palmer.
instead of explaining asked another question-
"To which side do you incline, Albert  "
"I have believed that it was your desire to identify
our family with this community, and it would seem
most consistent with your views that I should em-
brace the cause of Virginia7," cautiously replied the
son. After another pause the father said-
"You have visited Miss Fairfax ?"
"Not often."
"What course will her father pursue ia the war 7'~
"Doubtless he will adhere to Virginia."
"He owns a fine estate ?"           -~
"Yes, sir."
* "It will be confiscated."
Again there was silence. The suggestion of con.
~1soation was new to Albert, and both gentlemen

(I


a
62              flOEBUCK.
were interested in trains of thought connected with
it, but neither communicated his reflections to the
other. At length the father briefly announced his
conclusion.
'Go with the South, Albert. I will adhere to the
North."
"Really, father, you will oblige me if you wrn ex-
plain the ~reasons which lead you to a decision so ex-
traordinary."
"Is it not natural for me 'to prefer the land in
which I was born and in which I lived, until I was
too old. to discard the attachments of youlh, and'
that you should prefer the land in which you have
grown up 'P'
"Pessibly; but".-the young man hesitated. .He
was about to insinuate that his father. had put forth
a mere pretext to cover deeper reasons. He was un-
derstood. The father replied to his thought.
"I choose, then, the 'par1~y that is most likely to
prevail. I expect thus to save my property. You
have none tolose. ]3y the sale of negroes I may olflain
means to purchase confiscated estates. All will enure
to the benefit of yourself and your mother and sister.
This is preparation for one event and that almost cer-
tain. But if the South should happen to succeed
you can save my property, and, by marriage, you
may obtain another estate. Now do you understand ?"
he asked with asperity, as if he was angry with his
son for requiring him to disclose his secret plans.
The latter inquired.-..
"May not your property or perhaps your person be
in danger here, when it becomes :known that you em-
brace the Northern cause ~"
"It need not become known kere."

ROEBUCIt.

63

As th~ gentlemen ceased to converse, Mrs. Palmer
deemed this a favorable opportunity for herself to
talk, but she had to soliloquize. Her keen scent of
the family interest made her a safe confidant of all
domestic debates, and the instinct of unwavering self-
ishness had sometimes carried her on a bee-line to
the stores of fortune when reason would have stuin-
bled in the search. lint when business had been
settled, the gentlemen did not deem it necessary to
"hear her homily.
"It is a good thing to see brethren' dwell together
in unity; it is a great crime to destroy the glorious
Union established by our fathers anTd cemeiited with
their bh~od-..4iberty and union now and f~rever'one
and insepai~ble-every man should do his duty to his
country; duice et decorwz&amp; est pro patria ~o~i;'we should
be willing to die for our native land; your native
land is New 'England, 'my dear husband-' lives there
a man with soul so dead who never to 'himself h~t~h
said, this is my own, my native land;' you~ did not
cease to be a true New Englander by coming tG Vir-
ginia to make a fortune; even a poor banished exile
carries with him the sentiments which he inhaled with
his native air; patrw quis exut .~e quo que fugit; the
North is the strongest; why should the dear children
lose their patrimony' in a quarrel' between. Northern
fanatics and Southern fire-eaters; a man who don't
provide for his family is several degrees worse than
an Infidel; if poor Colonel Fairfax's estate should
be confiscated you may be able to buy it with the
money you get for~the negroes; I abhor the traffic in
human flesh; I was brought up in pious principles;
if the South should succeed, Albert might marry Miss
Fairfax, and save the estate all the san~; it would be


84       ROEBUCK.

so kind of us. to keep it in the poor co1onel~. family;
we need not talk about these things; nobody need
ever know, Albert, whether your father is North or
south; he is a very wise maia,"
"Mother, where is sister Jane? I want some
music."
Sister Jane was called,' but her music only served
to remind Albert of Julia Fairfax, whose image lured
him along a chain of logic that aided in a conclusion
favorable to the Southern cause. lIe resolved to ad.
ihereto it for reasons rather more reputable than those
which ~his fl~ther. had suggested. But be found it
satisfactory to. know that a course of conduct which
was right was ako, in the judgment of his wise father,
prudent in all aspects.
When the music ceased, 1~fr. Palmer drew forth his
watch and intimated that~ the .hour for family worship
had arrived. All the daughters were summoned, and
Mrs. Palmer placed on a stand beside him a Bible a
hymn book and a candle; for, in every external ob~
servance, as in every prudential virtue, Mr. Israel
Palmer wae the model of a Christian.

I

CHAPTER VI.
W A U.

0r the next day sat the County Court. At an
early hottr the court~-bouse g~'een and the village street -
were thronged with men. Horses filled every stable
and shed, and stood along both sides of the street
from end to end. The county had turned out, for the
county was deeply agitated.
The village had but a single street. On one side of
it stood the court-house, with its adjacent offices and
neighboring jail. Opposite was the Swan, Tavern,- an
ancient inn, famous for good cheer. Scattered along
either side of the street were two rival stores, the
shops of the blacksmith, saddler, wagon-maker and
shoemaker, the offloes of two lawyers and two physi..
clans, and the dwellings of half-a'-dozen lnSohanics.
At one end of the street stood a wooden building, of
which the lQwer story was occupied by a wool-carding
machine, propelled by horse-. power, and in the upper
story was a printing office, from which a weekly news..
paper entitled the "Tobacco Leaf'~ w~s issued about
twice a xnc~nth, and. in some months thrice. At the
other end of the street was an old church, built in Co.
lonial.times, with a parsonage of less antiquity~ The
church-yard contained many monuments that were
moss-grown or crumbling with age. On some of
them 'could' yet be dimly traced heraldic or literal me-
mentoes of the pride of a former generation, and .ou

I

86

BO~BU'u

64


66       ROEBUCK.

others were inscriptions so quaint that nothing but
antiquity could save them 'from from a suspicion of
drollery. With these, of' course, were decent but
tasteless tombstones of modern date.
Such was the village which had once been endowed
~ with a proper name-some name already famous, or
one which the village was expected to render famous.
But it was almost forg&amp;tte4 and never mentioned in
the county. People always spoke simply of "the-
village," as if there had been but one. in the universe.
In fact, there was not ai~iother of equal importance in
the county, and there were but few in Virginia. Ex-
cept those whose professions or trades bound them to
towns, people in that fair, bright county preferred
rural residences. In the wide suburbs of this village
resided, among shady ~roves and on small farms or
large lots, the merchants, professional men and prin-
cipal Officer8 of the bounty.
On the court green-a shady lawn of considerable
extent-the citizens of the countywereaccustomed to.
meet on ill public days Ior the tx~ansaction of busi-
k~ess, to hear and tell news, or to discuss the affairs
'of the county, the State and the Ijnion. Never
before, perhaps, had so many of them. been assem-
bled there as on this April -court day,' in the year
eighteen hundred and sixty-one. A glance ~t the
assemblage would have discovered that there was
intense popular excitement, but it was silent and
stern.
When Colonel Falrfaxi went upon the green that
day, and even'before he had left his horse, he was strr-
rounded by different khots of men, successively grasp~
Ing his hand and seeking his counseL He was 'always'
received there as a favorite citizen, for he was very

66

ItOE~3UC.K.                 67

popular. But on this occasion it was not mere popu-
larity, it was a profound respect for his wisdom, integ.
rity and patriotism that drew the' people around him,
as their counsellor in a crisis of public danger. To
their eagel' inquiries he replied,~sadly but firmly, "the
'hour has come-we must fight." His words flew from
month to mouth, and the whole 'multitude soon knew
that "Colonel Fred thought we mn.st fight." This
opinion accorded so exactly with the previous c9nvic-.
tion of every mind and the impulse 'of every heart
that it was accepted at once as a conclusive judgment.
When it became generally understood that the ques-
tion of war was determined, and that the people were
all of one mind, the hushed excitement was succeeded
by murmurs of mutual encouragement. 'Most of those
present were thoughtful and resolute men, who were
well aware that the "war which they accepted as un-
avoidable was for theni a calamity. . They felt as
brave and rational men may feel when they are forced
to choose between the risk of death and the loss of
r~mething held dearer than life. There were no des-
perate wretches to whom war might bring relief.
There were ~no mere "fooLI for powder." But when
the feelings of the crowd began to find vent in words,
some enthusiastic young men evinced the animal. joy
of youth 'at the. prospect. of glorious strife. Among
the boys excitement, as usual, effervesced in hilarity~
Their spirit of glee was caught up as a multitude
catches any emotion, no one can~ tell how or why, and r
in a little while smiles were seen on the. lips of men
whose brows were yet stern. 'Their hearts were heavy
'but not dismayed. The spring of courage supported
the weight of war.
hugh Fitzhugh.stood upon the 'steps of the portico

67


08              1~O'EBUVK;

in front of the co~urt-house.' A crier of the oourt,
standing beside him, solicited attention by,, shouting
with stentorian voice-.-" Oyez, Oye~! silence is 'com~~
manded, on ~ain of imprisonment--.beg pardon-I
take that back-Oyez, Oyez! Hugh Fitzhugh, Esquire,
will now address the people, and God 'save the .Com.~
monwealth and this worshipful court-.I beg pa~rdon
again-but I will say, God save old Virginia, and I'll
never take it back, pardon or no pardon."
Whether the crier 1  a design or merely blundered
into a~i accustomed formula' 40f' his oflIc~, his final
prayer for the Commonwealth, uttered with earnest
emphasis, sent a thrill through the crowd. A score of
voices' cried, ~" three cheers for old' Virginia - God
bless her ~" and all the people responded with a tumult
of cheering. When there was silence, Fitzhugh 'said:
"It is proposed to raise a company of volunteer~
cavalry for the defence of the State. I hol4 a paper
prepared for the signatures of those who wish to vol-
~nteer. Let them now come forward. If others will
pardon me for taking the start of them, I will set my
name down first."
"Well done, Hugh !" exclaimed the older citizens.
"Wait for me! Wait for me !" shouted many of the
younger. "Three cheers for Hugh Fitzhugh !" cried
one~-" three cheers for the, cavalry 1" added another, .
and "three cheers for the Old Dominion !" was a gen-
eral call. All the cheers proposed~were given with a
will, and while the mass fanned itself into a flame with
its own breath, the young men were stepping forward
and emolling their names. But it became necessary
'to retire from the portico, for within the temple of jus-
tice the voice of the crier was heard commanding
silence in the formula with which the sessions of the

08

flOflBUCIC.
court were opened. The c~urt was held by five jus-
tices of ~the peace, i~e&amp;pectabIe farmers, and the presid-
ing justice was Oaptair~ Walker, a venerable. man of
ninety. He was remarkable for vigor of ~znind and
body at that age. Few men of' seventy cafried their
bui'dem of years with as unbending firmness. In the
earliest years of the century he was a leading citizen
of the 'county, respected for his uprightness, his en-
ergy and his ability. Increase of years added all that
should accompany old age. Having once served as a
captain of volunteers, ho was still called "captain."
The fictitious title of colonel, 'often courteously or
jocosely conferred on conspicuous citizens by popular
brevet, could not snpersede ;the real rank of' actual ser-
vice. A fiction fastened upon his name would have
offended the genuine esteem felt by his neighbors for a
character so ruggedly sincere~
It was apparent.thav no judicial business could be
transacted that day. The Commonwealth's attorney,
Mr. Williams, rose to address the court, and, after
alluding to the coxnmencem~nV of'war, observed that
-in the first instance th~ counties would probably have
to provide foi' the immediate expenditures required'for.
the public defence, for the equipment of v~lttnteers and
for the support of their families in the cases .of poor
men during their absence fromiiom~. At 'his 'sugges-
tion, the court ordered all the justices of the county to
be summoned to the ne4 monthly term for the pur-
pose of considering this ~siibject. He then stated
that the people desired to hear a'discu~sion of public
affairs, and particularly of the question submitted to
~them by the convention-that of secession. In order
that. the court-house might be occupied f~r this pnr-
pose, the court, on his motion, adjourned for the 'day.

I


70              RGflBUCIt.                                                     ~OBflUCK.                  71

Proclamation having been made at the door, the
people gathered into the court~house-all except those
who were too intent, upon the formation of a company
of cavalry. The question of war had been deter-
mined, 6r rather, as they thought, it had been forced
by their enemies. The question of secession remained
to be discussed and decided. The house was soon
brim-fulL The dense assemblage. included citizens of
all ages, classes~ and conditions. High and low, rich
and poop, learned and unlettered, were. packed
tog~t~ie~r. The upturned faces expressed. every degree
of intelligence and ,a great variety of character; ' but
- all were earnest~faces, and not a dozen men were there
who would have told ~a lie under any temptation.
According t~ ouet~m, a chairman of the meeting
was appointed. The person selected for that office
was Captain Walker, the presiding justice' of the
County                  topped ~orw~r4 on the
~ourt~. When he
justices? bench to take the chair the whole assembly
rose in t~1~en of respect for him and stood until he
was seated~ Before taking his seat he spoke a few
wori~.
"My countrymen: I thank you f~r this honor, but
I accept it with sadness. I rejoiced at the birth of
the Union. Now, on the verge of the grave myself,
I am summoned to its death-bed. Would to Ood I
had died flrst~ But it is better to have liberty with-
out union than union without liberty."

CHAPTER VII.
SECESSION.
So~n~ of the speeches delivered to the meeting were
long and elaborate, hut they have not been preserved
in fulL Brief notes, taken by the editor of the -
"Tobacco Leaf," were published in the next, issue of
that journal, and thus the heads of argument can now
be reproduced. They will be given with their imper..
feet brevity, but in the connected form of speeches
rather th~tn in the manner of detached mom anda, as
they appeared \in the newspaper. Mr. Williams first
addressed meeting ~
"You are yet a free people," he b~gan, "you are
assembled, not as conspirators concealed by darkness and
bound by clandestine oaths, nor as subjects overawed by
bayonets, ~but as free citizens deliberating. In open day
according to anejent ~usage upon theaffairs of your country.
Whatever. may be your decision this day oi.at .the polls,
you will, in deciding, exercise a hereditary tig)~t in a law.
ful wanner. You will perform the gravest duty 'that ewer
has devolved upon you 'as citizens. Decide for your
country.
"You love tbe Union. Only a f~w weeks ago, at the
election of members of the convention now In session, you
gave a new and conclusive proof of your devotion, to it by
your votes. ]~ven to.~day, though your jiu1gnietit~ maybe
convinced that secession is necessary, yet in ~~A'vo~ating it I
may, shock the sensibility of your life-long attachment. In
ao State l~as the Uflioi~c beeu cherished with 'more sincere
affection than iii Virginia.. &amp;it JOLt ivill not shrink from
duty be~au~o ~t ~s painful~

%


72

The right of a State to withdraw from the Union when.
ever, In her Judgment~ It haa become oppressive and she
hasno~ther adequate remedy, is a right which our fathers
have taught us to venerate as essential to the preservation
of our liberties under the Federal system. You are familiar
with the reasons by which ithas~ been vindicTated. I need
only remind you of some of those reasons. According to
an acknowledged principle of i~atural justice and of public
law, ~ sovereign State has a right to dissolve her compacts
with 9ther States whenever, in her judgment, there is just
cause to dissolve them. If this right were not allowed, a
Btat~ would often have no jt.tst r lress for the violation of a
compact by another party, She is held to be justified in
annulling it hi morals as well as iti law, when it has been
wiifuIIy~ yioI~ated by the other party in points essential to
her security or welfare. The application of these principles
to the, Federal Union will not be~denied by any one- who
adwits that otu Statesare sovereign and that the .Constitu.
tion is a compact between them. But these were the
propositions established in a memorable contest-.-.the first
great Constitutional controversy in the Union. Virginh~.
had *~ conspicuouspart In that controversy, and has preserved
for the instruction-of future agei the unanswerable-ptoofs she
then rrayed to establish that the States are sovereign and
the. Federal Constitution is a compact between them.
- 9 When the Colonies threw ofr their allegiance to Great
Britain, they assumed the character of States. In that
character they were recognized by each, other, and by all
nations. In that character they framed and adopted the
~deral Constitution, retaining in it the name of United
States. Important provisions of that instrument recog..
nize their continued existence as States~ with the equality
~ of sovereigns, and with a large and utideflued reservation
~f independent powers. 3y the most solemn acts of Mas~
sachusetts and of other States, the sovereignty of each
State in th~ Union has been, affirmed. Our political and
judicial history is full, of documents supporting the seine
doctrine, associated with tho fundamental principle tii~at the
Constitution in a compact. The right to dissolve the coni..

x~o~uc1~.                     73
pact~ inherent In the States was not surrendered In
* the Constitution. On the contrary, it was reserved
by Virginia in her ordinance to Tatify the Federal coni~
pact.
*    "If we ascend above Constitutions and historical dccii.
ments to the sources of natural and eternal ~rtstice, a natu~
ral, inalienable, iodef~asible right of self-government be~
longs to great communities like these Southern States~
civilized, organized communities, capable of fulfilling the.
duties of a nation. This is a right which iioconstitutlouor
compact can annul, and no power can take away.
"Having the right, Virginia ought to secede. The Fo~
deral compact has often been nullified or violated by many
of the Northern. States, wilfully, wantonly, persistently in
matters vitally affecting the Southern States. The power
which the North has acquired, and its persi$t~ce. in
wrong, have destroyed all hope of redress~ in the Union,
Many acts of Northern aggression are fresh in. your recob
* election. Each one has been met with solemn protest by
the South, and every protest has provoked a new outrage:
I sl~all not now recite the' long and dreary catalogneQt ag.
gressions, for the most recent events demand our exclusive
attention. History will keep a record of all.
"The framers of the Federal Constitution gnavde4
* against a of p~ver by the- government in every way
that their wisdom fOresaw to be necessary; for they knew
that all governments tend to tyranny. They protected 1~be
small States against the ambition of the larger. But the
problem of binding tw&amp; powerful and unequal uatioiia to~.
gather under one government, withotit permitting either to
oppress the other, was not present to their minds. They -
did not foresee that a confederacy of the-- most populous
States would be formed within the Union, constitutbig a
distinct nation, animated with the usual passions of nations,
and with animosity against the whole body et the ~tates
not embraced in that Confederacy. But this is wh~t has
happened. The Constitution, so far rrom providing secu
rity against oppression in such a case, has unintentionally
facilitated the design ot the -Northern Ponfedez'aey to~ Op'
4


'74                J7tOEBU CIt.                                                                ROE flU C K.                   75

1.       -
press the South. 'By a combiuatipu pursuing the forms of
'the Constitution, a minority of the pe~p1e of the Union have
concentratedd the whole power of the North antI. seized the
government, electing a President upon principles so unjust
that he cotild not receive one Southern vote. Those who
persuade themselves that the dominion thus usurped by the
North over the South will ever be relinquished, or that it
will be exercised with justice, forget history and ignore
human nature. Since a Northern Confederacy has flSUrp3d
the authority ot' the Union for our oppression, we must
save our liberty by a Southern Confederacy beyond the.
Union.
"If any doubt heretofore remained of the necessity for
this action, It, must have been dispelled since the North has
claimed the right, through the Federal government, which
It controls, to reduce the South to obedience by arms, and
has drawn.the sword for that purpose. We might easily
?etnte that pretension by Constitutional argument, but the
,sword can be answered only with the sword. The framers
of the Constitution distinctly refused to confer on the Fede-
Tal government the power to compel the submission of a
state by military force. The last President of the UiTiited
States officially disclaimed the power. It could not exist
Without transforming our Federal system. It. cani~ot be
exercised without establishing ~ m~tary desiiotism at
Washington. But reason is silenced. The voice of can..
"non, and not the voice of the people, must decide these
'controversies.
"We must defend our sister States of the South. We
cannot be neutral. We will, not make war against them.
Honor, affection, self-preservation, compel us to take arms
In their ~defen~e. If we are to fight we must secede. 'Un-
less the State resumes her separate existence, and reclaims
the authority which she has granted to the Federal govern-
1nez~t, her people will incur the penalties of treason by
'fighting against that government!. If she secedes, she can
'unite with the other Southern States and make their joint
resistance effectual4 Her example will be followed by
'States 'yet'adhering ~ the Union. The formidable array

of all the Southern State8 may even yet deter th~ Nort-h,
and arrest the war. At all events, it will assure success:'
The address of Mr.- Williams was heard with silent
attention. At the conclusion of it 'he proposed ~. re~
solution to declare the sense of the jneeting that the
ordinance of secession should 'be ratified by the
'people. 'then there was a paitse in the' proceedings,
to afford any who' might wish to speak an oppor~
tunity. No one came forward until the chairman was
about to take a v6te. Then D'octor i~'airfax rose, ana
with some trepidation in his voice, signified a desire
to address the meeting. The solemnity of the occa-
sion and of the audience repressed his propensity to
sarcastic levity an~1 braced his nerves-for he was a
man of nerve-to the unaccustomed task of address-
ing a public assembly; He spoke thus in sub~
stance
"I am opposed to secessiOn. I concur in the opinion
that we are now Obflged to engage in war for the det~nce
of the South. War supersedes other controversies, and,
therefore, I shall not discuss the right of secession or the
causeS of secesslOit. Certliluly,, we 5l~aI1 be justified in so-
ceding, if secession is advisable, as a measure of war. 2But
it is with reference to the war that, in my judgment, 'se-
cession is not advisable.
"If we 'remain in the UnioWwe may reasonably hope to
terminate this war with an/honorable peace; for we shall
fight upon no pretension that our enQmies may not ulti-
'macely concede for the si~ke of' peace. If' we s~c~de, we
can never return to the Uiilon without a surren~ler of the
main point of contest-~that is, without acknowledging our-
selves conquered. The North ~vill never concede our
separate independence. The war 'inust be foii~ht to cx-'
tremity, and, in the extreme event, the Sonth will be sub-
jugated. By staking all. upon a desperate venture we
shall 14~se aTh .Py moderating our pretez~siousr we may 5~


76                RO~BUCI~.
cure important rights, which may be respected herea~er,
because we are ready to defend them with the sword.
II' Virginia adheres to the Union the. States which have s~-
ceded may, under her example and mediation, return to it,
ancj there may be a peace honorable to all.
"That the war, 4f prosecuted to extremity, will result
in our subjugation, appears to my mind painfully certain.
The fighting population of the North is as three to one' of
our own at the beginning, and with every hour of war this
disparity will be widened. Emigration from Europe will
* replenish the' North. All the adventurers, paupers and
vagabonds of the Old World can be hired to* fight against
us. Casualties and the curtailment of our territory by in-~
V~asion, will diminish our numbers and no foreign supply
will restore them. .We shall lose Delaware, Maryland,
Kentucky and Missouri. certainly. War is in a large~
measure a work of money and machines. The North has
both. We have neither. The North can so.on set afloat an
unequalled navy. The south can have none. Commerce
will continue to enrich our enemies. We shall be cut off
from all the world beyond out' own shores. The Federal
government has unbounded credit. Our government must
establish itself before it can enjoy the credit through which
it should be established. Oi~r vast rivers will divide our
power t~nd admit the 4'orces of the enemy into the heart of
our territory. With a population thinly scattered over an
immense area, we have no adequate means ot' concentrating
our wealth, our men or our policy. Natural and artificial
means of concentration, the most varied. amid complete, ~vil1
be in possession of the enemy and d~spotismn will conceit-
trate their policy..
We must not rely,~-upon dissensions in the north. Poli-
ticians there ~iave encouraged us to resist, and have de-
clared that the army Which marches to conquer us mdcl
first pass over the corpse&amp;of themselves and their partisans.
Trust them not. When war rages we shall not have e
corporal's guard of determined friends in that country. You
will see that even so bald a pretext as that the South has
fired the first gun, so shallow a triek~. as that ~hiel~ d~ew

9

I

ROEBUCK.                       77
the fire of Confederate batteries on Fort Sumter, will eon-.
solidate the Northern populace in ~furions support of the
war. The North is divided into two parties, truculent Re,
publicans and truckling flemecrats. No 'party there will
act upon the obvious truth, that when liberty is attacked
with the sw6rd it can be defe~led only with the s'vord.
After it shall be lost, through their aid or. apathy, some
Northern men may solicit youm' assistancQ to rescue it from
an iron tyranny by windy speeches and ineffectual votes.
But in the real struggle you will stand alone.
"Expect no aid from Europe. Imagine not that cotton
Is king, or that the necesshies of commerce will bring En.
gland or France or an~ other power to intervene for our
benefit. Intervention must be ivar, or it must be futile.
The old nations, taught by experience, dread war and value
peace. English cotton manufacturers, having excessive
stocks on hand, are now in a condition to be saved from
ruirL by any event that will interrupt the exportation 6f cot-
ton, from this country for the next three years. English
commerce will flourish by any war in which England takes
no part. English policy demands the abolition of slavery
and the consequent abridgement of the cotton culture on
this continent-ends to b~ accomplished by the triumph of
the North. Though a division of the Union may be desir-
able to her, as reducing a formidable power, yet the ~mpover-
ishment of the South by war ~tnd the necessity of' emploj.
ing Northern force to keep a conquered people in subjec-
tion, may be deemed almost an equivalent. England will
stand aloof, and without her, no other power will 'inter-
fere.
"I will not attempt to appal you by depicting the hor-
roi.s of war, It is not to cowardice that I would appeal,
but to wisdom. IndeedJ would invoke y6u to welcome
all the evils of the most terrible war, if through them you
cai~4~ assured of ifldepefl(leliCe of the North. But we
s)m4ufd~bnderstn ind, in advance, ~mat this war will probably
b'~.~aged against us in the most atrocious spirit. The
~'ederal government, treating us as rebels, will deny to us
the rights of war and the rights of humanity. Their hos-


t

78

ROEBUCK.

7

nO-nBuoI~.

79

tilities ~vill be havoc. It will scarcely bo surprising If they
are lawless and barbarous enough to arm our sla!~es against
us. It is a mistake to suppose that secession will prevent
them from inflicting the penalty of treason on qur, soldiers.
They will not respect the ordinance, and, if' they refrain
from that outrage, it ~vill be through fear of our power~
a motive that will operate equally with or without seces-
sion~
"A war of prodigious extent, waged by a superior
power in a savage spirit, Will finally exhaust the endnranc~
of the South. We shall, doubtless, make one brilliant cain-
paiga, through the superior courage of our people, But
they cannot sustain, for more than two years at the utmost,
the constant pressure of such tremendous odds. Virginia,
I trust, will endure, if necessary, until she shall be made a
wilderness. Doubtless in this great struggle she will be
true to her ancient character. But do not expect other
Southern States to emnlat~ her conduct. They will do
great d~ds and suffer horrible afflictions before they will
surrender a good cause, but some of them will yield before
independence can be secured and long before Virginia will
be subdued. Her sufferings and her heroism will be in
vain.
"Whose imagination can fathom the depth of our degra-
dation when we shall have been subjugated by the North?
The war upon us will never end. A people who hate us
now add who then. will have been rendei'ed furious byresis~
tance and arrogant by victory, will have irresistible power
to glut their hatred and revenge. They will hold the South
by a military tenure. They will be our masters. They
will be conquerors and we the conquered. J7ce vicd4
We shall be ruled by satraps, great and small. Our goy-
eminent will be dissolved, our laws annulled, our courts
suppressed. Garrisons, perhaps composed of our own
slaves, will occupy our towns to overawe a people who ~vill
never again be trusted. It will not be sufficient for them
to submit peacefully to the authority of the conquerers; to
avoid suspicion and, still sharper oppression, they must
fawn upon their tyrants and profess to be iWlove with their

chtdnsa They must hasten to sacrifice their institutions,
their civil rights, thOir manhood, in order to appease the
jealoUsy of foreign rulers. Their country will be for them
* both a prison and a charnel house, and amopg the ashes of
their sons and brothers slain in the war, ~they will brood
over the hopeless bondage which the war bins brought on
themselves. 'The soldiers who conquer us will be pensioned;
those who defend us beggared. Not a voice in all the
North will then be raised to demand the restoration of our
people to their ancient rights. The most favor~ible treat~
nient proposed for them then by any NorUiemn man of
influence will be so cruel that, if whispered now, it would
curdle your blood with horror. Those who will think that
our rebellious people deserve hell will deem it mercy to
consign them ,to purgatory. But I desist; I believe that no
fancy can approach the actual wretchedness of a proud,
brave, intelligent people, subjugated by such a power as the
North."
When ])octor Fairfax sat down, Mr. Williams rose
again and remarked that if no oth~r person desired.
to speak he would make abrielNreply to the laslv
speech. As no one else rose, he proceeded:
"The right of secession has not been denied. That there
are sufficient causes for it has: not been denied. That it
would render our resistance t6 the North more effective by
uniting the South has not been denied. That.independence
of the North is the prize most worthy of our exertions when
we are compelled to fight is admitted. But we are to be -
deterred from availing ourselves of these advantages of
secession. How? You are told that we shall certainly be
conquered. If this be true, yet subjugation will scarcely
be a fate more dreadful than the perpetual despotism to
which we shall basely submit by remaining in the Union.
At least, a gallant struggle for indepedence will save our
honor-the most precious heritage of a people. But it is
not certain that the united South will be conquered by the
North. It is possible, but it is not even probable. We
shall stand on the defensive. We have only to endure7 and


80

ROEBUCK.

time will exhaust 'the enemy. If our vast territory renders
concentrated resistance difficult, it renders snbj ugation
impossible. The native courage of our people and the
spirit which the cause of liberty inspires will. overcome am
immense supei~iority of mere numbers. Our fertile country
au~ our laborhig population will feed and clothe our army,
80 that neither moziey nor foreign commerce will be ~so
necessary to us as to the enemy. Machines and navies are
less needful to us than to our invaders. Oar white popm-
latien can spare a larger proportion of fighting' inen~ than
that of the North, because our blacks will remain to labor.
If so many millions of freemen, fighting to preserve Picir
liberty and resolved to sacrifice everything for independence,
shall be subjugated, the lessons of history are fabe. tat
us not throw away the rich prize of success through timid
apprehension of failure. This enterprise is dangerous. It
must put the endurance of all Southern people 'to severe
trial. Let them be sustained by the hope of independence.
Since we must fight, we must incur the hazard of stilJj ng:~-
tion. It is vain to expect peace until we show ourselves
able to resist the North. For the sake of peace we have
vainly forborne, yielded, solicited,, until we are almost dis-
graced. Since we must hght, let us fight for inclepen-
deuce." -
After ascerinining that no other person desired to
speak, the chairman submitted the resolution to a
vote of the meeting. All the people responded
~' aye," except five orsix who answered"' no." Very
soon after the result was announced the citizens be-
gan to move out of the door, but the movement wa~
arrested by the voice of 'a boy whp sat on a table
within the bar, and who began to cull out-~" Marlin :
Marlin! ~ speech~ from Abram Marlin!" Such a call
always finds an echo in a crowd. ~cveral voices took
it up and cried.-" Marlin! Marlin! Marlin I" The
eyes qf the youth who led this chorus were fixed upon
a man who stood on the steps leading up to the j udi-

I'

flOEBUOK.

81

did bench with aleg and an arm over the banister. -
He was dressed in coarse but ele~n homespun. He
seemed about forty-five years' of age. His person
was rather tall and lank./ His features were rough,
and his hair hung do~n, long, straight and thin
around hi~ neck. Under shaggy brows his grey eyes -'
had a restless, vigilant motion, as if the brain was
active and excitable. When the repetition of his
name became emphatic, though still apparently made
in jest, he withdrew his limbs from. the banister and -
walked up the steps. Standing on the judicial plat-
form, he turned his face to the audience with tin-
moved self-possession. He. then began
"I ain't a gwine to make a speech, my feller-sinners.
I couldn't say much about that ore doctrine of secession,
It ain't one of the doctrines that 'I'm used to preach about.
I stick to the doctrines in the good book, and them doe-
triucs I always try to make so 'cl'ar that the women and
niggers can understand 'em. But I've been a ponderia'
over this ore war in the silent watches of the night when
niy Betsy was fast asleep. I've looked up the prophets on
this subject . It rather looks to me like we're a gwine to
fight the great battle agin Gog and Magog. Leastways
that battle has never been fou't yit, and so it stands to rea-
son that it's got to be fou't sometime, Now, in the thirty..
eighth chapter of Ezekielit is said unto Gog-' thou shalt
come from thy place out of the North parts, thou and many
people with thee, all of them riding upon horses, a great
company and a mighty army.' So it stands-to reason of a -
man always keeps afighthi' agin the armies that come out
of the North parts, he'll be fightin' on the right side when
that big he-fight of all conies off. So I've been a pondering :
that I'd take a chance in this ore war agin' the North.
Anyways it will-be a fight for Virginny, and that's a good-
enough fight for me. Next to my God, I'd go my death
for old Virginny. I'm ?ether dubous that I'm too old and
rheumatized to march in the infantry, but of I had a hose
4.

III


82       ROEBUCIC.                           ROEBUCK.       88

I'd jine the calvary. I ain't got only one hose, and that's
a mule. Ef any gentleman would swap'a hoss for that
mule"--
"You shall have a horse," said a voice froni the
* crowd.
"Then 'count me in. Doctor Fairfax says the Yankees
will whip us. Well, the doctor ain't a prophet, nor the
son of a prophet. Leastways I ain't seed his name thar
* among the prophets. But one thing I kin tell you, and I
* have Scriptur' for it, the Yankees, even if 1~hey have Gog
and NEago~ to back 'em, cant prevail agin the Lord of
Hosts. Let us have Him on our side and we're safe, my
brethren, in peace or war, in this world and the world to
come. EC we want him on our side now, we must go to
war with pure hearts and in humble reliance on Eu. We
must ask His blessing. Let us pray."'
He knelt down, and stretched out his hands. Ifls
sudden and unexpected movement, and call '~o prayer,
took the people by surprise. Almost involuntarily
they rose up and stood in reverential attitude, while
Marlin poured fourth a brief in'i~'ocation, so fervent
that his grotesque language could not prevent it from
touching the hearts of men, and when he ceased a
solemn "Amen" was murmured in all parts of the
house.
When ~he meeting was over it was foui~d that a
sufficientt number of vohinteer~ had enrolled them-
selves t~ constitute a company of cav~lxy, according
to the laws of the State, and a t~ime was appointed f~r
the election of* officers. As it was near sun~et, the
people'began~ to mount their horses and start home-
ward. When Hugh Fitzhugh was about to pass out
of the green for the same purpose, a number of young
men surrounded him, 'and shouting his name, de-
minded a speech. The clamor drew others about
him, and men who had mounted their horses s.topp~d

"Kr

9

or turned back in the street. When he reached the
to~ of a s~lle he saw a large audience standiiig in ex-
pectation, and he found it necessary to~ s~y a few
words. He thus addressed the people
"VIRGINIANS :-.-By that title you are bound to noble
thoughts and heroic deeds. The time demands them now.
Discussion is ended. War is begun. The North has
pressed the South to the wall. We must defend our
liberty, arms in' hand, or be forever dishonored and
enslaved. If there is a man among you who would
surrender liberty or honor in exchange for life, 'no
blood of Virginia runs in his veins, The war may be ter-
ritle. The enemy is powerful and malignant. The soil .oC
Virginia may be crimson with the blood of her sons and
her foes. But her sons will bleed for the honor of theiR?
mother. Invaders may give your dwellings to the flames;
but your children will inherit freedom. When tb~ war
shall be most dreadful, remember the alternative-.bondage.
Look to the end-independence. Honor and shame-lib-
erty and slavery-choose between them. As you shall
choose, wear your fetters or your swords. Pardon 'me,
Virginians-I 'know your choice is made. You are re-
soWed to live and die freemen 1"

82

88


~tOEBUCK.                                            RO~l3UCK.            85

CHAPTER VIII.
PPJNIL
WHEN the sun had set and all the citizens had left
the village, except a few who had qualified the spirit
of patriotism with the spirit of rye, three or four of
the latter class sat in the 'porch of the Swan Tavern,
upon a 'wooden bench against the wall. Before them
* sat a young man on a large, sp1it-b~ttomed arm-chair,
meaningg back against the banister, with his feet ele..
nted.' He was genteelly dressed, though his soft hat
was.. crushed and drawn down over a corner 6f one
eye.' He was small and slender. His hair and mus-
tache were black. His heavy eye-lids hung aslant
over the pupils, half closing them, and there was a sen-
sual, fleshy fullness about his lower jaw%. His name
was Baxter. He was the son of a gentleman of high
~character, who was the clerk of the County Court,
and had held 'the office more than thirty years. The
son had been carefully educated, and had in youth
shown quick parts and that forwaj~d pertness which
partial parents sometimes mistake, for precocious genius.
When he grew up to manhood he ~ed an idle, reckless,
dissolute life, studying the chemistry of juleps in bar-
rooms, the mystery of horse-flesh at races, or natural
history at faro-banks,' called in slang "tigers." He
had dauntless courage and a sort of wit that made him
a favorite in low company. He was looking out from
under his heavy eye-lids at the faces before him with
~n expression that might have been serious if he had

been sober, but as he was not, it was comical. At length
he said, abruptly-
"Bill Ankrom, I have been wondering why a fellow
like you volunteered to fight in this war. You would
oblige me by tolling me if you know, yourself."
"To keep the Yankees from abolishing slavery, of
course."
"110w many niggers do you own 'C'
"None 'by       You know that as well as I do.
But if they set the niggers free, who'll be below me ?'~
"Nobody can be lowe; I 'believe. You think, as
matters now stand, a white skin is a patent of iiobiity
granted by God and sanctioned by law 'C'.
"Somethino' that a way, I reckon. Do you think I
want my sbn to black your boots or my darter to cook
in your father's kitchen 'i"
"Your theory fe that society must rest on mudsill~,
and if the black ones are torn away white ones must
be stuck under. You are a philosopher, Bill; did you
know that? It would be a .pity that a Yankee bullet
should crack your craniology. But stick to your
patent of nobility-you have no chance to getanother.
And you, Bob Fans, are' you going to fight for~ the
same reason 'C'
"Well, I ain't jined yit, but I reckon I'll 'go in tor
the principles of free government."
"Bully for yo , Bob. ~You call a Democratic gov-
ernment free, 44~i~'t you 'C'
"Yes, I was born a Dimmicrat"
"Wouldn't you think mea fool if I went out to
fight for the privilege of kwing a batch of ~drux~keu
nincompoops like you fellows on that bench to govern
me? That's your principle' of free g6vernmeut.~ Zt
has brought us into a pretty muss in the Thiitml ~tateL

s


80              l~O]~flTJOK.

We have tried to run a machine that cant go right
unless you make thirty millions of people understand
the art of government. It requires all those Yankees
away up in Maine to understand the interests of all
those Creoles away down in Louisiana. You see the
end of it, and now you waift to fight for a free gov-
ernment of the same sort. You iiiust be very drunk
to-day, Bob. Now, Sim. Franks, you ought to be a
soldier. Your skull is a life-insurance."
"You take care of yo~ur own skull. Why don't
you volunteer ~'
"Oh, I intend to be a 'commissary. I ~want to be
in the eating and drinking department. I'll make
one big continental spree out of this war~?'
"I nevei? thought you was a coward afore."
"Because I am not a coward, must I fight merely
for fun'?"
"I've seed you do it."
"Well, here is fun," said Baxter, turning ti~ look
into the street. Two men there sat on horseback, fac-
ing one another. They had the appearance and dress
of middling farmers. One ha4 a red head and the
hair. of the other was whity-brown. They had evi-
dently tasted the cup which does inebriate. Haltir~g
at the sanie moment, they eyed each other with drunken
defiance, and then engaged in a polite and obliging
conversation, whieb attracted the attention of Baxter.
"Sir," said the man of fiery to~-knot, "you must
excuse me, sir, but I have been credibly informed, sir,
that you said, sir, you would whip me, sir, the first
time ~you ~aid eyes on me, sir."
'" Yes, sir; your information is correct, I am
to inform you, sir."                       PPY
~"If you are not blind, sir, you can lay eyes on me
now, uir:~

"If you will do me the favor tc~ get plr y~ui horse,
sir, I wIll now do what I promised, sir."
"With great pleasure, sir."
They dismounted, and giving their bridles to a ser-
vant from the tavern, took1 off their coats and squared
themselves for a duel of fists. They approached each
other with a parade of fairness and civility, though
with unsteady gait.
"Now strike .me, sir, if you please," said Whity'.
brown.
"No, sir, you are under promise to whip me. sir~
Strike first, sir."
The man of tl~reats accepted the invitation, andafter
a flourish of fists, discharged a blow with all his 'might.
But he missed his antagonist and fell upon the ground.
"Get up, sir, if you please," said he of the ~ed h~ir,'
and he waited until his request was obeyed aud the
other belligerent was ready for a second round. Then,
with more fortunate aim than the latter, 'he sent the
whity-brown head to the ground aga~in. After look..
ing at him in the dust a moment, the other walked oft'
toward a grass plot beside the road, and said~'5' Come
here, sir; that street is dirty, sir9" The fallen befliger..
ent. arose and followed him Then the figbt continued
for some time with various fortunes, but as bokh come.
batants were easily upset and. neither wou1 Istrike*~
dangerous blow, very little damage was done. At'
last, whex) both were weary, and tho challenger oi'
threatened was down, his adversary stood over him
and said-
"Now cry enough, sir.; I'm sure you've got~euough."
"Never."
"Then, sir, you are Irunk or. a fqol, sir. I scorn to
ght a man, sir, thaVs 'too dr~~ to J~now' whezi 1me~a
:whipped, sir."


Having* thus spoken, he walked away toward his
horse, while the prostrate combatant called after bim-
"Maybe I'm too drunk now, but I'll keep sober at
next court. 1I'll th~ijk you to meet me thenj."
Baxter and the other persons on the porch, who had
been amused spectators of the bloodless battle, now
descended into the street, congratulated the gentlemen
on the honorable termination of their difficulty and in..
sisted that they should shake hands and be friei~ids.
Baxter, suggesting a peace-maker'perhaps on the prin-
ciple of an adage touching a "hair of the dog," urged
them to come bite the tavern and take a drink with
him 'axTid his companions. Protest against the
peace they assented to the drink. Once in the bar-
room, the participants and spectators of the recent
conflict discussed that affair in such fashion that
another fight became imminent. Consequently ano-
ther~ cup. of eonciliatibm became necessary. So they
wrangled and drank or drank and wrangled, while
Ba~ter'urged peace or war or whiskey, according ~to
his fluctuating humor, until darkness had long set-
tled down upon the vilag~.
"Here comes Blind Pete," exclainie axter, s a
pale, thin man, led by a little boy, ei~tered the bar-
room; "come in, Fete; ~,we'll make you see stars
without your eyes. Take a drink."
The new-comet, nothing loth, condescended to
perform that ceremony of initiation, and while he
was imbibing the liquor, ]3axter said:
Who's your bail now, Pete 7"
"Oh, sir, I always gives the best bail in the county."
"Yes, you go to jail like a rogue and are rans~med
like a geutleinan, thanks to your blindness. Your
blindiiess is catchh~g, 'or the gentlemen could 'not

wink so at your rascalities. But who's your bail
now,
"Colonel Fred."
"Why, it wa~ for stealing his bacon they put you
in jail."
"'That's the reason 'he was bound to attend to the
case. You see it was his own case, lik~."
"You are a lucky thief, Pete. If you had your~
eyesight you would be in the penitentiary But now
when you steal, all the gentlemen feel boftnd -t. let -
yen og though you own land and steal for the love
of larceny. Whose corn is to load your cart to-night,
Pete 7"
"You always will have your joke, Mr. Baxter."
"I believe I will to-night. Where's your cart 7"
"At the upper end of the village."
"And the blind mule with it 7 Ready, I suppose,
for your nightly tramp to collect provisions and forage
that the negroes steal and sell to you for whiskey."
"Night, you know, Mr. Baxter, is' the same as day
to a poor blind man."
"Well, I am going to take a ride with you to-
night. Come along, boys. We'll escort you 'two
fighting horsemen on your way home.' It is time
for you to go. We'll celebrate the restoration of
amicable relations 'between you by a nocturnal pro-
cession, with that red head for a torch-light. Pete's
a dai'k' lantern and shines only in corn-cribs and
meat-houses. Come on."
After one more drink they all sallied out into th~
dark. When the horsemen had - been helped into
their saddles, they all followed Pete to his cart. The
little boy, who 'was Pete's son, being young and puny",
was earri~d along 'by his father, because his tender

88       ROEBUCK.                              ROEBUQIC.      ' 89

88

* 89


9O *

RO~EBtTCl~.

years and feeble health secured to him impunity like
that ;which Pete' himself derived from blindness.
Baxter mounted the mule and ordered the rest -of his
procession, except the tw~o horsemen, to get into the -
crazy vehicle. " Hill, Pete," he cried, " the spine .
of this mule will split my .spine North and South, as
those other mules are splitting the- Union. Why
'don't you feed him better when corn costs you
nothing~ but the-stealing? He' has more ears on his
head than' you ever put into his trough." However,
he adjusted his. posture as well as he could to the
spinal ridge of the mule and began to belabor that
patient ~animal with a heavy stick which he had
picked up. " Go to the front, Torch-light," he cried,
" the' procession on wheels will' follow." It did fob-
low, b~t at a slow pace, for th~e mule did niot resent '
the heavy thwacks he 'received. Baxter, hoping to
accelerate his gait, ordered his passengers to whoop
and yell in his rear. But the mule never wagged an
ear. With such freaks as drunken: folly prompted,
they diversified the enjoyriient of their snail-like jour'
neay, until at last they began to descend a bill. The
force of gravity was too strong for the,lkmees of the
stubborn animal, and he started off 'at a trot, to keep
out of the way of the cart. Faster and faster he went
while Baxter-whipped and the eart jolted and bounced-.
" Look out, boys," shouted Baxter, -"IPm going to
make sausage-meat of you."' This benevolent warning
was .scarcely uttered when mule, cart* and passengers
were tumbled cwer in. a promiiscuous wreck at the foot
of the hill., "Halt in front! Bring -us the' torch-
light,'~ cried Baxter. Upon a careful analysis of the
inas Qf animate and inanimate wnatter, it was discov-
ered that no person was hurt :beyn   .some slight

*

bruises. A mule is more invulnerable than Achilles.
The repairs of the cart detained the party some -thirty
minutes. " I am glad it is no worse,".said Baxter ; " I,
thought I was sending you all to Baxter's Saiints' Rest."
The procession moved on until the mulestpe
near a barn and refused to go farther.stpd
" Whose 'barn is this, Pete i" asked Baxter.
"I can't see, Mr. Baxter."
" Neither can your mule see; -but .he knows the
'barn. 'Can't you tell whose corn you stole on this'
.road ? I'mn sure the mule got a bite here."
" Really, Mr. Baxter, I've been at so. many places'
-with my cart "----
" Never 'mind ; I know this place myself now ; it's
old Palmer's. I see 'we must stop with him. Come,
-boys ; let's rouse him up. He is an old 'Yankee.
We'll- make him drink to Jeff..Davis in some of his
own liquor."
:" Agreed !" was the general response'
Leaving the boy with the cart in the road, the men
walked 'to the house, and at their~ noisy summons a
.servant, half-asleep, came to the door, and admitting
them, ushered them into the parlor, where they found
Mr. JPalmer and his wife. Their daughters h ire-
tired, but they were waiting 'for the return of. Albert,
who had gone.'to a distant part of the county. When
they beheld Baxter and his retinue entering the parlor
they were astounded. They stood in 'expectation of'
an "explanation, which-Baxter was rather' slow to-give,
'for the unexpected presence of a. lady somewhat
abashed him. In a little while he rallied, and advanc-
ing with an air 'that was meant to be both stately and
courteous, he offered' the, customary salutation to the
involuntary host and hostess. He added: "" Mr.

*

A

ROEBUCK.

91


Palmer, I ~Va8 riding this way, and I could not think
of passing your house without dropping in on you,
indeed I couldn't. Knowing your hospitable disposi-
tion, I invited my friends to come in with me. Let
me have the honor to introduce them." He proceeded
to call the roll, ana appended to each name a brief
exposition, as thus: "Bob is a champion of free gov-
ernment; all he.owns in the world is a principle, and
he values it. aQcordingly; he'd die for itr Thi~ man
with a bonfire on his head-this woodpecker has been
pecking that head there that looks like dead wood, but
now, you see, we are all birds of a feather and fio~k
together. This is a nobleman, and he carries his
patent in his face, for it was once white, but the parch-
ment is now brown, which shows the antiquity of his
title; he is descended from one of those old sea~.
rovers who made a wharf on Ararat when the water
was up, but it is not certain which of them, after~
Noah, was his ancestor. This is Peter the Hermit; he
lives a retired life in day-time; he roams abroad at
night, because he stands on equal rights, and he is
equ4l to any of us in the dark; he has a way of equal-
izing property too, by the stars "-and so on.
MrLPalmer bowed stiffly to the visitors and re-
quested them to be seated, he and his wife setting the
example. Baxter reclined at . ease in. a large arm-
chair. His followers remained standing. Presently
he said: "Mr. Palmer, I was telling these gentlemen
you were as hospitable as a lord."~ Either, this hint
or the appearance of the guests, suggested to Mr.
Palmer that they had come in to be treated and that
the shortest way to get rid of them would be to treat
them at once. lie said: "Gentlemen, perhaps you
will do me the honor of taking something to drink
with me."

92

92               ROI~BUCK.                                                          ROI~BUCIC.                  03
1'

"?erhaps we would," said Baxter1 I think about;
ten drops &amp;f that flue &amp;ld brandy would be good'
.against the'night air."
When the host rose to have the liquor and glasses
brought in, the hostess went gliding out of t1~e room.
Fluttered, if. not alarmed, she had~ once or twice risen
to retire but resumed her seat. Her m6vements were
still rectilinear but rather spasmodic. 'When she
went out the small 'remainder of Baxter's diffi~Ience
also departed. When the liquor came and began to.'
flow, his insolence flowed with full tiae, "I like your
brandy, Palmer," he said,, slapping that gentleman. on
the shoulder, "fill again." He enforced the precept
by his practice, and his companions, without much
urging, followed his example. Mr. Palmer would
willingly have refrained, but he still hoped that every
glass would be the-last, and thinking it necessary to
keep the riotous crew in good humor by politeness,
~ he did not refuse to drink with them. "Take more,
old fellow,.fill up; I assure you the liquor is good,"
said Baxter again and again. "Now, I'll give you a
toast. A bumper, Palmer. A bumper, everybody)
tag-rag and all. Here's the health of J~. Davisaud
success to the Confederate States of Aiherica. You'll
drink that, old fellow.".
"Certainly, Mr. Ba.~~cter, with pleaSure," replied Mr.
Palmer, and he drank with the i'est. Throwing an
arm affectionately round his neck, Baxter said: "I am
glad, Israel, to find you are one of us. You must
volunteer, indeed you must. To your tents, 0 Israel~
You are no Yankee-.d-----ii the Yankees."
"Of course, Mr. Baxter, I go with my State."
"How's that? Wl~ich State? None ot your
V'ankee trieka. Yo~i ~iuat have another drink~ Fill
- up. I have another toast to propose."

7

gg -


04             1{OEI3UCIC.

* Wh~,n the ghis~es were full ho l)r~po5ed-" d-.-.n
the Yankees." Mr. Palr~r set ~lo~vn his ~is~s and
said, "you must excuse me, Mr. Baxter."
" What! turning Yankee ot~ us ?"
* "No, hut," he added demurely, "I never curse.'~
"Are you there, Israel? I beg pardon. No. gen.
tleman is obliged to curse; no gentleman oitght1 to
curse, though profanity is not as bad as hyprnwisy-
don'f you think so, my jolly host? Well, I take back
the bad w6rd and give you-down with the Yaw.
kees."
"I join you now with pleasure, gentlemen," said
Mr~ Palmer.
"But it is time for gentlemen to retire," said Bax-
ter. "We have had. a good time with you, Mr.
Palmer. Let us conclude with three cheers for Jeff.
Davis."
The cheers were given, and Mr. Palmer joined in
them. The irregular .tuin~ilt of shouts roused the
ladies from their beds; and thus Mr. Palmer beanie
guilty of disttu'bing his family at midnight with riot
-      and rebellion  The visitors then shook hands with
bim . and: with* each other, having a confused notion
that they were about to separate. I~v~n Mr. Palmer's
thoughts began to thicken and jAs lips to grow purple.
lie followed the ~unmarshalled array to the door, and
finding Blind Pete in the rear, plucked his sleeve and
whispered, "come here to-morrow." He had, some
previous knowledge of that darkling rogue, by repute
at least, and it suddenly occurred to him that his
je~uliar qualifications might be rendered useful to
himself in times of confusion.
When Albert Palmer (returned home that night,
di~covering hi~ father's ooud4iou and hearing, of flax-

9

44

I

./~

flOI~13UOK.
ter's insolent conifuct, he was morti~led and~ enraged.
Long afterwards he showed his resentful reoolrectioii
of the insult.
Baxter, declining to escort the two mo~ted men
further, turned the cart back toward the village~ He
took a seat in it with tlie others; and gave the lin~by
~which the mule was driven to the boy. Almost over~
come with liquor and fatigue, he nodded as they
jogged sioyiy along. But at the end of ~n hour ho
roused himself up and said-" boys we are consorting -
with a thief, and my mind misgives n~e that he has
stolen something this very night while he has been in
our company. Our character is at stake. Pete must
be searched." That landed proprietor protested his
innocence, but it was decided that a search should be
made. His pockets Were overhauled and very soon
one of the party exclaimed, "here it is-.-~silver sugar~
tongs." The article was drawn forth and recognized
as one which had been used to transfer some lumps
.of Mr. Palmer'8. sugar from ~ silver bowl to The
glasses which ~e drank. "1 knew it," said J3a~ter~;
"now, gentlemen~ you shall sit as a jury in this ~c~se,
.~nd :I'll be. the court. T~ saye time, I anticipate .y~ur
verdict and pronounce sentence. Pete must be hung
forthwith. If he goes~to jail some gentleman of the
county xviii become bail for him and that will be the
last of the affair. Justice must not be balked~~ any
longer. No bail here-he is taken in the mannei~
hang him up with his own line."
Pete was raggedd from the cart; the line was tied
about his neck,. and Baxter started to look for a tree.
The criminal knelt, prayed, whined, wept, b~t his ex-
ecutioners seemed inexorable. The little boy~ cried
pitiably. The tree was found andTh~ 1 passed civar


063

1~OEBUClC.

a limb. 13y that time Pete lay on tl~e ground, incapa-
ble of speech or motion. "Now~" said Ba~xter, "you
incoi~vigihle scoui~drel, you see. the end of all your
crimes. Nothing can save your life but the 'mercy of
'this honorable court.i- You have stolen corn by the
cart-load You have tarried away pigs, and choked
the innocent creatures lest ~their piteous, cries should
reveal your theft.' You have robbed heu-roo~,
treacherously tickling the toes of your victims to ~!ij
vent them from cackling. You have debauched tj7~,
niggers, wasting whiskey on their degracThd ~oV~ls.
Worst of all, you have pilfered the sugar-toPgs of a
pious Puritan and compromised the characters of all
these gentlemen 'who had condescended to ride in
your rascally cart. What have you .to' ~ay why the
sentence of death shall n'ot be forthwith executed ~?"
"Spare me, good gentlemen, and I'll never "-
"Make no promises, Pete. Nature will break -
them. You are a born rogue. But, with the cone
sent of the jury, I will postpone this execution until
tomorrow 'night, at twelve o'clock."
Pete sat up.
"More; we will let you go free of punishment al.
together.'
Pete rose to his feet.
"But upon this condition. You shall go to Mr.
Palmer to-morrow, deliver the sugar-tongs to him,..
and tell him that you stole them, and that we com~
polled you to return them."
"I will, gentlemen, I will."
"I don't rely on your promise. ' But if you fail,
you shall be hung tomorrow night. If you do as I
command you; it will rest with Mr. Palmer to prose-
cute you, if lie pleases."

~O]~BU~I~.

97'

OHAPTIJL II;
POOR WJ~ZT~$ ~ER RQI3~J3t~IC.'
WHRN Abraham Marlin returned honie at evening
from the village upon his' mule, he found his wife,
Betsy, preparing the homely, supper, his sox~ Mark
closing up the cooper's shop, and his daughter, ~liza,
a buxom, red-cheeked girl of fifteen, milking the
~ Betsy, the wife and mQther, ~y~s a woman of
large, lean frame, with a square head and features
strongly marked. Plain truth ~nd decisive energy
were traced in every line pf her countenance. Her
dress was coarse, though neat, and her large hands
were hardened by domestic industry. F6r' forty
years she had.knowu' poverty without repining for a
single hour. She accepted her lpt; ifl hfe~ '~4th Cheer-
eulnes; ~d eneounter~d~ its 4 i~1oulties with resoiu-
Lion. Her chief care, as it was her husband'&amp; ~
was to train up her children in habits of in4u~try and
virtue. The parents were both rniterat~e, but thee es~
sential principles of a good life are karned without
research, and taught without books.
Abraham was received jn his huu~Ae cabin with as
much respect and affection as if he hadbeen the most
illustrious ~f men. After supper he related to his
family the events of the day at the village, but with-
out mentioning the part he bad performed, except the
single fact that ~he had promised to volunteer ~ a
private in the company of cavalry. When be stated

'1

I

t


I

98

llon]3uc,1c.

that circumstance, he looked at his wife as if he felt
much anxiety to ascertain the impression it made on
her mind. ~lIe was accustomed to consult her about
every important step in life, but here was one, of the
last importance to them all, which he had taken with..
out knowing her opinion.
"You.7ve done right, Abraham," she pronounced
decisively.
"Well, Betsy, I thought y~u~d say so, from our
talk last night, but I couldn't be ~asy in my mind till
I'd tell you ~aIl about it, and heaY how it would look
to you then."
"You've done ~right, Abraham. li's very hard on
us, but you ought to fight for Virginny."
* "But, Betsy," he ~akl with some hesitation, "I've
gc;t to furnish a hoss, and I've agreed to swap the
mule for one."
"We can't well spare the mule. But," she added
after some reflection, "the ground is nearly, all
plowed. We must git along with the hoe and the
spade. It will be more work, but we'll do it."
"I reckon you ciuld borrow ~ mule sometimes for
half a day."
"WeflI work, Abraham, while you fight."
* During this cOnversatkni Mark was at first silent
and attetitive; then he became excited and even agi..
tated. lie sat on a rough stool near the chimney.
Becoming restless, he rose ~md walked to the door;
then he went back and sat down. His eyes fixed
with eager interest now upon his father's face, and
now upon his mother's, attracted her, notice.
"Well, Mark," she asked, "what are you thinking
about 'C'
"Can't I volunteer too 'C' he exclaimed with flash-
ing eyes.

IO IB UCOK

I'

99
* "God bless the boy!" said the mother, "if he was
a year or two older, We might h~ve two soldiers to
fight for our country."~
"Older! Why not ~iow 'I I'm big enough, mother;
I'm strong; I'm. healthy; I'm active. Why not
now?"
This was the first intimation the parents bad re-~
*ceived of Mark's vehement deske to become a soldier.
The certainty of' war Was too recent to have caused
much discussion in that secluded cabin, and he had
not disclosed to his parents his notion. of fighting his
way up to the rank of ~a gentleman whenever a
patriotic war should occur~ They looked at each
other in doubt, and sat revolving the question in their
minds. At length Abraham said-.~
"Mark, it won't do for you and me both to leave
* your mother and sister."
"If our counI~ry needs you both," said Betsy, "I'll
take care of Eliza, and our Heavenly Father wilt take
care of us all.'
"I wish I Was a man," exclaimed ti~1iz; "I'd be a
soldier."
"But, Mark, we ain't got but one hoss,"' said the
father.
"Let's see, Abraham; don't the government give
hosses to the cavalry ?"~
"No; I lam the way is for every man to fetch his
own hoss, and the government to pay so mu~~h a~day
fbr the use of hini.'~
"Well," said Mark, after          for along
time on this obstacle, "I don't know how to get ano-
ther horse. But, father if only one of us can go,
don't you think ~rou had better stay at home and let
me go? You will be of more use at home, and I can
stand a soldier's life better than you."

99


100               ROEI3UeIC.

"You forgit, Mark, that I've promised to ~ My
word is Qut."                     -
"I had forgot that. I reckon I'll have to give~ it
up. Well, mother, I'll take care of you and E1i~a.
Ill be of some use if I help you to spare father for
the war. But if I only had a horse!'
The next morning Mark and his father were in the
little yard before the cabin, discussing a proposition
which the son had brought forward, to the effect' that
he would volunteer for infantry s~rvice. Tne cavalry
was so much more agreeable to the taste and views
of the young man that at firsl he thought of nothing
else, and in the agitation of the previous evening it
had not occurred to him that he conldbe a soldierwith-
out a horse. But it came into his mind at night,
while he lay in bed, wakefullyy turning the problem
that had baffled him inside out in search of fl
tion. In the morning, although' extremely reluctant
to abandoxi the hope of serving in cavalry, he an-
nounced his new plan. While it was under discussion,
Colonel. Fairfax and his daughter Julia rode up before
the cabin, followed by a servant, who led a saddled
horse. They saluted 'the eider and. younger Marlin
with cordial kindness, and whenMrs. Marlin, hearing
their voices, came out, they had many pleasant words
for her. After a few minutes had been given to the
chat of complimei~ts, Colonel Yairfhx said to Abraham:
"'1 heard of your remarks in the eouit-house yes-
terday, and of your offer to volunteer if you could
get a hGrse. I am too o14 to be a soldier myself, and
I wish you to ride the horse I have brought, as my sub-
stitute. We have long been friends, and I hope you
will not refuse to use my' horse. Lead him up here,
John."

"Thank you, colonel ~ you're mighty kind; but I've
made a bargain for a hoss."
"I heard of that too. It was when you offered, in
the oourt-house to swap your mule for a horse, and
some one said you should have a horse. But your
family cannot do without the male."
'~My word's out, colonel."
"Who was the person who promised you the horse ?"
"I don't know.. I didn't see him. I jist learn his
voice."
"Perhaps he will not come forward with the horse."
"Well now, colonel, do you think there's sich a per-
son in the county? Is there any sich a gentleman as
wouldn't unke his word good ?"
"We cannot tell. You had better make sure of a
horse. You will do me a great favor by accepting
mine."
"I. must let the man have the mule, colonel, ef he
comes up to his bargain, and then I'll have a hoss~;
much obliged to you, though, colonel, all the same.
Ef fie don't comO I'll swap with you, that is, ef we
kin agree."
"Really, Abraham, I feel much disappointed. I
wish to do something for the war and for you."
While this conversation was going on, Mark eyed
the horse that was in want of a rider, while he was
in want of a horse, and his head was busy with the
question how these two wants might be supplied hon-
e~tly by one operation, beneficial to the cavalry ser-
vice. Julia had no suspicion of his desire to obtain
the horse for his own use, but she was always ready
to say a kind word to every one.
"Mark," said she, with her sweet smile, "you Will
soon 'be old enough to~ fight f~r our country too, and
I am suie you will be a gallant soldier.~'


102              * ROEBIJOK.

"I 'am old ~not'gh now, Miss Julia."
"Are you ekfhteea? I am told that is the proper
age."
"I'm only seventeen, ma'am, but I can fight in a
good cause."
"You are a brave fellow, Mark. Do you hear hhn,
papa V'
"I do; but we must not let these bravo boys go
into the army too soon. The country may need
them next year or the' year after, and we must not
grind the seed corn."
"I believe I can stand the service, colonel," said
Mark.
"Do you really wish to go as a soldier ~" asked the
colonel.
"My mind, is made up to go, sir, if my parents
consent."
"'But the authorities would not let a youth of
seventeen b&amp; mustered 'in."
"Do you think so ?" asked Mark, with surprise~
"I do indeed~"
"Then," replied Mark, after thinking' a moment,
"P11 go and light on my own .ho6k. ~ome of the
boys will let me mess with them, and I can always
get a gun when there is to be a battle."
"Are you so resolved ~
"I am resolved to be a soldier in this war."
"Have you a horse ~"
"No, sir; for that reason I am going into ~the in-
fantry."
Would yo~i prefer cavalry service a?"
"Indeed I would, colonel; I would' like it above
all things."
"Then you shall have this horse, since your father
refuses to take him~"

ROEBUCK.                  103
"But I am not able to pay for him.'~
"I do not 'expect to be paid ror him. You shall
accept him as a gift."
"Thank you, colonel, but Icannot take him so."
"Why not, Mark ?"
"We don't accept gifts of such value when we
can make no return. It is a rule I've learned fro
my parents."                                 I
"Why, Mark," said Julia, "you are as independ-'~
ent as a-as"------
"As a gentleman, you would say, ~maybe, Miss
Julia
"But consider, papa wants to give the horse to the
public service, not to you alone.' All hi~ property be~-
longs to our country at her need. You may surely
help him to us~ it for our common defence."
"In any way consistent with my own honor.-4,
mean no offence, Miss Julia-.-4 would be glad to
do so."
"Mark, you are an obstinate young fellow, and I
have a mind to quarrel with you."
"Not for being honest, Miss Julia; not for being
independent. What are w~ to light f~r but indepenci.
once ~"
"Then let me sell you the horse," said Colonel
Fairfax, "you may pay me for him when 'it suite
you."
"But I may never be able. Would it be right, colo~'
nel, to take credit without a prospect of being able to
pay ~ I may be killed or die in the service."
"Then the horse will remain," said the colonel, half
provoked and half amused ~y these objections.
"Perhaps not,".replied Mark,~. "and then you would
~et nothing or my fiither ~vould distress~ himself and


1 04~    ROEBUCIC.                              ROEBUCK.       105

pinch the family to pay you. There is no need of
taking these risks, colonel, for I can serve in the in-
fantry."
But Mark could not repress a sigh, and Julia saw
* glances exchanged between him and his mother that
* expressed~the chagrin of the boy and the sympathy of
the woman.
"Come here, if you please, Mrs. Marlin," she said,
"I think you and I can arrange this matter. Men are
so wrong-headed, you know. Mama owes you some-
thing for weavingV'
* "sot much, Miss Julia."
"But we shall want niore weaving done."
"I have a piece of my own in the loom that I would
* sell, Miss Julia."
"Then consider it sold. sow, there's your account
against us for weaving, and there's the price of the
piece in the loom, and there, will be the weaving ~we
want. Mark, the horse is as good as paid for already.
Papa consents, your mother consents-don't shako
your obstinate head. Your mother shall not be dis-
tressed about the little balance that will be due for the
horse. You can send her your pay as a soldier, and it
wrn amount to the price of a horse before you have a
tempting chance to shoot or be shot at. Come, the
whole business is settled between you and me, is it not,
Mrs. Marlin ?"
"Mother," said Mark, "do you think this would ~be
r'ght?"
"Yes, my son; I think we may do as Miss4ulia
says."
~' Then I accept the horse with many thanks to you,
colonel, aid to Miss Julia."
"Oh yes, Mark, the women are worth more than_

k

the men to carry on a righteous war. We have heads,
Mrs. Marlin," she added, laughing and shaking her
own pretty head.
"And hearts, too," said, the colonel, smiling; "but
now I must use what influence I can to have Mark ac-
cepted as a soldier."
When this sale had been negotiated with so much
jockeying and feminine art, and the price-made small
by more cunning mediation on the part of Julia-.had
been agreed, on, Colonel Fairfax and his daughter took
leave of the preaching cooper and his family. They
spent a great part of the day in riding about ai~ong
their poor neighbors, and distributing some of that
property which the colonel held as a trust, and of that
happiiiess which natures rich in cheerful goodness dif.
fuse like the fragrai~ee of flowers. In the course of
their ride they called on Mrs. 1~'it~hugh, the mother of
Hugh, at Willosvbank, her place of residence. It was
about two miles from Marlinis cabin, an~L if the reader
consents to make that little journey with them, we too
will 'go to Willowbank.

105

100


106.              flOflBUCK.

-       CHAPTER x.
WILLOWBANK.
Trn~ visitor, in approaching the old mansion of Wil-
lowbank from the highway, caught a glimpse of the
'white building through numerous trees, flecked with
the opening leaves of ~pring~ Near the house a few
scattered survivors of the' original forest, such as the
great elm ~with triple trunk, the far~-branching' oak and
round-topped walnut, stood among large old trees
which, in the rings' about their hearts, kept a calendar
of the age of the family which planted them. At the
foot of 'a sloping bank before the mansion grow a
great weeping willow, with its long slender tWigs and
dark green leaves dropping in stately sadness~
The house was a long building. of two stories,
framed of wood, weather-boarded and painted white.
There was a wide porch along the entire front. The
old-fashioned chimneys 4ere built outside, and' at each
end of the house. The rooms were large and the win-
dows small. In a wide hall at the middle of the build-
ing' was a fight of stairs starting at one side of the
hail, and near the top, making a rectangular turn upon
a broad landing, with massive, square posts, heavily
capped. Over the spacious Tflre~places were high,
wooden mantel-pieces, adorned with an infinity, of
mouldings and with rosettes 'and other figures which
commemorated the taste of that Fitzhugh who erected
the mansion in the last century. It was then regarded
as a grand establishment, for it was finer than most

ROEBUCK.                  1&amp;7
of it~ neighbors, and was the seat of one of the prin-
cipal families of the county. Time gnawed. silently
upon the woodwork, but in that community time
wrought few changes of ideas or social relations in the
lapse of only two or three generati4is. The family
retained its respectability, and the house was still re-
garded by all the county round as a grand establish-
ment, notwithstanding that; since, a railroad was made
through the county, spine antique notions had been
put t~ flight, and some more costly and elegant dwell-
ings had been erected in the neighborhood. The idea
of grandeur attached to the place descended, as an
heir-loom in the family, excluding envy of modern
rivals and preventing projects ~f. improvement. The
perfection even of the trees planted by a former gene~
ration, took its place among the domestic traditions,
and though new ones might have improved the pros-
pect, they could not flatter the pride of ancestry. The
old furniture was retainedunder the influence-of simi-
- lar sentiments. The tall, square,, eight-day clock in
the hall, with iron weights, brass, wheels and lunar
face, could not give place to a modern time-piece, for it
had measured the ages of many members of the family,.
second by second, from birth until jleath. The quaint
old bedsteads -had beet~ witnesses of the births,
bridals and deaths of several generations of Fitzhughs.
In the old presses were piles-of home-made coverlets
and gay silk dresses that would st~nd on end, with
other relics of the thrift or fashion of a primitive aris-
tocracy.. A gourd hung over a cedar-bucket of drink-
ing water on a shelf at the back-door, but- there was
silver in ,the side-board. The-many old things about
the old house could not be exchanged for~ shining.
novelties without rending the very roots of the family
tree.


108   )  ROEBUCK.                              ROEBUCK:.

109

As Colonel Fairfax and his daughter saw Mrs.
1?it~hugh, the widowed tenant of this habitation,
walking in her garden with the support of a tall cane,
she might have seemed a feeble wyman of sixty or
more, though she was several years under three score.
She was pale and thin, but her form was not bowed,
and her features were strongly marked with lineaments
of pride. Sh~ had, been for many years a confirmed
invalid. But a vigorous ~and cultivated intellect, with
indomitable will, resisted the inroads of disease, and
from year to year she fought off death. The pride that
was written on her brow seldom escaped from her
tongue~ It was neither boastful nor scornfd. Within
her breast it was strong in all forms, but ~specia'4 as
the pride of family. Her proudest 'and yet her weak~
eat passion was her love for h~r only son, Hugh.
The place on which she resided-~-a plantation of
considerable extent-~iith fifty or sixty slaves, de~
endedd to him at the death of his father. The wick
owed mother of an infant son, becoming sole guardian
~of his person and estate, devoted herself thenceforth to
his nurture and education. She so managed his estate
as to keep it entire and without debt, while defraying
the expenses of his education ~nd travels, but a woman
and an invalid could do 'no more. The slaves, missing
the authority of a man above overseers, became negli.
gent and some of them dissolute. The plantation
needed repairs, although the grounds about the house,
being under the eye of' Mrs. Fitzhugh, were kept with
taste and care. Hugh, first as an infant, then as a
student, and finally as a traveler, had been unable to -
attend to his 'estate in person, and after his return
home, he neglected it. For two or three years he suP
fered 'all things to reni~n4 ~r to go backward, as if he ~.

N

were atill absent, whilst he amused himself with books
or hunting or fishing, or any idle sport that fell in his
way. Thus it was that the expectation of his frieii~s
had been disappointed, and his name in the county
began to wear the stain of thriftless indolence; for it
was thought that his inheritance imposed active duties.
His mother felt that he was sinking below the require~
tents of his name, and that the son of such abcestons
as his-ancestors whom her exaggerated family pride
ranked only a little below a line of heroes.-.
should imitaa their useful 'and honorable lives. J~ut
her affection was too indulgent to chide him and she
could only wait,' as she did, for the blood to show itscit
When she found that the prospect of war had roused
his latent energy, and that he had' volunteered as a
soldier, she suffered a violent conflict of emotions:.
When he was to be exposed to the hardships and haz~
ards of war, a mother's love for an only child, her over~.
,weening care for the son whom she had reared so ten.
derly. and her lonely widowhood, which might be
rendered utterly desolate by the loss of him~ made the
sacrifice almost too grievous 'for her to bear. Yet
she 'was conscious that to see him remain at home in
ignoble sloth, whileothers less nobly obliged to duty,'
according to her ideas, marched to the field, would be
intolerable to her pride. 'Then she exulted in the high
qualities which she attributed to. his action. She was
proud to 'feel that the honor of his family was vindi-
cated in' him. Her devotion to Virginia, second only
to her ruling~ passion, brought her patriotism to. the
support of 'her pride. Though every word was as a
drop of blood from her heart, yet with unwavering
resolution and tearless eyes she encouraged her ~on to
pt~rsue ~the path which he .had chosen.

108


110         1~OEBUOW.                                        R'o~BucK.         111

When she entered the house and received her vis-
itors, she greeted Colonel Fairfax with high-bred but
rather antiquated courtesy, almost too ceremonious for
friends so intimate. But she kissed Julia with frank,
cordial, worn~n1y warmth. "How very glad I am to
see you, my dear Julia," she said, "you always make
me happy, and you, cokrnel, are kind and thoughtful
in visiting me to-day. I ~egret that Hugh is not at
home to see you, hut he is absent attending to the
business that now engages his time.~~
* "~Y~es; his new co~npany,". replied the colonel; "I.
may well call it his company, for he has been most
energetic and influential in forming it and from many
things which I heard yesterday, I am sure he ~vill be
Its captain. Men begin already to re&amp;~gnize in him
he qualities which, they demand in their leaders.-.
decision, courage, ability. I congratulate you, my
dear. madam, upon being the mother of such a son."
Mrs. Fitzhugh did net reply at once. The subject
itself excited feelings which she could not easily con-~
trol, and the praises bestowed by her most esteemed
friend upon her son melted her pride. Tears filled
her eyes, and in spite of her efforts to restrain them,
one or two trickled doi~n her cheeks. But she checked
them and she did not again, during this interview,
give wuy to maternal weakness.
"I trust Hugh will do his duty," she said at last
with a firm voice.
"I am glad," said Julia, "to see you able to leave
your room."
"This is. no time to be sick, Julia," she replied;
men and wOmen, old and young, we are all needed for
the defence of Virginia."
"That is true," remarked the colonel; "Virginia

will be, no doubt, the chief battle-ground of this war,
and it may be a war of many battles. I hope we shall
be able to save our independence, but it must be at a
terrible cost. From the superior power of the North,
the South must be by far the greater sufferer. We
must expect Virginia to be penetrated by invasion,
and, perhaps, completely overrun. Our minds should
be prepared for unliniited sacrifice."
"Let it be unlimited then," said Mra. Fitz'hugh,
"if the North is cruel enough to exact it and if it is
necessary to secure our independence. I am ready
to begin with the dearest sacrifice a mother can
make."
"UnfortunMely," replied the colonel, "I have iio
son to offer to our country. But you and I and all
who ha4 property must be prepared to part with it
freel~ Even our homes may be lost for a time. Of
cours~, if invasion reaches us, many of our slaves will
leave us or possibly be enticed away. In other re-
speets, we may hope that those who have been our
brethren will conduct the war against according to'
civilized and humane usage, but in respect to slaves,
the origin of the war leaves no probability of forbear..
ance."
"Your servants, colonel, wrn not J~eave you surely,
so well treated and so judiciously ruled have they
been. How can they be better off'?"
"Yet many of them doubtless will hasten to the
untried pleasures of freedom. They are easily. de-
luded. If I thought them capable of judging wisely
f&amp;r themselves, .] would not feel justified in holding
them as slaves."
"I cannot consider them so ungr~tteful or so tin-
wise."

WI

S


112           .RO~BUOK.

"We shall see. But if we hold nothing too dear
to be given up for the sake of independence, no mis~
fortune of war can dismay us."
"No Virginian, I am sure," said Mrs. Fitzhugh,
"win hold an~ species of property too dear."
"At least the women," added Julia, "must not
shrink from the sad duties which war imposes ~on our
sex. But, even yet, I hope and pray that ~om~gleam
of goodness ci: impulse of remorse will avert the
doom of bloody conflict from our country."
"Well, Julia, you must not forget your old friend
when war shall leave me lonely. Visit me often, and
whenever you are with me I shall see sunshine in a
shady place. CQme, I ~vill not frighten you away
with my cloudy mood. Let me show you my flowers,
though few of them are out yet. You: shall be as
sunshine to my garden, my sweet favorite. There's
s speech you would rather hear1 perhaps, from some
gallant cavalier. But come along, let us be happy
among flowers while we may."
The walk among the Ilower4 with gay garden
t~alk, whiled away half.an4xour, in which the high~.
spirited old lady became lively and her visitors fell in
with her cheerful humor.

{-

'1~OEBUOlC.               113
CHAPTER Xl. -
'rilE VOLUNTEERS.
Wxn~ the company of cavalry was organized by
the election of officers, Thigh Fitzhugh was chosen
captain. The company numbered about a hundred,
of ivhcm a majority were young gentlemen, but men
' of all classes were incl~4ed. There was one recruit
whose name did not appear upon the muster-roll.
Doctor Fairfax was resolved, as he said, to have a
hand in the fight. But he conceived that, at his age,
he might be excused from .the rigid ~efformance of all
the arduous duties of a private soldier. He pro.
posed, therefore, to conduct the war, for his own part,
at his own cost and charge, tw an indepehdent volun~
teer, not enlisted, but under the command of captain
Fitzhugh. When he proposed this. arrangement to
the 4~aptain, that officer thanked him for the honoi'
which it implied,. but urged the doctor to permit his
friends to procure an appointment for him which
would enable him to be more useful, with less fatigue
and exposure. But this suggestion was flatly rejected
by the belligerent doctor. He declared that his sole
purpose was to fight "the Yankees" in the most
direct manner, hand to hand and to the death. Be-
sides, he was going in free for afrqefightand would
not endure the trammels of official obligation. The
captain acceded to the arrangement, but he asked,
- with a smile-.

'1


114      ROEBUCK.                             ROEBUCK.      115

"how is it, doctor, that you plunge headlong into
the war, while y6u preach the policy of peace ?"
"The chance of shooting at a~ pack of Northern
wolves, captain, would tempt any man from his con-
sistency. But you know I am really not inconsistent."
"You think the South i~s wrong in its present atti-
tude s?"
"Not wrong, but rash, captain."
"You believe that we shall be beaten."
"A good reason for going into the war. Help the
weak-always help the weak. When we are con-
*   queried it will be the misfortune of the South but the
crime of the North. Let me share. the' misfortune
rather than the crime."
"Your heart is right, doctQr, but I trust you are no
prophet."
And now everybody manifested a lively interest in
the new company. County pride, the popular delight
in military parade. , personal regard for volunteers who
were* kinsmen, neighbors or friends, and the con-
tagious excitement of the young soldiers, fanned the
patriotic feeling into a flame of enthusiasm. Enthusi-
asm carries with it an assurance of victory. The gen-
eral excitement became exultant, joyous. Every one
hailed his neighbor as a brother. All were sons of a
State which all loved with filial devotion. The citizens
regarded the volunteers with a kind of generous envy,
as fQrtunate champions of a sacred soil and a glorious
cause. Yirginia~-.4he South.-.-IAbe~ty.--~Independene~
were words in every mouth, and they sent every man's
blood bounding along 'his veins. Women, always
prone to sympathy, to social affection and to generous
and patriotic emotions, became even more enthusiastic
than the men

114

It was necessary that the company should be ready
for active service as soon as possible. To this end, not
only the officers and the volunteers but the citizens of
both sexes applied themselves with alacrity and indus-
try. The men were to be clothed, equipped and
m~unted. Tents and ~ragons were to be supplied. It
was known that the government could not instantly
furnish all the military apparatus needed for the nume-
rous army which was spontaneously springing into
~xistencethroughout the State. Moreover the citizexis
coveted the privilege of supplying their own companies
~ot only with things needful but with articles of
superfluity-articles which must be abandoned in tb~
first active campaign. Colonel Fairfax presented to
the company sufficient cloth of cadet grey to make all
the uniforms, and canvass enough for their tents.
Other wealthy citizens emulated his liberality, either to.
the same company or to others then in process of for~
nation. To make up the clothing of the volunteers
all the women, black and white, brought their needles
into play. For these various purposes the men formed
themselves into committees, and the women ~met in
societies. As Julia Fairfax showed herself not less
generous among her sex than her father among men,
Roebuck became a great workshop, over which she
presided., Many young ladies assembled there daily,
and with the help of servants, performed the work of
seamstresses or tailors. As the lively spirits of the
young lighten their labors, the tongues of these maid-
ens kept time with plying needles, and the click of
sewing..m~achines mingled with the laughter 9f girl0.
The gallant defenders of their country could not
neglect a patriotic establishment engaged in their ser-
vice, and so the ladie~ were often favored with the

115


counsel and assistance of the young men. It might
happen there that the Power who "rules the court,
the camp, the grove," sometimes lurked in the tan-
gles of a skein or barbed the point of a needle.
The official duty of Captain Fitshugh of course eare
ried him to such places, and he did not fail to inspect,
now and then, the work over~ which Julia FaiA'ax
presided. Between her and himself there was a -new
bond of sympathy in the ardent patriotism which ani-
*mated both. His eloquence was kindled by themes
which warmed her heart. Perhaps he was proud to
show her that his life was not idly wasted -when he
found an object wor-thy of earnest effort. Perhaps
she felt that his awakened energy was in some degree
a flattering tribute to her influence The fiery agita-
tion of the time, too, tended to inflame all sentiments
into passions. Friendship, cherished since childhood,
night be quickly kindled to -a. warmer sentiment
when sympathy and cii-cumstance &amp;'nspired te fan the
fiame.. But if their intercourse during a few days of
burning patriotism impairted a passionate glow to thes
friendship between Hugh Fitzhugh and Julia Fairfax,
they did not acknowledge it to themselves or to each
other. Duity, paramount over selfish aims, ther
engaged their thoughts.
When the company was ready for the march a vast
crowd assembled at the village. to take leave of the
volunteers. Men and women on the court green, in
the street, afoot, on'horseback, in carriages, every-
where, jostled one another to get a sight of the gay
troop in -ne~ uiforms and on sleek, high-mettled
horses, bound to the war. A neat valedictory speech
was delivered by'Mr. Williams on behalf of the citi-
zens. A blessing was invoked by the 11ev. Mr.

I

J

tieRBU .R O E BU C K '17

Ambler. Cheers were given by the multitude and
answered by the volunteers. Eats were tossed up
,and grey caps waved in return. Hundreds of negroes,
imtative patriots, on .the outskirts of the crowd,
grinned and babbled and laughed and shouted with
uncontrollable enthusiasm. From all the porches,
.windows and carriages, and from the court green, white
handkerchiefs fluttered incessantly. Under all the
clamor of cheers an attentive ear night have heard the
sobs of mothers. Tears bedewed the cheeks of sis'-
ters, but their handkerchiefs were used, not to dry
their eyes, but to wave encouragement to their brave
brothers. There were pride, joy, anguish and devo-
tion in that farewell. It was not surprising that the
captain and his friend, Julia, each felt -an unusual pal-.
,pitation of the heart when they w aved their final
adieu .
The entire march of the company to the scene of
war was a popular ovation. The roads were .lined
.with men, women and children, black and white, way-
ing hats and handkerchiefs, clapping hands, cheering
and offering refreshments. Whenever the company
halted the people flocked around, to tender congratw.
nation, welcome -and hospitality. They contended for
the privilege of entertaining every private soldier, as
well as the officers, in their houses.- No cottage was
too poor to solicit such gues.a No mansion, nor bed,
-nor furniture could be too luxurious for t~h use of
.those dusty horsemen. No food was too delicate, no
.wine too costly to be -set before them. Even their
'servants rejoiced with African glee in the abounding
.hospitality which they shared. When the company
marched on, the gentlemen of the county escorted
-them for miles over dusty or miry..roads.: Banners

118

117

I,
.1
t

)


118

ROEBUCK.

were presented to them by processions of ladies, and
speeches addressed to them, full of grateful praise and
eloquent with martial and-patriotic fervor. They fell iii
with other companies marching to the field and saw
the people everywhere engaged in volunteering -or
preparing volunteers for service. The country was
unanimous for war and independence.
In the meantime other companies were formed in
the county for the different arms of-the service. There
was talk of forming one under the auspice~ of Albert
Palmer-not of cavalry but of infantry. He bad been
requested by some of the young men to volunteer in
the company which was now commanded by Captain
Fit~hugh, but ha evaded the request. -lie j~roThssed
to think that, as cavalry was a favorite arm, -his assis-
tance was no~ needed in that direction, and thi~t since
many who were willing to become soldiers could not
afford to furnish horses, he could be more useful in
raising a company of infantry. He talked a great
deal on that subject. He rode over the county. He
drew up -a paper to be signed. b'y volunteers. He
procured a few signatures. He made this his osten-
sible -business for several weeks. Either he was not
quit~ in earnest or his influence was limited. The
number of his signatures ceased ~to increase, though
other companies were filled up ~intil the county had
furnished m~n~e volunteers than it contained voters.
-His project, however, was a deeenV apology for re-
maining at home, while he declaimed as a zealous
Southerner and took part in proceedings designed to
promote the war. He consulted with committees.
lie visited the patriotic societies of~adies. lie talked
of nothing but war.
I-Xe was particularly regular in calling at Roebuck,

119
always expressing the deepest interest in the work
of the ladies who assembled there, and seeking Occa-
Sions to converse with Miss Fairfax.: When the work
was finished he continued to visit Roebuck 'With equal
regularity. From day to day hi~ attentions to Miss
Fajifax became more pointed. At length the motive
of them could be no longer nhisunderstood: tie was
a hwer, almost declared. When Julia made this di~.
cover she was surprised and embarrassed. She re-
spected him as a fi'iend, and would willingly have
spared him the pain of a distinct refusal. She en-
deavored with delicate tact to discourage his suit
without mortifying his pride. But in view of 'ulterior
plans, he was resolved that, in this a~ir, there should
be neither uncertainty nor delay. it be~uue appa-
rent that he would not be diverted from pressing his
suit to a speedy and decisive issue.- -At length, seiz..
ing an opportunity when she could neither avoid him
nor evade his addresses, he offered her, with studied
grace of manner and polish of words, his heart and
hand. It she had been less agitated by the distress
of inflicting pain, she might have inferred from. his
polite self-possessiQn during the scene that his heart
Was not to be broken by any decision she would pro~
nounce.- iBut, with modest and considerate gentle-
ness, she signified to him that, while he had her es-
teem,, she c~u1d not reciprocate the sentiments. which
he had done her the honor to express. He did not
leave her until he ascertained, to his own perfect com.
eviction, that it would be useless to renew his suit.
Then, with the- same 'urbanity of style, he expressed
his disappointment and regret, and afterwards bade
her adieu.
The next day he started to Richmond. Upon his

p
~1
I
ii
H
ij


120

ROEBUCl~.

return fromthe capital ho informed his parents that
ho was a quarter-master, with the rank of captain, and
that he ~h~i4 made a satisfactory arrangement with a
sl~ve4~ale~ in the city to ae~ll )frb ?almei~s negroes
thei~e at auction. lie bad been assigned as quarter-
master to the regiment of cavalry which included
Fit2r~ht1gba company. Youug Baxter had been ap-
pointed a ~~niirnssary with the same rank, and was
assign~e4 to~ the ~ame regiment. Mr. Palmer, the
elder, expressed nw satisfaction with all that had been
done by his eon. He had but consummated plans
previously settled in iarnilyi coundi.  E~he father had
solicited an Wfhaeuce~ at the capital to procure the ap.
pointment ot 4uarter-maStOI' an appointment Coin-
mended by safety and profit; an police which would
serve to identify Albert with the &amp;utheru movement,
amd yet WOuld not expose him too conspicuously to
NoxtberrL vengeance, in the event of adverse fortune.
When th~ quarter-maSter afterwards repaired to his
~regiineut, he had not forgotten the conduct of Baxter
inhisfatlier's house. ~either did he regar~1 Captain
J~'itzhiigh without tea ntment~ He had watched with
jeaiAfl~* eyes some of the interviews between the cap-
tain and Julia at Roebuck,, and after the rejection of
his ~uit,~ he concluded that he owed his discomfiture
to the preference awarded to that rival. As the project
of marriage had been a key t~ his principal plans with
reference to the war and to his future prosperity, h~e
could not forgive the suspected author of his disap-
pointuient. But these feelings were unknown to
Baxter and Fitzhugh, ~an4 they gave him a friendly
reception.

-12I

CHAPTER. XII.
MANASBA.
Tins narrative is not designed to be a chronicle ~of
military events, and it passes now to the first battle
of Manassa, only for the purpose of gathering up som6
incidents which affected the fortunes of persons who
have appeared to the reader. That battle, it is well
known, was fought on a h~t day of July, in the year
eighteen hundred and sixty-on~ between two con-
siderable armies, of which the Federal was twice se
numerous as the Confederate. In arms and all equip.
ments the superiority was also with the larger host.
The skill of the Northern generals, as displayed on
that day, was not inferior to that of their adversaries.
The Federals advanced to the attack, confident of suo~
cess. After a severe conflict of several hours, victory
was achieved by the undisciplined valor of the South.
em volunteers. Then followed such a rout disper-
sion and flight of the Northern army as would have
been ludicrous if so much.sufl7ering and terror could
ever provoke a smile.
During the engagement but little use was' made of
cavalry. Captain Fitzhugh's company was for a time
posted in a ravine, where they were somewhat shel-
tered from the direct fire of the- enemy, while awaiting
orders or opportunities for action. In this position,
inactive and unable to see the course of the fight,
while the roar of battle was deafening, Doctor Fairfax
became extremely impatient. He w~s eager to be
8

(

'I

I

ROEI3UC K.


9'

'In 9

ROEBUCK.

y
where blows were dealt aii~d taken. With his. blood
at fever heat, h~ chafed at fortune, which denied him
~n active part in the grand and exciting drama~XVhen
a report came that the brigade of his friend, Brigadier
General Bee, was pressed and in danger of being over-
whelmed by superior numbers, he could endure in-
action no longer. He applied for permission to offer
his services to that gallant officer, and it was granted.
He found that the situation of Bee's brigade was~ ex-
tremely critical, and that every officer of the general's
staff was killed, wounded or unhorsed. The general
desired him instantly~~6 ride eff with an importu-
nate message to be delivered to General Beauregard.
The doctor started at high speed through a tempest
of shot and shell in which it seemed impossible for a
man or horse to live a minute. He had not gone far
when he was obliged to check his horse to avoid a
number of men who were bearing Brigadier General
Bartow, mortally wounded, a short distance to the rear
of his shattered brigade. He heard that brave and
able man request these around him to lay him down
and return to assist and encourage his men. "Look,"
exclaimed the dying Bartow, "look at those Virgi-
nians under Jackson, standing like a stonewall." The
doctor'~ attention, as he passed on, was thus dir&amp;ted
to that unflinching brigade of Virginians, and he saw
the tall, angular form and handsome features of Jack-
son, as he sat upon his horse immovable, with nothing
but the gleam of his eyes to indicate the fiery energy
which then reposed, like latent lightning. He and his
brigade were from that day known by a name derived
from the exolamatio.n of Bartow; but not until long
afterwards did ~even his own countrymen recognize in
Stonewall Jackson the first military genius on the "lou-
tinent.

r

R

B U C K.

123

With sobae difficulty, and after once riding almost
into the enemy's lines, the doctor found General
Beauregard, and delivering the message and receiving
a reply; he returned to find General Bee; but he had
been killed. . Seeking his successor in' command,
amidst the hail of bullets and the contusion of broken,
bat unyielding ranks, the doctor delivered to him the
communication, and at that moment bis own horse
was ahot. Being then dismissed to his proper com-
mand, he made his way afoot to his company. He
called out as he approached-" there is glorious ex~
citeinent up there, boyd. But the infernal Yanks
have killed my horse. I must have another."
"XVliat's this ~" asked one of the men, pointing at the
doctor's feet. Casting down his eyes, he saw blood
running from ~one of his legs. He drew off his boot
and found that'~ he had received a flesh wound, of
which until then- he had been unconscious. "NoiV,"
he grumbled as he eyed the spot, "I wonder if that
Yankee expected to make veal of me by butchering
my calf.'~ Chuckling, over his pun, he called for two
or tluee handkerchiefs and bandaged his wound. He
then renewed his demand for a horse. "No, no, my
good friend," said the captain, "you must not mount
again to-day." This prohibition was soon enforced by
the loss of blood. The 'doctor became 'faint; and lay
down upon the ground. He revived, but had to re-
main there until the battle was over.
When the day had been won,. Captain Fitzhugh's
'company was sent, with other cavalry, in pursuit~ of
'that panic-stricken mob which had so lately been 'an
army with banners. The ~pursuit was a chase. Little
resistance was encountered. The mQst frequeift im-
pediments were abandoned wagons and other wrecks


124

1~OEB tic IC.

of a ruined host. Yet a chance shot broke t1~e left
arm of Captain Fitzhugh. He continued, neverthe-
less, to lead his men, gathering in prisoners and scat~
tearing still more widely and wildly the elements of~
that disastrous rout. When it was almost night, he
discovered that some preparation had been made for
resistance at a place where the road passed betweeii
swamps and thickets, so that it was a mere defile. On
a little eminence which commanded the defile a piece
of artillery was pointed in the direction of the pu.rsu-
ing cavalry. A Federal captain, finding an aban-
doned piece there, had collected, about a hundred
stragglers, and made' dispositions to check pursuit.
The number of men with Captain Fitzhugh at that
time did not exceed t~irenty, the rest of his company
having been left in charge of captives. Halting a mo-
ment to ascertain the state of affairs in his front, he
dashed forward at the head of his little band. The
,Federal officer discharged the piece with his own
hand, and the grape killed one and wounded two of
the Confederates. There was not time, if there was
ammunition at hand, to load again. The captain en-
deavored to hold his men firm to repel the cavalry, but
d'sl~artened by the general rout, they broke and fled.
He stood alone, armed only with his sword, and dis-
daining to fly or surrender, seemed determined to sell
bis life as dearly as possible. ' He fell, dangerously
wounded by a pistol-shot, and the cavalry rushed past
him.
Galloping on, they overtook an ambulance, in which
were twQ or three civilians, who had come upon the
field to be spectators of the gi'and Union. victory
which, on ,the morning' of 'that day, the entire North
ha4 expected. Whipping and shouting, they urged

I ~

ROEBUCK.

125

the horses to their utmost speed, and the ambulance
was bounding from side to side. At its tail hung a
pedestrian; and as he ran or was dragged along with
his skirts flying, he begged the other fugitives to take
him into the vehicle. But he lost his hold, and fell
j~ist when the Confederate captain came up, and un-
able to cheek his horse, rode over him. The terrified
occupants of the ambulance, seeing cavalry so close
upon them, leaped out and scampered acrossthe fields.
Their horses then stopped.
As it was growing dark, Captain Fitzhugh hiilted
* and turned back, taking with him the captured ambu-'
lance. When he i'eturned to the man who had fallen
under his horse's hoofs, that person still lay prostrate
on his face, affecting to be dead. One of the Confed-
erates, dismounting, and finding him to be alive, with-
out a visible woundturned him oVer and commAnded
him to get up. "0 Lord, don't kill me; I am a non-
combatai~t," he bellowed. "I can see that in the
dark," replied the Confederate soldier, "but you must
get up and go with us." The captive, then, discover-
ing the officer, cried-" Captnin.-.-Colonel---Gefleral---
I don't know your stripes, but whatever you are, I ap-
peal to you as an officer. Don't let them murder me.
I am only a poor newspaper devil. I am Bombyx,
army correspondent of the 'New York Comet.' My
name is Campbell. I just came 'here to pick up a
few items. Oh, spare my life. If ~rou do, I'll give
you a first-rate notice in my next letter to the
'Comet.' I'll say the reb-the South has gained the
day. I'll say you gained it yourself. I'll say you
killed a hundred men with your own hand. Indeed I
will. I'll write anything if you spare my lLCe. The
'Comet' has the largest eireulatiQu of any paper in


New York-power..press, with the latest improve..
ments-tremendous advertising.--.immense subscrip..
tion list-..--O, don't let me be murdered. Poor~
]3om'by~A"
"Is the fellow hurt ?" inquired the captain.
"No-yes, I think I am-I'm lame here-a dozen
horses tramped on my leg."
"Take him up and put him into the ambulance."
When they moved on, "now," said Captain Fitz-
hugh, "we must look after that brave officer who fell
by the gun. I fear he is badly wounded, if not
killed." They found him indeed living, but neady
dead. Lifting him carefully and tenderly, they laid
him in the ambulance. Afterwards they took up the
body of their comrade who had been killed, and one
of those who had been wounded, the other being able
to ride his horse. With these and a Federal soldier
whom they found lying near the road wounded, they
slowly made their way through the darkness to the
place where they had left Doctor Fairfax.
He lay there asleep. Aroused by the noiSe of their
approach, he sat up. and cried out..-." back again,
boys ?-have you been to Washington City ?-did you
fetch Old Abe with you ?-l~t me see his majesty."
But when he was told what the ambulance contained,
his levity ceasedand he expressed sincere compassion
for the wounded, and sorrow for the dead. When he
learned that hi~ captain was wounded, he was full of
anxiety. In spite of his own wound, which had become
painful, he rose to his feet and offered assistance, first
to Captain Fitzhugh, and ~flen to the other wounded.
At so late an hour of the night, and after such a
battle, it was impossible to make immediate provision
for ~ll the wounded. While a surgeon was sent for,

4
4

Doctor Fairf'ax tendered 'his services as far as they
might be rendered with safety to the 'patients) by vir-.
tue of his havingonce been a physician. Leaning on
a man's arm, he limped to the ambulance, attended to
the removal of the wounded, examined their wounds,
and spent the remainder of the night in ministering
to their relief. The Federal captain, as the person in
most danger, received his principal care. Last of all,
when daylight1 appeared, he turned his attention to
Campbell, the reporter-~ or correspondent of the
"Comet," who had recovered from his fright, and in
full possession of his faculties, sat under a tree, leaning
against the trunk, and smoking a cigar. His leg still
gave him some pain, and he thought it was politic to
make the most of his wound. The gray light, when
the doctor approached him, revealed a person in holi
day attire, bedizened with jewelry, but soiled with
dirt: When he displayed his wound, the doctor curtly
said, "a bruise-4-nothing but a bruise," and was walk..
ing away.
"I say, doctor," exclaimed Campbell, "you are not
in1 a hurry, are you ?"
"I believe I hav&amp; nothing more to do just now."
"Oblige me then by sitting down beside me. I
know you are tired, and I wish to have a little chat
wijh you."
"Certainly, sir," said the doctor, sitting down upon
the ground.
Have a cigar? You don't smoke? Then take a
drink. You are not very well. I have a flask here in
my pocket.. You won't drink? The brandy is ex-
cellent. I bought it in New York. I'll tell you where
you can buy the best cigars and brandy when you go
to the city. You"

126      ROEBUCK.                             ROEBUCK.      127

127

126


2~28         IIOEBUCK.

*    "I thank you, sir, but I don't expect to be in NeW
York very soon."
"But information is always useful. I pick up items
wherever I go. Ii' would like to get a few from you
now, doctor. I am Bombyx, the army correspondent
of the 'New York Comet.' Bombyx is Latin you
know for silk-worm. Capital name for a correspond-
ent, eh? They say we spin our yarns out of our own
'neads'-4ui~ ha, ha!"
"The Yankee imitation of a silk-worm--a caterpil-
jar," said the doctor to.himsel; but he said aloud, "i
presume you have no further occasion for my pre~
Beflce."
* "Dorct go, doctor, don't go. I want to discuss
with you some points of interest to our common
country."                       4
"What countryman are you ?" said the doctor~
"An American, of course."
"But I am a Virginian."
"It's all one-Virginian and American."
"There was a questionn about that discussed on the
battle-field yesterday."
"Now, it is the war I want to discuss with you,
doctor. You rebels-but excuse me for calling you a
* rebel-no offence, I hope ?"
"Rebel! A solecism indeed to speak of the rebel-
lion of a State. But rebel V It is the most popular
epithet in the language. Governments have always
endeavored to make it infamous, but they have only
made themselves odious. History is the pillory of
governments. Rebellion ~lways implies at least one
virtue-..~ourage. Three-fourths of the rebellions have
been right, and seven-eights have been applauded by
mankind. if you would flatter me, call me a rebel."

28

I;

g)
I
4"
i
4

ROEBU~K.

~'You have odd notions, doctor."
"Odd in thi's country'! What would America have
been without rebellion ?"
"Well then, you rebels must acknowledge that the
government of the Union is the best government the
world ever sa~v."
"You will be equally polite, of course, and acknow-
ledge that this is the best rebeUion the world ever
saw."
"But I am in earnest, doctor."
"So am I. You of the North may praise a govern-
ment that serves .your interest. We of the South
must praise a rebeliofl that is designed to save our
liberties."
"Speaking of liberty, doctor, I would like to discuss
the subject of slavery~ You know our government is
pledged not to interfere~ with slavery, but if you
Southerners had correct views on that subject I think
we could soon have peace. Now I am thoroughly
acquainted with the subject and would    plain
it to you."
"Have you lived among negro slaves '?"
"No, I never 'was in a slave-holding State before
yesterday. I lost my liberty the same day I entered
*one-.~.-ha, ha, ha I"
"Your views of slavery must be interesting."
"I believe they are. Now I can convince you in.
five minutes that slavery is wrong. Thus: you wills'
admit that by nature all men are equal."
"Excuse me-not at present."
"You don't admit first principles!  I~hen it is use-
less to argue with you."
"Very probably~; but I prefer not to admit as .a
fact that which my senses contradict. I cannot see

129


ROEBUCK.      131

130          flOEBUCK.

that .a white man and a negro are by nature equal."
"Why, it is laid down in the Declaration of Inde~
pendence."
"So much the worse for the Declaration, if it is not
true."
~' You blaspheme that sacred insVrument."
"I worship nothing under heaven. The Declara-
tion of Independence was a glorious event-it was a
rebellion-but its glory may be due rather to the
sword of Washington than to the philosophy of Jef-
ferson."
"Why, sir, it is the great end of all the modern
improvements in political science to m~e men equal.
I have written a treatise to prose it. J .1 wish I had
brought you a copy." /
"Thank you. I'll give you a hint for your next
edition. If you wish to equalize two races whom
nature has made unequal, you have only to degrade
the higher. It is an easy process. They have done it
in Mexico-a country that can do nothing else."
"You jest at everything, doctor."
"Why should we wrangle over questions which the
sword is to decide i?"
"Then let us talk about something else. I love to
talk."
Campbell then launched forth in a long harangue
which kept Doctor Fairfax listening with amusement
and wonder. He talked of the battle, of his family,,
of the Federal generals, whom he called by their
Christian names, as familiar acquaintances, of news-
papers, of strategy, of boots, of ladies, of foreign
nations, of everything, with a volubility that knew
"no retiring ebb." His style was similar to that which
he used in corresponding with the "Comet." He

4

introduced every topic, as it were, with a great head..
ing displayed in capitals. He magtiified petty details
with astounding ad         He spurted out every
sentence as if it was designed to make~a sensation, and
he gesticulated inteijections and marks of exclamation.
lie tripped through the gravest questions with a
jaunty, flippant, knowing air. His statements of facts,
tricked out to shine, were marvellous travesties of
truth. He predicted futt~e events like a prophet or a
spiritual rapper. He made it his business, as he
modestly observed, to know everything.
Dr. Fairfax had found a character quite new to him.,
Surely, he thought, nothing like this ever grew south
of Mason and Dixon's line. What impudence! he
said to himself; as the harangue went on: what flip..
pancy! what prevention! what vulgarity of soul!
what ambitious and meretricious rhetoric! what a
liar! Thus with inward comment he sat studying
this novel specimen of humanity. The interest of the
study inspired him with a sort of liking for his sped-
men. He began io covet it as a natural curiosity.
This, he thought, was "a Yankee of the Yankees."~ He
hated .that tribe in the mass, but individually, he never
could hate any man. Finally lie interrupted the dis-
course.
"Come, Bombyx, my Northern light, my polar star,
my epitome of all Northern intelligence, my live
Yai~kee, come9 let us look out for breakfast."
"A capital thought, doctor, ha, ha, ha !"
After feasting his communicative guest with'the best
scraps he could scrape together at such a time and
place, Doctor Fairfax again visited the Federal officer.
lie learned from him that he was Captain Ti'em~.ine,
and that he had been an officer in the regular army of


R OE BU C K.            R BUK18

the United States before the war. He appeared to be
a gentleman, and his conversation..increased the inter-
est which his suffering awakened. But the doctor did
not suffer him to talk much, and as soon as it was.
practicable, he had the captain, as well as the -other
wounded, provided with comfortable cots and tents
and with proper attendance. The drenching rain that
day fell on many~unsheltered men, the living and the
dead, the wounded, the weary and the sick, on .the
wide plain of Manassa.

I

CHAPTER XIII.

A DUEL.

I

I

I

I
.1

IN the evening of that rainy day they buried the
soldier who had been killed, as already mentioned, by
a grape-shot while engaged in the pursuit. At this
early period of the wvar death had not lost its awe by
familiarity. When single man of a company fell in
battle, the event impressed the minds of the survivors
with almost as much soiemnity as 'a death at home
before the war. The body of this soldier was followed
by most of his comrades in the company, with every
demonstration of respect that circumstances permitted,
to a -small grove of stunted trees where a place of
burial had been selected for some of the Confederate
dead. The melancholy solemnity of the scene was
deepened by the gloom of the slky and of the neigh-
boring battle-field, yet encumbered with dead and
dying. When they had fulfilled their sad duty the
men in attendance were about to march away, when
Abraham Marlin, the preaching cooper, stepped for-
ward and touching his cap, requested permission to
say a few words. H~e remarked it was a pity any
human being should be buried without some religious
service. He knew a chaplain could not be h ad when
so many dying men required their attendance on them.
But he thought some one might offer up an humble
prayer at the grave. This suggestion was received
with silent acquiescence, but all eyes looked around
for the person who night perform the proposed

ISS


service. Abraham, seeing that no other person was
willing, felt that it was incumbent on himself to dis-
charge the duty which he had proposed. He there-
fove walked to the head of the grave, took off his cap,
lifted up his hands and began to pray. In common
affairs which belonged to every-day liTh he was sensi-
ble and his language was direct and simple. But
when, from religious zeal, he aspired to performances
which exercise .the higher faculties of educated men,
he floundered into absurdities of thought and lan-
guage which were almost profane in spite of his sincere
piety. On this occasion he soon rambled into a kind
of funeral discourse upon the life and character of the
deceased, such as can scarcely be imagined without
the aid of a specimen:
"We lay his mortal body in the dust-leastwaYs it
was dust before the rain. We pray that his immortal
soul may go where the wicked cease from troubling
and the weary are at rest, that is if it ain't popish to
pray for his soul when he's dead and buried, and if it
is, we ax pardon and take it back. He was a mighty
* good yonng man as we knowed him at home. He
was a mighty brave soldier. He fou't in this 'ere
great battle agin the great company, the mighty army
that come out of the North parts which we've whip-
ped and put to flight, only a good many of' 'em was
killed and wouldn'tt fly. He was killed suddenly in
pursuing! of 'em when the big fight was done fou't, and
it was a pity any more men was killed so~ late in the
evening . He' fou't in that battle when'7h~e wasn't able
to fight by good rights, because he'd been running' off
~with chronic diree for most a month. But he wouldn't
stay back. He was a willing' and a brave man, and he
wood a f~u't agin in' the next big battle, eP any mOre

mighty armies come out of the North parts, providing'
the diree didn't take him off in the eend."
But after some time the pious cooper dropped this
rambling discourse and gave, in homely but sensible
language, expression to those genuine emotions which
good men feel when they stand in the presence of
death a~d before the Ju4ge of quick and dead. When
in the midst of his uncouth dialect his memory sup-
plied some of the affecting phrases 'which the scrip-.
tures lend to the expression of personal piety or the
sublime imagery with which they allude to the worlI
beyond the tomb, he seemed almost eloquent. His
pathetic earnestness melted some of the soldiers around
him to tears. They indeed did not smile at those
absurdities by which he made sacred things appear
mean and ridiculous, for besides the sadness of the
scene, they respected the preaching ~cooper as a sin-
cere, faithful and brave man. His piety silenced their
censure, even when hi~ presumption might have
shocked them.
An hour after the conclusion of this scene, Captain
Palmer, the quarter-master, sat in the door of a tent'
conversing with a person~who was present battle grave'
about the strange proceedings of the extempore chap-.
lain. "Abraham Marlin is a pestilent old fool," said
Palmer, in a loud tone. "Was that meant for my
ear ?" asked a young man who was passing the tent
and who turned abruptly to Palmer.
"' Who are you ?" rejoined~ the latter.
"I am the son of~Abraham Marlin."
"O,.Mai'k Marlin!' I've heard of you.' I repeat
what I said, and this time for your ears. Abraham
Marlin is a pestih~nt old fool."
"It is false, and no gentleman would say such a
thing about any man to his son."

1.84       ROEBUOE.                                        flOEBUC K.       135

184

135


186

RO B B.U C K.

A-

"Sir, you are a private. I am an officer."
"I knew that, or I could not have answered you
with words."
"Do you threaten me, sir ?"
"As you talk about your rank, I can say no more;
but I will say again, you are ,no gentle ."
"I'll have you punished, sir ; I'll have you punished
for your insolence."
" Then you must e4ose yourself," said Mark Marlin
as he walked away.
* Palmer had fallen into this foolish altercation; be-
cause he had conceived the absurd idea 'that, among.
soldiers, he must support a reputation for soldierly
bearing by blustering rudeness~ and feared he might
sink in the estimation of his companion if he made
any concession to Mark Marlin, after proclaiming his
opinion of Mark's father.
Later in the evening Palmer was in the tent of
BaxEer, the commissary. That functionary was pre-
sent, acting as host, and his guests, besides Palmer,
were Dr. Frank, a surgeon, a young lieutenant, Pot-
ter, and two or three other officers. They all sat on*
stools or the host's bunk. ~~On a rough box, which
served for a tahie, stood a bottle, two tin cups and a
tallow candle stuck in a block of wood. Baxter was
entertaining the others with noisy hilarity that
smacked oI~ the bottle. J)r. Frank was silent, sober
and surly. He was a bachelor of fifty, with heavy,*
grey mustache and shaggy brows, lie had -served
long in the Federal navy, and. was reputed to be very
skilful in his profession. He was as gentle as a
woman with the sick, but crusty with men who pre-
sumed to enjoy go9d health. He was a sworn enemy
of all soldier&amp; who attempted to shirk from duty

I.

1~O EB U C K.

187

by feigning sickness. He had a habit which made
his -scanty conVersation consist mai~ily of oaths.
"Drink, gentlemen," said Baxter, setting an .exam~
pie, "drink. I can recommend my commissary stores.
This Co federated whiskey is an excellent summer
drink. It would cool a fever. - It is better than sher-
bet for this warm weather. Doctor Frank, you shall
take some of my medicinal water."
The doctor growled out a refusal with an oath.
"Don't swear, doctor, don't," said Baxter. "That
reminds me, gentlemen, you have been talking of the
preaching cooper. Now I'll tell you an anecdote of a
preacher and Doctor Frank. The doctor, you know,
swears more oaths than the Yankees. prescribe to the
rebels-if that's possible. Well, a few days ago,
being scarce of tents, I suppose, they billetted a chap-
lain on our swearing friend, and the two have had to
sleep undor the same canvass. It is the surgeon's
habit to stand at the door of his tent at an early hour
every morning, to hear the applications of soldiers for
certificates of ill health to excuse them from fatigue
duty for the day. He thinks most ofthem are shirk..
ing, and he curses those fellows high and low, in or-
der, as he says, to maintain discipline. Two~ or three
mornings since, I was passing and saw the doctor at
his levee. He had been up all night with a poor
devil who threatened to slip through his fingers, and
his nerves, no doubt, Were more irritable than usual.
He believed that the entire bevy of applicants were
shirkers. lie looked at them with brows like a jagged
thunder-cloud. He compressed his lips ~as if he was
holding in a young earthquake. Suddenly he turned
and looked in at the bunk where the, chaplain lay.
~1'hen he turned to scowl on the shirkers. Again be


4;

138

ROJ~BU OK.

peered in at the chaplain, ai*L again turned to the
waiting crowd. Then burst out the earthquake.
'By-,' he exclaimed, 'I will swear-I must main-
tain discipline-I have not cursed these fellows for a
week, and now they are all shirking-what's a
preacher? he's only a man-'I will swear.' Well, he
swore. All the oaths that he had corked up for a
week, from respect to the clergy, rushed out in one
volume. He scattered that squad of shirkers faster
and farther than the Yanks were routed yesterday."
The surgeon swore a little, and the. others laughed,
except Palmer.
"Why don't you laugh, Palmer? That was a good
story," said Baxter.
But the quarter-master, perhaps, was not in a merry
mood that evening, and he had a recollection of one
of Baxter's practical jokes that disinclined him to ap-
plaud the commissary's wit. He replied
"I am not bound to laugh, am I ?"
"Everybody but a churl laughs at a good joke in
jovial company.
* "Profanity does n~t amuse me.
"0, Puritan 1" cried Baxter, with a sneer.
"At all events, I am not a buffoon," retorted Palmer
with a scowl.
Baxter instanay rose and slapped Palmer's Thee
with his open hand. The latter stood a moment
white with i'age, and then saying, "you shall hear fron~
me, sir," he flung himself out of the tent.
"Let's take another drink," said Baxter, resuming
his seat. But his visitors declined the. invitation and
took leave of him. They anticipated the consequences
of the quarrel. They condemned the conduct of
Baxter, but they did not esteem Palmer. They con-

J~)

L~Vi~BUU1i,               139
sidered that the affair between them had proceeded
too far to be stopped. Blood for a blow, was a maxim.
that permitted no pacification at that stage b~* the me-
diation of friends, according to their notions. Nothing
was left for them but to stand aside, and let the affair
take its course. When they had left him, Baxter sat
looking at his bottle for some time, and then said to
himself-..." Now, there's poor Corporal Jones would
be the better of a few drops of that liquor. I'll go to
see him. I expect he'll die to-night. I'll help him
to go off the hooks easy." He filled the bottle and
started out with it in his hand.
It was near midnight when Palmer entered the tent
of Lieutenant Potter, who was then asleep, and asked
him to get up. "Mr. Potter," said~he with agitation,
"I want your advice."
"About what O?~~ said Potter, turning over and
yawning.
"About that affair."
"Oh-..-ah--.yes," replied Potter, rubbing his eyes,
you mean that affair with Baxter," and ~ue yawned
again.
"Yes. What ought I to do ?"
"Don't you know ?"
"Really I do not."
"Then you are a fool," said Potter, and he turned
over to sleep again.
"But, Mr. Potter, indeed you must advise me. I
am in trouble. I have no friend here to consult with
-do advise me."
"Didn't you threaten that he should hear from
you ?"
"Well?"
"Didn't he strike you ?"

I


140          ROflBUOK.

"Yes."
"Don't you intend to challenge him V'
"It is on that point I want advice.' I am consci~.
entiously opposed to duelling."
"Did you ever tell anybody so before ?"
"Well-no-I believe not."
"You have allowed it to be understood that you ac-
- knowledge ~the code ~"
'"Perhaps I have, thoughtlessly."
"Then you are thoughtful too late. Ifa gentleman
is only known to be religious and 'consistent, he may~
decline a duel without disgrace: Such a man is sel-
dom insulted and never insults. But if a man becomes
conscientious only when there is a pistol in view, peo-
ple draw ugly inferences."
"' You think then that I must challenge him ?"
"I have not said that. I have not undertaken to
advise you. We are almost strangers to ea9h other.
1 can have nothing to do with a duel without resign-
ing my commission. You must excuse n~e."
"To whem can I apply. I am much distressed."
"I can find you an adviser. Bullitt, from Rich-
mond, is now in camp. He~ is the very man for affairs'
* of honor. He knows all about them. He studies
them. lie practices them. he'd rather be invite~1 to.
a duel than to a dinner. He will be glad to advise
you and act for you too, as your friend. He is like a
Quaker, a friend to all the world. Come along, I'll
introduce you to him."
During this speech Potter got up and put on his
clothes. At the end of it he started out of the tent,
followed by Palmer, who felt but little encouraged by
the character of the friend, he was about to meet, as
sketched by his guide. He was dragged onward,

RO]~BUOK.                 141
however, by the circumstances of his position and by
his fear of losing caste among young men of spirit.
Through the mud and darkness Potter marched on
inexorably, and Palmer trudged after him in rueful
silence. At length they arrived at a tent 'in which
Mr. Bullitt, the man of honor, was lodging as the guest
of friend. Potter called him, and as soon as he was
awake, signified to him that an officer desired some
private conversation with him. With great alertness
he sprang from the cot on which he slept and briskly
stepped out of tl~e tent. rotter announced his own
name, for they could not distinguish each other in the
dark, and then introduced Captain Palmer. lie in~
formed Mr. BullitV that the captain 'was involved in a
delicate affair and' needed a friend. "I have taken
the liberty," he added, "to recommend him to you and
to assur~ him that you would not' refuse him the favor
he desires."
"On the contrary, it will afford me pleasure to act
as a friend of any friend of yours, Mr. Potter," said
J3ullitt.
"Then, gentlemen, I may leave you together; good
night, gentlemen."
i~3ullett, by ,a few rapid and decisive questIons, drew
from Palmer the material oircumstance~, and then
bounced into the tent, where he got a match, lighted a
candle, drew forth 'paper, pen and'i~ik, placed them
on a board upon hi~ knee and began to write. Palmer
could then see that he was a small, withered mail,
with no clothes on him but a shirt-and pantaloons, i~
r~d night-cap, with a huge tassel, and muddy bo&amp;ts,
hastily pulled on so as to carry his wrinkjed panta-
loons with them up to his knee~ He had a peaked
nose, little' gli8tening black eyes and a long~ heavy


142             llOEflU.OlC~
mustache, which, like his hair, had been black b~ut was
somewhat grizzled. He moved' with quick, decisive
energy, and wrote with furious rapidity. In a few
minutes he produced two documents, and requested
Captain Palmer to sign them. One was a resignation
of his commission -a~ quarter-master, and the other a
peremptory challenge to Baxter. Palmer read them
over and signed them, not knowing what else to
do. He had expected his adviser to offer him some
advice, but the artificer of duels had not imagined that
there could be a doubt in the mind of any one 'as to
the proper course to be pursued.
"Now, Captain Palmer," said his friei~d, "Twill
forward your resignation to the adjutant and I will
deliver the note to Captain Baxter forthwith. You
can lie down and refresh yourself with sleep. I will ..
call you when you are needed."
Palmer was not very sleepy at that moment. He
looked at Bullitt while he jerked on his coat, flung
aside liis~ night-cap and covered his head with an old-
fashioned cocked hat, which it was his fancy to wear.
They then walked together to the 1uarter-master'~
tent, and Bullitt, having obtained the information
necessary for finding Baxter, went on alone, while hi~
principal stood wondering how soon that brisk step oI
his second would bring him back with an announce-
ment that all things were ready, ana Captain Palmer
was to be shot at without more delay. Bullitt found
the commissary'~ quarters, but Baxter was not there.
After satisfying himself of that fact, the faithful, friend,
not knowing how to find the adversary except by
waiting for him to return, began to pace backward
and forward before his tent like a sentinel. He kept~
up that oscillating march with exemplary perseverance

flO13~BUCK.                  143

until day was breaking. He then discovered a man
passing not far from him, and approaching the passen-
ger, he inquired ;if that person knew where Captain
Baxter might be found: "Come with me," replied
the man,, who happened to be Doctor Frank, on his.
way to visit Corporal Jones. Bullitt followed, until
they arrived at the entrance of a tent, where they
paused in consequence of what they saw and heard.
Within the tent Baxter was standing over a cot occu-
pied bya sick man, and as he arranged the pillow, he
said-" now, Jones, I am going to leave you, old fel..
low. The surgeon will be here in a few minutes."
"0, captain," said the sick man, feebly, "I am so
much obliged to you for staying with me all night.
You have done me so much good. I had not laughed
before since I was taken. sick."
"You are going to be well soon. Keep up your
spirits. I'll put this bottle under your head to keep
your spirits up. This is the great medicine after all.
It beats the doctors and the quack pills to boot. I
would have been under the ground long ago if I had
not been drunk half my life-or half drunk all my life.
I am not sure which is the best division of time. I
believe if a man was kept drunk all day and half drunk
all night it would be a pretty even divide. Don't you
feel better now  "
The patient laughed. / The surgeon then went in,
and Baxter, after making a brief report of~ the sick
man's condition during the night, went out of thetent.
Bullitt met him, touched his cocked hat, and said,
"Captain Baxter, I believe'? Mr. Bullitt. I am the
bearer of a message for you, sir. May I see you at
your quarters'?"
"I am going there~ But you may save time by


144      ROEBUCK.                           ROEBUCK.      145

delivering thft message at once. Is it from: Captain
Palmer?"
"Yes; this is the note, sir."
"What does he want V' asked Baiter, taking the
114te but not reading it; "does he want to fight 'I"
"Precisely."
"Mery w611; bring him along."
"How do you mean? Please refer me to your
friend, captain, to settle the necessary arrangements."
"I am my own friend. We'll settle the arrange~
ments~s we w~i1k to the groundd. I have pistols in my
tent-or you may bring yours."
"I do not; understand this mode of proceeding..
You seem to~be jesting. But I'll wait until you have
read the note and written your answer."
"I won't wait. ]I've'been up all night and I must
have a nap before breakfast~ This affair must be dis.
patched at once, so that I may go Co bed."
"Surely. you jest, sir. This is a' grave affair."
"It may be grave efl9ugh for your friend, if I can
steady my hand this morning."
"But your' friend-you will refer me to your
friend.!"
"I have no friend. I want no friend~ I have no
time to be looking for a friend now."
"You will not go i~o the field alone ?"'
"I hope to see you there, if not Palmer. Come
along."
"But, sir, this is irregular-absolutely contrary to
all rule. I protest"-
"Mr. B~ullitt.--I think you called yourself Bullitt ?"
" That is my name, sir."
"Do you. see that clump of trees, with a tall pineiiz
tb~ o~tw~4h~ ab~~t.'two ntiisa offY'

"I see it."
"I shall be there-.-just beyerrd that olump of trees
in forty minutes. If you and your principal are not
there within an hour from this time-it; is just five-.
you must take the consequences. Weapons-.-pistols~
Distance-ten paces. Good morning, sir."
"Stop, captain," cried Bullitt, following him as he
Walked off, "this is most irregular. There is no pre..
cement for it. Two against one! You on the ground
alone, and ~he other party with a friend! It will be
murder."
"Murder, when I shoot your principal? You. can
take care of him, Doctor Frank, I dare say, will go
with us if you askhi~tfr "~'
"With whom shall ~negotia~e-a~g4
I'm shocked. This proceeding is out of all rule. Two
against one! It will never do."
"Well," said Baxter, "since you are shocked I will
compromise the matter. You. shall act as th~ friend
of both ~parties."
"I don't understand that at all. That's irregular
too. Can I arrange terms with myself? Can I agree
with myself? Can I adi~ise one party that he shoi44
be satisfied, and the other that he. should not? 'Must
I ask myself a question from one side, and answer it
myself from the other? Can I"-~
"Goed morning; Mr. Bullitt In fatty mimites"
"Heavens! what shall I do? Such .an irregi~ilar
party! Must I abandon my principal and ge half over
to the other side? Stay, Captain Baxter," he cried,
running after that irregular party, "Stay. This g.
fair must go on some way. If it must be your way'
I am not responsible. I protest, but ti~der prQt~at, I
consent to aet as t~ie common friend of botl~. prin


14~      ROEBUCK.

"All right. Be quick."
"I'll ~hring my pistols.' I always carry a beautiful
pair."
- "Very well. We'll choose between yours and
mine.
When Bullitt made known the arrangement to
Palmer, the latter was fluttered by the precipitancy,
of action, and objected to the part assigned to Bullitt,
-as neutralizing his second. On that ground he was
inclined to break off the affair. But Bullitt declared
that it could not be broken ofF without everlasting dis-
grace. It must go on, ev.en in ihis irregular fashion..'
Being' thus pressed, and having neither experience
nor counsellor to guide him to a loop-hole of retreat,
Palmer ceased to object. When the pistols had been
~rooured, he walked to the appointed field, escorted
by his second-or halPsecond-and attended by Doc-
tor Frank, with a very alarming ease of instruments
under his arm. When.they reached the ground Bax~--
ter was there, lying asleep on the grass. After waking
him, Bullitt selected the pistols, chose the ground and
measured the distance. With a comical 'air ~of per-
pl'eicity he tossed up with himself for the choice of
position, and arranged with himself'all the prelimina-
ries in the most formal 'manner. He was repeatedly
embarrassed, by his neutral or equivocal- relation to
the parties. After placing them in position, and giv-
ing them their weapons, he paused and gravely ad-
dressed them.
"Gentlemen, I must now formally protest in pre-
sence of you both, as I have protested to you seve-,
rally, that the mode of proceeding adopted on this oc-
casion is entirely irregular. I have acceded to. it only
from necessity. I will not be responsible for the con-

flOEBUCK.             .    14~
sequences, and I protest that this case shali never be
drawn into precedent with my consent."
When he gave the word, the combatants fired al-
most simultaneously. They both remaine&amp;standing
after the exchange of shots. Bullitt, looking first at
one, and then at the other, from his post, which was
equi-distant from them, was again perplexed., He
deemed it his duty to approach his principal, but
which priiw~ipal first? One reason.came into his head
for rendering his first attention to Palmer, but another
reason immediaI~ely claimed that preference for Bax-
ter. He started towards the latter, but halted and
turned towards the former. After one or two more
such zigzags, he threw up his hands in despair, and
darted at Baxter~ -
"Are you hurt, 'Captain Baxter ?" he cried.
"No," said Baxter, quietly, "neither of us is hurt.
I raised the dust from his pant~, but my ball struck
the ground ten feet beyond him. His ball struck that
weed aboi1t a yard from me. I saw it shake."
Bullitt Avent to Palmer, who, though not very cour-
ageous, had pride enough to carry him thus far
though the scene with a fair show of' firmness.
Having ascertained that he was not hurt, the impar..
tial second retired a few paces 'to consult with him-
self as to the proper. step forhim next to ti~ke. While
he pondered, he was reloading the weapons.' Sad-
denly he was startled by a cry from Palmer.-" a con-
stable, a constable." Repeating these words, Palmer
started from his post, walking rapidly. "&amp;opg" said
Bullitt, "there is no constable about here !" But
Palmer quickened his pace to a run, while the second
shouted after him frantically.-" stop; come back, fool,
coward, poltroon, come back, I say." But faster and


I

148

ROI~l3UOK.

faster the fugitive ran, Ufltji he disappeared in a wood.
"Why, it's Hugh Fitzhugh," said Baxter, pointing
at a man who was approaching them, and who had
been seen first by Palmer. Some duty had brought
Captain Fit~liugh near enough to the spot to hear the
sound of the pistols, and thinking it was some alarm
or 'irregularity of pickets, he hastened in the direction
of the sound to learn th~ cause. As he came for-
ward, Bullitt said-." Captain Baxter, I' am deeply
mortified at the conduct of my first principal..' But,
* of course, I take his place now. With that view you
will excuse me, I am sure, for reassuringg entire my
original relation as his second. I trust, sir," he con-
tinued, addressing Captain Fitzhngh, "although I
have not the honor of your acquaintance, you will
oblige us by performing for Captain Baxter and my..
* self the part which I had undertaken to perform for
him and Captain Palmer. It is very irregular, I ad-
mit, but necessity may excuse it. Captain Baxter, does
this meet your approbation?"
"What does all this mean  " inquired Fitzhugh.
"ill tell you," responded. Baxter ;." this geutlemiui
.-.-.Mr. Bullitt, Captain Fitzhugh-desires to exchange
shbts with me and' I have no objection. You will
stand by and' see fair play."
"I'll do no such thing. This follymust stop here."
"Of coui'se," ~said Bullitt, "such an affair must
come to an untimely end when a third party steps in
t~ interfere with it. But I protest "-.-.~-
"Never mind your protest," interrupted Baxter,
"let's go to breakfast."
"Now," said Fitzhugh, after he had, by inquiring
of Baxter, learned some particulars of the affiuir, "let
us agree to say nothing of Palmei~s couduot. Jt

ROEBUCK.

'49

would injure him and do no good. He is new t~
such t.hings."                             ~..
"0, he has carried the matter to e m - hi3 heels,"
replied Baxter, "but I shall say no' in about it."
"I am not sure what I shall do about this affair,"
said Bullitt, testily; "the whole business has been so
irregular that I don't know whether I shall allow any
gentleman to allude to it' in my presence withQut giv-
ing me satisfaction. I must look up the autkoritie.
before I commit myself~"'
The three walked together towards the camp, an&amp;
after gqing some distance, Baxter exclaimed-." the
surgeon! we have forgotten the doctor." He h6'sa~
in the clump of trees during the proceedings. Tmii~
big back, they saw him marching along behind then~
and looking very~surly. The~r waited for hix~i, and as
lie approached, they heard him growling and cursing.
'4llumbug," he grunted~ "humbug......no need of ~
surgeon for this party "-with an appendix. of oaths.
They spoke to him and endeavored to apologize~ for
leaving him, but he gave neither heed nor z~epIy.
lie marched past, muttering the same contemptuous
oaths.
Palmer did not halt until he found himself five or
six miles from the camp. Then he sat down upon a
log and held a council in his own bosom. He re-
flected that the failure of his matrimonial project had
cut the principal tie whi~h bound him to the Southern
cause, and now if he returned to the army, he thought
he must encounter disgrace on account of this morn~
~ing's proceedings. His commission and his character.
were gon:e. lie began to recall the obligations of
birth and to 'spccuiat~ upon the chances. of improving
his condition by transferring himself to the North.
Upon this theme he sat musiug along time.


150        RO~BUCK.~

151

/. -
*! dl;;
CHAPTER XIV.
ROEBUCK AFTER M.ANASSA.
* FROM various causes the camp at Manassa proved
to be unfavorable to the recovery of the sick and
* wounded. In two or three days after the battle,
Doctor Fairfax became satisfied that if he remained
there his wound, already showing unpleasant symp-.
toms, would be slow to heal, and he decided to return
home for a time. Not being an enlisted soldier, he
obtained permission without difficulty. In the mean-
time he had been almost constantly with Captain Tre-
maine. Sympathy and respect rapidly ripened into
friendship for that gallant and unfortunate gentleman.
* The doctor became so warmly interested in his re-
covery that he desired to take him t~ his own house,
where he mig~it have the benefit of such nursing and
care as a camp could not afford. . When he invited the
* captain to accompany him the wounded prisoner was
very grateful. Through the exertions of Doc~r Fair-
fax and Captain Fitzhugh, the consent of the proper
authorities was obtained. The prisoner's condition
was very critical, but as the journey was to be almost
entirely by railway, it was hoped that he would be
but little injured by removal, under the judicious .care
of the doctor. Being among strangers, the wounded
* man naturally found some comfort in the society of a
person from his own country-and of his own political
8entinwflts. He~ had, therefore, taken some pleasure
in the presence of Campbell, and, perhaps at the * sug-

ROEBUCK.

gestion of that modest gentleman, h6 expressed, with
apparent hesitation, a desire that his Northern country-
man should accompany him, if that should be found
pracl5ieablc and was agreeable to Doctor Fairfax. The
doctor was not averse to the arrangement. His inter-
est in "Bombyx," as. a study, was not diminished by -
tl~eir intercourse, and he was ~willing to be amused at
home by this curious specimen. Besides, he desired
to oblige C~ptain Tremaine in every way. Camp-
bell had already been informed that, as a civilian and
a mere spectator of the battle, he would not b~ treated
as a prisoner of war, but that, for military reasons, it
was deemed necessary to detain him for a short time
within the Confederate lines. It was finally arranged
that both Tremaine and Campbell, giving suitable
paroles, should acconipa~ny Doctor Fairfax. The doc-
tor notified his brother that, being slightly wounded,
was about to return home with two wounded
friends, and he requested that his own house might be
prepared for them.
This was the first information received at Roebuck
how Doctor Dick had fared In the battle. The coun-
try had bean informed with telegraphic brevity that the
South had gained a splendid victory at Manassa, but
with severe loss in killed and wounded. Then the
wires conveyed the names of generals and afterwards
of other officers who had fallen. Next camel an esti-
mate of the Confederate loss,~ studiously moderates
but frightful to those who had kindred in the ai'my.
Slowly a few telegrams followed from survivors to
their families. But for several days nothing was
known throughout the country of the fate of thou-
sands of the best and bravest of the land, who had
been exposed to the peril of a bloody battle. The

150


152      ROEBUCK.                          I

announcement of victory had thrilled the Southi~'n
people with joy and exultation. Success so decisive
in the first great battle o~i' the war w&amp;~ generally
accepted as decisive of the entire contest. Indepen~
deuce Was regarded as secure. That sentiment of
security, with the subsequent inaction of the army, was
very detrimental to the Confederate cause: The ffrst
year of the war, when the native courage and fresh
enthusiasm of the Southern troops made them ,irre~
sistible on an equal field, was alniost thrown away,
and the time thus lost could never be recovered. But
after the first exultant echo of triumph came the wail
of a people for the loved ones who had purchased the
victory with~ their blood. There was agony, borne
with patriotic fortitude, but it was agony.
The f'axnily at ~oebuck were relieved of painful
anxiety when. they learned that Doctor Fairfax was
returning home, only slightly wounded. Preparations
were made to ~receive him and his two friends, who
were supposed to be Confederate soldiers. It was de..
cided that a bachelor's establishment was not afit
place fpr wounded patriots, and that the comforts of
Roebuck and the tender care of women would be
absolutely necessary. When the train, which was ex-
pecte~ to bring the doctor and his friends, arrived,
Colonel I~'red was at the station. Captain Tremaine
wa~ borno ~"'~' ~ ____ on a cot, preceded by Doctor
Fairfax, on crutches, and followed by Campbell, limp~
ing on a cane. .
~' Welcome, brother Dick," exclaimed the colonel,
"welcome home; are these your friends'? Welcome,
gentlemen;. bring them along, Dick; here is the
carriage; here's a spring wagon with a bed on it, in
case any of you need it; let me help to carry your

ROEBUCK.

153

friend; come along; you are all going to Roebuck;
the ladies are waiting for you; not ~a word; three
wounded gentlemen to be laid up in a bachelor's
barracks! preposterous! it is all settled; come ~on."
"But, brother Fred," repeated the doctor, several
times, while the colonel was delivering this speech
with great animation; "but, brother Fred," and he
plucked-the colonel's sleeve, and attempted to draw
him aside, for the prospect of carrying Campbell to
be domiciled with the family at Roeb~ick horrified
him.; "but, brother Fred," he finally exclaimed, "they
are Yankees."
"yankees, Dick! Good God I Have you brought
a brace of Yankees here ~ You I"
Now, the colonel was a kindhearted man. He had
been opposed to secessiQn and war. He had not
cherished that animosity against the Northern people
which his brother proclaimed.1 But war engendered
bitter hatred in the mildest tempers. Atrocities wau
tonly inflicted, as he believed, with. 'the sanction of*
the highest Federal authorities, provoked in his bosom
antipathy that was deep, stern and~almost implacable.
His general indignation against, the North naturally
tinged his feeling towards all individuals who were
known to him only as abettors of the North in the
wa*,. Of all men hi~ brother was the last whom h0
would have expected to find in charitable charge of
such malignant enemies. The colonel had not been
a soldier, and, therefore, had not felt the charities of ~
the battleAleld when the battle is over. "You I"
Doctor Dick, caught in 'an inconsistency, reddened
and stammered. He attempted to explain. But the
colonel happened to look at the face of Captain Tre..
maine. That prostrate and helpless gentleman, suf'
'7*

152

- 4


*

154

ROEBIf OK.

fearing physical agony, seemed even more distressed
by the scene which he then witnessed between the
two brothers. He understood enough of it to make
him feel that he was the occasion of embarrassment
and' pain to his friend, the doctor.- His eyes turned
from one brother to the other with an expression of
anguish. When the colonel looked at him, compas-
-sion took the place of anger. He bent over the cap-
tain, gently took his hand, and in the kindest voice
expressed sympathy and welcome. With his habitual.
promptitude he called assistance, played the wounded
officer on the bed, made every possible 'provision for
his ease and comfort, and rode on horseback beside
the wagon, to. see that the "Yankee" should receive
no injury. The doctor and Campbell followed in the
* the carriage to Roebuck.
When they arrived there,, about sunset, of course
Doctor Dick had an affectionate welcome. The ladies,
without investigating the nationality of the other gen~
tlemen, received them kindly, and offered to the
wounded captain such sympathetic words and tender
offices as his condition suggested. He was carried
into a large, convenient chamber, handsomely fur,
nished, and laid upon a bed that needed not a wound,
a journey, or contrast with a camp~cot to make it
seem luxurious. A physician of eminence was sent
for, and in the course of the evening, his skill, with
the ministrations of the family, soothed the patient's
suffering and inspired him with the hope of life and
health. At his request, a bed was placed in his cham-
ber for his countryman, Campbell.
'When those guests had been disposed of for the
night, and the wound of Doctor Fairfax had been
dressed-a wound which Mrs.. Fai~rfax pronounced to

ROEBUCK.

155

be alarming, and which the      thought would
physician
requne repose and care-that disabled soldier lay
upon a sofa, like a warrior taking his rest, but ready,
as usual, to talk.
"Now, Colonel Ji~lia," he said, "come' and kiss
me, like a good girl, and then, like a colonel, you
shall talk to tue about war. I kn~v you are dying to
hear all I-have to tell about the g~t battle and vic-
tory, and especially, about my ow'~Anartial exploits.
I believe now, my fair Desdemona, I might Win your
love, if I wanted it, like Othello, by bragging.~~
"You can never 'win my love, Uncle Dick."
"Why, Miss, tell me why,. you saucy"
"Because you have had it ever so long."
"Fudge! But, speaking of love, what have you
done to bewitch that feather-brained fellow, -Hugh
Fitzhugh ?"
"I am not a witch, uncle, and Captain Fi~zhugh is
not feather-brained, I believe," replied Julia, smiling
and blushing.
"Well, he is a sad fellow; we'll not talk of him."
"But you must not disparage my friends in their
absence."
"0, he's a friend of yours? Then 1 shall not slan .
der him-much."
"Fie! Be serious-now do-and tell us about the
battle."
The story of Manassa, 'as then told by the doctor
to his brother and the two ladies, had for them the
fascination of novelty, of tragedy and triumph. They
were not yet familiar with the awful scenes of a long
and sanguinary contest. To them that battle, with
its victory, seemed enough of carnage and of glory for
an entire war. To the ladies particularly, it appeared


I5~          ROEBUCK.                                        RO 1i~B U C K.

157

that the end of the war was achieved. The story
filled their imaginations, like a noble history already
complete. When the doctor had described the events
of' chief importance, he began to entertain them with
anecdotes of personal adventure. One of them related
to some of the personages of this narrative.
"There, is Captain Fitzhugh, now-your friend,
Colonel Julia.-he has the name of'being a brave man
.-I shall say nothing against your friend on that
score-but, like the rest of us, he is a raw soldier and
may blunder into scrapes-..-and he rides a fleet horse-
that I know; the Yankees know it too, for they havE
seen his heels."'
Having said so much, with significant looks and
tone; he caused and fixed his eyes on Julia, as if ex.
peothig her to invite an explanation of his hints.
But some maidenly coyness or consciousness sealed
her sweet lips, and sent a blush to her beautiful
cheeks. Mrs. Fairfax had no such feeling to restrain
the curiosity which belongs to her sex-and to the
haughtier sex.'
"Go on," she said, "tell us what you have to tell
about Hugh."
"Well, Hugh is a warrior, who, by the diligent
study of his profession, has discovered that the whole
~'t of war is neatly packed away in a few words 0f an
old Greek poet, or in two lines of modern parody~-...
'Ha that fights, and runs away,
May live to fight another day.'
On one Q~ca5iqn, howevQr, he would have preferred, I
)#ieve, t~ onhit~the preliminary fight suggested by the
poet before runni~ig."

"Uncle Dick, you shall not"-
"What?"
"Come," said the colonel, laughing, "you shall not
tease the ladies with your scandalous hints. Tell your
tale like a man."
"Well, if I must, I must. But you shall not blame
me, Julia, if the story does not please you. Once
upon a time, then-it was a few days before the battle
-Captain Fitzhugh was sent to spy out-you would
say to i'econnoitre, Colonel 'Julia-a position of the
enemy. About sutlri8e he went some two niile8 in
advance of his company, to a hill from which he ex-
pected to obtain a near and clear view of the position.
He took with him only two. men. One of them was
Mark Marlin, the young man, Julia, who has taken
your gentlemanly father for his model. It is not ne.
cessary to name the other man. They were all Well
mounted. The men, perhaps, were selected With a
view to the fleetness Of their horse; ~according to the
fundamental flying principle of the captain. Hugh
rode his famous black, Sultan. 'Mark was outhe horse
you gave him, brother Fred."
"Sold to him.
"Well, the other soldier had a swifter nag than
either 'of them, as the result showed. WI~e~i they ar
rived at the hill, it was so densely wooded that the
captain deemed it necessary to descend alone to an
open bench or little plateau, from which he could
plainly see the whole batch of Yankees on the oppo~
site side of a small stream. lie was as clearly seen
himself by tho hostile piokete alQng the margin of the
stream, and he stoo&amp; within easy range Qf their guns.
He remained there ten or fifteen minutes, while a dozet
of the blue.coats were firing away at him, and how


ROEBUCK.      15~

he escaped injury I cannot imagine. Just as he re
turned to his two followers they had discovered a
squad of the enemy's cavalry, eight or ten in numl5er,
making for the road by which they had come. To
return on that road was impossible. To reuiain was
out of the question. There waS no way to get back
to the company but by scouring across open fields in
full view of the enemy, and trusting to luck and
speed. So we-so the captain led oft; commanding
the two men to follow, or to make their way back as. -
they should find it necessary. He was able to keep
ahead of Mark, but the other grey-back distanced
them both. They were soon discovered by the Yam-
kee squad, wh~ immediately attempted to intercept
*them. They succeeded in cutting off Marlin, and
bringing him to bay. The brave boy drew his sabre,
and endeavored to cut his way through them6 The
captain, looking back, saw his follower surrounded;
and fighting furiously. Wheeling his horse, hugh
dashed at the Yankees, and began to lay ab6~t him
with such vigor that their attention was withdrawn
from Mark to the, officer, and there was momentary
confusion among them. Seeing that. Marlin wa~ ex-~
tricated by the movement, his captain called out-.
'fly, Mark, fly-fly, I 'command you.' The soldier,.
with the instinct of military obedience, fled at the
word of command, although, until it was repeated
with peremptory v4iemence, he hesitated to leave his
officer. The Feds did not follow him, but tried to
close in upon~ the captain, fly the dexterous manage-
ment of his horse and sword, or by marvello~is for..
tune, he kept 'his life among them until he thought
Mark had a sufficient start. Then throwing his body
forward to the neck of his horse, and plunging the

spurs into Sultan's sides, he was carried at a leap be.
tween uplifted sabres clea.~ of the Federals. They
pursued, firing their pistols. Only a few hundred
yards in advance, there was a fence over which Hugh
and Mark were carried by their horses without ha1t~
ing. But none of the pursuers ventured, the leap.
Thus they lost time which was well employed by the
flying grey-backs. When they had crossed one or two
more fences, that fortunately crossed their line of re-.
treat, the blue-coats were out of sight, and they were
~iever seen again. Hugh says that in the fray, ~Mark
emptied one saddle; and Mark, more liberal in his
commendation, avers that his captain cut down two
of the Yankees. It is a pity that these witnesses are
not quite impartial, and that the other grey-back, who
sneers at their testimony, had noit remained near
enough to the scene of action to 'correct their reports.
But he had regained the company, and spread won-
'ous rumors long before the captain's return."
"Who was he O?~~ inquired Julia.
"It is none of your business, niece of mine.
"Thou art the man, I verily believe, Uncle Dick."
9 Never say that, again! Don't slander your
uncle."
"Brother Dick," said Mrs. Fairfax, "who or what
~s this Mr. Campbell, you have brought home with
you~"
"A genuine Yankee, my gentle sister, if there can
be a genuine counterfeit."
"Uncle Dick, you have told us that Captain Tre-
maine is a true man."
"One swallow don't make a summer, Miss Julia..
As for Campbell, when I first ~aw him, I thought he
had a good face, but upon examining it, I 'found it


ROEBUCIr.     9        161
4

ROI~BUCK.

160

was only a Yankee imitation of a good faee..~-rna4e,
like other Yankee goods, to impose upc~n customers at
first sight, but not to wear well. In eyery feature there
was some cunning defect. I might suspect that, like
Richard, he was cheated of feature by dissembling na-
tui~e; but at cheating, ~ Yankee would beat nature.
WhetJ conversed with him-O, what a rare bird I
thought I would have some ~port with him at ho'me,
but really, sister Mary, I am sorry he was bought
here."
"Never mind; he will help to cheer Captain Tre~
maine."
"i hope so; poor fellow! he is a gentleman. Ah,
me! But fellows like C~tnipbell will write our his.
tory."

CHAPTER XV".
BOMBYX AT ROEBUCIC.
CAPTAnir TREMA1NI~'S condition for several days re.
inained critical. At one time it was regarded as des-
perate. Two or three nights Colonel Fairfax eat i~y
his bedside all night, and the physician was kept in
the house. But when the crisis was past his conv~des..
cence was rapid. Although the Federal authorities
had adopted the inhuman policy of preventing the
importation of medicines into the Confederacy, the
most necessary remedies could still be supplied to a
Federal prisoner. The patient constantly received
th~ kindest attention from the family and from s&amp;-
vants who had experience in nursing The sick. Do~tor
Dick spent much time in his chamber, applying the
physician's instructions with professional intelligence,
and amusing the captain with quaint conversation,
relieved of all satirical asperity by sympathy and re-
spect for this "Yankee.". His own favorite servant,
Caleb, divided his attention between his master and
the ~~unded captain. The good clergyman, Mr.
Ambler, visited him often, and a cordial friendship was
established between them. Tremaine won the esteem
of all who approached him by the gentleness of his
manners, his patience in suffering, his gratitude for
kindness, and, in brief, by the honorable sentiments of
an educated soldier. In a few weeks his health was
so far restored that he might4e removed with safety,
and a special exchange having been arranged for him


162.            ROJ3~BUCK.
through the interest of friends, he left Roebuck for the
}~orth. His departure was sincerely regretted by the
friends he had made there, and he expressed the'
warmest gratitude for all their kindness. Taking
leave of him for a time, we return to his compatriot,
Campbell.
Although they found the manners and sentiments
of that guest by ~uo means agreeable, yet Colonel
Fairfax and his family, studious of hospitality, endea-
vored in every way ~o promote his comfort and plea~
sure. The colonel placed a. horse at his disposal to
ride at will over the plantation and through the,
neighborhood. The host would have deemed it
unworthy of himself to watch his movements or t&amp;~
suspect him of any baseness while his honor as a
guest and as a prisoner on parole was pledged. The
doctor, whose leg confined him to the house, played
chess with him or indulged him with plenty of the
talk which he loved. The war was,' naturally, the
most frequent theme of their conversation, for the sen-
timent of delicacy which excluded it from the conver-
*    nations between Captain Tremaine and the family, did
not restrain Bombyx, especially when Ire was alone
with Doctor Dick. At first he was much embarrassed
in the society of Roebuck. His assurance was
abashed by the quiet, unassuming manners of gentle-
men and ladies, who,' in the familiarity of domestic life,
*     practiced the refined gentleness to which they ~had
been born. As he dared not affect superiority after
his manner, he would have fallen into servility after
?his nature, if he had not been made to feel that the
social law of the place was one of equality at a high
level and that it was equally a transgression to cringe
and to hector. He suspected that there was an odious

U

ROEBUCK.                  16~
air of aristocracy about Roebuck, but 'he missed the
haughty arrogance which, in his fancy, was associated
with the aristocracy of the South. When a few days
had rend,9red him more familiar with the usages of
the ~lace he began to despise, as a weakness, the
unobtrusive gentleness which he eQuld never compre..
hend.
"Check !" cried the doctor, one day, "-eheck-
mate!"
"Yes," Campbell admitted, "I believe
has the Yank this time."            JohnyReb
"So may it ever be," 1'eplied Doctor Dick, laugh-
ing.
"Now, doctor, let us talk seriously about that a
little while. II see a great many good~ servants here.-...
faithfal, stout, good-humored fellows.-don't you think
it would be better to set them all f~re~ ?"
"And turn the best of servant~ ~into the worst of
freemen?"                   I
"0, give them time.-.they will buprove after they
are free."
"The world has waited several tl~ousand years for
the negro race to originate an idea. If we are to wait
for their brains to bloom we may'Wait until the crack
of doom, ou until Yankees become honest." -
"DQctor, you are a bundle of prejudices."
"Very likely. Prejudices ar~ the ribs of char-
acter."
"You know we don't intend to injure the South."
"You would not injure the watch though you would
crush the works I"
"But if we should emancipate the negroes we
would certainly confer a benefit on both races-.let me
convince you of that."
1.

4


1~4             ROEBUOX~..
"AnswerMr. Campbell, Caleb," said the doctor, to
his favorite servant, who 'stood with a napkin on his
arm, waiting for orders. Being commanded to speak,
he made a profound bow to the g~iest and began:
"If I am allowed to suppress my cogitation Sn this
memorable occasion, human nature teaches me that
white folks that I have never seen would not come a
thousand miles just to fight for my good."
"There it is, Mr. Campbell," said the doctor, "go
on and plant your oranges in icebergs."
"But you would like to be free, Caleb ?"
"That's as might be according to the circumnaviga~
tion of circumstances. I do not see many white folks
as/free as I am, no offence to you, master, as being
our prisoner. Them other free nig~ers, as I repre.
hend by my circumlocution, they are lazy beggars and
thieves. They are the contemptible, black coffee~.
grounds of society left after the second boiling."
"That will do Caleb; Mr. Campbell has your
opinion."
"Well, doctor, however we may differ about slavery,
it is astonishing that you Southerners make war
against so~good a government i~.s ours."
"We make war! The South attempted peacable
secession-the North attempted to prevent secession
by' force. The North made war."
"But no State b~as a right to secede."
"Then the Federal government is absolute.".
". Oh, no, doctor, it is a free government."
"Under a free government the rights of all should
be" protected 'with even-handed justice. Protection
ihou.ld be meted to all'in equal measure and with the
quality of manna-he that gathered much had nothing
over, and he that gathered little had no la~k. The

IIOEI3UCK.                '165
Federal government enriches the North at 'the~ex-
pense of the South, and when we would escape from
legalized rapacity, we are told that we are bound for-
ever. When the forms of law to which we assented
cannot hold us, the sword is illegally drawn to subju~
gate our States. Is this- a free government for us'?
But I did not intend to be drawn into. an angry dis~iis-.
sion. It can do no good. h is better to laugh aside
subjects that irritate when we cannot be convinced."
"No, no, doctor, I am not angry. 'I am sure I can~
convince you if you give me time., Think of the
greatness of the government you 'are: giving up. If
we remain united we can def~' the world."
"If you worship ~power, you should offer; your mw
cense to the Prince of Darkness. His dominion is
not confined to the United States."
Well, doctor, if you won't discuss the matter se~
riously, you must not think hard of us for pres~erving
the life of the nation at all 'hazards."
"Which nation-..-.North or South'?, You would take
the life of the South, in order that the North may live
~t ease."
"One nation, embracing North and South, East and'
West.-a great, free, enlightened nation. We must
prcserve its life. We regret tl~e desolation which the
war must bring upon the South, but we owe a duty
to posterity and to mankind. We must preserve the
life of the nation. We are resolved to preserve it
with our blood."
"I thought so at Manassa-.in the morning
not so clear atnight."              ~  It was
"We failed once. But we shall succeed in the end.
A just cause must succeed."
"You have a surer ground for confide~r~e, perhaps,
than the justice of your ~ause~ I wish y~u had not."


166      ROEBUCK.

What i.s that, pray?"
"~The'faot that The just catise is seldom sucees5ful in
war.'~ The.~ Reverend Mr. Ambler thinks this is be-
cause Providenc6 would admonish good. men to avoid
war by teachuiig them that if a righteous cause cannot
be upheld by reason, it cannot be enforced with the
sword. I only see that, as a rule, th~,e big dog whips
the little one, and that dog~ are, usually insolent and
unjust in proportion, to their size."
"Do you not believe that Providence awards vic-
tory in accordance with' stice ?"
"Kyd, the pirate, ad victories. England con-
quered India. We ha~re exterminated the American
Indians. Victors have dined on minced missionary.
J3rutus died for 'liberty, and. Cesar had. the empire.
Napoleon was the genius of victory-was he a man
after God's own heart? Did Providence change
sides at Waterloo? 'We must not turn Pagans."
"At all events, you will see the amazing energy of
our government displayed in suppressing the re~
hellion."
* "A government, in ceasipg to be free, may display
terrific energy, like a steam-boiler in exploding."
"But our government does not ocase to be free."
"Has not..the habeas corpus been suspended by o
Presidential edict.-the chief justice flouted by a mill.
tary officer~newspaper5 suppressed~-legislature5 bro.
ken up-citizens imprisoned-laws defied~ Youi
government cannot subjugate the South without first
enslaving the North."
"We shall return to the bulwarks of liberty aftex
suppressing the rebellion."
"Nulla vesligia retrorsum;"
"Let us have another game of chess, doctor.

ROEBUCK)                  167
Mr, Campbell was not satisfied that t~he luminous
~opininn ilelivered by Caleb correctly.~,ejreserited pub-
lic sentiment in the African branch of Sc~uthern so.
ciety. His professional curiosity pricked him to pry
into the thoughts 'and feelings of the slaves. He
deemed it his duty also to enlighten them on the great
question of their own destiny, if he found them be..
nigh ted like Oaleb. His philanthropy was as med..
dlesome*. and egotistical as his curiosity. Being
troubled with no scruples of honesty or hcmoit, and
having set up a Deity in his own image, he persuaded
himself that he would be doing God service in sowing
dissension between his host and his' servants by ex.
citing delusive aspirations in the minds of the credu.
bus negroes. Before he had been long at Roebuck
he conceived the ambitious and atrocious design of
serving the Northern cause by fomenting a servile in..
surrection. Under the influence of. those motives he
sought opportunities to converge ~yith the slaves at
Roebuck and on other estates. As he rode about
at his pleasure, he found such opportunities without
difficulty. Being conscious, however, of an illicit and
odious purpose, he avoided observation, and gave to
his intercourse with the servants a clai~destine charac-
ter. He supposed it was quite unknown to the per..
Sons whose hospitality he enjoyed.. His interviews
with some of the negroes who have become known to
the reader may be brIefly described.
He found old Valentine sunning himself one morn-
ing before his cabin, and aftei' some questions about
his health, age and recollections, inquired if the old
man knew 'that the negroes would all soon be set
free.
"Den God help us, poor mggers," ejaculated

&amp;


168             ROEBUCK.
J
Valentine. "What will become of us if we lose our
masters? Who will take keer of old fetters like
"But your children and grandchi14r~n--thiflk of
their good." .
"Pey's mighty well off, master. We's all niggers,
and we wants white folks to. take keer of us. We
ain't got no sense to take care of oursolv~s. God help
us if dey sets us free."
Mr. Campbell passed on, attributing these craven
and servile sentiments to senility which he could not
enlighten. Again,.he was riding past a shop in which
a lil~ely young fellow was at work.
"How are you, my man," he said, "what is~ yoUr
name~"
"Bob, sir; dey calls me carpenter I3ob, for short."
"What pay do y&amp;u get, Robert, for the work you
are doing?"
"Pay, master? t belongs to Colonel Fred."
"Does he pay you nothing for your work V'
"What for would he pay me when I belongs to
him'P'
"He ought to pay you, I think."
"What make 1"
"Because no man'ought to labor for nothing"
"I don't work. 'for nothing . I gits as much a~ 'I
wants off~n dis big~ plantation. I don't pay master
nothing' for tending' to it."
"If you were free you could go North, and get
good wages. as a mechanic."
"Would I have a big plantation, like dis one, to
live on
"Pei'haps not; but you don't own this one."
"It saves me, n~ighty well. I ain't agwiue to leave
~ sartia sure, sir."

ROEBUOW.                 169
When Campbell .fell in with Joe, he thou~hV that
head-man more intelligetit than Bob, until he touched
~is favorite theme. Joe denounced the idea of sepa-
rating himself from his master as basely disloyal.
"Why," he said, "my folks has belonged to de
Fairfaxes since de very first man. We's all Fair-
faxes. We's always been Fairfaxes. We's always
agwine to be Fairfaxes. What would Master Fred
do widout JQe? I touted him and played wid him
when he was a  y. I was wid him when he was at
de University. I went a courtin' wid him. l's bin
his 'pendence all his life. \ My children's bin wid his
children. We's jis like brothers, only he's white and
l's black; and he's master and l's servant, dat's all
de difference 'twixt Master Fred and old Joe."
"Well, Joe, I was only trying you. I see you are
faithful. You need not say anything about this con-
versation."
"No, master, only to Master Fred. We tells one
another everything."
Campbell encountered Juba dodging a,~out, and
found that this broad-shouldered, bnllet-headed, bel-
ligerent brother, by dint of meditation in the woods,
had solved the question of the negro's destiny in a
different fashion. He listened to a long harangue of
Campbell in silence, fixing his eyes upon a fence-post
with that lodk of profound imbecility and unobservant
attention which none but a inegro can give, and then,
without t shifting the conspicuous whites of his eyes, he
propoun4~d his conclusion:
"It seems to me as ef dis was a white man's fight
over de nigger. All do nigger is got to do wid it is
to lay in d'e bush till de white folks is done fou't it
out. Den, which whips, do nigger he comes out'n do
8


170      ROEBUCK.                         ROEBUCK.     171

bush and takes his sheer. Ef de Rebels whips, den we
gits ,our corn and bacon, jis so. Ef de Yankees whips,
den dey gives de land to de niggers, and de. nigger
what stays here, he gits do first slic&amp; I stays here."
Cam bell found by his African explorations, that
either f~om affection or apathy or stupidity or tim-.
idity, or from obscui'e motives which they' could not
explain, the negroes generally were at that time in-
clined to remain with their owners, or, at least, were
not inclined to make any adventurous effort to change
their condition. In a few cases, however, the teach-
ing of the philanthropist took root in the minds of the
slaves and bore fruit after the kind, not precisely of
the doctrine but of the negro. When Campbell had
been for some time delving in this mine of black dia-
-monds, his work was suddenly interrupted. Colonel
Fairfax had, of course, become aware of his frequent
interviews~ with his own slaves and others, but attri-
buted them to the natural curiosity of a stranger or
the professional curiosity of Bombyx. He did not
suspect him of abusing the privileges of hospitality for
unworthy purposes.' He casually remarked to his
guest-" I see, Mr. Campbell, you have been amusing
yourself with talking to the servants on the planta-
tion."
"Never, c~olonel---.you must not believe the tales of
the negroes."
"What !" exclaimed the colonel, with surprise,
"do I understand you to deny that you have con-
versed with the negroes."
"Never, except with the servants who came to our
A chamber."
"Mr. Campbell, I was not complaining of your. con-
duct. I said iiothing about tales ~f the negroes. But
you surprise me."

"Do y~u suspect me of falsehood, Colonel Fair-
fax ?"
"I suspect nothing, Mr. Campbell. I know." The
colonel's manner expressed 'his scorn of falsehood.
"Since 'I find myself an object of suspicion under
your roof; sir, I had better relieve your house of my
presence."
"You will use your own pleasure,, sir."
Mr. Camj~bell, without unnecessary delay, took up
his quarters- at the Swan tavern. The change had
become desirable to him, for it relieved him of some
obstacles to the prosecution of his main desigii. He
had been wishing to escape from the restraints of
Roebuck, when the accidental altercation with Colonel
Fairfax, and that gentleman's indignation at his false-.
hood, opened the door.


172                flOEBUCI~.

CHAPTER XVI.
CoNsFmAOIEs.
A FEW days after Campbell established himself at
the Swan tavern a rumor began to be whispered
through the neighborhood tha1~ the negroes 'were plot-
ting an insurrection. It was vague and without a
know~ origin. It gathered circumstances as it flew,
and si~picion supplied the defects of testimony.
tTntil en the slaves, where the invasion had not pen..
etrated, were quiet, submissive, and remarkably atten-
tive to their duties. Few attempted to escape, and
none to rebel.. The war, and the general arming of
the dominant race impressed them with awe. But
experience had not yet proved what effect upon their
inflammable passions mightbe produced by the progress
of a vast conflict, waged, as they understood, by the
North for their deliverance. While it was believed
that servile insurrection was one of the agencies by
which the North expected to subjugate the South, a
rumor of commotion among~the slaves might readily
cause anxiety. It was soon reported that there
had been midnight meetings 'of negroes-that there
had be&amp;~ secret intercourse between Campbell, Palmer
and blind Pete-that Pete was more active than ever
in his clandestine dealings with slaves by night. Sus-
picion fell upon Camgbell because he;was a "Yankee ;'
it was promoted by a circumstantial story of his dis-
missal from Roebuck because he had tampered with
servants; it was confirmed by exaggerated accounts

ROEBUCK.                  173
told by some of the negroes of 'his conversations with
them. Palmer's nativity, reserved .habits and equivo-
cal eon~uct had lost him the con~deuce of his neigh~
bors, and his position was ~ compromised by a
report that his Son had deserted and gone over to the
enemy. These various rumors and suspicions pro-
duced uneasiness, wW
agitation. the ich rapidly swelled into popular
ingenuity of Mr. Palmer was constantly
exercised by; his plans for~making the war subservient
to his interest and revenge, and 'by the embarrass-
meiits which must beset a secret adherent of the
North, who, in a Soiithern community, ostensibly
though faintly supported the Southern cause. When
blind Pete visited him, as well in pursuance of his
own invitation as of the stipulation exacted by Baxter
at a rope's end, a negotiation took place in which the
trained intelligence of the retired merchant outwitted
the purblind cunning of the vulgar knave. Pete w~
led to reveal, not only the whole transaction of the
sugar-tongs, but the apprehension which he felt that
the Northern stranger would be less indulgent than
the good-natured Southerners, who so often winked
at his pilfering in compassion for his blindness. By
playing upon this fear and by a liberal bribe, Palmer
enlisted Pete in his secret service. He thus established
an espionage upon the families of his neighbors and an
agency which might be turned to account in the pro-
secution of schemes yet unhatched. Through this
channel he was informed of Campbell's position at
IRoehuck and was enabled to estimate his character.
He wished to open communication with him, but was
too cautious' to attempt it until the guest had removed
from Roebuck to the tavern. Soon after that event


174             ROEBUCK.
he commissioned Pete to convey a private intimation
to Campbell that Mr. Palmer desired to consult him
confidentially, and would be pleased to receive a visit
from him at his own ~house by night. The invitatioii
was accepted, and thus at a late hour one night those
two natives of the North were sitting in Mr. Palmer's
parlor, with the doors locked and the windrow-shut-
ters closed.
"I have now intrusted you," Mr. Palmer was say-
ing, "with a candid exposition of my real sentiments
respecting the rebellion, and of the urgent reasons for
disguising them at present. May II rely upon your
friendship to make this explanation in the proper
quarters when you return to the North? I hope my
conduct and motives will be kindly appreciated there.
\If the forces of the Union should hereafter reach this
part of Virginia, as of course, they will, it may be de-
sfrable that the commander shall be informed of my
views, but you will perceive that, for' the benefit of
our cause, it may even then be prudent for him to ret
tam the knowledge in his own breast."
"I understand you, I believe," responded Campbell,
dAly.
"Then there 'is a report current that my son Albert,
who was a quarter-master in the State service for a
shZ~rt time, has resigned his office, and visited the
Union lines. You may meet him at the North, and,
I believe, you will find that he is as loyal as I am.
Possibly he will desire to enter the Federal service.
If~ you can promote his plans in any way, you will
oblige me by doing so, and will render service, no
( 'ioubt, to the cause."
"I understand you.~~
"Then may I count upon your friendly offices ?"

ROEBUCK.      175

"That~ question, Mr. Palmer, must be answered
with ~olemn reference to my paramount duty as a
loyal citizen of the United States. When you solicit
the favor of our benign go-verunient it appears to me
that you may reasonably be required to give some
tangible proof of your loyalty. This is a most wicked
rebellion, and neutrality is a great offence."
"What can I do here and now for the Union ?"
"Much. You have a glorious field for usefulness
in your situation. The confidence reposed in you by
your rebel neighbors, under the belief that you sympa-
thize with them, will enable you to operate effect..
ively, secretly and safely. You have a glorious op..
opportunity "
"I do not understand you."
"There is in the South a population of four mil-
lions who should be loyal supporters of the Union
cause. They require~ only to be stimulated and
guided  Why are they not' summoned to the aid of
those arms which are to strike from their limbs the
manacles of bondage? They a~re within' the rebel
camp. 'They sleep in the citadel. They could grasp
the keys~ They can disband Southern armies, by de.
straying Southern h~mes. If they have not guns,
there is the knife and the torch. Many of them are
around you.' With th~m you can serve the Union."
~"Would you resort to servile insurrection-to uni-
versal massacre.-to the assassination of families-to
the Violation of women-to the murder of innocent
children.-to"--.--.-.
"Enough, Mr. Palmer. In a word, all means are
lawful to suppress this unprovoked, this wicked, this
atrocious rebellion against the best government the
world ever saw. It is a rebellion of slave-holders. It


176      ROEBUCK.                              ROEBUCK.       *v77

is fit that we cry havoc, and let slip the slaves. If
they are savage, let those who have made them savage
by oppression pay the penalty."
"Mr. campbell, you chill my blood with horror."
"Then, sir, your loyalty is hypocrisy."
"Why, the F deral government has solemnly de-
clared that the "war is not waged to interfere with the
initution of slavery."
Politic words! Word~~! The government ad-
vances before the swelling breeze of popular feeling.
Hostility to slavery is the master passion of the
Nort~rn heart.~ This was the prime cause of the war.
Byiilexorable logic the abolitioii of slavery must be a
consequence of the war. The government must in~
tend the necessary result of its own action. They are
blind who do not foresee the end. The North sees
it and therefore sustains the war. Press and pulpit,
by turns masters or slaves of opinion, are furiously
hostile to slavery and slave-holders: A servile insur.~
reaction would be hailed there with more enthusiasm
than ever was the name of John Brown. Be not de~
luded by politic professions of the government.~ Chiefi
of administration are known to believe that the name
of John Brown has become historical as a martyr in
the cause of human nature. Whoever most resem~
bies him is most faithful to the instincts of this war~"
"Old John Brown! It cannot be true that a
Christian government approves his desperate charac~
ter and diabolical design."
"411 good Christians at the North revere him as a
martyr."
"BLit he was hung," said. Palmer, nst pleased with
the precedent.
* "What, then ~ He is canonised. If you would be

a saint, be a man. Defy the slave power. Stir up
the slaves. Recognize your mission."
"You are mistakeft in your estimate of the negroes.
We who have lived long among them know them
better. They are inert and cowardly. The love of
~iberty is not in them, as in the white race, an aspir~
ing and unconquerable passion, but a languid love of
ease. They failed John Brown."
"But then they were~ not encouraged by a power-
fuil government and an invincible army."
"Perhaps the recent event at Manassa ~nay not en~
courage them."
"Mr. Palmer, are you loyal or disloyal to the
Union'?"
"Loyal, Mr. Campbell, loyal to the core. I have.
humbly ventured to suggest difficulties which oc~
curred to my mind. But if there is really anything
that I can do for the Union cause, I am ready to do
it."
"On no. other condition will I consent to represent
you as a loyal citizen, or to interest myself in the for-
tunes of your son."
Pressed by such considerations, Palmer finally con~
scented to lend himself to a scheme which he believed
to be dangerous to himself; impracticable and atro..
cious. He compromised with his conscience and his
prudence by resolving that he would do no more than
might be absolutely necessary to satisfy Campbell,
and by assuring himself that the project could have,
no important result. He promised to ascertain the
temper of the negroes, and report to Campbell. That
gentleman, returning to his room in the tavern, mini..
nated coming events which would immortalize his
name, and furnish material for several telling letters
8*


178      ROEBUCK.

to the' "Comet." Already his brain began to flame
with the composition of amazing paragraphs, and daz-
zling rows of capitals danced before his mind's eye,
like rustling banners of triumph.
~r. ?almer sought an early opportunity to signify
to blind Pete, with cautious circumlocution, that he
desired to learn whether any of the slaves were
ambitious to become free, and what exertions they
were inclined to make, or what risks they were pre-
pared to run for that object. He wished to leave that
blind rogue in doubt whether the inquiry was intended
in the interest of the North or of the South-of slave-
holders or of abolitionists. But Pete was astute
enough to resolve th~t doubt by laying together
various circumstances which had come to his know-
ledge. He insinuated his conviction of the truth, and
declared that the service in which Mr. Palmer pro-
posed to employ him would be attended with extreme
danger to himself By insisting upon his real or
affected fear, he extorted a larger bribe than he had
ever before ventured to demand. As Mr. Palmer was
also palled upon to supply the necessities of Mr. Camp-
bell, his ~urse was now subject to a double drain in
consequence of his loyalty. Moreover he was kept in
an agony of apprehension. lie had little confidence
in the negroes, and less in Pete. Ht~ dreaded every
moment that his perilous plot might explode to his
own ruin.
He had sold all his slaves except two men and the
wife and children of one of~ them. This one was a
dull, stupid fellow, named Gabe, who was retained
because his master was obliged to keep at least one
man-servant, and thought this doltish creature would
not run away. The other man, whose name was

0

ROEBUCK.      179

Mike, was a shrewd, restles~ unn~an~geab1e negro.
Lie had been "in the bush" for several months.
During his absence his family had been sold and sent
Southward. He reseAted this transaction, as well as
the sharp discipline to which he had submitted before
he took to the woods. He expected, if he should be
taught, to be sold also and sent to the Cotton States.
To avoid this fate, Mike conceived a plan of escaping
into the sFederal lines with such of the neighboring
negroes ashe could induce to join him. With their
aid he desired, before leaving the country, to procure
money, and, perhaps, to gratify his resentment. He
was hatching this project while his master was m9d-
dling with a more atrocious plot. Mike was tam-
pering with blind Pete to further his own scheme,
while Pete was tampering with him in pursuance of
his engagement with Mr. Palmer. Mike sought an
interview with Campbell, and affecting to adopt his
views, obtained such information and assistance as he
thought necessary to his own plan. He was quite too
shrewd to believe in the success of a servile insurrec-
tion. He and two or three other negroes who were
conspiring with him or with Pete or with Campbell-.-
they scarcely knew with whom or for what.-obt~ained
some fire-arms through Pete's illicit traffic. They
had an old musket, two shot-guns, with broken locks,
and a pistol. Mike supposed that these weapons
might be useful in perpetrating a robbery or in taking
vengeance on an obnoxious master, or in defending
the fugitives on their route of escape.
The black chiefs of the conspiracy held a council.
They sat in an old tobacco-barn, near the edge of a
wood, remote from any habitation. The time was
midnight, and the moon had just risen. The barn

/


180       ROEBUCK..

ROEBUCK.      181

bad long been disused and had fallen into decay. It
was bfiilt of round logs with the bark on them. The
roo~f was of elap-boards. The bark was hanging in
black flakes from the logs, and the roof was all gone,
except a few of the rafters which sprawled like spiders'
legs in the moonlight overhead. The door had
been carried away, and the frame in which it had
stood, being rotten, ceased to uphold the ends of the
logs, and these, swaying downward~ left a wide, rag-
ged hole in the side of the barn. The assemblage7
within, mottled with patches of moonlight and of
shadow, numbered four persons. They were squatted
upon the ground. Mike presided on a fiat stone.
The other three were two slaves of Mr. Eckles, named
Jake and Cato, and a slave of Mrs. Fitzliugh, called
Hannibal. Jake and Cato had been, like Mike, for
some time in the bush. Cato was a timid, crouching
fellow, but Jake was a stout, fierce, savage-looking
negro, with the marks of severe treatment' on his per-
sou. Hannibal had been corrupted by the laxity of
discipline at Willowbank, under the administration of
a woman, and roaming about in idleness, he had fallen
in with the other sable conspirators.
"Now, boys," said President Mike, "we's a gwine
to hold a council to see what we's a gwhie to do.
What you all gwine to'do now?"
"l's a gwine to stop in de bush," responded Cato,
"'case it's de nighest to git. something' to eat from de
t'other niggers."
"I want to r~n off to de Yankees," said Hannibal,
"'case it's de fnr4est off to cotch us."
"What's we done got dem guns for ?'~ inquired
Cato, "dat's what I want to know. I's afeard of
guns. Dat's what."

"You're a fool," growled Jake, "guns is to shoot."
"Dem guns won't shoot nobody," pronounced the
president.
"Dey must shoot somebody," said Jake.
"Who ?" cried all the others.
"Old Eckles."
"0 Lord," exclaimed Cato, with alarm, "ef dar's
shooting , l's ow"
"I'd shoot everybody," rejoined Ja~ce,, "let's raise
all de niggers."
"How many kin you raise ?" asked the president.
"Lots."
"Bias you axed 'em?"
"Yes, I done ax 'em.~~
"How many of 'em promised~o raise 1"
"Two; me and another feller."
"What did de rest of'em say?"
"I was afeard to ax 'em, afeard dey'll blab. But
Yankee Campbell says there's lots of 'em ready."
"Yankee Campbell is a liar," declared the presi-
dent.
"Dat's jis what he is," chimed in Cato and Hanni-
baL
"hush ~ Somebody's ~a comm'," whispered Cato.
"You's a coward," said Mike, "go to de door and
watch." When this order was obeyed by the trem-
bling Cato, the president continued: "Now, Jake,
you's a fool. You's all fools. l's got all de sense.
You see de moonshine comm' down through dem
rafters. Dat's de way de sense shines down through
my head. I's de ~oses to lead you all out'n de house
of bondage. Mind me. To-morrow night I'll lead
you away to de land of promise. But first we must
git some money au4 things. We'8 a twine to Wil.


9

RonBtrc~.

R G1~2 B U OK.

lowbank. De ok~woman dar has got piles of money
and silver things. You know dat, hannibal."
"Yes; but she keeps 'em locked up in a chis in her
own room, and she sleeps up stairs wid 'eni since do
0
war."
"Well," said Mike, "we'll git into her room and
break open the chis."
"But you mustn't hurt missus," cried Hannibal.
"No; she shan't be hurt."
"We'll rob do chis, but you mustn't hurt missus."
"Now' mind me, Jake, you bring Cato and meet me
at de Poplar Spring to-morrow, jis when it gits dark.
Hannibal, you go to Willowbank, and git inside to
open de door. W.~'ll be dar at 'leven o'clock~ Now,
m ind me, I'm Moses."
"A ghose-a ghose".-.-shouted Cato, and took to
his heels. Jake and hannibal ran out ~f the barn, and
being also frightened at a ghost or a man, followed
the sentinel. Mike, 'who had given them their or-
dci's, and thus accomplished all that he designed, did
not attempt to detain them, though he stood his
ground. Presently blind Pete advanced from the
wood, and a long consultation took place between
him and Mike, of which it is necessary to record only
that Pete agreed to be at a certain grove near the
mansion of Willowbank, with his cart, 'on the next
evening, in consideration that he should receive a
certain share of the spoils; that he was to~ take with
him three pistols and some saddles, which the negroes
were to use in mounting themselves on-stolen horses;
that he was to be accompanied by two men, who
had agreed with Mike to run away, and that the spoil
was to be carried to a convenient spot for division,
and the plate reduced to a suitable form for trans..
portation by the fugitives.

CHAPTER XVII..
INSURRECTION.
THE next morning-it was Sunday-when Colonel
Fairfax walked out upon~ the lawn in front of his
house, he saw a large number of his slaves collected
in clusters about the grounds, and discovered at once
that there was agitation among them. PrEsently Joe
advanced as their spokesman, and inform d his mas-
ter that the ser~rants were in great alarm on account
of rumors which they understood were afloat. The
rumors were that the negroes were plotting insurrec-
tion, and that some of the white men had organized
themselves a~ a committee of vigilance, to suppress
the conspiracy. They feared the violence of these
men, acting, as they believed, under a groundless
panic. The Colonel was aware that such panics were
usually attended with danger to the negroes. The
greatest excitement was apt to inflame the nind~ of
those who owned few or no slaves. Owners of many
slaves, living among them, could easily bring all in-
ors of servile commotion to the test of actual obser-
ation, and, besides, they felt bound by interest and
JULYto protect their servants against the effects of
incautious suspicion. Others who had not the same
opportunity of knowledge, nor the same response~
biity; allow~l their imaginations to be stuffed with
unsit'ted rep~ts and horrid 'alarms. Colonel Fairfax
had already heard some of the rumors which were in
circulation, and after listening to Joe, lie said-.-

182

183


"Well, Joe, what do you think about this in~urrec-
tion?"
"Lord, master, da won't be no resurrection of fig-
gers, sure ?" - -
"I wish to talk with some of the other boys about
it."
"Dey will be mighty glad, master."
The colonel went among them, and conversed with
many of them, separately and together. ~Being tho-
roughly acquainted with their habits, he was able to
glean from them all they knew or believed, and to de~
terrine what was true. Indeed his servants, having
confidence in hiajustice, seldom-attempted to deceive
him, unless it might be by that sort of exaggeration
which a negro regards as but a decent dress of naked
truth. He became convinced that there was no
danger of au insurrection. He promised his servants
tEa protection which They desired, and admonished
them to keep closely to their work in day-time, and
to their cabins at night,
At the church, that day, he heard' of popular excite-
ment and of preparations which threatened violence
to the negroes. He exerted all his influence with the
people whom he met, to allay the excitement, and to
discourage rash action. When' he returned home,
his anxiety on the subject was ~o great that, after
dinner, he rode out in search of the persons who
were reported to be\engaged in the lawless organiza-
tiou for the suppression of insurrection. He had not
gone far fron~* home, when he met half a dozen men
on horseback, ~armed with fowling-pieces and pistols.
He knew them to be ignorant persons of inflammable
tempers, and they we're manifestly under great ex-
citamazit. One of them, who seemed to be a ring-

184

184      ROEBUCK.                            ROEBUCK.      185
3

leader was our acquaintance, Bob Fans, who had not
yet executed his purpose to enter the army and fight
for the principles of free governments On meeting
Colonel Fairfax they addressed himK civilly, though
abruptly. They asked what 'steps h~ had taken to
prevent his negroes from joining in the projected in~
surrection. He told them that he did not believe
there was any such plot, and that, having no fear of
his servants, he had, done nothing but advise them to
remain quiet at home, until the agitation should sub-
side. They angrily ~rebuked his negligence, an-
nounced themselves as a voli~iteer patrol for the regu-
lation of negroes and abolitiei~z ists, informed him that
they had conclusive proofs \~f ~a wide-spread con-
spiracy, with Yankee leader~, and finally declared
they were going to examine ~is slaves, and arrest all
of them whom they might fihd to be accomplices.
He remonstrated, atid rea~on~ with them upon the
impropriety of their conduct, he folly of~ their fears,
and the mischiefs they a out to \cause. He ad-
vised them to abandon their lawless organization, and
appeal to the magistrates'iii du~ form.~ Their minds
were too highly inflamed to listen to reason, and in
the face of such imminent and horrible danger as
they fancied, they would not await the slow operation
of law. 'He then offered to pledge himself for the
good behavior of his servants, and besought the
patrol not to molest his family and dependents with
their inquisition. They professed respect for him
and his family, but insisted that he was deluding him-
self with misplaced reliance on the fidelity of his
slaves, and they felt bound to proceed. "Then, gen-
tleni~n," he said, firmly, "let me 'warn you that you
will encounter resistance. I will protect my servants.

p

185


(

ROEBUCK.

ROEBUCK.

I have arms." He turned his horse's head homeward~
and left them. Before he was out of hearing, Bob
Fans called him back, and informed him that they had
consulted together and concluded, out of respect for
him, not to visit his plantation that evening. They
swore, however, that Palmer, the - old abolition-
ist, should n~t escape. They rode off toward that
part of the county in which Palmer resided.
Colonel Fairfi~x, thu~ apprised that there was dan-
ger of violence to that gentleman, sat a few minutes
considering how it might be averted. It was nearly
dark. He was reluctant to go so far from hi~ own
house as to Palmer's while the neighborhood was
disturbed. But he. could think of no other way to
prevent a disgraceful if not fatal scene. As any de-
lay might defeat Jiis purpose, he set off at ~once, rid-
ing rapidly, and taking a by-path which saved some
distance and enabled him to pass the patrol without
being seen. In little more than au~.hour he arrived
at Mr. Palmer's house. That gentleman received him
with surprise and embarrassment. He was not~aware
of the danger in. which he stood at that moment, but
he was conscious of participation hi a scheme which
might prove perilous to hi~ visitor. The latter pro-
ceeded at once to make known the circumstances
which induced his visit, and expressed the opinion
that the regulators would be at the door in a few
minutes. He added a hope that he might be able to
~is~uade them from violence) but advised Mr. Palmer
to retire from the house for a short time, offering to
remain with the family and save them from insult.
But Palmer, whose domestic affections were strong,
and who did xiot lack courage to defend his- house-
hold, refused to leave, his family. He told his wif~,'

and daughters of the danger, and directed them to re-
main quiet in their chambers, whatever might happen.
The colonel avowed his readiness to assist in defend-
* ing the house and person of Mr. Palmer. The latter
brought out his arms-two revolving pistols and a
double-barrelled fowling piece loaded with buckshot.
All the weapons were kept loaded, in anticipation of
* trouble, which was constantly apprehended by the
owner of them. The hasty preparations for defence
were scarcely completed when the tramp~ of horses
was heard.
The horsemen quickly dismounted and posted them.~
selves in preconcerted order aboiit the house, to pre-
vent the escape of Palmer. Fans then drew near
the front door and knocked ~t it for admittance. Mr.
Palmer opened a, window and would have spoken,
but the colonel drew him back and i'equested permis-
sion ~to try his influence with the patrol. Looking
out of the window, he said-
"Fans, what do you want V'
"Heavens!" exclaimed Fans, "Colonel Fred's here
too."
"Ycs,. I am 'here before you, and I am still deter-
mined to prevent you from disgracing yourselves by
lawless violence. ~Tow tell me what you intend to do G?~~
"We want the old abolitionist, and we will have ~
him, colonel."
"What has he done ?"
"He's at the bottom of the insurrection."
"How do you know that 'i?"
"A nigger confessed it all."
"I suppose the negro was in the hAnds of your
patrol V'
"Of course he was."

18t

187


188

RO]fl$U OK.
1*

"You Ilogged him to make him confess'?"
"Of course we did."
"On. the extorted confession of a negro you pro-
ceed to this outrage, then !"
now his t4ory's true."
"How can you know it'? If you are so sure of it,
go t~a magistrate and get a legal warrant. Shame
on such lawlessness!"
"Colonel, it's no use talking. We are bound to
have him out."
"Then you must take me first. Beware! You
are in n~ore danger than Mr. Palmer4"
At this moment .screams of women were 'heard in
the house. During the parley one of the besiegers,
tempted by an unfastened sash, entered a back win-
dow. Hurrying forward in the dark, he opened the
door of. j~Irs. Palmer's chamber and rushed in. The
ladies screamed, and Mrs. Palmer ran to the. parlor
in which the gentlemen were, followed by the in-
truder. 'As soon as he appeared, Mr. Palmer fired a
pistol .at him, but missed him. The intruder attempted
t~o seize that gentleman, at the same time brandishing
a knife. As he turned towards Mr. Palmer, Colonel
Faiifax grasped him round the body, lifted him from
the floor, carried him to the front window, which had
been opened, and. hurled him out. He fell, heavily to
the ground, and lay there, stunned by the fall.
'All this . passed so rapidly that Paris stood still at
the spot from which he had held the parley, and was
waiting for some explanation of the noise within the
house, when he saw his comrade hurled from the
window. He imagined that the man had been killed
by the pistol-shot. He was afraid to approach the
window. He withdrew to a more remote part of the

I

grounds. After waiting a short time in vain for his
fallen comrade to rise and follow him, he began to
consider that the house was prepared for defence,
that the defence was resolute and might be desperate,
tInt it was condtmcted by a citizen of unblemished
reputation and great influence, and that in the end
the penalties of law might b~i enforced. lie there-
fore whistled the signal of retreat and dre~v off his
forces. Soon afterwards the man who had been
thrown froni the window crawled aivay and followed
his comrades.
At first it could not be known how far they had
gone nor how soon they might return. It. was some
time before the alarm of the ladies subsided. To
assure them of safety and to resist another attack, if
another~ should be made, Colonel Fairfa~~ remained
until a late hour of the night. When, all danger
appeared to be over, the colonel, now anxious for the
security of his own home, was about to depart. The
ladies were profuse in expressions of gratitude to
him. Mrs. Palmer 'paid out a neat little speech,
redolent of fine sentiments and garnished with scraps
of Latin. Even Mr. Palmer so far overcame the
restraints of habitual reserve and conscious turpitude
as to thank the coi~nel quite warmly. He accom-
panied him out of the door and detained him a
minute or two on the portico to repeat his grateful
words. While he was th~is employed, a pistol was
fired in the shadow of one of the pillar~ of the por-
tico. A moment afterwards a negro man rushed from
the pillar and aimed a blow with a pistol at Mr.
Palmer's head. Colonel Faitfax, throwing up his
arm, intercepted the blow~ The negro, foiled in both
his murderous attempts, ran past and soon disap-

r

(I

R0EJ3UCK.~

189


190           R 0D1B U C It.'                                       ROBBUOK.              191

peared. :Upon examination, it was found that a bul-
let had passed through the collar of Mr. Palmer's
coat, but he wa~ unhitrt..
"It was Mike," he remarked, but he offered no
conjecture as ~to the probable motive of the~ass~j*lt,.
nor did he propose pursuit. This incident renewed
the agitation and alarm of the ladies, and. detained
the colonel still longer. At length he started home-
ward.
I)uring his absence from Roebuckevents had hap-
pened which it is necessary now to recount. On
Sunday afternoon his daughter, Jigia, went two or*
three miles from home to 'visit a poor woman who was
sick. Finding the woman q~iite ill she remained with
her until it was growing dark.~ Then, mounting her
horse-her favorite "Arab "-she started homeward
alone. Her road was little more than a biidle-~ath,
and led through the skirt of a wood by the spring
which wa~ called the Poplar Spring, and which, it may
be remembered, Mike had appointed as the place
where Jake and ~1at6 were' to meet him about the
same hour that Julia was riding home. The spring
rose just beside the path and flowed across it. When
Julia was ~passing it her horse dropped hi&amp; head to
drink, and she permitted him to stop. While he was
drinking three negro men stepped into the path. One
of them seized the bridle; the other two posted them-
selves at each' side of the horse. Each of them car-
ried a club. They said nothing. She was surprised,
but she was not ac~ustomed'to fear'iiegroes. Even
their formidable appearance and movement did not
deprive her of courage. Instantly drawing her rein,
she struck Arab sharply with her riding-switch, in-
tending to break away from the fellow who held the

190

II
II
'U

f t
I
I..

bridle. The horse sprang forward, but the negro held
fast, and threw him back on his haunches.
"You better be quiet," he then 'said. She leaned
forward and struck him. across the flice with her
switch, saying, "J3~gone! how dare you 1" He
winced, but still held the bridle~
"Better 'be quiet, I tell you agin, Miss Fairfax;
you shan't be hurt; close up dar, boys;. don't let her
git a~*~y."
"Who are you ?"
"I's Palmer's Mike. I don't keer wh~ knows me,
but I won't tell you who dese other fellers is."
"What are you going to do with me?"
"Jis take you to a safe place."
"For what purpose ?"
Mike made no reply. He set the party in motion,
turning from the' road into the pathless wood, himself
~holding the bridle and the other two n~en walking
close by the sides of the horse. They ~went on silently
for some time. Their progress was slow among the
trees and thickets. Their course led them into the
deepest part of the forest. Julia, ignorant of their
design and of her destination, a prisoner of three black
ruffians, could not wholly resist the depre~siug influ-
ence of these alarming circumstance. In the gloom
of night and of the 'wilderness her imagination was
tilled with frightful visions of coming danger. She
watched in vain for some opportunity of escape.
Several times she attempted to converse with her cap-
tors and to learn her probable fate. But they main-
~tained a sullen and ominous silence.. Still her natural
courage was nQt. quite subdued. By a vigorous effort
she kept her faculties in readiness for an emergency
or an oppQrt4lnity, in spite ~f the quick beating of her

191


4

heart. Inthe dense wood sometimes the low branches
of the trees almost swept her from her saddle. This
annoyance at last suggested to her a method of
escape.
A long, large limb, growing square'~ out from th~
body of a beech tree, at a height level with her chin
as she sat upright, was about to st4ke her face in the
darkness. She happened to discover it in time to
throw her arms over it. In that way she lifted herself
out of the saddle and let her horse walk from beneath
her. She remained thus suspended in the air until the
negroes h&amp;d passed on so far that ~he thought they
could not hear the noise of her movement, and then
she swung herself along to the body of the tree, and
then, climbing above the limb, she sat upon it. She
intended to xeniaiu there until her captors, who would,
doubtless, niiss her very soon~ should have failed in a
search for her ~and left the wood free for her escape.
In a few minutes they discoveted that she was not
upon the horse. Mike railed at his followers for their
negligence, and they were wholly unable to conjecture
how or where she had eluded their vigilance. They
aU turned back and commenced a search for her in
every direction through the forest. She could hear
them shouting to each other and sometimes consulting
together. Mike appeared to apprehend serious conse.
quences from her escape, and gave vent to his chagrin
in curses. When they had been searching a long
time and seemed almost in despair ~! success, Mike,
still leading her horse, passed under ~the branch ~ou
which. she was perched. The sagacious and affection~
ate Arab raised his head and uttered the low whinny..
ing sound which is the natural note of recognition
and of pleasure with. his kind. The attention of Mike

ROflBUCK.

193

'was instantly %ilLrected towards the tree, for he was
fiimiiar ~with the habits of horses and knew the supe~
nor intelligence of Arab. ' Tie began to pry among
the branches, and in a short tinie he discovered, his
captive. She was compelled to descend and resume
her place in the saddle. Theni~efortk the vigilance of
the guard was redoubled, and avoiding' the darkest
parts of the forest, they moved along paths which
were known to the negroes. Now ~nd thea they
paused and whis~ei4ng' consultations took place
among them, which Miss~ Fairfair was~ n~t permitted
to hear. Some of these conversation~, however,
appeared to be on the point. of running into violent
disputes between Mike'and Jake, ~u4she thought her
own name was repeated in tones of remonstrance or
of auger. how long a time or how far she had been
journeying in captivity she could not determinee, when
Jake, who walked on her l~eft, approached very cloBe
to the horse, and laid his~hand upon her arm. "Stand
back, 'villain !" ~he cried, and the. cry arresting Mike,
he turned back towards her just aS his rufflanly oom~~
rade seized Miss Fairfai by the waist. She screamed
and struggled, but she wasaschild in the grasp of the
stout negro. Mike sprang at him, wrenched his hands
from Julia; and flung him upon. the earth; His fob
lower rose and rushed with fury at Mike,.hut the lat.~
ter struck him ou the head with his club and felled
him. Jake lay outstretohed as if he was dead, and
Mike, not, knowing whether he was dead or alive, left
him and resumed the march. 'He took care, however,
to supply the place of the musing guard by his own
Watchfulness, so that the captive could not escape.
Julia was unable to' recognize any of the places
through which she was' carried; until, at length, they

ROEBUCK.

192


1941~oBUCK.

came upon a road and she ~aw Marlin's cabin, which
- they were abont to pass. The sight of it revived her
'hope of escape~. When they came nearly opposite to
.the cabin she suddenly struck her horse with all her
force, and~ at the same time called the name of Mrs.
Marlin. Arab hounded with such violence that he
overthrew Mike, but the determined fellow held fast
by the bridle an4 was dragged along the ground. She
repeated her blows until the spirited horse was plung-
'ing frantically, but still Mike held' ~n. ~She repeated
her cries also until: N[r~. ~Marlin ran out of the cabin..
Awakened and startled by the voice of~alarm, she
hurried towards her door and stumbled over a stool.
The accident, and' her quick apprehension of danger,
prompted her to pick up the stool and carry, it ~ith
her as a weapon of defence. Hastening into -the rtad,
she recognized the voice and the horse of Julia, and
saw Cato running about her~ ~dvancingto~the rescue
2 of her friend, she gave ~ato a vigorous blow with the
weapon she carried in her hand, and that timid rascal
rolled over in the dirt. He lay very quiet, affecting
to be quife disabled. Mike, seeing the turn~ which
affairs 'had 'taken, let go the bridle, scrambled to his
feet avid ran away.
Mrs. Marlin then assisted J~ulia' to alight. She was
much ~fatigued, and with the revulsion ~f feeling that
overcame her when she ~aw that she was free, she
became faint. The good Woman led her into the
cabin, and she sat down to rest and recover' her spirits
~ while Mrs. Marlin busied herself in getting a Iigh~,
bringijig restoratives 'and preparing a bed. l~1iza
also~ aroused from the. Areamless slumber~ of girlhood,
~uhattere4 her sympathy and flew about, eager' to do
somethiu~ for Juli&amp;~ comfort. In a siio't time, how-

II

195

I

Oi&amp; B U C K.

19a

ever, the young lady declared herself able to ride,
an4 thanking her kind, friends, she determined to
return home immediately. 'She knew that her father
and mother would be in great'distress and alarm on
account of her absence, and ~he was anxious to re-
lieve them as soon ,as possible. Mrs. Marlin' would
have persuaded her. to take some Tepose, and offered
to 'ride to Roebuck herself. When she could not
prevail in ~this, she, insisted on walking beside the
horse, as an escort for Julia. But ~Xi~s Fairfax
wd~uld not suffer her to undertake such a journey
afoot, and expr~saed her- belief that she would be in
no further danger during that night. She had quite
recovered ~her courage and resolved to ride home
alone. But when she left the cabin for that purpose,
her horse was net to be found. i3oth he and Cato
had disappeared.
What~then was to be done? The distance to Roe-
'buck was not less than si~ miles. Julia, whose
strength Was almost exhausted' by the events of the
night, was wholly unable' to walk so far. Yet she
could nq1~ bear to leave her parents without intelli.-
gence of her safety: After much discussion she was
about 'to accede to the proposal of Mrs.' Marlin to
\valk to Roebuck, when~ Eliza offered to go to Wil-
lowbank and procure ~a horse for Miss" Fairfax. It
would be a,~~ra1k of about two miles, and it might be
attended with some danger, as the occurrences of the~
night had proved. But the warm-hearted girl desired
to serye her friend, and the idea of danger, father
stimulated than daunted her. Wheii the p1~oj~ct had
'taken possession of, her lively little brain she did not
test until she had brought her mother and Miss Fair-
fax to consent to it, and then she tripped away through
the darkness.
I


Before there was time for her to have sent a horse
from Wi11ow~bank, a neigh was heard by the women
, in the cabin, and Julia, who was lying down, lifted
her head and said, "that's Arab." They went out
and found that her horse had returned and was stand-
ing at the gate. Without further delay Julia mounted
him and turned his bead homeward.~ Mrs. Marlin
walked half a mile with her, and then, as no sign of
danger appeared, and she was retarding the impatient
horse-woman, she was persuaded to return. The road
to Roebuck was rather obscure and rough, being but
little travelled. At night it was~ di~eary. Juli rode
on, however, safely and pretty briskly, until' s was
about two miles'from the cabin. Then she was slowly
ascending a 'hill, and on turning' round a jutting
point, she saw a black, man walking towards her
and already close to her horse's head. She did not
know the truculent Jake, but he recognized her, and
immediately seizing her bridle, raised his club. His
thffeatening movement startled her, but '~he did not
lose her presence 'of mind. Seeing that by no effort
could she escape, she determhi~d to try the effect of
talking to the fellow.
"What do you want 'P' she asked.
"1 want you," he answered, and instantly clutched
her arm in his great, rough hand. He dragged her
downward with such sudden violence that she fell
heavily to the ground. Jake stooped' over 'her and
then paused. He heard the clatter of a horse's hoofs
on the road. He~stood listening and looking until he
'ascertained 'that a horseman, rapidly approaching, was
near at hand, and then he plunged from the road
down the hill-side' into a wood. He left Miss Fairfax
lying almost insensible. When the horseman arrived

he leaped fi'om his saddle and knelt by her side. He
lifted her head and said, in a tone of tender anxiety-.
"Julia, are ~ou hurt ~"
Receiving no reply, he placed his arm about her,~
drawing her head to his breast and said, "Julia, dear
Julia, Ttell me-are you hurt ~"
She feebly answered, "no, not much."' Presently
reviving somewhat, she adaed,"" no, thank Heaven, I
am tiot- hurt.. I was frightened. My nerves are
shaken, but I feel uo pain.". After another pause she
continued, "I can rise now."
But he whispered, "rest a moment-you are not
yet strong enough."
Then looking up, she asked, "whom. shall I thank
for this deliverance ~" and as the moon, gleaming
through the tree-tops, ~began to give some light, she
exclaimed-..-" it is Captain Fitzhugh."
"Ye~it is I," he replied.
0, how thankful I am," she murinr red.
With his assistance she rose and sto6d'a little while,
not without his support. Then, as she recovered her
strength, she blushed. and withdrew from his arm,
saying she was able to ride. After as~isting her to
her saddle, Captain Fitzh'ugh.-.--no longer captain,
however, for the major of his. regiment bad died. of
wounds received at Mana~sa and he had aucce~ded to
that rank-niounted his horse and rode beside her
towards Roebuck.

i9ti             flO~i3UGlC.                                                           IIOflBUOK.                 197

196

197


198

ROEBUCK.

4

CHAPTJ~R XVIII.
LOVE AI~ UOEBUC~.

Mxt&amp;s principal1 plan embraced only a speedy flight
from the country after provIding a gQod suppjy of
money or ofportable ~1ate and of horses. lie thirsted
for a particular revenge, but he did not desire to com~
mit uniie~essary acts of violence'which might provoke
pursuit or subject him' to severe retribution in the
event of his capture. When the evening arrived for
th~ execution of his project, he w~ not yet provided
'with a horse ~ueh as he thought desb'able 'for a rapid
flight, and he feared that th6se which were to be
brought tohiml might not' be' very swift. When
~'liss Fairfar appeared at the Poplar Sprirt~, riding an
animal which i~as reputed to be one of the fleetest in
the county, lie was suddenly tempted to obtain posses-
sion of 'the horse. But he reflected that if he permit-
ted Miss Fairfax to go on to Roebuck after ~taking her
Jaor~e, the alarm whidt she would' give "might: lead to
the defeat of his entire scheme.' It occurred to him,
therefore, that it would be safer to carry herewith him
and detain her in some secure place until he was ready
to set oft' on his long journey. Besides, in tempting
to' justify a rash act to himself he conceived a vague
notion that she might be valuable as a hostage in cer-
tain contingencies. His conduct and his reasoning
were alike absurd, and served to prove how incompe..
tent a negro is-even one comparatively shrewd-to
devise or execute any complicated scheme. Without

RO~BU OK.

I99

explaining to his followers, Jake and Cato, the object of
his proceeding, he gave 'them the orders which, as we
have seen, they executed until JTake, obeying his own
passions, attempted an act of violence inconsistent
with Mike's plan.
When Mike fled from MarliiVs cabin he hastened. to
Willowbank.. The hour which he had 'appointed fbr
meeting. blind Pete in the grove was already' past;
The two men upon whom 'Mike had relied, with the
assistance of Hannibal in the house, to execute the rob-
bery under his lead, were left behind. On ariiviu4g
before the mansion he deii~eratej whether he should
undertakethe enterprise with no other aid than that
~f his confederate, Hannibal. H~e anticipated no resis.
tance which they could ILot easily overcome; But he
feared that if any force should become necessary, Han-
nibal might fail to support him, or possibly might
oppose him. 'lie therefore, concluded to call in the
two men who were to accompany blind Pete. With
that view he proceeded to the grove and found Pete'
with the two~ ~negroes. Th~y had 'been greatly per-
plexed by Mike's deiay, and were about to abandon
the ~enterprise and return to their several hi~unt~' He
offered them soi~ne piausihle~ explanation of his deten-
tion and of th~ absence of Jake 'and Cato. 'He 4old
them of the treasure which was .to. be obtained in
the house, and enlisted them in then i'obbery; Whil&amp;
he was engaged in making this new ari~aiigement, Cato
kid mounted Arab at Marlin'~' cabin and foll~~ed
him; b at when he' came to Willowbank' he could riot
find his leader, aud knowizig nothing' of 'the rendez-
vous at the grove, he tur~ied back, and after riding
some distance, let tli~ hoi'se Loose and. took tQ the.
woods. Arab, finding himself at liberty, went on to the
cabin.

K


209

ROflBUCK.

Mike, followed by the two negro men whom he had
just enlisted in the scheme of burglary, approached
the front door of the house, expecting it to be opened
by Hannibal. The whole house was dark and quiet.
lie made a concerted sign at the' door, but it was not
opened. He whispered the name of Hannibal through
the key-hole, but heard no response. He, went along
the poi'ch~ and at every window ende~vored to attract
the notice Qf his confederate. Siill Hannibal gate no
answer. Mike had almost concluded that he had
failed to fulfil' his engagement iirhen one of his meh,
listening at the door, heard a loud snore within. Han-
nibal had stationed himself there at the appointed
hour, 'but during the delay which occurred he- fell
asleep. Becoming convinced that he was there, Mike
was at a loss how to wake him without arousing all
the inmates. After scratching his woolly pate for
some time, he hit upon a plan. He found the old door
fitted its~ frame so ill that there was apace for the in-
sertion of a small stick beneath. it. He procured a
rod, sharpened it, and began to puncture the person
'of the somnolent Hannibal. Partially awaking, that
sentinel uttered; "ugh, ugh," and sunk back into pro-
found sleep. But by perseverance in punching and
whispering, Mike finallyjoused himf up, and he opened
the door. While he stood rubbing his eyes the three
men, who entered passed by him, groped their way
to the fQot of the stairs and began to ascend. At that
moment they~were startled by a light which appeared
at the head of the stairs.
Mrs. Fitz'hngh being a nerVous invalid, never slept
profoundly~ She had heard almost the first sound made
by the negroes on the porch. When it was repeated
she called her Bervant, Belle, ~ faithful negress, who

I'

ROEBUCK.

'201

slept in the same room, and sent her to ascertain the
cause of the noiae. She retni-ned and reported her
belief that robbers were trying to break into the house.
Her mistress made her ugh a candle at a:taper which
was kept burning dimly in(the chamber. Mrs. Fitz-
hugh rose and took down fri old sword which hung
in the room and which ha~ belonged to her deceased
husband. She directed B~~e to arm herself with the
old lady's cane, and then the two women 'sallied out
of the chamber to the head of the stairs. The servant
set the candle on a stand in the hall and they peered
downward to discover what was passing at the front
door. It was then that Mike and his accomplices
started up the steps.
When they came into the light, Mrs. Fitzhugh,
seeing 'that they were negroes, sternly ordered~ them
to go back,~ ~nd haughtily rebuked their insolence in
thusintrtiding into the house. of a lady. They kept
until they' stood upon the landing of the stairs, a
few steps 'below the two women, and facing them.
Mike then paused. It was part of his plan to avoid
fatal violence, W possible. He saw th~Ct the women
were prepared to make resistance, and, he knew the
proud and resolute spirit of Mrs. Fitzkugh. She
stood before him in her night-dress, pale, emaciated
and feeble, but holding a sword and breathing scorn-
ful defiance. He did not doubt his ability to over-
come her resistance, bat he hesitated to ~commence a
conflictt in which blood might be shed. Perhaps, too,
the habitual~ ascendancy of the white rac~' somewhat
cowed his spirit. But, after standing a short time,
the temptation of plunder ~r ~he reckless feeling that
he had gone too far to recede prdVailed. He rushed
forward. The two men whQ had stood cowering be:
9*


202      ROBBUCIC.

bind him while he hesitated did not immediately fol..
low him. As he approached the head e~ the stairs
alone,, Belle, who stood above him, struck a blow with
the cane, ~which sent him swaying and staggering
back to the landing. He soon recQvered his balance,.
and enraged by the stroke, he~ called upon the ether
men~to follow, and was about to ascend a~aun.' But
Ilannibal~ iiow fully awake, and hearing the noise of
conflict, cried from below-~" you 'shan't~i~rt missus.
You promised you wouldn't hurt inissus." The
worthless fellow, willing to rob his mistress if h~
might share the 'spoil, had too much gratitude for the
indulgence&amp; which had- ruined him, or was too faithful'
to permit any personal injury to be inflicted upon
her. He ran up the stairs with long strides, and
seizing one of the men by the throat, began to drag
him down; Just then another persZn unexpectedly
entered the scenes A white man ran up the steps,
and hurrying pasl7 the others, caught Mike,' when h~,
bad almost reached the floor above, and. hurled him
back headlong to the landing. ' Snatching the'sword
from 'Mrs. Fitzhugh, he faced about and' descended
towards the negroes. They did not wait for him, but
leaped, rolled Or tumbled down the stairs pell..mell,
and escaped,' "My dear' Hugh! My' brave' son!
Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Fitzhugh. ' ' 
There was' not time after this affair for many ex-
planations' between her an~ her son, when Eliza Mar..
lin arrived" on the errand she had undertaken for~ Miss
Fairfax. When h6~ story had been briefly told, Mrs.
Fitzhugh asked her son if he was too much fatigmed
~ to go to the relief of JulIa.' ~He' was eager to act~
upon the suggestion, and since his mother was willing,
and be i~houghv there was no danger of a'~renewal of

RO~B1ICIC.
the attack at Willowbank during his absence,~ 'he
started off, and though his horse was jaded, he rode
rapidly. He directed a servant to follow him to Mar~.
liii's cabin with a horse for Julia. At the' cabin he
heard ~vhat the reader knows of her departure, and.'
hastened to overtake her;
When Mike's attem~t~ at"robbery was Aefeated, he
ran tq the, grove iii which he had left blind Pete, and
mounted a horse which one of the negroes had stolen
and broifght there. He rode 'away, leaving his ac~
coinplices without any explanation of his purpose or
any instruction for their own conduct. Frightened'
~nd furious, he thought only of perpetrating- an i~ct
of vengeance ajid' then flying from the country. He
'went to 'the house of Mr. Palmer, with no ddhiite
plan, but with a general purpose of revenge. To 'his
surprise, he found a front window open and light
streaming through it.' Peeping in, he saw colonel l
Fairfax, seated with Mr. Palmer, and he.' then sta-
tioned himself by a pillar, to wait for the colonel's
departure and for his own opportunity. 'liehad been
there but a short time when the, opportunity offered
itsdt; and he attempted to take the life of his master.
F'ailung in that attempt, he' concluded that nothing
remained for 'him but speedy flight. But the Federal
lines were distant, and he distrusted his own ability to
make his way to. them. lie had before thotrght of
inducing Campbell to act as a pilot for the fugitive
l)~rty-~-lle now resolved to apply~to him. 'Going' t&amp;
the village, he sought the ;'ear of the Swan tavern,
and by a method which he had already i~sed' for ~
clandestine interview~with C~npbell, obtained admiP
tance into his chamber. Rousing him from sleep, he
told that ambitious plotter "of insurrection that Uap~.


ROEBUCK.                             ROEBUOE.      205'

tam Fitzlmgh, with his whole company, had returned
to ~the county, ~that they had 4hat night attacked a
large party of armed negroes and defeated them, and
werethen approaching the village to arrest Qamphell.
That gentleman, dreadfhlly alarmed, anticipated Mike's
suggestion if flight, and thankfully accepted the ne
gro's offer to go With him.
"But I have no horse," said Campbell,. in an agi-.
tated tone.
"Da's a good boss in de stable of dis tavern,." said
Mike.
"J3ut ha is not mine."
"Den steal Mm."       -
This sharp solution of the difficulty was perforce
accepted, though Mike's unceremonious-designation
of the process of appropriation was more consonant
with the negr9's morality than with the white man's
pride. Pride and. honor,. with human and divine
laws, yield to military necessity. In the grey of the.
nrnrningtQampbell and hi~ sable comrade, mounted
on stQleU horses, caught a last glimpse of 'the distant
village.
Wh~n (Jolon~el Fairfax, after foiling Mike's last
attempt upon Mr. Palmer's. life, returned to Uce-.
buck, he ~aa astonished at meeting with his wife in
the aveuue.~ She was walking there, in deep distress.
* His i~rst thought was that his absenee~from home had
excited such fear~ for his .safety that she had stai'ted
out in search of him. Then he thougl~t~-but before
hecould shape out axiother CQnje(~ture, Mrs. Fairfax
had. cried-"~Julia---la~e you seen 9ur own'~ dear
Julia ~ ~ have ~lost her." Wringing her hands,'
s~e gave way to grief and apprehension. Her bus-.
ban4, *~lariued by her cries and tears, could not imme-

diately obtain from her an intelligible explanation.
At length he learned that ~Julia had 'not returned
home, and that during the night search had been
made for her in every direction and by every person
oii the plantation, without finding her or discovering
any clue to the mystery 'of her disappearance. .The
last that could be heard of her was that, after'.visiting
the sick neighbor, she had started to~go home alone
about dark. The servants were still searching the
fields, the woods and the roads. Doctor Dick, though
riding was yet painful to him, was scouring the coun-
tr~ in pursuit of his favorite niece. Several wounded
Confederate soldiers 'who were entertained at Roe.~
buck, as in a hospital, had left their beds and, on
crutches, were looking about in impossible places for
the 'missing matron of their infirmary. Everybody
loved Julia.
When her rather had reflected a moment on what
was told him, he inquired whether any one had gone:
~o Marlin's cabin. He was told that some otthe ser-
~vants had been sent on the road which led in that 'db
reetjon, but ~t was not known that any one had
thought of going the whole distance~ "to Marlin's.
Without any distinct reason for sup osing that she
might 'be heard of there, her father could not discoyer
that anything had' been 'left' undone wj~ich was less
unpromising than inquiry at that place.. Inpatient
to do something that might enable him to trace his
daughter, and agitated by fears which even her mother
did not entertain because she knew less than he did of
the disturbances in the neighborboo4, he set out to.
wards Marlin's. Hi8, wife, whom he soothed 'with
hopes which he could not feel, con~~ented to return
to the hon~e 'and await the result oi~ his inquiries.


206              ROEI3IICIC.
He had not rode more than a mile when he
met his daughter with Major Fitzhugh. Recog-
nizing her at some distance he exclaimed-" my
child! thank God t my c~iild !" He Iea~ed from his
hor~e and ran to embrace her. He saw by the moon-
light that she was 'extremely pale. , When she leaned
down to kiss him,' ajid he felt the tremor of her hand,
tears welled up in his eyes. The emotions which suc-
ceeded his extreme - anxiety for ,her safety could find
no other
Where have you 'been all' thi~ night, my daugh-
terf" he asked as soon as he could command his
voice.
"I will tell you all, papa, when wO get home. I
am fatigueA but unhurt."
seem to' be very feeble, daughter. Can you
ride home ?"
"Yes, papa, 'but I must ride slowly. Poor
mamma!' I fear she' is in distress. . Captaiir 'Fitz-
hugh, ~vil1 you have' the kindness' to ride on and
relieve her mind ~ Papa will take care of me. You.
neglect to speak 'to ~ your friend, Captain Fitzhugh,
papal lie has~ placed us' under the greatest obliga-
tion to him for my ~safety to-night." '
"-Pardon me; Hugh. You ar&amp; welcome Vo the
c'ounty.~ I Will find words to thank you when We
arrive at 'the house."~
After a hasty return of the colonel's greeting, Fitz-
hugh ~ode oii, while the father and daughter followed
s'4owiy.' When' Julia arrived at home, 'she was car-
ried to her chamber and laid upon 'her bed, com-
pletel.y exhausted. She could not leave'~her room for
se'veraj 'days.
in spite of hospitable entreaties, Fitzhugh left floe-

WOEBUOK.

207

buck as soon as she arrived. He was not willing 'to
be longer absent from his mother. lie, too, needed
repose. His wound, which ~t first 'was not very trou-
blesome, had in the heat and miwholesome camp of
Manassa, threatened serious consequences. The sur-
geons insisted that he should go home, and when he
found that the army was to remain iniietive, he
yielded to their advice. Wishing to give his horses
the benefit ot 'a Ihrlough, he traveled on horseback.
He found himself within a f~# miles of home when
night overtook liiiii-the night of the events 'just
related.-~--and be pushed on. When he ul~ghted'be-
fQre the mansion of Willowbank, he saw a light
moving in the house, and, approaching' the door, he
found it open. What followed is linown. For a
week after' this night 'he could not ~mo~re' from the
house, and it was a month before he could' return to
the army.
The history of Major 1?it~hugh and, Julia Fairt~ix
during that month '~yould be the most delightfi4 of
narratives, if a story of true' love, when its course
runs smooth, could impart to a reader tl~e ha~pines~
of the lovers. ~But the sweetest passage in the life
of every man and every xVoman who has kwed' truly
and happily is~ sweetest only to two~ beings. Sdch
'love, which 'is' the ~vine of life in the e~p&amp;rie~ioe, turns
to lees in the description.' The i'eader wb~ has evei'
read by "the purple light" knoWs that wli'en, on that
memorable' night, Hugh Fitzhugh knelt beside Julia,
with his arm about her waist, and called her "dear
Julia," the a Th~tiowwhich had been budding on the
friendship of their. youth bloomed into .the perfectt
flower of love.~ By what ii~ore explicit 'words the
compact ~k' lovers was afterwards ~ealedi~ they might
  '       '

g1


208

ROEBUCK.

/

I

ROEBUCK.

209

not i'em~mber; but they were lighted. The ap~
proval of their families and the favor of dream-
stances left no impediment in~ the way of *eir wishe~s.
During the, last three weeks that Major Fitzhugh
remained at home he was a daily visitor at Roebuck.
Colonel Fairfax had regarded his. talents and his
generous, frank and honorable temper with almost
paternal interest, even when he feared' that the bright
promise 6f his youth might be blighted by the miLdew
of: indolenc0 or the canker of pleasure. But.. now,
when the strength and dignity of his character were
developed by the vocation of a patriotic soldier, and
he displayed also the grace ~which a true man derives
from wise love, the colonel preudJy recognized in him
the qualities which he would' most desire in his
daughter's husband. Mrs. Fairfax, with a mother's
gentle pride and a woman's natural delight in a happy
match, built castles in the air for her daughter, and
made her own substantial home more smiling and
radjauL than those fabrics of her fancy. Julia, lovely,
loving and beloved, was more beautiful than ever, and
happier than the happiest dreams of' her childhood.
Her voice, like the melody of birds, often warbled her
happiness in eong. Hugh Fitzhugh fondly believed
that, until then music so melodious had never been
heard. Perhaps it was most pleasant to his, ear when
it would have been least agreeable to a less passionate
listener, for ~ef all her songs his favorite was,
THE SOUTHERN CAVALIER.
The Ia~nce of chivalry is broke, its irpn mail is rust,
B~it knightly truth, and courage live when knights have
turned to dust:
There never rode a tmer knight in battle or career,
Than thisigrey-coated gentleman, the southern Cavalier.

F'or nobler cause no champion did ever wield his brand
Than ours-the cause of liberty and of our native land;
Nor ever did more loyal Icuight uplift his knightly spear
Than Jhis grey-coated gentleman, the Southern Cavalier.
The brave who for their country die like setting stars go
down,
To rise again from eve to eve, ii~imortal in renown:
None braver stands i~ mark for death, without reproach or
fear,
Than this gre~~r-coated gentleman, the Southern Cavalier.
The gallant soldier after war remains his country's guest,.
With praise of men and woman's love~and peace within his
breast,
And 'fleaven, thati~ loves a righteous cause, hath. smiles his
life to cheer
P'or this grey-coated gentIeman,~ the goutliern'Oavalier.


210

ROEl3UCl~.

CHAPTER XIX.

TREMMNL
Th the spring of the year eighteen hundred and
sixty.~wQ, both Fitzhi~gh and Tremaine had been pro-
moted to the rank of colonel in the cavalry of their
respeetiv~e services. In the previous autumn Captaiu
Fitzhugh, with. his company, was sent~to the Valley,
and served under Jackson in guarding the junction, in
the winter expedition to Bath and Romney, and in the
brilliant spring campaign, beginning with Rernstown
and ending with Port Republic, which first made the
name of Jackson renowned.
Probably no other campaign made by so small a*
force in so short ~ time ever produced more Impor-
tant elects than the rapid succession of remarkable
victories then won by Jackson over several armies.
The immediate influence of this hi'illiant and unex-
pected success upon the niinds of the Southern people
was as extraordinary as it was timely. Never atr any
other time during the war until the anal catastrophe
was at hand, was the South so despondent as in the
spring of eighteen hundred and sixty-two. About
that time the overweening confidence inspired by the
Confederate successes of the previous year was turned
to dismay by several disasters. Most of the volun-
teers who composed the army of the~ South had
enlisted for a year only and their term of service was
about to expire. It was apprehended that not many
would renew their engagement, and that a new army

I

IIOEI~UCK.

211

could not be formed before the disbanding of the old,
if at all. It was deemed necessary to pass the law of
conscription, which compelled all white male residents
between the ages 6f eighteen and thirty-five (with a
few exemptions) to serve in the army three years or to
furnish substitutes. It required those who k~ vol~
unteered for a yc~r tQ remain in service 4~ears
Ion gei~. Many feared .2that tbis~s~vere measiiUuld
provoke resistance, but it was obeyed ~ithost
uncomplaining patriotism. The law, however, was a
violent and inipracticable-ineasgre, and was afterw~i~d~
among the prominent causes of the downfall of the
Confederacy. The general alarm ~hi~h~ led to ~its
enactment was suddenly relieved by the achkyements
of "Stonewall ' Jackson in the~V~lley~ if it ~ proper
thus to ascribe to hira alone victories which were due
to the marvellous endurance and unconquerable ~val~r
of the little army which he led, n6t less: than to the
genius of their leader~ It will be readily understood
that the activity of that army, the extent of country
which it protected, the number of its: battles, with the
skirmishes and other incidents of such a earnpai~n,
afforded to every man~ opportunities for the display
of the best qu~rlitiea of a soldier. The large amount
of ~intelligence then in the ranks, the g~neraf spirit[of
patriotism and the individual independence nourished
in Southern society fitted almost every man to play~an
effective part.
This vo1um~ cannot be ad&amp;rned with a history of
that noble army. We cannot ~sreu take space W
cord the particular exploits of' our fr~end~. It must
suffice to ine~t~on~briefly that hugh Fitzhugh became
a lieutenant-colonel during the winter, that' when the
whole army was reorganized in the spring, under the

I.

It

A


212

ROEBUCK.

law of conscription,, he was elected colonel, and thai
lie was acknowledged to have fairly won his promo.
tious by his gallar4 and skilful conduct. At the new
election Mark Marlin was chosen a lieutenant, with
the unanimous approbation o~' the young. gentlemen
and other members of his company. With his corn-
mission he acquired the ~oeial rai~k of a gentleman,
according to the theoryy o( his youthful ambition, and
his deportment was faithCul to his model.
About the same time such changes took place. in
the -military liue~ that: XI~oebuck became accessible to
the Federal troops. The county remained for a time
debatable ground, and was visited occasionally by
cavalry from both sides. At length, however, a
Federal detachment was stationed -in the village,
under the command of Colonel Tremaine. It was suf-
ficient, with the support of a larger force at no great
distance, to hold the county, but not to prevent occa-
si~al and rapid, incursions of Confederate horse.
The Federal cavalry in Virginia was still inferior, and
poverty had not yet unhorsed the Confederates. At
the thne of the events about to be narrated,~ Colonel
Fit~hugh, with his regiment, was stationed some
twenty miles from the village, and a- considerable dis-
tance in advance of any large Southern army. The
force under Colonel Tremaine was composed of his
own regiment of cavalry, ~and a regiment of infantry.
The latter - was commanded by IAeutenant-CoPrnel
Wesel,, a -German, who was in daily expectation~ of
being promoted to the office, of colonel of his regi-
inent, then vacant. He had. been a butcher in a
Northern city. He was a blatant politician of the
jirevailing order, and had been active in drawing his
eounti~ymen into the regimeiit. He was, therefore,

U011]3 U C IC.

218

patronized by some influential persons. He and his
men had been taught to look upon "rebels" as atro-
cious criminals, out of the pale of humanity, and upon
their property as lawful prey. Some- companies of
the cavalry, though composed of native Americans,
had similar notions, and their officers were not unwil-
ling to fill their~ pocket; or ftirnish-- their house; or
decorate their wives b)* the- pillage 'of their Southern
brethren. Amon~ the officers attached to this force
was Albeit Palmer.
We left that gentleman, just after the battle of
Manassa, and on the morning of his duelwith Baxter,
deliberating upon the expediency of transferring him-
self to the 'North. Having resolved that question in
favor of his native lan~e proceeded on foot towards
Washington, taking c~ to avoid the parties of Con-
federates who were ~t1I~iu to l~e expected puhis route.
The next morning ab.ut dawn he approached a Fede-
ral picket on the Southern side of the 'Potomac. He
approached cautiously, and, ~s it was -thought, suspi-
ciously, dressed in Confederate uniform, and the picket
took alarm and retired. The panic Qf Manassa had
not y~t stibsided~ A report soon spread as far as the
city of Washington that a large rebel armywas 'nt the
southern bank of the river and produced great &amp;om-
motiOn for several hours. In the meantime Palmer,
by skilfiul mana~uvre; contrived to get within hail of
a I~'ederal party,, and made known his friendly pur-
pose. A deserter from the rebel army, at such a mo-
ment, was received, with. distinguished consideration.
Of course, 'he professed to have been a staunch friend
of the Union from the beginning, and told marvellous
stories of the, persecutions which he bad suffered Un-
til, affecting to favor the rebel cause, he had accepted

I


214

flOEBt7Ol~.

I

'I

employment in the Southern army, with a view to
'desert. at the earliest' safe opportunity. Thus he won
favor,' and his efforts to ingratiate himself with those
who had the disposal of ofilees were seconded by
Campbell after his Iiig'ht to the INorth. Thus he re~
turned to the county of his residence an officer in the
army which he had gone forth' to oppose. "He came
back with some particdkr resentments to gratify, and
to some remains of the original prejudices of a stran-
ger by birth he "niigbt add the vindictive zeal of a
renegade in regard to the' people of Yirginia~
'Soon after Colonel Tremaine established his head-
quarters' at the Swan travern, he was visited by Cob
'onel Fahfax. Themeeting between them; though not~
wholly' free from constraint, 'was friendly on both
sides.' Colonel Tremain~ took occasion to repeat, the
expression of his gratitude' for' hospitality and kind~
ness~*whieh,'he said, had. probably saved his life. 'Cob
onol Fairfax,' promising that his former guest' would
not'~expect him to express pleasure at the e~tablkh-
ment of a Federal force 'in the county, added that,
since that misfortune could not l~e averted, he was sin..
cei'ely gratified to find 'Colonel Tremaitie in com-
mand. He proceeded to ~tate. the special object of hi~
visit.
"I desire to know (if you think proper to inform
me) what course you intend to pursue with reference
to our unarmed citizenss who remain at home.' You
have heard me express my political 'opinions. The
fortitne~s of war do' not 'change our. convictions of
right.c~-M~..&amp;~ntiments are the 'same as those Which
*g&amp;erlly prevail in the county. ]3ut we acknowl-
'~ed~e' the duties ~hich spring from adverse events, and
intend to perform them ns, I 'doubt' not, your duties
will be performed with equal fidelity."

RO~BUcE.                  215
"Since you allude to my duties," replied Colonel
Tremaine, smiling, "I would be pleased to know
what duties you think I owe to your citizens in the
present situation of affairs here?"'
"Pardon me, colonel, lam net here to lecture you.
I intended only to express courteously my confidence
in you."
"But, really, I desire to know your opinion. I
have cowfi~ence in your fairness aud your. judgment.
It may be necessary for me to understand the seuti..
mnents of the people in order to determine how they
should be treated. I believe that Whatever you tell
me will be true, and whatever you promise will be
performed. .1 wish you to speak frepl~Yr in ~behalf of
your people."
"We know, Colonel, that your first dutyis to pro-
mote the success of2yourgoveininent in the war. To'
that end we. expect yoi&amp; to do whatever a just and
humane man may do.' We' ep~ct, while you remain
'in possession,, t&amp; submit in good' faith Ao' a power
which we cannot resist and desire 'ii~t to in ate: I
take it for granted, that you will refrain from harass-
hig citi~iens who refrain from hostile conduct. I
should think, if you permit 4ie to, say so, that it will
be your duty to ~roteet them, as far as you can, in
th~ir' homes, property and innocent~ avocations.
Your force supersedes all ~otlier authority in the
county, audit would seem ~iat, where submissionn is
'a duty,~ pr6tecti~n is ~ right."
"I believe we shal hot quarrel, Colonel Faitfa~, it'
your citizens act in the spirit which you attribt*ti~ to
them. I~annot "make explicitt stipulations witifyon.
I must reserve tjie free exercise of dise~etionary
,authority. For the present tell your people to trust

V


216

ROEBUCK.

me and I will trust them. I shall issue such regiila-
tions as I deem necessary to be observed on their
pai't. Some of them will be strict and may appear
unreasonable. I cannot publish the reasons for them.
But, if you niake allowance for the harsh necessities
of war, I believe you will consider me: both just and
humane. I shall expect obedience to my regulations
at all events. If any of my men insult or pillage or
oppress the citizens, let. those who are wronged apply
to me for redress.'~
After some further conversation, iuwhich an invita-
tion was given and accepted to visit Xoebuck, Colonel
Fairfax retired. The next day Mr. Palmer called on
Colonel Tremaine. Notwithstanding his son had so
openly appeared in the Federal service, that cautious
gentleman still hesitaVed to offend his neighbors by a
precipitate display of Union sentiments. lie, did not
call on the commaftder of the Federal force in the vil-
lage Alntil' he. heard' that so conspicuous a rebel as
Colonel Fairfax had visited him. Even in conversing
with Colonel Tremaine he rather insinuated at first
than avowed his adhesion t~ the cause. represented
by that officer. But by degrees he led the conversa-
tion to political topics and to the affairs of the county,
and broached some opinions for the guidance of the
'~colonel. lie represented the citizens of the county as,
almost without exception, uncompromising rebels.
Re complained, espeoitdly1 that the wealthy gentlemen
devoted their riches to~ the support of the rebellion.
Glancing at Colone1~ Fairfax, he said that one of the
most prominent of that class had, during the past
year, devoted, the whole of his large revenue and valu-
able crops to the support of the Confede~ate cause or
to the families of soldiers, and had induced the county

p

ROEBUCK.                  217
court to make such liberal contributions that those
families lived in greater ~bundance thau~ they had
known before the war. lie thought that such power-
ful stimulants of rebellion ought to be snpWesse&amp; by
depriving the wealthy rebels of their property, He
suggested thali their estates might be admbiistere~
under military n~le fori the benefit of the government.
* As Colonel Tremaine listened in silence to the long
una winding disco~irse in which he cautiously devel-
oped the~e ideas, he even ventured ~vo intimate that he
was willing to administer those 'estates. At. length
he paused, and the colonel observed:
"I suppose the gentlemen to whom you allude have
* been generously supporting a cause which they hon-
estly approve."
"'I do not perceive, however, that their honesty
makes their conduct defensible."
"Would you. expect honest men to support a~cau~se
which they believe to be wrong 7"
Mr. Pahuier winced at the question, for he suspected
that it was a hint at some meagre contributions whic1~j
he had made to the Confederate cause. But, after a
moment's hesi4ation, he replied:
"We have to deal with effects rather than
motives."
"It is~a fact, however, woi'1~hy of observation, that
nearly a11 the honest. men of the South appear to be
against us in this struggle. In proportion as they
scorn sordid interest~, in' coznpa$son with high princi-
~Ae, appears to be their zeal for the Southern cause.
They evince, toe, in supporting. rebellion, generous
sentiments.-~-sentiments which we wonld certainly
applaud if we could approve their cause."
"Do you, then, justify therebels 1"

~1
I
I
I
.1
I
.1


218          1~OEBtYC1r.                                                UOEBUOI~.

"Far fPpm it. For m~iriy reasons the public weP
fare, in my judgment, requires the rebellion to be sup-
pressed. For that Purpose I havo~ usedf my sword and
risked my life. But our government is not now deal-
ing with. a rabble of rioters or a mob ofd~sperate and
wicked insurgents. Already i~or a whole year it has
been carrying on a vast war against great communi-
Lies,.constituting powerful States and embracing most
of the woitli arid ~isd~m of the South. ~These
communities have aited in the exercise of a right
which they have 1~en educated to believe is inherent
iii their States. They act through their ancient State
governments and through a new government formally
organized. They carry on regular war #th large
ariliies: If we treat this as a ease of simple rebellion
we shall fall into a fatal fallacy. It is war-civil war.
All history proves tha'~ in sn~,h wars it is equally
unwisp and~ unjust foi~ one party to treat the other as
criminals. Civil wars usually divide a nation and
spring *S~dm political questions about ~which honest
citizen~ lip
large neatly differ~ They are so doubtful l4ut a
portion 6f the nation is found on the~ on~ side
an~ on the other. Frailty, passion or. error of one
party or of 1~oth, brings them to bloWs.~ Each believes
its conduct to be pat4otic. Without criminal purpose
how Than ther&amp; be ~i'ime! It is ~ case 'of war which
eou~'ts cannot ad~tid.ic.ate and fo~ which laws'cannot pro,
~ride. There is iio arbiter between the parties to a war
but the sword. The sw&amp;i'dis ~enseless aiid decides no
question 'of iight. It 'determines only the preponder~.
ance of force. It is absurd then for either party to
accuse the other~of'crime."
"At all events, 'colonel, you must admit the pro..
pricey of taking from the rebels the means of support..
sing the reb~llkn."

I

"Jitet me answer you in the language attributed by
the most ~renowned author in our language to his fa~ror-
ite hero. We~give express charge that, in our marches
through the country, there~be'nothing compelled from
the villages; nothing taken but pai&amp;for, none of the
French upbraided or abused in disdainful /language;
for when lenityy arid crueltyy play for a kingdom the
gentler gamester is-the soonest winner."
"According to your ideas, nobody should be pun-
ished for this rebellion after it is suppressed."
"War should end in peace, not punishment. Paw.
islunent then is the revenge of victors upon the van-
quished, of the powerful upon the defenseless.' As.we
shorten war by making submission safe we shall oon-
firm peace by making it honorable~ A civil war,
being between' brethren, should, if possible, end like
the quarrel of J3rutus and Cassius on tha stage, in a
rivalry of loving penitence. But, since w~ cannot
expect such a romantic revulsion' of the passions of
* war, we may ~t least remember that, if submission is
the duty of the~conquered, magnanimity is the virtue or
conquerors. 'The offence is the offence of a eommw'
nity; war and defeat are the punishuient~ of a coi~amu-
* 'nity4 Among millions of people engaged in resistance,
human jmdgn~cnt cannot discriminate and assign to
each his peculiar share of blame. We ~must deal wit~h
the commiudty."
"It is easy to discrirninate'~between the leaders and
the rest."
"If that were true, why shonidwe take vengeam~ce
on the best, the chosen men of a peo$e, and let those
who have chosen theni go free V'
"I cannot imagine, colonel, hoiv you propose 4o
assert the snpremaey of ~he gev~rnrne'4 and dispose
of the rebels."


I''

220

"Suppress armed resistance by the most vigorous
measures.-~establish again the laws of peaceful society
'-and trust the- defeated' party as a party of honest,
but mistaken citizens. I am confident ~that when its
military power is broken, the' South will submit, and
once submitting, will franklyrfulfil the duties of. its
new position. I' believe that the South'will ~always be
to its 'ancient instincts of frankness and manly
honoi~."
"I am glad that, 'at least, you speak' of the submiss.
Sion of the South."
"Yes; submission to lawful authority, not to dis.
honor. That 'I could never require. 1 wish to see
the people of the South remain~ my countrymen, and
I desire no dishonored 'nieii for my countrymen~"
"What guaranties can you have that rebellion will
not be' renewed, unless you 'inflict punishment and
strip these people of power r'
"Unle~s the might of arrni~s, the awe o defeat, the
'experienKee of war, and a restoration of fraternal feel~
ing shall bind the people to the government, the blood
of their martyrs will not cement the Union, nor will
the desperation 'of poverty and disgrace make men
quiet citizens. We may compel them to sti~mit. by
force; if we 'would have' them l&amp;yal at heart, we must
win their hearts."
colonel, you do not know their bitterness.
J3ut' you must have heard Doctor Dick Fairfax at
Roebuck."
"Yes; when I' heard his in~r~ctives against the
North---though they seemed to be spoken half in a
spirit of waspish jest-4 listened always with pain and
sometimes with indignatioti. I suppose his virulence
is an exaggerated 'specimen of tht~ 'antipathy engen-

'1
I
'4

ROBBTJClC~

2~i

4lered in' the minds of the southernn people by our un-
happy controvei"sies. When I heard JAm I thought
of those Northei~n fanatics and demagogues, who, by
the injustice of theiv~4nj~.~ and lai~guageyespecting
the South, had excited such enmity in a heait which
I found otherwise amiakle and~ generous. If wt~, as
the stronger section, provoke resentments -and then
punish them, we are doubly unjust. But, ~r. Palmer,
we have wandered. imto a. discussk~u of question~
which we have not to decide. It would have been
enough to say that I. do ~ot~ intend to deprive the
citizens of their property unless it may ~he taken from
necessity, and in accordance with the rules and usages
of civilized ~warfare~"
"I must confess, sir, that you appear. to be luke-
warm in the, great cause."
"When you have ~hed your blood for the Union
~you may reproach me. Good ~ornings~r."
"You are very attenti'4~e to the rights of rabel4"
" All men hiive th~ rights of humanity.: Do, you
require. nw to teach you tha~ I have the rights of a
gentleman '~ Once more, I bid you good morning,
sir."          '   -
DIr. Palmer did no~ 'wait foi' another repetition of
the hint, but retired.
Under th~pmildiand firm adrninistr4ion oi~ Colonel
'Tremaine~ ~tie county was quiet. Disorders were i~e4.
pressed. rthe c~1tizens 8oon Thlt almost ~the same se-
cm4ty as in time of peace. Those who liad fled re-
tuined. The people instead of invoking the Confede-
rates' to attack the 'Federal force' at the village for'
their relief, deprecated th~~ approach of Confederate
troops. They wanted repose. Some of them, weary
of war; began to repent their separation from a. gov-

Ii


I
I
II

ROEBUcK,'

eminent which showed itself benignant in the con-
duct of its officer. Perhaps, if a similar policy had
been pursued everywhere during the war, the pr~dic-
tion of Doctor Fairfai ~at th~ South would not
maintain the struggle more than two years, might
have bee~i fulfilled.
J~ut the conduct of Colonel Tremaine was censured
by T~ientenant-Oo1onel Wesel, and s6nie others of the
Command. They~ chafed under the restraints of discip.. -
line. Their passions dexiianded licence. Mr. Palmer
also, ~nd his eon, Were disappointed and oft4ended.
An intrigue was hatched for the removal of Colonel
Tremaine from the coTiunand. He was accused of
inertness, of cruelty to his men, of indulgence to
rebels. It was insinuated that he f~lt a criminal gra-
titude for the kindness which he had received as a
wounded prisoner. It- was observed that lie dined
with a noted rebel, and listened ox~ Sunday to a ser~.
mon delivered by an old preacher, who was known to
sympathize with his f~Ilow-citizens in th9ir trials. It
was alh~ged that he would neither force nor entice
Servants away from their masters. In fine, it waS
concluded that ~jie sympathized with the rebellion.
At leiigth this intrigue waS successful. Colonel Tr~-
maine was ordered to Washington to answer for his
conduct, and Wesel, promoted to the rank of colonel,
was left in command, with ample authority to scourge
the spirit of secession from the county. Then com-
menced. a new administration of a different order.

223

* CHAPTER 2XX.
GABRW~t..
THE savage and futile policy-of reducing -the- south
to submission by destroying~ provisions- anti -impl~-
weds of husbandry, ~and by comArerting the- land into
a barren waste, had not ye~ been formally avowed by
high authority9 It w-as executed in pai~4eu1ar places
'with more or less ferocity, according to the teinperof
each commander. Those who were prone to that
mode of warfare derived sufficient encouragement
from the- orders -exehiding medicines from the ~oxith,
~md- other acts of the government, denying to the
Southern people those rights of humanity whi~oh. are
conceded to enemies by -the usages of ciyilized war~
fare. Such atrocities. received no countenance from
ColonelTremaine, but they suited the temperament
of his ~uc~~essor~
During the fii'st two years of the war, discipline in
the vast armies ~f the North was-less perfect jthau it
afterwards became9 Small bodies, detached from~ the
main armies, soon beea~n~e very-disorderly and lawless,
unless controlled 14 a firm and judicious - officer. In
a short time, the force under ColonelWesel ~eoame
little better than. a licentious rabble. At ~rst the
baser sort of men, sweepings of streets, brawlers and
bruisers at home, became drunken, thie-vi#h and
riotous. Their impunity, and the conta~1on of vice,
corrupted others.- Many men, not thoroughly vicious,
require the curb of military discipline when they are

I

222

1~

ROEBUCK.


ROEBU OK.

exempt from the. geDtle but constant restraints of civil
society. Towar4s the citizens tl~e demeanor of the
colonel 'was so brutal that his worst men were eii-
coirraged to indulge their worst passions.~ Thi~s, un~
der his orders, or through the ioentious effects of his
administration, the county was given up to pillage
and oppre4sion. All horses were captured as legitimate
prizes. Cows, sheep and swine, were killed in wan.
tonness. Mills and barns were burned. Fences were
destroyed. Dw~ellings were entered and ransacked
by night or day; private papers found in them, were
torn and #c~ttered; clothing of women and children
was rent to ribbons, or carried off; jewelry was
rudely wrenched from the persons ofladies, and farni~
'lies were, put in terror of death or a Late worse than
death. Farming implements, food and' forage were
systematically destroyed or removed. Men were in.
suIted, and upon the slightest show~ of resentment
shot down. The slaves were persuaded, and, in some
oases, 'compelled to leave their homes. The men
were drawn to the camp as servants, or suffered to
roam about and live by pillage. The women, easily
coimpt~ed, were kept by the soldiers in sties about the
village, or wandered they knew not whither. Many
'of' the servants deserted Roebuck, charmed. with the
idea of freedom. Negroes, parasites by nature, cling
to the strongest power that stands iiear them. How
ever absurd the notion~ which they assooiat&amp; with liI~..
erty, exemptio*r from compulsory labor ha~ a special
charm for the ipdolent and thoughtless creatures.
Credulous and servile, they were easily deluded and
led away by m~n'.who belonged to the race they were
accustomed' to revere, and who came With professions
of exclusive friendship for them. They could not re~

I

I

ROEI3UCItR

225

ject a boon offered by a subtle tempter, promising that
it should make them to be as gods, 'notwithstanding
the decree of nature forbidding this fruit of freedom
to thejr race on pain of death.
Mr. Palmer, it may 1k remembered, had reserved
from sale a negro man, named Gabe, ~ho was ex-
pected to be kept at home by a ~tnpid contentment
with his lot or a stolid incapacity to conip~s5 another.
When some of his Northern ~atrons, r~mbllng from
the~ village, plied' him with temptation, 1~is woolly
head was, profoundly perplexed. The novel thought.
of running away from his master after it once ob-
taIned a lodgment in his brain, stuck fast, but he did
~not know what to do with' it.~ He went moping aud
stumbling about in woful contemplation, until at
length h~ arrived at a conclusion which 'lie expressed
tQ himself in the formulae-" rs a thinkin' I letter be
a ~wine." Greatly relieved by the resolution of his
doubts, he kept muttering bis, formula, a~ if he feared
that unles~ he kept the words in his 'mouth the jdea
would fly out of his head. For several days he sat,
or walked, or worked, with constant repetition of the
sentence-" l's a thinking' I better be a gwine." Some
knowledge of his frame ~f mind reached his master
and mistress, and. they began to fear they would. lose
,their only man~servi~nt through the officious kindness
of their Noithern friends..
One evening this subject, among others, engaged
the attention of a family council 'held in the parior-~.
present, Mr. Palmer, Mrs. Palmer and 'their ~son,
Albert. It was~ agreed th~t, under existing cii'cum-
stances, Gabe could' not be detained by force, and
that it would be dangerous to' attempt to spirit, him
away to a slave-market. It seemed almost certain
10*

I

t

224.


226       UOEBUCIC.

ROEBUCK.    . 227

that he would prove a t6tal loss. This ~rospect made
them for- the moment regard the proceedings of a
benign government as rather oppressive. At last a
desperate expedient occurred to Mr. Palmer the elder.
He rang the bell and summoned Gabeto the parlor.
"Gabe," said he, with solemnity, "I am afraid you
are thinking about running away to the Yankees."'
"l's a thinking' I better be a gwine, master," re-
sponded Gabe, in his well-conned formula~, without
insolCnce of manner, but with stolid apathy.
"Gabriel,"' resumed his master with impressive
condescension, "you ought not to .go. You are a
poo; ignorant nigger, and you do not know what is
for your good. I have only your own welfare at
heart. You have now a good home. If you run
away you will have none. These Yankees are foQling
you. They care nothing abo~t you. They merely
want to injure the South by taking away its labor. I
take care. of your family. You and they fare better
than poor wbite folks at the North. You are going
to leave friends and protectors for strangers. N6body
will feel any interest in your welfare. Everybody
will strive to take bread out of your mouth to feed
themselves. You cannot compete with white labor~
ers among white employers. In fact, you know you
won't work without a master. You will let your
children perish. You will be a beggar, an outcast, a
vagabond. Take my word for it, if you trust these
Yankees you will rue it as ltng as you live. Now
will you run away, Gabriel !"
"I's a tjiinkin' I better be a gwiue," answered Gabe,
as before.
"Gabriel, you will commit a grievous sin. You
would not go against the Bible, would you! I will

expound your duty to you out of the Holy Script~ires."
Taking up the Book and drawing Ida spectacles
down upon his nose, Mr Palmer proceeded. 'to 'read
and expound some- selected passages, while Gabe
stood before-him, twisting a button and perusing the
carpet.
"Hear niw," he continued, "~what is commanded
in the twenty-fifth chapter of Leviticus-' Both thy
bondmen and thy bondmaids '-that means our slaves,~
Gabi'iel-' which thou shalt have, shall be of the
heathen that are round about you; of them shall ye
buy boudin~n and bondmajds. Moreover of the chil-
dren of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of
them shall ye buy and of their families tl~at are with
you which they begat in your land:, and they shall be
* your possession. And jre shall take them as an in-
heritance for your children after you, to inherit them
for a possessi4)x; they shall be your bot~dmen forever.'
Now, Gabriel, your forefathers were heathen, you
know, and so the white people were commanded to
buy them for slaves, and to hold them and their chib
dren. as a possession forever. My forefathers in ~ew
England bought many of them, a~hd made great gains
by theni, which proved that their trade was blessed.
When slavery became, unprofitable in ~ England,
whereby ~ appeared that' the institution was no
longer blessed there, they sold their- slaves to the
Southern people, with advantage to all parties-. So
my 'ancestors again had golden experience that godlb
ness is great gain, and. they have continued 4o be a
godly and a' gainful people to this very day. The
passage I have read requires the slaves to' be an in-~
heritance for the children of the' masters. I did not
receive you by inheritance, but ~{ew England men

f i


0

228

ROEBUCK.

can,, by the Divineblessing, obtain the inheritance of
the children of Virginia as Jacob got the birthright
* of Esau by substituting kid for venison. Thus it is
proved out of Scripture, Gabe, that you must stay
* with me. What confirms this interpretation i~ that
the institution of slavery ~in. the South has been
blessed with wonderful usefulness to mankind.. While
the slaves multiply and thrive, they have added more
to the wealth, comfort and civilization of the world,
by tillage, than any other equal number of laborers
ever did in the same length of time. You know they
never would' have done all this work if they had been
free, and you know that white men could not have
done it. So it. is the will of God, Gabriel, that you
shall not run away to the Yankees.
stand'?" .                      Do you under-
"I's a thinking' I better be a gwin.e."
"Now, my good and faithful servant, 'let me read
to yom what Saint Paul says-h...' Exhort servants to be
obedie~nt unto the'u own masters and to, please them
well in all things; not answering again;, not purloin-
ing but showing all good fidelity '-~that means you
must stay with me, Gabriel-and again, 'Let as many
as, are under the yoke count their own masters worthy
of all honor. * * * And they that have believing
masters '.-.~-like me, Gabriel..-..' let' them not despise
them because they are brethren but rather do them
service '-mark that, Gabriel, do them service. Now
will you l!y in theface of Scripture'?"
"l's a thinking' I better be a gwine."
"Poor Gabriel, I fear your understanding is dark
and. your heart hardened. ferh4ps we may obtain
light to direct youi' steps, or to step them, by prayer.
Let us pray."

229

He knelt down, a~ did also. his wife and son. Gabe,
who1. had been taught, not ,to pray; but to stand, in
the presence of his betters, and who did not under-
stand that he had been ordered to kneel, remained in
hi$ erect posture. He twisted his button and perused
the carpet, shifting his weight from one foot to the
other, while his~ lips moved,, not in prayer, but in
repetition of his fugitive formula. His master prayed
very earnestly, in a manner which he thought must
impress the mind and melt the heart of his se~wint.
Then he paused, and casting his eyes on Gabe, dis-
covered that he was still standing.
"How is your mind now, Gabriel ?"' he inquired.
"ra a thinking' I better be a gwine."
"Kneel down, Gabriel."
Gabe obeyed. lie crossed his arms over the bot-
tom of a chair and laid his forehead upon thern~ The
prayer was resut~ied with increasing fervor. It be-
came so eloquent~ unctuous and ituportunate that
Mrs. Palmer was moved to sigh, and then to groan,
and finally .to respond audibly Amen and Am~n.
Again pausing, Mr. Palmer turned to his . bon4man,
bought with his money, and said-" how do you feel
now, Gabriel ~"
a thinking' I better be a gwine," muttered Gabe.
"Good God t' exclaimed his master, bouncing to
his feet, "have we a government that will ~Qt protect
our property?"
Mrs. Palmer and Albert dlso rose, but Gabe re-
mained kneeling, with his face upon his arms, and'
lijs arms upon the chair. His misb~ess, gazing at him
a moment with rifling scorn, ihen.. strode with rectan-
* gular solemnity to' hi~ side, and, stretching out. her
arm over his bead, thus adib9essed him;
~t tu, .&amp;ute-.-ungrateful nigger~~-.rngrOqU6 simil~

I~OEi3UCK.


I

flOI~l3tr OK.

230

linza cyctzo~-aft'er all we have done for you-we might
have sold you with the rest-.we might now have the
money in our pockets~.-you will iun away, will you-
what black ingratitude-...who would believe it-credat
J"dceus Apelia.-.PII never trust a nigger again-go
then-run, starve, beg, steal~ die, rot-go this night
-don't sleep again under this roo~-~and mind, dont,
steal anything when you go-take off that suit and
put on your old olothes...~-obey me or I'll have you
whipped-'--I hope you'll rue this hour in want and woe
to th~ end of your days-begone, you black rascal,
begone."
But Gab&amp; did not rise He was fast asleep. As
soon as his head rested on a chair slumber began to
creep over him: When his master addressed him he
was partially aroused, and muttered his well-conned
response between asleep and awake. Under the
monotonous declamation of Mrs. Palmer he lost, all
consciousness. After the close of her address his only
reply 'i~*as a sonorous snore. Albert, discovering the
truth of the ~case,~ and being. huruself cool enough to
feel the ridicule of the situation, quietly approached
Gabe, and laying a hand on itis shoulder, woke him.
Gabe leaped up and looked about him with amazement.
"Begone !" said his old master.
"I's ~ thinking' I better~ be a gwine."
Gabe hustled out of the parlor with less servile cer-
emony than he had been accustomed to display in
retiring from the presence.
The family council, resuming its s~ssion,. disc4lssed
various topics, and among them the Fairfaxes of Roe-
buck came under consideration. The course and con-
elusion of the coiisultation respecting that family need
not now be stated. So far as results followed from it,

A

RO1~l3UCK.

231

of' interest to the reader, they will appear in the
Bequel. While the name of Fairfax was yet upon
their lips the signal of blind Pete was heard, and he
was admitted. He came to report that Colonel Fitz.
hugh was spending the night at UQebuck. Albert
Palmer, eager to avail himself of the information,
mounted his horse, and after giving an order to Pete,
rode to the village~
Pete's clandestine information was so far correct
that Hugh Fitzhugli visited Roebuck that night, but
left there before Albert Palmer could hav~e ai'rived at
the village. Going with his regiment upon an expe-
* edition, he passed near Roebuck in the night. While
the regiment halted foi~ a brief rest he rode off with a
small, escort to visit Colonel Fairfax, and ascertain
from him whether the ~-umors were true which
he had heard of the outrages committed upon the
people of the county. After conversing with the
colonel upon that subject, he indulged himself with a
brief delay, te talk with Juliaupon&amp; subject of more
tender interest to them than to the public. Then,
while he lingered yet a little longer, conversation
turned upon the desolation of Virginia a!ad the suffer..
ing of her people. A large portion of the State was
ah'ea~iy ravaged and devastated. The flower of her
youth and manhood had been cut down by thousands.
From the first to the last hour of the war the blood of
the State flowed in torrents, and in all her borders it
seemed that nothing eould~stand erect under the in-
cessant storm of wLir but her unconquerable spirit.
Those who then fondly protracted a hurried conversa-
tion, to deplore the afflictions of their beloved Com-
monwealth, e~uld not foresee that they would never
meet again under the1ro(f of Roebuck. They knew~


232       ROEBUOE.

233

* not the ruin that was yet hidden in the darkness of
that very night. Happy ignorance of the future!
They had fortitude to bear th~ ills which they had
known, but who could endure a knowledge of the*
time to conie ~ Fitzhugh took leave of ColoneV Eair~
Lax and Mrs. Fairfax with words of cheerful anticipa-.
tion, and in accents that became sad, in spite of his
efforts to cheer their hearts, he was about to bid fare~
welL to Julia. He pause and said, "My dearest
Julia, I x~iust carry with me the memory of your sweet
voice in song. Sing one song for me before I leave
you." At such a monent her voice could not be
quite free from. the tremulous effect of her emotion, but
she, too, was exerting herself to lighten the sadness
of hearts 6he loved, and not permitting her tones to
betray her heart too. plainly, she sung ,a song~
YIRGINIA.
Virginia bleeds and weeps for Woe
But feels no touch of Shame;
Beneath ocIips~ her glories glow
With undiminished flame.
A virgin queen with laurel crown,
A sovereign of the free,
She vows to trample tyrants down
for liberty.
Not always thus shall droop her head,
She will tejoiee again:
~?o blood so pure for freedom shed  /
Was ever shed in vain.
An~ altai every battle-field
On which her sons have died-..
Its smoke, like incense, has appealed
Where right is ~1ie'er denied.

ROEBUCK.
CHAPThR XXL.

D1TST1WHACIW~ AT X~OEUUOK~
AMoNG the Federal officers at the village ~as Cap-.~
tam Pakin, who led a oompaty of marauding cavalry.
He was active, daring, cruel and treacherous. He
was a favorite instrument of Colonel 'Wesel in ex~
ecuting all plans of bold. adventure or ruthless re~
venge. By virtue of a round, red Lace, ~a jolly laugh,
and a fondness for the bottle, he was called a good
fellow. The~ licence which he allowed to his men
made him popular among them. He had been a
preacher. After wearing out religion as a theme of
popular eloquence, he took to preaching politics from
the pulpit. The political agitation of the day was the
controversy between the North and ~South, and that,
curiously enough, turned mainly upon Southern
slavery, which excited no dissension where it existed,
but offended the North, where it was ubkuown. The
pretext for introducing it into the sacred desk, and
beating the "drum ecclesiastic" for recruits in the
political warfare of the North against the South, was
that slavery was a sin. Erom the exclusive attention
given to it, the reverend gentleman's hearers might
have concluded that it .was the only sin extant, and,
consequently, that those who were free from it were
saints. It was so atrociouS a erhue, that the preacher
in denouncing slave-holders, ~1auced ii~ the pulpit with
sacredd fury. The sentiments which foamed from his

232


* 2~4                ILOEBUCI~.                                                               RO]i~BUCK.                   235

lips were unearthly. A mortal who has not, been in
Ileav'en, dares not affirm with confidence that they
were Heavenly. But it may be presumed that there
~is a world above or below us in which they might
take their origin. A~ all his hearers were free from
the guilt which he denounced, his denunciations may
appear to have been superfluous; but they had the*
happy effect of cultivating in the hearts of his congre-
gation a comfortable sense of their own perfection in
comparison with those-distant sinners, together with
a holy. hatred. of those reprobates. Besides, they
swelled a certain volume of votes. Ambitious to ex-
tend the sphere of hi~ usefulness, or preferring the
applause of a multitude to the still decorum of a
church, this clergyman turned atreet-.preaeher. From
porticos of public buildings, or from bbard-piles in
vacant lots, he harangued- the mob on Sunday after-
noons as they were harangue&amp; by the other dema-
gogues from similar platforms on week days. At
last, 'weary of teaching 'others to disdain the com-
mandment against coveting a neighbor's servants, he
abandoned the pulpit, and regaled himself with a
breaeh'~f the commaudmeAt against coveting a neigh-
bor's wife. A -member of his congregation had a
very pretty wife. Her beauty was to blame in the
affair. Besides, a~sweet sin that nestles in our own
bosoms looks less ugly than another man's sin afar off.
 One may be embraced, while the other, is anathema.
'~Then the war broke out, however, he left the arms
of his charmer, to take up arms 'for his country.
Albert Palmer, arriving at the village, hastened to
communicate to Oolonel Wesel the information which
he had received from blind Pete. The colonel em-
braced" with alacrity an opportunity to capture the

I

Confederate officer. Fitzhugh'~ oavah'y had been en-
terprising and troublesome~ They had c~ut off several
parties ~of Wesel's men, besides hara~sii1g him with
alarms in his camp. Aided and stimulated by the
people, ~who were exasperated by oppression, they had
made it necessary of late for the Federals to restrictt
the range of their operations within narrow limits~
The capture of the Confederate colonel, therefore, was
very lesirable. It would gratify, also, for Albert
ralmei a private pique; and, perhaps, open the way
for the renewal of a matrimonial project, which, for
certain reasons, he desired to revive. Love had failed,
but arms might prevail. The possession of the heiress
of Roebuck would be convenient in any event of
the ~var,. and he still distrusted the success of the
Federal.
Caplin Dakin was aroused from slumber, and in-
trusted with the duty of capturing Colonel Fitzhugh,
and he was directed also to arrest Colonel Fairfax,
and carry him before the tribunal of the Federal com-
mander, upon a charge of harboring the rebel o~cer.
lie was )t~ take with him but a small party,- because
success might depend on secrecy as well as pi'ompti-
tude of action. The ready captain soon had his men
in the saddle. In moving about, he stumbled over
Juba, who was asleep on the porch of the Swan
tavern. As it was no longer necessary for- him' to
take to the bush for the enjoyment of. leisure, he~
lounged about the village, day and night, waiting for
his slice of land. It occurred to ihe captain that this*
fellow might be useful as a guide about the grounds
of Roebuck, and waking hini with a kick, he ~orde~d
him to mount a ~hor~e;' and companyy the party.
Albert Palmer also went along~ When they were

284

235


286        RGEBUOj~,

within a mile of the mansion of Roebuck, Captain
])akin informed Juba of his destination and. design,
requiring the involuntary guide to lead a squad to the
rear of the house, and to point out every path,. gate
and outlet by which Fitzhugh might escape. To
quicken his intelligence, he was tcdd that, if the rebel
officer wa~ not captured, he should Jx~ hung.
Arriving near the mansion, (~aptaiz~ t)akin quietly
posted his men. so as to shut up every loop-hole of
retreat, and then rode up to the front of the hous~e.
Awaking the "inmates' bybeating on a door, he called
for Colonel Fairfax~- That geutfezuan soon appeared
at an upper window, and inp4red who was there.
"captain Dakin desires to see Colonel Fitzhugh."
"He is not here,"
"I kiiow better. I have direct information. You.
can't deceive me."
"There is no attempt to deceive you, I assure you
he is not in, the house."
"You want to parley while he escapes. U under-.
stand your game. It won't do. Your house is sur-
rounded with my troops."
"Captain Dakin, upon my honor he is not here."
"You lie, you - gild rebel. Send Fitzhugh to
me, or I will set fire to your house in five minutes.
It ought to havie been burnt long ago."
"It i~ impossible for me to send a man who is not
near me."
"Then the house shall burn."
Surely,~ you are not in. earnest ~
~" You will see."
~Captain Dakin called two of his men, and ord~*red
thenito bring fire from a~ negro cabin, and apply it to
the house in front and rear. Colonel Fairfax reinon.~.

286

4%

Oli~P IT C IC.           2~VT
strated, and invited him to search the house~ The
captain replied that he was nOt to be taken in by that
trick~ He, was then requested to give the ladies time
to put on their clothes,' and leave the house before 'it
was area. He answ'~red; 'with an oath, that they and
Colonel Fairfax should remain in the hous~, and be
burnt with it, unless he delivered u~ Colonel Fitz~
hugh~ "Give him up," he added; "or his sweet-
heart shall answer %~or it." This brutal threat' was
heard' by Julia, wbo stood at a Window of her chain-.
bet listening to the dialogue. Mrs~ Fairfax stood
near her husband. lie requested her to go to J~ulia's
room, and directed that they should both pi~epare to
fly' from the house~. He then went 'for a gun 'which
he kept concealed, because' the inhabitants were gene-
rally disarmed by the Federals. Returning to the
window, he sa~v~ the two soldiers"'appi~oaehing with
fire. lie called out to Captaiti Dakin, and said--.." if
yZ~u attempt to burn the house with my fainil~Kln it,
I will certainlyy shoot the' man who applies the torch,"
The captain ordered the men to ftre the 'house. One
of them, coining to the front, applied the' fire, and
stooped down to kindle it. Colonel Fairfax dis-
charged a load of buckshot from one barrel of the
gun, and 'one or two shots' entered' the soldier's leg.
He ran' away, making a great outcry of pain. 'The
colonel passe(I over to a back window,, and saw the
other soldier putting fire to the house.' lie discharged'
the other barrel,~ and the man theit' ran, alarmed, but
not hurt. Colonel Fairfax re-.l6aded his gun, and re-
sumed his place at the front 'In the' meantime, a
negro man, who slept in the house, was awakened by.
the report of flre-.arm~, and ran to the assistance of his
master. He came to the window just as some of' the'


1~onnt1oTC.
soldiers fired a volley at it~ and he was slightly
wounded His master, -having no weapon for him,
sent him to4he as~lst~uce of the ladies, with; a request
that they would go down stairs, where he would ~re-
sently join them, and endeavor to escape. The -man
found them dressed; hut Mrs. Fairfax, overcome with
alarm, had sun1~upou the floor, and Julia kn&amp;lt beside
her, urging he to fly. When the servant came, she
left her mother with him~and going-to her father, in-
si~ted that he should convey Mrs. Fairfax from the
house, while she would remain at the window, and
engagethe attention of the soldiers. He directed her
to return, and, with the assistance of the servant,
carry her mother down stairs, saying that he would
detain the soldiers at the front, until the ladies were
ready to pass out from a back door, which he desig..
nated, and then be would follow. In obedience to his
directions, they descended to the door. While this
was taking place within, Captain Dakin found means
to fire the house, and very- s6en the flames began to
ascend on every side. The colonel, without further
delay, followed the ladies; and found them waiting for
him at the door.
Taking his wife, almost inanimate, in his arms, he
went out, followed, by Julia and the servant. They
walked rapidly away from the honse, and for a short
distance were concealed ~by shrubbery. But they
were soon discovered and were pursued with cries of
"here they go-~-slioot them-Adll the - secesh."
Several pist~l~~ -were five~I at them. - A ball took effect
in the colonel's thigh and he fell to the ground. His
wife became quite insensible. Julia. stood a moment
bewildered4 She saw some of the soldiers seize her
father and other~ her mother, dragging them away.

~hO.EBUCIC.

She felt the grasp of two men who drew her along, and
before she could recover from the stupefactinn of ter-
-. ror, they placed her on a horse before the rider, lie
held. her fh'mly and~ dashed o$i~' at a rapid pace, which
g3oon~ recalled her faculties. - ~rhe struggled to fh~e her-
self; but the h6rseman, tightening his gvas~ -aboi~t her
waist, said.--"be Inot ~al~r~ed, Miss Fairfaz; you are
safe ; -1 will carry you away from those ruffians." She
recognized the voice of Albert Palmer..
"My father," she cried, "my mother-I mu~t not
leave them. 0, Captain Palmer, release ~ne."
- "That would be madness, ~Miss FairfAi You
would rim into danger and could do no good. I will
take you to a place of safety and then look after
them."
* "I must go back. Release me, sir."~ -
* "No, my sweet bird, that is impossible."
He struck his spurs intohis horse, and in spite of
her entreaties; remonstr~ances and struggles, he bore
her away through the darkness.
- While the fire Was raging, Captain Dakin-was mow.
ing about in. great excitement, cursing and ~iviuig
orders to secure the rebels and keep strict watch for
Fitzhugh. He was expected every moment to issue
from'vhehurning building. When the house was ~o
far consumed that Captain Dakin *a~ aure the rebel
officer could not be in it, he called for the negro who
had acted as guide, - sweating that he had played false.
Poor Juba was found and brought before him.
"Jziano - him," was~ the peremptory otder In vain
the negro protested his innocence and implored mercy.
His cries, his groans, his tears- wete disregarded.
While the flames yet raged, he- swung ftom a tree
before the hou*-~8 corpse. Spark&amp; fell oi~ the cabin

f


240      ROEBUCK.

of 'old Uncle Valentine, and it was soon in a blaze.
He was carried from it by some of the negroes; dread-
f~illy burned, and. in a few minutes he died.' It is
believed that Joe perished in the burning mansion.
He rat~ towards it when he saw it in flames, and hear-
* ing that his master was inside, he rushed in to rescue
him. He was seen running to and fro in the upper
part of the house when the fire was licking the high..
est windows. He was never seen' afterwards.
Mrs. Fairfax, after being dragged a short distance
by the soldiers, was left by them lying upon the
mound, her &amp;ge' and sex, perhaps, obtaining for her
the compassion of neglect. Some of her servants ear-
ned her to anegro cabin, where the faithful creatures
ministered to her with assiduous care until morning,
when she wfis conveyed t&amp; the house of a friend in the
neigh 'hood. Colonel Fairfax, after being drawn
along ~he earth in great agony from the spot where
he ~va~ wounded to a pl~aee more remote from the
flames, was guarded as if he had been able to fight or
ily. He lay in pain and in view ~f his burning home;
but more intolerable than his* w~und was his anxiety
for the safety of hi~ wife and daughter. He was kept
in ignoranee of their fate, and when the rising sun
s~ione upon the smoking ruins of his mansion, he was
thrown into a cart and ~carried to the village. He was
there placed in~a house which was used as a hospital.
,The surgeon in charge treated him vith professional
skill and with extreme kindness. He left nothing
undone that was within his pe~1~r for the relief and
comfort of the wounded and bereaved gentleman.
During the day a considerable number of Federal
officers called upon him to express their sympathy
and respect.. Of these~ some had e~ijoyed his ho~pi-

ROEBUCK.

241

tality, and esteemed him from personal acquaintance.
To others he was a stranger, but they knew his char-
acter and acted in the spirit of' generous courtesy
which becomes the profession of arms
When Colonel Wesel heard his subordinate's re-
port of t~he proceedings or operations of the night, he
'commended the captain's conduct, and was enraged at
the audacious attack made by Colonel Fairfax on the
Federal troops. He looked upon it as the cap-sheaf~
of crime in the county. He denounced Colonel Fair-
fax not only as a "secesh," a rebel and an aristocrat,
but as a "bushwhacker ".-.-an epithet commonly
applied to those persons, who, not being in the mu..
tary service, waylaid enemies and shot them from
bushes, trees, rock~, houses or other places of conceal..
ment. The insolent offences of the secesh citizens,. he
declared, had been increasing of late. Women had
worn Confederate colors in their garments and had
declined the acquaintance of Federals. Men had re
fused to remain at home and till the ground Negroes
'   had been chastised. Rebel soldiers had been 'harbored
by their families and others. Loyal citizens had been
insulted. The venerable clergyman of the village had
refused to pray fbr the President of the-United States
These, and other enormities, were recited in an order
issued by Colonel Wesel, and it was added that law-.
less barbarity had at last culminated in an attempt
made by a bad old man to assassinate a Federal officer
and several men, at midnight, by clandestinely shooting
at them from the concealment of darkness and of a
private dwelling. The colonel announced his deter-
mination to suppress all these diabolical practices, and
especially that of bushwhacking.. He threatened
that other dweffings shouldbe destroyed, and that, if
1~

L

4

A

240


24~             ROEBUCK.
such offences were repeated, the county should be
made a barren waste.
He proceeded to make nn exanirde of the church
and the pastor. He appropriated the ancient edifice
to the uses of a stable for the cavalry. He caused
the Reverend Mr. Ambler to be arrested and brought
before him. After interrogating and bullying the
old gentleman, and lecturing him on theology, he
condemned the meek and venerable minister to work
upon the street of the village daily, during the plea~
sure of the colonel. The sentenCe was instantly car-
iied into execution, and, beside a negro, the village
pastor, guarded 'like a felon, bowed his white head
over a ~~ade. He bore his cross with Christian
resignatiOn, but he called to mind the words of the
'Preacher-" If thou seest the oppression of the poor
and violent per've~ting of judgment and justice in a
province, marvel not at the matter: for He that is
higher than the highest regardeth; and there be
higher than they."

ROEBUCK.      243

CHAPTER XXIL
VENG~ANC1~.
Th the afternoon of the ~ame day, Captain Dakin
was. sent out upQu an~ errand of devastation. At
Roebuck he burned barns, fences, stacks and e\rery~.
thing else that was valuable and combustible, except
a few cabins inhabited by negroes-a 1~aithfiil remnant
of the blithe black population that once enjoyed the
wealth of that estate. .iIe then led his' troopers to
Willowbank, and proceeded to execute vengeance
upon Hugh Fitzhugh and his mother, by destroying
their ancient mansion.' He sent one of the servants
to notify his mistress that he was about to burn the
house, and that she would be allowed ten .minutes to
remove her indispensable clothing. She was confined
to bed by sickness. She sent her faithful servant,
Belle, to inform the Federal officer of her condition,
and to request him not to disturb~her at that time.
He replied~ that he was up. to the tricks of the "she-
rebels ;" that her illness was feigned, to save her.
house, but that it should not avail. He ordered
Belle to tell the old woman up stairs that the house.
would be fired in precisely ten minutes by the watch.
When the lady was informed of this savage threat,
and. was convince by Belle's representations that the
- . captain intended to ~xecute it, her eyes flashed and
her bosom swelled with indignant ~Iefiance. The
energy of her spirit overcame the languor of disease.
"Go," said she to Belle, "tell the brutal wretch that


244                1lO]~13UCl~.                                                                    ROEBUCK.                      245

I will remain here. Let him burn the house and me
too." Belle descended again and informed~ the cap~
tam that her mistress could not be removed without
risk of her life, and would .no% consent to leave the
house. She implored him not to burn the house with
her mistress in it. He repeated his former threat,
with many oaths. When the servant returned to the
chamber she found that Mrs. 'Fit~hugh had composed
herself in bed with rigid resolution, and was evi-
dently preparing her mind for the death which she
expected. She said to her servani.-" Stay here until
they fire the house; then save yourself. I hope this
sacrifice will arouse the indignation of men and the
justice of Heaven to arrest the atrocious system of
warfare that is desolating my country.' Tell my dear
Hugh that I die blessing him. God save Virginia.
Now farewell, my good girl. I must prepare for
death."
Belle uttered loud lamentations, and, on her knees,
entreated her mistress to leave thehouse. She even
attempted to carry her away forcibly, but the authority
and resistance of the energetic old lady prevented her.
When the fire began to rise she ran to and fro wildly,
and then, after a final effort to remove Mrs. Fitzhugh
with affectionate violence, she fled from the flames.
When Captain Dakin saw her run out, leaving her
mistress in the burning building, he began t@ think
that the old lady really could iiot be removed by her
servant, and that she would be consumed by the fire.
Shocked at that probable event, he ordered some of
his men to enter the house and carry her out. They'
rushed into her chamber,, caught her up, without re-
garding her remonstrances, and bore her into the
yard only a moment before it would have been too

late to descend the stairs. They laid her on the
grass, and there she witnessed the final destruction of
her house. When the flames had sunk into. sfltoulder-
ing ashes she inquired for the officer' in~ command.
Captain Dakin presented himself to her.
"Captain," she said, l&amp;ol~ing iat him sternly, "you
haye destroyed my home, thrusting me from it when
I am too feeble to rise; but my misfortunes are as
nothing ~in flhe general calamity. I bear them pa-
tiently, as sacrifices for my country. It is not of them
I wish to speak to you. But I have heard of the
outrages you have perpetratedupon others-upon rich
and poor~-~upon men, women and children. Now,
while you look on the last embei~s~you have made,
your latest victim, a feeble old Woman, Warns yoiito
desist from your ferocious warfare on the innocent
and defenceless. As sure as there is a God who
pities the' wid~w and the fatherless, you and your
people will rue these crimes. Divine justice will not
'always sleep "-.---
"Divine justice !" interrupted the reverend cap:
tam, with an oath and a satirical Laugh, "that's
played out 'long since at the North. No more of that
sort of talk, old woman."*
"~IIave you dethroned God ?"
"Take this woman away," he said t9 some of her
servants who had assembled around her. They car-
ried her away tenderly. 'Some of them had lately
been corrupted by' evil as~oeiation, but the sight of
their old mistress in distress moved their passionate
hearts to eager demonstrations of affection. She
thanked them, and when she was refreshed with rest
'she called some of her women around her and thus
addressed them;


24(3     ROEBUCK.                               ROEBUCK.      24'7

"I thank you, my poor girls, for your service. I
am grateful to all my servants. I do not reproach
those who have left me. I pity you all. You do not
foresee the evils that are coming upon your race. I
cart no longer protect you. Our house, that gave you
and me shelter, is destroyed. Our family is broken
up. We shall be no more toFgether. But I shall
uever forget the love and fidelity of my servants diir-
ing so many years. God grant that you may never
regret our separation. I cannot give you counsel
~hereafter, and let me tell you, once for all, that if you
would be happy you must be humble, industrious and
good. Bless you, my girls; may you be happy !"
After Captain Dakin had fulfilled his mission of
destruction at Willowbank, he led his troopers away
to other work of a similar kind: Passing near the
cabin of Marlin, the preaching cooper, he remembered
a report that Eliza Marlin had committed the offence
of carrying medicines to the rebels. He could not
~. recollect the particulars of the accusation, but it arose
out of the 'circumstance~ that, when her father had an
attack of fever, she visited him in camp, and carried
some drugs~ for the use of him and others. Halting
before the. cabin, he called Eliza and charged her with
the offenTee. She admitted it, stating all the circum-
stances. He declared that she should be punished on
the spot. By his command some of the, men seized
her, and tying her thumbs with cords, drew them up
until her 'arms were stretched above her head and
she stood upon her toes, and then they attached the
cords to a joist. Others tied her mother to a chain,
so that she could not release her daughter. Thus the
two women were left. Eliza had struggled while
they were binding her, until she found resistance use-

less, and then, disdaining to beg for mercy, she sub-
mitted in silence. When her face reddened and her
eyes flashed with indignation, she seemed beautiful to
the rude and pitiless troopers. Her defenceless situ..
ation and the degradation to which she had been sub-
jected by their captain encouraged them to entertain
a licentious and outrageous design. tigainst her. On
the mardi, when it had become dark, four oi~ .five of
them separated themselves from the command and
returned to the cabin. ~Releasing Eliza, they began
to insult her whh the rough familiarity of affected
fondness, ~rnd then ensued a scene of violence which
cannot be described.
When the men were departing they released Mrs.
Marlin, and with mock compassion bade hertake good
care of her pretty daughter. That wretched girl was'
left nearly dead, and praying for death as a refuge
from shame. Her mother's brain reeled, and she was
almost incapable of rendering any assistance to tile
form that writhed upon the floor. "0, mother,
mother," was the despairing cry of the girl in he~
deadly anguish. "0, God, 0, God !". was the ory of
the mother. Throwing herself beside her daughter,
and embracing h~r with frenzied passion, she sobbed
and wept until the motionless stillness of the girl
startled her with a new fear.. "0 God, my daughter
is dead!" she exclaimed. The dim light of a poor
candle could scarcely reveal her low breathing, her
eyes were half-closed, and she appeared to her dis-
tracted mother the image of death. Still clinging to
hope, Mrs. Marlin hastened to apply the simple restor-
atives at hand, and gradually recalled so much anima-
tion that her daughter could faintly converses In that
condition she lingered some h9llrs of the iii~ht.


248            ROEBUCK.                                                         ROflilucit.             249

Having laid her on a bed, her mother sat besfde her.
With her strong will she drove back the madness
which. she felt to be creeping over her brain, in order
that she might ward off death, which, ~he feared, was
stealing into the heart of her daughter. Alone,
through the dark and dreary watche&amp;'~of a terrible
night, she sustained that awful conflict. The dying
girl sometimes, in delirium, uttered words that cleft
the soul of the lonely watcher at her bedside. Some~.
times, in rational moments, she whispered such despair,
such pity for her mother, such affection for her absent
father and brother, that the miserable mother wavered
between madness and death. Atiength Eliza started
up, and staring with all the dreadful feelings of that.
iiight concentrated in her eyes, she cried, "~ is over,"
and fell back up6n her pillow. Then a more placid
expression settled upon her~face, and she died.
The mother at first refused to believe that all was
over. She fancied that a light breath still came from
those lifeless lips. She laid her hand over the pulse..
less heart and stood fondly waiting to feel the motion
Qf life. While thus she stood a change came over her
own features. Still feeling in vain for the pulsation
of her daughter's heart~ her pallid features became
rigid and then relaxed to an unmeaning simper. "I
can't find it-.-.I can't find it "-she repeated, moving
herhands about over the body of her child. Presently
abe walked to.the door'-.then out upon the road, and
she stood there a f~w minutes in silence. Suddenly
she burst into, a loud laugh, and cried-." I know
where it is. Abraham's got it. I'll go for Abraham."
She walked rapidly away through the darkness. By
chance, or from some recollection that her husband had
passed that way the night before, she followed his

regiment. She kept on its track during the remain-
der of the night, in the morning and throughout the
day. On she went, without food or drink or rest.
Now and then she stopped and looked bewildered, as
if she had forgotten her ewand. Then ~he would
start, saying, "I'll go fort Ab~haham~-.he~s get it."
Thus onward she strode, drawn ~by the insane fanny
that hei husband could restore that mysterious spring
of life, which had ceased t&amp;vibrate in the bosom of her
daughter, though she had lost all rational re~olleetio~i
of that which she had lost and for which she searched.
" Abraham's got it.-rll go for Abraham ;" this frag.
ment of thought survived the wreck of her intellect,
and was drifting her towards her husband.
At evening she came upon the regiment where it
had halted. Moving about among the men, she took
no notice of any one until she saw her husband. Run-
fling to him, she seized his hand and 'attempted to
lead him along, while she said, "Come, Abraham-I
knowed you had it. Bring it h&amp;me. Eliza's waiting
for it. She is lying on the bed. She looks so pretty."
She laughed aloud, and then began to talk rapidly and
incoherently, making no allusion to her daughter or
to her husbands return home. Having fulfilled the
purpose which had kept her wandering mind partially
fixed during the day, she lost all control of her wild
imagination. In vain her distressed husband endeav-
ored to learn from her the object of her journey and
the rational explanation of the words with which she
had greeted him. When her son, hearing of her
arrival, went to meet her, she fell upon his neck, ex-
claiming, "my brave boy." Then her talk rambled
again into unintelligible mazes. Her husband and
~on were afflicted beyond expression. They feared,
11*


250      ROEBUCK.                              ROEBUCK.      251

too, that some dreadful event must have occurred to
shatter her intellect, and bo*th her first a11us~on to
EIiz~, and the absence of the daughter from the
mother in her present condition, suggested the most
terrible apprehensions for the beloved girl.
When Colonel Fitzhugh became acquainted with
these circumstances he expressed the deepest sorrow
for the afflictions of this poor family, and considered
what might be done for their relief. Among other
measures which he suggested ar adopted, he relieved
both Abraham and Mark from military duty, advising
the husband to take charge of his wife, and the son to
go home immediately and look after the safety of his
sister. They followed his advice, and Mark was soon
riding rapidly. towards the cabin in which Ehiza had
been left by her mother.
N

CHAPTER XXIIL
BAXTER
So~ix time after nightfall, while Captain DaI~in was
absent from the village, upon his foray against Wit.
lowbank, and other defenceless dwellings of women
and children, Colonel Wesel was seated in a great
ann-chair, in a room of the Swan ~ His rotund
figure swelled with importance, his lace was red, and
his eyes were moist with the dew distilled by drink.
Altogether, he 1ooi~ed mello)v, though duly formi-
dable, as he said pompously-~-" bring in the prisoner."
The order ~as obeyed, and a young man, followed by.
a guard, swaggered into the room, and, without wait-
ing for an invitation, took a seat. He looked first at
Colonel Wesel, and then at Albert Palmer, who was
sitting at the colonel's right hand, as a counsellor.
He gazed at them both with an insolent stare, and
then, leaning back in his chair, threw his feet upon a
table. He was clad in the uniform of a private of
Confederate cavalry. He was not known to the cob
onel, but Palmer~ at once recognized his old antagonist,
Baxter. That eccentric commissary resigned his
commission at the time of his duel with Palmer, and
returning home, he remained there in inglorious ease,
until the next spring, when the law of conscription
was enacted by the Confederate Congress. Being
then obliged to.enter the service, he. be4~ame a private
in the company formerly commanded by Hugh Fitz~.
hugh. When the regiment passed near Roebuck,


252       ROEBUCK.                                 ROEBtTCIC.     253

just before the burning of that mansion, Baxter took
the liberty of withdrawing from the ranks and visit~
ing the village, He intended to spend an hour there,
and return to the regiment. But he fell in with a
boon companion and good liquor. His habitual
weakness detained him several hours, and, at last, he
lay down to sleep himself sober. He slept until eve-~
ning, and then, in attempting to pass out of the vil~
lage, he was captured. When he found himself in
the presence of Wesel and Palmer, his first thought' \
was that the one was a fool, and the other a coward.
lie conceived the idea of escaping from durance by
some stratagem, and with' that view, he determined to
protract the proceedings, which would keep him about
the tavern, and to tiy the effect of bullying his
judges. He gave free rein to his insolence, affecting
to be drunk, although he was as sober as a man ought
ever to be, according to his theory.
"So," said Cokmel Wesel, sternly, "you be'st our
prisoner.';
"I suspected as much," answered Baxter.
"And moreover, besides, you be'st a spy."
"That's a lie."
"Mein Gott That is impudence."
"You are a fool, and you speak broken Dutch."
"Vat you say? You impudent slavery institution.
Donner! That institution is impudent. Vat you say?
Eh~h-h ?"
" Colonel, you are right in objecting to the insti~
tuition, but you do not urge the right objection."
"Vat is das, you secesh puppy~"
"The only valid objection to our peculiar iustitu~
tion is that the nio' sing at their work, and sing
slow tunes. They work to h~rmns, and dance to jigs.
It-won't pay."

"Veil, I viii hang you. You bees ~ spy. Now let
us go on wid the examination. I viii hang you, but
I viii examine you first. You shall not say, when
you are dead, that I does not the fair thing."
"I tluiink we might pass over the examination, since
the sentence has been already pronounced. That would
save time."
"No; I viii examine you, to hang you according
to law."
"Then I will lie down on this bench, and take a
nap, while you are engaged in the examination. When
you are ready to hang me, please wake me up. I
want to see it done."
"You dinks I von't hang you; but I vii,
by -."
"No, you won't."
"What for I won't hang you? Eh-h..h ~"
"Don't put your face so near me, when you speak
to me. Your breath smells of onions and Sweitzer
cheese."
"I viii ,stop your breath vid a rope, hundefut,
Johnny Reb."
"Now, don't. I prefer to be shot. ~Jan't you
spare me a bullet? A bullet is the decent dose for
a gentleman. There is Palmer-4ie can tell you so:
By the way, did he ever tell you about the exchange
of bullets between him and me when he was in the
rebel service?"
"You slander mine friend. He is not a rebel nor
never vas not."
"Not rebel enough to~ hurt him. He deserted the
first chance he got."
"Don't mind what a drunken fellow says," inter.
posed Palmer.

0


254      ROEBUCK.                                ROEBUCK.  .    255

"But, colonel, I must tell you about our duel. It
is a capital story. This was the way of it."
"He will talk here all night, if you 16t him~," again
interrupted Palmer, uneas~iIy, ~' you had better send
him to the guard-house."
"But, colonel, it is a good story. Send for a
bottle, and I will tell you all about it while we
drink."
"You saucy sesesh! You shall not drink my
liquor, nor. tell me no story. Let us go on vid the
examination.
"Now, colonel, I know you are dry. So am I.
You won't refuse a poor devil a drink,, when he is
going to be hung."
"Das is true. Das is fiilr. Palmer, please get the
bottle."
"That, now, is handsome for a Dutchman," said
Baxter, taking up the bottle, which Palmer produced
from a closet; "now, I will tell the story.?'
"Vou are an infamous liar," exclaimed Palmer,
livid, with rage.   N
"You shall be a toddy," said Baxter, as he hurled
the bottJe at Palmer's head; "whiskey to milk-and-.
water ;" but, the bottle missed the head, and was
shattered against the wall; "a dead loss," added'
Baxter.
Wesel stormed furiously, and threatened the pris-
oner with a thousand deaths,*in German and English.
Baxter sa~t quiet, until the storm had some what sub-.
sided, and he their said, "Colonel, as we have nothing
to drink, we had better resume the examination."
"VeIl, I vill hang you."
"You dare not."
"Vot for I dares not ?"

"Because Colonel Fitzhugh will hang you before
to-morrow-night, if you do."
"Fitz~tue! Where is he? I vas looking for that
rebel. I burnt him up in that.-'-.o14 rebel roost."
"He is with his regiment, and- near' enough to you
to hang you to-morrow."
"Vas heinthis Village vid you yen you didn't get
out? Tell me truth, or I vill hang you again, two,
three times."
"He may be in the village n&amp;w."
"Ambuscade, eh? That - rebel cavalry is every-.
where. I can't sleep. I can't eat mine dinner I can't
take mine little dram-.-.-you broke mine bottle, you
butternut-.--.till some fellow comes running in to tell the
rebel cavalry is upon us. It is the black-horse and
the white-horse, it is Ashby's and Stuart's, and it is
Fitzstue's all the timre~ Where fs he?. Send out
some of them cowardly cavalry of mine. They runs
back yen they sees a bush. Send the prisoner .to the'
guard house."
"I won't go to the guard-house."
"VTou wc5n't. Why won't you, then? Eh-.h-h !"
"Because I am a gentleman. I'll give you my
parole."
"You are a i'ebel.-that's vc4 you bees."
"A rebel owing allegiance, I suppose, to Dutchmen
hired to conquer American States 1"
"1 bin colonel of a loyal regiment. I bin gentle-.'
man."
"A Dutch colonel Qf a Yankee regiment! 'What
a conjunction! Krout and clam-.chowder!, Hessian
and Yankee! Hush-.-.-listeu..--thereis Fitzhugh's
cavalry now !"
A clatter of hoofs was heard on the street. Colonel~


2~6                 ILOEBUCIC..

ROE BUCK.      257

Wesel started up and ran to the door, followed by all
the others who were in the room. He called to arms.
He peered into the dark to ascertain the cause of the
alarm. Captain Dakin with his troops rode up. In
the confusion and darkness Baxter had slipped away.
By his intimate knowledge of all places about the vil~-
lage he~wa8 able in a few~ minutes to reach a place of
concealment, where he remained until a late hour of
the night favored his escape.
After passing out of the village, and walking a mile
or two, he heard the rattling of a cart on the road.
Stopping behind a tree until it. came up, he found it
was blind Pete's. That knave still continued his noc~
turnal rambles, and ~ractised'his vilainies now with..
out even the trouble of giving bail. Baxter hailed
him, and taking i~ seat in the cart beside him, told him
to drive on. Asthey rode aloud, he drew from Pete
a variety of information about the Federal force and
other matters, sometimes by wheedling and some~
times by brow..beating. It was not difficult to do, for
Pete parted readily with whatever knowledge he pos.
sessed. He would yield it up at any time to bribes
or threats, and often threw it away recklessly, from a
propensity to gossip. From him Baxter derived
some information respecting Colonel Fairfax and his
family, which, with additions not known to the blind
gossip, it is proper to convey to the reader.
When Pete, on the night before,' left Mr. Palmer's,
he went with his cart towards ~Roebnck, by order of
Albert. That young gentlsrnan could not have anti-
cipated the fire, but he appears to have conceived the
capture of Fitzhugh and the arrest of Colonel Fairfax,
and may have thought that the exeCution of such a
plan of violence would' offer an opportunity for using

Pete's cart in some such enterprise as he afterwards
effected. On his 'way thither the carter met Palmer,
carrying Miss Fairfax on his horse. With Pete's
assistance he forced her into the cart and took a seat
beside her. He then directed Pete to arive to his
father's. The young lady frequently iinplore4 Palmer
with pathetic entreaty to release her or to carry her
to her parents. Sometimes, as the cart moved on, she
tried toget upon her knees before him. She appealed
to his rnan~ood, to his pity. Sometimes, after she
found him. unrelenting, she gave way to helpless and
hopeless indignation, more pitiable than her tears. He
spoke but little. At first he affected to soothe her
with professions of regard and promises of safety.4
Then, becoming impatient,~ he rebuked her sternly
and relapsed into silence. When they arrived at his
father's house she was taken to the front door, which
was opened by Mr. Palmer, in answer to Pete's signal,
and then' the blind agent was dismissed.
T!le uext morning the elder Palmer called on Col..
onel Wesel at the village# He and his son' were con..
fidential advisers of that officer in all affairs of th6
county~ lie was trusted as the head of the "loyal"'
element in the county, as he had a right to be-being
the head of his own family. After congratulating
Colonel Wesel upon the I vigor and success of his
administration, especially as shown in the last night's
operations, he proceeded to dilate upon the~ importance
of the capture which had 'l4on made in the person of
Colonel Fairfax. Beside~ denouncing the offences
specially charged against ~iim, such as harboring a
rebel officer and bushwha~king, he represented that
the colonel was the main st~y of the secession interest
in the county. He suggesI~ed that the removal of one

256

257


258      ROEBUCK;

so influential from the State would tend to quell the
spirit of resistance, and produce quiet and submission.
He suspected that if such a prisoner remained at the
village desperate efforts would be made to rescue him,
and Colonel Wesel might be attacked by an over..
powering force. He advised that the distinguished
rebel should be sent to Washington, with a suitable
representation of his offences and of his importance,
in order that he might be detained there as a prisoner
of State. Colonel Wesel, elated with his good for-
tune, and apprehensive of a rescue, embraced the advice.
~with alacrity. That very evening Colonel Fairfax
was started to Washington. He had to make the first
stage of the journey in an open wagon and over rough
roads. He suffered intolerable pain. But he was
hurried off without mercy, escorted by a strong guard.
He requested permission to see his wife and d~inighter
before starting, but it was refused. He was not in-
formed of his destination, and that was kept a secret
from others, lest a knowledge of the route to be pur-
sued should facilitate a rescue. He' was not even
permitted to know what had become of his wife and
daughter.
Mrs. Fairfax remained at the house to which she
had been carried, as already mentioned, on the morn-
ing after the fire at Roebuck. Mrs. Fitzhugh was
carried to the. same place, after the destruction of her
house. To that high-spirited lady the exertion re-
quired by her misfortune proved an antidote to melan-
choly. As she had suffered only in the loss of property,
and not, like Mrs Fairfax, in. the loss of those who
were dearest to her, she became more cheerful than
~he had usually beezr during the war. She devoted
herself to the consolation of her more afflicted friend.

ROEBUCK.                  259
Mrs. Fairfax, of a gentle, tender, delicate nature,
accustomed to be cherished by her husband and
daughter, and hitherto sheltered by fortune from the
storms of life, pined under her calamities. The shocks
which she endured in that dreadful night, when her
house was burned, and her husband and ~Iaughter
were snatched from her to be carried, she knew not
whither, almost bereft her of existence. She had not
the stubborn qualities ~hioh might have enabled her
to rally her strength and spirits.~ No consAation
could lift her from despondency. Sorrowwithered her
~ strength and her health vanished, Her form wasted
away. She lay night and day, scarcely uttering, a
word 'but the names of her husband and., daughter.
J1ife waned iu her until it became the shadow of
dea1~h.

4


260      ROEBUCK.                           ROEBUCK.      261

CHAPTER XXIV.
ALI3EIIT rAtMEE' S LOVE.
Wiu~ Mr. Palmer, on the night of the fire at Roe.
buck; had opened his door, he was informed by his
son that Miss Fairfax was there, desiring refuge and
repose, in c~,nsequence of the destruction of her
father's house. "No, no," she cried, '~ I am brought
here against my will, and I implore you to let me go
home." But Albert Palmer thrust her in, and drew
her to the parlor, where he placed her on a sofa. ~JIe
then requested his father to get a light and to sum..
mon his mother to the care of their guest.
Wheu Mr. Palmer returned, with ~his wife and a
light, Julia sat on the sofa, with her hands clasped on
her lap and her head drooping. She wore nC bonnet,
and her brown hair, dishevelled, flowed down over
her shoulders and bosom. She was pah~ as death.
Her lips were slightly parted. She breathed quickly.
Her breast heaved with agitation. Her dress, hastily
put on while she was attending ~o her alarmed mother,
was in disorder. Her feet were bare. Even Albert
Palmer was startled when he beheld that figure of
beatitiKul desolation. Ills parents stood in mute won~
der. Julia, lifting her eyes, discovered that one of'
her own 'sex had entered the room, am] springing
from the sofa, threw herself at the feet of Mrs. Palmer,
clasping her knees and turning up her face, with tears
raining from her eyes, while she appealed in broken
accents to a woman's compassion for a woman.

"0, save me," she cried; "let me go to my father
and mother. I have been cruelly toni from them.
Their' house is destroyed. i~ty father is wounded.
My mother is in distress. They may be dying. I
know not what is to become Qf them this drcadf~il
night. Let me go to them. You have a woman's
heart. 0, have pity ~n' a broken-hearted girl. Release
me, 0, release me."
"Rise, Miss Fairfax," said Albert Palmer, taking
her by the hand; "you know not what you say. You
are distracted with grief. Mother) there has been a
ternil~le scene to-night. Miss Fairfax needs repose.
We iiiust, for her own good, do some gentle violence
to her wishes. Please conduct her to a chamber and
persuade her to take some rest."
"hypocrite and tyrant I" exclaimed Julia, rising to
her feet, "you are my enemy-~-my father's foe-a
traitor to my country. You are league with invaders
and oppressors. To you we owe the calamities of
this night. You hold rue a prisoner. You have torn
me from my parents. 0, my father! 0, my poor
mother t" Again she sunk upon the floor, dissolved
in tears, and sobbing as if her heanli would break.
In a few moments she rose again and ran towards
the door, saying, "1 will go to them." But Albert
Palmer intercepted her, ~eized her, and, carrying her
to a chamber, told his mother to follow him. When
they had entered the room he left the two ladies
there, locked the door, and put the ~key in his pocket.
lie returned to his father, and. after relating' to him
the events of the night, explained to him his plan
with reference to Miss airilnc. She was, he said,
without a home. He ather was a prisoner, under
grave accusations. might be long detained or


'262

UOI~B1~CK.

sent out of the State. His property might be taken
from. him. But if Julia' should become Mrs. Palmer
it Would probably be restored, if not to Colonel Faire
fax, at least to his daughter, thron~h the influence of
her new relative~. The hope 'o:C thus rell~ving her
parents and of procuring the liberation of her father
through the same influence, he believed, would induce
her to accept his hand. The greater the distress and
danger of her father might become, the more she
would be inclined to accede to measui'es necessary for
iii~ relief Perhaps it would be expedient to have
Colonel Fairfax sent to Washington, so that the hopes
and fears of his daughter; deprived of communication
with him, and un~,ertain as to his fate, might render
her more pliant. Of course, Mr. Palmer and his son
would ultimately procure his teleaser as well as the
possession of his property, and his daughter would
be provided with a husband and a home. This scheme
appeared to the elder Palmer so wise and benevolent,
that he cheerfully consented, at his son's request, to
keep Miss Fairfax in hi~ house and to visit Colonel
Wesel the next day, as we have seen he did.
Mrs. Palmer was ignorant of this 'plan when she
found herself shut up in a chamber with Miss Fairfax,
and she had nothing to guide her conduct but confi-
dence in her son and obedience to his wishes. She
could not frame a suitable speech, but she put her
arms about Julia and gently urged her to a bed, be-
seeching her, in a motherly ~yay, to sleep. . The un-
happy young lady lay down without resistance, and
remained for several hours, not sleeping, but weeping,
with her eyes closed 'and her arms folded over her
bosom, without speech or motion. She was alone,
friendless, hopeless. She was exhausted in mind, and

U

U

r

RO1~HtXCK.
body, by the fatigues, 1~he sufferings and the terrors
~     of that night.. At length, 'when the day was break-
ing, nature yielded to slumber,' and she endured,
rather than enjoyed, for an hour, a dreamy, restless
sleep. She awoke with a more vivid sense of afflic-
tion.
In the morning, Mrs. Palmer was released from
confinement by her son, who intimated his plan to
her, and while his father was calling on Colonel
Wesel, sent her with his compliments to Miss Fair-
flux, and requested permission to wait upon the!yonng
lady in her chamber. She desired hint to excuse her,
and even protested against his visit. But he de-
dared that it ~wi~s necessary for him to see her, and
his message to that effect was immediately followed'
by himself. He drew up a chair to sit beside her, but
she rose, and remained standing. lie made no nlhi-
sion to her movement, but in cool and civil tones pro-
ceeded to address her.
"Miss Fairfax, misled by appearances, you have
placed an erroneous construction upon my conduct.
I came to offer~you an explanation." He paused, but
receiving no reply, he resumed. "You have thought
me unkind to you, but really my motives 'have been
more than kind. In. all that I have doueIhave
aimed 'at your welfare and happiness. Perhaps the.
ardor of my affeotiom for you has impelled me too' far.
I could not avert the misfortune which has befallen
your family. I could not rescue your parents from the
military. 'I saved yourself in the only way that was
possible. I brought you to my father's house for
shelter. Now, I offer you a hox~ie for life. My
heart has long been yours. I now offer you my
baud."

9

U


I'
I
I
I
I

ROEBU CR.

While he delivered this speech with sedate mar~nor
and level voice, Julia stood with' averted face, appa-
rently unmoved. 'When. he ceased to speak, she
turned her eyes. full upQn him, and still. restraining
he~ emotion~ she said, "Mrs, palmer, your motives are
known tQ yourself. If you would prove to me that
they are kind, set me free"
"I have 'proved more-my love. I offer you the
strongest proof of love."
"Surely, .you would not hold me a captive, and
,tnke advantage of my captivity to press 'a suit which
has once been re8pectfhlly declined."
"Love, 'my. dear lady; is bliud to. circumstances,
and deaf to refusaL Let me believe, that time has
rendered you more favorable to my wishes. Let me
hope that you will give me a right to protect you in
all dangers and difficulties. Until you decide upon
my. proposal, I cannot consider any other subject"
"If that is a covert threat, I must speak without re-
serve, and tell you that 'there is an insurmountable
barrier to. your proposal. Let the. snbjeet be dis-
missed forever."
"I cannot imagine a barrier really insurmountable,
Miss Falifax. May I ask what it is ?"'
"I-yes-my hand is promised to. another."
"Indeed 1" he said, commencing his reply in the
measured aeceats which had hitherto mocked his vic-
tim, but the avowal of an engagement with 'a rival
whom he hated already, .because~ he believed him to
be a successful rival, roused his ~ger, and as he went
on, he spoke with manifest ~aspe~4ty~ "such engage-
iuent~ are n6t usually deemed irrevocable, by young
ladies. Times have changed. When I shall convince
you that the person to whom you have incautiously
pi:omised your hand is unworthy"-.

Unworthy, sir! Can a gentleman disparage a
rival? Can a man traduce the absent? Can a being
with a heavt insult a captive lady by maligning her'
affianced? Hugh Fitzhugh is that which you prove
yourself not to be-a man an~I a gentleman."
"I admire your spirit, Miss Fairfax, but you have
not quite fathomed' the question. There are other af-
fections and obligations somCtimes to be considered,
even before a gii'l's fancy for a lover. Your love and
duty to your father"-
"My dear, my noble father! What can you, tell
me of him 2"
"That, in disposing of your hand, you. may do well
tq. consider his safety."
"I do not understand. What threat lurks in your
words and sneer ~"
"Be seated, Miss Fairfax. Let us discuss this mat-
ter rationally. You will not sit? Well, as you
please. ~You are aware that he is wounded, and a
prisoner."
"0, Heavenly Father, protect him."
"He will be sent to Washington."
"To Washington ?"
"And detained there as a prisoner of state."
"A prisoner of state! Then he is lost. May
H~ven 'have 'mercy on him, for man will, have
none."
can be saved."
"How? Tell me how. I will bless you, as our
good angel."
'"It depends upon yourself alone."
"Thank God! Then lie will be saved. Bid me
toil, su~er, die to save him, and he shall be. saved."
"There is rio need of 'toil, or su~'erin~, or death.
12

264

ROEBUCK.

'265


266             ROEBUCK.
Through the influence of my father and myself, I
doubt not, he can be released. it; in bestowing your
hand "-..                 4
"OThorror."'
"You give me a right to solicit a favor to yo~it'
family as a favor to myself; the loyalty of my farnily~
and my services may be accounted as an atonement
for the guilt of your father, and we may procure his
release. I' have received some tokens of considera-
tion in high quarters. My father is trusted by the
authorities. But it would b~ useless, it n~ht ke
deemed offensive if we were to intercede, for an ob-
noxious person having no claims upon us. Family
ties would entitle us to ask that he be restored to us.
It depends upon yourself alone to release your father
from captivity."
While he was speaking, Julia's head sunk down
upon her breast, and tears streamed from her eyes.
At last she fell upon her knees before him, and un-
plored him to be merciful.
"You say you have power to save him. 0, save
my father, and spre his wretched child. Do not.-
do not annex a cruel condition to an act of mercy.
Respect my truth. 'Spare my grief. 0, save my
father."
"Rise, Miss Fairfax. This abasement is unneces-
sary: Your father's safety rests with yourself.. Yoc~
understand the condition."
"T~en you are inexorable ?"
"I am.
"0, my father! Wpuld that his wisdom' could
now direct me. Will you not let me consult him 1"
"No."
a prisoner-sent a way to perish in a

I

ROEBUCK.      267

cell. If my death could save him! If anything but
falsehood and ~ Sir, I am alone. You
will not let me consult my father. I must recall, then,
the lessons he has taught me. I will be true, and
leave the consequences to Heaven. I cannot violate
my engagement without ~perfidy. I cannot become
your wife without falsehood. I will preserve my truth."
"Then you reject, me again, Miss ?"
"I can give no other answer."
"Reflection may change your mind. Good morn-
ing, Miss Fairfax."
lie left the room. Julia threw herself upon the
bed and gaveway~ to a conflict of emotions. Some-
times she reproached herself; and was ready to recall
Palmer and submit to his terms, rather than leave her
father in captivity and in danger of a more terrible
fate. But hi~ image rising before her mind, rebuked
her. meditated falsehood. She thought of him .as,
while she sat upon his knee, he had often taught her
the lessons of truth and fortitude' and faith. His sim-
ple dignity and loving authority, again impressed her
heart as they had impressed 'ft in. her, childhood. She
felt assured that he, would approve her decision. He
would sacrifice- himself for truth and for -her happi-
ness-.-.ah, yes, that thought of her own' happiness
again awakened self-reproach. 'Her happiness was
involved in the question of her father's safety~ Her
love for Hugh Fitzhugh, thrilling her whol~ frame at
that moment, might it not be selfish? ~0ught she to
sacrifice her father to her own happiness? She was
racked with doubt. Her 'soul, exhausting itself in
agitation and' perplexity, wavered and groped for the
path of duty. Believing that she had done right, and
yet doubting, she sunk at last to sleep, through phy-
0~

Ii


268          RORBUCIi.

sieni and mental weariness. She slept several liotir~.
When ~he awoke, Mrs. Palmer sat at her bedside.
That fluent lady, having a speech ready, b~gan at once ~
"These are sad times, Miss Fairfax. But tmnporct
mietan/ur, you know. You have lost one home but
you are offered another-the darkest hour is just b~-
fore the dawn .-.We must bow to the decrees of Pro-
vidence -When we submit a cause to the arbitrament
of arms we must abide the event..-We bave deter-
mined what ir~ best for you, and you should be thank-
ful..-Albert's plan is the best for all parties -His
Lather thinks so, and he is very wise -Albert is one
of the kindest men alive --You will think so when
you know him better-I have always said he was.-
He is firm-very firm-justique tenorem flectere uo,&amp;
odium cogit non gratia suade4 as the poet says-he
nevei' gives up a project.-So, my dear Miss Fairfax,
you had better consent"
'~ Mrs. Palmer, you seem to be an accomplice in
your son's scheme, which I begin to comprehend.
My course is taken. If you are appointed to be my
j3iler, I will thank you to spare 'me your lecture. If
y~u ai'e permitted to leave, me alone, I b~g you to
grant me that relief."
-" Albert thinks that in your present frame of mind
solitude would not be good for you~-Solitudinem
f~iciuht et pacem appellant .-T hat is not right-it is
not good for man to be alone, nor woman either, as
the Bible says "..-.--.
"Then let m&amp;have silence, I pray you."
In the evening of thai day, and during the next
day; the importunate suitor repeated hi~ visits, and
endeavored, by every art at his command, to over-
come the reluctance of his captive to become ins

I

ROEBUCK.               - 269
bride. When her faculties had recovered from the
first shock of calamity, she was able to detect the
drift of his plot, and to weigh his threats and his
persuasions with a clear judgment. She doubted no
more as to her duty. lie found her purpose immova-
ble. His persecution. sometimes wrung tears from
her eyes, and sometimes provoked her to repel him
with indignant scorn. He was neither melted by her~
sorrow nor shaken by her scorn. His cruelty was
cool, but he was not insensible to the impression of
beauty that varied with her varying passion. Lovei
for one whom he tQrtured was impossible; but the
torture revealed charms in th\vjctim that kindled
desire in a pitiless breast.


2~7~     ROEBUCK.

4
11~

ChAPTER XXV.
MARIC MARLLI~.
ABOUT sense on the second day of her imprison-
ment, the chamber in which Miss Fairfaix was de-
tained, was again entered by Albert Palmer. She
arose and stood as she always did while he was in the
room, thus silently protes1~ing against his intrr~sion.
He advanced, addressing her in words~ of ordinary
salutation, with an. air of deferential courtesy. Re-
ceiving no response, he proceeded to speak in a strain
of sentiment, which became warmer as he went on,
and, finally, less delicate. With some ardor of expres-
sion on his lips aiid in his ey&amp;s, he moved towards
her, with an arm extended, as if he would lay his hand
upon her. Stepping backward she waved him off
and said, quietly, but decisively, "no nearer, sir."
He paused, clasped his hands together, and spoke in
an obsequious tone:
"Ah, my dear Julia, do not continue to trample on
my love."
"Mr. Palmer," she replied, "I beg that this insult..
ing mockery shall cease."
"Then you doom your father to a dungeon ?" he
asked, with a sneer.
"My duty to my father, sir, is not a subject for dis-
cussion between you and me. Use it not to barb your
taunts. I aiii now proof against them. I know you
now and I despise you, I detest you, I defy you."
He turned to the chamber door and locked it. lie

ROEBUCK.      271

then returned towards Julia, his eyes glaring with
ignQble passions. "By Heaven," he .cried, "you
shall consent to marriage or prate no more of honor~"
She retired before kiim, but springing for rd, he
attempted to seize her. She eluded his grasp by tep-
ping up on the bed. Retreating to the opposite i e
of it, whi~h was against a wall, she stood there in a
posture ot defiance, pointing a pistol at Palmer. Her
movements, as well as his, were so Tapid that his face
almost touched the weapon before he was aware that
she held it. Seeing it then, he started back with a
gesture of fear, and stood iii a shrinking attitude, gaz-
ing at the pistol. While they thus confronted each
other, they heard a light rap on' the door, and under-
stood that Mrs. Palmer desired admittance. He slowly
retreated to the door and .opened ~t. As he retired,
Julia descended from the bed. She had restored. the
little weaPon to her pocket when Mrs. Palmer entered,
and her son, scowling at'Jalia, went out.
The small pistol which Julia had held in her hand,
rather ~a toy than a weapon, was one which her father
had procured for her after she had been endangered
by negroes, as related in the preceding pages. He
gave her some~ lessons in the use of it, so that she
might be able to defend herself in sudden peril, such
as the recent events and the condition of the country
led him to apprehend. She seldom carried it, how-
ever, and it was by chance that, when she4was prepar-
ing to flee from the mansion of Roebuck, she put on a
gown, in the pocket of which the pistol had been left.
In the excitements of that night she did not observe
it, but she discovered it the ..next day. She reniem-
bered it when Palmer attempted to seize her, and
instantly availed herself of it, as we have seen, for her
defence.

I


When she was again left with Mrs. Palmer she
walked to ~nd fro, agitated with an indignant sense
of insult and outrage. She uttered no word of
complaint to the mother and agent of her persecutor.
Her spirit was bruised, b~it it was roused. Still alone,
in the power of her enemies, she defied them. She
would not' bow before a foe who left her no choice but
between defiance and dishonor.
Night caine on, but, at Julia's request, the room
was noi~ lighted. She sat down by a window and
looked out' at the sky. Mrs. Palmer, seated in a rock..
ing chai~ at the opposite side of the chamber, began
to yawn; and finally fell asleep. The night was clear
and still. While Julia gazed at the bright stars, her
excitement gradually abated. When her veins yet
throbbed with passion, the quiet heavens seemed to
her imagination to regard with cruel indifference
the woes and crimes of earth. But as the tide of vio~
lent emotion subsided, higher and serene sentiments
*   responded more faithfully to the sublime sense of that
eternal quiet "It is not indifference to wrong," she
said to herself, "that we should read in those sleep~
*   less eyes of Heaven, but their far-seeing watch regards
the end as well as the beginning of these dark scenes
in which we grope and suffer. Their serene silence is
the h6mage of nature to the unerring Providence
which guides all events on earth as in Heaven.
Darkling, but not disrnhyed, I will endeavor to walk
by the light that Comes from above, and trust the
consequences to Him who o'dains right and redresses
eviL"
While her mind was composing itself by such re~
elections, she was started by~the sight of a man's heaj
near the window. Wondering, but rather hoping thai;'

* fearing, she leaned her face against the pane and
looked' out into the dark. She 4i~eov~red that the
man was upon a ladder, and as h~ dtew' near to the'
window, he made a sign of silence to her. She did
not recognize him, but believing that all her enemies
were within the house, she readily concluded that he
was a friend. Listening for the deep breathing of
Mrs. Palmer, and being 1~bus assured that she still
slept, Julia opened the sash quietly and beard hen
name whispered. "What do you want V' ,she whi&amp;
pered, in reply. "Follow me ;" and the man descended
the ladder. Dreading no danger equal to that which
she left behind, she followed without hesitation.
When they were upon the ground, the inan~, wh~ was
then seen to wear the Confederate uniform, led her in
silence to a clump of trees at some distance fron~ the
house. There they found another ~rson, mounted,
and holding the bridles of two horses. There was a
woman's saddle on one of them, and, as Julia soon
discovered, this was her favorite, Arab. First assisting
her to mount, her conductor got upon his horse' and
the three rode away through the fields. They moved
caixtiously, and not a word was spoken until, after rid~
ing a mile or r~iore, they entere&amp;a wood.
"Now, Miss Fairfax," said the man who released
her, and whom she recognized as Lieutenant Mark
Marlin, while she knew his companion to be Baxter,
"we are safe for the present. It is for you to say
where we shall go."
"To my father, if I can," she replied.
"We hear that he has been sent out of the county."
"Alas, it is true, then. Let me go to my mother."
"We will conduct you to her. She is now about
Len miles from here. We must ride pretty briskly if

27~        ROEBUCk.                                     ROEBUCW..         273

275

278


ROEBUCK.

r

ROE-BUOK.

y'ou please, because, after leaving you, we must travel
as far as we can before morning' for our own safety and
and to rejoin our regiment."
As they rode rapidly and cautiously over rough. by-
ways to avoid pursuit, they could hold but little con-
versation. Julia, however., learned from Marlin what
he knew about her mother., and that Baxtei' had ob-
tained from blind Pete the information on which they
had acted in facilitating her escape. Thus they knew
in what chamber Miss Faii'fax was detained, where
her horse could be found, where a ladder was kept,
and other particulars, the knowledge of which made this
enterprise tolerably safe and easy to the two Confede~
rates. Her horse had been taken from Roebuck by
the Federal soldiers, but, by order of Colonel Wesel,
was.delivered to Mr. Palmer, at that gentleman's re~
quest. He stated to the colonel that the young lady
had taken refuge in his house, and insinuated that she
did not agree with her father in political sentiment
and that she might possibly become connected witt
his own family. These representations served not
only to secure the possession of her horse, but to
silence inquiry, if it should otherwise become kndwn
to the colonel that Miss Fairfax was at Mr. Palmer's.
Baxter, after his escape from the village, concealed
himself in the neighborhood nntiVthe next morning,
and then starting to overtake his regiment, he fell in
with Mark Marlin, who had come home to take care
of his sister. Notwithstanding his own affliction and
the sad duties which the death of his sister imposed
upon him, the lieutenant, as soon as he heard of Miss
Fairfax's situation, resolved to rescue her. He imme-
diately set about the attempt, with 'Baxter'
ance, and we have seen the result.

Arriving before the house in which Mr~ Fairfax
was then a guest, Marlin informed Julia that he and
his companion must leave her, and requested that
their presence in the county might not be, mentione,
until they would have time to travel beyond the reach
of the enemy.
"how can I ever thank you as you deserve, gen-
tlemen?" said Julia.
"I am still your debtor, Miss Fairfax; but, if you
please, we will leave these things to be spoken. of
some other time ;" replt~d Marlin, to whom Baxter
left the conversation with Miss Fairfax ~ for his own
audacity was cowed, and his saucy tongue was mute
in presence of a lady whoiii he was obliged to
respect.
"I know" she said, "that I must not detain you,
and I fear that already your delay, for mysake, has
exposed you .to danger. Never can I cease to be
grateful to you. In happier times, for us all, I hope,.
I may be able to prove my gratitude."
~' Have you any message for the regiment-the
boys, Miss Fairfax."
"Tell the brave meil that the hearts of their country
women ~re always with them. May God1 bless them.
Tell Colonel Fitzhugh that-that I-I have not for
gotten him."
"You remember, then, as gallant a soldier as ever
drew a sword. Farewell, Miss Fairfax."
"Farewell, Mr. Marlin; farewell, Mr. Baxter. I
shall neverforget"-'
Baxter briefly echoed her farewell, while she shook
hands with them both, and they hurried away before
she concluded the sentence. Julia, alone, approached
the house in which she expected to meet her mother.

fr

274

275


ROEBUCK.
At that late hour all was silent, but alarms were then
so' frequent, that every family was alert. As soon as
she 'knocked at the door an upper window was cau-
tiously opened, and a voice inquired who was there.
She gave the necessary explanation, and was admit.
ted. Her mother, who slept Uut little, recognized her
'voice, and immediately called' her into her own cham-
ber. 'The meeting between them could not be with-
out joy, nor yet could it be without sorrow. To be thus
united, after such a separation, was rapture. To re-
mind each other of the absence, suffering and danger
of another', ~sb dear to both, was anguish. In smiles
and tears, in embraces and regrets, in conV~ersation
about, the one on whom their anxious thoughts were
centered, they spent the hours, until the sun was high
in the heavens. It was not until the tlush of excite-
ment faded from her mother's face, and the pitiless
light of day fell upon it, that Julia was fully aware of
the ravages that terror and affliction had made there.
When she looked upon. that form so frail, those
cheeks so wan, the pallid lips and the sunken eyes,
apprehension for her mother's health divided her
heart with anxiety for her father's safety.
Julia's sensibility was both delicate and warm.
But no excess of feeling ever prevailed long over th~
clear judgment and steady sense of duty which habi..
tually regulated her conduct. Under a delicate sur-
face of feminine beauty, grace and tenderne8s, her
character contained a strength of' principle which
made even the play of her emotions, like the vibra~.
tions of a watch-spring, contribute to the practical,
uses of life. Her sympathy with sickness and dis-
tress did not vanish in sighs. It prompted her to
give relief with quiet and thoughtful energy, whilst

4

I~oBBUOE.         2'7'7

only the extreme gentleness of her ministrations
showed how much of another's suffering 'she felt as
her own. Thus during the next few days, she de-
voted herself to th~ care of her afflicted mother.
'Knowing her tastes and habits, anticipating her wants
with quick intelligence, providing for her physical
co~nfaft with untiring diligence, her daughter also en-
deavored to soothe her mind. If anything could have
had that effect, it would have been the presence of
Julia. Withdrawing her thoughts from her own
troubles in order that she might win her mother from
despondency, she became~ almost cheerful. Jier
noiseless step seemed rather light from hope than
stealthy from fear. When to the loveliness of her
person, and the sweetness of her countenance, was ad~
ded the tender earnestness of filial affection, she looked,
while she hovered over her mother's pillow, as if her
love alone might dispel all gloom from the brow on
which her soft, white hand was fondly laid~ She e~-
erted all the charms of her voice and cenVersation to
banish the spectre of despair that haunted her mother
by day and by nigl~, Yet, she found 'that, as the
reader already knows, the delicate lady continued t~
pine and waste away. Indeed, Julia. became con-
vinced that the life of the wife depended upon the
restoration of the husband to liberty. Father and
mother-the lives of both, she believed, were in peril,
and might depend oxi the same contingency.
When she had arrived at this conclusion, her
thoughts uaturally reverted to the proposal of Palmer,
which, as he declared, might have led to the release
of her father. But, even n6w, she could not repent
that she had rejected it. She remembered it with
'increased disgust, when it appeared to her as a profli-


278

lIOEBUC1~.
.4

gate proposal to traffic with' two lives so dear to her,
so worthy of honor, and so afflicted. But it was not
in her nature to look on misery without an effort to
relieve it, and, least of all, the misery of her own
parents. Her mind addressed itself with customary
directness and fbrce to. the question how she might
procure the restoration of her father to his family.
After much reflection, she came to a 'resolution, which
she first disclosed to Mrs. Fitzhugh.
That lady treated Julia as a daughter and shared all
her cares and counsels. She, tao, believed that the
days of Mrs. Fairfax would be few unless her husband
were released, and that his life might be endangered by
his imprisonment under the actual circumstances Of.
course, she participated in hi~ daughter's desire to
obtain his liberation. But there seemed to be no
means wIthin the power of the two Women to effect
that object. They Were assured that the Federal
officer commanding in the county was hostile te Gel..
onel Fairfax, and that the Palmers wc~re accomplices
in the oppression practiced upon himif they were not
the instigators. It was not deemed possible to induce
those men to relax the rigor of persecution except
upon a condition known only to Julia, and regarded
her with horror. The two ladies discussed the
subject several times without a satis~hctory result. ~At
last, when it was again renewed, Julia said to Mrs.
Fitzhugh........" I believe I can obtain my father's re-
lease."
"How is it possibk~, my dear Julia ?"
"I will go to Washington and petition the Federal
authorities."
"You are a brave girl, Julia, t~ make such an
attempt, but it would be useless."

flOEBUCIC.

279

"I bope not, Mrs. Fitzhugh, but, at all events, I
may succeed, and there appears to be no other chance
of saving their lives. I will try."
"What rational ground can you find to hope for
success ~ It is not probable that you will ever reach
Washington. I say nothing of the dangers. by the
* way, for I know you will not be deterred by them,
* and, my dear child, I cannot say that you ought to be.
But if you were in Washington, the authorities will
certainly act according to the reports and suggestions
of their own officers and adherents in the county.
What else can they know of your father 'I"
-" That seems plausible. But I imagine that men in
high office must be free from some of the ~bitter and
vulgar animosity which is apt to affect inferior agents.
Besides, they are remote from the intrigues of this
neighborhood. Surely there is some one in authority*
who, in spite of' political virulence, will feel compass.
sion for the offeringss of so good a man and of his
innocent wi!&amp;'
* "Alas, I fear that the military among us are but too
faithful representatives of their government. Was not
Colonel Tremaine removed to make room fir the pre~
sent commander ~"
"These circumstances and many others are discour-
*   aging. But I have reflected upon them all. I see
discouragement but not impossibility. Since, we have
thought of no other plan that is even within the range
of possibility, I am resolved to try this one. I cannot
sit ~till and see my mother die ~vithoi4 an effort to save
her. Even' the hope which my undertaking will inspire
may arrest her decline. I intreat you, if you can, to
encourage her ~nd to remove any objection that she
may oppose to myattelupt."


280             RO]~BUcK.
"If you aje resolved, I will ~iot Continue' to urge
argtuiients *hich might discourage you without
changing your purpose. But how/do ~OU intend to
travel ?"
"On horseback and alone. There is no other
way."
"You cannot pass through the Federal lines with-
out a passport."
"I must avoid them. Of course, I cannot obtain a
passport from those who have sent my father to
Washington."
the am not thought to be a timid woman, Julia, but
dangers of such a journey through a country over~
run with armies, marauding parties and other enemies,
appear to me--but I must not frighten you."
"Our Heavenly Father will shield me."
I pray that He may."
Mrs. Fairfax, wheninformed of her daughter's pur~
pose, shuddered at the prospect of another separation,
and dreaded the perils whi~h Julia must encountei~
But the hope of seeing her husbandonce more, with
the appeals made to her by her daughter, and the
arguments of Mrs. Fit~hugh, overcame her Opposition.
After the matter was settled, Julia pleased herself
with the fancy that her mother's eyes were lighted with
more animation than they had shown since the night
of her daughter's return to her~
4       '1

I

I.

4

R.O]i~BUqK.                 281

CHAPTER XXVI.
'ruE JOURNEY.

BUT little delay w~s necessary y for the preparalions
* which Julia had to make for her long and dangerous
journey. Not much conidhe carried, if she had desired
to carry. much. The fire wh~h destroyed her father's
house consumed her wardrobe, and country ladies had
but poor opportunitie~ of shopping in pixie during
the war. She might be ready to travel alr~iost as soon
as Arab could be saddled. She had no m~ney, and
could obtain none, except a few dollar's in sPecie and a
supply of treasury notes, which were almost worthless
beyond the Confederate lines, though they were the
exclusive currency of the Confederacy. She was to
travel alone, as well because nearly all those who might
have been her protector~ ~vere in the army ~r driven
from the county, as because, in the country through
which she had to pass, a male companion might chal-.
lenge annoyance and could not defend hbr. It was a
country where even an army of ConfederateS could not.
hold its ground.
With a brave but sad heart she took leave of her
frienc~s. The parting between her and her mother
was a severe affliction to both. Th~ hope of her hus-.
band's release sustained 1~irs; Fairfax, and Julia, im~
peeled by love and duty, would not falter at the first
of those trials which she had anticipated. Early in
the morning she set out upon her solitary jo~1rney,
'and rode nearlythe entire day without pausingt~ rest~

'1
I


282

ROEBUCI~.

She felt but little fatigue. She was a delicate woman,
and had been nurtured in wealth and refinement but
not in luxury. The habits of her life had tended to
confirm rather than enervate her strength, both of
bo~y and of mind. It was a rare state of society in
which nature was thus refined and strengthened at the
same time, as iron is. changed to steel.
During the first day she traveled through a part of
the country that was familiar to her. Without much
difficulty she avoided the most frequei4ted highways
and places of resort for the Federals, and she neither
met any troops nor encountered any impediment.
She saw" but few people. Not many remained at
home, except old men, women and children, an4 they
generally kept close to their houses. Some boys and
old men and a few women were at work in the fields.
twice Julia sa them plowing,~ with cows
Horses and mules were not to be seen. Some dwell..
ings were wholly deserte~I; the doors and widows
were broken; the fruit-.tr~es about tl)em. were hacked
do~wn; the gardens were destroyed; the barns, fences
and stacks had been burned. Here and there brick
chimneys of wooden houses that had been devoured
by the flames, stood as milestones of invasion. A few
slaves, old, decrepid or faithful, remained with the white
inhabitants, but most of them had straggled off: Now
and then Julia passed a negro, lying asleep at the way..
side, with his shining face upturned to the sun, or saw
stout black fellows strolling about in listless indolence.
The lethargy of that race seemed to forebode a relapse
into lazy barbarism as Soon as the spur and rein of
the white man's authority were withdrawn, as the
neglected soil was resuming the unfruitful wildne~
of nature. The desolation which Julia Wit11es,3~d

ROEBUCIC~                 283
deepened her sadness. But it is impossible to record
all she saw and thought and felt on that journey with-.
out overspreading these pages with intolerable gloom.
In our reminiscences of those times we must soften the
truth if we would obtain a hearing or belief.
Late in the afternoon, Julia arrived at the house of
a friend, and there she spent the night. She heard a
rumor there, that daring the day a party. of Federal
soldiers- had been seen within a feW miles of the place.
This rumor, however, scarcely added a new. fear to
the constant apprehension that her journey might be
interrupted. The next morning she took the road
again, traveling through a district lees known to her
than that through which she had passed the day be-.
fore. She was, therefore, obliged to keep on the
main hi~"hway. When she had pursued her solitary
way two or three hours, sh~ looked back, and saw
several horsemen about a mile behind her, and appa-.
rently moving towards her. Fearing they were Fed-.
eral soldiers, she put her horse to a quicker p~ce.
They followed, however, still more rapidly than she
rode. For a short time they were concealed from her
by a hill over which she was passing, when she dis-.
covered them. In a few minutes she saw them gal-
loping over the crest of the hill,* not more ~hau half a
mile from her. Then she imagined that she could
distinguish the tall form of Albert Palmer among
them.
In fact, he was there. lie had not discovered her
place of retreat after she disappeared from h~s father's
house. But, being with some cavalry, that were
foraging or ravaging near the place at which she
spent the first night of her jouriiey, he learned in the
morning from the gossip of a negro, that she had set

]

283


'284               0 E 13 U C K.

285

ROEBUCK.

out from there alone. Immediateljiie started, with a
few followers, in pursuit of her.
As soon as she became convinced that she was pur-
sued and, suspected that Palmer was among the pur-
suers, she put Arab to his utmost speed.. The eavalr~f
behind her used their sj~iirs freely. Palmer, dashing
off~ before the others, came on at a furious gait. Julia,
a practiced horse.woman, on a fleet and spirited horse,
could not easily be overtaken; but, for three or four
miles, the chase pressed Arab to his mettle. The gal-
hint horse, excited by the race, seemed to share the
determination of his rider to distance the pursuers.
ii' Gradually he widened the spae~ between him and the
foremost of the cavalry. Relying upon his qualities,
Julia rode with steady courage, until, suddenly, she
beheld a cloud of .dust rising from the road before
hers Suspecting at once that 'there was a larger body
of Federal cavalry in front of her, and that' no chance
of escape was left, her heart sunk for a moment. But
she looked back, and the sight of Palmer, in eager
pursuit, reminded her that, whatever might be beibre
her, she was lea~4ng her most cruel enemy behind.
She resolved to go forward. Onward she flew. Her
rapid flight soon brought her in sight of five or six
horsemen ~who were approaching on the road before
her. Onward still 'she flew. She was very near
them before she 'could discern, under the dust which
covered them, that' their uniforms' were of Confed-
erate ~'ey. Checking her horse, she cried out to
thern-"J am pursued, by Federal cavalry."
"Howmany~"'
"1. have seen ten or twelve. One of them rides
far in advance of the rest. There! He comes in
sight."

4

284

"l~ide on, madam. You are safe. Colonel Fit~-
hugh's regiment is not far behind us. We must move
forward."
They started at a brisk trot. When Palmer s~w
them first, he thought they must be Federals. He
was almost among them before he discovered h'is mis~
take. 'Then, wheeling hi~ horse, he was pursued in
hi~ turn. Julii saw no more of him. Riding slowly
on, and wondering at the chance which brought her
so unexpectedly out of danger into the protection of
Hugh Fitzhugh, she saw a cloud of dust, which, at a
considerable distance, indicated the approach of his
regiment.
A spring, near the side of the road, attracted her
attention, and she stopped to rest and refresh herself.
She sat down on the grass, near the spring, and; after
drinking, she bathed her brows witk hei' hands. The
spring was shaded by trees and vines. With the in-
stinct of a woman, expecting a lover, she arranged
her hair 'and dress, while she waited for 'the regiment
to come up. When the head of the column drew
near, she stood upon a grassy knoll near the spring,
under a canopy of vines. ~She held the bridle, while
her horse, with distended nostrils,, ears erect, and
arched neck, gazed ~t the warlike array. Her veil
was thrown back, her fair complexion was rosy with
excitement, her hazel eyes were moistened with the
mystery of tears that were not - weeping, and her
graceful form stOod' a picture of~, living loveliness in a
frame of sylvan beauty.
When hugh Fitzhugh, turning from the dusty road
to the spri~-suddenly beheld hei', he' was amazed,'
enraptured, alarmed. "My Julia," he exclaimed2 as
he leaped from hi~ horse, and ran towards her. Has.


ROE B'U C K.

tending to meet him, she threw herself into his arms,
and burst into tears.
* ",J~ilia, my own Julia, why is this ~? Why do you
weep? ~hy are you here ?"
For some moments she was unable to answer his
anxiously repeated questions. But when the par~
oxysm of emotion was passed, she lifted her head, and
looked in his face, while she smiled through 4ier.
tears.
'"Pardon me. It was a woman's weakness. I weep
for joy or grief.-I know not why. But it is over. .1
can talk to you now. I must not detain, you long,
'and I have much to say."
Then, glancing at the cavalry, she blushed deeply
at the display of emotion which she had made. She
drew her veil over her face and whispered, "0, for-
give, me, Hugh." He pressed her hand, and was
leading her to a seat when they heard a shout.' Al-
ready her ~iame was passing' from' mouth to mouth,
and as it ran along the ranks, the men began to cheer
for Miss Fairfax. Many of them knew and admired
her. Others cheered, because they loved their col-
onel, and knew or suspected that he loved her.
Finally, some there were who shouted, simply be-
cause cheers are contagious. At all events, the name
of ML~s Fairfax was echoed with cheers along the
whole line. The enthusiasm waxed warmer and
warmer, until.Julia, turning her face to the regiment;
raised her veil, and graceftilly acknowledged the bois-
terous salutation.
While the regiment marched on, Hugh Fitzhn~h,
seated. beside Julia, learned from h'w the circumstan~
ces which led to this meeting. They were soon joined
l~y her uncle, Doctor Dick, who had been with his

ROEBUCK.                 ~2'S7'
company since the opening of the spring campaign.
What, Colonel Julia, have you come to take eotn~
mand in person ?" he exclaimed. Then be shook both
her hands and kissed her over and over. It was not
tong, however, before he was seriously engaged in the
discussion to which Julia's communication gave rise.
l3oth to her uncle and to her lover, her journey ap-
Kpcared too hazardous, and .the object of it wholly
impracl7icable. The~ urged her to abandon it and re-
turn with them. The e was a long debate, in which
their solicitude for he ~afe.ty contended with her
anxiety for the liberty of her father~ iind lives of both
her parents. They found her filial devotion invincible,
and nothing was left for them but to consider Mw
they might contribute to the ease and safety of her
journey. Colonel Fitzhugh proposed to send a guard.
with her, but gave up that proposition when sl~ men-
tioned her, reasons for traveling alone. The doctor
lhen declared that he would himself escort her. He
insisted 'that, with his servant, Caleb, he could relieve
her of any troubles and embarrassments to which a
woman traveling alone was liable, and that a little old
man, as he styled himself, and a poor told. negro,' would
not provoke more hostility, than a lady She doubted
the prudence of the proposition, and would have saved
her ui~cle from dangers wjiich were useless. But he
combated her, objections with 'sonic plausibility of
argument, and more pertinacity ~f purpose. He was
seconded by her lover, and finally prevailed. Colonel
Fitzhugh envied the doctor his office, and would gladly
'have taken his place if propriety and duty had per-
nritted. He lingered beside her after this matter was
arranged as long as his conscience allowed, and they
exchanged some of those tender words which are pro-


288             ROEBUCK.
faued by publication. Besides the natural~ reluctance
of a lover to leave her, he felt a presentiment that this
parting might be final, fo# he knew that they were
both going into danger. But .thethought of his own
coming danger reminded him of the urgency of his
militax:y duty. Without knowing 1~he design which
he would hasten to fulfil, at the peril of his life, she
knew and appreciated the demands of military service,
and would not detain hi~n. With a sorrowful farewell
they parted.
Doctor Fairfax summoned the faithful Caleb, who,
with others of lii~ class, was riding at leisure behind
the regiment. He had followed his master whenever
he was with the army, and, in that branch of the art
military which fell within hi&amp; sphere, he had acquired
the ready skill of an old campaigner. After testifying
his delight at meeting with Miss Julia, by bows and
grins and words of learned length and thundering
sound, he applied himself, under the doctor's direc..
tion, to the care of the horses and the arrangeinentof
the baggage of the~ expedition in which hi~ master had
just enlisted. With his expert aid everything was
ready for.th~ rdad in~ a short time, and Julia, with her
escort, resumed her journey.
During the ~rest of the day no ev~nt occurred to
them of sufficient importance to justify recital. While
th~y rode along, Julia related tO her uncle in detail all
that had recently happened at Roebuck and in its
vicinity.' The doctor was often moved to indigna-
tion, and the misfortunes of his brother and his bro-
-ther's wife mol:e than once drew tears to his eyes. As
to her own sufferings, while she was, a captive in Mr.
Palmer's house, she maintained a peculiar reserve in
speakingboth to her uncle an4 Hugh Fitzhugh. They

fl9EBt'.CK.               289
learned from herL.little more than Mann and. Da~ter
had already told~t~hem~ Even to ~her mother asenti-
ment~ of maidenly modesty prevented her froiur~eal-
ing all that occ~mrred in her chamber at Mr. Palmer's
Perhaps, too, a consciousness that her ova indignation
Tas more intense than it had ever been before, and a
* scrupulous fear of carrying revenge too far, ~or of in-
volving others in attempts at extreme violence, re-
strained~ her from exposing the whole enormity of
* Albert Palmer's guilty Enough was known, however,
to Cornel Fitzhugh and her uncle to brand'Palmer in
their estimation as~ a monster of iniquity, who had
wronged her whom they regarded as the most inno-
cent and most lovely among women
At evening the travelers arrived at the house of a
farmer whose name was Bell. He was an acquaint~
ance of Doctor Fairfax, and ~consented to entertain
them for the night. This was a considerable proof of
hospitality; for, ~although Mr. Bell had a good farm, he
had nothing to eat for men or horses, except a little
corn and bacon,~which he kept concealed lest it should
be taken from him or destroyed. Experience had
taught jminithis fear and an adroit in in con-
cealing the remnants of his supplies. Besides, there
was then in his house, awaiting interment, the dead
body of his son. The young man had been a soldier in
Fitzhugh's regiment, and died suddenly within a few
miles of his father's house. As the funeral rites of
"rebels" were sometimes. interrupted with insult and
outrage .in those parts of the State which were over-
run by the invaders, it had been deemed necessary to
bring home t~he body of the Confederate soldier pri-
vately during the preceding night, and it was to be
buried with equal secrosy the very night of Julia's
13


2~O             RO]~BUCl~
arrival. Notwithstanding their own destitution and
affliction, however, Mr. Bell and his family received
the traveIer~, and did all that was in their power to
make them comfortable.
At midnight two or three neighbors had assembled,
and, with them, Doctor Fairfax assisted at the inter-
ment of the son of his host. They carried the corpse
to a ren~ote part of the farm, followed by the father
and mother, and lighted only by the stars. Arriving
at a spot where a grave was already dug among some
old field pines, one of the neighbors lit the candle in a
lantern which he had brought Its scanty light tinged
the faces of the mourners with a melancholy tint of
yellow, and faintly streaming through the pines, it
made the heavy masses of dark shadow more funereaL
No word was spoken. The rougheoffin was let down
by means of ropes into the rude receptacle of mortal
dust. / The first clods falling with ~dull rattle on the
board; heard in the dead silence of midnight, and tell-
ing that a beloved son was to be covered away from
sight forever, so shacked the weeping motherthat she
shrieked. But. the cry af anguish was suppressed, and
all was still again. The mournful task was finished in
silence.

IIOEBUOR.      291

CHAPTER XXVII.
DOCTOR DICL
DOCTOR FAIRFAX procured from Mr. Bell a suit of
plain ckthes, and left his Confederate uniform. He
was about to travel through a part of the State exclu-
sively occupied by Federal troops. Not being an en-
listed soldier, he felt at liberty to assume or quit the
service and its badges for honest and needful pur~
poses at hi~ own discretion. Traveling with his niece
for an innocent and p~eific object, he though that an
old man, in citizen's dress, might be suffered to pass
unmolested where a Confederate soldier would cer-
tainly be arrested. He did not explain~ to Julia that
this ~bange of di'es~ might be so interpreted, possibly,
as to augment l~is danger in case of capture. Nor
could he bring himself to rely, so absolutely on the
immunity of age, innocence and a civil suit, that he
would leave his revolvers behind. lie carried two pis-
{ols. Thus he set out on* the n~xt day's journey in
ambiguous trim, hoping for peace, but prepared for
war.
They rode t~yo or three hours of the morning with-
out interruption, ,and having no occasion for action,
Doctor Dick, of course, filled up the time with talk.
Julia thought and felt too mu9h for easy conversation.
Her uncle was free to indulge himself in soliloquy
or in lecture. They came upon a part of the road
which passed for a distance of a mile or two' through
a forest. They were riding at a walk, aiid Doctor
Fairfax had fallen into a disquisition.


2 ~2         HOF~BU GiC.

"Twb rival systems of ciyilization'~!-so his dis-
course was running on-.-" have been developed on
this continent. The Northern has reached its most
advanced stage in Massachusetts, th~ Southern in Vir-
ginia. One is founded on trade, the other on agri-
culture. One flourishes in cities, as in hot-houses, the
other ripens in the sunshine of the country. The
Northern is of more rapid growth; the Southern more
perfect. By some fatality this trial of force between
them ha~ been brought on soon enough to give the
North all the advantage of its precocious strength,
while half the South is not yet rid of t~ie stumps. I
fear, as you know, that in this struggle' the North
will prevail. Then the world and posterity will be
taught that the N~rthern Bystem is the best, every
way. The World is sycophantic, and listens to a con-
queror. You know my opinions of this Yankee civil-
ization. It makes white slaves, while we U50 the
black slaves made by nature. The leading tendency
of our system~ is to' cultivate virtue; ef the Yankee'
system, to sharpen the wits. Our refinements are re-
finemehts of virtue. Our fantastic excess is an exag-
geration 9f honor and courage. The~ selfish princi~
ciples that we develop as a prop to virtue, is pride-.-
theirs, prudence. We incur among the Yankees the
disdain which. rustics incur among city- fops. The
prime products of our social system. are' noble men
and' women. The Northern-see--there are sped-
mens now, I verily believe."
The travelers were enierging froni the wood, and
were in a view of a farm-house that stood at no great
distance from them. Fr~rn the house a lane led to the
road on which they were traveling. In the lane, four
mounted men, in Federal uniform, leading three

292

4

horses, had just turned away from the house, and were
approaching the road. The doctor suspected that the
led horrses had just been taken from citizens, and per..
haps from the farmer who lived there. The prospect
of meeting the soldiers was not pleasaxit, but there
was no way to avQidA~he1n, as the doctor concluded,
and he resolved to advance without any appearance
of distrust. He slipped, however, one of his pistoI~
into the- hands of ~Jaleb, with an injunction not to
show it, nor to use it, until ordered to do so by
his master. Julia begged ~her uncle to make no
resistance, whatever i~ight happen. He assured
her that it was his' prirpose to avoid a collision if
possible.
When the Virginians were nearly opposiW to the
mouth of the lane, the Federal soldiers came out of it
and met them on the road. The doctor saluted the
strangers vourteously, and would have passed on.
But a non-comm~s~ioned 'officer, who appeared to be
the leader of the party, ordered him to halt. The or-
der was obeyed, of course, a~d he who had given it,
after looking at the horses, and fixing his attenti~
particularly on Arab, said:
"Them's good horses you're riding."
"They are tolerable nags," the doctor adiuitted.~
"We're looking for sich horses, we are."
We do not wish to sell 'ours~'
"Good; we don't want to buy."
"I believe we are not likely to agree upon an ex-
change, either."
"You'r~~a comical old cock. Do you take. us for
-horse-traders? Don~t you see we're soldiers? We
take horses~ we do. I've a particular fancy for the
woman's horse, but as she's a woman, we'll leave her

I


294             IIOBBtYCK.
the old sorrel we got at that house.. Item do for her.
Come, Cuffee, take her saddle and put it on the sorrel.
We'll just take your horse, and the old man's ~a&amp;dles
and all."
While he was speaking, he dismounted, and ap-
proached Julia. She said to him in her softest tones;
"I am sure, sir, if you knew how I prize this horse
and for what a holy purpose I need him now, you
would npt take him from me."
"Wouldn't I, though? Come, get down without
any more palaver."
He seized her by the arm and pulled her so roughly
downward that she ~was glad to leap to the ground.
He then lifted her veil and said:
"By...-.--. that's a pretty secesh face. I must have
a kiss;"
He seemed about to suit the action to the word,
when the crack of a pistol was. heard and he fell deai~
Doctor Fairfax had prevented the insult.
Instantly a fight ensued, which was so sudden,
rapid and brief, that Julia could distinguish nothing
but the firing of revolvers until it was over. She was
near being trampled upon by the horses in the affi'ay,
but she was below the range of the shots. In a min-
ute the firing ceased. Two of the Federals lay dead
on the ground; the other two wore flying and appar-
ently wounded. Caleb was down, bleeding freely.
Three barrels oPhis pistol were empty. DoctorFair-
fax sat on his horse, looking at the t~Mo retreating sob
diers. Presently he said;
"Julia, they have quieted old Dick," and he began
to sink upon the horse's neck. She ran to him, and
supported him while he slipped to the ground.
"Where are you hurt, Uncle Dick ?" she ,asked, in
great alarm.

RGBBUCK.      295

"Here, Julia; hurt to death."*
"Oh, no, you will not die," she cried, "you will
not die."
"Yes, I know-I can live but a few minutes.
When the breath is out, you must leave me and save
yQUrSelf. The villains will send others after us, I'll
not keep you long. I finished two of them. I 'be-
lieve another, thanks to Caleb, is not long for this
world. ~Three Yankees the less to destroy our peo-
pIe."
"Your voice is strong, Uncle Dick. Let me ex-
amine your wound. I am sure it cannot be fatal. I
~j~yill go for help~"
"You would like to Ailo something for Uncle Dick.
But it is useless. Raise my head a little-..-.so.---now
you have my head iii your lap I can breathe a few
minutes longer, and I shall d.ie easy. Ah, Julia, what
a tragedy &amp;f tragedies we have wituessedwith Yankee
power for the devil of the scene and Yankee policy for
the plot. If I could live a little while longer I would
repent of all the sins of the Yankees as they have re-
pented so angrily of our sin of slavery these many
years. Poor old Virginia, she was drawn into this
war by the action of the States North and South of
her, and now she has to fight more and suffer more
than any of them. Well, I have done my duty, than1~
God. Only a few minutes more, my dear girl. I wish
he had been a gentleman who shot me-I fear he was
a cur. Well, I forgive him; h~ was a soldier. I am
very weak. Here is your purse in my pocket. I was
going to leave~ without giving it to you. I shall not
need it where I am going. Ask the people of that
house to take care of my body and of Caleb-poor
Caleb, I fear he is badly wounded "-

2


296        ROEBUCK.                                  IIOEBITOIC.      297

"l's gwine wid y6u, master," said Caleb, speaking
with difficulty, and falling at last from his ambitious
phraseology to the negro dialect, "l's gwine wid you,
master."
"I hope not, my faithful fellow."
"ibm always wid you; l's gwine wid you now
master."
"Farewell, Caleb. God bless you. You have done
your duty. Then fly, Jalia. Conceal yourself until
night in that wood. Save your father. Tell him I
die for hbki and for you and for Virginia-.as I would
wish to die-for the dearest objects of my love-and I
love sister Mary and- We die, Julia-you are a
brave girl-the earth has not another so noble-kiss
me, Julia-farewell-we die, but our country lives for..
ever-God bless Virginia-light the candle-God
bless"-
He spoke no more.
Mr. Hart, the farmer who resided there, now
stood beside Julia.

4
CHAPTER XXVIII.
~IUQH PITZHUQ)L
WHEN Alb~rt Palmer, abruptly abandoning his pur..
suit of Miss Fairfax, turned to fly from the five or six
Confederates who had met her, he was. mounted on a
fleeter horse than any of theirs, and not sparing the
weary animal, he left them at some distance. Ho
would probably have escaped if his horse had not
fallen in descending a hill. By ihe fall ouie of the
rider's legs was broken, and being unable to move, he
was .aptured. He was carried by his captor~ into the
yard of a house which stood near the road, and there
laid on the grass, while th~ Confederates, giving up
th~ pursuit of his comrades, who had scattered them..
selves over the country, waited for the regiment to
come up.
Colonel Fitzhngh, after ]eavin~ Julia with her uncle
at the spring; ha~tened forward. She had told him
that some of his men were in pursuit of Palmer, and
he had heard enough of that gentleman's recent con-
duct to fill him with anger.. Anticipating the capture
of the fugitives as possible, if not probable, he medi-
tated the punishment that was due to such~ a villain.
His fury being the counsellor of hi~ judgment, be vas
ready to condemn the culprit to extreme torture of
any kind that imagination could conceive. In his
anger he dashed the spurs into his horse, as if no
speed was s'~ift enough for his revenge. Whether
his tempestuous thought turned to the perils through
1&amp;I~


298             ROEBUCK.
which Julia had passed, 6r to those which he was
about to encounter, or to the sufferings of her father,
or to the atrocities recently perpetrated against others,
or to the past career of Palmer, he became more and
more enraged. In this vindictive mood he dashed on
to the head of his regiment.
He was amazed at the scene which he then witnessed,
and it recalled- his mind, to the duties of an officer.
That portion of the command whic~had arrived at
the place where Albert Palmer lay, w~ in the utmost
confusion and disorderly excitement. T~ie report which
Marlin and Baxter had brought of his conduct had
been circulated among the men, and, as usual in such
eases, it had~ gathered additions as it was repeated. It
inflamed the minds of the soldiers to the highest pitch
of resentment against one whom they regarded as a
fiend. The foremost of them, seeing him in the yard,
gave way to the impulses of passion. X~eaving the
ranks and disrnountir~g, they hurried into the yard
with threatening cries and gesture~s. Others followed.
Forty or fifty men entered the enclosure. Shoot him
-he's a deserter-he's a trator-he's a murderer-he
tried to kill Miss Fairfax-he hung her to a bed-post
-Mark Marlin had tQ cut her down-hang him-.
such were the cries that expressed their purpose or
their passion. Some 6f them who were near the
prisoner tried to seize him, but were delayed by two
or three officers. A few of the men cried, don't mur-
der him-wait till the colonel comes-let the colonel
deal with him. But the increase of the crowd brought
ai~i increase of excitement. The uproar of threats
silenced t~e the feeble voice of remonstrancee. Every
moment it appeared certain that the maddened mob
would obtain possessionof Palmer and execute instant
revenge.

ROEBUCK.                  299
4-
When Colonel Fit~hugh camel upon this spectacle
of tumult he asked what was the matter. A soldier
replied, "they've got Pahpei' in there."
"What is he doing?"
"Lying on the grass. They say he's wounded."
"What are the men doing ?"
"They are going so hang him."
"Murder a prisoner 1"
The violence of others struck him in its true light,
and restored his reason to the mastery over his~ pas-
sions. He leaped from hi'~ horse and into the yard.
Pressing forward among the men, he called to them,
in a voice of authority that rang above the uproar, Aot
to murder a prisoner, but to return~to the ranks.
Th~e who recognized him gave way for him to pass.
Others, too intent on mischief to see their colonel or
hear his voice, were thrust aside. In a mome~it he
was beside Palmer, and looking round upon the
enraged soldiers, sternly commanded them to fall
back. They yielded with ~ sullen murmur to his
ascendancy, and slowly retired. He rebuked them for
the -crime which they had meditated, and ordered
them to return to their places. Palmer implored him
not to let ~he men assassinate him, but he made no
reply to this supplication until the yard was cleared of
soldiers. Then, casting his eyes upon the prisoner, he
merely said, "you are safe now." He had Palmer
carried into the house, and placed a guard around
it, under 'an officer on whose firmness he could i~ely;
commanding him to remain until the regimQnt had
passed and to follow it, taking care that no men were
left behind. He then informed Palmer that he was.
to be left there at liberty, and required him to give   J
the ordinary parole of a prisoner of war. When this J


8~O            ROEBUCK.              -
V
matter had been arranged, the prisoner began to ex-
press gratitude, but the colonel abruptly left him and
hastened to the regiment, which, was again in motion.
Some of the men,, as he passed by them, muttered,
"this was not the way the Yanks treated Colonel
Fred." He chose to be deaf to such comments. His
own passions, which had been so suddenly quelled,
began to rebel again, and he had to ride some distance
before he, felt perfectly master of himself. He then
took occasion to speak to his men in words of grave
reproof, and of the dishonor which some of them had
almost brought up~n the regiment. He assured them
th~t in a little while he would conduct them to a fai,
more honorable revenge, and that the crimes of their
enemies should not go unpunished. He informed
them that they had a long march before them for that
day and coming night, &amp;nd he relied on their pa~ieiice,
discipline and courage~for the success of an important;.
enterprise.
When Coloael Fitzhugh was returning, successful,
from his expedition, iind had heard of the outrages
which had been committed in the county of his resi~
dence, he resolved to strike a blow, if possible, which
might restrain1 such inhuman excesses of military vio.
lence for the future. The information obtained by
Baxter encouraged him to believe that it .w~s praetica.
ble, t~nd his interview with Julia did not tend to relax
his resolution. He was hastening on with a hope of
surprising the Federals at the village. After leaving
Palmer he cQntrnued. the march until a late hour of the
nigJ~ when he wa~ within three or four miles of the
village. The regiment was then halted for a brief rest,
but, an hour before daybreak, the men were again in
their saddles. The colouel ~he~i ~d4ressed them;

ROEBUCK.      801

"Soldiers! Virginians! You are about to attack
the enemy--not soldiers but malefactors. They hai~e
perpetrated their crimes at your own ~homes. They
have desecrated your own altars. They 'have burned
your own dwellings. They have robbed and insulted
your own families. They have made war on women
and children. They have defiled virgins. As you are
men, redress the injuries of women-of your families
and friends. Scourge these felons. Here' revenge is
justice. In such a cause your ~abres are sacred.
Count no odds against you, when Heaven must bless
your valor. The enemy is a thousand; you are five
hundred; you are enough. Let the word be Eliza
Marlin. Follow me."
There was no shout in response to this address.
The clenched teeth would not open for cheers. There
was an inarticulate murmur. There was a low, c~ntin-
uous clash of iron, as every man felt his sabre or his
carbine. Then, in stern silence, the little column
'moved off
The force at the village numbered somewhat above
- a thousand men~-a regiment of infantry about seven
hundred strong, and about three or four hundred cav~
alry. License had destroyed the discipline and im..
paired the vigilance of the entire force.
Availing himself of his local knowledge and of the~
information which he had recently received, Colonel
Fitzhugh led his regiment,. undiscovered, to a point
near the village, and' .then dashed into the centre of
the Federal encampment before any signal of his
approach was given. Officers and soldiers, suddenly
aroused from sl~ep, ran from 1~heir tents to be cut
down or trampled under foot, or to, flee from the mer-
ciless sl4bres. On one side confusion and dismay-..~on


302              ROEBUCK.
the other shouts, ~strokes, wrath, triumph. Pistols were
fired on every hand-a few muskets or rifles replied.
Darkness added to the horror of the scene. But
friends, and foes knew that the careering horsemen
were Confederates and the fkigitives on foot were
Federal. Here a~nd there a few Federals attempted.
to stand, but they could stand only to be slaughtered.
An enemy who had seen Mark Marlin there that
morning would have denounced.the heart-broken boy
as an unsparing savage. He and his had not been
spared. All through that camp the name of 14s. sister
was muttered by men who were saved from horrid
deeds, perhaps , by~ the rapid dispersion of the enemy.
They -were men.
The Federal cavalry, finding that the infantry had
been scattered, took to flight without an effort at de-
fence. Some mounted horses without saddles or bri-
dles and galloped away. Others on foot scampered
across the adjacent fields. In a few minutes it appeared
to the assailants that, of the whole Federal force, non~
remained near the village but the few who were killed
or severely wounded. But it was not so. Colonel
Wesel, whatever else he may have been, was a man of
cour~i~/Phough suddenly awakened by an enemy
in the midst of his camp, he did not lose his presence
of mind. He soon discovered the real state of affairs,
and thought only of retrieving the disaster. Using
tIe opportunities of darkness and confusion, he cok~
elected a few men, and with them he threw himself into,
a house at one end of the village. There lie deter-
mined to make a stand while he sent some of his ~flk
cers to rally- his flying troops, and a courier to the
nearest Federal post for succor. He did not believe
that the assailants were numerous or that they would

ROEBUCK.      803

venture to- remain long at the village. He hoped that
a sturdy show of resistance might even cause them to
retire as suddenly as they came.
As soon as Colonel. Fitzhngh discovered that the
house was thns occupied, he divined the objects of the
Federal officer, and saw the necessity of dislodging
him at Qflce, and of preventing the fugitives from being
rallied. He knew that it was impossible for him to
hold th&amp; village very long under any circumstances,
and that if any part of it could be held by the enemy
until reinforcement~ or considerations of prudence
should compel him to retire, the effect of his present
success would be neutralized. He sent a considerable
part of the regiment to pursue the fugitives for a time,
and then prepared to assault the house occupied by
Colonel Wesel. When the party organize&amp; for the
purpose was ready to make the assault the day was
breaking.
The assailants rushed towards the house, intending
to enter throj~igh the- windows. When they were
within a few yards of it a well-directed volley brought
several of them to the earth. Mark Marlin, springing
forward, seized the ledge of a window which was
rather above his head, and drawing -himself up, broke
in the sash with the hilt of his sword. He climbed
up to the window, and had almost entered, when he
received a shot, and tell heavily back to the ground.
The men behind him, and those directed to other ~n-
dews, still pressed on. But the defence was- so steady
and effective that it was soon found necessary to recall
them, and the assault failed.
Colonel Fitzhugh, still deeming it necessary to dis-
lodge the Federal colonel as soon as possible, made
instant preparation for another attack. He placed.

N


~O4       ROEBUCK.

himself at the head of a number of men deemed sufib
dent for the purpose. Having procured a ladder, he
led them, under cover of buildings, to a spot about
fifty yards from the house occupied by the enemy.
Then, while a false attack was made on another side,
he rushed forward. His foremost men, carrying the
ladder. horizontally between them, swung it, as a ram,
against the door, until they broke it, but not without,
two or three of them l4~ing woundN .As soon as an
opening was thus.. made, wide enough for a man to
pass, Colonel Fitzhugh dashed in, followed by his.
men. Within the house there was a fierce fight, hand.
to-han4. It could not last long. Colonel Wesel and
several of his men were killed. The rest surrendered.
The victory was complete, but it was purchased
with some precious blood. Besides other losses, Obb
onel Fitzhugh was dangerously wounded. He was
carried from the house, bleeding profuselyy. Calling
the lieutenant-~olonel of his regiment to him, he cx~
pressed the.belief that his wound was mortal," he eora~
mended the gallantry of his men, and gave directions
for the burial of the dead, the care of the wounded,
the removal of captured horses and guns, an&amp; the
withdrawal of hi~command from the village. Finally,
he requested that, whatever might be his own con.
edition, he might not be left behind. Although these
directions were given with coolness and clearness,
they were~ scarcely completed when he became insen~
sible. Afterwards he revived; he was almost lifeless
when, in the afternoon, he was carried from the
village.
The dead body of Mark Marlin ~vas lifted from the
earth and~ borne with tender respect by his comrades
to the cabin of his ~'ather, who sat on his desolate
~        hearth beside his wife; and she was a maniac.

808

When Mrs. Fitzhugh heard of the condition of her
son she followed the regiment, and taking charge of
him, ~he had him carried, from time to time, by short
stages to an interior county. There she took ~ cottage,
and attended only by her faithful Belle, devoted her~
self to the preservation of his life.


ROEBtTCIt.

CHAPTER XXIX.

WASINGTON.

W~ left Julia Fairfax seated in a highway, holding in
her lap the head of her deceased uncle. Near her lay
his bleeding servant, and the corpses of two Federal
soldiers. Beside her stood Mr. IItirt~ Notwithstand~
ing the dangers which he and his family might incur
if he should afford assistance to those who had pro..
yoked the vengeance of soldiery in possession of the
country, he was prompt to acknowledge t1~e duties of
humanity to a woman in affliction, and to the dead
and wounded. He addressed her in words of sym~
pathy, and offered her the shelter of his house, and
whatever aid he could render. Her delicate frame
might have sunk under the load of calamity that had
befallen her; but, if she was a woman in the weakness
of passion, she could be a woman in the heroism of
duty. A sacred duty was still before her. A gush
of tears discharged the riatural tribute of affection and
grief. Then she rapidly reviewed the circumstances
by which she was surrounded, and concluded that it
was necessary for her to act promptly according to the
advice of her dying uncle. She thanked IMIr. hart for
his kind offer of assistance. She explained to him
briefly that she was obliged to prosecute her journey
without delay. She begged him to .take charge of her
uncle's body, and of the wounded Caleb. That faith-.
- ful servant assured them that he would not trouble any
one long in, this world. When Mr. Hurt had con-.

ROflDUOl~.                ~lO7
sented to fulfil all the wishes which she expressed,
and she had seen Caleb laid on a bed in the horse,
she took leave of him with many tears, and, after kiss~
ing the lifeless lips of her dear uncle, she bade fare~
well to Mr. Hart.
Sh6 went into the wood to wait for the niore se
cure shelter of night. Concealing herself ma ravine,
she tied her horse by the bridle to a limb, and sat
down upon the grass, leaning against the trunk of a
tree. There she remained alone several hours. The
sun went down, and the retreating shadows at length
sf~ole away upon the approach of night, like faithless
friends at the coming of misfortune. Darkness made
her solitude more dismal. Hooting owls, and wailing
whip-poor-wills, broke, with melancholy voices, the
solemn silence of the forest and of night. Her clear
sense and natural courage usually saved Julia from
imaginary terrors. But her heart, already sorrowful
and fearful; felt the depressing influence of the scene.
She turned her sleepless arid tearful eyes to Heaven,
and prayed to the friend of the friendless, who sees at
midnight as at noonday. It was midnight when she
found courage to venture upon the highway. The
night was friendly to her, and, by riding rapidly, she
left this dangerous neighborhood far behind her be-
fore the dawn.
Afterwards, traveling much at night, she continued
her Journey through many difficulties and alarms, but
without any~ adventure that ought to detain the reader
from more important events, until she arrived within
ten miles of Washington city. Then,, as she was
riding along a public roud in the forenoon, she saw
before her a party of Federal cavalry appvoaching ~t
a brisk trot.  126 avoid meeting them, she twned he~'

.d


4

IIOEBUCIC.
horse and rode back, intending to enter a lane which
she had passed, and to wait there until 'the cavalry
should go by. When Bhe was about to enter the lane,
she heard from behind her the word "halt" In-
tending to halt as soon as she turned out of the road,
to avoid collision, she went on. She ~had scarcely
turned into the lane,~~nd drawn her rei,~n, when a shot
was fired, and the bullet struck her horse. He made
one bound and then fell. Quivering with momentary
agony, he died. The cavalry rode on. - One voice
exclaimed-" I guess you'll halt ,time," adding
some words of profane rilaldi7. Julia stood by her
horse, not injured by *his fall, but ~vercome with a
sense of utter desolatAoiL "Poor Arab," sh~ mur-
inured, "brave, gentle, faithful Arab, will they let
nothing live that! love?"
She sat down for a 'few minutes, weeping. But a
thought of her father recalled her to the hard path of
duty still before her. She rose, and with a lingering
look of regret at the bodj of her last companion, set
out alone and afoot towards the city. She was not
much accustomed to walking, and she had not -trav-
eled five miles over the. hard road when she became
very weary, and her feet' began to feel sore. Still she
walked on, slowly, indeed, and with- frequent pauses,
but with perseverance. The sun was setting when
she found herself within the suburbs of Washington.
She stopped~to rest,. and to consi4kr what was next to
be done. She did not know that she had a single
friend or acquaintance in the city, except her father.
Regarding 'her soiled garments and, ~retclied plight,
'she feared that her appearance would excite the sus-
picion of strangers. She imagined that- not only
the public offices but the streets were thronged' with

avowed enemies of Virginia who, she inferred.,
would be her enemies if she should make herself
known. She thought that in her dusty garb, if she
entered a respectable hotel, she would be rejected as
a guest, and perhaps expelled with~ insult. Her pro-
sent perplexities, more than all the perils of her jour~-
ney, made 'her plan for obtaining the release of her
father appear to herself impracticable. Still uncer-
tain what to do, she started in the dusk of evening,
and walked into the city. She went along Penusyb:.
vania Avenue, that wide and cheer1e~s thoroughfare.
Hundreds of persons met her or passed by her. She
did not dare to put aside her veil, or to lift her eyes
to their faces. She felt that they were 'all strangers.
She imagined that they looked at her with suspicion
or enmity~ More and more disheartened, more and
more uncertain what to do, she still walked on. At
length, in passing a come; she looked: into a oro~s
street, thinking that perhaps it might be better for
her to turn into it, and so 'avoid the multitude who
throi~ged the side-walk of the great Aventt~. By the
light of a lamp she saw a negro man sitting on the
curb-stone not far from her. Stepping aside into the
cross street, where she could see him more distinctly,
she looked at him a moment, and then said, in a-loW
voice-.---" Dave." lie starte~1 and looked at her. She
raised her veil, and by the lamplight he saw her fea-
tures. "Miss Julia," he cried, "'fore God, it's Miss
Julia." He seized her han4, which she held out to
him. He kissed it. He shed tears upon it Then,
with true African volubility and incoherence, he
poured forth a torrent of mixed and incongruous
emotions. Julia tried to check demonstrations which
~began to. attract ~the attention of passengers. She'


310             ROEBUCK.
asked Dainty Dave how he was living in Washing-
ton. This was asking a renewal of his sorrows, and
the ~floodgates of complaint broke loose. It appeared
that from the time he left Roebuck-and he was
among the first to desert-until that moment, his ex~
perience had been bitter. "0 de fools, de fools us
Diggers is~'-was his own comment at several stages
of his story. "L's niis'able, Miss Julia, I~ starvin', I
aiat got no place to sleep dis night, but dis 'ere pave-
ment"         -
"Why did you leave us, Dave'?" she asked in a
compassionate voice.
"'Case I was a fool, like de other niggers. Master
piled me, I reckon. He was too good to dis 'ere nig~
ger. I thought I was a gwine to be free when I
done run away. I hadn't got no sense to see I was
fi'~e afore, and master was working' for me as of he
was my servant. My blessed old master! All de
nigger~ here is mighty had off, Miss Julia, and dere's
heaps of 'em. Dey is piled in cellars and places, and
kep in dem barracks till dey starves, and gits sickand
dies, and sich dirty niggers. I can't stay wid 'em. I
.ain't used to it. But dere dey is, men and- women
and children, all wretched, mis'able begin's, and nobody
keers of dey lives or dies.2'
"Poor creatures! What can I do to relieve them!
Thit why do I ask? I do not know where to lay my
own head to-night '?"
"What you (say, Miss Julia ?" Dainty Dave ox-
claimed, in astdnishrn~nt, for his ~ttentiom was now,
for the first time, turned from his own misery to
the condition of his young mistress. "You don't
know whar to go ?"
"No, Dave, I 'a~n alone, and~stranger in the city.

ROnBUoXO          3i1

I have jnst arrived, and I am not willing to go to
hotel. I ani in distress, and I do not know a man or
woman in all this great town.'~
"Why, whar's your cousin Clara, den? She lives
here."
"Cousin Glara?"
"Mrs. West, you know."
Julia - then remembered that the lady whom. he
named, a distant relative of her father, had once
visited Roebuck. It was when Julia was a child, and
she had almost forgotten the lady. She had quite for-
gotten that she livedin Washington. But Dave, who
was older than his young mistress, remembered the
visit of Cousin Clara very well. She had importance
in his eyes, not because she came to the country from
the capital, but because she was ~kin to de Fair-
faxes." Recently he had been inquiring about her,
with some intention of claiming kin to keep himself
from starving~ Shame ~ad hitherto held him off from
her house, but he Nknew where it stood, and had
walked by it more than once with longing eyes.
When Julia recollected her distant cousin, ana con-
sidered that Mrs. West was the only person in the
city upon whom she had the slightest claim, she ac-
cepted Dave's offer to conduct her to the lady's house.
They walked on together, Dave keeping his\ proper
place as a servaia, but near enough to her for konver-
sation. lie chattered away continually. But little of
his diat is worth recording.
"No, Miss Julia, freedom ain't for niggers. Dey
can't git de hang ofit, and it don't do 'em no good.
Free niggers ain't got no friends. Do rule friends of
do niggers is de good masters and mistresses what
takes keer of 'em. It's do ole Virginny blood. dat's


lIO]~BUCK.

812            ROl~BUQK.

- de friends of de niggers. Dem's de rule gentlemen
and ladies. Dey knows what to d~ wid servants.
But dey's gwlne down. Dey's bin gwine down ever
sence de Imiversal suffL'age. I kuowed dat would
make mischief to de niggers. And now de ole fami-
lies is gittin' broke up by de war. Next thing, dey'll
have to marry quarter-masters and other low folks
what's made money by de war. De good ole blood's
a gwine down. What'll become of de poor riiggers ?"
While his tongue was running on, they arrived at
Mrs. West's house. Julia then divided with Dave
her remnant of cash, and telling him to provide for
himself that night, and come to see her the next day,
she dismissed him. When she entered the house,
and made herself kiiown, she was received by Mrs.
West with affectionate welcome. The kind lady had
a pleasant remembrance of Roebuck, and esteen~ed
"Cousin Fred." as he deserved. She had a bright,
busy, talkative and cordial manner. With hospitality,
she possessed intelligence and tact. Unlike those
hosts who bid you make yourself at home, and then
leave you to shift tbr yourself most helplessly in a
strange house, she could make a guest feel at homer
She had heard nothing of Colonel Fairfax's imprison-
ment, but when Julia told her all her painful story,
she manifested such sympathy and such a warm de-
sire to befriend Cousin Fred., she suggested so many
plausible expedients for obtaining his discharge, and
she offered her assistance with so much apparent hope
of success, that to Julia's eager fancy the prison doors
seemed already to turn on their hinges for her father's
release. Grateful and hopeful , she laid her head upon
her pillow to dream of her father's happy restoration
to his family.

The next mc~rning she was up ea$y, impatient for
the hour wheti, accompanied' by Mrs. West, she was
to start in search of l~r Lather. They were te take
the round of many prisons, and, without a clue, to
took for him among an immense number of prisoners
then confined in the city. He had been there so short
a time, and was so completely unknown to all those
who had ~harge of the prisons, that they could scarcely
expect to find him until they should happen upon the
very room in which he ivas confined. After break-
fast, they sallied forth upon their quest. Although
they traversed the magnificent distances of the city
in a carriages they had walking enough in visiting the
various places at which they called, With climbing
stairs, and standing, while they awaited the leisuize of'
those to whom they made application, to fatigue even
the active Mrs. West. Many persons of whom they
inquired, knew nothing of Colonel Fairfax; others
declined to answer any questions. By some they
Were treated with politeness, and by others rudely re-
buffed. They were very weary and Julia was much
disheartened, when, late in the day, they were told
that a prisoner from Virginia, answering to the de-
scription which they gave of Colonel F'airfax, was con-
fined in a room before which they wei'e then stand~
ing. But it was too late to obtain admittance to the
prisoners that day; the person who had the custody
of Colonel Fairfax was not present; nothing niore
could be learned by Julia about her father, ~not even
about his health. ~She went away, feeling disappoint-
Inent and anxiety almost as painful as if she had not
discovered the place &amp;f his imprisonment.
The next day the ladies returned. The custodian
of Colonel Fairfax then informed them that they
14

I


ROflh3UCJ~.                                     ROEI3UOK.           315

could not be admI~tted to' see him without a special or-
der from higher authority. As to the prisoner's
health, he' did not know much, except that "he*
seemed to' be pretty bad," but 'he referred them to the
surgeOn. Inquiring where the 'surgeon was to be
found, and receiving a very vague direction, they
started in search of that officer. Besides the anxiety
of Julia to ascertain her father's true condition ~after
receiving the uncertain hut alarming information
which she had ju~t heai~d, Mrs. West suggested
'a certificate fi~om the surgeon might promote the suc-
c~ss of their application to be admitted into the pri~on.
But it was several hours before they found the surgeon.
*    He replied to their inquiries with civility, and when
he knew that Julia was the daughter of the prisoner,
he looked at her with compassion, for he was a man
of gi'eat benevolence. In tenderness to hemp he soft-
ened the report which he gave of her father's condi-
tion as much as truth permitted, and he soothed her
with general expressions of hope. But, by the use of
a little dexterity, he contrived to inform Mrs. West,
aside, that Colonel Fairfax could not live many. days,.
if he remained in prison. At her request, he slipped
into her hand' a 'certificate to that effect. 'This was an
artifice of~ kindness to' save the daughter from dis-
tress which, a~ they feared, might overcome her, but
Mrs. West afterwards discovered that Julia had in-
ferred from the cautious conversation of the surgeon
the actual danger to her father's life. Reserve could
no longer be useful, and the certificate was shown
to her soon after they parted with the surgeon. They
then endeavored to procure the necessary oi'der for
admittance into the prison, but official hours were
over, and another day closed with disappointment.

Such delays would have been painful under any oh'-
cnmstances, but, with the knowledge which they
had acquired, Julia spent the following nigh~Nn an-
guish.
Wearisome to the ladies, and worse than wearisome
to the prisoner's daughter, were the next few days;
for so long was it before Julia obtained permission
to see hei father. Those who have had experience
iwpr~ssing an application, however trivial and unob-
jectionable, though official routine, can understand
how a whole day may be spent without any progress
in such affairs. When the applicants were' women,
seeking favor for a rebel from the servants of the of-
fended government, it may be imagined that delay~
and obstacles were multiplied. But Mrs. West was
hever disheartened. She 'had been ~through such
trials of patience before. She was one of those women
who habitually assuaged the miseries of the war by
charities to the unfortunate. To relieve them, she had
passed through scenes which were often 'repulsive,
and sometimes revolting to a lady. 'With officials, her
gentle importunity, now pathetic and then laughing,
would not be denied. Besides, she had acquired
much knowledge of the secret springs of influence at
'Washington. Finally, with the use of the surgeon'8
certificate, and of her own energy and adroitne~s, she
succeeded in procuring, not only permission 'for Julia
to Visit her father in prison, but an order for his dis-
charge. Tie was to be set free, however, only upon
condition that he would first take an oath of allegiance
to the Federal. government in a prescribed form.

4.-

A"


ROEBU CE:.        81T

818              flQEBiYOi~.

CHAPTER XXX.
P~II~DEUICK FAIT~FAX.
JuuA went to the prison. Her step had lost the
elastic lightness of youth, health and happiness. She
Walked with The nervous celerity of painful excite-,
ment. The bloom had faded from her cheeks. Above
their pallor, her eyes gleamed with unnatural' lustre.
In her fluttering pulse, suffering and heart-sickness
had extinguished the energy of hope and high re~
solve. But despair was still kept at bay by the ex~
pectation of seeing her father, and relieving him by
filial ministrations.
She I~ound him in a small room-a mere cell. It
was gloomy, having only one window, a little grated
opening. He lay on the floor, with no bed, but some
wisps of dirty, broken~ straw. The close, corrupted
air almost stifled Julia as she entered. The cell con-
tained several prisoners besides her father. They
might have been long there, for their faces had the
dead whiteness and sullen indifference which come of
long imprisonment. They let the spider weave his
web over their' narrow window without raising a hand
to brush it away. Colonel Fairfax was looking round
upon them, and, as Julia entered the door, she . heard
him faintly utter the words "poor fellows 1" When,
by the dusky light, admitted through dirty panes, she
saw' him lying on the floor, none but a daughter
would have recognized hi~ form and features. his.
woundj~is frightfQl journey to the Federal capital,

imprisonment, suffering, gi'ief had. conquered his
manly frame. His eyes were sunken; his cheeks
were hollow and haggard;, his beard was long and
white; his grey hair was matted, his form was ema~
cited and distorted with pain; his. garments were
soiled by the filth in Which he lay. In all this squalid
wretchedness? nothing could be seen which seemed
properly to belong to that no gentleman but the
benignity of his countenance as he looked round. ~upon
his fellow-prisoners.
His daughter hastened to his side, and sobbing,
"my father, my father," she knelt down and kissed
him again and again. fler tears trickled in showers
upon his face., Laying her cheek to his, she wept in
speechless agony. "Julia, my sweet child," he whis-
pered, "do not give way to despair. God is mer-
ciful. We are in his hands." She could:an~wer only
with tears. She had come to comfort him, but the
first sight of him had dissolved her firmness. She re~
covered her voice only to cry out, "0 God! 0 God!
can such goodness be doomed to such misery? my
father, my father!" His eyes filled~ with tears, and,
for a time, he could not speak. At length her parox-
ysm of uncontrollable grief was past. She recalled to
mind the duty which she had come to discharge. She
sat upon the floor; an~ wiped her eyes. Bttt her lip
still quivered, and she feared to make an effort to
speak, lest her self-control should abandon her again.
"Speak to me, my daughter. Tell me of your
mother. My beloved wife!",
"Yes, papa; she is with, kind friends. Her great
trouble is for you."
"My wife, my wife, my wife 1".
"When she knows that you are-are safe, she will
be' comforted.'~

SIT


018         ROEI3UCK.

ROEBUCK.      819

"May God comfort her."
"When she sees you again she will be happy.."
"Ah, me! My unhappy wife !"
"We shall be happy yet, papa."
"Yes-hereafter," he said, looking upward.
"At home, dear papa.
Yes, in Heaven."
"You must recover your health.. We shall go to
mother. Then love will make us 'all happy."
"Do not delude yourself, my daughter. We~ must
irow~look for happiness beyond this world. My gentle
Mary!' My wife, my wife, my wife "
"Listen to me, my dear papa. I have an order for.
your'ielease from imprisonment."
." Can this 'be true, Julia ~ Then 'I may 'live to see
'my Mary"
He uttered these words with more vigor than he
had. displayed since his daughter entered the room.
His face was suddenly lighted with flash of joy.' He
laid his thin band on Julia's waist, and feebly press-
"ing her 'to 'him, 'he kissed. he' fondly. The new-born
hope -of freedom and of household endearments was
very '~w~et. The calm of resignation, 'which had be.
iore succeeded the exthiotiou of hope, was ruined.
'For a 'few moment 'he cherished 'his joy in silence.
'His imagination 'flew to her whom' be had loved so
long, so wisely and 'so well. The image of his daugh-
ter went with him to the side of his wife, and his love
revelled in ~iomestio bliss~ 4ulia saw this happiness
in his face, and she feai~d to 'dash' it by 'an allusion to
tho condition upon whieh he was to be released. She
was silent until he spoke.
"Why, the4 'my 1~rling, ~do we remain here
Inig@rt" 'be~whlspered:at last. -

"Are you able to go ?" she asked, with compassion-
ate evasion.
"Yes, yes; let me be carried, away. I must see my
wife. I have not long to live. I'm t see may wife
once more. Why do you look trouble daua'hter? I
can bear the pain of removal. Let us :go."
"0, my dear papa, I must tell you. The order is
that you xnust take the oath of allegiance to the Fede-
ral' government before you will be released."
He gazed at her a little while, as if he did not fully
comprehend the import of her words. 'Then his eyes
closed. His pallid cheeks gradually 'became livid.
His lips moved but uttered no sound. His fingers
grasped the straw nervously. Julia trembled with
alarm. She feared that~The last 'shock 'had killed her
father. She almost shrieked; but she held her heart
to its terrible task. She was still to sustain 'and com-
fort her ~father. Bending over him, she kisses his
brow, and whispered, "Papa, speak to me. Speak to
your Julia:" He opened his eyes and ihurmured
a blessing upon his devoted child. She held. his hand
and softly pressed it, but again her emotion was swell-.
ing so high that she could not trust 'herself to utter a
word. After a long pause, whjch seemed like' death
he looked up and said, "I am resigned, Julia. God~s
will be done." He relapsed into 'silence, although his
lips moved as if he repeated to himself what was pass-
ing in his mind.
"I cannot, my daughter," at length. he said,
"while Virginia remains~ distinct from the Federal
government,-4 cannot take that oath. My allegiance
i~ due to my 'State. I will not abjure her in ber dire
extremity. 'I will 'not betray the' cause of. my fellow
citizens who daily march to death. Let me die with

/1


/

* ~2O~             ROEBUCK.
them. Let me die for Virginia. I can die, Julia,
even thus-my wife-my daughter-even thus I can
bear to die, but I cannot take a false oath. Death has
power over my. body only; pe~fidy would taint my
*   '"They say, papa, that such oaths, when taken under
compulsion "-
"Tempt me not, my daughter. Tempt not a frail
old man. The struggle has( already wrung my heart.
It has ni~arly put out this flickering life. I might not
be able to resist the persuasion of my beloved, my
unhappy da~ighter. 0, spare your father'."
His imploring anguish alni~ost bereft her of all con~
trol over her passion. He elasped one of her hands
between both his own on his breast. She laid her
other hand on his forehead. Alternately he lifted his
eyes to Heaven in mute stipplication, or fixed them
upon the face of his daughter with an expressioti of
tender, yearning, unspeakable love.
"Be not too much c~ast down by our misfortunes,"
he said, when he spoke again, "do not give way to
despair; The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken
away. Blessed be the name ef the Lord. May he
protect you and your mother wheii I am gone." After
a brief pause he continued-" do not let your heart be
corroded with resentment against our enemies. They
are mortals like ourselves, and they are blinded by the
passions of war Let us forgive as we hope to be
forgiven."
Again he lay, apparently. engaged with thoughts
which his waning strength did not enable him to
utter. It was manifest th~at he was sinking. But he
rallied a little and again addressed his daughter:
"Julia, I loved the Union. . I would have given my

IIOEBUCX.

821

life to save it. lint it is gone. However this war
may end, the Union which I loved is gone forex~r.
The free Union of sovereign States can never be re-
stored, though the South may be subjugated. If o~ir
States should be conquered I trust that the spirit of
our people will not be debased. The hope of liberty
never dies while the manhood of the people survives.
Liberty may be destroyed in one form, like this body,
and yet live on like the soul. God grant that the
freedom of our country may endure forever."
Julia, believing that when her father ceased to
speak, his mind was occupied with meditations which
she ought ~iot to interrupt, waited in silence for him
to speak to her again. But what. she next ~eard was
not addressed, to her. He was repeating-
"There the wicked cease from troubling, and there
the weary be at rest. There the prisoners rest together;
they hear not the voice of the oppressor."
When he next addressed her it was to ask if she had
lately seen Hugh. She replied that she had, and that
he wa~ well.
"Give him my blessing, Julia~ He is worthy 6f
you. You will be a good wife. He wilt be a son to
your mother."
These words were uttered with extreme difficulty.
Afterwards he was silent, but restless. Sometimes the
s~igle word "wife" or "daugbter" murmured from
his lips.
The changes that came over his face foreboded
the near approach of the last change of all. Julia
saw that the end was at hand. She sat mbtion-
less, gazi a' upo:i him and waiting for the dread event.
At last a p id calm settled upon his features. His
lips moved-' heavenly Father "-though his lips
14*


ROnBUCIr.
continued to move, no more of the last prayer of. the
good man was heard on earth.
When Julia saw that he was dead she did not shed
a ~tear. She uttered not, a word nor a sigh, She
placed his head h~ her lap and kissed his lips, as she
might have kissed him in his sleep. She gave no
outward sign of sorrow; her sorrow was unutterable.
Thus she sat, when a gruff voice notified her that the
time had come for her to. retire. -She raised her tear~
less eyes to the man and' said, in a low voice, "my
father i~ dead; let me st~y with him." The man re~
plied, not with particular rudeness, but according to
the habit of his place, "it is against orders; you
must go." She.quietlyiiftedthat venerable head from
her lap and laid it on the straw. ~he kissed the cold lips
once more, and then she rose tip and walked away
without a tear or a sigh. Slie was benumbed with
despair.
lit was not until hours afterwards, it was at mid.
night in the solitude of her chamber, that the icy rigor
of despair melted into overflowing griefs
The next morning she was unable to rise from her
bed. Mrs. West went out and made application for
the body of Colonel Fairfax, in order that he might
have the cust6ma'ry rights of sepulchre. Her applied~
* tion was refused. He was buried among strangers.
Those who loved him cannot weep over the unknown
grave of Frederick Fairfax.
t

ROEl~tTCI~.  A

3%23

CHAJTEr~ xxxi.
TIlE END.
IN a few days Julia was able to travel. Thouo.h
feeble in body and bruised in spirit, she would not
rest longer from the sad duties that remained for ~
She must return to her mother. She must icturn
without her father. She must bear tidings of his
death to his ~..heart..broken wife. She must console
her whtowed mother, or, as appeared more probable,
smooth her path to the grave. On such melancholy
duties the unhappy but unselfish girl bent her pious
thoughts.
At that time the Federal authorities were permitting
all women and children to go into the Confederacy,
and were sending thither some of them who would
have preferred to remain at their homes within the
Fedei4il lines. Without difficulty, therefore, Mrs.
West procured a passport for Julia to go t~ Richmond,
and took passage for her upon a steamboat, which,
under a flag of truce, landed passengers within a few
miles of the Confederate capital. Thus was she trans..
ported, with her burden of SOlTOW, to her afflicted
but still beloved State.
At Richmond she heard that Hugh Fitzhugh had
been dangerously wounded, and that ~e was lying very
low in the county to which he had been taken by his
/ mother. Sorrows thickened about her at every step.
That passionate love which, in young hearts, rules
with exclusive dominion, would have carried her to
the side of her wounded lover. She felt all the ten-


Nd

ROEBUCK.

ROEBIJ CIt.

der tyranny of that paSSlOfl. But her love for her
mother, cherished from her birth, had. b~en through
life associated with a sentiment of duty. It was now
consecrated by domestic a~.ction. Duty was not
doubtful, and Julia hastened to her mother.
Mrs. Fairfax, during her daughter's absence, con-
tinued to decline in health and strength. When Julia
entered her apartment she raised herself with sudden
and unusual energy in her bed. She stretched out
her arms to embrace her daughter. While they
clasped each other she cried, "your flither, Julia, have
you seen your father ~"
"Yes, dearest mamma?, I have semi him."
"Has he come with youV'
"0, mamma, mamma, h~has not come. He can-
not-he will not-O dear, dear mamma, he will never
come.'~
Mrs. Fairfax silently sunk down upon the bed.
Julia laid her head on the pillow beside her mother's,
endeavoring to comfort her with nestling fondness.
The widow uttered no loud lamentation. A few sobs
and broken sentences expressed her agony. A few
great tears trickled over her temples. She closed her
eyes to shut out the world,. whivh f r her had lost its
light. She lay bleeding irtwardly. The tenure of her
life was broken.
Thenceforth she faded away. In long hours of
silence', by day and by night, the hope of being united
once more and. forever with her husband in a better
world, occupied her mind. Her daughter was always
with, her, denying herself almost entirely the repose
which she so much needed. Her sweet, untiring,
patient love soothed the wounds of the heart which no
earthly hand could heal. Sometimes ~he allured her~

* mother into Conversation, and they talked of by-gone
days, or of those who wei'e most dear to them, or of
whatever subject had interest enough for ~fme widow
to withdraw her attention from fatal grie~ Whether
in conVersation or in m~itation, religion was always
present to the thoughts of both, for both were sin-
cerely pious, and death, then familiar alike to memory
and to expectation, brought religion constantly before
them as the light, of the grave. Mrs. Fairfax was
sometimes visited by the Reverend Mr. Amble', who
had left the village with Fitzhugh's regiment when
the Federals were driven out, and he was now sojourn-
ing a few miles from~ the house in which she was a
guest. From him she received those counsels and
consolations which it w~ms his office to bestow, and all
that tender sympathy which the calamities of his dear-
est friends excited in the bosom of this venerable
man. When they conversed, as sometimes they,
must, of the terrible misfortunes which had befallen
their country as well as themselves, and the soul of
Mrs. Fairfax was steeped in sorrow, he presented the
only solace which remained for such misfortunes.
Often she desired her daughter to sing, and her musi-
cal voice seemed to alleviate the widow's grief.. It was
a severe trial of Julia's fortitude to control her own
agitation and modulate her voice to music, especially
when her mother asked her to sing such hymns as
this:
HYMN.

r~We oryr to thee, 0 Father of the f~mther1ess,
Out of the depths, 0 Friend of the forlorn:
Among their dead the living call in dire distress,
The orphans Wail, the widowed mothers mourn.

824


4

ROEBUCK.
The earth is darkened and the hea'~'ns are as ~rt paIl;
In st~irless gloom we pray to Thee for light:
Out of the depths, while sorrow overshadows all,
We call to Thee, 0 Father; all is night.
To prayer thine ear jg ever open as the si~y-
Tocries of woe or secret sighs of care:
411 tears are known to Rim who deigned on earth to die;
Through Him, his tears and blood, 0 hear our prayer.
Let there be light where crime and fear and anguish fill
With darkness all the circle of our sun:
But it' for sin our stricken hearts must suffer still,
Thy name be hallowed and Thy will be done.
'When Mrs. Fairfax became certain that she was
about to die she was not only resigned, but was
almost cheerful. Finally she fell into the sleep that
knows no waking, as gently as a babe faIls asleep i~
a mothei~s arms.
.Iulia, after fulfilling her last filial dnty, accepted an
invitation from Mrs. Fitzhu~gh to .visit that lady at the
cottage which she then occupied 'with her son. Be-
fore leaving the county, a natural feeling induced
3ulia to visit Roebuck, which she had not seelf SinCO
she was driven from the house by fire, and snatched
from her parents by violelice. She found a~scene of
desolation where, according to her fond recollection,
~ she had known a paradise. The grounds in which
childhood had played were strewn with fragments
of their former decorations. The garden which she
had left in blooming beauty ~#as covered with a mat
of trampled stems. Here and there scanty patches
of corn were lazily cultivated by the negroes who
remained, but over wide fields the Wheat, unhar-

ROEDUOK.

- 27

vested, was left to rot, and the eorn was overgrown~
with weeds. Fences were destroyed, t~arne were
burnt, fruit-trees were out down. I3lackaned, roofless
walls were all that remained of the, elegant mansion
in which a happy family had lived so long, in the
unity of love, and in the .~raotico of every domestic,
every social virtue. There, whatever is admirable in
refinement~ was familiar as a household habit. There,
a generous hospitality, and more generous charity,
were dispensed as duly as the prayer for daily bread
was repeated at morning and evening. When Julia
stood alone, a soUtary orphan, on the marble steps
which had been trodden by ~6 many entering and de~
parting guests, she looked through4 the opening, in
which the hospitable door had stood, and saw nothing
but ashes. The scenes of happiness within those
w~ills which her memory ~o~v recalled, served only to
deepen her sense of desolation. But most sorrowful
of all associations with the scene, were the recent suf.
(cringe and.death of her father and mother, and of a~
nncl~ whom she had loved almost as dearly as ~he
loved her parents. As she stood among the ruins, of
her home, and west over the. calamities of her family,
vividly remembering the dreadful scenes through
which she had passed, and looldn~ forward to a dark
fatui'e, a feeling overcame herr not unlike the despair-
ing senti~ient of the Preach~r :-" So X returned and
considered all the oppressions that are done under~the
sun; and beheld the tears of such as were oppressed,
and they had no comforter; and on tha side of their
oppressors there was power; but' they had no coni~
foi'ter. Wherefore, I praised the dead which are ab
ready dead, more thian the living which a~ yet ajivo.


328

ROflI3UCK.

been, who hath not seen the ~vil work that is done
under the sun."
ThWfhe soul of Julia Fairfax could n'ot long d'~v~elI
in the degradation of despair. She could not long
cherish a vindictive feeling. The most unhappy life
could not appear worthless to one who valued llf~ for
the power of doing good. in misfortune her tender
heart yielded the. tribute which nature demands, but
then, without tepining, and without resentment, she
turned with firm, though gentle resolution, t~ the du..
ties which misfortune imposes.
After this visit to Roebuck, she took leave
of the kind friends wh&amp; had giVen shelter to
her- mother, and went to the humble cottage of
Mrs. Fitzhugh. The old lady received her with
~notherly affection. Hugh had passed the crisis of
danger, and wa~ slowly recovering~ Yet it was not
deemed ~certain that his former strength would ever
be rest~red. ,When he was first brought to the cot~
tage, overy~ one who saw him, except his mother, ex-
pected him to die from hour to hour. But the brave
and proud woman would not believe that her gallant
eon was to die. Disdaining to yield to her own in-'
firmity, sh~ nursed him with unremitting~caro. Others
often would have relieved her of this duty, but she re-
garded herself as a sentinel between life and death for
her son, and she would not desert her post. When
Julia arrived, he was still feeble, bu~ he was out '&amp;f
danger.
His love was a~ balm to her heart. * Consoling and
- consoled, she felt the power of mutual love to sweeten
sorrow. He desired that their marriage should take
place without delay. Whatever objections ~he urged,
he derived arguments so f~i'cible from the cireum-

1.
ROEBUCK.                   329
stances in which they Were placed, that;, in a short
time, with her coy consent, he sent for the Reverend
Mr. Ambler, and JULIA FAIRI1'A~ became the bride of.
llum FITZnUGH.
1~'INIS~

I


  
             
         
       
   
