
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Silver Bell, or, The Heir of Motcombe Manor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7627
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The silver bell, or, The heir of Motcombe Manor 
            
               ' ;rs . -    r  -      ,    -   -  -OR,  TH EU--,
H EIR OF MOT COMBE MANOR.
a44
A ' '  aam  Pr.,1

BY DR. J. H. ROBINSON.

.1

i
'                                  i
{       7
- S                   *                               tr
Ir                            yLy ?       '
n     N                           , 13       4
"1*
I p{ !  I
r

BOSTON:
GLEASON'S. PUBLIrf N  gALL
1853.

. C's'

I


u  Ngg  N     T following   oeUlette wys w igins   ti published in Tu iAG O $-%A
~d ist but ol  a    g       any deepy interesting prddhetions entanating:from that sor e  Th   MG
lfas a sin$'o a fep la      'unrivalle1n ned*rpapet, loratu h; its contrlfntors for a corpsi f the if est
e            't  Ineyin  l rOinancesftales and poetic, g ins .aeof a hig  order, and euh  s Enri'the
columns of no other publication.
The following is the Prospectus of the FLaG:
THEFLA FOUR UNION,
AN ELEGANT, MORAL AND REFINED
MISCELLANEOUS FAMILY JOIJRNAL,
Devoted to polite literature, wit and humor, prose and poetic gems, and original prize tales, written
expressly for this paper, and at a very great cost. Published every SATURDAY, by
P. GLE ASON, corner of Bromfield and Tremont Streets, Boston,
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New York,
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
WM, &amp;1HWV     Y  AYLOR     1 l l-Baltkisere Street;Baltimore,
A. C . ALE#,;149 1Vfaint Street,..Cineinnati,
E. X. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Street, St. Louis.
S. S. DOTY, 236 Camp Street, New Orleans, La.
W. W. DANENHOWER, 123 Lake Street, Chicago, Ill
C. P. KIMBALL, Long Wharf, San Francisco, California.
It is generally acknowledged that the FLAG is now the leading weekly paper in the United States, and its
literary contents are allowed, by the best judges, to be unsurpassed. In politics and all sectarian questions,
it is strictly neutral.  Nothing of an immoral nature will ever be admitted. into its columns ; therefore
making it emphatically,
.A PAPER FOR TE MILLION,
AND A WELCOME VISITER TO THE HOME CIRCLE.
It contains the foreign and domestic news of the day, so condensed as to enable us to give the greatest
possible amount of intelligence. No advertisements are admitted to the paper, thus offering the entire
sheet, which is of
THlE MAMMOTH SIZE,
for the instruction and amusement of the general reader.    An unrivalled   corps of contributors are
regularly engaged, and every departments under#e most finished and perfect system that experience can
suggest, or money produce. Lacking neither tile means nor thO will, we can.lay before our hundredsof
thousands of readers an
the present circulation of-which far exceeds ths of l  o berweekly paper in the Union.
TE     LS   TO  V..:       Z1  BERS.
1 abscriber oner. ear      .     .      .                   -      -     -               - 00

-i" C- 4 3CL%

8 subscribers,  "                                  5 .        .       5 00
46 .                                 .     .           .       .       600
16    "       "      .     .     .    ,           -    .     .     .   2000
Q" One copy of the FLAG o' OUR, UNION, and one copy of the PICTORIAL DRAwne-00ot
CompNION, one year, for  .   .                      -    .                -
0r Invariably in advance.
Nobs:ther aredo tio made from the sbboe termed
Subscril~e  of  s    kIq aesu t pked h a  meas; id ©r abs, i
*** 4 orders MA e   irmsaw,wosAra, to n4u{psnnseor Tu EL   wmpun UNroN.
hr' The F;aL A  S beMaineZ at ansy of tA newspaper depots in te United  ae, ad of nawpaper
grr as, at OIOU UCNTS p e opy.

ti

Y 
a
a'
_
'
"
"z,
11 X
-
;'
'       ;:
'      z

I

CHAPTER

7*

[IOOK up, sir' and show a more cheer-
rj ul face to the sun. Melanholyv is
a very absurd thing !"
The- individual to whom these words were
addressed, turned quickly towards the intruder,
and made a hasty and significant motion towards
the hilt of his sword.
"Keep your temper, my lad.     He who
speaks cares little for the flash of steel," added
the mnf.
"1Idesire to be left to my own meditations,"
replied the other, sternly.
s"You are not over-courteous ; good words
are j'st as cheap as bad ones, and, in most
cdes mSch cheaper. I'll wager a half crown to
a Mount Paidadore farthing that if you knew me
bt er, ydir Courage would ooze out of your
augral'etids, an4 your lofty demeanor change,"
corit iikd the stranger.
ti oudedeive yourself; were you the Earl
ofWt, or even King Edward himself, I should

1.

7       Ax'i  l. IL ji  WvLLxcnx.

not fear you I" exclaimed the young man, cast-
ing a menacing look at the intruder.
" Come, sir, I mean you no ill; smooth
down that threatening visage, and let it assume
something akin to good nature," resumed the
pertinacious stranger.
" It does not matter a straw to me whether
you mean me 11n or not. At this particular
time I care little for the opinions of men. I
ask for no new acquaintances. I only wish to
be left to pursue my fortunes -as best pleases
me," he answered, in a voice    less stern.
"But," he added immediately, "if you would
like to cross swords with me, I am ready; and
in fact, I rather think that would suit ine as
well as anything."
" If you cannot wield some implement of
industry better than the weapon you speak'of,
I'm greatly mistaken; howetr, we wil' not
quarrel about that. .Irather like your aa-
ance,and I fancysomethingmay bemidoA'

ALBRERT1' (ID T DNTS  77Tur. mut. dmu.TV

:1

I,
I'
k


8                     THE SILVER BELL.

"Indeed! you do me too much honor !" re-
plied the other, ironically.
"Not at all; I.have a happy faculty of find-
ing out what kind of material people are made
of "
.Am extraordinary person, truly !"  -
"Right !" exclaimed the man, in a more
serious tone ; many persons call me extraordi-
nary, and have good reason to- think so. And
now, young sir, I will tell you why I have ad-
dressed'you.  I perceived that you were a
stranger in this part of the country; for few
acquainted in this vicinity venture hither alone,
especially at this hour when the sun is hiding
himself in the west. Your dejected air, and
moody looks, assured me that the world had
gone wrong with you ; and your dress was proof
'sufficient that you were not of high rank, but
very probably some ambitious, though disap-
pointed adventurer."
"How very flattering the man is !"
" Gently, sir, gently! .we shall know each
other'anon. I spoke to you, thinking it might
be very possible that I could throw something
in  your way that would advance your for-
tunes."
":You appear to me like one who has-yet his
own fortune to aike !" retorted the young
"-Gently again, my rustic knight; you must
not judge by the outside."
. "I only follow your example in doing so."
"I said something about your apparel,' I
adtit ; fbut beingyour senior by several years,
I believe that I may  afely saythat I am  a
better judge of human nature."
"To out short this conversation, if you will
show me the way out of this forest, and to the
o~prest inn, you will advance my fortunes, I
doubt not, better than you can in any other
"Be it so; I am going to the ' Silver Bell,'
ad will *illingly be yourzguide."-
SLesa4.on," said the young man, and the
twe '   away tegather.
. "II' would be: euve nient, if nothing more,
to          larunetaddress you ?" con-
tinued the stranger, pausing.

The young man hesitated a moment.
" If you should ever have occasion to want a
name to address me by, call me Albert'
Casside."
"And to be equally civil, I will inform you
that I will not be offended if you should call
me at any time Denis Wetzel."
While these two personages are in -search of
the "Silver Bell," we will attempt to give
some description of them.  .
The young man who had given his name as
Albert Casside, was apparently but little past
twenty years of age. He had evidently attain-
ed the full stature of manhood, as his goodly
height and well-developed limbs could testify.
Nature haby no means been niggardly in her
endowments, in regard to personal advantages,
although his dress was not such as to set them
off in the most happy manner ; he being clad in
the habiliments of the common people, accord-
ing to the style of the time of Edward the
second, who was then king of England. At.
his side the young man wore a sword that did
not seem in keeping with his russet freekt it
being elaborately ornamented, and heavily
mounted with silver.
The persotiage who had so unceremoniously.
addressed our hero, was probably' past thirty, of
a bold and reckless bearing, joined to a sort of
good-natured and rather obtrusive- familiarity,
that was not exactly consonant with, the feel-
ings of Casside, who did not relish the-idea of
being addressed as a mere- lad, without expe-
rience or spirit.  Whatever his lifer and history
might. have been, it was obvious that he meant
to keep it secret, inasmuch as he believed-, nah
matters concerned only hiniaelf. -Whop ,enis
Wetzel was, or for what object he was dsi msL
of making his acquaintance,, he was s b1lysely
indifferent; for he had reached a crisis i 1s
existence when ordinary -occurrences. coRi4 flt
easily attract much of- his attention; QCady
appeared'to be in a transition st e, and anx$ p
to work out some important proble , t
any officious interference from the eurioi aad
the sympathizing. - To that plane_ of thpught
to which he, had been forced, by circumaaqnes,

THE SILVER BELL.                                     9
he felt that conlmon minds could not attain; a stranger in Dorsetshire, although not 'familiar
and he shrank from the curiosity of the vulgar, with all portions of it. I have heard of the
as much as from the.pity of the more refined.  Silver Bell, I assure you."
" You were over-venturesome, in good sooth,  "I can't dispute you, certainly. But here
to trust yourself in this forest when the sun was we are at-the door.  Let us enter and see what
so near the verge of the western skies," said mine host has for weary and thirsty travellers.
Denis Wetzel.                              Sit you down here in the tap room, and I will
"I-see not why," rejoined his companion.  speak a word to Joachim  Capet, the worthy
" This is called the 'Donhead Wood,' on ac- proprietor of the Silver Bell."
count of Mark Donhead, of whose -exploits .you  Denis Wetzel left Casside and spoke a fei
are not ignorant, doubtless," added Wetzel.  words, in a low tone, to a short, portly-lookipg,
"I have heard of Mark Donhead, certainly-  bustling man, with a red face, and then rejoined
the leader of a band of freebooters,' answered our hero.
Casside, carelessly. ..                       "What will your honor please to order?
"I thought no one in this part of the country We have a.quantity of all sorts, sir. We keep
could be wholly ignorant of Mark Donhead," the best house in Dorsetshire, if not the best in
continued Wetzel.     -       -            England. The Earl of Shaftsbury has dine
" I have often wondered why a few men-at- here, and so has the Earl of Kent. Sir Hugh
arms have not been sent hither to punish his Spencer passed a stormy night here, and praised
audacity," resumed Casside.                my wine and the accommodations of the Silver
" Could a few men-at-arms   punish him, Bell generally," said Joachim Capet, approach-
think you, young sir ?"              .     ing our hero.
"With a score of them at my back, I would  " You are too good, sir ; I am  but a plain
'undertake to' purge the country of Donhead common person, and need but little. If you
and his villains," added Casside.          should chance to have a small room to spaies I
"I shouldn't be the one to envy you such a should like to occupy it," replied Oasside,
commission. There. would be but little hope modestly.
of success in- an undertaking, where your supe-. "Just as you please. Shall I show. you to
riors have failed. Men who have earned their the square chamber where Lord ''Beaumont
spurs have tried it and failed." .         breakfasted when on his way to Somersetshiie ;
"I should -desire no better recreation than or shall-"
to hunt this redoubtable Mark Donhead out o   "Something snug and comfortable is all I
, Dorsetshire, -providing I had twenty men-at- ask ; keep me away from the lords and nobles,
arms to follow*me."                        by all means," said Albert, hastily.
"'You talk like a beardless boy," said Wet-  "Bring us a bottle of your best wine, Capet-
nel, drily.                           .    don't you see the young gallant is dry, and his
" "Fair And softly, sir ; I am not very good- countenance is heavy.?' said Wetzel.
tempered, but subject to sudden outbursts which  Then turning to Casside, he added.
are sometimes dangerous," returned the young  "Come, sir, you must drink with me and
man   .                             -      quench your thirst, anddrive ,away that absnrd
- " There is the Silver Bell," rejoined Wetzel, melancholy."
carelessly.  "Yot perceive that it stands . on  Before Casside had time to object to this ar-
the bank of the, Stour, with Donhead Wood rangement, mine host was on his way to th
directly in the rear. I wonder why you wan- cellar.
dered so far from the direct road.  I presume  "This wine has great age," said ,Ca  t, wen
you never travelled in these pants-before ?". -,he, returned.  " It as eenpraised  or
"You are wrong there.  I am by no means lips, and.has power tocheer ienost espond-

ii

r           ,

1.


f'Y'   r      ,
t
Li         "_
Ij +
b4
I
}
E",
r
it

ing heart that ever beat beneath a steel cuirass, sightless balls, that I might look upon your face,
or a russet frock."                        young gallant.  It is a frank and manly one,
" Here's to a better acquaintance !" said I trow. Ah, I was young once, myself, and
Wetzel, tasting the wine.                  little did I think that I should ever come to this.
Casside filled his glass and drank in silence., But life is changeful, changeful; and most of
While the two were discussing the sparkling the living will find it so before the grass grows
beverage, a person meanly clad entered the tap. over them."
room. He was considerably past the prime of  "Here   is an overflowing  goblet," said
life, and his figure was somewhat bowed by the Wetzel.-
weight of years.                              " IWant it not; it is not for such as I.  Set
" What do'you want here, my good man ?" a pot of ale before me and a wee bit of bread,
asked the host, in tones not . ary inviting to the and I'll-be perfectly content," rejoined the blind
seeker of.charity,                          man.
t' A erust of bread and a .place to lay my  " Bring it, sir, bring it !" added Casside,
head," replied the beggar, in a tremulous somewhat authoritatively, to the burly and
voice.                                      watebful landlord.
" This is the Silver Bell, where people get all ' The saints bless us !" exclaimed Capet.
they have money to pay for," added Capet. " The gallant speaks like a lord, and not like
"I am old, and these-eyes have not seen the his equals.  Perhaps he's better than his bet=
light for very many years," continued the mendi- ters !"'
cant.                                         "Don't you hear?" continued the young
"Theoll story-the old story ! England is man, -in a voice so stern that it made the'master
full 90 sturdy beggars, and every one has some of the Silver Bell start with surprise.
ezoase for not working like other honest people.  " As you will-as you will; but asY"ald
Youi had better go out as you came in. I don't you, I keep a respectable house, and the Earl
want the like of you hanging about the Silver of Salisbury, and the Lord of Moteombe Marior,
Bell" replied Capet.                      and--"
" It's very hard that an old man should be  " Well, never mind the rest," interrupted
turned away from the door of a Christian, when Wetzel.  "Innkeepers should not be over-
the night is setting in. Well, well, I must talkative."
sleep in the open air ; or run the risk of losing Not very well pleased that his importance
my ay in the Donhead Wood. May God bless should in any manner be lessened, the host
the charitable, and protect the needy this'night ; proceeded to set before the 'mendicant a foam-
and nay none of you ever know what it is to ing tankard of ale,.and a piece of bread.
be blind, old, and poor," added the beggar,   " Add a slice of cold meat," said Wetzel:
with a sigh.                  ."I was always charitable," resumed Capeti
" There that will do; now away with you; "Nowhere in England do beggars fare so well
weharbor.no canting vagabonds here !" retorted as at the Silver Bell."
Oapet.                                        " And small credit to Joachim Capet for the
" Stay!" cried Casside to the mendicant, as same," retorted Wetzel, drily.
he was turning to go.  " I am willing to feed  "'What are you called ?" asked Casside, for
and lodge you for the night.  Come here and the purpose of keeping up aconversation, b
warm your old body with a brimming glass of making the old'man feel at his ease
thi generous wine."                          "Where I'am known, I am called S-trolli
" It's kindly voice that I hear,' returned Willie," answered the blind begar.
the old nan, pausing upon the "threshold.  "I  " And-how far hav e ou walked sin   e e
would that I could let a little light into these morn ?" .

. "This morning I ate my crust at Moteombe
Manor."
"At Moteombe Manor !" exclaimed Casside.
"Yes, young gallant ; and is there aught
remarkable in that ?"
"0   no, certainly not," replied  Albert.
" What news do you bring from thence ?"
" The great have their troubles and afflictions
as well as- the mean, the blind, and the poor."
" No doubt, no doubt, old man."
"The Lord of Moteombe Manor is in sore
distress."
" Indeed-! is it possible? and after taking a
hearty lunch at the Silver Bell-the best house
in the kingdom !" said Capet.  ,
"His grief is on account of his son," added
Strolling Willie.
"A good for nothing fellow ! I have seen
him often, and indeed I have spoken with the

lad in regard to his evil courses," resumed the don't keep us waiting here for idlers to stare
host, gravely.                             at," added the man who had first spoken.
"Bravo, Capet ! modesty was never among    Casside colored and bit his lips, and Capet
your virtues," said Wetzel, laughing.      began to enumerate the illustrious -names that
.whephat the tenants of Moteombe Manor had honored his house-; bt he' was perem
say ofiz, I should not pronounce him a vicious rily out short, and obliged to lead his ~  stk
young men, although he may be a bit wild now without farther exaggeration, to what he called
an, th en" replied the old mendicant, in a quiet " my lord of Shaftabury's chamber."
tone.                                        " I will talk farther with you in themorning
" je'll come to some bad end," added the said Wetzel, as Casside arose to leave iim.  A
host,. shaking his head.  ".I remember that he bold lad like you needs active employment
found fault with my wine.                  and perhaps," he added, lowering his voice
"Audacious youngster !" exclaimed-Wetzel, almost to a whisper, "I may -know of some-
with mock solemnity.                       thing-that will suit you. YOu appear like one
"But little more wine-will the young lord be who wants both friends and money. Nay, do
apt to drink, unless he win a fortune with his not frown and take it ill, for you may need my
sword; his father has disinherited 'him," con- assistance sooner 'than you imagine."
tinue4 the stroller.           I             Albert Casside changed color; and there wad
"But what is the cause of all this difficulty ?" a slight twitching about the muscles of his iouth ;
asled' Wetzel.                             but he made no reply, and Capet conductehnim
"The young lord was imprudent; he loved to the apartment, in the praise of which he 'ad
one muchbeneath him ins rank--the daughter been so elogduent,
of     peaant. His father remonstrated With  "The saints keep you, yung ~gallantAnA
him in vain, and, finally went into a great F{a- may you never want a tankard of ale  an4 a
sion,  na a terrible scene, ens xd. Young crust of bread," said thieleggar.  "1in 'toe 4
Ethelbert was firm, anddcipd F   atn all, and. downs of life, y_ nmay chane4th sair
other Watters he was wilin to obey rfatler's Stroling Willie a ain, and h i knows b4
Command ; but in matters pertaining to . his the order of trd s brovideices, ienAa h  "
affections, he would acknowledge no authority, in his power to do youa good d-.n "

r

but that found in his own breast. The result
was that Etholbert left his ancestral halls to re-
turn no m'ore. My lady, his mother, is nearly
distracted, and his sister but little better.; so
that Motcombe Manor is a sad place," answer-
ed the stroller.
The conversation was here interrupted by
the arrival of two persons, who seemed to be
men of rank, although both were plainly clad
and wore no badges to denote their degree.
"Mine host, let ourhorses be well groomed
and generously fed," said the elder of the two,
who was somewhere between thirty-five and
forty years of age.
"Ay, don't let the grooming be clumsily .
done," added his companion, who was much
younger, and could not have numbered more
than twenty summers at the most.
"Now ahow us to a comfortable room, and

*

THE SILVER BELI.

y.

11

10 '

THE SILVER BELL.


l   .

P
. i                 J             r i
r      r          '
_                       .    - R   .,
f                                         ,
r                                    =
5'
H    y                    A

_
}}                                     f
'',
..                                              t
#,    a        ..         ;
"                 1                                      C                         i

f,    7       ft
°';   t," ' r 1r f     CHAPT
'KTL'W A N  handle  was  burning  dim ly  in.
e : a  r    l which had been assigned
rt ,Ca ide; some fagots were also blaz-
i*e ~o   teorti. His first eai'e was to se-
owure the dooi-, a thing noteasily accomplished;
fbjtote bolt was oitrust  hatit' could nod be
maved.' He'therefgre was olixed to content
'h  elf ' with'.plaipfgtwo' l iering chairs
t i in such a position that any attempt
topei n i would be likely tb make considerable
Ail, ien seated himself by the small, oaken
table upon which the light had been placed
by Capet, and abandoned himself, apparently,
to the same unpleasant train of reflection that
had imparted such a sad expression to his coun-
tenance in the Donhead Wood.
" Strolling Willie uttered a good thing when
ho said 'life is changeful I' " he exclaimed,
a rlng  his hand - heavily upon the table.
sa However," he added, after a .pause,," I am
your, yet, and fortune, I have heard, is apt to
be. ith the young. I have a. sword; it is
atrangeif I cannot make my way through the
world by my own exertions.

ER IL.
~  ,R T.

Casside drew his sord from it s 'sedr, ex-
amined its edge and 9o&amp;kmanship   '    en
fenced round'the room with it, in order %ikisure
hiemff thai h'was yet master of the ' ajon.
'My adverse'fortunes have' not depri eadme'
of the. powerto cut, and thrust; and
eording to irt ;"and there are those upozihose
bodiesI will piove it. My good ,sordithou
shalt henceforth be my, best friend !"
The young Yni'nI laid the polished" Tapon
upon, the table beside him, and putting "his hand
beneath his frock, drew'a purse from his doub-
let. He emptied the contents of the samne into
his hand. They consisted of gold and'silver
pieces, with the head of Edward the second upon
one side, and the English arms upon the other,
and amounted in all to fifteen pounds.
"A   great fortune to begin the world with,
truly!" he said, with some bitterness of manner,
" Where will the next come from, I wonder.?"
He carefully replaced the money in the purse,
and returned the latter- to the pocket of his
doublet,' Casside sat and mused awhile longer,
and then, without divesting himself of his gar
ments, laid down upon the bed prepared for his

15
%a will

),

THE SIBYL READING THE FUTURE TO LOUIS AND ISANDRA.-See Chap. IlI.

JIM

f
Y
1 i =
4    f
s  Y
i
:r
r
fit
t'
 j
:r1i

.'e
- i
..             n3
'Al


t

1,,

"t A

A 4

THE SILVER' BELL.,

15

f' I

F1

I,

abeommodation. He was endeavoring to com-
pose himself to slumber', when he was. aroused
by a gentle knocking upon his door. Without
hesitation he arose and opened it, and much to
his surprise beheld Strolling Willie.
"Hush ! speak not a.word I" said tihe latter,
in' a whisper, laying his finger upon his lips.
Impressed with the mysterious manner of the
beggar, Casside allowed him to enter his room
and to close the door.
"Now, my good man, what do you want?"
asked our hero.
" I told you, young gallant, that it might
come to pass, in the order of Providence, that a
poor blind man might have it in his power to
do you a service ; it has happened so, much
sooner than I expected," replied the beggar.
"Proceed with your story," said Albert.
"When I had finished the ale and despatch-
edthe food which your kindness procured for
me, I left the tap-room and groped my way to
the stable where the horses of travellers are
kept. Thanking heaven that I was so well
provided for, I threw myself upon some straw,
and should soon have been asleep, had not two
persons entered the stable and began talking in
low tones. One, of them I knew by his voice
to be the host ; but the other I knew nothing
about.. I soon discovered that they were plan-
ning a robbery, and that you were to be the,
victim. Capet affirmed that he knew you had
money, for he listened at the door and heard
you counting it. They then arranged the de-
fails of the operation. It appears that there
is a private entrance by which they intend to
enter your room, about midnight, when you
will be most likely to be asleep."
'Let them  come," said the young man,
grasping his sword.  "Let them come ; I will
be ready for them."
Capet will not come, but his accomplice.
But I have not told all. In the morning when
you go to settle your reckoning, and discover
your loss, mine host will feign to be greatly ex-
asperated and say it is a trick to cheat him out

I

of, his just dues ; thereupon , the servants will
unceremoniously thrust you out of doors."
"The villain !" exelaimned (Jasside.
"If you will take the adviceof a blind bed
gar, you will let them rob you."
" That's blind advice, truly !" replied Cas
side, with a smile.
"I will explain; take the gold and silver
from your purse and fill it with copper coin like
this I have in my pocket," resumed Strolling
Willie, producing a handful of copper edin9
" All this trashy stuff'-does notianiount to the.
value of half a crown. When your putsei
filled with it, lay it on the table, and go toed
and to sleep.
" I like the idea very well," returned Albert.
"But I think it would be best to put in a few
small silver pieces."
"Not a single piece !" said Willie ; "because'
you wish their disappointment to be as great as
possible."
The young man immediately proceeded' to
empty his purse and fill it with the compare
tively useless coins, which the beggar had  re
ecived at different times from the hand of stinted
charity.
"We who subsist upon the benevolence of
others seldom feel the touch of silver," said the
stroller.
"Selfishness has outgrown charity," replied
Albert.
" Good reason have I to know it. Now lay
your purse upon -the table and go to bed unohobi1
cernedly."
"What will you do ?"
" Go back as I came."
" But it perplexes me much to'know how you
can go about from place to  place with su'h
facility, your eyes being, as you say, entirely'
sightless."
"You must know, my young friend, that
when nature takes away one faculty, she gives.
another to supply,_in some measure, its place; "
answered strolling Willie.
"There is some wisdom in that observation,"
said Casside.


.ff}'x _
.; ,
1-
d
_
? .
f,                      t
}'s             ,
f
"  b'
-t.
{  tk
t
,
[°
.
k
Sy
'F
b
'u  t
.*
,
, (,
;  t
3# ;'
'x
1y    t .
t
t
iF
_   r
_,    e
.+
yyt   ''
t t
{ t'
Y
i
+t ,
.,
t  p
"Nlllla.
6    u               ,
ti , ,,
i
'  ,
t '  +
,F
,
i
, ' '
,,.
*'
-'  r
,
,T
f
.
'^  '
' ti   t.
1y ,
4 ; -(
.

Ican do many things, which some persons
who profess to have better sight than myself,
cannot do. Ah, sir, nature is not always in the
wrong ;, she is not always, a hard mistress.
My sense of hearing and of touch is strangely
acute ;, I can hear sounds to which common ears
are deaf, and take impressions of objects around
me before other eyes have seen them. I go by
i tinct,sir-and-what's more," added the beg-
pr with peculiar emphasis, " I- seldom  go
wrQ1g'
V Instinct does more for you than she does
for me, if that be' the case," replied Albert.
" Main where you are," he added.   "I fear
you will not be able to leave the -room without
being seen."
"Never fear, sir ; I can grope about strange-
ly.  I will go so softly that my steps shall not
awaken{a sleeping'cat.  This is not the first
tine I have crossed the threshold of the Silver
Bell," said the stroller.
" Go, if you will; but be sure that you do
not leave the inn till you see me again," rejoin-
ed Oasside.
The mendicant, opened the door gently,'lis-
tened a moment, and then making a parting
gesture to Albert, passed out and closed it after
his.  Our hero replaced the chairs, and pre-
sently retired as directed by the stroller. But
he was not destined to sink immediately to
sleep, even had his mind been in a condition
calm enough to do so. Added. to the weight of
anxiety that preyedupon his spirits, and the
incidents of the evening, were the sound of
voices in an adjoining room.  Those sounds had
been but indistinctly heard while he sat by the
table, but the moment his head pressed the
pillow, they fell with greater clearness upon his
qars-; which circumstance'was partly accounted
for by the fact that he was considerably nearer
the wall that separated his room from the ad-
1iuing one, than in his former position.
Oasside strove to shut out the murmur of voices,
forget his cares, and soothe his perturbed mind
to a state of slumber ; but the increasing earn-

THE SILVER, BELL.;

estness of the conversation carried on within a,
few feet of him -by the knownn persons,,effec-
tually kept him awake. He had no diilculty
in understanding that the, individuals whose
voices he heard were those who had recently,
arrived at the inn'.
"It was a daring affair," said one, whose,
voice Albert recognized as that of the younger
of the two, it being much less heavy than that,
of his companion.
"Most daring," replied the other.
"What can be done ?" continued the first.
"'That's the question to be decided. We
will keep our secret for the present, at all
events. I see no good that can result from
making ourloss known. If this adventure does
not hasten the fall of Mark Donhead, I am no
great reader of destiny," added the eldest of
two.
" We shall have good reason to remember
the Donhead Wood."
"To the dayof our death."
"The villains were bold, uncle."
"Had we met the rogues armed in proof,
and with lances in rest, we could ha e scattered
them like chaff. By St. John ! I long to have
a dash at the banditti of Donhead Wood !"
"They may be but common people, and un-
worthy of your arms, uncle."
"Gentle or simple, I care not, nephew; I
would not hesitate to chastise them could I be
placed face to face with them, armed as beseem-
eth a knight.  I do not mind so much the loss
of a few florins, as' I am angered at the audacity
of the villains who took them. It grieves me
that half-a-dozen cross bowmen should rob two
knights of known ability."
"Yes, I see where the shoe pinches, uncle,
and feel the same soreness myself. It will be,
best, I think, to send a trusty messenger to:---"
here the young knight-lowered his voice so much
that Casside could not hear what place was
mentioned : but he instantly resumed as before,
"with an order for money, and a score of men-
at-arms."

r
3

"There niight be rare recreation in a hunt
through Donhead Wood, nephew, I       rant.
The suggestion is worthy of consideration ; but
we .must strictly observe our incognito."
"True, uncle, that important secret must be
well preserved, for in these days' it is difficult
to know our' friends from our foes. . My head
is young and giddy, but it thinks, sir; it is
not, wholly ignorant' of its responsibilities ; it
begins to feel already the cares of --" here
again'Casside lost a few words.
" No doubt, nephew, and when your wild
oats are scattered with a liberal hand all over
England, you will become a pattern of gravity
and wisdom. But I have noticed that -our
worthy host is inquisitive, and we must be

guarded in our speech while stopping at the
Silver Bell."
"Observed you the two individuals who were
sipping their wine when we entered ?"
"I saw them."
"I liked not their looks," added the young .
man, "especially the more youthful looking of
the pair."
" And but little does he care whether you
like his looks or not," remarked Albert to him-
self.
Overcome at length by drowsiness he sank
into a-deep sleep, from which he did not awake
until the bright sunlight was streaming cheer-
fully into his room, in the morning.

*ft
f.

1 1       Ys
i

17

THE SILVER BELL.

:',   -
.,,
r"i '


f
d"
r                ,"j
¢ ice'
t
J                 ;. t
,A

TE 8NFLV -DAIL.                          1

CHAPTER III.
IsANDRA.  WEIRD ELE.

N the day following the events already
narrated, a young girl of about sixteen
years, accompanied by a lad of twelve, might
have been seen in one of the rural districts near
Mt. Palladore. - The latter carried a shepherd's
crook in his hand, and both were attired after
the fashion of the peasantry, according to the
prevailing custom of the times.
The soft airs of morning fanned the brows of
the young girl, and the pleasant rays of a cloud-
less sun danced along the grassy way at her
feet. . The expanding flowers smiled in the
gladdening light, and joyous birds, flitting from
bower to bower, warbled their sweetest notes.
Upon the verdant side of a hill of gentle
aseant contented flocks of sheep were feeding,
and sportive lambs cheered the eyes of the be-
holders with their innocent gambols. A little
to the left of the hill the waters of the Stour
could be seen wandering on -towards their final
destination-the sea.
Come, Isandra; let us sit upon this green
bank of earth, and rest," said the lad.
With a gentle smile, Isandra seated herself
beside the youth.

"I have been thinking of late that I should
like to be rich," added the latter.
"Why should you like to be rich, Louis ?"
"For several reasons," replied the lad. "If
I were rich I would give you money, and make
a fine lady of you. To be plain with 'you, sis-
ter, you seem too fair and delicate to work with
your' hands as the neighboring girls do."
"Labor is not degrading, brother Louis."
"Perhaps not, in the sight of God, but it is
in the sight of our wealthy neighbors. The
noble lords and ladies that we often see gal-
lantly mounted, sweeping past us, regard us as
the dust beneath their feet. And yet, Isandra,
in beauty of face and figure, you are not a whit
behind the fairest damsel I have ever seen."
"Do you know, good brother Louis, that
your love for me has made me appear to'pos-
sess all those qualities which you name&amp;":Any
object that we love seems fair to our partial
judgments."
"It may be so in many eases; but in this
particular instance, I have excellent reasons for
believing as I do; for all the young fellows
within half-a-dozen miles are in love with you."

"I am not -so vainl as to credit that tale,"-
said Isandra, blushing.
"That strange young gallant, who can talk:
O, bravely, and used to come here so- often,
once declared in my hearing, that your beauty
atonished him and made him forget every-
thing else.",
Isandra made no reply, but played with the
pet lamb that had nestled down beside her.
" I think that young man acted strangely ;
and I have sometimes imagined that he was
really some nobleman's son in disguise," con-
tinued Louis.
" What an absurd idea r" rejoined Isandra.
"Father told me the  mne when I said I
should like to be a page to some brave knight."
"And finally become a knight yourself 1"
added the young girl, soiiling at the earnestness
offthe lad.
"You have guessed it," reirned Louis,
"Yo would be much happier; tending yon-
der flock," resumed Isandra. "But who comes
hither ?""
"Sonie wandering sibyl, I trow."
" Ah, that's lucky ! we'll have our fortunes
told; these: old' wives have strange gifts," said
Louis, eagerly.
"They are mere   pretenders ; they know
nothing of the future ; the future is a sealed
book which mortals cannot read."
"That will do veryawell to say to keep up
appearances, and sustain a reputation for wis-
d©ig ;but come to the case in hand, all lilke to
dabble in these matters--gentle as well as
einple."     .
While the .girl and the youth were speaking,
the personage referred to was fast approaching.
She was of gasulne height, dark-skinned,
wriled and bony: She wore a long garment,
something like the" domino of a monk. Her
head was destitute of any  onering save, that,
whish nature had bestowed -fthick giowth of
shorbceitsi, black hair. In her right hand
lhekenid 'aatick of goodl ength, budtshether
na weapon of defense     3 tyassist  ilvalk-
ing, wae.a matter of som   8.bt.
The old woman drew near andwtho

parently leig ing to notice Isandra and Louis,
seated herself ezantly opposite them under the
shadow of.some spreading trees.
"Are you weary, good mother ?" inquired
Louis.
"I have beeifweary many years, my son,"
returned the woman, quickly.
"You look.strong and well. I dare say you
have walked over a great part of England sines
yo u were young'?'
"-Walked # how- could  I help walking '
What else could I do but walk ? Walking is
the only relief for the miserable who wish to
die, but cannot."
"Then- you have been miserable ?"
"Look at nme andges! Do I look like a-
happy person ? ha, ha !"
-You   don't look  just right," returned
Louis.
" Doubtless you have uttered your prophe.'
cies in a great many places, and to many  r
auditors ?" said'Isandra, sailirig.
"Prophecies? yes, miss, and many a tite
prophecy have I uttered ; it is a gift I've had
for many a long year."
I never thought the future could be°op'ed
to the goze of mortals. - There is too much
mystery about your trade for it to be true."
" Nature is full of mystery !" exclainnedthe
sibyl, bending towards Isandra and elevating
the left-hand. "'There is mystery in the wihd,
and in the rain; there is mystery in the thun-
der, and in the sheeted lightning ; there is mys-
tery in the wild hurricane, and in the deep
throes -of the heaving earthquake ; there is
mystery fi the tides of the sea, and in the foun-
tarns of waters; there iS mystery in the silerit
swingings of the earth around the sun i;and
there is mystery enthroned among the ebW -
less planets. There is mystery above, and there
is mystery below----on the ear      in 'the
heav4ns:; and the sleepless Gd      eest
mystery of all."
The dylla Sspokewi    vt imanssild  earnest-
ndas and ,hbokshe;hiad ildly akahe 'e t
~xr
Baa

''s t
r
is
7 rt ;i(
l
n
'ay
+ r
ss

19

,ax
f_  .
33 ^^''Y5   ,
~
i f
JS e2
e  :
5 J
7  P
th
V
Y
S
i
R


THE SILVER BEEL.

er, and grasped his arm, awed by the strange will wish you were at rest beneath the turf of
eloquence of the-wandering woman.           these pleasant glades."
ENGE~vNG.]            Go on; good'sibyl," said Isandra.
[SEEN NNGBAING.1"No more now; there willbe time enough
Louis gazed at the speaker with rapt atten- anon.; your griefs will come as fast as you can
tion, wondering that her thoughts should flow bear them, and it would do no good to suffer
with such volubility and force.             them in anticipation; for anticipated sorrow is
"I have turned over the leaves of the future as bad as the reality," returned the woman.
for many young and fair ones like you, miss,"  '"I have a few small coins in my pocket
resumed the siylla.  "I hate mutterings and which shall be yours when you have told me
incantations.; I never look at the hand or con- what shall be my own' future," added Louis.
suit the stars.  I - only need to see the person,  "Keep your coins, child.  I shall be fed
and it all comes to me."                    and clothed, without taking money from suchas
"Whence comes it ?" asked Louis.          you.~ Should you ever see me hungry and
"Ask the wind whence it comes, and see thirsty, offer me a piece of bread and a cup of
if it will pause and tell you," rejoined the wo- pure water, and I will accept them thankfully.
man, sharply.                               You will yet wear, spurs upon your heels, my
",Will you try your skill at my fortune, lad, and do many a brave feat of arms."
good mother ?" asked Isandra.             .    "Do you hear that, Isandra?   I shall be-
g It is easy to tell--easy'- enough, young come a knight before I die."
woman; it is coming to me now faster than a    "Simple Louis ! the shepherd's crook will
cunning penman can write it. You have loved; suit your hand better than the lance or the
and, as the world would say, unwisely.  Blush sword.  Your armor will be of lamb's wool,
not-the object is worthy, but he is above you like this jerkin and doublet that you have on;
in condition.  Ah, it will makesorrow ! sorrow  and your helmet will continue to be these curly
for you and for others."                    locks !" retorted Isandra, playfully.
The woman paused; but soon resumed with     "Something within me tells me that you are
a start of surprise.                        wrong," returned the youth, gravely.
"But what strange tale is this that is breath-  " Yes, this is your lance, Louis," resumed
ed into my ear ; it is like unto fairy fiction, and Isandra, laying her hand upon his crook, "and
yet it is true. It is as an improbable dream, this is your tented field ; and you will run many
and. yet it is real. Girl, there is a wonderful a gallant, course with yonder peaceful flocks.
future for you; mark what I say, and remem- Your lady bright shall be one of the''eigh-
ber it when the time comes."                boring, peasant girls, whose favor will be a
Speak, and tell us what it is !" cried Louis. branch of sweet brier, which you will 'carry in
" Hold ! the voice says no ; wait aolittle ; it your hand.  You will be' called the knight of
is not wise to tell too much at once ; but you the shepherd's crook."
will one day be a fine lady and ride in your  " Let the pretty young woman joke on," said
carriage, and keep company with noble knights, the sibylla; ",her playful words will pot change
and lords and ladies of high degree."       the decrees of the future.  The events of human
" j likethat," whispered Louis to Isandra. life are governed by filed laws, which all the
Thy/alI prophesy good," she replied,-in a arts of mortals cannot. disannul. The at rm
prophosceand                       the  earths,'and  the  suns,, and  the  1mop s,
'1 o 1all---not all ." exclaimed the sibyjlla, of all systems are bound in their orbits by eter-
egaakiently. " Listen I you shall pass through nal priu' ls; and think you that man, the
 sorrow,bforeu reach the position you glory an  own 0  all creations, is left t the
:b   to                   oo  hn'ou. guidance of    han e  ?"
oo                           hn /n

"bhe talks wisely," said Louis.          spurred;knight;~but I am indeed-,foolish to let
"Am I not old enough to be wiseR? Have the words of yonder mad woianafect 'me."
1walkad up and down for 'these many years,     I am inclined to believe in, her art," re
aud.thought over these.matters for nought? turned Louis.
'Should'not" experience'give wisdom, and sleep-  "The reason is very obvious;    a
:ess nights-reveal the deep and occult things to believe what they desire pto be true.  t
interwoven with-human destiny ?  I have suffer- look; your flock is wandr' 't
ed, and great grief sharpens the intellect."  crook yerig, sir knight, of the
The sibylla paused again, and falling 'into a  " And you are no doubt willing that I should
1referie, took no farther notice of her':youthful run after them; for yonder I seeyour stran
auditors efor .some rstime,                 lover-whom nobody knows," answered Louis.
R' She mutters to herself," whispered Louis.  "His name is Albert Casside--if you mean
The: woman. at length arose to, go.       the person -who, is approaching,"  reure
"They are calling me away;" she resumed.  Ia   ra                      g,   returned
Who are calling you away ?" asked the     "That cannot be his real name--it must be
u  th   e     , as Ian assumed 'one.' It seems to me that hisvisits
"Ask the wind; as I told you before."     will bring us no good, and I 'hope I shall ;over
i   "What is your name ?" inquired Isandra.  see his face again,' ded the youth, with eon-
, I've had many names :since -Iwas 'a 'girl; siderable warmth, as he rag'. to:look after his
"   You  en n" rytruant, flock; while the young man whose ac-
"Your present name."   E'     h           qaintance the reader has already made,(at the
"They; call meo Wer Ese were dI 'am Silver-Bell) approached,the rustic maiden, whose
"Te      alm       er    li    hr       mSle      elPra       dtersi      ad,nwn ; but" I seldom appear the second time embarrassment increased as hb drew, near.
in the same place, and never without a particue embaram is icse rate dr ewouan-
-larobjct.Farwel, chldrn ;I m  t   . sandra,'this is fortunate !"1 he joyfully ex-
laer object. Farewell, ehildrna ; I must go, for claimed.  "'I had hoped 'to meet you in just
tha                                  such 'a spot as this--where"'nature _wears her
"Shall we see you again, think you ?" asked most cheerful smile-where flowers' are bloom-
id   '                            ing-.-birds singing-soft breezes blowing, and
"th  wouldn't be strange-not at all strange-  delightful verdure springing up at'every step.
the ways of Providence are so mysterious, and Such a morning as this, and such a balmy at.
the voices speak to me so often ; besides, the mosphere, are enough to tempt one to forget his
prophets of evil never disappear when there are sorrows."
igs to                                Isandra had arisen when Albert began to ad-
Poor old creature !" sighed Isandra. "Her .dress her ; but taking her hand he begged her
intellect is sadly shattered."             to be seated again upon the grassy bank, and
Hush ! h-u-s-h ! don't speak so loud. I'm then sat down beside her.
coming-I'm coming, I say !,                   " When we last met and parted, Albert, I
"Away over-mountain, away over moor,    prayed that we might never meet again," said
To many a glen I've ne'er travelled before;  the girl, earnestly.
No rest for Weird Elsie, no home for the poor."  "And why did you frame such a cruel peti-
The sibylla walked rapidly away, chanting tion ?" asked Casside, with a melancholy smile.
ods like the above as she wenile'
wrslkthabvassewent.                     ""Because I had a thought that it might avert
' "Well, she's gone," said Louis, "cand left somegreat evil that is impendig,"  aid
us to think of our fortunes. What makes you Isandrpending,                        said
tremble so?  You see I'm not afraid ""You are unhapy             what trout
"That's because you are to be a booted and Speak, and letumekn w      robe    yo
2

ti
'

TEMSILVFJt BELL.

I20

.21

s  .
c5
A   ...
y
.#
.
a
=°
F       t
- , ,
'  6
ti
1
'    {"  ' ,
W


22                               THEI 8IIA
" Alaswhat can ISay ! I fear-these ild
hopes of ours willnxever be realized. I{amhbt
-asimple girl,1.the daughter of a poor peasant,;
while you-you seem to be above me in con-
4cio."
" AmnI not elad inthe garb of the common
people ?  Is notmy speech plain, and my man-
ners simple ?"
You strive-to malteyour speech plain,'and
our manners-simple ; but occasionally you rise
ffar above -plainness and simplicity, and then I
tremble lest you are deceiving me."
"By this pleasant sunshine 'which streams
into the heart, as if to admonish us to truth;
by these fragrant flowers, whose odors -seem to
invite the soul to purity; by these dallying
'rinds, whose brief, fitful respirations tell us of
the brevity of human life ; by these green grasses
at our feet, which will one day grow over us;
by all the beautiful and sacred things in nature,
I solemnly swear to esteem and love you, while
my beingis animated with a singletpulse of life.
I care nothing for relative conditions; recipro-
oities of sentiment are sublimely independent of
wbat the world calls inequality in circum-
stanees," said Albert, with much enthusiasm.
The fair and ingenuous Isandra looked into
her lever's face and smiled ; his evident -sin

BER BEL.

cerity had chased away a portion of her sadness.
" You say that I sometimes appear other than
what my externals indicate," added Casside.
' I could, with truth, make the same declaration
in regard to you; for instance, your daiguage
is muchbetter than that of the peasantiy'of these
rural districts; your sentiments' surprise me,
and your beauty makes me adore you,"
"How and when .shall this wild dream ter-
minate I" exclaimed Isandra, covering her face
with her hands.  "I see a dizzy gulf before me;
a terrible phantom -tares me in the face; an
irresistible fate is dragging me whither I would
not. My father is poor ; he loves gold ; he is
sordid ; he is already urging me to a marriage
which will make me hopelessly wretched. It is
this that fills me with dread, and embitters my
life."
" Fate :mocks at our efforts to be happy !"
cried the young man, deeply moved.
Isandra wept in silence.
"But I will protect you from this misery ;
I will thwart this villany !"  added Albert,
energetically.
"No more-we are observed !" said Isan-
dra, in a low voice.
Casside looked up and perceived two persons
approaching.

I 4

7
z
_
f
.
w

CHAPTER IV.
THE KNIGHT. THE RENCONTRE.

THE individuals referred to were on horse-
back, and turning somewhat from their
way they drew near to Albert and Isandra.
The person who rode in advance appeared to
be a knight of some consequence ; and a little
in the rear followed his squire, bearing his armor
and his lance.     c
"He sits well in his saddle, but methinks he
carrieth himself proudly," observed Casside, to
his fair companion.
Louis, who had returned from looking-after
his flock, regarded the approach of the knight
with enthusiastic interest.
"You are thinking of the spurs that Weird
lsie promised you?" said Isandra, playfully ;
but the mind of the youth was so much pre.
occupied with his own thoughts, that he made
no rejoinder to the gentle sarcasm of his sister.
Has he the promise of knighthood ?'' asked
Albert, smiling pensively as he looked at the
thoughtful countenance of the lad.
" He bath indeed," she replied.
"A.a much as you have the promise of being
a fine lady I" retorted Louis.
the rustic maiden blushed deeply at this re.

joinder, and said quickly in reply to the inquir.
ing looks of Albert:
"The idle tales of a strolling prophetess-.
Weird Elsie."
By this time the knight had reached the spot
where the parties stood. He was, apparently,
near the age of Casside, and about the same
size, with the exception, perhaps, tgat he was
somewhat more slightly formed, lacking the full
development of muscle that characterized our
hero. He was richly attired, and judging by
his haughty air, seemed to attach no diminutive
idea to his own importance.
" Good youth," he said, addressing Albert;
"can you direct me the way to Motcombe
Manor ?"
" Return to the road you have left, and ygn
cannot fail to find what you seek," answered
Casside.
" Ah, what have we here ?" exclaimed the
cavalier, as his eyes rested upon the face of
Isandra.
" Nothing that need attract the attention of
a courteous knight," added Albert..
" Be quiet, simple youth i" said the knight,

;.

' :.-,


THE SILVER BELL.

c

with a frown.  "Upon my knightly honor,
here is rare beauty," he resumed. "Here is
a pretty flower shedding its fragrance upon ill-
mannered clowns. Come, fair shepherdess,
what may I call you?"
Isandra turned towards Louis and made no
reply.
"Both fair and modest," added the cavalier,
with a laugh.
"Sir knight, resume your journey and leave
us, simple people, to our own enjoyments," said
Casside.
"Silence, bold varlet !" cried the cavalier,
"It pleaseth me to talk with the maiden, and
the matter concerneth you not. Think yourself
lucky, if you escape without personal chastise.,
ment. Now, sweet shepherdess, let me hear
thy voice ; I would know if it be as sweet as
thy looks."
"Let us leave this spot,", said Albert, ad-
dressing Isandra.
.I must chastise this insolent hind !" ex-
elaimea the knight, unsheathing his sword and
urging.his horse to. the side of .Albert.  "I
cannot disgrace this good weapon by shedding
thy  as. b9rn blood, but according to knightly
I may trike such as thee with anything
~hiits age:.'
The   'iht lifted his sword torput his threat
'}-to eec  on,' but quick se thoughh, Casside
snY1"a i the shepherd's crook from the hand of
Louis";for he had left his own weapon'at the
'S1ver Bell), nd armed him in a moment.
Ahe cavalier grew red with shame and vexation,
andcalled to his squire to bring him his lance'
that he  eight beat the audacious peasant with
'its}stoul ashen handle ;but in this he was no
ore successful than in. the first. atteii; our
quickly knocked the weapon from his grasp,
and gave him a staggering blow upon'the head.
The knight was now ready to choke with in-
aon; for a  ilr from a simple peasant he
considered a foulaffront.
Lend me your sword, my friend, and I
si anexapl          f iis Yello  ' he said to
{s sc yuir  di aveice hoarsewith pasio.
emember, my iord, that it  tarnish

the memory of your gallant deeds, if you shed,
the blood of this peasant."
"I care not-I care not !" he cried, leaping
from his horse. The squire gave him his sword
as desired, and Albert availed himself of the one
which was lying upon the ground.
Isandra stood pale and mute with fear, while
Casside awaited calmly the attack ,of the en-
raged cavalier, who was anticipating an easy
and speedy victory. . But he was doomed to a
bitter disappointment.  Our hero met his furi-
ous onset with skill and Coolness, baffling all
his mad efforts to give him a mortal thrust.
The squire watched the progress of the contest
with undisguised wonder. '
" The fellow has used that weapon before I"
he muttered.  " He handles it well-admirably,
toowell for my lord's good."
The countenance of Cassife during the con-
test. wore a calm and contemptuous smile. At
first he acted only on the defensive, and seem-
ed greatly to enjoy the disappointment .ad
Impotent chafings of his antagonist ; bid at
length, he began to act on the offensive, and
before ten seconds had elapsed, again'disarmed
his assailant
ouare at ny mercy," said, Casside, plac-
ing the point of his sword to his breast; " but
I give you your life without the asking, go,
anc in f ure be more courteous to strangers."
"Mount, and let u be off, in the virgin's
name I you can' perhaps settle this materat
somefuture time, for I doubt not you will ag
hear of this person !" exclaimed the squire.
The knight got on'horseback withoutword
of reply.  Albert gave the sword to Louis, who
handed it to the squire, with':the lance. The
cavaliers then moved away, and as thes-uire
assed   sside,'he said in a lowvoice.
"Young man, you have done a foolhrly
tGirg. You have mortally, ofFende  ygo
Lord Spencer-the son' of Sir Huh e    eer.'
This piece of information didno  emi to
produce thatdegree 6f astonishmen  w  ch the
'squire evidently expected  o  e  ai ;es1jed
but 'thout par to sy anthi       o    lie
irode afterius master.

That was gallantly, doie g'. i 'Luis,
whose respect for Albert had greatly increased
during the last few moments.
'"TUnlusky hour! unfortunate event ! you
have, in protecting me, brought certain destrues
tion upon yourself !" exclaimed Isandra.  "Sir
Hugh Spencer, I have heard my father say, is
venrowerful with'the king."
"Fear not," replied Albert; " in protecting
you from insult, I would cross swords with the
king himself."     .
"'My father comes this way; we will hear
what his opinion is; whether it 'be indeed so
dangerous a thing to disarm an insolent knight,"
said'Louis.
"Ata;l, middle-aged man, of not very pre-
possessing exterior, approached 'the parties. If
the'face 'is' an index to the character, a very
high +estimate could not be attached to that 'of
Peter Vidal, Isandra's father.: Casside had
seen him but a few times; and had ever' been
favorably impressed with his moral worth ; for
sotid avarice was indelibly written upon every
feature: He bowed coldly to our hero and lis-
tened sullenly to the story of what had just
transpired.
'" So you have offended the son of Sir Hugh
Spencer; young man ?" he said, with a sarcas-
tibsmile.  "My fery youth, 'your head isn't
worth a' florin.  Sir Hugh Spencer is in reality
king of'England, though Edward the second sits
upo;the throne."'
' Buthe saved me from insult, father," said
Isandra, timidly.
"That was all 'very well,- and I am  much
o)iged to him., ;  hope he will get happily out
of the1,unpleasant business. I advise him-to
lye 'gland 'as soon as possible.   Come,
dagghtert, let us return to the; ettage," replied
Vi,.ga
Courtesy requires that you should ask ,he
young;in to gos with us; he has rendered an
important service," whispered Isandra.
As if half-ashamed of his ill-nature, Vidal
paused ant asked Albert to accompany them;
but perceiving that his consent to this proposi-
tion was by no means wanted, he prudently with-

held it,'and bidding adieu to;Iandra,'walked
away towards Donhead Wood.
Having entered the forest, te fiat ojeel he
beheld. was Denis Wetzel. lHe was. dressed w
the same manner as on the previous night, 'S4t
a heavy sword hung at his side. He manifested
some surprise at seeing Casside, and laughingly
inquired if he intended to take up his residence
in that dangerous region.
Albert replied that he had laid no plans for
the future'; that for the present all places were
the same to him.
"How like you our host of the Silver Bell ?"
asked Wetzel.
"If I wanted a scoundrel, I should know
where to find one," was the reply.
"Ah I have you discovered his tricks so soond
Strolling Willie cold me there was some cause
of offence between you this morning"
"He.stole my purse; that was all."'
"And you-"
"Came very near strangling him."
" A resolute youth 1"
" Bah ! that is a slight thing."
"You suit me better'and bettor."
"Well, the good will of 'even Denis- W'etzel
may be -preferable to his hatred."
" Possibly !" said Wetzel, coloring  and
biting his 'lips.
 " I wishryou good day," added' Casside,
moving away.
"Not' so fast, young man ; let us talk over
matters that concern us both."'
"You can talk of nothing that concern me,
certainly,"' returned our hero, somewhat loftily.
" Don't be too confident; we;shall see.' I
shall have to be plain with you. And in thew
first place I must ask if you will keep, forever
and a day, what shall passbetweenus here i
this forest, a secret ?"
"i  have not'the least. objeetioto that," an -
swered the young man, -earetlssly.
"Very 'well; I will take your word. Be
not offended t'-what-I am about to' say;' you
have seen better days !"
"Well."
" You are poor."

24

-
,a
.
i' ,}
,t.
,i
r
r '


"You are, at pier, wt eedy admire."
~ aide a     i     aedet together , and his
*ew  dartedfiery gances at Denis Wetze!; who'
t0 camly without heeding the stormy ap-
pe   n e of his auditor.
TYo" are suffering some deep disappoint-
ment, and know not what to do.  But I can
tell you. I know of a profession in which you
can not onlyacquire fortune and renown, but
also punish your enemies.'
" Is it an, honorable profession?"
* It is the profession of arms."
"Under what leader ?"
"You have heard his name often,"     said
Wetzel.
" Proceed," returned Albert.
" Don't start, young man-his name is Mark
Donhead," added Wetzel, slowly.
But Casside did start,,notwithstanding the
premonition of his new friend to the contrary ;
he quickly recovered his usual calmness of
demeanor.
"Methinks, Deia Wetzel, that you speak of
a hard and dangerous trade."
"The profession of arnis is always more or.
l0s dangero s; especiallyiwhere nien'are made
to fight like dogs at the bidding of kings, who
go $6 wat to gratiff sofne passing1whin.  Don.
head Wood is wide, and the followers of Mark
dwell in comparative ease and safety. They are
for he most part, 'despeiite fellows, I will ad-:
n    ,but there i much gentle 'blood among
th': Yes, there are thoee ,enrolled, auong
tiem.who  hate won golden spurs, and received
kighthood from noblehands"
e" And who willend by winning a rope front
tke hands of the-hakigian," said Albert.
"Never ! not one of thein will be takeii
ali. Theywill pe'rfshwith their good words
in their hands."'
= Canh you tell m  if the bands alage"
#'Ay I that it is  and nie tf*ithal"'

"I oho'uld think the fear of eingbrought to
itien 'ould mar thir enjoyment."
"They have lurking places where nobo
can find them; and good King Edward has
fighting enough on his hands to keep him busy
without troubling himself to look after them."'
" This state of . things may not continue.
When young Edward is crowned,. he may, per-
chance, amuse himself by exterminating all the
robber bands in England."
"If you have any fear in.your composition,
Mark Donhead wants not your services.; he
seeks hearts of oak to serve him."
"Let me ask what possible interest you can
feel in this matter ? What is Mark Donhead
and his free companions to you ?"
That is not the question under discussion;
and I do not choose to tell the reasons for all
my acts. Will you reflect upon this subject, or
do you reject it. without thought--on' the
spot?"
"I reject yourproffers !" exclaimedCass ;
bitterly, feeling for the hilt of his sword ;,na,$
he remembered that he was unarmed,and] trly,
as Wetzel had said, a "needy adventurer;":
"The voice of reason is 'speaking to you',°I,
perceive; listen but a fev moments'to its whisk'
pers,'and you'will say, 'longlive Donhea .nd
his merry men,'." added Wetzel, who saw 'hat
there'was a struggle in the young man's b*est:
Weigh the subject well in your ownfmindam
do no 'fret' and chafe-.but' look calmly 'at the
inatter."
" Begone; tempte!" cried Albert
SYe.I am going-.but I will see yotu-edt-
hear your final answer before another'-sunrise."
With theseotds, Denis Wetzel walkia clnf
posedlf awiy; '*hile aside gazed after lf 4
with emotions which cannot readily be descrjd
wnd rig Whether he was not some drk in
t r' off satan siet to lure 1  to erditio1:.
3

f   t

RAPTER V.
TRE MOI K.

T   .HE;Iwarm raya of the meridian sun were
,reaming through the branches of, the
trees uponAlbert Casside's head.' le,L ooked.
up au4aighed, andguerier whether the bright
1inary,,one upon-another person so wretch-
ega himself.  He, mov   w    hcslpw. stepp, to-
w'the Silver Bell.  His melancholy anedita,
tPoWereaNterrupted in an unexpected, manner.
aeen cle4.like;higters, paddely prepeate&amp;d
9pi'e_,  s, to view.  Crossbows were slung at
Ahqir aks, an4 they .wrgle vy pdwred,   ,
Their sides.  One, of them advanced, apd in
,riue; as, amicable as the ease w li allow,
said :"
'  xSi y, l 3 01leyoufor your purse."
Ohr lerey eitated, fog a  the m oneghicb
Spo    e4,e waa in the p%40t of his.Gdoi44et,.
where he had placed it at the   uggestion of
blipd Wilie.
" The young mai  l be;good enqu gh    no
ugsyp   e  iting" added tile ebbey.
Casside east his eyesapidly aloit hinmfo
ea eaponuof defence,,reiove4 to kee pos-
session of his paltry fortune tohe la4  He per-
eiv lying at mis, feet a stoutlimb  leh had

'been broken from an.oak by the fall of a tree.
Ie instantly seized the missile, and being active
,and strong gave the robber such a blow upon
the side of the head, ,that he ,tell sensol9ps.
The:second one drew his sword and pressing
pgoipitately upon him shared the same fate
but the third knave, instead of advancing, put
his-handsto, his. mouth and produced, a' srt of
whistling sound, which speedily brought half-as
dozen sturdy aecomplices to his assistance.
A lbeztgrased mpee determinedly the opken
stick apd,stood hid_ gowumesfully.  The'newi
comers, perceiving that the affair was lie
result in flattened noses and broken heds,
prudently came on wary. (Yasside finished
his weapon ieverydireqtion, laying 64_nzn
effeclua b lows before  was, vanquished; .u
his stick was finally knocked from his hand,
he could make no farther resistance.  e   -
hers leaned upon their swords ind sarebat
him, 4      oi g evidently,  iseoag, aa bis
well evloped ers  n.  a '
As ftom n fend these paltry piees no
enger, you are welcome:to them, gentime, as
weU las to e broken heads i have';acd
given you.

i. S
F'.

''I a
.1

K

1t i' i 1
r   +  i9
t
,   %
I t

'lll'
I
. ,
i

,

Tom-   t      ;


28                    THE SILVER BELL.

While making this remark, Casside turned
the pocket of his doublet wrong side out, and
saw his last forin disappear.-
"Now I suppose you will allow me to go my,
way unmolested ?"
The robbers looked at each other, as if to learn
what opinions prevailed upon the subject.
Those who had received the severest contusions
and bruises, appeared by no means disposed to
let the author of them depart in peace ; and
mildly suggested that it would be 'well to hang
him upon the nearest tree. But this proposi-
tion was at length overruled by the more humane,
and after being thoroughly searched to ascer-
tain if there was not more money concealed upon
his person, he was sufferedto resume his way
towards the Silver Bell.
He was shortly after met by Strolling Willie,
to whom he related the story of his recent loss.
"It no doubt appears a great misfortune to
you," said the mendicant; "but I have always
noticed that what seem great evils often turn,
out to be inestimable blessings."
"That's sorry'comfort to one in my condi-
tion V'
" I know of a monk who can well advise you
what to do ; he can, at least, give you shelter,
until Providence sends you better luck," added}
the stroller.s
I shill not ask aline quite yet," replied
Casside, raiber hanghtily.
"Idid not mean that ; but simply that you
should visit'the wise man who can make himself
ippy with a erust of bread and a cup of pure
'A rare personage !"
"*, you4 'ay well say so; there is not
another like him in England.  Now give par-
ticiilar attention,. and I will direct you how to
find him,"
To humor the, 'indly disposed beggar, our
hereo aitened to his directions, which were some-
Wiat complicated ; and to please hlniia-sil far-
ther, promised to seek the habitation qf the
recluse oinetime during the afternoon.'
'Albert then proeeedgd to pe the Silver Bell
to get the sword which he had le6t tlere'wlidif

he set out on his visit to Isandra Vidal. Joa.
chim Capet regarded his guest with anything but
friendly looks, and hinted pretty plainly that if
he did not see what color his money was soon,
it would be highly expedient for him to quit the
inn and seek other accommodations. He went
on to add thathis was the first instance in which
any individual had been. so bold as to complain
of losing a purse at the Silver Bell.
Casside's blood began to boil with vexation,
and seizing mine host by the nape of the neck,
he belabored him soundly ; which event pro-
duced a great disturbance in the hitherto quiet
precincts of the country inn ; but the employ-
ment afforded our hero the liveliest satisfaction
he had experienced for a long time. In the
midst of the excitement he pitched Capet with
not gentle hand among a quantity of empty
bottles, and bid a hasty adieu to the Silver
Bell.
He wandered about for some time without
any fixed object, being, in fact, in a complete
state of indecision. At length happening toile
some of the landmarks which the -stroller had
mentioned as guides to the resident' of the,
monk, he mechanically directed hisstepsyto the'
spot ; not indeed expecting any benefit, but"
merely because he knew not what elseIto-do.,
After he had-walked what appeared to bim T
long distance, he Was ready to reproach hinmO
that he had suffered the words of the' mendicant
to make a sufficient iapressionrupon hisJinind
to. think of them the 'second time. Soehe re,
solved not to see the monk, although he was
aware that he could not be far distantifroni'his'
habitation. '
But thetimeemployed in foming this reso-
lution was'lost; a man who pioed' io bethe
monk Datid, was already near hini, eld'f'ith
all the simplicity of hia calling.   "  :o
"Whom seek you, young man ?"he asked,
looking attentively atAlbert.'       "
"The monk David lives somewhere iih66t
'here, I believe ? he answered,°evasivelf. '
R'4 'tis 'bebib *  yo'" was thea ffe' te
reply. "Follo#u  "i."
O asside ;'as'4el ve seen, havingnahing,

betterIto do, and almost wholly indifferent in
regt  t' the tui'aaffairs might 'take, believing
that' he had got quite down to the foot: of the
ladder of adversity, obeyed the injunction 'of
father David, and'followed him -along a narrow
foot-path that1wound about in an eccentrieman-
ner.  They reached finally the most'lonely part
of the forest -that Albert had. seen.  The monk
paused before a' rude hut, in 'front of which was
a small rivulet.
"Here is where I dwell," he said.
" A most secluded spot, truly."
"It suits my purpose. . The real wants of
life are few, and if we are wise, we' can find
them  anywhere.   Nature  supplies me with-
water at small cost, you see, and my hut is :more.
capacious than it seems. Let us enter."
There was nothing very striking or worthy of
much description in the hut of father David.
It was indeed much more capacious than its
exterior indicated; a liberal excavation having
been made in the rear, forming a room of non:=
siderable: size,, so that the 'dwelling was coin-
posed hf two 'apartments, besides a small oratory,
orwhat 'subserved that purpose.
" Now, young'man, what' is your object in
seeking me ?" asked David.
Casside replied that he had'no particular ob-
ject in view, other than to gratify the whim of
a mendicant, who was desirous to-do him some
kindness out of' gratitude for sane trifling ser-
viee he had rendered him;, a serviceby the
way, not worth mentioning.
' Ihave seen the stroller since he gave you'
tliat' advice. He has told me all he knew of
yeu-eisfortones."        '
"He is ea' singular old creature; for I could
net'ilndmy way here' with both eyes open,
while he is deprived of the blessing' of sight
etitirely,"remnarked{Albert.
Fatherz3avid proceeded to clear his throat
by's ra; preliminaryahems;' but what pro-
fud wisdom .he was *about to butter, is: not
no* kiown, for 'a gentle knQeking upon the
d  rof'his  hut put an end to the contermplated-
The monk arose quickly in -some eonfuieon,

and hastily opening the little 'door that'ld4t
the apartment in the rear, he bade Albert etr'
and remain silent until the newcomer should'
be disposed of.  Our hero passed into-the room'
(which' was quite dark, 'havingmorethe appeal
ance of a cellar than of a habitable place); aan
the door was closed and fastened' upon him.
He,seated himself upon a block of wood, to
await the result, with the same feeling'of'in-c
difference that had characterized all hismnio e-
ments for the"last four-and-twenty hours. :He
heard the outer 'door of the hut opened, an
after a few words were exchanged, some peroa
was admitted. Presently, Casside heard the'
low tones of a- female vice, or such it appeared
to him ; and his curiosity.began to get the bet;
ter of his indifference. A female in the hut of
the monk 1' What' possible motive could bring
her to such -a solitary place ?2. Here was food
for curiosity, and Albert resolved to gratify his,
if practicable. He placed his ear close to the
rough wall and heard a voice that made him
start with unfeigned surprise. Could it be pos-
sible that Isandra Vidal was there?  le. would
listen again. He did so apd the conviction'that
forced itself upon :his mind, was the same. He
next proceeded to search for a crevice by which
he might gratify the eye as well- as the ear.
He found a small one without difficulty, and
the subject was no longer one of doubt. Isandra
Vidal was indeed in earnest conversation with
the monk-a circumstance which filled Albert's
mind with the most singular and uncomfortable
thoughts.
'Although ; he could not obtain a full view of
her face, it was evident enough that she-was,
considerably excited, and laboring under some
strong feelings of apprehension. In the frat
moments of his amazement, Albert was'5'greatly
tempted to dash down the door 'that separated
the apartments, confront the parties, and defland
to know the reason of th'i 'singular intei4liw.
But a moment's reflection made, him ahan-
dot apurpose 'so foolish,' What right had!lhe to
question' her motives, or what influenced 'het
actions ?  What authority had: he over ' the
young -maiden1 Moreove~riwhy should hoidis.

14"

i


THE SILVER BELL. '81

-asM puritys other eatieug or thie 
tagy   fher soulo  D,.i4 o krD o  k  er to
bpg$ent, di eoeet,     ;eiderate, ia.her
a"tf  Was not the ga1tls spirit that .aimated,
h1wn    fairas the templein-which it wiasen
sbied? 4'Away then,, wit1 unkindly misgiv-
ings! away with uncetainty, away with doubt i
t eeath of Isandra wa# purity iteIsand Iker
yqtel bosom the home of sweet affetions.
Observed .that the m onklisteedwith in,
teoe interest, and the tale Isandrawas telling
aged him ; but in what manner it was a not.
essy to decide, his ,fae being so impefectly
Vther~ David's, agitation, subsided, and, he
grew profoundly thenghtful. Afte, walking
sero.s the room v few times, he motioned t
Isa dra to enter the little oratory, where the
uaonh doubtless performed his devotions and
prautised his self-abasements... The young. gi4
enere4 and the monk lused the door. fie
tIsnpaced the roomas before, rubbed his foer
hea&amp; as, it endeavoring to stimulate the refee-
tio faculties, and thenmfreedour hero from his
teuporary imprisongnt, who came forth. a;
ush mystified as ever as mortal was.
'ising his eyes steadily upon the monk,he
said in a voice intendedto be  alm, but. was
'$oyou have had a female visitor.; it was
Tandra Vidal."
You are right. I am, her friend- and ad=.
view; she is in great danger," aaswered father
David.
"lai aho her frien4,'1 added'OAsside, mn-
Spaiently.S
"Saye her, then, ftom a fate which she eon-
sides worse than death," continued the monk.
"aplai."
A    etestablenursion, sir.
"Wi'whoni ",
,.Qnex'ho is pweitl."        ,
tvil prevent it."
d  X":   may tremble at the mention o has
'K t  het is inteteated In this maniages"

ea,b       selling her for gld; I remw
ber--she toldme so this very day. But kre
net that the danger was;so near and, so press
ing.'"    .
"jave you seen, Denis Wetzel, to-day
asked the monk.
Casside turned and looked fully ,at Davi4.
S" I have," he rejoined, emphatically.
" Whatsaid he'?" resume the monk, hur-.
riedly.
" Much that was vilanous."
"I can guess ; he wished you to join the free
companions of Mark ponhead ?"1
'"That is true.":
" And you must coanply," added David,
quickly..
" What;do you say !" cried Casside, angrily.
' That you must accede to his wishes," said
the monk, in the same tone.
"Your sacred profession alone hinders ,me
front doing you personal violence I" retorted
Albert, sternly.                          .
"Restrain yourself, impetuous youth; do nsrt
take ay words in theirbroadest sense.  rsen,
it is Mark Donhead who wil bear off yourfair.
shepherdess; his:gold is all powerful with her
father."
" Mark Dorhead!" exelahned Casside, with
eyes dilated with amazement.
" Even so; my son."
"Then her situation is indeed terrible!this
man's power is felt and feared all overthe
country."
"Without doubt," returned , D.ayid, apt by
joining the bend. you would; ahe ,the ,
efficient means, it seems to me, of wathingW
iriovements, and of . affbing himdesign," {
I.he idea appears 'plausible; it is ,
tris1k at Least,. 1
"A trial you will  itiA  orsene 4s
one. Theeomnpaet that bind, t1 a rupgethepis
nost fondul   Those who,:edroll ti 150vepA
among the followers of Mank   nhea&amp; are hier
ti= ,de tl   eg one fi them are:boup4 by *.
uoste SOm' death to) seek  ut: and p nPh
traitors, and such as violate, in any manner,,_,
terri  . compast. Wos to him who i faist-

hearted, or meditates an escape, or a betrayal I father. A bird in the fowler's snare were not

of the band ; he dies without mercy."
"That does not intimidate me.  Regent mis-
fortunes have fitted me for desperate under-
takings.  And to save yonder fair girl, I would
face greater 'dangers than those you speak of.
Yes, I will sign the dark compact of this prince
of robbers."
" I admire your free and generous self-
devotion.  Isandra Vidal, though the child of a
peasant, is worthy of your efforts. Donhead is
anxious to consummate this monstrous union,
and Vidal is equally interested. The terms of
the sacrifice, for I can call it nothing else, are
already agreed upon, and will be carried out,
unless speedily thwarted. She can only oppose
her feeble will to the might of the famous ban-
dit, and the inflexible determination of her

more helpless, or less strong to resist its fate.
Mark proposes to convey her, ere long, to his
subterranean haunt-a large cave in the head
of the forest. Should you join his rufflans,4you
will greatly increase the chances of being of ser-
vice to the poor girl."
"My resolution is taken ; and now let nie
have a few words with her before I address my-
self to this new adventure which may possibly
prove my last."
" The interview must be short, time flies?-
on ; you must talk with those less fair, and
listen to voices less musical. You must see
Denis Wetzel before the sun again reddens the
far off yest.  Open that door, and you will see
Isandra."

-.       'A. +
v    2 :.

f
,f                             Y
"                                                             1               '                3
y                                  T             i

e+

i

?,,

r
3   E

a
i   _  .                     y
.'           -
r .                   ,   .:


Mo~~rt~A  , -                 A
A-,Af ~i w   E    'A"  :+.i'3 c,   L  l  , '  'A
-                 A ,

. j~

i1 .,                             (_

CHATiERVP"*

THE CAVE O THE BANDITTI.

T JRE sober gray of evening twilight came
stealing over Donhead Wood.    Albert
Casside stood leaning against a huge fragment
of rock that had, in other ages, been burst
asunder by some strange convulsion of nature.
Not far from him, the figure of Denis Wetzel
stood pictured in the deepening gloom.
"Some hours have passed since we met; tell
me if you are less scrupulous than then?" said
the latter..
"I am," answered Albert, coldly.
"That is well; I knew that reflection would
cool your chivalric attachment to what people
call honor," added ;Denis.
"Circumstances have had more to do with
it than reflection. I have been robbed of all
the money I could call my own in the wide
world."
" Bobbed,, say you ?"
" Of the last florin ; but some of the knaves
of Mark Donhea4, I trow, have got such bruises
as will make them remember me for along time
to come."
" Did you resist ?" asked Wetzel, earnestly.
"Rust I I knocked them   over as I would

'
t.

so many wooden saints. And I wish to impress
this fact upon your mind, that you may remem-
ber it as long as you happen to know me, that
I always resist every species of injustice. - Na-
ture has given me two strong arms, and it is
my established principle, to use them just as
often asT am the, object of a wrong of any
kind."
"Bravo ! you will do for Mark. But I warn
you to give him no offence, which your aptness
at the game of hard knocks might perhaps
quickly lead you to do. He is rather hasty in
his temper, and absolute among his men.  If
at any time he should give you a blow-"
"A blow, you knave ! I'd strike him dead
on the spot I" cried Casside, drawingshis sword
and springing towards Wetzel.
The latter did not change his position, but
stood before Albert with as much tranquillity as
hitherto:
"I did but joke, young man ; put up your
sword. If you conclude to have your name writ-
ten in the compact of the free companions, ye
will have pra6tice enough, without being obliged
to pick quarrels withtyour friends. Is your

ind fully made up ontheibject    foa resoin.
1idifformed is iot to be dependedoa."
''have determined to offer my services'to
A' k1)onhead.    Now I speak plainly, and you
will need to questions' no farther'on the sub-
ject. Proceed at once to inform me what I an
to do to be initiated into this celebrated company
oftbanditti ?"
' Yoti straight-forwardness is commendable.
e initiation is such as becomes brave spirits;
brut cowards shrink from it. It  ' 1 be well for
you to know  before you go farthe\' that those
who oncejoin this brotherhood, 'are never at
liberty to dissolve the connection and depart in
peace; once enrolled, enrolled forever and a
' **etze*"paused, and then added s1wly and
emphatically,.looking steadily at Casside. A" We
punish traitors with death /"
"You, then, belong to the band?" said
Albert."
I do," returned'Denis, promptly.,
"I trust, then, that you' will do me"the honor
to conduct nie to theta presence of Mark bon-
head."
' fyou once enter the secret abode of the
banditti, you cannot leave' it until ;you'go forth
As one of them; you go in  a good citizen; you
,66ne 'out an outlaw, or you 'never come, out.
DO you comprehend ?"
" Most perfectly ; lead on, I follow you to
telhauait of-the redoubtable brigand."
""iis settled-=this way-and be patient,"
returned the bandit.
Casside abyIdoned'himself'to the guidance of
V"4ieI.  lie knew that, he was taking a 'step
that might affect his whole future life and 'yet
lie Miowed Denis calily.  ie W*as aware-'that
anger and death fluttered' like 'dark  angels
iotit him, but his tread wa's firin afidhis pur-
ose unaltering.- Thatthe 'banditti of: the
were bound together by fearful tcapacts,
dAi      i'dt treaeheif with'speedy  ad pitiless
'   menti, healso iknew  'Atrothor sasons in
ate atewhen the"sun of prosperity *as
ni  be igtiiftly upon him, he:would;'with-
out doubt,"h'aes1udlerei:atW hat he Was now

daring:with scarcely i 'iidening of the
Evenwiti' his present feelhig, he woulidske
shrunk from the committal of crime, and writied
under disgrace.
'But' the object which he -now had in l'i e
overcame all other considerations, and ;"mkde
him risk 'the only inheritance which he could
call his-his honor.°, Impelled by hi' love for'
Isandra, and a high chivalric' feeling which  r
prompted him to befriend the weak a nd 'hal-
less, he devoted-himself fully and completely to
this now enterprise.
Denis Wetzel moved steadily on, making
numberless eccentric windings' and turnings,
until Albert believed that it would have'been
quite impossible for him to have found his 'way,
unguided, to the Silver Bell, or to the hnt  of
the monk. lHe employed his mind during the
long and silent walk in maturing the plans of
father David. The latter he believed could be
fully trusted, for ha could conceive of no psei-
ble motive that he~ould have for betraying'himk,
or exposing him to'daager and death. He-'felt'
sure that:Strolling Willie was, or meant tobe,
his friehd. And here he could not help asking
himself if he"'%hid indeed reached that condition,
when he was to find'lys friends in the lnoVtt
walks-of life. For a moment the thought) an-
noyed him, but his'; better nature'soon banihed
such unworthy ides.'
Wetzel, who had hitherto walked on without
uttering a word; now stopped and remarked'that
there VA'e yet time for him to go back, if hfbelt
any regrets or misgivings. " Our hero' motioned
him to proceed,'and Denis oantinued'to leadste
way through' the dark aid silent wood.  A
"The way to hne ave is rather iintilate,
and' I think it would perple you not aflilo
find it withithe score' of  men-attiarnms d  0attr
back, which you spoke of last nightMemb-
served, 'casting a sly glance at Albet. a "
"I 'begin to'fiel greatly inclined tbtht
opinion;'" angered the 'latter  £AN we
most there'?'x   = 'dA 'A 'g
"Weire quite' there," answered  W ;  l,
:pausing.
A  Newa nothing' 'but a thick f6 est iandIMe

~ 1_. slix t
f    ]
.ate

_

i

_,

S     Ei        ,  ,.


i'
a
'
r

THE. SILVER JELL.

r

85

.
rs¢  ..  . .      l   s

'? -

ags xoorks pied pr upop another bythe dand Wetzel mde; wa to the left, through apdorp
S4neatre," said the ,youpg  ., lookingabout every respect like the,-{others; but the sapp
meant; was materially different from the ones
" And yet within call of us are two'hundred whih lhad preceded it; it was a long n'
sa nerry fellows, as ever lifted sword, or bent ing way, in which their footsteps awoke o d
; w"            ° ,echoes.
" You surprise me," added Albert.           Wetzel took the lamp, which hung from te
"I will increase your wonder," resumned roof, in his hand, and moved on like a sppecke
itzel.  " Come this way a little.                   eiark the throughthe dismal place.  While they were
suet of this."                              threading the labyrinths of this cheerless,abod.,
=enis Wetzel knocked a few times upon the there came ocasionally to their ears the sondl
large rock near which he waeestanding. Im- of voices and merry laughter.
agedietely it moved noiselessly from its place, .. .After going a ,onsiderable distance' in this
and disclosed the mouth of a cavern.        damp and: serpentine corridor, Casside was at
No human being, not in -the secret, could length shown the apartment he was to occupy
have mistrusted that this was anything more for the present ; it was fitted up with 1re n
than:an ordinary stone," observed. Albert.  neatness, and had within it many articles of tom-
" The fact is often a fortunate thing for us;' fort;' s that our hero did not feel disposed to
rejoined Wetzel.  "Your last chance.of repent- complain of his accommodations.
-ag your choice is gone; when next you cross  " Here you will remain until it shelllathe
bthi ;threshold, you will be an outlaw--at least pleasure of Mark Donhead to summon you be-
m:name. Be careful, there are steps here."  fore him."}
"Is this the only entrance?" asked our     " Will it be long, think you, before I shall
he,,as he stooped and:lentered the aperture.  have that -honor ?" asked Albett, sarcastic, y.
"That is a subject upon which I shall not'be  " I don't know ; possibly to-night--perhaps
ever-oommunicative; be content withwhat you to-morrow.  I will go and see how our fellows
ldy know," was the reply of the bandit..   feel, and whether they will be disposed to for-
Casside groped his way down the :steps in give the blows you, gave some of' them  It
almost total darkness, but when, he reached the shall be-y arethat you have generous oIeey.
bottom he beheld a faint light 'reflected from a The motto of the free companions is, 'a.hoslwt
npl   lamp. Nearthe-stepssteoda .man with life and a merry one.'"
;=drawn sword in'his hand, to whom   Wetzel    With these words, Denis Wetzel lihte  a
ap~a a significant, sign to remain silent.  A  small lamp aad left our hero to his medications,
branchh of keys was hanging against the wall; carefully locking the door upon him; a ,pr-
De* took them and going on a little farther, caution whieh, in this instance, was father un-
unlooked a door.    When   both had passed necessary,:as the neophyte had no inte'ionis
htrongh, he' carefully reloeked it. The place escaping.
"inaWhicb Albert- now found himself 'was a low  He examined ahe apartment with some
and narrow passage, as rough and jagged as us- terest, and wondered how{many others had bepn
t   hre bad originally formedpit.           locked thereinin the same manner.  i    A
At the end of-this ,p a  was another door, then wandsed from this subject to Isondra, and
etwhich his guide-fitted akey-and4unlooked it his recent interview  with her at the m anka
Re 4i thefirst instance. Each of these.natural hut; but this train of thought wasinteu d
compartments was faintly lighted''bya single by.the .cresing of thedoor upon its
b    ,L. suspended from the roof. The second 4 persopentered to say that the new eui
passage was rather more lofty and epa ions fortheyhand wo Ud not he allowedFan.
Aa 4h fiat.  The et ewvswoenint which tiafter the ceremon of iitiation.

F
ii.,
F
IH
t
yL''
Y
C
i
5    ±
a
t         H
.'i
s l
1.  Y
A
4 A   "

'E Y
4E
YjlS'
' F
i
ai
":";PJri::i
t.:
e'fj N
tfy ;
s :so

There was such a saucy leer upon the fellow's
face, when he communicated this piece of in-
telligence, that Casside could not well resist the
temptation of doing him  personal violence;
thereupon, incontinently doubling his fist, he
placed a blow upon the frontispiece of the ban-
dit, just above the bridge of the nose, that caused
him to change the vertical for the horizontal
position, and to see all' kinds of electric lights,
and stars that danced about eccentrically, and
couldn't keep still.
" Tell your master that it is thus I always
punish impertinence, and resist wrong," said
Albert, when the fellow began to show signs of
recovering the position most natural to human
bipeds.
When he had succeeded in regaining his feet,
he looked menacingly at the chastiser of his in-
solence, and obviously felt a strong desire to
retaliate upon him; but observing that he wore
a sword, and fearful, doubtless, 'of giving offence
to his master, Mark Donhead, his anger found
vent in threats and scowls, which were produc-
: tive of no great inconvenience or annoyance.
S 'e left the premises, muttering that his name

s

was Dick Strow, and that he never overlooked
a blow, but invariably managed to pay up the
score, with compound interest.
A few moments after the withdrawal of Dick
Strow, another of the band made his appearance
to inform him that although food was not allow.
ed him, wine in any quantity and of the best
flavor would- be brought in, if he desired it.
Casside signified that it should be produced
without delay ; and great was his chagrin when
a third knave opened the door and remarked
that Mark Donhead did not think it best to ex-
cite his mind by stimulants, while he was on
the eve of such an important change in his man-
ner of life; but the purest water should be
brought in its stead.
Seizing the block upon which he was sitting,
Albert hurled it atthe head of the unfortunate
messenger, and taking effect upon his head,
stretched him bleeding and insensible upon the
earth.
The neophyte stepped over the unconscious
individual, and proceeded along the great'na-
tural corridor, which led he knew not Wither.


'IIIJI'E   NlL                  7

4
UL ~;.''

S                                         r
.}   f    r r '       '"  _      i a i      Y      i 5     4    ~    a m  ,           ; y   ,        ' '    ? ,   '      4. n         '' i    j.  : .y   -rb
'                                 ,                        Y1
C          '    w  t     w  '          t     .             { r             .                   y .             J   s         .     " _ f   , c   r44     ?y
                 x   t                                                            r                   .                                    t

./

lAjTER

r;
''+ t 4
"  " Y

THE GRAND :ALOON THE CAPTIVE.

,i_ I
XIt
f~

stalactites had previously sfrprised-hiin,hlis
amazement' was now   inealculably' ir1drei;
f6r numborlesaformations similaro f ;  he
had seen, depended like enormous icicles from
the lofty roof, that gave back the dazzling glare
of the lights with extraordinary  effect and
brilliancy._
Extending through the centre of the saloon,
was an ample table, or what answered all the'
objects of one, and which was groaning, to use
a figure, beneath the weight of the viands placed
upon it.  Around this spacious board was seat-
ed a motley mass of human beings, whose bois-
terous mirth gave proof that they intended to
make the most of the present, without trusting
anything to the future.  There were among
them faces of manly beauty, and visages ren-
dered harsh and disgusting, by drunkenness
and evil passions.
Their drinking cups were just replenished,
and they were on the point of conveying them
to their lips, when Casside. made his unexpect-
ed debut. Every hand seemed paralyzed with
surprise, and all eyes were turned towards him
with a wondering stare.

'Wthoat heeding these indabitable signs of
asheihient, our-hbro walked boldly'ip to the
t6bl, and reaching over one of the ruisa'
s   det -took one.of the flowing cups, just
Muted out, and drank it off at'a raught. He
then replaced the vessel and took another, in-
te*ding that it should follow in the track of the
athm--                     . :
":Blood and fury 1" cried the bandit, whose
ine had been appropriated so unceremoniously.
"Who is.this audacious varlet '?"
"I am one of the free=companions," replied'
asided. carrying .the brimming cup to his
mouth.
"It'sa lie-'a foul lie 1" retorted the robber,
femmsing with ire.
Without deigning any reply to this impute
tion, Casside, quick as thought, dashed the viae
iethebearded ruffian's face.
;Instantly a terrific scene ensued. The ban.
ditsprang from the table, grinding his teeth
wathifury, and drawing his sword, made a hur.
ried thrust at Albert, who, foreseeing the eon-
sqaenses of whathe bad done, had'tlready un-
ix     shthedhlbs weapon. The steel blades met,
fire flashed from their edges, and the ,angry
clash resdunded a thousand times through. the
otekesofithe cavern..
he free companions simultaneousy arose to
thir feet to wateh the progress of the desperate
encounter..
-T, Held I sheathe your - swordel" thundered
Deana;etzel. "N9el Yoriek, do you hear?"
1Withau discontented growL the bandit sullen-
lydrtppedthe point of his weapon,-and Cha-
dl, did the same.
"Yorck, don't be afool, man  Iwilsettle,
tumatter myself .Fat up your blaes, I
Albert returned his sword to his sabbatd
a-d Yeriek relnctantly fellowed this erample;
bpVeh expression; ofdeadly hostilityIingEd
uppr hid face:which no hum-counmad could}
olase away.             .
4iOw, sir,,what tn a  this" askedWet-
seiinuingasternly to Albet'
A  uaean that you: havnotikepkyour wird
8

with me,   dhhve coe toAght myself,
anseredithe latter, quietly}
" HOw have I violated my worl, rash boyT?!
added Wetsel.
"You, promised me the common hospitalitlesf
of life, and have refused them. I must ,it
and drink,"were I a thousand times a bandit."
" I grant thatIdid make such-a promise;
but it was. the pleasure of the leader of itlir.
band that you should be kept withoutsthe 'eoi
forts namedl$until you had passed yot initiby
.tion. Mark Donhead is absolute, here,'" rejoias
e Denis Wetzel.       -
"He's ot absolute over my appetite,. a
ded Albert, seating himself at the table and
appropriating to' his own use a large piece of,
roast veniaO.
" Who is this fellow ?" exclaimed sever
voices.'
"Silence!" cried Wetzel.
While the first mouthful of flesh was.unde
going the process of mastication, the. unluky
individual who had borne the last message of
Donheadto our hero, staggered into, the sailed,
pale and ghastly, while a smallcurrent of blod'
was flowing from deep antapon tha hads
"What next -" mttered Ycrioky as hiseat
rested oa the unevoked apparitio. The folke,
pointed at Casside, and dropped heavily upon
one of the ben;hes  ,
At that instant, Dick Stow.was observed to.
rib -his' head withaveryunpleasant egdidob'
of countenanceI Solei f the ndi ti lagghdy
others-expressed different i tios by soedisgt
facee and suppressedidaths .  .          n
" men," said  Petzel;,'#tias! young -gal .=
has come-hither ,undetiemy protectonto jin
us. Tomorrow night he will. beakalenig
our captain;and iitiatedaint _e othere htdd
You see, by what has happened, that hede0i
youth oftspirit and zesdldtio nand weeedminbh
amongus J Tkalways bees       ine em aiof k
Deonhes4 towe.tell thE inatnostoft xonenhuuh the
irvtst upon the scroll of A=urownuaitlshap
ple fa're it iwEduong rto yo,  gentlefn
Albertdaidej ,wreaecurag. ueeda .ose m
-aet ftetak~ foridde (semerIheed. salamga

f    SAOasside went foermd he ad  in sd
3at the taoio sesodfthe u i    t  h1e
narrow passage rapidly widened, and the low,
arching roof assumed a loftier .height.. The
feeble glimmeringhof the light fell with a curious-
ly picturesque effect upon the numerous sta-
lactites that had frozen into form during the
lapse of years. They flashed back the reflec-
tions in innumerable prismatic colors, which
dazzled and astonished the eyes of the young
man. Without pausing to examine the various
andfications of the grotto, he kept on in what
apparea to him the main shaft of the same.
The sound of merriment grew more -distinct
as -he proceeded, and he resolved to present
himself boldly to the revellers, whatever might
bethe consequences of such pn act.  Casside
reached, ere long, a large door which was closed ;
it was the only obstacle which separated him
from the carousels.  He exerted a gentle force
against it, to learn if it was fastened; it was
ot, and pushing it suddenly open, a singular
some met his vision. He found himself in a
spacious saloon, brilliantly lighted. Ift the
serious effect ofthedim lamp shining upon the

,,.
k;
'
t r
' ,
.
n
- °
'
f ,
,
" _
,
r
y,     -i
tz
j Y'     .t.
fiy'
r5
I 4          ,y
'           i
'
f y ,
I  l '      1
.,:, , .

474-

! , n                                 ,
1
s .              i ' ,    i

y
c
a
3
L
'
t '
_
i
r
.
i
v
L .
1
'
)
ti i,
A
'
y
1!


It

THE SILVER BL

4

~tllE}SIM V MR.BLL.

ybu, which k has'el. nigh bI-okei past:eure.
Brave companions, let us forget- all past differ-
ehdee and.- welcome among us an able-bodied
and daring recruit.  Yoriek, relax your'brows,
and be 'reconciled.  Dick Strow, your honor
will sufer no taint, and your head will soon
heal   Those gallants, who, for, a little innocent
pastime -rifled this young man's pockets, I trust
will be willing to balance- accounts-and anoint
their bruises with the oil of forgetfulness. Come,
m ierry lads, of Donhead Wood, let us drink
awewing bumper to the neophyte."
This short speech produced , considerable
effeet; the tide of feeling turned in favor 'of
asside.  Instantly there was awlively rattle of
drinking vessels,, and the health, was drunken
with gusto ; although a few unforgiving faces
yares till visible.
All now addressed themselves to the busi-
ness of eating and drinking, our hero not ex-
oepted; who resolved to make'himself as much
at ehone as the most swaggering ruffian among.
them.
adrmous-quantities of food vanished as if
by magic, while servants, male and female, ap-
pearedto answer the}vociferous demands of the
revellers.  Hearts,'merry enough before, grew
merrier cheeks already reddened (with wine,
greiredder ; tongues  already voluble in the
utterance of profanity and bravado, grew more
and more voluble.- The.free companions{boast-
ed of their achievements, and discoursed, in a
vary eieited manner, ef deeds which they -yet
intended to accomplish. They talked-like men
who expected to gain;undying renown by their'
daring accts. Theyspoke of uptoriety and'fame
as being one and identical; that -to be noto-
riously bad, w's as'desirable as to be equally
oee+brated 'for -deeds of goodness and bene-
volenee:
SW-While these perverted 'beings were thus- en-
gigedand growing everygoment more'boister-
eua, a part of the band, which hadbeen deputed
tpon particular service, returned sucessful;a
bringing with them aiyoung lady,: who was left
by ;theOrders of Wetel -(who appeared to com-=
x ad n the absence of dafa]kouhead), in an

adjoining apartment. Room was instantly
made for the new-comers at the convivial board.:
They entered with much-zest into the details of
their recent -adventure ; and went on to state
the particulars of the manner in which they-
had taken;their fair prisoner.
Casside listened to the recital with absorb-
ing interest. The lady, it would seem, who
had been the unfortunate victim of this -ruffian-
ism, was of gentle birth and high station. She
had been one of a hunting party of lords and
ladies ; but imprudently allowing her spirited
horse -to carry her considerably in advance of
her companions, she had unluckily 'fallen into
the hands of the banditti; who, having had
previous intimation of the hunt, had been sta-
tioned, at intervals, in certain localities"favor-
able to their purpose.
The robbers, being'in uncommon good humor,
proceeded to give a very facetious account of
the panic which their unexpected appearance
had excited in the mind of the noble maiden.
They referred to her tears and entreaties 'as.
legitimate objects of laughter ;'and to her beauty',
as a -thing upon which every' knave had a right
to gaze. e
"t e has been rumored," said Wetzel, " that'
this damsel, who is now our guest, has been blest
with rare personal charms. Does she sustain,
think you, the reputation which the good -old
dame Ramor has conferred upon her ?"3
" I think I may safely say," replied one who
had been the ;leader of the recent expedition,
"that-I never looked upon a =fairer face or a
prettier figure ; although=the terror with -which'
our presence inspired her, has paled her cheeks;
and detracted, somewhat, frog her beauty."
"By St. Michael, my patron saint ! I mud
see this paragon I" exclaimed Wetzel,' em-
phatically.
Ay, we must all have a glance at hei   'l
cried a score of voices. "",Bring her in; bring=
her in, that we may be drunken with beautyir
as well as with wine I"f
"I care not," resumed Wetzel, "if in'this
matter you are gratified. Let thegentle maident'
be broughtin. Ho, there!  Yorick, and Dick

Strew, be you the escort of this queen of
beauty."
"With right good will !" responded-the per-
sonages addressed, who thereupon 'arose from
their seats and staggered forth to perform the
bidding of Wetzel; a task which appeared com-
pletely consonant with their feelings..
During their short absence a breathless silence
prevailed in the banqueting hall of the ban-
ditti. . Presently footsteps were heard; and all
eyes were fastened, upon the door where the
unfortunate lady was expected- to make her ap-
pearanee. The ruffians were not long kept in
suspense-; the door was pushed open, and
Yoriek and Dick Strow re-appeared, supporting
between them i helpless female.-
Albert Casside, whosd ears had been open to
every word that had been uttered, and whose
indignation could scarcely be repressed during
,the time the subject of this brutality had been,
under discussion, -did not, at first, raise his head
to look at the sufferer, fearing to trust himself
to do' so; but when he heard the laud shouts of
admiration which burst from the lips of two,
hundred inebriated men, he slowly and sorrow-
fully lood in the direction in which all faces
were turned.
The spectacle which he beheld caused him
to leap to his feet with the quickness of light-
ning, while his respiration seemed nearly sus-
pended with the intensity of his surprise and
consternation. He gasped for breath like one
in the agonies of drowning ; he pressed his
hand .convulsively upon his chest ; he clutched
at the air for support ; his face became of their
ashen hue of death,' and then flushed with the
crimson of a burning fever. AHe stood a mo-
meat powerless with emotions whichnone could
analyze, and then his strong manhood came
back to him again, and smoothed down, withI
magic power, the 'agony that convulsed his
breast, and raised the veins upon his forehead
like knotted cords. He folded his arms, that
had been thrown aloft so wildly a moment be- 1
fore, calmly upon his bosom; he drew himself
up proudly and firmly ; his respiration became
deep, full, and regular, and not a muscle of his

19

countenance rebelled Against his own inflexible
will.
He gazed around him   with.a pride and dig-
nity of expression that elevated him to be, .in
reality, the-master and leader of them.,all.  "
"Denis Wetzel !" he exclaimed, in-tones so
calm and yet so -deep that' they could not;fail
to fix the attention. of every one, except the
unhappy lady who had found temporary relief
in unconsciousness. "' Denis Wetzel; let this
unmanly exhibition cease. - Ihave stronglyea,
all-powerful reasons for " making this 'request.
If you refuse me, I swear, by.my honor,- whicm
I never tarnished by a base act,'that I willedl
you to a terrible account for ' the same.. You
perceive this weapon by my side ; Ihave worn
it from childhood ; it was buckled there -first by
my mother, at an age when its point, trailed
upon the groun. I as I walked. She told me that
it never was 'o ti drawn except in the cause of
the right-in the defence of the wronged and
the oppressed, and for the sake of lady-fair.
I have never forgotten the 'injunction, and so
help me the powers that preside over worth and
innocence, I will always obey it to the very let-
ter ! I can use this weapon with the skill and
strength of a man ; and if you do not choose to
order this unhappy maiden from this presence,
I shall make it the subject of a personal arbi-
trament by the sword."
Denis Wetzel, at the commencement of Cas-
side's address, sprang from his seat at the head
of the table, and drew his sword from its scab-
bard ; but before itsjonclusion, slowly sheathed
it and resumed his place.
The female, who had produced this extraor.
dinary sensation, was still supported by Yoriek
and Dick Strow ; but'fortunately for her, was
yet' insensible to what was transpiring. The
loveliness of her features, the purity of her
complexion, the symmetry of her proportions,
were indeed marvellous. As her beautiful per-
son lay unconscious upon the arms of the rob-
bers, her face and neck were not unlike , the
whiteness of the sculptured marble.
The bold speech of Albert produced a striking
re-action among the banditti. They gazed with

SS:

"

. -
tFtu
n       i                         [+rw ! '1


THE SILVER ]31LL.

a sort of awe at our hero. His temerity ap- the lovely maiden was consigned to other hands.
peered to strike them dumb, and they evidently The instant that her slight figure disappeared,
regarded him  as one who had lost his reason, Wetzel resumed :
or whose audacity knew   no stopping place.  "Let this rash youth be conveyed to the char-
From the daring youth they glanced at Wetzel, ber of justice, to await the reward of his unpar.
to note the effect of his words upon him.   alleled presumption.  Place upon his limbs
No one ventured to speak ; there was an the heaviest manacles,- and leave him to medi-
inipmssive silence, in which all seemed at the tate upon whatever subjects he choosds, and to
Mlai of expectation.  Denis Wetzel at length form whatever conclusions heymay see fit, in re-
ase to his feet, and waving his hand authorita- gard to the future. Insubordination is a crime
tiraly, said, calmly :                      which never passes without summary punish-
" Let the maiden be conducted hence, and ment, among the followers of Mark Donhead."
eommitted to the care 'of one of her own sex.-  Wetzel sat down again as though nothing
-t no insult be offered her; let no one pre- had happened, while Casside was seized and
a.me to address her in other than a respectful hurried away to what had been styled " the
inner, of he shall answer for it with his chamber of justice," there to remain in terrible
had I '                                     suspense until his fate'should be known.
This command was instantly obeyed, and'

CHAPTER VII.
THE MIDNIGHT INTERVI$Ws.

T was considerably past the midnight hour.
The angel of silence had waved her wing
over the labyrinths of the banditti's cave ; they
no longer resounded with the sound of boister-
ous laughter or reverberated to drunken and
excited voices. The lights no longer flashed
brilliantly in the grand saloon, and the revellers
were looked in the embrace of heavy slumber.
Albert Casside was the occupant of a damp
and cheerless apartment. He was lying upon
some straw, securely ironed. Sleep had not
visited his eyelids; his brain was the theatre
of many distracting thoughts. Believing that
he heard cautious footsteps traversing the sub-
terranean corridor which led'to the gloomy place
of his imprisonmpent, he raised himself upon his
elbow and listened attentively. Some one paus-
ed at the door ; a key turned in the lock; the,
rusty hinges grated dissonantly upon his ear,
and a man, holding an iron lamp in his hand,
stood before him. It was Denis Wetzel, and
his expression was thoughtful and troubled.
" Have oorne,tosay afew words to you."
"Let them be brief," replied Casside.
"It would appear," resumed Wetzel, "that
the demon of rashness and audacity-has possessed
you for thelast few hours. I pereive that you
are resolved to place your neek in halter as
speedily as possible."

"And yours," retorted Albert, sneeringly,
"should have been thus placed years igo, be-
fore you had stained your hands with crimes at
which humanity revolts."
"Hold L" -exclaimed the other, sternly.
"Do not tax my patience more severely than
you have already done."
"Strike these fetters from my limbs," re-
joined Casside,." and then address to me such
language, if you dare. . Fulfil the promises you
have given me. I demand to be taken before
Mark Donhead."
" Your wish shall be gratified in due time.
You will feel his power, perchance, sooner than
you imagine. Your conduct, this night, has
been outrageous.  Speak : what is this fair
damsel to you? What sympathetic cord makes\
you feel her sufferings ?" added Wetzel.
"That is a secret that I shall keep ; it shall
die with me, if I die, and live only with me, if
I live. It is a secret most dear to me ; I will
share it with no brigand under heaven," return-
ed Albert,,firmly.
"You are in the wrong, young manI" said
the bandit. "I should be your-eonfUnt.".
"Tou/" exclaimed Casside, ssraically.
"Even I," rejoined Wetzel, kneeling beside
our hero, and with a-small haminer beginning
to remove the irons upon his limbs.

)

4


42                     THE SILVER BELL.

" This is an unexpected favor," resumed
Albert.  "I thought it possible that you had
come for another purpose."
" To -assassinate you, perhaps ?" replied the
bandit.
" That was my conviction," said the young
man.
" That proves," continued Wetzel, " that
Satan does not always get his due ; that he is
often basely slandered ; that he is maligned- in
various ways ; that on account of former mis-
deeds, he is seen with distorted vision by all
eyes. But'come ; your limbs are free again.
Arise, and let us discuss matters in a more
-amicable way. I will tell you the circumstances
respecting this gentle damsel, whose appearance
operated upon you so wonderfully, Not many
days since, Godfrey Ridenger, the second in
command, chanced to see her, in the vicinity of
Moteombe Manor. He was smitten with'her
beauty,,and conceived the'bold idea of bring-
4g  her'hither."'
"And did he not fear the anger of her
father ?" asked Casside, hastily.
"I trow 'not," answered the bandit.  " We
are not wont to fear great names. We are
x6re' powe'fil'than the lord of Moteombe Manor;
we can defy him to his teeth. Mark Donhead
.F ah'rger retinue of men-at-aris, than the
haughty father of-our fair guest."'
" But where was this Godfrey Ridenger dur-
igthe scenes of the past night?"' inquired
A16?t.
"rie *as'away oi another service, and the
eajtureiof the maiden was entrusted to other
hetide: * Had "he been present ia person, he
would dodibbless have objected to exhibiting her
i'o r fellows in' the manner which was'seen'by
; 7. And lam free to confess that-had" I not
1asinflaianed' with wine, I should not have
peaitted 'it."
"tIt was unmanly-it was brutal I" 'said
"   Was not 'gallant, at' lidst," added Wet-
zl,  atid I regret that the event' has suffei-ed
4 Ran;"4"
tiWy60begint    talk tikre  persed who

haw-yet some sense of honor remaining. Your
last words remove some of the unpleasant im-
pressions which your late conduct produced.
Wetzel, this gentle girl'must be saved from the
fate that Godfrey Ridenger is preparing for her.
His accursed projects must be thwarted forever.
I will move heaven and earth to save her."
Wetzellaid his hand heavily upon Casside's
shoulder. and said, impressively:
"I ask once more, if you. will tell me what
relation you sustain to the daughter of the lord
of Moteombe Manor'? Is it possible that you
have presumed to love one so far above you in
station ?"
" On that subject I shall still remain silent ;
you have had my answer.   You must already
know me well enough, to be aware that my
purposes are fixed and strong ; that I do not
change them without reason."
"So he it," returned Wetzel, decidedly.
"Know, then, that Godfrey Ridenger is pow-
erful, and that the maiden could not be wrested
from him, were she born of the noblest in the
land. No matter if she were the 'daughter of
the Eail-of Kent, or even a princess of the blood:
In this case, my fiery youth, you are more than
matched.  There is a power opposed to you,
with which you-cannot successfully struggle."
" But 'Mark Donhead-"
" Mark Donhead hiinself'eadhot'easily control
the actions of Ridenger," interrupted Wetzel,
impatiently.
"I hadisupposed that Mark was absolute;"
resumed Albert,' thoughtfully.  " Bat it ap-
pears that he is not; that he is ruled by-a. sub
ordinate officer'; that he is not the iron heart I
faicied-him to be.",
"He is absolute !"' thundered Wetziel, strik-
ing his foot against. the ground violently. "He
utters afoul'lie who affirms that he governs With
a feeble hand."'
The bandit paused; and' walked hurriedly
across the apartment a few' times, and then
added :
"But enough of this ; drop the suhbjeat, and
ieer let'it be ieiumed again.  ]oiead will
not interfere in'this matter; it'is 'not for hin%-

terest. He is not a fool. He will notfnedgle
withwhat does not concern him, without cogent
reasons. Give your thoughts to other matters.
To-morrow night you will be enrolled among us.
Forget the past ; gather up your manliness, and
prepare yourself for the imposing ceremonies of
the initiation.  "Come, follow me to a more
comfortable apartment.""
Taking Casside's arm, the bandit conducted
him through several windings of the cavern to
the place which ,he had first occupied. He
found there a comfortable couch prepared for his
reception, and a sideboard loaded with various
kinds of eatables and choice wines.
"Here," added Wetzel, "you may make
yourself comfortable, and even happy, if you
will be reasonable. Take the world as you find
it, and not try to remedy evils which cannot be
remedied ;,submit patiently to ills which can-
not be cured by the most skilful leech."
Albert threw himself listlessly  upon the
.couch and made no reply; -but had internally
marked out the course',he intended to pursue,
and the rules by which he resolved to be gov-
erned, in relation to matters which lay nearest
his heart.. Denis Wetzel poured out a glass of,
wine, drank it off, and once more left the
neophyte, to eat, to drink, to sleep, to reflect, to
repent, to kill himself with his own sword, or to
do anything els  hich he could, under the cir-
:cumstances.
Casside, chose, however, to remain precisely
as the bandit had left him. The idea.of repose
did not, occur to him; ,his mind was to deeply
engrossed with other matters-affairs, to, him, of
.thefirst importance. But he waa not destined
to remain long undisturbed,; he heardi steps
without in precisely the same manner as be had
- .  the case of Wetzel's recent visit. He heard
a key placed in the lock, and the door opened,
as on that occasion. That event appeared to
him to be quite natural-; but, the, advent of
.his present visitor seemed wholly the reyerse;
for it was no other than Strolling Willie, theI
IbJn beggar.
Motioning our heroto observe the utnIggt
silence, he closed, 'relocked the dor, and ap-

preached the couch upon which Cassid was
lying.
" I am probably the ,last person whom  ypr
expected to see !" said the stroller.
" Nothing could be truer than that remk,"
replied Albert, looking at the. mendicant as if
disposed to distrust the evidence of his senses.
"How, in the name of all the saints, did you
get here ?" he added.
" Naturally enough ; by .instinct--nothing
but instinct," returned the new-comer.
" Nonsense I" retorted Albert. "There is
a deeper mystery about this transaction than
instinct. Men's instincts usually lead them in
different directions; and persons of your call-
ing to any place but this. Bah! instinct,!"
" Very  wonderful is instinct,"  resmned
Willie, musingly. "It directs the footsteps of
the poor blind man to haunts, which the acutest
eyesight in the world might never discover."
" Well, keep your own secrets; let it be in-
stinct, if you will," rejoined Albert.. "And
now be good enough to tell me the object of
this visit'?"
" It is to do all that one of my condition may
to assist you; to give.you, perhaps, a word or
two of advice which may prove useful," replied
Willie.
" Mysterious man ! say what you pleas.
I am ready to listen !" exclaimed Casside.
" In playing at this dangerous gagpe," re-
sumed the mendicant, " you need much .cun-
ning and prudence. In regard to the maiden,
at present a captive, you must operate more by
stratagem than, by violent measures. Physical
force may prevail when one meets his eey
hand to hand ; but not whin he is opposed tq a
power that he cannot, comprehend, and whih
appears to' spread itself out in all diristiw.
You cannot well battle with.the arm of mnl t
which holds the damsel in its grasp; it re
a long way; it has power to crush its enemies
at a great distance. Be calm, and act opptious.
ly, and there are those who will o-eeate
secretly with you.. Cease to irritate Jep
Wetzel any. more at present in regard    ,
s,ubject. Pa ss our iniationwith

t'

r'

.'I

1

IV 41 -
is
t
T
a,1
- -r-
wt

FIVER BJ2LL


I S , R ,EL

tuitwil taid lofty conage which has distin-
guished you on other occasions. Be not awed
b wha yod shal:see and hear; the pale cheek,
the dilated eye, the hurried respiration, the
trembling limbs, will condemn you as one un-
1worthy the Confidence of the fraternity. It is
those only *ho give these evidences of fear,
Ritsre nev'ertrusted; that are always watched ;
that are never for a moment free from the pry-
lig scrutiny of some one or more of the band.
Your own reckless and daring spirit will sustain
you through the ordeal, ani best recommend
you to the confidence .of the brotherhood. You
Shall be informed, when any immediate danger
rthatns  the. Lady Eveline, of Moteombe
Manor. At present, the person who is known
as Godfrey Ridenger, is absent, and is not ex-'
leeted here for several days. I will not reveal.
toou his real'character ; I will not whisper
his uine to 'the damp atmospheres of this sub-
terraneun'hell, lest they might divulge the secret,
'aigring i-uihr'pon us."
S=oi hold stge discourse ; you talk in
parables; your werds are as ambiguous as the
dia   's of Delphi," said Casside. "Come,
h     niiracle of instinct; be less obscure in thy
ape eh. I cannot'understand him who speaks
in an unknown tongue. Tell me the nature of
iis*onderful embodiment of power, which'
stretches its hand over the defenseless head of
Lady Eveline."
'''Upoi that theme I will not spend another
'breath; I did not seek you to reveal secrets
Ililih would cost me my life, and nothing less ;
and though the boon of existence to a blind
b  "   may be thought of little value, yet the
mos wretched fear to die.  No, no ! Strolling
Wi1e is not ready toneet the last and most
mysterious of All earthly changes. He prefers
t walderup and down a little longer'; he
'ld' inhale the balmy-airs of morning upon
bv erdant -mountain 'sides; he would feel the
ki; of' the gentle sephyr upon his brows, and
AiM     lii e streaming'upon his sightless eyes ;
"oilkrepose among the .shady arbors of the
e lx "*ouild' listen to the song :of birds,I
tni athe' swdet sounds and inspirations of

Nature. Yes, yes," added Willie, impressively,
clasping his hands, and pressing them' to the
tattered rage that covered his. bosom, "life is
sweet, even to the poor, the blind, the wander-
ing beggar."
" I doubt it not," returned Albert, seriously;
" and although bereft- of all that could make
existence endurable, I am-ree to acknowledge
that af this moment I shrink from death ; that
cold and chilling thing that freezes up the vital
fluids, and leaves the human organism to feel
the force of those laws which will, inevitably,
resolve it to its primal elements. Yes, it is true,
too true, that even I am base enough to wish to
live.
eas! no, my good youth, it is not base
to desire to prolong life ; it is nature-a voice,
a continually breathing. voice, which you ean no
more cease to hear, than you can cease to feel
the wants of hunger and thirst, and innate
longings for happiness. The love of existence
is strong in young hearts and strong in ol-:-in
the latter but too, too strong. But I wander
from fny purpose ; I am babbling of that which'
I should endeavor not to think of ; for sufficient
unto the day is the evil thereof. I know many
things which you would ask; I perceive many
thoughts which strig for.expressio ; I read
upon your face that yu .,rio'us to know
more of Blind Willie. 1      ec. you again
and meet you in the dark windings of this cave ;
you shall' see Lady Eveline, and comfort her
with such words as yourmind may suggest.
But you must, wait patiently, for the matter
must be conducted' with the utmost prudence
and secrecy ; discovery would result in my e'..
struction and yours. The resolves of Mark Bon-
head are as fixed as the 'decrees of fate; the
'sword rises and falls at his bidding;'.he is tr
embodiment of strong passions ; he is' rapid in
his decisions, inexorable in his determinations,
and terrible in anger"
The stroller ceased speaking, and opening te
door,' glided quickly apd noiselessly from' he
apartment. Casside arose to bid him staff  6
heard the bolt move to its place, and the blind
beggar stealing away.  . -f

r
i
A
7

4

4.

" It meads," said the individual addressed)
" that life is  - pilgrimage.  You perceive that
all those assembled here, are clad precisely in
the same manner; it is to represent the equality
of man. You observe that each has sandals
upon his feet, and a staff in his hand, like r**
going upon a journey; it is intendeditonon ey
the idea that all men are travellers, pursuing
the same road, and having the same objb ii
view.  Every one, is seeking to be happy; to
be like the man splendidly arrayed, occupying
the throne before you. They all flatter then
selves that they shall, ultimately, reach the
goal of their hopes.- But enough of this scene;
let us see the result of this universal desire for
happiness. I will be your guide ; follow"me."
Casside bowed acquiescence, and theguide
led him into a long and dismal-looking passage,
which stretched awayto a great distance beyod
them, and finally lost itself in darkness.
"Now mark what you see," observed .69
guide.
Albert kept on treading in the foot    of
his conductor for some time in silence ; ' "
sently he sa.'W persons waking slowly on*

I

CHAPTER IX.
THE INITIATION.

" 14A

I

fjT Was the night of the initiation of Albert
Casside into the opening scenes of a bandit's
life An individual, clad in the habit of a monk,
had passed two hours with the neophyte, giving
hini' acli instructions as were deemed appro-
priate an ,n sse d, fd in a simple gar-
moist resemingt          with sandals upon
his feet, and.a sta  his band, he was led
through the long corridor into a large apartment
adJoining the grand saloon. A number of per-
- sons clad in the same costume preceded and
wentbeliind him. The passage was but dimly
light, antilow and mournful strains of music
floatethough the labyrinth. Arrived at-,the
apartment, Albert perceived, at the farther
extomity, an elevated platform, accessible by
ste supon which was seated, on a sort of
throne, a man clad in costly and splendid ap-
parel. Extending the whole length of the com-
partment, upon.the right and 'upon the left, in
tW b s, were many individuals attired' like
Myself.
Adfranting to a person seated in front of the
platforhi, \Casside inquired to know the .meaning
of what he beheld.

a


46'                            THE SILV
They appeared to be weary and dispirited ;
soon they fell down and seemed to expire by
the way, uttering deep groans and piteous
lamentations.
" Those are some of the pilgrims whom you
have seen ; discouraged, at length, and worn
out with the vain effort to attain to happiness,
they perish miserably upon their pilgrimage."
The guide continued to move forward, and
anon the passage appeared to be strewn with
human bones.
"These are the remains of the pilgrims,"
added the conductor.
"And have they all shated the same fate ?"
asked Albert.
"1No : a few bold and indomitable spirits
have discovered a shorter way, and have suc-
ceeded in attaining t,o the summit of their hopes.-
Follow, and you shall look upon the'successful
few."
The cicerone turned abruptly into another
passage. The doleful music ceased ; the lights
Mashed up more cheerfully, and they passed
alcng with greater alacrity. jn a moment they
stood at the entrance of-the grand saloon. Two
persons, "in the livery of servants, threw it open,
and a magnificent spectacle dazzled the eyes of
CJasside.
The banditti, arrayed in their most costly
od imposing garments, holding drawn swords
in their hands, stood motionless as statues upon
each side of the long table, upon which was
sprea4 every luxury which could tempt the
pate of an ;epicure, or which wealth could
p*eeure.  At the head of the board, more rich-
:ly- arrayed than all the others, with a crown
upon his head, and a sceptre in his jewelled
. an&amp;,' sat the individual whom Casside had
known -as Denis Wetzel.
"What moral truth is intended to be illus-
tated 'by this imposing sene'?" asked Albert.
" These are the'pilgrims, ;who, despising the
piejddices 'of 'weak and superstitious minds,
have found a new ana certain road to ease.and
" afnee. These are persons who are governed
qav -by their-own desires ;. who believe in the
equal distribution of property; -who will'not

PER BELL.

starve while the wealthy are rolling in luxury ;
who will not suffer wrong and injustice ; who
appropriate to themselves whatever nature seems
to crave ; who take food when they are hungry,
without asking whence it comes ; who drink
wine when they are' thirsty, without inquiring
in whose cellar it acquired its age and flavor.;
who put gold into their pockets, without trou-
bling themselves about the mint where it was
coined, or the coffers from whence it was taken;
who make the sword the great umpire of all
questions of right and title ; who live for the
present, and take no thought for the future ;
whose motto is ' eat, drink, and be merry, for
to-morrow we may die.""      ,       ,
" These principles," returned Casside, fol-
lowing the letter of his instructions, " are in ae-
cordance . with my philosophy. I have - long
believed that life was a thing to be enjoyed.
Tell me, sir, how I may become a member of
this brotherhood ?"
" By proving your courage and ability, and
by subscribing to the laws which hold them in
solemn compact."
"I request you to propose me for member-
ship to this wise- fraternity."
"Prefer the request to Mark Donhead,- the
leader of the free companions.  That is he,, ait
ting at the head of the .  upon the elevated,
seat."                  ',,'.:
Albert Casside could repress 'his surprise at
this disclosure, only by a strong effort of the
will., The truth was at length apparent; Dbnia
Wetzel and Mark Donhead were-idential.
"Daring commander of these bravemg.   f
said Albert, 4"I desire to be admitted tio the
secrets andiprivileges of your order."
Mark Donhead made no rejoinder, but slowly
waved his sceptre. Immediately several per.
sons: clad in black marched into the salojn
through the open toor, and proceeded to remove
a - rge aereen upon the left, when several in-
dividuals were seen, with their swords croseea4
inthe act of commencing a combat. The Mcr
flict began and was carried on with m ehapirit
and determination, until they sankAdow  ap
parently, from wounds and exhaustion.

1I

I

9

'
,
Y
r
r~'.
ti  y
Sw .
. '
Yw         i.  -

-.

You see   usat w.  A   is scene,
said the conductor,'" that the followers of Mark
Donhead are never to fly from their enemies ;
but to fight until victory crowns their efforts,
or'death lays them low. Each person is solemnly
pledged to die with sword in hand, or peace-
- ably in bed, and never to perish by the arm of
law. The hemp is not grown that shall stran-
gle'one of our order."
Again Mark Donhead waved his sceptre,
and a second screen was removed, revealing the
appearance of a large building of stone, with
grated-windows, which was strongly guarded by
men-at-arms. Suddenly a party of men, clad
like the banditti, rushed upon them and after a
short and decisive struggle, defeated them.
"That gloomy edifice," resumed the cicerone,
"is a prison, and the men-at-arms, are the sol
diers of the king; .and the whole is intended to
convey the'idea that if any of our brethren, by
any unavoidable necessity, be captured and
imprisoned, that the brotherhood is to make
'every possible effort'to set them at liberty, even
at the hazard of life and limb."
Mark Donhead for the third time waved the
emblem of power, and the third screen upon'
being withdrawn, displayed to view a block
and an executioner, with an axe. Near the block
knelt a man. whosghands -were bound, and
whose neck was bare.. A priest stood beside
the culprit, and Casside recognized in him the
monk David. In a solemn voice he read the
service for the dead. When he had finished,
the kneeling man proceeded to utter a prayer,
whose deep earnestness made Albert's heart
beat fast with apprehension. He prayed like
one standing on the threshold of death ; like
one whose last and only hope is in invisible
power ; like one who already feels the agony of
dissolution ; like one who strives to master an
awful shrinking from a fate which he knows he
cannot, by any possibility, 'evade. He ended
his fervent appeal to Heaven, but still seemed
anxious to prolong the moments of existence.
The monk attempted to comfort him with as-
surances of a better life, and to make him com- T
prehend that the pains of dying were short, and
not so- dreadful as they appeared.

I

The culpritgroaned in spirit; e
self devoutly upon the breast with his pinioned
hands, and with a shudder, laid his head upon
the block.
Albert's heart beat with intense excitement ;
he felt a sickly faintness creeping over him;
and his brain grew dizzy with horror. - The
axe descended like lightning; the man's head
was severed from the body--the streams of life
rushed forth in crimson jets, and the liinbs
quivered in the throes of death.       -
The scene was indeed too real; a hunan
spirit had passed to its account.
"It is thus," added, the Cicerone, "that
Mark Donhead punishes traitors."
Instantly the low, mournful strains of mar-
tial music again resounded through the cavern,;
the lights in the'greatsaloon suddenly grew dim.
There was a short interval of profound silepee;
then the body of the unfortunate who had been
beheaded, was brought forward in an open
coffin and placed at the foot of the table.
.Casside1 whose senses 'had been- stunned for
a moment by the terrible scene which had just
been enacted, now endeavored to shake off the
fearful impression which, it had made. - The
cicerone whispered a few words of instruction in
his ear.
Albert immediately knelt beside ,the coffin,
and placing his hands upon the dead man's
breast, said, in a clear and distinct voice :
" When I betray Mark Donhead or his fol-
lowers, may I become even as this man. May
my punishment be sure and speedy, like his,
and may no angel of mercy be near to avert my
doom."
When he had pronounced these words, the
lights burned brilliantly once more, the solemn
music changed to a lively measure, the body of
the traitor was removed, and all the emblems of
the initiation disappeared. Two men, bearing
a large roll upon their crossed swords, entered ;
the roll was laid upon the table, and a pen was
given to Albert.
" Read the contents of this parchment," Con-
tinued the cicerone, " and then place your name
at, the bottom."

..                °
/               .
.v
;


bis eyes over the scroll, j  The o                    ar   Donhead
snded his n  neas he had been bid- addressed the neophyte as follows:
den with a redIdid, Which but a few seconds  " Young man, you are now enrolled among
before warmed the heart-of a human being.   my merry men, and, to a certain extent, en.
"Those names,"_ observed   the -cicerone, titled to the privileges, and under the protection
R whieh are erased with a pen, are the names of of the order. Your courage and sincerity will
those who proved themselves unworthy of the be further tested when the proper time arrives.
fraternity. . They are gone ; they are no more Daring deeds and bold achievements will always
among us; they have suffered, as they deserved, be appreciated and rewarded among us ; while
the reward of their treachery and unfitness. cowardice and treachery are despised, and pun-
For a certain time, as you have doubtless seen ished with equal certainty. At present I have
by the perusal of the by-laws to which you have no more to say ; let music discourse its most
affixed your signature, you will not be consid- gladsome notes; let the wine cup pass; le$
erod as one entitled to the full benefits of mem- hilarity prevail; let the voice of mirth and the
bership, but as one on trial. You will not be shout of merriment echo loudly through these
at liberty to go and come at your pleasure; subterranean arches; let us remember ou1k im-
xntil some daring aet shall fully have set its mortal motto ; ' let us eat, and drink, and' be
seal upon you, making you as indeed 'an outlaw, merry ;' for to-morrow the angel of death may
and amenable to the laws, so called, of the call for 'us, and hurry us away to labyrinths
kingdom. Those who have solemnly entered darker, deeper, colder, more mysterious than
into this compact, are not permitted to draw  these."-
the sword upon each other ; alt quarrels will be  Mark Donhead resumed- his seat and deaf-
11eided by Mark Denhead, 'from* whose judg- ening plaudits resounded through thai cave -
mest there is noappeal. . There are no drones swords were sheathed ; wine flowed, andkmMb1
in this brotherhood ; all are required to be ac- revelry prevailed among the free companions,
tive, and to contribute something towards the;
general fund of the community." -;

R
J               1   {
of
t   7      a7
i       7
E
-E cif
t         i             .,
A
{

Ii

a
f.

IT was near the hour of rosy morn. The
bhechanalian revelry had ceased. The fol-
lowers of Mark Donhead had reeled to their
coudhes, and their senses . were again looked in
lethargic slumbers' Our hero was alone, oc-
cupying the same apartment which had been
clotted him on his first entrance to the secret
haunt of the banditti. He had indulged but
earingly in wine, for he wished to keep every
faculty of the mind in a state of tranquillity, in
order to beable to seize upon any circumstances
that might occur, favorable to his purposes.
The scenes of the initiation had made a deep
impression upon him, and ho recalled, with a
cold thrill of horror, the tragedy that had mark-
45 the final scene.  In imagination, he saw
once more pictured before him the kneeling
Agare of 'the traitor, witnessed the throes of
goxny which shook his frame, and heard the,
folce of his despairing prayer. Casside cover-
ed his eyes; as if to shut out from his mental
eight the remainder of the spectacle,
*,And this," he said to himself, impressively,
" and this may be my fate I"          -
With a sigh he raised his head and turired

a startled look towards the door; for he heard
it moving, in the act of being opened ; Strolling'
Willie was again hisv isitor.
"You corme and go as mysteriously-as the
spectres of the night. What brings you now-?
said Albert.
" My limbs bring me, and my instincts guide
me," replied the stroller.
"Your purpose, then ?" added Albert.
" To aid you; to prevent the meshes of Mark
-Donhead's power from enclosing you inextri-
cably; to assist you in dealing with one who is
wise as a serpent, and as strong as- a lion ; to
help you play skilfully the game, upon the re-
sults of which are staked life and death," re-
plied the beggar.
"It'may be thus, I know not," answered the
young man, "and, after all, it may be quite the
reverse. - it is said that the tempter often pre=
sents himself to mankind in a garb least'e*pedb&amp;
ed;, but'go on--I am attentive-I listen."
"The last act in the initiation," added th
metidienut, " gives you some idea,/doubtless, of
*ht you mday apect, should your designs, by
any unfotiate accident, be discovered. The

i
j:.
tyy
k
iv
.F't.
;j
I

'CIHAl TER X.
THE SECRET WAY.

-9

:fir

i
r                                    e


60                    THE SILVER BELL.

plot thickens as you proceed.  The unexpected
appearance of this high born damsel in whom
you appear to be so strangely interested, throws
around you another strong influence to drag you
forward to the consummation of your ruin.
Against occurrences not anticipated, the most
skilful schemer cannot always guard ; but I
shall nevertheless make an effort to bring this
affair to a- successful termination. - On this oc-
casion I have sought you to reveal a most val-
uable secret; a secret which will prove of the
most vital importance, if kept, and of the most
fatal consequences, if betrayed. The revellers
are sleeping soundly ; the fumes of the accursed
stimulants which they have swallowed, paralyze
all their mental and physical powers; but, not-
withstanding this, we shall incur some risk in
the adventure to which we shall now address
ourselves.  Follow me, and I will make a
curious revelation."
Wandering Willie took the small iron lamp
in his hand, and passed from Albert's apart-
ment into the main shaft of the cavern. Albert
mechanically moved after him, wondering what
new mystery was about to dawn upon his senses.
The stroller stole softly onward in a direction
opposite'to the entrance of the' cavern. In a
few moments he left the lofty corridor, and fol-
lowed the fantastic: turnings of a-smaller and
more obscure passage-a damp and rugged way,
as cheerless asthe tomb itself.  In the cold
and mephitic airs the lamp burned feebly, and
4lbert's respiration was considerably affected
ly the same -circumstance.-
"his is a way seldom travelled," whispered
Willie, "and were we, by any untoward acci-
dent discovered here, weishould never travel it
again. We will look, for one moment, into
that;passage to-the right."  The stroller turned
in the-direction indicated, and after going a lit.
tle,distance, reached a large and dismal com-
partment.                     -
"It is here," resumed the beggar, "that the
banditti-bury their dead."             ..
Albert surveyed the spot as well as he could
by the dim light, and beheld quite a number of
mounds, and one which had just been made.

He recoiled with horror, and a voice seemed to
whisper and tell him the secret of that recent
grave. He felt an indescribable sensation of
relief when the stroller turned and retraced his
steps.
The latter now proceeded in silence, -and
Albert followed him with sad, gloomy, and fore-
boding thoughts. His guide paused, at length,
at what appeared to be the end of the passage.
"What now'?" inquired Albert. "   I see
nothing that can interest me in this damp and
chilly place."
"Be patient ; do not jump so hastily at con-
clusions. There are a flight of steps here some-
where ; do you see them ?"   ,
Our hero glanced about the spot more par-
ticularly, and discovered a flight of stone steps,
which seemed to be more the work of nature
than of art.,
"Now," continued the stroller, "you must
observe the profoundest silence. Follow me,
and step lightly."
"If the blind lead the blind, -will not both
fall into the ditch together ?" answered Albert,
in the same tone.
"Not where the faculty.of instinct is fully
developed," rejoined the beggar, with a smile.-
He then mounted the steps and soon reached
the top of the flight, where all farther progress,
seemed to be denied -by a wall of solid rock.-
Willie pressed against it with his hand, and lo
there appeared an opening of sufficient sie to
admit the body of a man, through which the
stroller passed, motioning Albert to imitate his
example.
He did so, and upon looking around, found
himself in what resembled, in every particular,,
a wine cellar ; for it was filled with casks and
bottles both large and small.  Albert did, not
express the thought which was in his mind, aid
his singular guide kept on,. ascended another
flight of steps, which were obviously the work
of human hands (being made of wood), ; an
raising a trap door, emerged from the cellar into
what - appeared to Albert a small room above
ground.
Again warning our hero to observe the groat-

'      est caution, he crossed  the apartment and
mounted athird staircase, leading, as the others
bad done, to an ingeniously contrived door. The
surprise of Albert cannot be easily conceived,
after creeping through the third aperture, upon
discovering himself in a chamber precisely like
that which Joachim Capet had assigned him at
theSilver Bell.
"Do you recognize this'?" asked the mendi'
cant, in a suppressed voice.
" I think I do," returned the young man ;
"and if it were not so far from the cave of the
banditti, I should say it - was the chamber I
recently occupied at the Silver Bell."
"You are right," rejoined Willie; " we are
indeed aVJoachim Capet's inn."
"Impossible !" exclaimed Albert.
Oh the contrary, quite possible ;; for your
long walk to the cave, under the guidance of
Mark Donhead, was purposely intended to give
you a wrong impression of the locality."
"This is indeed an important secret," said
Albert.  " Is it known to all the banditti?"
"It is known only to those who have proved
themselves worthy " of the confidence of Mark
Donhead. The mysterious connection of the
robber'' cave with the Silver Bell is not reveal-
ed until after the term of trial has expired, and
the new-comer has acquitted himself to the
general satisfaction of all 'oncerned. Some
belong to the band for months, without having
any knowledge of the subject, and it is a secret
of which you would have known nothing, had
it not been discovered to you in this manner.
The time may arrive when the knowledge you
have this night acquired, may be of incalculable
use. Some unexpected event, or some terrible
contingency maf occur, from the consequences
of which you can only escape by means of this
singular connection of the cave with the -ilver
"tJoachim Capet then, of course, is but the
agent of Mark Donhead ?" said Casside.  ,
"He is in the secret ; it could not well be
otherwise, and a more selfish and money-loving
knave never walked," was the rejoinder.
While our hero and Willie were carrying oni

this: whispered conversation, the murmur of
voices reached them from an adjoining room.
The stroller placed his ear to the wall and lis-
tened, and then made a. sign for. Albert to o:
likewise. The 'tones which he heard did not
sound altogether unfamiliar.
"I am rejoiced to hear this news," said one;
"the affair must now terminate in- a manner to
suit .my wishes. I see no means by which the
Lady Eveline can escape the meshes of my
power. Yonder subterranean vaults keep well
their secrets. She is proud-she - is spirited,
imperious; she must be subdued, humbled,
humiliated. 1 And, perhaps," he added, in a
voice of deeper significance, " degraded."
" Act your pleasure, sir knight," replied
another voice,," but I tell you frankly that I
like not this°mode , of wooing the fair damsel.
I would greatly prefer to woo her on' bended
knee, and with words most fitting and gentle."
" Woo how, when, and just as often, as you
please !" retorted the first speaker, " and.I will
not find fault with you ;- but I reserve to my-
self the same liberty. However, I proposed,
honorably to this haughty maiden, once on a
time, but met with no reciprocal response. I
never forgave her for being indifferent to my
suit, and am now putting in practice a fixed
purpose of retaliation. I know that the news
of her.violent abduction will spread like wild-
fire all over the country, and great efforts will
be made to discover tie perpetrators ; but they
will be able to find no traces of her ; for the
cavern, in Donhead Wood, does not disclose its
mysteries. But in regard to the rude fellow
who gave my honor such a wound a few morn-
ings ago, I must devise means to have him
punished. Have you sent for Herbault, Mark's
executioner'?"
" Yes, I despatched Joachim Capet for the
ruffian," replied the knight, somewhat contempt-
uously.
" You have no great relish for this business,
I perceive," retorted the knight, sharply.
" Iut I care little for that, providing you do
not play me false ; in which event, methinks,
it will go hard with you. Since you have been

1

THE : 'SILVER BELL.                        bI


:~"

iAy squire, I°fano  you have not found aie a
d  +ai It master I  havelnot been uiggardlywith
my   t onej.nor genryoubidiwords hen good
6nes Would o just  wel. Dut weswis not
nor jaus6 todiscuse'qiestions 4jf morality; cer-
tain objects are before iiedh  adishall not stop
*hort of their attainikent. This He bault can
edek out the insdlent peasant, and thestroke of
dagger will settle -the account between us,
gad balance, forever, nfour terrestriel dealings.
.he affair will be but a' trile-the turning of
a stream of blood in another direction-the
stopping of an almost imperceptible beating at
the wrist--preventing a little air from rushing
into the lungs-causing scarce an inquiry--
exciting but little wonder, save among a few
iplme"people. BahI the world will, move on
jtst the same when animpudent varletbias ceased
to exist-!. I marvel that sqh .small matters
slioild cost us a seond thought.  We are over.
detupulous ; the common people are our slaves,
*re statheir lawful lords and masters ; when
thy displease us, the "i reegative- is ous 'to
t iead them into the dust,- phenee they sprang."

J. -  a
I. "

t.
f I,

{3

Y                          .

"But tois youth, sirknight, col&amp;t-t hatv
been what he seemed," rejoined the other
" Absurd!" .exclaimed the knight' id
even weio he really above his seeming, it ph
not change my purpose; sormy worthy Ola n
say no more. . shall buy the dagger ,of the
knave Herbault into my service."
Willie plucked Albert by the sleeve e
whispered.
"We have heard enough-it is time fforu
to return."
Albert was about to leave the spot, when he
heard the knight add:
"Some one knocks at the door; it is Jo a
chim Capet returned from his mission."
"Do not delay an instant longer," whiypedid
the stroller, " for every moment is precious. I
perceive that our return may -be attenda4 with
much danger."
The mendicant led the way, and they.quik
and noiselessly glided from the chamber through
the secret door, down the steps, into the room
below.                                 i
-lip

-        a r" 4.)
/F4
Ih  A id

r a
a  r r _ .sY s  a  e   e "     a !  ' 4y(JI
S               .re +  '  f  $yV-a i

IW ANDEtING WILLIE paused and
turned toward his companion, Axing his
sightless eyeballs upon him in a manner to in-
dieate the deepest earnestness.
- Could I by any means have ;foreseen that
Godfrey Ridenger would have returned so soon,
and that Herbault wouldhave been sent for, I
should hot have conducted you hither," he
said ; "but the' gift of readit .the!events of the
future is denied to mnortalsv  Having u nder-
taken this adventure, we must conduct it boldly
tor a conclusion. You already know for *hat
purpose the services of the assassin are required,
and who is to be tke object of this'horrible
trade. The conversation to ,which you have
just listened has quite accidentally made you
master of an important) secret, *hich may or
may not be of use ; the hext few hours will, de-
termine. We are 'now exposed"to- the danger
of meeting fark Donhead's ruffitn on his way
to the Silver Bell."
"Can'wesnot secrete ourselves in the wine
cellar until aftetHerbault has passed though ?"
asked Albert.
" Possibly we might; but discovery would
4

be almost inevitable. I hope to gain tie main
shaft of the cavern before he reaches the spot ;
on that contingency I stake our chance of sucs
cess. If that fails, means more prompt and
decisive shall not," replied the stroller, with
emphasis '   '
" What mean you?" inquired Albert, as he
followed the old man through the trap-door into
the cellar.
Willie paused near the foot of the stairs, and
grasping Albert's arm, replied:
"Should we meet him, but two alternatives
remain;'he must'e, or we must."
"But I hate murder t" returned Albert,
with a shudder.  " I can give broken headsin
the heat of passion, or measure swords with my
adversary on equal ground; but to shed blpod
deliberately is abhorrent to -all my feelings.
Devise some other plan of escape."
"Nothing else can be done; the fellow cans
not be trusted. ''He-would be sure to betray
us, even were he, to make the most solemn jre
mises to the contrary.= Hey is Iyour enemy; for
a trifling sumhe'will assa t you' i pon the
first opportunity that ofers. OJr lives.at ths

K

di

I

x1

f

CHAPTER XI.
a ~ inAUT.,

x. i

.   ,
_  ;
.'

a
.     ;,                 ,
ti,

/        E4IivE    Et1


I

'1f
it
fj
ftif
'i
at
I7
I

moment, are worth more than his ; there are
those whom we may protect, and who require
our most strenuous and untiring efforts in their
aid. Think of Isandra ; think of the Lady
Eveline.  They are young, they are fair, and
hitherto have been hopeful; shall they be
abandoned to the miserable fate which seems to
stretch forth its arms to enfold them? No, no !
they must be befriended and rescued, although
a score of Mark Donhead's knaves perish !"
exclaimed the beggar..
"I feel the force of your reasonings," re-
plied Albert, "and though I have a strong de-
sire to avert bloodshed, I will no longer oppose
you.  Act as circumstances may require ; for
I am convinced that you have a deeper know-
ledge of these matters than I. That you are
other than what you profess to bel doubt not;
and that you have powerful motives for what
you do, must be equally true. Caprice, and
love of excitement alone, could not prompt.you
to brave danger and death; but I will not pene-
trate, your secret ; I will not tear' awayr the
mantle of mystery that envelopes you.  That
those'eyes of yours are sightless, I cannot well
believe. But it -matters not';' move on, l an
with yeu:--
Without making any reply, Strolling Willie,
pressed against the wall where the 'door was
concealed,; a -cold and damp currentt of air
rushed in from the cavern, nearly extinguish-
tagthe'lamp."
"Hark !" whispered Albert. "Ihear some
one approehing.'
"It must'be-Herbault," replied th  stroller,
pte pi g back from the-seeret passage.  "' Here,
takethd light and place -it upon the' earth,- be
aide yonder cask- He will think that Joachim
Caplet left it there, of that -some one has come
to the cellarfor wine."
Albert pla'ded- the 'lamp  as lie, was bidden,
and) witdrew'to an obscuree coiner, '*hile the
stroie* stood&amp; motlofless helde . the-entran~e
witp his"right hand'lin hia hosekn. ;Meantime
* footsteps iidrew flna r, an- .were, each- nio,
tbt =are- distinetly head "Albert kept'-hi
agi xediftently uponteheggatand the  lark

aperture.  He felt icy chills creeping over him,
and heard his own heart beating with unwonted
vigor.  He would have withdrawn his gaze
from the statue-like figure of the mendicant,
but he could not ; some resistless spell seemed
to rivet them upon the mysterious man. He
would have moved his limbs, and shook off the
trance-like power that bound him in its iron
chains; he would have looked up towards the
dawning skies of morning, but they were shut
out from his vision by dark and impenetrable
walls; he would have felt upon his forehead a
single touch of the balmy zephyr that kisses the
earth with the first streaks of daylight ; but the
cold and chilling damps rushing in 'from the
cavern, fell upon his face like the breath of the
angel of death.
The intruder advanced ; he evidently per-
ceived that some person had recently been there,
and the fact of finding the secret door open ob-
viously surprised him for a moment ; for he
paused an instant as if not quite decided in re-
gard to the propriety of proceeding, wiiout
first sorttinising the locality.  ring that
brief interval, the-stroller remained in-the .aan
stern and moveless attitude ; his =,right .hand
still clutchingf ,something- beneath :the tattered
doublet that covered his bosom.
Casside's breath seemed to be suspended,:
arid he made ;another strong effort to, tear his
gae' from the fired form of the oldmana.
The- ind vision of the individual in the-pas-
sage was of short duration; he c-ame - forward
with t a-quickFacid confident steps and instantly:
his-figure darkened the  aperture.  Willie bent
quickly fotrard.; his tight-hatd left his;dQublet
and   descended' with the celerity of thought,;
Albert saw a momeritary'glimmering of steel'.
heard a dell heavy blow followed by 'a hollow:
groan.  The icy spell that bound 'him  was
broke; it}no longer held his- limbs in horrible
bondag ;ritino -longer paralyzed- his :brain and.
fettered his faculties; it no'longer greeped1 hin
heart with its pwitoni }hand. ;FHe. closed his
ey  and -hu out the abene, uhtil he'=heard the
hoarse voice of the beggar say:  l
9  ~       ~        r Co 'i -- '7e

4
,
.4

He stooped and took the lamp from the earth
and obeyed the summons. The stroller had
already passed into the cavern, and our hero
followed. '"-
-- "Close the door," added Willie, in a low
voice. "Press upon that part of the wall'at
your right, upon which are finger marks. There
that is right ; now we are ready to go on again.
Step softly, and all will yet be well. The. as-
sassin is powerless to do us harm; ,the pulsa
tions of his heart have ceased."
Casside looked up, and perceived that the
beggar was carrying the body of Herbault in
his arms ; but he made no- comment upon what
he had witnessed, and the strangely mated pair
threaded the labyrinth most silently. Although
of a bold at.d adventurous -nature, the young
man could not well repress feelings of anxiety
in regard to the results; he eQuld not help
picturing to himself the catastrophe that would
ensue, should they meet any of the followers of
Mark Donhead.
Presently they reached the banditti's place
of interment, and the mendicant laid his ghastly
burden down beside the new-made grave, which
marked the resting-place of the traitor. -
" A part of the danger is met and overcome,"
resumed Willie ; "but something yet remains
to be done; this body must be concealed."
" It must now be near morning," said Albert,
"4and but little time is left us for deliberation ;
we must think and act quickly. Ere long some
of the banditti will be astir." ,     "
. 'You speak reasonably," returned Willie ;
"but ewe must first consign this: clod to its
kindred clods. . There must be somewhere here-
abouts, apick and mattock, .which are used in
digging graves. We will remove a portion-of
the earth from, the remains -of this last sleeper,
and place near him this carrion to 'keep him
company.   Ah ! you remensber, perhaps,'that
once told you that life was changeful; now
reflect, and tell me if I was not right ?"
"You spoke like an oracle," replied Albert;
"but let that pass.  Let us attend to this awful
business with as much despatch as possible."
At that moment the sound of a bell 9ehoed

in heavy undulations through the cavern. Wil-
I lie dropped the mattock and turned a startled
look rpon his companion.
"It is to summon the band I" he said, in
answer to the inquiring glance of his companion.
"The burial of this carcase must be delayed
until midnight, and then we will give it .ps deep
a grave at it could expect under the circum-
- stances. a.las ! Herbault," he added, senti-
- mentally, "you were a villain in life, but I
bear you no malice now you are dead."
"Can you not think of some spot where this
piece of work may remain undispvered for a
day ?"
" That is the very subject upon which I am
considering; let me see ; ah! now I, have it;
but a few steps from here is just the place. I
must lift this poor rascal again. This way-.-
this way."
The beggar caught up the body and walked
hastily across the subterranean cemetery, and
stooping until he was nearly double, entered a
small passage only large enough to admit one
person at a time, and then in the position al-
ready named.    The stroller worked his way
along in the best manner he was able, -encum-
bered with his heavy burden, and finally deposit-
ed it upon the earth, and crept back again to
the side of our hero.
"Can you see any telltale spots upon me-?"
he asked, of the latter.
" Your doublet is stained," answered Albert,
in a low tone.
"I will be careful that no other eyes ever
look upon it," continued Willie.- " Now, my.
lad, put on a bold and cheerful front and let
us back to your quarters that you may join
the merry men of Captain Mark, at their morn..
ing meal,.as though nothing extraordinary had
happened."
Without fartherconversation they glided along
the silent arches of the sub-mundane corridor,
and -reached, without- accident, the -apart nent
from whence they had issued someitwo hours
previously ; where Wandering Willie shook
hands with Albert and parted from him.
Casside sat down upon his couch ; but he

THE SILVER BELL.

55

THE SILVER BELL.

I

f
:
;,
,
,  :'
,,
,t

*4404


56                  TESILVER BELL.

I:
f
t
r
f I
P
14  }
a
5

dared not allow himself to reflect upon the or listen to music; at supper time I would fill
events which had just transpired, and to which myself with wine, quarrel with my best friend,
he had been a party. He had not anticipated and run him through the lungs ; knock down
at the outset anything of that nature; these the servants, insult my mistress, get jilted, and
occurrences had come uninvited and without stagger to bed, to remain in total unconscious-
any consent or desire on his part, previous to ness until about this hour of the day."
the time when the emergency which had de-   "Bravo,!" exclaimed the bandit leader, "I
mended promptness of action its actually like your humor."
pressing upon them."By the way," resumed Casside, arisingand
The death of Herbault was not a transaction  "lb  y nhe a"gresum e apo, "yg ave
that had' been matured by designing villany deliberately unsheathing his weapon, "you have
that ad bn w hater cby sntingeniyllud- played me a piece of deception, for which I
but a thing -which a terrible contingency sud. ought, doubtless, to bring you to strict account.
denly called for. The assassin no doubt de-  ught dutes obig yout        titacut
.              I had but little idea that I should lose my new
served well his fate, and the instrumentality friend, Denis Wetzel, in the manner which I
by which he had fallen, might, without much have ; I now demand that he be restored to me
exaggeration, be 'considered the avenging arm or satisfactory apologies offered for his sudden
of heaven. Wearied with excitement, Albert .d.sapearawih     ainly.attriuden
soon fell into an oblivious slumber, in which all disappearance, whihs maily attributed, I be-
hleve, to your agency."
the incidents of the night were forgotten.
He was awakened from sleep by a touch      ',The demand, perhaps, is no more than
upon the shoulder ; and starting up, beheld just," returned Mark Donhead, still smiling ;
Denis Wetzel standing beside him.          "but if the famous leader of banditti offers him-
" Methinks you sleep soundly," said the self as a substitute, I hope he will not be reject-
captain of the banditti, with a smile.     ed : What do you say ?",
"It is a part of my philosophy," answered  "Captain Mark might prove a dangerous
Albert, carelessly, "to pass as great a portion friend," resumed Albert, "and a far different
of my existence in slumber, as possible.. If I person from Denis Wetzel. The former I should
had my own way, I would divide my time as not have hesitated to honor with a knock upon
follows: twelve hours should be dedicated to the occiput, or a thrust under the fifth rib; had
the drowsy god ; I would devote an hour to my -he displeased me ; and these -little matters of
morning meal; after that, I would fight a little etiquette are privileges which always cement
and perhaps flatten a few noses, or break a few together and accompany my friendship.".
heads, to sharpenmy appetite for dinner, which  " Well, well, I will not be particular with
4s a very important item in my existence, and you; we shall see how we can get along with
wine and all, usually costs me two hours time, each other ; but it will be wise for you to re-
providing, always, that I have the means of member always that Mark Donhead is more
defraying expenses."                       prompt in action, and quicker to resent"-an
"Well, what would y6u do after dinner ?" affront, than Denis Wetzel. The cat not res
asked Captain Mark, good humoredly       frequently plays with the mouse, but it cannot
"I would pass the next hour after that im- be inferred from  that circumstance that the
portant meal, in a sort of lethargic state, and former is a fitting companion for the latter,"
form a connecting link between the vegetable rejoined the bandit.  "But come; let us to
and animal kingdoms. I would then walk about breakfast; our fellows gorged themselves long
a little in quest of adventures; woo fair maiden, ago."

PETER VIDAL.

vh~
AYt

W    HEN    they were' seated at the table,
.~ -Mark resumed ; " In a few days, you
will be permitted (providing your conduct gives
satisfaction) the liberty of the cavern ; but when
that time arrives, I warn you against meddling
with matters which do not directly concern you,
and especially to remain silent upon the subject
of Lady Eveline; otherwise, you will bring down
upon you the hatred of Godfrey Ridenger."
"One of two things is clearly evident," re-
joined Albert; "you either fear this Godfrey
Ridenger, or are, in some manner, placed in his
power."
"Fear him!" exclaimed the captain, fiercely,
striking his fist violently upon the table. "I
tell you, I fear no one ! Be less free in your
speech. Those words had they been uttered in-
the presence of others might have.- cost you
dearly."
"Speak without reserve, captain," added
Albert, sarcastically, "'we are alone."
The bandit chief looked fixedly at the imper.
turbable features of our herb, and after a little
time continued his discourse.
" We are meditating some bold--."'

"Robberies," suggested Albert, coolly.
Mark frowned and went on.
"We are meditating some bold movements,
which will require much skill and address ; and
I mean that you shall commence your career as
soon as possible, in order that we may not be
obliged to practise with you those precautions
which are always thought necessary with new
members of the band. We have heard a rumor
that some knights who were robbed in the for-
est a few days, ago, are about to make an at-
tempt to exterminate each and all of us, with
two or three score of men-at-arms. So you see
there is some prospect of excellent sport, in
which you may freely indulge in your favorite
passion for breaking heads, and giving delicate
sword cuts. Say, my lad, how does this news
affect you?"
" It puts me in excellent spirits.  Give me
your hand !" cried Albert, feigning to be much
elated, and favoring Mark Donhead's hand with
powerful squeeze. A lively conversation was
kept up between the parties until the morning
meal was despatched, when father David made
his appearance.

CHAPTER XII.


t
BI

" Here comes father David," said Donhead;   "Had you expressed a wish that I might be
"-a most useful personage in our fraternity. as successful with the daughter as with the
He is faithful to his calling, never betrays con- father, you would have spoken to the point,"
fidence, or -meddles with that which does not said Captain Mark, drily.  "But I hear some
concern him. In these respects, he is an ex- one approaching; it is Vidal; leave me.".  '
ample worthy of imitation."                   Obedient to this injunction, Albert and the
The monk gave our hero a significant look, monk immediately retired into the adjoining
and the latter replied that he considered him- room, where the former had once been a witness
self highly fortunate in making his acquaint- to an interview which interested him as much
ance.                                      as the present one promised to do.
"We will now," added Mark, " go out and     "We must endeavor to make ourselves ac-
see what is passing above ground ; but first we quainted with the purport of the conversation
will take the precaution to change'the appear- about to ensue," said Albert, nervously. "It
ance of our outer man. What say you, my lad, will, doubtless, have much to do with our future
to the garb of a monk ?"                    plans."
Providing I have my sword under my        "Be prudent," replied David," and all will
domino, I shall not make the least objection," work to our wishes; while one false step will
returned Albert.                            destroy all prospect of success."
The leader of the banditti instantly summon-  Casside imitated the example of the monk,
ed a servant, and two dominos were brought, applied his ear to the wall, and was able to hear
one of which he donned himself, while the other the general tenor of what was said.
was given to Albert, which he drew on over his  "Why this unnecessary delay? I accede to
other garments.  Thus apparelled the trio left all your terms !"  exclaimed Donhead, r-'
the cavern in the same way that our hero had patiently.
entered.                                      "Because the girl cannot be brought to think,
"Is the Silver Bell far from here.?" asked as I do, . No arguments or entreaties soften her.
Albert-                                    resolution ; she turns from you with aversion,
"tYes, it is a long way," replied Mark, look- and I might use a much stronger term," an-
ing slily at father David.  "Perhaps you would swered Vidal.
liae to see Joachim Capet, and settle your past "I have not been so simple as to imagine
differences. By the way, he has not recovered that a young creature like Isandra would fancy
from the beating you gave him not long since. a man of my age and profession; but I was not
The last time I saw him, he was making you quite prepared to know that she absolutely.
the subject of unheard-of threats. And now,. shrinks from me with such marked feelings: ,,f
father David, lead the way to your hut, for I repugnance.  I have not expected her love,
have some matters to talk. over with Peter neither have I expected her hatred," rejoined
Vidal."                                    the other, thoughtfully,
The monk walked forward with alacrity, and  "Fair and gentle words will have no weight
they soon reached his humble residence.  They in this matter with Isandra," continued Vidal;-
entered, but Vidal had not yet arrived.     "she will never consent to be your wife; violent
"This interview," resumed Mark, "must measures only can effect your purpose. Were
have no witnesses."                        she oncein your power, and an occupant -of
" This apartment," replied David, "is at your subterraneanpalace, father David might
your disposal. When Vidal comes, I will re- do the -rest without much trouble.  If you wed
tire with tlis youth to the room adjoining, and her,, it must he thus ; no alternative remains,
you may converse as long and as confidentially I know the girl well enough; nothing can
as you choose. May you be as successful in change her determination."
love as in war."

"This is . bad--ufortunarttV". si, Wark,1
walking across the floor impatiently.;",but I.
supose," be added, paying, "that the affair
mannot.be mended, and we mystmake the best
of it. As .I have already told you, the sum
which you demand for your daughter, shall be
yours. Now tell me, how I shall bear, away
the prize to my underground home ?"
"That can easily be arranged," said the
other. "There are an hundred ways by which
she canl be thrown into your hands. I can send
her upon some pretended errand or-,other, to a
distance from the cottage, when you and a few
of your trusty fellows can seize her and bear
her off. Once in the cavern, the most difficult
thing will be accomplished, and a little of father
David's mummery will accomplish the business.".
" Right, Vidal, right ; the afirs shall not
be delayed ; I am impatient to see it conducted
to a happy conclusion. Let us fix some time
for this to come off."
" To-morrow night will suit me as well as a
year hence," answered Vidal. "What say,
then, to that time ?"
"The arrangement pleases me ; let it be so ;
to-morrow night I will bear offthe fairest.maiden
in Dorsetshire. By St. Michael! the. Lady
Eveline herself might envy the beauty. of your
charming daughter. But' a thought occurs to
.ne ; 'tis possible that she already loves the son
of some neighboring peasant.. Come, .Peter
Vidal, tell me the truth for once, if you know;
although it wouldn't add to the sweetness, of
my temper to know that another had won what
I would give a countless number of florins to
obtain."
" Do you hear that villain ?" whispered
Albert, grasping the monk's arm.
t." Hush !" said father David.  "Listen, and
keep command of your temper. We are hear-
ing just what we ought to hear, in order that
our schemes may be brought to a successful
issue. What could be more auspicious? you
cannot thwart villany, until you understand it
anid have fathomed its depths ; you' cannot meet
an emergency, until you know the nature of it,
and when, and where, to meet it; when you

stike, you; nust know what you so rikeat;
when.,yo  figlet, it is desirable to know yW
enemy's plan of battle."
"Let to-morrow night, then, be the tjme
fixed upon," resumed Vidal, :evasively. '
will see that everything favors your-design,.
"I am content; farther words upohe sub-
ject will be. unnecessary. ,It;shall le. sop pfed?'
stood," replied Donhead.
"And the five hundred florins-"
" I will bring you,, tied lpia a bg,", dded
Mark, witht,:sneering expression. "A nd I'm
sure it's not every father who has sense enouglh
to sell his daughter for that sum."
"Certainly not," answered Vidal; "but
am confident you will be kind. to the girl, ;1d
make her an excellent husband. What qn QT
could I wish? It is true that society has se)
its ban upon you, ,ad royaltyhas offered a re-
ward for your head ; but these are questions of
morality which, I do not feel competent to dis-.
cuss. All men differ in their views ; scarcely
two persons think alike in the wide world. ,what
seems right to one seems wrong to another,;
that which proves good and wholesome food t9
one person proves poison to another. Had you
as many followers as King Edward, you would
be to all intents and purposes as good akmg
as he. Could you lead the largest number of
men to the field, your deeds would be hailed by
the applaudling shouts of the wondering multi-
tude. It is power that confers greatness upon
celebrated ~chieftains ; the majority is respected,
the minority is scorned."
"By St. John ! I never heard so many
wise sayings in the mouth of Peter Vidal be-
fore," rejoined Mark.  "Beware ! that philo-
sophical head of yours will yet carry you into
trouble."
With a sinister smile upon his hard, wiry
lips, Vidal opened the door and departed from
the monk's hut, his brain teeming with visions
of golden fiorins.
"If I should not have an opportunity of
speaking confidentially to-day, you may expect
to see me at the cavern between the hours of
midnight and morning, when we will devise

58

THE SILVER BELL.


Go

O~E'IL,,VIMR Bu.

v

r
b
'  .
,'
f

ieans to frustrate the villany oftVidal, and the
manly projects of the bandit chief," said the
monk.
' either conversation was prevented between
Elie two, by the authoritative voice of Mark
summoning them from their hiding-place.
"I'have attended'to the business which"was
uppermost in my mind,:r he said, " and now we
will to the, Silver Bell, to tire ourselves a little
relaxation-over Joachimi Oapet's best wine."
But few words were spoken by either par-
ties on their way to .the inn. Joachim Capet
met his visitors upon the threshold with his
usual urbanity of manner, and ran over his
usual catalogue of great names with accustomed
volubility. That he recognized Mark Donhead
snd the monk, there could be no doubt ; but
that he did not recognize Casside was equally
certain; for he had drawn the hood of his domi-
no close over his features.
" We would have a room to ourselves," said,
Mark, "and our holy calling will not prevent
us from tasting some of your-oldest and choicest
vintag'e." With bows and smiles the master
of the Silver Bell ushered the three monks into
the chamber which Casside had so recently visit-
d, and where he had passed some of the most
unliappy hours of his existence.
Wine was immediately' placed before them;
but Mark Donhead appeared ill at ease, and
aStt swallowing, hurriedly, a few cups of the
sparkling beverage, arose and abruptly left his

companions, saying that' he would return in a
ahort tiine.
Albert wag about to speak freely in regard to
the subjects in which he felt so deeply inter-
ested ; but a significantly gesture from father
David deterred him.
"This isno place to talk concerning impor-
tant secrets ; these walls have ears to hear and
tongues to betray us," whispered the monk.
'he .table had beef placed against the wall
near the spot where Albert and the stroller had
heard the 'conversation between the knight and
his squire, and the mind of the former naturally
recurred to-the subject which had then been
discussed. He felt an intense desire to meet
the person who passed under the assumed name
of Godfrey IRidenger, and provoke him to an
encounter, in order to do him such personal
harm as might most effectually prevent him
from carrying out his nefarious schemes in'rela-
tion to Lady Eveline. Knowing, as he now
did, the true name and character of this person,
he was fully conscious of Eiu power to exert a
strong influence in whatever direction he was
disposed to turn his attention. His armeaculd
indeed reach all over the kingdom, and crush
his- enemies with -scarcely an effort, with little
regard to their rank or condition.
While these°thoughts were passing through
Albert's brain, a heayy step was heard advanc-
ing, and presently the door wasthrown open.
A man entered, and the subject-of his medita-
tions stood; before him.

mination of a certain business upon which a few
trusty fellows of our fraternity had been sent.
I have always been reputed' a gallant gentleman,
and a devout admirer of dames and damsels."
"Who that knows the daring Godfrey Riden-
ger, will presume to .dispute his claims to gal=
lantry ?'' said the monk. "But pardon wy
want of hospitality ; here is' some of Joachim
Capet's best vintage. Let us drink success to
the pretty love adventure now fast hastening to
a happy consummation. You have doubtless
heard ere this that the proud maiden is already
caged ?"
" Yes, the pleasant news reached me some
hours since; and I shall present myself to the
fair one in the course of the day. But I fear I
shall not be considered a very welcome visitor.
The damsel, I trow, is prejudiced against ine ;
rumor bath not given me a fair fame in these
parts ; my little peccadilloes are magnified into
crimes, and my follies into downright wicked-
ness. But, by the holy cross ! I mean this
lady no positive wrong. I swear by my patron
saint, that I would wed her fairly this day, were

K

I

0

CHAPTER XIII.
GODFREY RIDENGER.

f

HEN Albert perceived that some one
was about to enter, he drew the hood
of his domino more closely about his face, and
when he saw the figure of Sir Hugh Spencer,
alias Godfrey Ridenger, he congratulated him-
self that he had taken that precaution. He
hesitated an instant, and seemed inclined to
offer some apology for his intrusion, and with-
draw'; but his eye resting upon father David,
put an end to his indecision.
" This is an  unexpected  pleasure, holy
father," said Sir Hugh, affecting a very res
peetful air.
It is as ,unexpected on my part as on
yours," replied the monk. "To put you out
of all uncertainty, this young man belongs to
the brotherhood, and you may speak freely be-
fore him; I will answer for his fidelity. The'
captain reposes great confidence in him. How
is it that you have returned so much sooner than
you expected ?"
"My movements have been influenced by
various'causes," returned Ridenger.  "But to
tell the truth, I was anxious to learn the ter-


62                     THE SILVER BELL.

TH~E SILVi ER BIL.63

,
.,
d

she in consenting mood. As for my past gal-
lantries, they should be repented of, and never
repeated; and on the whole, I. think I would
become a sort of sober philosopher-a wise owl
to hoot at the failings and moral aberrations of
others. My good monk, there is nothing like
reform when one is sated with enjoyments, and
has a.constitution which is shattered by dissipa-
tion.  Upon my word ! I could sit down and
read you a good sermon extempore ; and if.
good, what matter where it comes from., We
must not look at the origin of things, but at
things themselves.  There was Solomon ; a
man reputed exceedingly wise ; but yet not wise
Enough to break off his follies in time to prevent
the consequences, save his poor body from aches
and pains, and his conscience from periodical
convulsions. 9 That celebrated sage did not dis-
cover that 'all was vanity beneath "the sun,'
until his debaucheries had rendered him mis-
erable, and no longer able to enjoy the sweets
of existence."
"Heaven obviously intended you for the
church," answered David.. .'
Heaven might have had such intentions,
but the whole thing was evidently a failure,"
added Sir Hugh, with a laugh.
" Perhaps not, perhaps not," replied David.
"It is hard to tell what a man will be, before
he gets through with life ; it is easier to tell
What he has been, after he is dead."
"It appears* that the exploits of 'a certain
Mark.Donhead are at this-time producing some
excitement in Dorsetshire, and other portions of
the country ; and it may interest you to know
that six hundred forms- have been offered for
that portion of his person situated immediately
above his shoulders--a, part, which, I fancy, he
would be loth to e ebange for even that sum,
although I much doubt whether it does not
tempt the cupidity of some of his merry
knaves."
"ILittle fear of that,"said the monk, quickly.
" Iquery whetherthere is one among them who
would betray him for twice that amount of filthy
lucre.
"'I will add that I have heard' there is some

prospect that the band will be harassed by a
strong body of men-at-arms," resumed Sir Hugh.
"However, I have other matters to engross my
attention at present ; I have fair lady to woo,
and I must prepare myself to appear in her
presence in a manner most likely to disarm her
anger. I must exhibit such a degree of contri-
tion as shall excite her pity ; I must be the
most penitent of men; the most self-condemned
of mortals ; the most humble of human beings;
more abject in my self-abasement-than the rep-
tile that crawls upon the earth. Yes, by St.
Simon ! there is but one way in which I can
appear before that peerless beauty ; and that
is, as a criminal, as an offender against the laws
that govern social etiquette,; as a violator of
the rules of human society ;- as one who has aout-
raged forbearance and common decency ; as one
adjudgedby the mouth of morality to be vile,
viler, vilest."
Sir Hugh Spencer pressed his hand thought-
fully toshis forehead and paused a moment.  He
then added, in muchthe same tone :
"But the Lady.Eveline has, in some    qar
sure, brought this upon herself. In ranks,and
fortune I was far above her when I first made
suit to her in the courtly words of a gallant
knight and a' courteous gentleman. To. tier
refusal, she may justly attribute this misfortune;
if misfortune it can be called ; and I'll be sword
the foolish maiden considers it as such. Bui#t
will be honorable, by the virgin, I will-be hon-
orable before Iam vindictive ; I will renew the
offers that she scorned in other days. She Ni
not--she dare not--do otherwise than accede tq
my wishes. I can raise her to a place of power;
whose heights will almost make her dizzy; ,and
I can crush her tq a depth of degradation, that
would madden her to contemplate even ii the
distance."
Godfrey   idenger uttered these words ener-
getically, and stamped upon the floor to give
them emphasis.
"Come, father David, fill this cup once more,
and.I will leave you.  That will do; long lfe
to you. I hope your companion is discreet;
if he is not, he had better be dangling from thq

tallest tree in Donhead Wood than be here."
And turning upon his heel, the friend, compan-
ion, and leader of banditti, strode from the
chamber.
"What think you of that, my friend ?" ex-
claimed David, when Sir Hugh had disappear-
ed4 "'Have not the last few moments given you
a deeper insight into the character of the second
in command ?"
a I acknowledge that they have ; but I knew
him- but too well before," said Albert.  "Al-
low inc to leave you for an instant; I will re-
turn directly."
"By no means whatever !" cried the Inonk.
"It 'is against the regulations concerning new
members.   Such an act would provoke the
anger of our worthy captain."
" It shall be mine to shield you from all
blame," returned Albert. "I am resolved ;
do not attempt to hinder me. I would not do
violence to one who has shown himself friendly ;
but I warn you not to lay your hand upon me
to detain me. I shall strike--by Heaven, I
shall strike! 'All the powers of -the infernal re-
giens, 'with Captain Mark at their head, could
not keep me here a moment longer. Give way-
E go !"
.Dashing the, monk from him, as though he
had been a mere child, the young man sprang
from the room. He closed the door after him,
and perceiving that it could be bolted on the
outsidedeliberately fastened father David in ;
then tJkowing off his domino, he passed on to
the chamber adjoining, burst it open with a blow
of hi. foot, and very unceremoniously entered.
Sir Hugh Spencer had just crossed the apart-
menit, and was looking from the window towards
the forest, when our hero made his unexpected
ady4nt ; the noise consequent upon the latter's
movements caused him to turn quickly towards
the intruder, who was careful to close the -door,
as though apprehensive that the object of his
wrath'would attempt to escape.
The knight started with surprise, And his
cheek flushed with indignation. Sudden as the
gleam of the angry lightning, Albert's sword
leaped from his sheath.

"Most villanous of villains ! draw and de-
fetd yourself 1"
Sir Hugh needed no second bidding ; he
drew his weapon from its scabbard, exclaiming :
" Presumptuous hind ! base born peasant !
this time you shall not escape me so easily"
"Boastnot-boast not, black-hearted wretchl!
but look well to yourself," returned Casside.
For a;fewseconds the two men fought with
desperate daring and deadly determination.
The frantic fury of the knight was met by
the cool and consummate skill of Albert. An
unguarded movement on the part of the former
left a portion of his person exposed, and instant
ly the 'latter's sword passed into his body,-in-
flicting as he believed, a mortal wound.
Sir Hugh staggered a few paces and fell to
the floor, which was soon stained with the blood
that welled from his side. Albert paused .not
an instant ; sheathing his sword, he ran from
the room, resumed his domino, and rejoined the
monk, before he had gone from his side five
minutes.
" In heaven's name, what mad freak have
you been guilty of now !" exclaimed father
David, pale with apprehension.
"I have' been doing what I shall ever cen-
sider it my duty to do, while my arm is endowed
with life and strength. I have punished a vil-
lain for his crimes; I have smitten one whose
evil deedea iave long evoked the vengeance of
Heaven," replied the 'young man.   *1 But
come," he added, "let us sit calmly down tb
our wine 'as 'though nothing had happened.
Good father David, let us drink long life'tom
to--anybody you will--Stolling Willie, -or
instance."
" It is -a wise thought," added the monks
"And since the deed is done, we must put a
good face upon the' matter. So here's a. very
long life to those who deserve to livi, and' a
speedy death to those who deserve to die."Ey
"Very good,' my worthy recluse ; a more
comprehensive health could not be quaffed. -'It
will be well for us to pretend to be a little heam
ed with this vintage, and with argument, when
we hear any one approaching. And, by the

.'


SAVER BELL.

f
S
r ' s
M
Y  1
i'
1

way, we may as well rattle the' drinking eups
somewhat, and strike the table to give a life-
like reality to the affair "
As wild and headstrong as you are, I per-
ceive that you are not entirely without pru-
dence," said the monk.    "And then," he
added, in a low voice, 'I hear the tread of
Joachim Capet.  There will soon be a tremen-
doug excitement at the Silver Bell. List ! he
knocks at the door-he repeats it !=-still no an-
swer-no voice says come in; louder and louder
fall the blows of mine host-no response-he
is out of patience-.-he will wait no longer-
the door creaks upon its hinges-he opens it,
and now for the grand discovery.".a--
It may readily be imagined' that our hero
waited the denouement with considerable inter-
est, being himself so intimately concerned in the
subject.  The moment the door was heard to
swing open, the voice of Joachim Capet was also
heard, uttering an exclamation of the most com-
plete surprise.
Casside and David immediately raised their
voices as though in hot dispute, thumped upon
the table with their fists, rattled the drinking
cups, and gave other appropriate indications of
violent controversy upon some polemical matter.
The words, "church, indulgences, eucharist,
holy sepulchre, virgin Mary, etc.," were vehe-
mently articulated, and it is feared in not a
very connected manner.  Capet, meantime, ran
to the head of the staircase and cried :
"Murder-thieves--asgassins !" in, a;stento-
nan voice.
Immediate   several persons were heard rush.
ing up the stairs to see what such dire exclama-
tions meant.  Claude, the squire, and Mark
Donhead were among the foremost.
" What in the name of all the martyrs means
this turmoil ?" cried the latter, as he passed
Capet in the passage.
"It means" answered Joachim, "that mur-
der most foul has been perpetrated at the Silver
Bell.",

THE SILVER BELL.             t-                   65
"Not for a single moment," replied father the tones of a drunken. man. He then arose
David, promptly. "I have been impatient for and fumbled for his sword, which his domino
you to return to decide a question upon which prevented him from drawing. He made two or
we have been disputing for a long time."  three unsteady steps towards Mark, and then
"Satan fly away with your questions !" re- appearing to lose his equilibrium, fell against
torted Donhead, impatiently. " You are mor- the table, upsetting it, breaking bottles, and
ally certain, then, that this youngster has not making a great crash.
left the room?" he added.                   "The merry lad is too far gone-to be of much
" He has not even left the table, if I can service in case of a surprise," said the bandit -
trust any of my senses, and I doubt whether he chief, with a smile.
will be able to leave it, without help," answer-  The friar then assisted Albert to rise, and
ed the friar.                             partly by force, partly by persuasion, got him
" You are both pretty deep in your cups, I upon a bed, and in a few minutes he -was, ap-
should say," rejoined Mark.               patently, wrapped in the profoundest drunken
"It is false-leave the room!" exclaimed sleep that ever fell upon the eyelids of a lover
Casside, imitating in a most felicitous manner of the rosy god.

I-

Hearing the, excited voices of Casside and
David, the captain of, the banditti threw open
the door and looked in, supposing that the
trouble might be there ; but perceiving them
earnestly engaged in controversy, he turned in-
stantly and ran into the. next chamber, pre-
ceded by Claude, and followed by mine host.
The cause of the latter's consternation was now
fully apparent. Stretched at - full length upon
the floor, lay the body of Sir Hugh Spencer, in
a pool of blood. Claude Herminger knelt be-
side his master and felt his pulse.
"Life is not extinct," he said, and than pro-
ceeded to examine the wound in his side.
" It is deep and dangerous," he added;
" and the handthat dealtit knew well the use
of the sword. Joachim Capet, let strict search
be made for the murderer ; see that he doesnot
escape."
"This is wondrous strange !" muttered Mark
Donhead, assisting Claude to place the knight
upon a bed. "I would give a thousand florins
to know the perpetrator of this deed."
Without pausing to add more, or to hear any
rejoinder, the captain-ran quickly to the cham-
ber where our hero and the monk still remained,
and whose voices -could be distinctly heard
rising higher and higher.
"Fools !" thundered Mark. "Do you.not
hear the uproar-are you deaf to everything but
this confounded church nonsense-do you not
know what has happened ? Godfrey Ridenger
has received a mortal wound !"
Albert and the monk turned a pair of amazed
faces towards the bandit chief.
"You confound me ! how did this happen ?"
exclaimed David.
"The foul ,fiend only knows !" rejoined
Mark, and instantly a new idea seemed to occur
to him. He gave the monk a stern and search-
ing look.
"Tell me, sir," he said, "has this young
man left the room since I parted from you an
hour ago?"


I

r
:s
,.

as usual, in the accustomed' place, and he was
not sorry to see approaching the old woman,
who had told such fine things concerning him
on another occasion ; for he believed a good
opportunity now offered to learn the particulars
in relation to the good fortune in reserve for
him.
* Elsie drew near.
Well, my good lad," she said, "I told you
that we might, perchance, see each other again.
Where is your sister?"
"She is at the cottage ; but I expect her
here soon," replied the boy.
Perhaps you remember that I made the
remark that I was seldom seen twice in the same
place, without I had strong reasons for my re-
appearance. I have things to say to you both
of vital importance; and what I say, Imust
say quickly, for there is no time to lose-the
voices are calling me another way.  Isandra is
in grewidanger ; designing men meditate much
mischief against her. Bit their plans must be
baffed.--their schemes must fail-their counsels
come to nought.  You are, a brave and active
youth, and must be the instrument employed to
have her from the evil purposes of bad inen,"
added Elsie, with an earnestness of manner that
eased Louis  to stave at her with astonishment.
"I know, wise mother," answered the lad,
"that Isandra.is unhappy, and that my father
has proposed a:husband for her who is detesta.
ble to her sight ; and if that is the fate from
which you are anxious to save-her, there is noth-
ing which I will not do to bring about such a
desirable event. Look i she is o6niing.1"
14It is to that intended marriage that I re-
fer  r esaumed the Sibyl; "and when Isandra
has joined us, I will speak more 'plainly upon
the subjecot.",
In a- short time the fair shepherdess stood
beside Elsie and Louis.
" This woman," said the latter to the maiden,
asaya , that'she.has something of importance to
communicate that concerns us'deeply.
"'Speak on, Xlsie," iaifl Isanda.
"I will," said the sibylla, solemnly; "for I
have come to adviseayou of the wicked art of

base and unscrupulous persons. I know 'this
man whom your father has selected to be your
companion through the journey of life ; I know
him to be so opposite to you in character, that
another could not be found so widely different,;
I know him to, be a man of.niany crimes, upon
whose head justice has set her reward."
"Do you mean Denis Wetzel?" asked
Isandra.
"Yes, yes! Denis WetzelI" returned Elsie,
emphatically.
"Then comfort yourself, good sibyl, for the
proposed'union will never take place," rejoined
the maiden, earnestly; "I will never consent
to bestow my hand on Denis Wetzel."
"Never consent! - Silly girl! you -know
little of the power of the man who has given
you the promise of so many golden flrirns.
Your consent will not have much to do with
the matter. Might can overcome right ; priests
can mumble ceremonies, even:though they fall
on unconscious ears. A plot is already- laid
for your abduction."
"Are you indeed speaking what you know?
or are those words but insane mutterings, hava
ing little or no meaning'?" cried Isandra, be-
coming very 'pale.
"I am speaking advisedly, calmly, rationally.
I weigh every word-~I know what I say, and
what I would do. I have not come hither bymere
chance,' but by design, with a settled purpose.
Listen to me -no 'longer as a man or woman,
but hear   n me asa responsible being. To-morrow
night isithe time fixed'upon to carry out 'these
nefarious schemes. Upon some idle pretext,
Peter Vidal-I will not call him your father-
will send you from the  cottage. You will be
et by several persons-delegated for that pu-
pose, and forcibly carried to the place which
Denis Wetzel calls his home, where a monk will
profane the marriage ceremony by repeating'it
in your presence ; thus 'making you the  wife of
a man whom 'you detest."
Isandra listened to these strange' declarations
witi s gereasing trepidation, and wag obliged,
when the-sibyl ceased, to cling to Louis for
support.

CHAPTER XIV.
WEIRD ELSIE.
ARK DONHEAD left the chamber to ing upon his shaven crown a kind of cap, in-
see how it fared with Godfrey Riden- geniously covered with short, coarse, black hair,
ger, feeling quite sure in his own mind that'our closely resembling the natural growth of the
hero would require no more watching for the human head, and approximating, somewhat, to a
next two hours. The friar spoke a few words modern wig. This curious- fixture covered a
to Albert in a low tone, and shortly after issued considerable-portion of his forehead, giving quite
from the Silver Bell.  He walked into the for- a different expression to his face ; a change
eat until he had reached a lonely spot, 'and hav- which was greatly enhanced by the appliance of
ing looked cautiously about him to see that he a white substance resembling chalk.  This ap-
was not observed, he stooped and drew a bun- plication imparted a pale and care-worn ap-
die from beneath the trunk of a fallen tree. pearance to his visage, and a long stick grasped
Then taking off his monkish habit, he tied it in the right hand, completed the reader's idea
into a similar form and secreted it in the same of the physique of Weird Elsie.
place.                         '   .          All these preliminaries being  concluded,
The bundle being unrolled, proved to be father David examined himself as reflected in
some kind of a garment obviously designed for the clear waters of a small spring, to see how
female wear.  He proceeded to put it on, when effectually the monk was merged inthe fortune.
his external appearance was greatly ,changed, teller.  Bending his form somewhat, and de-
although the piece of apparel which he. had pressing the corners of his mouth by a muscular
donned resembled in some respects the domino effort, he walked away in the direction of Peter
,which he had east aside ; but it differed in color, Vidal's cottage, mumbling and singing as he
and gave to the wearer a more feminine look. went, in order to enable him to sustain, as far
The monk next fastened upon his feet some as practicable, the character which he had as-
sandals, which had composed a part of the bun- sumed.
die ; and completed his singular toilet by plae-  Louis Vidal was keeping watch over his flock

T1E SILVER B11LL.


rT r
'    r
t

r

,
r;
i'-
'
r

"I fear this terrible story is, true," said the
youth, embracing his sister aflotionately.
'"Too true, too true !" murmured the fair
shepherdess.
"}But your brother shall thwart this well-
devised scheme, if he has courage: and' address
enough," resumed Elsie.
"Tell me how it is to be done," said the
youth, firmly, "and I will do it, if it costs me
my life."
"Bravely spoken, my fine lad ! . the plan is
briefly this ; you must change places with your
sister, and be carried off instead of tier."
"How can that be'?" inquired Louis.
"After she leaves the cottage to-morrow
night, as agreed  upon, you must exchange
dresses. You are nearly of the same size, and
clad like a female, you might well be mistaken,
in the evening, for the one you would person-
ate.  This ,exchange of garments must take
place near the cottage; when completely array-
ed in'the maiden's dress, you will proceed on
the errand upon which she has been ordered by
Peter Vidal. When you are seized by the
rufians, you must pretend to be much terrified--
weep, struggle, and sometimes appear to faint ;
always being careful to keep your face closely
covered with your sister's veil.  You must exer
eise all your ingenuity, and keep up the decep
tion to the last. When the fraud is discovered
you must not be terrified at the scene whiel
will ensue. Denis Wetzel will, doubtless, b4
in a great fury; but I do not believe he will b
disposed to do you serious harm.' Do you un
derstand me perfectly'?"
"I do, if he does not," replied Isandra
quickly. "My mind grasps all tihe threads o
the tangled skein ; I perceive all the details o
the, subjects, so far as concerns the disguise o
Louis, and the instructions which are to gover
his conduct.  I will teach him how to act, an
wlat to say; I will see that in the matter o
dress he resembles me as much as one perso
can look like another ; and trust me all sha
be done with skill and promptness, and th
emergency met in precisely the way you desire
My intuitions are quick ; I have a clear percel

69

tion of what must be done, to make the artifice
succeed. -But proceed ; tell me what course I
shall pursue after Louis has left me.
"Having put on the garments of your brother,
return/ to the cottage and retire to bed with as
little ado as possible. When you reach the cot:
tage, if you perceive a man within, do not enter
until he is gone ; if not, enter boldly, as I have
said. Should you see a small bag upon the
table, or m your father's possession, know that
it contains five hundred forms in gold ; and
that it comes from Denis Wetzel, in payment
for a young and innocent maiden,"
"Your manner," rejoined Isandra, "assures
me of your sincerity. Your instructions shall
be implicitly followed. But I would ask one
more question; upon whose head will the anger
of my father fall, when he learns the deception
that has been practised ?,
"Not upon yours, not upon yours ; leave
that subject to other hands. God will, perad.
venture, raise up a friend to protect you.  He
clothes the lilies, and he cares for the sparrows ;
will he, then,'desert those who are of morevalue
than the lilies and the sparrows'? No, no I
Weird Elsie, in. her wanderings has not found
it so."
"And yet one more question'?" resumed
Isandra..
"Speak, daughter," said Elsie.
h "What will become of Louis? willihis lifebe
ein danger'?"
e    " I hope not-that is, I believe not," return
- ed the sibylla, with some. embarrassment of
manner.  " A friend may be raised up to him,
, also. Who knows? the ways of Providence
f are mysterious. No, no I Denis Wetzel dare
f not; kill the lad."
f   " It had better be me than her " exclaimed
n  Louis, warmly.  .h                       i
d    " God, bless you, my noble youth! You
of well deserve to be a belted knight ; and so you
a will bei or I am no prophetess. Adieu, el-
11 dren, I must go."
But will you not come to us again, kind
a. Elsie?" :asked the lad. j.'
-   "I cannot tell; my own future is not always

pain before me.  Sometimes the darkiess
closet down upon my path, and I cannot see'
clearly; and the voices that speak unto.me so'
often, admonish me that I must not live for my.
self; nor seek to know coming events concern-
ing'myself, but concerning others. . My calling
is not a selfish one ; a single selfish act would
'deprive me of my power ; the threads of des-
tiny would slip from my hands and be lost ; I
could ,not gather them up again. No, no; the
thread of my own life is not among those that
guide my wanderings, and direct my efforts.
Be assured tlkat I shall appear before you again,
when a feeble hand like mine can assist you ;
till then-'be content, nor expect me until you see
me." -
the monk, or Weird Elsie, as we have called
him,.'in this character, said no more, but direct-
ed his footsteps toward Donhead Wood, leaving
Isaadra and Louis to marvel at what' they had
heard, and to tremble with apprehension when
they thought of the future.
While the scene we have just been describ-
ing was taking place, Albert Casside still, con-
tinued, to all outward appearance, to be enjoy-
ing a most refreshing slumber. The bustle in
the adjoining room had subsided.  The wound
of Sir Hugh had been dressed and pronounced
of a dangerous nature, and he still continued in
a state that precluded the possibility of learn-
ing from his own lips for the present, the author
of his misfortune. The Silver Bell had been
made the subject of a rigorous search, by Joa-
chim Capet and Mark, but without throwing
any light upon the mysterious transaction ; so
they were obliged to' content themselves with
conjectures and vague speculations in regard to,
the afair-"
Capet averred that if a certain young man
had been there (whom he would not disgrace
himself by calling by name), he should have
very well known to whom to attribute the deed ;
for said youngster was of a temperament to
commit murder, or to perpetrate any enormity
that a human being could be guilty of.-
Upon being asked'by Donhead if he did not
refer to Albert Casside, he unhesitatingly re-
5

'SHE ,SILVElBELL.

plied that'he did ; and had not spoken without
good reason.
"And the strongest of your reasons, doubt-
less, are those black and blue spots which I see
over and under your eyes, and upon various.
parts of your face," said'Donhead, with 'a mali-
cious smile.
"There is not," returned Joachim, "'such a
hardened wreteh among all. your fellows. I
never was handled so roughly during my whole
life ; he showered such a storm of blows upon
me that Iverily thought my last hourhad'eome ;
and when he.left me, I was such a shocking.
spectacle, that my own mother would' not have
acknowledged me' for her own' son. Among
gentle or simple; I never saw such a fiery and
impetuous youngster ; and though chary of hiS
words, his fists are always at one's 'service."
"In the case of Godfrey Ridenger," said the
chief of the banditti, " I think your rustic youth
must be innocent ; and it were indeed hard to
animadvert upon one, who, for aught you know,
is an hundred leagues from here. But to change
the  subject :  Are those two proud-looking
cavaliers, who lost their florins in the forest, a
few days ago, still your guests'?"
"I am momentarily expecting them," return-
ed Capet. "Their servants' brought.me- word
that they should pass the night here. The tine
that has intervened since they were here, they
have spent at Motcombe Manor ; and indeed
they were of the hunting party upon that occa-
sion when Lady Eveline 'so strangely disap-
peared."
" Now, Joachim Capet, you begin to interest
me," resumed Mark, earnestly. "If I mistake
not, those two cavaliers were of high rank ; and
I have a presentiment that we. shall yet hear
from them in a manner not agreeable. I wish
Satan had flown away with Yorick and his com-
rades, before they had' unluckily encountered
and robbed them in the forest: Have you learn-
ed by any travellers from that direction, wheth-
er these unknown gentlemen have interested
themselves in that affair of Ridenger's-the
vexatious abduction of the lord's daughter ?"
" Ay I you are now asking a question'which

I

-,

T  i+3R BELL.


!       w   .
1          !
r
r     i
T
}
!     1
,     s
Y
r
i
l    Y
}    t
f
gC
Y
I
Y
1
e   {
Y    I
ti }
f   b
d
f'
i
s        ,
s

I .s-.  answer ; I never neglect to levy contrl-
butions of general information upon every guest,
Travellers don't often escape without talking
more than they ought to, when Joachim Capet'
gets hold of them. I have good authority for
spying that the two noble cavaliers, who were
robbed of their florins, who stopped at the Sil-
ver Bell, who despatched a trusty messenger
for men-at-arms in order to punish Mark Don.
head, who were of the hunting party ;eferred to
when the Lady Eveline was stolen, have inter-
ested themselves most deeply and seriously in
the matter ; and it is rumored, furthermore,
that it is by their agency that a reward of six
hundred florins has been offered for your head."
" It will cost whoever gets my head more than
that I" replied Mark, sternly. - "Let them
come, I say," and the robber chief played ner-
vously with the hilt of his sword. " But, Ca-

pet," he resumed, hastily, "we must be oau-
tious. This last act of daring, into which the
folly of -Sir Hugh has inveigled us, I plainly
foresee will raise a dangerous storm, whicliwe
must be prepared to meet like men. Be cir-
eumspect in your treatment of travellers; play
well the host. Preserve the important secrets
connected with the Silver Bell, as carefully as
you do the precious sands of your own life.
Let them once be whispered to the winds, and
the arm of our power will well nigh be broken.
Yes, I warn you to be discreet ; I am watching
you. Should your folly or your cupidity betray
us, remember that there are two hundred dag-
gers ready to draw your blood; and that te es-
cape the vengeance of the order, will be an at-
tainment utterly impossible.  So, Joachim Ca-
pet, let that fact be an everlasting admonition
in yourears."

F there was any sound under heaven that
could attract the attention of Albert Cas-
side, and endow arm and brain with activity, it
was the clashing of swords. For him there
was music in the ringing of steel blades ; a kind
of music which invariably affected him with the,
f ghting mania. Therefore, upon hearing the
noise of a contest in the ,ard, in front of the
inn, he incontinently leaped from the bed, and
Wntowards the scene of the conflict as fast
biy limbs could carry him ; oversetting, in his
impetuous course, several oficials of mine wor-
t: y host, Joachip Capet. But our hero did
y  perplex his mind about details ; he had an
ye ogily to generelities; a without pausi
tqrplogize for the various accidents which his
pnexpected:advent produced, be dashed into the
yard like a young-ecot, which disdaining dollar
and sa4dle throwshis master into the 4itgh, a d
llows the dictates of lis 9n4ney..
4rrived there, he was much lated to erceve
that thee was e. ecellent opportunity to i-
44ge in cut and thrust; for two perons were
engaged with one slender youth, who, unegual
to the contest, was rapidly losing his strength,
and yielding ground.

To informs the reader that Albert drew his
sword from beneath his domino, would be time
and words thrown away ; for knowing his hot
and headlong; temper, he would conelude at
once, without much reflection, that his first act
would be to whisk out his weapon in the leapt
possible space of time ; whieh was really the
case.
"Cowardly caitiffst " he exclaimed, making
hist blade flash merrily in the sup. "toes it
not shame your manhood to attack one sener
youth upon whose chin the down hbs scarcely
appeared   Come op, cravens, and I wily tech
yotg a lesson of good manners !
One of the fellows instantly turned and made
a furious lunge at Albert ; but he parried it,
and in return, gave him a thrust'that stretched
bim at his length upon the ground. Hi p'cm
panion, seeing how matters were going, topk to
his heels and soon disappeared, but noc hcfore
the sound of the atray a.alarmed all de in-
mates of the Silver Bell.
"Holy father," said the yputh whomi he bad
befriended; " or whoever you, are,' I am greatly
obliged to yqu for this timeltinterference. The

70'                THE, SILYR   BLL.

CHAPTER XV.
5C1$N1 AT THE INN.

it
i
r
F
z
r
G
g
f
A
3
y
Y
R
t

70-

' a
r

,,


.A_ b'
A         rY   .
S
,
,
4
L                j
s         C
}t
r
/
e-
r
x
3- ,
r        }
4  '
#
i
Y
tk
i
t
a
L
f ,
t r
_
,
i
f
F .  1
a     tl
"  .
F'
1
}
.       fr
33   S4,
r
.,

scoundrels were getting the best of the bargain,
and' I should soon have been entirely at their
mercy. Although you wear the garments of
holy mother church, you use the sword like a
true knight. This service I will not forget ;
and if it does not at some future tirpe re-act in
your favor, then you may set, -me down as an
uncourteous cavalier and an ungrateful gentle-
man."    -
The courtly manner in which the youth ut-
tered these words, declared him to be of some
consequence ; and there was an air of superior-
ity and authority ,about him which did not ill
become him, but sat easily and naturally, like
a garment whose first stiffness and awkwardness
has been lost by wear.
" Such a slight service as this, gentle sir,
merits not the kindly acknowledgements whiobh
you are disposed to accord, I were indeed a
churl, to allow two savage ruffians to murder
you," replied Casside.
" I know what is due. to gallantry,". added
the youth,  and how to be grateful for a kind-
. Here, take this ring and wear it fornmy
ae; I shall take it i, if you refuse. It may
_ltiw atply prove a powerful talisman to save'
jou 'from jour 'enemies, or to  bless your
riens."
With a bow, Albert took the ring which the
x   nman proffered him, and which he ,eared
to eet, lest he might wound his feelings, and
astil placed it uponthe third finger of the let
" Tv oblige you, courteous youth, I' accept
this pledge of your friendship; not as some-
thin  n any manner merited, but as an indica -
tdo11 of your own generous nature.",
At thadt  stant, Albert felt a rough 'grasp
upon his arm, and tuf'ning angrily towards the
intruder, he pejrceivea the scowling face of Mark
Don ieadl.
What nowI has tie foul fiend gotten pos-
session of you again ?'" the" said, in a voice of
suppressed anger.
Casside's. eyes flashed indignantly, -nd ad-
vagcing his 'face close to'the ear of the bandit
chief, he rejoined, in a hoarse and threatening
tone :

"Never presume to lay your hand thus un
ceremoniously 'upon me the second time ; for
should you, I swear by the holy cross, I.will
pass my sword through your body, although you
are surrounded by all your minions !"
Mark Donhead bit his lips, and quailed be.
fore the menacing glances of Albert.
"Beware ! remember who I am !" retorted
the former, in a voice subdued almost to a
whisper,  " But come," he added, taking
Casside's arm; " tifis is no place for wrangling.
We are attracting observation; we will adjust
our differences at some other time and place."
Our hero slowly and reluctantly permitted
himself to be= conducted into the inn. As he
passed over the threshold, the youth whom he
had assisted thanked him again, while at the
pae time a cavalier rode into the yard, whose
arrival appeared to give him much pleasure.
Upon seeing the two .together, Albert im-
mediately remembered them as being the iden-
tical persons who had passed the'night at t e
Silver deli, . in an apartment adjoining tat
which he had occupied, and between whom  e
had overheard, a conversation of some lengh,
relating to ,a robbery in. the bonhead -*od.
The younger of the two was obviouly the in-
dividual whom the elder had addressed as neph-
ew ; and the elder was consequently the' same
who had answered to the application of'uncle,
on the occasion referred tai
" A fine piece of'work have you spoiled or
me " said Captail Mark, as they ente'di e
tap room.  . "Tose fellows,"  ad,   ere
actng by my orders. Those two unknown 1-
sonages are dangerous, and it is neesystlar
they sould beput ot of tn wa'.le      i
persona  vidently decupying places d.f
Y have learned" that it is through theii s1iaude
that thereward of six hundred dforins has been
offered for my head. A besity curs u0
your officious intermeddling! If you' go, rinin
this manner, it three weeks there will imt  e a
man among uswho' has a whole skin 1"'
.I cannot help it the fight is ini ie, iid
must come d it," said Albert, mastering  in=
dignation.';

THE SILVER BELL.                    V

'/4
14

THE, SILVER BELL.

"our unparalleled impudence ,confounds
me I" roared Donhead.  "]y St: Stephen!.
you cannot be what-you seep  Ydy are proud,
fiery,; and daring .enough to be of the noblest
blood in the land, instead of the humble indi-
vidual which your garb attempts to declare-you
to be. Young man, I must have your history,
though I wring it from you by the neck I"
"You can have it without that trouble,"
said Casside, carelessly.. "I was -born of some
simple peasants, near Hengistbury Head, in the
year 1806."     ,
"Bah I it isfalse-it is false!" cried Mark,
violently.  "No more fooling-no more fool-
ing !  Cone~speak ; who are you ?".
"-am a man,)' answered Albert; oamly.
"By my faith! fnow you-are beardingme.to
my face !" resumed Donhead,  'Bunt no mat-
ter ; I have you fast enough, and-your boasted
manhood is subservient to my;orders.  There is
a man in my service bythe name of Herbault-
you saw him in character the other night-he
whisks off human heads in a curious way," he
added, significantly.
" In that case, I know of. a head the fellow
mightmake money on ; he could command six
hundred florins for it; which, considering the
,quality, is exorbitant and .extortionary,", oh-
aeried Casside, coolly.,
"You think so I" muttered Mark, scowling
darkly.
' I do, candidly, captain."
".ark ye, my precocious youngster ! per.
ihlps you=aspire to the six hundred florins your-
"If I did," cried Albert, striking his hand
iponuhis sword, "I would have them in my
pocket4 before yonder sun sinks behind the dis-
tant hills,"
When,, how ?";
"Now," said Albert, firmly,,fc and by means'
of this weapon by, yseide."  And the yongi
ih diehis eyes cablly upon the, leader of
the banditti."
"That is empty bravado ! a merecurrent of

air passing out of your mouth I" rejoined  9n-
head, in a. voice subdued, deep, and full of
meaning.
"I will lay a wager of an hundred forins,
providing you are agreeable thereto, that, if
placed on equal footing, faee to face,;and noth-
ing but our swords to decide -the matter, ,before
ten minutes have been counted upon the dial,; I
will have your head under my arm I"
Mark Donhead, whohad been walking fiercely
up and down the room, now paused before Al-
bert,. and favored him with a long and penetra,
ting stare, in which ferocity, fear, and indaision,
seemed to be blended. His chest wosred coh-
vulsively,' he set his teeth hard "together, and
breathed like a tiger that wishes to spring upon
his prey,, but dare not. He then: threw, him-
self heavily into a chair and said hoarsely, and
with forced composure :
"I will not -accept your accursed wager P'
" Act your pleasure, captain," said Albert,
who appeared, to exercise a kind of fasqination
over the sanguinary monster. For-a short time,
there was a profound silence, in which .~pohead
sat contracting his brows,,and casting savage and
curious glances at our hero.
It is impossible to tell how this singular scene
might have ended,,had it not at that crsis been
interrupted by the entrance of a traveller and
his servant. -He was a person considerably .d-
vanced in life, whose exterior denoted, both
rank and (respectability. Iis manner was ab.
stracted, .and he took little or no notice of.Al.
bert and his companion, but setting himself
dejectedly, waited patiently for the appearance
of mine host: The attention of Casside. was
immediately directed towards .the new-comer,
and he gave unmistakable signs of being cen-
siderably interested in his appearance,; ;and,so
far as one could judge, appeared equally antis
not to be observed by the. object of his scrutiny,
The hood of his domino, which had 'bqenp
tially removed, he hastily adjusted, cone ang
nearly every feature of his face.
Mark Donhead smoothed the.f n "oi.r
forehead, and also began to honor the stranger
with prying looks, and obviously desired to

78


THE SILVER BELL.                 75

t
x
. q
}i}
7y
k
y1  4'
f
I
:t
i
t'
f
}
( x
i Y
k f
t'
49
! u
r R#) Y
Y
1       1
i Y2
'Y
L
S
yF
t y
J .
}
Y
1
S

t% the rtaie and s ti o f'one whose bear-
iig 1,e 16 'eve*  i espedt ' d i0dsi gtZe." It isI
possible that he was taking a mental intentory
of' sa rartibles of jewelry as ornamiented 'his
person ; such, for instance, as  golden finger
riig, ehiis, iOh lace, togetherwith the heavi-
l-mooned"hilt of 'oiis 'w ird, and its chased
dil'eabbard; or, it  ag be probable that he
'was thinking of thepossible amount of ready
ioney Which his parse might contain.
J   kachi  Capet not appearing, the servant,
who'*as ii livery, rang a small hand bell,
wti h had the effect to sumnmon that worthy
fdadtlbtmry. '
"Your humble servant, noble cavalier !" ox-
6laiied mine host.  "You are welcome to the
best house in Dorsetshire. The Cellar, f the
Silver Bell is stored with the choicest vintage ;
and some of it has been there half a century.
And then:I have' chambers that are fit ' for a
prince; the Earl of Shaftsbury, the Earl of
Salisbury, ord Beaumont, Sir Hugh Spencer,
ad the very puissant 'and honorable-"
" Enough, enough, my worthy host ! I am
ieektig comfort rather than splendor. Be So
obliging as to show mlhe a decent -chamber, with-
out further circumlocution," -ejoined the stran-
ther uncereioniously interrapting the
n tei of the Silver Bell.       *
"Certainly, My lord !  Your 'honor's honor
has only to coniuiand, arid your worshipful wor-
hip's 'sertant will obey.  What, 'ho! Jean,
( rl, and half a 'score of you blockheads ! will
ai'keepihis highnees waiting all day ?  Groom
thi uhble gentletha 's horse, take his 'worthy
eitrant's potnaite lu, lay'the table,  and bestir
y  rS1%es like useful servants, and not like
alh&amp;dblt knaves, as you are! I'ly lord, be
eaed tootdie thiS wy, and I"il show you
4    Iapidtaat W*hieh edailands bne 'of the
*t*s          isthoat yrhonor' eges ever look'
Sfiig at the vlu1Ality of Jbahifa Capet,
the traveller left the 4tlj-t)Mf, ad 'OaSide

"Do you'happen to know that gentleman'2"
asked Mark, sullenly.
" I haven't that honor," replied-Albert.
" Neither do I; -but trust me, Jtoaehim Cape
will be likely to find out. The fellow will not
be happy until he knows his name and rank,"
added Mark.   "-One thing, however, 'to me is
quite obvious;Ie iS a 'person of consequence ;
and wh 'knows but a wise providence has
thrown him in -our' way, that you may have a
chance to try your hand at your new trade.
Now I should call it a fair commencement ii
the world, for-a youngster like you to begin
businesses sucha-respectable gentleman. Any
bungler may rob &amp; Comrumon person of his filthy
lucre, but it's not every tyro that has the priv.
lige of clapping his sword to the breast of a
real lord, -or a belted knight," continued the
bandit chief, in a sneering tone.
"I perceive,"returned his companion, "that
you always have an eye to business; that yon
are something 'of a philosopher, as well asa
famous chieftain ; that you are as ready to
count laurels as florins."
While Casside was making this rejoinder,
Joadhim Capet re-appeared ; whereupon Don-
head inquired how the cavalier and his- servtat
were mounted ; whether their horses were in
good condition; whether the housings tpoa them
were rich and costly, and several 'other things
which we do not now remember.
Joachim went on' to state that both mhater
awu man wetemounted upon beasts good4ndough
for the ping himself ; and that waddles, -bridl4
and housings were resplendent with gold had
silver.
" Ah'! iy yousoe" eried Mark. "   yTy
patron saint ! Weronust see hwlat can be made of
this traveller.  Casside, if you acquit oursef
well in this matter, I will forgive your dair-devil
impetuosity, and the mischief you have already
done. But I warn you to be governed' Wine,
and erfilinibro ubrdlnation 'sand'diseretion;
atd -ss stiney and impudetdce."
" Wht -did 'ua    alH this feilldwT'asked

t  -,
Jj
i       ;
{    T;
I rt .
,k ,
x
; 1.
'$:
a
,tr

S1~
N4S

Joachim, turning pale and looking fixedly at
Albert.
" It is your old friend-Albeit Casside,"
replied Mark, laughing at'Capet's consternation.
"Heart of the Madonna !  St. Peter and St.
Paul, and a great quantity of other saints, of
all sexes ! I had rather see Satan himself at
the Silver Bell, than this mad-cap, hair-brained
youth !" exclaimed the host, with much per-
turbation of manner. "He- will cut all our
throats, and murder the women and children !"
"Come, Joachim," said Albert, "go and
bring us a bottle over which the cobwebs have
been accumulating for the last twenty years,
and let us drink confusion to our enemies."
"If it's all the same to you, I'd rather not,"

replied Joachim, working himself towards the
door, whereupon our hero went through with
the interesting pantomime of cracking his skull,
which had the effect to subdue instantly all his
former objections. He hastened for the wine,
and while he was gone, father David once more
rejoined them. The drinking scene that fob-
lowed did not appear to be of the most com-
forting and happifying kind to Joachim ; who
seated himself as far from the table as possible,
and kept a most vigilant eye upon the motions
of our hero, expecting, unquestionably, to have
a bottle or some other missile hurled at his head,
or some violent demonstration made upon his
person.

* SILVM, SELL. I.


t
t
s
f
_i
YF
S
qx3  -
5
t     i
s
t4
J
(Q
C
Q
s
1
dy
E
r
}}9
fP
I!!
r'
i
! 4
f u
r ;
r
s
x
L
S

rT

CHAPTER XVI.
THE ROBBERY.

f
r
i '
t
1
t
¢ak
t
1
F

his countenance continually, to discover, with-
out appearing to do so, the effect of his words-;
ana he could not doubt but the bandit was
studying more fully his character, and testing
his good faith in regard to the object of his en-
rollment in the band. He was shrewd enough
to conclude that the captain's careless manner
was wholly assumed, for the purposes above
mentioned, and - conducted himself accordingly.
He was quite sure that he had seriously provok.
ed Donhead, by-his recent interference in the
quarrel which had taken place, in the yard of
the inn, a short time before ; and it appeared
more reasonable to him to suppose that he was
only repressing his anger for the present, than
that he had entirely forgiven him his uninten-
tional offence.
Albert knew enough of the human disposi-
tion, to'understand many of its various phases,
and flattered himself that he could not be de-
ceived, even by the cunning arts of the bandit
chief. Disguising his own feelings, he con-
versed with affected cheerfulness upon different
subjects, quaffed his wine'with apparent ebjoy-
ment, and sustained his reputation, generally,

-'

THE SIL]V

-as a care-for-nothing fellow, in a tnannef that
reflected great credit upon his power of self-
control. Mark was baffled in all his efforts to
throw him off his guard, and it is possible that
lis- confidence in his new ally, was, in- some
,measure, restored.. His good nature increas-
ed with his increasing cups, : and he even
went so far as to drink the health of'his intend-
ed bride ; a formality which was anything but
agreeable to Albert, who would much rather
have preferred to dash his wine into the-cap-
-tam's face than to be reduced, as he was, to
the alternative of swallowing it.
While matters were progressing in this man-
ner, father David was suddenly seized -with a
copious hemorrhage from the nose, and left them,
'as he said, to make an appliance of cold water ;
the only sure remedy for that complaint. But
the moment he was out of the tap-room, instead
of manifesting any concern -or annoyance from
the circumstance named, he quickly mounted
the stairs, and being intimately acquainted with
all parts of the Silver Bell, instantly sought
that particular apartment where he had reason
to believe the last traveller was accommodated.
. He listened a few seconds at the dooy, aid
then entered without knocking. The noble-
=looking guest, -was pacing the room with an air
-of the deepest anxiety, while the melancholy ex-
pression of his face gave ample evidence that
'orrow had not been a stranger to his breast.
The abrupt and unannounced appearance of the
monk seemed to surprise him, and pausing in
the middle of the apartment, he fixed a reproving
'and inquiring glance upon the intruder.  Fa-
ther David hurriedly closed the door, -and laid
'his finger warningly upon his lips.'
"I have come thus abruptly," said the monk,
in a suppressed voice, "to make an important
communication. I have but a moment to spare ;
it ipust not be known that I.entered this cham-
ber; and should chance throw me in our way
4uring'yodr brief stay. here, do not recognize
me, by word or look. Certain parties have laid
a plan to rob you in 'the adjoining forest, after
you have -left the Silver Bell.  No - personal-
olenice - will be 'offered you; but 1 whatever

ER BELL.                                77
moneys and valuables you and your servant
may have in your possession, will certainly be
taken, to the last farthing's worth."  ,
"Proceed," said, the traveller, as David
paused an instant.
"Is it necessary that you should resume
your journey before to-morrow?" asked the
friar.
" Imperatively," replied the gentleman.
"Be it so-be it so ; listen to me: I have
concocted a scheme in my own mind, by which
you may punish and baffle the designing knaves
of Mark Donhead. Feign to have with you a
considerable sum of money, and question mine
host about the safety of the roads, and the dan-
ger of robberies in the forest ; while at the
same time you admonish your servant to be-care-
ful of your portmanteau.- This line of conduct
will have precisely the effect desired ; and to
keep up the deception, procure a small bag, tnd
have it filled with copper,.lead, brass, and other
worthless articles, thus giving it the appearance
of great value.  This bag you need not fhe very
careful to keep entirely out of sight ; !aula after
yourself and servant have mounted, it might
very much favor the object in view if youshould
order him, in a- suppressed voice,. yet -load
enough for by-standers to hear, to hand you the
bag of florins, for you fear to trust him with it.
You smile, sir; I-perceive you enter into the
spirit of my proposal."
"I do, holy father ; I commend your ingenu-
ity, and will followsyour instructions to the let-
ter," rejoined the stranger. "The boldness of
Mark Donhead is becoming insufferable.  eavy
robberies are of daily occurrence. To disap.
point the cupidity of the ruffian in the nmanner
-which you propose, woulk really give .megreat
pleasure. Although you are a stranger :$ome,
the earnestness of your manner, as wellas the
garb you 'wear, assure me of your good faith.
L thank you;forithis. warning, and, twil trust
yolr integrity implicitly."
"Remember, my lord, or whatever yourditle
may be; that you are not to recognize °nmo should
w4 meet again in this  part of theeogi;'y ,; d
I will also;add, that in giving you i-rng,

f    ARK    DONHEAD      resumed: "You,
Joachim Capet, must be sure to learn
when this gentleman intends to leave the inn ;
and having ascertained that particular item, do
not neglect to advise me of the same.  Father
David, Casside and myself will be enough for
this job ; we will station ourselves in the forest
at a proper time, and in a proper place, and
await his coming. While one of us takes care
of the servant, our young friend shall perform
his first robbery on the king's highway."
Albert did not demur at this arrangement,
and the captain and the monk proceeded to
give him very minute instructions concerning
the part he was to act, especially against awk-
wardness in his first attempt ; they assured
him that his language must be courtly and
civil when he demanded the nobleman's money,
and that he must not degrade himself by low
and vulgar expressions ; as his reputation de-
pended very much on the skill and address with
which he conducted his first enterprise.
While the worthy pair were imparting these
useful hints and practical admonitions, Albert
could not but observe that Mark was watching


,F   , '
;s,: o   ,  y   T
.4
{
1
i

.THZ SILVER BELL-

P

I

I

THE SILV]

Itendanger  yowna life. t1 ere arethose with-
in pwhsbot of the }Silver -1ell, who, had they
any suspicion that I lied whispered a 'word of,
waels in-your ear, would hang me.higher than
Haman."
SSir," returnedthe traveller, earnestly, "I
will sacredly observe your wishes. Here is my,
hand; and once more let me express the deep-
est sense of obligation, although the simple loss
of myi(florins could not:afect my fortunes =mate-
rialily;,for-my most precious treasure is already
stoleni'
}A  y lord," added David, in a whisper,
"notwithstanding every wall has an ear-to hear
and tongue to speak, I will ventureto add yet
one sore word. The treasure you refer to,
and the loss of which makes your heart sad, is
wa1ehed over by vigilant eyes, and;shall be re-
etoted-to you again.",. -
themenk glanced cautiouly about the cham-
bir, andturned to go.
'-Stay, good father, stay 1" cried the travel-
r,- mash afeeted by the singular announce-
bat'he-had heard.
{ "Nomore; my lord, not a word more-do
net tain me a second longer----you will ruin
all-do not despair-be     hopeful-I  go-
The monk opened the d p, and left the
hAmber -with quick and noiseless steps, iand1
speedily rejoined his compasigs, in, the tap-
The day was drawing-to aelose. The sun
whsasappearing in the western horizon and
twilight, was dispenngteroft-ists over earth
Lak. There:'was ino sounda in  o@dhead'
Wod,1nd- silenceseemed tobhaveast her-spells
Mer 4he-depths-ef the wide brest.  Three per-
*iitptod motions beneath the shadow of a
1snp of oaks, whom the gentle readerwiltre.
sgeises our;three-friendswhom 'we left, not
long since, enjoying the -ivtrge of the Silver
.nelL-  .-s'
Albert Cassile still wore-the monkish habit;
6     a &amp;s k Donbead and°father1avid -were cla
bh     eg enawselymwornobysihe=banditti.

a

"This advontare promises to be a very rich
affair" observed Mark ; " for Joaehim Cpe
assured rme that this traveller carriess a large
amount of money."
" That's lucky," replied David.  "I hait
jobs that-do.not pay wll; for it appears like
incurring much ,xi lbfor-:a very small reward.
You say-that this nobleman, for such he must
be, carries his florins in a large bag ?"  .
- " Yes,I-aicertainof it, for Joachim was
favored with a glimpse of the same ; and he is
of the opinion that its contents would be suf-
ient to make a common man rich."
"Do youhear that, my lad?" said the monk
turning to Albert.
"I do," replied our hero, striving tot speak
with befitting firmness,; "and I must endeavor
to acquit myself creditably,"
"Of course; you must make a grand effort,
and though you may feel a little trepidation at
first, the thing will come quite naturally, afte
a time,?' returned David.        .
"Perhaps ,so--,I dare say," rejoined Caside,
in a voiemotlbee from emotion.
" Be -firm I" said Mark.  " Evoke the eve-
fornothing-spirit that sometimes possesses you.
They- are ieble hearts only that falter-.--wk
souls, that leek resolution. The timedsm
-near--the moment ofraction approaches. BP
ishiyour indecision,%man-; lay your hand be
upon your 'sword, -thus-;- -and when you ni
the bridle wein and place:its pointAe the g-
alier's -breast, -look at tim e hard as yond
at one-this naming, when you threated
run through the-dy.- Let -the hougto
the fiorins/tied ;up ai the saddle.bow -get a .a
continual incentive, and stimulate you like x$
dozen glasses of -wine. In this case, .wewill
content-ourselvesiwith the money; .we wi lnet
take their -horses,:-or personal ornaments."
' " I understand," rejoined Albert, in aJoe
voice' .
" Conrage-.courage " 'whispered  asi 4a
i Yon auf beain mind,":added Dohe    ,
sternly, "&amp;at Ian watching you; :and if ae
attempt to ,play me anysf -year searvy aie,

I

)

9
" y
1
.
.V
rt

4,

I will give you over to the tender mercies of
Herbault !"
"flush !" said David. "I 'hear them ap-
proaching. Let us take our places nearer to
the road."
As 'the parties moved in the direction indica-
ted, the monk contrived to wrhisper a few words
to Albert.
"Keep your face well concealed-do not
tremble-be resolute-be prompt-as I have
told you, the traveller is warned-he expects
this interruption-he is prepared for it-there
will be no resistance-it is understood-and he
will not be a single farthing poorer by the
operation !".
"I cannot perceive how that can be," return-
ed Casside, in the same tone, " when he has a
bag of florins at his saddle-bow." -
"IYou will know soon enough," addad David.
" I tremble-my heart leaps into my throat
to choke me. My God ! you know not what
you are urging me to do-you cannot tell the
-terrible struggle this is costing me !"
"No more--n more I remember what is at
otake-Iandra-the Lady Eveline 1" replied
th nionk, hurriedly.
I$ What are you saying there ?  Be lent !"
'ibsed Donhead, holding tip hisfinger. " Idiots I
his't you see they re else Wthend?  Casside;
go Tforwardl; aet :your pat; if you fool a,
- mashall feel'whata'it is to play with the.lion's.
Theatravelleri as now nearly'abreast of the'
parties, l'nd his servant' few steps behind'him.
'Albert leaped into the  6ad,, drew his swoid,
aml'pilieing its point tb the breast of"the bre-
imost, sid, in a voice as nlike his ovni, he
" My lord, I would trouble'youfor the bag
f go ld at yourisaddle bow !"
4v illain " tned the nobleman. "How
-ae, you stop a peaceabl =traveller 'pon the
aing'sfhigifway ?       .
"Your money,  y -od 1Do not erse tme:
to do you prsonalhaan-'4he floda; without

ER BELL.                                 79
delay !" retorted Casside, firmly, and making a
menacing motion with his weapon.
Without farther remonstrance, the nobleman
took the bag from his saddle-bow, where it was
partially covered by a portion of his stress, and
threw it at Albert's feet, saying, contemp-
tuously :
"Young man,.I hope you will some day
learn a better trade."
As our hero bent to take the bag from the
ground, the hood of his domino unluckily slip-
ped from  a portion of his face; the traveller
caught a glimpse of his features, and uttered an
exclamation of painful surprise. The young
man hastily replaced his domino, waved his
hand to the man whom he had robbed, and re-
joined father David, who had been watching
the scene with much interest. A moment after,
Mark Donhead, who had prevented the servant
from going to the assistance of his master, also
returned to his accomplices, rejoicing in the
complete success of the robbery.
"In this affair," he said; warmly, addressing
Albert, "you have conducted yourself 'with
much discretion andscourage. I never saw a
beginner do the thing up more cavalierly.
have a distinct eeollection that-the first"tima1
performed that delicate business, my voice trad.
bled a little wha I=.inade the reasonable request
that the worthy'tgentleman would give me bile
purse. Howevdr,:raetice makes perfect; a an
the little cfualm-of conscience which a tyre1nm
feel in the f£st stages of the art, soon disappee.
By my life 1 'that is a oorpulent4ookinglag
Joachim'Capet isas rigts, and he shallnsu1 .
ably rewardedforhis fidelity."
r " Tatb it," answered eurhero,  and dispose
of-it as youplease; I care not for it."'
" That was 'a; spasm of conscience ;-beliese
me, it will son wear off. Bah  I- Enever-is.
fiselmoney itik WhataU the-world are -runni g
'md afe.r" "retestedDonhead, ,takingthsfk 
"But eme," he-added, "let us away: t   he
cavern:; weha-e dotsenough'for one day.P

I


THE SILVER BELL. S

I

CilAPTER XV1I.
THE INTERMENT. THE MIDNIGHT WALK.

4IILP ON the ensuing night, Albert'awaited in
this cell the expected appearance of the
stroller, with considerable' anxiety.  That sin-
gular'pe'sonage c.eame' a little earlier than on
previous occasions.  He, found our 'hero' much
-dejected, and more'than ordinarily excited by
soe recent occurrence. "But Wandering Wil-
1i6 appeared the- same ; there was no change in
hismanner, or in his' dress; .the same impend-
.trableimantle of mystery hung-about hisact and
Intentions.  It was in vain that he addressed
'.ords, of bhe'er to Casside; theflitter's mental
as enity had been toe violently disturbed to re-'
cover speedily its wonted'tranquillity.
Do' not speak to meof thefuture-!",'he ex-
claimed, 'somewhat sharply:  ".Its skies are
orvdiedt, and dark with storms of disgrace.  The
-mre° resolutely I struggle to mend my desperate"
%bitunes, the aore deeplydp Ibecome involved.
But letusdrop the ,ingsnial theme,'and' talk of'
thingn' but the future  "I recollect. now, that
thekha'a disagreeable ,work to' be done; come,
let us go forth and perform it. As I, told you
at the first, it is a thing I like not ; but as we
have commenced it, it must be conducted firmly
to the end."

"Very 'true," said Willie ; " what is begun
must be finished, and it is now our painful duty
to consign earth to earth, and dust to dust, pr-ay-
ing that God may take care for the rest."
Casside and 'the stroller then proceeded to
the place of interment; the former held in his
hand the dim light, while the latter, with 'piok
.and spade, removed a portion of theearthfroin
the' recent .grave.  Standing there, beneath
those gloomy. arches, with such mournful'ime-
mentoes of mortality around-him, Albert cuuld
not'but reflect upon the mutability of human
affairs, ind feel-that life *as indeed a seasot*f
vicissitude and pain. ' The "feeble scintillations
of the lamp called up fantastic shadows. and
shaped grim monsters upon the rugged rocks and
overhanging' -walls.'
His own fancies were as wild and flifugl as
those pictured around him'by the faint eflbrts of
the glimmering 'lamp to overcome the surround-
ing darkness.  Meantime, the stroller la edo
industriously, and hollo*ed out a space in which
to deposit the mortal remains of ierbault.'
"It will matter but little, if it is not very
deep and wide," said Willie ; "and his slum.

bers will be just as sweet, as though he were
encased in a gilded cofin."
Theybodyof Herbault at length was brought
from the spot where it had been secreted, laid
into the ground above some -of his own handi-
work, and the kindred earth was thrown upon
him.-
Albert felt truly thankful when this disagree-
able task was completed, and the ghastly figure
of the executioner shut forever fromsight. The
mound was made to assume its former appear-
ance, and the implements that had been used
were returned to their accustomed places. Each
of the"two men experienced sensations of awe,
when they turned from the spot where so many
husian bodies had found room to mingle with
their kindred elements.
"{Now," said Albert, pausing in the corriddi,
when they had walked some distance, "I would
see Lady Eveline; and if you have any power
to Conduct me to her presence, I entreat you to
do so."
"No no ! that must not be thought of!" re-
plied the stroller.  "The danger attending
such a step is too great."
"Old man, I care little for danger. You
cannot change 'my purpose," rejoined Albert,
flhnly.
t'But you forget, my good youth, that I
also incur a portion of the danger'? It' is true
that you may value your life lightly, but it does
nut*follow as a consequence that I set the same
loc estimate upon mine," returned Willie.
"To all outward appearance you are the
most wretched of 'human:'beings'!" exclaimed
Albert, contemptuously; "and yet you cling as
tenaciously to life as the young, the fair, and,
the hopeful."
Selfish young man !"- retorted the beggar.'
"Is this, then, your return for kindness con-
ferred ? are these the thanks you bestow fo my
ervices ? is this your gratitude to an olA man,
who has already incurred deadly peril"for your
Pardon me, good Willie! my impatience
and impetuosity make the utter 'things' which
are 'not 'discreet, and which'may cause me fo ap-

pear meanly selfish ; but at present, as you are
aware, I am not -acting for self, but risking life
and fame for others., If there is any possible
way by which you can procure me an interview
with Lady Eveline, you will confer upon me
the'greatest possible favor, 'and lay me under
an obligation which I shall not consider repaid,
until the debt of nature itself is cancelled."
"One great difficulty which stands in the
way of your desires, is, that the apartment of
this damsel is beyond the places where many
of the banditti sleep; consequently, in going
there, we shall be obliged to pass them; which,
on the whole, cannot be considered a very plea-
sant undertaking."
" I confess, friend Willie, that that is an
objection worthy of consideration; but I am
prepared to incur the risk consequent upon the
undertaking, providing you' feel disposed to
share it with me'; or, if you prefer, give'me
such instructions : that I' may go unattended,
and suffer in' my own person (if need be) all
the penalties of discovery."
The stroller rnused a moment, as if weighing
all the circumstances of the case, and then an-
swered:
".I am always 'willing to dare danger, where-
there is a prospect of success; but I am not on#
of that kind who act without forethought, and
endeavor to exeedte plans before they are' well
matured.  In regard to your going alone;' n;
instruction -which I:can give, will enable you to
do so., And now tell me, my lad, candidly, if
much real good would'result from 'an intervidW
with this high-born maiden ?"
"She is, no ,doubt," added Casside, "'the
subject of the most'painful uncertainty and 'tor
turing apprehension. A 'few words from nie'
might remove a portion of her anxiety, andtlift
the' heavy burden of terror from her'hed.
This gentle' damsel, good Willie, is most 'ear
to me; and the sorrows that distract her bosoni
are shared by me, and render my oin life
wretched."
"Shelh things are'very strange," resumed the
stroller, '" but no doubt they ate natural and'
proper, although ,Iniay not be fully able 'to tne

I


rte
r-+        M"
. '
}.
2}
d
ti
s
H
i-

S2            Tl III LV.L

i
r'
_
6
3

destand them. Idare may thexare m     e irue
frgndshjps in thewor, which4o:hpoi to the
hnas race.; but they're not often found, and
iaIwmy wandering Jhave ntlied the good
fortune to meet with, moay of them. However,
ilation tothis,;Lady  veline, L will attempt
tononduct yon to her; 'ad if:i ail, you must
suffer iecopsejuenees, as a reward due to rash-
nas,1u444rnot as a result ofta wat of prudence'
9; pypart."
When he had .gtte ed these words, the strol-
fr moved on in a, direction wholly unfamiliar to
orhers, often pausing to ntmonish hind, by a
Wania g gesture,. to the observance.of extraor-
dinary caution.  The way over which they were
Sew walking, gave evi4ence oftieing apore fre-
egently trodden, than thatthey had ,prevously
traversed., They passed varioundiergiug shafts
d disma, passages, -lesdinghe' knew not
whether. , recently W  ia. stopped .;early op-
p site massive door of wood, which appeared
to be fy4 in its place withtstript rega d -to,
strength and security.     -
" That door," whispered the jeggeg" opens
to a rooji where the treassres of the.landitti are
hoarded. Could you make a stolen visit there,
ad manage to get abeve-groupd qe aWre, you
ph)load yourself with u  ltpdwealth."
l:4a{side shookhis hea4, sauil4, faintly, and-
tig iU d, by a movement of tha band, that his
gnd q hould proceed.
tt further o  ate R 9 4oo  somnewhat
g   sigappsrans   e, adt,    young man's
S  iia     Willie peisae4 .tnrds  it sigui4-
cantly, and whispered ;g  3 -  *,  ;  a
't is the place assigned tq :hp exclusive use
ofarkR Dnlse     . ;Itis there that he. will
Ecga' tnight-of his young  4ed ,elet."
Alherth bi hislips, ad pushed the stroller.
4ter advancing aone twenty yards, Csside
Uiifermed by his conmpjon thet: they were
Wr te large compertne ts where the baditti
slept.
Aag so numerous,"; -b  added, "  can-
et wbtexpeted that; they  ouabeseconno-
dasgwith separatee -aleeping s apartments, noc r

withstanding nature, inieof he wil&amp;vagaries,
amused herself by conduig these vast minig
operations beneath the surface, high have ipre
than once excited your wonder by theiriignu.n
merable ramigaations, and varied wiridings dna
turnings. . Some half a-dapes capacious clbn
bers, excavated by- nature, but improved by
art, answer all the purposes of. lodging. rooms
for Mark's merry fellows.  Some of these ohm,
bers, for the object of vetilation, have bese ,
open; and as I have. already warned you    we
shall run some risk of discovery in paying them..
It, is: now necessary that the lamp should be ex
tignished; whenonce past this villanous neigly
borhood, it can easily be relighted, as I hav
the requisite materials in my pocket., Day and
night, you know, are all the same tome ; I a
guided as much by instinct when the sun is
highest in the heaveps, as I am in the hour of
midnight darkness.  Take hold of my arm, ad
ye4' shall see what - instinctcan do ; by my
faith ! I am inclined to think it was made befoe
eyes P
Casside made zo answer, and Willie est--,
guished the light, leaving them  eiveloped in
the most impenetrable robe of ;night that ever
bafle human sight. Tak ing the rm of -bi
conductor, he suffered himself to be led fowor4
for a-considerable distance, ,each vieing with the
other in the softeess of their tread, and'
stealthiness of their movements. _{
Occasionally they heard voices,:and the leav
respirations of many sleepers; e.$  hy the ,
rents og air which blew ipnp.lbert's fe, .ha
was enabled to toll w ethr were pa i=g ly
sleeping apartments, even had not the a eo
mentioned squnads grete# his ears. AOn,o
footsteps of Willie became less lights . e
manner more assured, and the young mn was
conscious that they had eft the dangerous loal-
ity behi4.
"A few yards futhe, and we will ligt.e
glim," murmured the  e wdgut.
'Casside was glad to hear this, for he was trd
of gropingiin the:dy :ll
' here Ana pessag somewhere i.a    vi-
nity   a torasto. thoyle," added te last

speaker, " and I must find it before venturing
to strike a light. I must feel along these rug-
ged walls; it cannot be possible that I have
passed it."
"Perhaps your instincts have failed you for
once," replied Albert.
"I trow not-we shall know soon-it is very
important that the passage should be found,
because it leads to the place where the fair cap-
tive is immured."
Willie then placed his hands upon the walls
and felt his way carefully along ; while Albert
followed him, awaiting, in the greatest suspense,
the welcome announcement of the expected dis-
covery.
"JHere it is," said the. stroller, at length,
when Albert was beginning to despair of suc-
cess.
"Instinct forever !" said the latter.
"Wisely spoken, young mban. 'It is one of
the most wonderful gifts of the benevolent
Creator. What could the horse or the dog do
without instinct?"
"Nothing, pbilosophicel, Willie ;.they would
cae to be useful servants to man.- You, are
enhanoing my estimation of'iatinot to suoh .
degre., that I begin to entertain serious initen.
tins of putting out my own:eyes, insorder to
be made the object of its wonderful powers ,"
retorted Casside."
"I would not advise you to do -so,"returned
thebliud man, :"becauseit is more thefriend
Of the unfortunate than:the foolish"
The stroller stopped, and producingflnut, steel,
and tinder,=re-lighted the lamp. The two mnai
uatwalked briskly forward,

" Here is the door that opens into the Lady
Eveline's prison," said the beggar.
"But one difficulty yet remains !" cried Al-
bert.  " The door is looked, old man ; how can
I enter ?"
" I am not the person to come so far on a
fool's errand, I assure you; I always look ahead,
to see if I am prepared to meet all the difficul-
ties which I undertake. I have a duplicate of
every key in the cavern. I have not been idle
since I gained access to this singular brother-
hood," replied the mendicant, with a smile.
'Thereupon, he drew from his bosom a key,
and held it up before the young man.
" Industry is among the most commendable
of all virtuesI it is a sin to be inactive ; when
the means of knowledge and power are in one's
way, heshould invariably improve them. They
are the drones of society who never prosper.
Those who have made the most of their oppor-
tunitiea are those best prepared to meet great
emergencies. Remember it, young man, for it
is a- tuth whievay 'be of benefit to yd°4iuelg
the worldly struggle.;"
The mondieanthou placed the key in th
look, And:with emotions;of joy and hope, Ow,
side heard the bolt ffly ba.k.
He took th.Jlamp and entered the cell, wkgl
Wandering Willie awaited his appearance in th
The interview was of oonsidenable lengtan .
when it.was oclude, ,thy stroller conde d
Albert back to his alotted comparto4eut,riik
the observenes of the same cautiousnef thathad
characterized their previous proceedings.

THE SILVER BELL.

88

'/

;+ .

P
r

F
,i


i
I A
f:

l r
1

IFI
A
4

CIE, time approached which seemed des-
tined to prove an important epoch in the
life of' Isandra Vidal.  She experienced much
an ity and many. trepidations of spirit in re-
gard to the events - about to transpire.  She
feed not only for herself, but for the'safety of
Louis. The sudden appearance of Weird" Elsie,
and the singular interest which she manifested
l these iueivphases of-her existence, had a ten-
'dey   itoimystify her !niid-not a°little.  Why
h "rthatinexplicable personage presented her-
dolj at iich a crisis? What earthly object could
she have in frustrating the designs of'the man
whom she knew as Denis Wetzel? Whence
came her knowledge of his character and de-
signs?  Was there any secret tie that bound
Elsie to Wetzel; and had the former really any
power to aid her in an hour of extreme need ?
Queries of this nature floated continually
through the brain of the gentle shepherdess;
but she found herself unable to arrive at any
definite' conclusion in regard to them.  Some-
times she was half inclined to believe that Elsie
was a mad woman, and no more than that ; and
had merely given utterance to the disconnected

and incongruous imagery of 'her own distorted
imagination.- But when she reflected -more
maturely upon the details of the last interview,
she could not consistently question her sanity;
her manner was rational and impressive, her
words well chosen, and her earnestness 'quite-
apparent..
Isandra had promised to follow the, instrue
Lions of lElsie, and she adhered religiously to
the same. -She had discu4sed 'the matter fully'
with Louis, and the youth' had entered with
spirit and determination, coupled with prudence
and sagacity, into her plans and purposes' It
was conceded by both, that their father's maing
ner indicated that something unusual was going
to take place. His air was abstracted, his brow
clouded and thoughtful, and his replies to ques-
tions abrupt and impatient.
As the night approached, his agitation evi-
dently increased ; and Louis observed him more
than once casting troubled and half-regretful
looks at Isandra. The latter felt a natural
quickening of the pulse when she perceived that
the hour had arrived which was to test the prac-
ticability of ilsie's schemes.

f

TH SIL

I

CHAPTER XVIII.
THE ABDUCTION.

"t

I

I
'p
I'
I'

I . _ ,.

"handra," said Vidal, suddenly, in a voice
not altogether calm, "youmay take this pack-
age and earry it to our neighbor, Michael Hoff-
land; and tell=him that I attended to the mat-
ter as well as I could."
With a trembling hand the maiden received
the package, looking inquiringly into her father's
face as she did so. _iVidal instantly averted his
eyes and turned from her, and with an unutter-
able feeling of sorrow, the young girl prepared
herself to execute this pretended commission.
When she had done so, she-left the cottage and
was joined by her brother, who was awaiting
her -at a short distance. The garments which he
was to wear on that occasion had been previous-
ly conveyed to the spot, and Louis had already
partially arranged his unaccustomed toilet, and
only needed the dexterous. and more experienced
hand of Isandra to render it quite complete.
The maiden affirmed that said garments fitted
him to a charm, and in fact did not ill become
him. With true feminine skill and taste, she
attended to those details, which, though they
seemed unimportant to Louis, when taken alto-
gether had much to do with the general effect.
The lad's locks were quite long, and by the
ready fingers of Isandra, they were arranged in
a highly creditable way.  She then gave him
such instructions in regard to his deportment,
manner of wearing a veil, etc., as she thought
would be useful.
All these preliminaries were, not effected
without much effort on the part of our heroine.
A full realization of the season of trial which
awaited both him and her, had a deeply de-
pressing influence upon her. Although she
shrunk from the proposed alliance with Denis
Wetzel, her own desire for safety did not cause
her to selfishly forget the danger to which Louis
was exposing himself to save her. - Her affec-
tion for the lad made her painfully anxious in
regard to the result. The manner in which
Elsie had referred to that subject, had convin-
ced her that the risk to be incurred-would not
be slight.-
But Louis was firm in his determination, and
embracing him most affectionately, the fair shep-
6

VER BELL.                                85
herdess invoked the blessing of Heaven upon
the enterprise, gave him the bundle, and with
an agitated breast saw him depart to encounter
he knew not what.
The moment the youth disappeared, she sank\
upon hei knees, and prayed fervently, humbly,
and tearfully, for the protection of God ; that
he would so surround him and lyr with his pro-
tecting providences, that evil men might not
bring them to shame ; that his- fatherly hand
might be so stretched out over them, that the
devices of.the wicked might fail;,that his great
love would raise them up friends to be near
them in every emergency; that his wisdom
might guide their footsteps always, and be to
them as a wall of fire by night and a pillar of
cloud by day.
Isandra arose from her knees;. she felt calm-
er and stronger; the angel of hope whispered
more tangibly in her ears-she spoke more con-
fidently of the joys of the future, and smiled more
benignantly upon the face of the humble maiden'.
With eyes still wet with the dewdrops of the
soul, she proceeded to fulfil the rest of her in-
structions. It was not altogether a genial task,
but supported by a new-born strength,'she at-
tired her person in the garments of her bother.
Twilight had passed, the moon was up, and
the stars were softly gleaming, when Isandra
had completed the change and was ready to re-
turn to the cottage. She entered without hesi-
tation just as Elsie had directed, and passing
through the room where her father was sitting
abstractedly, with his elbows upon the table,
and his head resting upon his hands, sought the
little apartment where Louis slept. Vidal did
not alter his ?osition, or notice her ; a circum-
stance for which she was thankful, for she felt a
little awkward in her new dress.
Isandra did not retire, but awaited farther
developments with an intensity of suspense
which cannot be expressed. Presently she
heard some one knock, and the stern voice of her
father bade the applicant enter. The maiden
.looked anxiously through an interstice in the
partition -and saw a man enter and place a bag
upon the table before Vidal.

if
e'
i

'a
.;
;
st
.


I
I

Lf
I  ' f
Ifd

THE SuVN

86                              THE ILY
'" This eoulins," he said, "the foris prom-
ised oe by Penis Wetael."
"Thon the girl .i--ia, his power?" ried
Vidal, quickly.
he  is," replied the man;. " and a terrible
piece of work she makes of it I"
I" expected he would take it bard," added
Vidal, haatily.
s She-goes into the faints, and groans enough
tun.gke'ofe's hair stand. A  person would
t ik -she'd never done anything else all, her
life time."'-
".don't you know enough about women to
know that all that comes natural?" rejoined the
oher,- sharply.  "There's no deception about
those demonstrations, for the girl really fears
him, as she does Satan."
"Well, she'll soon learn that tears, and out-
cries, and swoons, wont avail much. Why,
bless you, she's at the cavern before this time !
There '11 be a nice job for father David, when
she gets pacified a little," added the man.
1tEush !"  said Yidal, striking  his hand
heavily ulion the table. " It isn't best to say
much about it; she is a thousand times too good
for him; I sometimes regret what I have done,
for it's Satan's own' work."
Iandra, who distinctly heard this conversa-
tion, felt a deadly chill creeping over her frame,
and lipteaed eagerly to every word.
-" ])ut come," resumed Vidal, "it's too late
in the day to be guilty of the ftlly of repen-
tance. , Let us count these florins, and see if
Wetzel has kept well his word. There is. a-
set .draw up to the table."  The man obeyed;
aid'Vidal with alacrity untied the bag.
" Money," he observed, moralizingly, "is
a grqt a#odyne rfor-a nervous conscience-; and
I shouldn't wonder," he added, with-a smile,
"if the contents of this hag should iput mine to
sleep for a long time; it looksfat and-inviting.;,
I   le empty its contents upon the table."
Ahe cgprse and sordid features of Peter Vidal,
li cited up with anticipation;. and his hands
shoek with expectationu s he inverted the bag.
Isa Ora heard a, heavy metallic sound, and then
there was an interval of the deepest. silence..

"By the hWly eross! what vile tieh is: this !"
vociferated Vidal, choking'with wrathh,
The man who had brought the bag, stayed at
the contents of the same in mute , ader.
"Your mater has fooled ,me i I "was an
idiot to trust him !" added Peter, with incre*-
ing vehemence.,
"Trash!, not worth a. single form !" ex-
claimed the messenger, putting his hand upon
the worthless, pile, which consisted ,of" brass,
lead, copper,, and other quite valueless metals.
Vidal sprang to his feet, beat upon his breast,
tore his hair, foamed at the mouth, and leaped
about the room like a madman, uttering impre-
cations upop the head' of Denis Wetzel, too, pro-
fane to repeat.
"This is one of the strangest things I ever
knew," observed the messenger,, scratching his
head.
Instantly the fury of Peter found vent upon
the unlucky bandit ; he darted upon him, and
administered such efficient blows as soon stretch-
ed him beneath the table.
"Go back, to your accursed .villain of a-
master !" he thundered, " Tell him I will pay
back this trick with interest; that I will have
my: revenge"; that I will hang him-that I will
hang you all ! I will havemy daughter, Ire
shall give her up, if I have to apply-to the king
himself for justice !"-           -
"Justice !" cried the bandit contemptuously,
getting upon his'feet; "if you had justice, you
would be   hanged, quartered, and burned !
Take the advantage of a fellow, will you !, Take
that, you avaricious old thief !" he added, hurl-
ing -a three-legged stool at Vidal with such force
and precision that he was -prostrated, in turn,
'and rendered incapable of main any=farther.
immediate hostile demonstrations; while thp
missile, whose inbmntum" was not wholly re-
tarded by the concussion, kept on, and passed
out of the window, making a tremendous clatter,
having the effect to agitate DIandra with addi'
:tional terror.
The bandit, not thinking it prudent to stay,
to -triumph over, his fallen enemy, 'contented
'himsefby shaking hisfistat him as he left the

cottage and admonishing him to lie there until
he could learn better manners, if it was forever.
Isandra beheld this scene without daring to
leave the room, and with emotions of fear to
which such occurrences would naturally give
rise. Leaving the cottage and its inmates, we
will now follow the fortunes of Louis. He had
gone but a short distance after parting from our
heroine, before he was seized by two men who
proceeded to place him on horseback.- The
brave youth did not forget his instructions, but
screamed and struggled, and exhibited every
sign of terror. He found the swooning part the.
most difficult to perform, inasmuch as in a feign-
ed state of unconsciousness he would be in dan-
ger of losing his equilibrium and getting a fall;
but he managed the matter so adroitly, that
the two bandits had ample warning of what was
going to occur, and so supported him while he
made a very respectable faint, which lasted in
.      duration some ten minutes.-
"She's gone qnite off," said Yorick, who
with Dick Strow had been delegated to perform
thisimportant service-
" Well, hold on to her," said Dick. " Cap.
tain Mark would never forgive us if the girl-
should get a tumble."
Presently Louis began to manifest symptoms
of returning life, and thought it would be to. his
credit to favor them with a few hysterical
screams, which would not have done discredit
to the lungs of the most terrified damsel under
heaven.
"What a stunnin' voice she has !" cried
Dick.  "A few more screams like that will
unroof my head ! If it's all the same to you,
ma'am, I wish you'd shriek on a lower key."
"And without meaning any offence," added
Yorick, " if you would manage to set up a little

I

1

ER BELL.                                 87
straighter, and not lean so heavily on my arm,
you'd do me a particular favor ; and I dare
-sy you can feel just as bad, and make as much
noise in any other position."
" Take me back-take me back !" cried
Louis, frantically, in a voice not quite so soft
as Isandra's, but as soft as he could make it.
"We should be werry happy to please you,
young woman, but our orders are strict, and we
must' follow 'em, even if you cry yourself into
convulsions, and have the tantrums twice as
bad."
When the lad perceived that he was being
conveyed into the depths of the forest, he began
to entertain certain vague suspicions, and to be
the subject of uncomfortable misgivings in re-
gard to the place of his destination. Finally,
Yorick and Pick stopped at a lonely spot, which
proved to be the entrance to the cave of the
banditti ; and the youth could no longer have
any doubt in regard to the hands he had fallen
into, but was not yet inclined to regret the step
he had taken ; for he reflected that he might
be the means of saving his sister from  a fate
worse than death. He felt a cold and sieky
foreboding when he entered the subterranean
abode, and the stone that concealed the-entrae
moved back to its place. Who would be his
friend in that foul haunt of robbery and crime?
Who would interpose to save lfn from the anger
of Denis Wetzel, when the trick became mani-
fest ?  What could he hope -from such men as
those with whorn he was now dealing ?
Agitated by feelings like these, he was to-
ducted onward through some of the variuan
winding of the labyrinth, and finally stood in
the presence of the personage whom' he reog
nized as Denis Wetzel.

I


~11
r
I
a
u
it

rn '
I
a 'I
4
#1x
t'
t

VORICK and Dick Strow withdrew, and
J assuming as conciliating an air as possible,.
Mark Donhead advanced and attempted to take
Louis by the hand; but remembering his in-
structions, he positively refused to permit that
liberty ; still keeping the veil drawn closely
about-his face, he recoiled from the approaches
of the bandit, evincing, so far as he could, every
evidence of repugnance and timidity combined
"I have sent for you," said Mark, "to make
you my wife. -Here you shall reign like a
queen; two hundred men. shall be your sub-
jects and servants. You'have only to command,
and your slightest wish will be obeyed. Here
I am absolute ; but I will share my power with
you. Your father knows me, and he has given
his' consentand approval to this step. It will
be useless for me to attempt to conceal from you
longer who I am ; I am he whose name you
have so often heard. My name and exploits
are famous ; but Satan himself is never so bad
as he is painted. I am Mark Donhead-the
captain of banditti! The future before you is
not so dubious as it might seem at first thought.
Here you may live in afluence and ease.. As

a husband, I shall be considerate and indulgent;
you will share my wealth, but not my crimes-
if crimes they may be called. It will evince
the most good sense on your part to leave off
sighing and crying, and submit to° your lot like
a rational maiden. There is much true philo-
sophy in submitting gracefully to what you can-
not evade ; and this marriage, I assure you, is,
inevitable. The ceremony will be performed
immediately, and you will remain here until all
is in readiness. A few of my followers will be
admitted' as witnesses of the rite, and the monk
who will officiate, is now in the cavern."
The bandit chief ceased speaking, and Louis
offered no reply, not at that time deening it
prudent-to trust his voice, fearing it might be-
tray him. Being left alone, he passed the time
in reflections of a nature not very flattering to
his future prospects. The name of Mark Don-
head was familiar to his ears ; he had heard of
his innumerable robberies, and his character was
associated, in his mind, with all that. was cruel
and terrible. Common report spoke him vin-
dictive in disposition, and violent in his sudden
outbursts of passion ; and he naturally dreaded

THE SILV

the finale of the present scene. He had not yet
traced out any definite method of making known
the fraud which he had practised; but that the
whole would soon transpire, was now fully ob-
vious.
After the lapse of about an hour he heard
several persons approaching, and knew that the
ordeal which was to test all his 'firmness, was
indeed at hand. Mark Donhead entered, fol-,
lowed by father 'David, Albert Casside, Yorielr,
Dick Strow, and half-a-dozen others.
"My honorable intentions towards this maid-
en," said Mark, "are known unto you all,
gentlemen. I have formally proposed to her
father for her hand, and have received his full-,
est assent. I now intend to wed her on the
spot, and desire all present to be witnesses of
the legality of the marriagee"
"1The damsel, of course, consents to this ar-
rangement 7" said father David, inquiringly.
" Unquestionably," replied Donhead; "but
her agitation and embarrassment, which are
quite natural to the novel position in which she
finds herself placed, will prevent her, as you
perceive, from giving the fitting responses ; but
that will make no material difference. You can
make the contract just as strong, even if she
utters not a word. Come, -gentle shepherdess,
all is ready, and I am impatient to be made the
happiest man in Dorsetshire."
Donhead advanced and took Louis by the
hand, while the monk gave Albert a sly glance.
"1The gentle damsel is greatly abashed ; be
not so urgent, captain; allow her a moment or
two in which to recover her equanimity."
",When the ceremony is fairly over, she may
have as much time as she pleases for that pur-
pose. But upon my honor, I cannot now ad-
,mit of any delay. Come, my queen, no more
whimpering and tears ; let me cast aside the
folds of this envious veil, that your beauty may
astonish and dazzle the eyes of all present, and
mine most of all."
Knowing that the denouement must come'
sooner or later, Louis made but little resistance
to. the removal of said " envious veil," when all
eyes were indeed "astonished," but not "daz-

ER BELL.                                89
zled," with the face that was presented to view ;
for the youth's features by constant exposure to
the sun, had become very much embrowned,
and somewhat roughened, resembling but little
the soft, downy skin of Isandra.
The complacent air of Mark ,Donhead van-
ished with the quickness of light, and his fea-
tures grew darker than the clouds of midnight.
At first, the blow seemed to stun him, and he
could not fully realize the deception which had
been practised upon him. The storm was
about to burst in all its fury, when father David
threw the book which he held in his hand at
Mark's feet, and exclaimed, in as angry a voice
as he could assume :
"Captain Mark, this is a miserable trick !
and if you think we shall be amused at it, you
are much mistaken I"
" It is infamous !" cried Casside, springing
forward and shaking" his fist in Mark's face.
"We did not come here to be fooled, sir ; but in
good faith to witness a marriage ceremony, and
nct to be laughed at and mocked in this con.
temptible manner."
"Ay, ay I" added the monk, with increasing
energy, and gesticulating violently.  "You
may think it a very fine joke to smuggle a boy in
here, dressed up like a woman, in order to make
me and others appear ridiculous ! It's a dis-
grace to the priesthood !"
Yorick, Dick Strow, and others, seeing father
David and Casside so much excited about the
matter, began to think that a sorry trick had
been played upon them also, and showed their
displeasure by chiming in with the two latter in
a very decided way.
Donhead recoiled a few steps, and his coun-
teiance grew blacker, as he realized more per.
feotly, that he was becoming the centre and
focus of the foul words and indignant looks of
all present-.
"Stop your infernal chatter, you confounded
idiots I" he exclaimed, stamping upon  the
ground like a maniac. " This ;is no work of '
mine. Peter Vidal has deceived' me. Bring
Herbault I run for Herbault ! and let him strike
off this young rascal's head as quickss possible
Ho, here ! Yorick, begone ?"

P,

CHAPTER XIX.
TRE BRIDAL.


4es; 1%p  payeglyconsiderably gpaei ed
eg   y 4helartio
tus. atae  at once to the cottage of
Peter Vidal," cried th   ir "and see wh tall
this means.".
.   eansJ" thpn4ere' Mark    t "It mepus
tI have .beenbearded, hoaxgd, and defraud-
ad beyond calculation . By my saul I this bqy
sall atia day btat h Q  dertopk to execute
tb, rowndsion !'"
Ue bandit raised his hand to strike the
p Ah, but the naonk interposed.
"It is n't the lad that is to be blamed," said
David, "but the knave, Vidal. On him should
f6 lthe, weight of your fury, and not on this
feur youth.".
"I will visit the sin of the father upon the
child "~ retoi'ted Mtark. " llerbault shall deal
wit him 1"
"ome, come, this is unlike you, sir," said
Oasside, taking the bandit by the Srn. " I
mustbavp a victim; let us away to Vidal's
cottage."
-  ,tjhis jugwturps Yorieretured and..rc-
pgr ed bathaIerbagilt couid not be found, and
bwtepn se9en. or.the last twordays.
z {  at,segbgesbhavepne of the  llow?'
ian red eark, impatigntly.         .  t' .r
"I don't know," e      Dick.    .a*him
g as ,begyft 4li ergl ispsaid
thstggergatidenge" S   teWO  1hip1"
igtbfrg  :s1,'  da4   riuky "ho"
told me hewas gping t 1te iver Beg nn Par
a i q  bmbsipss, aad ;I ya  't. seen  him
since."
Jtstri esne there ia something. very pin-
gula akuthig,".heseMai     ,houghtfuly.
"J'sptter that must be . ok d into," ;
had stood silently awaiting the result,with and;
ions forahdings. Ue haarecognized Albert
sh s g  cep , ati his pre n  gave him fortitude
avdegr"   e,'  lhhhe.xender lnet u  ttl
atf ding himnin ; me company, Th4 nuwer
olggulaipoa ahieh th M9yi  d f9/ai in
regas4                4 egg  il's  k 4tiengqt4 ,

W   aBnt titrut Wow  see ind to be co R
p telysappren ,Instead of being a nobleman
in isg iia, he was no more nor less than an
outla          .
"Let this youth," said Mark, at length,
"beeon veyed tp tlie chamber of justice, there
to await my pleasure."  Louis was led away,
and Donhead: proceeded to question Yoriek and
Dick Strew, on the manner in which they had
performed their part in this rather curious busi-
ness. They afirmed, that they went to the
spot to which they. had been directed, met the
person whom they expected to meet, and acted,
as they supposed,. precisely in accordance with
their instructions-; not having the - remotest
idea that paid individual would turn out to be
anything different from what the externalsseem,.
ed to indicate.  Both the men'earnestly de-
clared -that they had acted in perfect good
faiths
The captain of banditti was evidently very
much excited; and after he had wearied. him-
self in striding up .uand down the .avern, and
uttering-all -*anner of threats, he turned to
David and Casside, and asked them;to acoom-
paniy him to Peter Vidal's:
When:they reached the cottage of ,the latter,
he was sitting moodily at the table, staring ,u.
lenlyat-the heap of valueless metal before him4
Mark entered without.ceremony; followed- by
Cassie, while David, on some pretence, stop-
pedaoutside, sayinghe would be with thenia
moment
Misemble ohet'" -elaimed Donlieadas
L he burst into the room.
"Iging knave 1" cried;Vidal, springing to
- his feet, an4 confronting the bandit captains
4" Diheest oqoundrel !" shouted Donhe
"Ungrateful villain 1" retorted Vidal, -- 
" You sent me as contemptible boy I" not
tinepd .ark,-furiously. ,
Y iou sent ipe a bag of copper and lead l"
resumed Peter, vehemently.
   s e n k .y o n   f i v e  I m a d r e d   So .i"s  I "
:." I segetgg' "a'Ydi.I
---".. -
I " Bob~bpd'   -    -

r
s
4
1
t
1
Y
n
i,
7
t
T
}
f

M.a46ed by mtua leein~atisand, as
they believed, by individualwrong$, thysp-angi
at ach~othtr with the fury :of wildecats;--and
thereupon ensued a pugilistic encounter of un-
surpassed  ferocity.  Father Dvld appeared
while. blowswere being :ekeha'nged" with great
rapidity andviolence
SConme,.good monk !" cried Casside, quick-
ly throwing off his outside- gatment ; "let us
part these two men. Dona you perceive that
our worthy captain is getting the worst of it ?"
Now our hero *as :a strict lover of justice,
and he straightway endeavored to act towards
the parties with entire impartiality. He gave
Vidal.a blow under the left ear,- and Mark a
buffet in the left eye. When they had recov-
ered their feet again, he flattened the nose of
the former by a second punisher upon that or-
gan, and knocked out ,a front tooth for the lat-
ter- by placing a pain-killer upon that interest-
ing aperture where he put his food.
In this manner he continued his efforts to'
serve both the combatants alike, and very soon
tthe faces of each were terribly, cut up, -and cov-
erediwith sanguinary hues that, attested faith-
fully to the skill and prowess oftAlbert., While
-the :latter, wai acquitting himself in this highly
rational and.-praiseworthy way,-he called upon-
D-  jd at every1blow he struck,:'4 in the name
of justice and humanity to come to his assis-
tanus; that' they might put an end to a scene so
bloody and brutal."-
It was then that, the monk enacted his part'
in the drama. ;He-held-up his cross; and dane-
hig about ithe coniabtants ma theughi half-fright-
ened ot f his setoes,oalled en them.in ,the
name of ,th. hdly trinity tocease their ungodly;
opertioisw After these strong forms of abjara-
tiouih, bpiilfdd. he called to'his aid the virgin
xy and as-many other sainte as-he could re- -
members; but with no better success -than at
Atthat juncture both Mark'andVidl direi.
ed their efotsagainst Caside ;.and be,-oontin
gingtery ut that itwaa a burning shamekfori
twe humanAbeings to belabor each other-so -
4uollyggkve each such powerful knocks, rightI

TE SIL   ELL                    91

ad left; - as ultimately nirdthhed theni  odh
updn their-backs; hdrs de comlart *hieh hap-
pened just at the instant that the friar-had
reached the one-hupdred and fiftieth saint, mi
performed precisely. sixteen revolutions thout
the parties.
'Neither of .the combatants made say attmpt
to rise,-for they were inca state closely- bord
ing -on insensibility:
. "This fellow," said Albert, -pointing to Vi-
dal, "-must not be permitted to do fartheriper-
sona injury to our nbble leader."'-  .-
"Certainly not," replied the monk;    he
must be bound."
"Both must be bound," returned Casside,
decidedly, giving David such a meaning look
that it was impossible for him to repress a smile.
"We will bind them both, and then return to
the: cavernand send up some of our companions
t0 bring them in, when Herbault shall exercise
his skill on Peter Vidal without delay."
"My scaling " said father David, " is a
most peaceful one, and it is my duty, at all
times, to prevent, as much as possiblethe
effusion 'of ',human blood; otherwise,-howfgold
- I have confidence to look-a man in the face .aid
say pax vobi e m. I seepelose at band :some
strong eords ) in:the name of the virgin, let
us use them!'"
Inniediately Albert and his companion seized
upon the prostrate ,forms of Ddnhead and Vidal
-and bound them hand-and -foot._ The captain,
becoming quite conscious during'this operation,
gnashed his-, teeth, with rage, an4 ittered- .l
kind of :threats upon his persecutors, heartily
wishing our heroat the bottomless pit.
"I was a fool to ti-ustygou I" roared Mark.
"-Yoa have -done' nothing -but mischief -since
you have .been' mung"niy-men. -You are a
traitor, air, and if I hsd my was', yen should
sufera traitor's doom before the wo ld wAs an
hour older I"
" ifaniansmife thee none eheek thntto
-himrthe-other als," said father David, eith'
nasal-twang.                           M --  - . i-  - 
" infernal--hyfoeri t!"  elaimdd -
foaming attheiaouth; ,and there-being -mthing


r92

TEI SILVER BELL-

else that he could do, vented his fury byknock-  The capti n ground his teeth, and kihekd at
ing the back part of his head against the floor. Vidal with both feet.
"You can now settle the subject of difficulty  "We will comfort your fair bridet!" added
between yourselves, at your leisure ; and I Casside ; .and when he and the friar closed the
really hope, for the sake of example, in a more door behind them,Mark was bellowing like an or.
Christian method," resumed Albert.          "And nbw," added Albert, when they were
Mark Donhead rolled -up the whites of his in the open air, " where is Isandra ?""
eyes-in a manner too expressive to be misun-  "Fear not, she is' safe.'- I knocked upon
derstood, and indemnified himself forhis utter the window of her apartment, and she left the
imlpotency by beating his head more violently, house after youientered. By this time sh3 has
and growling like a mad dog.       '.     found a protector. - Come, let us hasten to the
" Dom'nus vobiscum 1" said the monk, as, Silver Bell. The Lady Eveline and Louis must
'    -the parties were preparing to leave the cottage. be set at liberty this night."-
CHAPTER XX.
FATHER DAVID'S STORY.
LBERT CASSIDE       and father David find there ; one of them is Mark Donhead him-
proceeded at a rapid pace to the inn. self, -and the other Peter' Vidal.' Donhead
Entering boldly, and without consulting Joa- Wood will soon'cease to be a terror to honest
chim Capet, they mounted the stairs, and gave travellers. Since I+ conversed with your high-
a few gentle taps upon the door of the chamber, ness a few days ago, I have acted with pronipt-
which communicated with the' cavern by the ness, and have been abJe to execute my plans
concealed doors and secret passage ; it was in- more quickly than I had "expected."'
stantly opened by a middle-aged man, whom,   "It shall' be speedily attended -to," replied
the reader will recognize as the same who had the person addressed.  "I have a company of
been robbed by our heroin Donhead Wood. as trusty fellows as ever drew sword, concealed
Beside this personage, the Loom contained the at no great distance from here."
young man who had been attacked by two ruf-  Father David bowed, and then turning'to the
fans at the inn yard, and the elderly-looking individual who had been robbed in the forest by
cavalier who had joined him on that occasion.  Ca slide, added, pointing to the'latter: -
In an obscure corner of the apartment, Cas-  "This'young man and myself willnew oat-
side recognized Isandra. The individual who tempt to procure the liberation of Lady'Eveline ;
had opened the door, appeared to be much 'agi- and should we be successful, such explanations
tated, and paced the floor nervously, casting will be ,made in regard to, these -eomplicated
troubled glances at our hero.             matters as shall make all persons present hap-
"It will be well," said the monk,.speaking pier. My'lord, you must not always 'judge by
in aslow' tone to the young man whose life Al. appearances, because "such judgment} is: .not
bert had saved, "to send some of your men-at- always 'righteous. -I think 'I understand the
arm to the edttage of which I have spokei'be- nature -of the grief that-is' weighing .upon you
fore,'to useoure the two persons whom they will so heavily; and'-think I rmay say boldly, with-

r

N

93

out fear, that, the assertion can be proved false,
that your noble name has never been disgraced
by those who bear it."
"Such words are useless," returned the
nobleman, sorrowfully.  "My griefs cannot
be so easily assuaged. I know what you pro-
bably do not ; I have knowledge of that which
makes me wish myself in the tomb of my an-
cestors, mingling quietly with the dust of past
generations. But enough of this painful theme ;
can I not accompany you whither you are now
going, and share the danger, should there be
any? "
" Bf'no means, my lord ! it is not to be
thought of. Skill will serve us on this enter-
prise better than strength. Should we not re-
turn at the expiration of an hour, conclude that
we have failed, and provide for your own safety
and hers," pointing to Isandra.
While the monk was conversing with the two
persons referred to, Albert found opportunity
to whisper a few words to the fair shepherdess,
and to encourage her in the best manner that
he could.- He then followed father David, who
had proceeded to open the secret door which
connected with the cavern, having first provided
himself with a light. They passed hurriedly
through the intervening apartments, and were
soon in the subterranean labyrinth. They kept
on without accident until they reached.the cell
which Albert had hitherto occupied.
" Enter here, and stop a few moments," said
David, " when Strolling Willie will join you,
and conduct you to the place where the Lady
Eveline is held in captivity."
Casside did as he was directed, and after the
lapse of ten minutes, the stroller made his ap-
pearance.
"I have come," he said, "to take the place
of the monk. I-know what is to be done,:and
we must be expeditious in our movements."
"As expeditious as you please," replied Al-
bert. "Lead on."  Without farther conversa-
tion, Wandering Willie threaded once more the.
intricacies of the way which had cost them so
much anxiety.and trouble on the previous night.
They met.no one in the passage,.and ina little

'while the door of Lady Eveline's prison was
thrown open.
Casside ran forward and tenderly embraced
the fair occupant, who manifested the utmost
joy.
"Repress your emotions," said the stroller;
" and prepare to depart instantly from 'this
place.
Albert had observed that the beggar carried
under his arm a small bundle, which he' now
unrolled. It proved to be a long; singular
looking garment, but not wholly unknown to
the reader, who will recognize it as the same
worn by Weird Elsie.
" Put this on," said the stroller, "as quickly
as possible. It has done good service on several
occasions, and P pray heaven that it may on
this.  You observe that it has a hood like -
domino-pull it over your face. Now we are
ready."
The parties issued from  the cell, and after
going a few yards, the mendicant stopped and
unlocked another door ; it was the chamber of
justice where Louis Vidal had been conducted
to await tle pleasure of Mark Donhead. = The
youth was sitting in a disconsolate manner ujon
a heap of straw, where our hero had passed
some uncomfortable hours-hinislf.
.The lad started up in great astonishment, but
Willie laid his finger upon his lips, and signified
by a gesture that he should follow them ; which
was a thing so agreeable to his own feelings,
that he obeyed with wonderful alacrity. Ob.
serving the profoundest silence, and agitated by
numberless fears, the parties glided like mid-
night spectres towards'the Silver Bell.
So strong were the emotions of Lady Eveline,
that she was several times in danger of becom-
ing unconscious; but Albert supported hei and
whispered words of cheer. She trembled at the
echo of every sound ; the damp currents of air,
sweeping from different passages, sounded 'to
her like the wings of death, and' chilled her
blood until 'it seemed to be congealing within
her veins. The horror with' whieh the baditti
had inspired' her mind had nearly dethroned
the powers of reason and sell-consciousness ; but

L

TH- SILVER BELL.


U

'0

#l  qamfg ting  san s. of'.Albert strength-
ened her so that',sbe was able to meetethic emer-
ps~ayk with eiaent'fodrtitode to etisurdi its
suqes# '
They reached the cellar beneath the inn with-
outriseovery &amp;d'ceded , to- the apartment,
where tlir appea une ;was, awaited with theta
greatest anxiety, with feelings of joy natural to
them inportamce ,of the aseveiest. Lady
ivelia threw back the hoed from her' face,
*4the- poreobage whom the monk had styled
"Isy l*nd,' caught ber la his armes, exclairming:
"'Xy daughter I:my.danighter .
"Have you no kind words for' thelbert 4"
ssoled kEVeline, When she was sufficiently calm
to peakk,
'Ue has 'disgraced me I" replied 'the lord
of tembe Manor: bitfsr .
6"JNevor 1" cied the young man. whoi the
reader has known as Albert Casside. " I. can
piesw ay hsedrupon my beat, anid boldly Say
bpre all.;men,,and before him. who 'is above
labhat [ have never yet disgraeedmyna eor
' Yau oneed?' rejoined the nobleman, "wore
a 49min, fr  eegood.reaan, 'doubtless, but
tutately, the had-pie e of thesanie, slipped
from your faeg; I will not be moreseplicit.".
?'.es,' hedidwear a.domix,!'!saidStrolling
Willie "andfor thebbeofreasons ; and when
e"aM stances ,are fully explained #"his conduct
onthat'pession' will reneet thethighest credit
upon hiscouragqsa i4native goodness;of heart:
I ptonounee ; yourson Ran honorable mans ad.4
cen tea s gentleman."
" And, who ereiyou?" asked the nobleman,
esely. '
,trollingWillie instantly threw of' his tat-
eddagarmen    aad Staightening 'uphis bent
figsotlod befo    them nfl t father David.
t "have-1een called,' he said, deliberately;
"by several,.names dince t 1 rst eros4 ,the
hrshold of' the 'Silver Bell; I have been
lkawaas Strolling Willie, as Weird Elsie},and
604&amp;her-Davd"
1saudra andLuis eehanged looks; of mu-
tl amasement, which :was largely shared by
our hero.

'It appears !then;" said the latter, ' that
the:sam6 powerful instidetthat guided:the fota.
steps of Strolling Willie; 'hasCaleb governed the
movdmeutseof fatherDavid,?"
"-And of Weird'Elsie, also," added Louis;
timidly4
"' Allow' me to inquire,' resumed. the Lord
of. Metoombe, '"your reasons for joining the
banditti, and assuming so many disguises ?',
-"-Not for my own gratification," replied
father David, "have 21 led such an ecedntrie
life for the last few months.: It -has been =n;
object to watch over innocence, and to uhmaak
and bring designing villany, to deserved pun-
ishment. The young maidenwho has hither
passed by the name of Isandra-'Vidal, and the
lad whois called! Louis, both now present, have
been the particular objects of my guardianship."
"May I ask your real- name " .inquired
Lord Moteombe.
1' Charles Cranston," replied the monk.
"Yea formerly owned an estate near Cran
ston Abbas," resumed Moteombe,   and was
therfriend' and companion of:Sir William Wink
borne, who had extensive possessions between
the Stour and the Avony"    .
S"The same,"iretdrned father David. '. "Th9
unfortunate Sir;William Winborne was killed
on the English border, in a sanguinary engage
anent with the S:Seots. I was with him  at the
time, and heard: his last words. He charged
me to be a friend and father to his only daugh-
ter. who was at that tim, nearly four-years of
age. Isolemnly promised him. to do all for the
child that one human being could dofor another.
'e pressed. my hand, thanked me,. and died.
When, at length, my-duties permitted me pi
leave the field, I sought the family residence' of
Sir 'William. I learned, trny,sorrows that his
good lady was no more;% that -she had perished
giving birth to a:son. Greatehanges had'takew
place, the estates of my friend had 'passed into
the hands of a distant relative.; I was received
with coldness,, and it-was soon evident tome that
my movements werd w tched-with distrust, and
the interest w iieh I took in the. children gave
anything but pleasure. Finding that I'could

ti!

THE SILVER BELL.

96

be of no service to those committed to my care, affair. However, I commenced the business in
I again returned to my military duties, and was earnest, and visited various parts of the king-
often engaged in the French and Scotch wars, dom, leaving no means untried to ferret out the
winning what men please to term a brilliant rep- villain who had been false to his trust, and re-
utation as an accomplished knight, and a bold store the injured heirs to the enjoyment of their
soldier."                                  own. Almost despairing of success, I came
" My lord of Cranston, your exploits are well hither again, to look once more upon the scenes
known to me-and to others," said Motcombe, where I had spent my youthful days and re-
earnestly.                                 ceived my first impressions.
"I also have heard them spoken of," added  " As fortune would have it, I stopped at the
the elder of the two cavaliers.  .         Silver Bell, in the disguise of a monk (for I
"Pardon me," added the monk ;. " I meant had assumed various disguises). During my
not to trumpet my own fame, but merely to give travels I had often heard of the daring deeds of
you to understand that in the various duties of Mark Donhead, and thought it a very singular
my calling and station, I found cares enough to thing that he had never been brought to jus-
occupy nost of my thoughts; but I did not en- tice. Well, to make my story as brief as pos-
tirely forget the promise which I had made to sible, I saw enough, in a short time, to excite
Lord Winborne. After the lapse of several my suspicions in regard to the connection of this
years, I directed my footsteps once more towards inn with the horde of banditti. I heard -whis
the former home of my friend, anxious to know perings, and saw significant looks, which assur-
if I could be of any use to those who bore his ed- me that.Joachim Capet was not an honest
name. Alas ! the Winborne estates existed no man. Being a man of the world, I made my-
longer, save in name ;.for the'changes that had self quite: at home:t the Silver Bell; drn
taken place during -my last absence, had been with mine'host,:invited his friends to join, ind
more marked and melancholy than all former praised his wine unsparingly. ";I soon made tbq
ones.. The ancestral mansion, with its valuable acquaintance of one Denis Wetzel f a per on
belongings,.had become the property ofstrangers, age  whose calling and principles were not clearly
by purchase; and ino tracesof the children, or evident at first, but not destined:to'remain long
of 'thsperson who had succeeded Sir William, in ambiguous shade. He. ornrp e40d a serfe
sould be found. I could only Llearn that the of skilfal attacks to sound my "honesty; and to
estates had been sold, seven. years before, by ascertain whether I was one who loved ease aid
ter :(supposed) legal dwner.: It was :in vain revelry .better 'thin'honor and :nprightnesad.:I
thatLinstituted inquiries; the. whole ,was in. saw the bait, and %knew well what kind of ,
evolved in mystery. But I am not a man to be hook it, concealed ; :but appeared to bite sb it
esOily'discouraged;. in my own mind I renewed like a greedy fish. I hardly need' say to this
my promise to look after the fortunes of the fair company that Demis Wetzel was :no other
children of :my early friend. Finally, by the than Ma-k Donhead, the notorious bandit. T
ingreat chance, I learned from a peasant that serve my king and 'my country,- I"won his es
the young girl and the boy had last been seen tire confidenee; and .nrolled myself among his
with a former servant of the Winborne family. followers. I was strongly impelledto thI etp;
Bot, this furnished me with poor dataupon which and presently had, no reason to regret that I
to begin my researches into -this -mysterious obeyed the impulse."

4 0

}
s           ,     ff
R
t"         'YI               c      J!
S    T
S

.    SUY     RIiaL.


THE SILVER BE.

/

CHAPTER XXI.
~ceNcLUsIoN. i

HE monk continued: " One day, I saw
KJthe captain conversing with a man whose
appearance struck me as resembling, in many
respects, the servant with whom the children of
Sit Williamhado last been seen. When I was
alone with Donhead, he told me that, the per-
son's name was Peter Vidal; and that he had
a daughter of uncommon beauty, - to whom be
(the captain) was about to be wedded.  This
information keited my curiosity, for I was still
hoping that some fortunate chance would di-
'vulge the secret of the disappearance of those
whom I had promised to protect, should they
evrneed a protector.  Full of these feelings,
Visited Vidal's cottage, and when I beheld
the sweet fate of yonder maiden, I could
seamcely doubt that I had found the daughter of
Sir William."
The monk, as he spoke, pointed to Isandra,
and immediately all eyes were turned in that
direction.
"The damsel certainly bears a striking re-
semblance in features, to Sir 'William Win-
borne l" exclaimed the Lord of Moteombe.
"This is indeed a strangely interesting nar-
rative."

The relation of the monk had been listened
to by Casside (as we prefer to call him) and
Isandra and Louis with absorbing interest ; and
when the last announcement we made concern-
ing the fair shepherdess, our hero could not re-
press an exclamation of joyful surprise.
"Before proceeding," added the monk, "I
will call the attention of this gentle company to
yonder lad, who, though not dressed in the
garments legitimately belonging to his sex, will
still, by his features, give additional weight to
the statements I have already made."
Poor Louis blushed like a bashful girl,..and
shrank from the earnest glances that were in-
stantly fastened upon him. Lord Moteombe
looked attentively at Louis, and affirmed that
" all those persons familiar with the features of
Lord Winborne would not be at a loss to -dis-
cover a strong resemblance upon the face of the
youth ;"- who doubtless at that moment vivid'
ly recalled the prediction of Weird Elsie con-
cerning the boots and spurs.
" Weird Elsie," resumed father David, with
a smile, addressing Louis, " promised you the
spurs of knighthood; and I will stake an hun-

st,  ,
' .., ,
f              ',  ,
1.
s
E ,
;
c
;
v
p  :

dred iorins that the prophecy will prove no
falehood.  But to go on with my story: Upon
questioning Isandra in regard to her early life,
Found that she had but little knowledge of it;
for children of four years soon forget the tran-
sactions of so early a period of their existence.
She remembered, only, that many years ago
she had lived somewhere else ; but all the par-,
tieulars of the manner of living, etc., were
almost entirely obliterated; she retained no
knowledge of any other mother than the wife of
Peter Vidal, whom she had always considered
as such, until the time of her death, which event
occurred some four years ago; since which time
the care of Louis and the domestic affairs had
devolved solely upon her.. I exerted all my
powers to gain the confidence of Vidal, and sue-
eeede4 beyond my expectations. One night,
when deep in his cups, he confessed to me that
Isandra and Louis were not his children; and
that he received a yearly stipend for their
maintenance.I
"'They are'sprung,' said he, ' from a noble
house, whose ancestral glory has departed for-
ever. They are the children of Sir William
Winborne.'
":He died, possessed, I believe, of consid-
erable wealth," I remarked, carelessly.
"' He did,' replied Vidal, ' and the bulk of
it is now in possession of Stephen Landsmere,
a distant relative on my lord's side, who would'
have been the legal heir, providing the latter
had died childless.''%
"' These assertions,' he added, 'are not
mere:fabrications of my own; I have papers at
the cottage to prove all I say.' "
' Anddid you manage to procure those im-
portant documents ?" asked Lord Motcombe,
eagerly.
:" I did," replied the monk, " and here they
are; I confide them to the care of his highness,
that he may examine them when it shall be his
pleasure to do so.".
Father David (Lord 'Cranston) produced
from beneath his domino a bundle of papers,
and with a low bow, placed them in the lands of
thesdistinguished-looking youth, who had given

1

7
y       r .
. ;y.,+;i.; ;
  " "
i{ r "      K, f
'i           «  r:
.
_
,;y{,
Y        y
1 a
. r
_
' ,
. f'

Casside the ring. At the word "highns'
Albert started in astonishment, as he had done
on the previous occasion when that term had;
been employed.
"Do not be surprised, my Lord-.Ethelbert,"
said the personage'referred- to, addressing himn
self to our hero. ".Ilam called Edward, and in
a few days, God willing, shall be crowned king
of England."
With glowing cheek and beating heart, Al-
bert hastened to throw himself at Prince Ed-
ward's feet--that distinguished personage who
was to be afterwards known as Edward III.,
and whose renown as a sovereign was destined
to spread far and wide.
" Arise, sir!" said the prince, graciously.
"I have not forgotten the important service
which you rendered me_ so recently. It shall
be mine to look into this affair which concerns
so intimately yonder blushing maiden and the
youth beside her, and to restore them to the
position which they should justly occupy. I
am glad that it will shortly be in my power tb
advance their fortunes and yours. The indi-
vidual'upon whom your eyes are now fastened,
is my uncle-.-the Earl of Kent."
Albert tendered his respects to the latter in a
manner becoming his rank, and according to
the custom of the times.
"By the way," added Prince Edward, mu-
singly, " as soon as our coronation has taken
place, we must mate out full and complete jus.
tice to Sir Hugh Sjencer and his reprobate son ;
the latter having seen fit,- in addition to his
other crimes, to join 'himself to this notorious
horde of ' banditti, and to ,cause to be carried
away a daughter of my Lord of Motcombe-one
of our most faithful friends and subjects. My
worthy Sir Charles," he continued, turning
kindly to the monk,."be good enough to pry
ceed with your tale."
"Shortly after making the important dias
covery already related," resumed Cranston,
"while I was devising means to restore Isandra
and Louis to thiir rights, and to bring Don-
head and- his fellows to speedy justice, in the
disguise of Strolling Willie, I first met th


t
i

98;                    THE s11N
OMng gentleman, who, at that-time, pleased to
cell himself Albert Casside. -Now it so hap-
1nedithat.I had 'heard, that very day, of the
unfortunate difficulty that had occurred in the
familyof Lord Moteombe, and also its cause.
B       .ing on intimate terms with'both Isandra and
Lus   the character of a ionk, I had learned
from.the latter that a young man of distinguish-
ed bearing, though clad in the manner in which
you now see Ethelbert, had often had stolen
interviews with his sister ; and he had every
reasonsto.believe that a strong friendship had
sprung up between them. This. information
interested me exceedingly, as may be supposed ;
inasmuch as it had a direct bearing.upon the
happiness of one whom I considered my protege.
"I requested Louis to describe the young
man as minutely as possible, and he did so.
The moment I saw Casside (for it must be- re-
collected that I was blind only when I chose to
be) at the Silver Bell, I recognized the subject
of the lad's description.  Schooled as I was in
the ways of the world, I needed no second
glance to tell me that he was not what his gar
noted. I was confirmed in this opinion when
I noticed more particularly the value and work
manship of the sword which hung at his side;
for it certainly was not in keeping with his rus
set coat. His moody and dejected-looks showed
me, at once, that he was laboring under some
heavy disappointment ;and this fact, added t
thev circustances already ,mentioned, gave mi
aiu instantaneous clue to his real name and char
aster.    .
"The conviction that next followed wa
equally natural ; for, if the young Lord o
Moteombe had loved imprudently, Isandra, o
aUl others, was most likely to be the object o
his affections; for, begging the damsel's pardon
she was exceedingly fair to lidok upon."
"eExcuse the interruption," said Lord Mot
combe, "but I would ask if you were known t
Joachim Capet, or any of the banditti, in tha
disguise'?"
"I was not," answered Cranston. "A
Strolling Willie and Weird Elsie, no one share
my secret, and I have the consciousness of fee

ER BELL
ing that I have accomplished some good' in,
these characters. Mark Donhead, struck with,
your fine athletic figure," continued the monk,
addressing our herb, " was anxious to enroll'
you among his men ; and with that object in'
view, planned the taking - of your purse, with
Joachim Capet, in order to compel you to some
decisive step. I frustrated the "scheme in a
manner already known to you; but on the fol-
lowing day you were robbed in the forest, with-
out my knowledge.    Having learned   more
perfectly the, designs of Mark in relation. to
Isicndra, upon mature reflection, I changed my
views somewhat, and resolved to advise you to
accept of his proposals ; in order that you might
be able to assist in baffling his intentions, so
that sufficient time might be gained for the men-
at-arms to arrive which his highness had already
*sent for."
- I am curious to know in what manner you
t learned the fact that any of the king's men had
been sent for'?" said the Earl of Kent.
I   " You shall be gratified ; Joachim  Capet
listened at your chamber door, and heard you
speaking to that effect."
" Ab, the scoundrel!" added the earl, with'
; a smile.
- " I am anxious to hear about this fair of
d Sir Hugh Spencer and the Lady Eveline;"
said the prince.
o    " Godfrey Ridenger, or more properly, Sir
e Hugh Spencer, planned and execite.d that vil-
- lanous enterprise without my knowledge; -ad
even Mark Donhead had little to say, or do, in
s the matter. 'Had I but had any intimation of
f what was intended, the transaction would never,
of have reached a successful termination, and' the
f Lady Eveline had been spared a most unpleasant'
, experience.. And now I believe I have :ex-
plained about all that needs explanation ; as I
t- have already put the prince in possession -of
o some of the principal facts."
at " You have not alluded to the robbery of my
Lord of Motcombe'?" said the: Earl of Kent.'
s    "The object o.f that robbery was to prevent
d a real robbery by other hands, in which the life.
l- of his lordship might have been eridangerMd'y

.
k
g
C
,i
i
'
i
Y
rpL
J
K
M1
S  ="
?;r
4
h
E
"
,S
+ +
it
1
f
t  '
;
~    V
_
9
r,',
i
F v

SI
F
F-I     }r
. 9 i  ..

THE SIhER'BELL.                                       '
also:to enable Gasside, as he was called, to win  "Your highness, I join in Ethelherts e
more perfectly the confidence of the bandit-eap. tion,'" added Lord Cranston.
tai. The bag of useless metals which was taken .The prince paused: before our hero,1 and said,
frornyou, has played quite an important part in slowly
the, transactions of this eventful night.  By my  " I had determined to show the bandit chief
means, it was made to take the place of the five no mercy; but, inasmuch.as you affirm that he
hundred forms which Mark had promised Peter is a brave man, I will exereish clemency on one
Vidal in payment for his perfidy. condition: it is, that he join the-oyal army au4
"My good Lord of Moteombe," said Prince wipe out, by deeds of valor, his past:offences,
Edward, turning to'that nobleman, who was in I will do more ; 1 will extend the same condi.°
the act of embracing our hero, " I hope you will tion to as many of his men as will -accept of
accord it as a favor, to one so soon to be your them.  And now, gentle lords 'and fair ladies,
acknowledged sovereign, the liberty, of joining there is no good reason why we should targ
the hands of two persons, whose hearts have longer at the Silver Bell.. Let us mount and
long since been united.  Lady Isandra, of away to Motcombe Manor, where we shall no
Winborne-.tour hand--Ethelbert, give me doubt find this famous Mark Donhead and Peter
yours-there-may you be as happy as wealth,, Vidal, not very-much pleased I dare say, with
rank, love, and contentment, can make you." this unexpected change in their affairs."
While the prince was thus speaking, the read.  The prince ceased speaking, and descended
or will understand that he joined the hands of to the door, followed by the whole party. Jo-
our hero and heroine, while the Lord of Mot- chim Capet stood upon the threshold, and stared
combe and his fair daughter Eveline, and in fact at them with inexpressible astonishment. The
all present, looked on with approving smiles. Earl of Kent produced a small silver call and
"And Louis," continued the prince, turn- blew upon it ; presently a company of knights
g to that astonished youth, "you shall some and squires galloped up to the im.   Mine
day receive the accolade from our own hand; host was instantly arrested, to his unspeakable
go that the prophecy of Weird Elsie shall in no dismay, and the Silver Bell was in possession
wise fail."                                of the king's men, who - had already received
This is indeed to me a most happy night ; their instructions in relation to the secret pas-
this morning I felt myself childless ; now 'I sage and other matters concerning the banditti.
have three children. Blessed be the memory of  "They are now," said Lord Cranston, alias
my patronisaint !" exclaimed Motcombe, with father David, " earthed like foxes ; for a strong
m                              guawi has already been set at the entrance of
"There is one favor which I will venture to the cavern, so that all ingress and egress is com-
ask of your highness ?" said Albert, hesi- pletely cut off. My plans are successful-I
ttgy                                    am content.
"Speak boldly," rejoined the prince.  "You  "And I," returned Casside, " am more than
have a talisman to secure our favor.".     content-I am happy."
"You have already cancelled a thousand     What remains to be said, can be comprised
ties the slight obligation which you were in a few words. Mark Donhead, finding that
good enough to believe you were under to me, no alternative remained, and being tired, as he
by bestowing upon we the lovely being at my affirmed, of his former courses, accepted with-
side; but the boon which I now crave concerns out hesitation the conditions offered. His men,
that brave but misguided man, Mark Donhead; finding that their secret haunt was discovered,
I ask that his life may be spared.".- and that there was no way of escape, concluded
wad fpawied hestatd a moment, and to follow the example of their leader, and to
wake ipaietl aros heroom.           seek under his command more 'honorable dis-


~Fr -r
fi .4

tigctjoa  $ir Hugh $pencerand h   en  ere
4ortly after executed for numerous.gi?
Joacbin  Capet, after being imprisoned a
while, joined a company of cross-bowmen, and,
i is said, conducted'himself very well on several
occasions.
The claims, of Isandra and Louis were fully
es ablished and after his coronation, Edward
the third caused their estates, to be restored,
azpd Stephen Landamere to be punished as his-
villany deserved.:
Zn due time our hero and heroine were united ;
amd the occasion was celebrated in a manner
bdedming their rank ; the young king himself
honoring the bridal with his presence.  Lady
Eveline eventually became the wife of a distin-

guished nobleman.
The Silver Bell passed into honest-hands;
and the heir of Moteombe Manor and his lovely
bride never mention it without peculiar emotions;
it having been the scene of so many strange

events bearing directly upo their present and
future happiness.
Lord Cranston, at the earnest solicitation of
all parties -concerned, took up his residence at
Motcombe Manor, where lie was greatly es-
teemed, especially by Isandra and Louis, who
entertained for him much of the affection which
they would have felt for a father. The predic-
tion of Weird Elsie proved sooth in all respects,
and some years after Louis received'the ac-
colade from the hand of his sovereign.
Peter Vidal was banished th4e kingdom on
pain of death ; consequently was never seen in
those parts again.
Thus, gentle reader; have all parties been. j
rewarded and punished according to their good-
ness or " badness ; and the great 'moral lessor'
inculcated, that honesty, in all the transactions
of life, is the wisest and best policy ; a truth
which will-no doubt be remembered by all those
who may read the tale of Tas SiLva BELL.

THE END.

{        'TTh~BELL.

10

" h

.
c            ;
,  {  '  .

ti ,

.

T   ''                      '
i
f'
J                 '
f       ~
1.
i    ,                          Y
f1    0
'T
i      t iSt                    '
1F+ y,              t
'. k
;
.
-    S       j      ,g
Y                        '
y.        _         ,    .r
'e                     1
i    -              i.          _


  
             
         
       
   
