
    ----CITATION----
        Stimson, A. L. (1816-1906). Easy Nat, or, The Three Apprentices .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7937
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Easy Nat, or, The three apprentices 
            
                 
                EASY NAT; OR, A TALE OF LIFE IN NEW YORK AND BOSTON, BUT "ADAPTED TO ANY MERIDIAN." BY A. L. STIMSON, EDITOR OF "THE EXPRESS MESSENGER"  NEW YORK: J. C. DERBY, 8 PARK PLACE. BOSTON: PHLLIPS, SAMPSON & 00. CINCINNATI: H. W. DERBY. 1854.   V   Entered, according to Act of-Congress, by A. L. STIMSON, in the Clerk's Office of the U.- S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four.  W. H. TINSON, STEREOTYER, "Beehman Street.    AND CORDIAL REGARD FOR A NUMEROUS CLASS OF UPRIGHT, INTELLIGENT, AND ENERGETIC CITIZENS, THE  EXPRESS-MEN OF AMERICA, THS WORK  THE AUTHOR.    EASY NAT; ORtT H HUS' SpN1111"6- - oak OTIS %kuri oet %Viiefit     THE contents of this book concern every class of character as comprised in commercial communities. Boston bars and Boston boys---New York novelties, and New York nuisances-the -evils of intemperance, the dangers of dissipation, the follies of fashion, and the wages of sin in large cities, are all illustrated in these lucubrations, if. the author has hit what he aimed at. In the three printer's apprentices, EDWIN FAIRBANKS, NATHAN MUDOE and THoNALS BRAXTONr,  the author has portrayed three kinds of youth,-the first, a lad of correct principles, industrious habits and ambitious to excel as a good citizen,--the second, "' a real good-hearted boy,' but full of fun and conviviality, and easily led astray by his fellow apprentice, THOMAS BRAXTON, whose precocity in vice, and low indulgences, we see paralleled daily in the conduct of numerous half-grown men about town. We observe the career of these young persons, from youth to manhood, and along. into more mature age, and see the seed, which they have severally sown, produce its legitimate fruits. In the idle and vicious, " the six degrees of crime,-wine, women, gambling, theft, murder and the gallows "--are all attained;   Vlii          PREFACE. while the good and the true, impelled by an honorable ambition secure the rewards of virtuous merit. In the character of the stalwart and sterling MASSACHUSETTS FARMER-' JOHN HARD' "the author has aimed to paint the Yankee as he is; peculiar, perhaps, but relieved of the grotesque absurdities attributed to him in the calumnious representations of him, upon that popular vehicle of caricature, the stage. Our artist, in delineating the features and person of Mr. Hard, has not done justice to the good looks of our agricultural friend, but as he has represented him as seen in conditions of great mental excite- ment, the pictures may be more correct than we imagine. In describing some traits of life at the Five Points, as seen nearly twenty years since, any allusion which would be likely to offend delicacy and decorum, has been instinctively avoided in these pages. The origin -of the poor little Newsboy, who was "not born, but washed ashore," it may not be superfluous to say, was recorded, in a paragraph, many years before Mrs. Stowe's original and admirably delineated negro character, "Topsy,' became patent. The infantine history of " SCRATCH GRAVEL, was no new thing at the Five Points, and similar cases have occurred often, and will again, it is to be feared, notwithstanding the philanthropic labors of REV. MR, PEASE, and the ladies of the Mission. For the anecdotes of the HAY FAMLY, of South Carolina, the author is indebted to a little book which has-been out of print for a quarter of a century past. In the hard fortune of Easy Nat, who was brought to the igno- minious scaffold, upon presumptive proof, for a crime of -which he   PREFACE .            iX was wholly innocent, the author has endeavoured to illustrate the danger of convicting, in capital trials, solely upon Circumstantial Evidence. In the memorable case of Professor John W. Webster (men- tioned more at length in the body of this work), every link in the chain of proofs was perfect, and he merited his fate ; but, indubi- tably, many have suffered penal death, upon mere fragmentary testimony, and conclusions hastily founded upon a basis mainly of surmise and prejudice. A large number have been found " guilty " upon the supposed existence of an animus, or motive to commit the crime; with scarcely any proof of the act, itself. Burning with wholesome indignation at the discovery of a murder, or any capital offence, the incensed people, in hot haste, demand a victim in atonement; and if a person be accused, they appear always more inclined to decide him guilty, by acclamation, than to be fastidious in regard to any flaws or incompleteness in the evidence against him. How many remain to suffer from the like injustice, no man of course can number; but if this book shall have the effect to diminish, in any degree, the amount of judicial murder, in future; or if dooking at the more general object of the work) it shall reclaim one tippling husband, or pluck from the vortex of fashiona- ble vice one darling son, or lead back into the path of virtue any wayward brother, the author will feel more than compensated for the labor which--amid the multifarious calls and cares of a busi- ness more unfavourable to intellectual abstraction than any other -he has spent upon the production. He claims for it no literary merit. A*    'CHAPTER I. Page Iiltroduces the principal Personage in our true History--His Mother and Sister-' Poo an ntent is Rich'--Temptation resisted  .  .  .         .  .       9 C-  ,  H PTE 1I. Admits the Reaer to (the Printing Of ce, and introduces Right  and Wrong-- ThB d Apprentice and\the New one-Our Hero learns to drink beer-The Convivialists surprised-A pattern for Printers  .  .  .  .  .     .  .  .17 CHAPTER III. The Tempter and the Tempted-Certain curious Facts about Braxton and Boarding Houses-Thespian Theatres-Nathan is led to the Flip-The Declaration and the Lie . .  . 23 CHAPTER   IV. The Boys in Bed-A Peep into the History and Character of Edwin-Nasal Gymnastics--the Influence of Right and of Wrong upon Nathan-Right for once prevails - .    .33 CHAPTER Y. Introduces the several Members of Giles Godwin's 'Family, including his Pretty Daughter--A word about Poor Men seek- ing Rich Wives--Poverty, for once, a recommendation-The Sweethearts-An Errand of Charity    .    .   . 39   2Xii s         CONTENTS. CHAPTER   VI. Page The visit to the Poor Irish Family-The Wake-Thde Frenzy of a Bereaved Mother--Wrong and Affliction make even the Illiterate eloquent-The Penurious Apothecary--The Street Rowdies-The abode of Susan, the Sempstress--The walk home                 .  . . .     46 a CHAPTER VII. Nathan becomes an attendant at the Thespian Theatre-Tom Braxton as Hamlet-The Folly of Eunice Scarnmons--She joins the Forrestians-More Temptations--Our Hero learns to drink Wine--The Apology for Genteel Groggeries-Nathan visits them, and is convinced by Braxton of their -harmless- ness .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53 CHAPTER VIII. The Boyish bacchanals steal home-Nathan grows Impudent, and, Thomas Quarrelsome--They plunder the Pantry, and steal their Master's Wine-The New Apprentice insults the Senior, and provokes his Punishment-They are discovered by their Master-His grief-The Scene in the Cellar-Giles God- win sets an extraordinary Example to L the Gentlemen of the Old School'   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61 -CHAPTER  IX. Nathan Improves and Relapses again-Takes Lessons in Hypocrisy-A few Reflections on the Gentility of Guilt- Broken Promises-Nat's Mother becomes very 11l-He breaks his Resolve, and joins a Rowdy Party on a Sleigh-ride--De- scription of a Popular Hotel in Cambridge-Hot Words and Hot Suppers'  .   .  .  .  ..   . .   .  69 CHAPTER X. The Bacchanalians set out for Boston-The Assault on a Col- lege Boarding-house--The Dickens with the Old Driver-A   CONTENTS . Papg Rough and Tumble--' Watch! Watch!--The Flying Horses offer an eligible Prospect of Broken Necks-The Apprentices in the Custody of the Watch-The unexpected Encounter with Giles Godwin-The Terrible Development-Nathan at the Death-bed of his Mother-The Denoument .   .  .  .75 CHAPTER   XI. Nathan comes nigh to follow his Mother-Is saved through the, kindness of Kate Godwin--Recovers his Morals and his Health-Edwin Fairbanks leaves Cambridge to Pursue his Studies with more Economy in the Country--His Parents- The Secret Intemperance of his Father, the only bar to the Happiness of his Family-The Domestic Quarrel-The Stu- dent domiciliates himself in a Deserted Lighthouse . .83 CHAPTER XII. The Intrigues of the Wicked Apprentice--The Wretchedness of Susan Mudge-The Tailor-Tyrant-Advocacy of the Semp- stress-Susan is Persecuted by a Roue--Her Illness, and Voyage to the Capes .     .  .  .  .  .  . 89 CHAPTER XIII. Packets sometimes Perilous--D'Orsay on the Sea-Kate and Susan are Grossly Insulted-The Packet is Wrecked, and the Girls are left to Perish-They are Miraculously Preserved by the Student of the Lighthouse-An Eclaircissement. .  . 96 CHAPTER XIV. Plot upon plot-Nathan is again led astray by Braxton-Edwin Fairbanks is accused of a crime-His accuser recants--Brax- ton is compelled to wed Eunice--Nat elopes with Kate God. win-Becomes a Drunkard--Is brought before the Police, along with his Companion-Braxto'n is sent to the House of Correction .  .  .  .       .  .     104   Xiv          CONTENTS. CHAPTER-XV. Braxton the House-breaker, and his Dupe-Nat involves him- self in a Capital Crime--Thomas fires the House of Giles God- win-Eunice and her Child Perish in the Flames--tra'xton Escap'ed, and Easy Nat is Arrested as the Incendiary . . 109 CHAPTER XVI. Nathan Mudge is arraignea for Arson-The fury of the nulti- tude against him-He is defended by the new pleader, Edwin Fairbanks--The Verdict!-The Fire-raiser in the gallery--The Discovery--His Flight   .  .  .   114 CHAPTER, XVII. The Pursuit-Dock-square and Ann-stree--Pursuer at Fault -The Suspicious Fisherman-An Eccentric, well known Character introduced-Scene in an Ann-street Auction Room -The Accidental Detection-The Seizure Unsuccessful  . 124 CHAPTER XVIII. Reverts to the Coulrt Room-The Parting of Kate with her Hus- baind-Ossified Hearts tried some-Old Reed--Pictures friom Life--Nathan is remanded to Jail .  .       .135 CHAPTER XIX. Jolly Companions every one-A Champagne Supper at the Hotel-A Free Blow-Harry Price is Twenty-One-D'Orsay reappears on the stage-Major Sotterly's Grand Entree- -Practical Joke on a Native of the Palmetto State-How he Turns the Tables .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .139 CHAPTER XX. The Preacher tells the story of Peter and John Hay, the South Carolina Planters-The Forfeit Paid .  *  .  .   149 , a   C O NTE NTS.            XV CHAPTER XXI. Paw A Hard Customer-Tall specimen of a Yankee Farmer-Tom Braxton's Flight-Earthing the Varmint-Great Battle and Conflagration in' the Black Sea-The Yankee and the Fire- men    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 170 CHAPTER   XXII. Is like Monday's, Picked-up-Dinner, on'e of Fragments . 182 CHAPTER XXJII. The Wounded Man-The Breakfast at Godwin's-Reappear- ance of John Hard--The public feeling against Nathan- Giles is down upon the Newspapers .     .  .   187 CHAPTER XXIV. Love's Sacrifice--Susan proposes to Relinquish her Attorney, and Drop the Suit--The Protest-An eminent Thief-Taker is introduced-Strange Incident     .  .  .  . 196 CHAPTER   XXV. The Sentence .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 203 CHAPTER XXVI. Mysterious Disappearance of Kate-The. Letter--D'Orsay at Home--His Store in Broadway-The Burglary--Braxton again at his Old Tricks--Kate in New York  .  .  . 209 CHAPTER   XXVII. Introduces the Felon's Wife to the Great Metropolis-How a Stranger ought to take New York--Hunting for a Needle in a Hay Mow--Two Phases of Life in a Great City-Two Speci- mens of Lodging-houses-Kate is Guilty of a great Indiscre- tion-The Ruined Girl-Mrs. Mudge consents to meet D'Orsay  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  . 221   rv"i          CONTENTS. CHAPTER   XXVIII. '# 'lPage John Hard seeks his Fortune--Takes his first Ride in the Cars- Is compensated for leaving one Interesting Family by finding another-He arrives in New York            . 232 CHAPTER XXIX. Mr. Hard's Grand Reception in New York-One Hundred Car- riages, or less-A slight difference between hostile Hackmnen -The Hospitable Stranger-The Pickpocket-The Pursuit- 'Mr. Haxd meets with an Old Head upon Young Shoulders- The Newsboy    .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  . 237 CHAPTER XXX. New York Cries- The Radish Girl-A Gentleman in Distress- John Hard's opinion of New York Milkl-Finds a Hotel . 246 CHAPTER XXXI. A strange Adventure to Kate on her way Home-The Crushed Child-The Tricks of Trade-A   Death-bed at the Five Points--Scenes in Low Life  .  .  .  .     . 253 CHAPTER XXXII. Life and Death near the Old Brewery--The Somnambulist  . 262 *CHAPTER   XXXIII. Developes some Facts of the utmost Importance to Scratch Gravel-The Suicide--Foul Wrong somewhere in High Life 2" CHAPTER XXXIV. John Hard stumbles into a Difficulty, and is Challenged--De- clines being Bored, and volunteers an Opinion, as is an Opinion, upon Duelling. .         .     285   CONTENTS.            xvii CHAPTER XXXV.  .t              Page The Great Run--Bascomb and Posthoy--Humors of a Race- course  .  .              *  *  *. 294 CHAPTER   XXXVI. The Thieves in Disguise-The Second Heat--Bascomb the Vic- tor--The Row, and the Prize Fight          , .  .304 CHAPTER XXVII. John Hard and his Southern Friends visit the Opera--John's Opinion of Opera Music-His Description of one Scene--Finds Tom Braxton in one of the Galleries-A Striking Incident , 313 CHAPTER XXXVII,. VDOrsay's Cave at Holt's-The Infidel Disciple and his Prac- tices-Kate in the Lion's Den-The Assault--The Invisible Defender-The Murder   .  .  .  .  .  .  . 312 CHAPTER XXXIX., John Hard on Hand, with one BooIt-The Murderer at Bay, Defies Arrest-John becomes a Battering Ram-Tomn Brax- ton Escapes through the Window-Kate the Instrument of Just Retribution-Death of D'Orsay--Kate, threatened with Imprisonment, is saved by Harry Price ,  ;  .  . 329 CHAPTER XL. The Murderer's Trial--He seeks to Implicate the Innocent-- John Hard Badgered by a Lawyer-Kate's Interview with her Husband-Penitence and Pride-Nathan on a Good Fotm- dation      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 341 CHAPTER XLI. Love in High Life-Harry Price in Upper Ten-dom-The Freaks of Cupid--The Rival Sisters   .     .   354   C O NT E NT S. CONTENTS.   C O NT E NT S.   CHAPTER XLII. Page The Dinner at Judge Bogardus's-Helen changes her Opinion of Edwin Fairbanks-The Jealousy between New York and Boston-General Jackson's Administration, and the States- men of his Time-Singular Interruption to the Dinner Party -Entrance of Scratch Gravel--He claims a Father .  . 368   CHAPTER XLIII.   The Foundling and his Father-The Wild Oats Sown, and no Barn for the Crops-Cupid catches a Rara-Avis    384   CHAPTER XLIV.   Braxton's Life in the Tombs-John Hard in Prison-Tom Braxton consoles himself with Tom Paine .     . 393   CHAPTER XLVIII. Page Shows how the Christian can meet Death, even though ithe upon the Gallows-The Iniquity. of Hanging upon Presumptive Evidence Illustrated-Scene at the Scaffold . .  . 425   CHAPTER XLIX.   Arrival of Edwin and Kate-Braxton's last Hour-A Joyful Sabbath-Edwin returns to New York-Meets with a Decla- ration of Love in Upper Ten-dom-The Proud Beauty hum- bled-Jenny's Prospects improving-Harry Price does a sen-  sible thing . .  .  .     . . . .     441   CHAPTER L.   The Upper Crust-Intended Marriages in High Life-Scratch Gravel enjoys an Aristocratic Adoption-The Great Fire-- Will Saltpetre Explode?-Great doings in Boston-General Resultsiin particular-The End. . .  .  .  .  . 455   CHAPTER XLV.   The Visit to the Charity Hospital-More Rum Doings-The Tombs, and the Appeal to the Murderer-Little Biddy in Bad Company-The course of True Love not always in Navigable Order-The Novel Eclaircissement .  .  .  .  . 399   CHAPTER XLVI.   Kate Mudge alone with the Murderer-Her Entreaties in Vain -He offers Terms-His Plan of Escape-A Baron Trench -Scene in the Boston Jail---Nathan's Execution Approaches -He Prepares to be Legally Murdered  .  .    . 408   CHAPTER XLVII.   The Fate of Easy Nat determined on by the Executive and Council, and approved by the People-Painful Interviews upon the Morning of his Execution .  . . .  . 418'    CONTENTS.             XiX  CHAPTER XLVIII. Page Christian can meet Death, eve-n though ithe upon -The Iniquity. of Hanging upon Presumptive istrated-Scene at the Scaffold .  .  . 425 CHAPTER XLIX.  vin and K-ate-Braxton's last Hour-A Joyful  win returns to New York-Meets with a Decla- re in Upper Ten-dom-The Proud Beauty hum- s Prospects improving-Harry Price does a sen-   . . . . ...    441  CHAPTER L.  st-Intended Marriages in High Life-Scratch an Aristocratic Adoption-The Great Fire-- Explode?-Great doings in Boston-General  ticular-The End. .       .     455 t    EASY NAT; OR, THE THREE APPRENTICES. CHAPTER I. Introduces the principal personage in our true history-His mother and sister-' Poor and content is rich'-Temptation resisted. ' HURRAH, mother 1' cried Nathan Mudge, as he rather ran than walked into the humble room where his only Sur- viving parent lay ill, and tossed his ca' playfully at his sister, who, seated by the bedside, was busily engaged in sewing. ' Hurrah V' cried Nathan, 'another 'prentice is coming to-morrow, and I shan't be the youngest any longer I Hurrah for our side!' And he threw himself, in his rude, merry way, into his sister's lap. But he sprang up again, with a hasty excla- mation of mingled pain and laughter, quicker than he sat down, for the needle in the work, which she had thrown down in some surprise, had penetrated his skin. 'By Georgel Susy! What's that?' 1*'   10        EA S  N A T; O R,  Susan laughed till the tears came. Mrs. Mudge laughed, too, though inot so loud, for she was quite feeble. You must be careful how you take such liberties with the ladies, Nat ' said the invalid, kissing her son's ruddy lips. 'Gorry!' rejoined the young man, or the big boy, we hardly know which to call him, for he was a little of both, and not exactly either, 'I wish their iteedles would be careless how they take such liberties with xe.'  Then Susy, who despite her unremitting toil, was a blue- eyed, contented creature, laughed again-; evidently under the impression that there wasn't such another brother, the wide world over. Whereat Nat gave her ripe cherry lips, such a buss as a certain young man of her acquaintance would have considered cheap at any price. 'Whew I' said Nathan Mudge, smacking his mouth, 'you've been eating honey, Susy I Wrouldn't Ed. Fairbanks like to taste it Hperhaps not.' 'Do hear him 1' said Susan, with a blush that must have rendered the Banks alluded to, very unsafe, had he seen it. 'Now, saucebox, tell us about 'the new appren- tice, not the old one. What's his name?' 'The old one?-Edwin Fairbanks,' replied Nat, who was inclined to teaze his pretty sister, to whose attrac- tions, rather than his own, he ascribed an evening call which had been made upon them recently for the first time, by the young man whom he had named. 'What a plague I Mother, do speak to him 1' cried Susy, in the prettiest vexation imaginable. 'Oh l' said Nat, elevating his brows, and opening his eyes, as if to let in a novel idea, 'you mean the new one I Ohl his name is Braxton.'    --   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         " I -wonder,' said his mother, 'if he is any relation to tile rich coppersmith of that name?' 'I don't know,7 replied Nat, 'but I believe his folks live out, of town. It's so much the better if he's been brought up in the country, 'cause then he'll soon get used to carrying wood and luggin' water up them plaguey stairs, which I've done so long for old Giles.' 'I won't hear a word against Giles Godwin,' began Susan, resuming her work. 'Nor against his oldest 'prentice, I s'pose?' said her brother, maliciously,-making a feint to pull her nose, and getting his finger pricked for his pains. 'No, my son,' said Mrs. Mudge, 'yon must say noth- ing against the old printer. He has been a kind, good master to you 1' 'Well, who said he hadn't, mother?' exclaimed the im- pulsive 'prentice. 'I'd like to see ally one say so! That's all. Perhaps I wouldn't give him cheese!' And he gave his cap, which had fallen upon the floor, a kick that sent it into the extremest corner of the room. This mistaking of an important article of his scanty wardrobe for a slanderer of the printer to whom he was indentured, elicited from his mother a gentle remonstrance against his neglect of his clothes; at which Nat laughed, and intimated that, as his master had been generous enough to increase his wages that very day to two dollars a week, and board, he could afford to consider his old cap as the representative of his calumniators, if any such there were, and to make a foothall of it, accordingly. ' Etave you seen the new boy-what's his name?--   12       EASY NAT; OR, Braxton?' inquired Susan, burning off the end of her thread at the candle. 'No, but I s'pose he's green as grass, and bashful as a baby!' 'What makes you speak so rough, my son? You are too rude. Couldn't you just as easily have said, that you expected to find the young man unsophisticated and diffident?' With ludicrous gravity, Nathan repeated the word, un- sophisticated, as if to himself, and slowly counted its syllables upon his fingers. 'Un-so-phis-ti-ca-ted,-six syllables! Oh, mother, don't I Ainything in reason, but I should have to chaw upon that for a week 1' ' What a boy you are, Nathan I' said his mother, seri- ously, and averting her face to conceal a smile, for it was always in some such way that he evaded her remonstrances against his brusque, and sometimes rude, phraseology and manner. There were a great:many silly and uncouth- ex- pletives, such as ' By thunder 1' I By gorry I' etc., which her son had acquired from thoughtless or ill-bred playmates at school, which were very unpleasant to Mrs. Mudge, and she always strove to regard them with little lenity. But Nat felt that the smile was there, though he couldn't see it, and, bending over the invalid's couch, he kissed her cheek. ' A torment I' said Susan. ' Hadn't you better go kiss Kate Godwin?' 'Oh, I don't care a fig about Kate Godwin l' said Nat hastily, and coloring a little, as he bent over the Bible, in which he was accustomed every evening to read aloud to his mother.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         13 'Ah, I forgot!' said Susan, who fancied that her brother had a penchant for his master's daughter, and was inclined to retaliate a little, ' I forgot that Kate's kisses being probably the youngest 'prentice's perquisites, are no longer yours. Young Braxton will have them after this of course.' ' He? No, I'll be hanged if he shall! exclaimed Nathan with some warmth, and turning over the leaves of the book in his hand with an energy the withstanding of which was highly creditable to both the binder -and paper-maker. ' Not,' he added, as he looked up, and paw with some confusion the arch smile 'on the faces of his mother and sister, 'that I care a sous about the girl, but then-she :has got sitch a handsome head of hair!' 'Well, well,' said Susan, after a hearty laugh, 'what business has her hair in your head? Be quick and read your Bible, or you will have none of it left soon.' Nathan had nothing to add, and without another word,  he commenced reading aloud from the sacred volume. When he had read two or three chapters, which were listened to with devout attention, the children knelt by the bedside of their mother, while she raised her voice in supplication to the Almighty Helper of the widow and the fatherless. When she had concluded this scene, which was of nightly occurrence in that humble abode, Nathan bade his mother and sister an affectionate good night, and with a light heart, wended his way, as was his wont, to the home of Giles Godwin.' 'Hullo, Nat! Is that you?' said, some one, as our young friend was turning out of Court into Hanover street. It was one of a group of full grown boys, who were lounging at the corner.   "       EASY SAT; OR, 'Hullo, Sam I' said Nat to the only one of the group whom he knew, and- was passing on, without further col- loquy, for he disliked the practice of standing about the street at night, when he was overtaken by the youngster who had accosted him. ' Hold on, Nat I said this person. ' I'm goin' along down.' So they walked down Hanover street together. 'Stop a 'minute!' said he, when they had walked as far as an oyster shop (they were not styled 'saloons' then), near the corner of Elm street, 'I want to go into Hillbrookl's here a moment, to see Bob Chisel. Come in. I'llgo right down. What's yer hurry?' 'I can't stop,' replied Nathan. ' I've got to split up a grist of wood before I go to bed!' 'Oh, let old Godwin split his own wood for once I Come, don't be tied to the bell-rope. Come in ' Nathan disliked to comply, but, being of a yielding dis- position, he followed his companion into a room, the little end of which was an oyster stand, and the other, and by far the greater end, a bar, inlaid with looking-glass, and overladen with decanters of wines and liquors. The warmth of the room was very agreeable, for the Indian summer was past, and- the November nights were cold. This seemed to be the opinion of a dark-complexioned, snub-nosed young man, in wide-bottomed pantaloons, and hair brushed down smooth over his cheeks, who, with his feet upon a table, was regaling himself with a glass in one corner of the shop. This gentleman was a carpenter's  apprentice, familiarly known as Bob Chisel. ' How are you, Sam I ' shouted Mr. Chisel, upon the entrance of his friend. ' G oin' down?'   THE THREE    APPRENTICES.      15 'Yes,' replied the other. 'What are yer drinkin5?' 'Tom-and-Jerry. Try some? 'Well I don't care 1' said Sam. ' Hilbrook, give us a glass. Will you go some, Nat?' ' Me? Oh no!' said Nathan. 'I -never drink.' At this, Ar. Chisel, though it was rather rude of him, oonsidering that he had no acquaintance with our young. friend, burst into a loud laugh, and expressed a wish to leave his leg sawed off, and a pearl button put on. Sam joined in the laugh, but perceiving Nathan's em- barrassment, he begged the young man not to mind Bob, but of all means to try a little Tom-and-Jerry, as it was only a mixture of the smallest- possible quantity of wine with eggs and sugar, and was as mild as mother's milk. Still Nathan declined. 'Aint that the stuff for trowsers!' said Sam, as he took his brimming glass from the bar-keeper, and held it up before him. And what with its rich yellow body and head of white, sprinkled with nutmeg, it did certainly ap- pear very tempting. 'Just taste it I ' said Sam, presenting it to the printer's apprentice. But the latter persisted in his refusal, and the joint and. repeated -persuasions of the two comrades could not persuade him to drink. ' Got a ninepence, Sam?' said Chisel, as he went to the bar to settle before leaving. ' Copfound it I I left my money in my other waistcoat I' Sam replied that he had not, a red cent' about him. That's bad i said Mr. Chisel. 'Perhaps your friend has got it. If he'll lend it to me, 1'll hand it to you to- morrow.' This indirect appeal to him elicited from the   16       BEASY NAT; OR, simple Nathan that he had ' three fo'pences ' in his pocket. ' That'll just pay the bill, and get two cigars ; which, as I s'pose you don't smoke, will be just one a piece for Sam and me 1' said the carpenter's apprentice. Nat disliked this manner of appropriating his money, but he hated to appear mean, and, without a word, confided his funds to Mr. Chisel, who, after disposing of the same as he had -suggested, took an arm of each and walked out of the shop. At the corner of Union street, Nat's companions decided that they would go down to the theatre after a check, and, as our friend would not accompany them, they bade him good night--Mr. Chisel begging him at the top of his lungs, when he had got almost out of hearing, 'to consider them three fo'pences as good as wheat I' Nothing doubting the security of the debt, Nathan trudged cheerily on, whistling to himself, until he arrived at the gate of one of those-overhanging grotesque, an- tiquated, wooden dwelling-houses, of which, as relics of the old colony times, the North-end of Boston is very na- turally so proud. This was the residence of Giles God- win, the printer, and had been that of his family for seve- ral generations. Passing through the gateway, and over the paved walk in front, Nathan Mudge entered the house of his master just as the bell was ringing nine.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.           " CHAPTER   II. Admits the reader to the printing office, and introduces right and wrong-The old apprentice and the new one-Our hero learns to drink beer-The convivialista surprised-A pattern for printers. ' CONFOUND it i' said Nathan Mudge, as, almost out of breath one fine forenoon a few days after the occurrences just narrated, he set down a pail of water in Giles God- win's printing office, 'if it were not for the wame of the thing, I might as wel be 'youngest 'prentice' my whole lifetime I' This remark was made to no one in particu- lar, but an individual, larger and apparently two or three years older than Nathan, with his shirt-sleeves rolled up, and a not very prepossessing face, begrimed with ink, took the occasion to turn from the window, out of which he had been looking lazily at the tide of people passing in the street below, and observe in a very unpleasant tone, 'Well, aint yer the youngest? 'Cause I happened to come here last, you don't s'pose I'm goin' to do all the drudgery, do yer? I'm older than you are, if I am the youngest 'prentice! ' 'But,' said a very pleasant-voiced person, who, besides the two boys, was the only one present, ' Nathan has made the fires, carried the water, and swept out, for more than two years. It is always the last boy's duty, and of course is yours, but in three of the four days that you hlave been here, Nathan has done it foa you. This isn't right'   , 18     EEASY N AT; OR, 'I didn't make him do it ' said the new apprentice. 'He does it of his own accord, so what's the use of grumblin'?' ' Oh don't make a fuss about it, fellers 1' said the easy Nathan, using his sleeve to wipe the perspiration from his round ruddy face, 'I'd rather carry fifty buckets o' water up twenty flights o' stairs every day, than have any words about it I Anything for harmony I' 'That's the talk!' said the new apprentice, with re- newed cheerfulness.  'Now I'll treat ' and taking his cap, he left the office. ' You are too easy, Nathan,' said Edwin Fairbanks, the elder apprentice, glancing with-his clear gray eye at his junior, as, leaving the bucket in a corner, the latter re- sumed his place at a stand near that at which his senior was setting type. ' Thomas Braxton imposes upon your good nature.  If you suffer yourself to be taken advantage of in this way, you will never get along in the world!' ' Oh, I shall tell him one of these days that I won't stand it 1' said Nat, looking very resolute. ' But he'll do better bimeby, when he gets a little broke in 1' It came hard to me at fust;, and I swow I don't blame him for not bein' head over ears in love with it I. He's a clever feller to get us a luncheon, aint he, Ed 1' 'I had much rather that he would be about his work,' said Edwin. 'I don't like to say anything to him, for Mr. Godwin is anxious to make him pleased with his situ- ation.  He has been to half a dozen places, and left them all. The old man is a friend to some of his kinsfolks, and at their solicitations, he has taken Thomas to see if he can't make something of him.'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         19 As the senior finished speaking, the youngest, or rather the new apprentice, entered the office, with -a sheet of gingerbread in one hand, and a bottle of beer in the other. ' Here she am F' said he, setting the refreshments upon an imposing stone. Walk up, gentlemen I walk up f' And, helping himself to a glass of beer, and the lion's share of the gingerbread, he bade the rest 'take hold.' Respectfully declinirig the invitation, Edwin pursued his occupation without further remark, but Nat, who admired the free and easy manner with which his elder in age, but junior in 'the business,' seated upon the imposing stone, was, to use his own phraseology, 'stowing the gingerbread into his countenance,' and who felt, besides, himself a little peckish, could not resist the temptation to take a bit of the cake. Certainly he felt that this little piece of conviviality was not exactly in keeping with the sedate character previously sustained by the office, and on which Giles prided himself, but as he thought there was no actual harm in it, this only added zest to the enjoyment. Even Edwin Fairbanks' friendly intimation that Mr. Godwin might come in, only heightened the relish. ' Take some beer!' said Braxton, filling a glass, and presenting it to Nathan Mudge. The latter would have declined, but the gingerbread had made him dry, and his entertainer was urgent. 'It'l do you good,' said Brax- ton, with his mouth crammed full of cake, 'and 'll wash - down the crumbs. So down with it, old Smudge 1'  The nickname :thus given him, struck Nat as being so new and irresistibly humorous, that. he came very -near incapaci- tating himself for drinking beer or any thing else, by choking with laughter. ' Smudge I' That he should be   20.       EASY NAT; OR, called Smudge I' Could anything be more droll or comni- cal? Smudge I Singular as it may appear, he took great delight in the appellation. ' I'll call you Smudge,' said the youngest- apprentice, 'and you call me Brax! Now drink to eternal friendship 'tween us two, old Smudge I' Nat laughed, and drank. He felt that he could not have avoided doing so, even though it were the deadly draught that was offered to the Athenian sage. There was something irresistibly comical to him in the idea, that this was the modest junior whom he had expected would look up to him for encouragement and direction- this the verdant and demure country boy, who would be grateful for any opportunity to make himself useful--this, the tyro, who for a fortnight at least, would hardly dare to speak above his breath, much less to say that his soul was his own--this, the bashful boy, taken all unwillingly from his mother's apron-strings, and whom he had flattered him- self he should, by many an innocent wile, gradually and by slow degrees, inspire with confidence to look upon him, his elder, with feelings more akin to love than that awe which, of course (so Nathan reasoned, in the simplicity of his kind heart), he'could not help feeling at first! And here he was with such a knowing, little black eye, with crows' feet around it already, and a wink, too---a wink that said as plain as words could, ' I'm up to every- thing!' Yes, here he was with long hair like the fashion. ables, and clothes as genteel as those of the Mr. Chisel who still owed him those three fo'pences. Seated, too, (only to think of it i) upon the imposing stone itself, kicking his heels,.with the bottle to his mouth, and his o  / r -                  26a   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         21 cap 'hind side afore,' as if -he were lord of all he sur- veyed, if not more!  And this was the 'youngest apprentice!' Indeed, Master Braxton did present rather a queer appearance ; but scarcely more so than Nathan, who, with his cheeks full of gingerbread, of which edible he was holding a large-sized piece with his left hand towards his mouth, stood pointing at Tom with his right, and bend- ing-not to say almost bursting--with laughter. Directly over the room in which the three apprentices were thus engaged, and which was occupied exclusively for setting type, a printing-press was in operation, and such was the noise it made, that the -youngsters did not hear a footstep on the stairs, and the door open. Nor did they have any inkling of the approach of the unexpected visiter, until he detected them precisely in the situation which we have described. It was old Giles Godwin, the master of the establishment! Quick as lightning, Tom Braxton crammed his remaining gingerbread into his mouth, slid the bottle under his vest, and sprang to his post at the case. Had he done this a moment sooner, Mr. Godwin might have been deceived, he looked so inno- cent! Nathan Mudge, guilty and confused, remained where he stood when- his master entered. Giles Godwin was something of an original, both in character and personal appearance. He was -short, with shoulders broad, and so round that they almost amounted to a hump. His lower extremities, with the exception of his feet, which were very large, were small and dispropor- tioned to the size of his body. His head, which scarcely   22-    .   EASY  NAT; OR, rose above his shoulders, was of unusual size, and over the broad, fair brow, his fine dark flaxen hair -was parted, and fell in silken locks below a, low-crowned, black hat, the wide brim of which rested upon his back. The appearance of his small blue eyes was singular, from the fact that they were either entirely devoid of, or he had little or no power over, the muscles by which to raise the lids ; the consequence of which was, that they were never, by any natural possibility, more than a quarter way open. This had the effect to heighten the meekness and benevo- lence of features otherwise firm and regular, and indica- tive of every good quality. His clothes were very quaint and old-fashioned; con- sisting of a snuff-colored coat, with a large collar, a black vest, with immense pockets, and buff pantaloons very full around the body, and tapering down to nothing at the ankles. His hands, when not at work, were generally behind him. 'How is this, Edwin?' said (after a portentous silence) the personage whom we have/ attempted to describe, addressing his oldest apprentice in a tone of unwonted severity, and with a slight frown upon his brow.' You should not have permitted this I Never mind,' he con- tinued, beckoning to Edwin to continue his work, 'I see how it is. You had no hand in it. Nathan you should have known better. You will lead Thomas to think that a printing office is a place for wassail.. You should have more respect for our art. If any profession requires gravity of demeanor more than another it is ours, which has accomplished such grave results. Let this be the   THE THREE APPRENTICES.          23 last, as I believe it is the first, impropriety of the kind in my office. Don't speak, but go to your work, and try in future to set Thomas a better example 1' Nathan resumed his work without uttering a word, and endeavored, by his application for the rest of the day, to atone for the time which he had lost. When he had had his say, as narrated, old Giles hung his hat carefully on a well-worn peg, peeled off his snuff-colored coat, tied on a white apron, and with all his usual benevolence proceeded to show young Braxton how to do a certain piece of work which he wished to set him about. While he was doing this, the beer-bottle fell from beneath the apprentice's vest upon his master's corns. It was very painful, but old Giles -contented himself with setting the bottle on the window-seat, and without a word went on as before. CHAPTER   III. The Tempter and the Tempted--Certain Curious Facts about Brax. ton and Boarding Houses-Thespian Theatres-Nathan is led 'to like Flip-The Declaration and the Lie. WHEN they had finished work for the day (which in winter was usually at seven o'clock), leaving Edwin to perform some job which his employer allowed him to do on his own account, Nathan, and his chum Braxton, left the office together, and proceeded homeward. ' I aint goin' right home,' said Tom, after they had run and walked some distance over the ice with which the walks were coated. ' Nor I neither,' said his companion, ,                He,   24       EASY NAT; OR, I'm goin' up to my mother's in Temple street to spend the evenin'. Where are you goin'?' ' Not far,' replied Braxton, sententiously. 'What time shall you go home?' About nine,; Nat thought. 'Blow this havinl' to get home 'fore ten!' grumbled Tom. 'This chip wont stand it always I Well, call in at Baker's oyster room for me as you come along, and I'll go home with you, Smudge!' Nathan replied that he would, and ran off thumping his hands together to keep them warm ; leaving his fellow- apprentice to follow his own course. And now, that, for the first time, we have him alone- a situation which of all others he liked the least-let us scrutinize the new apprentice a little more closely. Thomas Braxton was then in -his eighteenth year, slim in proportions and rather below the height usual to boys of that age, His forehead was low, and his face small and colorless, save where it was blotched with pimples, but the features were regular and not unhandsome. His black hair, which owed its gloss to spurious bear's grease, was worn long and straight, in imitation of the absurd fashion of that day. Though it was now December, and the weather quite cold, he wore his large shirt-collar, turned down so low that his neck--the pomum Adami of which he greatly prided himself upon-was entirely exposed. This he took especial pains to display, as he stood, where Nathan had left him, at the corner of Howard and Court streets, to every young woman that passed, but when none was near, he hugged his faded camlet cloak to his freezing chin with a theatrical air, and muttered in a melo-dramatic tone, the i    THE THREE APPRENTICES.         25 words of Hamlet, 'The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold!' The character of Thomas Braxton, neverI very good, would have been much better had he never left his home in the country. Even the example of his father, ill-  tempered and violent as ihe was, could never have vitiated him so much as the life he led in the- city. A cruel fla- gellation, which his parent inflicted for some trifling of- fence, had provoked him to run away from his paternal abode, three years before, and come to Boston. He was fortunate enough to- obtain a situation immediately, and went to live at a cheap boarding-house in Court street. Iis fellow-boarders, of whom there were between twenty and thirty, were, with few exceptions, boys, like himself, from the country, with no parents to look after them, and no ties to attract them to their new fireside. They en- joyed none of that virtuous female society which does so much to polish and refine the sterner sex, and the conse- quence was, that however well they may have been reared, they soon became accustomed to rude, obscene and profane language. The boarding-louse at night had no attractions for them, and they sought for excitement and amusement out of doors. A renegade from one faith to another will far outrun 'in zeal the most forward of its oldest profes- sors, and a boy from the country, once started in the chase of town pleasures will run them down (and himself with them) with infinitely more zest and recklessness than the most fool-hardy of the youth of thel city. O! what a sad mistake the farmer commits when he sends his children from all the healthy influences, moral and physical, of the coun- try, to live in large communities like New-York or Boston, with no fireside to resort to but that of the public board- 2   26   ;    EASY N AT; o R, ing-house, and no society but that of the careless and de- moralized! Keep your sons at the plough. Are they ashamed of the occupation? Do they aspire to higher? There is none! There is a divine philosophy inall work ; but that of the tiller of the soil has ever been most favored of God. Thomas Braxton soon learned to do like his fellow- boarders. He did not spend his evenings as he found Edwin Fairbanks doing, years after, in reading, or in work, to obtain the means for a better education, but in loafing abojut the streets, the doors of the theatres, and other public places, with squads of idle companions. He soon learned to smoke 'long nines, and could expectorate as much tobacco-juice, per diem, as any adult chewer of them all. It was the use of this latter stimulus, which made the additional one of drink afterwards so acceptable to him. In proportion as these vicious habits, which he considered so manly, grew upon him, he felt more and more impatient at the wholesome restraints which any steady business enforced upon him, and the consequence was, that his irregularities and violent temper, drove him from one situation to another, until at last, some months before he went to 'Giles Godwin, he could find no employ- ment at all, unless, indeed, that of a supernumerary in a minor theatre, at a shilling per night, could be such. In the meantime, he was supported by occasional scanty re- mittances of money from his mother. From his father he got nothing, nor would he have accepted it lad any come ; for, reduced as he was, he was yet too proud to accept any aid from one of whom he never spoke, except in terms of the most intense hatred. Finally, through the inter- ,    THE THRE E APPRENTICES.        27 position of some of the youngster's relations, and his own benevolent feelings, the printer was induced to take Thomas into his office, in the belief that the example of Edwin Fairbanks and Nathan Mudge, added to his own precepts, and the society of-his virtuous and happy family, would effect the desired change in his habits and charac- ter. But the good old man little suspected either the ex- tent of his new apprentice!s bad habits, or how confirmed they had become ; and if he had been told the whole truth X   he could not have believed it of one so young. And this is to be the companion of the widow's simple and unsus- pecting son-the sharer of his toil, and the partner of his bed-like an evil genius, ever at his elbow I Alas I poor, yielding, easy Nat! Better had it been for thee, hadst thou never been born I * *  * Tom Braxton had been thumping his heels, and walk- ing to and fro, on the corner before mentioned, occasion- ally varying his amusement by peering into the bonnets of the women that passed, for about half an hour, when, suddenly recognizing a female form in the'distance, he gave a shrill whistle between his fingers, and walked rapidly away in pursuit. Faithful to his promise, Nathan Mudge stopped at the oyster-room on his way to his master's, and found Tom Braxton smoking a cigar. 'Will you smile, Smudge?' said the smoker. Nat answered, with a broad grin, that he didn't know what he meant. 'How green!' said the precious one,- throwing his cigar into the stove. 'I meant will you sweat t   28       EASY NAT; OR, Again Nathan looked puzzled. 'Pshaw!, Will you moisten your clay? Drat it I' continued Tom with-an oath, perceiving that he was not understood yet, ' I mean, will you drink? Of course you will 1' he added, as the waiter handed him a mug of foam- ing flip. 'Try a swallow of that, and you will know here- after what it is to smile I' Nathan would have declined. 'Pshaw I' said Tom, 'what a baby I It's only beer l' The beer which Nat had imbibed during the day, far from quenching his thirst, had made him quite dry, and he thought that something smelling so good as the flip, must make him feel better; so he drank a little from the mug, and handed it back to his companion. ' How's that in yer eye? said Tom. 'Bunkum I' replied Nat. 'You didn't drink enough to drown a fly in,' said Tom, handing back the mug, when he had imbibed a large por- tion of the contents himself; 'Smile again, Smudge I' Nathan drank again, after which Tom slapped him on the back, and told him that he was 'a dev'lish good feller.' Nathan was very much elated at the idea of standing so high in the good opinion of one whose acquaintance with the world was evidently extensive. There was some- thing, too, in his new friend's manner that to young Mudge was very taking. Boys like to ape men, and he who does it best is imitated and followed. In spite of Edwin  Fairbanks's warning, Nat already began to admire Tom Braxton. 'Come, Smudge,' said Nathan's companion to him, when they had left the oyster shop, 'we shall have-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         29 time to drop in a moment on the Forrestians, 'fore goin home.' ' Who's he V' inquired Nat. ' Ha! ha I how green 1' said Braxton. ' Come along, and I'll show you."  'But we shall be late home,' said the other. ']Not a bit of it. It's right on our way, andwe won't stay more than five minutes. - So come along, my darling,' said Tom, and putting his arm through Nathan's, he pulled him with jocular violence, into a run down Hanover street. ' This is it,' said Braxton, as he guided his companion up several flights of dilapidated stairs, at the top of which, by the smoky light of a very spare, rancid tallow candle, sat a heavy-faced -man to receive tickets. ' Pass him in,' said Tom, with a confidential air, to the door-keeper. ' The word! said the heavy-faced man. ' Smelts!' 'Nough said I Pass in!' As the two apprentices entered the door through which the door-keeper 'passed: them, their olfactories were saluted with a great stench of paint, lamp-smoke, and bad breaths. 'It is a Thespian theatre! whispered Tom to his companion, as he elbowed his way through a crowd of boys, around the door. ' I'm a member.! ' Down in front V' 'Down in front 1 ' Heads off l' shouted a number of waspish, treble voices, as the per- sons of the new-comers intervened between them and the stage. Half bewildered) Nathan looked behind, and by the glare of three smoking lights, saw about a dozen tiers of heads, male and female, rising one above another, until   80        E A S Y NAT ; OR, the further one nearly reached the ceiling of the low, nar- row room, in which they were crowded. The feet of most of the tawdry-dressed young ladies, rested upon a board extended on its edge across the room-a fact eluci- dating to Nathan's mind why his companion called the eight consumptive candles, which flared directly behind it, foot-lights. Taking a position so as not to incommode the audience, which, until he did so, continued to shout 'down in front!' with increasing irascibility, our young friend turned his regards to the other side of the board, which was the sole division between the spectators and the per- formance. It was a humble, a very humble imitation of the stage of a 'regular' theatre. On either side, was a stage door, about five feet high, and eighteen inches wide, composed principally of laths, redding, and Merrimac sheeting. The articles last named, indeed, seemed to be the three great components of the establishment. Laths sufficed equally well for scene frames, fences, and 'danger- ous weapons-redding served as well for painting cheeks and castle, as- for ' human gore,'--and Merrimac cotton was literally a synonyme for drop-curtains, scenery, ban- ners, togas, and coats of mail. The present scene appeared, to Nathan's unsophisticated eye, to be a number of pieces of cotton cloth, covered with waves of green paint, and extending from the floor to the ceiling, on either side, at equal intervals, out of which several flaming candles and burnt-cork counte- nances, and a female with a blanket-shawl, and a book in her hand, might be seen peeping.  In the back-ground was a house about four feet high, with black windows and an unusual number of chimneys. This scene, Tom whis-   ' / THE T H R E E ' ?P : A ; T I C E S . N1 pered to his fricnd, represenltcd a wood and a castle. In front of the ' castle,' in a faded red uniform coat, between which and his pantaloons there was a considerable hiatus, -and on his little head a bell-crown leather cap, out of which rose a perpendicular red and white plume, there was marching, a young man, so slim in person that, like his spear, he seemed to be made of lath. When this individual had silently traversed his confined promenade until the audience began to shout, rather invidiously, '  Go it, legs V' a voice behind the scenes exclaimed impatiently, 'stage waits!' and a moment after another young gentle- man came on, evidently in a hurry. He wore a Merri- mac shirt, trimmed with yellow' ribbon, beneath a faded carmlet cloak, and upon his legs and face several cents' worth of the great staple color of the establishment. 'This play is Pizarro,' whispered Tom to his com- panion. 'That feller in the cloak is Rolla ; t'other is the old Castilian!' ' Who is the woman with the turban on, and the book in her hand?' inquired Nathan. Oh, she isn't on!' replied Tom. 'She is the prompter, Sam Sniffle. He plays Elvira to-night. We will not attempt to describe the acting/! Language would fail to do it justice, and we can only say that it was equal to the splendid appointments. Nathan Mudge, who knew nothing before of theatrical entertainments, except by description, was so well pleased with the per- formance, that it was not until .Rolla (who was neither moree nor less than Bob ChiseD had died in his own gore-or, rather redding-and the cotton curtain had fallen upon his convulsive struggles, (as it would have   32       EASY -NAT ;. OR, done upon himself, if he had not dodged),' that he was reminded how late it was. Before he would accompany him home, Tom Braxton must needs strut to the stage door and squeeze through, thereby exciting the envy of the spectators at his superior privileges. After a lapse of two or three minutes, which seemed an age to the impatient Nathan, who feared the displeasure of his master at the lateness of his return, he was joined by Braxton, and together they proceeded rapidly home. On their way they ascertained that it was nearly half-past ten.           t Nathan expressed fears at which his companion laughed. When they reached the house, they saw through the parlor window Edwin Fairbanks reading, and Giles God- win sitting by the fire. ' He is sittin' up for us!' said Nat in a whisper, as they peered into the window. 'We'll slip into the door, and up stairs, if we can, without his hearing us I' said Tom, treading lightly over the walk. ' I wouldn't V! said Nat, ' it looks sneaky. 'Pshaw!' exclaimed Tom, peevishy, 'come along I It's a good joke. What a fraid-cat!' As usual, Nathan yielded, and the two boys crept cautiously through the door, and up stairs. In two minutes more they were undressed and in bed. Hardly was this the case, when they heard the voice of their master issuing from the entry. ' Is it possible that those boys have not come? Are you sure, Edwin, that they are not in- bed?' 'They may be, sir,' said Edwin, who, wished that it ) \   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         33 might be the case, but feared lest he' should be sent to see. ' Nathan!' said old Giles; with his hand on the baluster, and his face turned in the boys' room. There was no answer. He called again, and louder, ' Nathan I' ' Sir I' answered Tom, in a sleepy tone. Why they are in, Edwin!' exclaimed the old man in surprise scarcely less than that of his senior apprentice. ' Are you both in?' inquired Giles. ' Are you in, Nat?  said Tom, yawning. 'Yes, sir,' he continued, 'we have been asleep this two hours!' ' I am glad of it!' said the old man to himself, as he raked up the fire very carefully, and lighted a candle. 'Come, Edwin, let's go to bed. We'll make something of that lad, yet.' CHAPTER IV. The boys in bed-A peep into the history and character of Edwin- Nasal Gymnastics-The influence of right. and of wrong upon Nathan--Right for once prevails. WHEN Edwin Fairbanks entered the apprentices' cham- ber, a part of which he occupied himself, the boys were apparently asleep. Tom Braxton, especially, was snoring very hard. Nathan's breathing grew louder and louder. Edwin put down his candle, and opening a small writing- desk, proceeded th finish the composition of an address which it had devolved upon-him to deliver before the Apprentices' Library Association, of which excellent insti- tt-lon: he bad recently been elected president. Edwin, at 2*   34        EASY NAT; OR, this time, was in his twenty-first year. He was of middling height; muscular and well-proportioned. His dress, like his manner, had none of the excess of fashion about it, but was at once grave and genteel. His chin was round and full; his mouth flexible, yet firm; his brows heavy, but not frowning; his nose aquiline; his forehead broad, and, like the rest of his face, strongly marked. His eyes were of a deep gray color, large and thoughtful. His father, a poor and illiterate wood-sawyer, rendered careless of his family by intemperance, had allowed him no opportunities for learning, and until he was rescued from this neglect,by the benevolent interven- tion of Giles Godwin, who induced his parents to inden- ture their son to him, Edwin Fairbanks had not received even the simplest rudiments of an education. From this situation of utter ignorance, at the age of fifteen, the poor boy was gradually raised by the printer's personal atten- tion, care, and encouragement, to the-position, at twenty, of as well-read and educated a young man as the most of those at that age whom he was likely to encounter. Giles Godwin, though he had always preferred, and in his old age persisted in adhering to his business as a printer, had served honorably in the councils of his country, and added to. her prosperity by several important mechanical inventions, as well as to her literary reputation by his learned historical researches. He was amply competent, then, to the task of educating Edwin, who, he thought,- with a delicacy of feeling characteristic of him, must natu- rally feel mortified should he begin at his age to learn at a public school. We have called this duty, which the old mechanic so nobly took upon himself, a task; he did not con-   THE THREE APPR E NTICES        35 sider it so. His pupil's perception was quick, his memory retentive, and his desire to acquire information eager and untiring. Giles' system was not the most modern, but it was none the less thorough on that account. Besides, it had peculiar charms for both master and pupil. In carry- ing the mind of his apprentice over the same course of studies which his own had travelled in his earlier days, the youth of the old printer was in a manner renewed to him, and it brought to his lips a thousand reminiscences of the 'men and scenes among which his boyhood was spent, that were to Edwin both amusing and instruc- tive. In a year or two, so pleasant had the office of tutor become to the old man, that the almost parental pride with which he saw his forward pupil taking the direction of his mind more under his own control, and, with an independence and energy worthy of him, seek- ing to educate himself, was not unmingled with pain. It is true, that he had a new subject for his benevolent in- structions, in Nathan Mudge, whom he had just taken to apprenticeship, but Nathan was not Edwin I Nathan had been educated, until he was fourteen, in the new- fangled method, and could ' take' to the old man's types vastly better than to his theories. 'He is a good lad,' is Nathan,' Giles would sometimes say, with za sigh, ' and I do believe has a heart as big as the town clock ; but then he is as full of fun as a dog is of fleas, and over a book falls directly asleep, poor boy 1' - . No one but Edwin could be his favorite, and in his heart the old man hoped that some day he should see him united to his only child Catharine. But to recur to Edwin, in his chamber. He had ac-   36      , EASY NAT; OR, quired such a power of concentrating his mind on any- thing in which he was engaged, that 'some miantes had elapsed after he sat down to write, before his attention was at all distracted by the snoring of his fellow appren- tices. But presently the nasal duet became so varied in its tones, and capricious in scale,-now sounding more like the snorting of a sea-horse than anything human,-now sinking to a sound between a cackle and a groan-that Edwin at last arose with the light in his hand to see how the performers could possibly look in executing such ex- traordinary music. He had no sooner made this move, than the duet was broken short off, and the two boys who were in bed gave vent to a spontaneous and irrepressible peal of laughter. Then Tom amused himself by hurling his pillow at Edwin, and denominating him' Old Smash- pipes.' Whereupon, his merry bed-fellow laughed as if he would go into convulsions. The senior apprentice gravely replaced the pillow upon the bed, and resumed his writing in silence. Nathan felt that he was displeased, and became quiet. Not so young Braxton. 'I s'pose you'd like to know how long we've been abed, wouldn't you, old Smashpipes?' said he sneeringly. Edwin made no reply, but continued writing. . Tom re- peated his inquiry a little more civilly, and with the omis- sion of the nickname which he had before applied, for the manly bearing of the other had awed him a little. 'Don't I' said Nat, in an under and deprecating tone, to Tom. ' It is immaterial to me,' said Fairbanks, mildly and without looking from his paper, ' whether you have been abed five minutes or five hours, farther than this, that I   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         37 hope for your own sakes, you have not deceived our em- ployer. The regulations Nwhic, he presedrbe to as are more for our good than his own.' ' That won't cook,' said Tom. Nat forgot the twinge Edward's words had given him, in laughing at the oddity of his chum's phrase. Nathan's greatest fault, next to his pliant disposition, was an excessive mirthfulness, and too keen a sense of the ridiculous. The most sublime and serious subjects would excite in his mind the most ludi- crous associations, and a droll, grotesque kind of speech, or any jest, was often sufficient to dissipate the. gravest impressions. Braxton-or as now he had learned to call him, Brax-was just the person to wield the most delete- rious influences over such a mind. It could never have been led astray by a common-place plodder in vice. Not that Tom had any real genial humor about him, but he was a good mimic, and a perfect Bob Logic in the voca- bulary of flash, and by uniting the two accomplishments, he said and did some things which Nat thought must be worthy even of a Matthews or a Finn. 'Talkin, of cookin,' said Tom, jumping out of- bed, 'I'm goin' down to cram a little. I'm as hungry as a church mouse. Let's see if we can't start up a cold chicken in the larder, Smudge!' Nat laughed at the idea, but said that he had rather not go. 'Oh, come along l' exclaimed Braxton, and tried to pull him out of bed. Nat protested-Edwin remon- strated-Tom  persisted. 'What! you'll tell, I spose, won't yer?' said Braxton, with a sneer. ' I didn't say that,' replied the senior apprentice, coolly. But I hope you won't go. It isn't right l'   38       EASY NAT; OR, 'That's our look-out. Let every man skin ilis own skullks, old Smashpipes! Come along, Smudgel' Nathan wavered. Somehow or other that flip had given h]in a gnawing, zhungry feeling. 'It would be very wrong even in you, Thomas, who know so little of Mr. Godwin, to offend as you propose to do,' said Edwin; ' and far worse in Nathan, who has had so much experience of his goodness to usI' Nathan fell back on his pillow, and declared lie wouldn't go; whereat Tom informed him that he was a ' spooney,' and that all the preachers ever 'raised' shouldn't stop him from doing what he liked. The next thing was to procure a light. The only one in the room was Edwin's, and that of course he couldn't have. In this dilemma. Tom bethought him of some lucifer matches which he had in his pocket, and taking these in his hand, accoutred as he was, he stole down stairs. - His discoveries there,--or one of them at least-will be developed in anotler chapter. 'Nathan,' said Edwin, in a voice of mild reproof, when the new apprentice had left the room, 'I ought as your friend to counsel you against the example of our new room- mate.  And he went on, as he divested himself of his clothing, and prepared to lie down, to give his young com- panion some good advice.!He was continuing in this strain, when he perceived that Nathan was fast asleep. Nat was one of those persons who have the faculty of being wide awake at any moment, and asleep the next. Turning with a sigh into his bed, Edwin lay awake, until, after the lapse of half an hour, he heard Tom Braxton crawl in beneath the coverlid with his chum, and then addressed himself to sleep.   -TIIE THREE APPRENTICES.         39 CHAPTER V. Iltroduces the several members of Giles Godwin's family, including his pretty daughter-A word about poor men seeking rich wives -Poverty, for once, a recominendation-The sweethearts--An errand of charity. THE family :f Giles Godwin, besides himself and his apprentices, consisted of his mother-a very fat, deaf, and antiquated dame, then in' her ninetieth year-his two maiden twin sisters, older than himself, and for the matter of that, difficult to distinguish either in age or appearance from their robust progenitress-and his black-eyed, be- witching little daughter, Kate, whom God had given him in exchange for his wife, who died in child-bed. They had two domestics, Sally Scammons,-a faithful old creature who had served them many a long year-or perhaps I should say short year, for they made it a very happy time for her-and a niece of hers from down east, who rejoiced' in a pert, pretty face, and the name of Eunice. Between her grandmother and her maiden aunts, Kate Godwin came nigh to be spoiled. Grandmothers and maiden aunts have great faculty at effecting such results. She had not one of those tall forms, and wasplike waists, denominated ' genteel,' but her figure was good, her foot and hand small, her bust and arms well rounded, her com- plexion fair even to paleness, her features symmetrical, and her mouth Nathan Mudge used to say that 'there   40        EASY NAT; 0R, never was another half so beautiful. Poet-folks and story- men might say there was, but there wasn't. If there was, why didn't painters paint them I He never saw any mouth, even in a picture, that would begin with Kate Godwin's I And as for her long, shining black hair, which tried to hide her pretty dimpled shoulders, but couldn't, --for they would peep out, anyhow, the merry rogues!- he rather guessed that if the angels were to have anything in that line, they would come to Katy Godwin for a pat- tern I' The kindly sentiments entertained towards her by Nathan, were returned rather capriciously by Catherine, who was inclined to coquet. She esteemed Edwin, but would not love him, and when chided by her aunts for her 'offishness' (as they termed it), towards him, she would reply proudly, that 'he was but an atpprentice! She thought that the only child of a wealthy father should look higher.' Well, Nathan Mudge was 'only an apprentice.' Besides, he had neither friends nor accomplishments to back his suit. 'The latter argument was precisely the one which most recommended him- to the printers pet. Had he possessed the most remarkable talents, for one in his situation, they would have weighed nothing with the ca- pricious beauty. Had he, even, in addition to his ex- haustless good humor, and simplicity of heart and head, which so pleased her, been rich, it is ten chances to one whether she would ever have conceived for him anything stronger than regard. But his poverty, frankness, sim- plicity and fun, and even the want of thought and polish, and the improvidence with -which her aunts-not without reason-accused him, were what most endeared him to her,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         41 and she became so habituated to ' take poor Nat's part,' when he was contrasted with Edwin, rather unfavorably by her kinswomen in their gossip at home, that she really began to esteem his very faults as virtues. Still, she had no idea' of loving him ;-oh, no I Perhaps the thought never entered her-head ; certainly it never did his. They were both too young, of course! Kate Godwin was not without the finer traits of. intel- lect, and a fair share of good sense; but she had a large in- fusion of0 poetry and romance, with which the graver and more practical character of Edwin's mind seemed, to her, uncongenial and repulsive. She would not admit that the practical could sometimes be poetical. The truth was, that the whole life of Edwin was an epic ; then unfinished, but destined to have an admirable conclusion. His rescue, in the dark morning of his days, from ignorance and neg- lect-the eager expansion of his mind's eye for the light of learning to which Giles Godwin directed him-the subse- quent reachings of his soul, up to the steep and dizzy height where stood the temple of knowledge, with no guide to his steps but his own youthful, yet vigorous, reason- all were essentially poetical. He was living poetry every day of his life I And there was another individual doing the same thing, though in another way, in whom he felt far more interest than he could ever entertain for the ro- mantic Catherine. This person was the humble sempstress, Susan Mudge. Through her unremitting toil, she had for years-she was now in her eighteenth-materially con- tributed to the support of her mother; and now that the latter was bed-ridden, the responsibility devolved upon the daughter of supporting both. Nathan's earnings had   42        EASY NAT; O R,       barely sufficed to pay for his clothes. Since his recent advancement in the office of the printer, his wages had, been raised; but this was no advantage, for since the ad- vent of Tom Braxton, Nat's pocket expenditures had in- creased unaccountably. Giles Godwin and his sisters were desirous of aiding the industrious girl, but beyond an occasional present of some little nicety or comfort for her mother Susan would accept nothing. 'As long',' she would sometimes say, with a cheerful smile, to those who importuned her to avail herself of their assistance, ' as long0 as I have health and strength, pray let me maintain my humble independence I It is time enough to renounce that when I shall have become helplessly With all this self- reliance, Susan was not a prude. Hers was the wisdom of artlessness and innocence. As we have said in the open- ing chapter, she was, despite her incessant toil, a rosy, laughing, buoyant girl. Taller than Kate Godwin, she still'had all her roundness of limb, with, if possible, more general symmetry of person. She had the sparkling blue eye of her brother, but fringed with longer and more silken lashes, and the brows, unlike hs, were finely arched. But the personal and mental charms of Susan Mudge were not the only reason why Edwin Fairbanks preferred her to Catherine Godwin. He felt that she was more nearly his equal. He had no idea of purchasing facilities for business, or obtaining the means for the more effectual pursuit of his much-loved studies, by marrying a woman who would have it in her power to say, as many a one can of her husband, that she bought him! True, he knew that, in mercantile life, a mans superior mental powers, or knowledge of, and talents for, business, oftentimes   THIE THREE APPRENTICES.        43 fairly counterbalance his partner's capital, and he had heard the application of this truth made to matrimonial relations, but, in the latter connection, especially, it was still a question of certain bed-curtain disputations, the chance of which he determined never to incur. But, though-regardless of the many encouraging hints given him by the old grandmother and her venerable daughters, Edwin rather avoided Kate, than otherwise, he sincerely respected, and admired her for her good qualities, and frequently sought her ever-ready cooperation in his efforts to ameliorate the suffering of the poor. He was a lead- ing member of a benevolent society of young men in the city, which, then in its infancy, was doing a great deal of good, and has since grown to a degree of usefulness seldom surpassed by ally similar institution. In the performance of his duty of seeking out the suffering poor in the ward in which he resided, he frequently met with instances of distress which called more particularly for the sympathy of -the ladies. When this was the case, it was only neces- sary for him to mention it to the aunts and their niece, to obtain their most cordial assistance. Kate was no great hand, certainly, at visiting the- poor,-one always encoun- ter$ so many disagreeable things in their abodes-but when her feelings were once enlisted in a case, she went-to its relief with all her heart. But, on the whole, she pre- ferred the more fashionable means of benevolence, charity fairs and sewing circles-not the less, perhaps, because in those places, she was 'the bright, particular star.' She was one'evening, shortly after the incidents related in the last chapter, complaining of the tediousness of time, and the dullness of her own feelings : the old ladies   "       EASY NAT; OR, were knitting near the fireplace, which was ornamented with picture tiles, like all the decorations in-the room of a- very antique description; while at the centre table-- the only modern piece of furniture in the apartment- Catherine and Edwin were reading.  'Oh, dear i' said the beautiful Kate, throwing herself back impatiently in the chair, and her book upon the table, 'how long the evenings are I You are not half so good company as poor Nat is, Mr. Bookworm I  I feel unac- countably stupid! How dull you all are I I'm dying of ennui! Do, Edwin, look off that great square book once, and prescribe'something to dissipate the monotony of my existence i' 'If you, who have so many comforts around you, are discontented with your lot, Kate,' said Edwin with a smile, as he looked up from  the volume which he was reading, 'what think you must they be who have more sources of misery than you have of happiness?' ' I have found a preache, where I asked for a physician!' said Kate, in a pet. 'Well, I will leave preaching, then, and prescribe,' said Edwin. 'I was called upon, this morning, to visit a poor Irish family, one of the children of which having fallen into the fire, while alone, had been so badly burnt, that it was not expected to live ' The ladies here interrupted him with a number of sym- pathising exclamations and inquiries. . Edwin informed them, that after he visited the family, in the morning, the little sufferer survived but a few hours. In its efforts to blow out the fire which had caught in its cotton frock, the poor child had inhaled the flame, and injured its lungs   THE THREE   APPRENTICES;-      45 beyond hope of recovery. In this piteous state, after it had been put abed by the doctor, it rose upright when its father entered the room for the first time after the acci- dent, and begged him not to beat his mother, for it was not her fault. 'Now, Catherine,' continued Edwin, when the ladies had exhausted their vocabulary of pity, ' I shall prescribe what will make you better contented with your- self and your lot. To-morrow let us go together to the miserable abode of these poor people, and see if we may not be of some assistance to-them in the burial of their child.' 'To-morrow?' said Kate, her deep, black eyes lighting up with animation, as she rose from her seat, and advanced to the door, 'to-morrow? why not to-night? Come, let us go now  The moon has risen, and you say the house is not further off than Gross-street. I will get my bon- net and cloak directly.' 'Don't be in such. haste, my child i' said one of the aunts. ' Won't it be rather a disagreeable place for ladies at night, Edwin?' 'I presume it will not be the most agreeable in the world,' said the senior apprentice, 'and I should suppose that Miss Catherine would prefer to go to-morrow.' 'No, no, no, no 1' exclaimed Kate, impatiently, 'I will go now, or not at all. ' It isn't often that I get into the sister-of-charity mood, and pray don't balk me when I do!' 'Well, child,' said the aunt, ' as the interest you mani- fest is very creditable to you, I don't know that we ought to object. But, perhaps, Mr. Eqlwin would prefer to go at another time?' ' On the contrary,' said the young man, closing his book,   "       EASY NAT; OR, and rising, ' Catherines alacrity in this matter gives me much pleasure, and I shall be happy to accompany her at any moment-if she continues in the same mind!' Kate responded in a minute, by making her appearance, dressed for a walk. 'Stay a moment i' said one of the aunts ; ' what a hurry you are in, my love! My sister and I have been talking about calling on Mrs. Mudge, for a long time, and if you young folks will go sp far out of your way to escort us there, we will visit her this evening.' 'Well, we'll go with you l' said Kate, ' But don't be for ever getting ready, will you? I'll get you your things 1' and she ran out of the room after their bonnets and cloaks. In two or three minutes, the aunts were ready, and the little party left the house-Kate and Edwin arm-in-arm, thereby eliciting from the aced sisters, who followed them, the exclamation of, ' What a pretty couple they would make, to be sure 1' CHAPTER VI. The Visit to the Poor Irish Family--The Wake--The Frenzy of a Bereaved Mother-Wrong and Affliction make even the Illiterate Eloquent-The Penurious Apothecary-The Street Rowdies-The Alode of Susan, the Sempstress-The Walk Home. WHEN the Misses Godwin, and the young couple, arrived at the little room in Temple street, occupied by Mrs. Mudge, the invalid and her daughter received them with grateful pleasure. Nathan had not yet arrived, which was some disappointment to Kate Godwin, who   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         47 declared that he was a much better beau than Edwin, because infinitely more sociable. Then she bethought her that it would much enhance the pleasure of their walk to Cross street, if Susan Mudge would accompany them, and nothing would do but she must go. As every one present appeared to coincide with this suggestion, only a few minutes had elapsed when Edwin left the house accompa- nied by the young ladies. Susan thanked the friendly night for concealing the blush- which she felt rising to her cheek, and her lover was no less pleased that the same veil covered a certain slight embarrassment, which, he thought, must otherwise have been evident in his manner. As the trio of friends were emerging from Howard street, they saw a knot of young men, or boys, standing on the corner, and humming a popular negro melody. ' There is Nat!' said Kate, in some surprise. ' Nathan I' exclaimed his sister, in unfeigned astonish- ment. Hearing his nanme called, and recognizing the party, Nathan joined them with alacrity. 'Why, Nathan,' said Susan, reproachfully, ' I wouldn't have believed it of you I If there is anything utterly detestable, it is the trick which some men and boys have, of lounging at the street corners!' Well,' said Nathan,' I was only stopping a momeit, -Sis. ' You shan't scold him Susy, for I declare hehas come in good time! Come Nat, see what a gallant beau you will make me!' exclaimed Kate, and, with a laugh, she deserted Edwin's arm for that of his junior. ' Where are you goin'?' inquired Nat, highly delighted. ' Oh,' said Kate, gently urging him along, 'a gallant cavalier never stays to ask whither his mistress is conduct- ing him I It is enough for him that she leads the way 1'   43       EA S Y NAT;   nR, ' I see, Kate,' said Nat, gaily, as he gave himself up wholly to the guidance of his fair companion, ' that you don't believe in Crockett's maxim, 'Be always sure you're right, then go ahead!" 'It is a very prudent adage, I suppose, said Kate, ' but I hate prudence, it is so cold-blooded!' ' It kind o' freezes over every buncome feelin' with a coat of ice thick enough to skate on 1' cried Nathan. ' Oh; 1 hate prudence, too'; and I hate etiquette.' 'What a fellow you are for similes, Nat I' said Kate, drawing her companion closer to her side, and smiling proudly in his face. 'What are them?' inquired Nat, thinking that perhaps she meant doughnuts, of- which he was very fond. Kate laughed, and they continued in this vein, until Edwin stopped in front of a large old wooden house in Cross street, and told them that it was the abode of the Irish family in which they were in quest. 'Do they occupy the whole of it?' inquired Kate. ' Oh no!' replied Edwin, 'more than twenty poor fa- milies live in it! Do you hear the wailing? I suspect they are holding a wake. Follow me carefully, and I will con- duct you to the room occupied- by the bereaved parents.' Groping their way up several flights of narrow and worn- out stairs, the apprentices and their female companions reached an entry sufficiently illuminated, by several cheap candles, for them to see that it was crowded with men, wrho - with their heads uncovered, were observing a profound silence. Among these, was the fatheri; of the dead child. Upon seeing Edwin Fairbanks, he grasped his hand, and ejaculated-in a subdued tone, ' God bless yer honor I we   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         49 would be giving the poor wee thing a bit of a wake 1' He beckoned to him and his friends to follow him into the room. The crowd around the door gave way instinctively, and our little party walked in. The scene within, would -have been ludicrous, had it not been pervaded with a deep feeling of affliction and woe. With the money which had been given her, the woman had bought of a milliner in Washington street, one of those cheap lace caps, deco- rated with flaunting ribbons, which are sometimes put at the windows for show. This was large enough for herself, but she had placed it upon the little head of the corpse, which was placed upon a chest, over wlich the poor crea- ture had raised a sort of canopy, made out of a white cotton sheet and several hoops. Both at the head and feet of the deceased, two candles, supported in bottles, were burning; and beneath the canopy over the head, there was an humble wooden cross. At the foot of the corpse, where she could see its face; was a rather large and muscular Irish woman, with her hair dishevelled, and her body rocking to and fro, giving utterance to a continued stream of touching lamentations. This was the mother.-- Seated in the room were quite a number of females, old and young, rocking their bodies backwards and forwards, and moaning in concert with the bereaved woman in their midst. The worst feature of the scene, was a decanter of rum, and glasses, on the mantel-piece. ' Ah I' said the mother, talking very volubly when she saw Edwin Fairbanks, ' here is the good gentleman that guv me the money when that blaguard pottecary wouldn't trust me for a beggarly ninepence worth iv stuff to coo]l the fire in the childer's throat, when it was grilling like 3   50       EASY NAT; OR? coals I May Satan brile the catamaroon, for his hard heart 1' And here, she raised her hands to heaven, and with every muscle in her face quivering with the bitter- ness of her feelings, and her eyes flashing'fire, she impre. cated a torrent of the most horrible curses- upon the head of the pitiful apothecary, who, though he knew that her child was suffering the most excruciating torment for the want of the cooling medicine, which the doctor had pre- scribed, would not give it to her without first receiving twelve and a half cents--not one of which the poor woman had got I The mother became, for the moment, a perfect demon, and the remembrance of her child's agony, and the heartless indifference of the shopkeeper, inspired her with a power of invective, almost bewildering the new-comers with its fluency and fury. The eyes of the tigress robbed of her young, were dull and leaden compared to this woman's. Their glances gleamed and flashed like light- ning, as she shrieked out her terrible maledictions. In two or three minutes, this hurricane of hate suddenly subsided, and grovelling at Edwin's feet, the woman gave vent to a" copious flood of tears, and called upon God again and ,again to bless the sweet gentleman who had brought her medicine for her child, and held the poor babe in his own arms I Then she prayed that God might give him health, substance, happiness, advancement, and that kind and beautiful lady by his side--this was Susan-for a wife, if she were not his already. To this all- the mourners said Amen, and some, 'Yes, heaven would do it V' 'And may you two,' said the mother, either not observing, or regardless of Susan's blushes, 'have a child as good and beautiful as my sweet darlint baby was, that once would   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         51 be after mindin' my leastest word, but now will not hear me, though I have besought it with prayers and groans and shrieks, until the heart in my bosom has' gone nigh to break!' Again she broke out anew in sore lamentations for her child, and the women repeated her exclamations in a monotonous manner, and rocked to and fro, as before. Comforting her, with the assistance of Susan, as well as he could, Edwin gave the unhappy mother an order on a carpenter for a coffin, and another on a-wharfinger for some wood. ' Och!' said she, in a piteous tone,' wasn't it myself that was complaining iv the little fire that I had, that very day, as I stood shivering before it just before I left my poor childer alone, to go over to the grocery across the way, and all along there was enough, and more than enough, to burn up my little darlint I Ochoon! ochoon 1' Amid the manifold blessings of all the mourners, men and women, Edwin Fairbanks and his companions left the room and the house. A group of full-grown boys were on the other side of the street, looking up at the windows : 'They are holding a wake, sure!' said the largest one of the number, mim- icking, the Irish accent. 'I'll be after sending them my card i' And raising his arm, he threw a stone at the win- dow of the room where the corpse was. It fell short of the mark, and he was in the act of throwing another, when Edwin sprang and seized the rascal, who, struggling hard to get away, shouted in'a voice which Fairbanks thought he recognized, ' To the rescue, Rawhones!' In an instant, the senior apprentice was fallen upon by 'several of the larger boys, with the exclamation, ' He's an Irish- man! Kill the Paddy I' But, even before Nathan could   52        EASY NAT; OR, go to his assistance, Edwin Fairbanks had swept the young ruffians off from him, as he would have done so many flies, and sent them running in every direction, with more than one mark of his muscular power upon their persons. In the scuffle, the individual whom he had seized, escaped before he fully recognized him, yet though Edwin did not breathe his suspicions to his friends, he felt assured that the rascal was his unworthy room-mate, Thomas Braxton. This little incident, and the scene which they had just left, afforded our little party abundant material for conver- sation, as they proceeded to the residence of Mrs. Mudge. Edwin was much pleased with the good sense indicated by his companion's remarks, and coupled as it was with great vivacity of spirits, he was even charmed. Young ladies generally, according to his observation of the world, pos- sessed so little power of conversation, and contented them- selves with such superficial comments on what they read, saw, and, heard, that it was refreshing to meet with one whose mind had been sufficiently cultivated to enable her to apply something more than mere epithets to the differ- ent subjects which addressed her judgment. He had seen young ladies, 'highly educated' ones too, who, after listen- ing more than an hour to a good discourse, were unable to repeat a single idea of the entire lecture. Either they had very weak memories, or were bad exponents of them- selves, It gratified him that his beautiful companion was not one of these. For her part, Susan Mudge thought that she had never passed a more interesting evening ; and as for Kate GodWin and Nathan, they were in the best humor possible On their arrival at her room, Mrs. Mudge was pleasec   THE THREE APPRENTICES.          53 to see Nathan with th-e  and to learn that he had been their companion nearly the whole evening. After the lapse of as short a timJe as sufficient to recount the inci- dents of their visit, and to concert measures amongst the ladies for rendering further assistance to the poor Irish family, Edwin gave an arm to each of the aunts (who had left with Mrs. Mudge some nice jellies which they had brought with them), and, followed by Nathan and Cathe- rine, the coterie bade adieu to the invalid and her fair daughter, and wended their way homewards. CHAPTER VII. Nathan becomes an attendant at the Thespian Theatre-Tom ]Braxton as Hamlet-The Folly of Eunice Scammons-She joins the Forrestians --More Temptations--Our Hero learns to drink wine-The Apology for Genteel Groggeries-Nathan visits them, and is convinced by Braxton of their Harmlessness. SOME weeks elapsed, and, in the meantime, Nathan Mudge was a frequent visitor at the ' Forrestians" thea- tre. On these occasions, he was, accustomed to see the pretty Eunice Scammons, his master's chambermaid, amongst the audience, and, sometimes (when he was not i on,' as the players term it, when they are acting), Tom Braxton might be seen sitting at her side. One night, Nat was favored with an admission behind the curtain, and an introduction, by his fellow-apprentice, to a young person in a white frock, bedecked with flowers, and a profusion of pink knots. ' Allow me, as the Hamlet of the evenin',' said Tom, as he presented the girl,' to introduce to my   54       EASY NAT; OR, friend Mudge, the beautiful Ophelia!' Nathan was bow- ing with awkward politeness, when the other two burst into a loud laugh, and he perceived, for the first time, that ' Ophelia' was no other than Eunice Scammons. 'Twig how he stares 1' said Tom, pointing to Nathan. 'Oh, ain't this rich? What do you think old Godwin would say, if he knew we three were here?' And-he laughed again, in high glee. They were all very much amused; so much so, indeed, that Tom (who was dressed in a Merrimac shirt, dyed black, and decorated with beads of the same color), declared vociferously, that, on this auspicious occasion, the whole company should be treated to a glass of wine. ' The debut of the only lady in the company merited, he thought, this trifling tribute.' This sentiment was enthusiastically seconded by Mr. Chisel, who-was dressed for Polonius, in an old silk wrap- per, top-boots, and a tow-wig, which smelt very offensively of the glue he had used in its manufacture. Upon this hint the tall, lath-like young gentleman, who on this oc- casion represented the ghost of Hamlet's father, produced a demijohn and a broken tumbler. 'I beg leave, brother actors,' said Mr. Chisel, helping himself to the first drink, 'to give you the health of Miss Eunice Scammons : may the path of glorious renown which this evenin' opens to her, always be, like the American Eagle, goin' up higher!' This toast was highly applauded, and one after another, all present, including Nathan Mudge, drank it stantding- there happening to be no chairs in which to sit down. By this time the audience had assembled, and were using various ingenious methods for producing noise, such as mewing, barking, cat-calling, shouting 'hyst that rag I'   THE THREE APPRENNTICES.         55 &c., &c. In a few minutes the Merrimac curtain went up, and the play went on,-at least, parts of it. The d6- butante, Eunice (it was ' Jliss St. Myers,' on the bilD, was received with an enthusiasm, that, as Mr. Chisel after- wards stated, ' brought down the house.' She went through some snatches of her part with very little knows ledge of their meaning, but she was a tolerable singer, and as she was not lacking in confidence, her songs were ap- plauded, especially that of 'Home,'Sweet Home,' which she introduced with greatl effect I Tom Braxton as Hamlet also brought down the house. ' What a lucky dog your chum is V! said Bob Chisel to Nathan, as they stood together at one of the wings, listen- ing to Ophelia's song; ' don't I wish I was in his shoes Vt ' What for?' inquired Nathan. 4 What for i' said the other, ' don't everybody know that she is his--9 ' Go on, Polonius!' sung o4r the prompter ; and, with- out finishing thl sentence, Chisel glanced a moment at his part, brushed down his tow wig, pulled up his top boots, drew his wrapper around him, seized a whitewashed clothes pole, and strutted on to the stage. At about nine o'clock, the play was over, and in a few minutes after, Tom and Eunice had resumed their proper dresses again, and were ready to accompany Nathan home. Of course he had to give ltis flattering opinion of their achievements over and over again. So highly did Braxton appreciate the critical acumen thus manifested, that he promised to make his chum a member of the company; whereat the latter was highly elated. Arrived at home, Tom bade Eunice to tell Mr. Godwin that they were abed,   56        EASY NAT; OR, if he should ask, and be prepared to let them in at the back gate when they returned, for he and iNat were not going in just then. Promising to comply, Eunice went into the house and told her relatives what a beautiful lec- ture she had heard the Rev. Mr. Hague preach. The young men turned round, and walked up Hanover street. 'We shall see some of our fellers up here at Brigham's bar-room, ' said Tom. 'I don't like to go into these bar-rooms,' said Nat ; 'my mother was always opposed to them.' ' Oh, she means these groggeries!' said Tom. ' Those low three-cent liquor shops, where they sell to any Paddy that comes along! I'm opposed to them as much as she is. They ought to be put down, that's a fact. They are great nuisances. There is no mistake about that, I belieye. But these things may be conducted in a genteel way, and no one be the worse for it.' 'P'raps so,' said Nathan dubiously. 'There ain't no p'raps about it 1 It is so,' said Tom, ' And now, just out o' curiosity, you just come along with me, and I'll show you that there are some bar-rooms as elegant and proper as anybody could wish. Oh, Igo in for puttin' down the unprincipled three-centers, and I only shy into 'em occasionally, just to see life and kind o' study character I A good. actor ought to know what men are, or how can they play 'em? Oh, Nat, human natur' is a great study! Any feller that's fly in t]hat, may snap his fingers at all book-worms like Ed. Fairbanks, 'cause then he's never sucked in, and nobody can't gum him I But how can a feller st*:y human natur' in the chimney corner?   TH E THREE APPRENTICES.        51 He can't do it! I e must go round some. Where there is all sorts o' people-them's the places! Now here, in the   House, you generally see the chaps who drive crack horses, and are at the top o' the walk at Porter's, or the race-course 1' With these observations still upon his lips, which his companion thought almost oracular, Braxton drew Nathan into the office of a popular hotel. Everything looked very respectable. There was a bar, but it was made of beau- tiful white marble, and there were no liquors--in sight. Sitting around, smoking, sipping punch, and reading the evening papers, were a number of young men, with a slight dash of the corsair in their composition, but well and even fashionably dressed. One of these, a person with a great deal of hair upon his head and face, and a chest so broad that it amounted to a deformity, was, it seemed, acquainted with Braxton, for he gave him his hand, and inquired, with a solicitude which Nathan thought highly creditable to him, after the health of Miss Eunice Scammons. ' She is a mighty fine girl ' said the broad-chested gen- tleman, knocking the ashes from a cigar which he was smoking. "A poor thing, but mine own,' as Touchstone observes,' said Tom, indifferently. By the way, allow me to intro- duce you to my chum, our Low Comedy that is to be. Mr. Chuggs, Mister Mudge--Mr. Mudge, Mister Chuggs, the celebrated boxer!' ' This, then, is the great pugilist I What an honor l' thought Nathan, who had an exalted idea of all' profes- sional men,' and especially those connected with the stage and the ring. 3*   58   I     EASY NAT; OR, ' Gentlemun,-let us himbibe I' said Mr. Chuggs, approach- ing the bar. This ']hintroduction deserves a christening I Will you have punch?' The latter inquiry being directed to Thomas Braxton, was responded to by him with a cordial assent. ! 'Hof course, your friend Muggs-Muggs, I think, is his /happellation? will join us! Three whiskey punches, John ; 'ot I' The last words were intended for a gentlemanly looking young man, who, with a thin face, 'sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,' or something else, was looking wistfully from the other side of the bar. Taking their seats at a marble table in the further room, the walls of which were hung with voluptuous paintings in costly  frames, the trio were each, after the lapse of a minute, pre- sented by 'John' with a large cut-glass tumbler, nearly full of a crystal liquid, topped with sparkling foam. Nathan felt some disinclination to drink, but after what Mr. Chuggs had said, he thought it would be ill-mannered to refuse. Besides-everything looked so'respectable! 'Gentlemen, pledge with me to the pretty Eunice!' said the polite pugilist, putting the glass to his mouth. Tom Braxton raised his tumbler with a flourish, ask he had seen players do with gilt goblets, and echoed the words, 'The lovely Eunice '     ! Nat mumbled something in imitation, and sipped his punch like the rest. He had drank beer and wine before, but this was the first time that he had ever tasted-ardent spirit, and it pleased him so little, that he put down his glass on the table, from which he would not have again raised it, had not his fellow-apprentice insinuated a sneer   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         59 in regard to 'weak busters,' which so stung the foolish Nathan, that in a moment after, he raised the tumbler to his lips and swallowed the remainder of its contents. The disguised poison tingled in his nose, glistened in his eyes, and rushed like a flame, that warmed without burning, through every vein and artery in his body. He became voluble, and Mr. Chuggs complimented him upon his wit, of which he did in truth possess some, though the fun he made arose chiefly from his drollery and humor. Nathan never felt more elated in his life ; which is saying a great deal, for he was one of those who always laugh until the tears come. He felt that he was beginning to be appre- ciated. Their punches finished, the pugilist and the apprentices parted; the former first exacting of Tom, a promise that he would make him better acquainted with Eunice on the earliest occasion offered. 'Now, my old biffer 1' sai Tom, siapping Nat on- the shoulder, as, after bidding good night to Mr. Chuggs, they emerged from the   House, 'what do you say for a cruise?' ' Done!' exclaimed Nathan, whom the drink had made ripe for a frolic. ' I'm on hand!' "Nough said .; shake!' rejoined Braxton, grasping his companioi's hand, and taking his arm. ' Now for a biz! First, I'll take you into Concert Hall, then to the Albion, and the Pavilion. After that, we'll drop into the Tremont House e ' Ha, ha, ha I Jtist to give it a tone, hey? That's capital I' said Nathan. 'But we couldn't get a drini there, though, could we?:   60       EASY NAT; OR, 'Yes!' replied Braxton. 'What I at the Tremont?' said Nat, incredulously. 'Yes, I say I' reiterated Tom. ' No-o?' said Nathan. 'What, us V? Why, what a rum customer you are 1' replied Braxton. 'To be sure we could I Ain't our money as good as any- body else's? This is a free country, and a bar's a bar, no matter whether it's in the ' Tremont' or the ' Bite.' The only difference is, that at the 'Bite,' you can get a drink for three cents, and at the 'Tremont' you have to pay twelve.' 'What do they have so much more for?' inquired Nathan. 'That's to pay them for sittin' the fashion, and makin' the thing respectable, I s'pose,' said Tom. In accordance with Braxton's proposal, the two appren- tices went the round of all the fashionable tippling houses, and as they drank and smoked in more than one of them, it was not until the clock struck eleven, that they started homeward. There was something in the atmosphere of the places he had visited, which seemed so conducive to, liberality, hi- larity, and good feeling, that it completely fascinated Nathan Mudge, who never looked beneath the surface and show of things. What .might have appeared to a quiet, serious observer, as artificial and revolting as the spas- modic movements of a galvanized body, seemed to Nathan perfectly easy and natural. The bursts of cordiality, wit, mirth, and profuse generosity, which came from the hun- dreds of young men whom he met in these resorts, were no healthy, natural ebullitions of the heart, any more than the    
                 THE THREE APPRENTICES.          61 laughter which follows the inhalation of exhilarating gas is the effect of a regular inherent sympathy, but were merely the emanations of deleterious stimulants. It was not his acquaintance, Sam, who slapped him on the shoulder, in one of these bar-rooms during the evening, and was so overjoyed to see him.  It was the ' Tom-and- Jerry' which Sam had just drank. It was not young Stebbins who made that pun just now ; it was the cham- pagne which he had taken ; and it was wine that laughed, not they who stood around. Some one in the shape of the carpenter's apprentice had offered Nathan an oyster supper, but in point of fact, it was not Mr. Chisel's proposal, but that of a. strong gin-sling, which, to use his own phrase, he had' just 'imbibed.' So, too, the wild mirth of young Mudge, which provoked a threat from a watchman, on his way home, that he would arrest him if he were not more quiet, was a gross exaggeration of his usual buoyancy; and not his own, but a caricature produced by the punch. CHAPTER VIII. The Boyish Bacchanals steal Home--Nathan grows Impudent, and Thomas Quarrelsome.-They plunder the Pantry, and steal their Master's Wine.-The New Apprentice insults the Senior, and pro- vokes his Punishment.-They are discovered by their Master.-His Grief.-The Scene in the Cellar.-Giles Godwin sets an extraordi- nary example to 'the Gentlemen of the -Old School.' HULLO! said Thomas, in a whisper to Nathan, after Eunice had let them in at the back door, and they had sneaked up to their room, 'there's old Smashpipes, Ed.   62       EASY NAT; OR, Fairbanks grinding out ideas, and spoiling foolscap, as usual Don't you stand any of his lectures, now ' 'I don't mean tol' said Nathan, and commenced whist- ling Jim Crow. ' It is very late, Nathan. I wouldn't whistle so loud I You will disturb the family,' said Edwin mildly. ' I'll whistle as much as I like!' said ]Nat, ' and stay out as late as I please!' 'RHaw, haw, hawl' laughed Thomas jeeringly, at Edwin. 'It is not right,' said the senior apprentice, 'to treat Mr. Godwin as you do. You may think it perfectly manly to enter the house clandestinely after the family are abed, as you have done frequently of late, but I think it an evasion unworthy of you both, and especially Nathan, who has been taught better thingsl' 'Hadn't you better peach?? said Tomn, with a malignant sneer. 'Hadn't you better tell of us?' 'I have felt that I was doing wrong to conceal your repeated disobedience of his orders, from Mr. Godwin, and I do give you both fair warning, now, that if you in- fringe his regulations again, I shall feel it my duty to expose you,' replied Edwin, calmly returning the angry look of Braxton. t 'You will, will you?' said the latter, throwing off his jacket, and shaking his fist at the senior. ' Then you had better get your head insured; 'cause yer see'we don't stand any of your nonsense.' Disregarding the menaces which Braxton continued to utter, Edwin addressed young Mudge kindly, and inquired why he spent so few of his evenings now at home, and told   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        63 him that his mother had that night expressed much regret that he was with her so little. 'Oh, so you've been at her house agin, have yer?' said Tom. ' Well, that's the reason Nat don't go home--cause yom're there so much, shinin' up to his sister. But you I can't come in. That's my shine!' Nathan laughed at this (though he didn't feel exactly easy, either), and began to sing a song. Thomas joined him, because he knew that it would displease Edwin. ' Nathan, you will annoy the folks with your singing,' said the elder apprentice, in a tone of persuasion; you had better go to bed.' ' Yes, go to bed, as your mammy bids yerl' said Brax- ton, mocking. ' No, Nat, we know a trick worth two o' that; don't we? Come, let's make a levy on somethin' to cat, down stairs! Come, my old biffer, come along l' Edwin looked a remonstrance, but it was in vain. Thomas pushed his companion out of the room, and, after putting his thumb to his nose, and making a face at the student, left the room. After being absent some minutes, the two apprentices returned, bearing with them the fragments of a boiled fowl and a bowl of wine. They had evidently been eat- ing and drinking already, to judge from their greasy faces and increased volubility, ' What made me think of taking the wine?' said Brax- ton; 'why, I thought of it the first time I saw the pipe in the cellar. Thinks I to myself as I saw it, My fine feller, you and I'll become better acquainted, 'fore long. The old man shan't monopolize all the good things! I found a nail that would turn the cock, and tapped it, one   EASY NAT; OR, night. I have been wearin' away at it, off and on, ever since, and rather guess it's pretty materially lowered by this time ! 'It's the best joke,' said Nathan, laughing and hickup- ping, 'the best joke that I've heard for a dog's age.' 'Did you call for chicken ?' said Tom, carrying the car- case of a fowl, and presenting it to Edwin, who went on with his writing, without regarding the annoyance. 'Perhaps you'll take some wine ? Here, pass the flow- ing bowl, Nat i' said Tom, who was in a hectoring mood, and taking the vessel of wine, he set it down dripping wet upon Edwin's manuscript. The senior apprentice was in- censed, but he put the bowl aside without a word, and proceeded to repair the injury done to his writing. Then, the wicked apprentice, emboldened by the other's forbear- ance, continued to press the fowl upon him, and at last thrust it roughly into his face. This was more than flesh and blood could bear, and, out of patience, Edwin seized Braxton by the shoulders, and shook him almost to a ielly. Meanwhile, Nathan stood by with a bowl of wine, hickupping and bewildered. In this unfortunate state of affairs, the door opened, and who should enter the room but Giles Godwin ! The master had been engaged, like his elder apprentice, upon some writing in his own room, and he had heard the boys' footsteps on the stairs, as they returned from the cellar, and the subsequent noise in their chamber. At the sight of his venerable employer, Edwin let go of Braxton, who straightway smoothed down his ruffled feathers, and assumed a very injured air. Nathan stood abashed, wishing that the bowl in his hand were anywhere   41   THE THREE APPRENTICES.   65   else, and cutting as awkward a figure as can well be conceived. 'What is the meaning of all this ?' said the old man, in a tone which made the two culprits tremble. Immediately Thomas Braxton attempted to implicate Edwin. 'Be still, sir ! said the printer sternly. 'Nathan, set that bowl upon the table. Edwin is your elder, Thomas; let him speak first.' 'Oh,' grumbled Braxton, with a hickup, 'of course he'll lie about it I' 'Silence, sirrah !' said Giles, not in a loud voice, but one which even the impudent apprentice dared not disobey. 'Edwin is incapable of such meanness I I trust he will satisfactorily explain his participation in this riotous and disgraceful scene.' Thus appealed to, Fairbanks narrated the circumstances which had terminated in the situation in which he and his fellow-apprentices had been discovered.' 'I believe you speak the truth, Edwin, though I sus- pect with more f6rbearance to these boys than they deserve !' said Mr. Godwin. 'Forbearance ?' said Tom with a sneer; ' oh, yes ! he has forbore to commit himself finely ! We shouldn't have taken the wine if it hadn't been for him. I guess if the truth were known, he has taken more than one horn of it. He told us where it was, and, if you don't believe he drank any, you just smell of his hands ! Oh, he's an old one; ie is! To believe his story, sugar wouldn't melt in his mouth ! But it's all a parcel of smooth lies. I'll leave it to Nat, if it ain't ?' 'Oh, what's the use o' lyin' about it ?' said Nathan,   "  ---    EASY NAT; OR, regarding the manly bearing of Edwin with admiration. ' Edwin has told nothing but the truth. I am even more to blame than he has said.' ' You may be, but I ain't!' said Thomas sullenly. ' How vile and loathsome Falsehood seems by the side of Truth I' said Giles Godwin. 'Nathan, you have half redeemed your fault, great as it is. Thomas Braxton, if you knew how like a crawling and degraded thing you appear standing there, as you do, branded with the false- hood and calumny which you have just uttered, I think you would never speak, henceforth, anything but the honest truth!' Thomas flinched for a moment under this rebuke, but the feeling of humiliation passed rapidly away, and regaining his wonted impudence, he said, Well, supposin' that I did help Nat to drink the wine; apprentices ought to have their fair share of everything in the house 1 It's all very fine for old ones to tell us boys not to drink, but what makes you drink? Or if you don't drink, what' makes you keep wine in your house?' This was a close hit, but the old man, with a slight flush, immediately rejoined,-- ' If I were to keep any after the lesson of to-night, I feel that I should do wrong. Come with me, Edwin, and you, boys, to the cellar. Follow me without aword. I dislike to disturb the house, but I must make an example/ The manner of- Giles was very resolute, and his appren- tices followed him in silence to the basement of the house. The cellar, which was a very large one, with a number of arches, and a very extensive pile of wood, was paved with brick. In one of the arches, directly over a slight gutter   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         6 leading to a grated drain, rested the pipe of wine. The old man set down the light on the stairs, and regarding Braxton sternly, bade him hand the axe.  Pale and trembling with fear, the delinquent did as he was bidden. Nathan was agape with expectation. 'This wine,' said Giles, 'has been where you see it for more than twenty years. I never was addicted to the use of stimulants of any kind, but it was the custom of our fathers-a custom it was-ftought, until quite recently unobjectionable--for every one who could afford it, to keep them in his house. I continued to do so, like many other men of the old school, who thought the occasional use of a glass of wine or liquors rather beneficial than otherwise, until the alarming increase of intemperance of late years induced me to discard from my house everything in the shape of ardent spirits; for I felt that, though I could have used them a lifetime without injury to myself-- for I rarely drank-all heads were not as cool as my own, and in placing the temptation before my- guests, I set an example which the vilest drunkard in the world might point at in justification of his own excesses. I did not think it necessary to send away this wine. It is true, I seldom tasted it, .and the bare interest upon its first cost was exceeding its original value every day, but it had been purchased by my father on. account of its extreme age and excellence, and I have set great store upon it for his sake.  Valuable as it is in a pecuniary view, however, it is not worth the sacrifice of truth. No! Rather than it should have contributed to the .demoralization which (with what inexpressible pain and mortification I need not tell you), I have witnessed to-night, I would have cast it   EASY NAT; OR, out though it had been twenty such!  It is worse than good for nothing here, tempting as it has done, my appren- tices to disobedience, falsehood, slander, and debauchery! I do not know that its use can tend to anything but harm. It is not of the kind sometimes prescribed in sickness. 1 could sell it for a large sum, it is true, but it shall not be said of Giles Godwin, that he put that into his brother's hands which he feared to hold in his own. If it have any value, let it lend force to the example which I shall set to others in my situation, in putting it to the only use for which it is fit! With these words, the sturdy printer raised the axe in his muscular gripe, and with one powerful blow, dashed in the head of the winepipe, the red and sparkling contents of which immediately burst forth in a torrent, which, after coursing like mad through the little brick gutter, emptied itself into the grated cesspool in the centre of the cellar. When he had struck the blow which had put so sum- mary an end to what he had been accustomed for many years to regard as quite an item of his little property, the old man leaned over upon the axe in his hands, and regarded the costly flood in silence. The conscience-stricken Nathan looked on, with uplifted hands; and Thomas Braxton seemed stupefied with wine and wonder. Edwin, after a look of pride and admiration at his master, glanced reprov- ingly at the two apprentices, and pointed to the red torrent which was rapidly exhausting itself. In two or three minutes, every drop of the wine had disappeared. The printer then took up the light which he had left on the stairs, and conducted his apprentices to their room, at the door of which he bade them grod-night, with an inti.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.   69   mation that he should, on the morrow, confer farther with them on the subject of that night's occurrences. CHAPTER IX. Nathan Improves and Relapses again-Takes Lessons in Hypocrisy -A few Reflections on the Gentility of Guilt-Broken Promises- Nat's Mother becomes very Ill-He breaks his Resolve, and joins a Rowdy Party on a Sleigh-ride-Description of a Popular Hotel in Cambridge-Hot Words and Hot Suppers. FOR the week succeeding the incidents narrated in the last chapter, Nathan Nudge followed his good mother's counsel, and adhered to the path of duty from which he had so lamentably swerved. The change so desirable, however, was only transitory. It fwas not long before he listened to the voice of the tempter, and was again led astray. It was a great while before the two apprentices dared infringe the rule established for their return at night; and in some other things they appeared to adhere scrupu- lously to their master's wishes. I say appeared, because their obedience was more in seeming than in point of fact. The frank, open-hearted Nathan began to learn, from Thomas, Viow to dissemble. He deceived his -mother and sister, with whom he now spent few of his evenings, by ascribing the infrequency of his visits to work at the office, and engagements at home. The truth was-that bar-rooms, theatres, bowling-alleys, sleigh-rides, and suppers, with dissipated companions like Braxton, occupied nearly all his leisure. *  Months passed.  His blue eye lost its healthy clearness; his lip, once so ruby, too often wore   70        EASY NAT; OR, the disgusting tinge' of tobacco. He became almost as careless and slovenly about his work as Thomas. Some- times when he came to see her, at her request-she had to request him to come, now 1-his sick parent, who was every day growing weaker, would take his hand in hers, and looking with all the fond anxiety of a mother into his face, say that ' she feared all was not. well with him!' At such times, her son would shed tears of contrition, and, endeavoring to reassure her sinking heart, internally resolve to do better. Alas! the tie which linked Nathan's good resolve to Nathan's act, was a rope of sand I He diverged from the path of rectitude so gradually, that he hardly perceived it himself, and the sin was so gilded, that it blinded his eyes to its increasing magnitude. The splendor of the resorts which he visited, is even now, as it was then, cited in their defence, but how wretched and rotton is the argument! It is not the filthy and poverty- stricken den of debauchery which first seduces the victim to ruin. It is not that which wnakLes him the drunkard, That crime lies at the door of the marble-countered, highly decorated, brilliantly illuminated PALACE of King Alcohol It is time enough when the tyrant's victims are kicked out of the back door, for them to seek shelter in his sheds and outhouses. Like the eloquent Mr. Gough, who after drinking the cup of intemperance to the very dregs, was, through the goodness of God and the blessed instrumenta- lity of the Washingtonians, entirely reformed, and has already been the means of rescuing hundreds of poor drunkards from the road to ruin, Nathan Mudge was called ' the life' of the little circle of thoughtless companions in which he now moved. tIe had an inexhaustible fund of   TH E TH REE APPRENTICES.        I1 drollery, sung a good song, and took an almost indispensa- ble part in every frolic which Braxton set afoot. The ap- plause and flattery lavished upon him by his companions intoxicated him even more than their wine, and when he found his society courted by the more buckish of those who frequented the same resorts, neither the entreaties of his mother and sister, nor the counsel and remonstrances . of Giles and Edwin, could prevent his becoming entirely fascinated with this dissolute fellowship. He loved his mother with all the warmth of affection characteristic of him, and he never replied to her appeals with obstinacy or anger, but frequently with tears, and always with pro- mises to be to her what he once was-obedient and dutiful. But out of her presence, he forgot her fears for him, or thought them unreasonably exaggerated, and listened again with increasing relish, if possible, to the insidious suggestions of Tom Braxton. All this wore upon her sadly. Her illness had assumed the appearance of con- sumption, and the unrest of mind occasioned by her son's irregularities, was not, by any means, conducive to its cure. In the meantime, the blue eye of Susan Mudge lost its wonted brilliancy, and her spirits, buoyant in toil's spite, as long as her brother was himself, would at times sink within her. The spring and summer time passed, with, only an occa- sional amendment on his part. Autumn, too, flew by, and again the snow was on the ground. 'Now, Nat, for the first sleigh-ride of the season!' said Thomas Braxton to his fellow-apprentice, as they issued from the printing-office of Giles Godwin, one day after a heavy fall of snow. 'We'll propose it at the meeting of   EASY NAT; OR,  the Rawbones, to-night. What d'ye say, my fine feller; shall we have a jolly good spree ?' 'By gorryl yes, let's go itl' said Nat, who, like his com- panion, cultivated his whiskers, and his taste for tobacco, together with sundry other mannish accomplishments. Amongst the rest, he had acquired the habit of swearing, but he was not obscene, and as yet not so profane as Brax- ton. Much of their language we are compelled to omit in the dialogue, as improper to be printed. As it is, we have found it- necessary, in order to preserve a tolerable verisi- militude, to preserve some colloquial expressions, not inde- cent, certainly, but still such as we do not wish to be un- derstood as in anywise tolerating. 'But stop!' said Nathan, looking disappointed ; 'come to think, I can't go. My mother, you know, is very sick.' 'Oh, blow your mother,' said his sub, rudely. 'You are a brute, Tom Braxton!' said Nathan Mudge, casting the other's arm from him indignantly. 'You are a brute to speak in that way. I will not go with you now, at any rate.' 'Well, you needn't get mad about it,' said Tom. ' I was only joking. If your staying at home would'make her any better, I'd hold up both my hands for it, 'cause I ain't got no enmity to her, though she does talk'about me. But, because one is sick, it's no reason why all the rest should be!' 'Unless it's a contagious sickness, and then they can't help themselves,' said Nathan, recovering his good humor. And the momentary cloud which had lowered upon his face suddenly vanished before the broad sunshine of his laugh.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.      73   'You're a rum 'un!' said Tom, approvingly, 'I'm sorry for your mother, and if it will do her any good to have you mope at home with the blues, instead of enjoyin' your- self like a rational bein', why Tom Braxton- would be the last feller to say go !' 'I don't think I shall go,' said Nathan, but not so reso- lutely as before. 'I think you will !' thought Thomas to himself. The result proved that he was right. On the morrow, Naghan did not go near his mother, lest a requisition should be made upon his attendance in the evening. At night, along with Thomas, he joined about twenty other young men (members of the dissolute club to which Braxton had alluded), in a large double sleigh, drawn by four horses, and rode out to a famous resort in Cambridge. The large bar-room at this place was, as usual, crowded with young men imbibing hot stimulants, and puffing forth such dense clouds of cigar smoke, that the only object which Nathan could at first distinguish was the huge fire in the centre. The clinking of toddy-sticks and spoons against glasses, and the hum of a hundred voices all talking at once, in the bar-room itself, was almost deafening, and the din was very superfluously exaggerated by the noise of a ball overhead, and the bawling of select parties of bacchana- lians in private apartments. Every minute rapid jingling of sleigh-bells, and the galloping of panting horses up to the door, announced a new arrival from the city; and every new arrival added to the tumult of the discordant sounds within. ' This is what I call life! said Tom to Nathan, as their 4  4       EASY NAT; OR, R arty stood round the big fire, warming themselves, before dijourning to a private room. ' Ain't it though?' saidNat, enthusiastically, and almost , ihoking with tobacco smoke. ' A good place to study character!' observed Braxton. ' That is to say, if anybody here has got anyl' said Nathan, quietly. What's that you say?' inquired a bystander, whom irinking had rendered quarrelsome. ' None of your business!' said Thomas, taking it upon aimself to speak for his companion. Hdordse ' A ight I .a fight 1' cried a hundred eager voices, and in a moment the belligerents were jammed together by the surrounding crowd. Blows succeeded. Not many, for the combatants, though goaded onby their respective'friends (!) were soon parted by the energetic attendants, who seemed to be perfectly used to such scenes ; but not until Nathan had made his opponent's nose bleed profusely, and got one of his own eyes badly bruised. For a fewminutes, the bar-room was like a clistured hornet's nest. Mulled wine and spirituous liquors had so excited the evil passions of those present, that they desired nothing so much as a simultaneous melee. They raged, they fumed, they blas- phemed. But the landlord was not a man to be trifled with, and he held the storm with a tight 'rein, until it was allayed, and the two apprentices and their party passed into the room which had been prepared for them. Here they partook of a heavy hot supper, and amid the, profu- sion of steaming stimulants and consequent excitement, Nathan Mudge soon forgot his swollen eye, though it was *                       A      i ,    THE THREE APPRENTICES.          75 in especial honor of it that he had been placed at the head of the table, at the' suggestion of Tom, who took u pon himself to officiate at the other end. Here Nathan felt that he was in his element. He sang comic songs, told funny stories, and was brim full and running over with wit, vivacity, and mirth. His fun was infectious, and the room ranrg with shouts and laughter of the young party of rakes. They drank and smoked, and smoked and drank again, and the hours passed unheeded. CHAPTER X. The bacchanaliahs set out for Boston--The assault on a College Boarding-house-The Dickens with the Old Driver-A Eough and Tumble-' Watch! Watch!'-The Flying Horses offer an eligible prospect of broken necks-The Apprentices in the Custody of- the Watch-The Unexpected Encounter with Giles Godwin-The Terrible Development--Nathan at the Death-Bed of his Mother- The De'nouement. AT last with smarting eyes and throbbing pulses, the        i reeling club of apprentices, rioting at Cambridge, started for home again, singing, as goaded by their driver, the maddened horses almost flew along their snowy path,- ' Come' landlord, fill your flowing bowl!V After which Nathan lead off with,-- 'Sparkling and bright, in liquid light,' etc. and-- 'We won't go home till morning i' Then followed a   number of other songs of the same 5p/   ;       EASY  NAT; Us,                 aracter, and some far less decent, besides a great many atches, which, coming from hoarse throats and discord- Lt voices, materially contributed to.' make night hideous.' then this half insane crew had reached the colleges, om Braxton called to the driver to 'hold up' in front of large boarding-house which he pointed out. ' Fellers I' saidhe ' a chap ties up there, who was too ig for his business, and has come out here to study law. 'rinti' wasn't good enough for him I You know who I lean. It's Ed: Fairbanks; Three groans for old Smash- ' No 1' said Nat, remonstrating ; but he was not heard, or his utterance washusky and indistinct. So the rowdies ,ave three groans, and Tom Braxton cast an empty bottle, which he had brought away from the wassail, with great    , violence through one of the windows. After venting this despicable spite upon Edwin Fairbanks, who, upon becom- ing of age, had, at the suggestion of Giles Godwin, and his own inclinations, gone to study in the law school atX Cambridge, the dissolute party drove off as fast as the  horses could carry them, giving utterance, in their flight, to all manner of yelling, whooping, and other barbarous noise. And this, they thought, was rational amusement I ' Go up here through Temple-street, driver 1' said Braxton, when they had entered the city. ' We must      ; give three cheers to the pretty Susan Mudge.' This idea so pleased Nathan, who was too much in-  toxicated even to remember the danger in which his mother was lying, that he shouted ' Bravo I go up Trem-Temple- street 1' Rough and uneducated though the driver was, he had. II... H   T   H TH REE  APPRENTICES.   " good sense enough to despise the company he carried, and out of all patience with their capricious and insolent dic- tation, he refused to go out of his way, asserting that he should proceed directly to the stable in Hanover-street. ' None o' your sarce 1' cried Braxton. 'You turn up Temple-street when you come to it, or you may catch a lickin'!' The man made no reply, and, regardless of Braxton's threats, continued up Cambridge-street, without slackening his pace. He was passing the end of Temple-street with- out pausing, when, with a shout of rage, the ugly appren- tice jammed his hat down over his eyes, and, assisted by one or two others, pulled him over into their midst. The driver halloed to the watch, and scrambled lustily to get away. In the tussel, Braxton, Nathan and the driver were precipitated from the sleigh! Frightened out of their wits, the horses dashed away helter-skelter with the reins about their heels ; their fear and speed in nowise diminished by the cries of terror proceeding from the freight behind them. Caring more for his team than the revenge which he might now have easily wreaked upon the two appren- tices, the driver let go his hold upon their throats and ran away in pursuit of his affrighted horses. ' Stop him! stop him!P cried Nathan to a watchman who had come up, and was about to lay hands on him. 'There he goes! Don't you see him cuttin' round Bow- doin-square?' 'No, you don't, my fine feller l' said the gruff guardian of the night; 'I know a trick worth two o' that. So, come along o: me I' With this he seized hold ofiboth the young men; but Braxton gave him a severe blow in the 'I                     e i   I8       EASY NAT; OR, face, which made him loose his hold, so that he escaped. Nathan would fain have followed his companion's example, but despite his struggles, the watchman was dragging him up Temple-street, when by a desperate effort, after having seemed to submit, he literally tore himself away, and fled for dear life into Cambridge-street. Just round the corner he ran plump into the arms of a passenger, who was walk- ing rapidly in that direction.          i ' He is my prisoner!' said the watchman, again laying hold of the youngster. ' He is my apprentice V' said Giles Godwin, looking at Nathan with unmingled surprise and sorrow. ' On what charge do you arrest him?' 'For disturbing. the peace, Mr. Godwin I' said the functionary, respectfully. 'It is fortunate that you know me, sir,' said Giles, 'for I wish you to allow me to become responsible for his appearance at your requisition, to-morrow, and, in the meantime, give him into my charge. I would not inter- fere between him and the watch-house now, but that I de- sire his attendance at the death-bed of his mother, which, I have just been called to attend with what haste I may I' ' Good God I' cried Nathan, white with horror and re- morse, ' what do I hear?' 'What do you here?' said the old man sternly. 'In a midnight brawl, when you should be beside your mother's bed I Nathan, Nathan I I knew you to be thoughtless and dissipated, but I could not have believed you to be so lost to all filial feeling 1'- ' Do not speak so to me, Mr. Godwin I' said Nathan, completely sobered by his distress. 'I know I am a brute,   THE THREE APPRE NTICES.        '9 but indeed, indeed, I did not think that my poor mother was so ill I Oh! let us hasten to her I Perhaps she will die before I can get to her I perhaps even now she is dead! But oh no, no! I cannot believe it I Come, quick! quick I' and he hurried the old man away from the watchman, who suffered them to depart in peace, while he started off in pursuit of the fugitive Braxton. 'Oh, I canfot crawl along at this pace, and she dying I Follow as fast as you can, but let me fly to her!' said the impatient apprentice, when they had proceeded a few yards at the printer's most rapid gait ; and abruptly leav- - ing his mnaster's side he rather flew than ran over the space which intervened between him and his kinsfolk's home. As he entered the gate, he heard his mother's voice lifted in a loud and to him appalling tone, for of late her extreme weakness had prevented her from speak- ing above a whisper-calling, in the wildest accents of appeal, upon her absent boy. The -afgonizing cry lacer- ated his heart! The next moment he rushed by his weep- iug sister, and the surrounding group of sympathising friends, and with the exclamation of 'MTother! motherl' knelt by -the dying woman's bedside. ' My son?' said the poor lady, as she turned her glassy eye towards the unhappy young man, who, with her hand clasped in his own, was gazing with the most imploring expression, into her emaciated face, 'that was not my dear Nathan's voice It was woful and shrill, while his is round and joyful!' Her mind- evidently wandered, as, scanning him more closely, she continued, 'No; no, you are not he! His dress was tidy--yours is disordered and torn. His cheeks were blooming like the red rose-yours   80        EASY NAT; OR, are blanched white as the snow-flake I His eyes were as blue and fair as the brightest sky in June-yours are black and swollen. And see! the cold drops gather on your brow and fall upon my hand! Go, go, guilty one- go and pray You are not my son. He never knew re- morse, for he was always gentle and good, and so kind to his poor mother! Were you not obedient to yours?' Nathan hid his face in the coverlid to conceal the vio- lence of his emotion. ' Go and pray, then, that God may forgive youn! Poor lad! poor lad I You tremble like the aspen-leaf. What do you fear-? I will intercede for you. God has been very gracious to me. I have served Him all my days, and He will hearken to my prayer!' With these words, the dying Christian supplicated God to forgive the sins of the repentant son, and make him  to his mother- what Nathan was to her. Every word that she had uttered thus far, fell like sparks of fire upon the agonized heart of the wretched young man, who was still kneeling by the side of the bed, while his sister stood leaning against, one of the posts at its foot, regarding him with tears of com- passionate sorrow. The little group of sympathizing spec- tators, composed of the printer's twin-sisters, Doctor J. , and Edwin Fairbanks (who had stayed in town that night, and thus accidentally defeated the object of Braxton's malice at Cambridge), was now joined by Mr. Godwin. ' I hear your voice, Mr. Godwin, my good, good friend, though I can not see you!' said Mrs. Mudge, in a low tone, and with her eyes closed, for their lids seemed to have become rigid.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        81 The kind-hearted printer approached and took her hand, and Nathan withdrew to another part of the room. Pre- sently, after a short interval of silence, broken only by the' convulsive sobs of her children, a sudden gurgling took place in the sick woman's throat. It was the mucus or. phlegm, rising from her decayed lungs, and now very nearly strangling her, because she was at length too weak even for the effort of expectoration. The horrid sound indicated but too truly the little time she had to live. ' Are you not in great pain, my poor friend?' said Mr. Godwin, as he bent anxiously over the bed, and inclined his ear to her face. ' No, no!' she replied, -in a faint and broken whisper'; and a sweet smile played around her pale, thin lips; 'Happy-happy-happy-happy!' From this time, her voice grew higher at every word, until her breath entirely failed her. She exclaimed, that she saw heaven, and Jesus, and the angels, and gave utterance to expressions of the most ecstatic joy. Giles had lost a son some years before-a promising boy whom she regarded with affection. In the midst of her raptures, she called upon Mr. Godwin to send his love to ' Charley' (which was the name of his deceased child), for she should meet him in the heaven which she saw already opening to receive her released spirit. Then she glorified God and her Redeemer, and words seeming too weak to express the holy adoration with which her soul was filled, she lifted her voice in hymns to the Almighty's praise.. Astonished that her weak frame should be capable of so extraordinary an effort, and fearing lest it should hasten ,   EASY NAT; OR, her dissolution, one of Giles's sisters besought her, tenderly, not to speak so loud! 'I must speak loudl' cried the dying woman ; ' God bids me. There are deaf persons in the world, and I must speak loud.' Soon after she called, in tones of anguish, for her son. 'My poor-poor boy? Why do you keep him from me ? Has he been undutiful ? I forgive him--I forgive him all I Oh, bring him hither! He will not turn a deaf ear to my last words, for he was a good child-a good child! Where is he ? 'Here, mother!' said her contrite son, groaning in an agony of affliction and remorse, as he took her wasted hand, and pressed it to his lips. 'Can you-can you for- give me ?' 'Nathan! My son-my son! My dear-dear Nathan!' rather shrieked than exclaimed, his mother, opening her eyes and recognizing him for the first time; ' come nearer--- nearer!' Her voice fell, and though her lips continued to move for a fewmoments, they had uttered the last sound which would ever issue from them until that appal- ling note which announces death. .But her gaze was still upon him, and to whatsoever part of the room he went during the short hour which still intervened between life and the emancipation of her pure spirit, her eyes followed her son with a mournful expression, which even the tem- porary oblivion of the drunkard's bowl, years\ after, did not always succeed in banishing from his memory. At a few minutes past two, in the morning, Ifer face suddenly lighted up with the sweetest smile, Edwin thought, that   1-1 I 11   he had ever seen on human face. It was the last flicker- ing ray of life's brief taper. In another moment, with her countenance beaming upon her kneeling children, she breathed her last!    CHAPTER XI.   Nathan comes nigh to follow his Mother-Is saved through the kind- ness of Kate Godwin-Recovers his Morals and his Health- Edwin Fairbanks leaves Cambridge to Pursue his Studies with more Economy in the Country-His Parents-The Secret Intem- perance of his Father, the only bar to the Happiness of his Family -The Domestic Quarrel-The Student domiciliates himself in a Deserted Lighthouse.    THE death and burial of the kind parent whom his ex- cesses had hurried to the grave, were scenes of too intense ,excitement to the nervous and susceptible nature of Nathan Mudge to pass off with the indications of grief common to such occasions. On the day succeeding the interment, which took place in a lot owned by his master at Mount Auburn, he was taken ill with a brain fever, and confined to his bed for several weeks. During his illness, Which, for a few days, was very dangerous, he raved, like a lunatic, about his mother, whom he seemed to fancy he had slain. He was attended in his illness by his sister and the family of Mr. Godwin, who had prevailed upon Susan to make his house her home,-at least for the present. But most assiduous in her attentions-more, if possible, than his sister--was the printer's beautiful daughter, Kate. She regarded his    84    .    EASY  NAT; OR, errors far less severely than her aunts, and pitied the wretchedness, which he had brought upon himself, more acutely than any one less partial had the conscience to do. 'Here, she argued, 'was. Thomas, evidently the most culpable of the two (but of this she failed to con- Vince her aunts, for Braxton was a smooth-tongued hypo- crite in the house, and had 'got on the right side' of the old ladies), who has safely escaped, not only from the watchman's hands on the night of the sleigh-ride, but, as far as she could perceive, from all punishment whatever; while Nat,--poor Nat!-had suffered more, both in mind and body, within one short week, than much worse delin- quents experienced in a whole lifetime I' Pity, it has been said, is akin to love. However that may be, it is an indubitable fact, that, from the period of Nathan's severe, sickness, the friendship entertained for him by Kate Godwin increased in strength and fervor, daily. This was accountable in some degree by the fact that the wilful girl knew it interfered materially with some ideas which her aunts had recently formed of uniting her to a young and fashionable ' merchant tailor,' rejoicing in the sounding cognomen of Albert Mandeville d'Orsay, and presiding over a lucrative clothing shop in School-street. When -Nathan was sufficiently recovered to resume his post at the case again, the fiery ordeal through which he had passed seemed to have purged his character of the vicious excrescences, which had grown upon it under the evil fosterage of Thomas Braxton, and made him at once a better and wiser -man. He associated little with his fellow apprentice, beyond what his work rendered necessary ; for several months attended to his duties with the exactest           K    THE THREE APPRENTICES.         85 fidelity; resisting every effort of his quondam associates to allure him back to the broad road of destruction into which he had made so serious an exodus. It is impossible to express the satisfaction which this gave to his real friends. In the meantime, Edwin Fairbanks, having read law at the Cambridge school as long as his slender finances would allow, (and he would not accept any pecuniary aid from others-no, not even from  his old employer!) was con- tinuing his laborious studies on the most economical plan, in the neighborhood-of a small village on the Massachu- setts coast, where he had some time before, out of his savings, purchased a little farm for his father and mother. His father had considerably abated his intemperate habits, and become sufficiently ashamed of them not to drink openly, but still indulged in secret-a secret which his cross and sudden fits, and strong alcoholic breath too palpably betrayed.  Had he fully appreciated the extreme mortification and unhappiness which this odious habit fre- quently occasioned his excellent wife and son, he might, perhaps, have put it from him, for he was in the main a good-hearted, affectionate man, very industrious 'when him- self, and possessed naturally of mental qualities which, had they been cultivated by education, might have entitled him  to a high rank amongst the intellects of the age. His help-mate, who was a cheerful, patient, uncomplain- ing woman, tenderly attached to, and in some measure proud of him, never ventured to remonstrate against his unfortunate propensity, for she loved a quiet hearth too much to draw down upon it the storm of passion which any such interference would, she knew, inevitably provoke. But   86        EASY NAT; OR, with her many virtues, the good wife possessed that which embodied all the res- RELIGION ; and she cherished an abiding hope that God would some day hear herprayer, and attract her deluded husband from the path of low and debasing indulgence into his own happy fold. O! how she longed for that blessed time to come! It wanted but this to fill the cup of her contentment full to overflowing. Step by step, since the time when he was indentured to the benevolent printer, (she might well date the improve- ment iln their fortunes from that period!) the exertions of Edwin had raised them from the abyss of disgrace and want into which they had been drawn by the intempe- rance of her husband, and at length placed them in a situation of respectability and- comfort. Her son--how naturally proud she was of his advancement H-was doing as well as she could wish, and better, she felt, than she had a right to expect. He was her only child (she had lost four), and he and his father were her sole earthly care. Nothing now was wanting to make their happiness complete, except her husband's total abstinence from the use of intoxicating drink; for he was naturally of a reli- gious cast of mind, and she felt that to destroy the indul- gence by which he was disguised, and bring him thoroughly to himself, would also bring him back to his God. O, Intemperate Husbands I if you knew half the anguish of heart which your poor wives suffer uncomplainingly for your errors-if you could but guess a tithe of the unspeak- able joy which reformation would give them, surely you would not persist in the gratification of an appetite so utterly selfish! Edwin Fairbanks had felt it his duty, upon mature' de-   THE THREE  APPRENTIC  ES.    81 liberation, to improve the first favorable opportunity after be had become domesticated with his father, to remon- strate in as delicate and respectful a manner as possible, against his secret tippling. The effect was, an exhibition of temper on the part of the parent, which rendered the temporary absence of the son very desirable to  all parties. At the distance of a mile from his father's house, on a point of land extending into the sea, there stood a dilapi- ldated and deserted lighthouse. In his wanderings upon the sandy beach in more propitious weather, Edwin had often ascended to the top of' this bleak and solitary build- ing, to commune alone with the written thoughts of dead sages, and to gaze upon the mighty ocean, the illimitable conception of the ever-living God. Upon one of these occasions, the idea had occurred to him, that it would be pleasant upon the return of the warm weather, to accom- plish a portion of his daily study in this picturesque re- treat. In looking about him for some other abode than his own home, until his father's anger should have sub- sided, the thougoht of his intended summer retreat recurred to him, and though it was now winter, he determined to resort to the deserted lighthouse for a temporary domicil. His mother offered little objection, and before night-fall, he had invested the venerable building with a small stock of wood, furniture, and provisions, and fairly installed himself as the sole occupant of its weather-beaten walls. In this isolated refuge, the poor student, who was equally pleased with the economy of the arrangement, and the undisturbed peace which it afforded him, was not always exempt from both hunger and cold. But surrounded by   88        EASY NAT; OR, the vast and sublime in nature, and intent upon the pro- found and absorbing studies in which both his inclination and ambitious views had engaged him, he treated his phy- sical wants, if not with stoical indifference, at least with philosophical patience. For the most of his food he was indebted to the sea, upon which, in a boat of his own con- struction, he exercised himself in rowing, and whenever he had an opportunity, succoring the distressed mariner. After a few days, his father repented of the passion by which he had exposed his son to such privations, and his pride so succumbed to the dictates of a heart soft and tender as a child's when it was not angered, that he visited the student before the week was out, and, with tears in his eyes, solicited him to return to their common fireside. Assured by experience, however, that their amity could not remain long unruffled under the same roof with the mischievous imp of intemperance, alcohol, Edwin persuaded his father to suffer him to remain where he was ,; a result not entirely unsatisfactory to the elder Fairbanks, upon whom his presence sometimes imposed a restraint. After this slight indication of parental feeling, Mr. Fairbanks was content to allow his son to remai in his new quarters undisturbed, though, occasionally, of an in- clement night, when they heard the rude wind wrestling fiercely with their own sturdy little dwelling, he and his good wife would draw the coverlid closer to their clhins, and lay awake sometimes for hours, venting their solici- tude for the tenant of the ruined lighthouse. IBut, unde- terred by the discomfort of his situation, the ambitious student calmly adhered to his new domicil, until an inci- dent occurred, which somewhat interfered with his purpose   THE  THREE  APPRENTICES.       89 of seclusion. What this incident amounted to, we shall narrate in a subsequent chapter. CHAPTER   XII. The Intrigues of the Wicked Apprentice-The Wretchedness of Susan Mudge-The Tailor-Tyrant-Advocacy of the .Sempstress-Susan is Persecuted by a Roue--Her Illness, and Voyage to the Capes. ' WHLE Edwin Fairbanks was thus passing the time in his retirement on the coast, there was a malignant plotter in the city, busily planning the ruin of his peace. Thomas Braxton, tired of the unfortunate Eunice, to whom he had made the most solemn protestations of un- alterable love and good faith, had become deeply enamored' of Susan Mudge, now a member of his master's family. He was aware that she was affianced to Edwin Fairbanks, but, stimulated by a double motive of love for her, and an insatiable desire to wreak his revenge upon him, he deter- mined to do all in his power to dissolve their engagement. Diminutive as he was, both in mind and body, and inferior in every respect to the man whom he sought to rival, he was vain enough to believe that he could supplant him. With this object in view, he grew daily more circumspect in his association with his master's family, and though he still visited his former haunts, and even some of a more infamous character, his dissipation was so artfully concealed, that even Nathan did not suspect that the sepulchre was only a whited one. The cunning hypocrite became a frequent attendant at evening meetings, to the great edi-   90,       EASY NAT; OR, fication of the venerable twins. About the same time he made a declaration of love to Susan, whom he imagined his pretended conversion would soften. He was civilly re- pulsed. Not intimidated at this, he redoubled his atten- tions. He began to play the despairing lover. For days together he lay in bed, disconsolate, refusing to eat the food brought to him by the sympathizing aunts, and ap- parently adhering to a rigid fast ; though the fact was, he lined himself pretty well three or four times per diem, sur- reptitiously, with crackers, cheese and cider, a stock'of which edibles he had previously secreted in his chest. When he resumed his place at the family table again, he would eat but a few mouthsful, and then, with a look of mild reproach at Susan, and an air of the profoundest me- lancholy, indicating how valueless were all victuals under such circumstances, would walk abstractedly from the house; After which successful performance, it was his-; wont to hasten down to Crosby's cornucopia of eatables in Lindall-street, and appease his gastric juice with a chicken- pie, or some such trifle. After these ext;raordinary de- monstrations of the sincerity of his attachment, Thomas Braxton returned to make another appeal to Susan's com. passion, and hinted darkly that another repulse might pro- voke a suicide. Not entirely convinced of the seriousness of his folly, Susan yet treated him with considerate kind- ness, but at the same time she told him candidly and firmly that as her faith' was plighted inviolably to Edwin Fairbanks (whom, next to God, she loved better than any being upon earth), the attentions of another were worse than useless,--they were in the highest degree dis- tasteful. ' It is well i' said Braxton, bitterly; and smit-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         91 ing his forehead in stage fashion, though with unaffected chagrin, he went away to brood over his discomfiture, and meditate revenge. A frequent caller at the house was the young merchant- tailor, D'Orsay. He was the most prominent of several aspirants after Kate's hand. Some beard projecting from beneath his chin-a blue beaver-cloth frock coat, with im- mense buttons, and any quantity of breasting and pockets --gaiter coltiznuationis-a heavy rosewood cane-and a general air of smartness, constituted Mr. D'Orsay's toit ensemble, which, it hardly need be added, was that of a very fashionable blade.' Now, this individual, who was the fa- vorite of the aunts, and the detestation of Giles Godwin, who abhorred everything like puppyism, piqued at the dis- like'evident in Kate's manner towards 'him, began to institute in -his own mind some invidious comparisons between her personal appearance, and that of Susan Mudge. The latter lie began to regard with an admiration, which his vexation at the other's neglect induced him, on one or two occasions, to render very apparent. This was especially the case, during a visit which' he made on the evening when Braxton was still -burning with the last rebuff from Susan. Thomas's quick eye perceived it, and his ready brain ,quickly conceived a plan of turning it to his purpose of revenge. Accordingly when the baffled buck took his leave, Braxton followed him out, and joined him, with the remark that he was walking the same way. After a few words upon different topics, the apprentice artfully turned the conversation to the merits of Susan Mudge, and in proportion as he excited D'Orsay's admiration for her beauty, he diminished his respect for her character. It   92       EASY NAT; OR, was enough to lower her immeasurably in the narrow mind of the merchant-tailor, to ascertain that she was only a poor sempstress. He had been so accustomed to play the petty tyrant over all whom he encountered of that industrial class of which she was a member-a class which, like that numerous one employed in book-binderies, includes as many respectable ladies and girls, who would make useful and exemplary wives; as any other under the sun,--that when he heard of her occupation, 'it was great pity, so it was ;' and he had 'not supposed she was so low!' She is a jewel worth takin' out o' the mud,' said Brax- ton ; ' why don't you do it?' 'And make her lMrs. D'Orsay?' inquired the tailor, with affected accent and unaffected horror. 'Yes I' said the apprentice with a chuckle, and squeez- ing his companion's arm, 'for a moeek!' 'What?' said D'Orsay, turning to the other excitedly, 'you don't think that could be done, do you? No, no,' he continued, his hope subsiding as suddenly as it had risen, 'I know these sempstresses too well. They are virtuous, or they wouldn't work!' ' P'raps so,' said Thomas, dubiously ; 'Ibut this case is a horse of another color. The girl's taken a shine to you. That flattery of your'n did the business!' 'Ha, ha, ha!' said the tailor, laughing with compla- cency,' I thought she was rather smitten. I believe I have a way with me ; hey, Braxton? But about this girl. How shall I work it, my good fellow? I would ask you in here, at Hilbrook's, but I think I heard you say at Godwin's that you never drinkV! 'That was all gammon1' said the apprentice. ' I'll take   TTHE THREE APPRENTICES.       ' 93 a snifter of brandy with you, and, while we are smoking a cigar, tell you how to clinch the nail with the charming Sue.' With this, he opened the door of the oyster shop which they had now reached, and was followed by D'Orsay into one of the stalls, where, after having obtained the pro- posed r'efreshments-fit accessories to such an interview- he detailed to the vain and credulous tailor the steps which he said were, in his opinion, sure to ensnare the sempstress. Now, Thomas Braxton knew, in his own heart, that the hopes with which he inspired D'Orsay were hollow and futile. , He felt convinced that the vir- tue of the excellent girl, whose fair fame he now conspired so cowardly to sully, was incorruptible. But he hoped, by adroitly managing the cards, to fasten suspicion upon her in some minds, and especially in that of her betrothed, whose distance from the scene of action would prevent him from knowing the whole truth. Accordingly he had no sooner parted from D'Orsay, who left his cause, for the present, entirely in his hands, with the promise of a suit of clothes should he succeed, than he immediately set about his fiendish scheme, confident that, result as it might, it must, in some measure, tend to his revenge. The first, and not the least important requisite, was to in- duce her to withdraw herself from beneath the roof where there were so many eyes open to her interests. He knew of no method more likely to accomplish this desirable end, than to continue to annoy her with his suit; and he deter- mined to write her a letter on the subject before he slept. In the morning, he handed her this communication. At noon he besought her for an answer. In the evening, he   "       EASY  NAT ; OR, waylaid her in the entry with gloomy threats of self-de- struction. These persecutions were repeated, and, added to a little pique shewn by the aunts on account of the admi.- ration with which, she was evidently regarded by Mr. D'Orsay, led her to determine upon seeking a new home. It was with the greatest reluctance that Mr. Godwin and his daughter parted with her.' His sisters, too, who really esteemed her, solicited her to remain. The excuse which she offered, of a desire to live independently of all resour- ces save her own, did not seem to them sufficient; but they saw that her resolution was formed, and they knew her will well enough not to oppose it. She went to board in another quarter of the city. 'A part in which, it was a remarkable fact,' said Thomas, with a leer at the twins, on the following evening, ' the handsome tailor lived i' The sisters looked very grave. Unfortunately, Susan was prevailed upon to accept of work from Mr. D'Orsay, who lost no time to bring all his fascinations to bear upon her heart. When, in combination with some petty tyrants in the trade, he reduced the already insufficient rates of com- pensation allowed the poor females, who toiled for him, hers was suffered to remain undiminished until she, herself, indignantly refused to receive any betterpay than the rest. He sought to induce her to accept of costly presents, which she declined. He paid her impertinent attentions -waylaying in the streets, and accompanying her home, in spite of her hints, and finally her request, that he would cease to do so. At'last, he made a declaration of his passion, and insinuated an infamous proposal. Fired with scorn and indignation, she threatened to report him to her friends. Perceiving that he had gone too far, and some-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.          95 what alarmed, D'Orsay begged her pardon in the most piteous terms. She refused to exchange another word with him, and banished him from her presence. - Besotted with his new-born passion, and reckless of consequences, D'Orsay still besieged her wherever she went. In addi- tion to this source of unhappiness, poor Susan had another, in the fact that Edwin Fairbanks seemed to have ceased all correspondence with her. It was now February, and she had not heard from him since the latter part of De- ctember. He had been accustomed to write every week, and she could not surmise the reason of his not continuing to do so, for she had heard frequently, through other sources, that he was well. A rumor reached her, that he was ambitious' to unite himself to a rich family in the neighborhood of his father's. Her heart sank within her for a moment, after the receipt of this intelligence, but upon a little reflection, she believed it impossible that Edwin could be so false. She had already written two letters which remained unanswered, but she determined to write another, demand- ing an explanation of his strange neglect, and offering to release him from his engagement. This communication, wrung from a distressed heart, and blotted with tears which would not be stayed, she delivered as usual to her brother, to put into the post-office with the daily budget sent by Mr. Godwin. After the lapse of a day or two, she re- ceived a few cold lines from Edwin, accepting the release which she had tendered him, and intimating that he had a right to look higher for a partner in life. Poor Susan 'strained every nerve to bear this cruel blow with proud indifference, but the effort required a stoicism which she   96        EASY NAT; OR, did not possess. In society, she rigidly suppressed every indication of the grief which corroded her heart, but in the solitude of her own chamber the unhappy girl aban- doned herself to the most poignant sorrow. The loss of her dear mother had borne her to the earth, and only this faithlessness of her lover was wanting to crush her bruised spirit in the dust. Her health failed her, and day by day the rose faded from her cheek, until it seemed as if it never had been any other than pallid and hollow. Her friends became anxious, and besought her to take the ad- vice of a medical acquaintance, who prescribed change of scene. Susan deprecated their solicitude, and without divulging her hidden grief, protested that she was not ill, -only a little out of spirits. 3However, she consented to accompany Kate upon a visit to some relations of Mr. Godwin's, who lived at Cape Ann. CHAPTER XIII. Packets sometimes Perilous-D'Orsay on the Sea-Kate and Susan are Grossly Insulted-The Packet is Wrecked, and the Girls are left to Perish-They are Miraculously Preserved by the Student of the Lighthouse--An Eclaircissement. EVERYTHNG was arranged for their voyage, and the two girls embarked on board a small packet plying between Boston and their place of destination. There was but one other passenger, and they discovered to their chagrip that this was D'Orsay. He expressed great delight at seeing them, and professed to be visiting some friends at the Cape. Two sailors, besides the master, who was evidently a Very   T HE THREE AP?RENTIC ES.       97 intemperate man, composed the whole crew. With one of these men D'Orsay seemed to be very confidential, and, when upon their vessel's being becalmed a little after sun- set, some twenty-five miles out, he produced from his trunk a box of cigars and a bottlM of brandy, it was apparent to the young ladies that he was fast becoming the favorite of the other two. They pottled until they became talkative, and, finally, drunk. The most sober of the party were D'Orsay and the man with whom he had been familiar from the first. The latter, it was observed with alarm by the two ladies (who shared with them the only cabin on board), seemed bent on plying the others with as much liquor as they could be induced to take. The consequence was, that the poor dupes were soon reduced to a state of beastly intoxication, and put to bed by their companions. Hiccupping an apology for 'the brutes who could, under any circumstances, so far forget their sense of propriety, as to have to be put to bed, dead drunk, in the presence bf the most beautiful of their sex,' D'Orsay begged the ladies to take a glass of wine and join them in a game of whist,. which being declined, he took a seat by the side of Susan and attempted to take her hand. Concealing her alarm as well as she could, she rebuked his impertinence, and withdrew to another seat. He followed her. The spirited little Kate Godwin vented her indignation at his rudeness to her friend in no measured terms ; whereupon he suggested to the rough fellow, who was about as much intoxicated as himself (and whom he called Ralph), that he should stop her pretty mouth with kisses, of which it was evident she was in pressing want. Adopting the sug- gestion, Ralph sat down by the side of the indignant girl, 5   98        EASY NAT; OR, and suddenly, encircled her waist with his arm, but, with her deep black eyes flashing fire, Kate resisted with so much determination, and used her nails with such effect upon the face of her insulter, that he was fain to relax his hold of her for a moment ; taking advantage of which, she fled to the other side of the confined cabin, where she was in the same moment joined by Susan Mudge, who had just escaped from the- drunken D'Orsay. Here the -indignant beauties stood at bay, and a parley ensued. ' I will tell you, it's no use to be so mealy-mouthed, girls!' said the tailor; with a hickup. 'We, might as well do all we can to make each other comfortable.' He was again approach- ing her, when she bade him, before proceeding in conduct so atrocious, to-reflect upon the certainty of the, retribu- tion, both divine and human, which it would bring upon his head. In following the suggestions of Braxton, and taking passage in the same iessel with the young ladies, it had not been D'Orsay's intention, infatuated as he was by his guilty passion, to gratify it by any violence, for he knew too well the punishment which any overt act on his part would provoke. But-now, heated with wine, every dictate of prudence deserted him, and he threw all restraints to the winds. ' He laughed at Kate's threat of her father's vengeance. He scoffed at her passionate flood of tears. ' Come, let us comfort them, Ralph!' said he. 'We waste time t' 'Ay, ay, sir 1' said the man, and the next mo- ment, in spite of their resistance, the villains hugged the girls in their rude embrace. With dishevelled hair, and wild shrieks for help, that seemed to wake the very winds which had so long been sleeping, the unhappy girls strug-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         99 gled with their sensual assailants. At last, the strength of despair was given them. They broke away from the dastardly ruffians, and fled, all wild with terror, to the deck. There, springing upon the side, they bade their pursuers not to approach another step, if they would not have -them leap into the sea, upon which the little vessel was now floating as it listed. But other objects now at- tracted the attention of Ralph and D'Orsay. Black and heavy clouds were fast obscuring the moon, and the heavens lowered upon them, as if in terrible displeasure. The diabolical outrage, which they had attempted, ap- peared to have incensed old Ocean himself, for the waves were tossing with his arousing ire. Ralph rushed into the cabin to awake the captain and his assistant. It was useless. Their debauch had ren- dered them almost as lifeless as the dead. Again the ap- palled mariner sought the deck, and essayed to mapage the vessel. Hie called to his companion in villany"to assist him; but in this juncture, D'Orsay was as helpless as a child. His knees tottered beneath him, an awful sickness overcame him, and he sank upon the wet deck, perfectly palsied; Fully apprise'd of their danger from the elements, the girls left the side, over which every wave had threat- ened to bear them to the angry vortex below, and, groping. their way with the utmost difficulty (for it had now be- come very dark, and the fragile bark was tossed about like a feather on the sea), descended into the cabin, with a feeling of gratitude for this providential interference be- tween them and the evil which it had averted. The wind blew harder every moment, and presently Kate Godwin and Susan (who had to cling with all their strength to   100       EASY NAT; OR, the sides of the cabin, in which every movable was knock- ing about at a fearful rate), heard the noise of hail de- scending upon the deck. It was evident that the little vessel was driven helpless before one of the most fearful of those storms, which, on this inclement coast, in the early part of the year, wreck many a better craft than the poor packet. Destruction seemed inevitable. The unfortunate females could do nothing but pray,- and at the request of Catherine, Susan raised her voice in simple but eloquent supplication to their common God and Father. Suddenly, with a shock which threatened to rive every timber in twain, the schooner struck I Oh, what a shriek went up from the fated vessel at that moment! 'A leak I a leak!' The girls rushed in terror to the deck. Everything was shrouded in the deepest black, save where one feeble beam struggled through the surrounding gloom, like a ray of hope to the despairing. This friendly light appeared to be that of a candle in some cot on the coast. They had hard- ly reached the deck, when they heard the sound of a boat pushing off from the vessel. Then the voices of Ralph and D'Orsay, and immediately after, the movement of oars were heard, and the unhappy females became aware that the villains had left them to perish on the wreck, which was now fast upon the rocks! In this wretched situation, freezing with cold, and driven almost to despair despite the prayers which they had not ceased to send up to God, they still looked to the flickering, solitary light upon the coast with something like a gleam of hope. Thus they remained, with their starting eyeballs bent upon the friendly beam from the coast, until daybreak, when they perceived with thankfulness, that the light which they had   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         101 seen, proceeded from an old ruined building, situated on a point of land about a mile distant. Almost dead with fatigue and exposure, they were using their little strength to thank an overruling Providence for thil prospect of re- lief, when their new-born hope was suddenly prostrated by a cry from below, and, immediately after, the appear- ance of the captain and his man upon the deck, announcing in wild affright that the cabin was half hlled with water, and the vessel (which had gradually cleared itself of the rock), was sinking! Perceiving the absence of Ralph and D'Orsay with the boat, the two men raved like lunatics for a few moments, then leaped into the sea, and swam for the distant shore. For the poor girls there seemed not the remotest chance of rescue, when suddenly their hearts were filled with joy at descrying a boat put out from the base of the ruined building, and make to- wards them! It tarried to take in the swimmers.  What an age seemed the delay to the occupants of the wreck, which had now sunk to the water's edge! Haste, haste, sturdy rower, or you will be too late! He strains every nerve. His efforts seemed superhuman. They need be, if he would ever reach the wreck. It is useless,--the vessel is going down! 'Leap into the sea I   Leap, for your lives!' cried the rower, in a voice which Susan recognized, though she could not distinguish his face. It was that of Edwin Fairbanks! Why, she knew not, but all at once, her heart was inspired with new confidence, and her ex- hausted frame with new vigorL She felt happier at that moment, within the very jaws of death, than for months before. Quickly springing to the side, she lifted the willing   102        ASY NAT; ORn, Kate, whose failing strength was unequal to her brave heart, and with only a slight shudder, leaped with her into the sea I Another moment, and the waters had settled over all that remained of the deserted schooner. The girls were buoyed up by their dresses upon the surface of the deep, until after the lapse of a few moments, which seemed as many ages to all interested, they were rescued from their perilous situation by Edwin. Kate sank in a state of utter exhaustion upon her preserver's cloak, which he had spread upon the bottom of the boat. Susan was content to rest upon her lover's manly breast, conscious of little else. than the beatings of his true heart, against her own. The men pulled poorly at the oars, for the debauch of the previous night had reduced them to a situation almost as bad as the deliriuzm tremens; but at last the old lighthouse was reached, and, one after another, the poor student bore his precious waifs into his favorite domicil. 'After bestowing his exhausted guests beside his homely hearth, he made a huge and cheerful fire, at which the men warmed themselves a little, and then departed in quest of better refreshments for themselves at the cottage of his father, whom he desired them to despatch immediately to the lighthouse, with some clothing for the present use of the ladies, and a vehicle in which to convey them to his home. His mother came in his father's stead, and it was well that she did so, for his fair guests were never more in need of the sympathy and assistance of one of their own sex. A short time sufficed to remove the whole party to the house of the elder Fairbanks, where the invalids met with such kind and considerate attention, that, on the following- day, they were completely restored to their   THE T H REE APPRENTICES.       103 former health. Susan Ma;udge felt much better, indeed, for her late sufferings. Perhaps this was owing, in no slight degree, to a certain very interesting tete-a-tete, which took place between her lover and herself, on the evening succeeding her miraculous preservation. By this eclair- cissement it appeared, that the letter which had caused her so much pain was a forgery, and that he had written to her several communications which some enemy had initer- cepted. The same adversary, too, was probably, he thought, the author of the anonymous communication, accusing Susan of an improper connection with D'Orsay, which he had received some weeks before, and indignantly destroyed -as unworthy of a feather's weight against the good faith of her in whom he had never-no, not for a moment--ceased to confide with undoubting assurance of her truth. Susan shed some repentant tears, that she had been the first to doubt, but Edwin kissed them away and she was happy. . Her father hlaving been written to in regard to their disaster, preservation, and present comfort, the pretty Kate Godwin, whose black eyes and rosy cheeks looked, if possible, more beautiful than ever, consented to remain - a few days in her present quarters, with which she was at -the end of that time so well pleased, that she was easily persuaded to remain some weeks longer. Edwin and his parents spared no pains to make their stay'agree- able. His father even went to the extraordinary length of entirely abandoning all potations, public and private! There never was such a happy household as it had now become I After a stay of some five or six weeks, Kate Godwin tore herself away from this joyous circle, and leaving Susan in. the charge of Mrs. Fairbanks, who, with   104       EASY  NAT; OR, jocular peremptoriness, had laid her commands upon her intended daughter-in-law to remain a month longer at least, departed for Boston. CHAPTER XIV. Plot upon Plot-Nathan is again led astray by Braxton-Edwin Fairbanks is accuser of a Crime-His-Accused Recants- Braxton is compelled to wed Eunice-Nat Elopes with Kate Godwin- -Becomes a Drunkard-Is Brought before the Police, along with his Companion--Braxton is sent to the House of Correction. WHLE the troubled tide of affairs was taking so plea- sant a turn in the vicinity of the old lighthouse, there was one person in the little circle around Giles Godwin's fireside, who, while his pliant face was wreathed in con- gratulating smiles, yet brooded bitterly over the revenge- ful feelings which, like flaming coals, were cauterizing his heart, and goading him to madness. Thomas Braxton saw all his schemes of revenge, thus far, defeated, and his baffled rage could not sleep upon it, for he was one of those who never forgive. He it was, who, having the charge of taking the letters of his'master (to whose care those of Susan Mudge were always directed), to and from the post-office, had intercepted the lovers' communications ; his hand had penned the mischievous forgery ; and to him, as we have said, it was owing that D'Orsay-now  supposed to have been drowned-had taken passage in the ill-fated packet. All these means of vengeance failing him, he racked his devilish brain to devise some torture for the lovers,   THE THREE APPRENTICE-S.        105 which should exceed in malignity even that which he had previously designed. He determined, first and fore- most, to devote every wile in his power to seduce the easy Nathan back to his former haunts of dissipation. He succeeded! The poor dupe- depended upon his judg- ment to drink with nwoderation. HEe leaned upon a rotten staff-it broke, and he fell I When Kate returned to her father's, Nathan had again embarked upon the deceitful tide which was to overwhelm him, and over whose smooth waves he was guided by the treacherous pilot, who, witli his remorseless eye steadily fixed upon his destruction, steered for the ruthless rocks on which he was so soon to wreck. This relapse of her lover was not known to Kate for some time after, but immediately upon her arrival home she found the family much distressed by a circum- stance which, like Nathan's dereliction, was owing to Thomas Braxton, though in this, as in the other, he had craftily managed to conceal his agency. The fact to which we allude, bowed their faithful old servant-woman, Scam- mons, to the earth with grief and mortification. The unfortunate Eunice could no longer conceal the fact that she was about to become a mother I Cross-questioned at a consultation held by her sorrowful aunt with the sisters and mother of Mr. Godwin, she astounded them with a disgraceful charge against Edwin Fairbanks! * * * * In the pains of travail, and at the point of death, a short time afterwards, the girl confessed, with much contrition, that her accusation against Edwin was wholly untrue, and that she had been incited to it by Thomas Braxton, who -she solemnly affirmed was her betrayer, and the-father of her child. This denoument afforded some relief to all but 5*   106       EASY NAT; OR, the baffled apprentice. Disguising his rage, and profess- ing the utmost penitence, Braxton expressed his willing- ness to do all in his power while she yet lived to repair the wrong he had done the dying woman, Accordingly, the erring couple were immediately- married. Contrary to every expectation, and greatly to Braxton's discomfi- ture, his new wife gave birth to a healthy infant, and soon recovered. His time was now out with Giles Godwin, and cursing his evil stars, he obtained employment in a neighboring office, and took his young wife and child to other lodgings. No longer companions in business, Nathan Mudge and Thomas Braxton were not, on that account, any the less frequently together in dissipation. With the cool deter- mination of studious villany, the latter removed every im- pediment which might have led his victim again to retrace the fatal steps which he was now taking. At his sugges- tion, Nathan pressed his suit for the hand of Kate, whose passionate affection he reciprocated with an ardor inflamed to excess by the potations which heated his blood, and blinded his better judgment. He was respectfully but firmly refused by Giles, who felt that the union of his only child to one more rash than herself, was hardly com- patible with his duty. The aunts treated the suitor with absolute harshness, and they gave both him and their im- patient niece to understand that never, under any circum- stances, could their union take- place. The consequence of this peremptory bearing on the part of -her relatives, was, that Kate Godwin, ever wilful and headstrong, listened to the proposals of her reckless lover (who, as usual, was prompted by Braxton), and accompanied him   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        107 clandestinely to Rhode Island, where they were privately married. Language is inadequate to describe the pain which this egregious folly occasioned her relatives. Pen cannot picture the misery of her father. He did not curse his ungrateful daughter-he even pardoned her-but in answer to the letter which she wrote upon her return to the city with her husband, asking his forgiveness, he wrote to her, that he could not see her again. ' She had de- serted him in his old age-rashy severed the tie which united them, and linked her fate with another. Upon her new protector alone, and not to him, she must look for society and support.' Kate wept over her father's letter, and in after days- her days of trial and misery--it was often moistened with bitter tears of repentance and regret. For a few short weeks she was quite happy with her husband; but oh I how her heart sickened within her, when she saw him stagger into their new home one night, about, a month after their marriage, so intoxicated that he could hardly stand! After a time, this became a regular occurrence. On such occasions, Nathan Mudge never treated this wife with harsh words. In justice to him, it must be said, that, however drunk he might be, he always preserved his merry humor. Braxton now attempted to carry into exe- cution a piece of villany which he had long premeditated. This was the seduction of his friend's wife. Poor and dis- tressed as she was, Kate repelled the fiend's advances with- indignation, and would have exposed him to her husband., had she not been deterred by threats against Nathan's life. Better had it been for poor Eunice if she had died before marrying the dissolute and abandoned   108       EASY NAT; OR, wretch whom she now called husband!- With him blows and beggary became her portion. Her infant-the off- spring of her repented sin-was her only consolation. It was now some five months 'old, and would have been a pretty child, if hunger and cold had not rendered, it pale and emaciated. Like his treacherous friend, Nathan was soon reduced, by his intemperance, to idleness and desti- tution. All the efforts of hissister and friends could not reclaim the infatuated man. He was now discarded from the dissipated circles of which he had once been ' the life.' His former companions, dissolute as they were, became ashamed of his presence. To quote the language used in one of the graphic recitals of the eloquent lecturer, Mr. Gough,' he got drunk TOO SOON!' Even his afflicted wife, at last despairing of his reformation, at the solicita- tions of her relations, went to live once more beneath her father's roof. The sliding scale of the sot is gradual at the commencement only. The impetus once given, it is swift and certain. Nathan Mudge became a lounger at the lowest rum-drinking resorts, where, to obtain a dram, he would sing vile songs, play the buffoon, and submit to any degradation. Bloated, ragged, and dirty, Braxton and Mudge were one day dragged to the police court, followed by a crowd of idle boys, whooping at the spec- tacle. They were both convicted as common drunkards I Braxton was sent for three, months to the house of cor- rection, and Nathan would have shared the same fate had not his friends promised the judge that he should not be' seen in the city again for as long a term at least, as, other- wise, he would have been sentenced. The next day, the 'common drunkard' embarked his fortunes in n humble   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        109 capacity, with a miserable travelling circus company, and started on a tour through the country. * * * * CHAPTER XV. Braxton the House-breaker, and his Dupe-Nat involves himself in a Capital Crime-Thomas fires the house of Giles Godwin-Eunice and her Child Perish in theFlames--Braxton Escapes, and Easy Nat is Arrested as the Incendiary. AFTER the lapse of four or five months, very late one dark night in March,-a little more than a year subse- quent to the shipwreck narrated in another chapter--a man climbed the fence in the rear of Giles Godwin's house, and entering the yard, stealthily reconnoitred the premises. After a, minute or two had passed in this way, he unbolted the gate, and addressing the other as 'Brax,' bade him come in. The man entered, and skulking into the wood- shed, opened a dark lantern, and told the other, in a harsh, unpleasant whisper, to apply a match to the wick. The other did so, and the light, falling full upon him, betrayed the disfigured face of the inebriate, Nathan Mudge. It would appear, from some expressions thrown out by Braxton, as they stood consulting and cowering beneath the shed, that his wife, the wretched Eunice, with her child, had recently sought refuge from his brutality be- neath the roof upon which he was now frowning and inm- precating curses. 'Give me the lantern, Smudge! Do you stand at the gate and watch that the coast is clear.   "O       EASY  NAT; OR, 'Here, take a pull at the bottle I The night is ' cold! added he, with one of the many curses with which, like many other smart men and villains, he sprinkled his voca- bulary.' Both drank. ' Take this pistol, and if any one attempts to stop me as I come out, shoot him down I I know every room in the house, and can soon find that brat of mine!' 'You're only to get your child I s'pose Brax?' said Nat in a faltering voice. 'That is all! Only my child!' replied Braxton, and then added in a 16w, husky tone, which escaped his companion, 'for revenge is the only child I cherish I It has hungered all its days, but now it shall feed till it is gorged 1' And breathing blasphemies and maledictions, he raised a window and -entered the house. After his companion had left him at the gate, the reflections of Nathan Mudge were of no enviable nature. In what strong contrast was his present felonious position with that in which he had once stood to that house I He could not but think tenderly of one of its inmates, and feel the acutest remorse for the. pain which she had suffered for his sake. He wondered if she ever gave a thought, now, to her poor, degraded husband. The tears were trickling down his haggard face, when he was hastily joined by Braxton. ' We must run away from here as fast as we can if we would save our necks I You go' one way and I'll go another! Quick!' I Where is your child?' in- quired Nathan, distrustfully. ' You shall see presently!' replied Braxton, with a short fierce laugh, and fled down the narrow lane into which the yard opened. Oppressed with an indefinable sense of some new horror in prospec- tive, Nathan walked rapidly away in another direction, but not unobserved a timorous watchman standing in the   TH E TTIRIEF APPRENTICES.       1" shadow of a door-way, peered into his face as he passed ; and he had proceeded but a short distance when he heard the cry of ' Fire!' and a sharp clamor of the Charley's rattle. Immediately after, a broad glare of light so illu- minated his path that he was glad to step into a door-way to avoid observation. The single voice and rattle which had first sounded were soon augmented by a dozen others, and the increasing brilliancy of the conflagration, extended the alarm in a few minutes to every part of the city. After a short space, bells were pealing, engines rumbling over the pavements, and hundreds of men and boys hurry- ing to the scene of the conflagration. At last Nathan Mudge ventured to join the passing crowd, and, with a chilling presentiment of evil, suffered himself to be borne along with the rest. His worst misgivings were confirmed. The quaint and venerable structure which had been the home of Giles Godwin and his ancestors for more than two centuries, was enveloped in flames! Composed of the most combustible materials, it was already half consumed by the raging element. The efforts of the firemen seemed only to increase its fury. Suddenly there arose a sound which paralyzed the already appalled heart of the tremb- ling drunkard. '(My daughter! save mny daugh/ter!'  A dreadful cry followed from two or three females in the crowd. Several firemen rushed into the flames with the intention of ascending the tottering stairway, but were driven back, scorched and fainting with the intensity of the heat. Giles Godwin would himself have attempted to rescue his child, but he was held by main force. There arose shriek after shriek from the midst of the flames! 'God strengthen me! T/at is my wife's voice! can bit   "2       EASY NAT; OR, die with her!' cried Nathan Mudge in his own heart; and breaking through the crowd, he dashed headlong into the fiery ruin! The staircase, now almost reduced to coal, crumbled beneath him at every step ; the flames assailed -him on every -side ; the fervent heat seared his very eye- balls ; but, blinded as he was, he sprang over the burning chasm, avoiding falling timbers almost intuitively, and literally leaped rather than ran, to the upper and more in- terior part of the building, where the chamber usually oc- cupied by Kate, prior to her marriage, was situated. To his surprise, the door was locked on the outside! Quick as thought lie turned the key and entered. Overcome by the heat, his wife had sunk upon the floor, in the same disha- bille in which she had risen from her bed. He seized her in his arms, and was leaving the room which was now filled with smoke, when he heard his name called in a tone which pierced his heart. But he could not tarry to save others now. He only thought of the preservation of Kate, his wife; and with this one idea nerving him to more than human endurance, and this precious burden pressed to his bosom, he turned to retrace his steps. For a moment he gazed upon the fiery havoc in his path, he was appalled with the hopelessness of his task. It was but for a mo- ment. Murmuring again, 'We can but die together, Kate i' he pressed his lips to those of his insensible wife, and dashed resolutely forward over the burning rafters. The little portion of the staircase still remaining, shook, as with an ague, beneath his feet. The assembled thousands watched his descent inl awful silence. He stumbled! A half-suppressed cry of horror arose from the multitude. Hle rose again, uninjured. Between the foot of the stairs   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        113 and the street there was a yawning chasm, exposing the cellar, which was now like a vast furnace of glowing coals. It seemed impossible for him to pass it. He hesitated, and turned back It was but to ascend a step 'higher, for a better leap. See 1 with one tremendous bound he vaulted over the chasm, placed Kate in her father's arms, and disappeared in the crowd, before he was recognized, or they had done shouting, ' She is saved!' Again he hleard his name called in piercing accents from the falling ruin, but, without pausing, he was hurrying away to escape the attention of the multitude ere it was distracted from some new object by which it seemed rooted, when he was suddenly arrested by a person whom he was in the act of passing. It was Tom Braxton.  ' I promised that you sliould see my childl! he whispered, in fierce glee, to Nathan ; and pointing with a fiendish smile at the top of the burning pile, ' you may see wife a wd child!' Nathan's eyes turned in the direction indicated, and there, in the little cupola or observatory, which now appeared ready to sink through the blazing roof, he beheld with unutterable horror, Eunice Braxton,-her lhair dishevelled, and her person but half clothed-walking wildly, with her child in her arms, from side to side of the dreadful prison to which she had been driven by the ascending flames, and. shriek- ing to the impotent multitude to save her I ' Isn't that a brave sight, Nat?' whi pered the, fiend. -'You have spoiled half the fun ; but no matter I I only wish that that new-fledged counsellor-at-law, theviouws Ed. Fairbanks was there I I thought he was. Ha! It's tumbling I Now-now--now 1--one more such lurch, and good night to my wife the   I See her hold out her hands! It   "4       EASY NAT; OR, is going Ht is gone I and so am I!' A cry of horror ascended from the thronging thousands, as, deprived of its last support, the cupola tottered, and, with its miserable inmates-Eunice and her child-was precipitated to the abyss of flames and glowing coals beneath    ' Old Godwin will have to find a new hole to burrow in, and be -to him ' ' Seize this fiend 1' cried the indignant Nathan ; 'he is the incendiary 1' 'Yes--yes! Here. he is V' shouted Braxton, laying hold of his astonished com- panion. 'Seize him, or he will escape!' Several by- standers laid violent hands upon Nathan, who stood petri- fied; and, in the excitement, Braxton mixed, unheeded with the infuriated throng, which, hooting and reviling, followed his victim to the Leveret-street jail. When he had seen Mudge safely incarcerated, the treacherous vil- lain wended his steps to one of the filthiest of those infam- ous resorts which give to a portion of Ann-street the ap- pellation of the ' Black Sea,' and passed the remainder of the night in riot and debauchery. CHAPTER XVI. Nathan Mudge is arraigned for Arson-The fury of the multitude against him-He is Defended by the New Pleader, Edwin Fair- banks-The Verdict!-The Fire-raiser-in the Gallery--The Dis- covery-His Flight. A MONTH passed. *    * * *  * ']The Supreme Court was filled to overflowing. Beyond the railing were the excited populace, murmurinm ill loarse lwhispers whic-l   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        .115 the police could not suppress, for the conviction of a per- son in the prisoner's box, at whom they darted fierce looks of hate and indignation, as if they would anticipate the legal executioner, and kill him with their eyes. The object of their wrath and loathing was Nathan Mudge-now arraigned for arson, and on trial for life! He was pale and emaciated, but his dress was tidy, and his appearance, generally, much better than it had been for a great while before. His eyes would occasionally wander from judge and jury, lawyers and witnesses, to a distant corner, where, accompanied by the two aunts, sat his weeping wife and sister. At such times, scalding tears would obscure his vision, and he could hardly persuade himself but that it was some appalling dream. Everything was confused to him, until a man, with more wisdom on his broad, fair brow, and sedate countenance, than could have been expected of his years, which were evidently few, arose in his behalf. This person was the new counsellor- at-law, Edwin Fairbanks, who conducted the defence, assisted by Giles Godwin, and an old lawyer, celebrated for his ability at details. Great -interest was manifested by his brethren of the bar, and a clique of carping legal coxcombs (who had dubbed him with the prefix of 'Light. house'), to witness the success of the tyro, who had under- taken so important and desperate a cause for his debut in the profession. Every eye was bent on Edwin, and every ear drank in his words. His manner was simple and unas- suming, yet firm and eloquent. He narrated the history of Mr. Godwin's three apprentices-of whom he had been one-alluding as little as possible to himself, but dwelling upon the contrast between the simple, affectionate, and   "6" -      EASY XAT; OR, confiding nature for which the prisoner was always dis- tinguished, and the evil passions, insincerity, cruelty, pre- cocious depravity, and early want of every good principle, evinced in the life of Thomas Braxton. He then recapi- tulated the evidence which went to prove the abiding hate which had existed in the bosom of the latter against seve- ral inmates of Giles Godwin's residence for a long period, and especially at the time of the disastrous conflagration ; and showed that the prisoner could not have been actu- ated by the same feelings-a fact corroborated by his dar- ing and successful effort to preserve his wife. 'He had been challenged to prove the identity of the prisoner with the person who had performed that perilous feat.  He would frankly confess that he had no evidence of the fact but the inadmissible testimony of the prisoner himself. But, if he did not do it, who did?  Where was the real preserver? Was the deed so unworthy that no one but an unfortunate man, arraigned on the charge of having committed a crime, at the mention of which the flesh crept with horror, would confess it as his own?  One inmate of the room occupied by Eunice and her child, had testified that the chamber was locked on the outside. Who could have done this-who could have proceeded so coolly to lay the train, and apply the infernal match, bnt the remorseless villain, Braxton? He had suddenly dis- appeared. If he were guiltless, why was he not to be found?' The attorney on the part of the government admitted that the defence was able, and every way worthy of an older head; but he warned the jurors, who were evidently deeply impressed with Edwin's stirring appeal not to allow eloquence and feeling to outweigh sober facts.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        "I The crime of arson had become fearfully frequent of late, and as the detection of incendiaries was an exceedingly rare and difficult matter, it was of vital importance that they should not escape when so clearly within the clutches of justice as in the present case. Then he brought before them an array of presumptive proofs which, he regretted to say, formed altogether as strong and complete a= chain of circumstantial evidence, as he had ever met with in the course of his professional experience. There was a heart-felt sympathy throughout the audience for the prisoner, and a deep anxiety to hear the Chief Jus- tice's charge to the Jury. The associate judges on either side of him-one, a man much his senior, with tremulous hand, long furrowed face, and hair bleached to snowy whiteness (rather prematurely, perhaps, by a life in the badly ventilated atmosphere of the court-room), the other a round-faced man, at about the meridian of life, with gold bowed spectacles, and faultless linen and apparel -inclined their heads to him for a few moments, and made a remark or two, inaudible to the eager-eared reporters of the press, some half-dozen of which useful body of very hard-working and poorly compensated sons of genis sat at a form, at the left of the dock, scratching away upon long narrow strips of paper, with one eye upon their work, and the other sharply scanning the countenance of the prisoner for any indications worthy of incidental notice. A roasy-faced, happy-eyed- lad came in just then, cap in hand, and went up to the reporter's desk. He wore no jacket; his shirt-sleeves were rolled up, and his panta- loons were held up by a piece of stout twine crossing his back and breast, and tied to a single button'in front and   "8     -  EASY NAT;' OR, another behind. Sundry smooches of ink upon his shirt v and hands indicated the printer boy. 'More copy, English!' said one of the stenographers, laughing. 'Wait a minute, boy,' rejoined the reporter addressed, and accelerating the already rapid pace of his pen, he commenced a new paragraph with the words: 'The Chief Justice, at half-past four, P Mr., charged the jury. Intense interest is manifested throughout the Court-room. All eyes are upon the bench.' But the reporter's last words were not true of one per- son at least, and that was the young ,man whose life was now at stake. When the printer's lad was told to wait, he leaned against the prisoner's dock (a sort of isolated pew), and cast his regards, like the rest, upon the corpu- lent, heavy-browed, brown-haired, broad-foreheaded man of sixty, who, with his large, square chin, almost touching his notes upon the bench at which he sat, was looking over his spectacles at the jury in the forms at a little dis- tance on the left, and in a deliberate, cool, argumentative manner reviewing the testimony. He was our beau-ideal of a wise and impartial judge, yet his allusions to testi- mony, militating with. dreadful power against the prisoner, were painfully frequent. The heart of Edwin Fairbanks sank within him, for he could not deny the force of these points, and into the torn heArt of one poor. woman pre- sent they fell like scathing shafts of iron. They had a painful emphasis for almost every ear but Nathan's. He heard them not! Other, and far more tender, yet no less painful, words, were ringing in his ear; words long since   THE THREE APPREN;TICES.        19 uttered, and by lips long ago assimilated with their native dust-; words which had haunted him, at times, in the scenes of dissipation and vice in which, for years, he had rioted like the prodigal son; and now all at once, as a flood, they rushed back upon him, like the deep waters, overwhelming his soul. For some minutes previous, the entire scene had been a blank to him. He had noticed nothing, and if he appreciated the place at all, it was only to feel like a spectator, without any interest in the matter pending. The appearance of the sky through the high- vaulted windows, the protean forms of yonder cloud, even the large brass buttons on the Sheriffs coat--these, and similar irrelevant and trivial matters, occupied all the attention he gave to external objects ; but he could hardly be said either to be seeing or thinking of anything, when suddenly his half vacant gaze fell upon the round, rosy, dimpled face of the lad who was waiting for ' copy.' His eyes became clearer and more intelligent as he looked,' and regarding the boy the boy tenderly, he thought upon his former self, and groaned in spirit, "Easy Nat!"His mind 're- verted to 'the old time' when he, too, was like that youth, -a printer's boy, full of life, and hope, and health, and joy that had no sin in it. 'But, O how changed 1 And then he thought of his poor mother, and, those words- those words-(how they rung in his heart i) uttered upon her death-bed. These, and not the judge's ominous notes, not one syllable of which he heard, moved him far more deeply than was evident to observers, but the reporters made a note of it, and the boy seeing -his agitated coun- tenance, turned upon him, shuddered as if there were peril in his very look, and was glad to take the now completed   120       EASY NAT; OR, paragraph, and pass through a crowd of lawyers and offi- cials, into the free air of heaven. Poor Nathan, whose eyes had been fixed upon the lad, observed the recoil, and it cut him to the quick. A crowd of remembrances, the ghosts of early joys, childhood scenes, and privileges and benefits abused, came rushing back tumultuously upon his heart :--and then the life he had led H-led in disregard of his mother's teachings (his kind mother, his good mother, whom he had killed by his disobedience)-led, in. defiance of conscience and all moral restraints-led, to the sacrifice of the happiness of his beloved Kate-led, in violation of the commands of God-that God who had been so kind to him, and patient and long-suffering! How long a time had passed since he ceased to say, 'Our Father who art in Heaven!' It was a marvel, he- thought, that God had suffered him to live so long. His sin appeared odious to him, and he was overwhelmed with a sense of his base ingratitude to his Creator. In this frame of mind he continued throughout the judges charge, and until it went to the jury. After the twelve sombre- looking jurors, preceded by a very tall, saturnine, snuff- colored constable, with his long neck enveloped in several bandana handkerchiefs, had retired to the apartments allotted to them for their deliberations, the-reporters -and many of the lawyers repaired hastily to an adjacent 're- fectory' to get a drink; but the most of the audience, who were crowded and jammed into a  small gallery, and in the lobby on the lower floor, could not be induced, either by hunger or drought, or fatigue, or' by all com- bined, to relinquish their chance of hearing the verdict. The judges went into their ante-room. Two or three   THE T  R E A?R E N TICES'.    121 knots of lawyers, and some of those privileged members of society who seem to have a ' season ticket' to all places, were within the bar, discussing the merits of the plead- ings and the judge's charge, and the probabilities as to a verdict. The -sheriff, at his desk, behind the white wand, improved the time in filling up some blank writs, and one or two officers had as much as they could do to keep the herring-packed people in the gallery from loud talking and angry expostulation with each other on the score of crowding. Meanwhile, the venerable Giles Godwin and Edwin Fairbanks shook hands somewhat sorrowfully with poor Nat, and essayed to cheer up his spirits, which they saw were greatly depressed. Susan Fairbanks had a painful duty to suppress her own emotions, and restrain the un- happy Kate, her brother's wife, from going forward, also, to caress him and protest his innocence. But none of them understood rightly the cause of his dejection. ' His honor's charge to the jury,' said Mr. Fairbanks, glancing furtively at Nathan, ' was regarded by some pre- sent as less favorable than the obvious impression of the jurors themselves.' ' My poor boy,' added Giles, his little half-shut eyes quite full of tears, ' the recapitulation of those dangerous points of presumptive proof, innocent though you are, have sunk you in despair!' 'The Judge's charge?' said Nathan; 'I did not hear one word of it. I have been full-O how full!-of the charges made by my own conscience. I have heard noth- ing else for the last hour.' 6   122       EASY NAT; OR, 'Is it possible?' exclaimed Edwin. 'You are not guilty?' said Giles looking up in wonder. 'Not guilty of the dreadful crime for which I am now upon trial before this human tribunal. No I before God and man, no! Not guilty of this. But at the bar of God, what have I not to answer for!' 'Bless thee, my dear lad V- said Giles, and was about to add a consoling word, but Nat interrupted him- ' Bless- me? Curse me, rather, my kind old master I Have I not brought misery and disgrace into your family? Look at hter?he continued, casting his eyes towards Kate, who sat pale and haggard, with her eyes fixed upon the door through which the jury were to return ; 'at that dear angel whom I once dared to call my own-my own dear wife! See to what I have brought her! And my poor Sue! What a fool, what a wretch, what a villain I have been V 'My poor Nathan,' said the old man compassionately, 'you were led astray, but-' 'Blame no one but myself, for no one but myself is to blame! Did you say that the case had gone to the jury, Mr. Fairbanks?'  ' Yes, and my fear is that they will return but too soon, replied Edward, sorrowfully. 'Do you think so?' said Nathan, comprehending his meaning ; 'it is a terrible crime to have affixed to a man, and enough to make him hated by all as long as he lives, and to have his memory accursed to all generations! Still it is God's just wrath, and I have no right to murmur! You, at least, believe that I am innocent I You and Susan, and my poor, poor wife!'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        123 'All of us, my dear boy!' replied Mr. Godwin ; 'we all know that you are innocent. Ah, here comes the jurors. Now cheer up, my lad, and trust in God.' Nathan pressed their extended hands as they left him, and saying to himself, ' Trust in God I I have lived all my life opposed to Him ; how can I hope that he will help me in this ex- tremity?' sank back into his seat. The judges had re- sutmed their places. If the first juror had seen the prisoner's wife standing and leaning forward a little, with her hands clasped, and her deep, full black eyes fixed upon his countenance, it might have added to the pain he already felt. None of our little party of friends could boast of any color at that moment. All was expectation, and there was a weight upon almost every heart. When order was obtained, a death-like silence prevail- ed. With the customary form, the question was put to the foreman :- ' What say you, Mr. Foreman? Guilty, or not Guilty?' Moments seem hours at such times, but the foreman soon responded: ' Guilty!' With a loud, shrill shriek, sending the blood back with a chill to every heart, poor Kate fell prostrate, as rigid as the marble pavement itself. In another moment the con- victed felon had rushed to her, and held her in his arms. Then followed a wild laugh of derision, half shout and half laughter, from a ruffian in the galler y. ' Tom Braxton!' cried Nathan. 'That was his voice! Pursue him, Edwin. For your life pursue him! Quick, or he will escape i' As speedily as possible, for the press   124       E'ASY NAT; OR, of people was overwhelming, and all was confusion, Edwin Fairbanks made his way out of the court-room into the hall which communicated with the gallery. Already there was a stampede down the stairs, for there was a cry that the prisoner had leaped from the dock, and escaped.- Which of these was Braxton? Edwin saw four or five persons running down the avenue opposite, and, scarcely knowing what was his best course to take, he followed these with all the speed he could. CHAPTER    XVII. The Pursuit-Dock-square and Ann-street--Pursuer at Fault-The Suspicious Fishetrman-An Eccentric, well known Character, In- troduced-Scene in an Ann-street Auction Room-The Acciden- tal Detection-The Seizure Unsuccessful. PASSING rapidly to Cornhill, and down to Dock-square, the persons whom Edwin followed, without appearing to pursue them, suddenly separated, and each taking a different  course-an  easy  matter  where so  many streets and  lanes  diverged  from  one radius--com- pelled him to pause and hesitate a moment. Some inward monition led him to regard these persons with suspicion, he scarce knew why, and it was not diminished by their last movement. But, though possibly one of them might be Braxton, which one was it? Some weeks before, he had instituted a search for the villain, and offered the police of the principal cities North and South, a  handsome sum for his arrest--for both by Nat's allegations, and his own idea of the probabilities, he-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        125 felt entirely assured that his former fellow-apprentice, the dissolute and depraved husband of poor Eunice, was the incendiary, who had, with demoniacal malignity, set fire to the house in which she perished. If the search had been limited to Boston it might have been successful; but it was much more thorough in New York and Philadelphia, under the mistaken impression that as a matter of course he would flee from the scene of impending punishment. But in spite of his sottish habits, Tom Braxton was a crafty knave, and concluded rightly that it would be safer for him to remain where he was. The search had been fruitless, and secure under a well maintained disguise (the relics of his theatrical experience), and a change of name, he had thus far escaped the surveillance of the police, in those days not so numerous and so well organized as at present. Edwin asked himself, as he gazed after one of the men, who had taken a course by Faneuil Hall, towards an adjacent narrow street of notoriously bad repute, if he should be likely to recognize Braxton even if he should be so fortunate as to get a sight at him. Time, imprison- ment, and his debauches might have altered his appearance materially. Something (it would have puzzled him to define what), induced the young lawyer to decide to follow the man whose hurried footsteps past the ' Cradle of Liberty,' his eyes hadf accompanied. Every man has some peculiarity of carriage or gait, of which he cannot always divest himself so easily as he can of his clothing and complexion. Perhaps it was this which made the walk of the Cape Cod fisherman-like person before him appear familiar to Edwin Fairbanks, as with an occasional glance behind him the individual hurried   126       EASY NAT; OR, over the narrow footpath of the very narrow street, which in good old colony times; had been named in honor of Queen Ann. If all the good Queen's ways were as devious as that street was crooked, at the date of this story, she would have been a perfect Jesuit. And contracted as was the pavement in width, the old, quaint, little-windowed wooden dwellings- and shops on either side begrudged it the space it had, and above the first story, overhung it-- threatening to render it a tunnel or covered way, by leaning forward and joining issue at the eaves. The pavement of cobble stones was covered with black mud, from which arose dock-like exhalations. There were indications, too, that the tide overflowed the miserable cellars, but still more unmistakable evidences that something far more ob- noxious than dock-water and wharf-rats (to wit, all manner of squalor and physical and moral uncleanness), harbored there. At the beginning of the street in the neighborhood of the hardware mart, the human ware was not so hard as farther down the street, and it had some little pretence to trade. There were a few shops there, but small, sombre and dingy. One of these was an auction room, with its little red flag at the door, and noisy crier within. Into this place the man in the fishing dress, after glancing furtively at Fairbanks, who followed him like a shadow, entered quickly, and turning immediately to the window on one side, peered at Edwin through a small broken pane, as he passed. A close observer of the fellow would have seen, even under his unshaven beard, that he changed color a little as the firm, erect and athletic form of Edwin Fairbanks passed.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        127 Ht is him,--him!' he muttered with a blasphemous imprecation between his grating teeth, yellow with tobacco- juice, while his tremulous fingers half-screened his guilty and unwholesome face, and his other hand grasped a pistol concealed in the huge pocket of his pea-jacket. 'If he is doggin me! But he can't recognize me. I was a blasted fool though,     (and here he cursed himself), to speak in meetin'. Old Godwin allers said I was my own worst enemy.' He was interrupted in these reflections by the noise the auctioneer made to attract his attention, and induce him to join his half-dozen by-bidders and chance customers who were leaning upon his counter and examining a Connecti- cut fiddle, which he was crying to the skies as a real Cre- mona. This auctioneer was in some respects a worthy man, but a very odd fish withal, and so remarkable for his peculiarities of manner and speech, that his shop was often visited by the young wags of the town, merely to be amused at his method of selling. He, on the contrary, never appreciated the compliment, for with all his capacity to amuse, he never appeared to see any fun in it, but pre- served a lachrymose expression, in keeping with the rusty weed upon his well-brushed but much broken black silk hat, and thread-bare black apparel. No shirt was visible : perhaps he wore none. Certainly he wore no collar, but his long face and jaws (innocent of whiskers, with the ex- ception of a few stray white and brown spears upon his cheek bones), were supported by a high black stock, the covering of which being ragged, revealed a brown buckram foundation. : This individual would have served admirably as a mute at a funeral. -Perhaps his facetiae was involun-   128       EASY NAT; OR,  tary, and his heart had its own sorrows. Certainly he never laughed, and when he smiled, it was only the ghost of a grin, and fled like a flash. He was never known to be jocund-never gay, and seldom cheerful. Still he was a wit and humorist--of an original and peculiar model, certainly,-and even his melancholy ways afforded food for the laughter of the graceless youngsters who too often    [ mixed in with his motley audience. Tom and Nat, our two apprentices, had frequently joined in this 'sport,' but  i that was many years ago. Poor old Hagglesfelt! Time's effacing fingers and the march of improvement have olbli- terated his famous place long, long ago, and. the same tide has washed him away also like a piece of human drift-wood:   but we believe that he is floating about somewhere still, his occupation gone, and his purse and larder empty. But to return to our story.                    i 'My maritime friend ' said the auctioneer, in a small bland voice, and with two fingers of his left hand held to his thin lips to conceal the absence of a front tooth-a defect which he always strove to bide--' My maritime     j friend I (elevating his voice), Captain Bughee; I say?' And sotto voce, or in an under-tone, to those close at hand, i 'An old customer, gentlemen; Capt. Bughee, the cele- brated whaler.' This was a 'whaler,' but in another sense. 'Captain Bughee, I say I I beg your pardon, sir,' he added, as, at- tracted by his -voice, the man whom Edwin had followed thus far, turned towards the counter; ' Thought you were my old friend, Capt. Bughee. Buys thousands of dollars, worth of me. The same fine naval bearing,-quite a counterpart, I declare 1'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        129 ' Old Hagglesfelt 1' said the man to himself; ' but he don't recognizelme. It's all right'-and he leaned on the counter like the rest.                      i 'A  splendid Cremona, my   good friend 1' cried  Hagglesfelt, impeding his words, as usual, with his two fingers. ' Pass it down, gentlemen, and by so doing allow my excellent friend from Cape Cod to examine it I There is an instrument for you, sir 1' he added with emphasis of intense admiration, as the fiddle was carefully handed by a blue-cottonade frocked individual, from the rural districts, to the person whom we have followed to this place. 'If Paganini were here lie would stop the sale, sir. He would not suffer that violin to be sacrificed. Make me a bid.-  Start it, gentlemen ! Somebody make me a bid. I wish      i Mr. Ostinelli was here!-the leader, gentlemen, at the Tremont. He is a judge of the instrument. Supplied  the Handel and Haydn with a gross of them last week.       , A musical society, sir. Do you sing, sir?I  This inquiry was addressed to a sort of blacksmith-like looking person, with a square paper cap on his head, a carbuncled nose and a brace of eyes swimming in a sea of brine, or brandy. ' No, I don't', replied the man. ' Then, sir,' said the auctioneer, 'you ought to learn to play I Somebody give me a bid i Gentlemen, this is dreadful! What an opportunity thrown away for a man to fit himself to take a leading part in an Oratorio! Buy a copy of The Violin in Five Lessons, for ten cents, and with this instrument, any of you except the gentleman with the one arm yonder, may soon command a susplendid salary as leader of an orchestre I What am I offered for this mag- 6*  ,              '   130       EASY NAT; OR, nificent instrument? Gentlemen I cannot dwell; make me a bid 1' 'Twenty cents,' said the blacksmith. 'Twenty cents, I'm offered! Twenty cents I Gentle- men, this is too bad. Twenty, twenty, twenty! Give me twenty-favel Thank you, sir! (nodding at vacancy.) Twenty-fave, I'm offered.' ' Thirty!' said, a by-bidder, a sort of human cucumber gone to seed. ' Thirty I'm offered. Thirty-favel forty! forty-fave! Thank you sir! Fortys fave!  [In his very peculiar accentuation, Hagglesfelt called five fave.] Think of all the tunes in this susplen- did instrument going for forty-fave I When music, heaven- born babe, was  forty-fave!  Give me fifty! Worth as many dollars! Give me fifty!' And then audibly to all, but in an affected undertone,as if to himself, 'If Comer was only here, or Master Burke, I should not have my feelings lacerated by this sacrifice! It's dreadful; absolutely dreadful! Never have I known such a thing, since I've been in the business, as a real Cremona to go for less than two dollars!' This tender appeal was too much for the young six-footer, in the blue frock, and he offered fifty cents. 'Thank you, sir! Fifty cents I'm offered.  You appear to be a gentleman, sir; probably agricultural. A susplendid pursuit, sir, the grand primi- tive employment, sir. Only fifty cents! I often wish, sir, that I could abandon the hammer for the plough. Fifty cents!  Give me fifty-fave!' 'Fifty-five,' offered the countryman, upon his own bid. ' Thank you sir ; fifty- fave I'm offered! A case of conscience, gentlemen! You have a musical face, my maritime friend! The counter- part of my friend Captain Bughee's, who never comes to   T HE T 1I R E E A PP R E NT I C E S. 131 town withoutt coming to my office for a violin!' But not being able to elicit a bid from 'the counterpart of Capt. Bughee,' he retracted what he had said 'in his favor, and remarked that he didn't like the appearance of any man with horn buttons on his coat. 'He smelt fish and foul both!' The fiddle was then knocked down at sixty cents to the son of Cyclops. ' And now, gentlemen,' said the auctioneer, ' Wthat am I offered for the bow?' The astonished blacksmith said he thought the bow went with the fiddle. ' A violin at sixty cents, and expect a bow to be thrown in! aMy dear man, shant I furnish you with a barrel of rosin! How much am I offered for the bow, gentlemen!' The by-standers ran it up to thirty cents, and it was bid off to the chagrined Cyclops-the auctioneer, inll the meantime, making many satirical re- marks upon the unreasonableness of a man's expecting to obtain a bow for nothing. The next sale proceeding more slowly ; the bids being confined, indeed, almost entirely to the seedy-cucumber person, with the heavy eyes and fat paunch; the auc- tioneer more than intimated that he didn't believe there was two-and-threepence among the whole crowd, and that his office was an office for the sale of goods, and not a place for loafers. 'I was in the House of Correction a short time ago, gentlemen-merely as a visitor-and I saw some faces that I think I recognize here!' It was only a bit of Hagglesfelt's blackguard, but it struck 'the maritime gentleman,' like a slug intended for his own ear, and thrown off his guard by its suddenness, he cried out- ' Who-what-where?   What do you mean?   132       E A S N A T; OR, "ook out for your pocket-books, gentlemen!' cried Hagglesfelt, satirically, for he recognized the fellow as one of the varlets who used to annoy him so much. 'Tom Braxton is in'the office. Somebody go for a constable[  At that moment Fairbanks entered the shop. Braxton, for it was he, made a spring for the door, but was arrested by the strong hand of Edwin. 'You are my prisoner 1' exclaimed Fairbanks. 'Not alive 1' cried the ruffian, and discharged the pistol at him. It was in- tended for his heart, but shattered his arm only. In the confusion, Tom made good his escape from the shop. ' Pesky-nation I' cried the agriculturist, whom the auc- tioneer had flattered upon his 'primitive employment,' ' he hain't killed ye, has he?' 'Never mind my hurt!' answered Edwin, rapidly, 'but follow that villain? Take him, cost what it may. He is a murderer V' ' Jerooshy! I'm after him like a streak!' said the farmer, disengaging himself from the crowd which had collected round Fairbanks. Edwin's wounded arm was now bleed- ing profusely, but his glance followed the Yankee, as with two jumps, his long legs, short trousers, and cowhide boots, disappeared through Hagglesfelt's door-way. ' I would cheerfully pay the -trifling' sum of two hun- dred and fifty dollars for the arrest of the desperado!' said the auctioneer, as he stepped from his stand behind the counter, and edged his way to lock his door, to keep out the throng. The crowd outside had to content them- selves with flattening theirsnoses into. an uncommonly uni- form appearance upon the little panes of glass in the door and window. ' Gentlemen,' said Hagglesfelt, turning to   THE THREE A PPRENTICES.        133 those who surrounded the wounded man, 'give Mr. Brooks -the air V' The auctioneer had a name for every one. ' He is fainting. Why don't some of you give him some water. Mr. Shiffle, run over to the 'Yeoman's' for a glass of brandy to revive him, and don't stop to sample it, sirI My poor, dear man,' he continued, addressing. Edwin feelingly, 'are you sure there is no other wound?' ' This is all,' said Edwin, ' but I fear my arm is broken. Take your knife, if you please, and rip up my coat sleeve. Stand back, my friends, and give me more air; I am very faint 1' 'The gentlemen that have not been born and educated in a pig-sty, will stand away, and not suffocate the poor man,/ cried the auctioneer, sarcastically. 'Will somebody hail a hack!' said Fairbanks, quite cool and collected, notwithstanding the painful nature of his wound. The seedy by-bidder, in compliance, disappeared through the back-door. 'Low, if you please, bandage my arm with this handkerchief.' When Hagglesfelt had carefully, and with many exclamations of pity, completed this operation, the cucumber man came in and whispered, in a hoarse smothered voice, peculiar to him (and to tin speaking tubes) that the desired carriage stood at the rear entrance. Edwin stepped into it. 'To the hospital, sir?' inquired the driver. No : to Derastus Clapp's office,' was the reply. The man knew the place well; Clapp being a famous rogue-catcher. Before parting, Fairbanks thanked Mr. Hagglesfelt for his humane attentions, and hoped soon to see him again. 'Delighted,' replied the auctioneer, with two fingers   134       EASY N AT; OR, before his mouth as usual, and touching his cadaverous hat graciously with the other hand, 'most happy, I'm sure, to have you visit my apartments; 'where, retired from the busy hum,' &c. Not boarding at the Tremont now; stop at the Yeoman's.' As the first-named hotel was at that time regarded with profound veneration as the most aristocratic place in the world (St. James' Palace only excepted) by all the avpir- ing snobs in town, and ' the Yeoman's' was a teamster's tavern in Ann-street, Edwin could not help thinking that at any other time he would have enjoyed the joke, but now faint and anxious, and in haste, he made no rejoinder either by word or look, but bade the driver to proceed as speedily as possible. A moment afterwards the carriage in which he sat rattled over the cobble-stone pavement (extorting agroan in spite of him), and was out of sigh,. 'Son of Peter C. Brooks--an old customer,' was the only reply vouchsafed by the eccentric auctioneer, to the repeated inquiry of 'Who was it?' Re-entering his little shop, he cleared it rather unceremoniously. ' Walk out of my office, gentlemen. No sales this even- ing. Splendid lot of rat-traps to-morrow, at ten! Happy to set them for you. Good evening-good evening.  Put up the shutters, Mr. Gaw (this was to the seedy retainer, as the crowdwere retiring), and, Mr. Shiffle, give me fifty cents from the drawer, and charge it to account of Per- sonal Enjoyment.'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.          135 CHAPTER   XVIII. Reveits to the Court Room--The Parting of Kate with her Husband -Ossified hearts tried some-Old Reed-Pictures from Life- Nathan is Remanded to Jail. WE left the court-room at the close of the chapter next preceding the last, in such a state of excitement as was regarded by the tall, snuff-colored constable (with his neck in so many folds of silk handkerchiefs) as little short of church sacrilege. 'Order, there, in the gallery!' com- mands the stalwart and dignified High Sheriff, in the blue coat and expanse of lemon-colored cassimere vesting.- 'Mr. Prescott (to a short, fat officer), you will have to make some arrests up there! Mr. Reed, request the gen- tlemenl to resume their seats or retire from the court-room.' The tall, thin constable pushed his way into the crowd au- thoritatively. All made way for the Sheriff, instinctively. It was his intention to replace the prisoner in the dock. He found him supporting the unconscious body of his wife, who lay like a statue in his armns. 'I have killed her 1' said NTat, in a voice not loud but deep, and with a pale, haggard, despairing look, for he-felt that his cup of bitterness was full. There was in the poor man's face such unutterable misery, that the Sheriff, satis- fied though he was of his guilt, beckoned to his tall con- stable, who, with the glittering ' Iwristers' in his hand, was about to manacle the prisoner, to stand back ; and in a compassionate tone, said, ' She will soon be better, Mudge. She revives a. little, I think. Let her friends bear the   186       ErASY NAT; OR, lady into my room, Mr. Shute; and you provide some res- toratives. Mr. Godwin,' he added in a lower voice, and taking the old man's trembling hand into his own, 'this is your daughter, I believe?' ' Alas, yes 1' replied Giles, the tears streaming from his eyes ; 'and my son, too-my poor innocent boy I' 'Ahem!' rejoined the Sheriff, dubiously. 'She is re- covering.'                        t ' Mr. Sheriff,' said the Chief Justice, rising from his seat, which he had kept with entire composure throughout the commotion now subsided, 'I remand the prisoner to the Leveret-street jail, to await his sentence. In the mean- time,' he added, as he replaced his spectacles carefully in his pocket, 'you will, of course, take the proper precau- tions both for his comfort and his safe keeping. The Court is now adjourned.' The crier then made the usual proclamation, and his Honor and   the associate Judges descended from  their places.  Then followed a great rush of spectators in the lobbies and gallery to the outer hall and door, to get a closer view  of the 'felon,' as he should pass out of the court-room to the carriage which was to convey him back to jail. At the noise of the hurried tramp of feet, Kate opened her eyes, with the expression of one waking from a fright- , ful sleep.  The Sheriff, gently and respectfully as if she had been his own  child, removed her from her wretched hus- band, and placed her in the open arms of her father. 'My poor Kate I' said Giles, drawing her to his aching heart. ' Such a dream, dear father 1' murmured she, apparently   THIE THREE APPRENTICES.       131 unconscious of any other presence. ' I am glad you waked me; it was so horrible.' An involuntary shudder shook her whole frame as she uttered these words, and she hid her face upon his breast. Poor Nat tore himself from the embrace of his weeping sister, at a word from the Sheriff, and kissed her a farewell. ' It is better,' he said, in a suppressed tone to Susan, 'that I should go now before she recognizes me. -It will save her a pang which, perhaps, would destroy her. Now, sir (to the snuff-colored constable, whose ungracious manner had been affected by this unwonted scene to some- thing like urbanity), I am ready to go with you, and the quicker the better. The officer looked at the Sheriff, caught his eye, glanced at the handcuffs, and then inquiringly into his face again. His superior nodded his head somewhat regretfully. Na- than was just beckoning a sad farewell to the old man, who was still supporting and soothing his daughter, when the constable took his hand[ and enclosed the wrist in the iron bracelet. A flush of shame rushed to Nat's pale cheeks, and a shudder passed over Susan. For a moment a mortal sickness deprived her of her strength, mental and physical, which had hitherto sustained her through the harrowing ordeal of the scene vhich we have so inade- quately described. A moment more, and the other hand- cuff was adjusted. ' Behold the drunkards progress!' said Nat, bitterly, with an expressive look at his sister, and passed quickly out, through a lane of faces which bent their eager eyes upon him, as if he were a curiosity only to be seen once in a lifetime. Yet many of these persons had seen him often in the same gilded saloons at which-   138       EASY NAT   OR, they drank, and some, who now shrunk from contact with him, had hob-nobbed with him in the ' Shades,' and rattled their glasses in loud applause of his humorous sallies at the convivial table! 'Behold!' repeated Nathan, almost fiercely, as he passed by some whom he recognized as former boon companions, and lifted his manacled hands, 'Behold the drtzkard'fs progress ' Some hearts smote against their ribs just then, and some were conscience-stricken, but others laughed in deri- sion ; and one large pale-faced man, in fine broadcloth, re- marked loud enough to be heard, ' Served him right!' This man was the prosperous owner of a large and po- pular saloon, with a mammoth stained-glass lantern, which, like the false lights of the wrecker, alluring the mariner to the rocks, had seduced many an inexperienced navigator of life's currents to his ruin. When the hack containing Nathan and the snuffy con- stable had gone away, followed by. many who ran and peered into the windows, another carriage at the opposite door, on the other side of Court-square, received Giles Godwin and the prisoner's wife and sister, and bore them to their home. Home! Where now was the once happy home of Giles Godwin? thought the old man, as, with a heavy heart, he descended from the coach in front of his tnew house in Prince-street. But let us pass- to other scenes and gayer company!   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         139 CHAPTER XIX. Jolly Companions every one-A Champagne Supper at the Hotel- A free blow-Harry Price is Twenty-one-D'Orsay reappears on the stage--Major Sotterly's grand entree--Practical Joke on a Native of the Palmetto State--How he Turns the Tables. W'WINE cures the gout, boys, the cholic, and  the phthisic ; and 'tis allowed by all to be the best of physic!' ' Chorus!' ' And 'tis allowed by all to be the best of physic I' 'Waitaw! more segars ' 'More segars, here I' 'Some brandy and water!? 'Hold on. Bring up the whiskey-punchesl' ' Call for what you like, boys; a feller ain't 'free' but once in his life 1' ' Yes more than once!'7  ' When's that? "t When his wife dies!" ha, ha, he, he ' -' Good! bravo! We're all Benedicts l' ' "Let the galled jade wince: our withers are unwrungl" Ahem! Shakspeare!' ' Meaning, Bill?' ' Speaking of Shakspeare, how Mrs.---- broke down inl Ophelia," last night I' . 'Drunk as Chloe!' ' What a pity she drinks Waiter, another smash, and stronger!' ' She looks all the better for it I Rum is a great pre- servative! Ha ha haw!'   -- 140      EA SY NAT ; OR, ' Bt the idea of such an Ophelia coming to her death by cold water ' ' Ha! ha ha! hal Good t' ' Drowning in a butt of- Malmsey, like Clarence, would have been more apropos 1' 'Capital! Suggest it to BarryI EHa,ha, ha-l' 'Must drink on that! Where's that champagne?' 'Hallo, D'Orsay, don't keep all the bottles up there, but give the silvery-headed gentlemen the freedom of the table!'            ! 'A bas les silver-heads! Down with them!' 'What a sans culotte! They are all empty ' 'Waiter, bring us another basket of champagne. Anchor brand! Ain't free but once a yearl t ' Here she am I Let her went I Pop! look! look! luk! luk! luk! Pass it. Bumpers, gentlemen!' ' Old Perkins, the' new Alderman, gave a blow-out the other night-the first he ever indulged in, though old enough to be my father!' 'Ha, ha, ha! How jolly green l' ' He never saw any champagne before, but having heard of it  ' 'Short stories! short stories! We're waiting I' 'He had provided a few bottles. Tileston found him tugging away at one with a cork-screwl' ' Ha, ha, ha!' '"What are you at, Mr. Perkins?" says Tileston, ready to split himself. "I can't get the pesky cork out, sir!" says old P., sweating like a race-horse. ,He hadni't cut the wire! and Tileston had to show him how to do it 1' 'Ha, ha, ha! Glorious! A capital joke!-Who's this   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         141 bumper for?  To the health of Mrs.     , a rum Ophelia!' Great noise of glasses. ' She had her match, though, the other night, in Van- denhoff. He played Lear to her Cordelia, and was so drunk and affectionate, that he was hissed 1' 'Speaking of actors, Mills was a capital low comedian. What hlas become of him?' ' Oh, he threw himself away, and went to the dogs!' ' Beg your pardon ; he went to Vicksburg, and cut his throat in a fit of delirious trimmings!l ' The nasty beast I' 'Ha, ha, hal More segars-segars-segars! Light, light, light 1' As the door opened upon this noisy scene, the spectator might well wonder what upon earth they wanted any more segars in there for ; the room (it was at a crack hotel in Tremont-street) being already so full of tobacco- smoke, that it enveloped the occupants in a cloud. Upon looking sharp, however, for a few moments, and with smarting eye-balls, he would have been enabled to discern a party of about twenty young men, fashionably dressed, and tolerably respectable ip their manners. At least, not guilty of half so much profanity as is common to the same class of young men at the, present day-profanity which constitutes a large portion of' the vernacular' of men of even higher standing in our principal cities- although, for that matter, these fine gentlemen cannot swear with any more finish than the shirtless and shoeless urchins who sweep, the crossings, and spatter with vile mud and viler words, such passengers as don't pay. In- deed, so universal is profanity at this time, that little chil-   "2       EASY NAT; OR, dren, scarcely able -to go alone,' are adepts 'at .it, and almost entitled to take the degree of P. H. S.-Profes- sors of Hard Swearing. Do those among us who affect this accomplishment-an accomplishment equally useful and ornamental--take private lessons of these little rag- muffins? If not, where does the custom come from? From inspiration? No : the command of God is, ' Swear not at all!' Say you so? Then swearing must have some great utility, to render it so popular,-in defance of the Divine prohibition. What this utility can be does not appear. Some people, it is true, think it soL7dS smart, and indicates experience and energy ;-but we often see in the hardest swearers, not only the most vicious, but the most inefficient men. True, we find that many persons of good business re- putation are very profane, while possibly a few convicts in the prison do not swear, but as a general thing, the violators of the law are addicted to the habit. Indeed, it is my own private opinion, publicly expressed,-that there is not a scoundrel in our penitentiaries who is not a hard swearer. As great a rake, and unprincipled a man as Sheridan was, he saw that,under the sun there existed no custom (duelling alone excepted) more absurd than the use of profane language, and his character of 'Bob Acre4' is a pointed satire at both these sins. This hero, with 'courage oozing out at his finger ends,' invents sundry expletives that come pat and apposite to the subject of which he is talking; as for instance, 'Odds pistols and triggers!' when speaking of his intended duel with Sir Lucizs; and in alluding to a ball, 'Odds jigs and reds!' Certainly there is more wisdom, as well as wit, in these   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         143 - expressions of the simple Mr. Acres, than in the profane expletives and senseless jargon of bad language with which many persons interlard, and overlay, the little modicum of really useful or agreeable information which they commu- nicate; and if any candid man given to this bad habit will carefully observe his own speech, he cannot but coin- cide w;ith this view of it. But to return from this digression. Any one, not as deaf as a haddock, must have heardthe convivial conver- sation (of which, just in advance of my- last homily, I have given a sample), if he had been passing through the hall of the   Hotel, in which it occurred, upon the night succeeding the trial described in the previous chapter. It was denominated in cant phrase, ' a free blow.' And it was a free blow in more senses than one, for it was a blow freely and voluntarily given by a young man to his own reputation and prospects in life. It was his freedom day. Harry Price was free. Free as air. Harry Price was his own master. And all those jovial spirits, those smart fellows, those genteel young chaps, those brilliant wits, those wide-awake men, thoroughly versed in ' the world,' regarded him-Harry Price-as the very life and soul of the entertainment!  And such an entertainment! with bill of fare printed in gold upon satin vellum, and the titles of the various dishes, in the four courses, printed in two languaoges! These were some of the self-complacent reflections which 'between drinks,' as it were, flitted through the wine-and-smoke affected brain of a light com- plexioned good-looking young man, who had given the feast because he had attained, that day, his majority, and with it sundry houses, banks, and bank stocks, to the   "'4  -    EASY NAT; OR, value of not less than sixty thousand dollars. This pro- perty was left to him by his father, a shrewd, hard-work- ing merchant, who, as long as he lived, stinted his children of their pocket money, in order (it would almost appear) to ruin them with an avalanche of his savings, at his decease. One of the party was the dandies' tailor, D'Orsay, who was on a visit to Boston from New York,'vhere, since his awkward and perilous adventure in the Cape Ann packet, he had been located, and was doing a profitable business. Notwithstanding the profligacy of his principles, this man was not a spendthrift ; on the contrary, whenever he could be mean with impunity, he was parsimonious. He was intensely selfish, and even in purchasing the licentious pleasures to which he was addicted, never disbursed a penny more than was absolutely necessary to the enjoy- ment. He gave nothing to the poor, and never made a present without a fair consideration; but this was not apparent to his companions--intimate friends he had none --and he was somewhat in favor because 'a capital fit,' and a 'blood.  'Come, D'Orsay,' said Harry Price, when the waiter had brought in another consignment of cigars and punches, 'let's hear from you I Bucks, something from D'Orsay l' 'DI'Orsay-D'Orsay-D'Orsay 1' cried a number of voices applaudingly. D'Orsay arose amid a tumultuous jingle of glasses and 'knife handles upon the mahogany. 'I wish,' said he, when the storm had subsided, 'to give you in my own fashion--' 'Ha, ha, ha ; good I' shouted one, 'His own fashion! 4   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        145 Capital! ' Ha, ha, ha!1 echoed others, 'capital 1' ' Or- der! order! Hear him V 'I should be glad to drink to the health of the host and president at this festive board, but positively I cannot drink champagne of the "Anchor brand." In New York we drink only " ]ieidsic."  Harry Price, a little mortified, inquired of the waiter with all oath (the first he had used during the fete) why he hadn't brought on any Heidsic. Th6ewaiter stammered and started for the door. 'Stop fellow,' said'D'Orsay, 'spare your legs. There is none in the house, I might say none in the city. You drink nothing but the An'chor brand in Boston, because the sole agency of its makers is located here ; but in New York we try all, ,and immeasurably prefer the Heidsic! With your permission, my friend, I will ask this fellow to bring us some sparkling Hock! John, Thomas, Chawles, --or whatever your name is-bring us half dozen of sparkling Hock.' 'The best in the house!' added Harry, without any idea that this little' item would add upwards of forty dollars to his bill. D'Orsay sang, while the waiter was awaiting the order, 'Sparkling and bright In liquid light, &c. The song finished, the waiter reappeared with the wine. '4t tastes like stale cider,7 said one of the company. 'Cider lo exclaimed D'Orsay. 'It is five dollars a bottle. It is nectar, fit for the gods, and makes no head- aches. Gentlemen, I give you--' ' A toastoa s toast! Fill up, fill up 1 * 7;   "6       EASY JAt; OR, I give you, gentlemen,' the tailor continued, with a smile, ' the time-hionored motto of our patriotic ancestors,-- ': The Price" (with a nod at Harry) "The Price of liberty is eternal vigilance!" This brilliant play upon Harry's name 'brought down the house,' and D'Orsay sat down amid shouts of laughter and applause. At this auspicious moment, a very large round red face, with a semi-circle of thin black whiskers from ear to ear, over a Byron collar, and a very corpulent breast and shoulders, was thrust into the doorway. 'Beg pardon,' said he ; 'wrong room I' as if about to retire ; and then recognizing the tailor, came forward and shook hands with great cordiality. 'Halloo, D'Orsay, my dear boy! How do yer do? When did you come on? 'Pon my word this is a great surprise. Glad to see you, my dear fellow! But excuse meq! I am' intruding,' said the fat stranger, glancing apologetically at Price. ' Not at all,' said Harry,' sit down, sir. Mr. D'Orsay's friends are ours.' 'That's hearty, and in my own way. Give us your hand, my boy!- This was to Harry. 'I don't know you, but- 'Mr. Price, Major Sotterly,' said the fashionable tailor. 'Most happy to be acquainted with Mr. Price,' said the Major. 'Son of old Price, I presume, sir? Glad sir, to know you,' shaking him again very briskly by the hand; 'May the wing of friendship never moult a feather! Our fathers did business on the same wharf together, for more than twenty years.'   THE THREE APPRENTI-CES.        147 (Will you take wine, Major?' inquired Harry (not entirely delighted with the allusion to his father recently deceased) 'or punch?' '  No ; brandy I John, give me a chair.' 'John, bring Major Sotterly a chair. Fill, Major,' he added, as he put down a decanter in front of him; and without waiting to be urged, he promptly filled his glass with brandy, and a slight sprinkling of water. It was evident that it was not his first drink that evening. He smelt like a walking brandy cask, and his face fairly blazed with cognac. Military parades and festivals had'culti- vated his natural taste for high feeding and inordinate drinking, and brought him to his present overgrown and bloated condition. He was still on the sunny side of forty, but had long ago dissipated a large fortune which had been thrown away upon- him by a wealthy aunt; and for a vear or two past, having been discarded by his relatives, had obtained a subsistence entirely by sponging upon the public. He was a hanger-on at hotels and bar-rooms, and having an innumerable number of acquaintances, and a vast deal of brass, he contrived to obtain many oppor- tunities (which of course he never slighted) to drink gratis. Of those who had known him in his ' palmy days,' as he called them, but were not posted up as to his recent decay, he managed to obtain occasional loans ; and it was said that he was sometimes suspiciously successful with cards. However, the-Major could sing a songsatisfactorily, and had an inexhaustible stock of jokes and obscene stories; an article usually but too acceptable on convivial occasions, and accordingly he was always tolerated and sometimes welcomed. Although he had obtained his seat at Harry   "8       EASY N AT; OR, Price's table entirely by a trick, he soon rendered himself a great favorite with the lads by his funny way of telling anecdotes, singing snatches of opera music, &c., and 'tossing off the brandy.' As they grew more and more familiar with him, his stories and songs became less and less decent; but no one checked his ribald tongue, and the welkin rang with the young men's laughter. In the height of their glee, when wild with fun and liquor, John, the servant, came in and begged them to be ' a little more whisht,' for the gentleman in the next room had remon- strated. 'Who is he?' cried several voices indignantly. 'It's the Rev. Mr. (I forget his name intirely!) of Georgia,' replied John. ' A parson! Bring him in here '- shouted Major Sotterly, now three sheets in the wind. ' Bring him (hic- cup), bring him in here 1' 'Yes, show him up I Show him up I' cried several, applauding loudly and starting to their feet ; hardly know- ing whether they stood on their heads or their heels. ' We won't go home till morning ; till daylight doth appear!' vociferously sang half a dozen voices. 'We'll have- him in here,' shouted Sotterly. 'Come, boys, let's smoke him out!' With these words the Major staggered to the door, followed by a number of the most audacious of the young men, and in a minute, or less, reappeared, escorting a sallow-faced man about fifty years of age, clad in a hand- some suit of black, but somewhat soiled with travel. He was evidently no common-place man, and exacted the res- pect even of the intoxicated scapegracesi among whom   THE THREE   APPRENTTCES.       149 (with a purpose of his own), he now silently seated him- self. Sotterly, alone, preserved his brazen jocoseness to- wards him, and at his suggestion it was agreed viva voce to fill their glasses to the brim, And those who would not drink every drop at a bumper, should ' either sing a song, tell a story, or forfeit a gallon of the best Hennessy brandy.' This was a practical joke upon their involuntary visiter, and to the infinite delight of the company, he did not so much as taste the drink, and in consideration of such flagrant abstinence, was told by the Major that he must sing a song, tell a story, or pay for a gallon of his favorite liquor.                         - ,Thihk of a clergyman's doing either! The sallow stranger pressed his hand upon his eyes and forehead a moment, as if to collect his thoughts, and then looking . from face to face sorrowfully, his reTgards settled upon the flushed countenance of the young man who gave the en- tertainment. 'I will tell you a story,' said he. ' Le-let it be a he-he-comical one, then!' hickupped the Major.- ' Is it co-comical?' 'You shall judge of that,' replied the preacher. CHAPTER XX. The Preacher tells the story of Peter and John Hay, the South Caro- lina Planters-the Forfeit paid. 'I AM a preacher, and my field is Georgia. A rough cultivator of an unpromising soil, I lhave not the fund of stories of yonder fat man, nor his grace in rela+:tin, them.   150       EASY NAT; OR, (There was a, touch of irony in this allusion.) But I will repeat one that my uncle, Mason L. Weems, used to tell whenever called upon for one in a company of choice spirits, like the present. Nor is it any fiction. It was communicated to my uncle by old Colonel Tom Taylor, father of Hon. Colonel Taylor, Senator from South Caro- lina, where the incidents occurred.' ' Go on, go on I Hear him, hear him 1' cried two or three of the most impatient. ' Or-ordr I' hickupped the Major, now bearing himself as one having authority. 'A story from the Rev. Mr. What's-his-namel Ha, ha, ha! Order I' THE HAY STORY. The stranger paid no attention to the interruption, but with his eyes fixed upon his long attenuated fingers, inter- locked in front of him, upon the table, said nothing until all were quiet. Then he resumed his remarks. 'Peter and John Hay were brothers, resident in South Carolina;, and, like myself, natives of the Palmetto State. John was a bachelor, but Peter was married and had a child. Their prospects in life were very promising. By wisely improving the fruits of their father's labors, they were growing rich, and by freely imparting their riches in acts of hospitality, they had rendered themselves very dear to- all their neighbors. John, the youngest and single brother, lived with his father; but Peter and his wife, with their little son, lived by themselves. But though, for convenience sake, they had chosen different houses to live in, yet 'might it well be said of themn that vrv   vvrr  u v  rr L rI J ICL   IUL IC   THE T HRE E A?P R E NTICE S.     151 they lived together; for their houses were not farther apart than just served for a pleasant walk, which was almost every day indulged in, either by the old gentleman going over to see and play with his little grandson, or by his mother, fondly carrying the child to prattle with the ' Old Folks at Home.' Shaded by the rustling trees, and fanned by the evening breeze of summer, their houses stood on the graceful ridge that bounds on the north the great valley of the Congaree; while broad below, and far stretching to the river, lay their fruitful fields, covered over with bursting pods of cotton, white, as the driven snow, and on either side a wilderness of corn, with lusty shocks gratefully pointing to the clouds that filled their horns.' [Here Major Sotterly' who was breathing heavily, opened his eyes instinctively, and re-filled his glass.] 'The silver flood that embosomed their plantation,' continued the clergyman, without heeding the laugh which followed the Major's movement, 'was stocked with fish and wild-fowl of many a savory sort. Their numerous herds poured them forth milk in foaming pailsfull, yielding butter and cheese in abundance; while from the flowers that perfumed both field and forest, the ever busy bees, still supplied them, yearly, with hives of luscious honey- comb. 'But what avails it to put good into the hands of those who do not know its use? [And here Harry Price's eyes, glowing with the unnatural lustre imparted by cham- pagne, fell before the searching look of the speaker, for the interrogatory smote his own conscience.] Wisdom to appreciate our benefits, and gratitude to adore the   152       EASY NAT; OR, great Giver; these are the only essentials to happiness; and Peter and John Hay possessed them not. They had grossly neglected the limited facilities of education which had been proffered to, them; and "Knowledge, to them, her ample page, Rich with the spoils of time, had ne'er displayed." All books, even the Book of books, had been slighted by them, and, consequently, their pleasures were too often unintellectual, immoral and sensual. ,They lovedthe wine- cup ' 'We love what's in the cup!' whispered D'Orsay to Harry Price, with a smile; and then, as he observed how intently the others were listening, he added with a sneer, ' Major, we're in for it! We're good for a temperance story!' But Major Sotterly had 'dropped off,' or, in other words, was fast asleep--his gross chin sunk upon his breast, and his great fat scarlet face lookingc ready to burst. 'You mulcted me in a story, and now you must hear me out,' said the clergyman. 'That's but- fair;' said Harry Price. ' Go on, sir, if you please. We don't approve of intemperance more than you do. A moderate indulgence is allowable of course.' The stranger continued-'Great was the grief of the neighbors of Messrs. Hay, when they beheld these young men yielding themselves, up the slaves of drunkenness, and for so ignoble a vice, tarnishing the lustre of their long- respected name. But greater still the grief of their aged sire! Lovely in his eyes had shone the cheeks of his boys,   ,A:,        THE THREE APPRENTICES.        153 all reddened over with the roses of youth. To see those dear cheeks inflamed, though with but an innocent fever, had often wrung his heart; then, oh, how passing the bitterness of death, to see them swollen and crimson red with incessant intemperance i' Sundry glances were cast at the distended and glowing face of the unconscious ' Major.' 'The old man was almost heart-broken. Divorced from the world by his gray hairs, he had wisely confined himself to' the society of his children; fondly hoping in their affections to forget the world's neglect; in their bloom to see his youth renewed; and in their virtues his -own fair name honorably perpetuated? Ah! who but- a parent could conceive his grief, when he saw those dearest hopes of nature all blasted forever? With cheeks bathed in tears, he sat. in silence, his silver locks passing in sor- row to the grave. 'More poignant even than the father's unhappiness, was the anguish of the young wife of Peter Hay. Wedded to her husband by the tenderest ties of love, and there- fore tremblingly alive to his interest and honor, the first time that she saw him deformed by drunkenness, she turned pale with terror. Her fears, however, at first, were soothed with hope. But when she found that in spite of all her tears, and all his own promises, he still continued, time after time, to come home stupefied and staggering with drink, she yielded herself up to despair. Like a young widow, at her husband's grave, she sat by his drunken bedside, deeply deploring her early blasted hopes, and the sad change that had befallen her late happy household. 'Till recently, he had always returned from court, or j      *   154       EAS Y N AT; OR, meeting of the planters in the county, with looks brighten- ed with the double joy of conscious rectitude and love ; till of late, with her little son in her arms, she had always flown to welcome his return, and accompany him to the parlor. There, leaning on his honest bosom, and their little one in his arms, she was wont to listen, delighted, to his sprightly voice, as embracing them again and again, and with mingled kisses he related the pleasant occurrences of the day. ' But now, alas! these happy scenes are no more. Now, whenever he comes home, it is in a reeling and unsteady gait ; his face darkened with the sullen frown of conscious guilt, or overspread with the broad grin of stupid inebriety.' 'Beg pardon, sir,' whispered the servant to Harry, ' shall I bring up- the flip now? It's hard on to one o'clock, sir.' 'No ' replied the young man, hastily. 'We don't want it. Clear yourselfU Then returned his attention to the South Carolipan, in whose story, in spite of himself, he felt interested. 'Excuse me, sir,' said he. 'Peter, I presume, re- formed?' Without replying directly, the clergyman continued- 'Returning from court one night, rather more drunk than usual, he had not strength to gain the door, but, tripping at the last step, fell forward, sprawling into the piazza. The fullness of his stomach, together with the shock of so heavy a fall, brought on nausea and vomiting. ' His little son was not yet put to bed, though the hour  . was late, but stood heavy-eyed and nodding at the knees of his mother, who, with aching heart was sitting up   THE THREE EAPPRE NTICES.        155 waiting for her husband's return. Hearing the noise of his heavy fall, and suspecting the cause, she screamed out, ' Oh, my God?and snatching a candle, ran to the door. Her little son followed. On reaching the door she beheld a sight too loathsome for description even to the indiffer- ent--what then for the eyes of an affectionate wife? 'The next morning, red-faced and snoring like an apo- plectic patient (and here the speaker glanced expressively at the somnolent debauchee who sat opposite to him), he lay till late. Poor Mrs. Hay, pale and deeply sighing, left her sleepless bed, and leading her little son by the hand, walked down stairs, sad and silent, to the parlor. The child had not yet learnt to know the cause of this change, but he felt that the present morning was not joy- ful like the past, -and he wept. 'The breakfast table was set, and lovely shone the snow-white cloth, covered with a set of the purest china, and tea-pot and sugar-disheslof solid silver. -Onr the marble hearth glittered a coffee-pot of the same precious metal, with plates of high-piled toast and butter; while the fire, unconscious of its master's dishonor, in ruddy flames en- circled the crackling hickory, and with cheerful blaze mounted high above the polished andirons. ' But nothing could divert the settled melancholy of poor Mrs. Hay. With her child at her knees,'and her fore- head leaning on the back of the chair, she sat like a statue. Dumb with grief, she could think of nothing but her own hapless lot, her husband's sure disgrace, and the ruin im- pending over herself and her darling boy. Borne along the current of her grievous forebodings, she would groan so deeply, and heave such piteous sighs, as were enough to   156       EASY NAT; OR, break one's heart ; then bending over her son, she would kiss his fair cheeks, and wet them' with her scalding tears. 'About noon her husband came down stairs, and in sullen silence entered the chamber ; but oh, how changed from the temperate, wholesome and handsome gentleman of six months before! Whoever saw him then, bright in the pure robes of health, physical and moral, without adoring the charms of his aspect and bearing? But now, who could see him, long-bearded and frowzy, with red eyes and carbuncled face, and not sigh at his downfall? Alas! my brother. ' His wife marked the woful change and wept. His son ran to him, stretching out his little arms, and crying, "Father!"The guilty parent took the child in his arms, and kissed him, though he felt that his lips polluted the innocent. i' O, Pa!" said the lisping cherub, with his arms around his father's neck; " you don't know how I did cry for you last night." "What made you cry for me, my baby?" '" O, Pa, I did cry for you because you were so sick, Pal What did make you so sick, Pa?" ' He could make no answer to his son, but blushing and confused, glanced at his wife. 'The words of the child,' with the guilty looks of her husband, overcame her;, then, from her eyes full of tears, she gave him one look full of the inexpressible anguish of her heart, and quickly averting her face, burst into a loud cry which she could not control. Her little son slipped from his father's lap, and, running to her knees, joined his artless cries with hers:   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        157 'This scene was too much for Mr. Hay. Pale and silent, he arose and went to the door, and there, as he wiped the trickling tears from his face, a thousand and a thousand times did he wish to God that he was dead. Her tears flowed afresh. Moved by her cries, he went and sat down by her side and embraced her. But it was not that fond and hearty embrace in which conscious innocence is wont to clasp its beloved object. It was the sad approach of guilt to innocence ; constrained and shy. ' With her face still averted, she continued to weep. He entreated her to be composed ; assuring her that this was the last time ; and that he would never give her cause to sorrow any more. Hereupon she threw her arms around his neck, and withl- her tearful face upon his bosom, be- sought him not to repeat that pledge. "How often have you promised me so before, and yet you go on to break my heart. You wish you were dead! It is I who ought to wish so of myself. Indeed I do wish so ; and were it not for this child, glad should I be to die this very night. Yes, but for the pain of leaving him a poor motherless babe, gladly would I lie down and part with all my sor- rows, this night, in the grave." ' At this he tenderly embraced her and kissed her ; re- peating his assurances that he would never, never more give her cause to grieve. "Besides," continued he, "I am the one that ought to weep, and not you. I am the one that has played the fool, and disgraced myself ; but you, innocent and good as you are, what cause have you of grief?" '"Oh, how little do you know my heart!" she rejoined. "I was young when I married you; was called handsome,   158       EASY NAT; OR, and thought rich; what then could have induced me to make you my husband, but affection? How, then, with- out distraction, can I see the dishonor that you are bring- ing upon yourself, as also the certain ruin of me and this poor unoffending child?" "' O no, my dear," rejoined he, interrupting her, " that I deny. I agree I do dishonor myself, and am truly asham- ed' of it; but as to bringing ruin upon you and our dear son, that's all out of the question. Thank heaven I shall keep clear of that." '"Oh, my dear husband," replied she, "I pray you, I conjure you, do not feed upon that hope. It is a fatal, fatal delusion. It has ruined thousands, and will-I have an awful foreboding-ruin you and your family, too. How hard it is for a man to thrive with all his industry and wits about him! Then how can it be done by one who is stupefied and palsied by hard drink? You know that after a single night's debauch you are sick for several days, and unfit for business ; and, even when you return to it again, it is not with that delight which you have formerly had in it. And that makes me mourn to think what a sad change has taken place in you in that respect. Formerly you seemed never so happy anywhere as at home. Little Arthur and I, with your plantation and the improvement of it, seemed to make all your enjoyment; and apparently you wanted nothing more ; for your looks bespoke the most perfect contentment. And oh, how often heartily:did I thank God, that while so many other hus- bands were dissatisfied with their wives, you were so well satisfied with me; that while so many other husbands were continually running to taverns, and company, for   (          THE THREE APPRENTICES.        159 - pleasure, you appeared to look for pleasure nowhere but in me and your little family! But now, alas 1 that for which I have so often pitied others, is come upon me also. You never appear happy with us now! Home seems to be irksome to you, and you remain only long enough to sleep or to recover from the illness caused by your excesses. Your vivacity is gone ; contentment has left your counte- nance ; and you sit silent, or mope about as if you wanted something you cannot find at home. And then you order your horse and go away, leaving me here with our-son, to solitude and distraction. O how can I bear to drag out life, weeping and broken-hearted as I have been ever since you took this fatal course I When I look back to the happy days so lately passed-when I think how enviable above the lot of all women was my lot--my dear husband, young, handsome and affectionate-my estate ample, and still becoming more so by his virtues-and my little son daily growing up the sweet and smiling image of his father-and compare that which was my prospect a few months ago, with the present, overcast and darkened forever, I have no comfort, no hope in anything around me. If I look at you my heart bleeds ; your face is bloated, your eyes are red, your whole air is melancholy and sad. If I look at our dear boy, it distresses me to find that he, too, is changed. He never plays now as he did. You, who once so delighted in him, have forsaken him. I alm always weeping. The poor child already appears op- pressed with a sense of his melancholy lot. He feels that he is a poor forlorn child, and-often comes and stands at my knees and cries as if he would break his heart. And, indeed, were he to smile and laugh it would only make me   160'      EASY NAT; OR, the sadder to think what evils were coming upon him. I see gamblers and sharpers crowding around you, pressing you to drink, getting you intoxicated, winning your money, and then taking your notes. I never look at you riding away from the house but I feel a deadly sickness at heart. I feel a sad foreboding that I shall never see you again. -A thousand times a day do I see you killed by your horse, or drowned in some ford, or dying some of those deaths by which men in their cups generally perish. Then I see the creditors coming to take everything from us-selling all over our heads-and turning us all out of house and home to starve or beg!" ' The poor lady, who thus bewailed her unhappy fat', had long suffered in silence, but now-the pent-up feelings had given way, and she expressed her whole mind to her shrinking and conscience-stricken husband. The effect upon her nervous system, worn and weakened by sleepless nights and days of sorrow, was to bring on a strong hysteric fit. Peter Hay, in the meantime, stood looking on, weeping sorely, and promising great amendments. 'For a few days he kept his promise ; which sprang a new dawn of hope in the bosom of this excellent woman. But alas I all his promised reformation was but as the morning dew before the burning sun. At the very next court he was ensnared by a pack of gamblers, who, getting him tipsy, won his money, horse, saddle, bridle, and great coat. Some short time afterwards on his way from Charleston, where, it was understood he had received a sum of money, he was decoyed by the same gang of sharpers, who got him drunk, and won $800 of him. In this way he would, no doubt, have broken his wife's heart,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         161 and beggared his boy, had not God, in his mercy, pre- I     vented it by suddenly taking him away, and also his brother John, and in a manner which struck a wholesome terror in the hearts of all who knew the circumstances.' P[' Now, bucks,' whispered D'Orsay, 'we are to have the nub of this long-winded storyl Don't go!'] 'Their fields near the river, as I have said, brought forth plenteously, insomuch that they began to be " at a loss where to bestow their fruits and their goods." I will not say that they pulled down their old barns, but it is certain that they built a large new one, in one end of which they finished an apartment for their overseer. In tliilpartment they found their destruction. Fearing to get drunk at home, and yet so enslaved to strong drink that they could not live without it, they kept a jug of rum in their barn. On a cold and very windy morning in March, they went down at an early hour to the barn, and using the cold as a plea for a dram, they went on tippling till they got perfectly drunk, and fell down with- out sense-or motion on the floor. In this awful moment the barn took fire! owing (it was afterwards said) to the carelessness-of an old negro woman who had hobbled that morning, with her pipe in her mouth, into the barn, which contained a large quantity of heckled hemp. The first thing which struck the attention of the negroes at work in the fields, as also of old Mr. Hay and his daugh- ter-in-law, was a black volume of smoke issuing from the barn! Instantly from all parts of the plantation there was a violent running together of the family, white and black, to save the barn. But in vain. Scarcely had they got l1alf-way thither, before they beheld the flames :2ys.   162       EASY NAT; OR, bursting out from all sides of the building, and roaring as if it were a den of furious lions. Though aghast with horror and despair, the friends continued to run with all their might towards the dreadful conflagration. When they had reached the spot, the intense heat was almost too much for the spectators to endure. And there, around the raging element, amidst mingled shrieks and screams, nothing was to be heard but "Where is young massas?" "Oh, my children! my sons! my dear sons!  "My hus- band'! Oh, my husband!'7 "Oh, Pa! Pal Pa!" 'Presently they were presented with a spectacle almost: too shocking to relate. Through the red billowy flames which, driven by the fury of the wind, had now com- pletely encircled the apartment, and burst open the door, they distinctly beheld these wretched brothers lying dead drunk and helpless on the floor, and the fire rapidly seiz- ing on everything around them! Like one distracted, poor Mrs. Hay rushed to the-fire to save her husband; but the forbidding flames, with scorching blast upon her face, struck her back senseless and suffocated to the ground. The faithful negroes, too, roused to the utmost by their strong sympathies, and the love they bore to their young masters (who, whatever may have been their other faults, had never been guilty of unkindness to them), made many daring and self-sacrificing efforts to save the two miserable men, but in vain; for after getting terribly scorched, they were compelled to give them up, and with bleeding hearts, to behold the vengeful flames kindling upon them. Owing to the rarefying effects of the intense heat, their stomachs being filled with rum and fixed air, they expande'd and burst, their bowels gushing. out into   THE THIREE APPRENTICES.       '163 the devouring flames, Built of and containing nothing but combustible materials, the immense barn and its con- tents were entirely consumed, and when by the violence of the wind the ashes had been blown away, there was seen lying side by side, upon the whitened earth, two pale chalky skeletons!' As she concluded this vivid description of the catas- trophe which terminated the mortal career of 'Peter and John tInay,' the Georgia preacher, whose large ' magnetic eyes' had been fixed upon the changing countenance of Harry Price, throughout, now turned his head, and said, ' Gentlemen, my story is ended. I have paid my for- feit. Are you satisfied?' and there was a slight savour of sarcasm in the curl of his thin lips. Only three persons remained - to respond ; all the rest having quietly slipped away (after having nearly yawned their heads off), and made good their retreat to the open air ; entirely assured that in their attempt at a practical joke upon the 'parson,' he had adroitly turned the tables upon them, and they had ' woke up the wrong, passenger.' Some four or five, more intoxicated and further along in vice than the rest, upon leaving the hotel, repaired to Pleasant-street to pass the remainder of the night in a house of licentious character ; but the most of the party, rendered ashamed of their debauch by the'pastor's story, and feelingly r'eminded by the sorrowful complaints of ,:? ,  poor Peter's wife, that they, too, had parents and friends. to grieve by their excesses, omitted the usual 'stirrup-cup' at the bar, and proceeded silently to their several homes. Two or three of those throbbing heads, as they pressed their pillows for an hour or two of repose before the day *;-: , .    164       EASY NAT; OR, I ,  should dawn, ' and turned, and turned, and found no rest,' vowed that that night's spree should be their last. And when the hours of business shone in upon their recumbent and unrecuTerated forms andzpale faces, and their blood- shotten eyes winked at the intruding sunshine, they pressed their fevered hands upon their aching temples, and inwardly compared themselves with Peter Hay. By the side of Harry Price, there remained the fashion- able tailor, quietly nibbling with his little white teeth a bit of Dutch cheese, held daintily between his thumb and  two jewelled fingers of a lily-white hand, one elbow lean- ing meanwhile upon the board, and his eyes glancing superciliously from the voluble and earnest speaker to the countenance of Harry Price, in whose expressive face D'Orsay could easily read the emotions excited by the sallow Southerner's sorrowful narration. A momentary smile flitted across the dark face of the Southerner, as he observed how his audience had dwindled, and he thought to himself, 'Now I can go to bed with some prospect of sleep.' ' What became of the widow of Peter Hay?' inquired Harry Price, indifferent to his companions' departure; in his interest in the denoument. ' The widow, and her son, and the good old grandfather?' ' But especially the beautiful young widow, my dear sir? 'Pon my honor, I wish I had been there to console her. I do indeed ' lisped the elegant D'Orsay, glancing from his tastefully ruffled linen bosom and superb diamond sparkling upon it, to his massive gold watch-guard; and thence to the pretty fingers still retaining the morsel of hard cheese, while with the other hand he caressed his   cI  .        THE THREE APPRENTICES.        165 jet-black and daintily delineated whiskers ; 'I dare say, she was glad when the fellow was gone!' ' His miserable end destroyed her, also, and within one brief year afterwards, all of that ill-fated family were numbered with the dead!' responded the preacher sadly; and rising from the table, whose load of bottles, decan- ters, tumblers, broken glass, stumps of cigars, &c;, bespoke 'the banquet hall deserted,' he took Harry Price by the hand. 'Young man, take my advice, and take it kindly. I confess that I have been talking (as they say in the Legislature) " against time,"' as well as against intem- perance, and I have succeeded in tallking your wild com- pany away, and yonder voluble obese to sleep; but the story with which they compelled me to punish them, is a true one. And I could tell you many, applicable to your own case. Nay, dismiss the fear that I wish to inflict another temperance tale upon you to-night-or rather, I might say, this mor'ning, for I see that--' 'We are among the little hours, and your sermons are prosy,' interrupted D'Orsay, yawning, and lighting a cigar, 'Besides,7 continued the stranger, replacing his watch without heeding the tailor's impertinence, I need not give you Southern. illustrations of the misfortunes that attend the wine-bibber and rum drinker, since you have so many bitter and fearful ones even in this generally moral city of Boston. ' Moral!' cried D'Orsay, rising, ' There is more iniquity perpetrated in this same pious village than there is in New York and New Orleans, notwithstanding all their cant. I know all about it!' 'Without questioning your knowledge of the vices of all   166       EASY NAT; OR,  these cities,' rejoined the clergyman, 'I must say that, with the exception of a few pestilential agitators' (this was'intended for Garrison & Co.), ' Boston is not so bad a place as I thought it before I visited it. -Still the vice of intemperance exists here, I find, as well as elsewhere; and you had a most melancholy instance of it to-day, in the case of the young man who was convicted of arson, and is to suffer the penalty of his crimes upon the gallows!' ' Was Mudge found guilty, sir?' inquired Harry Price. 'Mudge?  What Mudge?' said the tailor, before the young man's question could be answered. 'Nathan, I think, was the man's given name. I sup- posed the case was more familiar to you than to me, who am a stranger,' replied the clergyman. 'I have not been in Boston before to-day for some -months past ; and I know nothing of this,' said the tailor; and a momentary feeling of shame and regret shot through his diminutive heart, and terminated in a small volume of smoke, which he issued, with a puff, at that moment. ' How is it? What is it? What are the circumstances?' he added, with much more anxiety than he cared to dis- play, and elaborately knocking the ashes from the end of his cigar, to conceal the interest he felt. ' A dreadful crime,' rejoined the .Georgian; and the trial was attended with the most painful circumstances. His wife was present.' ' His wife? gasped D'Orsay. 'You knew - Nat Mudge; didn't you?' said Harry Price. 'I have often heard him spoken!of. He married Giles Godwin's daughter, once the "Belle of the North End."' l,   I    .    THE THR EE APPRE NTICES.        167 !    D'Orsay denied any knowledge of them. ' He was a clever fellow, and a great favorite, I have heard (added Harry), but became a toper. No com- mand of himself! Everybody said she was a fool to have him; but she would, and' now see the result 1' ' And not the result only, but the causes, young man- see the causes I This wretched man commenced a career of intemperance by indulgences far more innocent than these walls have witnessed to-night. My dear young man,' he continued, laying his left hand upon the shoulder of Harry, while with the other he grasped his hand affec- tionately, 'Beware of the wine cup! The animal cul be in the water we drink are not visible to the unaided eye, and you may see nothing evil in a glass of champagne, but there is a little potent devil lurking there, notwithstanding. The animalculwe of the still are the imps of perdition I' ' This was my freedom-day you know, sir,) began Harry, apologetically; for somehow he respected the stranger, and was completely sobered and much impressed with what he had said. -:   'Your freedom-day, and yet you have commenced to-night a life of slavery-slavery to a bad custom; a bondage to sensual indulgence : a bondage worse than African slavery a thousand fold I Struggle to keep clear of these shackles young man. "Abstain from fleshy lists that war against the soul." And when these chains and trammels of custom and this moral slavery, are abolished from your own glori- ous yet not faultless New England, then lift your voice for the abolition of slavery in the South. But this is irrele- vant. Good night.  I shall be pleased to have you dine */ '   168        ASY NAT; ORn, with me to-morrow. Leave that fat animal where he is,' he added (observing Harry's glance at Major Sotterly, still somnolent but prostrate under the table), the servants will take care of him. Good night. God bless you 1' ' Good night, sir 1' responded Mr. Price. ' Pleasant dreams, Major!' said D'Orsay, gaily, and, tossing his segar into the blazing face of the snoring sot, he had the pleasure of seeing that individual start violent- ly, and with many an oath, kick lustily at the table above him, until it tottered upon its legs and keeled over, carry- ing all with a crash to- the floor. The next day, when Harry Price called to liquidate 'that little bill for the supper,' he footed the account in full by the payment of one hundred and forty dollars, and odd. Enough to support a poor man six months, thrown away upon a single supper! And what a night that was, and how differently passed by poor Nat in his lonely cell! D'Orsay thought of him after he had parted with Harry Price at the corner of Beacon and Tremont-street (with a suggestion that they should meet the next day for a game of billiards) and hurried intol his quarters at the Tremont House. And when he had laid his well-lubricat- ed head, encased in an oiled-silk night-cap, upon his pillow, and drawn his little knees up to his chin, for the better conservation of the animal heat, and pressed his Ifrigid toes in his delicate hands, and wished the coarse damp linen sheets in a warmer place than any above the surface of the earth, his mind inflamed and rendered rest- less by the excesses of the evening and the intelligence he had just received, reverted to Nathan Mudlge. He could not realize that the simple-hearted, sweet-tempered, merry \.  .,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        169 ?lad, whom he had so often met at Giles Godwin's, was guilty of the diabolical crime, the details of which had been re- lated to him by Harry Price. He might have been acces- sory, but Tom Braxton was the real incendiary he felt assured. No live man knew better than he what a con- summate and unscrupulous villain Tom was. He knew that Braxton had burned with resentment against his old master and several members of his household, and he now recalled to memory a-4hreat made with many and dire imprecations, that he would like to, 'some fine black old night, fire up that old rookery.' As this recollection came to him, his first impulse was one of regret that he had not been present at the trial, and a hasty resolve that he would yet do what he could for the exculpation of Nathan. Then followed the thought, piercing the other as if it were a bubble, that he could not testify against Braxton with- out endangering some secrets of his own. Thus are men's impulses for good too often aborted by the exactions of sin, almost as soon  as conceived.  'Besides,'- reflected D'Orsay, with a bitter qualm of mortified vanity, 'I made a fool of myself on board that villanous packet, and Kate despises me 1' He turned over in bed with a feeling of more self-dissatisfaction than had crossed him for a long time, and thrust his feet with some energy at the foot- board. Then the remembrance of her beauty recurred to him, and he felt a sensuous luxury in it, notwithstanding her contemptuous rejection of him. She must still be a )fine looking woman, and a prize worth having. 'What would become of ier, after the execution of her husband?' Oh, despicable idea, unworthy even t]hy stunted heart and dwarfish affections, O, D'Orsay.! But it flashes through   10      -  EASY  NAT.; OR, you like an electric current; the moisture starts to your ; fevered brow, your pulse is quicker and your excited brain is concentrated upon the demoniacal suggestion. 'When Mudge is dead, his wife, the wife of an executed felon-- neglected, abandoned and despised--will joyfully receive the advances once so contemptuously repelled.' The thought filled him with an almost insane glee, and though he tossed about and turned and turned, without a wink of sleep, until the morning dawned, the grey light found his evil mind and heart absorbed by this one wicked design. Here let us leave him to the- vile imagination which fol- lowed him even into the land of dreams, and while he sleeps the morning hours away, seek the acquaintance of a man as different from him as our most wholesome appe- tite could desire. CHAPTER XXI. A Hard Customer-Tall specimen of a Yankee Farmer-Tom Brax- ton's Fligh-E arthing the VarmlintGreat Battle and Conflagya' tion in the Black Sea--The Yankee and the Firemen. AN honest-hearted, simple-minded fellow was John Hard-large-framed, without fatness; his coarse skin, chapped and embrowned by exposure to winter's blast and summer's sun-his nose proninent, his eyes intelligent, his forehead fairly developed, his hair not quite black, and diversified by cow-licks (two of which, in front, made it stand up stiff and wirylike General Jackson's), his face   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        " innocent of beard, his mouth a generous one, his teeth broad and white, his chin well rounded, his ears large enough for another pattern, his hands as red and hard as a brick, and about the same size, his frock of blue linsey- woolsey, like an elongated shirt extending below his knees, his ten pounds of boots redolent of the barn-yard--he was the very opposite of the fair, sleek, oily, and perfumed Mr. D'Orsay. Young John was a child of nature. He was, moreover, the son of old Reuben Hard.  Reuben was the salt of the earth-not rough, like John, but sweet-man- nered, and mild as mother's milk to every one-even to his old horse, when perversely persisting in walking instead of breaking into a reasonably slow trot. But young Jolhn had the same kind heart his father had, notwith- standing the rough bark in which it was enclosed, and with even a larger stock of benevolence ; though for- the matter of that, the old man was no niggard: the way- farer never went hungry from the door of his comfortable farm-house, but often with' hands and heart, both full, blessing him and his. John had enjoyed few advantages of schooling, even in the school-glorious Massachusetts, and the College-honored county of Middlesex.  Three months in the winter annually, for some four or five years, comprised the entirety of his schooling; but he had made the most of the time, and studied with as good a will as he worked; consequently was no ignoramus. Besides the rudiments, he had at his tongue's end the Declaration of Independence, and knew more about the federal and State Constitutions, and the history of the country, than many of those who were 'finishing their education' among the skulls and dry-bones of the dead languages, and defiling   172       EASY NAT';. OR, their intellects with the licentious c assics of the Greeks and Latins. John knew something about the history of other nations, too, for he had some thirst for knowledge; but he was diffident in the use of- his ' book-larnin (as his father called it), and was better content to 'spread him- self' upon practical agriculture alid the economy of geo- ponies and the barn-yard. Old Reuben used to say that his boy (then only six feet high, not having attained his growth) was equal to a blacksmith, wheelwright, and car- penter, all in one, and not a bad hand at horses and live stock in general; besides being a first-rate milker, and, in short, the best farmer in the country ; and he rather calculated that in a more unsettled country, where lawyers and politicians were not so plenty, John would only have to put himself 'forrud to stand amazin' close chance for the Legislatur. But he only ventured this remark at his own capacious fireside ; and at such times ' Marm,/ as he always called his wife, a lady of extraordinary size and flesh, would glance sharply at him through the big round glasses of her indispensable green specs, and ask him if he wanted John to emigrate to Michigan or Wisconsin ; and if he had no word of praise for Jonas and Joshua? These were, the two younger- boys, the very picters of their mother, and, like her, very fat, though without a particle of her energy. These good folks ' carried on' a milk-farm, and the fat boys alternated in driving the cart with a sup- ply of about fifty gallons of the delicious beverage daily, without a drop of water, to their customers in Boston. Occasionally, John would accompany one or the other of them to the city, either to lend a hand or make a pur- chase. By accident, he had stumbled, as it were, into )   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        173 Hagglesfelt's neighbourhood, and, seduced by the syren voice of the auctioneer, was led to enter his 'office.' He had learned to scrape a little at home upon a fiddle bor- rowed of one of their hired men, who was an amateur, and at the auction it occurred to simple John Hard that this was an eligible opportunity to purchase, for a reason- able sum, 'an instrument,' as Hagglesfelt assured him, 'of an unexceptionable tone, faultless pedigree, and very desirable reputation.' He bid upon it, accordingly-in his eagerness bidding directly upon the top of his own bid--and would have paid five dollars for it cheerfully, but that he saw the blacksmith wanted it, and hating to disappoint himl he generously withdrew from the compe- tition. John Hairdwas the man who pursued Tom Brax- ton, when he fled from his attempted assassination of Edwin. The fugitive was quicker on the foot, and more familiar with the locality than the countryman, but John's legs were long, and his tracks far ahead of each other. It was now dusk, the neighborhood a dangerous one, and the young farmer ought to have started for home an hour before ,; but he was so fully bent upon overtaking the villain whom he had seen basely attempting to take the life of a human being, that he thought of none of these things. No prudential considerations occurred to him, nor did he utter any cry for the arrest of the wolf whom Ahe hunted, and the only sound that escaped him was ' Jerooshy ' which he ejaculated at every one of the sharp corners; of that many-cornered quarter, around which Tom turned to avoid him.  In a   few minutes they had reached the 'Black Sea,' a dangerous neighborhood, occu- ,   174       EA S Y NAT; OR, pied by thieves and prostitutes of every color and nation under the sun ; and dreaded by good citizens as a place where many a poor jack tar had suddenly disappeared, never more to be seen of men. The shadows of the gloaming had now fallen upon the narrow and filthy streets, and the iniquities of the night were about to begin. Groups of bad-looking men and bonnetless women, white ,and black, lounged around or sat upon the door- steps and cellar doors, indulging without stint in lewd conversation and profanity. Some were already passing the bottle, and numerous little windows on the street indi- cated where more rum might be obtained. But John Hard rushed by them, heeding nothing but the flying fugitive.- Quite spent and breathless, Tom Braxton darted down the steps of a lo'w victualling cellar, followed by his pursuer. Three rough-looking men--the saine whom Fairbanks had observed leaving him in Dock Square--were seated around a stove ; for the night was chilly. They rose to their feet, in some alarm, as the fugitive and farmer bounced in upon them. 'Jei'ooshy!' cried Johin Hard, seizing Braxton by the throat, and'jerking from his hand a pistol which he was in the act of cocking: ' No you don't i' 'Knock him down, one of you!' roared Tom with a great oath, and white with rage. The next instant John Hard received a blow upon the head that made him see, it seemed to him, all the stars in the galaxy ; but quickly projecting his right foot with one tremendous kick back- wards, horse-fashion, he planted his heavy cow-hide boot into the stomach of his rather corpulent assailant. It was like a battering-ram, and cast the burly ruffian, collapsed   T H E T R E E A I'P R E T I C E S . 15 and howling, upon the hot stove, which, unused to such bur- dens, broke incontinently in pieces, scattering the coals and brands upon the combustible floor and wainscoting. The pipe, too, came down, pitching its contents of soot into the face and bosom of another of the gang, so blind- ing him that he found it difficult to make his way out of the cellar, which was now on fire. ,There was no time for " fighting. Self-preservation is the first law of nature, John Hard rushed to the door, and ascended to the street. The others quickly followed; a volume of smoke following them.  John waited on the walk, until Braxton came up; then seized and dragged him, with gigantic strength, past a number of dirty denizens, who, with cries of alarm, were running to the cellar. For a few moments, Tom Braxton felt as if borne along by an irresistible power. It was as if Destiny itself had him by the nape of the neck. But quickly recovering his scattered senses, he attempted with all his might, to get away. 'Ye squirm  like an eel,' said John Hard blandly, 'but 'taint no manner o' use! Ye're ea gone sucker!' ' Rescue V  shouted Braxton, at the top of his voice; 'Rescue 1' His voice was heard above the cries of fire, and in a  few moments John Hard was surrounded by a crowd of gallows faces, of both sexes, imprecating curses upon him ; for he was supposed to be an officer of justice in disguise, and it was among the conventionalities of that Alsatia of Boston not to tolerate an arrest there. ' Mosey, mizzle!' said one of the blackguards, laying his hand upon the young farmer's arm. 'Moses Mizzle!' cried the Yankee, 'my name ain't Moses, nor Mizzle nuther! My  name's John Hardl q   176       EASY NAT; OR, Consarn ye,' he added, still holding like a vice to Braxton's neck, but glancing round at some knaves behind him ; (ye can't hurt me a treadin' on my feet, but if I should tread on any o' your corns, ye'd yell like all git- eout 1' "et go your hold V' cried Braxton. ' I won't do't, ye pesky varmint!' replied John. 'I'm offered a hundred dollars to bring ye in, and I'm good for the speckylation!' The villains raised a shout of laughter, and hemmed him closer. 'Stop scrougin'!' cried Mr. Hard. Some miscreant struck him full in the face. 'Yerooskly!' ejaculated John, and shutting up one of his long legs like a jack-knife, he gave the ruffian such a kick under the chin as liked to have terminated his life without the aid of a halter. This precipitated a general onslaught upon the young' farmer, and in a few moments his blue linsey-woolsey frock was torn from his back, and innumer- able blows from fists and bludgeons rattled upon his un- covered cranium, like an ill-played reveille. 'Consarn it all V!' cried John Hard, 'I aln't used to this!' and letting go his hold of the struggling Braxton, he executed such a series of kicks before and behind, to the right and to the left, with his ten pounds of cowhide sole leather and stub-nails (ejaculating Jerooshy, every time), that he soon cleared the ring ; and seeing Tom Braxton edging his way through the dense crowd, he made a break to overtake him. But the fugitive eluded his grasp ; the villains seeming to open a way for him in- stinctively, and as instinctively closing it impregnably against the indignant John Hard, who again became the   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         1" recipient of many blows, and though with his long arms and huge fists he mowed them down like grass, he must have soon been compelled to yield, if the welcome cry of i"-ead with her! Head with her?and the tramp of feet and the rattling of wheels close at hand, had not announced the arrival of a fire engine. The dense multitude gave way with alacrity, for even with this degraded population there existed the feeling common to all, of self-preservation and the preservation of their homes. The fire company was the 'Torrent, better known as 'Old Sixteen.' Her members were mostly mast-makers, ship-carpenters, rig- gers, and caulkers-and-gravers-a brave, hardy, good- principled set of men-distinguished at that period for their courage and usefulness at fires, their steady habits at home, and their detestation of the foreign vagabonds in- festing the neighborhoods of Broad, Ann, Cross and Rich- mond-streets. None of them felt any interest in staying the flames; and seeing indications of a row in the crowd through which  'the tub' (never called  'machine' in Boston) passed, several of them lingered to ascertain the cause.  A dozen or more of the Black Sea-ites-merely boarders there, with no extra luggage to trouble them- had closed around John Hard again,-all with mischievous and some with murderous intent. Several struck at him simultaneously, and one bold fellow clenched ; but him the stalwart farmer lifted, with one hand upon his throat and the other at his abdomen, and hurled into the crowd. ' Jerooshy!' 'Stick him  ' stick him !' ' Cut his throat 1' 'Rip him up V' ' Let daylight through him !' were the cries of some; and the earthly career of our agricultural friend 8*   178       Es't xAr A; ort, would have had a very sudden termination, but for four or five firemen, who, with a shout of ' Hold on there!' pitched in among the villains, and dealing blows at all in the way, soon cleared a circle around the now somewhat battered and confused Mr. Hard. ' Two upon one is one too many,' said one of the fire- men, ' and here are a dozen of you cowards upon this man!' 'I don't want any help to whip the head off of him!' said a square-shouldered, bow-legged fellow; an humble imitator of Deaf Burke, the Champion of England. 'If you want to fight him,' said the fireman to John Hard, ' we'll see that you have fair play.' ' Consarn it! no ; I never fou't a man in all my life. What! damage a feller-critter's profile in cold blood? My hosses ain't that color. I'm a man o' peace ; I am i' 'Peace,  !' kickin' about as you've been doing, looks like peace!' exclaimed one of the blackguards, with whose ribs John's boots had literally scraped acquaintance. ' Kickin' I iterated Mr. Hard; ' H should be meaner than an old blind hoss, if I didn't kick when I'm trod on I But I won't fight. I follow a peaceful callin', and won't fight for anybody but my country ; but in self-defence, I rather calkelate I can kick a few!' 'Good!' roared the firemen, laughing loudly; then gave a cheer to the live Yankee. ' Stand back. Way there 1' said one of them to the crowd, now closing upon them again. 'Friend, come along with us. You're not safe here. What's your name?' ' Well, I ain't ashamed to say, my name's John Hard.' ' Well, come along John. Give a hand at the brakes, and go home with our company " 16," here,' said one of   THE TH IREE APPRENTICEs    . 1S9 his new-found friends, taking his arm; then added, in a low tone, ' them scoundrels had as lief stab you as notr if they thought you was alone.' 'Ye don't say I'  exclaimed John, and taking the proffered arm, he went with the firemen, to whom the sullen crowd gave way with some reluctance, and not - without some gibes at the farmer's loss of his hat and coat. These incidents occurred within a shorter space of time than it has taken you, gentle reader, to peruse this de- scription of them * but already had other engine- compa- nies arrived Upon the ground, and the fire was becoming formidable. ' 16 had not yet thrown a drop upon it; -:evidently in no hurry to stay the destruction of a building so infamous. Nor were the other companies a whit more zealous to extinguish it. Col. Amory, the chief engineer, arriving at the spot, observed their inertness with displea- sure. 'Peter C. Jones!' said he to one of his assistants (a short, thick, active man, in a fire-coat and cap, and a trumpet in his hand), 'see that they bend on their hose, there! Where's Johnny Green? Capt. Dinsmore, bring up :No. 6. Mr. Green, send that ladder company here I Capt. Adams, put 16's water upon that fi're!' ' Man your brakes, 16!' roared the bluff, hearty old man, through his trumpet. 'Stand at my side, John Hard, and do as you may see me do,' said one of the men, as he took his place at the engine. Though without a hat or cap, the farmer's cow- licks were prominent above all other heads in the line, as he complied with the request. 'Up and down, sixteen,' shouted the Captain. Up went the brakes and hit the farmer under under the chin, but he soon got used to the   180       EASY  NAT; O R, motion, and worked like a rigger--acquitting himself to the obvious satisfaction of the company, and amusing them not a little by his exclamations. Foi weeks afterwards his expletive ' Jerooshy,' was a favorite word with all No. 16's men. By dint of pulling down an old house on either side, and throwing a vast deal of water on the burning building, the fire was at length subdued. Then came the word, ' Hold on, Sixteen 1' A familiar voice (it was old Hagglesfelt) said, ' Company No. 16, are requested by their respected commander to desist in their indefatigable exertions ; in other words "Hold on, Sixteen!'" As long as the ex- citement lasted, no notice was taken of the fact that John was minus of his coat and hat, and he scarcely gave it a thought himself; but when the company had started upon their return to the engine house, and our athletic farmer, with one hand hold of the rope and the other manipulating sundry protuberances upon his battered head, accompanied them, his lack of clothing elicited remark. Fortunately, one of the men had his own citizen's hat and coat in the box of the engine, and putting them on he lent his fire coat and cap to our- friend. John didn't want them. He didn't mind the cold a spec, he said. He was used to working in his shirt sleeves, even in the coldest weather ; and as for hats, all they were good for was to keep the sun off and make a fellow look sooty. This and similar remarks amused the firemen vastly, and what with his story of the fiddle sale, the affray in the auction room, his chase of the assassin, and subsequent 'scrimmages,' as he called them, all of which he related while participating in a repast of rolls and hot coffee with the members in the   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        181 engine house, they all regarded him as the best specimen of the genus homo, in the natural state, that they had ever seen. Insisting upon going home that night, late as it was, though it would compel him to foot it eight or ten miles, the generous firemen would not let him depart only upon his consenting to wear the fire cap and coat proffered. ' Wet your whistle, John, with a dram from my pistol before starting,' said one, extending a little wicker-co- vered bottle of ardents; 'it will strengthen you for your long tramp.' ' Not a drop,' replied John. 'I tried to swaller one Independent Day, and if it didn't make me feel as limpsy as a tow string, I wouldn't say so!' 'Ha I ha! ha! ha!' roared with laughter some half dozen of thenm. ' Pistil's a good name for that ere thing, I guess,' added Mr. Hard. ' Let it off inter a feller's mouth, and he might as well be shot in right down yearnest.' 'H a! ha! ha! ha!' reiterated the caulkers and gravers. ' Gunpowder ain't a primin' to it, for buttin' the brains out 1' said John. ' Hows'ever, I am as much obleeged to you, 'sir, as if it was a cup o' night's milk from our old Shorthorn.  Good niglt; good night, all. When I'm twenty-one (and that I'll be in a few days), I'm going out to seek my  fortin', and perhaps I'll come this way, and give ye a call.' 'That's right, John, that's right,' cried several, in a breath ; and the yeoman departed. Without stopping to detail how, when he arrived at the old homestead, his unwonted costume frightened old Jack, the housedog, and   182       EASY N AT; OR, astonished his anxious father, upon whose mind flashed the painful apprehension that too much learning had made his tall son crazy, let us pass to other personages and scenes. (CHAPTER   XXTI. Is like Monday's Picked-up-Dinner, one of Fragments. * *  '* *  * MOVE softly in the darkened cham- ber I close the shutters tighter. Exclude that prying sunbeam.  Not a word-not. a whisper, even I   She sleepsl At length she sleeps! What a night she has had of it I The hours that bore upon their balmy wings sweet rest to half the world, brought no opiate to the wild and painful fancies and racked nerves of the poor tenant of that bed. Touch her not : lay not as much as a finger upon the snow-white sheet, though it be to cover decorously that heaving bosom. You might break, even with an infant's breathing, that bubble-dream of her's. And Oh how we have been praying throughout the weary vigils of the long, long night, that she might "Take her fill Of sweet and liquid rest, forgetful of all ill," Her night-dress, torn either by her own hands, or in the efforts of her attendants to restrain her in her wild attempts to leave the room; her naked arms extended above her 'head-; her long, black volume of hair, uncon- fined by a cap, reposing like a cloud upon a breast white   T I  T I I E A?R E N TICES.     183 as the Parian marble, told of recent and fearful mental suffering. Even now as she slept, her compressed jaws, dilating nostrils, swelling veins upon her temples, irregular breathing, knitted brow, and occasional spasmodic action of the eyes and hands, reminded those who were present, of the flashes of lurid lightning seen after the gale itself has passed.' It was painful to-look at that face and form, so young and beautiful, scathed and quivering from the effects of the- storm which had raged with such violence in her own heart. 'How afraid I am that she will awake!' at length whis- pered one of the two very fleshy ladies, who looked as much alike as two peas in a pod, as they stood side by side, at a respectful distance from the bed, but peering into the sleeper's countenance. These were the maiden sisters of Giles Godwin.- Susan Mudge, pale and care- worn, then laid her hand affectionately upon the arm of one of the venerable twins, and besought them to go to bed and obtain a little needful rest. 'Dear Susan,' was the reply, 'you, too, have been up all night, and what with your own   sorrows, many and grievous to be borne-and   your anxiety about Edwin, poor dear!' interpolated  the other-'you look like a ghost.' 'Dear suz, sister! I'm glad you didn't say that last night!' said the first, who was a little superstitious. 'I have no inclination to sleep now,' whispered Susan, 'and I shall be more content to watch the slumbers which God, in his mercy, has sent to my dear sister!' 'Poor Kate I' sighed the two corpulent ladies ; and after a few more words of gentle and futile remonstrance with Susan, for whom they now  entertained an unalloyed affection,   184       EASY NAT; OR, they left the room. At the door Susan, with something like rising color in her face, requested that when Edwin's surgeon came to re-adjust the splints upon his arm, she might be called to assist. Such was the self-command, self-sacrifice and heroism of this excellent young lady. She was not a person to talk much about the duties of life: she contented herself with performing them. She rarely gave utterance to sentiment, and never to senti- mentality-but her sensibilities were neither blunted nor dormant. Grief had fallen upon her -heart not like the thunderbolt of the tropical storm - her sorrow came and continued more like the silent but incessant fall of snow in the night, and was none the less because unostentatious. Under all her trials-even to the last one respecting her brother, whose conduct for a year or two past had been to her a continual grief-superadded to which, though a matter of far less moment, was Braxton's attempted assassination of her. affianced husband-she had borne her- self with fortitude and patience, and not abated one jot of her usefulness. Her's was a truly Christian resigna-, tion, acquired by the example of her lamented mother, and confirmed by her own daily examination of the Word of God, and fidelity to the exercise of prayer. She lived less for earth than for heaven, yet believed in fulfilling with cheerful alacrity at all times all her worldly duties, and enjoyed herself in the discharge of them, as being well pleasing in the sight of God. Still she was mortal, and in the solitude of her own chamber her surcharged heart would relieve itself in floods of tears. And now, when the worthy sisters of Giles Godwin had left her alone with the unconscious wife (almost the widow) of poor   THE: THREE APPRENTICES.        185 Nat, the tears came unbidden, and she made no effort to stay them. There are times when it is good, even for men to weep. The angels in heaven are said to do it, over our follies : why should we be ashamed to shed them for ourselves? Kate, on the contrary, though she had led a moral life, was not a Christian. She knew nothing by personal experience of the consolation of that hope which, since Christ began to preach the glad tidings of salvation, has sustained millions of people under the most afflictive dis- pensations, cruel torture by persecutors, and-- barbarous death. Susan had often conversed with her on the subject ; and now, wich an humble but confident reliance upon a prayer-hearing and prayer-answering God, she knelt down by the bedside to pray for her soul's welfare, and for that of her husband. It was a simple but fervent supplication to that spirit who is 'infinite, eternal, and unchangeable in-being, wisdom, power, justice, holiness, goodness, and truth.' When she arose from her knees, feeling lighter hearted than she had done for many weary hours past, Giles Godwin was standing near the foot of the bed, with T his hands clasped and uplifted, as if silently uniting his supplication to her own. 'Shall I see D'Orsay or then Georgia preacher? Which of the two to choose, Slavery or Death? Which of the two gentlemen is Slavery, and which is Death, I'll not pre- tend to say. I'll toss up to decide with which of the twain I shall dine. Heads, be it understood, Mr. Price, is old Homily, id est the Parson. Up she goes. Heads it is I I'm good for a homily.' Such was the soliloquy   186       E ASY NAT; OR, of Harry Price, at the approach of the hotel dinner hour on the day following the festival. ' I did not expect you, my-dear Sir,' said the Southern clergyman, as he encountered Harry in the vestibule, and shook him cordially by the hand, 'but allow that I'm right glad to see you. Come in ; we dine here upon the French plan, minus the French dishes.' The two sat down at a small table together to a sump- tuous repast, and after a brief grace, whichh took Harry quite aback, they entered into an animated conversation, in which the South Carolinian rendered himself so agree- ably instructive, that our young friend thought that he had never before enjoyed a dinner with any friend-or any dozen of friends-so well; and yet without one drop of stimulants. The clergyman had a well of anecdotes relating to prominent Southern men ; and Pinckney, Hayne, Calhoun, McDuffie, Randolph, Longstreet, with other distinguished personages, were brought as vividly before Harry's mind es if he saw them inL propria persona. He was an admirer of Southern character, the hospitality and other good traits of which he longed to see and enjoy upon' its native soil. This sentiment fell from his lips before they had concluded their dessert, and was eagerly seized upon by Mr. Davis, his new Southern friend, who (frankly admitting that it was his sincere desire to draw him away from the convivial associates by which he was surrounded, and which would infallibly ruin him, if con- tinued) thereupon obtained his promise to accompany him to the Sulphur Springs -in Virginia, and thence to the Carolinas and the beautiful scenery of Georgia. Harry Price saw at once the advantages of this offer, to him a 1    THE THREE APPRENTICES.         187 tyro in travel, by a gentleman so well known and respected in the South, and so instructive as a companion. He was impatient to start at once, but the well-pleased clergyman cautioned him to be more deliberate, and not act upon "mere impulse. Harry replied that he was now his own master :  he had no friends to consult, and his affairs would not require his presence at home for several months. It was finally arranged, that after devoting two or three days in showing him the scenery and sights in and around Boston, Harry should pack his trunk and set out with Mr. Davis upon his tour. CHAPTER XXTII. The Wounded Man--The Breakfast at Godwin's-Reappearance of John Hard-The public feeling against Nathan-Giles is down upon the Newspapers. A WEEK had passed since Edwin had received his wound. It had been dressed and set by Dr. Lewis, at the hospital, from which he was immediately afterwards transferred to the dwelling of Giles Godwin. The young man was now so far restored that he was able to ride out. 'The day is damp: you will not venture out, I supposes Edwin,' said Mr. Godwin, one morning at the breakfast table. 'O dear me, suz, no; I hope not, brother dear 1' exclaimed the very short corpulent lady who presided at the silver urn, from which ever and anon she dispensed the   188       EASY NAT; OR, fragrant beverage to her brother, twin-sister, and Mr. Fairbanks, who composed the whole company present. ' Gracious sake! it's so damp!' exclaimed the fat twin, rolling up her eyes like two moons. 'Still I must go out,' said Edwin ;'I promised Nathan I would visit him to-day.' ' But you stop so long there, and those dreadful cells are so damp!' said the sister at the urn., 'Dreadful damp, poor dear!' sighed the twin, who was not only a duplicate, but an echo, of the other. 'I wonder, for my part, that Nathan Mudge don't catch his death, there!' said the sister, who by virtue of having entered this sublunary sphere ten minutes in ad- vance of ' Betsey,' regarded herself as the elder. I wonder he don't catch his death!' echoed the duplicate. ' We ought not to complain, sisters dear,' said Giles, passing his cup. ' The sheriff has permitted us to make the poor lad's cell as comfortable as the circumstances will admit of. Still, Edwin, you Aought not to pass so much time there until your arm is fully restored,? 'It is about well, sir,' said Edwin, raising the wounded limb from the sling in which it rested, with some difficulty. ' Not yet, you see,' said Giles,' and you must let me go in your stead, to see Nathan to-day. Sally, have you any little nicety to send to him?' 'He positively refuses any nourishment beyond the coarse prison fare,' interposed Edwin. ' He is as penitent and self-abused,' added Giles, 'as if really guilty of the terrible crime of which he has been so unjustly convicted. I really think that the vehement reproaches which Nathan is continually uttering against   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         189 himself, have confirmed the impression which people have that the verdict was just. It was probably some such outhurst of self-condemnation, in general terms, that gave rise to the report in the Times, yesterday, that he had made a 'confession.' i Oh, them penny papers! ' exclaimed sister Sallie. 'I think as much I' said the twin, stopping her cup on its way to her little mouth, to echo in time. ' I must caution Nathan,' said Edwin. 'But his re- morse for his misconduct is morbidly acute. So far from repining against his impending fate, he constantly declares that he deserves his doom.'  ' Alas, poor lad! Is there no way to save him, dear Giles?' 'Is there no way left to save him, brother?' 'The Saviour he most needs,e replied Giles, evading his sister's inquiry, ' both for his eternal peace and his present consolation, is Jesus Christ, the great propitiator for the sins of all who will repent and believe.' ' Amen,' said both the ladies, devoutly. 'Susan took a few religious books with her when she went with me, yesterday,' said Edwin, ' but her brother told her that of all the books in the world, he wanted only O1e,- and that was his mother's Bible.' The servant came in just then--a black girl-the two old ladies were warm friends of the colored race. ' I didn't ring,- Rosy,' said the elder sister at the urn, checking her. 'No ma'am, I knows yer didn't,' said Rosy, exposing a mouthful of white teeth; 'but here's the milkman with his bill. The quarter's up, sare.' 'Ask him to come in,' said Giles, taking out a much   190       EASY NAT; OR, worn and very capacious pocket-book, as he turned from the table. 'Jerooshy! All a-eatinl' said the milkman, as he stuck a head, covered with cowlicks, into the doorway. 'I've took a bad time, Squire?' 'Oh no; come in,' replied Gliles, 'come in. So the quarter's up? Well, you sell good milk, and it's a plea- sure to pay your bill.' '.Well, I wouldn't ask you for 't, Squire, the very day it's due, you know, but I'm of age to-day.' 'Are you, indeed?' said the old man, with a pleasant smile upon his benevolent face. 'Then we must make you a present, I suppose,' and suiting the action to the word, he presented a gold piece to the man, whom our readers have already recognized as John Hard. 'No, I thank ye,' replied John ; 'it's my turn to treat to-day. I have given our customers a quart extra, all round, this morning.' 'I declare, you're a generous fellowl' said Giles, 'and- I beg you will accept this remembrance.' With these words, he placed the money in Mr. Hard's huge red right hand. ' Jerooshy! what kind o' money is it any how?' inquired John, and eyeing the coin with some curiosity. 'It is a sovereign,' replied Giles. ' Pesky nation 1- Take it back. I never owned a so- vereign before I was free, and I swow to gracious I'm sure I wont now,' said the patriotic Mr. Hard, who prided himself somewhat upon his indomitable republicanism. 'I see you are a true democrat, Mr. Hard,' said Giles smiling.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        191 'To the back-bone,' rejoined John, proudly. 'I don't see why them monarchal things (pointing to the sove- reign which he had laid upon the table) are allowed to circulate in this republic. What head's that on the coin, sir?' 'The head of George Third,' replied Mr. Godwin, re- placing the gold piece in his pocket. 'Do- tell!' exclaimed Mr. Hard, 'I should like to see it again!' Giles handed the coin to him once more, and after scanning it for a moment, John broke out in an apostro- phe to the face': ' Oh, ye old lunatic I Ain't ye ashamed of ye-self?' and then called George Third seriously to account for his tyranny toward the Colonies ; and ended with the exclamation, 'Hadn't ye better try the Stamp Act low, old feller!' 'Gently, gently!' said Edwin, whom he had not before noticed. ' Hello V' cried John Hard, looking at him inquiringly from head to foot; ' Mister, I don't know who -ye air, but ye look pooty much like-say, what's the matter ye'r arm?' 'It has been broken by a pistol shot,' replied Mr. Fair- banks. 'Pesky nation I Ye don't say? I thought so. I guess yer the very man I see shot in the auction-room. I never see yer before nor since. When that miserable rap- scallion fired on ye, I chased him out of the auctioii-room, and--' 'I remember you, my dear sir 1' exclaimed Edwin, ris- ing hastily, and extending to John Hard his unhurt hand.    192       EASY  NAT; OR, 'Where is he? Where's Braxton? Did he escape?- Answer, for heaven's sake I answer quickly I' 'Jerooshy! how fast ye talk I' said John. 'Sit down, sit down, my dear sir I' cried Edwin, pulling him into a seat; 'and tell me all ye know about that man.' Mr. Hard then narrated his adventures upon the occa- sion in question, to his small. but excited audience, and when he had concluded, was prevailed upon to eat some breakfast. We say, 'some breakfast,' but the fact was John cleared off everything before him ; for rising at two in the morning, and working ever since, had increased an appetite, never small under any circumstances, to an enor- mousness that made the colored Rose utter sundry excla- mations in an under tone, about 'small momt/fulls,' and express an opinion that ' there would be a great sight of that toast left!' To Giles and his sisters, it was a pleasure to see him eat. Before he had finished his meal, Rose took the liberty to remark to the cook, in the kitchen, that that man in there 'must be hollow way down to his knees.' At the conclusion of the repast, Edwin took John Hard into his own room, for a little private conversation, while Giles Godwin, who always had family worship befor'e the morning meal (regarding it as but- reasonable service for the creature to begin the day with adoration of the Crea- tor), received from the hands of Rose, as usual after break- fast, the Daily Advertiser, well aired, and adjusting his spectacles, commenced the perusal of its well printed and very solid columns. The sisters had gone up stairs to the chamber of Mrs. Mudge, their niece, and no one was in the room with the   THE THREE APPRE NT ICES.       193 old gentleman except Rose, who was clearing away the dishes, when suddenly he exclaimed involuntarily, as some- thing met his eye that gave him pain. 'Tut, tut, tut! It is too bad, too bad!' Rose was startled, and rolled around towards her old master the whites of her eyes ; thinking that he alluded to a clash of the china, with a fear of breakage, in which domestic art she thoroughly excelled. ' Not break, massa; never fear I - ot break,' said she, and bore away triumphantly a large waiter laden with the fragile ware, to the kitchen. ' Too bad, too bad 1' repeated Giles, mournfully, with- out noticing the girl's remark, and laying down the news- paper, wiped his spectacles thoughtfully with his silk hand- kerchief, and replaced them ill their venerable iron case. Hle had been reading a communication bearing the well- known initials, and impress, of a highly-respectable and influential occasional contributor. The weight of its opi- nions and arguments, increased by the approved wisdom of the writer, all bore with ponderous force upon the con- victed incendiary, Nathan Mudge. The venerable author of it-one of Boston's merchant princes-had, some days before, replied calmly but cogently, to some objections which had been raisedl by another writer in the same journal, to the justice of convicting a man of a capital crime mainly upon presumptive proof, 'as in the recent trial of Mudge.' The first correspondent had answered the re- ply, and the merchant, in his rejoinder (just read by Giles) had been unwittingly betrayed by his warmth in argu- ment, notwithstanding he was a kind-hearted maln, into a certain sort of zeal, to corroborate. the testimony, and 9   '194       EASY NAT; OR, prove more irrefragibly if possibly, the entire certainty of Nathan's guilt. So many cases of incendiarism had been committed with impunity of late, and so many guilty of other heinous crimes, had escaped through the meshes of the law, under the plea of insanity, or by the ingenuity or eloquence of counsel dess scrupulous than Mr. Fairbanks) that the public was hungry for a capital conviction. Giles knew that this was the case, and that the writer's earnest expostulation against 'a mawkish, sympathy for capital offenders,' would meet with a full response in the public sentiment. He was leaving the room dejectedly, when suddenly reminded that he had left the newspaper lying upon the table, he retraced his steps, seized the journal, folded it up and stowed it away carefully in one of his capacious skirt pockets. ' Here comes poor Susan,' said he to himself: 'I would not have her see 'it for the world!' 'Is the morning paper here, sir?' said Susan, glancing first upon the table, and then into the chairs. 'The-the-the Times;' stammered Giles, internally quite flurried, 'the lTimes may be in the parlor, my dear!. 'The Advertiser would do,' said Susan, 'I almost fear to look into some of the papers now,' and she shuddered as her mind reverted to the erroneous announcement in one of them that her brother had confessed to the awful crime of which he had been convicted. 'Our poor afflicted patient is sufficiently restored to listen,' she added, ' and I thought that to read a few items of the daily news would divert her mind from her profound melancholy.' 'No, no, no P' cried Giles, with an impetuosity quite extraordinary in him, 'don't read any newspapers to my   THE THREE APPRENTICES.       ,  195 daughter, and don't read them yourself. I declare,' he added sotto voce, ' I'm half disposed to wish that there never was a newspaper published, although I am a printer that say it ' 'I trust I have not given any offence, dear sir]' said Susan, with mingled surprise and anxiety, laying her hand affectionately upon his shoulder and looking down upon his face, for she was taller than he. ' Offence?I replied the old man, in the sweet tone of voice peculiar to him ; 'offence, dear Susan? Did you ever offend me? No, no, my good girl, you are as incapa- ble of it, as I am of being offended with you. Are you not a daughter to me? Yes, doubly so. For Edwin is my adopted son, and you are to be his wife!' Susan's wan countenance was betrayed into a momen- tary color, but it fled like a flash again, and left her paler than before. 'It is impossible ' she barely articulated. It escaped Giles' ear, and she was content that it should, for the theme which, with a brighter complexion to her brother's affairs, might have been a pleasant one, was now painful to her. 'Eschew the newspapers, my dear girl, for a twelve- month, at least,' said Giles, 'and keep them out of my poor dear Kate's way. They must, as a matter of course, contain occasional allusions to our unhappy matter--I mean Nathan's-and we don't want to see them.' 'I see, dear sir, the wisdom of your suggestion, and will comply implicitly with your wish in respect to it,' said Susan, gratefully.  'That's a good girl,' said Giles, putting on a spencer   196       EASY  NAT; OR, overcoat, and his broad-brimmed, well-worn hat, and bid- ding her good-bye, ' and I will take care that no more come into the house.' He alluded to the newspapers he was in the custom of paying for, and he forthwith went and gave directions to have them left by the carrier at his office. CHAPTER XXIV. Love's Sacrifice-Susan proposes to relinquish her 'Attorney, and drop the suit-The Protest-An eminent Thief-Taker is intro- duced-Strange' Incident. 'YES, it is impossible ' said Susan firmly, yet sadly, as upon the departure of Mr. Godwin, her mind reverted to his remark upon Edwin Fairbanks' intention of marrying her. She stood in an alcove window of the room in which she had been conversing with Giles, but saw none of the objects in the street, not even the tall figure of John Hard, as he sprang with more than his wonted agility into his cart, and drove away. Her eyes were fixed upon vacancy. 'I will not disgrace him. His prospects are bright, and in his new profession the path to fame and elevated station invites his footsteps. He will have ample facilities for contracting a splendid alliance.' The tears came like crystals into her-beautiful eyes, and broke into gems upon their long lashes. 'Why should I weep? I ought rather to rejoice for his sake. Why should I wish him to cloud his bright career by marrying the sister of -- no, Nathan, my dear, dear brother, I will not apply   THE THR E E APPRENTICES.       197 that hateful, dreadful word to you! But Edwin, dearest,' said she, with deep emotion, 'sincerely as I love you, I must resign you to another l' ' No, Susan, no,' said one who had approached her unob- served, and overheard the exclamation which had involun- tarily escaped her; 'you shall not resign me, nor will I ever suffer you to retract the vows you once solemnly plighted 1' 'Edwin here!' said Susan, blushing deeply, but extend- ing her hand. He imprinted a kiss upon it, and with gentle rudeness compelling her to be seated, addressed her in accents of the purest and most devoted affection. ' I can divine all that has been passing in your mind for the last five minutes, Susan,' said he, 'and appreciate the high-minded impulse which has nevertheless led you to an erroneous conclusion. Susan, you over-rate me-and my prospects, and unjustly depreciate yourself! I am only a young attorney, with neither property, nor fame, nor friends to recommend me. You know that my beginnings were of the most humble character.' - 'You speak of the past, Edwin,' replied Susan, 'but how different the glowing future opening before you!' 'Fair as it promises, it would be devoid of every ray of light without yoz to share my successesl' exclaimed the young man with fervor. Susan AMudge,hierself, could not have denied that Edwin Fairbanks was a fine-looking fellow at that moment! The unmistakable impress of Nature's nobility was stamped upon his fair expanse of brow, his firm, well-chiselled mouth, his broad manly chin, and classic throat; and shown in the deep, deep sea of his large, quiet, expressive eye, eloquent of interior purity 'i   198      .EASY  NAT; OR, and sterling worth. He was a man to love; ' not for a day, but for all time,' and Susan was justly proud of him. Never before, however, had he appeared to her so abso- lutely superior to all created beings, and indispensable to her existence, as now, with her hand pressed in his own, and his beaming eyes fixed tenderly upon her, he reiterated " the assurance of his unalterable affection for her. ' Oh, how sweet, how precious above all price, can those little, easy human utterances, called words, sometimes appear!' Susan did not say so, but the thought vibrated in her heart a strain of melody. Then, like the cloud which sud- denly overcasts the summer sky, shades the fair landscape, and hushes into silence every little bird, enlivening, with his cheerful notes, the wood and field, came again her self-sacrificing resolve. ' No, Edwin,' she said sadly, but with firmness (though it cost her an internal struggle, not the less intensely pain- ful because momentary), ' you are generous to a fault-a fault, because you are ready chivalrously to sacrifice your best earthly interests for me--but I will not take advan- tage of it. Go ; you -are free: I absolve you from all fancied obligations to me, and you must seek another more fortunate, and better fitted to advance and share your prosperity.' 'Susan I' replied Edwin, reproachfully, ' can you think so meanly of me?' ' I can never believe you capable of any sentiments but those most high-minded and honorable,' replied Susan, 'nor can I consent to entertain any less worthy in my own bosom. It is this that compels me to refuse to pur- chase my own happiness to your injury.'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         199 - ' If you love me, Susan, say no more of this I Aban- don this unnatural resolve!' :No, Edwin, whatever be the sacrifice, I must-adhere to it, for-for your own permanent happiness demands it!' 'You have ceased to love me I  Your long-continued anguish of heart for the misfortunes of your brother, and the violence done to your love for him, has destroyed an affection of more recent growth, and the seeming sacrifice you now propose may be only the result of your indiffe- rence,' said her lover. 'Oh, what injustice you do me, Edwin!' said Susan, vehemently.  'But you cannot think so. You know well (alas! too welD, I love you as fondly as ever one human being loved another 1'  The fair girl colored deeply as she arrested her earnest eyes seconding her impassioned asseve- ration, and veiled them beneath their silken lashes. For- tunately for perfect etiquette-the lovers sat near the win- dow, or Edwin would certainly have saluted the ruby lips which had uttered, with such evident sincerity, a sentence so satisfactory. Just then, the door-bell rang; and in a few moments Rose came in, and announced Mr. Clapp at the street door. ' Shew him into the parlor,' said Edwin.     - 'Yessar,' answered the black diamond, and with a big smile beaming all over her, disappeared. 'It is the officer of police whom we have had for some days on the track of Thomas Braxton,' said Fairbanks. ' God grant that he brings you information of the ar- rest of that fiend I' exclaimed; Susan eagerly, as she arose from her seat,   200       EASY N AT ;    OR, 'I pray so too, with all my heart!' cried the young attorney, earnestly. 'You will not condemn me, Edwin, if I should be an eavesdropper? I shall be in an agony of suspense until I hear the-res alt of the policeman's efforts!' 'Dear Susan, I sympathize with your anxiety, but you shall know all in a few minutes,' replied Edwin, and left the room. Without wearying the reader with a detail of Edwin Fairbanks' interview with the famous thief-taker, we will only state, that the officer communicated the intelligence that, though he had thoroughly searched all the haunts of the low and lawless in Boston, and had discovered traces of Braxton in and around the ' Black Sea, he had not succeeded in finding the villain ; nor could he obtain any intelligence of him from police correspondents and agents in New York and the principal cities throughout the United States. 'You will still persevere in the search, I trust?' said Edwin to the officer. 'No, sir, except incidentally, as my multifarious com- missions may make it convenient. I have to-day a call to Canada, and now ought to be on my way,' replied Mr. Clapp, moving towards the door. 'My dear sir, you must not abandon the business at this crisis!' said Edwin, earnestly. 'If money can com- pensate you for your trouble, I am authorized by Mr. God- win to allow you a thousand dollars for your personal expenses in New York and the principal cities to the South, including New Orleans. 'Other engagements will not admit of it, sir,' replied   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        201 the officer ; ' and to be candid with you, I think Braxton has probably shipped on a long cruise.' ' Nathan Mudge is to be sentenced this day -week. It is easy to foresee what that sentence will be, unless we avert it by the arrest of the real criminal in the meantime. Sir, you must not relinquish your labors in our behalf!' 'I am compelled to do so, sir; and even now ought to be on my way to Vermont;' said the Fouche, looking at his watch. ' The life of an innocent man depends upon the continued prosecution of the search; do I understand that you, sir, abandon it as impracticable?' ' Yes sir,' replied the officer, decidedly, for he was in a great hurry to be gone. ' Who, then, shall we find to prosecute this long-con- tinued and almost hopeless inquiry?' exclaimed Edwin, despairingly. ' Me!' exclaimed a strange voice. 'I will hunt him to the corners of the earth. The earth shall not hide him, though he burrow in it I The sea itself shall not bear him beyond the reach of my avenging hand! The world has not hiding-places enough to conceal him from me I Art has no disguise so impenetrable, but I will tear its mask from the fiend's face.' This was said in a- low, earnest, yet wild way, by one who, with her hand upon his arm, fixed her black eyes, gleaming with latent insanity, upon his astonished coun- tenance. It was poor K1te, the wife of the. convicted incendiary. Her hair, black as the raven's wing, extended to her snow-white morning-dress, and covered her shoul- ders. There were no shoes upon her feet. She had 9*   202       EAS Y NAT ; OR, escaped the vigilance of Betsey Godwin, her aunt, in the absence of Susan, and not fully restored to reason, descend- ed to the hall during the interview of Mr. Fairbanks with the officer. Pausing at the parlor door, which stood ajar, she had overheard a portion of the conversation, and entered the room unobserved. Both the gentlemen were a little startled by the apparition, but perceiving in a mo- ment, with his usual acuteness, an explanation of it in her glittering eyes, the constable silently withdrew from the room, and left the house ; not without a pang of pity for the afflicted family. Hearing him depart, Susan entered the parlor quickly, quite anxious to learn the substance of his communication. Of course, she was greatly sur- prised and'shocked, to see her patient there, and resisting Edwin's efforts to induce her to return to her room, Susan united her solicitations to her lover's. 'If I could take some other form, or follow him invisi- bly,' said Kate, thoughtfully, still brooding upon the pur- suit of the fugitive, and not heeding the others. 'That is true,' said Edwin, humoring her aberration. 'Come, let us go to your room, where, with Susan, we may fix upon a plan.' ' A plan?' cried Kate ; ' I have a thousand I My brain, my poor aching brain, is full of them. Come, and I will tell you twenty V With this, Kate led the way rapidly to her own cham- ber, where they found the corpulent Betsey asleep over a good book.   THE THREE APPRENTICES,        203 CH A PTER XXV. THE SENTENCE. ANOTHER week passed, and the day arrived upon which Nathan Mudge was to receive his sentence. The excite- ment, daily catered to by the newsmongers, had been unexpectedly augmented, within a day or two, by the burning of a barn in Charlestown, by an unknown incen- diary, who had first tried, by anonymous threatenings, to extort money from the owner, a timid old man, who (the scoundrel probably hoped) would be glad to save his pro- perty by a donation. Like a man of sense, the owner refused to buy the proffered immunity, and his building was burnt. As soon as a person submits to be plundered by any one, male or female,.in order to save either pro- perty or reputation, that moment he becomes the veriest slave in the world. Meet such exactions always at the beginning with a blunt refusal, and never yield a hair's- breadth to them: if you do, your life will be rendered miserable. Again there arose many voices, loud and fierce, for the summary punislment of incendiaries. It was a most un- fortunate thing for .Nathan, and when, in merely passing from the jail-office door to the carriage which was to con- vey him once more to that abhorred court-room, he saw. a crowd of human beings, whom he felt he could have hugged with affection to his heart, eyeing him with looks of indignation and scorn, he felt as if it would have been a mercy to have had the earth open and swallow him. He had borne, through years of degraded dissipation, with   20-1       EASY NAT; OR, the contempt and pride-galling pity of the world and taken many buffets without complaint, but to be hat :l by his fellow-beings, wounded him far more deeply than any- thing else. His heart, notwithstandinig all its sin, over- flowed with the milk of human kindness, and he would not have injured a dog to save himself from hanging. Edwin accompanied him, in the carriage, with the offi- cer, and endeavored to divert the profound despondency into which he fell as soon as he was seated in the vehicle. ' Kate, I think, is much better this morning,' said he to Nathan. ' We did not think it prudent to grant her re- quest for an interview with you, lest the excitement should cause a relapse; but she has appeared quite rational for two days past, and has recovered her strength wonderfully.' ' Shall I see her?' cried Nathan, with emotion, and lifted his hand to take her miniature from his bosom, that he might again gaze upon the counterfeit resemblance of his wife. His handcuffs arrested the motion, and with a sigh, his head sunk upon his breast. 'We did not regard it advisable that she should be present, in court, to-day,' said Edwin, sympathizing sin- cerely with his friend. ' No, no,' replied Nat, 'I am a poor, broken-down, dis- pirited wretch, at the best, and could not control my feel- ings, if she were here: but let me see her, if possible, immediately upon my return to my cell to-day'  ' I will endeavor to arrange it so,' said Edwin. ' She speaks of you,- in the most endearing terms, a thousand times a day.' The felon's heart rose to his throat, his under lip quivered, and his eyes, red with penitential weeping   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         205 through the long, lone nights in his solitary cell, again filled with tears. 'Do these streets look familiar to you, Nathan?' said Edwin, with a view to glide to a less painful topic. 'Oh, yes, indeed 1' replied Nat, swallowing his recent emotion, and speaking with more vivacity. ' I have play. ed in them a thousand times. They have rung with my laughter. There, where you see that block of houses, there used to be a small pond ; in winter great for skating, and in summer, prime for sailing our little vessels or floating on a board. - What good times we used to have I In that house-the old wooden one with the gambrel roof- Charley Fennell used to live. He was a clever feller! He and I used to play together before we got into jacket and trousers. Yonder, where that row is, used to be a pasture. What bat-and-ball I've had on that spot! Down there is Hawkins-street school. I used to go to Derne-street. Bowdoin-street, here, on the right, was first rate for coasting, but Htancock-strect was better. I had a sled that-well it would beat anything you ever saw t That tremendous big brick building' tis a private residence called the-Kirk Boott,7 continued he, pointing to a stately mansion, since converted into the "Revere"House. 'My mother-' Nathan paused, his vivacity vanished, and he relapsed into sadness. In a few minutes after he ceased in his reminiscences of childhood, the carriage arrived at the court-house, and amid another jam of expectant people, watching sullenly for his appearance, he was assisted from the vehicle by the officer and:-Edwin, and conducted into the court-room. A groan of hatred and derision followed him.   206       EASY NAT; OR, ' Pesky nation!' cried a well-known voice in the crowd, 'ye may groan yer throats out as holler as a barrel, but it won't make that poor feller guilty 1' A contemptuous laugh succeeded. John Hard (it was his-honest face that appeared above the rest) made no rejoinder, but contented himself with treading on the feet of some of them, as, brushing his way through, in spite of impediment, he en- tered the court-house. The scene within was a repetition of the one before ren- dered in our narrative of the trial-the same densely-pack- ed galleries and lobbies ; the same venerable men upon the bench; the same large, portly, handsome sheriff in the blue coat and buff vest ; the same tall, snuff-colored con- stable and officers; the same row of newspaper reporters. The prisoner's wife, the cynosure of all the eyes on the former occasion, was not present. That was a relief to Nathan. His sister Sue, and Giles Godwin, sat nearer to him than then, and Edwin Fairbanks was with the other counsel at a little table within the bar, between the dock and the bench. After some legal discussion (in which Edwin did his best for the prisoner) and certain prelimi- naries common to all such occasions, the chief justice called upon Nathan to rise, and say why sentence should not be pronounced against him. Nathan arose, and for the first time stood erect, and calmly confronted the bench, the bar and the people. A solemn silence reigned throughout the room. 'God, who knoweth all hearts, and the words of the mouth before we utter them, bear me witness that I speak the truth,' said he, in a firm, manly voice, that thrilled every heart. 'I am innocent of the abhorred crime of which I have been convicted. I had no hand in the burn-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         207 ing of Giles Godwin's house. I had no cause of offence against that good old man, and never entertained any. Why should I? What was laid so much stress upon in my trial-I mean a fancied sense of injury felt by me because Mr. Godwin discarded his daughter upon her unhappy marriage with me, and denied me his house-was utterly unfounded. I never cherished resentment against any human being in my life-no, not for an hour-much less against my kind old master. With all my dissipation, I have many sins to answer for, but not -that! True, I was present at the fatal fire. [Here the reporters noted down that there was great excitement in the court-room.] True, I had accompanied Tom Braxton to the spot, and held the lantern, as was sworn by one of the witnesses. Probably, too, I was the man whom the watchman testifies he discovered flying from the scene. But let me tell you, sir, and all of the gentlemen, how it was.' 'Order, there in the gallery 1' cried an officer to a sea of faces rocking and murmuring like the ocean. Nat then related, in his own simple, straight-forward way, all the incidents of the night in question, and how he had only accompanied Tom to the house to obtain his child, and what his horror and indignation had been upon discovering that Braxton had intentionally fired the house. In short, he related all that he knew of the circumstances; but, alas! to incredulous ears. The chief justice briefly recapitulated the damning proof against him-far too weighty to be overborne by a  cun- ning tale-and proceeded solemnly to review his mis-spent life, and appeal to his feelings for a true repentance of his misdeeds, especially this last dreadful one (the legitimate   208       E EASY NAT; OR, result of the others), which had led to the destruction of two innocent persons, a mother and child, by, the most horrible of deaths, and had now forfeited his own and con signed him to an ignominous end. 'I now sentence you Nathan Mudge,' said the chief justice, in conclusion, 'tc be removed hence to the jail in Leveret-street; there to be kept securely until the 6th day of December next, upon which day, between the hours of 10 o'clock, A. M., and 1 P. M., you shall be hung by the neck until you are dead. And may the Lord, in his infinite grace, have mercy on your soul!' 'Amenl' gasped Easy Nat; his distended eyes fixed upon the chief justice, his mouth partly open, and his whole face and figure like one petrified by what he had heard. Immediately the wretched man. was surrounded by weeping friends. Ah! how keen may be the anguish of the human breast! and how those hearts bled for him! But he saw them not. He was like one entranced ; and there he stood, with straining eyeballs still fixed upon the place where, a few minutes since, those terrible words had been pronounced against him--him! The judges, inwardly contending with emotions of pity, had left the bench, and, with a furtive glance at the prisoner, were passing out of the court-room, when Nathan was suddenly aroused to consciousness by the rude talons of the tall, snuff-colored functionary, to whom we have more than once alluded. 'Hold your hands here,' said the officer, bluntly, and adding, as if it were only a piece of business information, while he enclosed his wrists in the humiliating irons, 'You are to be hung the first week in December.'   THE THREE APPRENTICES. E         209 CHAPTER XXVI. Mysterious Disappearance of Kate-The Letter-D'Orsay at Home -His Store in, Broadway-The Burglary--Braxton again at his old tricks---Kate in New York. WHEN Giles Godwin handed Susan from his carriage upon their return home from the scene in the court-room, faintly described in the previous chapter, she wag so deadly pale that he feared she would fall, helpless, upon the door- steps. At the portal, they were received by the two Misses Godwin, his fair, round sisters, with the exclama- tion, 'Where's Kate?  'Oh, yes, where is Kate I will she return with Edwin?' ' We have not seen Kate,' replied Susan, recovering her strength. 'What do you mean?' 'She has not left the house, surely?' said the old man, stepping in with his fair cliarge, and followed by the twins. 'Oh, goodness-graciousness' sake!' cried the sisters wringing their hands, in much excitement.   'What can have become of the poor creature? ' Isn't she in her room?' inquired her father w-ith ill- concealed anxiety. 'Oh, no, no! dear brother,' said the two ladies'weep- ing. ' When we went to her room it was locked, and no key in the door. This was shortly after you left, this morning. We both called to her through the key-hole until we were hoarse, and stooping down had almost deprived us of the use of our limbs.'                       .   210       EASY NAT; OR, 'Never mind your limbs,' said Giles. 'Didn't Kate answer you?' 'No, brother Giles; not a syllable. Then we got Rose to holler to her until she was black in the face, poor girl!' 'And still no answer?' ' Not a word, brother,? replied one. ' Oh dear, not a word!' echoed the other. 'It's very strange I ejaculated the distressed father. 'I have a duplicate key,' cried Susan (equally amazed and anxious) and ran out of the room. In a few moments they all met at the door of Kate's clamber. Upon entering, they found it deserted. On the table lay a sealed note, addressed to her father. Giles opened it hurriedly, and with a tremulous hand. He feared the worst. 'Dear-me, where are my glasses?' said he, fumbling in the usual pocket for his spectacles. 'Use mine, dear,' said Betsey, handing him hers. ' No,' said Giles ; 'here, Susan, will you read it?' Susan took the note eagerly, and read as follows :- ' My dear, dear, father! And you, Susan and Edwin, and my kind Aunts  'Do not be alarmed on account of my abrupt departure in, your absence. I am restored to health, and am entirely able to take care of myself. I have something to do of vital importance to my dear husband's safety and my own happiness, always inseparable from his. I go to execute the high behests of duty. God will shield me: God will prosper me. My poor shattered brain has been Warnder-   THE THREE APPRENTIC ES.        2" ing in time past, but now, nerved by a sublime resolve, it is entirely rational. I shall be absent, dear father, three or four weeks, perhaps, but will write to you. Susan, I have taken my money out of the drawer, and left in its place a letter to my poor Nat. Please deliver it with your own hands, and kiss him for -me. It is wet with my tears, but he will love it all the better for that. May God bless you, my dear father and friends, for your kindness to                KATE. Farewell!' The note dropped from the hands of Susan, and she looked in mute surprise at the old man. Giles was deeply moved, for Kate was his only child, and, like Jeptha of old, he loved her ' passing well.' - Still, the letter had relieved his mind of a certain dark and fearful forebo6ding which fell like a portentous shadow upon it when the disappear- ance of his daughter was first announced to him ; and he thanked God it was no worse.- He had whispered the thought to no one, but Kate had so often uttered a wish to be dead, that he was for a moment terrified with the idea of self-destruction. ' My poor, dear brother,' cried one of the sisters, laying her hand upon his arm, while the tears made a break over her fat cheeks, 'your sorrows are greater than you can bear!' 'Yes, indeed, I am sure they are, poor creature l' added the twin, equally tearful, and taking him by the button. 'Bee merciful unto me, O God,' murmured Giles, in a low, earnest, reverential tone, repeating the words of king David, when in dire distress, ' be wercifu21 nto me: for my   212       EASY NAT; OR, soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of 1thy wings Will 1 make my refuge, until these calamities be ove rpast.' Susan was of a true devotional spirit, and the words uttered by the patient old man, though she. had read them a thousand times, never before appeared so precious. Ah! the consolations of the Bible! How priceless they are, and how ineffably poor and barren are all others, in com- parison. Throughout the sore trials of this afflicted family, their religious faith in the overruling and all-wise Provi- dence of that Infinite Being who tempereth the wind to the shorn lamb, and without whose knowledge a sparrow cannot fall to the ground, had (with the exception of Kate, who, unfortunately, was careless of the things which most concerned her eternal peace) sustained them in an unfal- tering trust in Him who doeth all things well, notwitl- standing thatto the finite mind of short-sighted mortals his actions are inscrutable. And though heavier sorrows were to succeed, and they were destined to see the wretched Nathan dragged to the ignominious scaffold, and him, who had long made one in their midst, yield up his miserable existence by the exaction of the law, their faith in God's goodness never wavered. It was-a sublime trust in the beneficence and wisdom of the great Disposer of human events; and though at times the tears would have their way, and the torn heart would bleed, the bitter- ness of their anguish never failed to pass away before the sweet words of Holy Writ and confiding prayer. In short, they implicitly believed that 'all things work together for good to- those that love God.' ' What will you do, brother V inquired one of the sisters. The twin made an effort to say-something to thCe samne   THEE T H REE  'APPRENTICES.       213 effect, but either from emotion, or out of breath from the difficult exertion of stooping to pick up the letter that had dropped from the hands of Susan, she was speechless. 'We will consult Edwin,' said Mr. Godwin, as he led the way out of Kate's deserted room, and was followed by the sisters and Susan. ' He went with Nathan, but will probably soon return.' And now, gentle reader, let us not follow them, but look a little into the causes and object of the departure of the wife of the man under sentence of death. D'Orsay's licentious designs, at which we hinted in our description of him upon his sleepless bed at the Tremont House, were rendered abortive by the sickness of Kate and her seclusion beneath the roof of her father. With the abandonment of his unholy purpose, there came into his little heart, and craving a place there, a feeling of pity for the poor woman. He returned to New York and re- sumed the charge of his increasing business, but its cares did not entirely absorb the interest he felt in her case. One night, a day or two after his return, D'Orsay sat at his book-keeper's desk in an elegant tailoring establish- ment in Broadway. It was late, and he had suffered all his men, and even the boy, to retire some hours before- saying that he had some letters to write, and would him- self lock up the store and take the keys ; greatly, of course, to the satisfaction of the 'trotter,' a graceless urchin, who wanted to go to the circus, where he occasionally ne- gotiated an engagement to hold the horses, and furnished some of the supernumeraries with the plush off the ends of broad-cloth to fringe their cotton frocks. The superb tailor ran his dainty white fingers through   214       EASY NAT; OR,  his perfumed hair, and glanced thoughtfully over several oblong documents. They were policies of insurance at various offices., He jotted down the amount of each, and footed them. 'Twenty-four thousand five hundred dol- lars' said he, and glanced arouqd at his well-filled shelves. 'It would pay very well,- if it should burn.' He mused for some moments in silence, then walked the length of his store two or three times, scanning the stock. 'I could replace, in a better store, the old goods with new styles, of my own importation. But it might be found out I No, no,' he added, going to his iron safe, and replacing the policies in their pigeon-hole, 'Honesty is the best policy.' He looked happier for the suggestion, meretricious as it was, as he took an ivory-backed hair-brush from his drawer, and adjusted his glossy hair. As he did so, his thoughts reverted to Kate. 'If I should import,' said he, 'I would not trust anybody to select for me, but would go myself. I flatter myself that my taste would take the town. Nobody, in our line, has done it yet, and an 'importing tailor' would prove a card with the beam monde. Yes, I must go to London and Paris. At Bos- ton I may have an opportunity to do a real service to that interesting woman, Mrs. Mudge. It may be well for me to write to her father, that though I cannot stop to testify, on account of urgent business (ahemD calling me immediately to England, I will make a written deposition of the facts within my knowledge. The deposition made before a justice, I can immediately go aboard, and sail for England ; and thus escape the awkwardness of a position on the stand. I will write now.' D'Orsay sat down and penned a letter highly censorious against Braxton, and   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         215 expressing a conviction, amounting to a certainty, of his guilt. He was expressing, on'paper, a wish to see the villain suffer the penalty of his crimes, when suddenly he stopped himself with the words, ' What's that?' The exclamation was elicited by a grating sound at the street door. D'Orsay pricked up his ears and listened. His tympanum, rendered keenly alive ;by fear (for it was past midnight, and. he was a great coward), caught the sound of two voices whispering. The front was closed in, almost hermetically, by the shutters, and he could see nothing on the outside. Instinctively, he turned down the gas in the single burner that was lighted, left the let- . ter unfinished, and walked cautiously to the door. He had locked it upon the departure of his men, and laid the key upon his desk. His knees refused their office, and trembled violently, as he distinctly heard something inserted in the lock from the outside. He had a rosewood sword-cane behind the door, and drawing the blade from the sheath, stood ready, a few moments, to run the intruder through --his love for his property gaining a temporary advantage over his trepidation. But as the pick-lock was inserted again and again, and filed repeatedly before it could be made to turn the bolt, he felt the temporary flush of courage. ooze out at his Ifinger ends, and sunk cowering behind one of the long counters. As he did so, he recol- lected that he had left his safe open, and it contained a considerable sum of money. His first impulse was to run thither, lock it, and secure the key; but his limbs, palsied with fear, declined to serve him in this emergency; and crouching down, with a great pang, and utterly helpless, all his senses seemed to resolve themselves into eyes and ears.   216       EASY NAT ; OR, Presently, the bolt turned in the lock, the door opened, and two men entered. D'Orsay could not distinguish their persons in the dim light, although as they walked to the desk, they almost touched him in passing, but the iden- tity of one of them was put beyond doubt as soon as he turned up the gas. It was Tom Braxton!. 'The letter! the letter V thought D'Orsay, as he saw the whitish gray eye of the burglar glance at the writing which he had left unfinished. 'The safe is open!' said the other robber, a short, heavy, hairy-faced man, who appeared to take the lead. Tom, with more than one blasphemous expletive, continued look- ing at the letter. ' There can't be much of, the lasholag here, or they'd locked it up,' added the other, fumbling about the drawers. 'What have ye got there? a bill of exchange?' 'No, a letter of credit!' replied Tom, and added inter- nally, with a great oath, that he would cut the writer's throat some pleasant night. D'Orsay, at least, so con- strued the glare of his evil eye, as Braxton crushed the paper wrathfully in his hand, and thrust it into his hat. 'Here's nothing but account books and papers!' said the short, burly man, with an air of extreme disaffection. ' Give me the notes of hand,' said Tom, and taking a bunch bearing the interesting autographs of various fashion- able bloods about town, he held them over the gas light until they were consumed. ' For two cents, Jack, I'd set fire to this store ' said he, still holding the burning frag- ments in his hand. ' I wish you would, thought D'Orsay, ' if I were only safely out of it 1'    TH E THREE APPRENTICES.        217  ' He wouldn't care,' said the man called Jack, ' for see his policiesl He's got a thumpin' insurance upon it.' ' Give me the account books, Jack,' said Tom, and draw- ing a bowie-knife, he amused himself maliciously for some minutes with cutting and slashing to pieces D'Orsay's charges against his customers for a year or two back. This was an irreparable loss to the tailor, but he dared not to sigh even, much less to groan. ' He'd have 'em take my life, would he?' muttered the ruffian-' let him look out for his own!' Not finding the money, the robbers then carefully selected a few pieces of the richest silk velvets and a piece of broadcloth, at the imminent risk of stumbling upon the trembling D'Orsay, who escaped them only by-flying through the door, just in time to fill the arms of a watch- man, and unintentionally to prevent him from seizing Braxton and Jack, as they rushed by with their booty. ' You've got the wrong one ' cried the tailor. ' Pursuo those rascals, or they'll escape!' 'A bird in the hand's worth two in the bush,' said the charley, with a strong Irish accent. 'Do you take me for a thief V? exclaimed D'Orsay. 'A thafe? by St. Patrick, nothing shorter I1 said the watchman. 'Feqel the cloth of my coat, sirrah 1' said D'Orsay. 'Try the quality of the cloth in my pantaloons. There, are you satisfied? Do you think a thief would wear cloth as fine as that?' 'I'm no judge,' said the charley, 'P'raps you're a gen'lman, and p'raps you ain't. Howsomdever, it's not mesilf that wud be hypercritical, and if yees 'll be afther 10l   218       FASY NAT; OR, payin' me for my trouble, I'm not the man to endanger my own life, and make Mistress McPhalin a lone widdy by trying to stop yees.' 'Well, here's a dollar,' said D'Orsay, handing him : piece of money, 'but it is only on condition that you fol low those rascals. This is my store, and they have robber me. If you arrest them, come here to-morrow, and I will give you a gold eagle!. 'The agle is the swatest bird of all the grove, yet honorl' exclaimed the guardian of the night. 'I'm afther them in the twinkling of a shillelah 1' and running off, he turned down the by-street, into which the burglars had disappeared, ever and anon striking his bass-wood club upon the curbstone, and making the air resound with its clear metallic ring, and his loud hullaballoo. D'Orsay then went in and locked up his safe, congratu- lating himself that his money had escaped the notice of the thieves, but what a woful sight to him were the thou- sand scraps of paper once composing his day-book and ledger I With a heavy heart he left his store, and, meet- ing with a watchman at the next corner, under the friendly protection of a stoop, engaged him to keep an eye upon his premises till morning. Then he retired' to his bed at Holt's (a fashionable hotel at that time,), resolving that on the morrow he would not delay writing to Kate, or her father, that Tom Braxton was in New York, and that, undoubtedly, he ought to suffer instead of Nathan Mudge, for the firing of Giles Godwin's dwelling. This letter he accordingly wrote ; addressing it to Kate (accounting for doing .so by 'a desire to atone for any offence that he might have given in his younger days ;1) \   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         219 a^dcl the missive was delivered into her own hand by the postman, on the day that her husband received his sen- tence, and during the absence of her friends at court. Despite the agitation which the intelligence from D'Or- say excited in her bosom, she immediately resolved to pro- ceed to New York without delay. 'She had some days before conceived an impression, that as her husband's life depended upon the conviction of Braxton, and the efforts of others to arrest him had not been attended with any success, it was her duty-to undertake the task. An intense hatred for that bold, bad man, and a wild desire to hunt him like a wolf to his lair, to drag him forth and hold him up to the execration of the world, and by his guilt to prove the innocence of her husband, had long occupied- her heart and brain. When this feeling was -strongest upon her, she would denounce him in terms almost savage, as the destroyer of her hus- band, and call upon God to unsex her, that she might her- self follow him with retribution. ' Vengeance is mine, and I will repay, sait/h the Lord,' her father remarked upon one of these occasions, but generally her imprecations were properly attributed to mental aber- ration, and were listened to  in sad  silence. With convalescence came calmer thoughts, but the desire to seek for Braxton, to pursue him through all his devious ways and bring him to justice, remained the one great object of life with her. Gradually she had become firmly fixed in the belief that it was her destiny. The intelligence from D'Orsay not only confirmed her in this monomania, but opened a way for her to put it into practice; and in an hour after the receipt of it she had written to her hus-   220       EASY NAT; OR, band and her father, and prepared' for her sudden departure. She took only a small parcel with her, and going down the stairs cautiously, passed out unobserved Drawing her veil closely over her face, she walked at quick pace to Hanover-street, where she found a hackney coach, which she stepped into and was conveyed in it to the Providence Railroad depot. She was so filled with the one absorbing idea which she had in view, that it shul from her notice the beautiful common-that magnificent fifty acres of undulating emerald, intersected by meander. ing foot-paths, and bordered by spacious malls, overarched by ancient elms and sycamores, where in happier days she had often walked with Nat-and not until the smotking train rumbled over the marsh, and the great dome of the State tiouse stood in bold relief against the sky, the only conspicuous object in the increasing distance, did she arouse to a consciousness that she was leaving all she most valued in the world, far behind her. Still no tear came to soften the unnatural lustre of her eyes, for, such relief had ceased to flow from those burning orbs ; and only a more intense glow within them indicated that she was hot an indifferent observer of those fading views of her native city. "et me reverse your seat, madam-you will ride more pleasantly,' said the conductor, a small-sized, brisk, polite man, as he handed   her a ticket 'unless, indeed, you want to look back.' 'It is better that I should not, thought Kate, but she said only, that 'she would prefer to look forward.' There was more significance in the expression than the conductor dreamt of, but her looks interested him, and he was as   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         221 attentive to her comfort throughout the remainder of the journey, by rail and steamboat, to New York, as was con- sistent with his multifarious duties. One of these, by the way, was the charge of a carpet bag of letters and valuable parcels, some of which he received and delivered at the way-stations, though the larger portion he conveyed.. through to New York. To the politeness of the same worthy official, our lone traveller upon arriving in New York, was indebted for an introduction to lodgings, exactly such as under the circumstances were best suited to her. CHAPTER XXVlI. Introduces the Felon's Wife to the Great Metropolis-How a Stran. ger- ought to take New York--Hunting for a Needle in a Hay Mow. -Two Phases of Life in a Gre at City-Two specimens of Lodging. houses--Kate is guilty of a-great indiscretion-The Ruined Girl- Mrs. Mudge consents to meet D'Orsay. IT was little after day-break when Kate entered the city ; about the only silent hour of the twenty-four, in the great metropolis, where the buzz of one day is protracted until the dawn of the next. The bacchanalians, whose midnight orgies lap into the little hours, had reeled home to their lodgings, with the exception of here and there one of the poorer sort, calmly reposing in his own filth in some stoop or arch-way. Night editors, reporters and printers of morning editions of the news, 'peep o' day boys, watchmen, thieves, and all who walk the streets of the   222    .   $.SY NAT; OR, great city after the midnight men- have retired, had now gone homt, and Broadway was decent and quiet. Strangers in New York ought to begin their experience in it at day-break. Commencing at that hour, anC traversing the business streets at a moderate pace,'the life of the metropolis' will open upon them by slow and legal stages, and, as it rises from the supineness of 5 A M., and by degrees attains to evidence of life at six, actual vitality at seven and eight, positive utility at nine and ten, anima- tion at eleven and twelve, buzz and bustle at one and two, hurry and fuss at three and four, and so on to the excite- ment and jam of evening, and the warm blood and turmoil of the night, they may become gradually used to it-pro- vided they are naturally clear-headed and do not fuddle their brains with drink. At least, this is the only recipe we can give for averting that strange, bewildered feel- ing in the head which many worthy, and even very tempe- rate people have every time they visit New York. And this is not .so unimportant a matter as it may appear to those who think we are merely jesting. ;Begin New York wrong and it is always wrong. It will always appear a motley, incongruous, heterogeneous, noisy, reckless, in- comprehensible, chaotic Babel-full of sights, sounds, hurly-burly, hubbub, and an undistinguishable multitude of beings, charitably supposed to be human. But begin it as Kate did at, or about the dawn of day, and walk or ride through the streets (not so dirty then as now) until the shades of evening descend, and our word for it, you will recognise something human, systematic and-noble in it, and have a clear, comprehensive idea of it ever afterwards. Kate walked a great deal and rode a great deal. The   THE, THREE APPRENTICES.        223 crowds did not confuse her. Early in the day she was impatient at seeing so few. Gorgeous stores, elegant dwellings, public buildings, popular shows, were nothing to her ; faces, faces, human faces, were her sole care; and her eager look flitted from one countenance to another with a rapidity that would not suffer any one of the throng to go unscanned. Thus she passed the day, traversing many portions of the city, incessantly, until night-fall, and never tiring in looking for the hated features of the man whom she had sworn should expiate with his own life his crime against her husband. Faint and exhausted, as the evening donned its dusky veil, and the lively gas-light man lit up Broadway, she retired to her room, compelled to seek some rest. Her latch-key had admitted her, and she entered her solitary room unobservedl ; but her landlady, a buxom English woman, who-let apartments by the week, and had included breakfast and tea in the bargain, heard her footsteps, and with considerate promptness carried to her the evening meal. Kate had not given so much as a single thought to food, and it was not until the good woman entered with the steaming tea and warm dry toast, well-buttered, that she was reminded of the fact that she had not eaten a morsel since the morning. She had dropped into the nearest chair, with a worn and jaded look, and even the bonnet in her hand appeared drooping, in keeping with the half- mourning  weeds it wore. 'Why, dear, Mrs. Midge,' said the rosy round-faced hostess, whose recollection of names was not the most accurate, ('o  hexausted you hare, to be sure I' and she set the waiter, laden with "the tea-things and a lighted '   -    224       EASY NAT; OR, candle upon the table, and looked volumes of comauise ation out of her blue eyes. ' Been a shoppin and a " a glin"' for goods hall day, I daresay I Wisters to New York never 'as hany mercy on theirselves, the first day ( two,' she continued volubly, doing all the talking, as she spread a little red table with a snow-white cloth, an arranged upon it a little earthen teapot, a plate and knife, tea-cup and saucer, a butter dish, and a plate of bread, a elaborately as if she were preparing for the most recherche collation ; ' Where did you get your dinner, dear?' ' I have not wanted any,' replied Kate, rising, and laying aside her shawl and bonnet. 'Fourteen hours, without foodI  Ho dear, child; lei me boil you a Aegg, and. hopen a bottle of hale!  Kate shook her head.  ' No? heggs is height for a shilling, and hale is /only a sixpence. But p'raps you would rather 'ave 'alf-and-'alf, being delicate, hor maybe you favors Lon- don Stout? AMy hown pecooler is double X. Let me bring you a pint! hit will do you good, child!' Kate declined. 'Just with the leastest portion hof water hin the world and a bit hof sugar, for a stirabout!' persisted the land- lady, persuasively. ' No,' said Kate. 'Poor creature!I thought the good woman to herself, 'she thinks I make a charge hof it!' and she immediately disclaimed any such intention ; but Kate, thanking her for her well-meaning hospitality, requested her to leave the tea-things as they were, and when she wanted her she would ring. The landlady took the hint, and as she had a habit of talking aloud to herself when alone, she might have been   THE  THREE APPRENTICES.       225 heard asseverating, as she descended the stairs, that she 'never could get used to the ways and-wants of these Americans.' Whether or not she ever published a book upon the topic of American peculiarities does not appear, but the brilliant success of the Martineaus and Trollopes of England in this department of polite literature, had more than once suggested the idea to the worthy Mrs. Brown. As famished as she was, our poor wanderer was too ex- hausted either to eat or drink, and when, after the lapse of half an hour, the landlady returned to remove the dishes, she found that they had not been touched. She would have used a little gentle remonstrance, but finding her new lodger disposed to be reserved as well as moody, and enter- taining, herself, a lively consciousness that the two sub- editors who occupied her third story front, were waiting for their tea, she complied (not without a kind-hearted de- murrer, however) with her request that she would take the things away, and leave her to obtain some rest. Kate threw herself upon the tidy bed (which had been prepared for her with more than ordinary care), but not to sleep. For an hour, or more, she walked the room; then sat down by the window and threw up the sash, that the cool air of evening might fan her burning brow. She was thinking how little likely she was to succeed in her mission by the method, or want of method, with which she had commenced it. She cogitated intensely upon several modes of proceeding which occurred to her aching brain, until chancing to glance to the houses opposite, she saw she had attracted the attention of two fashionably-dressed ladies, who sat in a still Stronger light than herself, at the -                 10*   226       EASY NAT; OR, window. Smiling, they beckoned to her, as if they would have her come to them. Conscious that they must labor under a mistake, and wishing to avoid observation, she immediately put out the light, which sat near the window, and under the veil of darkness gazed for a few moments at these familiar neighbors. As soon as she extinguished her candle, there was a great laugh on the other side of the way, and the ladies from whom the mirth proceeded were joined by another, and a gentleman whose counte- nance reminded Kate of a person whom she had known, and not very favorably, in Boston. The longer she looked at this man, the more she was satisfied that it was D'Orsay. In communicating to her, by letter, that Tom Braxton was in New York, the fashionable tailor had not given his .own address (merely signing his initials), and he was held in such detestation by Kate-who was what Dr. Johnson would have called a good hater-that she had determined not to seek for him in New York, unless all other sources of information should fail her. But, he seemed to be providentially thrown in her way. The house in which she now saw him was upon a street running parallel with that in which she was temporarily residing, near the Park. The yards of the two houses abutted upon each other, and consequently the rear win- dows of both were directly opposite. The room, into which she now gazed with an earnestness unconscious of any impropriety, was brilliantly lighted, and she could see that it was showily furnished, and occupied by a number of elegantly dressed persons of both sexes. Pgesently, a colored waiter entered with a bottle of champagne and   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         227 glasses, which D'Orsay filled, and the wine was passed around to those present. A waltz succeeded, to the music of a piano, and in a few moments three or four couples were locked in embrace, and whirling around in the full enjoyment of that voluptuous amusement. Some of the most objectionable peculiarities of the now fashionable schottiscl (then unknown in America) were introduced impromptu by the females, whose agile antics occasioned their partners and those who were seated, much merriment. But Kate scarcely noticed anything further than that it was a gay company, of Iwhich one was D'Orsay-D'Or- say who had written to her about Braxton, and who knew, perhaps, his place of concealment. Always impul- sive and headstrong, she was seized with an irresistible desire to ask him for the information which she coveted with the most insatiable longing. Should she wait until the morrow, she might not be able to find him. This was the golden opportunity-she must see him now. One consideration alone impelled her, and before its power all others were as nothing., Eternal infamy, and an ignomi- nious death were to be averted from her husband by her efforts. All depended upon her. She must be prompt, fearless, vigilant, and resolute. All this she had sworn to herself she would be, and all this she was. No tremors troubled her, nor doubts as to her duty, nor feminine hesitancy, nor conflicting emotions, nor distracting thoughts. One emotion, one thought possessed her. All passions, all intellectual -processes, were concentrated and resolved into this one. It nerved her to endure any- thing and everything; it would have sustained her at the stake, or amidst the diabolical horrors of the Jesuits' '.,   228       EASY .NAT; OR, Inquisition, with the stoicism of a savage. Talk of the power of resolve in nman! He never lived that had -a stronger and more indomitable will than this woman, when hunting to his lair the beast who had destroyed her hus- band. It was indeed the morbid action of that power, and amounted almost to monomania. Resuming her shawl and bonnet abruptly, Kate Mudge passed unobserved out of the house. Walking quickly around the block, and overtaking or meeting many bold- faced, gaily dressed girls, unattended like herself, though it was after nine P M., she came to the building which she believed to be the one in which she had seen D'Orsay. It was of brick f; genteel, but close-latticed; sombre and uninviting in front. What should she say at the door? Mr. D'Orsay was, perhaps, only a visitor. Still, he was there, and she would see him. She rang the bell, and-in a minute, after having been reconnoitered through a small lattice in a pannel, the door was opened cautiously, and she was accosted by a female apparently about twenty years of age, though emaciation and disease made her look much older than she was. Her face was fair, but colorless, with the exception of a hectic spot, her cheeks hollow, her eyes sunken and glassy. She was in the last stages of consumption. 'What do you want?' inquired this poor creature. I wish to speak to Mr. D'Orsay,' replied Mrs. Mudge, firmly.                    . 'I understand,' said- the other, significantly. 'You have arranged a meeting. Have you ever met him before?' ' Yes,' replied Kate, laconically. Worse luck,' said the girl, and added with some feel-    THE THREE APPRENTICES.        229 ing, but in a whisper, 'My God, I wish I had died before I ever saw him! Oh, if you have not led this life-if you have not, like me, gone too far to recede-go away, go away : fly from this house as you would from the plague l When your beauty is gone, they will turn you into the streets to perish, or make a drudge and a door-keeper of you, and beat you, as they have me P' There was in this much to surprise and shock Kate, but she stood her ground, without a fear. 'Do you know Mr. D'Orsay?' she inquired. ' Know him 1' replied the girl, bitterly, but still in a low tone, ' Too well. I worked in his shop, a lone, friendless orphan. I will tell you how I know him, that you may fly from him as from a pestilence. I fell ill, now eighteen months ago-he brought me eare to be nursed by his "aunt 1" 'I thought him kind, but it was a plot. The woman was no relative of his. They tended me carefully, until I recovered; but I had better have died. Oh, my God I why did I not die then? He was often at my bed- side, and assiduous in his attentions. He succeeded, but in a few months became tired of me, as he will of you. You are beautiful, but he will strew your beauty with ashes! Go away.' 'No,' replied Kate; I hate him as much as you do.' ' I do not hate him,' interrupted the poor girl, sadly. 'I detest him, but I will see him, and even here,/ said Kate, resolutely. The girl shrank from her, and eyed her with fear and suspicion, as she remarked, ' He has injured you, too, and you would kill him?'  'ZNo, he has never done me any harm, and I intend him ? Ei  :   230       EASY NAT; OR, none, but I must see hiMn immediately. Ask him to step to the door.' 'I'll do your bidding,' whispered the girl humbly, ' but don't tell him, or any one here, what I told you! They would beat,me.' The poor creature, as she shut the door softly, and'walked timidly into the interior to perform the message, looked as if another blow would precipitate her into her grave. In a minute, D'Orsay came to the door, and confronted Kate, without recognizing her. ' Where is Tom Braxton I' said she abruptly, and with- out salutation.- D'Orsay started as if a scorpion lhad stung him, and then with a great expletive of surprise, exclaimed- 'Kate Godwin, here ' 'I understand your meaning, sir,' said she sternly, ' and know the character of this house; but (she added with some irony), if one wants to be sure of seeing you, she must seek you where you are most likely to be found.' D'Orsay shrank an instant under the lash, but rallying as quickly, invited her to 'walk in, and she should see that the devil was not as black as he was painted.' 'Be silent, sir!' replied Kate, with dignity: 'You wrote to me that Tom Braxton was in New York : where is he?' ' Pon my honor, my sacred honor,' replied D'Orsay, laying his right hand in a chivalrous way upon his left breast, where a heart ought to have been, 'I can't say.' And then added, 'Where are you staying?' 'No matter,' she replied, curtly. "Oh, I only asked in order to know where to se :1 you     THE TnREE APPRENTICES.,        231 word about Braxton. What a precious scoundrel he has been, to be sure! By the way,' he continued, an idea occurring to him which he thought he could turn to his advantage, 'Tom don't suspect but what I'm friendly to him, and I think I could arrange to have an interview with him in my room at Holt's Hotel, and you might come in, as if accidentally, or be concealed so as to over- hear.' I' When?' cried Kate eagerly. 'To-morrow night. Tom won't venture out by day- light.' ' At what hour?' said Kate. ' About this time,' replied the tailor; 'but only on condition that you promise me that you will bring no officers along to arrest him on my premises. Do you pro- mise this?'- 'Yes,' replied Kate. ' Let me call for you?' said he, 'No I she replied, resolutely. ' Then come directly up to my room, without a word to any one. The number is 28-remember, 28.' Deigninig no response, she departed as abruptly as they had met. He chuckled as she turned from the steps without another word, and walked rapidly away. He did not dare to follow. 'She is magnificent,' said he. 'She shall be my queen yet; but I have got to tame her first ' And he re- entered the house, in the height of his good humor, placing, as he did so, a quarter-dollar into the hand of the poor door-keeper, as a gratuity. The look she gave him would have melted his heart, if he had had one.   232       EASY NAT; OR, 'Buy yourself some medicine,' he added, 'your cough is dreadful. It will kill you.' ' God knows I don't care how soon,' replied the girl. CHAPTER XXVIII. John Hard seeks his Fortune-Takes his first ride in the Cars-Is compensated for leaving one interesting family by finding another. -He arrives in New York. WHoO! Whoo! phit! phit! phit! The cars are off. Not off the track, reader, but o. p. A. from Boston for Provi- dence. 'Take in your head there, or you'll get them cowlicks smoothed down in the wrong way, my fine fellow!' said the conductor, by way of caution, to a passenger. Just then the train whisked under a bridge, swift as an arrow. 'Jerooshy!' cried our friend John Hard, jerking his head back through the window, 'Take a feller's hair short off, and done with UV' 'A man's brains were knocked out against that bridge last week,' said the conductor, drily. ' Do telfl' said John, and then added, as he perceived that some were smiling-'He couldn't had many, or he wouldn't stuck lem out there.? The smile was now more general and unchecked, and John Hard was at his ease. At the start he had felt as he described it, pretty considerbly wapple-jawed at leaving the old man, and the colt, and marm, and old Jack the dog, Jonas and Joshua, a roarin' in the depot; for what in. natur'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.       233 was the use on't? A feller must take his first ride in the railroad some time or nuther ; he couldn't be expected to stay at, home al'ays. But one thing he would say (and this he thought to himself more than once, in the cars), the folks he left behind in teats, for his sake, were hard to beat. He rather guessed that the old man was the best that ever lived-always excepting, of course, Gin'ral George Washington. And marm-well he'd like to see the woman that could cook e-kle to her,-especially in the squash pie, fricassee chicken, and fried turn-over depart- rment! Nen that air colt! he'd like to run that colt agin the best race horses. Just put his weight (only 180) on any one on 'em, and see if the colt wouldn't brush the flies from their noses! If that air animal had been a human critter, he couldn't have spoken plainer than he looked it,-"Don't trust yourself to that air locomotive- that unnaytural gormandiser of pine wood! Know when you're well off and stay at home, where oats are cheap, and the grass sweetens your milk and butte'r."' en there was the boys! where was there any better? He believed he must send them home a fiddle. And Jack- old Jack, the dog! whom to see, he had stuck his head out of the cars; for the faithful animal had followed the train until, quite spent, he abandoned the chase in despair and laid down, with his long tongue hanging out, to pant awhile, and utter a few impatient barks at the iron horse, which would not go at a pace that would admit of his running along, under the wagon. 'I hope,' thought John, 'they will stick to their promise, and al'ays give him a variety to eat, and let him sleep on my old coat.' 'Speaking of coats, John Hard wore one of black   234       EASY NAT; OR, broadcloth, bran new, and in the approved mode; also pantaloons and vest to match, and a stylish white silk hat. Unfortunately he broke the latter, by suddenly rising to his full height in the low car, in order to stretch his enor- mous length of limb ; and as he yawned, his new coat yawned too, the cloth being rotten, bursting open down his back. The castor he soon swapped off to a passenger, for aL broad-brimmed, low-crowned, black felt hat, some- what worn, but more becoming to him ; the coat he threw over his arm, consoled for its loss by the gratification of his old habit of going in his shirt-sleeves--a piece of inde- pendence, by the way, highly offensive to a little man, who was holding a small boy, and hisiwife's reticule and band- box in his lap, and a sheet of molasses-cake in his hand; for he regarded it as a decided indecorum, in the presence of his wife. Jemima herself, a sore-eyed and sharp-nosed wonan, with two or three sore-eyed and sharp-nosed children, including one (who John Hard said looked as if it was imbibing vinegar) at the breast, cast so many indignant glances at him, that he was half inclined to ask her if she felt in pain anywheres. Presently the nursing child began to cry, which John declared confidentially to a man who sat alongside of him, wasnft to be wondered at -considering what it had been eating; but the baby con- tinuing to squall, and the woman looking and talking with considerable acerbity at her little man, as if it were all his fault, our adventurer fumbled in his half dozen pockets for a few peppermints, and very judiciously stopped the infan- tine mouth with them. The amiable mother would have demurred, but John insisted that they would sweeten his stomach, and start the wind. At all events, this treat-   T H E T H IR E E A PriE' NTICES.    235 ment and a little suction at the new 1practitioner's big thumb, had a soothing effect upon the baby, which presently fell asleep to the manifest satisfaction of the smilingc spectators, and Mr. Hard immediately obtained to the rank of a public benefactor. By the way, why is it that people in the cars, or steamboat, rather hear a lion roar than an infant cry? But John had no more time to spare upon this interest- ing family ; the day was on the wane, and the sun fast sinking in the west. Towns and villages were scattered profusely along the route, and the locomotive was rushing through them all, Mr. Hard said, like a hog through a water-melon patch. These places were all new to him, and he could not reconcile himself to remaining in ignorance of their names and peculiarities. He was on the express train, and the stopping-places were few, but at every one he would rush out, and make a little circuit,-double quick time, as far from the road as he dare venture, in order to get some idea of the locality, and be able to say that he had been 'round in it. Fortunately, the man who sat in the same seat with him was perfectly familiar with all the towns on the road, and very ready to answer Mr. Hard's innumerable questions in regard to them. So John picked up much useful information in respect to the different soils, and various modes of cultivation, the cost and different kinds of manure, the natural and industrial products, the population, the prospect of future growth, the water privileges, mill-power, &c.; all of which he made note of in a snug corner of his memory. Many of the passengers left before the train arrived at Providence ; the communi- cative gentleman among the rest; and the shades of night 1   236      EASY NAT.; OR, descended. John changed his seat often, and talked with as many as a dozen people, eliciting from each person some information of the peculiarities of his occupation. - In truth, he was a great hand at pumping ; and that without being impertinent. Most people are either indifferent to general information, or too vain to wish to appear igno-' rant of anything. This concealment of their poverty of intelligence is like a window-shutter, which, while it keeps others from looking in, excludes light from the tenant- himself. But John Hard had read in an ancient school- book, a piece of excellent advice under the title of ' Eyes and no Eyes: or the Art of Seeing ;' and if he had never read it, he would still have kept his eyes and ears both open, for the reception of practical information, and made the best use of his tongue to the same end. INor was he backward in communicating information to others. ' Give and take' was his motto. He was always ready to describe his manner of farming, his experience of crops, and his treatment of live stock, his method of. selecting the best cows, and of keeping them so as to produce the most milk, and the details of the milk business of Middlesex.. In exchange, if he were talking with a blacksmith, and there was time for it, he would want to know the kinds, quali- ties, and prices of the material he wrought, the manner of working' it, and the variety and prices of the articles he made, and where he sold them. If the man were a copper-smith, a carpenter, a machinist, a mill-wright, a ship-builder, a clock-maker, or what not, it was all the' same; without giving any offence, John would obtain from them a pretty good idea of the details of each employ- ment, and with feelings of inward pleasure at his fresh    THE THREE APPRENTICES.         237 acquisition of useful knowledge, would bestow it safely in the mental encyclopedia which he was compiling under the shadow of those unique cowlicks. At ten, P M., the train arrived at Providence. John regretted that he could not get a better view'of the city, founded by the persecuted Roger Williams, and the idea that he should have to say that he had been in the largest city in Rhode Island, without seeing any of its public buildings, except the depot, was very unsatisfactory. His sea-sickness, and adventures on board the boat, which he found there awaiting the arrival of the ptssengers, to take them to New York-his opinion of the supper and lodg- ing on board--and his delight at daybreak, with the sail up the East River, and the view of the city, with its forest of masts-we shall be compelled to pass over ; leav- ing a more honorable mention of them, together with some account of his wonderful and amusing scrapes and achievements among the dens and dangers of New York, for publication in a book of his own personal biography. COH APTER XXTX. Mi. Hard's Grand Reception in New York--One Hundred Carriages, or less-A slight difference between hostile Hackmen-The Hos- pitable Stranger-The Pickpocket-The Pursuit--Mr. Hard meets with an Old Head upon Young Shoulders-The Newsboy. WHEN the boat touched her pier, John Hard was one of the first to land. With his large, long, well-filled car-   238       EASY NAT; OR, pet-bag, in one hand, and his damaged coat thrown over his arm, he entered New York, he said, in his shirt-sleeves, as if ready for any job that might offer. A gang of hack- drivers, with faces very much the worse for wear, pointed their lashes at him as soon as -he made his appearance at the cabin door. ' Pesky nation!' said Mr. Hard, I wonder what them fellows think I want of two or three dozen second-hand whips?' ' Ride sir, ride? ' Astor- House?' ' Holt's Hotel?' ' Clinton?' ' American?' 'Here's my card!' ' Where d'ye want to go, hoss?' ' I'll take yer up' ' I'll take yer up for a dollar ' 'Here's my card, sir!' ' Here's my number!' ' Number 1108, sir!' ' Ride with me, sir, splen- did carriage' ' Oh, humbugI Nothing but a dirt-cart i! Ride with me, sir!' 'I got a nice carriage, sir!' 'I say Jim, what yer want to lie, for, when yer. know yer springs is broke?' ' Leave go the gen'lemun's carpet-bag ' ' He's going to ride with me!' 'No he ain't; enot's yer knows on! are yer, mister?' ' The jointleman knows me!' ' Shut up, Pat!' 'Leave him go ; let him take which one he likes.' I Leave him be ' ' He rides with me ' ' Ao he don't V' 'Yer lie!' 'Say that agin, and I'll knock yer into the dock!' 'Yer ain't the man that can do it V 'Gimme that carpet-bag ' '-I won't do it V!' 'Mister, here all yer baggage?' ' Let me take yer coat, mister?' "eave him be!' 'Oh, get out ' 'None yer sarce!' 'You shut up, or I'll spile yer snuff-trapl' ' Less see yer do it 1 'Take that!' ' Hit him again!' ' A ring, a ring!' And then there was a fight, and John Hard, who had had all these questions and expletives, mingled with oaths, S   THE  THREE APPRE/NTICES.       239 rattling fast into his ears from a dozen drivers, who pulled at him and his carpet-bag in all directions, was left for two or three minutes standing alone, an astonished spec- tator. 'I fear, sir,' said a person of-seedy appearance, but gentlemanly address, accosting him with a suavity that gave him a much better idea of New York politeness than the drivers had done, 'that this digraceful conduct will give you an hunfavorable Aimpression of this glorious metropolis; for I presume you are a stranger?'  'Yon guessed right fust time,' replied John. 'Sir,' said the polite person, taking our adventurer by the hand cordially, '/Aallow me as a h/individual justly proud of his native city, to /Aextend to you hits 'ospitalities. Sir, you are welcome to New Yoirk! Let me take your carpet-bag, and escort you lence, before these 'arpies of the 'ack 'ave time to fasten upon you again.  Come, sir, permit me!' He would have relieved Mr. Hard of his luggage, but John preferred to carry it himself, and the stranger's hospitable impulses were compelled to be satisfied with the transpor- tation of the coat, which he transferred blandly from our friend's arm  to his own. On their way up the pier, through a crowd, hurrying hither and thither; there were repeated rushes at John's Carpet-bag, by Irish lads in dilapidated clothing, but they were kept at bay pretty successfully by the volunteer cicerone, who-ever and anon beckoned to them  majestically to be gone. At the cor- ner of Bowling Green- and Battery Place, the stranger p'aused. ' This hotel that you see here, of 'andsome brick, with a beautiful hexterior of white paint, with a slight dash of green,' said he, taking John by the button, 'was!   240       EASY NAT; OR, General Washington's 'Ead Quarters. As an American, I ham, and not hunnaturally, you must hadmit, quite proud of it!' 'You don't say that General Washington put up here? Nen I'll put up here too.'- The stranger would have had him go farther, but the prestige of having once been honored with the presence of the Father of his Country, lent the hotel too great an attraction for the patriotic Mr. Hard to get away, and he resolved to stop there. 'Then,' said the stranger, w' e part here.' John was pro- fuse in his thanks for his attention. ' Not at all,' said the stranger, ' this, is purely a -business affair. Permit me to trouble you for two shillings.' 'What for?' inquired John, taken aback, some. 'One shilling for the transportation of this valuable garment, my dear sir, and one shilling for Revolutionary hintelligence' replied the genteel stranger in the thread- bare coat. ' Pesky nation! Is this one of the customs of the coun- try?' cried John, setting down his bag on the steps of the hotel, and, in some chagrin, producing his wallet, from which he paid the sharper thirty-three cents, being two shillings N. E. currency-a little mistake which the stran- ger did not think proper to notice. 'I thought it all pure hospitality.' - 'Ospitality, my hexcellent good sir,' replied the stranger, blandly pocketing the change, 'can be hafforded without charge in the Southern and- Western country, where pro- duce is plentiful hand costs nothing; but, sir, when you consider the price of beef and breadstuffs in this market!   THE THRE    APPRENTIC E S-.    241 why, sir, if you will believe me, heverything is so 'igh, lere, that I'm factually compelled to pass the 'ottest sea- son /tat Newport, Saratoga and Nihagara Falls!' John Hard knew nothing of the petty plunderers at the watering-places, but we shrewdly suspect that this Jeremy- Diddler established his own school of followers in both the resorts named by him, and that they have not yet died out. He had no sooner left the Yankee than a little ragged newsboy, with a bundle of papers under his arm, ran up to him, and said, 'I say, greeny, that man's took your pocket-book!' John run his hand into his breeches pocket, and afterwards into all his pockets, and sure enough his wallet was gone. 'Jerooshy!' He might have left his bag with the hotel porter, but considering it safer in his own possession, he hugged it under his left arm, and leav- ing his' split coat with the ;boy, made a break after the pickpocket, who was sauntering leisurely through that well-known promenade, the Battery. Hearing John's heavy tramp in his wake, the hospitable stranger increased his own pace to a smart trot. It was early in the morning or the race must have attracted a crowd. John Hard's long legs got over the ground marvellously fast, and to use an old figure 'devoured the way.' In two minutes he had Mr. Diddle by the skirt of the coat, which was flying like ai streamer behind hitn. Unfortunately (or fortu- nately, we will not. pretend to' decide which), it gave way, and parting company from the body of the garment, remained in the huge clutch of the indignant agriculturist, who, rejoiced to discover in the pocket of it his identical " )    242       EASY NAT; 0R, wallet, with the contents entire, was content to suffer the knave to escape. Mr. Hard then sat down upon one of the public)seats with which the Battery was, even in that (compared to the present) dark and unenlightened age, liberally sup- plied, to enjoy a breathing spell. The little newsboy, who had slipped on the coat which John had left with him, and warmly applauded the race, both by hand and voice, now came up, looking very graceful and dignified, of course, in the fractured garment, with the sleeves tucked up a quarter of a yard, or less, and the tails dragging, like a train, upon the ground. And altogether, this juvenile New Yorker, a specimen of one of the industrial classes of that mosaic metropolis, struck John's fancy in some such a way as we may suppose the mariners shipwrecked upon the Enchant- ed Island to have been impressed with the appearance of Caliban. There was an impish intelligence in the cut of hs eye, a premature experience, and an almost supernatu- 'ral oldness in that little, puny, peaked face, whl4ch, despite his diminutive form and evidently brief existence, impressed the wondering John with a ceitain kind of comic deference. 'Did yous! git it?' said the urchin, as he came up to our friend. 'Yes,' replied John. ' How much money was there in it?' inquired the lad, eagerly. 'Let me count it for yous!' and taking the wallet unceremoniously from John's hands, he counted it out upon the latter's knee- notes, change and all-much quicker than Mr. Hard had done it himself. 'Fourteen dollars and three shillings,' said the urchin replacing the money. 'Fourteen dollars plus two-and-threepence, I make it ;' said John. 'Where J 'r    THE THREE APPRENTICES.        243 d'ye git yous two-and-threepence?' said the boy, agai overhauling the change. 'There's one shillun', two shill'ns --' 'Them's ninepences,' said  John. 'Am   they, though?' replied the boy contemptuously, ' Buy Sun and Herald and Mornizg Dispatch, sir?' 'What d'ye ask?' ' I ax if ye'll buy the Sun and Hierald and Morning Dispatch.' 'I mean what price d'ye ask for them?' ' Fivepence for the three.  I'll take yous ninepence and give ypu four pennies back.  Is that right, Mister?' 'I s'pose so,' replied John. ' O, how jolly green!' cried the newsboy, laughing. 'Mis- ter let me shew yous how to reckon!  This amn't a nine- pence, this am a shill'n; there am eight of 'em in a dollar.' 'Pesky nation!' cried John, ' I shall never get used to that way o' makin'change! - That passes for a fo'pence- ha'penny, don't it?' 'There amn't no such money as you calls it,' replied the boy; 'it's a sixpence. Lemme show yer ; or some o' the fellers 'll11 skin yer eye-teeth!' The youngster then very good-naturcdly, but evideitly with a feeling of superior smartness, explained to the simple countryman the whole science of making change in New York, including the knack of making ninety-six cents pass for a dollar-in return for which, and his information against the philanthropic Mr. Diddle, John gave the boy the damaged coat which he had put on. 'With a little alteration,' said he, smothering a laugh at the odd figure the lad had cut, 'a little taken-in here and there, and a cuttin' off the tails and half the sleeves, it will fit you like a-shirt on a handspike--or at least full as well as them air trowsers yer got on. Where on airth did you git them?'   244       EASY NSAT; OR, 'The boss printer guv 'em to'me. I had to chop 'em off at the knees, and then they was too long.' ' If ye had a big load--a bushel o' taters, or anything o' that sort-ye could carry them in the seat o' yer trow- a sers, couldn't ye; fust rate? But why didn't ye git yer marm to take 'em i?'-  'I amn't got no marm. Never had none.' ' Where was ye born?' inquired John, who thought he detected a bit of Irish brogue. ' Wan't born; replied the boy, coolly removing the flap- ping visor of his cap, and flinging it down rather imperi- ously ; I floated ashore.' 'Jerooshy!' cried John Hard. 'Well, I heern tell o' folks havin' a whole raft o' children, but never dreamt why they called 'em so. P'raps 'twas 'cause they floated ashore too. What did they name ye?' 'Scratch,' replied the little fellow, demurely. 'Scratch!' cried John, showing all his large, broad white teeth, ' that was a funny name. 'Twas kind o' mean to take advantage of a little baby, though, in that way. But p'raps that's only a nickname, and you've got another?' 'Yes, I has,' said the boy, while in his little bit of a grey eye there was a roguish twinkle answering to a slight upward twitch at the corners of his mouth, 'My tother rame is-Gravel.' ' Gravel?' exclaimed Mr. Hard, with a great laugh, 'that would make it Scratch Gravel; ye little mush- squash ye I What a name to run for the Legislaturl' 'There's many a wusser one in New York.' said the newsboy; 'What's yourn?' 'John Hard,' replied our friend. !  ,  s   THE TH REE APPRENTICES.       245 'Hur!' cried the lad, jeeringly, ',what a name! Say, ole hoss, is yer any relation ter hard times?' 'I'm sometimes called Jack Hard,' added John, good humoredly. 'Did yer-ever have any one read Jack Shepard to yer?' inquired little Scratch (who did certainly bear a certain impish resemblance to Old Scratch), 'O crackeel That's the book for yous.' 'Jack Shepard was a house-breaker, wasn't he?' said Jolln. 'Yes, but didn't he die game, though?' exclaimed little Scratch Gravel, triumphantly. ' You ought to see him die'at the Bowery! It takes Jim Kirby to do that part. Say, mister, can yous fence three up and one down, in the grand double sword combat? I can.' And seizing a piece of a broken bough which had fallen-and taking a trunk of a tree as an'opponent-the urchin treated the wonder- ing Mr. Hard to a graphic imitation of a personal hand-to- hand fight, with short swords, after the approved stage- - fashion. John laughed very heartily at the conclusion, when little Scratch made as-if mortally wounded, and staggering, with many horrid grimaces, a few steps, fell as stiff as a. mackerel upon the green grass. 'Ye're the cutest little hop-o'-my-thumb I ever saw,' said the,farmer, wiping the tears from -his eyes, 'but I must be goin'. I'm as hungry as all git out!' In a twink- lingii Scratch Gravel was by'his side, and ready to accom- pany him. ' I'll show you the best hotel, Mister ; where all the country merchants go6' said he. ' ' Well, I kind o' calculate I'll put up at that air tavern   246       EASY NAT; OR, over yender/' said John "cause that feller that run away with my wallet said it was once Gin'ral Washington's Head Quarters. Ye don't s'pose he'd lie' about it nor nothin' do ye, Scratch?I i Don't I wish I had as many dollars as he's told lies! Wouldn't I have taffy candy enough for once, and a theatre of my own!' cried Master Gravel, with great earnestness. ' Come along, mroister, and I'll show you a nice hotel.' ' Not till ye take that coat off. Ye'll have- to have it altered a little. Take it off. If ye have any such thing as clothing stores, here, I'll drop in and make a trade for a new garment for myself, on the way to the tavern, and then, if ye like, ye can swap that coat for a jacket.' This was agreed to by the urchin, and with the coat folded under his arm, he piloted Mr. Hard to Washington- street, where there were stores at which ready-made-cloth- ing was sold. CHAPTER XXX. New York Cries-The Radish Girl-A Gentleman in Distress-John Hard's opinion of New York Milk-Finds a Hotel. OUR rural friend was much struck by the cries of nume- rous hucksters of vegetables, shad, clams, &c., who made the streets vocal with their announcements. ' What on airth,' said John, to Master Gravel, ' is that air gal, without any stockins' on, a hollerin?' ' Ra-a-a-dashe-e-ese!' cried the girl, as she passed, on    THE .TRHREE APPRENTICES.       247 the other side, prolonging the sound on every vowel until the word died away piteously, like a victim stretched on the rack. ' Sayl' shouted the boy, 'the gen"mun wants some o' yer radishes.'! 'Only tuppence a bunch,' said the young woman, in the very brief frock, as she tripped through the mud with her bare feet, and extended her basket. She wore a very cheap gingham sun-bonnet, and her face was not over clean, but a dimple in her cheek reflected a bright ray from- her white teeth, and Air. Hard was easily per- suaded by her and young Mr. Scratch Gravel-himself very fond of the esculent--to buy a shilling's worth. The radishes vended in this manner by thousands of women and girls during the summer, are delicious, and John found them so, but young Scratch more than intimated that the business would never deserve entire success until the ven- ders carried salt with them. Another thing that attracted the attention of our agri- cultural friend was a hogshead drawn upon wheels by a miserably lean horse. Ding-dong! ding-dong! went a bell in the hands of the driver, and out rushed a kitchen wench from a basement, with a pail, which he filled with water from a fascet at the end of the hogshead. This, be it remembered, was before the Croton was introduced into New York. ' That feller don't go round every morning, giving that stuff away, does he?' inquired John. The boy laughed, and wanted to know where John had been living all his days not.. to know that water was a penny a pail full.   248       EASY NAT; OR, ' What?' roared Mr. Hard, ( sell water?' ' In course!'. exclaimed Scratch Gravel. ' Yous wouldn't have 'em guv it away, wud ye?' But the milk wagons excited John's attention more than anything else. His notice was first attracted to them by a most dissonant screech dike, what he described as, twenty tom-cat 'he-yaws,' all in one) proceeding from a rakish- looking chap, standing bolt upright in his shirt sleeves in an open wagon, by the side of a large tin canister, from the open top of which protruded a ladle. 'Say ; be alive there!' said the man, with a' peculiar intonation, as a girl with a pitcher came running out of the door in front of which he had just pulled up; 'we ain't got more nor a thousand years to live.  How much?  'Quart,' replied the girl. Quickly drawing out the ladle, four times, full, he filled the pitcher, and pass- ing the fluid to her, threw the implement into the can, and with a startling shout of 'li!' to his horse, and still standing in the rattling vehicle, drove rapidly away. ' Here, you ;' said John Hard to the girl, as she descended the area steps, 'jes lemme look at that air milk, a moment, will ye?' She complied, with a stare. 'Well, now,' lie continued, as he looked at the contents of the pitcher first and then tasted it, but not without a huge grimace, 'they don't call that confounded mean swash milk, dew they? Why it's bluein!' 'Dey say how dat it is colored mit de ice vot dey hash ter put in him to keeps him from sour ;' replied the wench, who was a German. 'I don't see anything the matter wid that milk,' said little Scratch Gravel, slyly taking a swallow.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        249 'Me vill matter mit you, you tirty pig plockhead I' exclaimed the girl, and seizing the pitcher gave the urchin's ear a whack with her fist: whereat he laughed, and plac- ing his thumb to his little pale pock-marked nose, circum- gyrated his fingers at her, until she had disappeared into the basement. While Master Gravel was thus profitably occupied, a gentleman of thirty or thereabouts, in a shabby black suit, buttoned up closely to the neck, which was encased in a high black stock, without the relief of a collar, accosted Mr. Hard. 'My good sir,' be began, 'you appear to be a citizen of this place, and a man of extensive information. I am the very reverse. In fact, reverses are my forte. I am a stranger, and as ignorant as the smiling infant of the localities by which I find myself surrounded. Sir, I am in great pecuniary distress. Nay, sir, I am not going to beg or borrow. Blood of my ancestors, forbid I No, sir, I am too proud for that. Adverse circumstances have piled upon the poor exile like Ossa upon Pelion, until he has become a wart: still he has feelings, sir! All I ask is, that ycu will immediately indicate the spot where, ini -exchange for the trifling sum of two or three dollars, I may sacrifice a coat worth twenty. It is in' this bundle, sir. I am compelled by stern necessity to sell it, even for a pittance!' 'Well, now,' thought honest John, 'here is a case of real distress.', 'Sir,' cried the stranger, with sudden vehemence and a tear in his eye, 'I perceive a generous and a noble heart beats under that Valencia waistcoat, and you are in need "*   250       EASY NAT; OR, of a garment, yourself. Oh, sir, I conjure you buy this, and save me from the disgrace of again shoving it up the spout 1' 'What!' exclaimed John, 'ye ain't been hidin' it in a spout, have ye? Must ha' got damaged by water, some.' ' No, sir, I pledge my honor,' said the fellow, who by the 'spout' had meant the pawnbrokers-' perfect, or no sale. Ah, sir, pity the distress of a gentleman once an ornament of the best society, but at present laboring under a passing cloud, and give me two dollars for my dress coat, of the best Saxony cloth, dyed in the wool!' "ess see it,' said John. With the utmost care, the stran- ger produced a thread-bare coat, which by dint of spong- ing and coloring, was made to look, at first glance, worth something; but the farmer didn't want it, and he was about to say so, when a policefif-anj coming up, took hold of the garment, and it fell to pieces in his hands. ' Now be off with yourself V! said the functionary to the swindler, and the genius went sneaking away. 'It is an old trick of his,' said the policeman to Mr. Hard, ' and he tries it on, daily.' ' Yous is jolly green,' said Scratch, whenl the policeman had gone, 'to believe what that sucker told yous. Here's. a clothing sshop. Don't let them gammon yous, Mister. Let me talk to umrn: they can't cheat me. I gits up too early for um!' After John had suited himself to a brown cloth frock coat of ample dimensions, and large pockets in the sides of the skirts, Master Gravel traded off the rent garment  for a coarse satinet round-about. 'If this don't wear well,' said he, with a threatening look at the shopkeeper,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         251 ' Yous don't git my custom, no more. And look here (he added in a confidential tone) what is yer goin' to gimme for bringin' him him here to buy of yer?' 'The man laughed, and told him to get out. ' Catch me a bringin' any more trade to this shop! said the precocious youth in reply, and putting a quid of tobacco in his mouth with the air of an old chewer, he followed John Hard into the street. After proceeding some distance, they came to a public house. 'I reckon this 'ere's a tarvern,' said John. 'Tt's the Custom-House hotel,' replied Scratch ; 'don't stop here. The feller in there driv me off the steps yes- terday. Yous come down in Fulton Street, and I'll shew yous a fuist-rate hotel.7 ' Wall, Scratch Gravel!' cried John laughing, ' Go-a- head.' 'Is yous goin' to the races, to-day V' inquired the boy, as they trudged along; and John asked what races. ' Oh, crikee! hain't yous heard on um, Mister?' 'Guess not,' replied Mr. Hard. ' Where are they?' ' Down on Long Island, about ten miles. Oh, don't I wish yous'd take me wid youns! "Twon't be nothn' worth seein', will it?' said Mr. Hard, who, from having a'fast colt of his own, felt some interest in the speed of horses. 'Won't it, though!' cried little Scratch. ' Yes won't it. Why, it are the great contest between the North and South. Posthoy am the North hoss, and Bascoinb the South. Oh, won't there be a time I Everybody 'll be there.' ' A race-track ain't no place for boys,' said John,   252       EASY NAT; OR, ' Izr exclaimed Scratch ; 'yous amn't a preacher, is yous? A black boy's going to ride the Southern hoss.' 'Wall, turn-about's fair play: let him ride, but you stay at home.' 'I ain't got no home ;' said the boy, ' and I will see the great race, if I have to walk every step. All the news- boys is goin'.' 'What's that all-fired large white building, yender?' inquired Mr. Hard. 'That's the hotel. Others is crack, but that is more crackerer than any on um. I know a feller that keeps in there.' When they reached the door of the magnificent edifice, John went in, escorted by his youthful cicerone. 'This gen'l'mun wants a good room, and breakfast for two ;' said Scratch, promptly. 'Not so fast,' said John. ' Here's p quarter for ye ; go get 'yer breakfast somewhere else.' The lad took the money, and, while Mr. Hard was entering his name elabo- rately upon the register, put the same inquiry to the clerk that he had to the clothier, ' What yous goin' to gimme for bringin' him here?' I Pooh, pooh!' replied the clerk with a smile, 'go away.' ' He was goin' to another hotel, but I got him to .icome here,' urged Scratch. ' I want to make a raise to go to the races wid. Oh gimme a quarter l ' Not a shill'n',' replied the clerk, inflexibly. ' Get out of the office!' ' Gimme a cigar, then; only a cigar--a real Spaniola,' persisted Scratch. ' Nol roared the clerk.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         253 'Then yous don't git any more o' my customl' squeaked little Scratch Gravel, and taking the quid from his dis- tended cheek, and throwing it down with an air of defiance, b\  he walked out. Upon the doorsteps, the precocious youth was fortu- nate enough to find several cigars, only partially con- sumed; having been cast from the mouths of their smok- ers, 'When the bell summoned them to breakfast. 'Real Spaniolas!' said he, as he bestowed them care- fully into one of the outside pockets of his new jacket. Then taking out a match, and igniting it, he lit another half-cigar which he had picked up. ' PrinLcipe! said he, and sedulously puffingit, hurried off for a fresh supply of papers, CHAPTER XXXT. A strange Adventure to Kate on her way Home-The Crushed Child -The Tricks of Trade--A Death-bed at the Five Points--Scenes in Low Life. WE will now tuse the novelist's privilege, and go back to the night next preceding the occurrences narrated in the last chapter. Kate had just turned the corner, after her meeting with D'Orsay at the portal of the suspicious-looking dwelling, when she saw a hack pass rapidly, and the same instant, heard a short, but thrilling cry of distress, proceeding from   254       EASY NAT; OR, an object, which she could discern but obscurely, in the middle of the street. Scarcely anything else could have startled her from her abstraction and indifference to everything around her; but now she sprang impulsively to the spot, and discover- ed a little girl, ragged, bonnetless and bare-footed, writh- ing in agony upon the pavement. 'Och, murther ; it's kilt I is. I'm kilt! Oh dear, oh dear, I'm kilt!' she cried, when Kate stooped down to her. 'What's the matter?' 'Are you run over?' were the inquiries of two or three men, who had run simultaneously with Mrs. Mudge, to the place where the young one lay, and now lifted her up. 'That carriage run over me!' she replied, with a groan. ' Hullo, hackman, hold on there!' called one of the men in pursuit of the carriage, but the reckless jehu only drove the faster, and was soon out of sight. 'Arrah, honey,' said an Irishman to the squirming and crying child, 'why didn't yous take his number?' 'My poor little one,' said Kate, 'how badly are you hurt? Can you tell?' ' Sure she's got a tongue in her head, that's ivident by her noise I' said the Irishman, who was a hod-carrier. 'Both my legs is broke, I'm sure! Oh, be careful how you lift me! Oh dear, dear; my poor mitherl my poor brithers and sisters! my poor grand-mitherV! cried the afflicted creature. ' What shall we do for you, my poor child?' said Kate, distressed at her inability to afford immediate relief. 'Per- haps you had better convey her to my room. It is but a few steps from here.'   THE THREE APPRENTICES,        255 'No you don't miss!' said one of the men, contemptu- ously. 'She had better die here in the gutter, than go with the likes o' you.' 'Sirl' gasped Kate, quite confounded at the honest fellow's revolting insinuation. 'I mean what I say, miss,' said the man sturdily, 'and if you don't tramp quick, I'll make your This speech was accompanied with a threatening gesture. Mrs. Mudge's presence of mind, and courage, immedi- ately returned to her under this provocation. 'Sir, you do me great injustice, though your rudeness, arises from a proper motive. I assure you that neither abuse nor threats will induce me to leave this poor little crippled girl (here the child began to cry again) until 1 see her properly cared for.' ' Beg pardon, marm,' said the man, but with rather a bad grace ; for though her language and manner nearly destroyed his suspicions against her character, her presence in such a place at so late an hour, was rather equivocal, and made him entertain a lingerinog doubt of her. 'Better take'her to the Charity Hospital,' he suggest- ed. ' It's just tup here in Broadway.' ' An' a fine slarter-hoose it is!' said the hod-carrier, who in common with his countrymen in New York, had very erroneous information respecting that excellent institution, where so much good is done for them gratis. 'Oh dear, oh dear, don't, don't, don't take me there I Take me home. Oh good, nice lady, take me homel' said the little girl, amidst many cries of pain. 'What's yoos name da'rlint,. at ho pe?' 'Biddy McGuire,' was the reply.   i  256       EASY  NAT; OR, ' Will you go home with her, sir?' inquired Kate of the rough man. 'I can't,' he replied, ' I'm in a hurry to get a doctor for my wife.'  'Who will go home with her?' No one volunteered. 'Get me a carriage then,' said Kate, 'and I will.' A hack was hailed accordingly, and the crippled placed carefully upon the back seat. As Mrs. Mudge stepped into the carriage, the driver inquired where they wanted to go. 'I never thought of that,' said Kate. 'Where do you live, Biddy?' ' In Little Water-street, near Anthony,' replied Biddy, 'The Five Points!' grumbled the driver, as he mounted his box. ' A nice place to take a lady to!' exclaimed the rude man, as the vehicle rattled over the pavement, and he himself towards the doctor's. 'The big bugs live down there,' said the hod-carrier, as they parted. 'I mane the roaches. Bedad wasn't I run over wid 'em when f lived there! 'Sure I was; faith I But there was a musha deal worse than the bugs there?' and lowering his vertebrae for a rapid walk, to make up for lost time, Pat urged his somewhat meandering pace up West Broadway. Kate had no idea of the neighborhood to 'which she was riding. In all her peregrinations, she had never entered Water-street, at least not that portion of it which made one of the notorious Five Points. Notwithstanding the lawlessness and infamy of the locality, it was not three   THE THREE- APPRENTICES.        257 minutes ride out of the aristocratic thoroughfare, Broad- way, and she was so engrossed with the complaints of the beggar girl, that she took no notice whatever of the way. The hack, driven after tho reckless manner of the jehus in New York, rattled down a short hill, into what was origi- nally a hollow, buts then a dirty, triangular space, surrounded by repulsive looking dwellings and drinking shops, 'with a host of vile creatures loafing about the walks and stoops, and conducting themselves shamefully. On one side was a large dilapidated building, swarming with these wretches, and resounding with blackguard language, hard swearing, and ribald song and merriment.   The square (if that which was of another shape could be called such) was at the junction of several streets, and hence called the Five Points.' It was an exceedingly dangerous neighborhood for any respectable man to get into at night, and few decent folks were so incautious as to venture thither after dark, unless under the protection of the police. The street in which the hack stopped with Kate, and her charge, was the vilest of the whole, but all these revolting features of her ride had escaped her attention. ' Which is the house?' inquired the driver, roughly, for even his low standard of self-respect was offended at being down there. With more readiness than Mrs. Mudge had thought the little girl capable of, badly hurt as she was, Biddy looked out of the window and pointing to an old wooden tenement, jammed into a sort of 'rottdn row,' told him that was the place.   258       EAS'Y NAT ; OR, ' Well,' said he, I ain't a goin' ter drive through all that slush. I don't know how deep it is, for it's dark as pitch here.'  'It arn't over my knees,' said little Biddy. 'I won't ventur' it. Yer must get out here; it's enough to pizen my horses,' said he, half angrily. ' You'll help me in with her?' said Kate, descending from the vehicle, on to the narrow filthy walk. : Oh, of course, marm!' replied the jehu ; whip in hand, and holding open the door ; ' but I'll take my fare first.' ' How much is it?' 'Only a dollar, marm.' 'That is double price,' said Kate, handing him the coin. 'It is dog cheap; marm. It'll be worth half on't to clean my carriage to-morrow. Of course you'll want me to stop and take you home again? You won't stop in that hole more than two minutes, I s'pose.' Kate believed that the scamp would repeat his extor- tion, and indignant at the advantage which he had already taken, replied 'no, he need not wait. 'Take you back for half a dollar, marm,' said he. 'No,' she replied, not reflecting how difficult and dangerous it would be to go by herself; 'help me take this poor little thing into the house, and I will not trouble you any further.' 'Yer a fool,' grumbled the driver to himself' and a greenhorn.' He lifted Biddy out of the hack, and placing her on the walk, said, coarsely, 'There, stan' up, can't yer? Yer ain't hurt half so bad as yer make believeI'   THE THR-EE APPRENTICES.         259 With this, he jumped on to his box and drove off; leaving Mrs. Mudge to get Biddy into the house the best way she could. -This was not so difficult as, at first, she feared it would be, for the little girl, whose piteous moans had entirely subsided, managed, by dint of a little limping, and the help of her new friend, to hobble to a basement, at the bottom of whose dark, steep, mouldy steps, the glimmer of a light appeared. 'Old grandmither is a dyin',' said Biddy, ' and mither has a light a-burnin'.' Descending with some difficulty, they knocked at the door. 'Who's there?' cried a woman's voice within. ' Is that yous, Jock McGuire?' 'No, it's me mither,-it's Biddy.' ' Is't yous, Biddy, sure?' ' Troth it is. Open quick. I been runned over, and it's a nice lady it is, that's come home wid me V' The door was opened without further parley, and a large-sized, miserably-clad woman received them into her wretched abode, with more interest, Kate thought, fn her, than in the hurts her child had received. Still, she took Biddy in her arms, and kissing her dirty little face, laid her upon a heap of straw in one corner, by the side of a little urchin with pale, peaked features, and a pair of eyes like a lizard's. ' Scratch!' she exclaimed, as she bent over the straw, 'ye spalpane, shut yer eyes and go to slape, or I'll drive ye out to lodge in the strate./ Then, giving Biddy a   260   '   EASY NAT; OR, crust of bread, she told her to eat it, and not distarb her poor granny wid her noise. 'But,' said Kate, 'it will be necessary to do something for your child at once!' 'She'll be betther when she gets over it, marm,' said the woman. 'She's not kilt. But look here marm ; look at this poor soul just parting from her body 1' And taking the smoky and rancid-smelling candle in her hand, she conducted her visitor to another corner where, upon a heap of filthy rags, lay an old woman, apparently breath- ing her last. ' An' no praste wid her! - My own mither a-dyin' widout the benefit of the clargy I Look at the poor crather wid her eyes fixed on the blissed crucifix, on the wall anent, and her hands clasped-them hands that used to dandle me whin I was a babby-an' me here a-letting her die like a heathen, widout a praste to forgive her sins! Ochoon, ochoon1' And then she spoke again to the children. 'Biddy, quit yer laughing and. talking wid Scratch Gravel, the thafe iv the world! He pays his two cints to slape hare and not to be disturbin' the dyin' wid his diviltry, I'm thinkin.' Bad luck to him, it's hinm that'l! slape in the station-hoose the morrow!' True enough, Biddy had so wonderfully recovered from her fractures or bruises, that she had got into quite a glee in whispering to her fellow-lodger her adventure, and with what successful art she had drawn the charitable lady to poor old granny's relief. Her pretended accident -and injury had been all a sham-a trick by which she had often before, of a dark night, duped the charitable and credulous who happened to be by. And if the carriage   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         261 which she feigned bad run over her was stopped, and it contained any passengers, they were usually mulcted by the crowd in a tolerable sum for her benefit. During the day her mother would sit for hours together upon a door- step in Broadway, holding her in her lap as if she were sick, and holding out one hand for charitable pennies. Such are two of the many little ways and means by which the miserably-destitute women and children of the Five Points contrive to eke out their precarious subsis- tence. And after all, notwithstanding we are inclined to hold up our hands when we hear of these impostures, and exclaim at the moral turpitude of " the dregs of our population," their artifices are not half so culpable, in one sense, as " the tricks of trade," so called, which are quite common among certain -store-keepers, manufacturers, and even mechanics. Are they any worse than the adulteration of drugs, upon the quality and efficacy of which life itself offen depends? Are they any worse than the manufacture of poisonous fluids, to pass for certain wines and liquors? Are they any worse 'than the stamping and labelling of articles, spuriously, to pass for other and more saleable manufactures and preparations? Are they any worse than the false representations by which irresponsible merchants obtain credit? Or by which a lawyer obtains a verdict? Or by which certain banks and insurance companies on a bad foundation, prey upon the community? Are they any worse than the sham work of contrac- tors and-house-builders?   262       EASY  NAT; OR, Are they any worse than the pretensions of certain medical men, and patent-medicine makers? Are they any worse than the pipe-laying of politicians --the log-rolling and trickery of legislators-or the swindles by' which aldermen, and other functionaries, fatten upon the public plunder? We might go on enumerating (and perhaps include even book-making, in the same category), but will halt, and go back with less distaste to Mistress Judy M'Guire. CHAPTER XXXII. Life and Death near the Old Brewery--The Somnambulist. THE crucifix, upon which the sick woman had her eyes fastened almost immovably, while her lips moved, yet with- out sound, as if in silent prayer, was a brazen or copper cross, about four inches high], fastened to the wall, near her face, and to which was attached an effigy, in silver, of the Saviour.    . 'Poor creature I' said Kate, full of pity, and she thought to herself, 'Has she any conception, now, while she looks, of the majesty, and sweetness and glory of her Lord and mine, or has she, with much gazing at that curious little metallic crucifix, come to regard the cross as a copper one, and Christ a silver Saviour? Does her adoration rise above that material figure, or is her mute worship directed to the effigy alone V? 'Mither!' said the woman, speaking loudly, and close   THE THREE A?P RE NT I C ES.     263 to her ear, 'here's a nice lady come to see yous, and give us some money to bring the praste.' ' Eh 9 said the sick one, vacantly. Her daughter repeated what she had said, but in a still louder tone. 'May the great God Almighty bliss herl' was the reply, but in a low, broken voice, for her respiration had become quick and difficult. 'Are you in much pain?' inquired Kate, compassion- ately. ' Spake, louder,' said Judy, ' she didn't hear yous.' The question was repeated. 'Och, it's all over me, dreadful,' was the reply, and there was a spasmodic twitching of the muscles of the emaciated face ; but still the sunken eyes were never for a moment averted from the crucifix. - Once or twice she raised her hand slowly, and with difficulty, to her eyes, and made a movement as if there were a mist before her sight, which she would brush away, but still their gaze was directed to the metallic miniature cross. ' Fale iv the poor crathur's arms,' said Judy, uncovering her tenderly. 'There's not a ha'porth iv flesh on her bones. But see how her chist is swelled wid the dhropsy!' There was a large dark spot upon the sick woman's face, which led Kate to fear that corruption was already claiming its victim. ' How long has that black spot been there? she inquired. ' Iver since Jock shtruck her wid his ouwn divil's hand; an' may his sowl niver have a mass, or a prayer, through purgatory, for it,' exclaimed the woman, with sudden pas-   264       EASY NAT; OR, sion, and intermingling some oaths, which induced Kate to glance instinctively to the -children; but they were fast asleep, and snoring as blissfully as any child of wealth. If they had not been, the profanity would have malde no new impression upon them--they had been accustomed to it from infancy, and were themselves fluent in it. 'To strike his own wife's mither, and she an ould, help- less c rathr, not able to lift so much as a finger against him!' ejaculated Judy, with vehement contempt. 'Was he indeed so brutal?' exclaimed Kate, indignantly. 'Yis, mam. He came home dhrunk as a baste, as lle often did, but I was off that onlooky night, an' he bate her like a sack; bad lcess to him! Whin I came to my tiniment (for which he has- never paid a penny for the rint), I found poor rmither, here, a moanin' sorely, and Biddy, though she said her father (it's not her ouwn father, my lady ; her ouwn father's dead-heaven rest his dear sowl, but her step-father, she said) would murther her if he knew she 'peached, but it was him that had been bating granny! We had a bit iv a fight, yous may be sure, marm, whin he shewed his ugly mug in my house again, and I guv him a hyst into the strate. That was Sunday week, and he hasn't been back since; the better luck! Ill betide the day I married him in Boston, and come to New York wid him. I was a dacent crathur once, and well to do, but he has been the ruination iv me!' 'I am sorry for you,' said Kate, but see this poor woman surely she is at her last gasp.' 'An' me, shame to me, fretting about by-own troubles!' said the woman, in a tone of self-reproach. 'Mither, mither, spake to me ' she cried; and shedding a flood of   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        265 tears, as she kissed the forehead of the dying person. But there was no response. A feeble moan was followed by a convulsive shiver, and all the old woman's earthly troubles were over. Even in death, her eyes were fixed upon the copper cross and silver effigy of Jesus. 'Ochoon, she's dead intirely. She niver will spake to me again,' cried Judy, in great distress. Oh! mither, mither! It's hard life we've led iv late, and it's kilt ye. Ochoon, ochoon! She was the only crathur that loved me!' The rough woman was a sincere mourner, and kneeling by the squalid couch, she kissed her many times, groaning piteously, and bathing the inanimate countenance with her tears. "Silently reproaching herself because she had uttered no word of supplication to God in behalf -of a fellow-being, passing, before her eyes, from life into death, Kate asked the mourner if she should pray. 'The Lord Almighty bless yous, my swate ladyl' sobbed the woman. 'The praste camewonst till her, and pro- mised to again, but I haven't paid my dues this many a day, an' we poor people stand a bad chance wid the clargy.' Rising from the body, she detached the crucifix from the wall, and kissing it, and crossing herself devoutly, placed it upon the bed directly in front of where her visitor was about to kneel. . Kate's feelings revolted at it, for to her it appeared like worshiping a graven image. ' We shall not need the crucifix, Judy,' said she,'kindly, as she removed the miniature, and laid it near the head of the corpse; 'the Son of God, our Blessed Redeemer, ever liveth to make intercession for us at the right hand of 12   266       EASY N AT;   OR, the Faer on high. No human device, and no earthly object ought to arrest or stand between our supplication and our dear Saviour in Heaven. I don't waDt any malln or image, to stand between nie and my Redeemer. And oh! what a glorious privilege it is, that we may go to Him like little children unto a kind father; They need no one to plead for them with their parents, Judy,- nor do we, any but the Great Intercessor, who was ordained- from the beginning of the world, even Christ himself, God in the flesh.' 'May He bless yous marm, foriver and iver marm ; but it's jist as we are larnt,' said Mrs. McGuire ; ' but aprotes- tint prayer would-be' no good to the sowl of a true Catholic, as my poor mither was to the last breath iv her body.' There was the slightest possible tincture of pride, and even of contempt, in the voice and look of the woman as she spoke. ' God is no respecter of persons, nor of sects, and so that the supplication arises from a sincere and earnest heart to His throne,'it is no matter whether that heart beat under a ragged garment, or a vestment of purple and fine linen-or whether it is breathed by a protestant beggar or a Catholic priest,' said Mrs. Mudge. 'But no prayer, either Catholic or protestant, Judy, would be of any service to your mother now. Her spirit has fled beyond any mortal influence either good or bad ; and let us hope that she is happy in heaven.' 'Sure there shall be one mass said for the rapose of her sowl, if I have to stale the money to pay for it! I'm not so mane as to grudge her that much!' cried Judy. ' Whin    THE THREE APP RE    TICES.    267 my; darlint was burnt to death wid de fire in Boston, we had a nice wake and the candles all dacent and respectable like ; and when Phalin, my first hoosband died (alack the day!) we had masses said for the pace iv his sowl. But thim was bether times! I remimber a nice jontleman, though he was protestint-his name was Fairbanks (shall I iver forgit it? troth, not) he towld me the same things that yous have, but fath, they wint in at one ear an' out at the ither.' 'Is it possible,' cried Kate, in amazement ' that you are the same- woman -who had a child burnt to death, in Hatter's-square, six or eight years ago, and received, some assistance from two ladies by the name of Godwin and Mr. Fairbanks?' 'Troth I am!' replied Judy, wonderingly. 'Truth is indeed stranger than fiction ' cried Kate. ' What a strange coincidence it is, that I should again meet you under similar circumstances!' 'What mane yous?' said the woman. ' Why Judy,' replied Kate, 'I saw you at that wake.' ' At my darlint's wake?' Yes, I was one of the party with Mr. Fairbanks,' said Mrs. Mudge. ' Sure yous a-chating me!' cried Mrs. McGuire, half incredulous and entirely astonished. 'Don't you remember the one whom Mr. Fairbanks called Kate?' 'Yous is not the nice lady that blissed jontleman was to marry?' cried the woman, holding the light towards her. 'No, I was with Nathan Mudge. My name was Kate Godwin.'   268       EASY NAT; OR, 'Och, darlintl' cried Judy, joyfully, 'now I remimber yousl Oh, my dear, swate young lady, may the blessing of God and the bowly saints rist upon yous, for yous kind- ness to the poor widdyl An' how d'ye do, and how have yous been this many along day? Och, sure, yous changed as well as mysel I I remimber yousl were as rosy and bright, then, as a beautiful morning in June. Sure, it's ailing ye've been?' 'I have recently had a fit of sickness,' replied Kate. 'An' Mr. Fairbanks-the dear man--I suppose he mar- ried the nice Miss, an' they're living swately, wid a hoose fu' o' childers?'    .    . Kate answered in the negative. 'Sure she is living? 'Yes.' 'An' true to him? ' As true as truth itself! ' An' not married? Troth, for wonst in his life, the jointleman was wrong. Sivin years is a musha long time to kape a' poor lass a-waiting. They gits heart-sick wid the suspinse, and lose all their good looks.' ' It is not his fault,' replied Kate. 'She herself has deferred their union.' 'For a mighty good raison, I hope,' said Judy, 'for it must be a great trial to him, and a sore temptation.' 'An' yous, yesilf, Miss Kate, ye married that cheery little fellow, iv coorse. Arrahl he was a broth iv a boyl' 'He is my husband,' replied Kate. 'An' he makes yous a faithful old man, and yous is happy?' inquired the woman, with a more inquisitive look than she had used. 1   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        269 Kate sighed, and without returning a direct answer, she replied, 'Our only consolation in adversity is from above. We both need it ; let us both pray for it. Will you kneel with me, Judy, while I pray?' ' Troth I wull,' said Judy. The two women knelt together, and Kate raised an earnest, simple petition to the Throne of Grace, for God to help them in their time of need. When they had risen to their feet, Mrs. Mudge looked at her watch, and noticing for the first time the extreme lateness of the hour, she said, 'I will go now, and see you again to-morrow. You have neighbors, I presume, who will help you to lay out the body?' 'Niver a one,' replied Judy. 'I'm bad enou' mesel', widout makin' acquaintance wid any iv the catamaroons what lives about here! Jock used to bring divils enou' home wid him, but I want the company o' none iv 'em.' 'Then I will help you,' said Kate, though I have no experience in these melancholy duties.' 'But, it's mesel' that has,' said Judy sadly. There was my hoosband an' my darlint b'y in Boston, and two chil- der, Pat and Mary, in this big city-bad look till the day I come to it Hthese hands laid them arl in their wind- ing sheets.' ' Your afflictions have been heavy, indeed!' said her visi- tor, in a tone of deep sympathy. ' It's a jidgment for my sins, I suppose,' said the woman, with a groan. 'God orders these bereavements for a wise purpose, undoubtedly,' said Kate. 'They are powerful reminders   270       EASY NAT; OR, of our own feebleness and dependence. When trusting to the arm of flesh, we are self-confident and forgetful of our indebtedness to God for every breath that we draw, and all that we have/ 'Well, there ain't no use fretting,' said the woman,- dry- ing her eyes ; 'I must go to work.' Warming some water by a small portable furnace, in the fireplace, she proceeded, with Mrs. Mudge's assistance, to prepare the body of her mother for the grave. This work occupied more than an hour, during which no more words were interchanged than were necessary. When this duty was done, Judy placed upon her own neck, after kissing it repeatedly, an amulet, which she had taken from the corpse. 'The dear old .sowl,' she said, 'had worn it ever since she was a child, to keep the evil spirits arf, and now I'll wear it till my time comes. Her visitor wondered at her superstition, but said nothing.                          i Poor Judy McGuire had kept hid away against occa-     i sion, a couple of sperm candles. These she lit, and stick-  ing them into two junk bottles, still fragrant with rum, placed -one at the head and the other at the feet of the corpse. - She then set adjusted upon the body the crucifix of which we have before spoken; and, apparently well satisfied with the manner in which she had completed the work, handed Kate the only chair in the room, and kneel- ing down by the side of the bed, with a string of beads in her hands, she kept her lips moving rapidly, but with- out any audible sound, for some minutes. The deathly silence was suddenly broken by a sharp,   TE THERP TH   PP PBENTICES.   21         g  } boyish, treble voice, startling Kate from her meditations,   J for it was in the same room.                  !   s It was the shrill cry of a newsboy-         -  ' 'Ere's the S n. hextra; and second edition o' the  erald! 'Rival o' Steamerl'                     A. Turning  quickly to the corner, whence the cry pro-     i ceeded, she saw the little, peaked face of the recumbent  -it: newsboy. He was evidently fast asleep, for his snoring  was audible in a moment afterwards, s it had been before; but his mouth moved, as if he were still shouting. The lad slept in his clothes, without any other covering,   s upon the straw; where lay, too, little Biddy, snoring like a pig.                  b Judy McGuire had taken no notice of his cry, but continued to mutter her prayers, and push a bead along on the string, for every one she said.              g In a few moments afterwards the boy got up (but evi- dently in his sleep) and carrying his left arm as if he had  a bundle under it, and holding his right hand to his mouth as the manner of the newsvenders is, to condense the sound, he again pitched his squeaking voice to it's highest  ote, whiy hLe walked around the room and cried, '0Rival o' Steamer! SI  and Herald Extra!' And then added in a lower tone, as he held out his hand to the kneeling woman, ' buy the Herald, sir? Latest edition. Got the great fire an' loss o' life!' Judy arose with less impatience than ,ate had looked  for, upon this grotesque interruption of her devotions, and taking the somnambulist by the collar, led him silently to a part of the room where her wash-tub was; then filling the hollow of her hand with water, cast it into his face,   272       EASY NAT; OR, saying at the same time, 'Will yous nivir git over' yous old tricks o'walkin' in yous slape, Misther Scratch Grave]?' The poor boy, to whom the reader has been introduced, in company with Mr. John Hard, was rather shame-faced when this cool salutation suddenly awoke him; and shak- ing off the water as a disagreeable stranger, he picked his way to the straw again, and laid down, with his little lizard eyes fixed upon the candles and the corpse, in silent wonder. 'It's the only way we can wake him in a hurry,' said Judy, apologetically for the summary sample of hydro- pathy--and she filled her tobacco pipe, and sat down in the chimney to smoke.  'The spalpeen is a poor off-sloot and a foundling.  If ye wud stop wid thie body till morn- ing, my dear lady, and not lave the poor widdy alone, we could pass the time by prating, about his history.' Kate Consented to remain until daylight. CHAPTER XXXTII. Developes some facts of the utmost importance to Scratch Gravel- The Suicide--Foul wrong somewhere in High Life. IT may have occurred to the reader, that considering the locality, and the sordid poverty of the dwelling, to say nothing of the disreputable character of its occupants, it was a   wonder that Mrs. Mudge should have remained in Judy McGuire's basement even for a   single hour. Few ladies would have ventured thither, even in thedaytime, you will say. True, but in that lawless quarter, at the I' ,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        273 period of which we write, the cloak of darkness was actually safer for a decent woman than the glare of day. In the obscurity of night, she would be certain to be regarded as one of the denizens of the Five Points ; and, under its cover, much of the wretchedness and filth of the place would be hidden from her own view. Mistress McGuire's basement was certainly not a Beacon-street ,palace, nor a Fifth Avenue parlor. No one could have mistaken it for either the one or the other. Even a blind man, if he had not lost the sense of smelling, as well as sight, would have detected the difference at once. He would have noticed, also, that beneath his tread there was no carpet, nor a smooth floor, nor even a sanded one, but much rubbish, in a small way--or dirt- that a good broom in two willing hands could have remedied. Whatever may have been her other virtues, certainly neatness was not among them. Emulation, and the force of example, and ' approbativeness' (as the phre- nologists call it), make more tidy housewives, perhaps, than any innate love of cleanliness. Neatness, we suspect, is one of the conventionalities of life (against which some of the social reformers declaim), and grows out of that 'false organization of society,' which it is so important that females of a philosophical and cosmopolitan turn of mind should lecture about, around the country. Cleanliness, possibly, is not more an inherent quality of our nature, than courage,; and some metaphysicians, we all know, allege that men are naturally cowards. There are thou- sands of long-bearded, unkempt and unwashed men, in the mines of California this day, utterly careless of their personal appearance, who, at home, in 'good society,' so- 12*   274       EASY NAT; OR, called, were pained by a lack of polish on their boots, and indignant at. any blemish upon their shirt-bosom. They now discover in the equanimity with which they can wear a shirt a month, and have a thorough wash only twice a year, that their former neatness was of social growth, fostered by emulation and custom. Judy took some little-a very little--pains to be neat, when she first removed from Boston to her present resi- dence, but she had met witl-no competition, and conse- quently no encouragement. Cleanliness, it was evident, was not one of the conventionalities of the Five Points, whatever it might be elsewhere, and finding no rival in the use of the broom, Judy McGuire soon ceased to sweep her room every day; and, shortly afterwards, once a month appeared superfluous; and then Jock put an end to the question, summarily, by selling the besom for a glass of rum, to an inexperienced grocer who, meeting with a misfortune, had just moved into that quarter out of a respectable neighborhood, and fancied that a broom would be useful. Something traditional, however, remained in Judy's memory in respect to fhe ancient custom of " sweeping up" occasionally, and it led her to apologize to Kate for the, appearance of the ashes, cinders, bits of paper, and dirt in general, with which the floor was pretty well covered.  'Jock, the thafe iv the world,' said she, ' wint and sowld a beautiful nice broom that I had, for a horn o' whiskey; and niver brought home a dhrap iv it I - That's going on for two year ago.' Judy was not a lone instance of uncleanliness. Two-   THE THREE APP RE NTICES.        275 thirds, of all the very poor foreign families occupying apartments in the cities, appear to place a low value upon the use of the broom, the duster, the scouring cloth, and soap and water. With a few years of experience as a 'visitor' in connection with the ' New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, the reader could not fail to be struck with the fact, that those appli- cants for aid who have the least to do, and complain the most of a lack of employment, always have the most dirty and sluttish apartments. And such is the distaste of these poor pensioners for the task of keeping them- selves and their rooms, even tolerably clean, that should the society just named make it a sine qua noln, and require them to keep clean, or do without their tickets for fuel, shoes and groceries, they would probably choose the latter alternative. Still, under all this discouragement (and it is significant of much more behind it), this excellent institution distributes, in weekly disbursements, to the poor of New York city, a sum exceeding sixty thousand dol- lars annually. Perfect system is observed in this charity. The city is divided into a certain number of sections- about 350-to each of which is assigned a visitor, whose services are gratuitous. It is his duty to visit and aid with tickets upon the society's grocers, shoe dealers, and coal merchants, for a small amount, any applicants (over five years in the country) whom he may find to be deserv- ing of help. He records the names of the recipients, their origin, whether native or foreign, their occupation, the number in their families, of males and of females, the cause of their destitution, the number of his visits, and what he gives them. On the first of every month, he ren-   276       EASY NAT; OR, ders an account in due form to the committee of the asso- ciation for his district. A district includes a number of sections. Those destitute persons who have been in the country less than five years are aided by the Commission- ers of Emigration. Without some such thoroughly systematic supervision of the physical necessities of the poor in a city like New York, many would die of hunger and cold ; but since the organization of this glorious regiment of charitable volun- teers to fight against Want and Starvation, instances of death for the lack of food and fuel have been very rare. It may not be superfluous here to say, that the visitor has nothing to do with the materials of the donations; his distributions being- in orders payable in groceries, fuel, and shoes. And again, that the Association has a per- manent claim to gifts of money from every benevolent citizen, by which to continue and increase the utility of this philanthropic establishment-really the noblest fea- ture of New York-and, by all odds, those who should give most, are the wealthy naturalized residents, inasmuch as ninety-nine in a hundred of the recipients of this insti- tion's charities are of foreign birth. But to return from this digression, to Mistress Judy McGuire. The institution which we have described was not in operation in her day, and consequently had not extended to her either friendly counsel or more substan- tial aid; and, certainly, her premises were not a very nice place for a young lady, reared in comfort, to call at, much less to remain in over night ; and most assuredly Kate did not fancy it; but she well knew, that the truest   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         21' way to sympathize with the poor, and elevate the degraded, is to ascertain their wants, physical and moral, and humanely administer to them, personally, at their own homes. The road to success in such missions of mercy is no primrose path, and if it have any flowers, they all bud--- and blossom, and yield their sweet incense in the hearts of those who travel it. Were the walks to the dwellings of the destitute car- peted with brussels or tapestry, and the air laden with ntilk fleers, or other perfume, and the houses nicely swept and garnished, many thousands of benevolently-minded ladies (young and attractive, too, perhaps) would visit them; but what with filthy localities and apartments, and clothing rank with the dirt and perspiration of months' standing, and breaths eloquent of rum and onions, the task is too revolting for the daughters of luxury, and even for those of less refinement. However, Kate had not given a thought to any such consideration. She acted purely from impulse. A fellow-being was in distress, and all her thoughts were concentrated upon assisting and consoling her. ]naturally of an energetic and courageous character, from childhood, her experience, subsequent to her hasty marriage, was of a kind well calculated to establish her self-reliance. Had she lived in the earlier settlement of the country, when the ruthless Indian warfare often developed extraordinary presence of mind and intrepidity in the gentler: sex, Kate Mudge would have been among the bravest. She had consented to watch with the dead, in that low dwelling of poverty and vice, not from a fine theory of duty, but from the dictates of humanity, unrestrained by   278       EASY NAT   OR, any prudential considerations; and having resolved to remain there until morning, she listened with patient equanimity, and even with some degree of interest to what Judy had to say about the newsboy. ' Little Scratch, there,' she began- 'That is not the boy's name?I interrupted Kate. 'Sure it is,' replied Judy (who was sitting at the cor- ner-of the fireplace, upon an inverted wash-tub, in a posi- tion which elevated her knees almost as high as her chin) 'Scratch is his name.' ' A nick-name, said Kate. 'Troth it is the Ould Nick's name,' rejoined the woman, ' an' he is a limb of Satan anyhow.' 'But what is his other name?' inquired Kate, as we have shown  in a previous chapter that John Hard had done, naturally enough regarding it as only a slang cog- nomen peculiar to the flash. 'Gravel,' replied Judy; ' Scratch Gravel. He's niver  been called by any ither, though a betther properly belongs to him.'  'And what is it?' said her visitor. 'Hist!' said Mrs. McGire. 'Is the b'y aslape?' and she turned her face to the corner where the children lay, both apparently in deep slumber. 'He's fast,7 she continued, in a re-assured tone, 'and snoring like a little pig, as he is, -in the straw there.' If she could have seen the rogue, the instant she averted her large masculine face, his resemblance to the juvenile swine to which she had compared him, would have been still more obvious in the manner in which he looked at her out of his funny little eyes; but as she could not   I THE THREE APPRENTICES.      279 see, life the clairvoyants, out of the back of her head, his w:kefulness escaped detection. What with the corpse and the candles, and the beauti- ful lady; and a quantity of undigested cocoa-nut candy, he had been kept awake, and now, that he himself had becone the subject of conversation, he was all attention, though skilfully shamming the most profound somnolency,    \ and breathing mainly through his nose; a process attended with some difficulty, the organ being, in his case, a small   one. 'He was found on the beach,' said Judy, knocking the ashes out of her pipe, and replacing it upon the jog whence : she had taken it.                      A ' Upon the beach!' cried Kate. 'What do you mean?'     I 'I mane what I say,' replied Judy, 'that he was found   Jlt upon the shore, at Coney Island.'  a  There is that?'  ' (uwnly a thrifle away from here, they tell me, but I niver set fut in it.' 'How old was the poor child? 'ot more'n two wakes.' 'Was the poor thing cast ashore. frion some wreck V     i inquired Kate.                        i 'o ; near by, a young crathur's body-a poor girl-     i was :ound washed upon the sand, an' it was the gineral belae, as she was knowni in this neighborhood, that she ' had drownded hersel' and meant to droon the childer, but,  , somehow, didn't do it, for the little spalpane was found by i a clam-digger, clawing away on the sand and gravel, for     deari life. '                        i He must have been astonished 1'    280       EASY NAT; OR, '-The babby?' 'The man, at discovering an infant scratching along, all alone, on the brink of the ocean/ replied Kate. 'Troth he was not all alone,' said Judy. 'True,' rejoined Kate. 'The providence of God was with him.' 'And the poor young thing, his mither,' added Judy. 'But she was dead ' said Kate, interrogatively. 'As the sea-shells she lay on,' responded Judy. 'The clam-digger-that foond the babby said he thought at the first iv it, whin he saw it a long way arf, that it was a seal, or a sea-dog, or maybees a young maremaid; an' uf he'd a had a gun he would ha' shot it. He tuck up a big stun,and walkin' along as uf he had been walkin' on eggs, wid both his two eyes fixed on the babby, like saucers in bigness, lest it should jump into the say before he should guv it a big knock; on a suddint, not lookin' wonst to his steps, he stumbled against the corpse iv the mither! An' it's a frighted man he was, an' wud ha' turned as white as the froth on the say, I supposes, but he was a nagur. He  lived in this tiniment marm-in this very cellar-and died here, that clam-man, two year ago. I was his tinant whin I first came here. His wife died, and thin he guv it up altogidder to me ; but lodged here for a time.' 'But what did he do with the body and the child?' 'There were rings on the fingers iv the poor crathur, and ear-drops, and a pictur iv a jointleman, and a nice handkerchief, an' some letters, an' a lace collar worth two or three dollars, and arl these things ould Cesar tuck away wid de babby, and brought home to his wife.'   TH E THREE APPRENTICES.        281 'But what was done with the body?V ' Cesar towld me his ould woman abused him at a flying rate, 1kase he didn't rob the poor crathur iv arl her cloth- ing too, for he had said it was vallyble, and so he thought he wud go and stale away her silk gown at laste; for what good could it do her, pool; sowl? but whin he got down there again, some one else had diskivered it and it was in the hands iv the Crowner's quist./ ' And what was the verdict?I ' That she came to her bad end by drooning hersel'/ 'But the child?' 'Old Cesar, the clam-digger, shut his own clam-shells, and said nothin'.  And he never said nothin' to nobody about finding the child, or what he'd done except to his wife, while she lived, and to me afther she was dead.' Why not? You say the child has another name.' 4 Yes-the nagurs called himl Scratch Gravel from. the beginning, an' everybody calls him so, but by good rights I belave if the gospil truth was known, his name ought to be'-- Scratch was sitting up in the straw, with his eyes fixed upon the speaker, at this point in her dialogue, and his little hatchet-face leaning towards her. So intent was he, that she discovered him before he had time to dodge down into a horizontal position again. ' Blood-and-oons!' she exclaimed, half rising, ' are yous awake?' "Ere's the Sun, Herald, secondedition--rivalo' steam- er!' cried the artful Scratch, with one hand to his mouth to help the sound, and then sotto-voce, 'buy a paper, mister?' 'Still talkin' in yous slape, yous spalpane,' said Judy,   282       EASY NAT ; OR, and going to the straw, she pushed him gently back into his former position, and he pretended to snore again. 'The poor b'y,' said the woman, as she resumed her seat 'is so full iv his business--which has, always been sellin' papers-and cries 'em so many thousan' times i' the day, it's no wonder that it runs in his pate when aslape.' 'I should be afraid that he would sometimes go out the door in one of these fits of somnambulism, and meet with injury,' rejoined Kate. 'Sure no, replied Judy, 'he's done more hurt to me than to himsel'. One night he woke me up wid a whole quart o' wather on my pate, and there wasn't a dhrap lift to chuck on to him, to bring him out iv the fit! Fortunate he wint to his straw again, and slept it off, but I was mighty wet.' If Judy had seen the boy's face just then, she might have thought he was having a very pleasant dream. 'You were going to say what you believed to be his right name,' said Kate. 'Ould Cesar towld me on his dith-bid that from the letters and the marks on one iv the rings, and the likeness in the pictur itsel', the father of that b'y was one Pater V an Wart, a man that rides in his own carriage, in a grand hoose in Broadway.' As she said this, Scratch's head was raised a little from the straw, and his eyes gleaming with wonder. ' Can it be possible that Cesar's conjecture was correct?' said Kate. 'Fath I can't say that,' replied Mrs. McGuire, 'but he said that he had seen the jointleman often, an' the pictur was as like him as two peas in a pod.'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        283 ' But does it resemble the boy?' inquired Kate. ' Sure I niver thought iv that same,' replied Judy, open- ing her eyes with the magnitude of the idea. I'll git yous the pictur.' Scratch's little spangle eyes followed the dame, as she arose from her seat; and went to a shelf which constituted her pantry. Taking down an old earthen tea-pot, minus both nose and handle, she turned out about a pint of dried beans, and at the bottom found the picture, which she then handed to Kate. It was a miniature painted upon a small ivory oval, and was without the frame, which, probably, being of conver- tible value, had been sold by Cesar, together with the jewelry, for the support of the child which his wife had 'raised by hand.' Kate examined it attentively for some moments. It was evidently the ' counterfeit presentment' of a member of the 'higher circles.' This might be inferred not only from the dress but from the features, which were small and delicate, with a certain indefinable general air of gentle breeding.  The eyes were too small and close to the nose to be handsome, but they were keen and penetrating, and were overtopped by a rather Byronic brow, and head of short curly hair. "et us compare it with the boy,' she remarked, after a few moments, spent in examining the picture. Taking the miniature in one hand, and a light in the other, she went to the straw, where both the children lay with their clothes on, as is the custom of thousands of the children of penury in New York, whose clothes never come off until they fall to pieces.   EASY NAT; OR, Scratch had quickly shut his eyes and resumed his nasal respiration, when the strange lady bent over him and holding the light to his face, compared it with the miniature 'The resemblance is extraordinary,' she remarked. 'Is it ?' exclaimed Mrs. McGuire, who was standing at the head of the humble bed on which the children lay. 'The nose and chin, and general outline of the child's face is like the picture. The forehead and hair are not, but the eyes would decide it. If I could only see then-' The boy opened the lids for an instant, and gave her a keen look. It startled her, and she uttered a little cry of surprise, but the next moment he was apparently asleep. She- would have doubted the evidence of her own senses, and thought she had only fancied it, like those devotees who affect to have seen ' a miraculous movement of the pupils' in some picture of the Virgin, had not a vivid impression of the exact resemblance of the eyes of the boy to those in the miniature, remained upon her mind for hours after- wards. 'Certainly,' she said to Mrs. McGuire, as she handed the light and portrait to her, 'the likeness is remarkable.' Judy replaced the picture in the old stone teapot, and turning in again upon it the dry beans, replaced it upon the shelf; not, however, without being observed by the watchful eyes of Scratch Gravel, -which in a moment after filled with tears, while his little heart beat as it had never beat before. He was not unlike all other boys, after all-he had a father, somewhere I He would find him out-he would see him-he would make him own him-he would make him   THE T'HREE APPRENTICES.   285   LOVE him! Such were the foremost of the thoughts which crowded info the poor boy's mind, and caused the tears to trickle down into the straw, until he fell asleep again in earnest, to dream no more of the Sun and Herald, but of a luxurious home and a kind parent in Broadway. I -   CHAPTER XXXIV.   John Hard stumbles into a difficulty, and is challenged-Declines being bored, and volunteers an opinion, as is an opinion, upon Duelling. JoHN heard nothing at the breakfast-table but remarks upon the expected race. Its announcement, weeks before, had attracted thousands of strangers from all quarters, more particularly from the South, where, heretofore, greater attention had been given to the breed of fast horses than in the Northern States. The principal hotels were overflowing with persons whb had come to the city to witness the trial of speed, and every man felt committed to the horse which represented his half of the country. Betting is a foolish custom, but the fools are not all dead yet, and of course there were more of them in that day. So bets were rife upon 'Postboy' and ' Bascomb,' unsight unseen, a week before the trial; and early on the morning of the race, they grew thick and fast, mainly in favor of the Northern horse. John Hard had always regarded race-courses as resorts of mere horse-jockeys and gamblers; and he was astonish-   286       EASY NAT; OR, ed to find a large room full of very respectable people neglecting their victuals, in talking and hearing others talk about the animals, and exchanging innumerable wagers upon the expected contest. He ate up everything within his reach, and wanted more, but the waiters were talking and betting too, or standing open-mouthed, hearing the geminen's remarks, and carefully treasuring away in mind any horse wisdom that chanced to fall from their lips. 'Hello you, there, mister!' said John to one of them, who, with his salver under his arm, was conversing with two other members of the white-jacket fraternity, and counting some bills into the hands of one of them, 'ain't ye goin' to give a feller somethin7 to chaw upon?' 'Yes, sir,' replied the colored servitor ; 'soon's I is done deposited de stakes.' ' You jest deposit some steak down here in front o' my plate, and let your bettin' be till arter breakfast. I'm as hungry as a shark,' said Mr. Hard. 'Yes, massa. What boss does ye bet on, massa?' said the waiter whom he had addressed; whereupon the other two showed all their ivory, and turned away to laugh. ' Mind yer business,' said John, and 'get me a steak; and let it be a good sized one ; and-bring me some flap- jacks and apple-sarce, and a pickled cowcumber, and a -hunk -o' brown bread with plenty o' butter, and a tumbler o' milk.' 'Dat all, massa?' said Julius Caesar. ' I don't care if ye fetch along a piece o' cheese,' replied John. ' I may think o' somethin' else when ye comeback.' But in the kitchen the waiter got into a warm discussion with the cook, while the steak was on the fire, as to what   THE THREE    APPRENTICES.     287 was, or what was not a wager on the race, which he had laid with him the day before ; and, in the meantime, the meat was done as black as the betters, and John himself was burning with impatience. At this unpropitious time, while he was full of emptiness and dissatisfaction with the waiters' neglect of their duty, one of them asked him in a confidential way, as he sat the spoiled steak down before him, what he thought of the Southern horse. 'Blast the Southern horsel' exclaimed Mr. Hard, out of all patience. Several gentlemen from the south of Mason & Dixon's line rose promptly to theirsfeet I for the remark had been heard above all their talking. ' You must take that back, sir,' roared the most eager of them, reddening with wrath. ,'Yes; make him take it back,' cried the others. Well, I guess it won't be any more'n right,' said John. 'If not done,'-said the Southern gentleman, threaten- iugly. ' /cvas done too quick,' interrupted our friend- 'that's a fact.' ' Take it'back then!' cried the other again. 'Colonel, make him take it back 1' All at the table, John excepted, had now risen to their feet, and the words, 'Yes, take it back,' were repeated by many, even by some Northern men. Mr. Hard was quite surprised at the interest manifested, and taking up the dish of steak, he handed it to the waiter, saying, ' Well, I guess ye may as well take it back, waiter. I wouldn't mind, ye know, but as all the gentlemen insist that ye shall take it back, I guess ye'd better dew it,   288       EASY N AT   OR, and bring me a good one. And don't forget the flap- jacks.' A roar of laughter followed; for John's remark and manner made it manifest that he honestly imagiled that it was the meat, and not the offensive words which they wanted taken back. They all resumed their seats; the most of them in great good humor. But to the irascible and rather thick-headed Colonel of the Buncombe Militia, this was not satisfactory; and inti- mating that he should appeal to the code of honor, he demanded that our friend should send him his card. '^ 'I don't carry any such truck about me, mister,' replied the young farmer; 'but I guess it's just as plain as day- light that I'm John Hard, of Massachusetts.' 'Well, Mr. Hard,' said the Colonel with a sneer, 'I presume your hide is not so hard but that you can be shot, as easy at least as a rhinoceros. I shall expect you to meet me, if you're a gentleman.' 'That's the very reason I won't dew it, mister,' replied John. ' I aml a gentleman, and can bark a squarrel, with my old rifle, off the top of the highest oak that ever grew, but to fire at a target as large as you are--for you are kind o' coppulent-would me nothin' short o' murder, and murderers ain't gentlemen.' A broad smile beamed all around the board, and gave still more offence to the Colonel, who was so irritated that he did not confine himself to the decorumn of the duello, in its initial state, but protested in a blustering manner, in the presence of all who were there, that Mr. Hard should fight him. 'Will you name your weapons?' said a wag from Virginia, who was laughing in his sleeve   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         289 John detected the roguish twinkle in the other's eye, with his usual acuteness, and replied, 'Yes, the only weepons I ever use ag'in a man; but I should have to send hole for them.' 'Name them, sir!' cried the angry Colonel, regarding the statement that they were at home, as an artful dodge. 'They are my boots, mister,' replied John. 'My boots are my weepons.' At this the Colonel's wrath knew no bounds, for he regarded it as an intimation that he would re'eive a kicking. ( Why  not, -wiy not,'-he stammered with passion, and rising from his seat, ' why not try it now, sir? Why wait to send home?' ' I got my best boots onl nowI replied John, quite coolly, 'and I'm kind o' savin' on 'em.' This speech only made the matter worse, for all tittered, and it appeared as if Mr. Hard thought his best boots too good to kick the Colonel with; but nothing was further from his mealing. Foaming over with rage, the Colonel drew a pistol and would have advanced in order to shoot him, had not the Virginian, with friendly remonstrance, and gentle violence, detained him. All were now on their feet again, and crowding around the parties. The Colonel swore terribly that he would cut out his ---- Yankee heart for him, unless he would meet him like a  man. 'You must fight,' said one of those disinterested gen- tlemen whom we see in Congress, on such occasions, vastly more tender of other people's honor than their own, and ready to cry '"st boy!P at every chance of a quarrel,- 13   290       EASY NAT; OR, 'Mr. Hard, I don't see how, as a man of honor, you can avoid it. I shall be very happy to stand your friend.' ' I don't want any man for a friend that advises me to fight,' replied John. "Pon my life/' said another, in the same confidential way, 'I don't see how you can avoid it I How can you?' 'Just as easy as winkin' replied John-' By not fightin'.g 'A duel is inevitable, Mr. Hard,' said the first speaker, eager for bloodshed; ' Colonel Waite is determined on a duel.' ' He'll have to wait some time 'fore he makes a duellist o' John Hard. I ain't sitch a plaguy fool as to stanll' up and let a man make holes through me ; and I guess I ain't sitch a cold-blooded heathen as to deliberately take aim at a human critter, as if he was only a squarrel or a mush- squash, instead of Go's image, with a soul to be saved.' ' Pshaw!' cried the Colonel, who from the midst of a circle of friends had overheard his remark, 'you are a coward!' ' Coward!' echoed the would-be friend. ' He called you a coward, Mr. Hard!' 'Well, I am a coward,' replied John, with a smile; I never set up for a brave man, and I amnt a coward: at least I am too much of a coward either to attempt to take his life, or to let him take mine. I ain't prepared to die, and I don't believe he is; and moreln that, I didn't coime here to be shot; and I ain't got time -to shoot him, nuther.' This provoked a laugh, and the feelings of the crowd were clearly on our friend's side.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        291 '    I'd jest ike o k now continued John,'who was inclined to argue the matter 'What sense there is in any duel I've read somewhere, that the custom began in the old feudal times. Them was the dark ages. They called it the, age o' chivalry; and many o' you Southern folks, they tell me, are dreadfully attached to some o' the old feudal notions. This duelling business was one on 'em. God they said, watched the combat, and fought invisibly for him who had right on his side. But d'ye s'pose right was on the side Of that pesky sarpint, Aaron Burr, when he killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel, and put a whole nation into mournin'? Not by a long shot e' 'That's a fact!' cried oneof the auditors. 'So it is!' said another. 'Fire away, Mr. Hard,' said a third. 'Hear him  ; hear him!' exclaimed several others. 'Aly mean miserable blackleg,l said John, ' m ay become a good shot, though a bad man. Them lynx-eyed rascals see a target well, and the worse they air the less likely they air to mind 'cause it's a man and not a bird or a bear. The man that has the best feelin's tow ards his fel- ler bein's, is certain never to practise with the shootin' irons for the purpose o' takin' human life ;a n' ye don't s'pose that God's goin' suddenly to steady h is nerves and help him take sure aim, if in a mo ment of folly h e's d rawn or urged into a duel, do ye ? N o, the best man of the two will have the most compunctions and the most onsteady aim, and perhaps fire intentionally into the air; while the worst one will do his pootiest tomake a hole through him.  Ain't it so, gentl emen ? 'It is-it is so  !' responded several person s ;and some applauded with their hands.   g2       EASY NAT; OR . 'A poor excuse is better than a none i' said the Colonel with another sneer, but less positively than before ; for he felt the force of ' the -- Yankee's logic though he would not own it. 'What did you     mean b y the insult you offered the Southern horse?') 'I don't know one hoss from the other,' replied John. ' Never heerd tell of 'em till this mornin', and don't remem- ber even their names. That old blacky, yonder, kept me waitin' for my steak till I was so hungry I could eeny most swaller a jackass and a pannier o' greens ; and when he sent it in, all burnt up, and the feller asked my opinion of the Southern horse, I was as mad as a hornet, and blarted out somethin', 1 didn't care what. And when you said, ' M ake hin take it back,' I thought you felt indignant too, and wanted me to send hinm back with it.' tHere the remembrance of the contretenmps and equivoque elicited another round of laughter, and the wag from ir- ginia (to use our informant's own language) roared ready to split himself. Our agricultural friend, too, who could laugh as lustily as he could kick, joined in with a peal that made the welkin ring again. The colored waiters had to join in, out of pure sympathy with the sound, and the applause was general. ' Im very sorry, gentlemen  said John, when he had had his laugh,' If I said anything to offend anybody. I didn't intend to dew it.' 'That's satisfactory,' said the Virginian.  I'll venture to say for every Southern man here, that your explana- tion is entirely satisfactory. Eh, Colonel ?' ' I suppose so,' replied that gentleman a little sulkily, for he remembered the boots. ' If I ripped out anything that sounded personal to the   TEHE THREE APPRENTICES,               293 Colonel, I hadn't oughter, and didn't mean to ;' said Mr. Hard; 'and I think he must have kind op twisted my remarks, or else I blundered ; which it is just as likely as not I did' 'I accept your apology, sir/' said the Colonel, haughtily extending his hand. 'It is not an apology, Colonel,' interposed the Virginian, well versed in the punctilio of the code of honor ; 'it is an explanation. There is a difference.' 'But all differences are done with now,? said John Hard; 'and the hash is settled, call it by what names ye will;' and he shook the Colonel heartily by the hand. ':Now let us all go to the bar, and have a drink ' cried the Virginian ; and, extending his arms, he scooped into them  as many of the company as he could, John Hard and Colonel Waite included. ' Excuse me,' said John. The Colonel's brow lowered, and he insisted that he, should accompany them to the bar. 'No,/ replied John, firmly, 'I never drink. Besides, here comes my breakfast, and I'm as hungry as a bear! But see here, Colonel, if you want to try which of us can knock over a cent the most times out of ten, with rifle balls, at thirty rods, I'll try my hand with ye, though I'm not a circumstance to some of our sharpshooters. 'Done!' said the Colonel. ' Good!' cried the Virginian; ' I've done a right smart chance of that sport myself in my time, and I allow that, when any sharp shooting's to be done, I'm thar.' 'Wall, I wouldn't mind a pull at it nyther,' chimed in    294,       EASY NAT; OR, a brawny Kentuckian, ' I've had a heap o' fun at it down in old Kaintuck, and reckon I kin do it agin.' 'Of course you are going to see Bascomb distance Posthoy, to-day, Mr. Hard?' said. the Virginian, with a smile. 'You'll want to see how our Southern horses can take the wind out of anything you can raise in the Big Norru/d.' I've got a colt at home'-began John, but was cut short in his intended brag, by the same good-natured-Vir- ginian. ' Never mind your colt, now,-my friend. We three have chartered a barouche to take us to the course, and you are welcome to a seat in it. Nay, I won't take no for an answer. We will take a rifle along, and we shall hlave ample room thar, and time to test your skill at shooting pennies.' 'Agreed I' said John, and they left him to make a breakfast. 'CHAPTER   XXXV. The Great Run-Bascomb and Posthoy-H-nmors of a Race-course ON the day that John Hard called at the residence of Mr' Godwin to square the milk account, Edwin Fairbanks, (the reader may, perhaps, remember) called him into his room to converse with him. John had announced-the important fact, it will be recollected, that he was twenty-   THE TItREE APPRENTICES.       295 one, and was about to sally into the world to seek his fortune. His ,active and gallant conduct in chasing the villain who had attempted the assassination of Fairbanks in the auction-room, had excited the gratitude of Edwin, and he desired to do him a service in return. It had occurred to him that as John Hard could identify Tom Braxton, and was going to New York (some of whose many haunts of vice, he believed, harbored the ruffian), it would be well to commission him to hunt him up, in the hope that simple and unsophisticated as he was, there was, nevertheless, a possibility of his success. Accord- ingly he had broached the idea to John, and found him cheerfll and ready to do what le could to secure the arrest of the fugitive. It was arraiiged confidentially, between them, thalt, without interfering at all with his command of his own time and-movements, Mr. Hard should remain in New York, or fiurther south, six or eight weeks, if it should appearL desirable for this object, and le was to visit all places of public resort, high and low. The moment, therefore, that the invitation was given to him by the Virginian planter to attend the great race, it flashed into John Hard's active brain that the course would be just the place to meet with the object of his pursuit ; and hence his prompt acceptance of a proposal, which 'but for this inducement, his good old New -England training would have led him as promptly to decline; for he well knew tha4t such places are, in the main, the resorts only of the-idle and profligate. The barouche held four, viz : the r Virginian, the Ken- tuckian, the Colonel from Bunc6mbe, and our John, and a pleasant quartette they were, on their way down to the   296       EASY, NAT; OR, course, a distance of eleven miles, almost every rod of which was covered by a vehicle of some sort, full of people, on their way to the races. Everything that would go on wheels had been put in requisition for this occasion, and many of the turn-outs were of the most remarkable and impromptu description. Even some gay bucks of the city, finding all the decent horses and carriages pre-engagcd, condescended-yes, were glad-to get seats in common market carts, and lumber wagons, with rough pine seats ; and piled in four abreast, and in rows at that. Joking, laughing, singing and shouting, every inch of the way was vocal with their noise. John and the Southern gentlemen arrived just in time to take a view of the course and the twenty thousand spec- tators, before the horses were brought out of the tempo- rary stable where their grooms were preparing them for the contest, under the vigilant eyes of the owners. The course-a mile round--appeared to be nearly cir: cular. The trackl-wide enough for two carriages abreast --was rather heavy. On the inner side of the course, at the starting place, was the judges' stand, a small elevated, covered platform, neatly painted white and green. Opposite the judges, on the other side of the track, was a spacious platform, on which were tiers of seats, rising one above another as in an amphitheatre, and crowded with gayly-dressed ladies and gentlemen, all in a high state of glee and excitement. A roof averted the rays of the sun, but it was not a warm day-the wind blowing from the north-east. And now Posthoy and Bascomb are led forth, and walk proudly up and down a portion of the course. Only members of the club, and several hundred   THE THRE E EAPPRENTICES.        29S privileged persons, on foot or in carriages, were admitted within the gates, and John's company were among these. But what a variety of people met his eye on every hand, as he scrutinized the faces! Old and young, white, black, yellow, brown, blue, green and gray. Here he saw the flush planter, with his broad-brimmed white felt hat, and white ribbon or crape on it, his hand full of bank-notes- an advance upon his growing Clop--criticising, with the practised eye of a connoisseur, the build and movement of the Northern horse, and calculating the chances against the honor of the South. He is an enthusiast in horse- flesh. Now he is joined by an impartial admirer of both beasts, and they converse earnestly together. The colo- nel will not bet, but he beckons to a friend. An introduc- tion ensues, and a wager follows. The planter bets a thousand upon Bascomb ; the New York merchant takes it, for heretofore the bets have been two to one on Post- boy. Each places in the Colonel's hands the amount of the wager, and the notes are deposited in his pocket-book. The same kind of operation is occurring in a hundred little groups around. The ladies in the gallery are vivaciously taking sides with one horse or the other, and some of their husbands' purses will sweat for it. ' Of little use are these kind o' women, I calculate,' thought John Hard, as he glanced up to the brilliant rows, splendiferous and pretty as wax dolls to look at ; but a good, honest-hearted, sun- burnt country-gal, that can make butter and cheese, and darn a feller's stockin's, is worth the whole bilin' of ye!' Still another class of females, not admitted to the plat- form, but even more showily dressed than the others, and seated in barouches and carriages, admitted to the vacant 13*   298       E EASY NAT; OR, space within the inner circle of the course, were betting with eadh other, or calling shamelessly to the men to bet with them. Here, too, were extravagant clerks, prodigal of money not their own, and shop-boys aping them in their dissipated habits,; and mechanics spending in one day more than they could earn in a month; and loafers of every color ; all betting, either upon Posthoy or Bascomb. Even little Scratch Gravel was there, a-straddle of the top of a high gate-post,. from which he saluted Mr. Hard with a wild yell and cheer, whirling his vizorless cap around his head like mad, as the barouche passed in. This graceless urchin, too (John was shortly afterwards confidentially informed by him) had bet all his coppers upon Posthoy, with a colored imp who was located upon the other post. ' I'm done broke if Bascomb should win,' said Scratch : 'does yous think I'd better hedge?' 'Hedging,' the uninitiated must understand, is to make a counter wager upon the other horse; so that go which way it will the gambler (for any kind of chance-game is gamb- ling) must win on one of his bets. H'ya!' chuckled the little darkey, as a well-knit and beautiful light bay horse, attended by a groom, and accompanied by several gentlemen who were critically eyeing every inch of the noble creature, approached nearly to the gate, 'Dar's Bascom'! jus' look at him! Look at dem wethers! Dey's full o' four mile heats! Yah! I doubles de bet. Say, Scratch-I say, Scratch, wha' wha' wha' for ye don't take me up? Heah, yah, yah (and he laughed merrily) I Dare ye double de bet?' Young Gravel, greatly moved by this banter, tried to effect the loan of a quarter from Mr. Hard; and, failing   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         299 in this negotiation, offered to bet his new jacket against the colored boy's ' trouses' (which, with half a shirt, com- posed young Hannibal's entire suit) that Bascomb wouldn't win. 'Done!' responded little ebony. An impish smile fitted around Scratch Gravel's thin lips, as he quickly divested himself of his jacket, and tossed it to 'Pat Ryan,' a young man from whom he was accustomed to obtain his daily supply of morning papers. Ryan enjoyed the con- fidene of the newsboys, and acted on this occasion as stake-ho]der for a dozen or more. He was a witness of the,.nist wg,,,-ewa the last waer, and he received the jacket w ith a gre at lat gh. 'Pat Ryan holds the stakes, cried Scratch : 'hei' got minlle; now guv him yogr'n.' Unconscious of any impropriety (for his education had been neglected),'the little colored innocent, full of glee, and to the infinite enjoyment of a crowd of grinning spec - tators,   chiefly of the ow e clsses, cast off his only sus- pender, and in a trice kicked away'from his dusky limbs into the open arms of the expectant Pat, 3 pair of piebald pantaloons, which, notwithstanding the east wild, he felt that he could dispense with ; at least u ntil the race was over, when he should return to his gratified parents in Murderer's Alley, with an entire suit, and obtain full absolution for runing a way to the races, instead-of accom- aling his father to climb a flue and sweep a chimney for Mr. Astor. As the post was peaked, his  position upon it would not have appeared to be an easy one, after the change, had he not asserted that it was a heap nicer than before, and   300       EASY  NAT; OR, expressed an ardent wish that it was the fashion- to go without clothes, "cause then he would never tear no holes in 'em.' ' I got more lickin's on 'count dem ar trouses,' said he, in conclusion, ' dan all de clothes in de worl am wurf; an' I jus' lib lose 'em in dat bet, a backin' up de Souf as not. My fadder am ole Virginny nigger; heah! ya, ya!' And amid much laughter, he resumed his apex, singing in a really musical voice as he did so, a stave of the song, ' I bet my money on de bob-tailed nag,' &c. In the midst of the countless multitude that throng the course, iniquity ranges almost barefaced. In the out- skirts the bar-rooms are in full blast, and gambling of various kinds are in active operation. The sharpers are pigeoning the greenhorns with the cup-game. ' Ere yer see, gen'l'men, are three cups, and 'ere the ball. Look sharp, genTmen, vile ve pass him from one to t'other. Under vich is the ball now? You are right, sir 'ere he is; 'ere is the little joker. Bet a quarter, sir, that you can't say right, next time! Walk up, gen'l'men! walk up! Lay down a quarter and take up a half. Make your-fortune, now, and retire to a farm of your own in the West 1 Under that cup?  Let's see! No he isn't, sir : 'ere is the little joker hunder 'ere. Try it agin, sirl Better luck next time, perhaps.' Yonder are three pickpockets, slyly feeling of the pockets in the crowd, and ready for business when general attention shall become absorbed in the race. Here are some clerks "matching cents" for the transfer of dollars. Where did the money come from?   Criminal suits for   THE THREE    APPRENTICES.     301 abstracting goods, or -for forging checks, in a few weeks, will answer the query. There, a rote' is smirking with a chambermaid whom lie knew in his boyhood, in his native village as the pretty daughter of a poor farmer. The intemperate and improvident habits of her father, in an evil hour, have driven her to work in the city. Beware of that man, young woman! He is no longer the unso- phisticated boy that he was : he is a mature villain. Yes, in spite of his smooth, flattering tongue, and fine clothes, D'Orsay will ruin you, if he can. Why are you in his company?   See him no more, or you will soon be the companion of those painted and tawdrily-dressed girls in the barouches yonder, whose costly silks and. laces only serve to advertise their shame, and make an honest woman the more in love with modest apparel. Among those whited sepulchres-Ellen Jewetts all--disgracing the course with their gay trappings and splendid equipages, and drivers in livery, is one that not many months ago, conscience-stricken at the death -of a doting husband whom she had deserted, threw herself from the Boston Mill-dam. She was rescued in a half-drowned condition, and, for a few weeks, appeared resolved to lead a life as inwardly pure as she was externally beautiful ; but either -from her own downward inclinations, or other temptations hard to be resisted by 'a cast-away,' she has again fallen! A year or two of this glitter and excitement, and another year or two more of neglect, disease, and prison life, and that fair form will be mouldering in the Potters' Field. This is the brief epitome of the lives of most of this class. Suddenly the attention of all became fixed upon the starting point, .where the horses, 'John Bascomb' for the   302       ,EASY NAT; OR, South, and 'Posthoy' for the North, both light bays, appeared side by side, with their respective riders, Willis and Gilpatrick, small-sized, emaciated persons, of 114 pounds each, dressed in fancy-colored caps, and close-fit- ting jackets, breeches and top-boots, with spurs. They were to run four mile heats, at $5,000 a side. Willis had- the inside of the track, and 'he sat "the Alabama phenomenon" with confidence and discretion. Gilpatrick's low diet (he had to keep himself starved down to the requisite small weight, in order to retain his business as a rider) was evident in his lack of cheerfulness, but he was an older man than the other, and evinced the most practised horsemanship in his management of the noble animal which he bestrode. The bugle sounded from the judges' stand, and the horses started. Whoop! went the crowd. Bascomb was ahead on the last quarter of the first mile, and it is achieved in two minutes and two seconds from the start, and on they rush past the judges' stand, amid loud cheer- ing and waving of handkerchiefs. Again they circle the course, despite the wind and mud, and pass the gallery like lightning. ' Second mile, in one minute and fifty-six seconds, and the South ahead. Huzza!' cried the Virginian, watch in hand. 'Two to one, Major tHard, on Bascomnb!  ' No you don't,' said John, thus be-titled. ' I won't bet till it's all over. Why in natur' did Posthoy let Bascomb have the inside o' the track? It's the best goin', and the shortest cut. Jerooshy, how he cuts around the corners! Hello, on that long sweep Posthoy collars himl! Whoorayl'   THE THR    E APPRENTICES.     303 ' Bascomb's ahead, though, half a neck,' cried the Ken- tuckian ; 'and if Posthoy don't make one o' the brushes that he's famous for, he'll soon be nowhar!' ' Here they come! Bascomb ahead. Now they pass the stand. Third mile 1.54; the best yet!' said the Vir- ginian. ' Three to one on Bascomb, Major-Hard!' The shouting was deafening as the horses passed for the fourth mile, which they ran in 1.57-Bascomb ahead. 'Four mile in seven minutes and forty-nine seconds will take down my colt, and he's a snorter!' exclaimed John Hard. The animals were led back by their riders to the tem- porary stable, and while they were being put in order for the second heat, an intermission of thirty-five minutes was allowed. Immediately, the course was covered with groups of excited people-many of them with very long faces-comparing time and mbmoranda of the running. The Southerners, of whom there were several hundred present, were in the best possible spirits. The real lovers of ' the turf' seemed interested only in the horses, and did not enter into the profligacy which was rife outside of the course. In the interval between the heats, the Virginian and his party, including Major Hard, as they dubbed him, repaired to a l'evel ground beyond the course, where John astonished them, though they were all excellent marks- men, with the accuracy of his rifle shooting--knocking over the penny every time, at an almost incredible dis- tance, which the best shot among them (and that was the Kentuckian) failed to do, three times out of ten. 'Why, Major Hard,' exclaimed the Virginian, full of   304       EASY NAT ; OR, generous admiration, 'your eye is as keen as the Ameri- can eagle's.' 'Do tell!' replied John. 'I'm glad ye think so, for that's the bird of liberty. Don't ye think, Colonel Waite, that this 'ere's much pootier sport than makin' holes through each other?' 'It's more centsible, at any rate,' said the Virginian wag, making a pun, which nobody 'took.' 'But let us go back to the course.' CHAPTER XXXVI. The Thieves in Disguise--The Second Heat-Bascomb the Victor- The Row, and the Prize Fight. JOHN HARD took this opportunity to disengage himself again from his companions, as he had done before for a short time, that he might have an opportunity to look everywhere among the multitude, for Braxton. About this time, it was announced from the judges' stand, that the owner of the late celebrated American racer, Eclipse, would present the saddle, bridle, and other appointments worn by that once famous steed, to the horse that should win the next heat. Meanwhile, they had been priming both Posthoy and Bascomb with strong drink--' A most onnatural custom,'; John Hard declared. 'It was bad enough, he thought, for men to make beasts of themselves, without forcing the pesky pizen down a poor dumb critter's throat. He   THE THR 1 EE APPRENTICES.       305 declared furthermore, that Posthoy was almost as drunk a brute on four legs-as he had ever seen stagger on two- the more shame to them that made him so.' And the moment that he discovered this, his interest in the contest ceased, and he turned his attention to the object which had led him to visit the course. When John had turned away among the crowd outside, the bugle sounded, and the two horses dashed away like mountain deer, to the great delight of the brawny Ken- tuckian, whose voice was heard above all the rest cheer- ing them on. At the great sweep on the further side of the course, Gilpatrick made a desperate effort to brush by Willis, and they came down at a slashing rate, running a dead lock, by the judoges) stand, and then, what a shout went up! But it was soon obvious that Bascomb was in the best order of the two, and the knowing ones said that Posthoy was 'groggy.' Bascomb came in ahead on the last mile, and was, by acclamation lono and loud, declared the victor. ' Not quite as good time as the first heat,' said the Vir- ginian, putting up his chronometer, 'but four miles in seven minutes and fifty-one and a half seconds will do, I reckon.' 'I allow it will,' said the Kentuckian. 'Oh, it's no use o' these Northern men trying to contend against the com- monwhelp, Colonel Waite! We'll beat 'em, both in humans and in horses, too. Now, let's go and drink! This dodrotted East wind has sawed me right in ha'ves! Whar's that Yankee?' 'True,' said the Virginian, ' whar's Major John Hard? That man ought to ha' been raised in Virginny.'   306       EA SY NAT; OR, ' Or in ole Kaintuck, said the other. ' He's got a right smart chance of hard horse sense, an' I take to him just nayterly.' ' I cotton to him myself some,' said 'the Colonel; 'but he wouldn't drink if he was along.' So the trio went away together to the saloon, where they found a prodigious 'crowd of people jammed in together, some drinking,'smoking, and talking excitedly, and others pushing their way to the bar, or standing there to be waited upon by half a dozen tenders who, with their shirt sleeves rolled up, and the sweat running down their faces, were as busy as possible turning out the various liquors, and mixing grog. When the three friends had at length obtained their turn, and drank the superfluous stuff which they had called for, the Kentuckian proceeded to pay for it, but greatly to his astonishment, discovered that his pocket- book had been abstracted since he left the course. Nor were the Virginian, and the Colonel from North Carolina, less amazed upon feeling for their own wallets, to find that the same shabby trick had been served upon them, too. ' Look out, gentlemen, for your pocket-books ; there are pickpockets in the-rooml' But in such'crowded - resorts, it is almost impossible to identify a thief, unless caught in the act, and no arrest was made.                   ' 'We had better have staid out d' this hole,' said the Virginian. 'tHowever, I don't carry all my eggs in one basket, fortunately, and I've a wad left yet; and he pro- duced from his vest pocket, a parcel of notes which he had won from a stranger upon the race. Handing one   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        307 of these to the tender, he was told they would prefer another bill. Another note was passed over the bar, and handed back with the information that, like the other, it was counterfeit. An officer stepping forward, at that moment, took the roll of notes unceremoniously, and examining them a moment, declared that these three men who had pretended to have had their pockets picked belonged to a notorious gang of counterfeiters. He had no sooner said it, than the Kentuckian knocked him down. Instantly, there was a general rush at the three friends, and a disgraceful milele ensued, but being resolute men, and armed, they kept the crowd at bay, until ploughing his way through the besiegers, a tall man, an officer of the club, and a popular favorite among the lovers of fine horses' in all sections of the country, stood between them and their opponents. ' Stanid back, boys,' said he, a little riled, 'these are good men and true, of the best Virginia and Kentucky stock. I know them well. How are you, gentlemen?' And he shook hands with them. 'What is the trouble here?' The Virginian explained the circumstances, and stated the counterfeit money was the amount of a bet which he had made with a stranger who had taken him up on his offer to wager two to one on Bascomb, and Colonel Waite had held the stakes. The tall mediator laughed; and said they were not the only ones who had been swindled in the same manner by a parcel of genteel knaves who had evidently brought to the ground a large stock of new counterfeit money, and it was in this bad paper that a considerable portion of   308        A SY NAT; OR, the wagers won were found to be paid I He regretted the mistake which had been so rashy made by the con- stable, and he saw no better way for that functionary to atone for his rudeness, than, first; to make an apology to the gentlemen themselves, and next to treat the whole company. This decision was approved viva voce, zemine contradi- ciente, and the unfortunate officer was fain to comply, with a poor grace, though, and only on condition that the bar- tenders should share the expense. This practical joke put the Southerners in good spirits again- notwithstandingP their heavy losses, and they retired with the tall New Yorker, 'enjoying hugely his sang froid and racy lrumor. John Hard had seen them come into the drinking saloon, which he himself had entered, knowing that such places were most likely to attract men of the Braxton stamp, but as he was not perceived by them, he thought it best (his search there being over) to shun both their importu- nities and their banter, by quietly passing' out. As he did so, with his eyes on them, rather on the way which he was going, he bolted against a man who, accompanied by another, was just coming into the door. 'Jerooshy! ejaculated John, rubbing his rather prominent nose, which had received the force of the contact, 'I beg pardon, but I believe my bowsprit got the worst on't.' He passed on, caressing his proboscis ; and too full of this to vouch- safe the stranger scarcely a glance, though the eyes of the latter followed him until he disappeared. ' Can it be that is that  Yankee, that overhauled me in the Black Sea? 'Jerooshy'--that was the word! I /             ,^2   THE T HREE APPRENTICES.        309 shall never forget it; but it is clear that he didn't recog- nise me in this light wig and whiskers.' Such was the thought which made the stranger linger a moment on the sill. 'Come, Tom,' said his companion, a short, thick-set, coarse-looking man, clad like the other, in the garb of a well-to-do farmer. 'Keep your eye peeled. There is the chap we put our mill paper on to. Keep over in the far corner. There's Chaffer Bill and his pal, a pickin' the cinders out o' the planter's pockets. We'll get our brandy over here ;' and he conducted Braxton to a more retired corner, where, turning out the liquor, four fingers deep, they tossed it off without a drop of water, and made their exit at a back door, before the row commenced. Some minor races by other horses had succeeded the great race, and D'Orsay,' always lucky' (he chuckled to himself, as he counted over a large fold of bank-notes which a stake-holder had just put into his fist), had remained to bet upon them, also. Glancing up from his occupation, he caught the eye of a man whom he thought he had seen somewhere under evil circumstances, gleaming upon him. It was Tom  Braxton, but in his disguise, he did not identify him. Not liking his looks, D'Orsay crammed the bank-notes quickly into his pocket, and walked away.       / 'I'll have some o' that pile before I'm many hours older, if I have to hang for it 1I muttered Tom, with a revenge- ful scowl and flashing eye, at the retreating form of the dapper little coxcomb, as he passed down the course. 'Don't stop here,' said his companion-the short burly man--' they're having a mill down there across lots.'   310       EASY NAT; OR, 'Who are they? I never heard of it, Jack,' said Tom, following him. ' They kept it dark, until they got the ring ready just now. It's "Buffalo Joe"' agin "Deaf Burke ;" only $200 a side--just for sport, to wind up handsomely.' After a few minutes' walk in silence (for Tom was moody) they arrived at the scene of the brutal exhibition, where several hundred spectators were witnessing the contest between two pugilists, who, stripped to their breeches, were fighting desperately. The man whom they called Deaf Burke, was a pock-marked man, short, but broad in the chest as a bull, and as strong. - -His antagonist was taller, but not, so heavy, and his blows, in, which he was more plentiful than the other, made about as much impres- sion upon Burke, apparently, as they would have done upon a rock. When the spry man had become a little weary and unguarded, the short one gave him a blow that would have felled an ox-breaking two of his ribs, and winding him, so that it was doubtful if he would come too in time.' 'Give him more rum there, you bottle-holder!' cried Tom Braxton; 'don't be afraid of your liquor. Fetch him- to and set him on his pins again, for the honor of America. He can lick that bull-headed Englishman yet. Wake up, Buffalo. What in   yer gone to sleep for?' 'What round was this?' inquired Jack, of Burke's bottle-holder. 'The twenty-first,' was the gruff reply. Deaf Burke himself remarked with a grim smile, rendered more fero- cious by a mouth red with his own blood. 'Don't disturb the jontleman. He'd be afther taking his long nap I'   THE T HREE APPRENTICES.        3" 'Hle's as dead as a door nail,' said another. At this remark, a boy in the crowd--a rough-looking little chap, too-began to cry and lament bitterly. ' What's the matter my lad?' inquired John Hard, who at that moment arrived on the spot. 'What on airth ye roarin' so for?I ' He's killed my. father!' said the boy, between his sobs. 'He's fought foul and killed my father!' 'Jerooshy!' exclaimed John, 'I'll look into it ;' and pushed his way through the crowd.  Tom Braxton heard his voice and deemed it prudent to walk off. 'There's work to be done,' he muttered to himself, 'and I can't afford to be stopped now. Let him stay in New York long enough and I'll deprive him of the power of doing harm.  D'Orsay's at the bottom of this!' and fierce- ly execrating the tailor, he sauntered from the ground; leaving his pal to follow at his leisure. 'Sonny, quit your bawling,' said a spectator; 'don't you see he's getting up, as fresh as a lark for another round.' The friends of the noble art of self-defence and science against strength' (as the pugilists' advertisements inflat- edly style this low- and brutal business), had indeed got 'Buffalo Joe' upon his feet, and with slow uncertain gait, he walked a pace or two ; but he still looked as if the hand of death was upon him. H 'He'll do ; he'll do ;' cried hisbackers, cheerfully; 'yer good for another round, ain't yer Joe? 'Yes,' he murmured almost inaudibly. ' For the honor of America, Joe,' said his bottle-holder steadying him in an erect position, and patting him on the back.   312       EASY NAT; OR, 'For the h  nor of America,' repeated the poor fellow but with a wandering absent look. ' Ain't that my boy's voice? How came he here?' 'No, it's somebody else. Never mind. Don't stop tc talk. Another round '1 put ye in tiptop order,' said the backer. ' Now, at him again!? 'That cock won't fight,' said Burke, contemptuously. 'He shall fight,' said the bottle-holder resolutely. 'No he shan't nutherl' exclaimed John Hard, and thrusting his  long legs over the rope of the ring, he was just in time to catch 'Buffalo Joe' from falling. He had again swooned, and-again the remark was made that he was dead, and again arose the piteous wail of the poor boy. 'Shame on ye all!' cried John, with indignation and contempt, 'to set agin each other, like dogs or wild beasts, two men madein God's own image. Ye've killed him among ye, and are all answerable for it! YeS,' he repeat- ed, notwithstanding all their abuse and threatening looks, 'every individual here is liable for murder, and I advise ye, all to clear the coop, and be off with yerselves. Is that air the Sheriff of the County,t comin' yender? This was enough, and all concerned in the prize-fight walked rather hurriedly away. The spectators were not long in following. John now left alone, with no one to help him except the poori child, looked around for assist- ance. The corpulent gentleman whom the pugilists, at John's hint, had feared was the Sheriff, proved to be Colonel Waite, in quest of our friend, as their party were ready to return. Of course the Colonel was very much amazed to meet with the Yankee in such circumstances, but after a brief explanation, he hurried away again to     
                  THE THREE APPRENTICES.         313 bring their vehicle to the spot, in order to remove the dying man to the saloon. Before he returned with the carriage, Buffalo Joe reviv- ed somewhat, and when delivered over to the care of a physician, at the inn, the professional gentleman expressed confident hopes of his ultimate recovery. Agreeably dis- appointed when this intelligence reached their ears, Buffalo Joe's backers ventured to show their heads, and resume the charge of him. In the meantime, the three friends from the South, and their Massachusetts protege, stepped into the barouche and drove towards the city. 'Talk as much as you will against our Southern custom of duelling, Major Hard,' said the Virginian, tapping the ashes from his cigar, 'I allow it's aright smart better than these beastly prize-fights in the Big Norrud.' 'Six ol one and half a dozen of tVother, replied John. I'd jest like to yoke.'em together, and have the drivin' of lem both to the etarnal jumping-off place!' CHAPTER XXXVII. John Hard and his Southern friends visit the Opera-John's opinion of Opera Music--His description of one Scene-Finds Tom Braxton in one of the Galleries-A Striking Incident. WHEN the party had reached the city, it was proposed, that instead of stopping at their hotel, they should con- tinue on as far as Windust's, have a game supper, and then visit the theatre. "   314       EASY NAT; OR, To our agricultural friend, with his primitive New Eng- land notions, this looked a little like dissipation, and he wondered to himself 'whet his good old dad and .marm would say, if they could only look at their John at- that identical moment, a-cuttin' round in a barouche from race- courses to theatres!' But it had not escaped the observa- tion of Mr. Hard, that many Boston men, who were esteem- ed quite 'regular' at home, and rather ' set' than other- wise against wine-bibbing; card or billiard-playing, thea- tre-going, &c., &c., either found it agreeable or politic to relax from the strait path somewhat, when in New York, and turn astray, 'just the leastest mite in the world,' into the serpentine walks suggested by the drummers, who were boarded at the hotels by their employers, the dry goods merchants, for the express purpose of initiating and indulging their customers in all the pleasures that their most sensual appetites could desire, and the town afford. Our young farmer, however, had a mission to execute, and one likely to take him into every place likely to be frequented by persons of loose lives. It had been suggest- ed to him that in no place would he be more likely to meet with Braxton than in the theatres. Tom's early predi- lection for ' the drama,' has been already stated. After a brief repast, at the famous resort of actors and fast men, the Southern gentlemen and the ' Major' (as they persisted in calling him), stepped into the Park Thea- tre, which was located in Park Row, opposite the City Park, and about midway between Ann and Beekman streets. This building, so long occupied as a play-house, was burnt a few years ago. A magnificent brown stone   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         315 block, occupied for stores, now improves the site where the theatre once stood. The Virginian paid for the tickets at the little office just inside the portal, and they passed into the lobby. The Kentuckian continued to whiff his tobacco, but his atten- tion being called by an usher in a white vest and white kid gloves, to a sign requesting gentlemen not to smoke, he tossed his cigar out at the door, and it was immedi- ately appropriated and transferred to the mouth of a jacket- less, barefooted boy, who was waiting on the outside for the termination of the farce, 'The Road to Ruin,' in hopes that some drunken sailor or other would give him a check. This lad, John saw, was little Scratch, but he said nothing, and followed his friends and the usher to what he called 'a pew,' in the second tier of boxes. He had never been in a theatre before, and the glare of light and colors bewildered him so much, at first, that, to use his own expression, 'he hardly knew which eendhe stood on.' As soon as his perception returned to him, and the rainbow colors, gilt, tinsel and gingerbread work of the place ceased to dazzle his eyes, he saw the pit densely packed with well-dressed men and boys, and above and surrounding 'the body of the house,' as he called it, a tier of boxes, filled with ladies and gentlemen. ' That is the dress-circle, Major,' whispered the Virgi- nian, who was the most polished and experienced person in the party, as he saw John's eyes, full of wonder, surveying this brilliant display of beauty and extravagance. 'Ye don't sayl' said John. 'They dress to kill, don't they?' 'Yes, to kill the men! replied the Virginian, smiling. t     816       EASY NAT; OR, ' I should think it would kill their husbands,' added Mr. Hard, dryly. ' Do look at 'em. They're dressed almost within an inch of their life.' 'Their life is not in their throats, then, Major,' rejoined the Virginian, significantly. 'No, they don't dress within an inch of their throats, that's sartin,' replied John. 'I should think they'd feel kind o' shamed.' 'What they leave off of the neck, they stick on to the trail,' replied his friend; I s'pose they're going to a ball when they git through here, for they're all dressed,in white, with lots o' flowers and their fellers have got white waistcoats and white gloves on.' 'What air they lookin' through them spy-glasses for? Air all them pooty critters near-sighted?' The Virginian explained to John, that these were opera- glasses, and served to display the bracelets, rings and delicate hands-of the ladies that used them. 'The Road to Ruin' (which John thought a very appropriate name), was soon concluded, and the green baize curtain descended. A great rush was then made by the male department (the Southern gentlemen among the rest), for the saloon, or bar-room, in the lobbies, and Mr. Hard was astonished at the rapidity with which people could toss off the drinks-some, too, who labored under the disadvantage of being full already. Next succeeded an overture by the orchestra-some 20 or 30 foreign-looking gentlemen, wearing moustaches and somewhat addicted to snuff. The performers on' the kettle-drum and double bass-viol, afforded Mr. Hard some '                 .,  \    THE THREE APPRENTICES. '        317 amusement by their indefatigable exertions, especially the latter artist, who in drawing his bow con expressione, and with innumerable short, quick vigorous strokes across the strings, made a thousand grimaces-his little bald head, at times, almost disappearing between his shoulders. John laughed so vociferously that he attracted the attention of the whole audience, and some persons in the pit, observing the Kentuckian's feet protruding over the box, raised a cry of ' Boots!', As this did not produce the instantaneous withdrawal of the obnoxious leather (the Kentuckian not having the remotest idea that he was giving any offence), the cry was repeated, and echoed by many voices- 'Boots I Boots I' mingled with hisses. 'What on airth air they makin' all that noise for?' inquired John of the Virginian, who had just entered the box. Before the latter could reply, an officer entered, and politely requested the Kentuckian to remove his feet. Of course, being a gentleman, he complied immediately, and some applause followed. A celebrated singer, imported from abroad, was to sing in an opera, and in a few moments the audience were all seated ; except those in an upper row, where gayly-dressed young females were standing on the seats, or walking in the lobby, and conversing in a rude, reckless manner with strangers, about the race. -Soon the green curtain arose, and discovered a very fat, red-faced man, in a short green frock, and flesh-colored tights:r stockings, reposing on a pine-board bank, painted green, Several young females, with scarcely any dress, other than a coat of paint, then 'chassayed on,' John /   318      EASY NAT ; OR, said, and hopped round a little, twirling white sticks in their hands, and singin', until another on 'em, with a crown on her head, came in astraddle of a sheet-iron peacock, mounted on wheels, and drawn with a rope by a feller behind there. After saying, that the fat man on the pine- board bank, without any pantaloons, was a prince, and was asleep, the whole bilin' rigadooned round him some, and sung somethin'. Nen another woman was lowered down with ropes, in a box, which they said was a cloud. Nen she went up agin. Nen the gal with the crown on, got on the sheet-iron peacock agin, and went off-proba- bly to finish dressing. NSen all went off but the fat man. Nen he got up -with a spear in his hand, and came forward and sang in a dreadful melancholy way, "All around is silence!" When, clatter-de-bang, down come the box that the gal had gone up in, ker chunk! with a tarnal racket; and mak- ing the fat singer jump a rod!' - But we will not fatigue the reader with John Hard's unique description of the opera in detail. Suffice it to say, that neither he nor the Kentuckian liked opera music at all. ' I can't make head nor tail on't,' said the latter. 'It ain't a primin' to my niggers, Major!' 'Why don't the tarnal critter sing right straight out?' exclaimed John. 'She's got a mouth large enough, and makes faces enough.'  'This kind of singing is all the rage,' remarked the Colonel from Buncombe. 'They may make believe they like it,' rejoined Mr. Hard,   1            THE THREE APPRENTICES.        319 'but. their ears must be as twisted as -our old ram's horns, if they ralely do fancy sitch a sight o' squealing. I'd as lief hear a cat on a woodshed, by moonshine. ' Dodrot it, why don't she sing right strat out, as the Major says,' said the Kentuckian, 'and put it through?' ' She would get through too quick in that case,' replied the Virginian, smiling. 'If she'd only give us one good song right out plain, without any of this curricoling and filigree work,' said John, 'I would give more for it than for all the rest. Presently, quite tired of the opera, the three planters adjourned to the next building, to take a game of billiards, their friend from Massachusetts declining to accompany them, but promising to call in for them, after he had taken a more particular view of the theatrical premises. They had been gone only a few minutes, when, upon casting his eyes to the gallery, at a great height above him, near the ceiling, in a row of faces of all colors, he recognized Scratch Gravel, clasping the iron railing with his little dirty hands, and resting his chin upon it. 'She won't do!' cried Scratch, alluding to the new prinla donna. The words were addressed in a connoisseur tone to his friend Mr. Hard, in the second tier below, but, however confidential the intent, the critique reached the ear of the singer, and so disconcerted her that it took no less than five bouquets, seven bravos, one bravissimo, a whole round of- clapping, and innumerable savage looks at the gallery (through opera-glasses) to restore her to voice again. And after all, it decided her in her precon- ceived prejudices against the country, and confirmed her   320       EASY NAT; OR, in her purpose to abuse it to her heart's content, as soon as she should have left its in'ospitable shores. In the third row, the young farmer heard a man evi- dently excited by potations of liquor, talking noisily with a painted Jezabel, and trying to pull her down into the seat at his side, to the apparent amusement of sundry country merchants, store clerks, and young mechanics, who had wandered into that gateway to perdition from other parts of the house. 'That's Tom Braxton; or he never spoke 1' exclaimed John, half aloud, and, quickly making his exit from the box, he hurried to ascend the staircase. He mistook the way, and had to retrace his steps; losing several minutes, by this means.  Mounting the right stairs at length, he found a bar-room, half full of men--some of them only half-grown-talking and drinking with a score or two of young women with painted cheeks and showy dresses, which trailed upon the floor, in all the filth, at every step. As John entered, a good-looking, neatly-dressed young sailor, evidently just off a cruise, was in the act of drink- ing a glass of grog with a rather pretty-looking girl, apparently not more than sixteen years of age. 'Too bad I Too bad!' thought the young farmer, shuddering at seeing one so young so far advanced in ruin. Suddenly, the countenance of the young sailor seemed familiar to her, and as he extended his glass to touch her own, she saw a deep scar upon his hand. Instantly, her tumbler fell to the floor, and seizing him by the shoulder, and look- ing into his face intently, she exclaimed, with emotion, 'Your name is James Laurens--you are my brother!' And it proved to be even so. Eight years before, he   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        321 had ran away from his parents and gone to sea; since which he had not returned to New York until now. She was then the only child left them-a fair-haired, prattling girl. His horror and anguish at finding hher a common nymph of the town, was indescribable. In the midst of the crowd which soon surrounded them (and of which the farmer, with the big tears rolling down his eyes, made one), the sailor alternately wept, and cursed, and tore his hair, and- threatened to kill both him- self and the girl ; while-she stood with hands clasped, and eyes red with weeping, supplicating him not to kill her, and begging him not'to take on so. Amid his paroxysms of grief and anger, her brother thanked heaven that he had made the discovery thus early. The guilty and wretched pair were then separated, after she had sworn solemnly that she would lead that life no longer, and they were accompanied by their acquain- tances to their several homes. Sick at heart, and seeing nothing of Tom Braxton, honest John Hard wiped his eyes, arid thanking God that he did not live in the city, hurried away from the theatre, never to enter one again. CHAPTER XXXVIII. D'Orsay's Cave at Holt's-The Infidel Disciple and his Practices- Kate in the Lion's Den--The Assault-The Invisible Defender- ,The Murder. KATE MUDGE went to D'Orsay's hotel at the time appointed, and ascended to his rooms, without tarrying to "*   322       EASY NAT; OR, make a single inquiry. The waiters in the hall supposed her to be a laundress or a nurse, or a friend of some of the family servants in the house, and she escaped scrutiny. The door of the room she sought opened, as if by magic, before she had time to knock, and she heard the voice of the libertine sweetly inviting her to enter. It was a spa- cious and brilliantly lighted apartment, with frescoed ceil- ing of rose and violet hue, executed in the highest style of art, and walls profusely decorated with richly framed paintings and engravings, of a character usually denomi- nated 'classic,' and, hence, entirely congenial with the voluptuous tastes of the occupant.- Massive and costly upholstery enclosed the windows, and served for a border around the room, in a recess at the end of which, half con- cealed by silken curtains of purple and white, stood a French bedstead of rosewood  material, exquisitely, wrought, sumptuously furnished, and canopied with silk of the same kind as the screen. A superb carpet, feeling triple thick beneath the tread, vied with the showy paint- ings on the walls and the glowing fresco overhead, in ela- borate designs and gorgeous colors. Mirrors, high and broad; sofas, ottomans, divans and easy-chairs of rose- wood and purple velvet ; tables, toilet-stand, and bureaus topped with marble (then more rare than at present), a mantel-piece of the same material, with vases of the most ostentatious and lexpensive pattern; a sideboard laden with dried fruits, and cut glass goblets, and decanters of wine, and cigars, ornamental trifles, statuettes in biscuit of, shameless goddesses, busts, medallions, paper-weights, boxes inlaid with pearl, beautiful bottles for perfumery ; bijouzterie innumerable-these, and similar, composed the   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        323 furniture of what Mr. D'Orsay styled affectedly 'his Cave at Holt's.' Yonder, was a book-case, indicative of some literary taste (though the owner had little), and, in the centre of the room, a round table where the moonlike beams of an astral lamp, paling its ineffectual fires in the more radiant presence of the gas jetting from the chande- lier, let fall its modest rays upon sundry volumes of Rous- seau, Voltaire, Cousin, Carlyle, Montaigne, Emerson, and George Sands, which lay there conveniently, as if for fre- quent use.  Indeed, -these were D'Orsay's text-books; and the writers the men of his counsel. Tom Paine would have been honored with a place upon the same table with the rest, but that D'Orsay voted him 'vulgar,' because of the indecent and 'positively shocking manner of his de- cease.' Occasionally, these books gave way, graciously, to the cards, and it was not a rare occurrence for a South- ern planter to part, upon the richly inlaid surface of that table, with enough cotton to make paper sufficient for a compendious edition of all those authors bound in one. Sometimes, too, a Western merchant (whose fiat-boats were singularly fortunate upon the Mississippi, and nei ther snagged nor grounded), would find it impossible to ' get over D'Orsay's beautiful mosaic without leaving there a cargo, of corn-or, at least, the vouchers for it. To speak more plainly, D'Orsay gambled, and was lucky. He never entered his superb apartment without chuckling to himself that its lavish decorations had been more than paid . for by his winnings. Still his play was all sub rosa, and if not conscientious, it was, at least confidential. When Kate entered, the atmosphere of the room was redolent of milk felurs and attar of rose. No one was 1    324       EASY NAT; OR, visible ; for D'Orsay (who, upon the tip-toe of fond expec- tation, and attired in an elegant dressing gown, succeeding an aromatic bath, had been awaiting her coming, and lis- tening to every approaching footstep), in opening the door had drawn it back to screen himself a moment and observe the surprise and admiration which he thought the gorgeous- ness of his apartment could not fail to excite in her. Disap- pointed in this, he came out from his hiding-place with a playful exclamation, in order to give her a little start; but she received him sedately and with calmness ; return- ing to his impassioned welcome, merely a cold inquiry for Braxton. ' If he comes at all, he will be here soon,' replied the libertine, somewhat piqued at the appearance of entire indifference to him and his domiciliary glories, with which Kate sat down in the richest of his chairs, and in silence fixed her eyes upon the door through which Tom Braxton would enter. ' I fear, Kate'-said he, but she interrupted him with a look, and correcting himself, he added, 'I beg your par- don, I presume I must address you as a married woman, though my heart beats warmly for the Kate I knew and loved. You are' as beautiful as ever, but I hope not as disdainful?' 'When will he come?' said she, coldly, and without heeding the roue's remark. D'Orsay uttered a profane expletive, sotto voce, but satisfied that it would not serve his purpose to betray his impatience, he endeavored to induce his guest to take a glass of champagne wine (which, however, she refused), and next to interest her in the furniture and pictures,   THE   THREE  APPRENTICES.     325 about which he could talk volubly for hours together. He passed from picture to picture and from one work of art to another, explaining the subject and descanting upon the merits of each, in hopes of drawing her to his side. Kate had once been passionately fond of paintings, but she was no longer the same woman, and if she had been, these were not fit for her to see. There was one picture, not there, but upon the retina of the mind's eye, almost continually present to her ; a view of her husband on the ignominious scaffold. The baffled roue then brought to her lap some of the curious trifles- of art, resolved to direct her mind from the stern, absorbed, aspect which it wore. Suddenly, consum- ing with passion, he threw himself at her feet, and though it was like making love to a statue, poured forth a volume of professions of affection, and offers of pecuniary assistance. 'Begonel' she cried, rising, and making a step towards the door. 'Nay, madam, you don't go yet!' exclaimed D'Orsay, and running to the door, removed the key from the lock. 'Why do you take the key?' she inquired calmly. He had recently discovered the loss of another key to the same lock, but had no idea that it had disappeared out of a drawer in his store upon the night his premises were robbed. To Kate's interrogation he replied sneeringly, 'I have lost the duplicate, and consequently am very careful of this!' 'But you expect Braxton,' said Kate, fixing her eyes upon him inquiringly. ' How can he come in? I came hither to see him, not you, sirrahl' ' I am a better-looking man, Kate, and must answer your   326       EASY NAT; OR, purpose,' was his sullen rejoinder. The fact was, D'Orsay had had no intention of entrapping the incendiary upon his premises, and did not :even know his haunts or where he was to be found. Nothing would have afforded him more satisfaction certainly, than to see Tom swing upon the gallows ; for he knew him to be now his deadly enemy ; but he was a coward, and would as soon beard a lion in his den, as encounter the ruthless ruffian at a late hour, even in his hotel. Indeed he would not have cared to meet him by daylight, unless well manacled and under a strong escort of police. 'You do not dare to tell me that you have deceived me ; and Braxton will not come?' cried Kate, fiercely confront- ing him, and grasping him by the arm. 'Both hands, dear Kate; both hands ; give me both hands 1' and the flushed libertine threw his arms around her. ' Jerooshy'y - cried a voice well known to the reader. 'Ye pesky sarpint, ye! Stop that!' and a man's boot descended heavily into the chamber, and struck the floor near where D'Orsay stood. As astonished as if a bomb- shell had fallen at his feet, the villain let go his hold, and Kate escaped from his embrace. D'Orsay listened, and looked, motionless and in silence, a few moments, for the speaker. It was not very late, and the house was still. In a minute after he heard the key inserted in his door. Warned by past experience, he started forward to bolt it. As he did so, the door was opened, and 2Tom Braxton entered I As quick as thought, he clutched the panic-stricken and speechless D'Orsay by the throat, and stabbed him repeatedly in the side. The   THE TIIREE APPRENTICES.        321 unfortunate man struggled with the energy of despair for a few moments, after receiving the fatal blows, and the assassin raised his hand to strike again. At this instant, Kate Mudge, who had come forward stealthily from the corner whither she had retired from the rudeness of the libertine, sprang upon the murderer and grasped with both hands the hilt of the uplifted and bloody knife. 'Jerooshy!' roared the same voice, with-a slight nasal twang, which had a minute before astonished the tailor. But whence came it? It was evidently from John Hard ; Tom Braxton remembered it, and now it fell upon his ear like a knell; but where was John?  Many of our readers who remember the architectural peculiarities of Holt's Hotel, will recollect that in that immense building there. were many interior bed-rooms which would have been entirely dark even at mid-day but from the communication of light- from the more fortunate external apartments adjoining. Each of these dark bed-rooms had a small oblong sliding sash at the top of the wall next to the ceil- ing, affording an aperture not large enough for the passage of a man's body, but sufficient for the entrance of a few rays of light from the contiguous room which looked upon the street.  Two smaller apartments had formerly been indebted in this way to the one occupied by D'Orsay, but when he became a tenant, not relishing this architectural shift, he had tastefully concealed it by extending the up- holstery of his street windows over the entire upper border of the room. Still,- he had not been permitted to secure the sash, and if his next-door lodger were a tall man and would stand upon his bed, he could slide the window open, lift the drapery, and look in. The rooms, however, were so rarely occupied, and seldom twice by the same lodger,   328       EASY NAT; OR, that the windows had remained undisturbed, and D'Orsay almost, if not entirely,. forgot that they were there. Upon the night in question, one of -these rooms (regarded as good enough for a gentleman of rural occupation) was occupied by our worthy friend John Hard. Returning late from the Park Theatre-his first visit to a dramatic exhibition-with his head full of horses, the events of the evening, and the incidents of the race-course-he was divesting himself of his clothing, when it occurred to him that he should certainly smother before morning in lodgings so close. He had always been used to sleeping with his window partly open, even in winter, and he could not endure to be shut up as he now found himself. A little lurid light, glimmering through red damask, showed the locality of the window near the ceiling, and standing upon his bed, he shoved the sash aside, and lifted the Obstruct- ing upholstery, His face must have appeared strange enough to the persons in D'Orsay's apartment, had they obtained a glimpse of it, gazing down upon them through the aperture. John himself was profoundly astonished at the sight of Kate ; and when he beheld her resisting the rude advances of the libertine (Who was a stranger to him), his indignation against the-poltroon elicited--'Jeroo- shy,' and the boot. An ineffectual effort upon his part to get through the narrow aperture, was arrested by the sudden appearance of the assassin and his murderous assault upon D'Orsay. In another moment; John Hard-minus hat, coat, vest and one boot--was thundering at the door of D'0rsay's apartment for admittance; for he found it locked, and it could not be opened from the outside.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         329 CHAPTER XXXIX. John Hard on hand, with one ]Boot--The Murderer at Bay, Defies Arrest-John becomes a Battering Ram--Tom Braxton escapes through the window-Kate the Instrument of Just Retribution- Death of D'Orsay--Kate, threatened with Imprisonment, is saved by Harry Price. ' OPEN here, ye pesky varmint ' shouted John through the keyhole, and shook the door with a violence that, together with his impatient cries, speedily brought a dozen lodgers from their beds, and the clerk and sundry porters to the spot. 'What's the matter?' 'What are you doing' there?' ' What's all this noise for?' cried several in a breath. 'Murder; there's a murder been done here I' exclaimed John ; his rough honest face pale with horror and excite. ment. 'Who did it?' inquired two or three, half affrighted. ' I know him ; I saw him 1' replied John. ' It is Tom Braxton, and if we ain't quick, there will be another murder ;' and again he shook the door with much force. 'Break the door through 1' said the clerk. 'Stand away, there,' cried Braxton'from within, 'or I'll put a brace of bullets through you.' All promptly stepped aside from the door, except John, who continued to shake it. 'Shall I git you a crowhar, massa?' suggested a color- ed porter, standing at a safe distance. ' Attempt to break the door, and I'll kill this woman I' shouted the murderer, hoarsely.    330       EASY NAT; OR, 'The pesky varmint I He's as full of venom as a rattle- snake I' said John, in a low voice to the others. 'Stay not your hand for me,' cried Kate Mudge from within ; 'I fear him not. He will not harm me.' 'Be quiet!' they heard the assassin say. 'What do I care for one or two lives, more or less, now?' All listened attentively. The groans of a human being, as if in the agonies of death, could be heard distinctly. An officer of the watch, who had just come in'to the hall, escorted by a porter, tried the door with a pick-lock, but to no purpose. 'Surrender to the policeI Come out, and there shall be no harm done to you. I want to- come into the room. Be a sensible man, and open the door,' said the officer persuasively. 'I'm armed to the teeth, and won't be taken alive,' cried Tom fiercely. ' Stand away from the door, or you are a dead man I' The prudent policeman started back hastily, and inti- mated that it would be prudent to send for a larger force. ; I have only one pistol,' added he considerately, ' and this villain probably has a pair.' 'He is tying the sheets together, to escape by the window I' cried Kate. ' Have no fears for my safety, but break through the door!V A loud curse upon her succeeded from Tom Brax- ton, followed by a pistol-shot, which perforated the door, and lodged in the plastering on the other side of the hall. ' Jerooshy 1' exclaimed John Hard. ' A desperado I said the officer. 'Stand back, and let him fire the other.' This was an unnecessary caution to the crowd, whom he   THE, THREE APPRENTICES.       331 pressed back with his extended arms to a safer distance. It is not a pleasant occupation to stand within the possible range of an unseen pistol. But John stood his ground, very anxious for Mrs. Mudge's safety. She reassured him in a moment, and again bade him- to break the door in. 'I'll dew it,' said John resolutely, 'or break a trace. How I wish, I had my old stomperson! I mean a- pair o' boots I left at home, gentlemen. Real sockdologers! Guess I wouldn't make more than one mouthful of that 'door. But now, plague take it, I ain't got but one boot on, and that's a fashionable one, and don't weigh moren two pounds. Hows'ever, I reckon I can kick a few; so here goes!' And jumping across the hall (or 'entry,' as they call it in Yankee land), at one bound, he planted his shod foot full into the second panel of the door, with the force pf a pile-driver. It was a strong one, but what could withstand such a blow? Battered from its place, the panel fell upon the inside. At the instant, John dropped upon his hands and knees, and a bullet whizzed through the hole he had made. It grazed his hair, and lodged like the other in the opposite wall. Looking quickly through the opening made in the panel, he saw Tom Braxton strug- gling with Kate, who was endeavoring to prevent his escape through the window. She had grappled with him, with a stern determination, superior to fear, and madly insensible to danger. Hers was the strength of a mad- man for the time, and though desperation nerved his muscles, Braxton had found it impossible to make her relax her hold upon him. Once he attempted to push her through the open window, but she clung to him with a   332       EASY NAT; OR, tenacity that even his teeth, could not make her relinquish; and satisfied that he could not succeed in his effort, with- out sharing the same fate, he had abandoned it. Deprived of his knife which she had cast from him when he had raised it for a final blow at D'Orsay, he had now no weapon but his empty pistols. Grasping- one of these, he gave her at brutal blow with it upon her fair forehead, just as John Hard obtained a view of the strtuggle, and felled her to the floor. ' Jerooshy!' cried John, more enraged than he had ever been before, or has ever been since ; and projectingl, in his peculiar manner, his whole weight at the door with all his might-this time with both feet foremost-he gave the concussion of a trip-hammer or battering-ram ; and to the unspeakable admiration of the astonished specta- tors, all but the outer frame gave way, and fell upon the floor inside. 'Some of ye go belowl' shouted Mr. Hard, as he entered: 'The sarpent has cleared through the winder l Impossible ' cried the clerk, coming to the door, 'It is forty feet from the pavement. Good heavens, see here! And he gazed with horror upon the bleeding form of D'Orsay. John Hard raised Kate to her feet as tenderly as if she were an infant. She recovered instantly, and with a 'He shall not escape!' ran to the window, and cast off-from the fastening to which he had secured it, the end of a rope which Braxton had made of the linen sheets of D'Orsay's bed, and was now letting himself down by. A cry, a curse, and in a moment after, a prolonged groan, succeeded. John ran to the window, and looked down,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         333 but the night was dark, and he could see nothing. The watch on the look-out below, however, rushing to the spot where the murderer had fallen, found Braxton literally impaled alive upon the iron spear-heads of the area-railing. Extricating him with some difficulty, the police bore the disabled villain to the nearest station-house. The Captain of the district police returned in a few moments to arrest the woman whom Tom, with undying malignity, accused of being his accomplice : but Kate had disappeared, no one knew whither. 'His heart still flutters,' said John Hard, with his huge hand upon the breast of the unfortunate DI)'Orsay, at whose side he was kneeling, ' Why on airth don't some on ye bring a doctor?' Two or three ran to comply with the suggestion. John raised the body into a sitting pos- ture, the back and shoulders resting against his knee, while his left hand supported the head. 'Bring me some brandy and water in a glass ;' said he, and added in a lower tone, as if to himself, 'it's all that it's fit for.' The liquor was found upon the sideboard close at hand, and John held a little of it, in a glass, to the colorless lips of the wounded man. There was a slight gasp, and the eyes fixed a dying gaze, imploringly, upon the young farmer's compassionate face. The lips moved, as if essaying in vain to speak. Every voice was hushed, and the spec- tators listened intently, to catch the least word that the unhappy man might utter. John again applied the stimu- lating drink. With another effort, D'Orsay spoke the name of his murderer. ' Baxter did it?' said a spectator. 'Tom Braxton,' said D'Orsay, more distinctly. "' ^ -   334       EASY NAT; OR, ' Yes,' said John Hard, ' Tom Braxton; I saw him do't.' ' And the woman?' said the captain of the watch. 'If,' said John Hard, 'ye've got a word left in yer miserable body, ye'll acquit Kate Mudge I' and he looked anxiously at the face of the dying man. ' Innocent,' responded D'Orsay, with more energy than he had yet. shown. 'She is innocent]l  But I, how guilty I I am fainting, I am dyingl' He beckoned for drink. It was again applied to his lips ; and after a moment or two, he spoke again in broken sentences. ' Give me champagne-on the sideboard-not that-a fresh bottle. I am dyingl' His bloodless face then became convulsed, as if with terror, and he cried,        'Oh God, what will become of me?' A young surgeon, who had just entered, insisted, very properly, that the spectators should give the dying man mare air; and stooping down to D'Orsay, he was about to raise the bosom of his shirt which adhered closely ta his breast by reason of the clotted blood that saturated it, when he was cautioned by Mr. Hard not to do so ; but the inexperienced practitioner haughtily insisted; and the effect was, to open the wounds upon the side and set them to bleeding afresh. In a few minutes, D'Orsay expired from loss of blood. We could moralize upon his ill-spent life, of which, as he lay there amid the mocking splendors of his apartment, he afforded a ghastly illustra- tion, but forbear, content to let his story convey its own moral. He left property to the amount of about twenty thou-     THE THREE APPR E NTICES.       335 sand dollars, but it became a bone of contention, prolific in litigation among uncles, aunts, cousins and persons still more distantly related to him; and we are not certain that it does not remain in Chancery to this day. At ten o'clock A M., next succeeding the arrest, a Coro- ner's inquest was held upon the body of the murdered man, and a verdict rendered in accordance with the facts, viz.: that 'The deceased came to his death from stabs inflicted upon him with a bowie-knife, by Thomas Braxton, with intent to kill.' At a subsequent stage of the proceedings in this case, on the same day, John Hard was required to give bonds to appear as evidence in the trial of the accused. The Kentuckian friend at the hotel had formed quite a liking for John, whose rough, frank, manly nature, resembled his own, and he stepped promptly forward, at this demand, which had somewhat staggered the young farmer, and offered a few remarks. 'Major,' said he to John, loud enough for all to hear- 'they want you to be on hand at this trial when it comes off. What say ye, ole boss, will you do it?' 'Yes,' replied John, 'to be sure I will.' 'Thar, gentlemen,' said the Kentuckian, tearing off a leaf of tobacco, and holding it ready to thrust into his mouth as soon as he should- have got the words from his tongue, 'I allow that's sufficient. Major Hard says he'll be on hand when wanted,' and in went the weed, as if the matter were settled, and no more remained to be said. ' That won't do, said the magistrate. 'We must have a bond'    336       EASY NAT; OR, ' Look here, ole hoss,' rejoined the Kentuckian, chewing his weed for a moment, as if it were a mouthful of spruce gum, and then expectorating such a quantity of juice as made the captain of the watch-a very neat man-step back in some alarm for his light pantaloons-'Major Hard's word is a heap better than any o' your dodrotted bonds, I reckon.' ' I'll go bail for him to any amount,' cried the Virginian, stepping forward. ' Are you a householder here?' inquired the justice. ' No sirrlI was the proud reply; ' I am a Virginian.' 'You won't do,' said his honor, dryly. 'Then,. said the landlord of ' Holt's' I will. You know me, Judge Riker?' His honor smacked his lips involuntarily at the remem- brance of the luxurious dinners he had had at the great hotel, and with a jocular remark or two, took the inn. keeper's name to the bond. 'It is a suspicious circumstance, and calculated to throw doubt upon the woman who, agreeably to the tes- timony of Major Hard, was in Mr. D'Orsay's room at the time the murder was committed, that she has gone no one knows whither, and cannot be found,' said the magis- trate, gravely. 'If particeps crimtnis, she might well seclude herself, but-Cap'n (here he addressed the officer of the watch), I think you said you made diligent search for her?' ' Have had three of the police after her, everywhere, your honor, and at all the points at which she would be likely to seek to escape from the city,/ replied the man, ' but without success.'   THE THREE APPREN TICES.       337 'It looks bad,' said the justice, shaking his head dubiously. At this moment, a lady, clad in half mourning, walked quickly into their presence ; unattended, but;- entirely self- possessed, though very pale. 'Jerooshy!' exclaimed John Hard, 'here she is!' Sure enough it was Kate. Her testimony was soon rendered quietly, but with stern resolution, and without reserve. ' Now, madam,' said the magistrate, 'we shall have to tdo in your case, as with a previous important witness. You must give bonds in the sum of $2,000 to appear at the trial.' The landlord knew nothing of Mrs. Mudge, and would not become bail for her ; and John Hard and his Southern friends were not eligible, though entirely willing. 'I cannot procure the required bonds until after the lapse of a few days,' said Mrs. Mudge. 'In the mean- time'-- 'In the meantime, Madam,' said the judge, blandly, I must detain you in custody.' 'In other words,' rejoined Kate, calmly, 'I am to be committed to prison. May I ask, to what prison?' 'To the Tombs,' said the magistrate, and added apolo- getically, ' It is customary.' 'Oh, get out, Judge I ye don't mean so I' cried John Hard. The Kentuckian ejaculated, 'Chain-lightning ' and chewed his tobacco in a perfectly ravenous manner, full of excite- ment. The Virginian, too, was boiling over with indignation. 15   338       EASY NAT; OR, 'You don't mean to say, sir,' said he, ' that you detain in prison, persons whose only offence is, that they can testify in some expected trial.' 'Yes, sir ; unless they can give satisfactory security for their appearance when wanted,' replied the magistrate. ' And if a man happens to be poor, and can't give the required bail to appear as a witness, you imprison him under the same roof with murderers and villains, until his testimony is wanted?' said the Virginian. 'Is thar any- thing in African slavery more cruel than that?' ' It is the custom in Boston as well as New York,' said the magistrate. 'But for it, many a murderer would go unhung, on account of the absence of a material wit- ness., 'That's true,' said the Virginian, 'but if you must keep a poor fellow in custody, for that purpose, why not have a respectable house, properly guarded, to be sure, but not with the odium of a common prison or jail attached to it?' 'Technically,' said his honor, 'technically speaking, the Tombs, or City Prison, is only a house of detention.' 'Practically, it is the place whar you keep and hang your murderers!' rejoined the Virginian. ' This lady shall not go thar l' 'No sirr i' ejaculated the Kentuckian. 'I calkylate not!' said Mr. Hard, indignantly ; ' I'm- a friend of liberty, regulated by law, but when in the course o' human events, it becomes necessary to-to-kick, I kin do it!' and his defiant eye glanced from the judge to the three policemen who stood near by, awaiting the order to remove Mrs. Mudge.   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        339 'I'm right thar, myself, Majorl' said the Kentuckian- meaning by this, that he was with Mr. Hard in any demonstration that he might see fit to make. John might have done something very foolish (for resis- tance to law is always absurd) had not an unlooked-for interference occurred just in the nick of time. A young gentleman, who had just entered the room in some haste, and tarried long enough with the spectators to learn the state of the proceedings, ndw advanced, just as the judge put the question- 'Is there any competent person who will go bail for this lady?' 'I will sign the bond, sir, and be answerable for her appearance at the trial,' said the young gentleman. ' I am a house-holder, in this city. I own the house I occupy, No. 1 Bond street. My name is Henry H. Price. There are among the spectators two merchants, known to your honor, who are my friends. Mr. Prime and Mr. King (he added, beckoning to two gentlemen, who accordingly came forward), will you be kind enough to say to his honor that I am good for this bond?' 'Yes,' said one of them, 'if it were for a hundred thou- sand, instead of two.' l 'It is sufficient,' said the Judge, and between the three the bond was at once executed. 'Though never personally acquainted with you, Madam, or your father's family, I have often heard my father speak of both,' said Harry, as he handed the grateful Kate into her carriage, which stood at the door. 'I, too, am a Bostonian by birth, though now resident in this city. My father lived in Pearl street.)   340       EASY NAT; OR, The reader will remember that Mr. Price has appeared before in this history. Kate remembered the name very well, and she accepted of Harry's escort in company with the delighted John Hard, who left his Southern friends in the best possible humor, to return in Holt's carriage, to their hotel. In the afternoon of the same day, Mrs. Mudge left in the Providence boat for Boston, and as Mr. Price desired to go thither himself (upon business connected with the settlement of his father's estate), he availed himself of the privilege, with her consent, to accompany her. Mr. Hard had been cordially urged by Harry to make his house in Bond street his home during the remainder of his necessary sojourn in New York, but John had his fears that it was 'too kind o' stuck up and aristocratic, to use his own thought; besides, he ' didn't like to be beholden to anybody, and rather pay his own scot.' He missed his good old mother's cooking very much, however, at the hotel, and perceiving that Holt never had any apple-sauce on the table, he concluded to go up and try the ' Clinton' a spell ; especially as the Virginian and Kentuckian were about to'leave for Newport. Accord- ingly, on the same morning upon which they left (with many shakes of the hand and pressing invitations for him to visit them upon their plantations, in the FalD, which was the second day succeeding the race, he called for his bill. 'How much to pay? said he, to the clerk. --'Seven dollars, Major,' was the reply. 'Seven dollars and no apple-sarce ' grumbled John, and was producing some bills from his huge calf-skin pocket- book, when the landlord closed it playfully, and replaced it.   THE  THREE APPRENTICES.        341 'Major, you know I can't let you go, because I am bound for you! You have some weeks to stop, and I will keep you as a regular boarder, cheap,' replied Holt. ' But ye ain't got no apple-sarce here,' said John. 'Say nothing, Mr. Hard, and I'll have some.' 'That's all,' said John, 'but ye must keep up with the times, ye know. I don't mind the luxuries, but apple-sarce is one of the necessaries of life.' CHAPTER XL. The Murderer's Trial-He seeks to implicate the Innocent--John Hard Badgered by a Lawyer-Kate's Interview with her hus- band-Penitence and Pride-Nathan on a Good Foundation. THE murder of Mr. D'Orsay by Braxton occurring near the commencement of the term of Oyer and Terminer, Tom was arraigned for trial as soon as he was sufficiently recovered from the wounds received in his fall,-to appear in the dock ; about six weeks subsequent to the commis- sion of his last capital crime. We cannot say what would have been his chance of acquittal if he had been of a proud family in Kentucky, and his trial had occurred in that state ; especially if his victim were only a school-master, from New England. Since the verdict of ' not guilty,' in the recent trial of Matt. Ward (April, 1854), our confidence in the admi- nistration of justice in that quarter must vary according to the social position and influence of the persons arraigned. We were present at the memorable trial, in Boston, of 4 i   342       EASY NAT; OR, Professor John W. Webster, for the murder of Dr. George Parkman ; and day after day, for a week or more, sitting within arm's-length of the man of science, and elevated rank in society, saw and heard his personal friends--cele- brated savans, physicians, doctors of divinity, the Presi- dent of, the college with which he was connected, the wealthy merchant, the judge from the bench, all--notwith- standing the unpopular character of the victim-yielding impartially and unreservedly, the testimony which was'to complete every link in the chain of evidence against the murderer. His talents, his learning, his virtuous and highly-bred family, his aristocratic associations, could not shield him, nor avert any of the force of the blow, which he was to receive frotn the sword of justice. Inch by inch, with influential and powerful counsel, and all the resources of his own fertile brain, he combated the damning proof - of his- guilt, exhibited to that court; but all in vain. Yet the evidence was entirely circumstantial. How different was the case of Matt. Ward, the mur- derer of Prof. Butler I He, too, like 'Prof. Webster, belonged to a family of eminent social station, but the tes- timony that he killed his victim was of the most direct and positive kind. No one denies this : it is admitted on all hands. But wealthy friends, and family influence, and the influence of caste, did for him what they could not do for Professor Webster, notwithstanding all his personal use- fulness-and the Kentucky jury had the face to bring in a verdict of--not guilty. But let us recapitulate briefly (that they may have a more enduring record in our memory), the facts of this murdir which man has left to God to punish.   1i     THE THREE APPRENTICES.        343 An amiable and accomplished gentleman, Prof. Butler had succeeded, with much pains-taking, in establishing a first-class school in Louisville. Among the high-blooded Southern lads with whom he had to deal, was one belong- ing to the wealthy aristocracy of WARD, which has long made a figure in high life at the West. This lad was intolerably insolent and refractory, and after repeated pro- vocation, Mr. Butler chastised him, in order to maintain the discipline of the school. Judging from the character Of the teacher, and the aggravation of the case, we do not doubt that, if ever corporal punishment is to be inflicted by a teacher, young Ward was a fit subject for- it. The sequel is thus told :-  'On the 2d of November, at about 9 o'clock in the morning, Matthew F. Ward went to a gun-shop in Louis- ville, bought a self-cocking pistol, which " would send a bullet through a two-inch board anyhow," as the maker of it testified, and ordered it loaded. He afterward bought another of the same kind, which he also ordered loaded. Percussion-caps were put upon both, and they were thrust into the breast-pocket of his coat. He then went home and told his mother that he was going to the school-room of Mr. Butler, to demand an apology of him for having, on the day previous, punished his brother, Willie Ward, and for having charged him with lying. His mother advised him to be calm, and to take his brother Robert with him, as Butler was a larger man than he was. Matthew told his brother Robert to get his hat and come along, which he did, taking with him also a large bowie-knife which he was in the habit of carrying. The two brothers proceeded to the school-room, and asked -for -Mr. Butler, who was   344       EASY NAT; OR, engaged in his duties, in the midst of his pupils, and who came forward on being called. Matthew Ward told Butler he had come for an explanation as to his having whipped his brother. Butler asked him to step into his private room, where he would explain it to him. Ward refused, saying that was the place to settle it. ' Mr. Butler nodded. 4Matthew said-what are your ideas of justice? Which is the worst, the boy who begs chestnuts and throws the shells on the floor, and then lies about it, or my brother who gave them to him? Mr. Butler said he would not be interrogated, putting his pencil in his pocket and buttoning up his coat. Matt. repeated the question. Butler said, there is no such a boy here. Matt. said, that settles the matter; but you called my brother a liar, and for that I must have an apology. Butler said he had no apology to make. Is your mind made up? said Matt. Butler said it was. Then, said Matt., you must hear my opinion of you : you are a d--d scoundrel and coward. 'This statement of what took place thus far is from the evidence of Ward's brother Robert, who stood by, and who was also under indictment as an accessory to the mur- der. It agrees substantially with that of other witnesses. Robert Ward proceeds to state that on being thus called a "d--d scoundrel and coward," Butler "struck Matt. twice, and pushed him back against the door." He is the only one of all the witnesses who swears to any such thing. One or two of the boys state that Butler put his hands our toward Ward ; and one says that he pushed him. All agree that Matt. drew his pistol, placed it against Butler's breast, ard fired. Butler exclaimed, "My poor wife and   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         345 child!" and fell. There was, of course, a rush of the terrified boys, and Robert Ward drew his bowie-knife, which he brandished, ordering them all to stand off. The Wards left the room. Butler was carried home and died that night.' Well may the public press throughout the land denounce, again and again, the iniquitous acquittal of the murderer. 'Again it has been decided in this State,' says the Louisville, Ky., Courier, ' after a deliberate trial, conduct- ed with all the usual forms of law, that killing a man en- gaged in the peaceful pursuit of his profession, is not mur- der! Again it has been decided in this State, by a jury regularly empanelled and' solemnly sworn, that taking the life of a man of peace, who has sought no quarrel-who has been guilty of no offence-who has never been known to lift his hand against his fellow-man in anger-is not even masnslaughter! Again it has been decided in this State, that virtue has no protection in the m:,dst of its use. fulness-that in the law of the land there is no shield for humble worth. ' The criminal code of Kentucky is a code of blood. Let no one try to think that this is not so. The stigma can no longer be escaped from. "Out-out, damned spot!" may be vociferated, but it will not out. The blot is inour escutcheon. The scales of Justice have disappeared. The broad blank field is covered with human blood! Who does not shudder at this contemplation? Who feels safe in the presence of such a fact? Who knows when the hand of the assassin may not strike him to the earth? "et us not deceive ourselves. This verdict is one of 15*   346       EASY  NAT; OR, momentous concern. No man, after the trial commenced, expected a verdict of not guilty; every mah who has spoken to us upon the subject to the very close, expected that the jury would "hang."  A verdict of acquittal-- even the possibility of such a verdict, in the face of the strong and overwhelming testimony as to the facts, had found its way into the head of no man who has expressed himself upon the subject in our presence.' Everywhere throughout Kentucky, the press (to its everlasting credit be it spoken,) has expressed a similar opinion. But to return to the murderer of D'Orsay.-- Having no money to fee a lawyer of his own, counsel was appointed for Braxton by the Court, and he was inge- niously defended; but the evidence against him was irre- sistible; the testimony of Kate Mudge and John Hard, and the dying declarations of his victim, being so direct and irrefragable. There was; too, ample evidence of his previous bad life, his association with a gang of thieves, his intemperate habits, his delirious debauches, and his reckless and orevengeful disposition s The jury had been out less than half an hour, when they returned with a verdict of guilty. He was remanded to the Tombs to await sentence, and sullenly retired, exhibiting neither remorse nor feeling of any kind, at disclosures of crime which had riveted an immense throng of spectators to the spot for many hours. His senses appeared completely blunted and brutalized by the use of spirituous liquors: still, with a degree of ingenious malignity, he had endea- vored to affix to Kate Mudge the crime of having insti- gated him to the perpetration of the murder; and, of course (such is the practice of the courts), due emphasis   THE THREE APP'RE NTICES.       347 was laid upon this, and the probability of her implication, in the plea of the learned counsel. The defence rested mainly, however, upon the alleged insanity of the prisoner; but the testimony to this point only went to prove that the accused was often rum-crazy, and, on the day upon which the crime was committed, had suffered from mania potu. Without pausing to describe the manner and replies of Kate in several painful passages of the proceedings, we will merely say, that, sustained by the same resolute pur- pose which had borne her through the scenes already feebly depicted, arid aided by the presence of her aged father, and the intrepid Edwin, her testimony and demeanor upon the stand, and under the rigid cross-examination of the prisoner's counsel, were such as won for her the respect and admiration of every beholder. She did, -indeed, deport herself with remarkable courage and presence of mind. A very elalborate and persistent effort was made to 'badger' the witness, Mr. Hard, but with all his simpli- city John had a certain shrewd Vwrit of his own, and was wide awake for 'man-traps,' as he called them, and usually ready with a keen answer. After having repeat- edly turned the smile against the legal gentleman, and the latter still continuing to annoy, he said to him, 'I, calkelate, Squire, ye're jist about as sharp as some vinegar dad made some two years ago come October; which was so sharp it cut the barrel right in halves, and split up all the old stuff in the cider mill.' The learned counsel here desired the protection of the court, and John was commanded to confine his replies strictly to the questions, which he agreed to do ; but not   348       EASY NAT; OR, without a characteristic protest against 'the abominable mean trick' of badgering witnesses. A burst of applause following this demonstration, was promptly silenced by constable Hays, and the legal gentleman ' allowed' that the witness might step down; whereupon John- hoped he hadn't hurt his feelings any ; and wishing him success in a better cause, resumed his seat. We will not now tarry to narrate Mr. Hard's conduct to the' close of Tom Braxton's career, and his amusing experience in New York life in less sombre scenes, but let it suffice to say, that by the request of Giles Godwin and his daughter, he consented to remain in the great city until Tom Braxton should have received his sentence. In the meantime, he was to see him often in prison, and obtain from him, if possible, a confession that he, and not Nathan Mudge, was guilty of the destruction of Mr. God- win's house, in which Eunice Braxton and her child had lost their lives. Giles, and his daughter, and adopted son, Edwin Fair- banks, immediately returned to Boston. All felt anxious to console Nathan Mudge, and afford him every ray of hope they could under the dark cloud which hung over him; but far more eager than all the rest to see him was, of course, his heroic and devoted wife. How he pressed her to his wildly beating heart as she entered his solitary cell, and blest her for her fidelity, for her sacrifices, for her angelic courage And when he heard from her own sweet lips a' more particular -relation of her adventures during the mission which she had secretly undertaken, he was deeply affected, and shed many grateful tears. 'But, said he, 'my faithful Kate, what hope have you   THE THREE APPRENTICES.       349 that Tom's conviction of the murder of D'Orsay, will strengthen your application for my pardon?' 'He will not dare to die with the lie upon his lips 1' replied Kate, earnestly. 'Ah,' said Nat, sadly, 'you don't know Tom Braxton as well as I dol He will die game, and never confess. Besides, my execution may be the first to occur.' 'Oh, my God, my God! No, no no; it shall not-it shall not be so, Nat,' replied Kate, vehemently, ' You die upon an ignominious gallows-? No, rather let it be said, that you died by- your own hand!' ' Whether I die by the one or the other, Kate, it will still be my own hand that did it :-this hand that plied my throat with rum, till it brought me to this miserable end!' cried the wretched felon, and paced his cell once or twice, in an agony of remorse, then broke forth into bitter apostrophe against his past intemperance. 'Rum, rum 1' he added, ' accursed rum? What crime is there, that it will not stimulate, a man to? Yes, man and woman, both! For I have seen the mother, under its hellish influence, take her innocent and helpless babe from her breast, and throw it headlong upon the pave- mentl I have seen a drunken son try to kill his own father-I have seen it raise the hand of the young and vigorous against the aged and decrepid-arm husband against wife, and wife against husband; destroying for ever the peace of families once prosperous and happy. And look at me, now,- and Tom Braxton.'  'Nat, poor Nat,' cried his wife interrupting him, 'you shall not compare yourself with that fiend incarnated  'Still, but for the grace of God, I should have been as   350       EASY NAT; OR, bad as he. Tom was older, and a little further along, and his strides longer than mine, in the highway of crime; but God only knows what I might have become, if not brought up with a short turn, as I was.' ' Nathan,' said his wife, reproachfully, 'you never were, and never could have become, like that monster. You never robbed a man-' ' I never stole money nor goods, nor any article of pro- perty,' said Nathan, interrupting her, ' but by my example younger men have been led into dissipation, and so, through me, been robbed of property, and, what is more, of health and reputation. I never raised my hand against human life; but who shall say, that the blood of these young men is not upon my skirts?  Oh, Kate, Katel God knows, that I repent of my sin, but will He ever blot out my transgressions from the book of his remembrance?' 'You have been more sinned against than sinning,' replied his wife, evading his question. 'No, no ;' said Nat, ' I used to think so, too, but I cannot delude myself any longer with that flattery. The scales have fallen from my eyes, and I see my own heart in all its sinfulness.' 'If Tom Braxton was as penitent as you are,' said Kate, with a slight sneer, 'he would lose no time in mak- ing a confession that would liberate you.' 'For his sake, no less than my own, may God change his heart,' said Nat; hurt by the tone his wife had used, not so much on his own account as on hers; still without seeming to notice it. ' Is it possible, my dear husband, that you can feel any sympathy for a wretch who has wronged, and is still wrong-   THE THREE E APPR ENTICES.     351 ing you so deeply?' exclaimed Kate, with mingled surprise and impatience. 'You- would have him let loose again upon society, perhaps?' ' No ; I would have him expiate his crime against the human laws which he has repeatedly outraged in sacri- ficing human life ; but, much as Tom has injured me, and fearful as is the fate which, through him, I am to suffer, I do pray that the Almighty will have mercy upon his soul, and render him a contrite and penitent man; for oh! my dear Kate, what a fearful thing it must be to die under the wrath of an offended God!' 'If there is a hell'-said Kate-    - 'If? interrupted Nat; ' Can you doubt it? Can you, believe, if Tom Braxton should die the same hardened and remorseless man he now is, that he would go to heaven?' 'No!' exclaimed Kate, warmly, yet coloring with a sense of defeat, for it had been a part of her logic in reli- gious conversations with her friends to ignore the doctrine of future punishment for the impenitent. 'If I thought he would, I would pray with all my might to go to the other place.' 'We will pursue our account of the interview in the cell no longer, and only add that similar conversations occurred often between the high-spirited wife and her con- demned husband, upon the doctrine of human salvation, the necessity of a mediator between God and man, and the condition of the soul after death; and to these dis- cussions the peculiarity of Nathan's situation lent extra- ordinary interest. His sister Susan was a greater com- fort to him at this time than anything in the world,   352         EASY  NAT; O-R, except his mother's Bible. At one of these visits to her brother's cell, Susan found lying upon the little writing- desk, which was allowed him, the following lines, written while the cloud was yet over his spirit. They are-expres- sive of a feeling common to contrite hearts, laboring under a sense of sin:- THE SLEEP OF THE SOUL. Arouse, weak soul! Awake-arise! Thou'rt sleeping in the road to death! Mark how the fleeting time fast flies-- Awake, my soul, while I have breath. How canst thou rest and I undone? Oh, sluggish soul, make haste-awake! Shake off the sleep the Evil One Hath long inveigled thee to take! 'Fain would I rouse,' I hear thee sigh, 'Fain-would I flee the wrath to come- But ah! in vain, in vain I try, Since sleep doth all my powers benumb.' 6I am as one that sleeps, yet feels That peril lurks around his bed; But cannot shake the drowse that steals Resistlessly from heart to head.'. A waking sleep, a living death, Oh pray, poor soul, to God for aid! 'I do-I pray! my soul it saith, But MY prayers die as soon as made. 'Weak offspring of a heart matured In folly, guile, and gilded sin! (Vice active still, though now abjured), Prayers such as mine can never win!   T I. T H REE   APPRENTICES.        353 'As unfledged birds their bald wings try To soar aloft, but all in vain, So my poor prayers would cleave the sky, But sink alas! to earth again!' Oh that a faith-winged Christian prayer, To thee of God, poor soul, wer't given; That, like the lark, should pierce the air, And tireless, scale the gate of Heaven. Oh turn, dear soul, thine eyes to Him, Before whose glory angels bend, With faces veiled, while Cherubim And Seraphs, too, their homage blend: Then cast thine eyes to Calvary, Where on the cross His only Son Thorn-crowned and bleeding died for thee, And prayed for those by whom 'twas done I 'The Cross? The Throne?' rejoins the soul, ' A HALO only greets my view- Earth-bound so long, I'm like the mole, And cannot see as Christians do. ' My faded eyes, through long disuse (If haply ever used at alD, So dim are grown, that they refuse Obedience to the spirit's call. - Still, even as the blind well know That earth is fair and skies are bright, My nature feels, above, below, A God of love, and truth and might. Oh let no sensual opiate, To lethargy thy soul e'er sink, Lest, like mine own, it wake too late, All helplessly on hell's dari brink 1' /   354       E ASY NAT; OR, Susan was so familiar with the Word of God, and the way of Eternal life, and could so well expound it to him, and irradiate the sacred pages with the light of her own truly devotional spirit, that poor [Nat was never so cheerful as when she was present in his interviews with his wife, who he saw with unspeakable satisfaction, was already half inclined to abandon her unbelief, and fix her hopes upon an anchor sure and steadfast, even Jesus Christ, the Son of God. In these conversations, either in the narrow cell of the felon, or through the massive iron grating of its window, old Mr. Godwin and Edwin Fairbanks would occasionally take part. Nor were they confiued to these friends : there were several prisoners who, by a larger latitude in dis. cipline than is now permitted, were allowed to talk with him; and their dialogues would interest the thoughtful reader, but we have not space for the record. CHAPTER XLI. Love in High Life-Ha:rry Price in Upper Ten-dom-The Freaks of Cupid-The Eival Sisters. BY a transition allowable in novelists, let us pass to new scenes and personages not before introduced to the reader. It is -not 'dramatic,' we know, to multiply the characters in a 'plot,' after the point of interest has been attained, but this is only another evidence of the unnaturalness which marks a large majority of the pieces enacted upon the stage ; for where, in this every-day -   THE} THREE APPRENTICES.        355 world of ours, do we find, that new characters are not entering at all periods of the drama? Many an unwritten story, in real life, is incomplete until most of the original principal movers in it have passed entirely from the stage of action, and at the eleventh, and perhaps even the twelfth, hour, new faces appear, and take a prominent part. Such is actual experience, and, as we should have a decided aversion to the adaptation of this story, or any portion of it, to the stage, even for the amusement of 'a moral audience,' we shall be well-pleased to be natural, even at the expense of not beings ' dramatic.' Such being our sentiments, we shall not exclude from our narrative, for the sake of greater unity, the Hon. Jacob Bogardus, and his interesting daughters, Helen and Jane-all descendants of the old Dutch burgomas- ters-men that flourished in state before such things as Mayor and Aldermen were known in New York. Jacob Bogardus was proud of his ancestry-it was a staunch one, and had done well for the country ; and his daughters were proud of him, for'he, too, had acquitted himself handsomely in the councils of his state and nation. He was not merely an eminent lawyer, and a very wealthy man, but a gentleman of the old school-a school, by the way, in which no modern monitors were requisite to keep vigilant watch lest its pupils should neglect their duties. Judge Bogardus (for by that title he was universally known) was a gentleman, every inch of him. Cordial, benevolent, affable and. polite, he was beloved by all who knew him; and, although he had been many years a widower, and the locks upon his well-formed head had become thin and grey, and the whiskers extending mid-   1356 E, EASY NAT; OR, way to his white cravat, were silvery with age, his teeth were white and entire, his eyes still a lustrous hazel, and his cheeks fair and ruddy. In person, he was large and heavy, but when clad in his knee-breeches and moving through an old-fashioned country dance, in which he occa- sionally indulged, to the tune of Sir Roger de Coverley, in his own hospitable mansion, with a chosen few of the more intimate friends of the family, his step was as elastic and graceful as the lightest; and far more free than that of his magnificent eldest daughter, Helen, who, conscious of her queenly beauty, and elevated station in the aristo- cratic world, glided majestically through the figures of the simple dance, only to please her father, who loved it all the better because its music was played with such spirit by 'Jenny,' the younger sister, who loved all his, old favorite tunes dearly, and rattled them off upon her piano con amore. This, however, was only at home. The Judge had long passed the period when he would have danced elsewhere, and Jenny was too shy when abroad to venture even an approach to the piano, unless to turn the leaves of the music for her sister. Helen, having more musical taste and cultivation, could execute the most difficult compositions with facility and precision, in the presence of any of the aristocratic circles, of which she was regarded as the belle ; though, indulging the caprices of her haughty and contemptuous spirit, she would rarely play when solicited, and would usually withdraw from the piano as soon as her brilliant performance had excited a desire to hear more. -'How could you be so disobliging, dear Helen,' sa"d Jane to her one night, as together in their richly furnished   THE THREE AP?R ENTICES.       357 bed-room, the two sisters were disrobing and preparing to retire to rest-poor Van Wart pleaded with you so hard to play again Beethoven's Dream! He looked chagrined, and I really think he had occasion.' ' And what occasion, pray?' said Helen, with a haughty toss of her stately head, as she removed, with a jerk, the splendid tiara of diamonds and emerald stones from her brow, and suffered her auburn hair to fall in a silken volume upon her fair neck and heaving bosom, while she turned to her sister, who was in the act of tucking her own golden ringlets under the edges of the prettiest little night- cap that ever lady wore. 'What,' continued Helen, reddening with wounded pride, 'can give Van Wart, or any other man, occasion to be offended with me? Do I owe him any allegiance, that I should descend to the level of. a professional performer to please him?' 'Nay, Helen,' replied Jane, Ithe allegiance is evidently on his part. For so wealthy a suitor, I think I never knew one so devoted.' 'I've had twenty as wealthy as he,' rejoined Helen, pouting her ripe cherry lips, and concealing, for a moment, the twin rows of small pearly teeth enshrined within. 'But not of as ancient and noble a family,' said her sis- ter, as she tied -her cap-strings at the mirror in front of which her sister stood. ' He is not noble,' rejoined Helen, scornfully; and remov- ing her ear-drops, valued by hundreds of dollars, she cast them down with as little care as if they were glass beads. They were a present from Van Wart. 'But he is good-looking,' persisted Jane.   358       EASY NAT ; OB, ' He is not half so handsome as Harry Price, who is at least five years younger,' replied Helen. Jane changed color at this, and was fain to stoop for the double purpose of unlacing her gaiters, and concealing her tell-tale countenance from-her sister. 'Harry loves me,' continued Helen, as, without perceiv- ing the emotion of Jane, she gathered the flowing hair from the unwilling neck, and confined it with a comb that might well rejoice in its duty. ' Do you think so?' faltered poor Jenny, entangling her shoe-string into an inextricable knot. 'He says so, and I would take his word for more than Van Wart's oath.  Jenny's heart beat wildly, and her head swam around. 'I'm so dizzy!' she said, and rising, sat down upon their richly-furnished bed, and pressed her hand upon her forehead. 'You are fainting, JennyI' cried Helen, dropping her night-dress hastily, and stepping quickly to her sister's aid. 'I am only a little dizzy,' replied Jane. 'It came over me in stooping so long over my vexatious boot-lacing. I shall get over it, when my heart stops beating.' There wasmore of meaning in the last sentence, than Helen understood, and without a core upon her mind, she was, shortly afterwards, enjoying ambrosial slumbers, while her homely sister, for hours after, lay sleepless at her side, thinking of Henry Price, Esq.          E Attracted by the wondrous beauty of Helen (whose  acquaintance he had- formed at the Saratoga Springs),  1 this young gentleman had been for some time past a fre- i quent visitor at the residence of Judge Bogardus, who,  I   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        359 much pleased with his frank and hearty, yet polished man- ners, always gave him a cordial welcome. Too modest to press himself upon the attention of her proud sister as long as there appeared to be any chance for the more wealthy Van Warti Harry bestowed much of his conversation upon Jenny, little thinking of the mischief he was making with her heart. At the breakfast table, upon the day succeeding the scene we have described between the two sisters, the Judge found one of his colored waiters attending at the silver urn, from which he was to receive his morning mocha. His daughter Jane, who generally presided over its aromatic glories, had not made her appearance at her usual early hour. 'How's this, Cato,' said the noble-looking old man, laying down the Courier, -and closing the tortoise-shell eye-glass which he had been balancing upon a nose like Washington's-'Where is Miss Jane?        We can't do without her. 'Missus not come down stairs yet, sare,r replied the polite servant-a grey and grave-looking African, of almost preternatural height and thinness, clad, with the exception of a high black neck-stock, entirely in white- 'spect she's not fully executed her twilight, sare.' 'Her toilet, you mean, Cato.' 'Yes sare, dat ware what I suspicions is de more immejit proximate cause ob de delay.' 'Send Chloe, or the chambermaid, to the young ladies' room,   'Yes, sare,' replied the ancient African, bowing briskly; and, toeing out quite elaborately, as he walked over the  360       EASY NAT; OR, heavy Turkey carpet, he looked into thhe spacious hall and stairway. 'I now 'spects sare;' said he, 'that Miss Jane are in de- ack of 'scending de star's, at dis instant moment ob time.' It was Helen, however, and in a moment she entered the breakfast room, robed in a gorgeous dressing-goowTn, to which Cato bowed in mute adoration, as the imperial beauty brushed carelessly by him, and glancing first into the full-length' mirror which reflected herfaultless figure, confronted her father.  ' 'Aurora, now, fair daughter of the dawn,' said her sire,- quoting Milton, in a mock-heroic manner. 'If you make fun of me, pa, I'll go to bed again t cried Helen. ' What ' exclaimed Judge Bogardus, with a humorous expression of countenance-' What is going to happen?' 'It will happen, that Jenny, whose early rising you so often contrast with my lazy lying-a-bed, papa, will be last at the table this morning,' replied Helen, smiling, and imprinting a kiss upon his cheek. ' What's the matter? She is not ill, I hope,' said the Judge. 'I wonder, papa, if you ever look so anxious, when wly last snooze laps over into the breakfast hour?V inquired Helen, playfully, as she took her seat at the urn. 'Ha, ha, hal I'm too used to that,' said the good- humored old gentleman, laughing. 'I believe you fear that the morning air will injure your good looks ' 'I know it never did improve them,' rejoined Helen, in a positive manner, as she handed her father a cup of   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        361 coffee, while Cato placed before him a silver-and-gold cream pitcher, and a sugar-bowl of the same costly mate- rial-' and if I could have may way  ' 'Which you do in everything,' interrupted the Judge, parenthetically--'but you have not told me what's the matter with Jenny.' ' No I didn't, did I?' replied Helen, taking between her tapering fingers, gemmed with rings, a big lump of sugar, and dropping it into her coffee. 'Cato, pass me the rolls; and pray don't wear that high stock another day. It looks like a segment of stove-pipe.' Her father laughed heartily, for certainly Cato's neck gear did somewhat resemble an iron cylinder, and ren- dered it impossible for him to incline his head without moving his whole body. ' The world will think that you have only exchanged slavery for serfdom, and that we have put an iron collar upon you, Cato,' continued Helen. 'You must have it filed off.' 'It onbuckles, Miss, jist like aquy gemmen's, stock,' remonstrated Cato; who thought the article in question added materially to his respectability, besides affording a decided support to his long neck. 'Well, take care and not wear it behind the carriage, when I am inside,' said Helen. 'It makes you look, in that position, like a cane with an ebony image on the top of it.' The Judge laughed, and the old man was nettled. 'Does you think Cain was a brack man, Miss Helen? De best authorities differs (n dat pint, lemme tell you 1' said Cato, with some warmth. 'Never mind your authorities, 'Cato, now,' said the 16   862       EASYY N AT; OR, Judge, ' but reserve them for the kitchen. For my own part, I confess I lean to the opinion that he was a white man.' 'Yah, yah 1' chuckled, in a low tone, the aged negro, his sable countenance beaming with a broad grin, and the whites of his eyes rolling in triumph towards his young mistress ; 'berry happy to hear you say so, sare, for you is a judge. Yah, yah 1' and on pretence of going after some warmer rolls, he hurried to the kitchen, and comlnu- nicated toold Dinah, the cook, his wife, and the coachman, the gratifying intelligence, viz.: the Judge's opinion; which, as a matter of course, forever settled a question previously often mooted by those worthies, in the chimney corner, during the long winter nights. While Cato was thus pleasantly occupied in the kitchen, and occasionally taking an observation of his high black stock, in a little glass, which for his own convenience he carried in his pocket, Miss Jane Bogardus joined her sire and sister at the breakfast-table. She, too, returned his salutation with a kiss, as Helen had done, but the smile was- a forced one. ' You look pale, my dear child,' said the Judge, affection- ately; ' the party at Mr. Verplanck's was too much for you, I fear.' 'Perhaps so,' replied Jane, quietly, and taking a seat at his side. 'You may have caught cold, Jenny, in stepping from the door to the carriage,' continued her father, who was very fond of her because, notwithstanding her hair was red, and her nose uinclassical, she looked so good, and was always dutiful, charitable, affectionate, and entirely free   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        363 from selfishness. 'I noticed that your shoes were altoge- ther too thin for the pavement. 'How vulgar in the Verplancks not to have carpeted the walk for the occasion V cried Helen. 'Why Jenny, it has made you look like a fright, this morning.' 'Nay, Helen,' said the Judge, 'I can't agree with you. Jenny has not the slightest resemblance to any such thing. 'But, Jenny dear, you must make haste and pick up your very best looks by dinner-time, for I am going to bring you a beau to-day.' Jenny colored, her first thought being of him who had -occupied both her waking and sleeping visions, for the last three weeks. 'Why, I declare, Jenny,' cried Helen, 'you can blush through that opaque complexion, after all I Who is the man, papa? Who is the redoubtable strange knight who offers himself in the lists against all other competitors for the hand of the right honorable Lady Jane Bogardus?' This was said in sarcasm, for poor Jenny had no suitors, and her poverty in this particular afforded the belle of Broadway an endless fund of badinage, in which the object  of it usually joined in perfect good humor, though now so serious and silent. 'Helen,' said the Judge, reproachfully, 'you ought to have been named Hector! Was it not enough for you to torment poor Cato as you did, but you must'- ' Still be classical, and aim a shaft at Janus, too?' cried the beauty, who plumed herself somewhat upon her wit. 'It serves her right; she has no business to wear two faces. When she came in she was pale ; you said "l beau," and boo! her face became red ; and now-presto! you see   364       E A S N A T; O R, her complexion is colorless. Have you swallowed a cha- meleon, sister?' A ghost of a smile flitted over Jane's wan countenance. 'Never mind what she says, Jenny,' rejoined the Judge, smiling, 'but prepare to set your cap for the young gen- tleman who will dine with me to-day.? 'Where does the fortunate individual, destined to such a delectable reception, hail from?' said Helen, in a mock- ing tone. 'Cape Cod, perhaps! A member, possibly, of the cod-fish aristocracy I and descended from the Pilgrim Fathers, Sculpin or Tar-box.' The young lady, being a descendant of the Dutch set- tiers of-- New York, entertained a prejudice against the posterity of the Puritans, and never hesitated to express it. ' Cod-fish, my dear,' replied her father, gravely, 'are excellent eating, and the men who catch themm- ' Are worth catching in return. -Is that what you mean, Papa?' said Helen, with a laugh. 'You have finished the sentence in your own way ; let it go so,' responded her father, smiling. 'You have pronounced so many sentences, sir, on the bench,' said Helen, 'that surely you will not object to my finishing a broken one at the table!' 'Have it your own way, you torment, but the friend whom I shall bring home with me is a Bostonian. Again Jenny's face became suddenly flushed, and in a moment was pale again. 'Could her father,' she thought to herself, ' allude to Mr. Price?' ' A BostonianV cried Helen, mockingly, ' Oh, then, he must be a paragon of excellence I Those Boston men are all so perfect I'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        365 ' He is a lawyer'-Jenny's hope fell in her thermometer of sensations sixty degrees in a minute-for Harry Price was not of the legal profession. ' A lawyer,' continued her father, 'who has attained to eminence in the profes- sion very rapidly, and under circumstances full of credit to him.' 'Is he rich?' inquired Helen. 'No,' replied the Judge. ' So much the better, rejoined Helen,.' for Jenny has often said she would prefer a poor man. For my own part, I think a small fortune, say a hundred thousand, would suffice for me: Master Henry Price, for instance.' ' Better take Peter Van Wart, who, I believe, loves you, my dear, better even than he loves'his half million of dollars,' said the Judge, folding up his napkin, and inserting it within a ring--' With your taste for expendib ture, Helen, you will disburse all his interest money, easily.' 'Yes, it would require all his fortune to suffice you, dear Helen, I know,' said Jenny. 'If I ever undertake to disburse it, rest assured I will make it flyl' exclaimed Helen, with animation. 'I do not want to thwart your affection, my dear daugh- ter,' said her father, 'if you love another, but Mr. Van Wart is in every respect fitted to make you a proper husband. Will you have him?' 'No, I will not,' replied Helen, peremptorily. ' He is well-born, rich, and educated, but he is not the man for me. He is too calculating. I want a man with a soul in him! Van Wart is superficial, and devoid of sentiment.' 'I think you do him injustice. Certainly, it is true, that he is a shrewd manager,'and destined to be a mil-   366       EASY NAT; OR, lionaire, but that's no unpardonable sin after all. If you discard him, which, out of the remaining baker's dozen, will you take, my girl?' 'The odd one, my dear papa,' replied Helen, and tak- ing her parent's arm, led him towards the oriel window; for they had completed their breakfast, and Cato, who had been very remiss in Mis attendance, was just entering with the rolls. 'I will take the odd one of this " baker's dozen," as you style my little regiment of suitors, papa,' said Miss Bogardus. 'And who is he?' inquired the Judge. 'The last;' replied Helen. Poor Jenny was listening with all her ears. ' And the last?' inquired the Judge. 'Is Henry Price,' replied Helen. 'Do you think he loves you?F inquired her father. 'How can he help it,' said the proud girl, laughing. 'What vanityl' said the Judge.  'Has he pro- posed?' 'Yes, and backed it,' replied Helen, 'with stronger oaths than you-obtain upon that old book with the cross on it, in your Court-room!' ' And strengthened them, as we do on the book, with a kiss to every oath?I said the Judge, archly. Helen drew herself up proudly, and with a flashing eye and a flush of pride mantling to her temples, as she answered, 'No, sir, not he, nor any living man, dare attempt such a liberty with me!' Her father placed his finger playfully upon her pouting lips, as if to break, as he would a bubble, the scorn that   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        361 (always budding among their roses) now, on the instant, had flowered in full. ' You do not love Mr. Price,' said he. 'Yes-at least, as well as I can love any man. I never saw but one of the sex that I really entertained a true affection for ;' replied Helen. ' And pray who was he?' inquired the Judge,.with some curiosity. 'AMy own' dear fatherl' she replied, proudly regarding his silvery locks, and noble, though aged countenance, and encircling him with her arm. He pressed her tenderly to his heart, and imprinted a kiss upon her fair forehead; then said, 'Be it as you will, my beloved child I I con- sent to your union with Henry Price, and doubt not he will make you an affectionate and excellent husband.' Poor Jennyl Alas, for thee! When, with moistened eyes, Judge Bogardus had con- cluded this brief but not unimportant colloquy with Helen, he turned from the window at which they had been con- versing in a low tone, and beheld his younger daughter, s still at the table, but bent over in a singular attitude, with her forehead pressed against the cloth. At the same moment, Cato entering the room, after another long absence, exclaimed, in a fright, as he beheld his young mistress, ' O de Lord! What's de matter wid Miss Jenny?' All ran to her aid, and found her apparently lifeless. She had fainted. -Fresh air and other restoratives were immediately applied, and in half an hour the poor girl was sufficiently recovered to be removed to her room by her distressed father and sister. They little imagined the real   3618      BEASY NAT; OR,                I cause of her illness, and she, upon her part, resolved never to divulge it. A frank confession would have saved her     much subsequent pain, but she determined to overcome      her ill-fated passion, and pray with all her might for the l happiness of Helen and Henry Price. CHAPTER    XLII.     a       a The Dinner at Judge Bogardus's--Helen changes her Opinion of'  Edwin Fairbanks-The Jealousy between New York and Boston--  General Jackson's Administration, and the Statesmen of his Time ; -Singular interruption to the Dinner Party-Entrance of Scratch Gravel-He claims a Father. FINDING all his efforts futile to obtain a pardon, or even a short reprieve, from the Governor of Massachusetts, Edwin Fairbanks had accompanied Kate to New York to endeavor to elicit from the convict, Braxton, testimony to the innocence of Nathan. This was late in the autumn. Edwin had letters of introduction to several eminent men in New York, connected with the lergal profession, but he had been in the city a week before presenting one which he had from the Hon. 'Richard Fletcher to Judge Bogardus. When he did so, he was received with great cordiality, and was prevailed upon to dine with the Judge on the following day. Meeting Judge Bogardus accord- ingly, on the succeeding afternoon, at his 'chambers,' he accompanied him, in his carriage, to his princely mansion. Upon either side of the snow-white marble steps, which he ascended at the entrance, lay a life-size lion, innocu- ously absorbed in a bronze study; and the first object   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        369 attracting the eye upon entering the spacious hal, was a  full length statue of Canning, upon a pedestal. Other      * indications of the wealth and liberality of its hospitable  proprietor, were not wanting, even at the portal of his  costly residence; and when, with many a bow and back-  ward step, the obsequious Cato ushered his master and his guest into a parlor, our young friend, unaccustomed to grandeur that threw even the princely residences of Beacon-street into the shade, felt that he could not sufficiently admire the exquisite taste which had      j guided the profuse expenditure indicated upon every hand. He had been a guest in parlors of parvenus inll Boston, so crowded with showy furniture and garish pic- tures, that to his mind they seemed more like bazaars for the exhibition and sale of the productions of gilders and cabinet-makers, than apartments to dwell in; but there was no appearance of any such wasteful and ridiculous excess in the mansion into which he was now introduced.       The beauty of it all was that every costly and ornamental thing in the room was made to appear actually useful, and exactly appropriate to its place-not a superfluity added for mere ostentation. It must be confessed that very few of those who have attained to great wealth, either by their own enterprise and personal ability, or by speculation and grinding the faces of the poor, possess the art of rendering their lavish disbursement for the interior decorations and furniture of their grand houses, so as to tell upon the spectator's taste with any such pleasing effect. A soft mellow light from the shaded windows stole through the rich curtains, and seemed seeking to hide 16' '    y   }  !   370       EA-SY NAT ; OR,. itself in the green wood and forest aisles of the rare old paintings on the walls ; or encountering Helen, its rays fell reverently before the brighter glances of those magni- ficent eyes--at least so thought Edwin Fairbanks--as the queenly daughter of his host advanced to greet her father's return. 'My daughter, Helen, said the Judge, cordially to Edwin. 'My dear, this is my friend, Mr. Fairbanks, of Boston-already an ornament of the bar, and destined,' he added, with a smile, 'to be at the head of the profession, even in the Athens of America.' ' Any friend of yours, Judge Bogardus, cannot fail of a  welcome here,' responded Helen, proudly; and with a gracious air, not altogether agreeable to our friend, she beckoned him to a seat; then turning to her father, com- municated the intelligence that 'Miss Jane' was suffi- ciently restored to appear at the table, and would presently descend from her apartment. ':Nay,' said the Judge, 'I will go and see her. She is always so anxious to please her old father, that she may endeavor to dine with us to-day, merely because I intimat- ed my wish to her this morning.  In the meantime, my dear sir, you will excuse me. My daughter will entertain you in my absence ; but take care, Helen,' he added, with a roguish smile, and threatening shake of the head, as she followed him into the hall a little beyond the hearing of their visitor-' take care, and not make yourself too fasci- nating! Remember that your chase is ended, and this is Jenny's quarry 1' 'Pshaw!' said Helen, pouting her pretty lips, 'I hate these Boston men!'   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        371 I Why so?' said her father, with a light laugh. ' Because they look and act as if they breakfasted on the east wind, and took their heartiest meal from the shoulder blade of a sea-fog!' replied Helen, contemptuously. 'But you have chosen one of them,' rejoined the Judge archly. And am already sick of my bargain, at only the thoughts of it!' she replied. 'Can this new man in the parlor go back a single generation, without stumbling over a lapstone?' 'Helen,' replied her father, with a sudden flush of dis- pleasure,-' high birth and ancient blood cannot make a man great; if they could, you would have no fault to find with Mr. Van Wart. This young man-our guest, whom you neglect while lingering here--is one of nature's own noblemen. A pretty republican you are!' he added, with returning good humor. ' Go to him-go to him, my'girl, and talk to him of your sister. Do you mind?  She deserves just such a man, and I want him to like her.' He uttered the last words significantly, and with empha- sis, although in a low tone ;- and then ascended the wide and elegant stairway. Helen was at once amazed and shocked. The idea of seeking an alliance for her sister-seeking when she should be sought--as if it were not honor enough for a suitor from the oldest and most aristocratic family, even to be admitted to that footing in her presence, as a special favor! And here was a new man-a man of to-day--a man con- fessedly without ancestral memories to give him prestige -coveted by her father, Judge Bogardus, as a husband for her sister!   3i  .     EASY  NAT; OR, Flushed with mortified pride, and, for the first time in her life, ashamed of her sire, the haughty and foolish girl was in no mood to amuse their guest; nor did she offer any apology, when she entered the room, for the rudeness of her absence from it. Quick to discern the emotions of others, Edwin Fairbanks saw, at once, that the Judge's daughter felt above him. It did not wound his vanity, for he had none, nor lower his self-respect, for he was con- scious of his own calibre, and knew that he was esteemed by persons of far more judgment than, at her age, she could possibly possess ; but he felt sorry for her father, and, perhaps, pity for her, that so fine a form should enshrine that vicious sentiment of the human heart, which, while it never lifted one bad spirit into heaven, has pulled legions of angels down. The glowing thought with which her presence had at first inspired him, cooled instantly upon her return into the parlor, and he treated her with as much reserve and indifference as was consistent with politeness. If amazed before, she was astonished now, for her ear had become habituated to flattery from every gentleman--young and old-that approached her, and her eye to the aspect and gestures of admiration and deference. In her own mind she would have resolved him to be a low-bred creature, ignorant and obtuse ; but his massive forehead, full, intel- ligent eyes, and gentlemanly address, told another story. She bit her lip (what novel would be a novel without somebody or other biting the lips?) and quite vexed, turned her attention to the street. After a few moments passed in silence, she turned to say a word, lest she should be amenable to the charge of absolute rudeness, and found   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        313 him examining, with evident pleasure, one of the old paintings on the wall near him. ' Are you a connoisseur?' inquired Helen, and there was the slightest possible savor of mockery in her tone. ' N o,' he replied, ' only your men of elegant leisure, and ample means, can afford to be connoisseurs in these mat- ters-I have neither, but I admire the paintings of the old masters, and this battle-field is' ' Is of what school?' said Helen, abruptly interrupting him. ' It is of the school of him who originated it,' replied Edwin. Helen regarded this reply as a clever evasion. 'Whom, sir, should you judge, was the painter?' she inquired, certain now that he would betray his igno- rance. 'It is a Velasquez, evidently genuine. I think there is no mistaking his style of coloring. What perfection of        finish is here I' he continued ; 'the durability of Velas- quez' colors was always a matter of surprise to me. This painting cannot be less than two hundred years old, and yet, Miss Bogardus, it is as bright as ever it was ; and will still look as fresh, when your color and mine. shall be the prey of the worms.' The hardihood of the man! To talk of her fair cheeks becoming the food of the muck-worml She was not used to such language. Such was her thought, but she said only, 'That was a strange remark.' At this moment, Judge Bogardus came in, with Jenny leaning upogn his arm.                  -       .   374       EASY NAT; OR, 'Mr. Fairbanks,' said the Judge, 'let me make you acquainted with my daughter Jane. A   blush rose to Jenny's wan countenance, as she advanced a step to meet Edwin, and extended her hand, for she remembered her father's light speech -in the morning. 'Now, my young friend,' said the Judge, 'you see all my family.' ' My dear sir,' replied Edwin, looking with admiration upon the youngest daughter, whose hand was still within his own, 'I am much gratified at making this acquaintance.' 'We are always so happy, sir, to see the friends of our dear papa!' said Jenny, with a look of filial love at the Judge, and another of welcome for his guest. 'Now, girls,' said their father, 'take Mr. Fairbanks between you, and I will lead the way to dinner.' 'Thank you,' said Helen, passing by Edwin's proffered arm, 'I prefer to walk with my  father.'- Dinner was spread in a spacious, high-studded room, in another wing of the house, where Cato; in a ruffle-bosom, a bright orange neck-tie, and a handsome suit of blue cassimere, half-concealed by a span-clean white linen apron, received them with a profusion of bows. Edwin Fairbanks had been accustomed to hearing grace before eating, and upon taking a seat at the table he inclined his head reverently, to listen to that brief and simple but beautiful and -appropriate service.  Judge Bogardus colored slightly (for though unaccustomed to the act, himself, his heart acknowledged its propriety), and requested his guest to ask a blessing. The latter complied.   THE THREE APPRENTICES,.        375 ' Our heavenly Father, we h umbly thank Thee, that Thou hast preserved us in life and health, amid circum- stances of so much mercy and privilege, and hast spread these bounties before us : bless them, we pray Thee; for- give our sins, provide for our spiritual wants, and finally save us through the mediation of our ever glorious Redeemer.' ' Amen!' audibly responded his host. While grace was being said, there entered a gentleman of medium size and age, with a rather sparse supply of soft, flaxen hair, very thin on the forehead, a far and petite, but shrewd face, with very accurately-defined whiskers, of limited dimensions, silall keen blue -eyes, a red, yellow and white Madras cravat, white vest, a costly diamond, and clothes and boots of the most fashionable and faultless nmode, Grace ended, this gentleman immediately came forward, and took a vacant seat at the tablke, as coolly as if he were one of the family. 'Glad you hake come, Van,' said the Judge, when the salutations were over, but hardly expected you to-day. My friend, Mr. Fairbanks, of Boston, sir;- Mr. Van Wart, Mr. Fairbanks.' Edwin's cordial- bow was frigidly returned by the new- comer, who suspected him to be another rival in the field. 'We now want only our worthy young friend, Mr. Price,' said-the Judge, to complete our company.' Poor Jenny changed color, and her heart welt pit-a-pat. 'He, too, was a Boston man, originally, and some of us,' continued the Judge, with a wink at Helen, 'feel quite an interest in him. Perhaps you have heard of him?-Henry Price--his, fathlei  a merchantl.'   386       EASY NAT; OR, This was a pleasant surprise to Edwin, who remarked to his host that he had recently been introduced to Mr. Price, at the house of Giles Godwin,' and was much pleased with his appearance. 'Not better pleased than we are, 1 assure you,' said the Judge, with an arch look at his youngest daughter, 'eh, Jenny?' Jane's cheeks were suffused with carnation, while her sister's countenance remained unchanged in its regal com- posure, Van Wart's little bright blue eyes, under the ridge of his nose, like ferrets-peeping from a burrow under a hill, were fixed upon Helen's face as if they would penetrate her thoughts. ' She does not care for him' was the happy conclusion he arrived at ; and with an improved relish for his dinner, 1 and a smile glittering along his perfect double row of little false teeth, he passed his soup-plate to the tall African, who, with his body deferentially inclined at an  i angle of fifteen degrees, stood ready to receive it. Edwin--quick as intuition to observe and draw con- clusions--glancing from Helen's countenance to her sis- ter's, and detecting the mounting color, instantly inferred that Henry Price was Jane's suitor, and that her father's sly banter was aimed at her. The Judge, on the con- trary, had not the slightest suspicion-that Jenny enter, tained for Harry any other than a sisterly regard, natu- rally inspired by the young gentleman's fraternal attention to her, ' It is a very ill-judged thing, in my humble opinion,' said Mr. Van Wart, between the courses, in a tone that ;.    THE TIIRE APPnENTICES.        3          spoke as plainly as words could have said it,-that his opinion was oracular, 'I say, Judge Bogardus, that in my humble opinion, it is a very ill-judged step that this young man, Price, has taken, in establishing himself in commercial business in this city, at this unpropitious time.' ' In your oyinion,' said lelen, sarcastically. 'That was well put in.' Van Wart colored, and rejoined, 'With my experience, Miss Bogardus, your father will certainly place a higher value upon my opinion than you appear to.' ' How, sir, can you possibly know anything of the affairs of Mr. Price?' rejoined Helen, with dignity. A jealous frown gathered for an instant upon the nar-  row brow of Van Wart, but as quickly disappeared. Both policy and politeness prompted him to conceal that he was nettled. ' I know little about Mr. Price's affairs, and care less,' he said, ' but I am on 'Change daily, and from what I hear there, I believe his property has been overrated by report, and that in his purchase of the ship Falchion (and other investments of which I learn) he has gone beyond his depth.' "May I ask, sir, what is his "depth," since you know so much?' said Helen, with a curl of her lip, 'or is his depth beyond you?' "' His property,' said Van Wart, coloring again, and nettled, but not venturing to meet her eyes, ' is a small one, at the best-say sixty thousand dollars-but I am credibly informed that it does not exceed a moiety of that sum.' Jenny thought to herself, that she wished he was worth   318       EASY NAT ; OR, still less. What a pleasure it would be to her to give him half her own fortune! Helen felt annoyed, and said nothing, lest- she should betray her feeling. 'To me, thirty or forty thousand dollars would appear amply adequate for a young merchant to commence upon,' said Mr. Fairbanks. 'It might do in Boston, sir, but not in New York,' replied Van Wart, dryly. 'This is a city-Boston a village.' In reply, Mr. Fairbanks surprised the two gentlemen by his knowledge of commercial statistics, home and foreign, and a comparison of the shipping and commerce of Boston with those of New York. Then followed some discussion of the Indemnity Bill,' which, after a hard-fought contest, had been passed by  the French Chambers, a few months, previous, and the conduct of President Jackson, in regard to that measure, in which Judge Bogardus was so deeply interested, that he was delighted to find Edwin thoroughly informed upon international and comtmercial law, and foreign politics, as well as our home policy; for (entertaining a sanguine hope that he should yet have him for a son-in-law) he looked forward to many pleasant conversations with him upon similar topics. Some -of the most remarkable men of the age were then in Congress at the very zenith of their greatness-Adams, Webster, Clay, Calhoun, Ben- ton, Cass, Buchanan--these, and other master-minds were contending upon that national arena, for the triumph of their respective parties, and their votes and speeches were read with an interest almost peculiar to the reign of that   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         3?9 man of iron will-Andrew Jackson.   Helen Bogardus sympathized thoroughly with her father in his interest in' the stirring political phenomena of that memorable period- and being an enthusiastic admirer of certain pro- minent statesmen, and their oratorical displays, she lis- tened with marked attention:to the comments elicited by the Judge from Mr. Fairbanks upon their recent speeches. Observing this, with inward pleasure, less on his own account than because he was considered there as a sample of the city which had been depreciated both by her and the wealthy Van Wart, Edwin did his best to complete the radical change which he saw had already commenced in her mind respecting him. Possessing a remarkable memory, and accustomed to the mental exercise of analys- ing the Congressional debates, he could speak fluently upon the topics at that time absorbing public attention. The iced wine and brandy of the dessert -lent no glib- ness to his tongue, for he drank none, but he repeated with singular fidelity the most important and eloquent portions of speeches lately made by the great statesmen of the time, not merely to illustrate their several posi- tions upon the weighty questions then before Congress (and which, a few months afterwards, shook the credit system to the centre), but to show, also, their several modes of thought and argument, and style of oratory. In doing this, he warmed as he proceeded, became absorbed, appeared entirely carried away with his subject, and (to Helen's enthusiastic imagination) became himself assimi- lated with the mighty minds which he had brought so vividly before his surprised and delighted audience (for even Van Wart, with all his frigid selfishness, was betrayed      ;   380       EASY NAT; OR, into an expression of pleasure), and the regal beauty : declared that he would always be associated in her mind with Henry -Clay and Daniel Webster, whereupon Van Wart knitted his brows an instant, involuntarily, and  1 remarked, that the best imitations of Randolph, Webster and Clay, that he had ever heard were by Mossie, but   7 he, poor fellow, had ruined himself with drink. . 'But, sir/ replied Edwin, coloring at the ungenerous slur conveyed in the rich man's remark, and filling his glass with ice-water from an elaborately chased and mas- sive silver pitcher, 'as I am a temperance man, perhaps I may be fortunate enough to escape the untoward end of that unfortunate mimic I' 'You are no mimic, my dear friendl' cried Helen warmly, and darting at her wealthy suitor a look so sur- charged with electricity, that he felt the shock, though the thunder did not follow-Harry Price coming in just in time to prevent the explosion-' Mr. Van Wart would give half his wealth if he could imitate you!' The last sentence was uttered in a lower tone, and an admiring gaze at Edwin's noble countenance, while the rest were receiving Henry Price. ' Henry,' said the Judge, ' here you see another friend from Boston l' '-Is it possible?' cried Harry; ' Mr. Fairbanks! I am rejoiced to see you!'  'The pleasure is reciprocal, then,' said Edwin, and shook the proffered hand, cordially. ' Miss Helen,' said the ingenious Harry, blushing to the temples, 'excuse me I I did not overlook 'you. I trust you are well?'        , ,   381 THE THREE APPRENTICES. [But, gentle reader, look at the Judge's younger laughter I To adopt the lines of the old poet, with a new eading, might well say,-- Prithee why so pale, poor Jenny? Prithee why so pale? If when looking well won't win him, Will looking ill prevail?              1 Prithee, why so pale?]      . 'Excuse you for what? for first greeting your friend, our guesV,' replied Helen, to Henry's apology, ' an excuse is superfluous. Don't stand there twirling your thumbs, man, but sit down 1' ' Have you dined, Henry?' inquired the Judge. ' Yes, sir, with my new captain, on board the Falchion,' replied the young ship-owner. The company now  rose from the table. 'Freights are ruinously dull, now,' remarked Van Wart, maliciously, as he laid down his napkin. 'What voyage do you propose for your new craft, Mr. Price?' 'Don't tell him,' cried Helen, putting her little jewelled  hand upon Harry's mouth. ' It is none of his business,  and he is a malignant.' This was done playfully, but not without a scornful glance at Van Wart, of whose offensive inuendo, aimed at Edwin Fairbanks, she had a much more lively remem- brance than of her own impoliteness to the same gentle- - man at the beginning of their acquaintance. 'Henry,' said the Judge, ' will you take a glass of wine before we adjourn to the parlor? But I forgot I you never indulge. You and my dear Jenny, here, would do  to go together.'    382       EASY NAT; OR, 'I will take Mr. Fairbanks's arm, then,' said Helen, suiting the action to the word, and blushing almost as deeply as her sister, at, her pretended misconstruction of the Judge's remark. 'Ha, ha, ha I1 laughed their father quite heartily, for the wine, and Edwin's eloquence, had exhilarated him beyond even his usual good-humor, 'I meant that they would do to go together in their total abstinence! But how is it, Helen, that you, who like to sip a little wine occasionally, have paired off with a temperance man?' His daughter was just retorting; as she led off with Edwin, when, suddenly, they were all startled by an out- cry, by the servants, in the--hall, and some running to and fro. The next moment, Cato appeared at the door of the dining-room, dragging forward ferociously, by the collar of his shirt, a jacketless little urchin of the meaner sort. All stood back in surprise. 'What does this mean?' exclaimed the Judge. 'A entry-thief, Massa!' replied Cato, fully occupied in preserving his hold, for the boy squirmed like an eel to get away. 'Cotch'd him in de hall.' "et alone of him, Cato, do i' cried Jane, imploringly. 'Please no, Missus,' replied the perspiring waiter, ' I had hard work enough to cotch him! He mustzgo to de Tombs.' Suddenly; the lad jerked himself away, at the expense of leaving a fragment of his shirt in the grasp of Cato, and running to Mr. Van Wart, who stood near the table, seized him by the hand and arm, and clinging thus, almost spasmodically, cried piteously,-- ' Oh, sir, don't let them take me to the Tombs i'   THE THREE APPRENTIC ES.        383 It was little Scratch Gravel. For a wonder, his shirt and puny little face were quite clean. The zealous Cato, after smoothing down his ruffle, advanced a step, shaking both head and fist, as if to take him ; whereupon the boy, quick as lightning, seized a carving-knife from the table to defend himself. ' Put down the knife ' said Van Wart. The boy dropped the weapon implicitly, crying at the same time, 'Yes, sir, I will, but don't yous let them take me to the Tombs, please sir?' 'And why should I not?' inquired Van Wart, sternly ; and pushing the cowering boy from him, he brushed his fine blue broadcloth sleeve, as if it had been soiled by the suppliant's touch. 'Why not, sir?' replied Scratch, tenderly, and look- ing his interrogator full in the face, 'cause sir--cause I believe ybos is nmy--my father!' and seizing again the hand of the thunder-stricken Van Wart, he bathed it with his tears. If the poor, half-clad little boy, upon his knees before him, had been a bomb-shell at his feet, the wealthy nabob could not have been more astounded. Judge Bogardus and Helen shouted with laughter. Jane and the young men looked on in sober astonishment, curious to see what should next happen. Cato and the servants marvelling at 'the little blackguard's imperence,' echoed the mirth of their master.   384       EASY NAT; OR, CHAPTER XLIII. The Foundling and his Father--The. Wild Oats sown, and no Barn for the Crops-Cupid catches a Rara-Avis. 'FOR God's sake, sir,' exclaimed Van Wart, irreverently tp Judge Bogardus, 'shut the door on those noisy niggaers of yours I And take this dirty little scoundrel away from me.' Cato and the servants were accordingly excluded, and the Judge went forward to remove the lad, who, shrinking from his grasp, still clung to the unwilling and chagrined Van Wart; crying'at the same time, in the most implor- ing accents, 'Father-father-father 1' 'He must be a thief, and this only a ruse to appear craz3l' said Van Wart, equally perplexed and irritated. ' No, no, no!' protested little Scratch, vehemently, 'I ain't no thief. I know'd yous was here, sir, and I slipped in when that gen'l'mun there (pointing to Henry Price) came in to yous. I didn't crib nothin', sir,' he added, addressing the Judge, who now had his hand under one of the boy's arms, to lift him up from his kneeling posture, ' and I didn't want nothin'-nothin' but my-my father.' "et go of my   hand, you precocious little villain 1' shouted Van Wart, trying to shake him off. 'Oh, be my father!  Please, sir, be my father, sir!' pleaded Scratch Gravel, clinging to him like a leech, 'I am your chile-I knows I  am. Have pity, mister, on the poor little babby that was washed ashore, an' his mither   THE  T-HREE APPRENTICES.       385 was drownded I I ain't had nobody nor nothin',' he added plaintively, 'to take care o' me never since. I slept on the door-steps at night, or under the stalls in the market, and sometimes had suthin' to eat, and sometimes I didn't, and sometimes I like to freeze to death, an' sometimes I wished I had, an' nen I sold papers, an' to-day I got stuck, an? now I want yous to do the clean thing, and own up (oh please do, sir 1) that yous am my father P 'Dog I' cried Van Wart, now very angry, and gave the boy a kick, that knocked him backwards on the floor. ' Shame!' exclaimed Edwin, at this cowardly act, while the Judge raised the youth to his feet. Helen, retaining her hold upon Edwin's arm, kept him at her side. Little Scratch Gravel's countenance, when he arose, had undergone a thorough change. His face was now white with anger, his fists clenched, his jaws firmly com- pressed together, and his little eyes sparkling with indig- nation. Confronting Van Wart with a look of mingled threatening and defiance; he said, 'If yous won't do the clean thing by me, I'll make yous!- I'll have the law on yous. I'll advertise yous in the Sun and tlerald. I'll tell everybody I Here, look at us, old 'un, yous is a Judge, and sometime or 'nuther may have the sentencing me to be hung-look at us two! Don't we look alike? Don't I look like him? I leave it to anybody here!' As they stood there, side by side, both pale and defiant, there was certainly a singularly close resemblance between the nabob and the newsboy. 'Pshaw!' ejaculated Van Wart, contemptuously, and tugging nervously at his linen wristhands, 'What a farce '   386       E ASY NAT; oR, It's in two acts, then, and the second ain't come on,' retorted Scratch 'Gravel, who was as aconversant with theatrical terms as any gentleman there. ' Just look at this 'ere, some on yous,' he continued, producing from liis pocket a small oval piece of ivory, ' but don't take it out o' my hand ally on yous! It is his likeness.' He extended his hand to the ladies with the picture in it. They examined it with interest, and uttered exclama- tions of surprise. 'It is very singular,' said Helen, regarding Van Wart with suspicion. , The gentlemen looked at it ; the original meanwhile dumb with vexation. 'Mr. Van Wart,' said the Judge, 'was this picture stolen fronm you '   ' ' He shan't have it/ said Scratch, quickly clapping it into the pocket of the veritable pantaloons, which had once afforded John Hard so much amusement, ando laying his other hand over it on the outside, as if he feared they would take it from him by force; 'I'll bet my life he shan't i  At length he was prevailed upon to show it to Van Wart in the same manner in which he had exhibitediAt to the others-hugged in the hollow of his little red and begrimed right hand-and then only upon the pledge that no attempt should-be made to take it from him. 'How ridiculous!' said the gentleman, ,haughtily, and yet not entirely without curiosity, as the boy advanced towards him with the picture. Taking a gold-rimmed eye-glass from his vest pocket, he looked through it at the alleged likeness. In an instant the glass dropped from his hand, and his face, lately white with anger, sud- adenly became red as scarlet. ?t   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        387 ' This miniature is mine i' he exclaimed, in amazement, and, almost involuntarily, clutched at the boy's hand. 'No yous don'tl' cried Scratch, and, quick as wink, replaced it in his pocket. ' How yous like the farce, sir?' he inquired, sneeringly. ' P'raps it will be a melo-drama, hey?' 'This picture,' said Van Wart, stammering somewhat, as he addressed the company, 'I can explain. This pic- ture, set in gold and emreralds, I have had for a number. of years locked up, with numerous other trinkets, and relics of by-gone days, in a private drawer in my secretary, from which, therefore, it has evidently been stolen.' 'It's a lie,' cried the boy, boldly; 'this picture was found in my poor mither's bosom, when her body was washed ashore, arter she had drowndedhersel', an' thought, to drown me, too-a little mite o' babby. But a feller that's bound to be hung,' he added with a bitter chuckle, ' wan't born to be drownded, yous all knows.' ' A hardened villain, so young 1' said Van Wart, endea- voring with all his self-control to conceal the emotion which the newsboy's statement had excited within his selfish heart. 'If yous had been kicked about the Five Pints as I've beei, ever since I floated ashore, yous ha' been hard, too, an' now that yous ha' kicked me, I'm harder nan ever ;' said Scratch, knitting his little brows, ominously. I's hard enough for anything. I Want to tell yous ; I seen ia the melo-dram, at the Bowery, that when the rich Baronit back'd down from his promise to marry poor Clara, and make his home hern and her child's, and she tooked pizen, her little babby growed to be a real smart robber, like Dick Turpin, and saved the old Baronit's life when some   8.88      EASY NAT; -OR, o' the gang had waylaid and was a-poing to kill him. JHoratio-that was the son-made hissel' known to the Baronit, with tears in his eyes, an' was hugged to his bosom, and the old file owned up he was his rightful heir I An' so I come ter yous. I seen yous often afore, but never had a good chance, though I've follered yous many a time, and run arter yous carriage every day for a month past. Last night it was so cold, I didn't want to sleep out-doors, an' I went to Judy's cellar, but Jock had come home drunk, and they had a fight, and he half-killed her, and she was taken off ter the Slarter-house-that's: the Hos- pital-and her door was locked up; so I crept into  a sugar-hogshead, down in front o' the sugar- hoose, and staid there all night, dreaming o' ridin' in yous splendid coach,-but on runners, for I thought the snow was on the ground, until a hog stuck his rooter into my face, and woke me up, and I was half froze. But I 'termined to see yous if I could, that werry day, where- somever I might find yous, and tell yous what a good boy poor little Scratch would be, and how I would love yous, if yous would only bees sorry for yous sin to my mither, and put clean clothes on me, and shoes-my  feet were very cold this frosty mornin', sir '--and sen' me to school, like the boys I seed with the green bags and the books in 'em. I seed a hundred or more on 'em come pouring out of a school-hoose to-day, and a-lookin' so happy, and all went to good homes; but I hadn't got no home, nor no books, nor no nothin' (only some papers I got stuck with .to- day), and there's nobody to care for me when I'm sick, and nobody'll cry when I'm dead.' The poor lad, who had appeared a  moment before so   THE THREE APPRENTICES,        389 impudent and wicked, now looked like a child again, and the tears trickled down his diminutive face. Every heart, save the father of the illegitimate boy, was moved with compassion. While Scratch was talking, Van Wart, more confounded than he had ever been in the whole course of his life, was endeavoring to recall his presence of mind in order to hit upon some -method to relieve himself from his embarrassing position. He had never before been aware of the fate of the girl whom he had abandoned, and only knew that, enraged at his refusal to marry her, she had suddenly disappeared, he neither knew nor Cared whither. Many years had passed, and he had almost forgotten her. He had forgotten, too, that a few weeks prior to her departure, he had lent her his miniature, but he now recollected it, and thought-with a shudder-that it was possible that this urchin was her child-and his! But should he acknowledge it?   No, no, no : it would cover him with disgrace. His name was like the motto upon his ancient family crest, 'sans peelr et sans reproche'-fearless and irreproachable.  He had a reputation for scrupulous exactness in all his dealings, and punctilious observance of the etiquette and refinements of high life. And, now, should he suffer this living relic of an 'early indiscretion' to come forward, and ruin all? No; he resolved to 'hush it up' before the dreaded I'erald should get hold of it, and proclaim it to the world. When the boy had done speaking, Van Wart beckoned Judge Bogardus aside, and said to him, in a tone not audible to the rest, 'Judge, this is manifestly a carefully-considered conspi- racy to extort money from" rie. Older heads than this   390       EASY NAT; OR, impudent little blackguard are the instigators of this plot, and it is possible that he himself has been duped. I am determined to ferret it out, and severely punish the guilty. I will find means to make this boy confess who are his confederates. "Let them be gentle ones, then,' rejoined the Judge, 'for I do believe that this youth is innocent of any evil design in his appearance here to-day,' 'They shall be gentle,' replied Van Wart. 'I will take him to my house, treat him kindly, and with the bribe of a suit of clothes, or something of that kind, induce him to betray his, accomplices.' This appeared reasonable to Judge Bogardus, and entirely relieved his mind of a lurking suspicion that there was some truth in the lad's story. 'Come, sirrah,' said Van Wart, to Scratch Gravel, 'go, get into my carriage, at the door, there. I'll take you home with me.' Scratch could hardly believe his own ears. ' Take me home with yous? Let me ride in yous car- riage?' he stammered. 'Do yous mean so?' 'Yes,' replied Van Wart, with ill-concealed disgust, '-I want you to go to my house, and tell me all you know.' Poor Scratch Gravel hardly knew, in his delight, whether to dance or cry for joy ; so he did a little of both. In the meantime, the judge had communicated to the rest of the little party Van Wart's alleged purpose in taking the boy with him. ' Go, sirrah,' said the latter gentleman sharply to Scratch, and pointed to the door. Then turning to Helen, he said,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.'        391 ' Miss Bogardus, this will entitle you to a further expla- nation. ' I should think so 1' she replied haughtily. 'And,' she added, in a lower tone, intended only for his ear, 'have a care that you do that child no harm 1' 'Boy,' said she to Scratch, who with a very gratified expression, was passing out, ' You may come to the basement door, to- morrow, and ask to see Miss Helen Bogardus. And do not art wzith the picture.' This was not at all satisfactory to Van Wart, but he did not dare to resent it, for he loved the proud beauty with all the affection that he was capable of feeling, and he still hoped to win her. "et this boy ride on the box with you, John,' said he to his coachman. 'Stay, I've changed my mind. Wil- liam (he addressed his footman, who in green and gold livery was letting down the steps of the coach), put -lim on the front seat, thiere. And mind and sprinkle some cologne there, when he gets out.' He then stepped in himself, blushing deeply, and the carriage was soon hurry- ing through Broadway. ETdwin Fairbanks had drawn his own inferences from tile scene which has just been hastily described, and so, he believed, had every one present; but he saw, also, that while all appeared full of the subject, each felt reserved in the expression of any opinion upon it; and he thought fit to leave them to their cogitations and with- draw. With a profuse expression of pleasure at his visit, and the exaction of a promise that he would call again   392       E^EA Y NAT; OR, on the following day, or the next clay at the farthest Judge Bogardus and Helen--the latter all glowin with color and beaming with sunny smiles-suffered him t, depart. The haughty girl had at length found another man t( love besides her father, and "upon coming to the parlo: where poor Henry Price awaited her return from the door steps, to which, contrary to etiquette, she had followec Mr. Fairbanks, she treated him  with an indifference amounting almost to contempt. Entirely exhausted by the excitements of the day, anc unable to witness with composure Henry's attentions tc her sister, Jenny Bogardus had retired to pray, for thE mutual happiness of the lovers, and obtain some repose  her father had retired to his study; and hence Mr. Price, left without any resource but to converse with his arbi- trary mistress, soon discovered that a very beautiful woman could be a very disagreeable companion. Perceiving that his room was manifestly more desirable than his company, he, presently took his leave-still in blissful ignorance that the proud girl who condescended merely to wave her hand to him, in response to his adieux, as much as to say ' there, that will do ; you have said enough; now go,' had that very morning expressed to her father a preference for him, and a willingness to become his wife. When he had gone, Helen sat alone, and in a brown study for some minutes with her eyes fixed upon the painting of the battle-field by 'Velasquez, even after the descending shadows of evening had veiled it from   THE THREE APPRENTICES      .  393 her view. In truth, she looked without seeing. An object in her mind occupied all her senses, and she saw nothing else. 'Just such a man,' she soliloquized, as she arose to leave the parlor, 'just such a man, with less moral great-, ness, must Daniel Webster have been, when he was of his age ' Did she mean tHarry. Price?  N o, nor the famous Velasquez; but a certain gentleman, whose comments' upon that picture about two hours previous (she now took shame to herself), she had treated with contempt. ' Was she in love?' she put the question to herself, and walked up and down the room several times, endeavoring to ana- lyze the new and strange feelings which had entered her heart without knocking, at least, not until they had ef- fected admission.  CHAPTER XLIV. Braxton's Life in the Tolmbs--John Hard in Prison-Tom Braxton consoles himself with Tom Paine. LET US now  glance back over a few of the last months in Braxton's miserable existence, subsequent to his trial. Days and weeks had passed away : precious days and 1 O       394       EASY NAT ; OR, more precious weeks, to a man whose days and weeks were numbered! At length, Tom Braxton had been brought up for sentence. In the meantime, our tall friend, John Hard, had seen a vast deal of life in the metropolis, but had made no impression upon the assassin- failing to obtain from him the slightest admission of his own guilt in the matter of the incendiarism and arson, of which Nathan Mudge had been erroneously convicted- and when called upon to say why sentence should not be pronounced against him, the convict had given a lying account of his own life; charging Nat with having led him astray often, and induced him to accompany him with a lantern, when he fired the house of Giles Godwin in Boston. After having asseverated to this diabolical false- hood, with evident satisfaction, he-had heard with equa- nimity his sentence to be hung on the fifth of December following, and retired gloating in his own mind upon the revenge he was taking. But, in the solitude of the cell to which he was consigned, with three murders upon his conscience, as food for reflection, and not a drop of rum to drown it in, even the thought of his revenge could not allay his internal torture. His imagination was disturbed as much, perhaps, by what he had heard and read of the mental sufferings of- other murderers, as by any compunc- tions indigenous to his own brain ; and, from feeling, that according to human experience, traditional and written, he ought to be haunted by the ghosts of his victims though he tried lustily to bluff it off, he -soon began to fancy hideous faces peering out of the dark corners of his dungeon--and sometimes familiar faces, worse than the others-and all day long he would cling to the gra-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        395 ting of the door, with his face pressed against the bars, and his eyes gazing through to catch a glimpse of some- thing human. Daylight was brief in his prison, for he occupied an inte- rior cell, commanding only a view of a portion of a nar- row hall, and one or two cells opposite his own. Ntight came on soon and suddenly. How he dreaded it! The rats had free access ,to his dungeon, and, as soon as it began to be dark, he could see their dusky forms flitting like shadows, across the dark, slimy floor. He dreaded to lie down upon the bed provided for him, not because it was coarse, dirty, and hard-his vagabond life had accustomed him to that-but for the reason that, as soon as he closed his eyes to sleep, his wife, Eunice, with his child in her arms, would come and sit dovrn at the foot to A watch, and the murdered D'Orsay, with a step so slow as to render the movement almost imperceptible-always appearing to advance, but never reaching him-would emerge from his corner, gazing incessantly upon him. Of course, these were only the wild fancies of a dis- tempered 'imagination, but to the guilty wretch it was as bad as if it were reality. With strainiig eyes, fixed upon the vacancy which he had peopled with these shadowy forms, he would larough the long hours of night, in a cold sweat, palsteditc h fear, and wishing for morning. Occasionally, more reckless, he would break the dread silence of night in the Tombs with fearful maledictions , upon Eunice and D'Orsay, and leaving his couch, grope around by the stone walls, and strike at the shadows. The first rays of light that entered his dungeon in the ! .*    396      iEASY NAT; -On, morning, though never at an early hour, was almost as welcome as a glass of liquor would have been. For several weeks following his sentence, Tom was visit- ed by no one except an attendant and Mr. Hard. John loathed him, and it made him feel awfully, he said, to see so many human beings caged up like wild beasts, too dan- gerous to be let loose in society, but he felt it his duty to elicit from him, if he could, a confession clearing Nathan Mudge of the crime of arson; and for this purpose he went almost daily to the city prison (nicknamed because built in the architectural style of the ancient Egyptian houses of the dead, ' the Tombs'), and the solitary prisoner was always glad to see him, for the reason that any mor- tal face was a relief from the fearful visions in his cell. To draw him thither, he would promise at each visit, in answer to John Hard's entreaties, that if he would come again, he would ' make a clean breast of it,' but when the time came he would either refuse to reveal anything, or annoy him with some story evidently forged for the occasion. 'Now, what in natur's the use,' John exclaimed on one of these occasions, 'of yer stuffiun me up with a pack o' pesky lies, and you here, within an inch o' yer life?' ' And within a week o' my death,' added Tom, with a reckless smile. 'If it hadn't been for you I shouldn't have been here.' 'If it hadn't been for rsm, ye mean,' responded the countryman. 'Well, you're about'half right,' said Braxton, with an path, 'though I had been drinking brandy, that night;   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        397 -aut what is brandy but red rum ; and what is red rum, spelt backwards, but MURDER?' ' Jerooshy!' exclaimed John, repeating the letters upon his fingers, 'so it does. Well, that's curious.' ' If the idea is worth a dram, smuggle in a pint o' white- eye or whisky to me, to-morrow,' said Tom, facetiously. ' And see here,' he added in a whisper, 'bring me a small vial of aquafortis and a watch-spring; will yer?' ' No sirr,' replied John, firmly. '.Why not?' inquired the prisoner, persuasively. ' 'Cause I won't,' replied Mr. Hard ; ' I won't touch tol' 'Braxton used many more entreaties, but in vain, and, becoming enraged, he applied to our astonished friend all the opprobrious language, both profane and obscene, that he could; command-and his vocabulary was a large one. 'Well,' said John, drawing a long breath when Tom stopped, 'Ye got a grist off your stomach, that time, didn't ye? Why it's enough to kill all the rats in the prison! I've heern people talk before as if they were born and raised in a common sewer, but such a stack o' real cholera language as ye've got, I never saw the beat on! I wonder it don't puke ye!' 'Don't go!' cried Tom, dreading to be left alone, and really sorry to see John Hard leaving him. 'I must,' replied John, who had walked away a pace or two: 'Ye've given me the ear-ache and the heart- ache, too!' ' Anything more?' inquired Braxton, with a sneer. ' Yes, a mortal sickness to the -stomach,' replied John. And this was literally true. He felt both the ache and the nausea.   398       EASY NAT; OR, 'Come again, to-morrow,' said Tom, coaxingly; 'Yer the only friend I've got in this world!' 'And what friend have yer got-in the other?' said John Hard, seriously. 'There ain't no other,' replied Tom sullenly ; and then brightening up, he triumphantly added, 'Come here, and let me tell yer what Tonm Paine says about that humbug. Did ye ever read his Age o' Reason?' 'No, nor I don't want to I' replied John. 'That's because yer afraid to see how he rips up yer old-fashioned doctrine,' said Tom, with another oath. ' Yer ought to hear Abner Kneeland pick it to pieces!' '"Tain't no use hearin' him, nor readin' Tom Paine,' rejoined John Hard. 'It never did, and never can do a bit o' good, to meddle or make with the pesky varmints. The Bible says a tree shall be judged by its fruits. Now, neighbor, what are the fruits of Atheism? ' If you mean that I'm one on 'em,' replied Braxton, threateningly,' I'll-' but without waiting for a reply, John had walked away. 'Send me a plug of tobacco, and a parson?' shouted the felon, after him, with a laugh of derision that was echoed by prisoners in other cells ; 'I want to talk to him l   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         399 CHAPTER XLV. The Visit to the Charity Hospital-More Rum Doings-The Tombs, and the Appeal to the Murderer-Little Biddy in Bad Company- The course of True Love not always in Navigable Order--A Cure for Pride-The lNovel Eclaircissement. To say that Edwin Fairbanks did not have more thoughts respecting Helen Bogardus, than he communi- cated to Kate Mudge, upon his return to her at their hotel, would not be ingenuous. He was not oblivious of her magnificent beauty and intellectual refinement. Of her wit, too,he had had evidence (although we have not sam- pled it for the benefit of our readers), and from her manner during the extraordinary scene with the newsboy, he had not failed to infer, that though devoid of the gentle grace and loveliness of her sister, she was not without one of the noblest qualities of the heart. On the whole, he thought that if it were not for her overweening vanity, and intense pride, he should value her friendship very highly.  Kate, engrossed wit her anxiety respecting her hus- band, listened to his description of the dinner at Judge Bogardus's house, with no interest whatever, until he spoke of the entrance of the newsboy, and his ascription of paternity to the millionaire. 'I know that boy,' she exclaimed, with animation ; 'I heard his story weeks ago, when in New York before, and from the mouth of that very woman, Edwin, whose child was burnt in Cross-street, some years ago. You will remember I went to her house   400      'EASY NAT; OR, with aunts and Susan and my poor Nat, long before we were married. 'I remember Judy,' replied Edwin. ' Does she live in New York?' 'Yes, and miserably enough; at the Five Points. I did not tell the folks at home about my visit to her wretched cellar, and my stay there all night, lest they should fear that I was not safe to trust alone in this bad city. She then related to Edwin the occurrences in Judy's basement, upon the night when the poor wowan's mother died. The conclusion arrived at by both from this exchange of information respecting Scratch, was, that it was Mr. Van Wart's duty to make immediate provision for his education and support. 'But I forgot,' said Edwin, 'to say the boy told us that the woman, whom he called Judy, had been nearly murdered by her husband, in a fit of intoxication.} ' When was this?' cried Kate. 'Yesterday, or the day or night previous,' replied Edwin; 'And she was taken to the Charity Hospital. Do you know where that is?' 'Perfectly well,' replied Kate, springing to her feet; ' Shall we go to her?' Edwin assenting, a few moments sufficed for Mrs. Mudge to put on her cloak and hood, and they were soon on their way to the Charity Hospital. This excellent institution is located in Broadway, and its 200 feet depth of verdant grass plat in front, is like an oasis in the dusty desert of the great thoroughfare. They were admitted by the gate-keeper, but upon inquiry within   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        - 401 the edifice, learnt that the poor woman had died in the morning! Jock, her husband, had been arrested, and was in the Tombs. ' The poor creature had a little girl named Biddy,' said Kate, sadly, to the attendant. 'Do you know what has become of her?' ' She is in the Tombs, detained as a witness,'- was the reply. ' It is a shame to keep the poor child there I' said Kate, ' will see her to-morrow, after visiting Braxton's cell.' ' Here we have another instance of the horrible results of rum-drinking,' remarked Edwin Fairbanks, as, arm-in- arm, they emerged from the Hospital. ' How wide-spread and continual is the diabolical influence of that vice I' 'Kate heaved a deep sigh, for how sorrowfully could she attest to the bitter truth of the remark I Passing several saloons, brilliantly illuminated, and re- splendent with mirrors, pictures, and marble counters, at which crowds of old and young were pouring down their throats the 'liquid damnation,' contained in the elegant cut-glass decanters, the two friends arrived at their hotel. A throng of boarders and waiters was gathered upon one of the landings in the hall, around the body of a stranger -a guest in the house-who, in attempting to descend the stairs, while tipsy, had fallen over the balustrade and broken his neck. It was subsequently ascertained that the man was an artist of celebrity, but addicted to intem- perance. Many will remember poor C--e. He had painted numerous admirable portraits both in New York and Boston, and for a long time had had no superior in that department of art.   402   .    EASY NAT; OR, On the following day, Fairbanks and Mrs. Mudge visited the Tombs prison. The autumn had passed, and it was now quite upon the verge of winter. In a few days the black machinery of penal death would be erected again in the sombre yard, where, conducted by John Hard to the cell of the wretched man, Kate and Edwin walked over the spoton which his gallows was to stand. They had come to appeal to Thomas Braxton, by every- thing that honest hearts could offer, to relent in his use- less cruelty against poor Nat, and confess that he' him- self only, was guilty of the crime, of which, upon presump- tive proof alone, that innocent man had been convicted. Tom, receiving them with curses and reviling, laughed at their manifest distress, and swore (with oaths made intentionally more horrible, because he well knew how the best feelings of the heart revolt at profanity), that Nathan Mudge should suffer the same fate to which Kate had been instrumental in consigning Aimn. Edwin Fairbanks' disgust with the wretch, was mingled with indignation against the person who had supplied him with enough intoxicating drink, it was very evident, to arouse his iras- cibility and revengeful nature; and when he passed out with Mrs. Mudge, through the Sheriff's office, he spoke of it to that functionary, who assured him that it was conl- trary to the rules, but could not always lie prevented. Before leaving the prison, however, they asked to see Biddy, Judy's little girl, who was kept incarcerated, in order to be forthcoming with the more certainty, when wanted as a witness. Males are excluded from the female department at the Tombs, on account of the indecent lan- guage and manners which their presence would elicit from   THE THREE APPR E TI C E S.      403 the depraved women imprisoned there, but Kate was per- mitted to enter and converse with Biddy. She found her in the midst of the most detestable characters and influ- ences; which, however, did not appear to give her any pain. Poor child I Two years in the Five Points had accustomed her to the worst associations. But she was distressed at the death of her mother, she said, and had nearly cried her eyes out, because not allowed to roam the streets day and night, as she used to. Mrs. Mudge left her, promising to do what she could for her relief, and with feelings of inexpressible disgust (heightened by the insulting gestures and expressions used for her annoyance by several vile females), hurried out of this wing of the prison. On the morrow, Helen Bogardus awaited impatiently the coming of Edwin Fairbanks, but in vain; he passed the entire day with Mrs. Mudge and Joln Hard. ' Hope deferred maketh the heart sick,' and there was a certain pensive anguish pining within the fair bosom of the proud Helen, when evening came and brought with it no Edwin. Mr. Price had called and gone away again, with the three little lying words, ' not at hone,' buzzing in his ear, like an impertinent blue-bottle, until he became as mad as a hornet with his own thoughts. Jenny, who, with a world of sighs, had been watching for his coming, at a Venetian blind, without being observed by others, saw him depart, disappointed, from her father's door; but, though the tears stood like pendent diamonds upon her eye-lids, the pain of seeing him leave without one little inquiry for her, who loved himas her proud sister never   ,'  404       EASY NAT; OR, could, was not (she confessed to herself, with some sense of shame) unmingled with satisfaction at Helen's present coolness towards him. It was a selfish feeling, she knew, but how could she help it-? She had a great mind to con- fess all to Helen, beg her forgiveness, and get her to add her entreaties to her own, that her father should allow her to visit that delightful city, Philadelphia, where she had friends, and pass the approaching winter there, for the improvement of her health. She shrank from  the confession, it is true; it would touch oppressively upon the finest anid most sensitive chords of her existence--but naturally of an ingenuous nature; and never before having a secret that she cared to conceal from  Helen, she resolved now, after a brief struggle, to confide to her the only important one that she had ever had in her life, and relieve herself from a certain indefinable sense of guilt, which had weighed upon her heart ever since she had become sensible of the exis- tence of her hopeless passion for the lover of her sister. Accordingly, when the two sisters had retired to the bed which they shared together, and the same darkness which reduced the rich furniture of the apartment, and the luxurious couch upon which they lay, to the level of the humblest bedroom in the land, veiled her countenance from the eyes of the uneasy and restless beauty by her side, Jenny put her arms around Helen's neck, and kissing, her affectionately, again and again, and shedding many tears, made the intended confession. And why did Helel mingle her tears with Jenny's, and press her cheek to her own, and sigh with such unwonted tenderness? Was it only from affectionate compassion, or had she become bet-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        405 ter. able than formerly to sympathize in ' these love affairs' which once used to provoke only her witty ridicule? Nous verrons. 'If Harry Price only loved you, my dear Jenny, how happy you would be ' said Helen, kissing her sister very tenderly, and with a change of names, and a deep sigh, silently applying the same remark to her own languishing heart. 'But he loves you, dear sister,' replied Jenny, with another flood of tears, 'and who can blame him?' ' I don't care a straw for him, though,' replied Helen. This answer thrilled Jenny with joy; but it was only momentary, and she remarked very sorrowfully, 'Alas I that will not make him love me! I have no beauty, Helen, like you, to attract love ; why was I given a heart to be tortured by it?' 'Beauty like mine,' said her sister, with another pro- found sigh, as she thought to herself how strange it was that Mr. Fairbanks had not repeated his visit, 'beauty like mine is only superficial, and soon palls upon the taste of a true man : you- are really a thousand times more lovable than I am, Jenny V! As she said this, her bosom heaved with emotion, and her eyes were again a fountain of tears. She longed to be as frank as her sister, and reveal her new-born passion, but pride sealed her lips, and she only said, 'Harry shall love you, Jenny ; and will, as soon as he discovers that the heart he now seeks is already another's.' 'Is it possible?' exclaimed her sister, almost incredu- lously-' No longer ago than yesterday, you told father that you would accept of Mr. Price's offer.' 'I had not then seen Mr. Fairbanks,' were the words   406       EA SY NAT; OR, upon Helen's tongue, but she shut her mouth, and swal- lowed them; substituting the remark, that a woman had a right to change her mind. Both of the young ladies had been so engrossed during the day with their new train of reflections, that they had scarcely given a thought to the little newsboy, and as Judge Bogardus had been engaged until late at his law chambers, upon a reference case relating to a million and a half of Trinity Church property, it had escaped his attention, also, that little Scratch Gravel had not fulfilled his promise to call at his residence. On the following day, Edwin again visited the Judge's princely mansion. How different his reception by Helen  Where now was her haughty boldness, her proud reserve, her lofty affectation of superiority? In their place, were beaming smiles, heightened color, an earnest desire to please, some tremulousness and want of self-possession, and a terrible palpitation at the heart! An English traveller, of middle age, Sir John Barrow, dined with them that day. Besides Mr. Fairbanks, there was no other company. Helen was glad of this. Not so Jenny. The Englishman was one of the right kind--educated and refined, yet bluff, cheerful, unostentatious, candid, and liberal. He had breakfasted many a time and oft, at the famous dejeuners of the poet Rogers, chatted with Macauly and Carlyle, heard Tom Moore sing his own songs, listened to Byron's rattling witticisms, enjoyed 'ambrosial nights' at Kit North's ; and, in fine, had the run of all the prominent British genius since the advent of the present century. No man of his time was more thoroughly familiar with   THE THREE APPRENTICES. r        407 the sea of English literature and all its currents and tri- butary streams, than Edwin Fairbanks [ and if he was entertained and delighted with Sir John's graphic descrip- tions of British authors in their own homes or in society, the baronet was no less gratified at finding a young Ame- ricam so entirely conversant with their writings, that he could draw upon them at will, from his own memory, for anlly quotation that seemed apposite. Judge Bogardus and the young ladies were well informed upon the same topics, and listened with pleasure to the conversation of their guests, but (shall it be confessed?) Helen regretted that Sir John prolonged the sitting into the evening, and that when the lights were brought in by the tall Cato, and the massive chandelier was illuminated, he was still talking and sipping her father's rare old wine, with as much fluency as ever. Her regret margined upon mortification when, a few minutes afterwards, Mr. Fairbanks looked at his watch, declared he had an engagement at six, and took his leave. *   *     $   $     *  * '   *. * In the meantime, public interest in the expected execu- tion of Braxton was awakened by those diligent caterers to popular excitement, of which every large community has its quota, and bulletins of his conditions of body and mind, including appetite, viands, remarks, sleep, &c., were published in the newspapers as often as twice a day. It was, stated, amolng other things, that he had accepted a Roman Catholic priest as his spiritual adviser, and this, unlike many other things that were reported in the bul- letins, was true. He selected him for two reasons, viz.: first, because from the verge of Atheism his mind oscillated,   408        E ASY NAT; OR, like the notorious Brownson's, to the extreme of ceremo- nial religion; and second, because this man had officiated often in the prison, and possessed enough influence wit!h the keepers to obtain their permission for some of the con- vict's former associates to visit the cell. He entertained a hope, too, that these visits might, with the co-operation of the priest, whom he believed he could bribe, be made instrumental to his escape. His plans were laid accord- ingly. CHAPTER XLVI. Kate Mudge alone with the Murderer-Her Entreaties in Vain-He offers Terms-His Plan of Escape-A Baron Trenque-Scene in the Boston Jail-Nathan's Execution Approaches-He Prepares to be Legally Murdered. UPON the day previous to that-fixed upon for the exe- cution of Braxton, Mrs. Mudge went to the prison to make one more appeal to his obdurate heart. Edwin and John Hard accompanied her, but, at her entreaty, remain- ed in the Sheriffs office, at the entrance, for she feared that their presence in his cell would only tend to aggra- vate his unrelenting nature. She found him far less morose and savage, than upon her former visit, but to all her entreaties he turned a deaf ear; though he admitted, with a chuckle, that when he. fired the old printer's house, ' Nat had no notion of what he was up to.' She importuned him in the most pathetic terms, to   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        409 allow of the admission of a notary to write down his con- fession, and take his affidavit to it ; but he replied, with a fierce scowl, that she must think him a fool, and if she didn't want to receive insult for insult she had better be gone. 'No, Tom Braxton, I will not leave you until you solemnly swear that you will confess before witnesses that you alone did it, and not my poor husband 1' 'I tell yer I was not alone. Nat was there to hold the light.' 'But he did not know your purpose. You said, before, that he did not know you were going to fire the house!' 'I didn't say so I or if I did, what odds?' replied the felon, doggedly. 'Oh, my God I' cried Kate, with a vehement gesture, ' Make this man's heart relent!' ' Blast your praying,' shouted Braxton, with a furious oath, and interspersing every sentence with his profanity, 'Quit it, or get out o' this quick.' ' Strike me if you will,' cried Kate, kneeling before him upon the slimy pavement of the damp cell, ' Do anything to me, but I conjure you by all that you hold dear, confess and save my husband!' 'I hold nothing dear but my own life, and that you think you have sacrificed' (and he added in an undertone to himself), 'but you are mistaken!' ' Oh heart, harder than the nether millstone, pity me --pity poor Nat who never wronged you-pity his wretch- ed sister, whom you once professed to love I His death --the death of an innocent man-what can it avail you?' cried Kate, in accents that moved even him, as, prostrate 18   "O       EASY NAT; OR, at his feet, she seized one of his hands with both her own, and bathed it with her tears. J Oh bother 1' said he, in a milder tone than he had yet used, 'I never could withstand the fair sex. Get up, Kate; I will confess.' 'Thank God!' cried Kate, joyfully. 'Thank the devil 1' exclaimed the wretch, while a dark frown like a heavy cloud lowered upon his countenance, and he cast her. from him. Kate shuddered, but still kneeling, besought him not to retract his promise. 'Say and do what you will to me, but remember your wordy- A diabolical thought flashed into that brain so prolific of evil, and raising Kate from her suppliant attitude, he. retained her hand and gazed into her face. ' Ah, Kate, who could resist you!' said he. ' Never 'fear, my dear, I'll make a clean breast of it.' 'When? cried Kate. ' Oh let it be at once. Let me call in your friends. Let there be no delay!' and in her eagerness -she would have hurried out of the cell to obtain witnesses. The felon detained her with a strong grasp. 'Not now,' said he. '-Oh do not delay it!' she cried, imploringly. ' Wait until to-morrow,' said he, with a sardonic smile. ( Tomorrotw?' exclaimed Kate, with a cold shudder, 'It is the day of your execution I' ' Is it?' said Braxton, with the same smile (for he con- fided in his plan of escape), 'I will confess, then, upon the gallows. 'Oh! that will be too late-too late!' cried Kate, greatly distressed ; ' My poor Nat's cruel sentence is to be executed the following day, in 'Boston, and your confes-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        4" sion would not reach there in time to save him I Oh, Braxton, I implore you, confess to-day, while there is yet time to transmit the message thither, and prevent this legal murder I' In her eagerness, Kate laid her right, hand upon his shoulder, and with supplicating looks returned his gaze. His eyes fell, and he replied that he would comply upon one condition. ' But,' he added, with such a look askance at her as made her tremble, she hardly knew why,. 'You will think it a hard one?' 'Nothing- can be too hard,' she replied, her own eyes averted before the impassioned look which the demon fasten- ed upon her still beautiful countenance ; ' I would lay down my life' joyfully to .save my husband from such a death I' 'I ask not your life, my darling,' cried the felon, signi- ficantly, ' but your lov0e! and suddenly drawing her to him before she could avoid him, he whispered something. Tear- ingl herself impetuously away from him, with his foul breath still burning like noisome vapor from the' depths of hell itself, in her ear, Kate fled to the door of the dungeon, and pale with mingled loathing and indignation, beckoned to, the attendant who stood on the outside. 'Yer a fool,' said Tom Braxton in a lower voice, as he heard the jailor -lift the iron bar from across the entrance. 'That is the only way in which you can save the life of your husband.' 'Demon I' murmured Kate, with inward horror and self-loathing at her contact with the monster ; and sick at heart, she passed through the narrow prison-hall, and by the turnkey's office to the light and air of the street, where she found her friends, with a carriage, awaiting her.   "2       EASY NAT ; OR, The attendant who had opened the cell for her egress, did not leave it when she did, but remained to converse with his prisoner. Their interview was of a very confi- dential nature, and at its termination, the fellow produced from'a capacious pocket a bottle of brandy, which he left with Braxton, with a caution not to use too much of it, or he 'would ruin all.' 'Never fear me,' replied Tom, ' I have got too much at stake to make an ass of myself at such a time. Don't go!' he added, glancing nervously around his cell; 'This is a lonely hole I' 'Think of the hole you will go out at, and let that keep up your spirits 1' said the man, in a low chuckling tone. After a few more words had passed, the unfaithful func- tionary retired from the cell, and left Tom to the compa- nionship of the evil spirits of the bottle and the brain. Tom looked after him through the grating until he was no longer in sight, and then putting the liquor to his mouth, swallowed a huge draught, and hugged the bottle to his heart as if it were a darling child. Presently, he looked cautiously through the iron wicker, of his door again; then applied his ear to the pavement. Apparently satisfied that no one was within hearing, he went to his wretched cot in the corner, and pulling it aside, knelt down and lifted, not without considerable difficulty, a heavy block of granite out of the stone floor. By this cavity, he succeeded in opening a passage large enough to admit his body into a drain through which the filth of the prison was conveyed beyond the walls. Such a stench of gas and other offensive effluvia ascended through the aperture, that the murderer was forced to,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        413 cover his nose with his hand, as he peered into it, and wondered how such a swarm of rats could exist in an atmosphere so poisonous.           i 'I shall lose every bit of breath in my body in that hor- rid hole if I am in it more than two minutes,' he murmur- ed, with an oath, when he had replaced the stone and the bed. 'Faugh! It makes me gag! I must take a drink to settle my stomach ;' and he took another 'pull at the bottle.' 'Ughl That is good liquor,' he added as he replaced the cork, and lay the bottle down on the bed by his side. 'If Shucks is ready with the rope, and I can secure it to my foot, it won't take him two minutes to snake me through. Success attend him I I'll drink to that anyhow.' Again he applied the brandy to his mouth, and chuckling, ' Ha, ha I I'll cheat 'em all, and be to them,' fell back upon the straw, to obtain, if possible, a little sleep. When our friends in the coach had arrived at the hotel, Edwin left them and repaired to the residence of Judge Bogardus. Without speaking of the peculiarity of his interest, personally, in the critical position of Nathan Mudge, but merely as the quondam fellow-apprentice and present counsel of that young man, he had before revealed to his distinguished friend, the nature of his mission in New York. In the desperate- state of the matter, now, he determined to ask his aid in a channel which he had hoped to have no occasion to use. The young ladies were abroad, and he was fortunate enough to find the Judge alone in his study. He was cordially received, and at once, without any unnecessary words, explained exactly how matters stood, and how imperative it was to obtain Braxton's confession.   :*"       EASY NAT; OR, '.Command me, my dear young man' said Judge Bogar- dus. 'What can I do for you?' ' Braxton has turned Roman Catholic, or feigns to have done so,' replied Edwin, 'and his spiritual adviser is a priest of that order; but I distrust his integrity.' 'There are a multitude of sincere Christians among the Catholics, Mr. Fairbanks,' replied the Judge, deprecat- ingly-' I know, and respect their Bishop here, as among the most estimable of my friends.' 'That is precisely what H hoped might be the case,' replied, Edwin, joyfully, 'and now, sir, I want you to see the Bishop this evening, and state the case to him ' 'I will do it, sir,' rejoined the Judge, heartily, and ris- ing-'leave it all to me.' And with this assurance, Edwin took his leave. Now   let us return from the guilty to the innocent, felon-from  the white granite prison in Centre-street , New York, to the blue granite jail in Leveret street, Boston. Let us look into the more cheerful cell of poor  ! Nat., There are only four days between him and the gal- - lows. It is hard to die so young! In the flowel of man- hood, in the full possession of his faculties, by sickness or accident, or even upon the battle-field, it is a bitter thing  for a  man to die; with what horror and mental misery, then, must the felon, within a few days. of his execution, prepare to have his life violently, yet with cool premedi- tation, wrested from him upon the deliberate verdict of his countrymen, that he is unfit to live I To be the shame of his family and friends, the shame of his city, the shame of his country, the shame of his race! To die, before a jesting and unpitying multitude, the death of the pirate and murderer ; to be a  by-word and reproach even in the   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        415 mouths of the lowest of the low; to be recorded in the     1 history of his country, as a guilty wretch, who died upon   ' the gallows-a vile blot upon those pages, in which it had been his pride and delight to read of the noble actions of his patriotic ancestors-this was a thought inflicting infi- nitely more suffering upon Nathan Mudge than the fear of the physical pain of death by the fatal cord. It was worse even than the dread of that which men call 'the leap in the dark'-the loss of earth and the life to which   j even old age clings with untiring tenacity--the change from the warm sunshine of vitality to the ' cold obstruc- tion' of the grave. To a change of worlds, the doomed prisoner had become reconciled, through his faith in the promises of God.  Yes, Nathan ' had found peace in believing.  From the very hour of his arrest for a crime of which he was entirely innocent, he had meditated intensely upon his    , evil courses, and repented with a godly sorrow not to be repented of, for sins which he knew rendered him deserv- ing of God's just wrath; and for weeks and months he had been a truly contrite man; daily searching the Scrip-   j tures for illumination, and imploring forgiveness for his past transgressions. In Christ's glorious Sermon on the   $ Mount, as recorded in the Gospel according to Matthew, he had read with joy the precious promise, 'Ask, and it shall be given you ; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.' The parable of the Prodi- gal Son, which we are too apt to read without emotion, poor Nat watered with penitential tears, for he felt that in coming back to the piety of his youth, he, too, was returning to a kind Father who, when he was yet a great  \. .         '    AOu       EASY NAT' OR, way of, saw him, and had compassion, and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. After that, he felt that the blessed Redeemer, who had received him back, was able to save to the uttermost; and, in view of his approaching death, his spirit, recently so troubled, rested confidently ill the promise 'that this corruptible should pout on incor- ruption, and this mortal must put on immortality;' fully 'persuaded, that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' The most indefatigable and untiring effort had been made by Giles Godwin, Edwin Fairbanks, and the      I unhappy wife and sister of the condemned man, to pro-   i cure a pardon. That failing, equally earnest and well- directed exertions were made before the Governor and    2 Council to procure a commutation of the sentence, or a   i respite ; but all to no purpose. His Excellency, a humane  man, was deeply moved by the prayers and tearful entrea- ties of Kate and Susan, but he saw nothing to justify his interference with the execution of a sentence for which ithe people clamored. Despairing of success with the Governor, Kate, accompanied by Edwin, had hastened to New York to plead with Braxton for an efficient ejxulpa- tion of Nathan. Her repulse, in this quarter, has been alluded to. When the white-headed old man, Giles Godwin, with a heavy heart entered the cell to communicate to Nat the failure of their application to the Governor, the poor lad, agitated by contending emotions of hope and fear, grasp-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        417 ing his hand in both his own, exclaimed, ' Oh, sir, do not tell me you have failed I You have succeeded, and there is yet hope for me, I shall not die upon the ignominious scaffold I' 'Alas, my poor boy,' was all Giles could say, and hug- ging Nat to his bosom, he wept over him, as if his heart would break. Poor Nat wept bitterly, too ; for he had hoped even against hope. ' Surely they will commute my hard sentence?' said he, when he could command his voice. Giles shook his head, sorrowfully. 'They do not deny me a respite!' cried Nathan, aghast. ' Be calm, my dear son,' said Giles, ' and trust in God. The Governor refuses to stay the-proceedings.' 'O h, my God 1 my God 1' cried Nat, 'Am I then to die upon the gallows!' and in the agony of his spirit, he wrung his hands, and walked about his cell restlessly. 'My blood be upon their heads ; I am an innocent man l' he exclaimed; then added more firmly, and with solemnity, as he paused in front of the old man, ' Sir, when they have deprived this frail body of the life which they can- not restore again, and have sated their thirst for the blood of an innocent man-when too late to remedy the judicial murder, I shall be proven guiltless of the abhorred crime for which I shall have suffered a shameful death, Oh, vindicate my memory; and as widely as they have bruited my alleged crime, blazon my innocence I And tell Edwin Fairbanks to devote his talents to expel from the courts the murderous custom of condemning men upon presumptive evidence. 13*   "8       EASY  NAT -  'OR, 'I will,' replied Giles, 'but do not despair yet, my dear child. Edwin and Katemay effect sometiling with that bad man, Braxton!  (Nathan shook his head incredulously. ) He is to be executed on the fifth of December. That is' next Friday. In the last extremity, he may confess, in time to save you, my poor boy.' 'I will not delude myself again, with a false hope,' replied Nathan, calmly. 'All the days of my appointed time will I wait till my change come.' 'Still, let us pray for your deliverance,' said Giles : and the two men knelt in prayer. CHAPTER XLVII. The Fate of Easy Nat Determined on by the Executive and Council and Approved by the Peopie--Painful Interviews upon theMorn- ing of his Execution. IN the meantime, Nathan and his sister and friends, were awaiting in suspense, painful beyondcthe power of language to describe, the result of h1is wife's mission to New York. They heard by letter from Edwin, daily of the coutinued ill-success of Kate in her efforts to induce Braxton to make a confession, before competent witnesses,    i of his agency in the destruction of Wiles Godwin's house, and they had at length abandoned all hope of his testify- ing to the innocence of Nathan until his last moments upon the gallows. Both Susan and Giles Godwin were untiring in their 9 in fheir   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         419 efforts to defer the time appointed for the execution of her unfortunate brother, as has been already narrated, but satisfied of his guilt, and thoroughly aroused by the frequency of incendiarism (unfortunately become-so com- moon at that time as to be a terror to the inhabitants of Boston, Roxbury, Dorchester, and the neighboring towns) to the importance of vindicating the majesty of the law, the people were determined that this man, at least, should not escape the penalty which they conscientiously believed he had incurred ; and their Chief Magistrate, moved as he was by the sympathy for the unhappy man and his friends, felt convinced that it was his duty to let the law take its course. Still, the pain his Excellency felt at the necessity of rejecting the repeated petitions of the sister of the condemned  man, urged with all the vehemence and pathos of a sister appealing for the life of a beloved brother, disturbed him exceedingly; and it would have been no exaggeration to say, that among the least hap- py individuals in the old Bay State, at that time, was its Governor himself. He was a man of large scholarly acquirements ; a man of cultivated taste-remarkable for his statesmanship, but cursed with a delicate nervous sys- tem, and an exquisite sensibility--just the man to wear out his own life rapidly in the place he filled, as chief magistrate of a Commonwealth. The day appointed for Thomas Braxton's death at the hands of the public executioner came and went, and no tidings of a confession--no tidings of his fate-to the anxious watchers in Boston. The telegraph had not been dreamed of in those days, and the most rapid errand must be borne by a human messenger. R elays of horses   420       EASY NA T; OR, had been arranged by Edwin Fairbanks between New York and Worcester, where a locomotive was to be in waiting to convey the messenger to Boston. John Hard, who was to bear the intelligence, had the selection of the relays, and he remarked to Edwin that, 'if he could only count with half as much confidence upon that all-fired steam-horse, as he felt in the quadrupeds he had picked, he should feel a thunderin' sight safer; but he was no judge of the pints of that ere animal ; and he had a leetle rather run the last 45 mileswith his colt-the best piece of horse- flesh that ever brushed the flies off.' When he was told that the engine would go over the entire length of the road in thirty-five minutes, he ejacu- lated 'Jerooshy,' with a whistle at the end of it, and allowed it would be -best to station the colt at Newton, as the nearest point to the residence of the Governor. Edwin and Mrs. Mudge, it was arranged, were to fol- low, with evidence in duplicate of the confession if any should transpire, in the mail train, viz. : by steamboat to Worcester, and thence by the cars to Boston, where in regular course they were expected to arrive two or three hours prior to the time fixed for the fulfilment of the fatal sentence. Nathan arose from his bed on the morning of the dread- ed day, just as the first beams of the sun came peering through the massive iron lattice of his window. ' And is this,' he exclaimed, with a sigh, ' to be the last day of my life? The ground is shrouded with the snow that fell so fast in the evening, but the sun--O the glori- ous sun H-it never shone so delightfully before. I cannot realize that I am to die before it shall have reached its   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        421 meridian, but God's will be done 1' and kneeling, he pass- ed- some minutes in earnest prayer for forgiveness-for acceptance through Christ-for strength to sustain him like a Christian in the bitter ordeal through which he was to pass-for the pardon of his judicial murderers and his enemies, if any such he had-and for the blessings of the Almighty Friend of the widow and the fatherless, upon his wife and poor Susan. When he arose from his devotions, his sister was stand- ing at the door of his cell. The keeper admitted her, and she was followed by Giles Godwin. Both were in tears, but poor Nat received them joyfully. ' How kind in you, my dear, dear friends, and how happy I am to look -upon your much loved faces, even upon the last day of my life! Nay, Susan, precious one,' he added tenderly, 'do not weep. I have dried all my tears. I have no more to shed. I am prepared-yes, I am content to die-since God wills it so. You know He over-rules all things for the best.' 'Spoken like a true Christian, my dear boy I' said Giles, grasping his hand ; and turning to Susan, he added, 'My child, be comforted. Compose yourself. It is our duty to encourage and sustain your brother. Nathan, did you rest any last night? 'Oh, yes,' replied Nat. 'I never slept better in my life. Sister,' he added, drawing her to him, with his arm around her; 'let me kiss away your tears I  I dreamt last night of our dear mother. You know I have often done so of late, but the last was more happy than all the rest. Its sweet influence still pervades my -soul, and I look my fate in the face calmly, and without a murmur.'   ='-:       EASY NAT-; OR, ' Alas, my poor brother ' sighed Susan, and imprinting a kiss upon his pallid cheek, gazed fondly into his face. 'Methought, that when this terrible judicial error had been consummated, and the heavens were darkened as if with the Divine displeasure, the people rent the air with the shout that I was innocent I and in a moment a mes- senger, covered with the marks of hasty travel, appeared with a reprieve! but all too late, for I lay dead beneath the scaffold. The dark and lowering appearance of the sky above the multitude then struck - them with awe and terror, and in a few moments all had fled from the place. I was thinking then, with dread, of the grave in which I was to be laid, when Suddenly the sweetest strain of music that you can imagine ihe seraphs sing, thrilled me with   i ecstasy, and a flood of light bathed me in its glory. Turn- ing my wondering eyes to discover whence all this radi- ance. and melody proceeded, I  saw that the black and threatening sky had parted, and there was our mother, our  i own dear mother-in form of an angel, as she ever seemed to us, in spirit, sister, when on earth-lbeckoning me 'to- wards her!   All at once I felt as buoyant as a bird, and with joy unutterable, rose through the air to her embrace. I dreamt she took me by the hand, and up, up we floated through the azure sky, peopled with angelic shapes and melodious with God's praises, in which I joined, until full of rapture, I  awoke.' 'It was, indeed, a  blissful vision, but for what pre- ceded it I' said Susan, with emotion. 'It is,/ said Giles Godwin, as he wiped away a tear, 'a heavenly employment to sing the praise of God. Men of the world undervalue it, but still they will pass hours in   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         423 singing the glory of military and naval heroes, and politi- cal leaders, the mere ephemera of a day. How varied may be the strains, how innumerable thie themes, of the songs of the redeemed- in heaven! I regard it as a delight- ful privilege to sing when other modes of worship are inadequate to the full expression of my feelings.' 'It elevates the soul above earth, said Susan, 'and sometimes when I sing with earnest Christian people, I lose all consciousness of external objects, and seem to have a foretaste of heaven's joys.' 'And it is quite likely, dear sister, that I owe my happy dream to the hymns you sang so sweetly before you left me, last night ;' said NJat. 'At what time will Dr. Jenks be here this morning, to administer the com- -munion?' At nine,' replied Mr. Godwin. 'Hark, what noise is that?' Susan, who stood near the grated window, looked out, and shrieking slightly, turned as pale as death, and clung to the iron bars for support. A glance into the yard showed at once the cause. Three men, under the direction of the jailer, were erect- ing the gallows. ZNat breathed hard for an instant, then drew his sister from the grating, saying, : These are melancholy sights and sounds, dear sister! Come with me, and let us sit as far away from them as we can. Come, my kind old master, come, sits on my bed here, and let us sing some- thin g.' Until now, whatever may have been thought, no allu- sion was made to the snow storm of the previous night, and the consequent detention likely to have attended the   424       EASY NAT; OR, train from New York. Nathan feared to recur to it, lest it should renew his excitement and distract his mind from the peaceful contemplation of the life beyond the grave; and for a similar reason his visitors had avoided the sub- ject. But his ardent desire to see his wife before the hour should arrive for him to die, rendered him more and more anxious every moment in respect to the probable impediments to the transit of Kate and Edwin from New York. Susan, too, without alluding to it, felt that she needed the presence of her affianced husband to sustain her in this crisis, and she was in an agony of suspense to receive the intelligence, which she still entertained a hope that he would bring to them. The good old man, Mr. Godwin, saw what was passing in their minds (if his eyes were only half way open) at that moment: and telling them so, frankly, he begged they would use no reserve at such a time, but communicate freely to each other the- thoughts that were uppermost. 'I know, my dear son, that you are anxious for the arrival of poor Kate.' 'Oh, sir, indeed you are right,' replied Nathan, 'and, yet, perhaps, it would be a providential favor if the heavy fall of snow, last night, should prevent her arrival to-day.' 'Under ordinary circumstances, we might expect the arrival of the train from Nevr York at eight or half-past eight, but the road must be greatly obstructed by drifting snow; and this, too, has undoubtedly delayed the arrival of the special messenger whom Edwin Fairbanks was to have despatched yesterday with the intelligence of the last moments of Thomas Braxton. His arrival may be expected momentarily.' The keeper, a humane man, then made his appearance   -,i i    JOHN HARD, RUNNING AN EXPRESS TO THE GALLOWS.      T H . TIIR E E APPRE N"T ICES.    425 at the door of the cell with food and drink for the pri- soner's breakfast. Nathan glanced at the little- clock which, at his request, had been placed 'in his room, and shuddered an instant at the thought that he had only three hours to live. 'Time flies!' said he, with a sigh. Susan's glance had followed his own to the dial, and appre- ciating the full purport of his ejaculation, she turned to the window to conceal the tears which flowed afresh. ' We have a carriage at the door,' said -Giles, 'in which your sister and I will now proceed to the depot, for intel- ligence, and upon our return an hour hence, bring with us Rev. Dr. Jenks, and perhaps some better news than we have heard yet.' Nathan acceded to this, and when they had departed, asked God's blessing upon the last meal which he expected to eat, and sat down to his solitary repast. CHAPTER XLVIII. Shows how the Christian can meet Death, even though it be upon the Gallows-The Iniquity of Hanging upon Presumptive Evidence Illustrated-Scene at the Scaffold. AT a little before nine o'clock, a Deputy-sheriff entered the cell, with a bundle in his hand, and after a few minutes passed in conversation, somewhat constrained upon his part, he revealed the portentous nature of his errand. He had brought to Nathan the dress which he was to wear upon the scaffold; and he desired that he would say at   426       EA SY XTAT; OR, what time he would prefer that the execution should take place. "et it be at the latest moment possible,' replied Nat, very pale, but speaking with firmness. 'It will be a mur- der, sir, although a legal one, and the longer you defer it, the longer you will delay the shedding of innocent blood.' A reporter for the daily press overheard this remark from the position which he had taken on the outside of the door, and quickly jotted it down in the account which he. had commenced of a 'Visit to the Cell of Mudge.' Fur- thermore, he presently added to his notes that as soon as the deputy-sheriff left the prisoner, Giles Godwin entered the cell, accompanied by a clergyman and Susan Mudge, whose personal appearance he described with considerable accuracy, and then withdrew, regarding the scene as too sacred (he remarked in his report in an extra) to be tres- passed upon by a stranger. The same fluent writer stated, additionally, that upon passing out of the jail, the eye encoun- tered a multitude of people-men, women and children- occupying elevated windows, tree-tops, the roofs of neigh- boring sheds and buildings, and in short every spot avail- able for a view of the gallows, which had been erected in the prison yard. 'Where is lKate? Where is my wife?' cried Nathan, with a disappointed look, as his frienids entered. 'The railroad is rendered almost impassable by reason of the snow, as we feared, and neither of the trains due from Worcester this morning have yet arrived,' replied Giles. "My dear sir,' said Nathan, grasping the outstretched ,        .          A, .T   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        427 hand of the clergyman, 'Do you not pity me? This sus- pense is dreadful!' 'Remember, my dear son,' replied the minister-a small-sized, soft-spoken, aged man, of a very benevolent expression of countenance-' the words of the Psalmist, "Why art thosu cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God." ' ' God help me!' ejaculated Nathan, covering his eyes with his hand, to conceal the .tears which he could not repress, 'It is not death I fear, Sir, but I did hope to see my wife once more V' He was turning towards the win- dow, when, with a slight cry, Susan drew him back, and, embracing him, begged him not to go there. She would not have him see the dismal preparations in the yard below, and the jesting multitude of spectators, which had met her eye, and nearly caused her to faint with horror, on her way to his cell. The momentary silence which ensued was broken by the harsh voice of a prisoner, speaking through the grates to one in another cell. 'Say, Bill! Bill l' ' What yer want?' - ' Will he die game?' ' Noa, he won't die game. He's got a parson with himl Can you see the gallows?' ' Yes, with the help of my looking-glass.' ; So can I.' The speakers then-relapsed into silence. Nat overheard this brief colloquy, but without remark ; and, in a few moments, the aged clergyman administered to the young man and his sister,and Mr. Godwin, the   428        EASY 'NAT; OR, sacrament of the communion. Never was the solemn cere- mony more solemnly performed.    It elevated Nathan above depression, and nerved him to meet with calmness whatever might befal. Both the unfortunate convict and his sister possessed good voices, and the subjoined sacra- mental hlymn was sung with touching sweetness : "The promise of my Father's love Shall stand forever good: le said-and gave his soul to death, And sealed the grace with blood. To this dear covenant of thy word, ' i' I set my worthless name; I seal the engagement to my Lord, And make my humble claim. I call that legacy my own, Which Jesus did bequethi 'Twas purchased with a dying groan, And ratified in death. The light and strength, the pardn'ning grace And glory shall be mine: My life and soul--my heart and flesh,- And all. my powers are thine." More than one sacred song was sung, more than one prayer sent up from earnest hearts to the Throne of Grace; and in Christian conversation and worship, the time passed rapidly to the little party in the cell. Not so to the expectant crowd without. To them it seemed an age. At eleven o'clock, the deputy-sheriff entered. 'Is the prisoner ready?' he inquired respectfully.  Susan turned   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         429 ghastly pale, and hugging her brother to her wildly-throb- bing heart, kissed him a great many times, sobbing con- vulsively, meanwhile, as if her heart would break. 'Officer,' said Mr. Godwin, apart to the deputy, 'are your orders imperative, that he should be conducted to the scaffold at eleven o'clock?' 'Such are my orders, sir,' replied the man. 'But, sir--my dear, good sir V' said Giles, in a tone of entreaty and remonstrance, and whispered in his ear. 'You must talk with the Sheriff, under whose orders I act,' replied the deputy. ' I have no authority. You will find him in the jail-office. Go and consult with him, and I beg (he added in an undertone) that you will take this young lady with you!' 'Come, my dear Susan,' said Giles, ' come with me, and add your entreaties to mine, to induce the sheriff to post- pone this sacrifice of innocent life at least one hour longer!' 'Then there still is hoped' cried the poor girl. 'Oh, how gladly will I go with you!' With these words, she hurried from the cell, accom- panied by Mr. Godwin. The deputy-sheriff next proceeded to clothe Nathan with the white garb peculiar to those who suffer capital punishment. He then communicated to the clergyman confidentially that his suggestion to Mr. Godwin to speak to the sheriff was but a humane artifice to get the sister of the prisoner out of the way, and save both the useless pang of part- ing. ' My orders,' he added, 'are peremptory, to conduct the prisoner to the platform at precisely eleven o'clock. The time has arrived, and I must fulfil my painful duty.'   430       EASY NAT; OR, The clergyman informed the prisoner of the purport of their conversation. 'Come, my poor lad,' said the deputy kindly, ' I will allow you an hour at the gallows.' He then pinioned the prisoner's arms behind him, and accompanied by several constables, and the sorrowful clergyman, the melancholy cortege passed down the prison stairs, into the yard in the rear of the jail, through a crowd of privileged persons connected with the press and public offices. Several of these individuals, formerly acquainted with Nathan Mudge, were permitted to converse with him, a few minutes each, as he stood beside the ladder at the foot of the scaffold, which had been erected upon the same spot where, a few months previous, five Spanish pirates had suffered the extreme penalty of the law ; and justly, for they had often imbued their hands in the life-blood of human vic- tims, compelling many a poor mariner to ' walk the plank,' and the gallows was the due reward of their deeds ; but this man was innocent. He professed his innocence of the crime for which he was to -suffer, but condemned his use of ardent spirits as having first reduced him to poverty and shame, and finally involved him with infamous associates and brought him to an ignominious end. Three or four of the number who conversed with him 'were the companions of his con- vivial life, and with these he talked with great feeling, indicated by his tears, admonishing them to take warning by his example, and abandon entirely the use of stimulat- ing drinks. He besought them, too, to consider well their ways, and to search the Scriptures daily for guidance. Presently he inquired for GI Cs G odw'in.   THE THREE AP PRENTICES.        431 More overcome than he had yet been, the old man came forward and grasped his hand, but was unable to say a word. ' Has she not come yet?' inquired Nathan, in a low voice. Giles shook his head sorrowfully. 'And are there no tidings?I Again the old man signified a negative. 'And no hope of a reprieve?' cried Nat. ' Alas! my poor boy,' exclaimed Giles, and sobbing like a little child, he hugged Nat in his embrace. 'Where is Susan?' inquired Nathan. 'I left her in the jailor's office, with my sisters,' was the reply. 'Farewell, then, my kind old master!' said Nat, with suppressed emotion, 'Tell my poor wife when she comes, that I humbly ask her forgiveness for the poor return I made for all her early love and sacrifices for my sake. I thank God that she has no children to be disgraced by my shame. Bear this kiss to her, and this, and this! and tell her that my last thoughts were of her. Say farewell for me to your sisters. And Susan, poor Susan! take this to her as my dying remembrance! It was my dear mother's Bible. My mother! -Oh, that name recalls sweetly back to mind my dream. Farewell, dear sir, fare- well, until we meet in heaven!' With these words, he embraced the weeping old man, and with a serene countenance and firm step, ascended the gallows. He was followed by the, clergyman, and the Sheriff and his assistant. After a few minutes' conversation with his   432       EASY NAT    OR, spiritual advisers, inaudible to those below, he stepped forward to address the spectators. Hereupon, a disgraceful rush was made by a portion of the outside multitude to the long, huge cedar-post fence, already sustaining a spectator upon every picket, to get a better sight of the prisoner!s demeanor in his last moments. A cry that the fence was falling, made still more confusion for a-few moments, but it soon subsided. 'My countrymen,' said Nat. in a clear, sweet voice, 'Before God and man, I am innocent of the terrible crime for which you take my life this day. A fatal chain of circumstantial evidence is against me, but it will fall to pieces when I am dead, and you will do justice to my memory. But oh, I plead with you to do more. Many an innocent man, like me, has fallen a victim to presump- tive proof-never, I beseech you, let it occur again, in your community never convict a man of a capital offence, unless upon the most positive testimony! Thomas Braxton fired the dwelling of Giles Godwin. With the grave yawning to receive my dishonored body, and heaven ready to receive my immortal spirit, I do solemnly affirm that he only was guilty of that crime for which I am this day to pay the penalty. Still, I forgive the jury and the judges, and you (to the crowd), and you, sir [to the Sheriff], who are to execute this sentence. I bear :no ill- will to any living soul [here his voice faltered a little] and I hope no one will bear any ill-will to me, when I am dead.' He then knelt in prayer with the clergyman.. Mean- while, the spectators, pale with the excitement occasioned by his words and manner, read in each other's face anew- born conviction of his innocence; but what could they   T i E THREE APPRENTICES.       433 do? No one there had authority to stay the summary proceedings. When Nathan arose from his knees, he affectionately bade adieu to the pastor, and calmly informed the Sheriff that he was ready. Giles Godwin walked to and fro, wringing his, hands, and endeavoring in vain to keep his eye averted from the gallows. 'It is murder, murder, nothing short of murder!' he exclaimed, grating his teeth, and clenching his fists so hard that the nails pierced the flesh. But for his instinc- tive reverence for law and authority, he would have rushed to the scaffold to interfere; and it required all his self- command to restrain himself from doing so. Calmly and hopefully, the poor lad sang the beautiful verse so expressive of the placid resignation of the dying Christian. Gently, my Saviour, let me down To slumber in the arms of Death; I rest my soul on Thee -alone, Until my last expiring breath.' The Sheriff and his assistant were scarcely less excited, as they placed the prisoner upon the trap-door, and pinion- ed his legs to prevent his struggles when the fatal drop should fall from under him. Nathan's face was as white as the new-fallen snow, but he was entirely calm. The agonlly of death-even such a death-had passed 1 In adjusting the noose around the prisoner's neck, the assistant, trembling so that he was scarcely able to stand, performed the duty with such obvious awkwardness, that the indignant throng of spectators in the prison yard, mur- mured audibly, 'shame-! shame i' 19   434       EASY N AT; OR, There was, too, a groan and a few hisses. The black silk cap, customary upon sueh occasions, was then drawn over the prisoner's face by the Sheriff himself ; but at the request of the prisoner it was removed again for a moment, and with the rope still around his neck, the unfortunate man addressed himself once more to those who had assembled to see him suffer the extreme penalty of the law. The heavens had become overcast, and all nature seemed as hushed as the multitude. Amid the solemnl stillness, in which there was no sound louder than the hard beating of a thousand hearts; Nathan's clear firm voice was heard audibly, even by the hundreds of men and boys who had climbed by means of piles of lumber on the outside, to the top of the fence of cedar posts, twenty :feet high, which set close together, walled in the prison-yard on the north-east side. 'Surely, no -one within the sound of my voice' (these were his words), can believe that in this extremity-about to appear,l as I am, before the judgment seat of God--I would defile my immortal soul by a lie! Again, then, I solemnly protest that I am innocent. Thomas Braxton committed the crime for which I am now to die. Fare- well I! Farewell, Giles Godwin : farewell to all. Now sir,' he added, in a lower voice to the Sheriff, 'I have no more to say.  I am ready. Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!' 'Amen I said the clergyman, and with hands clasp- ed, knelt upon the platform. The black cap was quickly re-adjusted over the prison- er's face. 'Mother, I come!' murmured Nathan, The Sheriff put his hand into his bosom to draw forth the white handkerchief which was to be the signal to his   THE THRE E APPRENTICES.        435 deputy beneath the scaffold to pull the rope attached to the drop. A loud shout rending the silence, and thrilling all hearts, stayed the movement of the officer, and his hand fell to his side. 'Pardon-pardon-parrd  n P' was the cry,--a single voice, and distant, but stentorian. And that voice was John Hard's! A thousand glad hearts took up the glorious word, and echoed it to the skies. At the same moment, the press of a multitude, wild with excitement to prevent the execu- tion since a pardon had arrived, burst open the huge wooden gateway to the prison yard. The cap and the rope were instantly removed from the prisoner by the Sheriff, rejoiced to perform the grateful office, and the astonished Nathan, bewildered and amazed, looked around him for the cause of this sudden interposition. A dark bay horse, covered with foam, came rushingon, -his nose thrust straight out, his ears lying back, his long tail, like a locomotive's smoke, in a horizontal line behind him, his belly almost touching the earth--bearing John Hard himself, hatless and coatless, with knees high as the pommel, his body bent forward, and all of his long hair, except the inveterate cowlicks, blown back like streamers in a stiff breeze. John had cast off every weight that could impede the progress of the noble animal which bore him fleetly over the heavy snow-covered track, liter- ally annihilating space, as with straining eyes, swollen veins, and dilating nostrils, he came dashing through the street at a racer rate--amazing all eyes--and through the   436       EASY NAT; OR, cheering crowd, nor slacked his pace until he had borne his tall, ungainly rider, through the broken gateway and to the very foot of the gallows. There the rider sprang off, and the gallant steed, shaking like an aspen-leaf, and sweating great drops like rain, sank to the earth exhausted. 'Thank the Lord!' ejaculated John, 'I aint too late. Stop that hangin' business up there-! Which is the Sheriff? Sir, just peruse that 'ere dockymunt 1' and he handed the officer a formidable paper which he had pulled from his bosom. It bore the ample seal of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and the signature of the Governor. 'It is the unconditional pardon of Nathan Mudge I' exclaimed the Sheriff, surveying with joyful surprise the- important paper. 'Because Tom Braxton confessed yesterday on the gal- lows, in New York, that he, and not Nathan Mudge, set fire to Giles. Godwin's house,' shouted John Hard, loud enough for many to hear. Nlat's first impulse was to kneel, and with clasped hands and streaming eyes, thank God for his deliverance. The Sheriff then read aloud from the scaffold the decree of pardon. Wildly followed the glad cheers of the excited people, who filled the prison yard. The shouts were repeated by the crowds of spectators in the neighboring windows and upon the house-tops, and high piles of lumber adjacent, and echoed in the contiguous streets; for a con.- viction of the prisoner's innocence, succeeded almost instantly by the news of his pardon, had spread with elec- tric rapidity. Even the inmates of the jail cheered lus- tily, and, thrusting their hands through the sombre grated windows, waved their handkerchiefs.   T HE T t R "E  A?PR E NTIC E S.  437 In the midst of this furore, the long legs of John Hard might be seen mounting the scaffold. Nat met him at the top and hugged his deliverer in his arms. Another enthu- siastic hurra-another and another I Will the people never have done cheering? The stalwart John Hard wept like a child. 'I'm a great gawky baby,' he blubbered, ' I know I am; but 1 can't help it.' Nathan cast from him the white garb that was to have been his shroud, and descending' the ladder quickly, embraced the glad old man, Giles Godwin. Leaving John Hard alternately wiping his eyes, and rubbing his faithful beast-or replying to the curious inquiries of those who thronged around--Nathan repaired with Giles and the clergyman to his cell, to resume his proper apparel. There he was encountered by his sister, &  who, informed by the jailor of what had occurred, had hastened thither to await, with what feelings need not be described, his coming. Abandoning them to their congratulations and rejoic- ings, the happy old man, as nimble-footed now, he said, as a deer, returned to the jail-yard to get John Hard to leave ' the colt' in charge of the turnkey, and accompany Nat and Susan and himself, in their carriage, to his house. The animal had regained its feet, and was wiping his nose affectionately against the shoulder of his master, who was rubbing down its fore legs smartly with a large calico handkerchief, upon which was pictured one of the naval victories of our country. 1 To Mr. Godwin's proposal, John replied, No he   438       EA SY NAT; O R, would first have the colt put up safely at Fullam's, and see him eat his oats and a few mouthfuls of hay ; and then he would come down to Giles's house, and tell them all about it. 'But now,' he added, in conclusion; ' I must rub this critter just as dry as a bone, and trouble some on yer for the loan of a blanket, for he's a leetle the slickest beast that ever man straddled yet, to say nothing o' woman. Twenty miles in an hour and eighteen minutes, over such awful goin' as this 'ere colt's seen to-day, I cal- kylate ain't slow, Square Godwin!' The old man patted the animal's neck, and called it a brave beast, and inquired its name. 'He never had any name but Tlhe Colt up ter this present time being,' replied John, 'but now I'm goin' to call him Gin'ral Washington.' ' A  good name,' said the old man, 'but I'll go and get him a blanket 1' and off trotted Giles as blithe as a lark. 'I'll give you five hundred dollars for him,' said a horse fancier, in a crowd which surrounded the young farmer and his beast. 'No Sirr,' said John; rubbing away at the hind legs. 'Six hundred 1' said the man. 'No Sirr,' said Mr. Hard, looking up an instant at the bidder. ' Gin'raI Washington don't go for six hundred dollars.'  The horse fancier walked around the animal once, care- fully scanning his good points, through a gold-bowed eye- glass, apparently with much satisfaction, and increased his offer to seven hundred dollars. 'That's a stack o' money, Mister,' said John, rising and sleeking down the long full tail of the animal between   - Tl   1 r I EE  A rn E T  I C ES. 439 his two great red hands, ' but no seven hundred dollars 'll buy this horse, nor no seven thousand neither. Ye couldn't pile up money enough to get him while I live 1' 'No, John,' said Giles, who came forward at this moment with a blanket, and put it on the horse with his own hands, ' don't part with this noble creature, I beg of you! He is worth his weight in gold, were it for nothing else than this day's work!' ' Never fear, Square,' replied the farmer, ' Iwouldn't part with him to be the king of Boston.' ' No Sir,' interposed a seedy gentleman in black, in a high stock without a collar, and with three fingers of his right hand held to his mouth to conceal a dental loss that, made him lisp a little. ' No, Sir! oceans o' money should not induce you to part with that invaluable animal! but, my good man, if you should conclude to dispose of him (he whispered confidentially), I should be happy to sell him at my auction-mart, il Ann-street, opposite the Yeo- man's, without any charge for commission.' 'Yes, Mr. Hagoglesfelt,' replied John, with a broad grin, that exhibited almost as large a set of teeth as the colt's , ' when I put this!torse under the hammer, I'd as lives you'd knock him in thehead as anybody else! Now I'm all sot, Gin'ral Washington and I'll take up the line o' march. Good bye, Square Godwin!' and he shook the old man's hand. ' ' I suppose,' said Giles, in a lower tone, ' that the train Edwin and Susan are on is blocked in- the snow, but where?' ; We made out with only the engine and snow-plough to break a way along as far as Westhoro', between ten   "O       EASY NAT; OR, and eleven, and the regular train couldn't have been far behind/ replied John. 'If you'll take a, fool's advice, Square, instead of going home you'll go right straight down to the Worcester depot, and you may meet 'em there.' ' That is true,' said Giles thoughtfully. 'They'll jist nayterly be glad to see all of ye,' said John, significantly, and involuntarily exhibiting his large broad white teeth again. 'I'll take your advice, my dear young friend,' said Giles; 'but you'll be sure to come and dine with us, at -say two o'clock.' 'Well, that's about my hyson time, Square, but hows'- ever, living in that monsus city, New York, got me used to all kinds o' hours, and so I'll come, but I'm an awful eater, Square! A boarding-house woman in NTew York told me once, I ate at a single meal enough to victual a seventy-four.' Giles laughed with the rest, and reminding him once more of the hour, hurried away to join Nat and his sister. The three friends then bade adieu to both jail and jailer, and passed out via the office on Leveret-street, through an immense crowd of people who had been waiting there for a chance to' get a look at Nathan as he came out. They cheered again enthusiastically, as with his father-in- law and sister, Nat entered the carriage which stood there, and the vehicle rattled rapidly over the pavements. Those were gratifying sounds in the ears of the chief actor in that day's drama, those cheers ; for they indicated that his fellow-citizens no longer regarded him with hatred and contempt, but with the sympathy and love which he valued'   THE THRE     R APPRENTICES.   , 441 more than life itself. A portion of the crowd more active, or curious, or zealous than the rest, kept pace with the carriage through Leveret, Green and Chambers-streets, as far as the west side of Beacon Hill. Meanwhile, John Hard, still in his shirt-sleeves, though it was a December day, was leading ' Gin'ral Washington' by the bridle, through Merrimac and Pitts-streets to Fullalm's stable-a multitude of admiring people attend- ing him and cheering him like a hero., Somebody had lent him a cap, and numerous had been the offers of some enthusiastic souls, chiefly of the laboring class, to divest themselves of their over-coats for his benefit, but he de- clined them all 'on the score' that his ride had made him kind o' warm and he wanted to cool off. CHAPTER XLIX. Arrival of Edwin and Kate-Braxton's last Hour-A Joyful Sab- bath-Edwin returns to New York--Meets with a Declaration of Love in Upper Tendom-The, Proud Beauty humbled-Jenny's Prospects improving--Harry Price does a sensible thing. NATHAN and his friends did not have long to wait at the depot before the New York train came laboring in, with two engines, both puffing and blowing, like two over- worked giants, ' all tuckered out.' The first to spring from it as it entered the building, was Kate Mudge, followed by Edwin Fairbanks. Her bright black eyes espied her aged father and Susan, in an 19  '   "2       EASY NAT; OR, instant, and she ran and kissed them; then leaving Susan to the tender care of Edwin, she implored Giles to tell her about her husband.    .         / 'You look happy, my father, and therefore I know he is safe,; but where? Where is my dear husband-my poor Nat? Where is he? Is he here?' she cried, in great excitement. It had been arranged by Giles, and Susan, that to give Kate a delightful surprise, and prevent 'a sceae' before a host of passengers'and hackmen in the depot, she should not see her husband until she entered their carriage, where he was to remain until she should be conducted thither; but Nat could not endure this delay, and when he heard his beloved Kate's rich, mellifluous voice calling for him in the fondest accents of love, unable to keep in the back- ground another moment, he repeated her name in the same tender tone, and advanced to meet her. 'My husband' I' she shrieked, attracting all eyes, and, wild with the sudden joy, sprang into his open arms, and hugging him convulsively to her fiercely beating heart, covered his face with her kisses. What cared she for the etiquette of the place, or the gaping crowd? She saw no one, thought of no one, save her long-imprisoned husband, now restored to her, unstained and unhurt, from the very jaws of an odious death. And how Nat's ardent nature thrilled with unspeakable delight at this evidence of her unfaltering affection I He could afford to let the people stare. The aggregate of all the happiness of all the 'hearts in that bustling crowd was not equal to one tithe of his. And now the modest Susan, blushing to the eyes, for she cannot avoid mentally putting herself and her dear   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         443' Edwin in the same relative position as that so affection- ately illustrated by her brother and his wife, hurries them "'with a fie, fie! into the coach. There are fivp of them, and only four seats, but Kate pulls Nat into her lap, and thus prevents any trouble on that score. The incidents of the two days, the one in New York, fatal to Braxton, and the other in Boston, resulting so happily for Nathan, were rapidly glanced over during the ride home; and the smiling- countenances became serious and thoughtful again. Tom Braxton would have made his escape from the Tombs the night before the day fixed for his execution, but his design was defeated by that which had been his curse through the whole of his abandoned career-his propensity for intoxication. He had drank to excess from the bottle of spirits left with Ihim by the attendant, and it totally unfitted him to effect the meditated flight. He was found at- daylight, on the morning of the execu- tion, only partially concealed in the hole which he had made in the stone floor under his bed, and it was a matter for surprise, that the foul air had not suffocated him. But he was to die upon the gallows. He was attended in his last hours by the priest to whom we have before alluded, and it was, perhaps, by his threat, that he would withhold cxtrlem unction and make hell his portion, unless he publicly confessed to the crime which Nathan Mudge had been condemned to expiate-with his life, that led Tom to tell the whole truth, and ' make a clean breast of it;' and to this interposition (instigated by the Bishop), that Nat may have owed his life. Edwin Fairbanks always attri- buted it to the influence of'Judge Bogardus with the prelate.   "4       EASY NAT; OR, Braxton's hardihood deserted him at the foot of the gallows, and he ascended it with faltering steps.- Upon . the scaffold, he repeated the confession made two or three hours before in writing, acquitting Nathan, and denounced the use of ardent spirits as,the cause of his crimes and their miserable result. After his execution, his body was delivered over to the surgeons for anatomical purposes. When Giles and the friends arrived at home, they found John Hard already there, and deeply interesting the two fat sisters Godwin, in his account of himself Ala young Norval. Of course, the parties were very happy at meet- ing each other, and very much engrossed (over the boun- tiful dinner served by the smiling Rose, and done ample justice to by our agricultural friend), in descanting upon 'all their trials past and perils o'er. The next day was the Sabbath, and was it not a glo- rious one for Giles Godwin's household! It was hallowed by prayer and thanksgiving, and songs of praise to the God of their deliverance. And then there was the silent melody of grateful hearts, pulsating incessantly with joy, inaudible to human ear, but heard in heaven. That is the kind of music which the angels love far better than Artistic harmony of salaried choirs, in grand cathedrals. John Hard-ambling ' Gin'ral Washington' very gently all the way-went home to pass the Sabbath, and see the folks, whom he longed for as the hart panteth for the water-brooks. What a meeting was that! All were Eso glad to see him; even to the hired men, whom he made work so faithfully when he was about the place. The big dog, Jack, was tickled enough, as a matter of course (all dogs are, on such occasions), to wriggle himself clean out of his black shaggy hide. Then when he (not Jack, but   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        445 John) had made a light breakfast off of six pounds of beef- steak of his mother's own frying, and punished a platter of apple-sauce and half ao squash pie, besides ' the trim- mins,' what a narrative he had to spin! And such a group of open ears and mouths, and eyes like saucers, as he had for an audience during the next two hours, and ever and anon throughout the day, and for many a long evening, all winterl He was brim-full of information, and, Yankee-like, did not care to hide his light under a bushel, The next week after Nat's narrow escape, Edwin Fair- banks returned to New York, at the request of Kate, to rescue Biddy from the certain ruin which threatened her soul and body both; and (at the desire of John Hard) to find little Scratch Gravel, with the new phase in whose, history our agriculturalfriend had become acquainted since his return to Boston. As a matter of course, he called at the house of Judge Bogardus. The old gentleman was absent with his daugh- ter Jane, to see what two or three days in Philadelphia would do for her health, but Helen received him with open arms, and insisted so strenuously that he should make their house his home, during his brief stay in the city, that he complied with her wish. ' Oh! you cannot conceive, Mr. Fairbanks, what pleasure your consent gives me!' cried Helen joyfully, but blushing to the temples, as, still holding his hand, she conducted him into the parlor. ' I am so lonely here, now that papa and Jenny are away!' ' Mr. Price calls occasionally, I presume?' said Edwin, with some archness.   ... AST       NART; OR, 'Oh no, I am tired to death of Harry, and am neve:rat home to' him,' replied Helen, contemptuously. ' He is so boyish! Besides, he ought to return Jenny's love.' 'I suspected that your sister liked him,' said, Edwin, smiling. ' Oh, she is head over ears in love with him, poor thingl-' rejoined Helen, with a deep sigh, 'and I know how to pity her; foolish as she is.' She cast a tender glance at her visitor, as she spoke, but his eyes were fixed upon the painting by Velas- quez. 'Mr. Van Wart-what has he done in regard to the boy, who made so singular a claim upon him?' inquired Edwin.                    iu' ' He has clad him nicely, but keeps him close in his house-a prisoner, though well treated-for the purpose, he alleges, of ferretting out the "conspiracy" of wlicl the boy is only a tool; but it is my own conviction, that the poor child told the exact truth.' 'My dear Miss Bogardus,' cried Edwin, with a warmth that delighted, Helen, for she thought there was-the emphasis of affection in his tone, ' you are right! I think [ have sufficient evidence, that your estimate of little gcratch's simple story is correct? He then informed her f what, in relation to Master Gravel's early history, Mrs. Fudge had become acquainted with in Judy's cellar, and hat the only witness to the facts, the poor Irishwoman, 'as now dead.              , - 'Van Wart ought to, and shall, make some provision r this little rascal, was Helen's conclusion, 'if I have ly influence over him.' f ,                 .   THE  HREE APPRENTICES        44 'And that you have, is very manifest,' rejoined Fair- banks. 'Yes, I believe I can command him in anything,' said: the proud beauty, laughing, 'but you need not fear his influence over me, though he has sent me that new piano, since you were here lastI' 'What a magnificent present!' exclaimed Edwin, whose eyes were admiring the elaborately carved rosewood of the instrument ; 'I think I never saw its equal ; and he went to examine it more closely. ' Externals are nothing,' replied Helen, pointedly, yet glancing complacently at the reflection of her own majestic figure in a full-length mirror between the windows, 'I value only interior beauty ;' and with a look full of signi- ficance at him, she opened the piano, and sat down before it, adding, that ' its tone was excellent.' She ran her fingers artistically over the keys, which were of pearl, inlaid with emeralds. Its finest tones were the robin's-its heaviest had a volume of sound, like roll- ing thunder. ' But you do not ask me to play?' she said, glancing up into his face, half reproachfully., ' Because I like to hear you converse,' he replied, invo- luntarily betrayed into a rare thing with him-a compli- ment. How greedily her heart swallowed it! Had it been lying in wait? 'But,' said she, with a look of gratified vanity, 'you have never heard me play.' 'I should be glad if you would sing and play, both,' he replied, 'if not too much trouble.' 'TroubleI'  she exclaimed, with a reproachful look and   "8       EASY NAT; OR, emphasis; yet- very kindly. ' If you will but turn the leaves,' she added, as she placed before her a few sheets of lately imported opera -music, 'I will play until you cry peccavi  Then she performed the overture to the last opera with brilliant execution. It was superbly, gloriously done, and Edwin Fairbanks could not adequately express his aldmi- ration. His enthusiasm delighted her, for she inferred from it the existence of a reciprocal passion-the thought being, unconsciously, the offspring of the desire. Next, she sang a love song from the same opera, in Italian--' burning, yet tender'-and rendering it con expressione, with all the power of a voice so rich and flexible, that the most eminent prima donna in the world might well envy her its possession; it lapped the sensuous soul in elysium, and thrilled the heart of the hearer with the most intense ecstasy. As bending over her symmetrical form, he turned the leaves of her music, her glowing cheek nearly touched his own; and when she looked into his countenance (as she did almost continually while singing), and saw it beaniing upon her as if he thought her the very embodiment of delicious sound, and her warm breath saluted his lips as the zephyr does the rosebud which it woos to open; Edwin (shall we confess it? It was too bad, gentle reader, buit it is our duty to be candid with you,) thought that he detected the flavor, or aroma, rather, of her father's rare old winel The truth was, that some old familiar friends of her- own sex had made a call about noon, and she had treated them to a sandwich and a glass of 'the 1770.'    TH  E T  HRiE APPRENTIC S.    449 The spell was broken, and Edwin was enabled to tear himself away from the siren, wh o had held him for some m  inutes, lost to M I self-consciousness by the power of her fascination!ate husbands, and O   I ye young ladies, seeking temperate husbands, and yet lov  ing a little wine occasionally yourselves, be warned by the unhappy  lelen's example-and always eat a sugared cubeb, or two, after drinking! Mr. Fairbanks suddenly remembered certain business, which he ought to transact that day. Oh no,' replied Helen, turning upon her seat, towards him, and placing a finger upon his watch-guard, while she looked deprecatingly into his face,' I am entirely alone, with no one but the servants, and the house is as gloomy as the Castle of Otranto! With yo here, it will be all sunshinel It is bleak and cold out of doors. I'faith,' she continued. imploringly, 'you must not leave me, upon any pretence, until papa's returnl I have a great mind to make you promise me that!' 'Really,' he replied laughing, as she led him to a sofa, and took a seat by his side, 'I cannot make a contract of that kind.' f  hy should she have thought that there was more sig- nificance in his speech than he intended? Yet she caught at it eagerly. atIou ca ot sake a coitract of that kind?a she said, slowly repeating his words, and looking inquiringly into I - lhis large deep eyes ; then, with her magnificent face beam- ing with love and encouragement, she added, 'Will you propose aiy other kind, Edwin?' ' Miss Bogardus!' replied Edwin, coloring and confused,   450       EASY NAT,OR, because taken entirely by surprise, 'I 'and here he ,  hesitated, and felt more embarrassed than ever before, or since.  Attributing his hesitancy to bashfulness, and even fear, Helen, accustomed to the adoration of her suitors, and their avowals of affection, came promptly to what she imagined would be his relief. 'Dear Edwin,' said she, smiling archly, yet blushing as she laid her hand within his own, 'let me help you out! Heretofore I have let my lovers do all the talking ; now, surely, I may be allowed for once to speak for myself! I  will be candid with you. I believe you love me, Edwin!' 'My dear Miss Bogardusf' said Mr. Fairbanks, but his tongue was petrified and he could say no more. ' Call me Helen I' she replied. ' I know why you hesi- tate; you know that I am  rich, of a noble ancestry, and the idol of a crowd of suitors, the poorest of whom is far more wealthy in worldly goods than you are ; but O! Edwin, how far more affluent are you in all that makes a man truly great I1 As she gave utterance to the last words, she laid her beautiful hand and arm upon his shoulder, and gazed admiringly into his astonished face. How should he reject her proffered love without wound- ing her pride?  There was a  momentary temptation :to say, for her sake, that he reciprocated her passion, but lie instantly repelled, it as a falsehood, and resolved to speak the truth plainly. 'Miss Bogardus,' said he, removing her arm and ris- ing, but still holding her hand, 'I sincerely regret, and shall never forgive myself, if my admiration for your sur- passing beauty and accomplishments has led me to use a   THE THREE APPRENTICES.         451 manner and tone towards you, more tender than would be proper in a brother or other friend not eligible to the honor and happiness of this fair hand in marriage I I shall always feel a fraternal affection for you, but H am betrothed to another!' \  Helen'had sat with heaving bosom, and teeth firmly compressed, looking up into his face, as he- uttered these words, which her ears could scarcely credit. She had been crimson through a portion of his reply, but it had lefts her as colorless as yonder parian bust of Hebe. 'Betrothed 'to another 1!' she murmured through her teeth, and with a look of despair; then added, in -a low tone, 'and you love her?' ' As I love my own existence l' he replied. A shudder passed over Helen, and for a moment she covered her pale quivering face with her hands. 'She is rich I presume, and far more accomplished than I am?' 'No,' replied Edwin, with a feeling of commendable pride, 'she is a penniless sempstress, and has for years past' supported herself with her needle; but we have long been attached to each other, and the longer I know her the more confirmed becomes my devotion to her.' 'Then in God's name go to her!' cried Helen ; 'put hundreds of miles between us, and never let me see you more 1' and averting her face from his sight, she shed a shower of tears. He walked silently and sadly, towards the door. 'Edwini' she exclaimed, rising and following him quickly, 'Dear Edwin, forgive myharsh speech. You are not going to leave me without saying, farewell?' and cast-   452       EASY NAT; OR, ing herself in his arms, she rested her forehead upon his shoulder, and wept passionately, for some moments. Here was a nice situation for a young gentleman to be in, with his ' own true love far, far away!' 'May you both be happy!' sobbed Helen. ':[ shall always love you-I hope as a sister,' and she kissed him then heaved a deep sigh, and said 'farewell /' but still held his hand, as if loth to let him go.. Imprinting upon her cheek a kiss so chaste, that Diana herself would not have objected, Edwin, deeply moved, bade her adieu, and, dis- engaging his hand, hastily departed from the house. Upon the .sidewalk, just about to ascend the steps, who should he meet but Harry Price?  After the customary salutation, Henry inquired if Miss Helen  was at home. 'Yes,' replied Edwin, 'but she is ill, and would not I see even you.' 'I am glad I have met you, Mr. Fairbanks, said Harry, taking his arm. 'Come,' he added with the utmost cordiality, 'as we walk along, let me make a con- fidant of you. You have influence with every member of Judge Bogardus's family. Now, I will tell you what I want!   Shall I, my dear sir, make free with you?' ' Decidedly,' replied Edwin, smiling at the young man's frankness, 'if you will reciprocate.' 'It is a  bargain,' exclaimed Harry. 'Well, then, you must know that I  love Helen Bogardus-yes, todistrac- tion!' 'And Jenny?' said Edwin. 'I admire Jenny's gentle ways, and quiet loveliness,' said Harry, 'though she is not handsome. I could like '                  . -    THE THREE APPRENTICES.        453 her as a sister; but Helen I oh, is not Helen perfectly gorgeous,?' 'Yes, but she will never be your wife,' replied Edwin. 'Why not?' said Harry. 'Because she loves another,' was the answer. 'Hdw do you know?' said Harry, a little confounded; 'She told me so, with her own lips,' replied Edwin ' And who then is to be. her husband?' inquired the young merchant. ' Mr. Van Wart,' said Edwin, in the spirit of prophecy. 'And what is to become of me?' exclaimed Harry, somewhat perplexed.- 'You ought to marry Jenny Bogardus,' said Edwin, smiling. 'Why so?' 'Because she will make you an excellent wife--and she loves you,!' 'Wheughl' whistled Mr. Price. 'You don't mean so? You only guess at it.' 'I know it,' rejoined Edwin, firmly. ' And your informant?' inquired Henry, incredulously. 'Was Miss Helen Bogardus.' 'It appears to me, that Helen tells yoiu everything!' rejoined Harry, with the slightest savor in the world of - jealousy. 'Well, Jenny is a nrice girl, that's certain-a mighty nice girl! And now, since you have mentioned it, I do remember that she looked queerly when T confided to her my fancy for her sister, who, by the way, has treated me very shabbily of late.' ' And it is illness from this cause? said Edwin, 'that has now taken Jenny to Philadelphia, for a change of scene.' ^-'    454       EASY NAT; OR, 'You don't say I thought it mighty queer that she should want a change of air, unless a tropical one, in this cold weather,' replied Harry. 'Poor Jennyl Oh, what a fool I've been! How I wish she was back again!' ' What would you do?' said Edwin, smiling. 'Do?' replied Mr. Price, earnestly, 'I would lay myself and fortune at her feet, and beg her forgiveness for my past stupidity. Then I'd make her such a husband, that the haughty Helen should cry her proud eyes out, that she; hadn't married me herself!' ' You are now, then, on the high-road to happiness, sir!' replied Edwin, joyfully,' and I hope you will lose no time in consummating your excellent intention.' ' You may be certain of that!' replied Mr. Price. ' Good by  I will see you on my return.' 'Where are you going now?' inquired Fairbanks. ' To the Philadelphia boat,' said the young shipowner, smiling. ' Excuse me,' said his friend, 'but for what purpose?' 'To brizng back Jenny Bogardus!' replied Harry, as with a blush and a smile, he hurried away. Edwin Fairbanks laughed heartily, and quickening his gait, walked rapidly to the Tombs. ,   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        455 CHAPTER L. The Upper Crust-Intended Marriages in High Life-Scratch Gravel enjoys an Aristocratic Adoption-The Great Fire-Will Saltpetre Explode?-Great doings- in Boston-General Results in particular. THE END. UPON arriving at the prison, Mr. Fairbanks ascertained that little Biddy's testimony against her step-father, for the murder of her mother, would- be taken on the fol- lowing Monday--the morrow being the Sabbath--and she would then be discharged irom custody. His intention of removing the girl to a situation in the country pleased the' Sheriff, and he cheerfully consented that Biddy should be brought into the office to talk with him. The poor creature was overjoyed at the offer when it was made to her, and declared she would await his coming at the court- room on Monday. He called for her accordingly, after the summary conviction of Jock, and conveyed her to the kind-hearted Englishwoman with whom Kate Mudge had boarded upon her first visit to New York. The worthy woman undertook to take care of the child for a few days, and (being put in funds for the purpose by Mr. Fairbanks) to procure proper winter clothing for her. Mr., Fairbanks had. written from Boston, by mail, informing Judge Bogardus of the pardon of his client, and of his intended visit to New York; and, upon the third day after his arrival in the metropolis, he found, at his hotel, a note from the old gentleman, requesting him to call at his chambers in Wall-street. He complied, and was received with much affection, and congratulated upon   456       EASY S-AT$ OR, the deliverance of Nathan Mudge. 'I love you, heaven knows, as if you were my own son, Mr. Fairbanks,' said' the Judge, with much feeling (after, they were seated), 'and did hope to see you united to one of my daughters ; but man proposes, God disposes. They have selected for themselves, sir! Henry Price has declared himself to my beloved Jenny, and she has accepted him. And all done, sir, during our little jaunt to Philadelphia Her health has improved wonderfully.' ' I am rejoiced beyond measure to hear it!' exclaimed Edwin, speaking the honest sentiment of his heart. 'And misfortunes never come single,' said the fine old gentleman, with a hearty laugh-' I was in hopes, and, indeed, had a glimmering notion, that my eldest daughter, Helen, would prefer you, should you think proper to offer yourself, but-hal ha! (.and he gave utterance to a rich laugh) she would- not wait for you, sir; but has to-day accepted the proffered hand and fortune of my friend Peter Van Wart, Esquire. Poor fellow! he had been in a bad way of late, on account of her pretended aversion to him, and she all the while-the sly minx H-loving him famously, and only playing shy to make him settle half his fortune upon her, in her own right, before the knot shall have been tied. Ha! ha! ha! My dear boy, these women are shrewd creatures after all! She will have three hundred thousand dollars to her own name. Not bad, sir? But this is in confidence. I know I can trust youl' 'Implicitly, sir ' replied Edwin, again heartily rejoiced, and intensely entertained with the philosophical turn which Helen had given to her affairs, 'and I am as glad as I   ) THE THREE APPRENTICES.        457 could possibly be, if these beautiful and accomplished young ladies were my own sisters.' ' That's hearty!' cried the Judge, with a beaming coun- tenance, and shaking him warmly by the hand. 'But I sent for you, upon a little matter of business connected with one of these very satisfactory alliances. Peter Van Wart is a liberal man, sir, and he is willing to make some provision for the education and support.,of that little news- boy who, you may remember, made so extraordinary a claim upon him, in my house, in your presence, a short time since.' ' I remember the circumstance,' said Edwin, smiling, for Judge Bogardus was rubbing the fore finger of his right hand with the most unfathomable gravity, slowly up and down the side of his Washington nose, and elevating his rather bushy eyebrows, in a manner slightly comical. 'Well, sir,' continued the Judge, 'as the boy has no one to take eare of him, and evidently labors under a very strong impression that Mr. -Van Wart ought to, that gentleman has in the most philanthropic manner pos- sible-you understand me, sir? (and there was a little more chafing of the nose)-consented to pay for his board, clothes, and schooling in the country, until such time as he shall be old enough to go to sea, and get washed overboard, with no danger, ahem! of being cast ashore on the beach at Coney Island,- again. But he wants him taken to such a distance from New York, that he won't be likely to spend the holidays here. Now, it occurred to me, that if you would take him along with you to Massachusetts' -- ' It is precisely what I desire to do,' cried Edwin, for 20   458.       EASY NAT; OR, the Judge had hesitated in finishing his sentence. (I feel a desire to rescue this little fellow from his wretched manner of life, and I have a friend-John Hard-an excellent farmer in Middlesex county, who would like to make something of him.' 'Capital-capital-capital!' exclaimed Judge Bogar- dus, and rubbing his knees with great vivacity in the ex- uberance of his satisfaction. 'Then come to my house to- morrow, at three, my dear sir, and we will arrange the. details. You will miss Helen, unfortunately, for under the escort of Van Wart (the lucky dog-he has outlived, all his youthful indiscretions I) she leaves to-morrow morn- ing for Washington city, to shake hands with that perso. nification of obstinate self-will, President Jackson, and hear some of the great speech-makers, of whose quality you gave us such a glorious relish the other day; but Jenny and I (and perhaps our good friend, the jolly Ba- ronet, Sir John Barrow), will do our best to entertain you.' So they parted, and on the following day met again, in the Judge's parlor.  In spite of himself, ldwin felt a shade of regret at the recollection of a scene which his host and his youngest daughter little thought had occurred there so recently. In blissful ignorance of the circumstan- ces, Judge Bogardus and Jenny (the latter so happy in the affectionate attentions of the now devoted Harry!) were in the best possible spirits. Sir John Barrow was not there, at which little Scratch Gravel-now nicely clothed-expressed some   sorrow, for he wanted very much to see ' a real live Baronit. Scratch was delighted with the idea of accompanying 'Mr. Fair-   THE. THREE APPRiENTICES.       459 banks to Massachusetts (especially as little Biddy was going too), for he had become as sick as death of the grand house and cold looks of Peter Van Wart. Suffice it to say that the two children of the Five Points were taken to Boston, where, after a day's enjoyment of the hospitality of Giles Godwin's happy family, they were received by our worthy friend, Mr. Hard, with many rather formidable smiles of encouragement (after he had eaten a hearty breakfast with Edwin, Susan, Nathan,: Kate, 'and   all hands,') and conveyed in a wagon, drawn by that veritable ' colt,' to his father's farm-house. A few days afterwards, they were placed at school, and a month had not elapsed before they had made very percep- tible progress. It took a longer time to wean them from their rude, and oftentimes indecent language and manners, in which the poor childrep had been nurtured, but by dint of a good Sunday-school, and watching them closely at home, and promptly checking these evil demonstrations, the indefatigable Mrs. Hard, and her noble boy, at length eradicated the noxious weeds ' growin' rank as everlastin', (John said) instead of wholesome kitchen stuffs, in their moral vegetable gardens-their minds.' In the meantime a great calamity occurred to Sci'atch's reputed father. While Helen Bogardus and her affianced husband were in Washington city, during their brief absence, there occurred in New York one of the most memorable confla- grations in the history of this country. Full one-fourth part of the entire business section of the city, estimated at twenty millions of dollars, was consumed by the devouring element, and many insurance companies lost their entire ' capitals. It fell heavily upon individuals, also, and Peter i   "O       EA SY  NATT; OR, Van Wart lost half of his immense fortune. This was the fire, by the way, which gave rise to the much-mooted, but still unsolved problem, "Will saltpetre explode? - For a few-'weeks it was believed that he was totally ruined, and Miss Bogardus, his betrothed, was considered as absolved from the engagement, but the pecuniary loss had not fallen upon her heart with a hundredth part of the force of the shock which it had received prior to her con- tract with Peter Van. Warrt; and proudly spurning the suggestion of calculating advisers to abandon him in his misfortunes, she hastened the preparations for the wed- ding, and married him while he was yet regarded as insol- vent. The ceremony occurred in the Episcopal Church ; and at the same time and place, Jenny Bogardus was made the happy wife of Henry Price, Esq. The latter couple took up  their residence with Judge- Bogardus. Helen, hungry for excitement, induced her husband to take her to Paris and the Continent, where they passed a year in gayety, and returned to find that the property remaining to them exceeded three hundred thousand dol- lars. Resolving to be as happy as was possible under the circumstances, they returned to Paris shortly afterwards, and made it their place of permanent residence. Judge Bogardus died of the gout about eight years since, leav- ing ten thousand dollars in cash, besides a tract of land in New York State, as a  gift to Edwin Fairbanks. and the bulk of his property to Mr. Price and Jendy, who have since removed to Bond st., and rejoice in an increased family. Within a month after the deliverance of ' Easy Nat,' from the doom which had threatened him, his sister Susan was led to the hymeneal altar by Edwin Fairbanks; and i    '                I   THE THREE 'APPRENTICES.        461 John Hard performed some of the very tallest kind of ,double shuffles at their wedding, besides doing ample exe- cution upon the substantial collation. Giles Godwin and his twin sisters, and the parents of the bridegroom, together with the entire family of Hards, besides the soft-spoken auctioneer-the amiable Haggles- felt-and some other friends and acquaintances, were pre- sent enjoying the happy occasion. Nathan and Kate, sit- ting side by side, with her hand in his, were quiet, yet not indifferent observers of this scene; and though she saw his eyes sometimes bedewed with a tear, his wife well knew that it sprang from an emotion of gratitude, because God had permitted him to live to witness his sister's happi- ness/ Never had Susan looked so lovely as now, with her tall, graceful form clad all in white, but with a heightened color in her cheeks, she stood by the side of her noble looking husband (who was so proud of her I) and receiv- ed the greetings of her friends. It was the calm beauty shiAing from the pure heart of a high-:souled Christian : maiden. 'She looks good,' was John Hard's appropriate remark to the joyful Giles, Godwin, who, clad in the style  which had prevailed a quarter of a century before, and his white hair extending to his round shoulders, had put on his spectacles to take a fair look at the bride and bride- groom. 'She comes up nearer, Square, than any live woman I know of, to my idea of Martha in the Scriptur'. Goodness shines from her jist as nat'ral as daylight.' There were some in the kitchen, too, that were having a high old time-Scratch Gravel and Biddy among the rest. Thus the wedding of Edwin and Susan passed off   "2       EASY NAT; OR7, happily for all parties, and many months and years of bliss succeeded. Soon after, or early in the spring, John Hard took pos- session of a large farm (which he had selected, and Giles Godwin had purchased for Kate and her husband) in the interior of the State, and took little Scratch and Biddy with him. A good-sized two-story wooden house, with a double piazza all around it, was already upon the place. Another was built for Kate by her father ; and Nathan Mudge and John Hard have worked the farm ' on halves' from that day to this. All these co-partnerships have proved as fruitful as the best of farmers could desire. There are ten children on 'the place.' Six boys, with cowlicks, evidently belong to John Hard, and for his credit we may say that all these lads are by what their father denominated a real true blue up-the-stump right down clever Yankee gal, to whom he was united in happy wedlock about fifteen years since. The other four are all bright-eyed beautiful girls, and Nat Mudge, their father, says he is glad of it, for boys are so liable to be tempted and led astray. Kate, their mother, is sobered down into a staid middle-aged matron, but is as entirely happy as it ever is the human lot to be. Nathan has become a scientific farmer of some note- John Hard a practical one, and an influential member of the Legislaturel His parents are dead, but his brothers still reside in Middlesex. Giles Godwin lived many years to witness his children's happiness.  He survived both his twin sisters, and at his decease, full of years and honors, he was buried by their   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        463 side, in Mount Auburn. Edwin Fairbanks, Esq., 'the eminent lawyer,' removed to a thriving city in the- interior of New York State, where he has since become a judge of the Superior Court. Political honors have been urged upon him, but he resolutely turns a deaf ear to any temp- tation that would call him away from Mrs. Fairbanks and the education of his children, to whom, by the way, Mrs. Van Wart has sent many presents from Paris. His mother, a very aged lady, resides with them-his father having departed this life. Biddy, grown into useful womanhood, married Mr. Mudge's foreman two years ago, and lives with him on the place. Scratch Gravel, having been permitted by John to take his surname, was known on the farm and in the neighbor- hood as Scratch Hard, but all his hard scratching not seeming likely to make a good farmer of him, his friends kept him at school-requiring of him no other service than a little attention to the horses, of which he was very- fond. About the time that Scratch was done with his rudi- mentary schooling, in which he had accomplished wonders, his natural father, Peter Van Wart, Esq., died in Paris, and, it being his last request to his wife that the boy should receive an education for the ministry, if agreeable to him, and assume his family name (as a tardy act of justice to his poor mother) Master Gravel was sent at the age of sixteen to Amherst College-which was within  two hours' ride of the farm. Here, by the grace of God, he became a Christian, and was baptized.  At the font he received the name of JohnH. Van Wart. In the course   "4   --   EASY NAT; OR, of time, he became a clergyman, and -now labors as a home missionary, with great success, among the com- panions of his infancy. ' Gin'ral Washington,' the priceless animal whom John Hard still mentions occasionally as The Colt, though he is about thirty years old, has ' won golden opinions from- all sorts of people,' by his amiable manners and exemplary life, and he enjoys, too, a reputation far and wide, for being the fastest old horse, in an emergency, that ever wore hoofs. Both Nathan and John have had almost annual occasions to send him in haste for the good old doctor, three miles distant, for the benefit of the rising generation, and it was a perfect wonder to see how he would get over the ground. On the night prior to the advent of Mrs. Hard's baby (the latest up to this date), Lafayette de Kalb--named like the other, in honor of the chieftains of the American Revolution (the naval heroes of the last war with Elngland remaining to be commemo- rated), the noble quadruped was observed to have made better time to the doctor's, and back, than on any of the previous years, and his affection for that baby, thus early developed, has become really curious to see. He permits Lafayette de Kalb to play about his heels with the most perfect impunity, and to tottle over him at pleasure when he has lain down upon the lawn in front of John's farm- house to roll. It was only last summer that little Laffy, as they call him ' for short,' as John says, fell face foremost into a pretty big puddle of muddy water, in which he had been irrigating his infantine feet; whereupon the old horse took the back waist of the child's frock between his teeth and lifting him up in this way--the baby meanwhile kick-   THE THREE APPRENTICES.        465 ing and roaring lustily at this novel mode of conveyance-- went very deliberately and deposited him carefully on the floor of the kitchen stoop, to the infinite delight of the coal black Rose, who clapped her hands and laughed until the tears rolled down her fat cheeks, at so droll a spec- tacle. Of course no money would purchase that animal, no quantity of grass, hay, oats and cut-feed is too many for him, and no .treatment too good. Nat and his family, and sometimes John, exchange ' visitations' (as Mr. Hard calls them) with Judge Fair- banks and Susan his wife, and then the4 old times are talked over as an appropriate foil to set off in bolder relief the happiness with which they are now blest; and they thank God, that 'their lines have fallen to them in pleasant places.' THE END     
         
       
   
