
    ----CITATION----
        Swan, Charles Red. Minny Lawson, or, The Outlaws League .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7969
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Minny Lawson, or, The outlaws league 
            
               ]~LINNY LAW SN
V
OR,
THE OUTLAWSLK&amp;GUE~

&amp;

A ROMANCE OF GOTILAM.

NEW-YORK:

GARI~ETT &amp; CO., 18 ANNfiTREET.
~
A

K

)

-t

V


THE NEW YORK
PU~Ic LIBRARY
t3334
A8TOI~, LE~j~ A~W
Tfl.~Lzrq ~A~LQi~8
I

time to point out the locality of the re
maykable and mysterious building.
W~ sa~ "m~pt~rio'cs building"-aud we
s~y it truly-for many have been the
changes which, have come over its anti-
quated walls-many have been its occu-
pants-many the legends of revelry, de-
bauchery and crime, which might be
narrated as connected with its 'former
uses and history.
At the time a~ which we date the com-
mencement of our story, the house stood
alone in a garden, so thickly planted
with tre~s that it could scarcely be dis-
cerned from the 'old Albany road, which
passed within ft few yards of the spot.
Here anil there, in the neighborhood,
were' a number of Dutch and Kriicker-
bucker farm houses, with the cottages of
the humbler gardener, and others who
preferred to reside in the environs instead
of the growing and crowded city. All
of these tenement~however, were at such
a distance from the old mansion, to render
it almost entirely free from intrusiga by
any of the simple-minded people located
in the approximate neighborhood.
After the death of the original Knick-
erbocker owner, the house was occupied
for a time by a notorious individual, who

CHAPTER 1.
THE I~iYSTE~UOU5 RB~NDEZVOU5.
Is that part of New York formerly
called "Green vich Village"-a distinctAon
now utterly lost in the extraordinary
growth of the city during the past twenty
years-th~re still stands a large old man-
sion hoi~se that was the residence of a
respectabl6 and xv ~rdthy Knickerbocker
merchant of the eLlen time. It is now in
a greatly diLip~d3.ted condition, and so
*     safl'~red to reaiain in con~oquence of a
snit at law among the heirs, which has
'~been pending in chancery for the hst
fiftyyears, without any apparent prospect
of speedy s~tt!eev.tot of the qnarrel be-
tween the respective litigants at the pres-
ent day. The red estate, however, is
very vahiab~o. A million of dollars,
probably, weuld net be sufficient to pur-
chase the fee, supposing that the obsti-
nate contestants could be brought to
K~econcile their difficulties, and surrender
tl~eir titles arid claims thereto. The
mansion is nov surrounded on all sides
by handsome streets, built up wsih stately
dwellings, sh ps arid factories, in the ex-
pansion of the city into the whilom
suburbs, so that scarcely any even of our
older inhabitants are able at the present

MINNY LA S9N~

t


4                    M1NNY LAWSON, OR
I
here hv~d in a most sumptuous manner- of the trees-was ot~served occasionally
revelling in all the vicesipeculiar to his to have its widows opened, as if to admit
nature-at once an unprincipled libertine the fre~h morning air; being immediately
and dehauchee, if his biography has been afterwards closed by some invisible hand
really faithfully handed down to posterity, or agency unknown. Not a soul, for a
After his retirement from its occupancy, long while, had been seen in the old
it remained a long Lime untenanted-a dwelling, or about its enclosures. Event-
superstition having arisen that it had be- nally, however, suspicious looking char~
come haunted by a ghost, ira consequence actors were seen to drive up to the neigh-
of the murder of a young and beautiful boyhood in carriages, about the midnight
girl, 'who was found with her throat cut, hour, alight and enter the garden through
and the bead nearly severed fwm the a small gate, in the rear of, the house.
body., in an old well on the premises, qiose The bll~ds of the carriages were always
by the public road side. This iUea of a down, and the parties, male and female,
ghost, was furmh~r strengthened by the were so closely tnutfled, and so quickly
mystery which surrounded the character and mysteriously disappeared through the
and history of an individual who was ~e- 'hole in the wall," as the vehicles rolled,
quently seen, both dating the day and back to the city, that it seemed impossible
night, walkil]g around the outside enclos- to identify any of their forms and fea-
ure, always Stopping in his perambuIatio,.~ hires.
at the front gate, and looking intently On one occasion, however, on a very
toward the portico of the mansion, as pci- dark and rainy night, an un usual number
usher him to the presence and hospitahi- Ci visitors rolled up to the place; all of
ceived in the vista of the graveled walk, whom, as before, quietly and stealthily
who should as it expecting to see some stole into the garden, and entered the
familiar face, ties of the occupants. mysterious rendezvous. Anon, there was
This man, however, was finally arrested, heard the sound of music and revelry, a~
a~4 it being thea ascertained that he was of a ball or masquerade, aithougl~ not a'
a confirmed lunade, he was placed under solitary light flickered, oi~ a solitary f~rna
suitable restraint, and some years alter- was seen from the exterior Of the build-
werds died in ,tbe Asylum for the insane, lug. Indeed, had it not heerm for uine sup-
Time mystery of the girl's murder, how- pressed sound of wassail and merriment
ever, was finally explained, and it was withiij, no churchyard coud have been~
found that the ~ingular cond uct of the more gloomy, than the scene without, at
lunatic had a very intimate connection that witching hour of night.
with the tragic affair-all of Winch won- Jo one of the brilliantly lighted halls~
derful and remarkable deta~il~ will be pre- a large party of men and women, in a
rented in due order,6f our present yenta- costume that might have b2fitted the Red
ble Narrative oj Lifeih New York. Furies, and, the sans culottes of France4
When the excitement in regard to these in the jiays of the last Louis, were en-
8trange Qocurrences had entirely subsided, gaged in a series of dancing and orgies,
or, indeed, become almost forgotten~-..the worthy of' Pandemonium teeht~ In ano-
house, though appearing as if stdl unoc- ther apartment, moat sumptuously fur-;
copied-all gloomy and awe-inspiring as nished, a grand feast was spread, resplen-
V'va~, imbedded among the dark foliage dant with plate, and brilliant from the~
g

I

THE .OUTLAW

umber of wax candles that threw their
efulgeuce around. Here another com-
any of ~hotit fifty persons, men and
women, tasted of the rich viands, quaffed
the sparkling campaigned, and talked
animatedly (if various affairs connected
with the object of the assemblage, inclu-
ding the topics of lust, robbery and mur-
der.
Adjoining this room was a smaller pne
in which were placed a number of card
tables, nearly all of which were occupied
by groups of men intently engaged at
gambling with cards. One of these
groups was composed of three individu-
als, of whose personal appearance and
other characteristics we will attempt to
give a faint description. The first, or
eldest apparently of the trio, we shall call
Dubois. He wa~ full fifty years of age
-of rather prepossessing appearance at
the first hluah of an introduction, but
whom few would select as a subsequent
companion or associate. His eyes were
small and resless; there was a curl of
his upper lip which seemed to imply scorn
or contempt cf his fellow man, while ~the
expression of his countenance was sinis-
ter-nay, quite repulsive, overshadowed
as it was by large brows, the hair of which
protruded out straight fully an inch from
his forehead. Like the hair of his head'
the brows were of a dark iron grey, al-
though his i'hiskers and moustaches were
as dark as the color of the raven's wing.
His nose was very long and bent, resem-
bling very much the beak of a bird of
preys lie was quite stout and burly, and
was now dressed in the extreme of fash-
ion, displaying considerable~ jewelry about
his person, such as a gold watch, a dia-
mend pin in his ruffled shirt, and nume-
rous rings en his angers. He woull at
thepresent day, be la~en for a sea-faring
man--the captain of ~in East India trader,

'S' LEAGUE.                        6
or rather perhaps a freebooter oi~ bucca-
neer. I~one however could have gu ssed
of what country he was a native-whether
of France, Spain or Germany. He spoke
fluently in Euglish, but seemed to prefer
French; in which language his tongue ran
with sufficient volubility, while there was
no lack of that peculiar twang, gesticula-
tion, shrug of the shoulder, and what
not, which are some of the charac~eristjcs
of the volatile people of France.
The next individual was probably thirty
years of age, of somewhat spare figure,
and rather under med~im height. His
features were icaular and nearly in strict
accordance with classic models. His eye'
was keenly dark and flashing, yet his
manner was graceful and easy, which
seemed to contradict tie impetuosity of
character usually denoted by that deserip-
lion of the soul's light houses. His hair,
whiskers arid moustache, a1so were very
black. His dress. though of rich fabije,
was quite plain and unostentatious. He
was called Trevalyan.
The last of, the group was quite a young
man, whose age s4med to be of that in-
definite character, ranging from twenty to
~wenty-threc---not exactly a youth, 'yet
scarcely a full developed man. He was
handsome, gaily dressed, and possessed
that brusque manner quite common among
persons early in life thrown upon their
own resources foa an establishment in so-
ciety. There was an air of confidence
about him, bordering qa the impudent~
hut such as~ rather pleased th~n offended
those with whom he associated or came
in promiscuells contact. He was' frank
and sociable, but with a judgment so cool
and steady, that none but a practice ob-
server of human nature could have really
(livifled the true traits of his character
and dsposition. There was, nevertheless
always a certain species of frivolity ia!hi~


6                MINNY LAWSON, OR

manner and conversation-as if he de- lost. The diamond, u flich was larg
sired to make a display and earnthL char- and of the purest water, was examine
aeter of a-reckless spend~hiift among his casually by Trevalyan, who immediate!
compeers. His purse was ample, and handed Dubois a large sum of money be
while it held out, the company in which retained in hi~ possession the diamond
he commingled shared freely of his choice as well as all the other pieces of btjouie.
w;nes, and every delicacy of t~he epicu- ne which he had won.
rean palate. He'was called ~iitz Clar- Again Dubois lost; but fortune haf
eace.                                now returned again to Fitz Clarence, and
These three men had hung about the he swept the table clear of the money
gaming tables, watching the games of staked to his side. This movement
their company. Becoming excited in the caused Dubois to spring to his feet, and
pastime, Fitz Clarence at length chal- mutter something about ccl usion between
~lenged Duhois and Trevalyan to a game the winner to rob him--'-drawing as he
with him. Dubois promptly seconded the spoke, a poignard with the intention of
proposition, but -..Trevalyan at once de- doing bodily injury to Trevalyan, as it
clined-...but being again pressed by the seemed in order to take revenge on him
younger of the three, they set them down for his ill luck or else to repossess his
to a vacant table, and soon were absorbed jewelry. At the same time also, he
in play. The young Fitz Clarence was reached forth the other hand as if to
decidedly in luck, while Trevalyan came grrsp the treasure which lay lightly under
in for a moderate share (C the winnings, the flu gers of Fitz Clarence.
The game became exciting, and the Tue quick eye of Fitz Clarence corn-
stakes were large~ Dubois coi-etinued to prehended inst~nrly what wa the purpose
lose in nearly every instance, yet he con- of the old gambler. He promptly drew
tinued to pla; coolly and in silence. At forth and fired a pistol, the contents of
length lie declared himself impoverished which passed into Dubos' breast and
of ready funds, but at the same time he lodged in the cavity of Lie stomach, ~s
drew from his finger a jewel of singular was afterwards ascertained. The wound-
forip, ~nd offered to stake it for half its edar~ fell tothe floor, as his life-blood
value. The play continued, and dw ban- flowed in streams around. At the si~me
ble fell into the possession of Trevalyan. moment Fitz Clarence ~as also seen to
*   Other trinkets were produced, and these, reel and fall to the ground.  He had
with the mozicy of Fita Clarence, also received the blade of the veteran despe-
were consecutively won by Trevalyan. rado in his sloe, about the region of his
The sight of the jewels before him caused heart.
Trevalyan to be seized with sudden sur- The gamblers and others a ho were in
prise and e~notion~but quickly dissem- the supper room, rushed forward to ascer-
bling his feelings and commanding his tam the cause of the distuihaoce. Du-
couhtenance, he fancied that his trepida- bois died instantly, but Pitz Clarence,
tion had not been observed by the other though insensible, was fonud to be still
gamblers. The old man now pulled the alive. Restoratives were promptly ap-
diamond pin from his bosom and demand- plicd. His eqat wash stripped off, and his
ed to stake it against all the other pieces breast laid order to discover the
of jewelry with the money which he had extent of the injury he had stained. In-

4

6

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.
stantly there was one spontaneous ejacu- marked in the familiar and blunt inannet
nation of wonder among those who crowd- that was peculiar to himself:-
ed around the bleeding form.    Fitz    "Aha, Minny! Good morning; sweet
Clarence was a-.~--woman!            rosebud that you are!  I declare you are
g rowing prettier and prettier every day."
CHAPTER     11.             '~You flatter me, Mr. Switzer; lam no
TEE 'rWO OLD rRIEND5...-~OTHER AND handsomer than I was yesterday, that I
know," said the girl. "Do you think I
SISTEL-MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE.
SOME days previous to the night of the are, father," she added, as she jumped
about his neck and kissed his cheek.
orgies and the scene of violence in the  ~ That's right !-that's right! kiss your
haunted mansion, as detailed in our~~pen- father. Ah, I l?~ve no dear, child to kiss
ing chapter, two men, well known citizens
me now-Do one cares for poor old Switz-
of Gotham, were observed to hold a very er. All are gone-all are gone !"
animated conversation together, in front "Oh say not so, sir.-~ay not so. Do I
of a small whitewashed cottage, thht stood not love you, Mr. Switzer? There's a
in a garden of flowers and shrubbery, on kiss for you, too. Now do I not love you,
the banks of the Hudson, in the vicinity good Mr. Switzer ?"
of Spring street. One of these was a "There, Swifzer! Alter that, never
fisherman and boatman, named Hans one ~nres for you. TJ~at kiss sure-
say rio
$witzer-the other was Jacob Lawson~ 1y is worth a thousand sighs, though her
the owner of the cottage, whose calling father should say so, Mr. Switzer."
was that of a gardener and flnrist.     "You're right, Mr. Lawson. Indeed it
Their conversation related to the mys- is! indeed~it is! But, Minney, where's
serious and suspicious doings of a long youn~ brother? I have come over to get
low black schooner that had suddenly ap- him to take charge of the boats for me to-
peared In, and disappeared from the river day, and have just asked your father about
ated bay of New York, some days prior to him ?"
their conversation. Many were the sur- "Yes, Minny! where's George'?"
irises as to the character of the strange "I don't know, father. lie left the
craft-whether she was a piratical crfriser house early this morning, and-but see
or a slaver put into our water by chance, who is that coming from Hoboken in the
stress of weather, or on other more ques- skiff? That must be -hun, Mr. Switzet?
tionable account. Don't you think it is? I Can't see so far
While they ~thus 'conversed, a young as yo~i can with your spy-glass o~t on the
girl, dressed in a plain chintz dress and water. Oh I see now-it is him..-Yeu,
white xnu~lin sun-bonnet, approached with it is George, father."
a small basket ~n her arm, and paused a "I-Ia! ha! To be sure it is him! W116
moment till Mr. $witzer should raise his else can manage old Swjtzer'a bon.t like
arms from the gate and allow her to enter he? ~ee how it skins the water! I
the cottage. missed the skiff several hours ago, and
Though her step was as light as that of suspected the rogue had made free with
fairy's upon a bed of violets, the quick it's
ears of the weatIter~aten fisherman, waa "Yes, it is my son. "I wonder what he
instantly cognizaht otherj~'esence. He has been about this morning! Of late he
tamed his honest facetoWdrd her, and re- is much averse to do anything whatever.


MINNY LAWSON, OR

It was only last week that I l~ad to pay a
good sum of money to break his inden-
tures with old Mr. Somers, the black-
smith. I'm sure I don't know what will
be the end of all his foolish ravings. Since
the strange craft has been seen in our
waters, be hastalked of nothing but pni-
~ateering and the like. Indeed, I shouldn't
be surprised if he took to sen-faring alter
all."
"Well, why not let ~im go to sea?
Who knows but. he might become the
commander of an East Indiaman by-and-
by! There, see how fondly, his sister
welcomes him. Ali, Mr. Lawson, while
you have such a daughter, you should
have no fears for George. I'll be bound
he'll make his way through the world, and
prove an honor and a blessing to his pa-
rents yet."
"Ho, there George !-George I say !"
~ "Coming, father, as soon as I can fasten'

"Certainly not. lam always glad to
have you doing anything useful, whether
it be for yourself or your friends."
am much obliged to you George~for
your kindness, but I won't take the money.
You have earned it, and shall keep it, my
lad. The boat you are welcome to have
at any time when out of nse. Tiike it,
with all my~ heart, and bring the strangers
back to the city again, if you will George.
I shall be engaged~i day down at White-
hall, and must get Sandy McCarty to
stay about here, if you are disinclined to
finish your job for the gentlemen, my
hearty!"
No, George don't wan't the money,"
said Mr. Lawson; but he shall remain
and wait any chance customer that may
require your services, friend Switzer."
"Certainly father, with all my heart as
I have already said. i'm very fond of
boating and the water. and should like to

the boat."                           kecp my word with the gentlemen; though
~t, ~'Where have you been, ~ir," said Mr. J wilJ not do so, if you refuse to take the
Lawson, somewhat sternly. l~ere's Mr. money they gave n~~you, Mr. Swit-~,
Switzer has been waiting to see you this zer" ~
whole hour at least. Why do you take "WellAf you will be obstinate, I ~
away his boat 'without his permission, help it; and s&amp; I ~sappose X Pti~st retainY
sir ~" the qoin to please you."
"1 thought lie would have no objection Switzer bade Mr. Lawson and Gqorge
to my using it to row two gentlemen good tnoriiing; and quitted~their corn~ny
across to Weehawken. And here, Mr. for the day.
8wit~er, Is the money they~gave me for George Lawson, though he had scarce-
the service. They asked for Mr. Switzer, ly reached his nineteenth year, was near
bpt as he was nowhere shout, and they six feet in stature, and of a powerful~
said they were in a hurry, I thought I though lithe and symmetrical frame. His
would row them over for Mr. ~witzer fine open countenance, keen black eyes,
myself. That was all1 father." and ruddy complexion, gave to his appear-
George handed the old boatrrian an ance more the air and dignity o~' a noble-
Englieh sovereign, and added "The gen- tuan than the son of a hard working
tleman gave me this piece of gold to take gardner. Yes, he seemed one of nature's
them over and tovreturn this afternoon ttoblemen, as he now stood there, by the
and bring them back again, which I will side of his plo~ng Tather,,and beautiful
cheerfully do if you like, Mr. Switzer- sister Minny. She~ also was only a girl
fo.ther won't object to tlikt, will you father?" of fourteen years, but there was that vo-

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

laptuous development in her form that al~
ready betokened The full ripeness and
,glory of young womanhood. Her auburn
hair was plaited neatly over her smooth
forehead, and tI~sen so arranged to fall in
ringlets over as finely a shaped head as
ever graced a human shoulder, to her
snowy neck, forming a contrast between
the dazzling skin and the sunny hair, that
might well captivate the eye and awaken
intense passion in the most stoical of ho-
s~ms. He:'s was a beauty such as
"Guido would have loved to dwell upon;"
but as we are not au fail in describing
the comparative qualities of woman's
charms, we shall leave the reader to draw
upon his own imagination for every attn-
b ute of sweetness and grace, and yield
them all as the legitimate concomitants of
the remarkable loveliness of Miuny Law-
son.
"Now, Georgetell me who were the
gentlemen you took in the boat to Wee-
hawke4rt-,rwere the citizens or stran-
~'hey are strangers to me; at least, I
rsaw either of them befoe, but they
evidently familiar ~vith'dhe city and
be localities of the n~ighboi~hood. 5o I
judged fiom their conversation with each
other, but as they only rtddressed me in
regard to taking them across the river and
back, I can't say a great deal about them.
-They said they were going to stop at
~one of the cottages at the base .of the hill,
but I did not consider it my business to
enquirer at which. Yet I hardly think
they belong to the city, becarfte they
didn't talk like ourpeople doin matters
and things iu general. I will probably
know something more about them this
evening. Their liberality in giving me
a gold cm, for the trifling service required
of me, would make me say they were
not citizens of New York. Perhaps they

were some of the people of the strange
craft that appeared in the Bay a f~w days
ago."
"Fiddlesticks! You're always think-
ing of the suspicious schooner-that ves-
sel has not been seen for ten days past.
It isn't likely, I should think, that these
young fellows you rowed over belonged to
that vessel. You will, however, probably
know more about the matter to-night.----
Thete, George, go now to Switzer's boatr
as you promised, while I cut some fresh
roses for Minny to take to the market."~ ~A
Georg~ started off towards the river, and
his father began to cull the rarest and
freshest of his floral glories~in the rear of
the cottage.
In less than half an 'hour thereafter,
Minny Lawson was seen on her way with
a basket of flowers to one of the markets
in the heart of the city, which it was her
regular practice to attend, and where she
always met with ready sales and the high-
est pi ices for her sweet bouquets.
That day passed away-.-night came,
hut Minny did not return to give to her
father the proceeds of the sale of the flow-
ers, to cheer the heart of tier dear mother,
and to make the cottage pleasant with
the musical tones ol her voice, and the
natural joyousness of h~r nattire.
The ncxt day. passed-another- the
fourth day-a week; and the fair, sweet
young girl continued away from the home
of her childhood and parental love.
Where had she departed? What was
her fate ~ Had sbme terrible evil befall-
en her? Abduction! Seduction l Oh,
what room for conjecture! What ground
for alarm and terror! Bat let us not an-
9
ticipate.
CHAPTER III.
THE SERPENT IN TIlE OJIASS.
Gannawicu street, twenty-five years
ago, presented a widely different aspect

1


10                MINNY LAWSON.                                   THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           Ii

' from its appearance at the present day
It was then the most fashionable and aris
tocratie portion of the city. The jwel-
ings, for the n~ost part, were mansion
like, large and comfortably arranged, th
abodes at once of the more opulent anc
influential among the merchants and othei
citizens of the Island of Ma~ihattan o
that period. The street itself partook 0:
a s-,~s in urbe character, planted as it was
with numerous trees, whcse thick greer
foliage screened the c~tizen'or passer-by
from the scorching sun of the summer
solstice, and relieved refreshiflgly the
fiery glare of the red painted walls of the
houses, formerly so characteristic of the
whim or taste of our staid and sturdy
Knickerbocker people. Here nod there
indeed, Were tenements of less humble
de cription, occupied by the mechanic
and artisan, interspersed with shops aid
stores, concomitant of the general wants
of the inhabitants of the neighborhood.
The whole aspect of the scene however,
was one of quiet ease and comfort, hav-
ing little of the glare and pomp of the
great city, but rather all the pleasant and
wholesome associations of a first class
country town. The close vicinity of the
Battery, too, added to the desirableness of
a residence iii that section of the city.
Here it was the wont of the grey-hair-
ed people to repair, and beneath the urn-
brageous f~iloge of the large and noble
sycamore of the Park, to smoke their
pipes and discourse of afikirs connected
with the social and political relations of
their own fireside~ and the ~vorld at large.
The Bittery, also, in those days was the
play-ground of childhood, who gambolled
over the green sward, and gathered dan-
delion blossoms~-those bright golden
doubloons of early spring-or pursued
the gemmed-winged butterfly 4s, as they
danced some fantastic polka, e~sch with its

sweetheart, over the emerald carpet which
- Nature had spread around, as if purposely
* for the revelry of those short-lived crea-
- tures of the balmy air. It was indeed a
gorgeous scene, when the sparliling Wa-
I ters of the Hudson and the bay became
illumined in the g'tare of the setting sun
C giving it the appearance of a sea of fire
C and gold, into which were thrown every
pearl, and rdby, and precious gem, gath-
ered from the Inds and all the teeming
mines of the world. Then, again, this
scene would be exchanged to another al-
beit less dazzling, but scarcely less beau-
tiful and sublime-to a season, in sooth,
* when the full round moon threw down
its radiance over the expanse of the wa-
ters, nud enshrouded all creation, as it
were, with a mantle of silver tissue, the
same seeminely, richly g~mmed with
sparkles of gold, as the imagination riuight
reatlily fancy the lightning-like flashes of
the fire-flies to he, as seen beneath the
barkerr shade&amp;of the trees, at such~ times
as those tiny insects were wont to hold
high carnival, regardless of their noisy
nocturnall brethren of another genus, wlt&amp;/
disputed, and denied, and affirmed t
~Katy~didC a~d "Katy-didn't," in the ct~
ert recesses of the surrounding shrubberyi
and grass. We say such was the aspect
and some of the associations connected
with a residence in Greenwich street,
scarcely a quarter of a century ago. But
how have all these things changed I The
Battery itself has become comparatively
(leserted of the presence of the more re-
spectable and worthy of our people, and
is now almost wholly given up to vagrants
and 'small thieves--.--the thimble-rigger,
pocket-book dropper, and others, who
prey upon and rob and swindle the stran-.
ger and countryman when t'ey can allure
them into their villanous meshes, as they
land at the wharves of our city from the

many hundred steamers and packet-ships
that daily arrive from all parts of the
Uniteil States and the world. Green-
wich street, too, is sally changed, being
almost solely devoted to trade and traffic
'of every kind. The ancient Knicker-
bocker mansions have all been converted
either into mercantile and shipping ware-
rooms, or German -Emigrant Boarding
houses. The street, in fact, is now daily
thronged ~vith newly arrived emigrants,
whose peculiar costume and outlandish
dialect would naturAlly lead a stranger
traversing that part of the city to suppose
he ~vas in the midst of a populous Euro-
pean town, instead of in a section of our
American luetropolis.
But it is not of these changes we have
at present to write. We revert, accord-
ingly, to matters more directly pertinent
to our narrative. We have already inti-
mated that Gree~svich street, in the
neighborhood of the Battery, was a few
years since, among the most aristocratic
and fashionable sections of the city; and
that the general aspect of the dwellings
~t of opulence and ea~e, without
litter and ostentation displayed by
inbabita~t4s~ constituted the mogt wor-
e of the present day. Yet, though
and r~pected of any in the city, there
was many a one, even in those days, who
masked his villainy and crir51es under
the garb of a Christian, honorable and
virtuous (leportunent. Among these was
an individual highly honored and resp~t-
ed by all c1as~es of people, on account
of his eupCos~d integri~y, fair dealing,
and general uprightness ~6f character.
He was at the time ~he leading shipping
and importing merchant in New York;
carrying on an extensive trade, not only
with most of the European cities, but
with the principal ports of China and the
Mediterranean, while his ships also vis-
ited every isle of th~a Southern and Pa-

cific oceans, in quest of sperm whale,
and the fur of the seal. In such traffic
and commerce he had amassed a very
*arge fortune-indeed, was regarded as
among the wealthiest men of 'the city.
He had 'married early in life, but his wife
dying in child-bearing, at the birth of her
first infant, his only daughter was entrus-
ted to the charge of a nurse, and removed
from the paternal roof forever. He, how~
ever, continued to occupy the mansion
into which he had first taken his wife af-
ter their rparriage, living entirely alone,
who officiated as his housekeeper, and a
with the exception of an elderly woman
man-servant, a Swiss, whom lie had se-
lected front the crew of one of his ships
to serve in such capacity. The devotion
of this man to his master was altogether
unusual and extraordinary, even in bo-
soms susceptible of the keenest gratitude
and the strongest personal attachments of
one human being to another. This was
nppa~ently the more strange, as the Mer-
chant ever appeared to hold him at a dis-
tance, and would never allow the slight-
est approach to familiarity either in con-
versation or address from him-a course
so entirely opposite his urbane and
kindly disposition towards all others with
whom he was wont to hold intercourse,
that it began to be generally noticed and
talked about throughout the city. In-
deed, there were persons meddlesome
enough to interrogate the subordinate in
regard to the relation in which he stood
in respect to his superior, but to all such
questions the Swiss menial always spoke
in the highest terms of his employer as
the best of men and masters. Similar hints
were also repeatedly thrown out before
the merchailt in regard to his taciturn
treatment of a servant so devoted to him,
but to all such hints he turned a deaf
ear, as if he comprehended not that he


i2                        MINNY L
was the object of any invidious censtir'
or remark, or as if unwilli~ig to admit hi
demeanor toward the S~vis~ sailor wa~ is
any way different from his deportmen
to all others, whether of his class or thos(
in the other relations of life.
The house the merchant occupied wat
among tliQ largest and best in the quartet
of the town in which it was located, and
being most sumptt~ou~ly furnished through
out, seemed at once, the abodc of elegance
and ease. It was the only dwelling thai
had assumed a modern appearance in
contrast with the other houses of the
neighborhood. It was built of Holland
brick, which were always kept painted a
light straw color, as if purposely to render
it more conspicuousamidst the red painted
bAick houses of his neighbors.
It was situated on the cornier of Green-
wici street and another that ran across
it from Broadway to the river. The bells
of ~ Church could be distincily
heard of a Sabbath morning, calling him
to his devotions there, a practice which
he was never known to omit, being a
member in high standing, and recognized
as one of thd' most substantial pillars of
that venerable temple of Jehovah. This
man would go up to the house of prayer,
officiate in the ceremonies of the vestry
and of the altar, make devout and pious
respons~s, and partake of the holy sacra-
ment, to return to his mansion in the
vicinity, there to give himself up to the
indulgence of spiced wines, rich viands,
sensuality and crime! Yes, he was an
exemplary man in the eyes of the world,
but in the eyes of his God, a most con-
summate libertine and villain l
It was a Sunday evening that he reclined
in a chamber of his house, that served
b~tth for his library and bedroom. He had
returned from church that day, and sat
down to a dinner of a moot bountiful and
sumptuous kind-.~ feast, indeed, whIch

AWSON, OR
e would not bave disgraced the appetite
s C the daintiest epicure, and one which
*would have amply served the chpacious
stomach of the gourmand and glutton.-.
all of which viands were relished with a
gusto, and washed dow~viih a bottle of
very fine Port wine. He then retired to
his library, where he threw himself on a
I lounge, and slept apparently verysoundly
- for several hours. When he at length
awoke, he found a wax candle burning in
a silver sconce on a table in the room, and
his man-servant standing in a recess of a
window, motionless ~as a statue, as if
brooding over some secret of his life, or
contemplating some purpose of a dark and
sinister character..
His master soon perceived him, and
* calling him by name, aroused him thor-
oughly from his reverie or self-commun-
ings, iahateyer they were.
"Armond! Armond! Why stand you
there in the corner ~ What business have
ydu here in my room, without my know-
lege or permission-say, fellow? Would'st
rob and murder me? Hither, wretch, ~z~d
look me in the face, if you can, sir5'~
the merchant in a tone at once comm~
with ill nature and brutality, lie
have thought there was s&amp;sething iahi8
servant's position and manner that looked]
suspicious, and he may have affected a )
severity in addressing him, that he might/
betray no fear or uneasiness in regard to
his unwelcome appearance in his sleeping
apartment.
"Pardon, pardon, Mr. 4rlington. Yen
appeared to he sleeping longer than your
usual wont, and I but entered the rdom to
close the window blinds, to shut out the
damp evening air, sir-that was all, I
assure you, that was all, sir."
"Then, when you had so done, why did
you not instantly retire isgain? A.uswer
me that, fellow 1"

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

"I know not what it was, sir, that made
me stay here. I am sure it has been ~!y
a moment that I came in! Tne moon
shone so brightly out on the trees in th~
garden, and the air was so full of the scent
of the sweet flowers, that I rested my arms
on the sill a moment before clobin~ the
blinds7and that is the whole God's truth
of it, sir. You know, Mr. Arlington, that
1 would-.-----"
"Well, well! never mina what you
would do! Perhaps you would like to
murder me, would you ~ I begin to fear
you are no longer trustworthy! You
have repeatedly fooled me in regard to
the Flower girl! Yes, lied to me, sir
You have allowed her to return home day
by day, without bringing h~r hither as you
promised you would! Mark me, now!
The girl must be mine! If you permit
her to return home from the market ano-
ther day, without making some attempt to
secure the l)nize-marlt me, I say, your
life shall pay the forfeit! The vaults of
this building shall again open to a new
~victiw, if the gardener's daughter is not
~b~ught to me here before this hour on to-
k~4~rrow evening! Listen! you are in
my power! Dare disobey me again at
your peril. Leave, now, sir, and come not
near me again till I shall ring for you to
appear."
"You shall be obeyed, Mc. Arlington!
The girl shall be here at the specified
time, sir," s tid the man as he retired. He
added, however, to himself~ "Curses on the
foul fiend! Bitt perhaps my hour of vea~
geance may come yet !'~
True to his promise~ the wretch Ar-
mond, visited the Washington Market, the
following morning, and fuund very little
difliculty, in inducing the innocent and
unsuspecting girl to bring her flowers to
the house of his master, stating that he
was to give a grand ball that evening, and

13

would pay lilrrally for the rarest hriuets
that could b furnished for the occasion
The bargain was managed so cautiously
by the wily servant, that among those who
trafficked in the market, no one knew
anything of it, and naturally supposed that
she had disposed of her flowers and re-
turned home to the cottage of her feth~r.
In less than h df an hour the poor girl
found herself seated in a large back room
of the rich merchant's house- Here she
was requested to wait a short tim~s until
Mr. Arlington should take his breakfast
and inspect the sweet flowers for himself
before paying her for them.
She waited patiently a long while, and
wondered why the owner of the mansion
or some othe,' person did not come and
pay for the fi wers and let her depart.
An hour pass ~d away and then another,
and she yet remained alone in that gor-
georts halt tnt) wisich she had been at first
ushered. S ic nad full tim~ to observe
the beautiful p innings .on the walls, the
ex~~uisite pieces of statuary that stood in
the recesses'ot the room, the large mirrors,
the rich drains of the windows, the cost-
ly furniture, aiid a Turkey carpet that
blazed in~ the riches of its roses and other
floral devices, while it was as soft as a
fitId of moss to the feet.
Her patience at length became entirely
exhausted, and becoming alarmed at the
silence which prevailed aroun.l, she rose
and went to the door which led to the
hall. Soe found it was locked fro n t~e
outside, and realized in full force that she
was a prisoner! She uttered a loud
scream, and kept ott screai~ing at so wild
a rate, that tIme Sviss servant fet con-
strained to show his presence to qaict her
clamor.
"What is all this outcry about," he said,
"in agentlem in's house? You have been
screaming as if somebody was going to


14               MINNY LAWSON, OR                                   THF OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

murder you outright, my pretty miss
Don't be alarmed-no one i~ going to kil
you, anyhow. But you have got to wai
till my master shall come in. He mus
have forgotten you were here, when h4
went out this morning."
"Ol~ then I cannot stay. I must go am
sell 'my flowers. See, they are all droop
ing already. Indeed I n~ust go! Do, sir
let me go and sell my flowers in the mar
ket again !"                        4
'Ols no  that will never do!   Thc
housekeeper will put the flowers in fresh
water, and you must stay till my master
shall come home nod give you the money
for them. Here, Margery, Margery! the
girl wants to go away."
The housekeeper, an old woman of fifty
years, now made her appearance, and said
to the girl
"The pretty birdie is in the cage at last,
and we cailnot let it go before the master
comes to hear it sing! Oh no, Miss, you
shall stay a while longer. The master
will soon be here and he will pay you for
the roses, maybe, and l~t you go
There was something in the looks of the
old hag which more and more alarmed the
~'lower girl. She threw herself on her
knees at her feet and begged of her to !et
her depart at once.
"I have been too long awumy! My poor
fatherland brother will be very uneasy
alxut me~ if I do not be at home soon. I
have been here a long while1 Do, pray
let me go, good woman! Oa, let me go
home!"
"I dare not 'let you depart, for the mas-
ter would be very angry with us if we did.
Be quiet, Miss, and take a bite of some-
thing to eat-a bit of cake and a glass of
wine, they will refresh you, and you'll not
mind w~iiting a spell, I think."
"XVhere am I? What house is this?
Do tell me; won't you tell me, good man
g0 h0me to my father."

-and you, good woman-tell me where
Il you have brought me."
"To a haIl of pleasure! My master will
t treat you as a lady, but will not let you
3 go away very soon, I reckon. H~ has
often seen you, admired your pretty face,
I and I think wishes to make you his mis-
- tress !" said the Swi's.
"Gracious Heaven! You do not mean
- that. I am only a poor weak little girl.
[have a dear old father, and a good kind
brother. He will not take me away from
I them-oh say thet he will not I"
"I have told you nothing but the truth,
and I dare not be the champion of every
foolish girl who is brought into this house."
So aayin~ he thrust the girl again into
the parlor, and turned the key upon the
beauteous prisoner.
The girl again ~ttde the house echo
with her wild shriek', which were contin-
ued for some mom ?nts, when she sank
down to the' floor in a fit.
Scarcely, however, had this occurred,
when Arlington entc'red the house, and
was inform-ed of all that had transpired.
He quickly entered the room where the
girl lay prostrate and insensible upon the
carpet. Finding that her pulse continued
to beat, he ordered some brandy and some
harishoma tobe brought immediately, which
being procured, he rubbed the palm of the
hands, and bathed thd girl's forehead, until
she began to show s'gns of returning ani-
mation and consciousness. ,She thereafter
sprang to her feet and exclaimed
"Oh, is it you, Mr. Arlington? You
have not brought me here to keep me-
oh no, you will not do that-I am sure you'
will not do that! Yea came and bought
all my fluwers, in ho market the other
day, and were very hind to give me more
money than I asked for them. Do take
the flo~vers I brought with m~ ~Lere-you
shall have them fo~ nothing; only let me

4
"No eot yet, my pretty one. You l~ave
caused me too much trouble already!
What are your sweet roses compared to
ihe freshness of your cheeks and lips!
l~o, my blooming one, ~ou must remain
toy guest until I think proper to set you
free !"
"What mean you, sir '?"
"Did you ever love, my pretty one 'i"
"Yes-my father and brother ~
"None other ?"
"Only my father's friend-good old Mr.
Switzer."
"How 'simple! By Heaven, she is beau-
tiful 1" muttered Arling~ozi to himself,
when he added aloud "What is your name,
my pretty one
"Minny Lawson !"
"A swcet name it is, too! Bat who is
your father and where does he reside,
Minny ?"
"In Greenwich Village, sir. lie is a
gardener and florist."
"Ab, indeed! I know your father well,
Minny. lie is an old and particular friend
of mine."
This A: lington said to quiet in some
degree the girl's apprehensions, for he
already knew who the girl was and her
parentage, long before he sought to in-
veigle her to lais lascivious toils.
"Then I know you will let me go home."
Oh, certainly, presently, Minny. But
how did you know my name, my pretty
one V'
"Oh, everybody is acquainted with you,
and they all say you are such a fine, good.
man. The people in the market toid me
your name, when you bought my fbwers,
the other day, sir."
The merchant bit his lips, and there
came an expression on his countenance
that pat took of shane and fear. Proba-
bly it w~s a thought that his villainy had

been noticed and that detection might
readily follow!
"No, no, ~'P~ muttered inwardly. "None
will suspect me of any hand in the girl's
abduction and, dishonor! My character
is too well established to be injured ~y the
breath of calumny or detraction! The
girl is now in my power? ~Iie shall ntt
icave this roof till I have revelled a~ her
virgin ~~atunity and sweetn~ss!~
'[he villain, as he soliloquized, betrayed
nothing of what had flastied so instantly
throtlgh hi~ mind, but assuming his usual
tdaad and allhble demeanor, he asked
"And would you kiss me, Minniy) were
I to be your Iniend $" -
"Oh yts, aud let me go Lonie !"
"And not without i"
'([nen you are not my friend, Mr. Ar-
liugton 1"
.1 am your Iriend! Nay, more, 1
love you-passionately love you l You
imist be ~mne!"
As tie spoke he drew the girl to his
breast, and lavished a succes~ion ol' burn-
ii.g lt:s~s upon uier sweet, red, cewy lips'
I' rapture! ' the libertine eja-
cuisten. "Vv ~s there ever nectar more
hagaiit L~an the zUoi~LQi'C ci tLo~e lips !"
"Unnand mc, sir, and let inc ~o. I will
scream murdei~ it you do no~ h.t me go I"
"II to love you, dearest, is huruui to
you, then 1 will surely be the ceath ci
you!'
"Talk not of love to a cLild like me!
Indeed, indeed, .1 do not undemtana ~t. I
will ~ you, b~~t do, Mr. Arhi~ton, let
me go home-let me go home."
"By Heaven! she is as spotless as an
angel! Sa~ does not even lear me? Can
skie be acting? Does she not know my
purp4~se I"
A wild phrenzy of passion seized upon
the wretch. His blood become itidamed
to the highest degree-he was no '~~ger

4


I
16                       MINNY L
a reasoning man, but a foul 4istempered
brute! He laid his profane hands upus
her snowy shoulders, ~caught her by the
waist, and cast her violently to a lounge
that was near at hand. In doing so, how-
ever, his foot tripped in the carpet, and he
tell head foremost over the piece ot furni.
tore upon which the girl had been hurled.
She sprang to her feet and darted to the
door tb escape. It waa~ locked. See flew
to the window, and tried to raise the heay~y
sash. In this attempt she also failed.
Meanwhile, Arlington recovered hi~ equi-
librium, and started after his prey. She
fell at his feet, and begged for mercy.
She realiz~cI now her own weakness and
the strength of her libertine persecutor
What was the result? Was her prayers
unheeded? Her screams unheard? Did
the monster fotego his purpose? Was
there no especial Providence to watch
over the ii~~ocent and pure? The sequel
must tell!
CHAPTER 1V.
THE GATHERING STORM.
The light of history over past years
shows us many a scene that storIes our
credulity, but we see only the same ph ~-
sea of passion as in modern time.
In our opening chapter, we alluded to
a certain old Knickerbocker mansion,
which had been long deserted on account
of some mys serious tragedy that had prob-
ably baen enacted within its walls, as was
supposed to have been the case, from the
dead remains Qf a young and lovely girl
being found in a~i old well in its garden,
and by reason of the strange conduct of
an insane man, who had prowled about
and watched the tenement for a period of
many years. It will now be necessary in
order to a full elucidation of the terrible
scenes and events of our story, to turn
back to days long antecedent to the gath-

AWSON, OR

I eriog of the strange company beneath its
roof, who gave themaolv~s up to those wild
orgies that we have detailed, in that mid-
uight hour, in that once happy and lux.
nrious home of th6 old merchant, the,
wurthy and respected Ritter Eberhard Van
Tuyl.
The period was about the year 18-.-,
and the accue in one of the, lower apart.
menta of the mansion. This ro~rn was
superbly furnished according to the taste
of that day, which if it yielded in elegance
and refinement to more, modern lux.sjry'
ihade amends in massive richness and
splendor, On an embroidered couch, un
den the shadow of the heavy silken hang.
ings of the window, through which, how.
ever, the soft zephyrs of a summer after-
noon gently stile, a young and lovely
woman was reclining. He~ dress was
sir~ple, though~ rich, and her form such
as needed no external aid to set off its
matchless symmetry. Her features were
exquisitely chiselled and youthful, almost
to childishness. The extreme delicacy
and fairness of her complexion added to
her juvenile appearance, and the, round
arm and dimpled hand that supported her
head were slight enough to show that
years had not yet matured her singular
beauty.                   -
The attitude of the fair girl-for though
wedded she seemed no more-was one of
thoughtfulness and dejection. Tears stood
in her large blue eyes, but ere they tell
from her fringing lids she wiped them away
and turned to the window, where the
fresh air lifted her brown locks, and grate-
fully fanned her forehead. The door ~f
the apartment was opened slowly, and
there entered a stranger, before the lady
had time to rise from her recumbent posi-
tion on the couch. He was a noble
looking man in the prime of life.
Quickly perceiving that he had intruded

I

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.          * 17

(
upon t~e privacy of a lady's boudoir, he.
drew back, and ~xith a profound obeisance,'
remarked
"I ask pardon, your ladyship, for having
ventured into your presence unannoun-
ced. I was told by the servant, that I
should find Mr. Van Tuyl here."
"He is n&amp; here, Mr. Thornton," replied
the lady, "but is doubtless in the library."
Mr. Thornton again bowed and with-
drew. Scarcely had he done so, and
closed the door , after him, when a side
panel was withdrawn, and a man of ath-
letic person~nd strongly marked features
came in. It was Sydenham Van Toyl
the elder of the three sons of the old mer-
chant. He was the successor in the busi-
ness ot his father, whose advanced age
had induced him some tine previously to
retire, from the native scenes of con' -
mercial life. His step was haughty;
his countenance wore an hsbitual ex-
pression of sternne~s; hi~ movements
were abrupt; his voice h~trsh; but in
his aspect there was a certain dig-
nity inseparable from the habit of com-
manding, and a courtesy not devoid of
grace, that when he chose, could secure
affection as well as respe~t. When t~ie
iron will and the riiajesty of physical
strength can bow to the loveliness of wo-
man, the enchantress is usually more
proud of her conquest than when she has
subdued only intellectual power. It was
with this pride that Mary Rivington loved
Sydenham Van Tuyl, and accepted him
as her husband and friend.
"Who went hence just now, Mary ?"
said he, somewhat abruptly~. "I thought
I heard some one speak, and the tread of
~steps, as enteredd"
"Mr. Thornton was here in search of
you.S~
"Thornton l" repeated Sydenham, bend-
inrr his eyes on his wife, ~vho looked
2              "~.'~.1'

into his face with loving confidence.
He added quickly :--"You have been
weepint~, Mary! Has Augustus Thorn-
ion, my accountauf, seen the wife of his
employer in tears~"
'Nay, Sydenbam," said the yound wife
softly casting down her eyes, "I was
thinking of my dear mother."
"Always pining after home," muttered
the husband impatiently. "Cannot my
love suppy to you the place of home and
parents ?"
t~fl~ not angry, Sydenham," whispered
his beautiful, spouse, throwing her fair
arms around his neck, arA leaning her
head upon his shoulder-"Be not angry5
with me. It is but natural that I should
scm      grieve for those I have loved
since infancy. Were I again at my fath-
er's house, how impatiently would I long
to he again with you, dear Sydenliam !-
Suffer me then to weep sometimes, when
I remember my loving father and my
tender mother !'
"Mary," said the merchant, sternly,
though he' permitted and returned the c~r-
res~es proffered, pressing his lips passion-
ately to her snowy forehead, ~deem me
not coltish or 'exacting. Your parents
have other children-I have but you to
love in the world as the companion of my
hopes and joys. Since the day that made
you mine, I have mourned that the deep
love my heart~hore for yoo has been but so
coldly returned. Nay, reproach me not.
Surely, I know your gentle nature can-
not feel a passion so absorbing, so pow-
erful as that of mine."~
CsYou are cruel to doubt me," murmur-
ed the wife, lifting her head from his boa-
om, and gazing into her eyes, while her
own wd~e filled with tears.
"Beloved, I doubt you not. Ibut la-
mented that your nature was so much
gentler thgn ray own-and ye~ were it


18                      MINNY LA
not, I should not love you half so much
Mine is a wayward heart, Mary, and ii
will need all your tenderness to pardon
me !"
The confession speedily restored a smile
- to the lovely face of the wife. The next
moment they were interrupted by one
of the servants, who brought in a letter
for Sydenham. It seemed to be on busi-
ness of moment. When he had hastily
broken the seal his brow flushed as he
read its contents. ..Msrv watched him
with eager anxiety. Dismissing the man
by a sign, Sydenham turned to his wife.
"It is even worse than [though t, Mary.
Nothing but disaster on disaster! Ano-
ther ship rost, with her rich cargo, from
Bremen! A few more such blows, and I
shall be ruined forever. 1-am called to
Boston immediately by the underwriters,
with a view to the salvage. But cheer
up-'---your tears would forbode other trou-
bles and perils. Take a turn in the gar-
den, and meet me here again presently,
when I shall be ready to tear myself away
from you for a brief season.~'
Sydenham sought the apartment' of
his aged father, and was closeted with
- him some considerable time. Meanwhile
his wife summoning a faithful attendant
defended into the garden.
The coolness of the evening air
was refreshing and calmed the troubled
thought of the lovely wife. Accompanied
by her attendant7she walked up and down
the avenues till they came almost unex-
pectedly. before a natural arbor, formed by
interlacing boughs, over which crept a
vine, laden with golden arid crimson flow.
ers. !I~he picture there presented arres-
ted Mary's attention. She touched the
arm of her companion and they approach-
ed 8ofdy.
A boy of uncommon beauty was seated
on the ground writing in a small portfolio.

'WSON, OR

His fac~ seen, as he bent over his task,
was fair as that of a girl, ahd shaded by
long clustering golden locks which floated
in rich profusion over his shoulders. As,
at~ intervals, in the exstacy of composition,
he raised his deep blue eyes upwards,
with a rapt expre&amp;~ion in his broad white
brow1 he might have formed a sculptor's
model for the Genius of Poetry.
iVladarn Van Tuyl gszed admiringly a
few moments upon her young. ~nephew,
an only son ofher husband's youngest
brother Louisand now an orphan inmate
beneath his granctfathgr's and Uncle Sy-
denham'~ roof, and then approaching him
unperceived, she laid her hand on his
head, and said, in a voice of playful
sweetness:
"Are you invoking the iViuses, Conra-
din'!"
The boy started up, let fall his pencil,
and blushed deeply; but soon recovering
from his embarrassment, he answered:
"Yes, dear aunt, I was trying to write a
little ode to Spring, but though I know I
have poetry within me, I ..,cannot utter
what I feel."
"Time will give you language," said
his aunt, smiling affectionately. "You are
yet too young, my Conradin."
"1 am now more than twelve years old,
you know, dear aunt, and that is not too
young to be a poet, I should think. See,
here is a whole book full of my verses,
and if you will not- laugh at them, you
ehall see my portfolio, aunt Mary."
"That's a good dear nephew. Oh no,
I will not laugh at them. I have no
doubt they are all very good indeed, Con-
radin."
"Well, then, take the book, dear aunt,
but I shall not stay till you look atmy
composition, for I know you will laugh at
me for some of my silly love pieces.'
~He bour~ded away as he spoke.

At length she endeavored to calm her-
oelf and wiped away her tears. A step
~vas heard among the trees; she started
up suddenly, grew pale as death, and the
next moment her whole face was suffused
with crimson. The struggle was but for
an instant. Recovering her composure
by a strong effort, she went forward a
few paces to meet young Augustus Thorn-
ton, whose steps she instinctively heard
approaching~
He seemed deeply abstracted, and bow-
ing low to Ida was passing along.
"Hold, Augustus! A word with you 1"
exclaimed the young woman.
Thornton turned, bowed again, and
asked courteously, but somewhat coldi

19

"lie is a noble boy," said ~ to her
companion. "Misfortune has early ripen-
ed his mind. - Even his physical fri~me
oatstiips his yPars."
Ida Wilton smiled, and said "Oh yes,
he is growing just like his fath~r-.--who
was such a greatscholar, you know."
Mary read some of the verses, com-
menting on them and praising the genius
of her young relative, and then giving
the portfolio to Ida, returned to the house
to await the parting intervieww with her
* husband.
The attendant continued to walk
through the avenues, her head drooping
pensively, and her eyes fixed on the
ground. As she penetrated deeper into
the embowering shad~, her step became
quicker and more irregular, arid when
reaching a spot where a marble fountain
gleamed amid the emerald foliage and
shot up a crystal column of water, to fall
in a cool and refreshing shower, she found
a seat close by, Ida flung herself upon it,
and covered her face with her hands,
while the quick convulsive feelings of her
bosom showed that she was agitated by
no ordinary feelings.           -

I'

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

"What is your pleasure, lady'!"
Like an ice-bolt to the maiden's heart,
were those few chilling words. A tremor
ran through her frame, and the blood for-
sook her cheeks.
"Nothing 1--nothing!" she exoraimed
hastily) motioninr~ him to he gone, and
retreating she sank again upon the seat.
Thornton approached her, not knowing
what to make of this singular behavior.
"What is the matter 'P' he asked,
alarmed. "has anything happened-for
Heav~n's sake, tell me~--has aught hap-
pened to lady Van Tuyl?"
"No! no! Leave me-begone 1" cried
the maiden vehemently.
"Lady; you are not well," said Thorn-
ton. "Permit me to accompany you into
the house.
Proudly the assistance was rejected-
The young man bowed coldly, instantly
obeyed her command, and retired.
"Has it indeed come to that ?" mur-
inured Ida, bitterly. "He was all anxiety
for her safety. I see it all, now! I am
nothing in his eyes! I am worth but
cold words; but her-her he loves, as-
as--'-.-he should not! And-does she re-
turn his love? Oh, madness-madness,
I will not think of that-think of'that!"
Starting up, and concealing her face in
her scarf, the unhappy girl promptly
sought the seclusion of her own apart-
ruent. -
ChAPTER IV.
CRIME AND ITS TERRORS.
The game of life, like every problem
of human solution, is to be deeply and
carefully conned and studied to obtain a
favorable or successfuP result. The first
false move on the' chess-board of man's
existence is ever liable to be attended
with the most serious 'of consequences,


20               MINNY LAWSON, OR

troubles and disasters, albeit, that the climacteric of life, arid at any momsrit,

keenest foresight and the cutest sagacity
may not be able subsequently to retrieve
~r overcome. This principle is but in
accordance with the immutable laws of
cause arid effect. Were the sun to be
extinguished from the centre of the plan-
etary system, daikucas and terrible chaos
would inevitably follow; in like manner,
obliterate the 1ivin~ principle of virtue
and integrity in the human heart, and
gloom and sorrow will infallible be en-
tailed.
Mary Van Toyl on returning from
the garden into the house, was met by her
husband in the same parlor where she had
reclined ~vhen Augu~tus Thornton had
somewhat abrubily entered and found her
in tears. But there was now not the
slightest trace of' grief or sorrow on her
lovely countenance. The balmy zephyrs
of evening had ~refreshed her spirit, and
the lively sally with her'poet nephew and
the perusal of his effusiona had lightened
her heart of its sadness, ~ whatever
character it was-restored the diamond-
li~se brilliance to her eye, and that buoy-
dney of step which was a natural element
of her peculiar grace and beauty. Even
the sternness habitual to the counten-
ance of her husband appeared dissipated
to on~ of tenderness and trust.
"I have but a word to remark, m~' belov-
ed," he said, "My busitiess abroad is very
urgent, and I shall have scarcely time to
reach the boat before its departure for
Providence this evening. My dear old
father I find quite feeble, to-day. I need
,not a~k you to see to his little wants,
Mary, for that you woui:l naturally do of
your own* sympathetic and affectionate
nature-but a presentiment of coming
evil has weighed somewhat heavily (o
~y spirits in regard to him for some days
past. He has long since gassed the grand

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGIfE.

like the fruit that has mellowed long, i~
liable to fall to the dust of the grave.
He has felt himself sufficiently infirm4 to
retire to his bed already is evening-a
procedure quit unnatural ~ his habits,
although he complains of no especial ill-
ness whtttever, nor do I perceive by 'the
beatings of his pulse, any immediate
cause of alarm on accouri~ of his health.
Nevertheless, during my absence, dear
sweet one, ~ would have you extend to~im
even a fuller messur~ of your solicitude
and affLetion than yr ur kindly nature has
ever yet yielded, however warm and
daugiterly have been the symputlues of
your heart for my venerated lather."
"Dear Sydchham, our good old parent,
believe me, shall have my whole heart
and soul devoted to his welfare and hap-
piness. Suce you first made inc your
wife-aye, long before that happy hour,
Sydenham, I had learned to love rind ven-
erate him as the best and dearest ~f f~-
thers. I may well promise that;ho shall
now receive the .same regard Ih~ve aL
ways yielded, together with all the pure
love and devotion that you yourself could
have a right to claim fiom rae, were you
to remain ever present at my side."
"1 know it, Mary-yes, my sweet one,
I feel that my old father will have every
indulgence and comfort which his feeble-
ness may require. It was wrong to even
hint otherwise. I must leave, now. An-
other sweet kiss, Mary, and t.hen-.---
farewell."
"Fare
The word remained unspoken on, the
lovely woman's lips. 'Theie rose uj~
within'her bosom an ocean of tenderest
emotion, Which drowned every syllable
she would have uttered in parting from
die being to whom sic had pledged her
wedded truth and love.

21

Sydenham was g~nel He had not
waited to ~'epare any bsgt~age save that
of a small hand valise, which contained
but a few changes of fresh habiliament,
as it was supposed the purpose of his visit
to Boston would not detain him from
home for a longer period than a fdrtnight
at tl% limit.
Mary, on recovering her composure,
brushed the pearly drops from her silken
lashes, looked through the suite of lower
parlors, bustled about in some domes-
tic duties, as was her dai~y routine, and
seeing ever~ thing in order and in its
place, made preparations to retire for the
evening. She ascended the stairs, lodhed
into the room of the aged Van Tuyl,
saws that he ~was seemingly at ease arid
sound asleep, then softly closed the doer
and entered her own apartment which
immediately adjoined.
Here she began to unrobe l:erself for
the night. I~ was yet quite early in the
cvenin~, but feeling in a rather melan-
choly train of mind, ~he wished tD nvo~d
the observation of the domestics, and be
left entirely to her own seclusion and re-
flection, for the rest of the hours of the
nocturnal season. Presently her eye
rested on a note, which had been placed
on the toilet-table 1w some unknown per-
son. She found it addressed to liersel~
and unsealed. She quickly tore open the
snowy folds an(l rca(l
"RasrEcTa~n Al ADAM-
~iI have that to comrrinnicate to your I
private hearing which Thay bInd' pain
and anguish to your bosom. But it were

better perhaps yen should imow tile truth another, th~ sect ifice has' been made, and
at once, crc tr~ble come from which I shall ever be firm to thuse marital vows,
there can hereafter be no possibleextri- and a~ide t e consequences, however my
cation.. Dear lady, I have behcdd~ thase i heart may bc~d by the infliction of the
lashes of thirie bathed in sorrow and strings of &amp;st!ny, and however it may
grief, and I think I am able rightly to di-1 smother arid dry up within my bosom for
vine the cause. Of this, I am at least J lack of the annointing of Pie balm of re-

certain there is treachery and ingratitude
where there should be the, fullest confi-
dence an4 love. I dare no~ add more at
present. It may be sufficient to say that
he lives and continue&amp; to wear you inhis
* "heart of hearts." I would ask for an inter-
view with you in the sanctuary of your
silent chamber at' such hour of night when
our privacy would not be likely to be intru-
ded upon by prying and inquisitive domes-
tics, but I would save you from the possi-
bility of scandal being attached to your
fair name by oh y seaming imprudence,
whatever. I think however you may
safely meet me in the lower arbor of the
Qarden, at twelve to-night, when the clock
of St. John shall strike that hour and be
the signal for our meeting. Fear nothing.
Trust to the faith ot one who has ever
been your friend, and would readily yiehl
his life in vindication of the puiitv ofyour
honor. I will await .witli anxiety your
coming. FajI sot. The .~erpent of evil
is even no~v corecaled among 'the flowet~,
Be warned in time-and you are saved !"
"Oh, Heavmns! what new tro able is
there now impending over my devoted
head? What have I ever done that I
should be marked out as the victim of
su~pieion and distrust? Why'ihose hints
of' doubts (if my faithfulness, by that one
at least who should be the first to shield
my truth frum the withering bi~~ts of cal-
umny? What is Ire to me now? Am I
not the lawfully wedded wife of Syden-
hani Van Toy'? ~nd whatever may have
been the first yearnings of my heart for


'p

22                        MINNY LI
ciprocal and refreshing love. He is my
husband, and in weal ~r woe, my destiny
is now linked with his. I shall keep my-
self intact from guile. As the purest of
virgins I ga~ie him my hand, and as the
discretest of wives I' shall ever remain..
No, Thornton, I shall not meet you! How
dare he even suppose that I would so far
forget myself to hold an interview with hi n
even in the presence of witnesses, much
less in a secluded place, and at an unrea-
sonable hour, all alone with him, in the
absence of my husband. How dare he
enter here and leave this missive? Oh,
God, have I indeed become the vile thing
of SUSpICiOn and guilt, that eVen the hire.
ling of my husband should presume to
insult me with impunity ~ No-no, he
shall rue his temerity! He shall be pun-
ished? Sydenham shall know all-know
of this outrage to me here in the sacred
precincts of my own boudoir.~ Thornton!
he saw me weeping, and may have heard
my husband chide me for my tears. ~y-
denham is sometimes harsh and cruel, but
he does not mean to be unkind-I am
sure he does not! AI)d ,what are the
stories that have come to my ears of his
libertinism! I c.aunot-I will not believe
them! Yet Thornton may have that to
communicate which might remove the
load of sorrow from my' heart. What-
ever the truth of all, it cannot be worse
than this suspense, the doubts and fears
which hang upon my soul as art incubus,
and envelop my whole being in anguish
and~gloom. 'He lives and still wears me
in his heart of hearts 9 Oh, God! The
tidings come too late. He can be nothing
to me now ! Yet 1 would learn of his
welfare, Thornton shall tell me of him!
Yes, I will meet him! But not alone.
Conradin shall go with ne. I will con-
ceal him among the roses, and-and-he
shall hear and witness whatever may

I

I

I.WSON, OR
transpire, and be my protection should
danger spring qf this clandestine meet-
ing ~
Such was Mirry's audible soliloquy.
She thrust Thornton's letter into her
bosom, rearranged her dress, and went
below to the drawing room in searchol
h~r nephew. She was inIbrmed~ t~at4e
had accompanied Ida on an eveningvialt
to one of the neighbors. She then re-
tired again to her chamber, threw herself
into a large rocking chair, and awaited pa..
tiently the hour for the interviei~r with
Thornton. Bitt time passed by on lead~
wings. Drowsiness overcame hersonb~-
the poppies of Nox were placed to 'het'
eyelids, and she slept, as purity and inno-
cence may ever sleep-calmly and sweeL~
ly, whatever the phantoms and terrors of
the nocturnal season.
When she awoke, the sun was already
up and shedding a rich golden tint, blend-
ed with the blushes of aurora, over the
face of nature. The birds among the
trees of the garden jwere singing their
matin hymns, and every zephyr seemed
~leeply laden with the fragrance gathered
from the sweet dew.bathed flowers that
blossomed everywhere around.
Site instinctively remembered the pro-
posed assignation with Thornton, ~nd
though it was now broad daylight, she
hustened to the arbor that had been des~g-
nated, not indeed with the expectation of
'meeting hint, but with some va~t~ idea
she would there find some token that ho
had punctually awaited her coming. She
brushed the gems from the grass, and
from many a sweet flower there was
yielded&amp; a world of perftt~me, as her light
steps passed quickly to the place of ren-
dezvous. The snowy shafts of the foun.-
tarti presently shot up among the green
shrubbery, and she beheld with pleasure
the liquid crystals that fell in showers

fboin the many jet d'eaz&amp; into the basin of~ sortie perso~ unknown. Lu Wilton,
the fountain. But she was impatient to f Thartiton, and S~denham, had all disap~
enter the arbor near at hancL One bound peered, without the slightest clue that
more and she had entered the garlanded aave rosit.~ve assurance of their death or
retreat.                            survivaL  The inference, however, was
Oh horror of horror! The sight that palpable enaii'~h that Ida and Sydenham
greeted her eyes. A. terrible and niys-~ had become cognizant of the proposed
Wxious tragedy had been there enacted, as iiatton between Thorntoi~ and Mary.
during the silent hours of the fLeceding The latter, in sortie fit of jealousy, deter-
night. There was a ~ Of fr~b Em- mined to anticipate the appearance of
man blood on the floor of the arbor, and M~1Y at the interview, and disguised her-
all around traces at' a desperate recountre self in a portion at' Mary'~ clothing, the
between a number of iniduals. 2he better to conceal her person and object till
eglantine and honeysuckle were laid trait- she had learned the seezet purpose of the
ing in dust and blood. The lattice ~ meeting between the wife and Thentton.
of one side of the arbor was cempleteW The disguise, however, proved fatal to her,
torn away, andThere was a trail as if som in leaving no doabt ira the mind of Syden-
heavy body had been violently d~~d barn of the infidelity of his wifeand hence
among the grass, oven &amp; bed of violets ~ attempt to avenge himself of the dis-
and along the gravelled walk, for the ~. honan cast upon himinttre blood of Thoro-
tanee of fifty yards, to the herder of a ton and Mary. The preparation of a de-
large reservoir, filled with water pumped parture by- Sydenham on business to
up from th~ Hudson river, and intended ~ Boston, was soon regarded as a rare, the
water the plants of the garden. Here all better to enable hira to watch the conduct
traces of the violence was lost. A frag- of his wife and Thornton, both otT whom
meat of a man's coat, the hood and scarf he had, for same cause or other~ learned to
of a female, and a large dirk knife, cniin- distrust. This opinion was strengthened.
soned with gore, lay scattered around. when it became known tha~the ships sup..
among the grass aud flowers, but no hw posed to have been wrecked had arrived
man body, or bodies, either male or female 10 safety in the harbor of New York. lie
could he discovered by a must thorou~I had doabtieses surprised Ida and Thorotort
search ef the premises, when a report off in the arbor at the midnight hour, areas-
the fliul tragedy had become widely spread &amp;nated them in the wdd phrenzy of his
over the city and the comninaity. The Jealousy, concealed the bodies, and escaped
piece of coat was afterwards recognizes to avoid the penalty of the law fo~ crimes
as a fragment of cite that bad been usually of such tertilite (~e and wickedness.
worn by AugustusThornton. the scarf and Yet he ittight hare fallen ii~ death h~
hood were the property ot Mary Van Tuyl, the hands at' Thornton. lie was weal..
and the dirk knil~ that of her husband! thy-a nian munch respected and esteemed
The lovely wife survived the terrible ip the social and commercial community
murder, hut was unable to give any cx-. Would he b4 likely to abandon his aged
planation of the tragedy than what might parent, now dropping into the grave; ant
be inferred from the contents of the render his business, and leave his treas
letter in the handwriting of Thornton, tires and every loved scene and association
which had been lea on her toilet-table by of the old family mansion, under say cit
C

23

TH~ OUTLAWS~ LEAGUE.


24

MIN~Y LAWSON, OR

'ii
I
U

cumstances whatever, even had he detect
ed his lovely young wife in criminal an'
adulterous relation with a seducer or liL
ertine paramour? - Would he not hay
remained firm under such fearful c~nse
quences of crime, and appealed to tb
laws and to the sense of a virtuous an'
outraged community for an acquittal o
all censure and blame in the fact of hay
ing spilled the blood of the fully guilt~
person who had robbed him of his hone
arid brought pollution on hi~ name ~!
The whole affair was involved in inex
plicable mystery~
'rhe wife of Sydenham lived to suf7et
contumely and insults less endurable thar
death itself. She was looked upon a~,
thing of shame, and was compelk d by th
force of public opinion to retire from the
gaze of the worid-m~one knew whither.
But there were antecedents in her history
that might have given grounds for all the
the calumny ~'hiehm had been hurled upon
~er character. She was a daughter ci
respectable but impoverished parents.-
She had early pledged her troth to a oung
man, a lieutenant in the American Navy,
who appeared to be ~vo~mhy ~ all her
heart's sympathies and aiThotions. int
-he wascalh~d abroad in the service of his
cotfutry, and there came at lengib a re-
port of his death, in a duel between him-
self and a fellow ofFicer, at a certain
naval rendezvous in the Mediterranean
sea. Her heauty antI charms scan there-
after attracted the attention'of 5) donbam
Van Toyl, who pursued her with his ad.
dresses. and succeeded ~in so placing her
father under obligations to him of a pecu-
niary nature, that abQ was constrained,
to save him fromfurther embarrassments,
to give her hand ~wliere her affections had
not been centered. She, the ~ o~ng and
romantic maiden of fifteen years, could
scaioely assimilate ip sentiment arid feel;

I

I- ings with the cool and calculating bache~
tI br of forty-five, the stern citizen and
plodding merchant-though he possessed
0 large wealth, nnd was able to make ~er
the mistress of a home of luxury and os-
~ tentation. She became w~tdded to Main-
d mon an(l the sweet perfume of her heart
was literally given to the desert air!
Thorntoa had discovered her secret at-
~r tachment for another~ That gallant lover
of.Mary's was a near and (lear friend of
himself. There was something too in the
- manners, voice1 and other attributes of
Thornton, that strongly reminded Mary
r of her seaman lover, that beloved betroth-
ed one of her fresh virgin maidenhood.
Nay, more, there was a striking likeness
between the young clerl~ and the lieuten-
ant; avd Mary sometimes fancied that they
were identical. Singi4ar [hanta~y I No
no! Thornton was only the friend of the
noble and, spirited lieutenant Granville
Ednionsen.
Tiioriiton had been for several years
engaged in the ~ouating-house of Syden-
ham Van Tuyl, and enjoyed his fullest
confidence apparently until the very day
of the deed of blood. lIe had become ac-
quainted vi itli Ida Wilton, a bosom friend
and companion '~f Mary, and a young
lady of the same rank and station with
her, at the time of icr marriage. She had
officiated as Mary's 'bride~maid, and had
accepted a poaltioti intthe Van Toyl man-
sit', rot as a menial but that of a friend
and associate of the young bride.
She had accordingly many opportunities
of meeting Thornton-b~it becoming
deeply enamored of him, finally sought to
win him as her lover arid husband. TIe
soon became l)o~sesse~l of the secret of her
preference for him, and learned to guard
himself as not to make any committal
hiding to matrimony, or give her, the
slightest ground t~ suppose that such an

event was ever likely to be within the
bounds of probability, though his conduct
toward her remained delicate-at once
tender and respectful, but without even a
tioge of passion or love. Her jealousy at
last became fixed in that interview with
him in the garden, when he betrayed so
much solicitude for the welfare of Mary
Van Tuyl, the wife of another. This
caused her to spurn him train her with
rage and manifestation of a speedy we~
venge u~oa him for the ~nsalt she &amp;~ncicd
he had cast upon her in so coldly r&amp;j act-
ing her Leauty and strength of passion.
Poor girl! Had she indeed become the
victim of her own strong passions, an~
fallen into the pitfall she had dug for an-
other! This was the inevitable coucin-
5iOfl~ whiab the lapse of many years there-
after fully corroborated.
The ehier Van Tuyl did not long sur-
vive the heavy blow that had fidlen up-
on his name and family. Ho was buried
with all the honor and respect ever due to
age and a long life of probity and honor.
The young C~riradin, the orphan child of
his youngest son Louis, was the solere-
maining heir to the name and great wealth
of the family of Van Tuyl. It was tru&amp;
there was another sor', John J~cob Van
Tuyl, who had disappeared from his borne
when a small child of five years of :ige.
and never since had been heard of, and by
consequence long since given up for dcad,
perhaps by drowning in the river or meet-
ing his ceatli by some other means entirely
unknown.
Am~ng the administrators appointed ;o
settle the affairs of the state, was a saw-
yer celebrated for his tact and ability, but
likewise no'oriou~ for his profligacy and
libertiniam. - e at once took up his resi-
dence h~ h 4 Van Tuyl alaiion, hay-
ii~g, meanwhile, ado1 ted. the young heir
Coni'adia as his protege, with a vh~w to I

TiI~ OUTLAWS' LE~GUTh

his thorouTh education and subsequent
pursuit of the profession of the law, as his
own associate and partner in business.
Years rolled away, and crc the young
Conrad:n had attained to his majority, the
crafty lawyer and villain had contrived to
become possessed of the great bulk of the
Van Tuyl estate, and even sought to dis-
posers the. rightfci heir altogether of what
rernainod. This led to an opewrupturc~
and a long course of litigation nsued.
Th~ isayer was final~ ejected from the,
premises, od the manAon was closed
agairs; the ocupany of it by ~jth~r [arty.
The grounds speedily ran to waste. The
shrubbery and fi wers of the gordon be-
came the field for the jredatory excursions
of the JUVCflIIC of the city, a party o whom
at length disco~ored the mouth of an old
well at! covered ~xith brambles o~nd loin.
Exploring its dcpth, they dragged from its
dank and neic' me da~knt.~s the skeletoxi
rerna~]5 of a f~xaaIe, all arra~e4 in her
jewels and in a awn d;ees, that had re-
tained its orittnal virgin whtertess~ with
the exception of several large dark spots
on tLe~skirts, which subsequent cleraical
tests prnvou to be the stains of blood. The
body wa~ entirely hcaycd, and th~re was
no means o c&amp;din~ upon the mode of her
death, The clO~hiitg, however, by certain
tracing of i d ible rik, left no d~uLt that
the remains of the x.urdered girl viere
those of Ida WilLon. ~i he terror inspired.
by fr'iingth~ dread kuIeton~ in its ~vhite
shroud and je ads, randerod the mansion
and its enclosures ~acr(d from all intrusion
for a long period thereafter~ Meanwhile,
when the mansion roof bad become cover
ad ~ith the groin rno~s of yeurs, and
whan the shrubbery nod ~ho ~ers hod grown
up in their uncoltivatd ir~xuriance and
fairly scr~eued the old pile from the
eyes of the passer-by at the roadside,
here appeared the strange man who

a


26                       MINNY I
haunted the premises, and daily and righl
ly watched every avenue that led to it
crumbling walls. The subsequent cot
finement of the maniac, led to The discos
ery of his nanie, or rather gave ground
for the supposition that Augustus Thorn
ton arid Grenville Edmonson were on
and the same person! There were trace
on his arms many a device pricked in Ip
dia ink, such as the American flag, eagles
anchors, and the like, together with
faithful likeness of the good old ship, or
board of which the gallant Lient Edmon
son had 5) proudly trod, either in his owr
individual person wills his friend Thorn
ton, or else in the double identity of hir~
self and his alias!
lint what of Sydenham Van Tuyl and
his wife Mary? What of Conradin, the
heir of the Van Tayl inheritances? Did
they all survive the terrible cal~mit~ that
had befallen that once proud and honora-
ble name ~ And how was Minny Law-
son's hapless late involved in the wilJ
proceedings and infamous orgies of the
league of outlaws, in their midnight ren-
dezvous in the dismal and worm-eaten
walls of the old Van Tuyl mansion, to
which allusion has been so repeatedly
made 'i Gentle reader! we cannot antici-
pate the progress of events. Bear with
us patiently till our pen shall have th~
leisure and ability to present in brief de-
tail the extraordinary facts and incidents
that are necessary to be revealed in order
to the legitimate denouement of our truth-
ful story of u~ystery and crime.
CHAPTER. V.
THE RED WITCH OF wEEHAWKEN.
As TUE reader may have already con-
j lectured, the groundwork of our truthful
narrative of crime and virtue is somewhat
deep and intricate. From the number

~AWSON, OR
t- of persons involved i~. the dark deeds of
a thy "League of- Outlaws," this is neces.
I- sarily the case. This fact, accordingly,
will oblige us to shift many and oft times
a the kaleidacope of life, in order to a pro-
per presentation of the characters of the
e story, and to a faithful development of the
I motives and passions which animated the
bosoms of each and all who became in
any way implicated in the strange, inys-
terious, and terrible events, as a faithful
chronicler, it is our bounden duty to
- re~ord. As the skilful general who dis-
poses his forces to the best advantage,
- preparatory to some terrible and uncertain
battle, so must we arrange the characters
of our story in such position in our war-
fare of life and death, crime and terror,
that each leader and each subordinate
may hold his relative importance in the
* grand strife of Destiny and Fate. There
* must needs be plot and counter.plot,
marching and counter-marching, baclsings
and fillings, advance and retrograde
movements of all- the parties, before they
can be fairly drawn up in "martial ar-
ray," or into that rank and file, consistent
with the part each warrior in life's tur~
moila shall be called upon to fulfil or
enact. We must accordingly bring up
again in review a number of those who
have already been presented, upon whose
movements the final result in the contest
of villainy and virtue depends.
In a previous chapter, we have seen
the old waterman, Switzer, leave his tiny
craft in the charge of George Lawson,
while he should be absent during the
day at Whitehall and the Battery, on
some engagement or other he had pre-
viously made with the river-men .of that
* vicinity of the town. nn1 Lawson
had gone to market, to ~p~se of her
sweet floral treasures, and thence by stint-

21

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

agem had been decoyed to the house of~ aTny of the beautitbi cralt wtiich nan
Arlington, the libertine merchantthrongh been left in his charge by Switzer.
the instrumentality of his minion and ser- Several times during the day he Irad
vant, the Swiss sailor Armund. The been called on to row gronpa of indivi-~
subsequent attempt upon her purity by duals, male and female, across to the
the salacious monster is aIread~ known, "Elysian Fields," then glorious in their
but nothing concerning the issue of that primordial richness of foliage and flow-
terrible strife has yet been revealed. Of era-that delicious spot so vocal with the
course, the friends of the lovely girl knew music of bright-plumed birds, and redolent
nothing of the perils which environed her with sweet perfumes, having ever been,
being, during her absence from home even more than at the present day, the re-
on that day, nor, indeed, for a consider sort of young lovers, who sought the deep
able length of time thereafter. Her fa- shadows of the umbrageous trees, and
ther had busied himself with his plants sat themselves down on the flower-strewn
and flowers in his garden, all alone, till ~4opes of the hill and banks of the river,
the shadows of evening began to en- to discourse of those things nearest to
shroud the face of nature, and gave the their hearts, and so well calculated to ter-
signal for him to put away his pruning inmate in the fullest fruition of love and
bliss
knife, with other agricultural implements,
and close the labors of the day. The Nor did George forget his appointment
sun at length dropped behind the hills of with the young gentlemen whom he had
Bergen, and was entirely hidden from taken across in the morning to Wee-
view, but, as if unwilling to retire without hawken. Thither he repaired late in the
some further manifestion of his sublime afternoonarad drew up his skiff in a small
attributes, he speedily flung across the cove and inlet close under the brow of
the Pallisades. Here he awaited the
firmament a drapery of such gorgeous coming of his customers. He had
coloring as to captivate every artist's eye, scarcely secured his boat and refreshed
and fill the bosom with sublime and rap- -
turous emotions. Gold, and crimson, and himself by a draught ofcool Water that
blue were so exquisitely blended in one spouted out in a small a9d regular stream
grand haimonious and dazzling whole, from the side of a rock into a natural res-
that the vision was fairly bewildered in ervor~ at its base, when an age4 woman
its effort to penetrate the glorious gauze- came out of a vine-covered cottage that
work which seemed purposely drawn up~ stood in a tree-screened enclosure, close
as 'twere, to reveal the ~sombre couch under the shadows of the hill, and in-
where the God of Day should shortly re- formed him that the~ gentlemen for whozia
pose, and surrender for a season his soy- he waited had left her house about noon
of that day on a pedestrian range along
ereignty to pale Cynthia, queen of Nox the road on the top of the bill, on some
and the stars.                       private business of their own to Fort
George Lawson had taken his reel and Lee. She also informed him that they
rod, and amused himself by fishing from had desired her to say to the young boat-
the little pier during any intermission man that they would cross the Hudson at
when his services were not required by that point and reach the city again by its
parties desiring to cross the Hudson, in [eastern shore, and to thank him for the


28,                 ~iINNY LAWSON, OR                                        TIlE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.                29

I?

trouble or disappontment they had mane tions and prornilgatcd her oracular WiS-
hirii experience on [heir account. The dom and knowledge.
woman extended hirn~ when she had fin- This spot was a cave scooped out of a
ished her mission, a piece of gold of the rock in the rear of her cottage. It was
same value as that be bad received of the provided w ith every device of' mystery
young gentlemen for his aquatic services and s~tperstition, calculated to inspire
in the morrting. awe and dread, and impress her visitors
O~orge at once recQgnized in the old favorably with her gifts of' prophecy, nec-
dame who had thus so r~vdlv addressed i'omancy, conjurations, and revelations'.
him, a woman who had become greatly Among theac things was a small square
celebrated for her marvellous and truthful altar of stouc in the middle of the cave
reve!~tions as a Sorcress or Fortune on which tall wax candleswcre constantly
Teller. She li~d here at rhe foot of kept burning in thirteen sconees, or pe-
Weehawken, alone, ttniess a large New- culiar-Th aped candlesticks, that were as'-
foundland mastiW a goodly tiumber of fe- ranged in the form of a crescent a!eund
line animals, a numerous brood of fancy is front. Tiae sids of the altar were
foals and birds, not to 'speak of the un~ hung with a drapery of deep scarlet
tamed feathered trib6 that sang their si~ken velvet, on w~ijch drapery was em-
t'rilling lays, wo~ed and won their mates, blazoned in silver, numerous emblems
and built their cosy nests in the cranntcs of the full moon, sind of that o~b in all ire
of the rooks and amid the th~cki~ts ot the quarters and phases, together' ~vith the
groves and bushes that surrounded her principal planc~s, as Jupiter, Mars, Met-
secluded abode.                       cury, Venus, with ~nny of the smaller
The story~whirh had become rumored satellites ef the starry system. On the
abroad concerning the occupant of the walls were painted images of owl sbato
and serpents, iuterspei'sed with strange
cottage, was that she was a native of the inscriptions. Here and tho'e were hur~an
Island of Java; that she had arrived at sculls and crossbones, full length human
New York ia a Dutch vessel from that skeletons, and a huge waxen or marble
country,'and commenced the profession figure of hoary Time, with his bald-head
a Fortune Teller, under the patronage and stuffed brow, swinging the terrible
of the Skipper who had brought her over scythe of Fate. In front of the altar
the seas. This man had purchased the was placed a large arm chair, cushioned
cottage for her and resided with hei' for with eider down and covered with black
severall months, w~aen he suddenly disap 'clotb Over thts, between two upright
p~ared ~~hh his bri~ on a voyage to Ba-
tavia,, dud was never heard of after- beams, there was a sbarp and shining
instrument like that of a Turkish blade,
wards.                               probably designed to represent the sword
The woman called herself Maria de of Damocles, suspended iii mid space,
Van; but she was better known as the perhaps by line x~ bite hair,' wire, or thread,
"Amber Witch;" or the "Red Sybil of the that was perfectly invisible in the gloom of
Cave" terms derived, probably, from the place, illumined although it always
the saffron-like tinge of h~r comp!ex- was by the fitful glare of the burning can-
inn, her dress of scarlet cloth, and the dles. Behind the altar was a curtain of
place in which she held her incauta- black se~'ge, gracefully en~'hrouding a

large mirror into which' the visitors were
required to gaze and behold the decrees
of Destiny as they were conjured to view,
whether pertaining to the tiast or to the
future, by the extraordinary incantations
of the Weird Sister of the Cave. On the
altaP, also, a fire was kept constantly kin-
dled, by olive oil, perfumed with every
aromatic spice and incense known to the
nasal sense. All these things, ~iith her
numerous family of black and white cats,
all of which were trained to perform some
especial part in her sorceries and divina-
tions, were well calculated to give eclat
to her profession, and to elicit speculation

or surmise in regard to her origin and his- nay, they were ati y~t retained with the
tory,                                  exception of the round face and dark hair,

We have intimated the general belief x~hich had given place to the sunken
that she was born in the Island of Java, cheeks and hair ot silvery whiteness, that
and had come over the seas to New York swept adown her back in wavy luxuninn~
on board of a Dutch ship, from Batavia, to her sandalled feet-contrasting strange-
and that the skipper himself had provided ly and wildly with the crimson robes
her witl~ the present mysterious abode, of which loosely enveloped her extremely
the vine-embossed cottage and cave in lithe and symmetrical person; enhancing
the bosom of Weehawken-living with albeit, by such picturesque effect, in a
her there several mo'~ths, and then sud- large 'degree the single rAy en.l mystery
denly sailing again from New York on of her being.
clearance papers for Java and its ports. We say her history ~vas not positively
She called herself Maria de Vaux, hut kiiov~n-yet there were certain quidnunca
could never be induced to reveal any por- who asserted 'that Maria de Vaux in her
tion whatever of her history. It was blossoming years, was well known in Ba-
generally supposed however, by persons tavia as the loveliest and most talented
who were familiar with the appearance of her sex-the inernie~t of mak~eus in the
and customs' of the people of Java, that dance; for whose smiles the rich Du~ck
she belonged to a class of women called men and Javanese princes disputed, and
a'ougens-those lovely maidens in sooth who never retutued from ~any merry-ma-
which traditions say were expressly sent kings without being loaded with piastres
into the world for the amusement of the and jewels; but who amid ~so charming a
Javan~se chiefs and rich Dutchmen set- state of existence, fell into the blackest
tled on the i~la~d. These girls are rcpre- melancholy in consequence of having be-
sented as having large black eyes, long come enamored of an Ametican gentle-
raven 'hair falling down .o their ankles, man ~vho had visited her native land
small waists, round cheeks, and vermillion betrayed her Luve, and finally ib~ndoned
lip~, always half 'open, like a ripe and her to grief and shame, by returning to
lusciotas pomegranate; but lacking, with his i.ome in the United States~ ~vherc she

all these perfections, that robe-and-lily
~ombiued brilliancy of com~exion which
5 usually regarded as the chief element
of b~anty, ac~oi'di'hg to the Etiglish and
American standard of taste. indeed~ such
Japa~es'e maidens, i~ is w'cll known have
skins of the color of pale gold1 while a
brown circle surrounds their sparkling
eyes and extends to th~ir cheeks, remind-
ing one of beautiful 'yellow roses, shaded
by raven-bl~ek leaves.
however this may beas a general rule
among Japanese beauties, M~ria de Vaux
certainly must have possessed all these
characteristics in her early ma~denhood-.-

28,

9


MiNNY LAWSON, OR

subsequently followed in pursuit, und
the protection of the Dutch skipper Ca~
Van Vechten, as already detailed.
Whether such was a veracious or fabi
Ions outline of her history and career'
life, remains to he revealed hereafter. A
such gossip, however, connected with th
mystery that shrouded her being, was hr
the more calculated to awaken an interei
in her peculiar habits and mode of livin~
and to increase the number of those wh
came to have their fortunes traced by he
8orCeries, and to add Jo the number o
credulous persons who placed1 the inos
implicit faith and confidence ~n her reve
nations and predictions, of whatever natur
they were.
George Lawson had never seen th(
witch before, but from the description h
had heard and read of her, he did not foi
a moment doubt that he stood in the pres
ence of'the Red Sorceress of the Weeliaw.
ken dell.
He stood gazing at the witch, standing
there as he did before her like n statue,
unable to speak or move, as through some
spell of her witchcraft, after she~had cast
the piece of money into his hat, which he
had takez~ from his head on her approach,
and retained, seemingly quite unconscious-
ly, in his hands.
The Witch perceiving that he lingered
and gazed after her as she turned toward
her cottage home, again confronted him,
and in a v.ice of strange and bewildering
import, yet soft as the tones of a lute, and
sweet as the song of the syren is said to
be, addressed the amateur waterman and
sajior:-
"Hence, away, my son, across tne spark-
ling waters to thine home, ere yonder sun
shall go down to his couch of jasper,
crimson and gold [. Behold e over there,
a black cloud hanging on the left horn
of the crescent moon! It is the Black

TflE OUTLAWED

er &amp;arf of Evil, my son, foreboding sorrow
it. and woe io thee and thine! Haste away
-haste away, I say! Quickly pass thee
a- over if e great water, ore burst the thun-
f der and blaze the lightning that may scathe
II and destroy !"
Le The Witch instantly disappeared, seem-
it ingly as if she had sank down and was lost
it in the bowels of the earth, before the be-
~, wildered vision of the youth. Her words,
o however, ran clearly in his ears, and pres.
r ently recpverjng from his astonishment
f and stupefaction, he looked in the direc.
t tiqn of the setting sun. He instinctively
- comprehended something of the strange
speech of the Red Witch. The western
slq was alrer~dy covered with a cloud
black as ink, which came rushing on with
whirlwind speed through space, as if hast-
ening to spread the entire heavens with a
sombre pall. Quickly there was a vivid
flash of lightning, and immediately after
a tremendous crash of thunder, that echoed
and reverberated along the rocks of the
mountain, as if the entire artillery of heir-
~,en had been discharged at one fell shock
upon the earth. The li~htuing fairly burnt
his face, while the din of the thunder
stunned his hearing and utterly confound- 
ed every sense and faculty he possessed,
for some moments thereafter. A ~heavy
storm of rain was rapidly brewing, and
threatening tO break in violence over his
unprotected head. He promptly untied
and launched his skiff, vigorously plied his
oars, and reached the middle of the river
before the Storm-spirit arrested his path.
The rain now fell in such power that it
~threatened to submerge the young water.
man and his frail barqiii~ on the instant;
but through the shower of rose-tinted dia-
monds that fell, as the sun-rain seemed in
the reflection of the descending sun, it
was perceived that George was still able
to manage his craft, and keep it and him-

ii~i~

self afloat amid all the wrathful ho~vlings
and beatings of the tempest. The storm,
however, lasted scar9ely fen minutes,
when the winds were ,Ilushed, and natut3
sunk again to a calm~and serene repose,
at the very moment thesun gave his last
parting smile and dropped to rest, yielding
temporary sway to the moon and the
stars.
A few strokes more, brought the little'
boat to the landing, when George speedily
made it fast to a staple in the archway of
the pier, and drenched with the rain, re-
turned to his cottage home, at the head of
the lane, a few hundred yar(ls distant
from the brink of the majestic Hudson~
-~ from whose boiling waves he had so nar-
rowly escaped a watery grave.
a
CHAPTER VI.
TIlE HOltROR5~OF A NIGhT!
Tsrz reader will enter with us the plea-
sant enibovr~ered home of' the gardener
Liweon. Switzer, who was a constant
visitor, was there and, seated opposite to
his old friend, was gazing at the sun as it
went down ~in the west and cast its golden
and vermillion mantle athwart the hea-
vens, at the close of the storm which we
have described. Tim two old men talked
of the affairs ot theday, and smoked their
friendly pipes as was their custom, there
together ~n the benches of the cosy porch
in front of the cottage.
Their discourse was of municipal af-
fairs, arid it was evident from their com-
ments and strictures, that even at that day
extrltvag4lhce, if not corruption, had crept
in among the councils of the city, and re-
ceived the amadversion of tax payers and
citizens, as at the present epoch.
"I tell you, Switz~r, such things ~annot
long lest. The people are already ground
into the dust by these imposition of taxes
'9

4
~' LEAGUE.                        31
~ind otherburdens, and if I am not rn~sta~
ken at the nest election will vote down
these new-fangled ideas of making canals
and water-works, and the like, seeking as
they do to divert the very rivers from the
course in which God Almighty madethem
[to flow, as if man, the creature, knew bet-
ter how all these things should be than
his M~ker. I tell you, Switzer, such
hlasphemhus proceedings will never be
tolerated by a Christian cortvrnunity."
"I do not know about that, Lawson.
Governor Clinton is a great and wise man,
and whatever he says is right, a great
many will believe. This Erie Canal is
going to cost a power of money, but the
big folks say it ~vill help .trade in the city
y~ry mu~h. For my part, I don't see how
that can be; and this talk of bringipg
down the Croton water to this city l Wli~,
1 think the idea is absurd and ridiculous?
But the city councils have got to be our
masters now, and whatever they say should1
be done, they will do, and th~re can be no
help for it I suppose."
rrhus Switzer and Lawson reasoned,
talked and smoked. Those were the
times when progressive ideas had not ta-
ken very deep root in the conservative
minds of the Knickerbocker portion of the
people. Railroads and steamships were
not dreampt of in their philosophy. Even
the~ great ditch of Clinton, the "raging'~
can&amp;wl" as the fnodern song has it, was
looked upon as a daring and impious as~
gumption of the prerogatives of Omnipo-
tence himself. At length the gardener
seemed to gr~.w quite restless at the non-
arrival of his daughter Minny, and finally
remarked
"The day is closing, and. Minny is not
returned from market. Oar tea will be
late; but perhaps she has not sold her
flowers so readily as usual to-day. But it
is a pleasant walk she will have, after the


32                          MINN~
rain, which has made the atmosphere
fresh ~nd cool: Why bless me, it is ne
eight o'clockk! I never knew the girl to I
so late coming home before. Look o
there Swi1z~r, smnd see if Miuny is
sight,"
Thp old waterman, while Lawson w~
speaking, had ris~ra and walked down ti
short avenue tuThe g4o. of the paling
front of t'ie cottage.
"Well, I md~t say, I have as good ey
as most folks, ~ut really as far down ~
lane as I can see, she is c~rtninly not
view. A few moments more or le~
~vilI make small difference, good frien
"Nut in the rrmtter of dating and drini
I
ing, S~vitzcr, I grant you; yet, 'as m'
diiughter is in the case, I don't k,~ow wh'
it is, I'feel quite uneasy about her. Pot
haps It is only my foolish fears! Nev
York 'has got to be a very wicked place
Switzer, and since 21 read about so man~
s~ductiuns and ishductions and murders o
young n~aidens, I sometimes am ala~me
at the thought of ~ny prc~ty daughter fall
tug into the shares and pitfalls which bad
in~t ~oi~-a~days; are always setting foi
their Muny is a good girl and dis.
j;rey.
creet; an4 knows almost everybody in the
city, artd perhaps no harm will come to
her. come, ~witzer, we will walk down
the lauc and meet her, if she be approach-
f. ~rig. It is a pleasant evening, and the
p. bfe~ze.from the river will refresh Oar
~ ~'he old men stepped out into the roads
an4'were aboat to turn down the lane,
when George ~arne whistling up, smiling
as usual, althougIf his clothes were com-
pletely saturated with the rain.
"Good evening, father," said he. "Ah,
Mr. Switzer, have you heard anything
more about that' suspicious Ion glow black
schooner,' down at Whitel-~a!1 to-day1 sir ?"

LAWSON, OR
so, "That vessel, I declare, is always in
ar your mind, George! Cai'i't you think of
be nothing else besides, my son ?"
ut "Yes, father, only I thought Mr. Swit-
in zer might have heard something more
~bont her, you know."
as "No, George, nothing whatever. But
~e what news have you'? Who were the
in strangers you took to Weehaw~en'? You
came back without them, I perceive!
~5 Were. they afraid to risk crossing the
ie water in the storm, George'?"
11 "1 have not seen The gentleman since
;s morning, but the Red Witch informed me
d that they lelt her house sometime to-day
and went up to Fc.~t Lee, and said they
had directed her to hand me money -an-
y other gold piece,~you see, Mr; Switzer,-.-
y as a recompense for my trouble."
"oh ,then they were some gay larks,
V who went over to have the Fortune Teller
'~ tell thsem about their sweethearts, that was
' all, I reckon. 'Pun any word, they were
liberal-hearted follows, to pay you so well,
I whoev&amp; they may be2'
George handed the cqin to Switzer, but
I that worthy personage peremptorily refus-
ed to receive it.
"No, ~o, George. The sovereign you
gave me this morfiing, is pay enough for
me; you shall keep the other one for your
self NayI t~ll you I will not have it,
George.~'
'~Well, well, Mr. Switzsr, I must remain
your debtor then till some other time, that
is all, sir. I will in now, and change
my wet clothes. Where's Minny, father'?
I do not see her in the porch, as her
wont. hIve been to supper, I suppose?
I'm as hungry as a catamount. Perhaps
a cup of tea will keep me prom taking
cold, after gctti~g so wcll drenched in the
rain."
"No, George, we have not had our eve-

II

I

THE OUTLAW

fling bite. Minny has not returned," said
the father.
"Not returned! Minny yet down in the
city! Gracious Heavens, can anything
have happened to detain her'? She never
remained away so long from home i'efore,
father! What would she be doing down at
he market when it is getting dark'? There
must be something, wrong father! The
old witch over the water, bade me hasten
home before the storm came up, and hinted
strangely about trouble coming upon me
and mine! Do you know, father, ever
since that young cigar-girl was found dead
floating in the river, I have been afraid
some rnisch~ef would happen to sister
Minny.? And if that strange vessel was
a pirate-craft, wtto knows now but she
may have been spurted away by some of
the villains who remained prowling about
the town'? I dread to think of it, father!
We must not let Miriny go to market any
more, father. She is growing up a lovely
young maiden, and it will not do to let her
go forth again into the great den of
ttiiev&amp;s and villains, as it were, that the
city has become, father."
"My son, my son, what is it you say?
You alarm me-make me mad! Minny
lost to me! Minny wronged! Who
would dare to do that? No~ no, George;
hell me not that-.tell me not that! Minny
may have gone in to some shelter from
the shower that has just gone over. Sure~
ly she will be along presently! Oh I can-
nqt think any harm could ever come to a
child so lovely and good, as my dear Mm-
ny is. But come, Switzer come George;
we'll go in ~earch of her. I could have
no sleep, no peace, no joy here in this
cottage again, if anything serious should
have happened to Minny."
"You and Mr. Switzer go along down
the lane, father. I will change these wet
garmen.ts and follow immediately."
3

~S' LEAGUE.                       33
The father brother and friend, made
diligent search in every direction, visited
every neighbor, and soon interested many
citizens in the welfare and fate of the
missing girl. But not the slightest trace
of her coittd be discovered since early
morning, when she was seen in the mar-
ket with her flowers, as usual. She was
soon after missed from her stand, but it
was supposed, she had sold out and re-
turned to her home.
Four days passed without tidings of the
girl. Daring this time the anxiety of her
friends, particularly the vli4tress of her
father and brother, may be imagined not
described; To have witnessed the grief
of the old gardener would have melted
down to flesh the flintiest heart of any
wrong-doer against the purity and welfare
of the beautiful maiden. He appeared as
if he would go distracted in his sorrow and
lamentations.
George Lawson, though he nerved him-
self manfully to support his trials, it was
plain to be esen that his sorrows were
very poignant. It seemed he was deter-~
mined to leave no means untried that
would likely lead to the discovery of his
sister, whether she wem alive or dead.
Among other efforts for her recovery,
he sought the aid of the Red Witch of
Weehawken. Her incantations, however,
were scarcely to be relied on as affording
any certain indication of Mmnny's fate. It
is true, he looked into her "glass of Des-
tiny,9~ and distinctly saw his sister leave
her home, wend her way along the streets
to the distant market according ta her
wont. There he saw her again with her
flowers, amid a throng of people; and
finally bargaining with a gallant-looking
man, whom he but too readily recognized
as a distinguished lawyer of the city, but
a well-known libertine, and leaving the
market in his company with her basket


34                       MINNY LA
of roses on her arm. Here the glass of
Fate became suddenly obscured. A dark
shadow passed over its lace,,and Minny's
beauteous countenance was lost corn-
pI'eteiy ftorn his eager gaze. At the
same moment, the sword which hung over
his head in the Sybil's cave while the
Weird Sister's conjurations were being
enacted, fell with a terrible ringing and
cI~shing din to the stone floor at his feet,
ctttting off'a large look of his hair in its
descent, and coming near cleaving his
skull in twain. The candles thai; burned
on the altar also suddenly went out,
while the myriads of feline creatures set
up such a dismal caterwauling, which
was commingled with the mournful howl-
ings of the large Newfoundland dog, that
it appeared as if all the fiends of Pande-
monium had gathered there in the Sybil's
home, in some terrible orgies of spirits
damned.
George knew not how it was, but he
had contrived to bxeak away from the
awful rites~of t~ie terrible hag, nor looked
behlrx&amp;hizfi~t~U:h~e had reached the river,
where lie ~l 1'~inting into the arms of the
old*a~erwafl Switzer, who had accompa-
riled him to ~he W~ehawken shore on his
errand to the ~or$~s.
The old zxitin first laved George's brows
with the cool waters of the Hudson. He
then drew from his monkey-jacket a flask
of gin, poured some of the liquor into the
palms of his hands, and rubbed violently
the Wrists and hands of the stricken youth.
swoon was only of towporary dii-
ration2 but it was in vain the old man en-
deavored to have yOung' Lawson speak
definitely, and inform him of what had oc-
curred or been revealed to him in the wild
den of. the Red Witch.
"Not now, good Switzer. Some other
ti.ime I will reveal all. Quickly back again
over the water. I have seen my dear

4'

35

vidual was time infamous Col. Burrell, no- f enveloped in a cloak, who looked up and

LWSON, OR
sister; but--but--.-oh God! spare her-
spare her! Oh, too late-too late! I fear
my poor sister is even now in the power
of a villain! Haste away, Switzer-
Minny mpy be lost-utterly undone! Oh
God! He shall die! If he has harmed
a hair of her bead he shall die!"
The old waterman could comprehend
nothing of this wild and mysterious lan-
guage. He at once concluded that his
young friend had actually gone mad, in
his intense grief and anxiety for his beau-
tiful and beloved sister. He deemed it
prudent to say no more to George. He
immediately cast off~ his boat from the
shore, and in less than an hour after
reached the city side of the river. That
hour seemed a very eternity to Lawson.
His spirit fretted, and his whole frame
writhed in his impatience to reach the
landing of the shore. He was like the
untamed lion in his cage? aroused to ter-
rible anger, majestic and sublime in his
strength and power.
The instant the boat touched the pier,
George sprang ashore. and darted away
with the specd of a bloodhound, and with
all its sav4~eness of disposition, on some
purpose apparently of deadly intent. He
was soon out of sight, and it was ja vain
the old boatman attempted to follow. All
he could do was to go to the cottage, and
there seek to give Some kind of consolation
and solace to the stricken and bereaved
friend, the old gardener Lawson.
Meanwhile we will follow George. He
rapidly wended his way to the lower part
of the city, and took up his station under
the shadow of a tree, almost immediately
in front of the house of one of the most
eminent lawyers of the city,-none other,
indeed, than the one who had plundered
the Van Tuyl estate,. and would have
completely beggared the young Conradin,
by his cunning and villainies. This mdi-

torious as a heartless duelist, libertine and
profligate-a wretch who scrup~~ed at no
villainy whatever in the accomplishment
of his diabolical purposes.
Why watched George in front of this
man's dwelling? Did he imagine that his
young and sweet sister was confined with-
in, and made the vile thing ot the sedu-
cer's pleasure and lusts? Even so he
thought. But he was on a wrong track
altogether. The Spectres he had seen in
the witch's "glass of fate~~ were incor-
rectly portrayed, or else his mental per-
ception had become confused, and so there
became pictured to his vision a being who
though a foul villain1 was nevertheless
guiltless of having committed any crime
or outrage against the purity of his young
and lovely sister.
The house of Arlington indeed, into
which Ninny had been decoyed, was
scarcely a stone's throw from the dwelling
of Col. Burrell, but George &amp;d not for a
moment suspect the real character of Ar-
lingto~I, nor dream that his sister had
fallen under his lascivious eyes, and been
led by him, like a lamb to the slaughter,
to the couch of infamy and shame.
The house of Col. Burrell was closed
as if entirely unoccupied. George's first
impulse was to knock at the door and de-
mand admittance. His better judgment,
prompted him to act more cautiously in
the matter, and to first endeavor to obtain
some better basis for his course of con-
duct, than he could rationally possess
from that founded on the strange phan-
toms conjured to his senses by the power
of the Red Sorceress.
The night was wearing tediously away.
At lengra the clock of ~I'rinity struck
twelve. Before, however, it had ceased
striking, the front door of Burrell's house
was cautiously opened by a man closely

~TEIE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

down the street and seeing that it was
now silent as the grave, returned within.
His stay was only for a few minutes,
when two persons came out, bearing on
their shoulders something that appeared
somewhat large and heavy.
"Yes, the coast is clear," George heard
one of the men remark, as they came
down from the stoop of the house, and
passed along quickly up the street with
their their burden.
George meanwhile had crouched down
behind a pile of bricks that blocked up
the street, and which were intended to be
used in the construction of a building
of which the foundation was already laid
on the opposite side of the way from. the
!iouse of Col. Burrell. From this hiding
place he watched the movements iif the
men, with a nervono excitement so intense
that his eyes grew dim. What burden
was that which was botne along so quickly
and stealthily by these nmufiled men~-
Could it indeed be a co~n, or any other
similar receptable for the dead? A wild,
dark, suspicious thought flashed through
the brain of the young Lawson.
"Oh, God it mus~be ~o! Mysistcr
violated and murdered, and they are bear-
ing her away to the grave? Yes, I must
be assured that this is so! I will follow
and dog them, at whatever the peril."
At the corner pf Thames street stood a
large old fashioned carriage, apparently
in waiting. Into thie time two gnon quickly
entered, aftef they had succeeded, with
some difficulty, in thrusting their burden
therein. The signal wa~ given to the dri-
ver and he instantly turned the horses'
head up Greenwich street, and drove rap~.
idly away.
George darted after the coach, and
succeeded in throwing himself upon the
tail-board, where he clung tightly to the


MINNY LAWSON, OR
girtha, and remained secure and unob- job is well got through with. What say
served in the position ho had 50 timely you, old Phillip ?"
and fortunately gained. The carriage 'Oh, I mind it nought, Wilkins. Yes,
rolled onwards through many a street, we shall have made quite a fair job of it, I'll
turning and twisting about as if purposely warrant me, when all is over. You see
to avoid suspicion or pursuit, it any in- this fresh earth must needs all be taken
deed had been attempted. Soon they away to yonder new grave, and this pit
passed the Lispenard ditches, and rattled made level with the surface and covered
away to where the houses were coinpara- over with the sods again, so that no one
tively sparse and far between. At length will he the wiser of the night's work,
they turned down a lane, and drew up in Wilkins, you know. Before sunrise there
the shadow of a large tree in the vicinity will be clean work of it, that I'll warrant
of Foster's Field, now the location of the me! Ha, ha, ha 1"
city so well known as Washington Square  The old man began to wheeze and
and Parade Ground.                   cough from the loss of wind or a turn of
contrived again to screen asthma after his garrulous and strange
George him- rejoinder to the man he called Wilkins.
self from observation, (having heard one
of the men within the carriage tell the "Yes, Phillip, and I dare say it is not
coachman to stop beneath the old elm) by the first body you have buried here at
dropping down from the rear of the vehi- midnight, or rather in the quiet hours of
cle, and stooping low behind a cluster of the morning. But the Governor paid you
i'ell for this night's work, at all events,
bushes that Were growing near.
The moon had risen, and was shedding Phillip, that I know.'
"Oh, yes, yes, it was a good job-v-he
a glorious refulgence over the face of na~- paid me well for it. But, I say, don't you
tare and on all die actions of the wicked think it was a great pity that so young
men whom he he had followed to the and pretty a girl should have met her
field of the pauper dead! death in that way, Wilkins V'
They took the cQfii~n and bore it to the "That it was, indeed, Phillip. But
middle of the lot, where they found a what can't be helped must be endured
grave already dug, and the grave digger Now I must be goihg. There is a party
awaiting to embowel in the depth of the of my friends having a dance and a jolly
earth the last remains of a human body. time over at the "Jolly Boatman's," at the
The coffin was lowered, and the clods Chelsea landing! Come along with me,
speedily rattled down upon its lids, and old man, and try a mug of my landlord's
anon the grave was filled with earth. malt brewing~"
Meanwhile one of the men returned to "Nay, nay, Wilkins, I must remain
the carriage and went back with the dri- here, and see that this grave is made up
ver to the heart of the city. in good order. Get you along yourself, if
His companion remained with the grave you will; [tarry here."
diggers till the last shovel-full pf mould Wilkins turned to go, but George Law-
was batted tightly down on the grave, son, who had stood behind the huge oak
when he exclaimed :-                 near the grave, and heard and saw all that
"By all the ghosts of the paupers that had occurred, quickly darted forward and
have beenburied in this place lam glad that seized him by the throat.

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.                            37
"No, villain! You shall not leave this r "I'll tell you all I know about this af-
field until you inform me whose remains fair, Master Lawson, if you will let go
have just been buried here. Tell me, your grip on my throat, and give me a
wretch of perdition! Are they those of chance to breathe a spell," said Wilkins,
my sister Minny-Minny Lawson, the at length.
Flower Girl? Speak, quickly, or i'll George had hurled the man to the
choke the life out of your accursed body ground, and thrown the full weight of his
on the instant !" powerful frame on his chest, without re-
Wilkins was petrified with alarm, but taxing his grasp about his adversary's
managed to mutter out-                neck.
"I don't know who this girl was, nor "Speak, then, and if you are guiltless of
can I tell you how she came to her endt" her death, you shall depart without fur-
The fellow struggled to release himself
from the iron grasp of George's       iher hatm," rejoined George, lees fiercely,
hands, retaining his hold on Wlkin~,' throat.
as he spoke, but was unable to shake his
adversary's hold in the least.          "Oh, you needn't fear me, Master Law-
son. Your strength is too much for me.
"Lying thing of hell-you shall not
leave this spot unless you inform me con- I give in, and will tell you all. The girl
cerning this victim that you have just was young and very pretty, that is very
buried here, and given every particular of true, but of her death I am entirely inno-
her terrible end, as T am now convinced cent. Return with me to the house of
that such it really was. And you, old Col. Burrell, if you will, ~nd I will show
Mattocks! Hark you ! Dig instantly an you that, and tell jo~ that, which will make
other grave! Here, In this very spot, dig you wonder that a wrathful Heaven had
quickly, a deep pit! -I shall revenge my not hurled its thunderbolts and scattered
sister's death! As there is a God in to the dust all who have lieen concerned
Heaven this man shall fall beforemy yen- in this work of crime and horror !',
glance if so be through any of his hell- "I will trust you! There, arise. We
lish arts my poor sister has been brought will go down to the murderer's home on
tothis dismal end! Up with your spade an instant. Here! hark you, old man.
and dig the pitlsay I Bythe immaculate See that you do finish up the dark
Heaven, I swear that neither the one nor work you have begun, nor disturb a sod
the other of yqu shall depart hence alive again ~tyour peril, till you hear from me
unless my suspicions are confirmed on to-moriow."
removed."                               George thrust some money into the
"Oh, I'll dig the pit !-I'll dig the pit! grave-digger's hand, then impulsively
Little care I who employs me, or who grasped Wilkins' arm, and hurried away
they hide away in the earth here! Show to the mansion of the proflig4e Burrell.
me the spot, sir, and you will pay me, He could not wait now to drop a tear over
I'll be bound to dig the grave, no doubt of the grave of one he supposed to be his
that---sir !" stammered the old wretch sister. His whole soul was absorbed with
trembling in his fear, and yet apparently one terrible idea. His bosom burned for
not reluctant to put down his spade again, vengeance upon the despoiler and mur-
even to bury his friend alive, in his ava- derer!
rice and greed!


38                         MINNY LA.WSON, OIL

CHAPTER VII.
THE STRUGGLE OF LIFE AND DEATH.
was by no means the equal in
physical power with George Lawson,'
whom we have heretofore described as a
young man of stalwart frame, iron muscle,
and extraordinary elasticity of movement;
and it may be, also, that a consciousness
of guilt arid crime made him exhibit the
humblest submission and readiness to ac-
company Lawson to the home of Col.
Burrell, there to give him the details of the
manner of his sister's death, as he had
promised he #suld do, when chained to
the earth in the burying-ground, beneath
the superior strength of his young and
vigorous adversary. George, however,
was too wary to be thrown off his guard
for an instant, and was ready to inflict
upon Wilkins that summary punishment
he should merit, the moment he detected
in his conduct anything like treachery and
bad faith in the fulfilment of the voluntary
promise that he had made to him.
The twaix~ accordingly returned at once
to the elm tree, where the old chaise had
stopped; but the driver, Patrick Murray,
and the oth~rr accomplice of Wilkins, Har-
vey Morrison, bettei known, however, to
the police, by the sobriquet or alias of
"Thieving Jake," had left the spot and
probably returned to their homes.
It was now about one in t1~e~morning,
and another hour would elapsebefore they
could possibly reach the residence of Col.
Burrell, in the lower part of the city.
George grasped the arm of Wilkins tightly,
and hurried him along with a speed that
fairly made him sweat and pant in ex-
haustion of his muscle and wind.
The clock of Trinity struck two, at
the very moment when George and
Wilkins had turned into Thames street,
~and entered a rear lane that led to the

table and carriage-house of the libertine
Burrell.
The front part of the ho~ise was closed,
and had the appearance of being entirely
untenanted. The rear, however, was bril.
liantly illuminated, while strains of in-
spiring music commingled with the sounds
of merriment and bacchanalian voices
xvithin, came out upon the cooling zephyrs
of the nocturnal hour.
George soon ascertained that Col. Bur.
rel had visited theold Park Theatre, and
at the close of the performances had been
accompanied home by a number of the
principal actors and actresses, with others,
the epicureans and bon vivants of his ac-
quaintances whom he had met at the play,
and invited to partake of a champagne
supper, agreeably to orders he had given
to his French cook to prepare for this
especial occasion; tl~ougti such entertain-
ments were quite common with the ac'
complished, but wily, heartless and un-
principled man of the world.
Thus it was, youth and beauty, the gay
and the thoughtless, were there assembled
at that hour of night, in the ample man
sion of the distinguished citizen and law-
yer. Thus it was that bright eyes flashed
amid the glare of light, from innumerable
waxen candles irs silver cahdelabras and
chandeliers, whose glass pendants hung
down like icicles, ~nd sparkled as so many
lobes of diamonds in the glorious refulg-
ence that x~as shed around. Thus it was
that the merry strains of music arose on
the calmness of the snoonshiny night, the
shuffling of many feet, and the joyous
laugh told that the hours were b~ing pass-
ed in the revelry of a social and impromptu
ball.
Lawson and Wilkins passed through the
stables and stood in the middle of the gar-
den beneath the shadow of an Italian

38

THE OUTLAW
chestnut tree, and watched the movements
of the revellers as they passed to and fro
the windows, up and down the large sa-
loon, in the mazy evolutions of the dance.
Presently young Lawson caught a
glimpse of the ~tall and elegant figure 'of
the owner of the mansion, and saw him
bend his smiling face close to the ear of
a notorious actress and whisper something
to her, which made her smile and cast
upon him a glance, oh too utterly full of
the wanton's coquetry and cunning, yet
concealed in a measure under the mask of
a. modest and prudish behavior, from the
eyes of such persons present who were
- not the especial observants of the conduct
of the libertine and his susceptible part.
ner in the festivities of the night.
'~Accursed villain!" exclaimed George;
"I can contain myself no longer. I will
rush in on him and slay the vile seducer
and murderer of my poor innocent sister,
on the instant, in the midst of his wicked
company, steeped in infamy and crime
doubtless they allare as he is himself."
He made a bound, as if to puthis inten-
tion into execution; but Wilkins sprang
also forward, grasped him firmly by 'the
arm, awd holding him back, exclaimed:-.-.
"Nay, nay, Lawson! Be not thus so
rash and precipitate, lest you fail in your
purpose, of retaliation ~tpon the tranagres- I
sor. Stay and learn all the particulars of
the young woman's death, ere you add the
stain of blood to your own soul. Believe
'me Lawson, I mean to be your friend, and
will assist all in my power to bring the
monster to 'the bar of justice! lBit not ~
'yet-not yet! Time enough when the 't
merry company shall have left these gay 5
halls and returned to their customary ~
haunts and homes. In here, Lawson, and
I will show you the room in which the c
poor girl breathed her last. The great 0
God of Heaven help me" he added, after b

VS' LEAGUE.                       39~
jashort pause, "for the hand I had in her
death! It was through me, Lawson-!
own it all, sii~, that the girl was enticed t0~
this foul den; but I ant gciltfess further
than that, of her untimely and terrible
end! Yet I will mit shrink from the pun-
ishment due to my crimes. I am ready
and willing to atone to God and man for
the part I have taken itt the poor innocent
young creature's deatb.I The entreaties
and piteous supplications of the young
and lovely girl have been ringing in my
ears eversince her death! I already feel
the torments of the damned, as though I
had actually plunged my knife to her
heart! Oh, sir, she is not th. only fair
creature that has been inveigled here,
none of whom have ever been allowed to
depart without the loss of their purity and
honor, some indeed willingly yielding
themselves up in sacrifice te gol4 but
many, ali too many of them forced to suc-
cumb before the cunning of villainy and
the power of fiendish lust."
While Wilkins spoke the two men
passed' stealthily into the haIl and entered
i rear room on the second floor, immedi-
~te1y above the one in which the revel-
era were engaged in the merry dance.
rhe moon shone full in the window, and
every object was almost as distinct as in
he light ot day.
"Thsta~h there," said Wilkins, "was
he deatti4ed of virtue and of your sis-
"On your soul's salvation, villain, is
he tale you tell me true ?'~ cried Law-
on, grasping Wilkins by the throat, in
he impulse of his gushing passion, and
shaking him lustily, as if he would strati-
lie him on the spot.
"Holds hold! Lawson l You will
hoke zae to death. I swear by the Holy
ne in heaven, I have told you nothing
ut the truth. Slay me not in my guilt!


2

40                        MINNY L4
Oh God! oh God! ieee hernow! She
fixes her eyes upon me! Take her away
-away! There-there sh~ is! The
blood is streaming from her throat! Take
her away! Oh, any shape but that! Oh,
God ! mercy! mercy!"
"What meanest this outcry, cowardly
villain and wretch! Weuld you alarm
the house, and entrap me likewise into
the power of the foul fiend ?"
"No, no! Las~on, I surely saw but this
moment her bleeding form pass before
my eyes. But that could riot be. No,
no, we buried jier.-buried her there by
the old oak in'the Potter's Field! I re-
member all now! Oh, it Was like a dream!
I thought she was here again, in this
room, just as I first Saw her with her
throat cut arid the blood gushing from
the wound. Oh, God! pardon my crimes!
Oh~ bend down with me here, Lawson,
and may God have mercy on my soul!
Let a brother's prayer be joined with mine
to remove the stain of blood' from my
trows !"
Wilkins, trembling in every limb, fell
to his knees on the floor, and commenced
a supplication to God for mercy in such
loud and seemingly agonized tones oI~
voice, that Lawson felt constrained to
seize the man again by the throat and
choke to silence the lamentable wailings
that he uttered. Suspicious of treachery
he could not believe that i1tin~ was
sincere in his professions cf' ~il~tence,
and hence looked upon his conduct as a
mere trick or artifice to raise the alarm,
and thus prevent the accomplishment of
his vengeance upon the foul wronger of his
sister's sweetness and purity.
"Is this the way, whimpering wretch,
you would assist me to take vengeance
upon the betrayer of my poor sister! I
will strangle you, too, in my burning
'wrath, if you do not instantly arise and

~WSON, OR
assist me to arrest yond 'r despoiler and
murderer. But no, I will not hurt you!
You shall lie here, nor stir an inch, till I
shall have wreaked my revenge.~
He drew from his pocket a large silk
l~andkerchief, and quickly wrapping it up
into a coil, he tied it tightly around Wil-
kin's neck He then dre~v off the fellow's
coat and wrapped it about his head in a
manner effectually to prevent him from
speaking or making any outcry whatever.
Not satisfied, however, with this proceed-
ure, he dragged down the hangings of the
window, tore them in strips, and tied
Wilkin's hands and feet together in bonds
that he had no power to budge or rise
I r~m the floor to which George quickly
and violently hurled and pinioned him.
The building shook with the merry
tread of feet below, so that whatever
noise had been made by Lawson in secur-
ing Wiikins in the upper room, was en-
'tirely unheeded by the revellers in the
dancing hall.
George threw himself on the couch on
which his sister had yielded up her lifer
placed his hands to his face, and wept
like a; child. The strong man now felt
himself deprived of his strength. Every
muscle relaxed, and he trembled'like an
aspen 'in the strange reaction of his phys-
cal power and theutter prostration of his
nervous system.
How long he remained in that position
he hardly knew, but at length he was
aroused to a consciousness of himself
and his direful purpose. The gay guests
were departing to their respective homes,
and in a short time all had retired, when
Col. Burrell, considerably under the infin-
ence of ~ me, ascended the stairs and
entered his sleeping apartment, which
adjoined the one in which George had re-
mained secreted in silence. This chamber
communicated with the other, which

THE OUTLI
fact, was instantly perceived by Georg
who quickly darted into Burrell's chamber
turned the locks of both doors, thrust th
keys in his pocket, and confronted th
libertine before he was apprised of hi
adversary's presence.
"What mean you by that act sir~ Wh
are you that dare intrude into my apart
ment? Burglar ?-robber ~"
"Neither, but the avenger of a sister'
purity and honor! I am the brother o
Minny Lawson, and your life shall be tb
forfeit of her shame and death !"
"Are you mad, villain !" said Burrell
in aliirm
"No! cool and collected! Prepare t(
defend your life as best you may be able
That girl, whose body your minions havE
cast into the pit in Potter's Field, but
few brief hours since, was my only aric
dearly beloved sister! I know you t
have been her betrayer and murderer
Her blood cries aloud for vengeance upor
the wrong-doer. Col. Burrell, you musi
die !"
"Patrick! Wilkins l Ho! help
thieves, burglars - murder--murder
murder !" cried Burrell, making an ef-
fort to break toward the door of the room
that led to tke hall of the staircase.
"Nay, nay, sir! Your outcries shall
avail you nothing.' Utter another sylla-
ble of alarm and your brains shall be-
smear the walls of this apartment! Yet
I would give you a chance for your life.
Take one of these pistols-but first you
shall inform me how my sister came to
be entrapped here, and what was the man.
ner of h~r death. Answer me, quickly,
pr die the death of a dog !"
"I know nothing of your sister, sir. It
is true, a young girl was here, who scorn-
ed my love, and I believe committed sui-
cide, by cutting her throat with her pocket
knife."

~WS' LEAGUE.

41

"Scorned your love! Ha! ha! And
r, well she might, for it was the wolf's love
e for the lamb! Better for her to die the
e death of a suicide than be dishonored by
s the foul polluter. Yet, Colonel Burrell, I
pronounce you a monster a~d a murderer.
o We meet face to face, and by the
great Gqj in heaven, I will not leave here
unless corpse without taking full re-
5 venge for the outrage and violence done
f to the purity of my departed sister Take
this weapon. One or both of us must
surely die."
Burrell took one of the pistols from
George's hand, and instantly discharged
it in his face, before lie-had time to place
himself in a posture to fire. Fortunately
the ball only grazed his cheeks, leaving a
mark, and causing a slight flow of blood.
'Miserable poltroon! Your life is now
completely in my power. Yet if you..
have another pistol, procure it, and make
I the best of your chance for life."
J3urrell looked around the room, and
then scanned the physical proportions of
Lawson, in contrast with his own. Law-
son's frame was certainly larger and
heavier but nevertheless, was scarcely
equal in muscular power and pliability to
his own. His first impulse was to rush
forward, and seize the youth, and, by
main force and activity, hurl him into the
dust.
Lawson's quick eye detected the move-
men', and it 'eau~ed him to fire upon his
advancing foe. The ball took effect in
Burrell's shoulder, when he uttered a yell
of pain and rage, and rushed like a wild
boar upon George. They grappled, and
struggled, hand to hand, but the Colonel
soon found that he had a fair match in
the boy, whose hand now pressed strong-
ly against his throat. The straggle be-
came more and more fierce and terrible
each instant. At length George was


42                        MINNY LAWSON, OIL
struck to the floor by a powerful blow and claim to honorable treatment and shall

lay for a moment completely stunned
His exulting foe, sprang upon him as he
lay, seized him furiously by the neck,
and strove with vindictive rage to choke
the living principle from his body. But
the presence of mind and the activity of
George served him in that  rible mo-
ment. Raising his feet with almost super-
human power, he planted them full in the
breast of Burrell, who relaxed jnis hold and
staggered back nearly overcome with pain
and the loss of breath. Both of the an-
tagonists had a moment's respite, during
which (hey respectively gathered wind
and strength, when they rose and clutched
again in horrible strife. Now the~long
hair of George fell over his eyes. This
Darrell instantly seized, twisted around
his band; and then commenced dragging
Lawson with giant strength toward the
window.
"Fool !" exclaimed Burrell, "would you
grapple with a man who has never yet,
though engaged in many a conflict of
physical strength, found his equal in sin-
ews and thews? Ha! ha! It only re-
mains for me to hurl you from this window
to the depths below."
He boasted too soon. The words had
scarcely escaped his lips ere Lawson
brought his right hi~nd measurably around
and planted a formidable blow fall under
the ear of Burrell, which ~used the too
certain conqueror to fall prostrate on his
back, pulling the youth down with his
knees upon his abdomen. George im-
mediately availed himself of the advantage
lie had gained, and gaining his hands to
Burrell's throat, held him firmly as in the
vice of Vnlcan himself, whose disciple be
had verily been, while an apprentice in
the forge of the blacksmith, the worthy
Olando Somers,
"Now wretch! You have forfeited all

now die the death of a hound !" cried Law-
son, his very heart bursting, as it were,
through his bosom in the intensity of his
sage and power.
"Never-never! by the Omnipotent!
at the hands of a beardless boy !"
The fury of a demon, also at the same
time animated the breast of Burrell and
gave him the strength of another Hercu-
les. He rose to his feet with superhuman
muscular exertion, with George still cling-
ing to his neck, like the bull-hound to the
nostrils of the enraged bullock. The
desperate man, however, found that Law-
son's strength was more than equal to his
own, backed as that was too by superior
skill and science.
In the wild plarenzy of the fight, Law-
son's fingers dug deeper and deeper into
the windpipe of the foreman. The wretched
man's eyes now protruded from his hehd
-his tongue fell out upon his chin-his
face blackened to- the hue of ink, while
the blood gushed from his ears and nos-
trils! One effort more, and Lawson * had
hurled his foe to the floor, a ghastly and
livid corse!
He cast his eyes upon the fearful ven-
geance he had wrought. A cold shudder
caine upon his frame-his heart sickened
within him -.4~e turned his head away
from the awful spectacle, and darted
forth from the scene of blood and horror!
CHAPTER VIII.
THE WASP AND THE BLACK ROVER.-
TILE CHASE.
THE rumor generally prevailed in New
York that a strange vessel had made her
appearance in its waters, under circum-
stances calctilated to excite suspicion as
to the honest intentions and character of
her commander.

THE OUTLA

The vessel was vaguely described,
to her rig and hull, but the best inform~
tion that could be learned concerning he
as given by sailors and pilots who ha
'naught a glimpse of her, was that she wa
a "long, low black schooner" of exceedin
rakish build, like a fast-sailing Baltimor
clipper, designed as a privateer, freeboote
or slaver. She was reported to have a~
peered even under the mouth of the gun
of the forts of Gouvernor's Island, in Bul
termilk Channel, at the very entrance fe
~ the Gowanus Creek. Others asserted
that the vessel had anchored several time
in a cove inside of Fire Island; sailing ii
and out along the coast; touching at Co
ney and Staten Islands; now in Raritai
Bay, then at Tom's River, off Barnegat
and away down the Jersey coast, as fa
south as the Capes of the Delaware.
The singular craft, whatever she wa~
and the object of her promiscuous cruisinl
along the coast, could scarcely fail to pro
duce intense excitement and curiosity ir
the minds of all classes of people. Shr
was certainly a vessel of war, at least had
painted port-holes to give her that appear.
ance, though no vessel had approached
sufficiently near her to determine satisfac-
torily that point; for being always appar-
ently wide awake and a remarkably fleet
sailer, she was quickly enabled to disap.
pear from sight, when any attempt was
made by any of the revenue cutters or
coasters to come within gunshot or hailing
distance. It seemed palpable enough,
however, that she was more than ordina-
rily well.manned, and this fact settled the
opinion flrst entertained, that she was
either a pirate or a smuggler.
it happened at this time, that there was
not a single man-of-war in the harbor of
New York, in fit condition to enter imme-
diately on a cruise along the coast in pur-
suit of the suspicious craft. Government,

WS' LEAGUE.                         43
L5 however, was prompt in ordering out the
a revenue Cutter Wasp, oa this errand.
r, She was gotten ready in the shortest pos-
d sible time, doubly manned and equipped,
s besides taking on board provisions enough
g for a cruise of a fortnight, during which
e time the Cutter calculated to drop into
r every secret cove and inlet from Stoning-
ton Point southward to Cape Hatteras.
a Government also directed the frigate Hud-
son out of the harbor of Norfolk, to range
f the coast, by and large, at the discretion
d of the Commodore, with a view to 'over-
a hauling any craft that should not be able
to make a favorable report of ~itself, or
- show clean papers of her voyage and
I trade.
The Cutter Wasp had already been
abroad about ten days, during which time
she had swept in and out of every bay
and estuary of the Jersey coast, without
~btaining the slightest trace of the suspi-
* ~ious cruiser. She was at length on her
return from the Capes of Delaware.
The day was unusually sultry, and
there was just breeze enough to keep the
* vessel moving lazily over the waters,
where she seemed like the fabled Halcyon
* serenely brooding, as it were, upon the
* breast of the gently undulating billows.
Captain Stauntoa had, from first to last,
* remained on deck as much as possible, in
order to set a good example to his crew,
as well as from an eager desire to be
among the first to discover the supposed
piratical craft and be ready to go in chase
of' her with the promptest dispatch. He
walked to and fro the deck for some time,
on the afternoon of which we are now
speaking, ever and anon casting his glass
over die waters in every direction where
a. sail might possibly be seen. Finally,
laying tbe spy-glass down on the roofing
of the cabin-stairs, he spoke to his first
officer, who was then standing midship,


44                MLNNY LAWSON, OR                                     THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.             45

after having ordered almost an entire
stripping of the canvass of the craft
"Keep a bright look out, Mr. Collins,
and let me be called, if any thing like the
black schooner should heave in sieht !"
"Ay, ny, sir !" answered the lieutenant
"With so many sharp eyes on hoard, it
shall be hard if we miss seeing him, and
harder still for him to escape us, if we
should chance to catch a glimpse of his
flaxen sheets."
Captain Staunton descended to the
cabin, and, quite feverish from hi~ long
watching and the heat of the day, he threw
himself into his cot, and endeavored to
snatch a short repose, in order the better
to prepare for the exciting service he ex-
pected hourly he might be called upon to
make. But sleep, which kindly so sel-
dom fails to visit the seaman's eyelids,
when w6oed amid the raging tempest, re-
fused for some time to come to his call.
At length he was heard to mutter
'~I would sacrifice everything in the
world, could I be fortunate enough to catch
that fellow, so that I could teach him a
wholesome lesson for venturing In our
Yankee waters without the proper cre-
dentials to show himself an honorable
Cruiser, and not some scoundrelly pirate,
that lie most evidently is !"
The captain siept~ Meanwhile the offi-
cer of the watch continued his walk on the
quarter-deck, his thoughts taking a turn
very similar to those of his chief, for like
Captain Staunton, Lieutenant Collins was
extremely anxious to fall in with the black
cruiser, and bring her in as a prize into
the waters of the Hudson.
The surface of the ocean was smooth,
although occasionally ruffled by a light
breeze, which coming from seaward served
to cool the br6ws of the crew, and restore
some vigor to their wearied limbs. Yet,

swell which seldom or n~ver leaves thE
the bosom of the broad Atlantic to per'
fEet tranquility. It came in from thE
west slowly and silently, making the yes
sel roll from side to side like a drunker
man. Though in sailing trim, there wat
not a stitch of canvas spread but what wat
requisite to keep her lazily but steadily
moving before the gentle zephyrs. Jr
fact, nearly all her canvas was closely
furled; even the studden-sail booms werE
at their yard-arms, their gear was rove
while the studden-sails themselves wer.
on deck ready to be set in a moment
The decks were clear of every incum~
branch, while the boats themselves looked
as if they were impatient to be swung ou~
in any event of fight and peril. Indeed,
there was every sign on deck that th~
now apparently listless crew, would, at
the first sound of the boatswain's whistle
spring into life and activity, and that the
c9mparatively bare tracery of spars and
rigging, would be promptly covered with
the broad sheets of snowy canvas.
Thus the day wore on. Toward th~
evening, the breeze, which had been slug-
gish since morning, increased consid-
erably. A fresh hand had just relieved
the look-out at the mast-head, at eighi
bells in the afternoon watch. His eyes,
trom not being fatigued, were sharper
than his predecessor's, and he had scarce-
ly glanced around the horizon, when he
hailed the deck with words which roused
the officers and crew instantly to duty.
"Sail! ahoy !"
'Where away i" promptly asked the
cificer of watch. The ~ head was
now ten~ling on shore, whose blue outline
was faintly seen miles away.
"Right over the starboard quarter, sir,"
was the response. -
"Call the Captain, Mr. Luffiagham,"

as before intimated, there was the usual said the second officer, Lieutenant Parker,

4

who had charge of the deck, to the mid-
shipman of the watch.
"Which way is she standing now,"
asked the officer.
"Directly down for us, if I am not mis-
ken," was the answer.
Captain Staunton and ~he entire ship's
company were now on deck, anxiously
awaiting the i oforination respecting the
appearance and movements of the stran-
ger.
The first Lieutenant instantly went
aloft with his glass and soon reported the
craft to be a large clipper-trimmed
schooner, but whether a war vessel or a
coasting trader he was unable yet to de-
termine.
On the stranger came toward the Rev-
et~ue Brigantine, probably ignorant of that
vessel's vicinity, as, stripped as the craft
was, the Black schooner, if it really were
her, would not perceive the Cutter, till
long after the latter was seen by the for-
mer ship.
"What do you make her out to be, Mr.
Collins ?" inquired Capt Staunton of the
first officer, who had returned a second
time from a trip to the mast-head.
"A lar'~e schooner certainly, sir. Black
and bristling as the devil, and without
doubt the vagabond stranger we are in
search of, sir."
Capt. S aunton smiled at the enthusi-
asm of his officer, and seemed not to have
noticed the seeming discourtesy of the
Lieutenant's speech.
"Pipe all hands on deck, then," cried
the Captain. "We shall soon be discov-
ered, and than we must quickly bear
down and secure the saucy Rover. All
hands make sail-shake oat everything
alow and aloft. Heartily-heartily, quar-
ter-master, up with her a point or ~
"Ay, ay, sir," growled the old sea-dog.
as he quickly responded to the command

that had been given to him, with the rest
of the crew.
Instantly the sails were loosened, tile
tacks boarded, and every rag of canvass
was bellying in the wind. Then the Cutter
began to bear down oh ,the suspicious
stranger with a velocity that gave prom-
ise that she would be very speedily over-
taken.
Nearer and nearer the Black craft
came on, her sails slowly rising as it
were from out the ocean. She was at
length clearly seen from the deck of the
Cutter. Apparently there was a very bad
look-out kept on board the Black Rover,
or else she was not the vessel supposed
to be, for the Schooner could have scarce-
ly failed to perceive that the Cutter was
standing immediately athwart her bows.
Captain Staunton and his officers stood
watching the stranger with almost breath-
less anxiety, with their glasses to their
eyes, ready to observe the first indication
of ~ny alteration in her course. Nearer
and nearer she approached, with stud-
den-sails alow and aloft on either side.
Suddenly they were observed to be taken
in, while the vessel's course was adhered
to the southward. The Black Schooner
at the same moment displayed a large
blood-red flag, bearing in its centre in
white, the now distinct outline regresen-
tatioh of a human scull and cross-bones.
Speedily, thereafter she let blaze a gun,
as if tauntingly hiding' defiance for the
Wasp to follow in pursuit.
The insult roused every man on board
the Cutter. The Captain again snatched
his trumpet, and cried out crowd on every
rag of canvass to the tacks. The otder
was no sooner obeyed than the ship seem-
ed actually to partake of the etitliusiasin
of the crew, and danced to the windward,
scattering the spray in showers over her
forecastle, fairly snorting like a mettle-


THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           47

MINNY LAWSON, OR

some courser, impatien~to be at the deat]
of the adversary. Every sail was spread
the tacks were sheeted home, andunde
a world of canvass, she swept majestic
cally on a bowline course in chase of thi
Black Devil, a~ Lieutenant Collins hai
very appropriately called the saucy skipper
CHAPTER IX.
THE MIDWIFE.-THE MYSTERIOUS BIRTH
A FEW bended and misshapen stave
are insufficient to form the symmetrical]
cask; rather many are the pieces which
must be joined and adapted together by
the cooper's edge and science hefor~ he
will be able to produce the substantial and
beautiful vessel capable of containing the
wine or the oil. A few links of iron give
no assnran~e of strength; yet when such
tiny circles are found conjoined in con-
tinuous relation by the toil of the son of
Vulcan, we then have the massive cable
powerful enough to stay the great anchor
that shall keep steady in its position on
the bosom of the deep waters the Le-
viathan ship, what ever may be the howl-
ings and beatings of the storm,. So
likewise must the faithful historian and
novelist gather, as it were, from the o~reat
Junk-ship of Oblivieli, each hoop and
stave that shall contribute to bind together'
the many things of the past in some grand
symmetrical historical form; or he must
search from out the iron decrees of destiny
for such materials an shall enable him
tnentally to forge ane~v each link that
shall serve to the completion of the great
chain of villainy and virtue~that he may
deem the necessary appendage to equi~
poise his brain craft amid the ocean of
life and the warring elements concomi-
tant of the moral and social condition of
man. Accordingly, many are the events
and circumstances of life yet to be detail

h ed, we ere shall have the woof and the
warp requisite for the general construction
r and fabric of our Romance of crime and
- horror. The reader is therefore invited
a to turn with us to a period a few months
I subsequent to the murder of Ida Wilton,
and the disappearance of Sydenham Van
Tayl and hs lovely wife, under the pe-
culiar circumstances of that mysterious
affair.
It was the night of the last day of the
dreary month of November. Winter had
I set in unusually severe; as if Rude Bo-
reas had resolved to make the most of the
season legitimately allotted by Nature for
his sovereign sway. Much snow had
fallen during the entire month, and though
the ground was already covered to the
depth of several feet, the Frost King con-
tinued to cast over the earth his fleecy
garments, adding covering to covering of
snow, till it became piled up literally
mountain high, in the busiest streets of
the metropolis, rendering them entirely
impassable to the pedestrian and scarcely
even to be surmounted by the most fiery
steeds attached to the fragile shell-shaped
sleigh. TI~e snow, on the night of which'
we speak, came down in flakes as Isige
as fish-scales; yet darkness, the most
profound hung over the city of New York.
It was a night when, according to the
almanac, themoon was expected to shine;
but, as if obstinately resolved to etast con-
tempt upon the predictions of the weath-
erwise, at certainly did not, but left to
Nox the sway supreme. The City Fa-
thers have ever been distinguished for their
economy of oil and gas, whether in an-
cient or modern times, and it is not to be
supposed they would ever countenance
any waste or use of the oleaginous article'
because of any neglect of "pale Cynthia"
to do her duty arid light up the city, when
the almanac declared it was her turn so

do. Be this as it may, it is certain that
not 'a solitary street lamp had been lighted
in any part of the city. Thus it was, with
the exception of a light here and there
before the door of a hotel or drinking-
house, and the glimmer of lamps and
candles from the enclosed casements of
the dwellings, and from the ships in the
rivers, it would have been difficult to im-
agine that a city containing its many
thousand inhabitants was enveloped in the
sombre pall which hung over the island
and waters of Manhattan. Quite early
in the evening, even the few lights that
might have been distinguished here and
there in the neighborhood of Whitehall
and the Battery, gradually disappeared,
so that long before midnight the inhabi-
tants of that quarter of the town bad
retired to rest-not alarmed, but rather
soothed by the fierce gusts of wind that
rushed and moaned through the narrow
and winding streets, as if "the blustering
s-aihr" was ans~rv that the snow ~hnnld

generally by the young girl, since her
mother was not tanfrequently called away
from her home to officiate as a midwife
and nurse, as well in the aristocratic as in
the plebeian circles of society of the me-
tropolis and its environs. The lower part
of her house, of course, had long since
been closed on the stormy night we have
been describing. The good dame had
retired to an upper front room, which now
served for the threefold purposes of parlor,
kitchen and sleeping apartment. In a sort
of recess or closet of the iame room was
the couch of Norab; upon which the young
girl, tired out with her day's employment,
and naturally timid in view of the storm
which raged so fearfully without, had
thrown herself, arid continued to sleep very
soundly from the closing of the light of the
dreary day. Her mother, however, re-
mained up, engaged in boiling down a
gathering of roots and herbs in some medi-
cal concoction she was in the habit of
,,sine in her nrnFesaionsl nur~,iir~ Ther~

/

4are presume to block up its pathway by weire no outside shutters to the windowss
its constantly augmenting and drifting j of the room, and as she could not afford
hills of fr, .~ rain, or did not choose to indulge in any oaten-
Near tW ~orner of Whitehall and tatious display of curtains, the window
Water streets, stood a two storied wooden glass, in con~erjuence of ihe blazing fire
house, painted yellow, wnich at one on the hearth and a large lamp that burn-
time was regarded as quite a resprc - ed on a tahle, but rendered the outline of
able and substantiAl edifice, even among her person only the more conspicuous, as
the more aristocratic abodes of State, she was seen to move to and fro a~our the
Stone, Pearl and other streets of the room, by any chance passenger who pass-
vicinity. Now, however, it presented ed along the street on the opposite side
rather a dingy and dilapidated appearance. of her dwelling. Occasionally, the atten-
It was at present occupied by an elderly tion of the widow appeared to be absorbed
Irish woman, the worthy widow Cathlcen in listening to the howling of the temWst,
O'Har~and her daughter Norahn sprightly as she stood toll in the window, and watch-
intelligent and rather pretty creature, just led, as she was ab~e, through the gloom of
passing from girlhood to womanly matu-, the night and the failing snow, the dap
rity. The lower part of the house wa~ cinv li~hrs of soma few vessels that lay
used as a herb and fruit store, which was j moored on the sortace of the water be-
alternately attended by the widow and her tween the Thtterv and Governors I-land,
daughter, or, more correctly speaking, Now and then, indeed, a Ight seemingly

*


TH~ OTJThAWS' LEAGUE.              49

48               MINNY LAWSON, OR

of an ignus fatuu's character, would flit
over the watery space, and disappear like
stars that had fallen from the dark firma-
ment above into the troubled flood below.
These lights undoubtedly proceeded from
the lanterns of ~e)me pinnace or small
boat that conveyed the captain or other
officer to his vessel, anchored out in the
harbor, after his return from the theatre
or other resort he may have visited in the
heart of the populous city, in the forepart
of the evening.
At length the dame O'Hara lifted the
huge iron pot from the fire that still crack-
led and sparkled on the iron dogs, and set
it aside in a corner of the hearth, in order
to supply its place with a saucepan that
contained her supper, which fact was evi-
denced soon after, by the savory odor

and evil, compared with the painful pur-
suits of the mariner and waterman, for in-
stance, who, for a paltry sum of money
must confront all the hardships and perils
of such a night of storm and cold. Poor,
good soul! She quite forgot that her
calling and vocation of bringing tender
humanity into the world, exposed her like
wise to the vicisitudes of boisterous weath-
er with those whose general employment
is upon the surging flu~d and of times amid
the dangers of the howling storm.
iler train of reflection, however, was
destined to be disturbed and all the pleas-
ing associations of her home dispelled by
sounds which her ready instinct and q4ick
ear realized to be a summons for her to
go forth upon some errand of humanity,
love and mercy. There come a loud

which escaped from the chimney and knock at the door, which went directly to
crevices of the chamber, and filled the the heart of the dame who but a moment

sleety air. The broth ~vas presently
ready, when she poured out a large soup-
plate full, and commenced a series of passes
between her lips and the dish with a spoon,
in such rapid succession as was q'~ite ap-
petizing to behold. The good dame evi-
dently hugely relished her food, for a very
brief period sufficed to show her again the
blue bottom of the capacious platter. Her
eyes sparkled with unusual vivacity; her
round, fat, good-natured face expressed
the extreme of satisfactiort, while her port-
ly stomach showed in its swelling grateful-
ness that it had been duly cherished and
comforted for the night.
~ And now she sat in her big arm-chair,
'with her hands crossed over her lap, the
very embotlimeiit of good-nature and con-
tentment. A train of pleasing thoughts
arose in her brains, and she began to re-
flect upon the delights of her home and a
shelter in si~ch unpleasant weather, and
to thank Heaven for the many good things
she had drawn in life's lottery of good

before had lulled herself into the belief
that she was in the enjoyment of peace
and comfort, for that signal had rudely
reminded her that she was placed at the
mircy of every midnight comez~, whether
her services were required b~he side of'
the aristocratic couch of the affluent and
proud, or at the humble pallet of rags and
straw in the dreary abode of poverty and
shame.
~he hastily extinguished her lamp, and
threw herself upon the bed by1 the side
of her daughter, whose slumbers- remained
the while untlisturbed. But the applicant
or applicants for admission, whoever he or
they were, finding the appeals unattended
to, began to thump awayby means 2f the
brass knocker of the door, ~vith sue vo-
lence that a complete and speedydemolition
of the worm-eaten panels was threatened-
And at the same time, as if the Storm
Fiend himself had also joined in the con-
spiracy to make her uncomfortable, there
came rushing around the corner such a

gnat uif wind that it seemed as if a legion
of wolves had scented their prey and start-
ed off in howling pursuit. The old house
shook to its foundation, and the frightened
dame was unable to tell whether the moss-
grown roofing had 'been lifted from its
support and hurled into the street below,
by reason of the breaking and tearing away
and falling of window shutters and other
missiles which were hurled so violently
about in the battle of the elements and
the gods. Even the spoon and the soup-
bowl, and all her chairs and the tahie ap-
peared to have taken art impromptu fit of
dancing, and rattled and danced a&amp;ry
most lustily in sympathetic harmony with
the storm without.
The poor woman, however, deemed it
most prudent to remain in her bed, even
under such imminent peril ; for she resolv-
ed she would risk being buried beneath
the ruins of her old dwelling before she
would venture forth on such a night,
whatever ' the urgency of lile and death,
and the peril of any mother and babe ~Vho
might stand in need of her professional
services, at such an unseasonable hour.
But the knocking was incessant and
more vigorous if possible than ever. At
length she could rest no longer, and con-
cluded it best to 'rise and ascertain the
cause of the boisterous assault upon her
peace and habitation. She flew to the
window in the impulse of the moipent,
dashed up the sash and in a voice more
screeching and loud than that of the storm,
ejaculated to ti~o men who stood below,
as she could ~just discern the dusky out-
lines or their forms from the lantern that
one of t~iem held in his hands.
"By all the iver blessed saints and the
howly Virgin 'especially, wat 'ad ye av wfd
an ould 'oman ov the likes ov meself, the
di vii's own night as this, whoever ye arc,
4

a pulling~ the house over me head, adown
there at the door ?"
"Tnere's no use a grumbling, good
another, hut comedown and give us speech
with you directly, if you please."
"Gob! ifs in a hurry ye are! I faix, I
tells ye, if ye are come on life and death
matters I wouldn't aquit me weary bed if
all the good wives in the city and the
trumpery wee brats are a perishin' and
dyin' to av my mentionn am d a drap or two ov
my ruedacin', this could night, I ween."
This speech was more prudent than
charitable; although it was ~~ell enough
known hat the good dame had a heart
that o~-erflowed with the milk of human
kindness when her symp~thies were right-
ly touched.
"Nay, nay, good woman, you will not
be so unchristian-hearted as to let mis stand
here and freeze to death at your door be-
fore we shall have delivered our message
to you, Goody Granny!"
"The divil take both of ye villains! I
cares nothiri' if yees does perish in the
streets, murtherin', thievin' bodice, I have
no doubt ye are. Bad cess to yees, a
comm' a troubling' an ould crater like me,
a breaking' the rest of my darling daugh-
ter, makin' her look pakein aud pale as all
the rest of the sick people what comes to
me for nursing' and the tuedicine~"
"Open, open the door, at once, you old
obstinate, cross-grained Jezebel, or by the
Lord we'll break the door down and then
bury your carcase under the snow-drift,
where the devil himself will never be able
again to find you! Open quickly the
door I say! Our business mustn't be a-
lowed to~ freeze in our bosom while you
remain up there at the window screeching
and jabbering away like a cursed old fool
of a parrot, that you are."
"Gob hone! Graceless spalpeens I-
thaves o' the world and villains of per-


50              MINNY LAWSON, OR

edition! are ye come to do rnurther on
sue? Saint Patrick and the blissed Vir-
gin between me an' har'em. What isit yeer
cum earlier? If any poor rather is sick
and bed-rid, its cum in an' welkim ye'es
be's. But yees must wait a bit till I av
put on my u~~per coats to keep out the
could o' this evening . Wirra ethra I The
dirty set of rampangin, drinking' black.
guards, I av no manner o' doubt both ov
ye ~
She relighted the lamp, hastened down
stairs and suddenly opening the door, the
men who. were leaning against it to avoid
the cutting wi~d as much as possible,
tumbled over ~ach other into the narrow
passage, and Jay sprawl 'p g on the floor.
"Devil take the old ll~g, for giving us
such a capsize" unuttere'~ one of the in-
truders, as they both quickly rose to thesr
feet.
"Och, ye vilians and dec/teful foxes o'
the airth, is id yees wouldd break into the
house of the ould woman, an' stale an'
kidnap, an' further meseif, an' curn this
divil's own nigot o' evil dades, an' no blis-
sed body about in all the streets, to keep
meself from trouble and har'em ?"
~May I be keel-hauled if it ain't the old
wife herself," cried one of the men. "Fear
nothing, good woman. We are neither
robbers nor murderers, but friends who
have co~ne on an errand of humanity and
mercy, Come now; you see you must
rig yourseh' and make sail with us at once,
ma'am. Your services are required over
the waters ; and as for jiay, never fear, the
lady who wants you, will make it all
right to your liking, or I'm a devil-dammed
sinner! Get ready, quick, do you hear?
We are waiting for you. The boat is
thereaway down at Whitehall landing, and
we've not a moment to lose."
"Indade, I tells yees agin, I am not
agoin' from home this blissed night, what-

ever may betide. Do you think I'd trust
myself in your rotten boat, iv the fine lady
yees talk of, would give me all the gould
in lhc. world ?"
"Well, then, if you will not come by
fair means, you shall by foul! Avast there,
me~srnate, we must board the old cata-
maran and bear away our prize at what-
ever the broadside from the enemy, seeing
that we have promised the old commodore
to bring along the saucy craft safe to an-
chor under the lee of his handsome little
frigate, there away I"
The waterman probably 'meant by the
use of such naughty and nautical language
to make the old dame accompany them to
the bedside of the lady who required her
services~ in obedience to some interested
individual who had purchased their aid in
the nocturnal business, whatever it was.
The two men quickly seized the mid-
wife, and speedily stopped her outcries by
placing agag in her.mouth. Then smoth-
ering her in a heavy cloak they had brought
with them, they lifted her up in their
arms, bore her away to a pier in thg vi-
cinity, soused her down somewhat roughly
into the bottom of a boat, and immediately
[)ut their oars in motion, which caused the
vessel to shoot forth like an arrow over
the water, iii spite of the turbulence of the
waves, lashed as they were into foaming
madness by the fury of the tempest.
When the baat had got out some distance
on the waters, one of the three men who
occupied the boat with the worthy matron
removed the gag from her mouth, and
expressed m~sch regret that her stubborn-
ness had rendered such cruelty necessary
to make her accompany them on a mission,
as he alleged, ot great peril, if 'not dis-
tressing death.
The poor woman's lamentations, how-
ever, were loud and wild, and might hay-
b een heard far away over the watery,

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.                             51
waste, even above the howling of the into what seemed the hall of some large
storm, so that it became necessary to mansion house. Here she was handed
threaten her again with the application of over to the care of servants, who led her
the gag, beforeshe wouldceaseherscreams through a number of apartments into a

and outcries.
"What are you afraid of,' said the
boatswain, in a rough voice. "Our craft
is as staunch a one as ever danced over
the waves, and thee's not the slightest
dangers of old sea-dogs like ourselves
ever going to Davy Jones' Locker, while
afloat in the puddle of water of New
York bay. Do ~ou suppose we n;e going
to make a prize of your jolly hull, my
hearty? or that we mean to rob you of
your paltry trinkets, or even your honor,
if indeed you have any of that commodity
left, which is best known to yourself!
Pooh! pooh! When we want fish we
drag our nets iii other waters, do you
hear? Hark you, when you have done
your duty, you will be permitted to return
in safety; and if you don't get double
pay it will be because the devil's lost his
liberality and turned Shylock! At all
events, I will swing at the yard-arm, or
dangle with a broken neck on a gibbet
before I will suffer a hair of your head to
be harmed. And now, old lady, you'i1
just allow me to put this bandkerchif
over your ~yes, for half an hour or so
when I warrant me, you will see all the
clearer again for the temporary toss o~
your sight 1"
The woman trembled from head to foot,
but submitted with as good grace as she
could, to what appeared inevitable.
Some minutes elapsed ere the boat
reached a lodging-place; she was then
lifted out and placed in a sleigh, to which
were attached two horses, that stood in
waiting on the shore. Presently away it
dashed through the snow, during another
halt hour, when she was lifted out, and
conducted up a flight of some dozen steps

large and comfortable one, heated by coals
that gloved with the intensity of a fur-
nace in the grate. The bandage was then
removed from her eyes, and she was told
to be seated and accept of a glass of some
stimulating cordial, which would warm
and cheer her after her exposure to the
~vild waters and the blasts of the night.
As soon as she could recover her sight
from the first blinding effects of the bnil-
liaritly lighted room, she discovered that
it was furnished irs a most sumptuous
manner. There were gorgeous Turkey
carpets, magnificent mirrors, tapestry and
curtain hangings, and furniture made of
the most costly kind of ornamental wootis.
She had scarcely finished a survey of
the room, before an old man entered a
side door opposite to where she sat and
greeted her presence with a slight bend-
ing ot his head. His hair and whiskers
were as white as the driven snow, and
bristled out in such ample abundance as
to hide altogether his saffron-hued 'face.
His smal black eyes peered out from
beneath the shaggy eyebrows with a keen-
ness of glance that penetrated to the depth
of the woman's soul, as if they sought to
divine the train of her m9st ~ecret
thoughts. He was dressed in a dark
robe d'chambre, made of silken velvet,
trimmed with fur, and looped across the
breast by stout sitken cor4~i. He wore a
scull cap, also of black silk velvet, and a
pair of buckskin mocassins, ornamented
in the usual manner of Indian devices and
ingenuity.
"Woman !" said he, ia a stern and com-
manding tone, "your fame as a skillful
mid wife is known and appreciated by nie;
and believing that I might rely on your


MINNY LAWSON, OR                                      TIlE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           53

services, whatever the emergency, I have
brought you hither. The manner of your
conveyance to this place may appear
somewhat strange ; -but the reasons for
such proceedings must remain locked for
the present, at least, in my own bosom.
And, remember, you are not to breathe a
syllable of anything that has occurred
already, or which shall take place this
night, while you live, under the pain of'
death for the slightest violation of the se-
crecy now imposed on you. The lady,
for whom your services are required is in
delicate health, and her life must he pre-
served, even at the sacrifice of the weak
and worthless thing to whom she is about
to give birth. Act promptly. spare the
mother, and you shall be liberally re~vard-
The woman was horror-struck at the
intimation that she was expected to com-
mit murder, in destroying the infant's life
without hesitation or compunction of con-
science, and she sat speechless in her
seat.
"You hesitate, woman! Dare you re-
fuse to do my bidding, madam ?'
The dame stammered out "The good
Virin heipin' me, I will be doin' directly
the best for the poor sick crathur, your
worship, sir l'~
She was then conducted to the chamber
of the sufl~rer, whom she found lying on
a couch, in a loose and simple undress,
with her face covered with a black veil,
tied in such a way about her neck and
heiid, that not the slightest trace was there
to show the contour of her face, or to in
dictate her station in life. The female
was at the very moment suffering the
pangs of maternity, and a few minutes
only elapsed before the infant was ushered
breathing into the world. The old man
stood motionless in the mid~t of the
floor, and eyed very narrowly every move-

ment of the midwife, until the' child wart'
born, when he grasped her arm, and by a
significant gesture to her, intimated that
she shonU strangle it on the instant. Mis~
tress O'Hara, however, was not the.?
wicked and cruel-hearted x~oman to take
a hint of such diabolical interpretation,
and she looked around her for those con-
verdences necessary for the new-born
which she was accustomed to see provided
among the poorest of her customers, but
everything appeared to be wanting.
"Take up the battling, and come with
me," said the old man, with a savage e~-
prssion of countenance. The woman
speedily cast her shawl about the infant
and followed the man to another room."Y~u
will now understand me. Take the child
fro~n hence. Do what you will with it.
but let me ncycr see or hear of it again.
Here is gold so fflcicnt, I ween, to silence
forever your tongue and your conscience
Away 1"
The old man rang a bell, wben tWo
muffled men entered the apartmei~t, placed
the bandages again over the woman's
eyes and led her forth to the open air.
She was conveyed to the river~a side in ~.
sleigh, and again found herself in the
boat on the water~ returning to het~
humble home, which she~ was ~emmitted
to reach in safety with the precious bur~
then she held wa~rtrly in her bosom, alive
and well.
The men saw her enter her own dorni
cil, when they quickly departed, within
being identified by the dame. The only
trace of this mystery she possessed wa~ a
well-filled purse and the babe, together
wiih a small signet ring, which the mother
of the child, amid all her agonies had
contrived to press upon the, attentions of
the tnidwife i~npcrceived by the hoary
villain, as all the circumstances of this
affair led her fci~y to believe he was. On

the under rhn of the , ing, she discovered
the letters "M. R." which she compre-
hended might at some day oro~her lend to
tWo (liscovery of the mother and afford an
explanation of all the nocturnal transac-
tions. ~he therefore wisely resolved to
cherish the bauble with the tenacity of
her own life, whatever of good or evil
might betide. There was however ano-
ther token at present ouly knowim to her-
self, by which the child might be identi-
fed, whatever its subsequent destiny of,
a tangible and breathing existence. It
was an extraordinary discoloration of the
skin of ihe left side of the body, reaching
~frorn the centre of the breast, in a slant-
ing direction down towards the heart.
Its appearance was that of a small black
snake, in the attitude of running,
doubled op in several coils, and wili up-
lifted head and protruding fo~kcd tongue,
seerriing!y rnl'aged and ready to attike
arid destroy by a discharge of venom
from its gapimtg throat.
CHAPTER X.
'JrHE TANGLED SKIEN OF FATE.~EXTnAOa-
DINARY REVELATIONS.
TIlE next evening after the mysterious
disappearance of Minny Lawson, from
her cottage home, two men were observed
seated in a private parlor of the City
Hotel, apparently er-gaged in a conversa-
tion of mitch interest and pf great impor~
tanee at least to one ol the parties. They
wer.e the individuals whom George Law-
son had conveyed across the Hudson
1~iver, in Switzer's skiff, on the day pre-
vious, on their visit to the Red Witch of
Weehawken. The conversation related
to the Weird woman and matters which
afl'eoted themselves, of which she appear2
ed to have become strangely cognizant.
"The more I have reflected, Captain,

upon the statements which the Red Witch
has made to me in regard to the Van
Toyl affairs, the more I am perplexed
how to proceed in the business."
"She is evidently possessed of much
knowledge, which vitally effects your in-
terest in :hat complicated and involved
inheritance, I should say, my dear Coun-
sellor."
"It would really seem so, Captain; yet
I -am not disposed to place much reliance
upon any vague kuowledge the Witch
may have in respect to the affairs in which
I am so nearly interested."
"The facts she has detailed, you admit
to be mainly true~ -why may she not,
then, be familiar on all those other points
which are especially involved in ob-
scurity and doubt ?"
"You know, Captain, she may have
picked up many things by common report,
and treasured thent for some sinister pur-
pose, or it may be for mere profit; who
knows  '1
"But she declined aoceptingyour purse
for leer professional services, at any rate,
Coupsellor, and that fact alone would not
,3ustify your suspicion of the impurity of
her motives and integrity, allow me to
suggest, my dear sir."
"Indeed, it would not, Captain, yet
were I constrained to summon her before
the Courts, her evidence might be found
merely the ravings of a maniac, and ulti-
mate to the greater damage of my cause."
"The woman. undoubtedly is strangely
eccentric, butl have never been able to
discover anything like inanity about her,
during the many years since I first form-
ed her acquaintance."
"It she be not deranged, Captain, yet
she may have some dark purpose to ac-
complish in her proffered readiness to
reveal those secrets, pretended or real, of
which she confesses she is poss~sscd ia

A


51  ~'          'MINNY UWSON, OR                                      THE OUTLAWS'~LEAGUE. ~

regard to the affairs of the family, ol
which it would seem, I am now the sole
and unfortunate heir."
"Yet, Counsellor, to know the worst
the Fates have in store for you, could
scarcely be more disastrous to your best
interests, than the dark and complicated
mystery which hangs upon your ancestral
name."
"That is reasonable philosophy, Captain,
I grant you. But there have already
been so frequent ripping open of 'old
wounds, in regard to the conduct of my
relatives that I feel could I shrink away
in disgust, and abandon my suits at law
in despair."
"That would be foolish, indeed, while
there was the remotest prospect of suc-
ces~', or any reasonable chance to worry
off and defeat your wily legal antagonist,
Col. Darrell."
"The Knave has already possessed
himself of the lion's sh~re of the estate,
and is likely in the end to secure the
oysters, and leave me the shells merely,
Captain."
"So be it, if you will, Counsellor;
nevertheless, I think, were I in your place,
I should at every hazard, produce the
Witch's testimony, and trust to Heaven
for a safe deliverance of the trouble."
"I believe you counsel wisely, Captain,
and you have my hearty thanks for the
disinterested interest you have manifested
in my affairs from first to last."
LNot at all-not at all. I however
feel, I cannot tell why, that your destiny
is more nearly linked with the mystery
which surrounds the character of the Red
Sorceress than has been thus far permitted
you to solve. She may have been some
discarded mistress of your Uncle Syden-
ham, or, which, is more likely a discarded
paramour of Col. Burrell himself; and in
either case might prove a material wit-

ness in the elucidation of' the kgal diffi
eulties in which you are involved."
"Poohjooh Captain; excuse me;
but really you make me smile at the idea
of' the 'Witch having been a mistress of
either my uncle or of Col Burreli, both,
you are aware, being men to whom all
the world has given at least, the credit of
good taste in their amours and gallantries.
Ha! ha! ha l Captain, how absurd to
imagine that my gallant uncle, for in-
stance, would have chosen a lover old
enough to be his grand mother, and ugly
and withered withal 1"
"Ah, I perceive you are inclined to 1e
facetious, Counsellor; but you should
consider that a period of fifteen or rtventy
years of extreme affliction or sorrows are
long enuu~h even to render the most
youthful and blooming of her sex, prema-
turely gray and decrepid, even as the Red
Witch does surely at present seem to be.
Certainly, when I first saw her she was a
far different looking woman than she is
now; in fact, she was a lady whose
beauty and accomplishments would not
have reflected in the slightest rnaaner on
the good taste of the most discninilnating
ot the gallant~, whatever the amorous
impulses of their bosoms."
"True, true, I did not think, Captain ol
the ravages time and trouble are calcu-
lated to make on the soundest of consti-
tutions. For myself, at least, I can speak.
Though a young man, scarcely passed
beyond my third decade of years. I feel
that I am already failing into the "sear
and yellow leaf" of age; all, too, through
-the annoyances and vexations to wl ich I
have been subj~cted in order to reinstate
myself in what I have ever considered
as my lawful inheritance"
"And yet you was but a mere boy, just
passed intO your teens, when your family
became involved in the calamtilies v4~ieh

now threaten the very extinction of the
Van Toyl name, since you remain a
bachelor and are the last of ~he tiame
known to be alive, my dear Counsellor."
"That was indeed a terrible blow, yet I
have always been impressed that my un-
cle Sydenham had nothing whatever to
do with the tragedy of that eventful night
of his disappearance. The poor girl, Ida
Wilton, I am sure, was rather a favorite
with my uncle than otherwise; while my
Aunt Mary was too full of sweetness and
gentleness, and withal too young to have
been guilty of any indiscretion with either
her midshipman lover, Grenville Edmon-
~ton, or my uncle's counting-house assist-~
ant, Augustus Thornton, to have aroused
the jealousy of my relative and induced
1Pm to avenge any starni that he fancied
had been cast upon his manliness and
honor.. But I like not to dwell upon
those distressing events. Yet, Captain
Van Vetchen, a thought has just struck
me that there has been, or may be a con-
nection between this Red Witch, Maria
de Vaux, and my Aunt Mary, if, indeed,
they are not one and the same person!
But no-that cannot-cannot be. My
aunt, as I have learned from her own fa-
ther, died in giving birth to her first child,
which also ceased to exist within a few
hours after its unhappy mother's demise.
At all events, Captain, you promised to
rulighten in regard to the manner of your
earl lest acquaintance with Maria De Vauxr
and your relations with her since. And
now, if it would not be trespassing too
far upon your kindness and time, I would
be glad to hear at once whatever you may
be pleased to communicate in this re-
gard."
"With all my heart, my dear sir. I am
at your service entirely this evening, and if
you will draw here with me in the corner,
somewhat wore out of the way of listen-

ers, you shall learn of such portion
of her strange histo ryas maybe inmy
pOwer to cornmt~nicate. On what points
in her career would you be more espec-
isily enlightened, my dear Conradin ?"
"Tell me, first of all, about the year, or
the date of your first interview with Ma-
na de Vaux, if you please."
"It was on the 13th of February in the
year 18-, just fourteen years and four
months to this very day, sir."
"Upon my word, Captain, you are very
precise in your reckoning. There must
have been extraordinary circumstance
about your first interview with her to have
impressed the tints so vividly upon your
memory."
'~Even so."
'Whett the boy applied for the situation
of
"The boy, Captain! It is of Maria
De Vaux I would learn something."
"And it is of her I was about to speak
when you. interrupted me."
"Beg your pardon, Captain; Go on.
What of theby~"'
"Yes, I must call her the lad, or I shall
never get the twist of the yarn I would
o travel.
"Well, then, the lad-what of him ?"
"He applied for the herth of cabin.boy
board the Dutch galliot, "f3tormy Pet-
rel," of which I was commander, and just
ready to sail out of the lkrbor of New
York on a voyage to Batavia."
"And you gave him the post, and die-
coveted "
"I discovered nothing at the time, save
that a bright-Itioking little boy stoo'I be-
fore me, and solicited to make a voyage
in the capacity he had proposed. My
first impulse was to reject his application
on account of the fragile and delicate ap-
pearance of his frame; but on some fur-
ther inquiry into his motives for going to


56                       MINNY LAWSON, OR
sea, they appeared so plausible and rea- grades of a seaman's life under his instruc-
sonabie that I consented to his wishes, arid lion, I wa~ at last entrusted with the
inducted him into the dutie~ he was to sailing of the ship as its flr~t officer, which'
perform."                             post I had also sustained some three or
"But von knew lie was a woman ?" four years before my father's drath. I
Excuse the bull, captain."            had nevertheless very little skill and prac-
"Indeed I suspected no such thing, on- tiec with the pen, hr tL~t reason that the
til mere chance made me cognizant of her old &amp;kipper generally preferred to ~eei~
sex."                                the log and attend to the ship's papers and
"And how was that ?"                writings himself, instead of performing
"I thought perhaps she was a way~ the severe duties of deck, now that he
youth, of some aristocratic a'nd wealthy had begun to descend the declivity of life.
family, from the first, I admit; and I As I said beforeri soon perceived that ~
confess I had a desire to give the juvenile could make the lad useful to me in the ca-
a 'taste of the sea with a vie~' to cure pacity of clerk at least, however his health
him of any roving propensity, or romarstie might serve him in the extruerdinaryda-
notions he might have entertained of a 1i04 and perils on board a slip at sea. In
sailor's life. Yes, I will say further, that short, I employed him ~more for cornpa-
I meant to make him serviceable to me, ny's sake than for any other motive, I
not exactly in t'e capacity of cabin-boy believe, nuder the afflictive dispensation
merely, but as my secretary, for I had of Providence which continued to weigh
discovered that his caligraphy was singu upon my feelings~"
larly legible and beautiful, and withal I "You thought the spt'ightly conversa-
perceived that he was an excellent reader tion of a handsome youth would compen-
and possessed other literary gifP, of which sate in some de~ree fu~ th~ wisdom and
I felt myself lamentably dvlieient." ahildhhness of old age," said the lawyer,.
"1 understand, Captain; proceed.' with a significant smile to the Captain.
- "Well; 1 should have stated, that this "whether you believe me or not, o~
was ray first voyage as commander of the ho~evcr disposed you may be to banter
ship. My foster-father-and you iriost in regard to my first acpiaintance with
.rc  also  Maria     ~""               that
know, my dear Counsellor the  is   a        de ~       assure yuu
spice of romituce about my history,~if you Rut no matter about the rest-i will leave
would like to hear it some time you, sr, to glean the woman's history
'Oh, certainly; it would doubtless af- from some other source than rninu."
I or(1 me infinite pleasure to hear it narma- The captain suddenly broke off his nar-
ted, Captain."
"As I was saying, or about t&amp; say, ft ratiun, and rising and taking up his hat
was my misfortune to loss my foster-pa- as ifofYcuded, appeared about to quit the
room and the presence of the young coun-
remit while the "Stormy 1~otrel" lay in the
pGrt of New York, on a retmn voyage 5~llOr.
from Havana, from having ~ontrscted the "Nay, Captain; you are not' offended '~
yellow fever at the latter place. 1 had Pardon me, my dear sirr My remark
accompanied him in all his voyages, fiom was the merest badinage. On my honor,
the time I was not much larger than a Captain, 1 meant no slight or imputation
warlingspike, antL passing ~hvough all t! e, on your character whatever Excuse

THE OUVLAWS' LEAGUE.              57

me, sit, I pray you, and sit down again
and finish your story."
"I have never had my word or my hon
or brought into question, and--"
"Nay, nay, Captain; forgive my rude-
ness, I beseech ~ on! I would not on any
account have offended you, andi trust
you will not part from inc now in any un
friendly mariner."
"XVeIl, Counsellor, I confess my tem-
perament is rather hasty, and I never wear
out the patience of any one with my
yarns. I accept your apology. Let what
has been said pass. I will try an~finish
my story, as in my poor way I shall best
be able, sir.'1
"Thank you, thank you Captain! Be
seated, again if you please. You shall re-
late what you have to communicate with-
out further interruption from me."
"I have but little more to add. The
youth conducted himself with great pro-
prietv during the voyage to Java ; acquitted
himself with alacrity and cheerfulness Of
every duty enjoined upon him; in ~tct,
I found himself' every way so comp~niona
ble and pleasant that I felt a yearning and
an affectiontowards him asof a father to
a beloved sun. I rejoiced in the aq'ti-ition
that had Leen made to the Ship's compa-
ny, and had counted upon many voyages
beinc made, with him as my proteges-
even as I had shared similar relationship
with the venerable skipper who had been so
kind a friend and father to me, ihe mere
child that I was, nameless and homeless,
~vhen I fell, under Providence, beneath
his sympathising and guardianly care.-
You may be sure, sir, I was greatly as-
tonished when about to return from Java,
to be informed that my young clerk was
a woman! It was thea that I understood
iii some degree the motives which ificeuced
her to assume the habiliaments of the op-
posite sex and risk the perils of an ocean

life. She cherished some secret purpose
in vtsit*ing the Island, and begged p~r-
mission to remain behind till she should
aee~irnplish the end thereof. I was con-
vinced that her story was true, and sym-
pathized with her wrongs. It was enough
fur me to apprehend that her betrayer
was supposed to be living ia some part of
the Island, and therefore I questioned her
neither concerning her own name nor the
one borne by the villian for whom she was
in stwh determined pursuit. When I of-
fered to provide her with funds to further
her desiguis, I found that her means were
amply abundant. Jodeed, she also insis-
ted upon pa3ing for her passage out, to
which proposition, of course, 1 would not
listen. I itrovided her a comfortable
home with the family of a respectable
Dutch merchant, to await the issue of
events, while I continued my pursuits of
the sea. I parted from her and dd not
again meet her for ten years afterwards,
when 1 fouod her at Batavia, and brought
her back to New York. I have never
dared, or rather have never wished to lift
the veil of mystery that surrounds her be-
tug, having ever been satisfied that the
secrets of her bosom are of that holy and
sacred kind, nut to be ~vantoztly trespa~s-
cii upon by th~ impertinence and curiosity
of a malicious and meddlesome world.-
Lattisrly, however, I have come to the
conclns~on that she was in some way or
other connected with the destiny of. your
long rxii-~ing uncle Syd.~nham, which sur-
mise is greatly strengthened by the state-
meids she made to you yesterday about
your family aflitirs. Yoa have now all I
am able to impart, Mr. Van Tuyl, respect-
ing the Red Sorceress of Weehawken.~
"The story is certainly a strange one I
con fess ; but I do not perceive that what we
know of her history is calculated to help
mc through my difficulties in th&amp;least."


MINNY LAWSON, OR
"Time must determine that. Perhaps a father and friend from the fir.

qt your next interview with her you may
be able to arrive at a difThrent conclusion.
When I met you, at Batavia, in search of
testimony among your uncle's and grand-
father's former correspondents, it struck
me even there that the Red witch would
be able to enlighten you greatly in regard
to the Van Tuyl affairs. This was the
motive I had in diverting your attention
in that direction."
"We have then only to await the issue
of events, Captain. We cannot pull aside
either the curtains of the Past, or lift the
veil of the Future. I must bide, accord-
ingly my time. But, that little romance
in your own history, Captain. It is yet
early. Shall we have it now !'
"As you please I I will make the story
very short. I am able to give it more suc-
cinctly from a manuscript I have in my
possession, which I found among the pa-
pers of my deceased fos'er-father. it is to
this effect, that when I was a child sppsr~
ently about five years of age, I was found
lying asleep under a small boat, which
was placed bottom up~vards on the deck
of a ship, which the old Captain command-
ed, after it had left the wharf and j~ut to
sea. I was too young to give an intelligi-
ble account of the manner how I caine on
board, or even to give my family name.
The Captain, however, took pity on my
condition, and though he realized my pa-
rents must have experienced poignant sor~
row at my strange disappearance, he did
n ot feel warranted to put back and
discharge his precious cargo. The voy-
age was to Canton, and it was two years
befdrehe again returned to New-York, to
institute inquiry in my behalf. lie ad-
vertised the circumstances under which I
was found on hoard his ship, but received
no response to his story. Meanwhile he
gave me his own name, and conUnued as

hour he saw me till the day of his death
through a period of about twenty year.
altogether. It may interest you, also, m2
dear sir, to state that I have in my posses
sion the identical suit .of clothing I wore a
the same time I was discovered in m~
infancy on board the Sea Gull, (whic~
was the name of the vessel) by the goor
Captain, who became my foster-father an
friend. I. have likewise a full length pot,
trait of myself which the old gentleman
the worthy Captain Jacob Van Vechter'
had caused' to be painted on the return
voyage, with a view to my identification
by my friends. Besides this, I have like.
wise a miniature of a lady, doubtless thar
of my mother, which was found concealed:
in my bosom at the time I was found, su~
ended by a fine gold chain from my neck
These little baubles may possibly one ot-
these days afford a clue to my own ligiti-
mate origin, though so many years have
already passed, I scarcely expect now ever
tobe enlightened on so important and in-
teresting a point."
"Really, Captain; your own history
is equally remarkable with that of the
Weird Sister of the Cave. It is a romance
in real life, exceeding in interest any novel
I have ever read."
"lodeed, Counsellor, my adventure
from first to last, would make a book quite
as entertaining as thst of 'Sinhad the Sail-
or,' or 'Jack the Giant Killer,~ or 'Gulhiver's
Travels,' and the like," rejoined the Cap~
tam, with a quizzical expression of his
countenance and a merry twinkle about
his eye, as it he meant to say he under~
stood the counsellor's remark as ajok'es
whether what he said about the "romahee"
and -'novel" was really meant in any other
than a serious sense.
"Upon my word, Captain-you are
quite a wag. any how. But I mean sen-

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.          59

ously; were your life and adventures given
to the world, it would doubtless prove an
acceptable work ; while there would be a
chance likewise of its falling into the
hands of persons who would be pleased to
claim consanguineous affinity to the au-
thor-there's no knowing Captain what
might be the upshot of such a publica-
"Yes, it might be the means of recov-
ering for me a father and mother, and
any quantity of uncles, aunts, brothers
sisters, cousins, and other relatives to the
last drop of blood and all the consecutive
affinities."
"Have you ever related your story to
the Red Witch, and consulted her oracular
powers in regard to yout parentage and
birth, Captain."
"I have not, my dear Counsellor; but
since you have reminded me of it, I will
consult her in regard thereto one of these
days, by way of curiosity, nothing more-
when I would be happy to have you pres-
ent."
"Oh, certainly, by all means, have your
fortune told. You seem to place confi-
dence in her revelations in my regard, why
not trust her with the hidden things per-
taining to your destiny 'f If nothing jut-
portant should come of her divinations, at
'east nothing very alarming is likely to
come of such an interview. Indeed, it
might turn out that you are my own rely-
tive, that uncle of mine, John Jacob Van
Tuyl, who ~vas unaccountably lost to his
family when he was about the age you
were, when discovered asleep under the
jolly boat at~a, ha, haha! Who knows ~
Many a thing as strange as that has oc-
curred before, Captain, eh'?
~  a Van Tuyl ~ The idea never struck
me efore! Good God! it maybe indeed
the case, as-so-may be easily proved.
You have some recollections of your

grandmother-of my mother-that is, if I
should happen to be the missing member-
you have some family portraits of your
family, have you not, Conradin 'i"
"Why, certainly. Ot my grandfather
and grandmother, and my own father and
all of my uncles, and even of the lost one
John Jacob, the latter painted only a short
time before he disappeared. And-as I
live, Ca~5tain I You have every feature and
lineament of our family That prominent
nose-those eyes! Yes, every expres-
sion, your very smile, every thing statue
and all, now brings vividly before my vis-
ion my other missing uncle, Sydenham
Van Tuyl."
"Enough--enough! We will compare
the picture-and-and the Red Witch, we
shall see her again, and use her craft to
unravel if possible, all these mysteries that
are so dark and impervious to our appre-
hensions at present."
The friends agreed upon the hour when
they would pay their visit to the Red Sor-
ceress of Weehawken, on the following
day; and after some casual remarks about
Miuny Lawson, the missing girl, elicited
from the advertisements which had just ap-
peared concerning that affair, in the daily
papers, the Captain Van Vechten and
Conradin Van Tuyl, took leave of each
other for the evening, and retired to their
respective apartments in4he IJ"tel.
CHAPTER XI.
STORY OF A FOUNDLiNG.-ARRE5T or A
MURDERER.
Wn have stated elsewhere that when
George Lawson sprang ashore, after his
interview with the Red Sorceress of Wee-
hawken, he sped away with the speed
and ferocity of a bloodhound, in pursuit
of the betrayer of his sister Minny, as
that villain's image had been presented to


60                         MINNY LAWSON, OR
his excited visica by the magic mirror off counsel wisely. Sorrow and tears will

the weird woman of the cave. We have
also seen the old Waterman Switz~r, when
he found it impossible to follow GeorgEs
hasten to the cottage of the old gardener
with a view to explain, as best he was
able, the strange conduct and frenzy ol
.his son.
'Oh, my friend Switzer," cried the be-
reaved parent, "what wonderful news is
this you tell me! My daughter in the
power of a villain, and George at length
Ott his trail l Oh, God! what will be
the issue of this pursuit? My son dearly
loves his poor sister, and I fear me he
meet the foul libertine and slay him
ri in)petuous wrath! Oh, Switzer-
$witzer, what new trouble is now in Stord

not mend the matter. Whatever may
betide I must submit, and there will be
no help for me. Minny was such a doar
good girl always to me, although I urn
~ot her father. But she never knew that;
yet I cherished her as my o~i-n daiigl~ter,
and she loved me as her old father, with
all the affection and sweetness of her in-
nocent nature."
"Minny not your daughter, Lawson ~
You never told me that before."
"You are right, good SWitzer. I had a
rea~ou for keeping it a secret-but you
shall know all about it. Yes, you shall
earn her little story now.. I will tell you
all I know of it myself, and that is but
little, friend Swi:zer."

for me? George is so rash. Did he not "You know but little of her history!
say the villain should die ?" what mean you, Lawson? I do not corn-
'lie din, indeed, say that, my dear prehend you, my good friend! Ah, I see
Lawson-but it may not come to that- your grief for Minny has turned~ your
m:iy coins to that l 'If the foul wretch rain, aud-..-"
has harmed a hair of her hea(l he shall "Oh, no, Switzer, that is not it-not it.
die!' that was ~vhat your son said. But Yet I m~ght well go mad in my bereave-
Minny may yet be safe-and-and- jwnt! go crazed, raving madi, Swmtzer. I
George ~vill not stain his hands in the say Minny is no child of mine, ior am I
blood of the *seducer! IIe~tven ~ able to enlighten you macli concerning
Heaven, I feel, will spare them both, and her orit~in."
return the dear sweet girl and her favo. "Li' you aye not dreaming~ nor becom-
rite brother to their old p vent agaiu. I ing deranged, good friend Lawson, tell
am sure he will-am sure ho will !" moe at once, all abut her. You have
'God grant~that he may! I would see them strangely excited toy curiosity, and I urn
both again in life, for then I could die inipatient t5 hear the history of the dear,
content. Bat I have no ho~@-no hope, sweet girl:'
~vitzer. Bere-ft of my dear children, ray "She was a founding I"
old limbs will soon fall into the grave, 'A foundling?"
childless and dishonored in the sight o 1' "Yes, ~witzer-some poor stray ~vaif
tIte world." in our world of sin and trouble. Perhaps
"Wear nothing, my friend. Let us an- she was a child of shame or a creature
ticipate no further trouble. God will begotten of man's baseness and woman's
never forsake you, Lawson-I am sure he faithful love and erring weakness. But
will not. ~ut youc trust in flim, and hope no matter about that. The child v~as in-
for the best."                         accent, at ~ll events, ~vhatcver the fault~,
'God's will be done, S vitzer.  You of its parents."                ~ ',

ThE OUTLAWS' LF~AGIJg.

"1i~ven so-cven so, friend Lawson."
"I will bvgin at the beginning, and then
I wiji be sure to have the history a!i I
right. But it ia more lihe a romance of
fictio~n than a hia~ory ct real life, Switzer."
"Yes, old friend, tell me all, from the
very first."
"Welt, you see, it was a cold winter's
night-the first day of December * last,
fourteen years ago."
"Fourteen vcars ago !"
"Yes, S ,vitzer, that is her age, these
six months gone since. I remember the
night very distinctly, for you must hnrsw
there were two things to xemind me of it."
"Ab, say you so, and what were these ?"
"My good dear wife, who is ilead and
gone these going on five years, ga'W birth
to our youngest chihi just a fortnight to
the time when Mmmv was found im~ our~
cottage porch. That babe was a cher~ib
boy, but oar Heavenly rather took it awn:;
to Abraham's bosom when it was only
twelve days old, and we boned the beau-
tiful boy on the very day Minny was sent
to us to supply our own dear child a
place."
~That was a strange coincidence indeed'
good Lawson."
"Indeed it was. And that was the rea-
son we took in the little girl-babe and
adopted it as our own, instead of giving
it to the charge of the overseers of the
poor. No, Mary, said-my wife I mean
-said it woull lie wrong and cruel to put
away the babe fioat our roof. She woold

ter to be a comfort arid a blessing to us~
in our old age.~
"Just like you both, Lawson. Your
wife I know was a very tender.hearted~
good woman. When I lo~t my own
wife and those children, with the fever,
all within one short week, your wife wa0
always about, visiting our house, and doing
all she coald to help the sick p ople.--
Oh, I shall never forget your good wife,
Heaven rest her kind soul, good Lawson."
"My scm George was in his fifth year
when hie It le brother died arid Aiinn~
was given to us to be his sister. Bat, as
I was sayin;-it wan a cold winter's night.
T~~ere h~d been a heavy fall of snow all
the night before we buried our babe, and
we had mudi difficulty to reach the grave
yard in our sleds. The snow was so
very deep and had not been much broken
tiown by travel, 50 s01 after the storm~
Ot~ cottage iaa~ then at Harlem and when
we hc~rd the crics of a young babe in out
little 'orchi, sometime after dark, it start-~
led ~ ~cry much At first the cries
sounded Ji.~e the noise of the cat, but we
ii~tencd agnu, and~the babe continued to
cry so loud t~ia" my wife bade me go to
the door and let h~' the old Pus', who she.
said was perishing w ~ the cold withoUt.
There was no eat the. ,e-bUf the dear
babe. It was jIaced at th&amp; very threshold
of the door, wrapped up warm'Y in a ~lan-
ket-lying in a common mar~e~L b~~l5e~
crying for dear life, as it pleading to be
admitted beneath our roof and to the
sympathies of our hearts. The appeals

have it that ~iod had sent it purposely to of the little stranger could not be resisted,
take the place of the beautiful boy WC and that is the way Minny became our
had laid in the cold ground only a few ad peed child.
hours before. Indeed, to say the truth, "And was there no one who you sus~
friend Svitzer, I was glad to have iflY peeted of pi cingthe babe at your door
wife take a liking to the ydung strange, 411,good Lawaon ~"
K
and I agreed with her that we would '-No one wh~ever. We knew of none
adopt the chi~1 and raise her up as a daugh- likely to be its mother. in our neighbor


62                        MINNY    LAWSON, OR
hood, and the great city was far away. since we first ascertained the amount."
The neighbors were raw, and none of "Why, Lawson, you amaze me!"
them could imagine any clue to the little Lawson, without replying, went to a
one's parentage. There were many foot- bureau, and speedily brought out a large
prints in the snow, but a goodly number purse filled with coin, and plseed it in ~,he
of our friends had attended the funeral of hands of Switzer.
our dear cherub, and the snow-marks we "The money is all the~,e, I suppose,
supposed were made by the company. 1 just 5~ it was at first. I considered it a
took up a dark lantern and looked all about trust for the child, and have kept the trea-
the garden and. sheds, but I saw nobody sure sjicred for her portion when she
anywhere around. At length I discover- should become of age."
ed tracks in the garden in the rear and at "This is remarkable, indeed. You
one side of the bouse. These I followed, might well say her history was like a ro-
and found that they led down to the liar- mance. Yes, I realize in great force what
lem river, where all traces were lost. The somebody has said, that 'truth is stranger
she prints pointed from the water to the than fiction.' But let me hear all the rest,
cottage, but there was nothing to show that frie~;d Lawson. It beats any story I ever
the person, who ever he was, returned heard before."
again in that direction. The snow was "Here is a ring, too, that was found
two feet deep but very light, so that I wrapped up in this bit of piper. The
could not be certain whether these marks ring has two letters on the inner rim, as
were made by a man or a woman." you see, 'M. R.' This is all we know of
"But you afterwards discovered who Minny's originSwitzer-but there was-.-"
the person was; or, at least, heard some- Before the old gardener could finish the
thing about the babe's parentage." sentence the cottage door was thrown vio-
"Nothing from that day to this." lcntly open, and his son George literally
"Was there nothing which might give tumbled into the room and cast himself
you a clue to.her origin, Lawson ?" down on the large settee, that stood on
'Yes, Switzer' ~ihe child was hand- one side of the hearth-stone. But oh how
somely dressed, in warm, rich clothing, changed! His face was covered with
which led us to suppose it was the chi d blood and his eyes were red and inflamed.
of some parties well to do in the world." "My son-my son-what means all
"But you would not be likely to trace this? Sieak-speak! How comes this?
the infant's pedigree from this circum- Blood! blood !"
stance. Viras ihere no other means by~ "Aye blood, father! But ask no ques-
which it cou1d be afterwards identified ?" tions now. I must not remain here! I
"There was a heavy purse of eagles left must flee-must flee away, father !"
with a little bundle of apparel. Stay a "~dy son, my poor boy, what has hap-
moment, good Switzer, and I will show pened? What is this blood, George?
you both the purse and the money." Let me know the worst. You have not
"Show me the purse and the money! taken life, George. Say you have not-
Why, have you-" say you have not."
"Haye I them yet, you would say. Yes, "Ask no questions father. Time *nough
Switzer, just as I first received them. Nut to know all. Bear up, lather, Minny
a penny has been taken out of 'the bag, is-"

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.            63

"My child, my dear child-"
"Is dead ~
"Father of Heaven! I feared this
would be the issue. Oh George, George!
UN] y son, what have you done ?"
"Go ask the blackened corse of her se-
ducer! These hands are reeking with the
villain's blood! It was~ a terrible strife!
She is avenged-my sweet sister's wrongs
are redressed !~
"Oh God of Heaven! This new horror!
I cannot survive the blow! You are a
murderer, my son? The hounds of the
law will pursue you, and you must also
die! Yes, George, you must fly! You
must not remain beneath this roof. You
must not hang like a dog, on the gallows!
Fly, fly, my poor son--and hide away in
the uttermost parts of the earth! Oh
Switzer, assist him lo qepart I They must
not take my boy, and slay him also before
my eyes!"
"Nay, my poor afflicted friend, George
must not fly.~He did nothing but avenge
the wrongs of his dear sister. The law
will adjudge rightly between h~im and his
God. The people will say he acted nobly
in slaying the monster! He is no mur-
derer! He shall not die !"
"You are right, good Switzer. I will
not be the coward to flee away. I will
surrender myself to the laws. God will
protect me and defend the right. But
better die on the gallows, than skulk away
with the foul brand of the guilty murderer
on my brows! Yes, I killed the base
wretch! Was that murder? No! it
was justice-retributive justice! Minny
is avenged. Let me also die for my poor
sister's sake."
"Yes, my brave, good boy! You are
right. You counsel wisely, Switzer;
George sbsll rema~i. He has acted no-
bly I If be has done wrong in the sight

of Heaven, let an old man's prayers inter-
cede for him! Let us pray!"
In that humble abode the three cast
themselves upon their knees. There, in
the silence of the early morning hour,
the stricken father offered a fervent1 heart-
felt petition for the deliverance of his
beloved 801) from harm, and for the re-
pose of his dead daughter's soul. Was
his prayer effectual?
Suddenly the cottage door w~s thrust
open, a'~d several policemen seized the
young man, even there on his knees
while the father prayed for his child.-
They cared nothing for the holy season
of communion, but one of the men cried
aloud
"You are our prisoner, sir. You are
charged with foul murder. You must go
to prison."
"I am ready, officers. Lead the way.
Bridewell has no terrors for me. I put
my trust in God. A jury of my peer will
try my ~
"Drag him not away from his old father!
Oh, my son-my son, who shall deliver
me from the bondage of my woes !',
"Nay, my dear old friend. Grieve not
in this way. George is brave and honor-
able. He will come safely out of this
trouble. lie is no murderer. He will be
spared to you. God will assist you, and
will not let him perish. Let him go-let
him go!"
In less than half an hour thereafter the
younger Lawson was confied as a male-
factor within the gloomy walls of the old
Bridewell of the Park.
CHAPTER XII.
THE BODY 5NATOHEIIS.-THE DARK CHAM-
BER OF DEATH.
SCAnCELY had George Lawson quitted
Potter's Fickl, r~fter seeing the coffin


64               MINNY LAWSON, OR

which he supposed contained the last re-
mains of his sister Minny deposited in. the
earth, in company with Wilkins, to exe-
cute summary vengeance upon the foul
libertine Col. Burrell, when another party
of men, four in number, emerged from a
cluster of shrubbery, near the new-made
grave, rushed upon old Pluillip, the grave-
digger, gagged and bound him, and threw
him violently upon the ground, where he
Jay without power to move or speak (lur-
ing the ivill (if the assailanV
The object of the men was presently
apparent. They were resurru-innists, or
body snatchers, in pursuit of anatomical
subjects, to be delivered over to the n~ed-
ical Protessien, in furtherance of surgical
and medical science.
The old gravedigger had thrown down
only a few shovels full of earth upon the
coffin to fill up the grave, h~fore tie was
seized and treated in the iongh manner
we have described. It was oceordingly
a work of ~~pedition and little labor to
exhume the coffin with its contents, thrust
it m a large sack, and hurriedly quit the
place of the dead, after having set the old
Sexton at liberty, and signifying to him to.
resume his duty in filling up the cavern,
~grccabIy to the instructions of the par-
ties who had previously employed him.
One of the parties gave him some moacy,
and finding it was 'mificiently generous
in amount to amply compensate ihim for
the slight infringement which had been
pnt upon his Lberty and person, he chuck-
led with evident delight, and resumed his
employment with considerable alacrity
again, muttering, as he did (X~rC5sion5 at
once so indicative of his pleasure and
greed.
"A mighty good joh of it really. I:
isn't often old Philip is paid more than
oflce for breaking the earth and filling in
the clods again. ~nce, twice, thrice-

aye three times over, I have been paid for
my service to-n gut l Strange business
this-strant~e business, say I. No affair
of mine though. I have the gold, and
laugh may he who wins, ils.! ha! ha !"
In less than an hour afterwards the old
grave-digger had filled the grave, and
taken up his mnattocks and spade arid de-
parted. Tne fist red tints of aurora
heralding the rising sun had begun to ap-
jicar, dissolving the grey duskiness of the
morning and rolling back the curtains of
Night from th~ couch of Day.
Meanwhile the rattling of carriage
wheels near the enclosureover the rough
stuney road of'kn adjoining lane, told the
direction it had taken. Onward, onward
it roiled' in an easterly direction. The
sound of its wheels wa~ speedily lost to
the old man's hearing.
The reader however, will follow the
~e~icle with us to its ultimate destination.
It made a circuitous route, first pursuing
the lane easterly till it intersected another
road, when the carriage turned south-
ward, descended a hill not far from the
corner of the present Grand-street and
Broadway, then took a sudden turn
through a valley toward the hudson-river
to the very landing used by the old water-
man Switz~r, near the cottage house of
the gardener Lawson, who at the very
m~nent was explaining to the old boat-
men the strange history of the dead girl,
as her brother George in a few moments
thereafter informed his old father was the
fact, on his return, from slaying her se-
ducer, the infamous libertine and debau-
cher, the lawyer Ccl. liurrell. It was a
stratige coincidence truly, that while the
poor old man prayed with his son and
with his friend Switzer, for the washing
of the soul of George from the stain of
blood, through the atonement of the S~-
vior of mankind-the body of Minny

I

Lawson, the daughter and sister of th Opposite was a rostrum or platform1 oz
twain, was being conveyed over the dark which were placed some half dozen largi
waters of the Hudson in a skiffbelonging arm-chairs. Immediately in front of th~
to the third party, the Body Snatchers platform, on the floor, was a round table.
having unshipped Switzer's boat from its on which were seen writing paper, pem
fastening aifd appropriated it to their mys- and ink, and a number of books and loose
serious nocturnal purposes The carriage papers. Running lengthwise in the cen-
was dispensed with at the river's tre of the room, with several calafalco's
brink and speedily rolled away in the on either side, was an oaken table, covered
direction of the lower part of the city. with large knives, caut~ries, scalpels~ and
Two stout men plied the oars vigorously similar surgical instruments. The floor
while the third guided the helm. Some was covered with black cloth while a
minutes elapsed when the boat was put - similar covering draped the walls of the
to
shore and the sack containing the coffin, room. A huge chandelier was suspended
was lifted out, and the boat set adrift, from the ceiling, in a manner to throw
The sack was again taken on the should- down the fullest refulgence upon the large
ers of two of the party, and borne along a table in the middle of the room. Numer-
fe~ rods from the water. ous candelabra were placed against the
"All's well thas far, boys! It was some- walls and upon the clerk's table. Tall
thing of a round turn, bW~ was quickly ac- waxen candles were burning in all the
comulished. We are safe now, and our sconces, and cast down a strong light
secret will be preserved. Confound the upon a company of fifty-persons, whose
bolt! The last high tide has rendered ~ pale faces contrasted strangely with the
a little rusty, I suppose. There! now dark drapery of the room and all the dry
we can enter ~,,                     skeleton sculls and the other insignia of
The speaker drew aside with main force dea:h that were presented to general view.
the bolt of a door that was placed upright- Not a word was spoken for some time.
ly in the embankment of the river, and Then a tall grey-haired man rose from his
entirely screened from observation unless seat, and addreas~d the company.
a person had penetrated the small cove or The reader will have already surmised
inlet, and come full in front of it. that the place was the Lecture and Die-
The chief of the party struck a light in seating room of some Medical school, ot
his dark lantern, bade the other two enter private Esculapian Professors. The latter
what appeared to be a water sluice or was .the fact. The party assembled were
sewer. He entered himself, closed the students and neophytes in the profession
oaken door, fastened it on the inner side, The object w~a to hear a clinic and wit.
and led the way with his lantern through ness the dissection and annalization of
a long slipper!~ subterranean passage until morbid specimens of humanity. The
the party finally entered a large vault, where reason of the morning clinique, there in
the coffin was taken from the sack and that sulAerranean cavern, was because of
placed on a catafalco that stood in the cen- a general prejudice that existed against
tre of the room. the Medical Faculty, growing out of the
Tue apartment was fitted up in a neat Hospital riots that had taken place several
but very peculiar manner. On one side was years before1 which rendered all scientific
a range of seats irs a semi-circle form. experiments on morbid subjects necessary
5

1

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           65

65


86                       MINNY LAWSON, OIL
to be made in some clandestine manner "Now ipy young friends, after a fe~t
and out-of-the-way place. further remarks, I will attempt to
The aged Professor remarked that the exarnire this subject, with a view to en-
hour for the lecture had arrived, but as lighten your understanding in respect to
the principal Professor, his colleague, had the pecWiar structure and functions of
probably been unavoidably detained, con- the human heart. The body before you
trary to his usual punctuality, ,on some is that of a very aged negress, said to have
professional business, he would wait a been the nurse of the immortal Washing.
few moments and then proceed with his ton. If such is the fact, and f have no
address~ to his class of young friends.- doubt such is the case, the woman at her
About fifteen minutes clasped and the death was rising a hundred and thirty
worthy Doctor Rogerton fazkd to make years of age ~t least. Now my young
his presence in the Lecture Room. friends, you ar.e doubtless aware that in
The Professor who had postponed hi~ very aged people, the heart dwindles
clinic, again arose and comcncnced his re a. a bulk scarcely half its siz~ in early
marks. or medium life, and sometimes become
"My young friends and pupils," he be completely ossified. The muscular con-
gan, "I have kept you patiently wait- action of the heart in healthful subjects
ing for the arrival of Doctor Pascales ~ so great that when placed on hot coals
now a full half hottr beyond the time ol ~ will jump from four to six feet in the
meeting. I am satisfied our aged friend air. The heart of a rattle-snake or a
has been suddenly called away on some Anrgeon wiLl contract or pulsate fora long
urgent~ professional duty, or he certainly time after being taken from the body.-
would have been here. He was in good The action of this organ is continued from
health and spirits, when 1 parted from him seventy to one hundred and fifty years.
last evening, or rather some two or three The latter is the age at which the celebra-
hours since at Cal. Burrell's soiree. He ted Dr. Parr died. In Bible history we
bade me proceed hither, and make the are told that the heart pulsated in the hu-
necess~ry preliminaries to the clinic and man frame several hundred years. 2n
experiments in morbid anatomy. He will modern times, when the human being be-
probably be here in a few moments. ~ comes a centenarian, it is considered a
will however no longer weary your pa- remarkable case of longevity. The sub.
tience, but proceed at once to the subject ject before us, will probably exhibit the
matter of my discourse, trusting that our phenomena usually observed in extreme
worthy Demonstrator will be present to old age. Allow me first to demonstrate
pursue his investigations when I shall the connection of the lungs with the heart,
have concluded my i~emarks." and show the relative functions of each."
Dr. Rogerton then wenP on to make The Doctor took up his knife, and laid
some general remarks on Physiology and bare the breast of the dead body, pointing
Anatomy, and presented his views on out each peculiar nerve and artery, the
Pathology and Pharmacy in particular. several lobes of the lungs, until he reveal-
Meanwhile some persons took from a ed to the students the central portion of
coffin that was placed on a catafalco, a he heart, the pulmonary artery, aorta, and
dead body and laid it flat on its back in so on. The Doctor was full of his sub.
front of the lecturer.              ject and had warmed up very considerably,

I

THE OUTLA'
in anticipation of showing to the young
students the shrunken and petrified heart
of a person of extreme old age. lie
seemed to have forgotten, or was indiffer
ent to the usual indications as he proceed.
ed with his rem irks, so eager was he to
reach and develop the heart, with all the
appearances he had proclaimed would be
exhibited.
Presently he threw down his knife with
indignation, and exclaimed with consid
able vehemence
"Good God! What is the meaning of
this? A most miserable and wicked imnpos
ture! A foul trick! and by the God a
leaven it shall be resented."
He left the stand, took up his hat, and
quickly left the room.
The students were startled at tV sud-

den termination of the lecture, and group- which fact alone is sufficient to account
ed around the mutilated body, wondering for the softness 0f her heart !"
what was the meaning of Professor Rog There was now a perfect explosion of
erton's strange speech and conduct.- laughter, and some time elapsed before
Another Professor, skilled in Anatomical order was restored among the Professors
demonstrations, qtaickly saw the drift of and students.J
things, and scarcely able to compose hi5 Professor Mottson th~n rose and said
countenance to a suitable degree of gray. thatmDr. Pascales had appointed him
ity, undertook to enlighten the neophytes his substitute in any event of his not be-
in regard to the curious mystery. Said imig 'able to be present at the clinical
he :- demonstrations of the new subject which
"Professor Rogerton expected to find had that morning been brougt't into the
as he informed you, a. heart of stone, but room. He would accordingly proceed
he has discovered it fresh and juicy as in with his remarks and experiments.
comparatively young persons, immediately "The subject," said he, "is that of.
on their demise. The fact is, gentlemen, young girl who committed suicide a day
the old negress, whose body is before you~ or two since in the houseof Col. Burrell.
has been exhibited throughout our land by I am informed that she was a young an4
a cunning showman, as the nurse of beautiful girl. We accordingly have a
Washington, and of course a woman who fine subject for our demonstrations, and
must have attained the extraordinary age will doubtless be able to make some ha-
of a century and a half of years! The portent post mortem deductions in view
age of this woman before you could of her case ~
scarcely have exceeded that of seventy While he spoke, the coffip supposed to
years, which of course gives the lie to the J contain the remains of the suicide, Minny
idea that she was the nurse of the Father j Lawson, was taken down from the cata-

WS' LEAGUE.                       67
of his country! Hence Dr Rogerton~~
just indignation and remarks about impos-
tures and humbugs."
The students set up a roar of laughter
at the practical joke which had seemingly
been practiced on their worthy and learn-
ed Professor, notwithstanding the merri-
ment was strangely out of place in that
darkly Draped Hall of Death.
Presently a wag of a student quaintly
remarked
"Doctor, allow me to say that I do not
esusider there is anything so very extra~-
ordinary in this 'case, that our aged lec-
turer should have quitted the room in the
unceremonious manner he did. It i~
known to us all, gentlemen, that the old
negress was a member of the Methodist
Church for the last fifty years of her life.


68               MINNY LAWSON, OR

falco, and opened in the presence of the
Professor and the young students.
Again there was an exhibition of sur-
prise on the countenancesof all. There
was no dead body there] Instead of the
body of a young female suicide, the coffin
was filled with all manner of silver plate
and jewelry, tightly packed in cotton, to
prevent its injury, or from making any
rattling when moved from one position to
another.
"My God l What is the meaning of
this treasure here? What new mystery
is this? Murder and robbery, no doubt!
This matter must be rigidly investigated,
my friends. Keeo the matter a perfect
secret for the present l The graveyard
must be watched. Doubtless the mur-
derers will go there to recover their treas-
ure trove. Nail up the box again. We
will place it away in yonder vault for safe
keeping till the mystery is fully explain
Scarcely had the Doctor finished his
speech before there came a messenger in
breathless speed, and claimed admisajon
to the Hall of Death.
"Terrible news, gentlemen! Col. Bur-
rell was murdered sometime before day-
light this morning, by an assassin, said to
be called Lawson, a eon of the old tar-
dener of the village. The Police have
been put on his trail, and he will probably
not be able to elude their vigilance. Pro-
fessor Pasoales was called to the side
of the murdered man, which will explain
his non-appearance at the clinic this
morning."
"Horrible l horrible !" was the ejacula-
tion which escaped every man's lips.
The Professor and students, speedily
left, and emerged to the open air, by the
several subterranean passages by which
hey had entered the dreadful Hall of
Death.

CHAPTER XIII.
THE FREAKS OF FORTUNE.
MORGAN Rivington, the father of Mary
wife of Sydenham Van Tuyl, some years
before the marriage of his daughter, was
among the most affluent and respected
gcntleman-farmers or planters in the mid-
dle of the state of New Jersey. His
plantation consisted of several hundred
acres of the richest soil, all unoer the
highest cultivation, with the exception
of such tracts of woodlands as were re-
served for fuel and fence railings when
required. his pastures were ample, on
which grazed and sported many domestic
animals, horses, cows and sheep. His
peach and apple orchards were the finest
and most productive of any others in the
state, especially the peach crop, which
was celebrated in the New York and Phi-
ladelphia markets on account of the large
size of the fruit, their crimson and golden
hue, and lusciousness of flavor. His
harvests of wheat, rye, barley and corn,
buckwheat, Carolina and Irish potatoes,
melons of all kinds, vegetables, milk and
butter, cheese and honey, were always
abundant, while of poultry and swine the
number was nearly innumerable of the
best and rarest breeds in America. Thus
he appeared to be blest in everything the
heart could desire, so that hi~ neighbors
regarded him as among the luckiest and
happiest of mankind. And such was the
fact, in point of. every earthly joy and
comfort.
At this time his family consisted of an
affectionate and amiable wife, two spns
and four daughters. The eldest, Melville
Rivinglon, had reached his twentieth
year and was pursuing a collegiate course
at Princeton, with a view to the subse-
quent study of the law, after having re-
ceived his diploma as a graduate.

THE OUTLAW
The second child was Amelia Rivington.
who married when in her seventeenth
year, Herbert Waldegrave, a young an
enterprising shipping merchant, whi
received his mercantile training in the
house of the renowned Stephen Girard,
who had just set him up in business
and lent him his powerful name, as
merchant and banker, to facilitate his tra-
ding operations. Amelia had now been
absent from the paternal roof about two
years, and was living happily with her
husband in the Quaker City, the mother
of a beautiful boy, and enjoying a circle
of friends and acqna~ancs composed of
the Elite of society. ~.
The thira was Geor~e Rivington, aged
eighteen, a fine, noble youth, a sophomore
student of Princeton i~ith his brother
Melville, who now held a r~nk in a higher
class of studies. The next was Mary.
who married Sydenham Van Tuyl, when
an her sixteenth year~and irurnediatel)
thereafter came to New York to reside
with her husband.
There were two other children, but a~
they had died in the first few hours of their
birth. they were nameless, and formed a
hiatus of five years, when Harriet and
Helen filled the farnLly complement, in
- due and regular succession.
The measure of Morgan Rivington~~
prosperity and happiness was full to over-
flowing. There Were few who did not
envy him in his wealth and bliss. R
gained in consequence, honorand respect,
riot indeed because he was rich, but
rather because of his urbanity of ma-
ners, kindness of heart, and uniform
readiness to give his sympathies and his
gold to any case of needy distress, or to
assist his neighbors and friends in busi-
~1css pursuits, or to relieve theta from pe-
cuniary embarrassments. He was sini-
pie-minded and generous, possessing the

~S  LEAGUE.                        69
gntleness of the dove, rather than the
canning of the serpent. These traits
finally made him the prey of designing
sharpers~ while many were his losses by
the imprudences and want of foresight
among the small farmers and mechanics
of the neighborhood, whom he had estab-
lished in their pursuits ot life. Nor such
uncultivated persons alone, honest and
well-meaning as they intendeJ to be to
their wealthy patron, but the so-called
high-born took advantage of his obligix~g
and kindly disposition, and paved the way
for his own pecuniary embarrassment and
ruin altogether. Among these latter gen-
try was a gay spendthrift. Prince, who was
reckless of the manner he obtained means to
.~upport his extravagances in the absence
of stated remittances of funds from his fam-
ily in Europe.
To this lordling and unprincipled onethe
worthy Morgan Rivington, loaned money
when required, sold fine blood-horses on
credit, and assisted in many ways, forget~
tiag the Bible injunction, to "put no trust
f'rinces." His kindnesses were never
repaid; nay, when embarrassments sur-
ruuded him, he was unable to recover
rhe first dollar, but was rudely repulsed
and insulted when he demanded of the
nabob his dues and a return of hs loans
o him.
These things might have been borne
with some degree of indifference arid com-
posure, had not the very elements of na~
tire and the fates of his destiny heaped
upon his head troubles and misfortunes in
rapid and disastrous succession of each
other. He first became seized wfth a
mania, which extensively prevailed for
planting moms multiceaulus trees, and the
rearing of cocoons, with a view to enter..
ing upon th~ production of American silk
in a raw state, and making it up into ap..
paral. He tore up his best fields and cut

S

e Q


70                MINNY LAWSON, OR                                        THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.             71

down his finest orchards andJ planted tht
mulberry trees in thefr room. Every bodj
predicted that he was speedily destined t
become a millionare or a modern Cra~sut
in wealth. Beautiful indeed ~as the ap
pearance of his extensive field of morus
mnulticaulus, as the young trees shot uj~
their tall stems rich in their emerald fol
isge towards heaven. Many were the
bushels of magnificent cocoons produced~
and ample and extei~sive the accommoda-
tions erected for the preservation of the
living grubs and the spinning of raw silk
which he caused to be erected on his es-
tate. his wh' le mind was wrapped in
the novel business, and sanguine were h's
dreams of abundant success. But these
day dreams u ore destined to prove as vis-
~bnnry und vain as those of the slumber-
ing'ho~r.; The bubble burst, and all the
scheii~ of speculators and capitalists
werescattered to the air, bringing in their
train bankrupoy and despair. The great
bank oj the United States went down in
public appreciation, after it come beneath
the ban of government, and panic and con-
fusion in monetary affairs reigned
throughout the land.
The worthy Rivingtors at length realized
the precipice upon which he stood and re-
treated in aifright from its Verge. 'He
called in his loans and his dues in vain.
His debtors were unable and would not
pay and refund. The ~nore he tried to re-
tri~ve his fortune and recover his original
position, the more complicated became
his involvements. J3ut pecuniary diffi-
culties were not all that be was caHed on
to suffer and endure. Truly, misfortunes
never come singly. His eldest born, Mel-
ville, a wild and dissipated youth, visited
the race course of Trenton, and becoming
inflamed with wine and reckless in Ida
habits, was thrown from a vicious horse and
instantly killed. His death was speedily

followed by the cutting down, in the glory
and beauty of of their lives, of his son-in-
law Herbert Waldegrave, his daughter
Amelia, and their child, by a terrible pest-
- silence which ravaged the world. ~X fe~
months subsequent, his only remaining
son Georges was also swept to the grave
- by consumption. This noble and promh~
* ing youth had made the acquaintance of
Grenville Ed mondsun, who bees me in con-
* sequence a frequent visitor to the planta-
tion of hisfather, attracted thither by the
general cordiality of the whole family of
the venerable and worthy Rivington, and
particularly by the rare beauty and sweet-
nessof Mary. These visits were first visits
of friendship, which friendship ripened
speedily into love between the gallant and
the you[Ig girl, already blossoming into the
glorious maturity of womanhood. They
pledged their troth, Sifl(l named the hour
when their marriage would take place, on
-his rEturn after a cruse of three years on
the Pc.cific coast.
The family of Rivington was reduced
to the parents and three daughters, Mary,
the eldest, on the death of her brother
George, just entering on her fifteenth
year, and her sisters Harriet and Helen
five and seven years her junior.
Time wore on. A year elapsed, when
Mary received intelligence of the death of
her gallant lover, while defending the flag
of his country, on board of a ship com-
manded by thti spirited Commodore Por-
ter. The' new~ fell like a thunderbot
upon the sensitive nature of the affianced
girl, young as she was. She sank into a
depth of sorrow and grief which threat-
ened spredily to make fearful inroads upon
her fragile and delicate constitution. She
lost her buoyancy and elasticity of step,
wbile her mind becamts enveloped seem-
ingly in a pall of melancholy and des-.
pondency indicative of mental aberration,

or a " mind diseased."
A change of scene and society wa
deemed essential to her health and hai
piness. She was sent to New York an
became fhe inmates of a respectable femal
boarding'semiriory, located in the environ
of the city. The good effect of this move
ment was soon perceived. She receive
the solicitous attentions of the Principah
male and female, and enjoyed, likewise
the afflictions and esteem of the numeron
and happy maidens, who pursued thei
course of studies in the institution. Thesi
attentions revived her spirits and rapidly~
restored the rose's bloom to her fair lily
like cheeks.
It was xvhi-le she was at the Seminary
that she attended a soiree, ~&amp;t the house o
one of the former students, and becoate in
produced to Sydcnham Van Tuyl. Hc~
extreme beauty and many accomplish
ments of mind and manners readily at.
traced his attention, when he' profferec
her his addresses, pursued her with on or
dor of passion that resulted in an offer te
her of his hand and fortfine and marriage.
Mary, however, resolutely refused all such
gallant~ies, thanking him for his regards,
but declaring the sacred nature of her
feelings in behalf of her departed lover,
the gallant lieutenant Edm~ndson. Syden-
ham did not seem disposed to yield his
point, and pressed her to an engagement of
her heart and hand in marriage with all
the eloquence and power of the poet and
impassioned swain to, the queen of his
idolatry and love.
To avoid his importunities, she re-
turned to the home of her parents arid
young sisters, and sought seclusion and
peace in their now humble abode, strip-
ped as her father had become of his noble
mansion and most of the inheritance he had
honorably won by his personal l~bor and
superintendency of his plantation lands.

Here, however, Sydenham pursued her,
.s and revealed the state of his feelings to
~- her parents, both of whom considered
d themselves highly flattered, and readily
s.f consented to forward his suit with Mary.
a Sycenham generously offered the worthy
1'tivington the amplest extent of his purse
d to assist the father of his beloved one from
;, the embarrassments into which he had
, fallen, with a view to the recovery of the
a original and hard-won possessions of the
prime of his manhood.
~   Mary was at length induced to listen to
~ the arguments her father urged for her
- acceptance of the hand of Sydenham in
marriage-her lover's wealth, Lieutenant
Edmondson's death, and his own impover-
f isbed circumstances of life. These infiu-
- ences were too powerful to be resisted;
and she finally yielded her hand where
- her heart was Dot-sacriheing herself for
- the comfort and happiness of her beloved
I parents and younger sisters.
- Her subsequent career of life, as the
I wife of Sydenham Van Tuyl, is already
sufficiently well known to the hour of the
mysterious death of her bosom compan-
ion and school-mate, Ida Wilton, and the
* inexplicable absence of her husband,
whether by deatlt or otherwise on the
* same evening of the terrible tragedy to
which allosion has so frequently been
made. Being regarded in the light of a
harlot, if not a murderess, she returned
~once more to the bosom of her parents,
who had removed from their country, and
occupied the time being by sufferance,
an elegant villa in the vicinity of New
York, belonging to her absent husband.
[here she soon after gave birth to her first
child, which was immediately taken from
her arms and consigned to the Irish nurse.
The old man conceived that he had
so'd the honor of his child for gold,
and bartered away her h~ppiness for his

70


72                      MINNY LAWSON, OR
own selfish and ignoble purposes. These but who was now enjoying a competence
reflections brought him to cherish a deadly through the former assistance of his be-
hate to the very name of Van Tuyl, and nevolent patron and master.
caused him to disown, even before its Mary, however, after a few months in
birth, the offspring which should spring of their new home, suddenly disappeared,
the lust of Sydenham and the innocence and nothing whatever had since been
of his daughter Mary, which bitterness of known of her fate and destiny.
feeling was further strengthened when
the executors of the Van '1'uyl estate, in-  CHAPTER     xiv.
cludin~ the rich merchant Arlington, and
Col. Burrell, the crafty lawyer, demanded BLACK ItO LF, THE DWARF.---HORRIBLE
an immediate surrender of the villa he DETAILS OF VIOLENCE.
occupied by the sufferance of Sydenham,      "Sweep ho! Sweep ho!
From the bottom to the top
his now repudiated son-in-law, because of    Without a ladder or a rope,
the shame and stain that had been cast Sweep ho I Sweep ho !"
upon the name and purity of his beloved SUCH was the cry of Black Ralf, the
child. He 'vowed that he would never Dwarf, a well known chimney-sweep of
look upon his grand-child, but would New York, as he sat perched on the top
spurn it from his affections and home an- of a chimney of a vacant house which ad-
der whatever were the circumstances o joined that of the merchant Ar]ington, in
Its helpless and protected existence.- Greenwich street, preparatory to the oc-
Strange to say, the young wife sanctioned pancy of the premises by a new tenant,
and approved, the sentiments of her after the same had been thoroughly pun-
father's bosom, at least became entirely fled and put iz~ habitable condition.
passive and obedient to his control. Ac- Those were the days of wood fires,
cordingly her babe w~s torn from her sooty and smoky chimneys, and extensive
bosom without her eyes ever having rest- conflagrations, the two latter evils happily
ed on its cherub form, or partaken of the remedied in a large degree, by the gene-
gushing nectar of her maternal love. ral introduction of grates, and anthracite
The many sorrows and misfortunes coal as a substitute for wood fuel at the
which has swept over the house of Riv- present day. The employment of sweeps
ington, were not yet at an end. Mary's was deemed absolutely indispensable as a
mother fell in death, beneath her grief for means of comfort and safety. These
her defamed daughter, before that child persons were usually composed of th~
herself hud become a mother. Her sister colored portion of the inhabitants, who de-
Harriot took a fever that pervailed, and rived haild9ome emoluments and comfort-
was al-o swept into eternity, within a able living from the proceeds of their sooty
month of her mother's demise, and before trade. But "Othello's occupation" has
the accouchment of her sister Mary. long since fairly ceased. indeed, a sweep
The gray-hair~d and stricken Riving. has become quite a rarity in the great me-
ton, some weeks after the birth of Mary's tropohis, so ~that when the sable and be.
child, surrendered~e property, and with grimm~d personages are seen in the
Mary and Helen accepted an humble cot- streets, they are looked upon as objects
tage home in the country of a kind friend, of curious interest; nay, even with a spe-
who had formerly labored -for Rivington, cie of wonder and awe allied toThe fearful

I

I

and superstitious, as if they were imps of
darkness from the kingdom of Pluto, ap-
pearing on earth to proclaim the horrors
ot spirits damned in the place of doom.
Truly, the dusky skin, the outre and sooty
garb, the strange and wonderfully melo-
dious cries of the sweeps of the present
day and generation are well calculated to
inspire ideas of the supernatural and
mysterious, in the minds of the rising
generation, especially among the ignorant
and superstitious of the emigrant popula-
tion who have never beheld an African
form and countenance until their arrival
on our shores.
"Sweep ho! Sweep ho !" cried Black
Raif, in rich and melodious strains during
quite a long song appropriate to a i4 ex-
pressive of his peculiar calling, occasion-
ally branching off into extemporaneous
variations of music and words, that gave
a very amusing and extraordinary interest
to his theme.
Suddenly the song of the Dwarf Sweep
was interrupted by loud shrieks df some
one in distress. RaIf jumped to his feet
on the top of the tall chhnney which he
had been sweeping, looked keenly around
in every direction and held his ear as it to
catch more distinctly the sonice of the
yoice of the person in peril.
"Help! Help! Murder! Murder 1"
now came again to his quick and attentive
ear, as if of a voice in the distance, or
suffering strangulation.
He knew the house to be uninhabited
upon the chimney of which he stood, and
as it was now near noontide of the day, a
deed of violence was not likely to occur in
the open street, but in the adjoining house
of the merchant Arlington. He accord-
ingly sprang down and dashed on all
fours, along the topmost verge of the s'eep
roof of the vacant dwelling, and dumb
the chimney of Arlington's house, with

the rapidity and agility of a black bear or
orange outang.
He threw his body across the chimney
and thrust his head fairly out of view
down the Ilac of the merchant's dwelling.
Once more the screams were repeated
in a female voice with that dis~nct clear-
ness to leave no further doubt ~tience the
sound proceeded.
"H-e-l-p! H-e-l-p! M-u-r-d-e-r !-
M-u.r-d-e-r! M.u-r-" came up through
the flue of the chimney with prolonged
and terrible agony of accent. It was
enough. RaIf instantly realized the em-
minent peril of the person who thus so
piteously and hopelessly called for aid.
Thoughtless and reckless' of danger to
himself, his impulsive spirit and generous
nature urged him promptly to the succor
of the distressed. He darted down the
vent w th the rapidity of lightning, and be-
held a young and beautiful maiden in the
clutches of the monster Arlingtoi~ who
had torn the clothing from the breast of *
the girl, aud would have succeeded in his
salacious and diabolical purposes, if the
~weep had not at the very instant provi-
dentially interfered to the rescue of Mm-
ny Lawson. So excited and inflamed
were the vile passions of the libertine, and
so intent upon his horrible purpose that he
heard nothing of the descent of BaIt
through the chimney, nor saw him, until
he was pounced upon like a tigress rob-
bed of her whelp, and torn by herculean
force from the neck of his fair and strug-
gling victim. Had the devil made his ap-
pearance, Arlington could ~ot have been
more alarmed and dumbfounded on the
instant, and in the first impulse of his ter-
ror he uttered a cry of despair, as of a
fiend about to be plunged to the depth of
fiery woe, by the gr~t adversary of souls.
He, however, quickly discovered that the
strange and begrimmed ~being who had

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           73


74                MiNNY LAWSON, OR                                    THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.              75

come to the deliverance of Minny, was ti
well known sweep, whose services he hi
himself often engaged. His courage r~
ta~ned, and with the rage of a villian dE
ected in his foul crime, and probably
dreading exposure, he demanded
"Scoundrel! Wretch! Black imp
Hell l Whence came you'? Why this ir
trusion in my house! I{ence, begone l c
by the foul Friend of Sulphur himself
you shall die on the instant!
"Not so, Mr. Arlington! Brute! mos
ster! that I know you to be! Come nea
me, at your peril. Heaven has sent m
to l'e the protector of beauty and. limo
cence. She is safe in these dusky am
burly arms, while I shall have strength t
guard ner purity~ whatever the hazar(
my life. Back, back! I say, or by th~
great God in Heaven, I will cut the blacl
heart from your villainous bosom, and cas
it to be devoured by the dogs in th(
street!"
U
Ralf held the poor girl, who had fallen
the second time into a cataleptic condition
under one arm, while he brandished a
huge knife and kept the libertine at bay.
He wheeled backward in the direction of
the door, with a view to escape with his
precious burthen through the pall of the
door.
But Arlington was not disposed to be
so easily baffled in his purpose, or robbed
of 4iis prey. He crowded on Black RaW,
with a desperation of purpose that could
scarcely be resisted by the rescuer of
Minny from the hound of lust.
He reached the door and turned the
key, and would have darted away with
the girl in his arms,~when unfortunately
her garments ca t in the lock, and
were stripped aim entirely in finders
from her lovely and insensible form.
'There was now a sudden and terrible cry

te of' surprise from tie lips of the wretched
Ld Arlington:
t. "Good God! What do I behold! My
s- child-my long lost child! That mark of
y hell! The serpent at the heart! The
serpent at the heart! Holy heaven!
What would 1 have done'? She is saved
-saved from pollution! My child-
r my daughter. Take'not away my child!"
Suchwild and incomprehensible language
filled the heart of l3lack Rail' with no
little amazement, mixed with terror. He
I-
muttered-
r ~ understand you not. She is no child
~ of yours-no child of yo~irs! Would a
father ravish his own child? Never-
Back, back! She shall not remain here.
I will bear her away. She shall be saved
from further outrage and wrong !"
"She shall not be taken hence. She is
my child! As God is my witness, she is
my only child. I will protect her. She
shall not-must not be torn from her fa.
their's arms."
"Liar! Villain! She cannot be the
child of so foul a monster of lust and
crime! Back, or perish in sour hellish
Arlington heeded not the words ot the
powerful negro dwarf, but rushed onward
to the restraint of both the gid and her
black deliverer. The dwarf finding that
his only chance of escape ~vas by maim-
ing or killing his white adversar&amp; outright,
let slip his long sharp blade, with tremen-
dous energy into the bosom of Arlington.
[le fell beneath the blow, stunned and
bleeding, as from a fatal wound!
"Murder! murder! Seize them! Seize
hem! Murder l Murder l" were shrieked
by Arlington, in such loud and awful
tones, that it seemed as if tbe whole city
would have been alarmed at the outcries.
The knife had struck against Arling-
ton's ribs, and glanced obliquely outwardly

from his body, without doing farther dan-
~er than making a frightful gash athwart
the breast, and stunning him completely
for a few moments. He quickly sprang
to his feet, and darted through the upper
hall stairway, in pursuit of Black RaIf.
His fearful cries of, murder had speed-
ily brought his servants Armand and
Margery to the first hall, just as Black
Ral~f had gained the inner door or screen
near the entrance to the street.
Armond instantly comprehended the
whole affair, and rushing forward, Inflicted
a heavy blow upon the back part of
I3lack Ralf's head, which felled him to
the floor, insensible and bleeding in
death.
"Seize the black villain! Bind him
hand and foot! Drag' him down to the
dark vaults, and let him perish there, and
become food for the vermin and the rats!
My child !-oh, Margery! She is my'
child-my long lost child! Unclasp her
from the black skunk's arms. Save her
-save her! Oh, let not my dear child
perish if there be a spark of' life remain-
ing in her body."
It was the work of a moment to do the
bidding of Arlington.
Arn:aad tore the sooty garments from
the Sweep, and quickly bound his arms
and legs, aud then dragged him by rriain
force, as he might have done the dead
carcase of a dog, to tte dismal and damp
vault, indicated, in the cellars of the build-
ing, where he thrust him in, turned the
key, and left him utterly to perish.
Meanwhile Margery had lifted up the
stricken girl, and conveyed her very
gently to a bcs.udoir, laid her carefully in a
bed, and applied such restoratives as she
deemed would speedily restore her from
her cataleptic condition, and arouse her
to consciousness and life, which now ap-
peared entirely suspended1

Arlington, exhausted by the struggle
with thegirl, and the strife with Black
Rslt' threw himself upon a sofa in the
parlor, and endeavored to compose him-
self aa he was able. in the relaxation of
his nerves and mental energies. What
his reflections were may probably be irri-
agined. They however found no utter-
ance in words.
At the end of some minutes, Armand
entered the room, and reported the luifil-
ment of the con mands he had received
from his master.
"The black imp is secure enough now'
I'll warrant me. He will never sing his
sweep song upon the housetops again.
His soul is already in the devil's clutches,
and his black body will soon make a boun-
tiful supper for the worms and the rats."
~I'he heartless wretch chuckled a fiend-
ish laugh as he spoke.
"'Tis well Armand. This affair must
be kept a profound secret. You know
how deeply you are implicated in this ter-
rible business with myself. God knows
I anticipated no such results. The young
girl whom I would have used to my lust-
ful purposes, I have discovered to be my
daughter, the hunocent infant creature
whom I spurned front my arms in the first
blushing hours of her existence, surrend-
ering her to the care of strangers, finally
to be lost and withdrawn from my gaze
for many long years till this day. Oh Ar-
mand, it was a strange discovery indeed,
but much more wonderful the manner
of her deliverance from the polluted coils
n which I sought to enmesh the tender
child. I would have violated my own
daughter-committed foul incest, unknow-
ingly indeed.-Heaven help me, yet none
bhe less horrible the stain upon her fath-
er's soul! "Walls have ears," 'tis said.
I know not but that the terrible outcries
that have rung through these walls and


76

awaked the echoes of every recess, may
have been heard in the streets, As a mat-
ter of pmudenc~ and caution, the girl must
be removed from hence. This very night
you shall take her to my furnished villa
on the island, new untenanted, except by
your fellow servants, during my absence
here in the city. Margery shall accompany
you and attend the girl as he r special
nurse, till such time as she shall recover
and be acknowledged to the world as my
first born and only child."
"Your word is law with me, and shall
be obeyed, to the letter Mr. Arlington."
"'Tis well! Call Margery hither, and
if she cannot leave the stricken child, re-
turn yourself and report her present state
of health. A glass of wine first, Armand,
then speed you on your errand."
His request was instantly obeyed, and
Margery made her appearance before the
merchant.
"How fares the girl, Margery ?"
"She is better. She has recovered from
her fainting fit, and is now enjoying seem-
ingly a refreshing sleep. Strange thing,
indeed, that which has come to pass this
day, Mr. Arlington. Yeu have fo'tnd your
long missing chlld-but--but--.---."
"Cease woman. Enougti-.enough. I
thank God she remains as pure as the
i~ugels in Heaven, and that shc has not
been brutally outraged by her own father.
It was surely a providential preservation.
I own my foul guilt; but my child is
spared. She shall have now the fullest
sympathies of a repentant father-all the
utmost affections of a parent to the tender
and lovely child'ot' his consanguinous blood
and lone."
Arlington then detailed his future plans
and bade the woman go and attend the
bedside of his daughter, while he retired
to his own room for a few hours repose.
On that same evening, Minus, in a rap-

idly convalescent state, was conveyed to
Arlington's country villa, in a boat rowed
by Armand, accompanied by Margery, the
nurse.
CHAPTER XV.
WOMAN'S FRAILTY.-A IITJSBAND's JEAL
OTJ5Y AND HATIIED!
AMONG the young ladies who pursued
their studies at Mount Green Female
Boarding Seminary, during a part of the
term while Mary Rivingron was an inmate
of the same institution-was Minerva
Raybold, a young 'orphan heiress, from
New Orleans, who had been placed in ths
care of the Principal, by her Ward, a
bachelor uncle, a brother of her mother,
and now her only living relative.
At the time Mary Rivington first enter-
ed the Seminary, Minerva Raybold had
been there several years, and was passing
through her graduating class. She was
now within a few months of attaining the
eighteenth year of her age, when she
would become legally the mistress of her
own conduct and the possessor of the
wealth of her ancestors.
t3he was a young lady of more than
ordinary personal loveliness and brilliance
of intellect. Her education was most
excellent, embracing the entire range
of literature, to which were added all the
polite and fashionable accomplishments
of the day, including etl~broidery, dancing~
music, portrait and landscape painting,
and the like. ~he was a creature of re-
markable joyousness of spirit-a being
in whose countenance beamed happiness
and sunshine, seldom or never shaded by
a passing cloud of sadness or sorrow.-
Her complexion partook of the soft fair-
ness of the lily, delicately suffused with
the rubicund tints of the sea shell. Her
eyes were large, the pulls of a heavenly

I

MINNY LAWSON, OR

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.
blue, floating in a sea of crystalline hu- all seasons a round of gay and intellect
mor; her nose was Grecian; her mouth ual company participated. It was at on e
small-~.the lips pouting and parting like of her parties, that Sydenham Van Tuy
a rose-buji cut in twain, revealing a row became acquainted with Mary Rivington
of pearls of exqtiisite whiteness and bril- and subsequently won her for his bride,
lianoy. Her hair hung in a shower of which event was solemnized about one
golden threads down upon her alabaster year after Minerva Raybold had pledged
neck and f~i1l bust and symmetrical her heart and hand in marriage with Ar-
shoulders. Her form was petite and lington.
sylph-like. Her feet and ankles were Mrs. Arlington as yet gave no indica-
small and beautifully turned, 'showing tion whatever of a pledge of children, as
gentleness of pedigree. Her voice was the fruit of love and faithfulness between
rich and musical as that of the untamed herself and husband. The fact had now
bird. In short, there seemed no grace become a source of anxiety to both hus-
and delicate voluptuousness of figure, and band and wife. Arlington longed for a
no attribute of mind wanting to the per- heir to inherit his name and rapidly in-
fection of her being. She was Beauty's creasing wealth, while his wife was
elf; in all the attributes of heart, mind scarcely less impatient to yield issue of
an forni.                            her affection to the bosom of' her liege
A lady of such superior graces could lord. The absence of such token of love,
scar ly be without a very host of admir- however, had now produced an amount of
cr5, ho sued for her hand in marriage, coldness in the feelings of Arlington, that
as w I for her rare loveliness and mental threatened a complete estrangement of
charms, as the large wealth which was conjugal sentiment between the twain.
her inheritance and at her entire disposal. Indeed, had not certain prudential con-
Among these suitors was Mortimer Regin- sideration of a monetary character out-
aid Arlington, the rich merchant, with weighed the bitterness and disappointment
whose history and character the reader of both in the lack of issue, a violent mup-
is already sufficiently acquainted. He tore would undoubtedly have been the
was a man under thirty years of age, result.
handsome and courteous, and possessed  Arlington, after the marriage of Syden-
of many outward manly attributes, well ham Van Tuyl, who at the 'time was his
calculated to enlist the sympathies and partner i1 business, in a branch establish-
affections of the gentler sex, whatever ment of the father of the latter, was called
the hidden principles of his bosom, or in- to NewOrleans on some business connected
herent of his origins nature. He was with a final possession of his wife's estates
successful in his add '~s~es. Minerra and inheritances in Louisiana. His absence
Raybold became his bride, and entered was avoidably prolonged, and the time was
upon an establishment ai d a round of life uncertain when he would be able to wind
of great gayety and splendor.        up his affairs arid return to his home in
What with balls, routes, soirees, and New York.
all manner of   fashionable recreations  Meanwhile Arlington~s house was ever
and pastimes, incident to high society, daily and nightly a scene of gayety and
time rolled rapidly away. Her home was revelry. Visitors of both sexes came
one of complete hospitality, of which at and went, scarcely without restraint and
4
k


'78                       MINNY LAWSON, OR.
ceremony, and participated in the pleas- scandal in the eyes of the more circurri
ures and dissipation which were con- spect of the world. Her disposition was
stantly being pursued. Thete excesses volatile, her affections ~varm, and her pas-
~werc calculated to arrest public attention, sions ardent, without a thought ni what
as well from the character of the guests, mischievous consequences would be likely
the sumptuousness of the entertainmenLQ, to follow such gayety of character, un-
the midnight orgies as they really were, balanced by strong reason and deep con~
* given and held by a young wife and most siderate reflection of the proprieties of
beautiful and voluptuous woman, while lif~. She was a creature who acted en-
the husband was far away, and incapable tirely from the strong impulses of her
by reason~thereof to exercise that whole- nature, nor reeked of the brink of peril
some restraint upon such follies as would upon which she stood, in view of the arts
be more compatible with the proprieties and appliances of the heartless sensualist,
of a virtuous home and the perfection of libertine and seducer. Her gentle heart
conjugal felicity between hirns&amp;f and his overflowed with sympathies of the purest
spouse.                              character for all of humanity, while she
There came to the house of Arlington, Jid not seem. to comprehend that there
during his absence, tie savant, the law- could be such things as treachery and
yet', the clergyman, the statesman, the ~vickedness in the bosom of any mortal
poet, and men of all grades of pursuit being.
and rank in society, including even the Sydenham Van Tuyl was an especial
gambler and the roue, among the last favorite with her, and she received his
named, none more nokrious than C1. polite attentions as mere gallantries, or
]3urrell and Sydenham Van Tayl, who rather ns those tender 4~rourtesies which S
had but a few weeks before had married devoted brother might only extend to a
Mary Rivington, the school companion dearly beloved sister-nothfng more. In-
and friend of Arlington's wife. Syden- deed, so marked were Sydenham's atten-
ham Van Tuyl, in fact, had been a suitor tjons to Arlington's wife, that his own
for the hand of Minerva RayboLl, but the wife noticed them, and suffered the twin-
beautiful heiress having alreaOy pledged ges of jealousy, although she could not
her troth to Arlinh4on, Sydenham was believe that her dear female friend would
necessiated to forego his suit, and 'proffer ever so far forget her self-respect to be-
his affections and sympathies in union come involved in an3 intrigues detrimental
with Mary Rivington.                 to her own everlasting peace of mind in
The intimacy accordingly which sub- view of a lapse of virtue on the part of Mrs.
sister between the young wives of Ar- Arlington with her husband ~ydenham.
linglon and Va~ Tuyl, was naturally very Her own pure and sensitive nature shrank
cordial add free, nor less so betweert Sy- from such terrible thoughts, and she strove
der~ham and Arlington's wife. Indeed, with such power as shewas able, to ban-
so confiding and unsuspicious of evil was ish any unjust ~suspicions of criminality
the gay young woman, that Sydenham on the part of her husband and Mrs. Ar-
enjoyed her fullest confidence and regard, lington from her mind. She could not
little dreaming that by so doing, she ren- however, abandon the knowledge shd pos-
dered her seemingly reckless, yet really messed of Sydenham's many amours and'
virtuous ~onduct open to censure and intrigues, committed before her union

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

with him, although she fondly trusted in his
newly married relation with herself, the
ardentor of his passion would never again
pass beyond the proper bounds of conju-
gal restraint.
At length a grand entertainment was
given by Mrs Arlington. Her gorgeous
saloons were thrown open to a large circle
of f ishionable acquaintances and friends,
among others Sydenham Van Tuyl, un-
accompanied by his wife, who ~vas detain-
ed at borne by temporary indisposition.
There were feasting, music and dancing,
and unlimited license to enjoyment for all
present. The viands were rich and high-
ly spiced, the sparkling wines flowed in
very rivers of profusion, while the entire
sumptuousness and brilliance of the oc-
casion were well calculatedto banish all
reserve an~ong the gue~s, to incite reck-
lessness of manner, and infisme all the
armorous impulses between the sexes. All
soon became absorbed in their own pur-
suits and passions, men and women par-
ticipating in that freedom and licentious-
ness of deportment only tole~'ated in the
circles of extreme fashionable society.
Sydenham Van Toyl soon engaged the
beautiful hostess as his partner in a dance
amid the whole of the many who spun
aroun~l the saloons in all manner of salta-
torious evolutions. They were both re
inarkably graceful dancers, but as they
whirled in the mazy and voluruptuous
waltz, their "feats of the light fantastic
toe," perhaps neither excited attention nor
elicited remark, so intensely were all the
gay company absorbed in the merriments
and socialites of the evening.
Mrs. Arlington had partakeri somewhat
freely of wine, the effects of which were
quickly perceived by Sydenham, as he
held her in his arms in the waltz. Her
cheeks became flusired, her bosom heav-
ed, either with passion, or else from the

heat of the room. Presently she grew
giddy, her countenance turned to an ashy
paleiies~, and she fell into~ a sickening
swoon. Sydenham quickly and qrtite un-
perceived led the beautiful woman from
the ball room, to a small and secluded
boudoir in a rear part of the mansion,
which adjourned and opened into a large
conservatory, now redolent with the per.
fumes ofawilder~css of flowers. He placed
her gently on a soft couch, unclasp-
ed her waist, and laid bare her bosom,
proudly swelling in its snowy and vol-.
6umptuous glory. He dashed a cup of
water over her face, and~Imrust a bottle of
sal almonnia to her nostrils, with a view to
her recovery from her fainting condition.
Then seized with a strange impulse he
sprang to the door and locked himself in
the boudoir with the stricken woman.-
Here he remained some minutes, when he
came out into the conversatory, and per-
ceiving Arm and, bade him call one of the
female servants to attend his mi~ tress.
The ball was over. Arlington arrived at
home a few weeks thereafter, and ap-
p~ared rather pleased than otherwise that
his fair young wife, had so gayly and gen-
erously kept up the hospitahities of his
house during his absence. He dreamed
of nothing, suspected nothing, implicating
the purity of his wife. Several months
elapsed when he discovered in a drawer of
a bureau of his wife's boudoir, a letter
scarcely becoming to be retained in the
possession of a married woman. It breath-
ed a fervency of passion such as only lov-
ers might feel in the honied hour of im-
passionate suit. To this letter was at-
tached a poetical fictions name, while it
was without date, ~vhich proved very for-
tunate thiu~'s at the time. This armorous
billet-doux arrested the attention of Ar
hngron, and induced him to examine a
number of others that were its compan-


80              MINNY LAWSON, OR

ions in the drawer. They were gener-
ally letters of friendship from her ac-
quaintances, and her uncle, with some
few of a more tender character, that had
been addressed to her by gallants who
had sought to win her for a lride. They
bore dates~ and proper signatures which
left no doubt of having been received by
his wife in an honorable way prior to his
marriage with her.
His suspicions were excited. This let-
ter was in the handwriting of Sydenham
Van Tuyl, which he had abundant evi-
dence of knowing by comparing the cali
graphy of the letters and papers of his part-
ner in mercantile affairs. His wife's rotun-
dity of form, indicated that she would
shortly give birth to a child. Lie realized
that a year had passed without her giv-
ing the slightest signs of maternity. He
thought of his absence of some months
leaving her exposed to all the tempta-
tions of licentious society. His bosom
was filled with doubt. The more he
doubted and reflected the more convinced
he became of his wife's infidelity. He could
containhis suspicions no longer He produc-
ed the fatal document and angrily charged
the crime of adultery upon her. A violent
quarrel was the result of her assertion of
innocence. He would not however be
satisfied. He questioned his servants con-
cerning her private habits during his long
absence from home. The revelations that
were made, were not calculated to re-
lieve the uneasiness of mind under which
he labored. Nay, the proofs of his wife's
guilt were clear and abundant. Armand
related the suspicious circumstances of the
grand ball, when Van Tuyl was seen to
come forth from the private chamber of
Mr . Arlington. Abby Somers, the spe-
cial maid, confirmed Armand's statement,
and detailed the peculiar position in which
she had found the young wife.

Mrs. Arlington kept herself in ab-
solute seclusion in the house of her hus-
band, during her pregnancy. Her death
was duly proclaimed, but the knowledge
of having given birth to a child was kept
a secret from the world. The mid-wife
whp officiated at her accouchment, was
the old Mother O~Hara. The event took
place during the same day, and within a
few hours after her return home from the
strange and mysterious ~iirth-bed of the
unknown darkly veiled lady of the gor-
ge9us mansion, whose location was also
unknown to her, somewhere over the
water, on the dread night of the terrible
snow storm.
It was a strange coincidence. She re-
ceived from the dying wife of Arlington a
purse of gold and a gold ring of precisely
the same pattern and the same initials M.
U. engraved on the inner rim. The babe
was also a female child, but yielded by its
mother to the midwife with many bles-
sings on its innocent head, and repeated
injunctions to the nurse to guard and pro-
tect it through its career 4.of life. Tbe
babe was accordingly taken from her by
the mid wife, and conveyed to her humble
home. It was, however, a very fragile
thing, and died almost on the instant of
her return to her dwelling. She buried it
secretly in the earth of her cellar, and kept
her secret from all of mortal kind except
her daughter Norab. That very night
the child of mysterious origin, with the
mark of the black snake on her heart, was
taken to the cottage home of Lawson, on
the banks of the Harlem river, as hereto-
fore narrated.
She continued to receive an annual
sum of money from the merchant Arling-
tonfor its support, making him believe
that his wife's child, (for he would not call
it his own) lived in the home of the
gardener's cottage. Several years pass-

TIlE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

81

ed, wheo Mr. Lawson removed his res- inaLconduct or a voluntary confession of
dence to another put of the country, and secret crimes in the power of his servants
all t4ace of the girl Minny was lost for is no longer, in the full sense ot the term,
a season. Lawson, however, returned a free agent, but a trembling slave, ~vho
agaiti alter the deata pf his wit~, and re- cringes beneath and does homage to the
newed his calling ~i{ gardener and II rist persons under his command. The ser-
in the suburbs of the city.           vauts triumph in the employer's humility,
The reader will be at no loss accord- and the lady's-maid in the degradation of
ingly to comprehend tii~ mysterous oc- her amorous mistress; and the assumed
eurrences detailed in the chapter imme- tleference and mock respect paid, and the
diately precedng~the prcsut.          hypocritical smile of affability with which
the stricken master and mistress greet
CIIAPPEit XVI.              their servants or employees, is gall and
wormwood to the proud and sensitive
TUE MYS FEET OF THE SERPENT AT THE heart. Their whole bearing and actions
HEART, EXPLAIS ED.          towards their inferiors are perpetual bribes
IT was the 'night following that wheti 0 silence, wheli cannot be and are not
Minny Lawson was conve~ed,~in a help misaken. And in many cases the ser-
less state, to the Villa of Arlington, then vants and employees thus rendered confi-
situated in a vale, on the Western side of dents, feeling the potency of their power,
staten [sland, and standing in the midst assume the authority of delegated tyrants,
of a large garden, abounding in ~'hubbe ry and exercise a despotic sway over whole
and flowers, that Armand and Margery establishments.
were seated in t~c kitchen part of the Such was the position in which Arling-
house, deeply engaged in a conversaton toil found himself placed between Armand
ol momentous and extraordinary interest, end Margery; bat unprincipled and wick-
as connected with their own personal ed as they both had beei~, in assisting Ar-.
history and that of others. Minny Law- hngton in many a scheme of villany and
son lay in an upper room assigned to her, ntrigue-even roguery, lust and murder
apparently in a profound slumber, while ~-'-mhey had now seemingly become ~tired
all the servants of the villa had returned of the constraints necessarily imposed
to Arlington's house in the great city, upon all parties, and were anxious to as~
Thus Armand and Margery were entirely sonic virtues for themselves which they
alone, nor thought of any intrusion what- did not possessexcept in a comparative de-
ever upon their secret corn unionss with gree and break away from all restraints, by
one another, at that silent hour of the getting rid altogether of Arlingion, andeet-
night.                               ting up for themselves, whether as repent-
It was soon perceived by' a listening ant persons, or as individuals pursuing a
ear, that the life and crimes of the mer- course of secret crimes on their own se-
chant Arlington were the principal topics parade account and ~responsibility.
of discourse, in the commission of many  "No ~ Armanad," said Margery,1 "the
which they themselves were most inti- girl is sleeping soundly, and is not likely
ruately involved,                    to awake for same hours to ~ome. Indeed,
How true it is, that the master who to make sure that she will not be disturbed
places hiniself either by a display of crim- in her slumbers, I have administered a
6

80


82                        1MINNY LAWSON, OR
sleeping draught that will ke~'p her in that "Bat it was Arlington, (li~guised in a
state at least till the cock shall crow the mask."
approach of day. You will now explain "I comprehend everything, Armand.
to me the strange history (if the picture ol Yes, it meat have boenArm:ind. The
the woman ~vith an a~p sucking at her two babes, and the two rings that were so
heart, which so frightened me when I much alike The veiled lady, ~ ho gave
passed through the Picture Gallery aL birth to the child with the serpent at LhO
journing Minny's room this morni:g.- heart, was Arlington 'a mi sircss, I suppose;
The serpent mark on2 the bosom of the and the good lady who died blessing her
stricken girl, I am now certain must be in newborn was his legal Wile, whose ac~-
some way connected with the birth of the conchemnemit I attended doting the same
ehild,\vhom I was called upon so rnyste- morning, after my retnr~ to my humble
riously to assist into the world, on that home, with the nabe born under such
dreadful night of the snow storm, more singular circomnstazhes in this villa.'
than fourteen years agone. This is the "Undoubtedly. You have sormisc(l
same Villa, too, which I know by the correctly, Margery."
dark drapery of the couch and windows
~      V                   "The babes were half-sisters, then 1

just as I remember they were on that toys-
terious occasion. The room too was oval.
arid there in the left tiche is the same old
clock,' end in the right one that same bust
of General Washington.
"You are right, Margery. Nothing has
been chiinged here since that child was
born and taken hence in your arms. 'The
picture is called Cleopatra, and is based
on some incident in the lives of that re-
markable woman and Mark Antony."
"I see through it all, now, Armand.-
The veil6d-lady, who gave birth to Minny
must have received some aifright or had
her mind strongly impressed by the con-
ous picl~tjre, to leave so vionderful a birth
mark upon the bosom of her child. Yes,
I comprehend&amp; it all-all but one thing, Ar-
"And wh~t is thatMargery 3"
"It was an'old man who stood in the
room and watched me so closely, when
the in [ant was born. Who was he? Was
it Arlington's father? It certainly was not
Arlington. He is quite a young-looking
man yet, and that affair happened many
long years agone, you knoiv, Armand."

Ouc was an illegitimate child, and the
other born in lawful wedlock. That
was the way of it, Armand, was it rot ?"
"You are wrong. The childr~a were
in rio ~ay related.~'
"No way related, Armand 3'
"No. Minny Lawson, as she is called,
,s ,doubtless the iBegitimate child of Ar-
lington, by one of his mistresses; but the
infant born by Arlington's wife, was the
fruit of an adulterous intercourse with
the merchant Sydenham Van Tnyl. The
liaison occurred on the night of a grand
ball given by her ladyship, while her
husband was absent in the South."
"how many strange things do happen
in this world, now-a-days, Armand! But
I do riot believe Mrs. Arlington was a
guilty woman. She prayed like a Christ-
ian, and died so calmly, like one at peace
with her Maker~nd all the world."
"But it was nevertheless true that she
was an adultness, Margery."
"I am sure I can hardly believe that
she was a bad wonan. But appearances
do sometimes deceive, you know, Ar-
mand."

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           83

"They do indc~d. I would riot myself
have believed her ladyship guilty, had I
not seen with my own eyes enough to es-
tablislk the flict. I saw Sydenham Van
Tuyl come out of her lad)ship~s room,
and he bade me send Abby Somers to her
chamber, ~vhere she found her mistress
in a position that was not becoming to a
virtuous woman."
"Well, well! Poor woman! She is
long since dead and gone. God knows
whether she was guilty or not. But how
c;imne you to learn all about~ these strange
things; and particularly al~out Qie birth
of the girl now sleeping so quietly and
serenely up stairs, Armand 3"
"Oh, that i~ easily explained. Arling-
ton himself bade me and Wilkins go and
get tha midwife, and to hire old SwitzeV~
services, to take us over th6 dark waters
on that awful night."
"You and Wilkin's 3 1 never suspected
that before! God help me ! Was there
ever an~hing l~ie that in all toe world
before?"
"That [ cannot tell; but sflch affairs
might be of frequent oecurt~cnce for all
thain, Margery. Bat do you know of the
narrow escape von had of losing your
life on that night ?"
"Narrow escape of losing my life !-
How was that? What do yoa mean 3"
"We had instructions t~ murder you,
Ma~'gery!"              /
"Murder me! Good God! Armand, you
frighten me! What had I done that any
one should wish to murder me
"It was ju~t because yo~t had done some-
thing, ~that there was a wish that you
should be murdered, Margery 3"
"And what had I done ?"
"You had assisted at the birth of a
child whom the old man wished ~cstroy-
eti. You would not take the hint so to
do. He wished to hide himself, the veiled

lady, and all knowledge of the extraQrdi-
nary affair from the world."
'Horrible wretch! IJad I known that
he wished my death I would have told all
to the Police, and his neck would have
been stretched on the allows l6nglelore
this !" exclaimed Margery, with an eleva-
tion of her voice and considerable excite-
ment of manner. "But it is not~too late
yet! I will i~e veal everything, and they
5hall hang hi n for his crimes !.'
"Nay, nay, Margery ! This happened
long ago, and he did not then know who
you were.. Besides, it won't do to be tqo
rash at present, when we have our own
private matters to arrapge and set to
eights."
"Well, well. ~IIis time will come, sure;
perhaps soon enough, when the devil wiU
get his o~vn 1"
"As I was saying, Margery,
ccYe~, go on, and tell me all about why.
she wanted to have me murdered."
"Dead people, you know~, tell no tales!"
"Heaven help me, that's true 1"
"Arlington, or the old man, bade Wil-
kins and myself contrive to throw~ ~ou
and the babe, and'ohl Switzer the water-
man, overboard, anddrown you all, on our
return to the city."
"Oh Lord l Was there ever such a
monster ~"
"There are many equally wicked, that
I well know, in this world."
"Mercy on me! He will be sure t~ die
on the gallows ! He w ill not get hs des
serts till the buzzards eat his eyes out,"
"Be more calm, Margery. You are
alive yet, and what does it all signify 3"
"But how was I saved, and by whom,
Armnad ?"
By myself. I could scarcely keep
Wilkins from carrying out the old man's
request, until I whispered o him wha biflt
we could, at some day or other, make a


84                MINNY LAWSON, OR

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

handsome penny oat of the affair "
"Oh, how I th ank you, Armand !' The
woman thrcw herself about the neck o~
her fellow servant, and fairly~smother. d
him in her embrace of gratitude, mixed
with impulsive kisses and tears."
"Nay, nay, Margery. You owe me no
thanks. I candidly tell you, I did nor
knew you bat as a midwife, and had no
especial love fo: you. I consulted my
own interests, and thought only how
much ca~i'al I could make tint of the
whole matter, that was all, Margety.-
Heaven forgive me for Sajirig ~o~'
"Well, weli l" as you didn't kill me, I
forgive you-freely forgive lou, Ar-
mand."
"After drownir~g von, w~were to knock
out a plank in Switzer's boat, so that it
would sink to the bottom of the rkver be.
r.eath tb9 weight of the ballast of stones
which it contained."
"And he never fThind out that you de-
ceived him in not drowning us all 2"
"Never! To this day he is ignorant
that you and old Mother O'Hara are one
and the same persons."
"1 have never heard of such marvel.
ous tjuings before. Providence has indeed
w~nderful1y spared my life through many
trials ~ncf perils unknown to me."
"It was a lucky thing, Margery, tb~t
you changed your name before cowing
into the service of Arlington. That ab-
ortion affair of ',ours, which resulted in
the death of that young lady, came near
giving you over to the gallows, Mar-
gery !"
The woman sprang to her feet, as if she
was shot, and exclaimed-
"What know you about that woman?
for Gods sake tell me, Armand."
"Oh you needn't be alarmeef about it.
The secret is locked up in my bosom, and

there it shall remain so bag as we keep
good friends, at least. Never mind that
affsir now. But I will now tell you what
I further know about you. Do you know
who the boatman ~vas who rowed t'ou up
the East River on the night aftrr the mys~
teripus accouchement in this house !-the
night w hen you laid the girl, now sleep~
ing up stairs, then a babe one day old, at
the cott6ge door of the gardener Lawson,
on the banks of the liarlctn River, Mar-
gory 'P'
"No indeed, I do not. The ui~ht was
very dark, and -
'That man was myself "
"You, Arinand ?"
"Yes Margery, I am the man."
'Heaven hle~s me, Sinner that I am. 1
aat'completely Out of my head, in bewil-
derment of whait you have revealed to me,
to-night, Armand !"
"You will understand, Margery, that I
kept track of you and the child from first
to lad, until Lawson removed f~m the
city, As I was the go-between of Ar-~
lir;gton, you never saw him until I intro.
duced you to his service~ and bade you
on no account ever to reveal to him that
you were the eame~ woman who assisted
at the birth of the two children. The mo-
ney that was ser~t you for the supp~'t of
Mrs. Arlington's child, (for I received all
your letters in regard to the safety of the
child, although I knew it died on the very
~ay you took it to your home,} was for-
warded to you by myself, without Ar-
lington knowing anvthihg about the ma-
er."
"How you astonish me, Armand."
"You see now that I am folly ac-
quainted with your entire history. In-
deed it was this knowledge that first made
mesup~iose you wou!d be a valuable as-
sistant to us in our many secret affairs,
M~rrgery."

~'Yes, yes-th'it was the care.'t
"XVe, of courses now perfectly under-
stand each other, and I trust there will
never be any caus e of difference between
us, Margery.''
"No, never-never, Armand."
"Theh, I will inform you of many other
strange things, and you shall assist me in
my little affairs,     keep our secrets
s afely locked in cur besorns."
'Oh, yes. I will be your friend, Ar
-wand. There shall never be a breach be-
twee~ us, if I can help it ; depend on my
word, Armand."
"All right, thcn. It is growing late.-
To-morrow, I will tell you more, Margery
Goed night."
"Good night, Armand."
The parties soon after r~Ured to their
respective apartnients for th~ night.
There was a listener, wl~o overheard
all that li~d been said, who q~icldy disap-
peared without being observe d by either
Armand or Margery.
ChAPTER XVI.
TIlE STOLEN JEWEL5.- TIlE OftONE~ OF
HIS MISTRE.~$.
Taiz next eventngafrer t e household
~OtiP5 of the iilla had beer concluded,
and Minny Lawson was seen ingl~ asleep
on hr sick couch, Mirgery rd Atmand
again seated thems Ives in the ki~beo,
and resumed the cunversatin which had
been broken off the night b fore by the
clock striking the hour of on , reminding
them to retire to their beds of repose.
"Now, Armand,~' said Marg~ry, we "can
sit at our ease again, ~."hile ~ou shall tell
inc more about the. history ~f A"hingtort,
~nd in what manner you hai~e beea con-
nected with him before I can~e to live in
his service. The girl is getti~ig well very
rapidly, and seems to enjoy her sleep
v~y much this earning."

"Well, I will begin at once, and n~r-
rate the more prominent events in the his-
tory of Arlington and myself-reserving
minor affairs till some other occasion, as
I may have leisure to detail them to you."
"Go on) Armand. Tell me all in your
own way. I will be an attentive listener
to all you may have to tell me."
"Well then, Margery, I will first state
the way I became acquainted with Ar-
lingtnn. It was about sixteen years ago,
when all Europe ~ias convulsed by the
wars of the great Napoleon Bonaparte,
who tumbled over kings and rulers, like so
many nine-pins, and partitioned off many
kingdoms in order to give his brothers
and relatives each a separate throne from
which to rule the conquered people of the
various nations of the Cor4inent. Lewis
Bonaparte having been made King of Liol-
land, th~ Duke of Brunswick was dispos-
5e55e(l of his territories, and resided for
the time being in London. In his absence
~Pririee of that house, intvhose service
I wa~~mployed, stole the crown jewels
and other valuable treasures of the Duke-
'do~n, and secreted the bulk of them in
be earth. lie was a gay and dissolute
Prince, and lavished his wealth in bound-
less profusion upon a ~~ig I~reneh wo;
mat', wife of a Colonel i~~th~ French
Army, then residing at Amsterdam, where
Mr. Arlington had a ~hig. ~akfDg in a
cargo of goods fot~ ~e United States. I
became cognizant of the robbery of the
jewels by the young Prince, my master,
and seeing that he ~vould be likely to lay-
ibh all of the t:easiirethat could be~read-
ily converted to use, without detection,
upon his paramour, I resolved to~ secure
the treasure for myself and make my
escape to the United States. I secured
my prize, and then I thought of the best
manner of having the same conveyed
across the" Atlantic without a discovery

-t


MINNY LAWSON, OR                                      THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.~            87

being made. Meanwhile, the Prince and
hia paramour quarrelled and separated,
when she retuned to Paris, and became
the mistress of St. Pierre do Reney, an
artificer in gold and silver, who quickly
converted several of the crowh ornaments
given to thr~ Prince's paramour, into ele-
gant manufactured bijouterie, so as to
leave no trace by which their previous
form could be identified. I applied to
Arlington and informed him in regard to
the stolen jewels, and offered to give him
half their value if he would undertake to
smug~1e the other half and nih'c me as a
passenger in his slip to New York.
"At first lie indignantly spu-ned the
proposition, and threatened to turn me
over at once for punishment to the au.
authorities of the country. I loll on my
knees and implored him in lie i~nost ear
nest and tearful manner not to expose riiy
crimes-that I woul(l surrender him the
entire treasure in my possession, and bind
myself to him as his slave ior life.
"After some show of determination to
hand me over to justice, his cupidity he~
came excited, and he suddejiTy relented,
and saVe m~ to understand that if I
would plac~ tbe treasures in hs hands he
would agre~ to my oroposilion, and take
the jew4~ ~nd myself. to the United
States, until Aich opportunity should arise
for the restori~tion of the treasure to the
proper owners. lie made me submit to
be hand~ufi'ed on the spot lest I should
o~o~pe, ~vhtte he confinetl me in a Secret
part of his ship till the vessel should sail
from Amsterdam. Though the treasures
were not very bulky, some of them being
diamonds~ 1 had them all secreted in little
bags about my person, beneath my draw-
ers and shirt. Just before thb ship sailed
I was put into a gin ho~shead half filed
with water, and in that position remained
discoveredrd until fairly out at tea, when

I was taken out and required to emp~oy
myself as one of ilid hands of the ship-
The vessel was placed under the com'
mand of the first officer, who was to take
her to Havre and there await for Ca~
tin Arlington to come on board on his re~
turn to the United States.
"Meanwhile he travelled overland to
Paris, and immediately sought out the
place of Reney the jeweller, and obtained
an interview with hIS niistress, which ir~
terview resulted in the ~ desertion
of Reriey and coming to New York as
the paramour of Arlington. Here Ar
linglon gave up his ship and entered into
partnership with Sydenham Van Tn3 I, in
the shipping and importing trade, living
in much apparent haimnony with his mie~
,tress for several months, when he admirv
istered a dose ~f poison which destroyed
her life. lie then gave oat that she had
coainmitted suicide, and so averted suspi-
cion from himself as her murderer.
"I was-Very ignorant of almost every
thing, when I fir~t phoed myself into the
power of Arlington, but whmen~tLe woman
died I readily comprehended that w e were
both guilty of crime, and by a tacit un~
derstanding between ourselves, under the
necessity of becoming attached to each
other, ~with a view to the preservation of
oul' respective secrets fiomn the eyes of
the world. The jewels of the W use of
flrnnsfi'ick were deposted in a certain spot
in the earth lor safe.keepin~, till all en-
quiry for them them in Europe should
h~ive entirely ceased. By a private agree-
ment between us, I became his bod3~serA
vant-nay1 seemingly, in the eyes of fhe
whole world, his most abject slave, with
a View to a series of crimes which he prod
pos~d~ and in which he was already en-
gaged, smuggling, privateering and kid-
napping slaves, on the A frican coasts
The rich and respected merchant would

not be supposed to be in direct collusion
with his servants, and thus our rclntive
connection has never been suspec&amp;d or
interrupted up to the present time."
"No one suspects Mr. Arlington to be
the rogue and '~uillian that he is ?" enquind
Margery.
"In the eyes of the world he enj ys the
reputation of a man of integrity ani pro-
per morals, nay, that of a chri~tian and
member of the church."
"Ob, the hypocrite! What would the
world think of him did they know of the
many crimes in which he has been en-
gaged."
*   "They would certainly be astounded to
discover thit he was not only a rogue and
villain-but he worst of all wretches, the
libertine and murderer l"
*  "B~~t he will be tripped up one of these
days Armnand ?" suggested ixiargery xvi th
a significant expression of Counteiuinco.
"It is quite likely that h~ will. The
hemp is already mannfaotured into the
rope which is to hang him, or I am entire.
* ly out of my reckoning.)
"Do you in can to peach, Armand !"
"Do yotu perceive any thing green in
ray lace, Margery?"
"Indeed it lobks black, father than
green l"
Armand had a~sorn d a scowl, which
xx-as instantly banished by Margery~s re-
mark. lie rejined
"IC ho oo~e to the hatter, it will not be
through any talking of mnine-be assured
of that, Margery. But-no matter! I wil
tell you of another mysterious affair, Mar
gery."
"Well, Armand"
"You remember the case of the girl
Ida Wilton, who was found in a well o
Sydenhamn Van Tuyl's garden, some year
ago. Margery ?"
~'OLu yes., perfectly well."

"1-Icr death was caused by Arlinjzton,"
"Can it be possible 'I"
"It is the fact Not only did he kill th3
young woman, l;ut by~enham Van Iuyl,
who disappeared on the sarrte night when
the tragedy in the ~rden took phace.
"Horrible! Arlington is a hell-dyed
monster, indeed?'
There ~vas a low voice as of a groan
close at hand.
"Hark list! WThat noise was that ?"
cmed Margery, starting up in alarm.
"I heard nothing."
'But I surely~ did. It was like a groin.
Q~aick, Arraind, let us search the house.
S imo burglar or robber may be prowling
about, perhaps"
"At least we will 5~C*~~
The house was searched in every part,
fr~m cellar to garret, and nothing was
found disturbed. Minny contiun' I to
sleep soundly, an cy did not a vuke
her. They passed t cough the picture
gallery, where they disc ered a liiftrait
lying on the floor, bottom upwards with
the frame dashed to atom~.
"Good God! it is the portrait of S vden-
Van Toyl, who came to his deatit through
Arlington's in~trt1mf'fltality.'
"C .me away, Ai'mand. I would not
stay here for all the world. Perhaps it
was the ghost of the murdered man, ~r
naand ~"
"Nonsense! Margery. It was the wh~d
from yonder broken pane which blew the
I picture down from the xvall, and that was
the noise we heard. That's how it was,
Margery. C6rne, we will go down to the
kitchen again, and will finish our ~try of
Pie manner in which Ida Wilton and Sy-
denham Van Tuyl, were murdered."
They returned to the kitchen where
a Margery sth red the fire into a pleasant
blaze, as the evening was quite cold, or
I perhaps as a means to dispel some uneas-


8$                           MINNY LAWSON, OR
mess of spirits, which thegloom of a half ton, so that he seemed to dismiss the a1.
lighted place might naturally inspire in a fair from his mind for some time there-
Superstitious bosom,                   after."
"Alt 1 I though: h ~o6r woman cou!d
CIIAPTE a xviii.            not have been guilty of any sin, Armarid 9'
CRcss PURPOSES, ~  MURDER WILL OUT.     "Nevertheleslie was doubtless guilty
When Armand and Margery had again of adultery with Sydenharn Van Toy!."
seated heinselves before the cheerful fire,  "Well, then she was a wicked wOman.
Arruand proceeded with the details of his Proceed, Arnj~~~.~'
astounding narrative.                    "It was eighteen months after his mar-
"You have heard, arteryy, all the in- riage 'vi~h the heiress fvlinerva Raybold,
that Arhi:io'on discover d that &amp;ie was in
mors that ~ere afloat, at the time of the
murder (if Ida Wi lion, the disappearance the conduiin which i~uat "~ omen delight
of ~ydnhatn Van Tu:A and his 301mg to be who love their lrd~."
clerk Tiomnion ; and you may remember ~ mean, Armand, tht she was like.
Iso that. seand d which was cast upon the ly to have a child."
purity of Syden ham's wife, lx cause of her 'KBxctly. The husband and wife had
5'tspect( d crirrtiniality with the latter, lived a year tng~ther, without any signs
"Oh yes ; I have a distinct recollection of issue, before Ailio~ron went to New
of all the gossip that prevailed ; and the ac Ork~ans."
counts hat were pnbli~hed in the news "iad tiiey lived happily together es
papers of the day, are yet vividly impress, man and wife during that time, Armand ?"
ed on roy mind." 'They had not. They had disagreed,
"~o much the better, Margery. It will as I learned from ilaimnab Summers, he-
save toe the necessity of making many cause there did not seem any probability
ninor explanations that would be other- of having children, which Amlington ap-
wise ianportant to be made." peered desirous to have."
"Yes, I see that it will."             ' Most men like to be fathers, that I well
.~"W~ll, Arlington fancied that Syden- know, arid all women for the master of
ham Van Toyl had defil.ed his rnarri~e that. It is quite natural for them to be
bed, and he resolved upon taking scar t that way. you know, Arroanrl."
and summary vengeance~ upon the s ~- ~ I believe it i~ ~o. When Arling-
J ton found her j)regrtant, he charged her
"Yes that was quite natural. But ho1~ with rnfid('lity, fir I.e hu(t fltst qucationed
did h fist discover ~he criminal t.v of his Hannata Soinmers and myself, in regard
wife?                                 to the conduct of his wife while he was
"lie accidentally found a love letter in abroad."
tier room, addressed to her without date,
and with a fictitious name signed to a."  "And you told him what you had noticed
"Yea, I understand. And this letter on the night of the ball."
excited his suspicions."                 "Certainly.  We thought it was our
"It did; ar~d he enquired of his wife the duty to sry as much"
meaning of the billct-doux, and the ex-  "But you might have spared her inch
planation of how it came into her possess- cYposure, Arrnand, and he would rcvei-
ion appeared quite satisfactory to Arhing- perhaps have been tIe wiser for it."

"Ab, Matgery! I do not believe i&amp; what
Shake.peare says:; He that is robbed,
not knowing that he is robbed, is not rob-
bed at all."
'Oh, you men like to have things all
your own way, but poor women are al-
ways condemned, and sometimes very un-
justly on mere suspicion of having done
"Woman'a name is frailty', ~Iargery,
y~ou know."
"I ray it is the men who make women
what they are ; bttt go on w hl~ ~ our atury,
Armand."
"A rI i upton's first plan of rettliation was
the seduction of Sydenham Van Tux l's
wife."
"Indeed I And did he succeed ~'
"I shru'il say not. At least Arlington
confessed to me sometime afterwards that
her virtue Was impregnable."
"Then her name was not frailly," re~
torted Margary, with a sneer.
"There is no rule v irhont an excep-
lion," rejoined Armaam d, as a rebutting ar-
gument to her short lived triumph.
"Theti he thought he would murder
~ y~enham."
"Ys. That was it."
"Aol-''
'II~ Wred me to become-'--"
"VVhat 3''
LiThe asSassin
'~N1t exactly that, but to see tbat the
deed xv;)S surely done ~
"I do not understand you, Armand."
"Listetin to me,.and learn."
"Pro6eed. I am impatient to know
every particular."
"Arliiigton somehow or other discovered
or tboi~tht he~had, that Sydenliar~r's clerk,
young Thornton, ha~I formed an attach-
anent to Mary Van Toyl, Sydetham's
wife, tit 1t was far from being ,platonic, in
his estimation."

"But was there finally such attachment
between them ?"
"You must know, Margery, that Mary
had pledged her truth in marriage to a
~oung lieutenant in the Navy, by the nanie
of Greenville Edmonson, bei'ore she be-
came the wife of Van ToyL"
"And why didn't she marry him ?"
"Because it was said he had died ~
"Well, what next V'
"Thornton was supposed to be the young
na'y officer returned and itt disguise."
Oh, it is all clear enough thus Par, Ar-
"Arlington wrote a letter to Mary, in
a hand writing resembling Thomntori'~,
making an assignation with her to meet
him at ntid~aight in the garden, as if he
had something very important to commu~
nicate to her. Titis letter Arlington en-
cl,,sed in one address and ilirected to Van
Toy!, who was about to leave home for
Boston, on that very (lay. These letters
were given by Arlington to Thornton, to
take to Sydetinham."
"Oh the villain I Arlington made a tool
of Thornton to make a difficulty between
53 denhan', Thornton and Mary."
"That was the object, but it partially
miscarried."
'ILi)w was that 3'~
Arlington judged that aqnarrel WOOl(l
take pisec between Thornton and Syden-
ham, wltich would be likely to result in
the death of one or both parties by a duel."
"And the duel took place, 'and   "
"No! There was no duel. Sydenham
placed the letter, signed by Thornton on
a dressing table in his ~vite'ii room, and in-
stead of going to Boston, bade his wife
farewell and watched in the garden to be
convinced of any intrigue going forward,
when his wife would meet her bier in the

A

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.


90                       MLNNY LAWSON, OR
"But if Thornton did not write the let- ton in the eyes of the world."
ter wits hs name to it, haw  was he to  "Thatwa s it, exactly. How excellent
meet Mary in the garden !"            you are at surmises, Marg~~x~
"Of course, Arlington caused a note to  "1 have read a great many curious
be written t~ Thornton, as if coming from lessons in the great book of human na~
Mary, inviting him to the assigi~atioo." ture, Armand."
"Ah, I see. What a cunning villain    "Indeed, I should ray you had. But II
Arlington is !"                       must tell you ol a little circumstance that
"Yes, truly, a great schemer he is. lie occurred on the very afternoon before
employed Ida Wilton to write the letter to Ida met her death, which will explain
Thornton."                            why Ida wished to supercede Mary, and
"And did Ida lend herself to Arlington's meet rri~ rnton in the arbor herself. When
villainous plans ?"                   Thornton brought the letter to Sydenham
"She did, but there was some excuse which covered the one signed by his itame,
for the part she played in the villainous unknown to himself, he happened to drop
pot." into a parlor and saw Mary in tears. lie
"And what was that?"                apologized for the intrusion and required
"She had committed a faux ~ ~ith for her husband, and was told that he
Arlington." was in the Library. Here he repaired
"What do you mean by faux pa~ Ar- and delivered the letter that was t entrap
mand ?" him into Sydenham'5 hands. He then
he had seduced her, and she was retired, went out into the garden, with a
now ~nei~.Ie by him 'f" view to speak a ~urd to Mary, whom he
"Well, I really never knew a person so perc~ivcd walking therein with the lad
fond of the women as Arliugton." Conradin Van Tuyl, her nephew, and Ida
"Re glories in~intrigues and amours.- Wilton. fi~ had received the letter par-
Many have been the victims to his lustful porting to come from Marjr, making the
passions."                           strange appointment, and he desired some
"So I have heard."                  explanation, without risking the possibility
"Arlington ~vus then a marnie(l -man, of compromising her honor by holtling a
you must understand, and it was impossi- clandestine meeting at an unseasonable
ble for him to marry' and make her an nocturnal hour. Seeing her retiring
honest woman." again to the house from her walk all
"So he wanted to get rid of her in sotne alone, he hastened forward to greet her.
w~y or other ?"                       Ida however crossed his path, and diverted
"Preei*ly so."                      his attention from the object he had in
"And he thought shewould meet Thori~.. view. His eagerness to speak to Mary
ton herself, I suppose, and-" excited her jealousy, and led her to sus-
"Wait a moment and yet! will know. pect that an attachment subsisted between
Ida was put up to by Arlington to.~make him and Mary. He broke away from her
advancesiowards Thornton, and to en- as gently as lie could, but the rej)Ulse, as
deaxor to entrap him to ~i committal of she fancied it was, she deemed an ;nsult
Inatrimony with her." to her personal charms. This led her to
"So as to cover her approaching shame seek some speedy revenge for the appt~r-
and save the honor of herself and Arling- eat s~i~ht.she had received from him."

T111~ OUTLAWS' I.~AGU1~.                           91

'And the opportunity for carrying out
her purpose happened to be near at hand?"
"Even so, Margery. And no~v v~e are
coming to the point. Arlington was more
particularly anxious that Sydenham and
Ida should be put out of the way at all
evemns, and did not care if the lives of
both Mary and Thornt~in should also
come to their death by tt~e~mplexity ef
his stratagem. He rightly conject4tred
that Sydenham would lay await for
the meeting of Thornton and his wife in
the arbor, when he would rush in and slay
them both in their apparent criminality."
'Oh how dark a plot that was Ar-
mond !"
"Yes, but yon have not yet heard ft all
Margery. Arlington did not suppose that
~ydcnham's pure wife would keep such
appointment ~vith Thornton, but rather
that she w6uld view the proposed inter-
view with contempt and scorn lie how~
ever, was pretty certain that Ida xvnuld~
be there disguised in Mary's clothing,
and throw herself into Thornton's arms
before he would be able to comprehend
the stratagem"
"And did it fall out, as Ailin ton im-
agined it would ?"
"Piecisely, to the very letter."
"M~,st extraordinary, in&amp;ed !"
"Ida discovered Mary asleep in her
x~ocking~ohair in her own boudoir, about
the moment when the as~ignatiou betiveen
her and Thornton was to~ak~ ~~laee, and
in her stehd quickly repaired to the arbor,
and awaited ihe coming of Thornton."
"And Thor on came
"Of course! Ida had s~areely seated
herself in the arbor before he eoiered an
opposite door, when she arose and fiung
herself upon his breast and neck. Thorn-
ton was followed by Van Ttiyl, who see-
ing them in loving embrace, flred a pistol

plunged it into the heart of Ida. He
rushed from the arhor, when I fired a pis-
tol and shot him dead !"
'*H~rrible ! horrible! So you are the
murderer of Van Toyl and not Arlington,
after all, Arrnand ?"
'Yes, in point of fact, but not his wilful
murderer. I had hoped that Thornton
and Sydenham had fallen beneath one
another's deadly blcws; but as I had my
instructions from Arlington to make
sure work of the bloody business, I fin~
ished the job in the best way I was ablc.'~
"Oh~Armnnd it was an awful tragedy,
indeed! Oh, how I wish you had not
been ~$gnged in it."
"'So do I, but it can't be helped now.
Ii went there as a witness of the str~ggie
between the parties, and with no inten-
tion to imbrue my hands in blood, unless
forced to do so by circumstances that I
scarcely expected would arise. Indeed'
Margery, to say the truth, m~' real object
it~ going there was to carry off Ida and
make her my own tiii str~s."
'Oh, you men are all alike in seeking
th~' ruin of poor delenceless women; I
see that."
'Well, well, let It all pass, Margery.
Seeing how matters were, I bore the body
of Ida in my arms~and threw it in the
old well by the fence of the river road,
I tnen returned to the arbor to remove the
bcdis of Thornton and Van Tuyl. How
was I astonished to tind that Thornton's
body had disappeared. I thongnt lie
nin~t l~ave recovered partly from his
wounds, and fled from the garden. As
there was no time now to be lost, I dragged
the body of Van Tuyl to th~ foot of the
garden, where I was met by Wilkins, w~o
waited for ~me in a small boat. We
threw the corse to its bottom, and quickly
rowed out into the river, and then down

at Thornton, and drew a dagger. and j towards the Battery. Meanwhile we

6

0

e

0


92               MiNNY LAWSON, OR.

stripped off his cl'Ahing, and secured
Sydenham's watch and moi~ey. Syden-
ham was a large and powerful man, and
it was our first purpose to tie a weight to
his bosom and sink it in the river. XVII-
kins and I consulted on the propriety of
so doing, when we concluded to cut up
the body into small pieces, and bury the
mutilated remains in the van Its of Arling-
fonts hou~e ~in Greenwich street, unihe-
known to him. This we succee(le(l in
doing, and I suppo~e his bones may be
found in the identical spot at this very
day."
"Don't tell rue that, A rtnand I w uU]
not have lived in that hoase a since
hour, had I known of this before. No-
thing will ever induce tue to return to
that dwelling again, Armind.'
'Pooh, pooh ! What wou'd you be
afraid of Margery'~ Of the ghrst of tile
murdered n~an, eh?"
Armand chuckled a laugh of detis-
ion at the wQman's fears.
Scarcely had he done so, when a door
opened and a t~ll form like that of Sy-
denham Van Tuyl's entered; and with
menacing ~ttitcde, and cowling brows,
walked across the room in the direction
of Arm md and Mtrgiry, and pissed out
into the garden.
The apparation threw a spell of terrot
and horror over both Arin~nne and Mae-
gery. The woman uttered a wild stuiek
and fetl utterly into 'ihe arms of the
scarcely less appalled Armaind. He how-
ever quickly recovered his presence of
mind, apd fancyin~ the horrible details he
had given of the usurder find coijured to
the vision of both Marg~y and himself'
merely some optical illusion, representing
the shadow of the defunct Sydenham.
(for he ~vas no believer in ghosts) he lifted
the frightened and insensible 1\largery in
his arms, bore her to an adjoininingoham-

ber, and placed her on a bed. He then
returned to the kitchen, covered the fire
on the hearth, returned back to the dor-
roitory, and kept watch by the bed. side of
Margery till the break of day, fortifying
his courage meanwhile, and keeping his
spirits up by pouring spirits down, not
only his ow throat but Mars~ery's,
whenever:      ~de the slightest groan,
or there       ny noise of rats iir the
other ~     gambolling 'among the walls
and   ~    ings of the old villa.
CHAPTER XIX.
DF5LtITtot OF TilE VILLA.
The sun had risen high in the heavens.
the next morniuc~, before Margery and Ar-
mart! had recovered sufficiently fi~om the
alarm occasioned by the apparition of Sy-
denliam Van Tuyl and the effects of the
potations swallowed by each to stimulate
their courage or dro~n their fears, while
closeted in the chamber into which Ar-
man(l had carried the insensible 'woman
and taken refuge himself, until the broad
day shiou!d dispel all ghostly visitants who
shoud be likely to make their appear-
,mnic~ to theii~risinns during the remaining
hours of the ndbcturnal seasmin.
It was even then with considerable dif-
ficulty that Armand could prevail upon
4~argerv, to prepare some food ant! see to
ho wants of Minny, who had been efr
slumbering soundly in flier room, which
Margeny had locked a~sd taki~n the key,'
on the evm~n ing before, ~rior to 4he con-
vcr~atiou which had terminated in the ap.
p~arance of Sydenham's ghost. She de-
clared the old villa was haunted, and that
nothing in the world would induce her to
remain another hour in the place. Ar-
mand, however, poured out a large glass
ef generous wine, and gave it to her.-
Her couragP speedily revived, and she be-
came exceedingly garrulous and valiant,

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.                             93
ii )W defying all the ghoa:s of the spir- so far as la~ it tI eit poc cr, ~ntile should
irud world, and even the arch adversary recover ft the acand ho hid ~h;i'wie~f
of souls huinsolf, to make her trerr~bhi or re~eived fron i~iack R ~f, and be able to
afraid.                               visi the vilot in person, with a view to
In this frame of mind and temper, she m ~ke such revelations and acknotvIedg~
prep tred the morning ma!, after such uncut of his dt 4i er, in the eyes of the
manner as she was able, art], accompanied world, as diren ustances might suggest as
by her fellow-servant, at length repaired expedient and proper. it was agreed
to Minny's apartment wi~h a tray of coffee hat Armani sh )uld return at onc to Ar-
and toast for the breakfast of the stricken lington's city nausi ni, and re~ or~ the
~rirl. how were they astonish d t tin] state of affijirs, while Mtrgerv ~houi1
that their fair yonug prisoner was~~teither rei~iir to tie h oise of a female friend to
in tier bed nor any part nfthe men. It was awatt fi'~h rr ei tits ti i~ tug Is; tr in spire,
excee lm~y strange. The only dor)r of in connection tvth Minny's disapearatice
the, room they found still looked when and Arlnrgton's conduct when informed
they entered the chamber, sind from the of 'he fact.
position of the hi~{h ~viudo~s and the twin- It will be rea&amp;iecte I, Margct y hiid re-
ner in whch they were close!, it seemed marked to Armoand that she would not
morally impossible f~r her to have made have remained beneath Arlington's roof a
her escape by such means. single ruontent h~d she ~tnoxn that the
The disappointment and alarm evinced bones of the murdered S~deuham Van
by both Armand and Margery, were v~rv Tuyl weuc in oildiug in the earth in the
greatat first, but thinking she might have vantts flis erty mansion. All these things
secreted herself in some cl~~et or arnun~ were ~ufhcerit to a(!count to Ar~~and f)r
the dark tapestry and (Irapery ~vhiich coy' Margory's on cilhingsess to return ng'iiu
ered the waIts and hung over the windows to the presence of Arlington. Little,
and the conch, they seared tliro ugh however did hti dream of the (ibj'ct the
them and felt every part ~of the walls with- woman had in view, in desiring to separ-
out success. They finally gave over the ate from him, no landing at the city from'
search, and concludedthat the house WitS he Island or how soon the sword of jus-
teally haunted, and that Minny mast have tice was to fall upon Arlington and many
been spirited away by that ghostly being of his co-workers in crime and horror,
who had revealed himself to them at the through her development of the astounding
witching hour of the previous evening.- revelations Ar~unnd had coramunicited in
At last they resolved instantly to leave the confidence to her bosom.
old premises, returnlto the city and report Armand, however, had lor.g since re-
to their master, the merchant Arlington, solved upon making a clean breast of every
what they seen and what had occurred thing to the proper authorities, trusting
It was the only plausible excuse they could that by turning States' evidence, he would
conveniently frame to account to their e~u- receive some remission of punishment, or
player for their negligence of duty, accord- perhaps a full pardon through executive
ing ~o the instructions they had separatc- clemency, for his own participation in the
ly received. These cominThds were fer long series of villanies and crimes.
them to watch over and preserve the health Accordingly when the parties had reach-
of his long lost and newly restored child, ed the Battery, fiom Staten Lland, in a


94              MINNY LAWSON, OR                                     THE OUTIJAWS' LEAGUE.           95

smafl boat owned by Ailington and rowed
byArmand, they separated in apparent
w arm friendship for each other and with
a promise to meet again at some rendez-
vous in the city at the earliest opportuni-
ty. Oh infamy and treachery of mankind
ri~he words of sincerity and regard fell
from the lips, of Armand and Margery,
while in their bosoms, at the same mu-
r~ient, lurked di~sirnulation and guile - of
the blackest die.
Armand returned promptly to Arling-
ton's house, and obtaining a private cbs-
~rting, their conversation was overheard
to be of a most rancorous and recrimina-
torycharacmer. There was evidently a
rupture between them; but whatever was
the quarrel it seemed apparently reconcile,
for a very frank and cm dial understanding
appeared to subsist between them both,
when they came forth from the retiracy of
the closet, after their conference was end-
ed. Armand ~vent to the stables, liar-
nessed a pair of horses to the cariiag3,
and drove around to Arlington's front door,
where the merchant entered, arid the ye-
hick rolled rapidly away.
TilE CHAPTER XX.
JOLLY BOATMAN TAYERN-THE
LEAGUE OF OUTLAws.
MEANWHILE Margery repaired to the
house of William Burton, the hadlord of
"The Jolly Boatman," and held a scc~ret'
and long comn~inication with his wife, to
whom the reader has been already intro-
duced under her maiden name of hannah
Somtners.
"The Jolly Boatman" tavern ~was situ-
ated on the banks ot the llwdson, at a
place then well known as the Chelsea
Shad Fishery Landing. Jfk keeper, W~l.
ham Burton, was one of the parties who
as~istcc~ Wilkins in conveying the coffin

of jewelry to Potter's Field, and there
burying it, in sight of George Lawson,
who remained in r~mbush, and believed
they had placed in the grave the murder-
ed remains of his sister Minny.
It will be remembered that Burton left
the Field aiid went away with the coach-
man while Wilkins remained with the
grave-digger until he had seen the earth
tilled in over the coffin, and the grave
properly made up.
It ~tas Wilkins' intention when this
*
was accomplished, to follow Btirton to his
alehouse; and hence his invitation~ to old
Phihlip to accompany him and participate
in so&amp;e jolhification which was corning
off in ~at quarter, on that evening. His
intention, however, was frustrated by
George La'vson, who forced him to the
house of Col. Bumrcll, where the scene of
violence took place that resulted in the
death of the supposed libertine, seducer
~nd murderer of Minny Lawson.
It will now be necessary to give some
particulars respecting 'The Jolly Boat-
man" tavern, its keepers, inmates, arid the
general purposes for which it was used.
And first, in regard to the history and
character of Burton and his wife.
Many of our elderly readers must well
remember the time of the large emigra-
tion zof people from Holland and the
Netherlands, during the ~eams when the
wars of Napoleon convulsed Europe to its
very centre. Many of these emigrants
were very ignorant and very boorish, and
being in extremely impoverished circum-
stanceswere too glad to avail themselves of
any way of escape from lands overrun by
armies and desolated by the sword. Ac-
ccA'dingly, to secure their transportation to
a home of peace and plenty, it became
quite a common thing for whole ship
loads of people to come to the United
States, u~on~ the agreement of binding

themselves for a term of years under a
species of slavery, or voluntary servitude,
in payment of the expense of their pro-
Visions and passage across the Atlantic to
our shores. These emigrants were called
at the time, "Dutch Redemptionists," the
majority of whom found ready employ-
ment and comfortable homes in the bosom
of American and other families all over
the Confederacy, upon the terms of serf-
dom to which reference has been made.
Among those ~iRedernptionists" who
came over in one of Arlington's vessels,
were a lusty and flne-lookin~ young man,
and a healthy. rosy-checked lass, both, at
the time, in the eighteenth year of t ieir
ages. These the merchant Arlington
took into 'his own employment, changing
their unpronounoable names ,oranglocizing
them to those of William l3urton and I-Ian-
nah Sommers. He retained Burton about
his warehouse and the shippingwhile Han-
nah Summers officiated at first among the
lower domestics in his family household~
From this position Hannah rapidly rose in
favqr with Mrs Arlington, and finally be-
came her special personal servant and
tiring maid. She was rather a comely
and tidy girl, and withal sprightly and
intelligent, and filled her new station with
complete satisfaction to her young and
lovely mistress. In fact, Mrs. Arlington
gave the girl her fullest confidence-alas!
to have such tokens of regard repaid by her
becoming the dupe of Arlington and he-
trayi ug those suspicous circumstances
whi~h led eventually to the violent rup-
ture between himself and his wife, ~by
which he east her from his bosom as the
weakest of women and the impurest of
wives.
Such was the inconsistency of Arling-
ton's nature, his unrelenting bate and
rankest hypocrisy, that at the very period
while he was holding adulterous relations

with hannah Sommers, he sought to repu-
diate his wife and 'her promised chili!,
because of her suspected and aIle~ed
criminality with Sydenham Van Tuvi,
relying solely upon the words of his
bought and hired menial for the false-ev.
dence by which to substantiate the guilt
of his really immaculate, beautiful and
accomplished wife,~ thereby literally
hunting her down by such foul calumnies
to~ her grave of sorrow and shame.
This being the position of Willi~m Bur-
ton and hannah Summers, in Arlington's
household, the latter found no difficulty in
bringing about a marriage between the
t~vain servants-bribing Burton to either
the expectant fruit of Arlington's liaison
with Hannah, when presented to her
husband after her accouchement should
take place.
What with money and other favors be
stowed on Burton and [hannah from time to
time, Arhngton effectually won them over
and retained them ever in liu intere~t.
He set Barton up in the ale house of ' Tne
Jolly Boatman," and looked upon him as
~xcIusively in his own employment, what-
ever way Burton was seemingly employed
on 'As own private account. Burton, ac-
~ordingly, frequently became engaged in
the [more daring speculations of Arling-
ton, whether in smuggling, privateering,
or the African slave trade. It was there-
fore the extreme of polif~y for Arlington to
k~ep his public character spotless in the
eyes of the world, whatever his rogueries
and villainies. Alas! for poor human
nature, he found persons ready enough to
shield his crimes and even suffer punish-
ment for them, through the largesses of his'
ample wealth. Among these, Bprton and
Hannah continued to remain the most de-
voted and steadfast of his tools. It is not
surprising, from what has been related of
the principles and characters of Burton


MINNY LAWSON, OR                                    THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.           97

and his wife, that "The Jolly Boatman"
tavern soon became the resort for the
most depraved and wicked of iiuw~n so-
ciety. In fact, the house was the rendez-
vous of thieves and outlaws of every
name, of both sexes-at onoc a low drink-
aug place, gaming house and brothel.
Burton and his wife participated in many
of tie secrets ot the inmates and the vis-
itors to their buu~e-receivi~g a share of
o depa eat ions corn mltte(l, and aiding
and abetting in numerous instances ~f
crime ~nd horror.
At length "The Jolly Boatman" be-
came a resorE of such infamous character
as to be held ira dread by the circumspect
and prudent of the citizens generally
while even the Police rarely dared to pen-
etrate the precincts of the terrible place.
Rumor asserted that the most infernal
and horrid of orgies were constantly be-
ing enacted here, in the dark hours of
aught, n Cefiance of the authorities of the
city arid Manhattan Island. indeed
K
whatever the crimes and (lisorders com-
mitted in the neighborhood, "Ti~e Jolly
Boatman" was r~egarded literally as a
"place of refuge" for murderers and vil-
lairas of every order, who, when hotly
pursued, found means of' concealment or
escape through the ale house by certain
mysterious facilities that for a long series
of years remained undiscovered.
It was in this house, and under such
circumstances of vicious ~nd corrupt life,
tlkat the first and only child of Burton's
~vife, begotten by Arlington, was born
*     and reare(l.  ~he was now in her four-
teenth, a remarkably lovely hut very pre-
cocious girl, deeply versed in all the arts
and appliances of libertinism and harlotry,
having already, young as she was, given
herself up to a life of wantonness and
shame.

CHAPTER XX[.

THE TABLES TURNED, OR VILLAINY
HATChED BY VILLAINY.
IT was with a view to learn -the suc-
cess of a scheme of moat extuacrdinary
eontrvance, in which the fair, young re-
juted daighte'- of the publican had been
made a very important instrument in car-
rying forwaadttuat Margery held the long
and a cat eo;ver~,e exith L~utou's wife,
on her acturn from Arlington's villa at
t~tjjei T~lan'l, in c' rnpany ~ ith Arniand.
Wiile Arlington, Burrell, and a host of
that aristocratic ilk of libertines, gamblers
in(l villain~, concocted sad carried on all
manner of crimes, manyof the subordi-
nates in a-nch diablerie' were not less
eagerly engaged in taking s~ cret advan-
tage of their employers' weaknesses,
vices and crimes, to the aeooml)lishment
of thdr own private designs and pecuni-
ary emoumeuts. Each man and wom~n
&amp;eemed to play at cross-purposes, and.
wcakd for their individual selves, though
bound by the very nature of their crimes
in a tort of general league for the advan-
tage of the entire community of outlaws.
The salacious prQpensities of Arlington
and Burrell especially, were well known
to Armand and Wilkins, who were the
confidential ,servants respectively of the
lawyer and the merchant.
These men not only hunted their prey
like hounds in couple, but sought through
the instrumentality of their favorite me-
nials, such dainty morsels of virginal.
sweetness, -as would be most likely to sti-
mulate to the utmost degree their luxuri-
ous appetites. These panderings to their
lustful purposes were always liberally
paid for, by a douceur equal~ to the risk
involved in decoying the innocent and
helpless victims into the snares of the ae~
ducer an4 destroyer.

We know the manner in which Minray 1
Lawson was inveigled into the meshes of
Arlington, and the way she escaped from
his villainous designs, and her subsequent 1
disappearance from his island villa.
What Armand had designed to accom-
plish for his master, a similar purpose
was carried forward under scarce less
perilous circumstances, through the im-
mediate instrumentality of Wilkins-al-
though each case of villainy resulted ad
rnirably to the temporary advantage of
the pEtters, among whom Armand, Wil-
kins, Margery, Burton, his wife, her
daughter Sarah or Sally, were the princi-
pals.

of the house of Arlington and that of
Burrell, by which means a passage was
ojkned from the wine vaults of each
house to the sewer. These apertures
were kept cmcealed, by placing empty
casks in their fronts inside of the vaults.
As already intimated, Arlington and
Burrell were given to turns of wine-drink-
ing and debapch, in company together.
On these occasions they allowed free in-
(lulgence to their animal and sensual na-
tures, and became reckless of the manner
in which tacir diabolical appetites were
appeased. It, however, must be under-
stood, that they were both extremely fas-
tidious and choice in the selection of the

They had long since formed a plan to objects of their amours. itiey sougria
rob the houses of Arlirgton and Burrell th~~r victims in the higher walks of lice,
of their choicest silver plate and jewels by means of their own arts and appliances
without being suspected of the crime- of libertinism, it is true. Yet they did
Accordingly, from time to time, Armand not ecruple to employ their servants, to
and.Wilkans were in the habit of purloin- bring to their arms such virginal charms
ing some valuable articles from their as they could allure from the ranks of the
masters, and depositing it in some secure beautiful and young in the humblest
place, until such opportuniiy would occur, abodes of general society.
when the entire treasure collected might  And thus it fell out that while Armand
be removed and equally distributed among was engaged in pandering to th~ vile ap-
the thieves and conspirators.        petites of Arlington, and succeeded in
The place where tho plate and valni- ensnaring Minny Lawson to his chambers,
bles were gra'~lually deposited, was a sub- Wilkins likewise was accomplishing a
terraneous passage, which Arenand and similar purnese for Barrell. Tue victims
Wilkins bad excavated, so as to afford a however, though persons of equal youth
communication between the houses of and beauty, were diametrically opposite
Arlington and Darrell. This was easily in the ~weetrae5s and purity of thoir re-
effected. There was already an arched spective characters. The one was Minny
sewer in the street, constructed b33 he the flower girl,-the other the reputed
Corporation as a drain for the waste watea- and wanton daughter of the landlord
and filth, accumulations of ~he streets. Burton.
Accordingly, all these men had to do w5s Sally Burton willingly entered the abode
to enter the sewer and dig away the earth of Burrell, for the basest of purposes,
a few feet from the center of the street agreeably to the plot which had been con-
in a direct line to the opposite houses, cocted, an the character and garb of a
\ casting the earth into the sewer, to be strawberry girl, with the apparent purpose
washed to the river through its channel. of selling hr'r luscious fruit. As else-
A hole was made in the foundation walls where remarked, she was a girl of extra-
6


THE OUTLAWS LEAGUE.             99

98                   MINNY LALWSON, OR

ordinary precociousness, and remarkable
tact and address. She could play ~the
virgin and prude with a degree of modesty
and innocence, that those who did not
know of her wantonness of character,
would have hardly believed simulated or
put on for the occasion. Her peculiar
beauty, fullness of figure, rare sweetness
of voice, modest demeanor, added to her
neat and tidy garb, were well calculated
to excite the amoxous impulses even in
the bosom of an anchorite, much more in
the hot breast of the professed libertine
and sensuia.4
Burrell, at the time the girl was intro-
duced into his chamber, was reclining on
a~ couch in a semi state yf inebriation.
ifrom a secret signal made to him by
Wilkins, he readily understood that she
was a lamb designed for the slaughter.
He slowly rose to a recumbent position on
he couch, bade the girl approach and
show him her luscious berries while his
servant should fetch a dish for their re-
ception when purchased. Froln pricing
and tasting the finest of the fruit, he be-
gan his flatteries, by comparing their
sweetness and color to the hobey and
roses of her dewy lips. He gradually
progressed with such familiarities, with a
view to win her confidence, till he fancied
she was ready to fall quite readily beneath
his licentious appliances. He suddenly
drew her to his embraces, and attempted
to kiss herlips. The girl appeared un-
suspicious of his evil purposes, while her
apparent artlessness and innocence but
further tended to inflame the passions of
the libertine lawyer. It was not till he
attempted to snatch the kiss, that she
seemed to comprehend that she was with-
in the toils of an unprincipled seducer.
~he quickly tore away from his lustful
arms, shrieked for help, and flew to the
door as it wishing to escape from the
room.

This movement excited the salacious
flame in J3urrell's bosom to the last de-
gree, and caused him to follow her and
secure by force what he coulditot other-
wise obtain. Again he seized her, but
reeling in his nervousness from the excite-
ment and effect of his semi-debauch, he
staggered toward the wall. This lurch
broke his hold on the girl, when she rush-
ed to the toilet-table, seized a dagger
blade there purposely placed by Wilains,
and inflicted a terrible gash athwart her
throat. She fell to the floor, apparently
bleeding profusely from the wounds, and
lay gasping as if in the last moments of
her life.
Wilkins, who was an eager listener of
what was transpiring within, broke into
the room, caught the girl to bear her to
a remote part of the house, as if to silence
her cries of murder. He appeared seem-
ingly, himself, in the highest state of
alarm, in consequence of the tragedy
which had occurred.
"Yan have murdered her, Colonel 1~ur.
rell l The murder will be found out!
We will both be hung on the gallows!
Oh my Gd ! what shall be done? Let
me take her away, Mr. Burrell. She
must not remain here. The people will
be rushing in from the street-the murder
will be discovered, and we shall be made
to swing for it, Mr. Rurrell !"
His outcries and lamentations, combin-
ing alarm and a wish to hide away all
evidence of the tragic affair, penetrated
the callous and insensible heart of the
libertine. It was the first time, perhaps,
that the tender emotions of pity and aym-
pathy ever filled his bosom, in view of the
distresses and afflictions of any fellow hu-
man being. He could but ejaculate:
"Do what you think best in the mat-
ter, Wilkins. Save the girl's life, if you
can. It she die, we must bury her se-

cretly. You shall have what gold you
want, but let me not be implicated, on
any account, in the unfortunate ~
"Depend upon me, she shall be saved
if it be possible. If she die, I alone will
be her murderer; but you shall save me
from the gallows, sir l"
Sc~me time elapsed, when Wilkins re-
ported to his mer that the girl was
dead.
"Well, well ! there is no help for it
no~v. There, take that purse, procure a
coffi,, and convey her remains to Potter's
Field with such secrecy and despatch as
you may be able."
"It shall be done! Your commands
shall be obeyed to the vcry letter, Mr.
Burrelh"
The libertine strove to banish the affair
from his mind, and did not trouble himself
with auy arrangements for herinterment,
nor see the girl's form after Wilkins re-
ported that she was no more.
The stratagem was entirely successful.
The seemingly terrible tragedy proved in
fact a mo3t ludicrous affair. Wilkins and
the girl were capital actors. They per-
formed their parts in this thir own pri-
vate drama, with a cleverness worthy of
the most experienced on the mimic
boards -indeed wi~th that faithful imita-
ion befitting the stern realities of life
The girl had escaped scratch and wour~d
entirely . The seeming bhjol which flow-
d from her throat and stained her gar-
ments, was but the juice of the handful
f strawberries, which she had su(ldenly
(rushed in her hands, and therewith be-
nieated her throat, so as to resemble the
f~ightlul-looking gash which the bewil-
('ered ~urrell supposed to have been in-
I icted by the dagger-blade. The girl was
secretly conveyed from the house, and
'he aiftir afforded the opportunity of re-
moving the stolen treasures deposited in

the passage way between the houses of
lington and Burrell, and burying them in
the grounds of ~ Fi~ld," concern-
ing which the reader is familiar.
CHAPTER XXI[.
THE PICTURE GALLERY.-STARTLING AND
AFFECTING REVELATIONS.
THE morning of the murder of Col.
Burrell and the discovery ~f th coffin
filled with plate and jewels by the s a
C Esculapius, in their Anatomical theatre,
but before such occurrences had been cx.
ensively rumored in the community, three
persons, two men and the other a very
aged woman, were seen sitting together in
a sumptuously furnished apartment nif the
villa, which Armond anl Margery had
abandoned in alarm on the day previous,
:n constq'1e~ee of the upparation of the
murdered Sydenham Van Thy!, and also
on acc~'unt of the spiriting away of the
stricken Minny from the old habitation
by some mysterious agency to them un-
known.
These parties were Captain Van Vetch-
en, Conradin Van Tuyl, and the Red
Witch of Weehawken. They had long
conversed respecting the affairs of the
several members of the Van Tuyl family
and their vast estates, which had become
involved in considerable confusion in the
mysterious absence of Sydenham Van
Tuyl and the sudden death of his aged
father.
The Witch was able, as it appeared, to
throw much light upon tile whole matter.
Her profession of Fortune Teller placed
her in a position to learn~ something of
almost every strange and mysterious pro-
ceeding in Society, through the medium
of those parties, in all ranks~of life, who
sought her~inte;pretation of Ili r fortunes
and destinies.
~OO63~ A


100               MINNY. LAWSON, OR

TUE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.

The Witch finished her revelations,
whatever they were, and then remarked:
"Now, gentlemen, to confirm more
clearly, the facts which I have imparted,
it remains for me to present to you such
occular proofs as must re~nove com-
pletely every doubt from your mind -
In hither, gentlemen, to this Picture Gal-
lery, and let me explain something of the
history of a number of portraits which
cover these walls."
She drew back a panel that the gentle.
men had not perceived before, and enter-
ed a long gallery of Paintings and Statu-
ary, followed by the two gentlemen who
had consulted her oracular wisdom.
The witch, then, taking up a long ta-
pering wand, from its hook against the
wall, proceeded to give a brief history of
the Gallery and to point out the charac-
teristics of a number of paintings. Ad.
dressing herself to Coniadin, she remark,
ed
"This villa, you of course, are aware
was built by your. grandfather Van Tayl,
and that this gallery of paintings was
originally instituted by him 1"
"Certainly, I have been informed by
my departed relatives of this fact."
"As I supposed you had. Well, you
here find some ef the rarest productions
of t!e glorious art in the world-cltef
d'ouvres by the greatest masters in all~
lands. 'This series of portraits here, are
by the illustrious West, of your own
cour~try, and are intended to represent the
heads and the several branches of your
family. There two are likenesses of your
grand father and grandmother. These
are their children-this your uncle Syden-
ham Van Tayl, this your father j~ouis
Van Tuyl, and that child portrait, the
counterfeit presentment" of your uncle
John Jacob Van Tuyl, who was unaccount.

upon the sixth year of his age. These la-
dies are your mother and Mary Rivington,
wife of your uncle Sydenham, while this
boy portrait was designed to represent
yourself, -Conradin, when you were in
your fourteenth year, although time has
so wrought upon you, that it would now
hardly be suspected that such is the
fact]'
"Oh, I remember well, when I sat for
the picture. My father and mother were
then both dead, and I was living with my
grandfather and uncle Sydenham, in
their city mansion. Uncle had his own
jikeness, Aunt Mary's and mine, taken at
the same time. Oh, my poor Aunt Mary!
I recollect her as if she had left her home
only yesterday. That picture is so much
like as she looked. Those meek but ex-
pressive eyes, that sweet angelic counte-
nance, those ripe, speaking lips every
attribute of her surpassing loveliness; all
are here distinctly portrayed. And she
was as good as ~he was beautiful I Oh,
how I loved her, and how I mourned
when reproach came upon her purity; but
I never-never believed a word of the
foul calumnies that were shamefully heap-
ed upon her head. She could not have
been, guilty of' dishonor, much - less con-
cerned in the murder of her husband !"
The witch gave a sudden start, some
strange emotion seized her bosom', she
turned her face and brushed away a gush-
ing tear, which sparkled like a jewel as it
'rolled down her withered' and saffron
cheeks. Quickly, however, regaining
her composure, she proceeded
"You are right, Conradin, in your am
preciation of the character of your poor
stricken Aunt Mary. She was guiltless
of any wrong to either Sydenham or any
of her husband's family as the innocent

ably lost to his family, when just ergered f babe unborn."

"And you knew her, then, Maria De
Vaux ?"
"Yes, very intimately. I was familiar
with evety sentiment of her bosom, and
was cognizant of her entire line of con-
duct from her earliest childhood through
all her life. If she ever cherished a harsh
feeling toward her husband, it was when
she became the defamed outcast, as she
supposed, through his unjust suspicions
and instrumentality of retaliation of her
alleged infidelity to him."
"Oh, how glad I am to hear you speak
thus of my dear, long missing Aunt I
Would that I knew of her fate-whether
she be in the land of the living or dead."
"S'e lives l~'
"She lives? Would to God I might
again behold her on earth !"
"I am able to bring about the interview
you desire, Conradin I"
"Say you so? Oh, let me meet her again
face to face, and I would be willing to
surrender to her all the inheritances of the
Van Toyl family, the last of, the race
that I am, as some recompense for the
foul wrongs which have been done to
her fame by 'her connection with our
name !"
"If you ~vLh, Conradin, you may see
your Aunt this very day."
"This' very day? When? Where P
"Here 'in ttiis villa! And before the
dining hour !"
'God of Heaven! Can this be 'possi-
b'le? What bliss is yet in store for me,
in recompense for the sorrows which'have
literally overwhelmed my soul these man"
long years past!
"The Sculptures say "that the crooked
ways shall be made straight,"~and that
"light shall come 9ut of darkness." Be
at peace, Conradin, your hour of happi-
ness is already at hand."

"So I trust and hope may be the case."
The witch having traced the entire
series of pictures, returned to the portrait
of the child she had designated as the
likeness of John Jacob Van Tuyl.
"Would you like to know the fate of
the original of this picture, Conradin ?"
asked the ~vitch.~
'I certainly would. I have often sur-
mised his fate, and felt exceedingly aux-
ions at times to know also whether he be
dead or alive."
"tie is living, and stands in your pres-
ence !"
"Uncle !"
"Nephew!".
Were the simultaneous exclamations
that broke from their lips, ~nd the relatives
were locked in each other's warm arms.
It was a magnetic and warmly sympa-
thetic embrace-a spontaneous recogni-
tion of consanguineous blood rushing up
to commingle in the one grand original
stream of sympathy and identity.
The person heretofore known as Captain
Van Vetchen, was the first to speak.
"I believe you were right in your sup-
position, after all, Conradiu You sus-
pected that I might be your long missing
uncle John Jacob, and now the course of
aflirirs appears to favor the ~
"Oh, you are my uncle-must be my
uncle I (10 not want the pleasant illus-
ion, if it really be such, dispelled."
"But we will first hear all the facts our
friend the sorceress may have to reveal,"
said the Captain to the lawyer, "so that
there may be no room for doubtjn the
matter."
"'Tis well."
The witch produced a painting of a
child, which she hung up against the wall
alongside of the one which represented
the missing John Jacob Van Toyl. It

*


l0~.                     MINNY LA
was the painting which the elder skipper
Van Vetchen had caused to be taken of
the child found on board his ship. The
portraits left no doubt they were likenesses
of one and the same person.
"I am satisfied! The captain here is
my uncle! Enough! What need of
further proof, now 2"
"You should know the w hole, Conra-
din."
"XVeII, proceed i."
The witch then produced the identical
clothing which the boy wore at the time
he come under the notice of the old Skip-
per, together with several scraps of paper,
one of which was an advertisement in an
old newspaper, descriptivee of the child's
costume and the marks on his body.
* "All ri,~ht, to the very letter, as far as
I perceive," said Conradin. "The mole
mark on your lefi shoulder: and the loss
of the pair of small 1oe~ on your right
foot, by a wolf trap, you can show them,
as a matter of course, Captain ?'
He turned back his shirt collar and re-
vealed the mole.
"Exact to the description here," cried
Conradin.
As he spoke the Captain revealed his I
mutilated foot, and showed the absence of
the members alluded to.
"Good God I Were there ever proof of
a person's identity more clear 2 Enough I
En ugh! I recognize you heartily and,
cordially as my uncle I-will you accept
~ne for your nephew, and eon of your bro-
ther Lewis 2"
"I will! I Ia! In the fullest cordial-
ity and regard, I do-I do."
The .uncle and nephe~v now ratified
their relationship with a cordial and affec-
tionate embrace. When they unclasped
Uieir arms) the witob remarked

LXX SON, OR
"Now, gentlemen, if you are willing, I
witl conjure to your presence, Mary Riv-
in2ton, the wife of Sydenham Van Toyl."
She spoke a syllable in some unknown
tongue to her spectators, when a panel in
the wall fell to the floor, and a lady of
remarkable beauty, though of lily pale-
ness of face, quickly entered the room.
She rushed to the embrace of the gentle-
men, saluted them warmly and affection-
ately in turn, before they had time to
perceive the manner of the witch's hocus
pocus operations.
"I am really glad to greet you both
my dear brother and most beloved neph-
ew! The Red Sorceress of Weehaw-
ken is no more-he~ mission is comple-
ted I"
She held in hei- hand the wig of long
gray hairs, and the scarlet gown she had
worn to make her disguise more c mplete,
and to inspire awe and faith in her revela-
tions, while pursuing the profession of the
Sorceress and Fortune Teller. Yes! It
was Mary Van Toy I, still retaining much
of her original beauty and grace of phys-
ical being.
CHAPTER XXIII.
UNRAVELLING OF THE TANGLED SKEIN OF
FATE.
The limits of this volume will not allow
us to enter into anything like a minute
detail, even of the principal incident in
the history and lives of the respective par-
ties mentioned in this truthful narrative.
I'hese very names compose, in sooth, but
a very few of the persons associated with
'he league of outlaws or who became in-
volved indirectly in their villainies. We
but present the hinges upon which t~ie
whole machinery of diablerie and crime
were hung, and leave to the geod sense of
the reader to fill up any hiatus or seem-

I

log discrepancy as he may best be able.
We trust, however, we shall be found suf-
ficiently explicit in our general outline of
narrative) and be able so to connect the
somewhat disjointed plot to render the
whole work sufficiently complete and in-
telligible.
The reader w ho may have traced these
pages thus far will have little difficulty in
recognizing that the veiled lady who gave
birth to the strangely marked child, the
beautiful sailor bo~ who ivent to Java on
board of Captain Van Vechten's ship, and
the Red Sorceress of Weehawken were one
and the same pez bun-Mary Rivington,
wife of Sydtnharn Van Tayl, and mother
of IVlinny Lawson, the lawful child of Sy.
denham.
The conjecture of Armand that the babe
with the "serpent at the heart" was Ar.
lington's, by one of his mistresses, was n9t
the fact; although more sagack us intel-
loots tba~ this servant's mis-'ht have been
as readily deceived.
Toe Van Tuyl or Arlington villa, as it
was often indiscriminately called, arose,
from its being occupied by both Syden-
ham Van Tnyl and Arlington, in success-
ion, as a summer residence. It was, how-
ever, originally buil by the elder Van
Tuyl, and by him entailed to his posteri-
ty, and not convert tble to oth r owners,
although it was subject to lease, and the
rents appropriated to the Van Tayl family.
On the marriage of Sydenham Van
TuyI.to Mary Rivicgton, he induced her
father to accept of this villa as his home
for life, which he was too glad at the time,
straightened as he was in his circumstan-
ces, to accept.
It was to this villa that Mary retired, to
the bosom of her parents, after having be-
come literally the outcast of her husband's
family, on the death of Ida Wilton and

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.               103

Sydenham's inexplicable disappearance,
to give birth to her first born child,
the babe with the "serpent at the hearL'~
It so happened that on the very day of the
night the child was born, Arliqgton had
visited the villa, and being informed of
the critical health of Mary, by her father,
he volunteered to send her aid, which was
accomplished by dispatching the Midwife
O'Hara in company with Armand and
Wilkins, in old Switzer'a boat to this Is-
land, as heretofore sufficiently detailed.
Nor is it particularly strange that old
Mr. Rivington should desire the de~truo-
tiun of thu unfortunate child, Or that Mary
herself was seemingly indifferent to its
fate. She was viewed in the eyes of the
world, in the light of a harlot and adul-
tress, though entirely guiltless of the
slightest infidelity to her liege lord.-
Conceiving accordingly that he had been
the main instrument in heaping infamy
and '-ceo or her inorm~t head, whatever
th~ love arid rcsp ~4re might h~ave en-
-tertained for her husband, o ~-a~ changed
to a sentiment of bitterness and rev~engc~.
Similar feelings agitated her father's bo-
som, because of the supposed wrongs he
himselfjiad received in the contempt and
outrage put upon the dearest and sweet-
est child of his tamily-.his ever favorite
and beloved Mary. Add to this, Arling-
ton, who had become .one of the adrninis-
trators of the Van Tuyl estate, had called
the very day above mentioned, to give Mr.
Rivington notice to vacate the villa with
all possible dispatch, or to ensure the
prompt pa~'ment of the subsequent rent-
aJs.
After Mary's child was born her father
retained to the State of New Jersey whith-
er Mary accompanied him and remained
until she had fully recovered her health.
She then put into execution some plans

103


104              MINNY LAWSON, OR

long resolved upon, as among the surest
and readiest way of meeting her husband,
and seeking that sati~factIon or revenge of
him, which she felt an innocent, but
outraged and scandalized wife had a right
to demand from a husband who had
thrust her from his bosom without a sufil-
ci~nt cause.
We see her accordingly disguising her-
asif ih sailor-boy habiliaments and making
her way across the trackless ocean to
Yava, where she fondly anticipated to in-
tercept her truant husband, or else from
some of his numerous commercial scores~
pondents in the island, to learn where he
would be likely to be found, if living on
the face of the earth. In this, however,
she was unsuccessful. When she arrived
out ,they-had not even heard of the strange
things that had transpired in New York
connectedd with t~ie Van Thy) family.
'~Fhe ~oung Laptain V~n Veo~n, (wL~
ln-oved to ~ehe~ kuC~er-iu-la w, 3ohn ~a-
cob i an~v~i, the missing lad,) having
4iscovered her sex, did all in his power to
render her stay in Java as pleasant as
possible-furnishing her with money, and
securing her a home in an agreeable Dutch
family until she should feel disposed to
return to her own native land again.
The generous-hearted skipper being
compelled to continue his voyages left her
behind, when she introduced herself
amoog the native Japanese and soon be-
came familiar with their strana6 eusto~ns
and rites, and among many other things,
acquired their arts of sorcery and fortune
telling, together with the nature of certain
roots and flowers, which had the virtue of
restoring faded female beauty, or of im-
partiag to the most youthful virgin, the
appearance of wrinkled and decrepit old
age.
She readily conceived the idea of set-

ting up for a Fortune Teller in her native
land, and by means of her occult and ma-
gic sciences seek to fathom the mysteries
which had hung over the destinies of the
Van TuyI family She fancied by pursu-
ing such profession in New York, she
would be able to learn much of the hidden
secrets (,f the city, and perhaps be ena-
bled in time to unravel the thread of fate~
In this she was nearly altogether right.
Her visi~or~ were of all ranks and condi-
tions of life, from whom, by her peculiar
tact and adroitness of manner, she was
able to glean a world of information in re-
gard to the closest secrets of every family
in the community. She became cogni-
zant of the league of outlaws, and ascer-
tained the leading parties concerned in
nearly every case at outlawry and crime.
She knew both the public and private
char ietcrs of Arlington, Ilurrell, and an-
nnd fira2lj laid her ~&amp;
with a certainty of eot~ngling ti~&amp;~ l~
in the meshes of the law. The time wan
already at hand.
It should be here stated, that the Red
Witch of Weehawken, gaye but a limited
portion of her time to the pursuit of for-
tune telling. Her hours and days for such
purposes, were stated and regular, and
never violated on any pretext whatever.
Meanwhile, she assumed all manner of
disguises, and commingled in all kinds of
open and mixed society. Her actual home
was Arljngton~s villar as it was now gen-~
erally called, wl'ich she continued to en-
ter and leave without ever having been
observed. Here she resided with her aged
father, having sought him out and brought
him from the country again to this i~bode,
on her return from 3ava, now the last
of her race besides herself. The por-
tion of the villa which they occupied and
remained free from any intrusion, was a

THE OUTLAWS) LEAGUE.                           105
wing of the building tWit had fallen into under which a child hid been born in that

entire disuse by o'her people, because of
a superstition that obtained that- it was
tenanted by ghostly inhabitants of another
world. This ilea, however, but the more
readily served to render the part of the
habitation chosen by Mary and her father
the more secure from intrusion and mo-
lestation.
Here the witch was in the habit of en-
tertaining the ~allant Captain Van Vech-
ten in the presence of her father, on all
his return voyages from tho East, a friend-
ship having sprung up between them of a
very disinterested and cordial character,
long before either Mary or the captain
knew of their actual relations~jp to each
other, as brother and sister-i -law.
The listener who had overhear Armand
relate his wild and terrible stories to Mar-
gery, was Mary herself, while the gentle-
man who had personated the ghost of Sy-
denham Van Toy), was his brother, John
Jacob, the ci-devant sailor, Captain Van
Vechten.
Mary, or the Witch, as the reader
pleases, from the first had seen all the
movements of Arlington's servants, since
the evening that Minny was brought to
the villa by them, until their own sudden
retreat therefrom, on the m3 serious dis-
appearance of the outraged girl from
the sumptuous couch on which she had
been placed in a helpless condition and
left in the oval room of the habitation-
This room communicated by a secret
panel with the haunted part. fly this
nwans or channel, the aged witch pene-
trated and discovered the condition of
Minny, and applied restorative, unknown
by Margery and Armand, which had the
effect of rapidly restoring her health. -
On the very night she had overheard Ar-
mand speak ef the peculiar circumstances

very room wh 're Minney had replied,
she instantly realized that 1'dinney was
her own daughter5 restored to her arms
again in the identical place from whence
she had been torn fom her bos'n~ nearly
firtec'n years. hefre. She accordingly
quickly bore her to her own apartments,
to the presence of her aged sire and the
girl's uncle John Jacob, as we must hence-
forth call him, instead of the skipper Van
Vechten -
It was a strange and providence guided
meeting-a discovery of disjointed re-
lationship, and consanguineous blood, in
a thrilling and heart-gushing attraction
and sympathetic affection.
CI1APTEII~ XXIV.
TIlE DENOUEMENT-AND ALL WENT
IIIERRYAS A MARRIAGE BELL.
AFTER some hours further consultation,
the party of the villa, consisting of quite a
family group, including the patriarch Riv-
ington, M~ry Van Toyl, her child Minny
Lawson, and John Jacob Van Tayl and
Conradin Van Tuyl, partook of some re-
past, and returned to the city to take the
necessary legal steps for the arrest ot the
principal conspirators and outlaws. Con-
radin had recently taken a gay young
wife, and opened a sumptuous establish-
ment in the heart of the fashions of the
city. In this home the whole of his new-
ly found relatives and friends were in-
stalled for the time-being, until abodes
more suitable to their respective wishes
and inclinations could be chosen.
The uncle and nephew at once entered
upon investigations of th~e strange stories
of crime and outlawry, and with the aid
of ~r well-known thief-taker, Mr. Jacob
Hays, soon got on the . track of the out-

F


106               MINNY LAWSON, Oft

laws and conspirators against the lives
and properties of the citizens. Armand
and Margery were fl~st, arrested, and se-
parated in distinct prison-cells; and, thro'
their fear of punishment and desire to
turn states' evidence, the entire ramifica-
tions of the outlaws' league were develo-
ped to the proper authorities. Arrests,
accordingly, continued to be made of nu-
nierous others, Including Burton and hi~
wife, but as it was deemed unwise to se-
cure the smaller rogues in the meshes of
the law, and give the larger ones rcom to
escape, in consequence of the rumors that
prevaiI~d of' numerous arrests having been
made by the police, Armand and Mar-
ger~, Burtcn and his wIfe, were allowed
again to mingle with their confederates
as sort of decoy-ducks, to ensure the
capture of the entire gang. Ufhese parties
were placed under the watchful surved-
ance of a secret police, so that it would have
been impossible for any of them to have
made their escape, however aided or back-
ed by their colleagues lif crime, ifin-
deed, they meditate~l ~uch purpose, which
was fai from being the case; each and
all of them alleging their desire to give
over a life of outlawry and crime, could
they be certain of obtaining immunities for
their past offences.
At length the revenue cutter returned
to port, after the chase of the "long, low
black," piratical or smuggling schooner,
without being able to overhaul or capture
the suspicious craft. The black schooner
proved not only a superior sailor in the
chase we have heretofore spoken of, but
night came and left the Cutter on a sand-
beach, while almost at the same moment,
a vessel supposed to be the black schooner
was observed to ~e on fire a long distance
ahead, over the Cutter's bows.
The city was bustling with naval offi-

cers and anxious merc~?~ts, standing at
every corner, and speaking '~f the strange
craft and the chase by the Catter. Si-
multaneously with these gatiierin~s, there
were noticed also a large number of' atran-
ge'rs in the city, principally seafaring men,
mixed up with a superior class as regard-
ed their costume an(l gentlemanly address.
The authorities SOOfl learned, through
Armand and other spies, that a good por-
tion of these strangers were recently
among the oflicersand cre~y of the suspi-
cious schooner, wliich had so saucily sailed
in ancf out of the harbor, and over the wa-
ters of the adining bay and ocean.
They also ascertained that the outlaws
were about to hold some grand orgies ip
commemoration of their exloits and sq~.-
cesses, and with a view to a generaJ-'~dfs~
tribution of their ill-gotten treasures
wealth among the faithful of the league.
The rendezvous was designated, an~ ~1ii-
ther the outlaws repaired on the ~veq1ng
indicated-the details of which gathe ~irig
will be found narrated in the opening
chapter of this romance.
The members of the league continued
to arrive at the old Van Tuyl mansion till
past midnight, when their rites began, and
the sound of' music, and revelry, and or~
gies were heard within.
~ The concourse was vettr large; but it
should be stated Zhat full one half of them
were policemen in disguise, who had ob-
tained the passports of entrance from
Armand and Burton, making their appear~
ance one by one, in the same manner
with the outlaws, in promisqt~ous route
and revelry, by means of subterranean pas-
sages leading from Burton's "Jolly Boat-
~~fl'~ Tavern-the old well where the
body of kIn Wilton had been found, and
by the water sewers of the house to the

I

It was a strange and startling congre-
gation of villains and their ~nenies-the
police! They now danced and gamed,
and indulged it~ every sens~tal and infer-
nal revelry, without being aware of the
vo canoes of danger upon which they
sported.
The orgies had been kept up some time,
when the quarrel en~aued between the
group of gamblers, Duhois, Trevalyan
and the young Fizz Clarence, which re-
sulted in the death of Di~bois, and the
serious injury of Fitz Cl ~rEnce. This
person, as before stated, pn~ved to be a-
woman. S:ie was the mistress of the Neth-
erland Prince, up~n wlon~ had been lav-
ished immense regal treasUres. It will be
remembered that the woman first quar-
relled with the Prince, then became the
mistress of St. Pierre de Reney, the arti-
ficer in silver and gold, a~id subsequently
the paramour of Arlington, by whom she
had been brought to the United States to
meet her (leath (as alleged) by poison at
his binds. This at least he attempted to
accomplish, but Heaven overruled his
wickedness at the time, to prove the re-
morseless poisoner's death by her hand
in the sequel.. She it w~s who occupkd
the haunted portion of Arlington's villa
for many years after her alleged
death, when, through the instrumen-
tality of Armnand, she managed to re-
turn to Europe. Here she sought out. the
profligate Prince and informed him in
whose pos~ses&amp;on a large amount of the
jewels of the House of Brunswick was
retained. This Prince shortly after, on
coming to the throne, dispatched a trusty
agent to New York with his former mis-
tress with a view to the recovery of such
important treasures. That agent was
Trevatyan. The old gambler Dubois
was the assumed, or rather the original

107

name of Arlington, one of the most ac-
complished villains that ever lived upon
the face of the earth. He barely escaped
the penalty due to his many horrid crimes
at the hand of Justice to nie by the
hands of a cast-off, and, as he had fondly
supposed, murdered woman!
A terrible scene of disorder arose on
the result of the gambler's quarrel, but
the unknown and prompt appearance of
the constabulatory force quickly queUed
the outbreak, while they took captive a
large number of the outlaws, who were
safely lo~g~' prison for trial. A few
persons escaped, b~ut it was believed the
principal c&amp;spirators were entrapped.
The courts happened to be in session at the
time, and the outlaws were summarily
disposed of and dispatched to the State's
prison for terms of years proportioned to
their supposedd offences. Much jewelry,
plate, and other property were recovered
and restored to the rightful owners, inclu-
ding the crown jewels of the House of
Brut swick, which were pointed out totlie
Police by Armand, buried in the sands of.~
the beach of Fire island.
The public mind' had become tuflamed
to the last degree in view of all those ter-
rible)revelations. it would scarcely allow
the rites of a decent burial to the remains
of Both Arlington and Burrell. Arling-
ton, or Dubois, was regarded as a monster
of such infamous die, that his dead body
would have beeh torn in pieces and given
to the dogs by the excited popuJace, had
not a strong military guard been placed
over in, until there was an opportunity to
convey it away and bury it in secret. So
with Burrell's.-although the indignation
was less intense-there was hut one sen-
timent that his course of libertinism mer-
ited the awful nature of his death.
The remains of Sydenham Van Tuyl

TflE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.


108

MINNY LAWSON, OR

were taken up from the earth of Arling-
ton's cellar, where tbey had been deposi-
ted by Armoand and Wilkin's, after his
murder, and buried with unusual demon-
strations of pomp and respect. Even the
*     corpse of Black Raif was carried to the
grave by a concourse of white citizens,
larger, perhaps, than ever before or since
attended the obsequies of a colored indi-
vidual. A rmand and Wilkins were both
tried as the murderers and alders in the
tragedy by which S~denham Van Tayl
and Ida Wilton came t their death-
found guilty of murder in the first degree,
and hung together, on one of the small
lalaruds in the harbor of New York.
But what of George Lawson? Ho was
also tried and convicted of the murder of
~oIon~l flurrell, and sentenced to be hung!
Through the influence, however, of Mary,
Oonradin, and John Jacob Van Tuyl, and
other friends, strongly mitigating circum-
stances were offered in behalf of the
youth, which resulted in a full and uncon-
ditional pardon being granted to him by
the executive clemency.
Minny, and her still called Brother
Georgewere again restored to each other's
arms, soon after to change such affinities
for the more sacred one of husband and
wife, when her mother, his dear old father
the gardener Lawson, and the kind-heart-
ed and veteran boatman Switzer, came to
reside beneath his roof, in a mansion
worthy of a connection with the influen-
tial and still wealthy family of Van Tayl.
The wedding of George and Minny was
celebrated with a grand ball and private
masquerade, in a new and elegant mansion
.presented t&amp;his young and lovely niece
by Joha Jacob Van Tuyl; and the very
ring and purse that had been left at her
reputed father's cottage in her infant hours
were also restored to the blushing bride,

as the first gift of her grandfather, and of
her mother to her, and now found carefully
handed down through the 'faithfulness of
the midwife's, in this case at 1east,~ and
the '~ honesty ~of the excellent old gar-
dener, whom Providence had reared ~t pto
le as her father and friend through~ her
tender years of childishness and girlhood.
The mate of this ring aas also produced,
and were recognized as those of the
two which Mary Rivington and Minerva
Raybold had purchased at the same store
and on the same occasion, while shopping
together , having had at the times likewise,
the initials of their names, which were
the same, cut by the jeweler beneath the
lower rims of the rings.
It was while the masquerade ball was
going forward, that the tones of a lute
struck upon the ears of Mary Van Tuyl,
while she rejoiced and wept now in the
happiness in store for her daughter Minny,
and her manly son-in-law George Lawson.
It was music such as she had heard but
once in her life before, and from only one
pair of lips. She listened again. The
music continued. She quickly bent her
steps to the direction of the conservatory
whence it had appeared to proceed. She
caught a glimpse of the lute player. She
could not be mistaken in his splendid form
and noble features. It was the gallant
Edmos~dson-her first betrothed! They
were clasped in each other's arms, and
all the wells of their original natures
overflowed to the refreshment of their
breasts after so many hug years absences
and amid such strange vicissitudes and
chances of every day life. A few words
sufficed to render the mutual explanations
satisfactory between them. Edmondson
informed her that himself and Thornton
were twin brothers, which would account
for the feeling which Mary had often held

I

THE OUTLAWS' LEAGUE.                          109
in half suspecting her husband's clerk' sequence of the outrage committed on
was indeed her absent au~ reported dead him in the garden ~of the old Van ~ruy1
lover. Thornton was in the army and on mansion at the time Ida Wilton came to
board the same ship with Edmondson, but her death, Grenville had become SOiC p05-
having I'allen seriously but not mortally sensor of the large wealth of his fatlietand
wounded, in a duel with a fellow subord~ only relative, a sot~thern pranter, recently
nate officer, they were both cashiered deceased. lie had already given up the
and dismissed from the service. Thorn- career of the navy to enter upon the
ton returned to his native laud, and under otium cum digzalate of his life, lie soon
the assumed name of Thornton obtained a proposed for a renewal of the widow's
clerkship in the counting-house of Syden- hand. She gaveit freelyand ere six months
hatn Van Tuyl. Hence the rumor of passed away, since ~he had found held
Thornton's tail in a duel must have been child and given heraway as a sweet bride,
the origin of the report of Grenville Ed- she was herself led to the altar a second
rnonson's death.                     time-uniting her affections to the first
since the death of his brother Thornton dearest object of her maiden heart.
Edmondson, in the lunatic asylum in con-
THE END.


OR~
THE CONSPJRATOIVS VICTIM.
BY NED BUNTLINE.
Tuis novel is one of those rare conceptions which every now and then make
their appearance to amaze and convulse the world. It abounds in all those stir-
ring .incidents, and bold vigorous passages, which have so long been the distinguish-
ing features of Mr. Judson's writings. Although not written in the shape, it re-
quires but a glance at its pages to satisfy any intelligent mind that it is nothing
more nor less than an Autobiography of its mlustrious author, and a record of one
of the most remarkable conspiracies for the overthrow and destruction of its hero,
that ever disgraced a people. It is a revelation of the wrongs and sufferings which
every pure-hearted patriot and reformer must expect to encounter in his efforts to
ameliorate the condition of the struggling masses, and lead them on to a nobler
destiny than that in which he finds them. And, taking a single leaf from his own
extraordinarily adventurous history, Mr. Judson presents in TH E CONVICT a
picture, bold in its outlines, and graphically stirring in its narrative and details of
persecution and suffering, which stands without a rival even in this age of mas-
terly painting, either with the pencil or the pen. Every one is familiar with the
fact of Mr. Judson's sentence to, and incarceration at, the Penitentiary ; but few,
even of his most intimate friends, are aware how he came to be transformed, from
the character of a free citizen to that of a sentenced felon-A CH AINED CONVICT.-
The details of that conspiray, die character of the network by which he was grad-
ually drawn in and ensnared, the treachery with which he was on all sides beset-
extending even to the trustiest of his friends, as well as to the very partner of his
heart-and the infamous characters in the black drama of which he was at once
the hero and the victim-must, to be learned, be sought alone in the thrilling
pages cf this
" Child of' his heart,"
Agents and the trade will please send in their orders immediately.

GARR ET T &amp; CO., 18 ANN-ST RE ET.

I

I

N7'oveiettes by "NIeD," Original Sketches by the best Native Authors, Poems, Special
Correspondence from all parts of the United State, and also from
and the NEWS OF THE DAY will be found in our columns. Send in your DOLLAR
raise a Club, or anything that way, and we'll reciprocate the favor. $pecimen Num-
bers sent free, but pay your postage.
OFFICE OF PUBLICATION, 21 Ann Street; N. Y

41

per year4, in advance.
0. P. BROWN, Publisher

NED BUNTLINE, Editor.

THE
THE BEST AND MOST ORIGINAL PAPER PUBLISHED IN AMERICA,
Is issued weekly at No. 21 ANN STREET, NEW YORK, price only ONTE DOL LA R


NEW .BOOKS! NiEW BOOKS!!
ANGELA WIL DON:
OR, THE

MYSTERIES OF ALTENDORF CASTLE.
BY G. W. M. REYNOLDS,
.AUTHOR OF "LIFE IN LONDON," "THE NECROMANCER," ETC.
We cannot mention a single Book, that will compare in dramatic interest
with this, unquestionably, the best of Cf. W. M. Reynolds' books. The scenes
are thrilling in the extreme ; the characters boldly drawn and admirably contrast-
ed-the good with the .bad. There is not a solitary paragraph that does not tend
to the development of -the horrible mystery that, like a blood-stained pall, en-
shrouds the heroine in its heavy folds from the first chapter of the tale. Numer-
ous Engravings, of uncommon excellence, illustrate many of the extraordinary
incidents which are thickly strewn through the book.--.Morning Star.

ALSO, JUST .PUBLISHED,
GRAIG ALLAN CASTLE':
OR,
B Y M RS. GO0R E,
AUTHORESS OF "ABEDNEGO, THE MONEY LENDER," ETC.
-This is the title of a new romance from the pen of Mrs. Gore, deservedly
esteemed one of the very best writers of the age. We know not that we have
ever been o deeply moved by the delineation of fictitious woes, as during our
perusal of this heart-melting tale. The interest of the story is based upon the
secret marriage of a wealthy young merchant to a young, innocent, and trusting
girl, whom circumstances prevent from ever seeing the father of her child after
the evening of the consummation of her nuptials. Hecr child, the heir of Craig-
allan Castle, is thwarted for many years by the machinations of a double-idyed
villain, Ludvic whose hel-lish schemes arc however finally frustrated ; but not
before the yo~fuf heir and his affianced sweetheart pass through perils of the
most trying description, which are depicted with matchless force and naturalness.
'L'he book is one that must have an immense sale, if merit meets with its deserts.
D7r Copies of either of the above justly celebrated work will be sent to any one by return
of mail, on the receipt of the price in a letter. Address the letter to the Publishers, and you
will then receive the work by return of mail, free of Postage.
Published and for sale by
GARRETT &amp; CO-,
No. 18 Ann Street, New..-York.

*" Cockton is one of the best writers of fiction we have ; one of his merits 'being a very marked blending
of te useful an  the seet  1 is writng possess geat power, and we slo not know a work of greater Inter-.

LAIW F10ITXA

II.

,         ,~~.A
A NOVEL, by Ii. Cockton, author of " Stanley Thorn,"
"VTalentine Vox," etc. IPrice fifty cents. This work is beautifully printed in
octavo form, and is illustrated with engravings on tinted-paper,
" This is an amusing hook, and although theconduct of the lady may not square with the notions of some
young ladies of our acquaintance, still they will not find tione to faint, f&amp;~ some of the characters are too
amusing to allow of their doing so, particularly Myr. Wilkins, the head she'pman in a dry'goods store. But
tisvery shocking for young ladies to marry dry goods clerks.-spiritpf the Times.
CUAIGALLAN CASTLE, or Th'e Stolen Will.
By Mrs. Gore. Price
twenty-eve cents. This book contains 112 octavo pages, and is without doghbt
one of the most interesting works ever written by this talented Authdress.

Iy.

ELLEN GRANT, or Yashionable Life in New-York.
.. This book con-.
tains 118 octave pages, and is unquestionably one of the best daguerfreotypes of
high -life in upper-ten-dom, ever published.
zm.. Copies of~ either of the above works will be sent to any person by return
of mail, on receipt of the price enclosed in a letter to
GARRETT &amp;* CO., Publishers.

5

on good paper.

I

PUBLISHED BY
STANLEY THORN,:
A NOVn., by 1. Codton, Eq., author of -" Val..
enie~""yste So"-d,""Lady Feii, " The Love Match,"~ etc.
Price fifty cents. this book contains 224 octave pages, and is beautifully printed

The Saturday Courier -says :


/

NEW BOOKS! NEW BOOKSI!

I

r

MYSTERIES OF ALTENDOEF CASTLE.
BY G~. W. M. REYNOLDS,
AUTHOR OF " LIFE IN LONDON," " THE- NECROMANCER,".E TC.

Beautifully illustrated- .-Two Vois-, Pr--e al

We cannot mention a single .Book that will compare in dramatic interest
with this, unquestionably, the best of G. W. M. Reynolds' books. 'fhe scenes
are thrilling in the extreme ; the characters boldly drawn and admirably contrast-
ed--the good with the bad. TUhere is not a solitary paragraphs that does not tend.
to the development of the horrible mystery thsit, like a blood-stained pall, en-
shrouds the heroine in its heavy folds from the first chapter of the tale. Numer-
oais Engravin , of uncommon excellence, illustrate many of the extraordinary
incidents which are thickly strewn through the book.-Mornigg Star
ALSO, JUST PUBLISHED,
GRAIGALLAN CASTLE:
THE STOLEN WILL.
BY'MRS. GORE,
AUTHORESS OF"ABEDNEGO, THE MONEY LENDER," ETC.
Price 25 Cents.
Tmis is the title of a new romance from the pen of Mrs. Gore, deservedly
esteetned one of the very best writers of the age. We know not that we have
ever been so deeply moved by the delineation of fictitious woes, as during our
perusal of this heart-melting tale. The interest of the story is based upon the
secret marriage of a'wealthy young merchant to a young, innocent, and trusting
girl, whom circumstances prevent from ever seeing the father of her chitd after
the evening of the consummation of ber nuptials. 11cr child, the heir of Craig-
allan Oastle, is thwarted for many-years by the machinations of 9i double-dyed
villain, Ludovico, whose hellish schemes arc however finally frustrated ; but not
before the youthful heir and his affianced sweetheart pass through perils of the
most trying description, which-are depicted with matchless force and naturalness.
The book is one that must have an immense sale, if merit meets with its deserts.
D:;i Copies of either of the above justly celebrated works will be sent to any one by return*
of mail, on the receipt of the price i a letter. Address the letter~ to the Publishers, and you
will then receive the work by return of mail, free of Postage-.
Published and for sale by

No. 18 Anni Street, New-York.

ANGELA WILD ON
OR, THE -

:0

THE~ #IRET E&amp;TISAL REA UE.
HARRY BURNHAM,[
(CIye 1pnug dontducuta1,
OR
ME MOIR S O F A N A MEIUC0AN OF F ICE R
DURING THE CAMPAIGNS OF THE REVOLUTION.,
The War of the Revolution! 'The struggles endured by WAsINGToN- and
fis glorious companions for a nation's freedom ; the spirit and valor displayed dur'-
ing the " war of seven years'' by t'he highest and lowest, by male and female, must
'ever be a theme on which the lovers of liberty throughout the world will ponder
with enthusiastic admiration From the sparsely inhabited " Thirteen Colomeca,'
has arisen a nation that has become a refuge to the weak, the suffering and oppres-
sed of Europe, and hitherward flock her enslaved children, prompted by hope,
desire, and ambition.
Who, then) can read emotionless the record of the deeds thaf, have accomplish-
ed so much,? Who can read, without a thrilling pulse and a beating heart, the
vivid description of the unequal conflicts betwe pn the farmer soldiers, the yeoman-
ry of our country, and the trained troops of England, at the time the envy and
terror of the world.
The above works are published and for sale, wholesale and retail, by.
.  GA RR E TT 8&amp; CO0., 18 ANN-S T REE T.-

AMY TA WRENCE -
BY J. I? SMIGM, ESQ,.,
Author of "Stanfield Hall," "The Jesuit," Etc.
" This is a vivid and fascinating story, full of dramatic action and tragic interest.
It is dirtiniguished by an energy of thought and feeling such as we too seldom have
the good fortune to encounter in modern fictions. It is not only entertainig for
its graces of description, and pleasantries of colloquy, but imposing for its gran-
-duer of' thought, and the majestic beauty of its symmetry. The author has pro-
diced a work which is entitled to a highly distinguished position amongst produc-
tions of its class.. In thoughtful and .large conceptions-in number and variety of
characters-in copiousness of description, ingenuity of intrigue, and skilful com-
bination of incidents,~ ther-e are few modern novels with which we are acquainted
which will not suffer by comparison with AMv LARNE
Reautifually Illustrated. Price Fifty Cents.

- -~

.I

'

5-


PRICE FIFTY-CENTS, COMPLETE.
9
~1
EUGENE SUE'S GREAT PROSCRIBED BOOK,
7THB. MY8TB~IEg O~ THE PEOPLE.
Ia the course of this great Romance, SUE, (while he adds much to the interest of the
plot,) ~zposes the causes which drive so many
THOUSANDS OF THE MEN OF PARTS TO GAMBLING, ROBBERY,
AND THE GALLEY, AND THE WOMEN TO PROS..
TITUTION AND THE MORGUE.
'While it is entirely free from any offensive thoughts or language, it unveils the terrible
social evil~ that are
GANGRENING THE VERY HEART OF TI~[E FRENCH SOCIETY.
Never has ges~ius conceived or described more interesting characters than those which imn
part to this story the animation of real life. The bold, handsome, but cruel and licentious
Colonel do Plournel-the stern, frigid, jesuitical Cardinal-the lovely and virtuous daugh.
te~ of th, honest Linen Draper--the intrepid and worthy young Joiner-and the beau- I
f tiful but guilty Grisette, who receives in her white breast the ball aimed sa tier heroic
lover on the barricades-are all faithful types of the various classes in the metropolis of
France.
So admirably written and full of interest, indeed, is this incomparable book, that all the
vigilance of the French spies and police has been unable to prevent the circulation of mi1~
lions of copies in every department of France.
"Tnt MYSTERIES or THE l'EOVLE, or the Hisfory of a Proletarian Family, from the
Earliest Ages to the Present Time. Translated from the French of Eugene SJe, Member
of the Legislative Assenil9y of France."-This Tale, which commenced iw~Jany., contains
one of the most striking pictures-of serfdom ever drawirby human liand~ The truth is
boldly and fearlessly delineated; and all true frieds of freedom and real philanthropists
must admire the work and bless its author. The Times newspaper has endeavored to
run down "The Mysteries of the People," but when we assure our readers that it was this
tale winch won for Eugene Su~e his election as Member for Paris in the beginning of May,
the fact alone will prove a sufficient refutation ofthe scandalous aspersions and ma~nant
falsehoods of that despot-loving journal.".-Reyno1ds's Miscellany.
a
Publiuhad and for sale wholesale and retail by
GARRETT &amp; CO.,ISANNSTREETN. I
*2

COMPLETE IN OIN ~ ~&amp;J4UME. PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
0       ALE TI E'S CO            IC LECTURES

FIRST AND SECOND 5JiR~IES, WITH COMICAL PORTUAI I'5.

FUNNIEST AND MOST LAUtITIABLE BOQA EVER PUT IN PRINT!
~ IF ~OU read this booklt will n'nke you laugh, and. you can't help it. The
sourest crab of a Quakei~ that ever dressed in drab, could not help smiling at the
I droll audmirtli-inspiriug stories of Dr. Valentine. The first series contains some
ten or a dozen portraits illustrating the favorite comic characters assumed by the
I Deetor in his public exhibitions; and which have made him so celeh~tedthrough-
out the United States. We have here Dr. Valentine as Aunty Piggin-as Tabitha
j; Tiptongue-as Joab Squash-as the learned Phrenologist-as the big News-Boy--'
Jas the-laughing Frenchman-as Daddy Hague-as the Widow Gabbletongue-a~
the hypochondriac; or the man who imagined himself a Teakettle with a broken
bottom-as Plato Pug, &amp;c. Besides the various lectures, this book contains over
I Forty of the Doctor's Droll Stories, told in his best style of laughter-provoking
eloquence. Among the most famous of these stories are Si Hoselcruce's Court-
shhp of Debby Higgins-~Jake Doolittre's Trip across the Big Pond-Curious antics
of Mrs. S~ruggins's Old Cow-Jonathan Hatchet and Timothy treenhorn in New
York-A Bundle of wants-~--Sam Doleful's Case-The Lawyer Outwitted, &amp;e.
This first s~rirs is complete in itself, and is in no wa-v ~onriected reitk4ke second
Volume
~I)e ~ecoll~ ~ierte~ or
DIR. VALENTINE'S COMIC LECTIJIRES.
Tins is likewise a book e~mplete by itself. It contains a tliird more di~oll stories,'
JI though not quite so many engravings as the first. Those who have got the first series
*ili be sure to buy this also assoon as they can straighten their faces to ask for i't.
p Among the seventy-one laughter-provoking stories contained in this book of drol
~ levies we'notice-the Yankee who Courted the Fat Gal-Receipt for linking Mol-'
lasses Caudy-Sophy Slow's Visit to the President-the Wonderful Marc-The
I (omiuunipaw Examination-Jonathan Screw's Adventures-The Courtship- of
lerusha Suizzards-The Br'5 with a Short Memory-Speech of Lot Doolittle-
~j Abe Kershaw's ~peech at Washington-The ~[ankcc in Court, pr the Lawyer

puzzled.
Among the illustrations are-Dr. Valentine as Mr. HoneyfaceZ.~as Mr. Sour.
~n-out--as Mike Bones?-as Betacy Bcesv~rax-as Seth Stokes, &amp;c., &amp;c. Altogether
this is a very attractive book for persons fond of this kind of stories.-PRIcE 50
Both of the above wo~As .zre published, and ft~ ~7t1e, wfiotesa~e aria retail, b~
GARRETT &amp; CO.. 18 ANN STREET, ~. Y.
-~

)


~A Better Book at last than the Count of Monte.Cristo!

STADIBIB ALL.
AN hISTORICAL ROMANCE.
AUTHOR OF "THE JESuIT," "ROBIN GOODFELL9W,"ETo
WITH ALL THE ILLUSTRATIONS.
This powerfully written fiction embraces one of t~e most exciting periods of
English history-the ~eign of the royal Bluebeard, Henry VIII. The high
dramatic interest of the plot; the developments of Court intrigues in love and
politics; the perils and adventures of the hero and heroine 6f the story; the
rapid, uninterrupted sweep of the narrative, which seems to bear the reader with
it, and render him an actual spectator of the stormy scenes of that stormy era,
stamp tije work as one of the greatest historic and chivalric Romances since the
days of Sir Walter Scott.
This work is published entire from the English edition, with z~ll th6 ilustra-
tion~, in two large handsome vol3imes. Price One Dollar.
Thablished and for sale, wholesale and retail,
By W. F. BURGESS, 22 An~n Street, 2V~ Y
BEFORE AND BEHIND
*                OR,
FIFTEEN YEARS' OBSERVATIONS AMONG
THE THEATRES OF NEW YORK,
* Br DR. J. K. NORTHALk
Ono volumo, complete. Price ~O centi.
GARR~T~' &amp; Co.) 18 Am. StreetN. Y.

(

I .

t

I                 ROCHESTER:
Oil THE
~u~p ~
By the Author of the Jesuit, The Young Chevalier, &amp;c.
~~vpif~114J ~l sf fe~.-~Ne&amp; ~O 0~fs.
~        able writer has fairly imbued his mind with the historical facts of this
~ famous period of history, and has formed accurate conceptions of the strange
~ characters that dustered around the person of the English Sardanapulus-the
~ witty but licentious Charles II. But this book is no series of dry historical de-
~ tails~: it is ~in animated dramn. The varied characters are pr~sente4 .to us in
such lively action that the reader appears to mingle with the gay but guilty
~ groups that peopled the gorgeous saloons of the merry monat ?h. We seethe
* ~ jovial Charles, laughter in his eye and Jest upon his lips; the ~ dished heartless
~ tine Rochester, "who never said a foolish thing, and never did good ones" the
merry, simple-hearted Nell Gwyane, the amorous, fascinating mistress of the
king; ,the Countess of Castlemaine; the saturnine tyrant, Jame II. Admirably
intertwined with the historical incidents is one of the most pathetic, heart-
moving love-tales ever written. Two innocent and lovely punt a maidens be-
~ come the victims of the accursedarts of Rochester and Clayton; nid the strong
~ contrasts presented by their holy love to the heartless lust of their '~educers, form
seineef the mo~t affective chapters *Werwritten. But~ there is still tether threud
~ in this eventful history. The notorious Col. Blood-whose parallel can only be
*~, round among the damned-betrays j~ lovely Jewess, and to obtain her hoarded
~ wealth mnrdet~s her father, and then deserts his ruined victim. Bu~ if the crimes
4 were horrid, her vengeance reached the acme of appalling cruelty, ~nd the pas-
~sages in which it is described are the most powerful, perhaps, ever w itten. But
~ it wonId take pages barely to refer to the many wonderful pictures ~ at strew
~ the ha'ndsomely-printed pages of this matchless romance.
Copies of the above work will be sent to any one by return ~ mail, on
j the receipt of the price in a letter. Address the letter to the Publisheri and you.
4 will then receive the, work by return of mail, free of postage. Puhlia~ .4 an4i
~ Lorsaleby
GARRETT &amp; CO., Publishers,
18 Ann Street, New Thk
I

3
3,
S
5.
3;
3,
3,
3,
3,
3.
3'
5
I,
I
)

I
3
3
3
I


A NEW NOVEL, EQUAL T~O CHARLES C'MALLE~.

T

9

on
THE RIVAL SUITORS.
BY WM. B. MAXWELLI
AUTHOR O~
HECTOR 0 HALLORAN, STOIUES OF WATERLOO, WILD SPO~IT5 OF TIllS WEST7 ETC.
BEfUTffiJLL~ HLU~TaA~ -PRi~ ~
~j~llIS capital Book is of the "Charles 0 Malley" school--full of dashing
adventures, love intrigues, brilliant sketches of battle scenes, in which - the
iAspiring headlong charge and terrible defeat are detailed with 'all the force of
truth. The BivouAc belongs, as we have said, to a popular class of books, and
we think it decidedly the very best of its class. We have not the space, though
we have a strong inclination, to giv~ our readers a taste of its quality-to re-
Print at length the matchless scene of the lover's meeting the fortune-teller in the
gloom of the forest; the appalling interviOw and the grave-stories in the church-
yard at midnight; the droll dialogues of the regimental mess-table; the eloquent
description of ~the encampment of the rival armies; the fearful carnage of the
battle-field; the pi'odigies of vaLor peribrined during the mountain combat; the
richly-humorous "confessions of a gentleman who would have married if he
e~nld ;?' and a dozen other delineations marked in every page by some bold trait
of wit oi' genius. The war-lik~ descriptions will vie with the most animated
scenes in Allison or Napier; and the humorous portions of the book have np
peers but in the pages of Lever or Lover.-.Afornirs.q Star.
Tha BIvouAc, on P.IvAL SUITORS, by Col. W. H. Maxwell, is on~ of thos&amp;
,popular rpmanc~s which are eagerly devoured by readers of fiction, and, in this
instance; without the deleterious influence which is too frequently attributed to
much of the literature of the d:~y~ ,The"' Bivouac" is a spirited, well-conceived.
and.thrilhing picture in the 0'MalLcy style. The menioir of a ruined beauty,
which occurs iii the course of the story, is a touching exhibition of the extreme
anguish which flattery and falsehood may inflict. Garrett &amp; Co~, New York,
have issued it in fair type ar~d with illustrations.-Saturday courier.
FAIR ROSAMONP:
0R~
THE QtJEEN'S VICTIM
BY THE AUTHOR OF "QUINTIN MA'1'SYS," "ROBIN llOOl~," &amp;c~
ILLUSTRATED WITH SEVERAL BEAUTIFIIL ERAVI~Tf*S.
Price Fifty Cents.
tpITIS charming ndvel is founded on incidents in tl~e history of England during Planta.
I genet rut e, and edntains scenes of pathetic interest to Which none but a master of
romance could do justice. To represent correctly the costumes, character, end language of
that early period, is a task of no little difficulty; but our author has evidently studied his
Aubjeet ~vell, and has sustained himself admirably in this respect throughout.
~Copies of either of the above works will be sent to any one by return of mail, on
the receipt of the price in a letter. Address the letter to the Publishers, and you will thea
reCeive the work by return of ni~il, free of postage. Published and for sale by
GAt~RETT &amp; Co.,
'No. 18 Ann Street, New York.

9

A THRILLING HISTORiCAL ROMANOE~.

~be 3llurhsmuttb ~f J~utioerp,
BY PIERCE EGAN, ESQ3,
AUTIIOB. OF
"Life in London," "Robin flood," "Wat Ty1er,~~ etc.
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED.
PJHCE 50 CENTS.
"Quintin Marsys; or The Blacksmith of' Antwerp'-The romantic history
of the great Flemish Painter, whom love removed from the anvil to the easel,
presents such 'capital points for the pen of romance that it would be next to im-
possible to construct an uninteresting story out such good material. The author
of this book has worked up his plot with ingenuity and power. The language is
chaste and elegant, and the tale so fascnatin~ that it holds the reader's mind
with firm grasp until its perusal is finished .-Pkiltzddphia Swnda~y Desyatc4.
"Quintin Matsys; or The Blacksmith of Antwerp."-This is a tale of what is
called the dark or middle 'age, dating from the beginning of the thirteenth centu-
ry, when superstition apd might were the only governing principles. At this time
was formed   protect the weak against the strong which
society        to                                ~,      . as called
"Fehin Geriehte," and the terror of that band was felt throughout Germany.-
Nof person could commit a crime or plunder his neighbor, but retributive justice
would overtake him, It is a truly thrilling work. Published by Gari~ett &amp; Co.,
Ann Street.-i~pirit of the Times.
This is a reprint, and onn of the most thrilliiig, romantic and fascinating story
that has found its way to the public heart and mind from-any quarter. It is full
of dramatic action-portraying every variety of thought and fecli~g, and compare
fa~vorably with the best modern novels. Iludeed it is among the best ever written.
-At-nerica~ 4rtizan.
Published aszd for sale by
GARRETT &amp; CO.,
18 Ann Street, New-York
Also by all Books~llerr in the United States.

Cov~"s majh'd t~any a'tdrcss in tY~U. S, mm retv.yt i~ .,.~ i~smt~i, (vvjV..p~i.1)

K

OR

es

r


New Novel by ttie' Author of "MYinie Grey."

50 cents, addroSSed to0

GARRETT &amp; CO., PUBLISHERS',
18 Ann-gtreet, ew York.:

OR,
'HOW TO WIN A WIFE.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
"MINNIE GREY, OR WHO IS THE HEIR," "AMY LAW-
RENCE," "STANFIELD HALL," ETC.
BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED. PRICE 50 CENT.'
TaosE who have read "Stanfield Hall," or " Minnie Grey,"-and who
has not ?.-will require only a mere announcement of the above work, to in-
duce them to obtaiit and give it an immediate perusal. Its author is oe of'
the very few in the world of literature, who wins upbR acquaintance. If it
were said that he Writes but little, we would rejoin that he writes that little
well. His3 pages glow with the very spirit of romance. His pen moves like
the wand of an enchanter. It dissects human passion as keenly as the scalpel
of the surgeon. The author's power over his readers is not greater than his
command of his dramatis person. His lawyers arc lawyers, his Jews arec
Jews indeed,'and not merely lugged in to fill up achapter and lengthen out
a book. Individuality stamps all the creations of our author with an ace~u-
racy wjiich makes them like real live personages, and gives to the whole work
an interest rarely found in modern romance. We predict for "Gus Howard"
an enduring popularity and a world wide perusal.-London Atlienxvum.
i'Copies mailed to any place in the United States on the receipt of'

4

Poor e~ncie Tom, (new.)
Firm's Doeath,,"ew"with
nesic.)
*a*cy Tille(new)
Ropnell, (new with Musie.)
Yo rolsa Homes, (new- wi
ae Mu)  ,
O'e ro the isouthsi, (e)
Newlor Fany Baoli,  (e)

CON T E NT S.
De Singing Darkey of do Ohio,
B   aude B n'rLove Scrape,
Emoul Iwere'a Boy Again,
Iwish I wan OdaVl"rginni,
Cytha Sue,
SsyBown,
Woo'sDeineators,
Aunt Dinah Roe,
We are gwan to do Shucking,

?olored Orphan Boy,
tne aGabylei, or Sandy Point,
Lub  ColoredDine,
Weeismy Ponpey Gone I
Dak esage your ats,
'iof'frCarleston,
P arrs onUnci Ned,
Caring Lovely Nell,
Do Cona1Hunt,
Oh, Lemuei.

ALSO1 CONTAINING A SELECT' IN OF THE MOST POPULAR CHORUSES1 QUARTETTES, GLEES,
TRIOS, _DUETTES, SONGS, PARODIES, BURLESQUES, ETC. ; ALsO, FUNNY
STORiES, SATIRICAL JOKES, QUAINT SAYINGS, CONUNDRUMS,
REP'ARTEES, ETC., AS TOLD BY THE CELE-
BRATED E. HORN,
AT WOOD'S MINSTREL HALL, 444 BROADWAY.
N.B. Copies mailed to any place in the United States 'on the receipt of
14) cents, addressed to
GARRETT &amp; CO., PUBLISHERS,
18 Ann-street, .Aew York.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST
COLLECTION OF SONGS EVER PUBLISHED.
WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS. PRICE 121 CENTS.
MINST   80    'ONG         O   .

,4


9

I

vi

T-

~w ]~QTove1 by tile Author of "Amy Lawrence2'
WhO IS THE HEIR.
I                       BYTHIi~AUTHOROF
"eA~tY j4WR~ENC~," '"~.US llOWAI~, OR EOW TO WIN
~A' WrEE," "STANFIELD 11411," 4o,
Beautifully illustrated with Designs from tk~ Ruglish Ultion.
micE z~'~tx crNTS.
'U
Tn~a~ is stilL hope for English Literature. so long a~ such works a~
'"Miniiie Grey" ~and' ~" Gus Howard" shall continue to be written. - ~Tha
furnici: we haye wholly read; the latter-which is a sequel to the "fir~t-we
are 110W engag~dhi re~diug; afrd we inu~t confess that we have rarely been
s~ ~eeply 'entei~tained ~~iv their perusal. ~ Minnie Grey," taken as a literary
*~fi~auce, is xve1~ worthy of a place beside th~ noble productIons of Scott-
~u~d ~i~rnas; an'd~ .vhile it y~eUs not in splendor of, ~onc~ption ai~d ~nenes~
of exceutlo; to the ablest works tC the former, it fully &amp;~ua1s, if At never
eclipses, th~ sPbfle hitetest which marks tl~ creations of the latter. The
story of Minnie Grey is one -d ~incoinrnofl poor; and the rapidity with
whi~h. it is caught up by the public from the counters of the book~eIlei~s is
&amp;ue of ti ~st~ouge~t ei~idcnces in the world of its originality, interest and
~tvengtb.-1ondom Litenzr~ Gazette.
'N,
7 ~ Copies mailed to e~ny ~'~ee iii the Uni~V States on the receipt of
50 cents, aIdress~d to          -


  
             
         
       
   
