
    ----CITATION----
        Richter, Paul, novelist.. The Lottery Ticket, or, The Forlorn Hope .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7579
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The lottery ticket, or, The forlorn hope 
            
                 LOTTERY TICKET  OR,  THE FORLORN HOPE.  A TALE OF  THE PRESENT TIMES. PUBLISHED BlY BAIOLARAY O0., 734- MARKRT STREET  ' The Lottery Ticket, or The Forlorn Hope;" is in our Judgment, after a perusal of the proof sheets, the title of one of the most captivatig- J and affecting stories we have ever read. We have to thank its " talented" author not only for the intellectual and sentimental treat which he has fur- n ished us; but more especially, because more important, for the cottrbu- i tion to sound public morals, which the work affords. Some of the scenes *, of harrowing poverty and anguish will touch the heart and draw the tear ' from all who sympathize with the sufferings and sorrows of the poor,'though increased; in this instance, ten-fold, by that foul and pernicious spirit of lottery gambling, which is here laid bare, while the hypoorisy and sancti- monious pretensions of the heartless speculator in the sufferings of others, and the brilliant episodes of extravagance and fashion, mark this as one of the most dramatic and effective books of the day.  Philadelphia- Ai-. Philadelphia Sept. 20, 1868. To the Publishers of "The Lottery Ticket:" Sirs, I have read with increased pleasure in the proof- "-sheets, your story which had already won my esteem in the manuscript. I can also assure you that my friend, thecelebrated DB. RBBENiL CoATHs, c- read your book at my office, and commended the same *armly. He wil / doubtless give his views upon it soon-meantime I hope the issue of the book will be made with all despatch, Yours very truly, Hector Orr. See "NOTICES" at the end of the Book.    The following   Notice of "THE Loav'zJi      TICKET" was received   by its publishers from   DOCTOR  REYNELL COATES, a short time after the issue of the first edition of the work: "The downward tendency of that species of literature, if such it can be called, with which, in shilling or two shilling doses, the masses of American readersare now continually flooded awakens keen regret in the minds of all the true friends of society. Not a few philanthopists would be glad to see it altogether suppressed, in view of the terrible demoralization of which it is the parent; but, this is impossible. The insatiable appe. tite of twenty prolific millions will be gratified, and, in the absence of healthful food, will seize upon the poisons. Reform, then, difficult as it may be, not destruction, should be the object of those who would correct the evil. This consideration has given to this unpretending story an importance in our eyes, to which, otherwise, it might not have attained. While utterly divested of objectionable thought or description, it enchains the attention and arouses the sympathies of the Romance reader to an extent that must render it highly popular, and we are not surprised that a second edition follows the first after an interval of a very few days. The tale presents a deeply affecting picture of domestic distress and ruin, resulting from one of the worst curses of society, and the principal incidents, while sternly truthful are rendered startling and dramatic to a degree that fully warrants the proud nom deplume which the author has seen fit to assume. The moral is most excellent, and the tendency practical, so that we hope to see it followed by many other stories from the same able pen, and cheer- fully recommend itto the real friends of their species, as a pioneer in the important work of rendering that most powerful lever, popular romance, an instrument of moral advancement instead of degradation."   i I r   FRONTISPIECE. WINTER.   THE LOTTERY TICKET OR, THE  FORLORN  HOPE. A TALE OF THE PRESENT TIMES. BY PAUL RICHTER. PHLADELPHA: PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO., NO. 1 SOUTH SIXTH STREET.    Entered, accordlng to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by BARCLAY & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.   TO THE HON. DANIEL F. TIEMANN, MAYOR OF NEW YORK; AND THE  HON. ALEXANDER HENRY, MAYOR ,OF PHLADBLPRHA  THS PRESENT VOLUME IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR.   Scene in Mrs.' Steel's chamber, after the Part was oer.       CONTENTS. THE BNOW 8fORX, ........ .25 THE PARTY. .   .... -. 48 THE OFFICE AND ITS INPLUtCEBS, . . 69 ,   , ,.               -         , THE LOTTERY TICTOET. ALL day long fell the snow. Beautiful was the covering it spread. House-tops and trees are whitened;--and the long treets all look so immaculately pure that, unbidden, the thought will arise of the Apocalyptic vision of the 'Holy City "come down from Heaven." But how: little really like that in moral purity. What weakness and what cunning; what wrong doing  and over-reaching almost every where prevails throught outur citys length and breadth. There is indeed the coverin&g of the l!amb# but underneath lies the wolfish heart;--and its beat is strong and fierce. ' " Down fell the snow, still deepening, until,. as night came on, in the twilight, ,trees grow into spectres ,:ad in winding sheets and silent, excepting when, fitfully the wind moans sadly through their leafless branches; No moonr;-no stars:-'snowing on, on. The'gas lights at    26     THE LOTTERY TICKET. the corners of the streets are the centres, around which seem to flutter myriads of insects--the snow flakes--and beyond is darkness, save, where houses and squares loom hugely in the increasing gloom. A woman and a boy, wading along through the snow for it is now ancle deep-emerge from the shadow of a large house standing at the corner of a street, into a wider one, and come immediately under the glare of the street lamp. They have no umbrella, and the light shines full upon them. They are thinly clad,-the woman more so than the boy,-but, as they labour on through the heavy snow the tones of their voices sound. cheerily and -hopeful. "We will soon be at the shop, mother!" i"Yes, my boy, and then the road home will appear shorter than it did to come. Do you see George, up and ,down the broad street ever .so far, how like eye-balls of. :fire the gas-lights look, and seem as though they were seeking for something in ;the snow?" "Yes, mother; why it is worth the walk from home :to see them. How bright they shine! But you do not really think they are Iooking for anything?"-and, after a pause, he said: "There are no lamps in our alley, and if I had only gone to the door I could not have seen these rows of lights. Why, to look at them, all the snow is falling around the lamp-posts!--but, it is 'nt so:" and in rather a saddened tone, he continued, "for it is falling fast on you, and me too, mother." They crossed over and passed on about a square   THE SNOW    STORM.       7 further, down the narrower street, and stopped at a baker's door, over which a light indicated that the shop was open. The sharp jingle of a bell, affixed near th the door,' and which it struck as it opened, aroused the sleepy shopman, who sullenly stationed himself behind the counter. He had a heavy, dull look, and there was a sinister expression impressed upon his hard face. "Please give me two four-cent loaves," said the woman;--laying a dime on the counter. The man, without speaking, reached his hand towards a shelf upon which were ranged loaves of -freshy baked bread--but, after thinking a moment, he stooped down, and opening a drawer underneath, took out two stale loaves, and pushed them towards her; at the same time picking up the money, and slipping it into a hole above the money-drawer.- From  a cracked bowl, on a shelf alongside, he took the two pennies change, and placed it within her reach, as she was engaged in wrapping a coarse but clean towel. around the loaves previous to placing them under the shawl, which scarcely had served to protect her from the storm. "Thank you;" and the clear silver tone of the voice--by some mysterious sympathy-startled the stolid man who had just committed a cheat!-and he fixed his gaze steadfastly upon her. Was it that the pale face, so resignedly patient and full of love, brought back to him the memory of that mother,-her work at last all done,-* who rested in her grave in the far-off Fatherland? He walked to the door, uneasily, after they had gone, and stood watching them until they disappeared up the street.   '.23    .ATHE LOTTERY TICKET. "Georgie,"--said she after they had proceeded some distance on their return, looking at the little fellow by her side sturdily keeping up with her--" shall we buy a candle with the two -cents change?" "Oh yes, do buy one, mother. It will make our room l. ight, and we will be so happy when father comes home. I hlope he will not get there before we are back." "I think we will be home first as he said he would& be late to night:" was the reply, " but let us hurry on my boy, to make sure of it." They quickened their steps and nearing a grocery, stopped and bought a two-cent candle. Thus was expended George's dime--a sum slipped in- to his hands one morning by a gentleman who im- lnediately hurried off, who had observed him dart from the house door and lead aside an old blind man out of the way of a passing milk wagon-and which his mother after much hesitating thought, had borrowed from her son. The bread was actually needed. The candle-the after-thought-was a luxury, and though its purchase was the dictate of affection, it was with a doubting heart that the poor woman had decided upon it; and she did not do so, until after making a mental reservation that by some secret self-denial on her part she would make up the amount. leader, smile not. May you never personally ex- perience the sense of importance with which the really poor regard the expenditure of a trifling sum.   THE SNOW   STORM.        29 And now they have reached home. It was an humble place--two rooms on a first floor. The upper portions of the house had other inmates. The front room was parlour and chamber-the back, kitcheli and sitting room; outside was a sort of shed, which in summer-time was pleasant for kitchen work, and in the little yard--held in common with the other tenants-when the weather permitted,; George played and studied his lessons.  The candle was lighted and preparations were made for their evening meal, in which George saved his mother all the work he could. The stove was replenished with coal, and the woman's heart sank within her as she recollected, how nearly they were out of fuel. The family, had for some time, been growing poorer and poorer: and their circle of home comforts was decreasing daily. Skeleton- visaged want now almost stared them in the face. She feared to think of what might be their situation fin a few days,-a week!  A genial warmth soon diffused itself through the little room and the kettle on the fire hummed pleasantly. On a clean table cloth was spread the frugal supper--bread and a plate of cold meat-and in the centre, the candle shed its light, filling the room with brightness,--at least so it seemed to them unaccustomed to gas-light brilliancy: all these combined, imparted a sense of comfort which failed not to influence even the sad heart of that poor wife and mother.                    . The boy to whom the exercise of the walk had given an appetite-indeed children are always hungry--glanced wishfully at the food; and his mother observing the look, 2   (30    -THE. LOTTERY   TICKET. cut him a piece of bread on which- she laid a small slice of the meat, telling him:-"It would stay his hunger until his father came home, when he should have his supper." His eyes brightened, and he drew a chair up to the table. Before he began to eat he "put down his head," reverently and in silence for a few moments, as he had been taught always to do, and then, after tasting of the food he said earnestly: "Mother do take some too. It is very nice;" at the same time holding the slice up towards 'her; but with a smile and "No, thank you:-not now;" she declined the offer. A quiet of a few moments succeeded, during which the boy ate on and then, with a very thought- ful expression-of countenance, he again looked up full into the loved face before him, and said:-"Oh mother, how good God is to us; He is always blessing us, and He never gets tired of blessing, us." The poor woman's heart was touched. She could not answer, but turned aside and busied herself with some 'household duty. The boy ate on, little knowing the deep emotions he had stirred by his simple speech of pious :gratitude. The piece was eaten, and what crumbs were made, brushed up; and yet no father came. George looked over one or two of his books for a while, for he 'had several, but at last growing tired, he said in an earnest tone :-"I ,do wish father would come home."         { Scarcely were the words spoken when, outside the door, the sound as of a person shaking off the snow was 'heard, and wife and child ran to welcome the expected one. His outer coat was soon laid aside and a pair of   TH-E SNOW  STORM.        31 slippers substituted for .the heavy wet boots. He was a man of delicate make with a cast of care about his face, and in every movement and act the gentleman betokened itself. The thoughtful look seemed not natural to his coun- tenance, for gleams of bright hope would, in spite of it, flash from his eyes every now and then, and light his face up with what seemed its true, native joyous expression. The greetings on both sides were affectionate; and hus- band and wife seemed each desirous to conceal from the other, whatever causes of disquietude might inwardly exist-a kind, but in truth, a futile endeavour. The father took from his great-coat-pocket' several bundles and with his old bright smile handed them one by one to his wife. There was a paper of tea, several pounds of sugar, some crackers, a small jar of olives of which he knew she' used to be fond, and half a dozen fine yellow apples that made George's eyes brighten with pleasure. RHe had carried in his hand-but had slipped it close up to the door before he came in-a pound of butter in paper wrappings: this was now produced, 'and also a two- dollar-and-a-half gold piece, which he laid down upon the table by her side and said: "My dear, I met in the street to night as I was coming home, a man who has owed me for years a small bill; he offered of his own accord to pay me, and I was really thankful to get it. We don't know how much good it, maybe, will do us." "I am indeed thankful!" was:thewife's reply: and, her heart teeming with the sentiment, she scarcely heeded the last remark of her husband. A few minutes elapsed 2*   32      THE LOTTERY TICKET. when she said, "Oh, what a happy Sunday we can spent to-morrow!"! They sat down to supper and pleasant indeed wa that meal." It seemed, for the hour, as though the angel: had come down to dwell in that humble home. Mr. and Mrs. Edward Green were not now living as they had been accustomed to live; for, a few years before their home was a handsome one, and their society was sought by many. Both had been well educated; indeed Mrs. Green was a highly accomplished woman. One word will explain the change. Mr. Green had failed.  He honourably relinquished every thing.  Their furniture not only pictures and articles of elegance and taste, but every thing was sold,--save a cradle, which had been made a present to their little boy-and this handsome piece of cabinet-ware looked strangely diverse amonE their present household goods. On the day of their sale one of Mr. Green's creditors who had been an intimate, indeed a. bosom friend, came up to him and asked him "tc give him  his watch."  To this the broken-down man replied 'that he did not feel obliged to relinquish it, as it had been made him a present many years ago by his father, now dead;, besides, it really was of little valiue excepting from association." Alas! this watch--at least its casing, whichl was of gold-had long since been parted with to procure necessaries for their support. They moved, or rather commenced' house-keeping again into another city-that-is, they went from New York away out into the oitsklrts of Brooklyn; and Mr. Green assiduously endeavored to recover from the wreck of his former   THE  SNOW    STORM.      33 business, and what other he could find, sufficient means to support his family. He crossed over to New York every day, and it is scarcely necessary to go into the weary recital of struggles manfully made, nobly repeated, and continu- ally recurring.  Every one can recall some pale-faced, earnest, toiling man, thus working--thus being carried gradually further down the stream--whom he has known, remarked, and pitied; but alas, not helped. Such an one was Edward Green. There was now due by them, two quarters' rent and they had not the means to pay it. Their regular baker, to whom they owed a tally-and-a-half of bread, had stop- ped: serving them. To the grocery store they were afraid to apply for further credit as a large balance in their pass- book was against them. Article after article of her wardrobe,--and, as Mrs. Green supposed unnoticed by her husband,-that posseTsed value sufficient to tempt the cupidity of .a pawn-broker, had found its way to his shelves; and still, although it was with a heart sadder than words can describe, she had hoped on, had still trusted, and had still prayed. The past day, however, had been one of unusual depres- sion. She was uncertain whether her husband would bring home any money with him; there was but little food in the house; and, as the next day would: be Sunday, she had resolved upon the expedition and expenditure which we have narrated.   Now, that "He who'careth for the sparrows" had, in his providence, sent them a supply, she reproached herself for having permitted a doubt to enter her mind of the loving care of her heavenly Father.   84     THE  LOTTERY  TICKET. Sunday morning dawned bright and clear; a cold winter's day, long remembered as one of pleasant enjoy. ment. Its evening at length closed in, and as they gath- ered around;the stove, it was with an anxiety which Mrs. Green vainly endeavoured, to banish, that thoughts of the week before them arose in her mind; but she said not one word, for an unusual hopefulness had infused itself into her husband's mind, the cause of which she did not know, and which she was unwilling to disturb by any of her sad forebodings. At last, when George was ready for bed; he said, as he kissed him good night: "My dear boy, I hope some time the coming week to get you many things that I have long wanted you to have; and also for mother too;" glanc- ing affectionately towards his wife, who with the candle- stick in her hand-the light burned down to within an inch of the socket-was standing near the door, waiting for the child. A smile; which she endeavored should be a cheer- ful one, but in which, despite her efforts, sadness greatly preponderated, was the only return; for the words she wished to utter failed to fall from her lips. When she shortly afterwards came back from putting George to bed she proposed to her husband to read aloud as long as the light would last, some portions of the Bible; and as the sacred promises, one after another, fell upon her ears a soothing sense of God's watchful care took up in her heart its abiding place and all was again sweet peace. Soon after this they retired, and although she lay awake much during the night she felt assured that the "Angel ot the Lord was encamped around about them;" the peaceful   THE SNOW   STORM.        35 slumbers of her innocent boy seeming an earnest of its truth. But her husband tossed and turned restlessly. In his dreams he muttered words of which she could scarce catch the sense, although her hearing-so nervously excited had she of late become-was gifted with almost a preternatural acuteness; save, now and then, "One thousand dollars"- "Five thousand"-"Ten thousand dollars"-with a hiss- ing noise escaped his lips. At length, sleep visited her, and for several hours she lay wrapped in its kind em- brace. Monday morning came-as it always will do, no matter how much we may have wished that the hours of the day of rest could be prolonged-and the closely connected cities of New York and Brooklyn, almost as much so as the Siamese-twins, awoke to a new week of toil and care. Mr. Green got up early, and prepared the fire so that his wife might have as little trouble as possible in getting breakfast. There were no depressing influences apparent from his last night's dreams; for he whistled and sang scraps of lively tunes as he rattled down the ashes in the stove .and placed on it some snow to melt, by which to thaw thea frozen hydrant out of doors. He then helped George make a large snow-man in the yard, and with bits of coal and cinders gave it eyes and nose and, as final strokes of excellence, stuck the boy's pipe for blowing soap. bubbles into its mouth, .and placed an old hat, without a crown, on its head. It had a grim grotesque look; and the child danced up and down in glee as the figure grew   36      THE LOTTERY TICKET. into shape under his father's hands. He thought him the nicest father in the world! as what child does not? It would be well for all fathers to remember that to their children each one of them is the greatest of heroes-the Washington and Buonaparte of their imaginings-and the thought, perhaps, would make them far more circum- spect in all they do. After breakfast was eaten, Mr. Green had to start for New York.  George seemed during the meal full of thought, and when he threw his arms around his father's neck to kiss him "good-bye," in a hesitating manner and reddening up to the eyes he whispered into his ear;- "Oh father, if I could only have a pair of skates!" He started as if stung with a painful idea, but in a moment, trying to conceal the feeling, replied, with an attempt .at cheerfulness: "Wait Georgie, until after. Wed- nesday, and then I think I can get them for you. The weather will keep cold for a long time and, before Spring comes, I expect you will be a fine skater." The father went on his way down to the ferry, and the boy thought often and so much about his skates that the time " until after Wednesday" became the "El Dorado" star of all his desires, and seemed a long distance off! We have all of us our "El Dorado" pointg before us in the; uncertain future on which we gazed-about which we fondly hope;-and if they often are but "Jack-with-a- lantern" lights, and fade away, or dance still further on a-head of us as we approach them-let us be thankful for them: for life's pilgrimage is dreary, and they serve somewhat to illumine the pathway to the Better Land.    THE PART)    PART SECOND. THE  PARTY. THE house in front was one blaze of light. Carriage after carriage arrived, and ladies dazzlingly arrayed des- cended their steps, and attended by gentlemen entered the hall, and were lost to the gaze of the gaping crowd that surrounded the door. The hum of merry voices, mingled with strains of music and the faint perfume of flowers, and an occasional glimpse through opening doors, of gilded mirrors and the flash from cut-glass pendants, revealed to the vagrant, motley throng,-shivering in the cold outside,-what seemed to them an embodied Para- dise of delights. It was now the fourth night since the circumstance occurred, which we have narrated, of Mrs Green and her boy making their way through the snow storm to the baker's shop-and the house, from the shadow of,which they came into view, was the one where was now gather- ing the wealth and fashion of the city. It stood, as we stated, at a corner, and was a long front of brick, with windows and centre door-way, over- , 43   "     THE LOTTERY TICKET. hung by heavy entablatures of dark stone; the back buildings, in which was the dining-room, extended some distance behind, along the narrower of the two streets, and the windows of that room opened immediately upon it: Above the massive hall door on the main street was one large arch of glass-a single pane-and as the light shone through it into the street, there seemed as if no intervening glass could be there, so clear and pellucid were the transmitted rays. For the last ten days the intended re-union of Mrs. Jedediah Steel had kept the invited ones in a delightful condition of hope deferred, duly sympathized with by numbers of mantua-makers, tailors, hair-dressers-the moustaches and beards of several young gentlemen were nursed with a peculiarly affectionate solicitude, as they were desired to be very effective upon the occasion- florists, and interested tradesmen of various callings. Thoseof the lady's acquaintances, whom she had forgot- ten, overlooked, or considered as rather "beneath her set, " where variously affected by the slight, proportion- ate to their amiability; yet, even the most unconcerned of them, partook of so much human weakness as "to want to know'all about it;" until "How many waiters were engaged?" "The cost of the flowers;" "The actual expense of the supper;" "The number of the invita- tions," etc., etc., became matters sof as grave import to our townsfolk as, some years since, to the people of our country generally, were the various advances and repulses of the Allies before Sabastapol; with all the horrid de- tails of that sanguinary struggle: and, let me add in Ot   THE PARTY.          45 passing-that, when we consider how sCarcely discernible were the motives which caused, and the results which have followed upon such a waste of blood and treasure-I think the childish gossip of our townsfolk praiseworthy, com- pared to the conduct of those high dignitaries who opened the flood-gates of such overwhelming misery, upon their fellow creatures. The fiercer of the slighted town malignants consoled, while at the same timq they revenged themselves, by say- ing: "They thanked their stars they were not invited, for they should n't have gone if they had been, and they won- dered how any Christian professors could uphold the Steels by going at all!"But you know, reader, this is a cen- sorious world. I am happy to state-although the lady overlooked my humble self when she issued her cards of invitation- that, notwithstanding such wrathful speeches, and many others, which I am not wicked enough to perpetuate by writing down; there were numbers willing to bedizen themselves in their finest apparel, in which to courtesy and bow, previous to their partaking of the good things to be provided for them: and that not the remotest chance existed of Mrs. Steel being placed in the unpleasant pre dicament of having to send out "servants into the high- ways and hedges to force guests to come in." There had come to reside in our town of Brooklyn, about a month previous to this time, a family possessing unusual claims to social attentions, of the name of Wikoff. They were highly intelligent, the ladies remarkably accom-   "     THE  LOTTERY   TICKET. plished, and the .igh-bred tone and quiet :ease of manner, so certainly indicative of true gentility, was conspicuous in them all. They were rich and could-had they not pos- sessed better Jaste than to have, done so-have boasted of a descent direct from the "May Flower," and of an affinity of kindred to one of the signers of '76. Randolph Wikoff,-Esq., had himself won laurels as a wise legislator and few men possessed to so great a degree the gift of popular eloquence. His family consisted of his wife, a number of small children, and a niece, a Miss Sinclair, who was n the early bloom of womanhood. They had been "called upon" by all of the leading families in the town and, ds their position was unques- tioned, they had been eagerly ticketed for her evening by Mrs. Jedediah Steel. The visit of this lady, as well as those of a number of others, was returned by them with- out exciting any remark o; 'enquiry-the civility of call- ing being regarded as an act of politeness towards stran- gers, and as such duly appreciated. The invitation to the party was, as no previous engagement existed accepted, and, when notes to that effect were despatched, the subject was little thought of until the evening approached upon which the 'entertainment was to take place. It was after nine o'clock, the children had been all dismissed, an hour before, for bed, andMrs. Wikoff, in party toilette, stood in her drawing-room, without her out door wrappings, waiting for her niece and husband, and the announcement of the carriage. Her dress was of rich maroon velvet, fitting tightly as far down as the waist, thence falling in ample folds and terminating in a train.   THE  PARTY.          47 Around the neck and sleeves: rich lace was trimmed of an exquisite pattern. In -her dark hair strings of pearls were twined, surmounted by a comb, studded with the same pale gems, upon which sat disporting a butterfly with diamond eyes, and wings set with costly brilliants of various hues, flashing back rays of many colours as the light fell upon it. These, with a necklace, bracelets, and a breast-pin of pearls completed a costume well calculated to set off to great advantage her peculiar style of beauty- soft black eyes with a world of soul in their deep expres- sion, a bright colour; and' a clear brunette complexion. A bouquet of rare flowers lay oi a table close by her, as also. a fan of Marabout, and a handkerchief of cobweb texture -on which the patient skill of years had been eked out by some poor child of humanity. The lady stood with her face resting on her hand in a pensive mood. Was she thinking of the pale artiste whose handiwork of years was the gossamer fabric lying within her reach? -What- ever her thoughts were they found no utterance in words, nor were they of long continuance, for a quick step is de- scending the stairs and Miss Sinclair in another moment comes into the room. "Oh, Aunt Caroline," she said, "are you all ready? I want yoi to fix this- camilla in my hair, and then I shall have finished mydressirig too;" and pushing along a low stool before here towards her aunt the girl kneeled upon it, and bent her head within her reach. The flower was soon properly arranged, and it was with manifest pleasure that Mrs. Wikoff regarded the  9   48     THE LOTTERY TICKET. beautiful creature before her, radiant in the loveliness of health and youth. Miss Sinclair's dress was of a thin texture and of snowy whiteness. Its various skirts of different lengths -their edges of a delicate sky blue-fell in multitudinous folds, like clouds around her. Her brown hair was curled above her forehead and then simply twisted in a knot be- hind, and was without any other adornment than the camilla. She was tall and graceful, with a complexion of unsullied fairness, and there was in her beauty that rare characteristic in the fashionable world, an expression of guilelessness almost infantile. You could not gaze upon her open brow, and winning smile, without thinking of the "unspotted from the world." "My dear, do you expect to be very happy to night?" said Mrs. Wikoff to the joyous looking girl. '"Yes, indeed I do. I always meet so many kind people, .and it is so pleasant to have nice things said to one." "True, Mary;-but do you believe all the nice things that people say to you?" "No; not if I think seriously over what is said; but it is a sort of pleasing illusion. ,You know, aunt, the rainbow is not what it seems to be-it is vapour, ah, and a poet would say, maybe,  tears-but the rainbow's colours are glorious, and I love to rejoice in the beauty without thinking scientifically of what .it is. So, dear aunt, I enjoy a party, and look only on the surface. I know the ground is hollow, but may I not tread along it lightly, if I can?"   THE PARTY.          53 Mrs. Wikoff felt sorry that she had said any thing calculated to dampen her young relative's anticipations of pleasure, and, in a livelier tone, without replying to the question, continued: "Well, Mary, I suppose you will sing to night," and bending towards her, kissed her, as she added "My dear girl, I hope your enjoyment may be far greater than you expect." Mr. Wikoff,-who professed' to regard all parties as a great bore, but who also said he "was willing to go whenever by so doing he could gratify his wife,"-now made his appearance, and the ladies were soon enveloped in their hoods, cloaks, and shawls, and seated in the carriage, where they scarcely felt the keen air of the night, during the short drive. He sat opposite them for some time in silence, but at length abruptly asked: "Do you know who these people are we are going to visit?" "I do not :" was his wife's reply. "Mr. Steel I have never seen, that I know of-and the lady, although pos- sessing few personal attractions, seems"-she hesitated for a moment and then said:-"I think, kind-hearted. They appear to know and to be known by every body here, and-but why ask the question?" There was no *answer given, excepting that of an emphatic "Hem!" for the carriage immediately stopped, -its door opened, and the steps were slammed ddwn with a loud noise. As if by magic, the large hall door oppo- site it, instantly opened, and a stream of. light fell upon them. It was with a half-dancing step that Mary Sinclair followed her aunt, through the hall, and up the broad 3     "     THE  LOTTERY   TICKET. stair-case. The first pulses of the party excitement had begun to throb. Many were the graceful forms, and splendid the dresses, that swept along through those richly decorated rooms. Old women in turbans and ostrich plumes, talked gossip and nodded scandal to each other, sitting upon damask sofas and in easy velvet chairs; while young girls, still in their teens, sauntered along, hanging on the arms of men old enough to be their grandfathers-who in impassioned language, were discoursing to them of love. Poor old deceivers! vainly now, think ye of new conquests. Groups of young men and maidens stoop, mostly with a listless air, not appreciating what they see, over tables spread with costly engravings, flowers and articles of vertu. All aroundris the "soft crush of aristocracy.," There is never dancing at the parties of Mrs. Jede- diah Steel-the'position of the family in the Church would not admit of it. They are profesors of religion, and Mr. Steel carries the contribution plate around during the Sabbath services. There is-it is true-in attendance, a band of skilful musicians and melodies, almost seraphic, float through the air; still no idea of such sad "con- formity to the world" as dancing, is entertained, except, perhaps, by some of the most giddy and frivolous of the young and old folks, who hoped to each other in under tones, "that Mrs. Steel might, for once, let them enjoy a few quadrilles after supper was over, and the more staid and serious of the guests had retired." There was a murmur of admiration as each group   THE  PARTY.          65 remarked the entrance of the Wikoff party' yet, it was so well-bred, that its only effect was to heighten the bloom on the cheeks of Mary Sinclair, as she with her uncle and aunt threaded their way, through parting cir- cles, to the reception place, where s tood the; host and hostess of the evening. Mrs. Steel was elegantly dressed, but no art of mo- diste could make her look very beautiful.7 She was a thin but not t 11 woman, and had a marked hatchet-like face, twinkling black eyes, and a prominent nose. Her hair was in great profusion, straight, glossy, and black as a raven's wing, and was very tastefully arranged. Her countenance lighted up with smiles as she recognized each new comer, for she felt assured the night was a crowned triumph. The greetings with each, were necessarily short, and the look which, for a moment, was expressed on the face of Mr. Wikoff, as he caught a glimpse of his geni tlemanly-looking host, could scarcely have been noticed, so quickly was it chased away:-indeed, an intimate acquaintance had once observed of him that "he would scarce expect his friend Wikoff would display much emo- tion if the earth opened at his feet:-that he believed he would simply stop, turn around, and with great equa- nimity, and perhaps a whistle,' pursue a less dangerous direction!" Other arrivals were taking place; and the Wikoffs, in turn, were drifted along some distance from the place of reception. They found numerous new acquaintances by whom they were pleasantly greeted, and they could not but perceive that they were the recipients of considerable   56      THE  LOTTERY TICKET. attention. Miss Sinclair, if her heart was set upon having pleasant things said to her, must have felt gratified; for a crowd of gentlemen were constantly around her, each vie- ing with the other to obtain a word, or smile, or look of approval from the "belle ladye." Her flushed cheeks and kindling eyes, and now and then a merry laugh or brilliant repartee, told that the spell was working,-that the party excitement had reached fever heat. At length an elderly gentleman, unable to get sufficiently near to the beautiful girl, succeeded in obtaining the hearing of Mrs. Wikoff, who then leaned forward, and touching her gently with her fan, said to her: "My dear, this gentleman has requested the favor of a song from you, and says it would much gratify all the company. I would not refuse, Mary." There was, on all sides, immediately expressed great solicitude that Miss Sinclair should sing; and the throng moved towards an open instrument occupying a conspicu. ous position in the suite of rooms. Her cheeks paled as she found that the attention of almost every one in that large company was fixed upon her, and her heart beat tremblingly as, after seating herself, she turned over the leaves of the music handed to her. But, re-assured by an encouraging look from her aunt, and having found a song she much admired and had but recently learned, she com- menced fingering the prelude, and, by the time that was finished, had almost succeeded in 'shutting out the idea of her many listeners. She then began to sing in a clear sweet voice, and, as the sentiment filled her heart, it grew powerful in its expression of plaintive feeling. The song   THE  PARTY..         57 she sang is by Charles Dickens, and it is called "Nobody's Child." The hush in .the rooms was profound. The thought- less, selfish crowd, filled to repletion with the good things of this life, Were unexpectedly forced to. the consideration of the miseries of their fellows; and, only the Infinite can tell how much of kindly impulse was then given-bearing in after years fruit-which caused the stricken and sor- rowful-hearted to rejoice and give thanks. She rose from the piano, when she had finished the song, and declined singing or performing any more. Others, however, willingly took her place, and the instru- ment was kept in constant employment for a long time. Lady after lady was seated at it; and, no matter whether the performance was good or bad, praise from some one, was sure to follow. Mammas were anxious to show off their daughters, or dependent nieces and cousins; and could some of them have had a little penetration, they would have blushed at the ridiculous nature of their exhibit. But we mtst not expect that people generally can wear glasses at all esembling those described byMr. Curtis, as belonging to his venerable friend Tithottom:-to see things as they really are, when we, or those belonging to us, are concerned, is not the practice of our species. An impromptu mineral fountain had been. erected in the hall, near whih, on a table, were placed iced drinks of various kinds, with maccaroons and cakes in silver baskets. To these it was expected the company would re- sort, as they wished; and, to the credit of our hosts be it   58      THE  LOTTERY   TICKET. stated, no drinks of an intoxicating nature were presented to their guests. So passes the evening away; half hour. succeeding half hour, until, the time -for supper has almost come. Watches began tow be -looked at, stealthily, and an inter- ested glancing towards the dining-room door, which had been closed all the evening, shows the direction of their thoughts, as feathers are said to, do, that of the wind.. Isn't it a pity,' that silks and-satins, broadcloths and brocades, cannot eradicate the vulgar desire to eat? But, at last, the hired band of musicians begin to play a lively march, and a procession is formed of ladies and gentlemen, preceded by their entertainers, whose steps direct towards the dining-room; and, as the door is thrown open, they enter it, to the sound of music. It was a large long room on the first floor, and on the high ceiling was an allegorical picture of "Spring awaking from the sleep of Winter, and scattering flowers. and sunshine over the world.". The walls were also painted, and represented trellis-work covered with flowers of every form and hue. There were several windows in the, room draped with lace curtains, all of which were on one side, and opened directly into the street, and between them were mirrors of plate-glass reaching -from floor to -ceiling. The win- dow shutters had all the evening been kept sedulously closed, and in front of them were ranged, in china vases of immense size, rare exotics in full bloom. And what a scene of luxurious display is here pre- sented. Over one hundred wax-candles, arranged in silver candlesticks and branches, shed a softened light-     THE PARTY.           59 so different from the glare of gas-light-over a table laden down with luxuries. -From its centre, arose a tree of flowers that reached to the ceiling, and there hung from the pendant branches fairy baskets, filled with buds and blossoms of rare beauty. China of various shapes superbly painted and richly gilt, with table ornaments of glass and gold, and silver, with here and there pyramids of rich confectionary and ices, interspersed among dishes filled with the most expensive delicacies that ingenuity could devise ;-astonished into silence, for a little while, even that luxurious crowd. The band still play on, until the. whole of the com- pany have crowded into the dining-room; when the music is hushed;--but, there is a sound outside!-the tramp of many feet-which grows louder and louder. On, and still on, the foot-falls come, as though a beleagering host were surrounding the house. What does it mean? The guests look each other in the face, and see written there an unknown terror. And then, after a temporary lull, arose outside from just beneath one of the windows, a shriek of such human agony, that it thrilled through every heart. Faces paled. Hark! there is a crash, and a huge stone shivers into atoms the arch of glass above the front door. The hall bell is rung furiously; and there is a pounding against the window-shutters, that sounds like strokes of doom. Dismay and terror prevail. Several of the gentlemen, hastily leaving the dining- room, go into the hall, to confer with the alarmed chief of police who has just come in, and among them is Mr. Steel, pale and haggard with chagrin and mortification,   60    TTHE LOTTERY TICKET. but impotently helpless. Mr. Wikoff is there too, and he alone, seems to retain any degree of self-possession and nerve, while all look up to him for advice and aid. A furious mob is around the house.  It has but just arrived, and numbers many hundreds; and its tones are loud and defiant, Mr. Wikoff, at length finding no one would, and, urged on by the others, is induced to make an attempt to pacify the outhreak, and to do so, ventures out into the street. At first he was assailed by hisses and curses, being mistaken for the owner of the house: and a stout fellow with a large club in his hand-whom, we recgnise as the dishonest baker of four nights since- ran towards him, threatening him with personal violence. There are none so ready to inflict punishment as those whose secret consciences tell them that they deserve it themselves. But, with eyes scintillating and nostrils rapidly dila- ting and compressing, dignified and erect, Randolph Wi- koff stood, undismayed before the angry surging mass. He felt he understood perfectly, in all its details, the subject-matter about which he had to act-gathered by his own observations and from what had been hastily communicated during the conference in jhe hall-and he determinedly resolved to accomplish that which he had come out to do. The feast, all uneaten, lay upon the table: and pallil fear was expressed in every countenance. Here and there, were fainting and trembling women and girls; and still glittered the glass, and silver, and gold, in mockery, in   THE PARTY.          65 e soft wax-light; and still the luxurious table lay )read, burdened with the costly banquet!- Some thousands of years ago, in a stately palace, on e banks of the old Euphrates; a royal party was assem- ed, and when the wine-cup had been freely quafed and Darts were full of impious daring, the king sent for con- crated vessels dedicated to the service of the great God heaven and earth, which had been stolen from His mple; and then used them in the continued mad liba- ons. In the midst of the revelling "came forth fingers a man's hand and wrote upon the plaster of the wall" fearful sentence. And now, thinkest thou not, that God's eatures are more precious in his sight than mere vessels silver and gold? The dispensation, wise in its teachings rmaterial substances, has passed away. Oh man, who- ever thou art, that wouldest mar God's image in his rthly children; that wouldest for thine own agg'andize- ent not hesitate to pander to his lower nature, tremble! r against thee is traced-not in the plaster wall of umbled palaces, but cut deep into the adamantine throne the Eternal-the same fearful writing that struck ter- r throughout Belshazzar's festal hall.-- After some time had elapsed, and during which the ise and uproar outside gradually subsided, Mr. Wikoff turned, and at the room door announced that the guests ould be permitted unmolested to depart, and the house r the night was to remain under the charge of the police, large and effective deputation of which was momenta-   "     THE LOtTTERY TICKET. rily expected, in addition to those who were already in attendance. It did not take many minutes to disperse the af- frighted company; and, shortly after their departure, the luxurious supper was eaten by huge red-faced men, with stars upon their coats, whose wonder at the strange splendour around them was great; and who, after having filled themselves to satiety, crammed their big pockets with "goodies," to take home, to their little ones. Monsieur Tourtelot, our town's grand confectioner, who had bestowed assiduous thought and labour, as well as untold of expense, (which will not remain long an un- known sum to Jedediah Steel, Esq.,) upon the getting up of the entertainment, stood aghast at the door-way, and wrung his hands at what appeared to him the sad finale of all his efforts. Thus ended Mrs. Steel's re-union--so longed-for, and so talked about!-a card of invitation to which had been highly prized, and regarded as tangible evidence of " be- longing to the very first society." At a first glance how without connexion do events appear which are in fact closely linked-in-together. Who would think that the circumstances I have narrated in the Two Parts of my story could bear intimately upon each other? But, kind reader, after my own way, I will show you that they do. And when my narrative is all told ponder, I ask of you, upon the lessons I have tried to teach. t    $i# -  Ado'i t   r a Then was heard he wail of weeptn wromn lu e-eto rs axay tears from their eyes:';-Page 90.--;   THE OFFICE, ETC.      PART THRD. THE OFFICE AND ITS INFLUENCES. IN the city of New York-and doubtless in other cities too;-in Wall Street-but by no means confined to that locality-are many offices which, to the uninitiated, seem but lounging places where genteel but sharp-looking men wile away the duller portion of the waking hours. The smell of fragrant Havanas is always there perceptible, and to the gentlemenwho drop in, generous offerings of the odoriferous weed are made. The daily newspapers lay about; and to smoke and digest leisurely'the news is the only visible employment of the place. The gentlemen go out several times in the course of the morning, occa- sionally bringing back with them others not quite so sharp-looking as themselves, and retire with them behind the counter and there sit talking in low tones, at desks with green curtains around them.  There is placarded up conspicuously in these offices "COAL FOR SALE;" and there is sometimes arranged out- side the counter-just underneath the screen which sur- rounds the top, and prevents you from seeing behind it- little boxes containing specimens of different sized coal; 69   70      THE LOTTERY TICKET. above which, the various prices per ton, of each is stated. But none ever really think of coming-here to buy coal!- indeed, the information relative to the market price of that needful article of consumption seems to be a purely philanthropic ebullition:-for all business here trans- acted, has no reference to that traffio. Old and young men, mostly with serious, disappointed faces, are the callers in, at these establishments: occasion- ally hoqever a brisk step and triumphant expression of countenance may be observed, and then there is a great shaking of hands, and many congratulatory speeches are made. But to all who come, the gentlemanly-loungers are very polite, and they smile upon their visitors with their lipsa-their eyes, the while glitter, but there is no smile in them-and the burden of their discourse is, an enforce- ment of the wholesome apothegm of "Try it again " There is seen,' now and then, a woman with shabby clothes on, and an anxious-looking face, coming up the office-steps' diffidently, and looking in at the door, before she ventures inside "to see the gentleman," sitting so blandly amiable at the desk. Then there is a whispered colloquy, and she begs in earnest tones, that makes the, man wince, "' that he will not deal any more with her hus- band;" and after she goes away, her eyes swimming in tears, it takes some time before his countenance smoothes itself again into its usual professional placidity. These peculiar ' Coal offices" are of comparatively recent origin. Tmmediately after the legal suppression of Lottery Gambling " throughout the United States, with the exception of the states of Delaware, Maryland, and Georgia-Missouri also, I am informed, legalizes the enor-   THE OFFICE.           71 mity-they started up every where. They were of fung- ous growth and grew up rapidly, as it were in a single night. In our large cities and towns in all sorts of neigh- bourhoods they may be found;-with surroundings tempt- ing to the gay, fashionable young man and of such kind that the respectable man of middle age and well-to-do in " the world, would resort to and not feel disgraced, down to the shabbiest shanty, with tumble-down-looking appliances, where the hatless, coatless and almost clothless vagrants of all colours and sexes congregate, and feel at home. Their poisonous influence is so wide-spread, that no figures can calculate the ruin and misery that out- pour from them. It is not intended to go into a philosophical or theo- logical discussion of the lottery question. The present writing is a simple Narrative:-yet, let me say that, just as universal as is the "greed for gold," and the desire to obtain money without working for it,-so universally, may be found weak ones, falling easily into the snare of the lottery temptation. The subtle ingenuity of the Serpent seems to have been brought into requisition for perfecting the scheme of ini- quity by the introduction of the yet more recent system of selling what are termed "Lottery Policies." These are chances, or bets, which are disposed of from sums as low as three cents, up to any amount that may be desired. A poor fellow, half drunk, his last six-pence divided with the rum-shop, will bet that certain figures that he selects will turn out prize numbers in a lottery that has not yet   72      THE LOTTERY    TICKET. been drawn., If he gains his bet, that is, if the num- bers selected should be the same as those upon the tick- ets that draw prizes-hie receives from the policy-vender over five-fold - more money than he has risked! but if the selected numbers draw blanks, and the chances are fear- fully against him that they will, he loses all the money he has paid; yet, thus beguiled, poor wretches make their ventures again and again: while, at their homes, want sits at the fireless hearth, and little- children cry for bread. There is no visitor at these offices who is treated with such defferential regard as is our whilom acquain- tance Mr. Jedediah Steel. I He appears to be intimately known in all the localities of respectability enough, for him to visit; and the enquiries regarding his health be- token great personal solicitude on the part of the gentle- manly-loungers. They are in the habit of writing checks, sometimes of large amounts, in his favor, which they hand him, and he places them in his pocket-book in a very business-like manner. Mr. Steel invariably insists upon settlements, at regular intervals, with his numerous pha- lanx of-workers; for he is an astute man, and a member of the shrewd family-connexion which over' our whole Union in one vast net-work, regulates the lottery interest. They have grown wealthy and wise, and with almost Na- poleonic skill, devise cunningly, schemes to increase their already enormous pilfer; and mammon-worship is forcibly exemplified by the manner the various members of the relationship are everywhere treated in the different towns    We draw a veil over "what of further misery followed in the wake of the sale of this one Lottery Ticket.    THE  OFFICE.         " and cities in which they locate themselves to watch over their business interests. Some two months previous to the opening of our  story, as Mr. Wikoff-whom our readers will doubtless remember-was "on change," in New York, talking with several acquaintances, he observed a gentleman approaching who appeared to be well known to the various groups standing around, and they treated him as he passed them with marked respect.-It had not yet been positively decided whether the Wikoff family would locate themselves in Brooklyn or New York-indeed the busi- ness of the morning was relative to a negotiation for the purchase of a house, for they had determined to remove from Albany, where they had lived for many years,- Without feeling much interested, he asked the question, "Who is he?" and was answered by a Mr. Coutts, the most impetuous of those near him, in an undertone, but with earnestness, "Not know him! why that is Mr. Steel, the underhand controller of the lottery business in our State, and he is the source of more mischief than any other single man in the commumity; the infernal soundrel! but he is very rich." Mr. Steel soon approached near where they stood, and all the gentlemen, including the late speaker, bared their heads and courteously returned his morning salutation.-You might have supposed John oward had suddenly appeared among them,; so an-ous seemied they all to do him reverence! Mr. Wikoff never sav the individual again until his recognition of him as his host at the party, though, during the ride to the house on that  same night, the suspicion flashed across his mind that 4   78     THE LOTTERY    TICKET. Jedediah Steel, Esq., of Brooklyn, and Mr. Steel, the New York lottery controller, might prove to be the same person. The Church too, has not been free from scandal because of encircling within the pale of her profession those whose bread and butter is eked out from such earnings; yet, this should argue naught against the teachings of our holy -religion. Her organization must necessarily partake of earthly elements, but the light of God's word, that she bears aloft, shines with such, effulgent rays that even the spots upon her own white robes stand out in sad relief; and the great Teacher himself, taught his disciples that the tares with the wheat must grow on together until the harvest -and the Day of final separation and garnering. As I sit in my pew upon the Sabbath, away back un. der the gallery, where the pew rents are cheap and the minister's words can scarcely be heard-for our clergyman -isnot a Boanerges-and  I observe Mr. Steel gradually ,approaching me, as, in his official capacity of penny collec- tor, he is passing the plate from pew to pew; strange, and it may be for the place, irreverent, thoughts take possession of my  mind and will, influence me whether I desire it or ,not. The church, the people, all fade away! and I see gliding along towards me a slimy reptile, rolling in golden dust and gorged   with bleeding hearts, raising its eyes furtively to meet my own, and, still behind, steals a fearful form,  keeping up with it, and evely now and then in sepulchral whispers saying: "For all -these things shalt thou be brought into judgment!"-but, there is a   THE  OF-FICE.          79 chink of a falling penny from the hand of a dear little child, in the pew just before me, and the vision fades:-I place my cent upon the silver plate and hear the sound of other coppers falling into it, behind me, and Mr. Jedediah Steel goes on his way until the collection is gathered, and he resumes his seat reverently, far up the aisle, in the aris- tocratic region near the pulpit. Upon the Saturday morning of the snow storm, and preceding the evening in which George and hip mother, went to buy btead at a distant bakery, not wishing to go to the shop where they were already in debt-Mr. Green had crossed over to New York as usual. At the post-office, where he called early every day, he was handed a letter directed to him at his place of business, which, upon open- ing, to his surprise he found contained a copy of a 'circular" and several "brilliant lottery schemes," with tempting statements of instances of the sale of large prizes. To send such, is a customary expedient to obtain patronage upon the part of the "illegal profession;"  and these ' bows drawn at a venture" frequently tell to its great advantage. In the present case the poison worked insMi- ously but surely. Poor Edward Green's spirit, sanguine as he was, had been almost crushed by successive disap- pointments, still the native element of hope, which was so prominent in his character, was not killed only " scotched." It seemed to him, now, "lead all astray," "as he read over again and again the alluring account; and the: brilliant lists of prizes seethed themselves into his brain, "-that there might be a Providence in it all "--his thus getting, just at   $0     THE LOTTERY TICKET. this time such a document. He had never received one before; and this, maybe, was the way in which he was to regain his former position, pay all his debts, and make his family-the dear ones-happy. Oh, if he had but the money to make the venture! The thought made itself the sole idea. Its influence settled down upon him and naught else could gain an entrance;-of food he did not eat that day, and night came on and the time to return home. The lottery, with the most tempting of all the schemes, was to be drawn on the ensuing Wednesday, and the thought came to him, in almost an audible whis- per, "perhaps one of the coveted prizes was still unsold, and would soon be gone!"What would he not do, if he could only get the money, that he might purchase it? Upon meeting the gentleman who paid him so unex- pectedly that long-standing bill, the feeling strengthened itself, that to buy a ticket was "the leading of Provi- dence," and he resolved to purchase a whole one in the lottery that was so soon to be drawn. He had not much difficulty in getting set upon the track of an officei; and never did sinner pray more earnestly for pardon, than he did that he might be directed to select a lucky set of numbers. Poor, deluded soul! The remainder of the money he expended as we have stated; and the two-dollar- and-a-half gold piece that he handed his wife, was all that was then'left: not one other farthing of it did he spend solely on himself. The interval until the drawing of the lottery, was to Mr. Green an excited, fevered state of existence. At times, so buoyant wa the hope that, he would draw a prize that   THE  OFFICE.         81 would make him at once'rich, that he could scarcely de- port himself correctly, and once or twice be almost shouted aloud, in the street, so joyously certain was he of it. His step was quicker and the tones of his voice grew more cheerful; and, when his wife, with a pale face and anxious look, gently hinted her fear that their landlord would molest them for his dues, he determinedly thrust the thought aside, and said "Only wait, dearest. There is, I am certain, a better time soon coming." Further, than remarks of such kind, she could not elicit; and so hope- ful, although from what cause she knew not, did he seem, that a portion of his cheerfulness at length diffused itself into her own heart. At last Wednesday morning dawned, an4d earlier than usual, he prepared to leave his home; when just as he was going out, there was a knock at the door, and a paper was left stating that if the rent was not immedi- ately paid up they must vacate'the rooms they occupied. It was the official notice to quit! It seemed as if a thunderbolt had fallen fat his feet, and with icy coldness the thought oame and would be iearcd "what if I should draw a blank?"It was too horrible to think of, and he forced the painful surmise away from him. "My darling wife," at length he said, taking her hand tenderly, and the old hope rising again trong as ever, "do not worry; I think there is no doubt I shall bring home money enough to night to settle tiat bill. Not much longer will I ask you merely to hope! Do not worry, dearest. Words cannot tell how it pains me to see you look so anxious. Only hope a little while longer."   82     THE LOTTERY TICKET. He kissed her a "good-bye;" and tears were on her face as she .looked after him from the door, with George standing by her side, whose last words to him were: "You know, father, to-morrow will be 'after Wednesday,' and then my skates!"He stopped when he got. to the corner of the street, and waved them another "good-bye" before he turned it, and was gone from their sight. Twelve o'clock, noon, at length drew nigh; and in a short time the drawn numbers, telegraphed, would be known at the office. There were, up and down along the street, near the office in New York, numbers of men who strove to look unconcerned, and to make it appear that mere accident had brought them loiterers into the neigh- borhood, but'anxious hope would look out of every eye, and quiver along the muscles of each working mouth. Edward Green was there, and upon his face it was painful to look. At length, froma the City Hall, pealed out the sound of the striking hour.-Twelve o'clock!- If demons in hell ever have a moment of unalloyed joy, it must be at such an hour and scene as soon presented itself. Man after man came out that office door, and tot- tered down those steps, with trembling knees and sink- ing hearts, away!-and in the rum shops and drinking saloons sought to regain heart enough to return to their miserable homes. Where there was no money nor credit to procure drink, some abjectly begged "for God's sake to give them a little liquor." And among them all, if possi- ble more wretched looking and most haggard, came out the  office, holding on to the step-railings for support; poor- Mr. Green. His ticket had drawn a blank too! e  .          .   THE  OFFICE.         83 He did not see, as he passed along his wretched way, two of the steamboat hands, whose duty for the present month was on the night boats of the Ferry Company; but his pallid, suffering face did not escape their attention. The two men had clubbed together funds, and ventured a quarter-ticket between them, which had drawn a blank; and as they were bemoaning their ill luck one of them caught sight of Mr. Green, and said to his fellow: "Halloo, Jim, look there! That's the kind-spoken gent, what crosses in our boats. How dreadful down he looks. I guess he 's kotched a blank too." "Wheugh, I 'spose he has. Most folks does, that deals in these 'ere artikels. I'se done with them now, everlastin', amen. I'se done, Joe." "I wish I had done, afore Y guv my share of pewter for this 'ere tarnation rag of paper:" said the other, as lie contemptuously crushed the lottery ticket in his hard, work-discoloured hand; and they passed along down the street in the direction of the crossing, waxing louder and louder in their talk. No pen can write nor pencil sketch the wretchedness, which now, like a pall, enfolded the heart of the miserable Mr. Green: and his state of extreme despondency is no anusual instance in the history of crushed hopes. Persons of his temperament when disappointed in a last expecta- tion, after a continuous hoping agaihst disappointments- when is suddenly quenched a lurid light which after all things else had gloomed around, still beguiled with its alluring radiance-sink down into a state of complete I   84      THE LOTTERY TICKET. abandonment. Hope, for the time, utterly died within him. And alone he wrestled with his agony: for to no one had he communicated the delusive secret. Tityus, the rebel giant in Grecian fable, foiled in his attempt to scale the walls of heaven, lying helpless with an insatiate Vulture feeding'on his vitals which grew again as they were torn aWay, piece by piece, thus agonized through rolling ages, may faintly shadow somewhat the agony he felt for the time as the thought of his heart's loved ones- his arm all paralyzed to help-without bread, and turned away from shelter, ate itself into his brain; and then camro back again, and 'till again, upon him.-- Ah, why would not the man look up?  There was still above him, as there ever is, spanning over us all, and as though it were the Almighty's hand, the big, blue-arched sky of Hope! But the Vulture-thoughts ate on, until he could no longer see, and he groped along-blind blind! blind! After Mr. Green- lft the lottery office he walked feeblyo 0r up one street and down another. So wretched did he look that little children snow-balling at the way. side, as the shadow of his face fell upon them, stopped in their play and crowded close together, until he passed. He saw them not. A ibeggar with whining tone came up to him, and commenced. a professional appeal, but looking into his face, fell awe-struok back again, and hurried away. He knew not of, the :passing-away of time. Each succeed. ing moment waas but a throb4n the eternity of misery that encircled him. Night came on; and hour after hour is tolled out from City Hall and church steeples all around him, but he heeds not the sounds. He must drag on or die!     THE  OFFICE.         89 At length, near ten o'clock, his steps unconsciously neared the Ferry; and the boat came, breaking its way through the ice with a crashing noise, towards him. The lights from its top and sides gleamed strangely on floating and stranded cakes crusted with snow. He mingled with the crowd that passed on aboard, with scarcely a knowledge of what he was doing, and his friends, Joe and Jim, the boatmen, looked sorrowfully at him, as he walked by them all unthinking about the pay, into the cabin. And there, in a' corner, he sat until the boat started again on its way. ,The huge machinery thumps up and down, and as the breaking ice-cakes crash in pieces, he feels as if it is his own heart that is a-breaking; and his brain-but, oh!-what is it? His throat is choking; and a huge twining thing is wrapping itself in icy folds all around him. It is now at his throat, and its eyes are fixed on his. With hands clutching at it, he staggered out upon the deck, and the city lights of Brooklyn just before him, seem to his crazed imagination demons' eyes glaring upon him. The boat-chain is low, and, still struggling with the monster,--as he thinks-he steps over it and, before he could be saved, the water and ice close over him, "Oh God!-how cold: " comes up with a gurgling sound from beneath;-and, as the wheels go round again, the boat sweeps on, over Edward Green! The boat is stopped, as soon as it could be, and grap- pling-irons are thrown out; and lights are lowered; and, from the wharf-for the trip had been almost made-men creep out on the ice with lanterns;-but they cannot find   90      THE LOTTERY TICKET. the missing man! Every voice is hushed to a whisper, and the poor fell6W's fate is sincerely mourned. His appear. ance was recalled by many as they talked over all they knew about him;--and Jim and Joe tell to the sympa. thyzing groups that gather around them, what they had observed that afternoon. By many an honest man a bitter imprecation is mut- tered against the lottery dealers - and, to many others is brought back the remembrance of their own by-gone losses through the same illusive temptation; thus kindling in, all their bosoms a vindictive longing for revenge. Men, women and boys, gather around the wharf, as the sad story spreads up into the town that a man is drowned, until the shore is lined with hundreds. Several of the fire companies offer aid and the use of their torch- lights; and, all along the shore-side, and far out into the stream, wherever the ice will bear them, in the hands of adventurous men and boys, the lights dance and glimmer and glide along like spirits looking everywhere, for the poor lost man.      : The body is found at last; after over an hour's search, wedged in among some larger-than-usual cakes of ice, close 'up to the wharf, a little further down the current from where he sank into the water. The news that he is found is told in low tones; and they draw him up tenderly and lay him down in his stiff, frozen clothes, upon a settee, on the wharf-side. He is cold stark dead. There needs not to tell them that, the announcement of the anxious-looking, pale-faced and sympathyzing young physician in atten- dance. And then is heard the wail of weeping .women;   TH E OFFICE.         91 stout men too, brush away tears from their eyes, and sor- row, and stern resolve, is defined on every face. They wrap sheeting, eagerly furnished, over him, and on the shoulders of stalwart men he is borne, on the set- tee, towards his home. The procession, large at first, swells in- numbers as it passes along the streets; and the torch-lights are carried with it in hands eager and able to inflict summary punishment. Away up the street it goes ;-in front the lights revealing the forms and faces of those who bear the dead, and the end of it trails out dark and indistinct, its undulations perceptible only as the street gas-lights fall upon the moving mass, as it glides along, on its destined way. That same weary day to Mrs. Green, at last passed away. She could not, hard las she tried to do so, recover from the shock of the morning call about the rent, and she feared that the sanguine hope expressed by her husband would, as it had so often done before' prove illusive. George all day waited upon his mother with even more than his usual assiduous affection; any increased sadness always made him more attentive, and it seemed as if he could not do'enough for her. Oh, how she loved him! and, when he came in from play at noon-time, and with his beaming eyes looked into her face, his cheeks all a-glow with health- ful exercise, and told, her he would rather stay at home with her than play out any more: she folded him to her heart with a loving embrace that a mother only can feel. Her night of sorrow was illumined by at least one star! and its shinings stirred up, emotions that called for deepest   92     THE LOTTERY TICKET. thankfulness. Darkness succeeding twilight at length settled around her humble dwelling. As hour after hour of the night passed on'and mid- night approached, and still no husband came, a palpable fear sank into her heart. She was sitting in the dark- save what light emitted from the kitchen coal-stove-and George had been asleep for hours. He tried hard to keep awake, but his eyes would go shut, and his mother at last, put her tired boy to rest in her arms, big as he was, and sat with him there for hour after hour. She was afraid to lay the dear burden away from her. It was company to have him near her, and his gentle breathing, could alone still her beating heart. But it is almost upon the stroke of twelve, and- "Why does he not come?"She laid her boy upon his bed-he had been undressed before and was in his night gown-and went to the door to look out. How hushed it is all around the house!-but there are indistinct noises, further away, in the thickly settled part of the town. "He may be coming Mhme now"-and she will go and meet him.-"He always comes along the same way:" and, hastily throwing on herthawl, she started out into the street. She walked rapidly along for many squares, and the sound of music became more and more distinct as she ap- proached the rear of the house of the rich Mr. Steel. After she had turned into the street that ran along the side of his house the other sound-of the tramp of men-fell ominously on her ears: and that cry of anguish just be- neath the window, startling with terror the guests within, was the heart-outhreak of the poor woman when she first knew that the sheeted form-lying the while, 'neath the   THE OFFICE.          93 wavering torch-lights, where the bearers had stopped with it-was the dead body of her husband! That recognition and that cry was, as a lighted match, to a train of powder. -It was well known, although people did not speak aloud about it, what nefarious business was the source of all the luxurious elegance that flaunted out its display, even into the street, upon this night-and there was now no staying of the mob's indignation. The family and guests had good reason to be alarmed and, but for the courageous bearing, ingenious management, and popular eloquence of Mr. Wikoff, the results might have been sadly serious.  He had the poor woman placed in his own carriage, and taken to her home. Mrs. Wikoff and Miss Sinclair rode there with her; and it was their touching tenderness that tended materially to turn the tide of the mob's anger as, on the pavement whither he had hastily summoned them, in their splendid dresses with cloaks of fur wrapped round them, they hung in kind solicitude, like sisters, over the stricken one, and administered whatever of aid their sympathy could devise. To the young physician who had walked all the route beside the corpse, thinking his services would be needed when they reached the saddened home, Mary Sinclair seemed in her ermine robe and innocent beauty, not a creature of earth, but an angel from Heaven. /- -   "     THE LOTTERY TICKET. Two days afterwards a funeral group was gathered around an open grave. The snow covered the grave hillocks all around, and there was a felt solemnity in each heart. They were consigning to the "narrow house," the bodyof Mr. Green. It numbered but few. With the strange inconsistency of our species the aroused sympathy of the populace but two score hours before, had subsided into a calm. The heart of the dead man so still, and whose aching would never be again, seemed scarcely more listless than they who then so loudly called for punishment. Human sympathy is. a fearfiil influence when excited dashing like ocean-waves, but the impetus controlled, it sinks back into its former lull and is harder to arouse again than it was to move at first. But oh, the aching hearts of the ibereaved home-circle, as they wend their way from the ,church-yard. The home is reached: but, we draw a veil over what of further misty followed in the wake of the sale of this one LOTTERY TICKET.   THE story of THE LOTTERY TICKET is the result of some observation of the great evil everywhere working around us, which it endeavours to expose and counteract. Circumstances such as are detailed, are oftentimes occurring, for the legal enactments against Lotteries have been, practically, a dead letter in our statute books. Offices where tickets are sold are within a stone's throw of our homes and places of business-and, could their walls, by some supernatural daguerreotyping, have pictured on them the scenes there occurring, and then the lens be turned, so as to bring to view the home-scenes of families thus deprived of support, the hair of men and wo. men looking upon them would stand on end, and their blood chill withintheir veinp. The great heart of humanity is sympathetic, and when suffering is brought before us we must feel for the sufferer; but we should not only feel, we should help; and in this case, to help is to prevent. Those whose livelihood is dependent upon the profits arising from the trade, should be regarded with intensest pity. Where our interests, or what we conceive such, are concerned, we seldom are able to judge correctly of the 95   (96)  bearings of a moral question, and doubtless scales blind the eyes of many thus engaged who really do not think they are doing wrong. God help them! It is not said that this obliquity of moral vision is irresponsible; for, as certainly as there is a conscience within every one, that conscience can be seared-and there is no man but feels, at first, the sense of pain as the iron, hot with the fire of hell, passes over his moral sense, crushing and burning out its sensibility. Were he then to strive after the right, earnestly, the AlI-father would lead rim tenderly along the path of duty, and light unto "the erfect day" would shine upon him. JESUS CGHsT,-and as his name is spoken, let the roice be hushed and the heart bowed in reverence-whose eachings will eventually reach all round the world, did ot generally speak  abstract truths, to the crowds that ironged around him, but He taught in parables, the sim-. lest and most beautiful picturings of life's duties that Ter can be drawn. To reach the genera heart, it is im-m rative, after the model of "the sent from God," thus to ach. If the result in any case be unsuccessful, the reason i11 be because of inability on the part of the delineator.   ,    (105), The following commendations by the Press of "THE "OTTERYTIOKET, OR THE FORiOoRN HOPE ;" have appeared in the several newspapers to which they are accredited:-- THE CHRIMSTUA OBSEVM , oF PHcA., says of it :-"In avery inter- esting story of some ninety pages handsomely printed in large type the author delineates the pernicious effects of the system of lotteries which, in defiance of law, are destroying the peace of many families in every part of the country. * * * * It is highly commended by literary critics I THEm DOAR NEWsPPER says :--"The Lottery Ticket; or, the For- lorn Hope, by Paul Richter, is the title of a pamphlet volume covering an interesting and affecting story of the times, the whole being liberally illustrated. The author has a good purpose in view, and if he shall suc- ceed in winning over any of the many confirmed lottery gamblers, he will not have written without his reward; for of all crimes not openly con- demned, this is the most seductive and impoverishing." THE SUNDAY DISPATaH says ;-"The Lottery Ticket; or, the Forlorn Hope, by Paul Richter. We have in this story an interesting and most excellent contribution to good morals and pure literature. The evils of gambling in lotteries are set forth in a style which is calculated to highly interest the reader, to affect the better sympathies, and to have an influence upon ti e better resolutions of those who may be tempted to give way to a fascination which, with many weak minds, seems irresistible. The author has presented some painful and affecting pictures in the course of the story. His. command of language is perfect, and the style is chaste and appropriate. ' The Lottery Ticket ' wift takerank among the best of modern tales, and we commend it heartiy to general attention., m m/      .   (106) THS SATODAT BEyVNIr  POST says: -"The Lottery Ticket; or, the Forlora Hope, by Paul Richter, is a tale showing up the evils of lotteries. The author's purpose is good, and his story shows warm sympathies with the poor and needy." THE PENNSYVANIA INQUIRER says of it:-"The Lottery Ticket.- An interesting :pamphltt with the above title, has been laid on our table. It eontains a: thrilling tale, which abounds with simple and pathetic incidents, that are true to nature and the sympathies of the human heart. The moral and religious tendencies of the story are pure and ardent, while the dreadful evil of 'Lottery Gambling' is denounced in scathing terms, and developed in fearful and tragic events." The following--"WHAT LOTTERIES Do,"--has leen clipped by us from a late number of the PRESBYTERIAN; and, as it bears so relevantly on the subject, we here insert it:- "Ten persons engaged in the sale of lottery tickets were arrested in Cincinnati, Ohio, lately. The Gazette says:--The affidavits upon which warrants were issued for these parties were all made by Frederick Toden. bier, a German mechanic, who relates his experience in the lottery business with emotion. He says he has been purchasing tickets for years-that he has spent all he earned, and all he could borrow, in these ruinous speculatiois-that he has impoverished himself and family to such a degree that they have frequently had to live upon a single meal a day, and that of the most scanty character; in- short, that he had become almost a maniae upon the subject of drawing a prize, and at last getting his hard-earned oney byack. He has been driven to the verge of despair and destruction, and havingjbecme eohvinced of the wide-spread ruin which the lottery busines is inflicting upon the community, is determined to do his utmost to brek it up. Todenbier assures the officers that there is at least a hundred within the circle of his own acquaintance, who are daily spending their earnings in the vain hope of eventually drawing a fortune.    MORE LOTTERY BUSINss.   We take the following slip from TIm UNITED STATES' GAZETTE   D NORTH AMERICAN.   "A young man, named Benneville Kline, in the employ of a broker in this city, was arrested in the Office of Blood's Dispatch, n Fifth Street, above Chestnut. The arrest was made upon a warrant issued by the Mayor. A large num ber of letters directed to the employer of the latter were seized. The youth and the letters were taken before Alderman James B. Freeman, where the prisoner underwent an examination, and the letters were opened. It seems that the young man, who was arrested, was in the employ of a certain firm in this city, and that the said firm is heavily engaged in the sale of tickets for the Delaware and Maryland Lotteries. The correspond- ence between the firm and its agents has been carried on through the medium of Blood's Dispatch, and the returns from these agents were in the letters seized, as above stated. *  *  Some of the letters had attached to them the autographs of members of the bar; and others, who would not like to see their names figure in print in connection with the vending of lottery tickets. O    -     Michael Kline, the father, was subsequently arrested at his office, in Race Street, above Third. They were held in $2000 bail each to answer. The principals in the business are not yet taken.            FINIS. "A funeral group was gathered around an open grave. The snow covered the grave-hillocks all around, and there was a felt solemnity in each heart."    
         
       
   
