
    ----CITATION----
        Snowball, Deacon.. Comic Lectures on Every Thing in General and Nothing in Particular .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7835
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Comic lectures on every thing in general and nothing in particular 
            
               .,  "..L~e 'Svp 9i !   'k -     !'«  !  UVZ"_ , , " 5n} y
_  rT{_i  t;'~.  '  ;/}~i     l   N+ ,~;\A l   'ai. s"r.,4   4 ,t~  ' 4'.  e 4         ! ,  ' ,  " ,
.r a      .  j_  a ,  "+1Xr,, l  ', rM '    ', d~ f " : y T'  1  '4  '4"4 } t  i 4 ,t4  4l  S S 4  4.. +
,  ' -Stt~   '  l, 'a "f R  A 'yy  , _  ,,4  ;,s . "i.  "4 n "' 4'   "  .-  +  J
'  _  w.  _ Ot,  ,t~  \ $    -,   "  .  ,'1¢ iV. .. ' y'F"
'                    f  ,ae  .4 4  ,   "4

Nothing

in' Pawn

rticular,

B  DEV~  SN9B ALTEL,
NWORIK:
_ ~~    IN 8  AU STREET

\\' l

'ii

, '-'    t', -   .fs -                 err                       i,
.3.    k;*      ,        r             ,' ^       "fit ,         .
'
..                      I       ..   _                             _

Ir                                       z

1

.r
.tr i ij   t
.+ M1
[ r  'q
l   i
_-F
i  k  r
..fib -  *'

r;  .
i t
8
4     ,
;'
i
1
r}    d~     '?
T         ti
F,        yt k tt  r

-F


,i   ' _F   '

'           '."'
f                      ,
#                          . _   ,.
F                                    ,
i
a  'k
a
rt .A                              . '                    '
,       '

ntered            oaacr$S, nthYe.           by -
Entered -acoord $l tokot f Oozhgre55 JiteClerks Oflc0of te U
5. District Court for the 6o
liais*&amp; Co.
X-A

COMIC: LECTUREaSC'
By Deacon Snowball, and
DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER.
Belubbed Bruddren: On dis 'easion, your 'spected
preacher will congratulate upon de 'portance ob de fair
sect, dat dey-mind dar oan bizness and pay for dar own
liquor in de sullar. De text am  in dee words ob de
apostle Nicodemus-
Barney leave the girls alone
And let them quiet be,
A fust dewision ob dis  ubjeck an_ m at BarneynUSfi
leaf de gals alone, which means dat he wus-leaf d gals
till he can ketch one ob dem alone: asyu:ando nossin
wid de gals when dey am all togedder,. i  send-diwis-
sion 'peak about letting dem quiet be. Datistaisiated
rong ob course, bekase if you let dem alone dey nebber
will be quiet. A woman is like a rope swmg n'{ in de
wind. She nebber can b   quietat alL -Ebery time she
breathes, it sets her tong to goin' like the wind turns a
wind-mill. Darfore dis passidge ougit to read-
-Barney leff e gale alone,
And de wimmin do de saae.
Dis shows de 'portance dat 4  gals left' de men e,
and mind dar own bigness; Pisibryha             : to our
considerations I hope' y ou'ti4 'em   e and I dreas
myself 'ticklarly to den gals yanae love who am
casting sheep's eye at de elars in : TEryY

,$' . ,

--'

{.                               -      -   '        "'          ''      x-... "n, - ,  -           ,rf           yea    + !'


4 4              BE_,          "U.
r'   8p.?y d preacher 'qnest de gals to leaf him alone
educejnembers ob his church and ge
a~aY  ~ie      p n  oc.'
Co   e   me :datass  ight he was gwoine
d    hr     te     d dar was two nigger gals od
1)rdde kpp t9lkinn a                 107i1 behind
hewaS dreadful afeard da              y ty        ive
dhi n                          dl b    rvarte.  tass, one ob dem dropt her bag
nidealk and'SPect dat Brudder Cole wondic it
up for her. But Bruddew Cole made behef  he idn't
ad Jeyhb to pick it up darself. Arterj da he m
degltoseeifdey do aynymiscef.    e s
'don Washinto streett and at last turn into Union
ndango towards Sam's sullarl -dtelled
Den Brudder Cole run down in do sullar ad
Do    nation oh olkr dat he found dar, how dar was
deo aou    nd        dat wanted to seduce dar var-
tw     r  a  bout a dze   emmen ob color down de
,f      das      adey he id dat, dey went tght out
y receivers and when dey found dem 2
gr gals deyr'wised dera to go straightt home, and two
gh color went carry em to dar houses and
b'wtdr de we              in aid 'shut de door and I
ges d      b de  so    ood advice for de two gemnien
s          ad  e   as much as two hours before dey
Zin.Do names -ob dem two gals ob color will
p     oe     s    adey amx found out.
Yor             herhab been plegged berry mutch
als oh color dat 'rive heah lately from Long Is-
S ls.y                pec    preacher in de 'treet
adto hi               anid sun ob   e white fokes
d   eacher is 'quaited wi d-
Dtsiekhold oh your specterd preacher
-in o su~ar~an4  oe  rom dem', like Josef, and leaf doe
talob hi cot behd.ey wanted your !spected preach-

9'

s    E   0
_PA';~r _2                       . s$'  Q'41P
rto treat depn,to lobster and 4lam pup
h mto  g b dom0"Ra te ola big sa  .,  F w C i "
in de Cullherwarspted        eh
dey 'tend to corruptartue audthee fro
Toddler d     at fat nlggar wench dA    r 5+. over i
Charleston c ltupon your spected preaer, and t   t
h iI about de g bdl other ~fe6  She e i-op hthak
char g dat 'portant casion, and your 'spected $ eher
tink she was acting like'dat young-widder ove 4   l.hel-
sea dat seduced Long 'San ob de shooner.ku ak-
er blushed at dis conduct, -and he 'peak her better   daat
and ax her ij she hal no spect for de doff. Darfore.dar
will bea moral rform society of people off.cclox foto
prevent nggar gad from seducing de'he poPyggotio  oh
color. Seven niggers ob color will be a00osety togo
round and visit de lady niggars ob die voinity and taljt
to dem about dar vartue  and warndemagin ar con*
duct.
Darfore de todder dewini onb dis text 'lude to a fresh
supply ob elanm dathab come into de sullar tdder  a
and which muss be sold rite off as -dey hah l
spile already. Dese clams is mostly open, lr a  ,
will save de trouble ob opealn  den     o   " Ye
preacher tasted some ob dem twowis ago an     d 4A
berry good.
Clarrissa Pease and Jemima Phillips hab complained
to your 'spected preacher bekase do world is o   s-
troyed yet, and dey say dat he promised 'em it should be
destroyed lass spring! Dey say dat if it ain debtroyed.
soon, deir assension dresses will be, all outo
What de debble you come to bodder y
preacher  'bout  dat  fcr ?  ou br -ack e  N -pio+ -
bizness to behive what he tell yOu,. nd al ~~~ e st on;
you stiff-necked jineration ob wipers! D##a
mistake in do reckoning on 'count oh do year. It is a


8

COMIC LECTUR!f, &amp;

Jew's year and darfore it is not de same ting. De Jew's.
don't eat no pork, and dat makes de difference, so dat it
wpn't hapen till de first fair day in dis monf.
Darfore you better put plenty ob money in de hat, as
yowotiwant it long arter dis month. As your'spected
er hab got all his ascension dress reddy except
covering for -his feet, he hope you put in a good deal as
he    c  to o tp onwhite top boot and want de money
to buy de.
LAGEW-LATTEB7 OLTURE.
A3 yoof .Peoples8: YoQur minister shall give you to text
vat you shal call:
'Peas porridge bot~
Peas"porridge cold,
teas porridge iiithe pot
Nine days old.'
Dish soIemn teit of'de pig books is enough to give you
a knowledge of to truth like vot you never shalt know.
In do vut plac, to peas porridge shall pe hot. AhlI tat
very veil.  Vn it ish'hot it shall pe goot. In de
neztpace. it shall pe cold. Ah t tat shall be vonse as
everting. You shall come too late to dinner, and you
shall fid to porridge cold. Ten you shall swear, and
you slt say.Ydunder and blixen, vot shall pe to mat-
ternmit dish soup: I shal never, have hot soup ; to soup
shall.Rpe always as cold as to tuyvil. I shall go out of
dishouse and live in to voods; it shall pe potters tan to
gettoold soups  Ten yofi shall fling your boot at your
vrow, and shall fing.te cat out of to vincler.
on peas porridge shall pe nine days in to pot, it
shall pe kept varm for you von you shall pe gone out, and-
you shall gethome late to your dinners. Von mine oncle,
Pr.on Sluggerbug, shall pe sent to a vooman tat vos ta.

skit ,    srr ;     :t...          ._ a  .       ,
..tom     .S         , %.t    "'   .1  =,   1

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER BrAt'TER.
ken all at vonst, to peas porridge shall pe put on te fire
ven he shall fust go away ; and ven he shall get back, it
shall pe nine tays in te pot, sure enough. Tey shall vait
for him to get home before tey eat teir dinner. Oh? he
shall pe a very safe doctor,' mine goot oncle Sluggerbug.
He shall pe slow and sure.
He shall never do no hurt as he shall never get to to
patients ven dar shall pe danger to, hurt tem. He shall
pe von goot doctor Ito tell vot shall pe to matter mit tem
ven tey shall pe dead.
Your minister shall have one peas porridge tat shall
pe nine days old, pecause old age shall pe honorable: and
so he shall have all tings old. 'He shall have his meat
old, his pot cheeze old, his sour-krout shall pe old,,and his
newspapers tat he shall puy ish old, pecause tey ish to
more cheap as to new ones. - Toy ish potter for tat. Vy
shall you puy to new newspaper ven you shall get to old
vons tree for von cent. Tey shall pe just as pig as to ot.
ter, and teir shall pe as much reading in to same. Te ot.
ter day I shall get hold of five of to old Evening Post of
New York. Toy shall pe more tan dirty years old and
shall Pe all in favor of to British and shall wish tey might
lick to Yankees in to war. Oh; tat shall pe von goot
paper. I shall subscribe for te fEvening Post pecause., i
shall vant to lick to Yankees.
4A
THfE    SUPERNtUMERARY.
Sister Sally has got a bo. Everypoddy is tawkin about
it, for he is won of the wonders of natur I
We was awl down to Ant Judy's house. When we
w~as their, Cozen Peter cum runinin' into the -honse with
his ize wide oden and hollerin' out a dreadful thing~ was
happened. He sed that about five hundred wild niggars


V.

QOI EOETtRES,0 &amp;"
had br~e loose and was cum with instruments of mu-
-ik it aik the hull town prisoner. So we all jumpt up,
addidnt Snow what to do. Uncle Jo, than run to the,
arna-dut a itch fork; ant Judy run up .stares and
brougtdid   W ,n4he hachet and cozen Almira came up to
nd sez she, 'Now you can defend your native countree
and be g'a alliant he row.. You can drawer out your brite'
sword and sperr the enemy and have your neme rolled on
the histories of fame like lord Nelson at the battle of bun-
kers hill.'
Then i trimbled all over like; a lieve, and arter that sis-
ter Sally she cum runnin' to the house' and sed there was
a whole army of granny dears with their bagpipes and
there bang goes and their utinsils of musick that was cum
to dictate terms of peace to the publick, and she wanted
us to go and see 'em. So we awl put on.our things, and
went out for we th4ug+ t heiven and airth was cummin'
together. So we went down to the skool house and their
they wos. It was a hull passel of fellars and they
had all sort of musicks and long tale cotes and look't
dreadful, and . .t was grate gentlemen, and was desput
perlite, and bowed down almost to the floor, and sister
Sally sed she shouldn't wonder if yon of 'em was a prince
in diguiise. As soon as we went into the skool-house we
sot down. Then these musicianers all sot. in cheers at
t'other end of the skool-house, and before they begun to
play on their musicianary instruments, the squire stood
up. and macid 'ee a speech. He tolled 'em that he was
brought upin that own, man and boy, was forty year
antupward, and he sed'that he bid 'em welcome to the
plaice, and ,that the illedge hadnxever been so much 'on-
ored sense Ia Fayetty passed threw their, and so he maid
a ow   ebow and talked to 'em about the rism generation
and the importance of eddioation and he .said there ap-
parance in, our villedge was like the rising of the sun in

BY DEACON 3NOWBhLL AND DDRWOE LAGQRLaTTE
the mountains. Then these ,insidiaxery=all ieade. a bow
and it look't proper pretty in there longcote-tiles.
Arter this they begun to, sing'and play upon-there
musicks, and the gals awl sed it was deliteful, and Ssan
Pleice was their hoo had  beento' bordin sol: amd she
sed it was veryreuite 'and reininded'her of the harp of
Orphans. Luke Stratton was acuai ted with won of the
musioianers for he had seed him when'he went down with
charcole to bostown, and he telled the gals that he Wood
introduce 'en to these gentlemen as soon as they had
dun musickening.
When sister Sally heered that, she like to hae' fainted
away; forishe thawt it would be so dreadful to.'be intrer-
duced to sitch wonderful caracters, and she believed that
they had soles as noble as Sur William Wallis.
So arter they had dun singing, the squire had his car-
ridge brawt to -the dore, and exed 'en to go home and
lodge to his house, as he couldn't think to hav 'em go to
the.tavurn where their was no peeple hoo was perlte
enuff to keep there company. So they awl got in the
carridge and drive off. Sister Sally run and held the step
for 'em as they got in, and she bowed when they driv off.
Arter we got home, i went to speak to sister Sally,-and
she turned up her nose at me' andsez she--' dogt speak
to me, i'm thinkin' of more importan bizziness; "the'gen-
tleman that is the Captiugof the band has bowed 'to me
to-day, and i don't think i shall ti'ubble m self to tawk
about your matters.'
Then mother sent for the minister to get him to speak
to the grate Capting and ax him 'if he had any notnow
arter-her darter.. So the Capting cumn 'to 'our 'house write
off and got his neaze before Sally and swore"eernal'per-
fidy. So he has been cuming to see sister sally aver
sense and he telledher all 'about his wndrfUl dinaad
showed her a goold cote in 'which he 1y ed ontheee.
atur when he was a superIgumery as they call it.


10:

COMIC LECTURES,  ie

DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Belubbed Bruddren:; We take dis 'portant opportunity
e       de follerin' text ob de apostle Barbaras:
to 'proximate  on d
Turn about and turn about, and jump Jim Crow.
When you take up a text like dis 'ere to splunticate upon
de passage, de first thing is, to clean your teeth and wash
your mouf so dat de words don't get soiled in coming out.
Den y.ou count deletters andIdewide de text jest in so
many parts; carter dat you 'prove upon de hole, and den
you pass round de hat.
You know dat a bear, goes up a tree with his ta  ead
foremost. Darefore your 'spected preacher will begin dis
text in the sane way. In de first place he begin wid
Crow, which am a bird ofrey. Sometimes you heah tell
ob a geinman ob color who was born of preyin' parents.
Do you'spose dat dis crow is sich a kind of a ting. Dat
crow nebber prays in dat way; but  prey upon oer
insecks and quadrupeds. He is one of dem kind ob prey-

Sister Sally sez that a supernumery is higher than a
jineral and she is so prowd that she won't speak to none
~of us. The stage-driver sez that this. grate supernumery
has got a wife in Providence; but sister Sally won't heet
nothing' agin his character, and is getting her close maid
for' the wedin'  She wants that you should send word
"what will be the price of a fust rate wedding-cake made
ie Boown, for she means to hay everything dun in the
most. ganteelest way.
Nothin is twaked about up heer but Sally's bo, and
everybody thinks she will be a grate lady and a sitty
lady tue; Don't you noe any sitty gal that you can send
up heer to cort me ? I must hay a sitty gal for a wife, if
Sally has a city bo.

B3Y DEACONSNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 11
ing creters that like de fleece tior'e dan de flock. De
crow is bb de color ob de population "b color: dosame
'plexion as your 'spected preacher witch 'prove dat dis
terrible wild beast can transform heseff into an angel ob
light,
The next .diwission am de splicelation of de words,
Turn about and turn about-' Do -'portance ob dese
words am bery 'ticklar 'portapce. Dar am two kinds ob
vartue; one ob dem is colored vartue and todder one is
white vartue. Dar is one kind for de white fokes and
anudder kjnd for gemmen and ladies ob color. Darfore
you must turn about and turn about and forsake your sin,
even dat sin dat so easily beset you, witch is, dat you put
no munny in de hat. Den dar is de word jump, witch am
anudder dewision ob de text. Dai am many ways to
jnmp. Some jump like a frog. A. frog and a toad am the
same ting, only de frog hab de crookedest legs. Annoder
Jump is de way de sinner will jump when the debble stick
his pitchfork into him. Todder jump am de jumping ob de
text, witch 'lude to Jim Crow, a gemmen oh color from
ole Wirginny.
On de lass' satterday in nixt week dar will be a public
dinner gibbeu to your 'spected preacher. Dinner o n de
table at one o'clock. De first course will be clam soup
to be laddled, out by Sofriner Philips: de second coarse
will be clam soup too, wid-cracker in it. De third coarse
will be fried clam, and de fourth coarse will be boiled
clams and icester sause. Dar be two tables -set, do one'
table will be for de coal-black niggars and de odder table
for caller niggare. Seventeen toasts' will be drunk in
honor to your 'epected preacher. Arter dat Sophia Jon-
sing will sing a song and Obed Mitchell will4:lay upon
de banjo. .Arter dat =re hole company will sing a solo,
and your 'spected preacher willdink a bottle ob' cider
wid a geninan ob color from Long Island.


660 LECTURE9, &amp;,
KwI      g.    tproc upon de hole, witch signify
befoe you jump on ebery 'casion. If
r.4 t .fln  on  re gwoine tojumip into a puddle you must
Paraiyqspeefed to be a marridge between Nancy
nBron Widgeon. Your preacher is not sar-
.'.  ithe see deim casting sheep's eyes at one
-r ad hetake her to de bawl of Ruth Wing.
'r  dat~he treat her to a glass ob sorheting down do
ullar. Yourpreaoaher take dis opportunity to peak for
de job of marrying demn  1e will az for de job two shil-
dygs and a treat.
Nbw rudder Nickles will pass round de hat, and as
thescriptur sez.-if you hab cents .to spare, prepare to
spare 'em now.
Your 'Spected preacher will jib a leckture on de rise
and progressobde boot and blacking business next week
isa fortnight.
LAGE BLOTTER'S LECTURE,
MiZne Goot .t'eople8De text dat I shall giveyou Shall
pe in these vords -
ti11 from hih bOim stic seer,
The boul 'r en eaOhes.
'AndSland' priei"oraft.s ales to hear,
Of Fs leathern breeches.'
Dh text i  fm te Aposht Jehn, 'whoshall pe called
te R    i       de .4" pll writel'von goot' text
~~dsip'"lbelubbed dihp.Hesalwr
Qaer             eope shall tell you tat to Quaker'
'shlt~e  ' 'ndte sposht~le Johnhall tellyou he ishi von
goe6           o     i   ke leather like to hide of
pehiseetherreeches all over his
hall shaket.o hear te sarmont of tat fox.
e         h    o     e sall pe frightened yen to fox
peches. Teyshalipfrightened at his preaches, sure

BY DEACONSNOW :,ANDOIE RZQ ,   ER-BL..y
.enough. Only von pair of preeches hallpenotin
all. Vot shall youd yto te preaches ,otie yl g  en
pair of preeches ? Eftat Foz shallmak oi she
his you pair of leather preehesoru shalhak   ree
ven your minister shall com  reach nit :e pair
preeches on.
Yen von man shall get mad mit you, ddbreaten to
preak your head off, you shall-tell him it den't layii h
preeches to do it. But dish*FoX shall'{ha e :grat power
in his leather preeches. Tey Bhall make the Priestcraft
shake. I shall like to see them shake, teripriesicrafts!
Vat shall pe te matter init them  reaches ? I shall think
he will carry something in te pockets to shoot to priest.
crafts. He shall put tem in all ir his pree=hes pocket.
and carry tem off. I never shall see te Fox tat shall pe
so bad. Tey shall not keepthakgivin, peause dish
Fox shall run off mit all te goose .  Peyhall not fight for.
teir country because te ,fox shall have his hole'vere he
run avay and keep still. Tey shall 'iot put vonkcent in
te plate. Oh 1 tat shall pe very pad von tfox shall not
pay for to preach. Tey shall havon wmans. to'reach
in their church, and tat shall pe pad too, for tey shal silo
te business ven theirr ish too many,'in -it. It 'hall spring
down to price of to preach. Te vornan Yha-ll pe paid les
than to man for teir vork, and tat shall -make to preach-
ing eheap.
I shall not like tern leather breeches. It ish von cheat-
agte minister out of hispay.  If I shall  ake you von
shoe, I shall axte monish for making 'to. shoe, en I
shall save your soul from 'the tovil,l ttat shal pe
vorth a plenty of nonish.. Vat shall^ amangiefrhis
soul ?

V'


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.4,

14

YANKEE LETTER.
There was a gal wonst up in our parts named Sal
Splitten. Sal and me was acquainted from the earliest
of         intanse, ad when we was little, we used to
carry a jug of 'lasses together. You can ax Mister Mul-
lin about that, hoo used to keep the west injee store
down by the turn in the rode. near Sigh Snuffle's house.
So as Sal begun to grow up and her frock got two short
for her, she used to squint sat me kinder sly, and she
wouldn't put her arms round my neck as she used.
As for my part, i went to the cow-yard and i begun to
talk of setting' up with the gals. So mother made a soot
of pper and salt close, and i felt as grand as nue beans
and then left off keepin' low company and always kept
company with sich folkes as Jim Jewel the hossler at the
taverkand Sam Pease boo hd a nue soot of brown close.
Then thegalsbegun to look at me in meeting' time and
Wunst i slapt that 'Ting Brown in the face for starring at
me for i that drest well and had learning didn't like for
to have. ich low peepo stick up to me.
As for SalSplitten, ihad a notion arter her, but i kind-
r felt two big to go to see her for she wore a sort of
of brown frok that nant no grate things. So i kept
awayfrom the house a good yile ; but at last she cum to
I  eetip'nnwith a pretty French print on, and then 1 watched
her till meetin' was out and i run up to her and sez--
'The fatigues of the e nin' to yer, Miss Splittent' When
Salherd me saythat her eyes snapt for joy and she was
dredfl truck with my poughliteness, and she put her
aritiermine and we walked alone together.
reaeder tocum to see her, tho' i telled her that
didn't eggzaklylike to marry inter, her family, wich
was rahter a low won;" but as she'd gut a new frock, i'd
corther a wile tilli found sumboddy of a better family.
So she agreedato it for she noed that i was a kin to Mr.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIiDRICH LAGEWSLATER. 5
Darby that keeps the pound and they say that's a hire
offiss than prezident.
Then i went a. corting Sal, and i kept it up for six
weeks; but then i'd got up two high in the world to think
of her any longer. They tawked of puttin me up to go
to the legislatur and vote for president and drink a health
to the country where i was bred and bornd. So they told
me i must maik a speech and it must be a stump speech,
i couldn't find any stump to stand on, and so i goes. and
gets up on a hoss block, and i sais, sais i-.-.
'Feller mortils and gentlemen of the jury--
'We've cum together thin day to 'lect me to the legis.
latur where i's for freedom from the english nation. We
are to fite for freedom, as gineral washington did. We
are to lick the british with injines of destruction and to
obey the ten commandments from our yuth up. I don't
want to make my brags about niyself now for nothing;
but i say it, that i've got good relations as-well as anoth-
er and 'spectable relations. I have a uncle that's keeper
of the pound, and t'other day he had a beef critter in his
place that .wayed.1 forget how many -stone, but it ,was
prodigious. For skinning a sheep i'll turn my back tono
man, and so if you 'lect me to the legislatryucntd
a better thing.
When i'd sed all this, they clapt their hands and give
me 3 chairs.
They sed the speech ought to be printed and put in the
papers and sent off to the president. So i went to the
additur of the GreenJuzzard and axed him to print 'it
and he telled me to right it down tho he wAs there ad
cheered it himself. i went hum andwi could find no ink-
stand with ink it, and so i got a oldpaper- that had a
speech maid by Misther Henry lay, and i got thatprint-
ed in the Green Buzzard-; but when it was printed and
the folks cum to rede it, they said it W08 on the rong

s


om  LEC TRS, -&amp;&amp;
si hed , for i had agred to voat for the other party. So
i didn't get 'ected, and then when i seed1i wrnt likely to
be a rateman carter all, i went back to Sail and teller
r i culav er, but theesky Critter had got a  oo
o a  d Sm, and Sam he poked his finger at me and
as-as sassy as a greaed niggar-
tno ias ishall git married rite away now; for til
i umto/Boton     d get amongst them hi larnt lady
nd ieby they11 tke a sline'to me sense i've begin to
right for the noose papers.
Give my luv to all 'quiring friends and ax-'em what
they wil ax to board me a month'in Sam Jonson's suller
EZEKIEL BBNE. .
LAGERBLTEB'S LEhJRIU
My Goot Peoples: I shall give you von text to-day
vat you shall call tese words :
Vihe,    .R Perkinse, fro  auila, at :New 'Yor'k, brings some
farther - a~csoolint the  t to t el inthe harbor of St. Helena.'
Dish text shall pe spout te swells. Sometimes you shall
a gat swell yenyou shall get on your Sunday clothes
andvonew hat, and boots wit high heels, and ten pair of
p reeclies?
Te i1shall spoke apout te swells in St felena. Tat
pteal re acwereBonaparte shall go to live, ven he
shall make money-enough, and retires from bisness. Ven
he shaltcut all his swells mithis long boats on his feet
nd hscrw   on his head, den he shall cutite Aiastrous
nls t' et. Helena.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND  IQRI  LAGER.BLATTER. g
Ven he shall cut to fust swell, he shall shoot to people
in to streets mit te cannons. Tat ashall-notpe so in mine
country; for teir you shall valk to streets mit out'being
shot at all,: but Bonaparte shall shoot everypodiy ln te
streets. In mine country tey shall hang dish Bonaparte
ven he shall cut ternwll siireenough.' After tat :he
shall get to be von king, and ten he shall year a gold coat
and silver vest, and von hundred pair of breeches, pecause
he shall pe te king at tat time. Ten he shall eut a great
swell ven he shall valk te street mit his vatch-chain hang-
ing down to his knee,'and his hat on three hairs of his
head, and every von shall makehim a 'bow like it vas your
minister.
Ten tey shall put him on von little island tey shall call-
elbow, and ten he shall cut von swell more bigger as ever
pecause he shall have te island all to himself. He shall
pe like Robinson Crusoe vat shall pe to ninarch of all ho
shall see. He ' shall feel very proud ven he. shall valk
apout on tat island. He shall cut a swell their because he
shall grow fat and swell up big mit fat. . He shall get so
much to eat and a plenty of schnaps, and shall take-snuff
all to time.
Bat toy shall tura him avay from te island, and he shall
go back to his own country, sure euough-
Te text vash told ou tat te  ip    ng ghllprng
more account of- t swells.  -ey hate;etojied some pore
Frenchmen, and -pnt ter on te -island to make von ,swell.
I shall like to see all teFrenchmen put toir toos; for toy
shall eat frogs as shall not po von Christiansto eat frogs.
Your minister shall tryit vonce, and shall tell his vrow
to ketch two -toads, and shall put to toads in a pan and
fry tern for dinner. It shall not pe so= got as apig. I~
I shall not like tem  Toyeshall pe to-same as rogpe-
cause tey ish von toad: but I shall not like t;m }at fi"-1
shall rather have von goot sausage and von rdss boef tan
all to toads and 'frogs for intino diner.  ''-


COmI LETURES, &amp;g,
Mynheer Slaughtenburgh shall pass round te plate, and
shall'call to mine house to-day and get some schnapps for
his trouble. Now you shall all go home and schmoke
your ipe mit thanks.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURES.
Belubbed Brethren : You 'spected preacher hab obser'
wation to make before he 'gin to 'lapidate on de text ob
dis tickla 'casion. He observe to dis congrygation ob
color dat his helf am dilikit on-dis 'ticklar -'casion, habin'
had a pain in de 'tomack all ob lass week.
We take our text from de wordsr ob de 'possal Davy
Crockett who tell you dat-.
'There was a little man.
And he had a little'gun,--
And a bullet made of lead.'
De common 'taters dat take holt on dis dext say dat dis
little man is Tom Thumb dat lives in de museum. But
dat are is berry 'ticklarly story 'kaze he nebber hab a gun.
De gemman ob our text hab a gun, and he. hab a bullet
made ob lead. You see dat dis is berry 'ticklarly 'spress-
ed dat de bullet is made ob lead. Suppose dat de bullet
was made ob wood ; den it would be a nine-pin ball. If
inwas made ob stone;. it would be a marvel, and if it was
naiie ob anything else, it would be something else.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDR  [LAGER-BLATTRF. 19
Darefore de gemman ob de text hab a bullet made ob
lead and darefore it was not a cannon ball which am
made ob iron, which is de color of your 'spected preacher.
Darfore *ho is.dis little main wid bullet madeo1~ ead? I
tell you it am little David, dat was de little man, and de
little gun is de spiritual mesin' for a sling de. text dat
comes arter tell you dat he shot a duck in de head.
Duck.means a goose bekase be was a goose to come dar
and get killed, and his head was chopt off and stuck on
a pole.
Darfore your 'speeted preacher is de speritual meanin'
ob little David,:and4e stone is de sarmant he preaches
which kills de debil who is de grate Goliah datis in your
sole, you brack scorpions.
s Darfore de follerin' toast was gibben at de late dinner,
witch was gibben to your 'spected preacher;
1. De brack complexion---dis is de complexiong ob dem
dat has ben dyed in de wool, and white fokes is like a
new house, de color ob de boards dat has nebber been
painted.
2. De woman's right society-Dey sew .not, neither do
they spin anything but 'treet yarn.
3. De nigger dat licked a: white feller todder day. His
heel tick out haff a yard, and his head am harder dan a
brickbat. Three cheers--None but de brave desarve de
fair.
A song was den called for, .and Massa G. jumpt Jim
Crow and sung de song. Arter dat he gib de follerin'
conundrum :
Why is de'top ob Massa G.'s head like de votes 'for
Henry Clay?
Ans. Because dey want a wig at de head.
Why is de hair ob Massa Fillips 'like Snowball's sar-
mant ?
Ans. Bekase it is aluways read. (red.)'


V Q)IC LECTU1WR ~
pDeparty broke up at de hour ob leben, a  your 'spec
ted preachr :hob. de houor to wate .onr PhIll Jonsing t
heplace~f abod~ e, iefliot akisson   e pouting lp
h  takeeave ob her; and Massa Fillips wate on dot
bi   igger welehKat' libs downIn Oat Alley. Se say
dat Msaa Fillp8 inake~gge impression on her wirgin
hart, andteatherlike a ge mnn.
Arter datwepte upon; de 'hole. Clam soup is sarv-
ed up atter dis ebeniu' in pewter platter, wid wooden
spoon. Cesar hab eludedd to trust'spectible niggars; and
all denm dat don't pay will be exposd in church by your
'spectd preacher
D    ;eill be a lecktur delivered at de Philadelppy lec-
tures to-morrow ebening in de arternoon before bed-time
by dis 'spected niggar ob color, on (le subject of openiu'
clam: de difference between a round clam and a soft clam.
will bepinted out, for de one. is a quadruped and de odder
is a clam genius.-

BY DEACON SNOW ALL    I INN l LAGER-BLA TiR.
"  EACON SNOWBAIWS LECTUllE
1elubbed er  during: De follerin' text we take on dis
'portant 'casion :
.Music hath boirmis to soothe the savage.
To open rocks and split a cabbage.'
In de fust beginniii' ob die church w;hab musio in dies
house. Tony Jumbo played on de fiddle and better . Wid-
geon played on de hano. You raccolleck dat berry well.
We use music bekase it sounded pretty and hab eharmto
it. You recolleck berry well that Sam Jonsing was head
in dem times, and Sam was the great musikiaier for sing-
in'. Sometimes he sing so loud dat you tink de ruf ob
de house was gwoine to come off. Dat was great, be-
kase you sing in church to be heered in hebben and as
hebben is great ways off, darfore you muss sing berry
loud, or else dey won't heah you dar.
One time Sam Jossing sung so loud dat-his voice knock
downde 'tove pipe. Dat create great rewival for few mi-
nutes, bekase dey thought de debble was coming arter dar
sins.
Anudder time Sam Jonsing and Love Wheeler was
singi' berry loud togedder and dey gotra going and dey
couldn't stop. Sam pulled off his coat-and jacket to-it,
and Love flung down her bonnet on- de floor. Dat was
great time for religion in der days, I 'sure you.
De text tell you, in a 'ticlar manner, dat, music hab
charm to soothe de savage. Darfote you larn from  die
fuss part ob de text, dat music am 'tended 'ticklarly for
de savage. When de savage heap music it sooth him
berry much. Dat am de reason dat mineral Jackson. when
he go wid sogrs to fight de savage berry much, hab mu-
sic.
Cest hab music down in de sullar to sooth fokes and.
make dem come down out ob de 'treet and buy emmtin~g.
Daffore de text shitd hab beer trenslate-' Music hab

'[                                       .,             '


OQI C LECTURE , &amp;04.
charm to sooth de savage, to open clam and spit a cracker.'
Music sarve to open grea many clam njde sullar, and
cracker ob course.
Annudder ting is, dat music opens your mouf and set'
you to sininn' Annudder ting, music open your leg and
het you to dancing. Dar wa&amp;-little Peter, who lib on do
Hill in de times ob Big Dick and Gubbennor Guss, he was
-set a dancing, by music, and eber ody try to 'top him :
buthe no 'top at all, 'till he dance heseff to death, and
arter dat he 'top -dtraokly, right off.
Dar am berry warious kind ob cabbage wich is de fiff
diwision'ob de text. ' Dar is skunk cabbage ; daris leetle
cabbage I dar is big cabbage, and cabbage leaves. Skunk
cabbage smell berry much like a colored ball-room. Lit-
tle cabbage look berry much like brudder Cole's head;
and big cabbage am like de head ob your 'spected prea-
cher. Den dar is tailor's cabbage wich am berry 'specta-
ble as it 'longs to de loff. Pickle cabbage am berry sour,
and. look berry much like de head ob Charity Phillips wen
she gib your 'spected preacher de bag. Your 'spected
preacher hab not de time.to 'lapidate much on cabbage,
on dis nefarious fungacious 'casion ; but he will axplat?
terate on de kind ob music dat is most in use at dis con-
junction, In de fust place is e base drum. It is big as
a hoxit, and a man is paid to carry it 'long de 'treet. He
hab a big drum 'tick and a leetle. drum 'tick. He hit a
good many times wid de leetle tick and only a. few times
wid do big 'tick. Darefore dey call hi n base drum.
Todder music ls de fife. You make him go: wid your
fingers. When you'top up de holes wid your fingers, it
makes de music come out, de same as anybpdy will break-
outob jail when dey is locked up dar.
De miost 'portant music is de fiddle, bekase some folks
get dar livin' by plain' ou him. Dar am two kind ob
fiddlel dfiddle that Desar play op, apd de'Scotch Aiddle.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRIC LAGEB-BLATTER. g
Boff is berry good, in dar place. De one scrape; and de
odder scratch .
Your specterd preacher-'form dis congregation ob color
dat he wants berry much to get a new pair ob pantaloon,
as de ones-dat he wear on dis 'portant 'casion is all out
behind, as you can see if you look. He hab to keep
pokin' in his shirt tail wid de finger, and it am ob no use
.at all, for it come out al.in ebbery minit. He hope you
put money nuff in de hat to pay for him ; besides dat he
wants to-get a bowl ob clam soup dis berry ebe ing and
treat his friend Simon Jonsing from Longdaland to lob-
ster. He nebber taste lobster, and he want to get 'em
berry much.- Dar will be a lub feest in dis house on Tues-
day night is tree weeks. Ebery one will bring cake ob
bread in dar pocket 'cept your 'spected preacher who will
eat at the expense ob de faithful.
Susan Jumbo will 'top at de close ob de sarvice as your
'spected prencher hab sumting ob private nature to say
to her. He want to ax her 'bout dat- niggar gal dat 'top
your 'spected preacher in de 'treet todder day and ax him
to call and see-her in de ebening.
Now brudder Cesar Widgeon will pass round" de hat,
and I hope you no forget your 'spected preacher's breech,
es wich am berry 'portant on dis portentt 'casion. Tin
fourpence is of no use in 'de hat,
LAGER-BLATER'W LECTURE.
My Goot Peopkes: Te text is in.ese vor.s:-.
They called me blue-eyed Mary
BWhe friends fortune smiled;
But ahi h ow fortunes-wary
Inow am sorrow's chiid!
Dish shall be von text of a young gal tat shall find she
have pad lucks. Very yell: shall teirpe nopiodyelse vat
shall have pad lucksf Yen I shall been inw mine own


24

ComicECTUIE, C-

country, I shall pe von rich like Mynheer Zhacobs Astors:
I shall ride in mine coach mit six hoss, and te house shall
pe so pig tat te rats in te house shall pe so pig as von of
te cats in: dish country. Because te house shall pe so pig,
everything in te house vas pig as te house too.
Vat 'shall pe dish blue-eyed Mary tat shall prag about
to troubles tat she shall have? I' spose she shall be von
gal tot shall peen in love, and shall penmad pecause some-
pody shall get away her lover! She shall say. tat fortune
smiled.' Vat fortune shall she have ? Vere shall te gal
get von fortune, ven she shall have flowers to sell ? Tat
gal shall sell flowers. Vat shall flours be goot for ? If
she shall sell te radish, te salads, te' pea, te bean, te pot
cheese-ah! tat shall pe someting vorth a vile to sell,
sure enough.
She shall be called-Sorrow's child., Who shall be tat
Sorrow ? I never shall hear of von Mynheer Sorrow!1
She shall call herself von child of tat Mynheer Sorrow.
I tink I shall know vat shall pe her father. She shall not
tell, pecause it shall pe nopoty ish her father. She shall
pe pest for te poor-house or te- house of correcting vere
tat gal shall go, I tink, mit her fortunes and her father,
Mynheer Sorrow.
Teir shall pe a plenty of; iDutchmans tat shall come to'
te house of your, minister, and shall say tat tey shall pe
fortunes in Holland, and shall lose "all te monish, and
shall ax your minister to lend tem five dollars, sure
enough. I suppose tey shall pe Mynheer Sorrow's child
too. He shalt hiave plenty of children, tat Mynheer Sor-
rows.
But you shall be von Sorrow's child arter you shall go
out of te world, ven te tuyvil has got hold of you, pe-
cause yoi shall not support the stated preaching of te
gosipels, and put plenty of monish in te plate vich shall
pelhanded round tat you shall fill it full, sure enough.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERIO LAGER.BLATER.2
Mynheer Von Junks and Mynheer Blastus shall pe von
committee to convert te Jews, as Many of te members of
dish church shall sell pork and sausage, vich shall pe
goot for pizziness. Tey shall have one, dollar a head for
converting te Jews.
YANKEE LETTER
Feyther got whopping mad l sfsummer and sed i must
go to work at somethin' to earn .my livin.' and not be
lounging 'round the house no longer, for i was twenty
three years old and stod over six foot in my stockings.
So, Joe Brigham was up at our house and he sed how he
was goin' on the canawl to run a canal bote from Woos-
ter to Providence. I had herd tell of the wonders on the
grate deep, and how they was sumtimes cast away and
all got drowneded. So we all got 'round Joe toher. him
'tell. He had been up the canawl five times andthat he
new how to steer a bote. So he telled us all about it and
sung a song aboutthe dangers of the seas, and the dread-
ful doins of the raging inane.
Then mother sed she couldn't endureto hay me go of
n the dangerous deep and sale in them canawl botes';
but sister Judy sed how:she should like to have a brother
that would go on the deeps and be a stranger in a strange
and, and who would press her to heibusting hart when,
ever he came back from the dangers of the raging mane.
She cast ever so many sheep's eyes at Joe bekase he had
had experience in these things, and so he took the hint
and got up to go and kids her, but he stunm ed.,over the
cat and pitched his head agin her boosumn4 i she squak-
ed right out like a cat when you tread on its'tale.
So mother wanted, to appear delikit before. Joe, andshe
lookt round and got a bottle of sweet ileandhi
Jud's nose. So Judy lookt up, 'and seed Joe fnnig her


~OEKL X   'TR,&amp;"r",
hogoa   t   in      ithire fo
with hisehat,. and then she fell right in love with him ; for
it was plane that he was a fast rate gentleman. Then
Judy tlled me to go with .him on the raging deep and
taik him'for my pattern, as he would lead' me to gldry
and reuoyw;
Then here was grate times a fkin me off I got a pair
of big boots maid by Simon Enathan Parker the shew
maker ond mother and:Judy sot up all nite puttin my
salt a  pepper eot in order, for to go on the canawl
with Joe Bigham an se, the-wunders of the lord in the
mity'.deep,,,
So on the nixt weep, on a toosedy and in the year of
our {ord 16i,04-      into th wagging with our sorryell
maor t          to it and Joe Bigham by the, sighed of
m  a   f     .give   orh to: Wooster, wih was jist
f      n      th     ce     e i was bred and born.
A   b         wn    o oasee upoph mand t bid u  good.,
b        t   s ok hands' withne a     pt a cake of
S bat in.rpeke? then su(shead sh w  afrade
Ss      d    _ra           4   ed   to;give, her
lo   the cap tin  of the canal b     Th p  my {sister
puh4 ag     r n      . anki     y fqrril and     she
. .     d i rig    e to the dee    Whn the waters
run o  he es    ndwt     e aksitsflitetthsdaekes
oftheys 0.  ro t~ne    nm     et ? _t. ,tde
Joe:h, a sq             this ,thdth9 lihV to have
f   a               lhAwd.       and pased threw
t   t a       ijo  hp1 eu  At last we go to the  ity si-
t F  a;!te  , .i :'e  ; sp1Wim iter..  They wawk-
eea oh       8a lapdrtst p      iliystyles ad thy'
htki            gy ed over th rehea ls
th ghtheit want; n o. re g   asI1,,:w  tito the plajn
tote[tottheain
oii p   pg dg  intg

BY DEACON SNOWBA L AND.DICO LAGER-BLATER. 2
derful big feller on the seas, on acdount of his talk at our
house. But as soon as he got there, the capting went up
to him, and axed him where he had been all the time. So
he telled him, and then the casting he sez, ' well go to
work and sweep off the'bote- or-i'll turn you away, you
good-for-nothin,? lazy feller!'
So i was wonderful surprized, for i thort Joe 'was Cap-
ting and was going to give mea good sittyvation. 'ar-
ther stared and i stared, till. the Capting cum up to us
and axed us if we wanted to sale down to Providence in
his bote. So farther andi bothtook off our hats and maid
a low bough to the Capting and telled, the Capting that i
wanted to get a chance to go to sea in the 'bote, upon the
raging main. Then i telled the Capting that mother had
sent her love to him, and he lookt at me as hard as if he
was goin to see threw me, He telled me he had got no
chance for me as his men was-all hired. 'Then farther up
and tolled him that Joe Brigham had agreed to-giv me a
good sittyvatibn and he laffed and sed that Joe was hired
b him, and that he wouldn't give him his salt for all he
did, but he kepp hij out of charity. As for Joe, we went
along to speak to him, but he dasn't look at us nor say
nothing, for fear the Captiig' would tirn him away.
Then farther concluded he would pay the munny and
let me go to Providence .and cum back, but he wouldn't
go in the bote himself; as his life was Sallyble to be sup-
ported with. So farther went hum, and i rid down in the
bote, upon. the raging mane,,i was gone three days and
when i cum back i hadapesky} sight to tell about the
bridge i seed there, and sullers where they sell ,ysters,
and a great big hollowhouse, with lonjstone posts; and
they call it the Ark ade, and i took hum anioosepaper
that was called the peronical-when:i gt hum, sister ju-
dy run up torme and fainted away on my bodznm  mth-
er run round to the nabors to tell 'em all about.'my adyen-


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C., }
28
tures whici she said were more wonderful than Robinson
Rooster, all--the:gals  the villidge cum running to our
house, and all the nabors shouted for joy I
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Beubbed Bruddren: Dis child ob color take dis 'casion
to 'form dis -dark comlecte d congregation dat he hab
chose for his text de folerin' words ob Saint Daniel Web-
ter-            e the nigars asthey run.
Wide h naake  for dance and fun.'
Dis text am explatterified in the fif conjunction ob de
dignity ob human natur, and 'specs de opinion ob dat
grate poet, mass Webster.
De fust collateral explosion ob de subjeck 'form you dat
niggers run. Dis is de prepossessive case and de animal-
cule gender and figurative mood, and  s
ion exclusive.
De fiust diwision ob de text am niggers, which ar divid-
ed into the . colored poppylation and de poppylation oh
color. Den dey am diwided into he niggar and she nig-
gar. Arter come de yeller niggr ad dem    nigger,
de fat nigger and de lean niggar and dey amde decision
ob de poppylation ob color.
De text tell niggar to run-to flee from de 'rath to come.
Dar am seven way,    .1to do dis. In de fust place, you must
oeyin de.hat. Den you muss trade at de. seller;
put mory0in       -     7
I undertan dat Sopy Phillips buy her bear at Peter Titz.
I 'ject to dat, bekase dat is not deplace. Ebery one dat
belongs, to dis huch must buy dat tings in de sullar.
Susan Longheel hab got married and she 'ployed anudder
gemman oh color to 'fishiate on dat 'portant 'casion. Dare-,
fore yuIr 'spected pi-eacher forbid anybody to 'sochiate
wid her: for what fellership hab believer wid a onbeliev-
er?

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAQER-BLATTER. 29
Todder dewision stresss de idee ob wide awake. You
hab heered ob wide awake for black fish j but dis is wide
awake to dance and hab fun. De colored poppylation hab
always obeyed dis text. So has de poppylation ob color.
Black Joe, dat long fiddler what took board in Sam's sul-
ler lass week hab, played for seventeen parties widin de
week. Two niggar up town danced'dar heel off in de
mean time, your 'spected preacher tore. his trowse's in
trying to cut a pijin-wing. Temperance Wing's bustle
fell off on de floor and your spected preacher trad on it.
It busted open, and Cezar think he know dat meal dat
come out ob it; he tink she 'told it from de sullar! Pa-
tience Lewis is 'quested to fetch back dat string ob in-
ions dat she took from de sullar. She tink dat Cesar
didn't-see her, but he was 'hind de door, and he see her
out ob his eye. le tank her to bring dern back or your
'spected preacher will spousee her before dis congregation
ob color.
A peck ob clam will be raffled for at de sullar, and a
pint ob icester took out ob de shell.
Daris gwoine to be some church property belonging' to
dis congregation, and your specterd preacher  lhb d
care of it. Dar will be six hens and dey will lay eggs
for de good ob de chureh. Dar will be fifty egg laid in a
month; dem egg will be hatched, and dochickens will
grow up to be hens; den dey will laye
-ay-agg, and to de sentd
"of the year, it will come to tree hundred dollars forces.
Darfore do church will sell its eggs.a for tree hundred dol-
lars nixt winter. Darfore if anybody hab got tree oun-
dred dollar's t edn                a   o treehn
dred dollarto lend your  spected preacher till dat time,
y    a hab d    e of. dem egg mxt winter.. I hope
you hand ober do money rite off., De six  ens may be
seendownthesullar any time between do hour oh two in
de morning and one o'clock inedo eerternoin
Now, I shall 'prove upon do 'hole. Dar am tree niggar


4

COMIC'LECTtJ1 s, &amp;C.,

30

gals dat is. arter your 'spected preacher ; one of dem is
Hope Jnieoe toder is Kate Widgeon, and todder is Jerusha
Black. .But your'spected preacher hab no wish to change
his sittyvation. He wood have no ojection to Susan
Jonsing or-any odder wilder dat hab got de tin; but he
cant tink ob marrying derm dat hab got no munny; for he
dat don't. provide for hiA own house is wuss than a in-
fidel.
Brudder Jumbo will pass 'round de hat on dis 'ticklar
casion, and arter dat you can clear out ob dis place.
LAGER-BLATTER'S LECTURE.
Mine Goot peoples : I shall gave you von text to-day
in dish vords from to pig books:-
I know that's have knelt too lowly
For smiles so oft-withdrawn,
That trusting love ieeived too slowly
The lessons of thy scorn.
Dish text shall be from Solomon song, all apout love,
sure enough. Your minister shall pe in love a few many
times. Te first time he never shall been so much in love
as never shall be tat time, It shall pe von vomans in to
Hollands vat vash lived next door to mine house. Teir
shall be von knot-hole in te fence, and I shall put mine
eye to to knot-hole ven she shall pe walking in to garden,
and shall look at te vonan all to days. She shall find it
out von day ven I shall have miepipes in my mouth and
she shall see te schmoke jump up over te top of to fence
mit rings like to curls of to hair on her head. She shall
say netting to me, so that I shall not know she vas gone
for one pitchers of vater, vich she shall fling over to fence
on mine head, and put out mine pipe. I shall jump so
high as to top of mine breeches ven I shall feel te vater
as shall be like scalding vater on de top of mine head.
Yen I find out it shall be cold water, I shall not be seared

BY DEACON SNOWBALL ANDDIEDRIOH LAGER-BLATTER.
no more; but I shall never love tat vomans. again. She
shall put out all te love in mine head wit to cold' water.
Yen I shall see her next time in te street, I shall blow to
schmoke out of mine pipe into her face. Bat vash to
waters, hey ? Dat vash goot for tevaters von she s1all
get to adhraoke in her eyes. She shall like to throw some
more vaters on to mine head
Te next time I shall bean'love ish von great lady tat
shall live in Amsterdam. She shallbe to vidder of two
husbands, and vash very fat,.so fat a one fat ex, and'she.
shall have to modish too. - So shall fall in love mit her
worse tan ever. I shall not look through to knot-hole dat.
time; but I shall go to to house, ad shall court dis lady,
and task to her about mine horse and mine pow, and tell
her how many pigs I shall got besides von big sow as
never vash. At last I shall go to do vat you call to pops-
of te questions. I shall go to'dish grand lady mit seven-
teen pairs of breeches on, vich shall pe to vay mita great
man in mine country. I shall pop te questions, and she
shall hear vat I shall say. I shall get down on mine
knees to pop te questions. I shall pop dem two or three
times, and von I look up in te face of to great lady, I
shall see tat she ish fast asleep. I shall vait for her to
vake up till I shall fallasleep too, on: my knees; and I
shall tumble dqwn and strike mine head on her foot.
Den she shall .rake up too. I shall rg mine head an
shall rub her foot. - She shall me vat I shall be doing on
te floor. I shall say tat I vash pop to questions  But
shall take de broom-stick and drive me out of the house
sure enough.


COMIC LECTURES, C.,   -
YANKEE LETTER.
MISTER YANKEE .-i am a feemail, and 1. wil stand up foi
my own sect. i want you to put it in your paper, for ,I
don't care who nose that i'mia  feemail, and what my sen-
timents is, i never was married, for i've got a consate.
again all the men and i don't care who nose it nyther.
There is a feemail young lady up hear that was brought
up nixt door to our house and i node allher relations and
all about her, and it's as trew as i'm a righting this hear
leter that she was a varchus gal and.good to ta ik lanin,
for we was both in the same class at skool, and both of us
was the best eddicated of any in the skool, tho' i say it
myself that didn't ought to say it. Howsomever, she got
married and i didn't, and the greater fool she, as i told
her to her fade, for lI'm right up and down, and so as soon
as i heered she was married,-i puts onmy shawl and bun-
nit and over i goes to thare house. They had a house up
there by Sawyer's mills, and her husband was a shew-'
maker, So the fust thing when i cum near the house,
what should i see but Aloyrah drawin' water out o' the
well. 'That's a good one,' sez i to myself. She a drawin'
water and her husband setting on his tother eend in the
house. So i goes up to the door and follered Aloyrah into
the house, and as soon as she sot down her pale, sez i,
'so, Aloyrah, you've got a h6 band ?'
Yes,' sezjshe, and she lookt kinder down.
Well,' sez i,'i hoap you're happy.'
' Yes,' sez she, 'i  happy as common.'
'Well"' sez i, im fight'up and down; you know me
well enough, Aloyrah, and i always speaks the sentiments;
o' my mind rite out.; it's the only fault i've got, that i'll
always speak jist as i think.
Then she lookt kinder streeked as if she node what was
a coming ' and she hitched up her cheer to mine, as if she
was afeered that her husband wood here me, for he was

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND IEDEIICH'LAGEBLATTER. 3
in the nixtroom, and i could hear his hammer a going
upon his lapstone.
So i looks at her rite in -the face, and sez i- -.' i see you
go to the well to draw water. Now if i had a man set-
tin in the house on his tother eend, before i'd make a slave
of myself to fetch and carry and be a dog tohim, i'd take
him by the skerf of the nick and snake -him to the mill-
pond, and when i got him- there i'd push him into it. That's
my mind, and i'll always stick up-for my own sect, and i
wnt that my sect should have no sufferance, and should
be treated rite, and now you nose my minded for i'm right
- up and down, and i don't kear who hears me, and you noe
i mean it all for your good, Aloyrah, and its bekase i.
want you should be hapty as you ought to be, and you
must let your husband noe that you won't bear no none-
sense of him, and when he finds you won't put up with
nothin' he'll nock under and will be obedient to you, as
my mother's husband always was to her.
So i went off and left her all in the suds, and she was
unplushed. About a week arter that i went- over to see
how Aloyrah cum on, and i found that she had took my
advice, and she went and told her husbandhe must.draw
her water, and she telled him that he must larn to be ob-
edunt. She kept at him and tride to brake him just like
you brake a young colt.. Now what do you think that
nasty, good-for-nothin'. man done. He refuse4, rite up and
down. to peal the vigittable, and hang on the pot for din
ner. Then she busted out a cryin' and sed she wood tell
me, the first time she saw ine, and she went and put on
her hat, and he forbid her to go: then she went up stares
and he cookt his own dinner, and she's never got a meel
for him sense. But the worst of it is to come. i went to
the house and Aloyrah telled me all this : and then her
husband cum in and 'quested me to stay athum in future.
Then i give it to him, and i telled him that he was a sas-


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;M
sy blaggudr and i sed everything i could lay my tongue
and i teller him i wood hav nothin' to do with him, and i
wood cum and see Aloyrah whenever i pleased. The, 1
out and slammed the door arter me.
Now what do you think ? He has acted so bad that
i've advised 'Aloyrah to get a divoce from him, rite off,
for- he's forbid my cuming into his house and he fastens
the door whenever i go there. And nog arter all my en-
divors to make piece in that family and to teach Aloyrah
how to cultivate her husband, she shuts me out of the
house ; but i'm rite up and down, and i stand up for my
own sect. Arter these actions towards me, i've advised
Aloyrah to git a divose from him, for there's a plenty of
men, and if she wants a new husband, she can get a
plenty arter she'sdivosed. As for me, if i had a husband
he'd lnam his plaice very-quick or i'd snake him out o' the
house. -i belong to the smith family and they are a set
of females that always stood up for their own sect. So i
hope you'll jist put this into yure paper to teach men how
they'd ought not to take advantidge of us poor weak win-
min, for wimmin is delicate natured, and any man/that
don't give a woman her rites ought to have his guts
smashed out.
ABIGAL SPINDLESHANK.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Belubed 'Bruddr-en: On dis oderiferous 'casion your
'spected preacher will dilapidate upon. dis portion ob
'scri tr for de edification ob' your sole. Dese am de
words ob de 'postle Lucifer:-
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Dis am a dreadful portentt text, and''lude to grate
many ting, 'specially to- Sophy Jonsing who am keepin'

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRIOH LAGER'BLATER. 3
company wid a niggar from"Portland. Your specterd
preacher hab always been berry keerful not to keep. com-
pany wid de lower class ob de =colored poppylation, 'and
white fokes ob de lower class he nebber will 'peak to at
all. Your 'spected preacher contend heself wid keepin'
company wid Ann Swan who is lastedd to.Big Dick and
Gubbernor Guss, and wid Lizzy Jumbo whowas brot up
in de family oh a white gemman; and dat little niggar in
Cat Alley dat wears de long-tailed blue coat. Sumtimes
he sees disrespectable chaps ob color and gals ob color
in de sullar; but he nebber 'peak 'em. He only look at
'em out oh de corner ob his eye, and-say, what you want
in dis place, niggar ? Your 'spected preacher hab.nossin
to do wid dem niggars down in Ann 'treeet, 'cept Sophy
Wing, bekase she gib your 'spected preacher a pare ob
pantaloon.
Dis text is divided into sebenteen dewisions. De first
diwision is a man, the second diwision isr- his company,
and do todder dewision is what he keeps. De odder do-
wisions is to tedious to mention, and some ob dem ain't
mentioned at all.
Now de fst dewision is de ticklar subject in de fust
place I'm gwoine to slainn to you how de keepin' oh
company wid de lower class am different from keeping'
company wid de higher class. De keepin' ob company
wie de higher class am de way to get into 'spectable com-
pany, and ebery body say 'whew!t dat popylation ob color
'long to de higher class oh society." Dis is de tickler
difference ob de two classes. A niggar dat aspectt to 'long
to de spectable class ob society muss wear long-tail coat,
white tockin and boot. Dose is de di1erent d wisions ob
de higher and de lower class ob society. Your 'spcted
preacher will leaf it to white fokes, and ey wil  ou
dat a niggar dat keeps herself respectful aud comb ou
his wool andl black he boot and~ grease he shoe, and put


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C ,
pomatum on he head, is more 'spectable dan a niggar dat
goes round de docks and leans up agin a lasses hoxit till
he get his trowsis full ob lasses.
De 'spectable class don't eat de same ting as de lower,
class. De lower class when dey go . into de sullar, call
fqr lobster claw, but de'spectable class buy whole lobster
at once. De'spected class hab cracker in dar clam soop,
wid pepperand call for a piece ob jie and spread dar
handkercher in dar lap when dey eat dar vittles to keep
deg grease from smiling dar trowsis. Dis is de difference-
between de lower class and de higher class ob de poppy-
lation ob color.
De second diwision ob de subjeck is de company.-
Company is divided.into two partsde man company and
de woman company-de male, and de female-de fair
sect and de unfair sect. De fair sect is split into two
part agin. De mulatto fair sect and de dark complected
fair sect. De mullatto sect think darself more 'spectable
den de dark-plected. Dat shows de pride ob dese critter,
and pride is agin dar religions. Dey hab no rite to tink
darself better dan odder population ob color, bekase it
am false. Do -'spectable part is eggzackly de color ob
your 'spected preacher. Your 'spected preacher is de
color ob dat stove-nydder black nor yaller, but a kind
ob brown which is is de color ob de bible. You see dat
do kivers ob de bible is brown: well dat is de color ob
your 'spected preacher  Darfore -dem iiggars ob dis
color am de most 'spectable part of the poppylation ob
color. If yo keep company wid dis color, ebery body
will-'tink yon a 'spectable class ob niggar.
. De fair sect company is sometimes kepp by way ob
courti'g; Youmuss be berry 'ticklar to keep 'spectable
company when you court, and darfore I am berry sorry to
tell 'yu- dat Brudder Cole has been arter Charity Phillips
who belongs to de lower class ob niggars. She hab on a

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER. 3
nice white frock! put your 'spected preacher am credu-
ously informed dat her petticoat is made ob patches of
various, colors, and dat her tockin' hab no bottoms to dem
but only de top parts above her shoes ; and her bustle is
nossin but a dish-cloff rolled up and tied togedder wid
rope-yarn.. I 'vise brudder Cole .to try Temperance Wid-
geon, who sets out yander by de stove, and who hab new
quilted peticoat and white 'tockin' dat cum  ps above-her
knee. She belong to de higher class ob niggar, and will
make him as happy as a fried clam if he will marry
her.
Your 'spected preacher hab a pare ob white-top boot to
sell to anybody dat wants to buy them, and dose. boots
am for dem dat wants .to belong to de higher class, price
two shilling apiece for de boots. Half a dollar for boff.
,Black Pete ob Cat Alley hab jest received a lot ob
second-hand tooth-brushes which he will sell cheap to de
trade. You must always clean your teef if you want to
belong to higher class, and you better buy one ob dese
brushes.
Now we shall 'prove upon de 'hole. Your 'spected
preacher is heself, de head and capting of 'spectable' so-
ciety, bekase he is your belubbed pasture .nd is at de
head of you all. Darfore if any ob you ever treat your
spected preacher to anything'to drink in de sullar, or to
bowl ob clam soup, you do yourself a honor, and can say
dat you hab taken a drop wid ,yur 'spected preacher, and
darfore you belong to 'spectable society.
Brudder Peake will'please pass round de hat on die
'portant 'casion.
LAGERhBLATTER'8 LECTURE.
.Mne Goot Peoples : Your minster shall give you von
text dish day :---.


2OMIC LECTURES, &amp;1 .
" COkimy eye 1"
text shall be von very true doctrine.- You ar de
tongue of von person, and te tongue shall tell you von
big lie all tie time. You ax von Dutch girls if yoa shall
kiss her on te lips and she shall tell you no,"sure enough;
ten you shall look her in her face, and say notting, and ax
her eye, and teoeye shall speak te loudest, and shall tell
you yes. Ven I shall 'go to see Mynheer Von Crassus, I
shall. pe told tat he. ish very glad to see me. Ten I shall
look at his eye, and- his eye shall say tat he is very glad
if I shall not come, and tat he shall 4pe glad all to time
ven I shall go apout my pizziness. Tat shall pe to vay
tat youshall ax to eye, and'to eye shall tell you to truth,
ven to tongue shall give you von lie as pig as to house.
Tetongue shall tell you von ting and to eye shall tell
you anotter ting; and to eye shall toll you te truth, pe-
cause it:will not pe so supple as to tongue, vich can pe
crooked up fike vone snake ; but to eye shall stand in te
heyd like to sun, and as it shall take in light, it keepsvon
plenty of light hid avay and shall throw light on von
subject, von to tongue keep you'in to dark apout It;.
Anotterting shall pe very bad when your- vroW shall
x    ax your eye. Tat shall pe von you shall been out to. to
tavern and got to fighting aih4oome back wit a black
eye. , ou shall toll her, tat you have pen to church ; and
and she shall ax your eye; and to. eye shall tell her vere
you shall been.
But ven you shall put spectacle on your eye, ton te
eye shall not tell you notting, ;and if you shall ax to eye
it shal speak like as never vas notting at all.-Ven a. man
who year segotgck eal tell you to ax his eye, he shall
pe like Mynheer Von Butts, who shall ax your minister
inte te house, and jen he shall shut up to door and 'keep
him out. To free-masons in mine country shall have an
eyeon to pictures sure enough, because t eye shall talk

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIED Tf L G R'BLTTR. 9
more dan to tongue of mine vrow, vich sha l talk all to
time. If she shall know how to preach sarmonts as .ell
as your minister, oh ! then I shall .send her here vil I
stay at home and drink te schnapps and smoke mine pipe.
Ven you ish gone to von funeral, ten you shall ax your
eye. to see if you shall pe sorry for to von tat pe dead. If
you vas had an onion in your pocket ten you shall pe sor-
ry in to eyes, ven you put it in your handkerchief, and
put itup to your eyes. Now you shall put to money in
to plate, and ax my eye to see.ven I vas glad if you put
in a plenty of to cash.
YANKEE LETTER
i take my hand to-inform u that i am well and hoap these
fue lyons will find u enjoying the complements of the
seize on,
A lady in this plaice had a very remarkable dream and
wants i should rite to u about it to see if u can teil the
meaning of it,
She dreamed that she saw a red cow; and her :naim
is Patience Hopkins, She never was married but she sez
that she has had forty-five offers and nose on 'em wood
soot her mind. She-is about forty year old. The cow had
only won horn and one of its feet was blue, and" the oth-
ers was led collor. The cow'stale was haff a miile lonyg-
und as she walked about the field, it got hitched fast to
too trees and tript her up Whilst she lookt at the cow,
their was a green hoes thatcum trottin along, and the
hoss stop at lthe goose-pofndto drfik, and,  asd three
geese flew down his throte, and then the hossd alked up
to the cow and begn to lap her with hiot    Then
the cow wound her tale rund the hos 'anand the hose fell
down and was dra tgd mote than half    a mild  Arter
that there cum a flock of swallers over, the fledadthey
so thick that they maid it all dark. Then sheeed a string


N'4

40

COMIC LECTURES, AC.,

let down from one of the moon's horns, and a cat clum
up the string and got into the moon.
This was about the, hull of the dreem, -and she cum rite
up to our house, and she telled mother all about it and
our folks. thort it was, a wunderful dreem, and father-
thinks that some strange thing is-goin' to happen in these
parts.A
Mother thinks there ought to be a town meetin' called
to see about it, becuz if anything strange is goin' to hap-.
pen, we aught to noe it..
All the folks up hear are in 'a grate hurry to see that-
quadrufull notion that's'goin' to cum out, and they -don't
noe what it means, that it don't come out. Praps it's be-
kase it's so big that it takes a grate wile to print. Mo-
ther wants it to hang up before the fire, to make they
chimbly draw. ]raps it will have the hull account of
Patience's dream in it. i wish you would tell them to
advertise in their' paper that 'our cow, Darby by name,
has strayed away, and if it has gone to Bostown mebby
the Notion can find it, and if he will keep it safe in un
corner of his printing-shop, he may milk the critter for
his. own use till we call for it.
The gals all send their luv to :you, and wood like .to'
hay you cum up - to sister Sookey's wedding. 'Bring up
a hulk p-sele of Bostown chaps with you, as the gals hear
would like to see how the Bostown fellers looks. Their
will be dancing and fiddling and a plenty of buttermilk
todin. You can have-. it: sweetened. with- 'lasses if you
like.-
Sookey had her head lookt over by the phrenologer be-
fore her bo wood giv his consent to 'have her.' 'He put his
finger, all over her;head and scratched' her hair all up in
heeps, and mother axed him what he felt, and he sed she
had organs. That's true, for sister Sookey always liked
,to bear the orgah play. Their was +a feller up hear with

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTE1R.4
wun tother day and. he' had 3 munkeys and sumwax fig-
gers for a show. Then he felt of a bump and said it was
figliting and it was very big. Then mother was mad; but
he clapt his hand on the front part and sed she had a big
binnivolens and 'so she wouldn't fiigbt .at all, So 'Mother
was pleased agin. Then, he put his hand on the high
part of her head and sed-she had grate consate of herself.
So mother began to turn red. Then he moved his hand
along and sed she had grate venerableness, so that she
wood think as well of other fokes as of herself. Then he
felt behind her head and sed she was dreadful fond.of the
fellers. So mother began to grow mad agin. Then he
put his two hands on the sides of her head and sed she
had a dreadful big conscience, so that, she wood never do
anything nawty. 'Then he:felt just oyer the back of her
head and sed that she had no conoentiveness and wood
like to change all the time and be fond of new things.
Then her bo began to be skeered ; but he put his hands
down lower and sed she had dreadful big 'hesiveness, and
so she wood stick to her husband like cobbler's wax.
So he went on this way, saying bad things, and then
slicking it over arterwards, for fear mother wood git mad,
and woodn't pay him.
Then mother takes and puts her hands on her hips, and
sez she to the phrenologer--'
'I'll tell you what 'tis Mr. phrenologer, you findsumthin'
about my darter on her head, and theni you find sumthin'
rite agin it, to balance. That's= like -a cow ivin' a pale
of milk and kicking it all over again. Itmajres out my
darter to be bothin' and nobody at all for the bupns is
pulling her both ways, and so she keeps'ritestilland
don't stir one way nor tother. Now°i'noe she aint nobody
bekase she is sumboddy, and if you don't giv my arter
no carackter-at all, i won't pay you at all
That stumped the. phrenologer, for he seed that their
was no way to please her. So he begun sto t~el agin and


42

COMBC LECTU1flS* .

he 'puVis nger rite before her ear, and sed he' Well,
madan, your daughter is a big eater and she likes good
vittes.'
Her bo kinder nestled and sed something about the hard
times, but the phrenologer ketched-upsher hgnds, and says
he' These big hands will am  more than her mouth will
eat'
So that made it all right  agin, and'mother tolled hime
that he had made ev'ry thing square with Sookey, it was
all the square lie would have and so might go about his
bizzines. Now, don't forgitomin. to the weddin.'
Your's    JofN DOUGHBOY.
DEACON SNOWBALLS LECTURE,
Belubbed Bruddren: On dis 'portant'casion your preach-
er 'form dis congreatiori ob color dat he take for de tex de
follerin' tex ob Saint Jehosefat:
Presto-Change !
Dis 'form:you dat ebery ting is done by chang, ob which
de cents in de hat. am de finger. Your 'spected preacher
hab diskivered dat he can hab more pennies drapt in de
hat if heputs put :his sarmonts into de Yankee, de.same
as Commidore Perry- shift his quarters to. de Niagara
when de Saint was gwoine down. Darforeyour 'spected
preacher hab 'greed to print his sarmont in dis paper
hereafter, bekase it is published by den 'same white gem-
man dat printed it in de fust:place.
Daforea)resto-changel''plies dat ebery change in
anytigis made by change put into de pocket: and your.
'spected preacher hab a call to de Yankee in de same
weigh.
Butdar an also changes dat 'flict de mind ob your
'pected preacher and wioh he liff up his voice agin dem.
Dar was de change ob Charity Peake lass summer when

BY DEACON SNOWBALL DAN) UIEDRi LAGER-BLATTEB. 43
she leff your 'spected prreacher to keep comfagy wid Tony
Winkle, and' dar was de change ob Nikolis Wtkins when
he leff of buyin' his clam Soup in de sullar, and took to
eatin' icester.
Dar is also anudder change. Your 'spected preacher
hab no doubt dat dem dat has been slanderin' your 'spec-
ted preacher out ,b church, will change dar tune also.
He already hab a liable sodt in coarse ob coming' on.He
hab 'ply to lawyer Stie-all'tolbring on aisecase. It is Sal
'Widgeon who said dat your 'belubbed preacher hab a
head as thick as a puoit. Darfore shewill be fotcht
up and sewed for reformation of .character 'bekaso she
attacked de character ob your 'spected preacher. It will
be a judgment ob providence ; and de scriptur say dat
de tongue am an unruly member, 'and Sam Widgeon am
all tung, darfore she is an unruly memberob kdis church.
I hope you all take warning from Sal; for  dese tings are
tended for your distinction in righteousness. Also, you
spected preacher hab to 'quest on dis 'portant'oasion dat
uniboddy hab printed one ob his sarmonts in New York
and hab changed his name and called him 'deacon Snow-
drop.' De sarmont belong to your 'spected preacher and
he will not gib his glory to annudder! Your preacher
will punish all dese tings to de ' tremity ob de law.
In course he will, as you will find .out you brack nigger
plasphemes who say dat your spected preacher eats iher-
ring wid his lam soil.
Presto-change ! Am de words ob our text ; and de
fifiteen division 'spress de fack dat sum niggarhab-'speri-
enced a change under de preachen' ob your 'spec dprea-
Cher. Darfore it is his 'pinion dat as you habgot a change
for him, you must gib him some ob your change -in derhat.
He hab ministered spiritual tiugs and 'he-w nt toreap
carnal tings. He hab seWed de good seed in yur hart
and 'spect a good crop oh mnoney in de hat.


.44

COMIO:LJECTURES &amp;C.,

-                           '             d
De fodder diision ob your subjeck 'lde to de word
prestowhit means de priest's toe. In ole times, dey kiss
de big toe ob dar 'spected preacher, and now dat bnigh.
mullatto gal, Merab Phillips had got so proud dat. she
'fuseto kiss de cleek ob your 'spected preacher. She sing
do songob go 'way ole Dan Tucker I' when yonr prea-
cher 'proach her to 'flict a kiss on her ruby hp I what
youtik   flab Tony Winkle a right to lead about a sis-
te  and hab dat short nggar called Blacke .Pete,' a right
s r ,   ,d.       .
to tak two lady ob color to the Phillidelphy leckturs, and
hab yur 'spected'preacher no right to wisitfcle fare sect,
Darfore we divide dis text into two parts, and call him
do right and de rong, which means speritually-right
e                    srdg riht
and rong in Boston. Do women's right society is do right
as. you know by d6 name ; and do he sex aiu in do rong',
in course A. she niggar is on de right side, bekase de
rib was took out ob de 'right side ob de man ; and a bull
niggar am on e rong side, in course.
Darfore wo 'elude on dis 'portant 'casion, and 'quest de
hat to pass round, and Phillss Jonsing will get off your
'pected preache's hat whar she hab" bed setting all de
time,
LAGZR-BLAfl2ER'S LECTURE.,
ne Goot People-~Your minister shall give you dish
text for to-day :-;
'The value of a thiug
I ust:e actly what 'twill bring.
flat ish te vorth of von ting, ishvat he shall bring. If
a dog shall bring your hatout o to voters, ten he shall
pevortho hat. If he shall pring .your prayerbook to
churoh, tegi-he°shall pe vortli von sharmont.
Vat shall pe to value of mine sharmont? It shall pe
moe valge tau I shallget ; for I 'shall spring you to IHea-
venmit my sharmont, and you shall not pay me netting

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDEICI LAGE-BLATTE.4
like as dat ; you shall give me son penny sometimes, and
Mynheer Von Craunderstadt shall sometimes put von so-
pence into te plate. Oh ! it'shall pe very little. It ish
rotting at all ven it shall pe vortlh so much more, to shar-
mont, sure enough. You shall not payhalf price for to
same, and you shallftink I shall not ought to have tat.
Vat shall you pe vorth, if you shall pe vorth vat you shall
pring ? Vat shall you pring? You shall ring m   to
poverty. Tat ish vat you shall pring, sure enough. Ven
you do tat, you may pring another minister, for I shall e
your minister no more i tat times. I shall have enough
of your nonsense mit von cent in to plate, to pay fort
preach.
Ven, you shall marry von vife, she shall pe vorth vat
she ish fetch. If she fetch youth fifty dollars, .ten she shall
'be a vife vorth fifty dollars but if she fetc you five
hundred dollars, and von goot house to lio in,,ten
.",i, e                                  you
can set up to sausage pizziness, Oh! tat shall pe von
vife like vat I shall vant.
But vat shall Mynheer Krouts pe vorth ? I tink h  hall
not pe vorth any goot Vat shall he spring? He shall come
to mine house and pring. to itch to all mine family. Ah !
he shall pe vorth von goot cow.skiin. Arter tat I shall
never see uopoty pring notting to prin into ,mine house
but schnapps and topaccos and pipes, _M shall pe wanted
in te house-keeping pizziness. You shal pe  orthyat
you shall pring ven you shall spring ten pair of reeches
in te church, on youi pack.--Tat shall p0 vorth something
sure enough.
Mynheer Prenderghasts vife shall brought himtenilild
ren. Oh ! she.shall pe vorth vat she shail spring  d
Vat ish to vorth of to ten children? It sh  e vort to
eat up all she shall got in to house and to make l
clothes for all to  hidrel Mig
, an    is all te peters, for I shall got lIke

I=-

It

: ''


8  CO EITUW,&amp;CAI
to see tem come. Vat use shall tey pe, te pad boys and}
 gals to make von ipg noises, sure enough. I shall preal
teir head yen Ishall 'hatve te prats squall. in te house. .I
shall vant to eat mine own schnapps, mine own sausage,
and riine own sour rout, sure enough.
Now I shall sendMynheer Von Brachenboss round mit
te plate, as he shall pe von goot man mit a new house,
and you.will respect this gentlemans and give him von
plenty'of te monish in te plate sure enough. He ish von
goot man to take te monish.
YANKEE 'LETTER.
Farther lost a hog last week. Praps yew have- heered
it down where. you live, for everybody is a working of it
u hear. This was a barrow-i don't eggzackly noe its,
aige, but i wigax about it and find out and lett you noe-
The disease sickened about the last of last year, and
growedwuss before it died. Farther didn't think it was
dan erous at first -but arter it .died, 'he was 'convinced
that it died 'of a fatal disorder. Uncle Josiah cum down
to our housevrite'of when be heered it was ded, and the
town clark cum "up to see about it,
This is the third hog that has died in the family sense
father's remeinrance as he telled. Aunt Jerusha, We
havegot about thiity hogs in all, and' this un was very
young thoit h  'grown up to its full sighs.J But it was
cut offtin the bloom' of youth, in the flower of its days, as
won may say, and it ought to teach us the :unsartinty of
death antthat we must all go, in the same way. Farther
says that his farther had fifty hogs, and he never new won
of em' to dye of'old aige.
We feed  our hogs a good deel on mashed pertaters, and
sumtiriies.wgive them swill. i have the brussles .and sel
them to tlhe she~w makers to mack wacks eends ot on.

Et DEAcON SAO    A AfDRDf   LAGER-BAT 4Z
e make aheep of sastages ithe. fall nd our ripister
made a butiful oatr p on abut it, to show.how the
brethren. of the chrch  as linkedtogether in harpipy
jest like them easseges. It was beautiful- to heer hin.
Mother sez she shall think' .of. t af is neve  tie
that she makes sassagese, The ministeris very fQnd of
sassages and head cheese too; and he takes.tea at our house
whenever we kill.
The biggest eaterer of sassagas up this way is Ruth.
Bloise. She eat bhree links at a setting, and. a healthier
gal you never saw, i wish.i had sich health, It is  on.
derful thing to bay good health, She mez-ures more round
the waist tqan five sich as me axd:her hand looks like a
loaf ,of rine-injun bread. i thortg should go to see her,
but mother sed it wood taik an independat  in to keep
her in. wittles, aadrso she.will have to marry same sity
merchant that has lots-of munny i  the bank.
Jim peas has gone down-to yoirsitty to git 'ino-some
good bizziness. Theseis the description of Jim, o that
if you see him,. you noe hp. sB's got a salt and pepper
coat on, and cording pantherloons apd new boots well
greezed, and{ a pwpfelt hat and blew stocins a4d a strip-
ed w stcoat. ]Te ware.gloves on his hsnds, So when
you' sea hin, you ,cnujest givesister Azubah's luv to him
and tellhim thatshe's very oeum sense h is gone and
she hasr a, better to him and yo  may  t it in your
paper,-and hear i s
' Aff~shnate ur-
i taik  ypmuin hand to inform yew that we are well
in heltdh and. hopeathat yeware in the same blessi  The
barrow is.4e9    so, ws complainingwhenyoujeftiabut he
lost his helt entirely arter that. He was a grate deel
wuss before he dyed. _]1aol Jim wanted fartherto giv
him the corpe ar he 'could,-salt it down for the Bostown
ma1kkeght,,uarther sed he thort it his duty to give it'


r.

48        COMIC LECTOREB, 40.,
chrittian burial, specially as Jim didn't offer to pay him
a single scent for it, but wanted to get it for nothing. It
was berried up on the hill by the place where the old
barn stood.
Now Jeems i hoap yew have got down to bostown and
hay got to be a bostown gentlemail,. you won't forget
them that you've left behind and that has a feelin' for
yew, for if you haven't won you can't expect to keep a
person's mindL if there is any gals in bostown that tries
to steal away yure effections, ye*W must tell'em that yew
hay got a warchus sweetheart in the country hoo luvs
you like her 2 eyes, tho' i don't say'that myself as mother
sez i must not tell yew how much i luv yew; iut i must
naik yew-despair and get on yure nees and sware infer-
lal constantly, and all that.
if yoni reznane constant and behave yourself, and lay
up munny then i -will hay you and be published, 'and i
hoap that you will'be very quick, for' their is 3 fellers
arter me now, and i have refused'em, but they stick close
all the time ; and i -can't hold out much longer.
One of them is John Isaacs, arid you noe he is very
pretty and he sez i am as sweet as honey. He lade his
head in my lap tother nite and sithed and sithed and i
pittied him so i didn't know what to do, for my tender
hart was as' Qft as soap greese; and so i stroked him
with my hand on the head and patted- him on  e back
and telled him to be happy, for i was engaged to yew ;
b-it i tolled him that if yew proved false i would hav
him. He sed he loved me as well as he did a raw turnip,
and that yew would find other gals in bostown. But I
spose he telled a lye about that; and that yew never look
at no other gals bekase yew hav won in your -mind.
So no more at present from
Your Beloved
AzuBA BinowN.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIE DRICH LAGER-BLATTER.49
- When yon see Jeems, you may tell him we all send our
luv to him, and I wish you would ax him home to tea.
Tell your wife that he is very fond of presarved quince if
she has any.
i hoap you will print Azubah's letter in your paper
for we don't noe what part he lives in, and if you print
the letter he will see it in the paper, and he will have a
chance to noe Azubah's mind.
Your's till deth,
J. BRoWN.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Belubbed Bruddren : On dis 'portant'casion your'spect-
ed preacher 'tarpret de follerin varse ob de 'postle Miller
for de obstication ob dis 'lightened congregation tb
color-
'Hush!'
Dis is de 'spressive language of our text, and 'lude to
de fack dat you muss all hush and keep silence when &amp;our
'spected preacher am engaged in his sarmont. It is de
business of your speaker to teach, and you muss keep
silence and 'tend to what he tell you. You muss believe
ebery word dat he sez, bekase your preacher am 'pointed
to teach you de truff. Dis text am divided into seventeen
parts. De fuss part hab 'lusion to de fac dat if you hush
you will hear ; and hearing is -diwided into de ear and de,
tongue : bekase if dar was no ear, dar would be nossin
to hear wid, and if. dar was no tongue, dar would be no
word to hear.
Darfore, ydu 'spected preacher hab took notiss dat a
grate many ob de cloff hab got leaf ob dar congregation
to go to England for dar hW. Your 'spected preacher
tink it is time dat he went somewhar too in de same man-
ner. Darfore he propose to dis congregation oh color dat


50             ,COMIC LCTUREB, &amp;c.
his helf is rather dilikit, and he should like to be gwoine
off sumwhar to git good helf. He tink dat if he go up to
Sopus, jist below Albany, dat he 'cover his helf and make
him a new man rite off. Dey hab bery big passage ups
dar, and your'spected preacher like to taste 'em, wid but-
termilk and fat pork. De price for 'spected preacher to
travel to dat place will be twenty dollar ; but if you make
up ten dollar, he can foot it half way and get a lift on de
waggons as dey pass along. You can make up 'scriptions
for dis journey and leave: de money at de sullar, to de
keer of Sarah Jonsing, who will hab a bowl ob clam soup
for her trubble. I 'spect dat you will send off your'spect-
ed preacher and niuke tp de noney berry quick : for dar
is a gal ohbolor up dar dat waits to court your 'spected
preacher.
Do thud division ob our text 'lude to de credit system.
Dat system concarn de sail ob clam soup in de sullar..
When dey are called on for dar pay, dey say-hush ! Dey
don't want dat, you 'peak 'em.~ 'Cordingly your 'spected
preacher hab been 'pointed collector, to go 'round and get
de money dat is due de sullar. Dar is to be a party to go
on a slay-ride niLt Satterday.. Dey will meat at de sullar.
Dis party will be berry select. Dar will be tree white -
ladies from Lynn and two nigger-ladies ob color from
Long Island. On dis'portant 'casion de slay will be driv
by Tony Bloom and Cesar will prowide a big cow's hide
to kiver up de. ladies. He hab de promise ob one at de
slhwter-house.. We shall ride out as far as de spruce beer
shop of our friend Tony Winkle, whar will be a splendid
repast prepared by him for de 'casion, wid pig's feet and
Graham bread, and a little bit ob apple-sass. Arter dat
we drink, half to de desolation ob de union, and mass
Philips expect to be dar, and to deliver speech for which
we shall take up collection in de hat. On dat 'portant
casion we shall use do 'hat ob Sam Phenix, as he hab a
big head, and de hat will hold more dan de odder bat.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGEREBLATTER. 51
De speritual meanin' ob die text and de 'provenient ob
de whole comes under one head. De speritual ob dis-text
is hush in de soul, which means quiet and piece ob mind.
De best way to get dis state ob mind is. to take plenty ob
Brandreth pills to -drive de wind outob de 'tomach ; for
dar is no piece Qb mind, while you hab de wind rumbling
in de 'tomach. It pake so mutch noise dat it 'sturb do
mind all de time. Dat is de lass diwision ob de subjeck,
and your 'spected preacher hope 3you bother him no more
'bout ,de matter. He hab labored in dis winyard till he
'quire rest, and hope you make up collection rite of to
send hin to Sopus for de benefit ob his helf, Cesar will
darfore pass round de hat for 4s ticklar 'casion.
LAGER-BLATTER'S LECTURE.
Mine goot Peoples : I shall give you dish text at dish
time:.
' Strike! for your native land!'
Dish shall pe von text for de soldiers-te prave soldiers
of to Hollands, vich is to pravest soldiers in to vorld!
You shall hear of Admiral Von Tromp who shall sweep.
all to seas mit a proomstick, like mine vife shall dr
apout fifty Yankees out of te house von toy shall not pay
for to schnapps. Von Dutch voman shall flog two Englih
and five Yankee.
Von man shall see tat to text shall not'p right for to
Hollands,-as it should pe, strife fo  r native vater, pe-
cause to Hollands vash live under vater; pute   pe-
thinik ye shall pe vo fish. Ve shallvbuild houses on to
vater, and shall not live in to voters. To land ishs otter
deir and you shall have to vaters to vash everything clean.
It shall pe petter ven youish have to land and water both.
Toy teell ou strik te for your native land, But
toyshllno stik fr eir native land here-to Yankees


52

COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

shall not strike. You see all tat in te Texas and Horri-
gons sure enough. If dish Texas shall' pe in Hollands
you shall see to king raise von large army ,right off and
shall go mit te swords and to drums and te flags of truce
and shall cutoff te heads of all te Mexicans and burn up
teir houses, and shall make tem all change to religions
and have von right religion, sure enough. But te Yan-
kees shall be afraid to go teir to fight : tey shall not strike
for their native land. Tey shall pe von goot for rotting.
Yen you shall see to Dutch fight, ten you shall see some-
ting tat shall pe like; for tey shall pe to soldiers tat ish
more petters as netting at all.
Vy shall notte Yankeesg to te Horrigons and pull
ont ter long sword and cut off te heads of te British. It
shall pe pecause tey shall pe afraid, sure enough. If tey
shall not pe afraid, ten tey shall be teir, sure enough. If
te Yankees shall go to war mit to Dutch, ten you shall
see how tey will make te Yankees run. Te Dutch vash
so prave ven tey fight mit te British, tat te british hall
be afraid to come at all, and teir shall pe no fight.  Tey
shall pC afraid to get such a licking as never shall pe, and
tey stay at home..
Ter shall pe-von otter way tat ve, in mine country,
shall strike for our native laud. Ven ve shall strike te
flag. Ah !-nobody shall strike to flag q vell .as tey do
in to Hollands, yere tey shall strike it a great many time
for to natives land. Mynheer Von Schatts shall put
around te plate to-day.
YANKEE LETTER.
Mistur Printur: Ant Jenning has had the tooth-ake so
bad for the last .fortnit that she sez it. seems as if she'
couldn't liv. Sum of the nabors hav' axed her to hav' it
pulled out: but she couldn't think of it. The dooktor's
pnrintice was up heer tother day and argufied with her an

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER-
our about it: they talked and tauked, but she beet him so
that he couldn't say another word; for ant is grate on an
argument. Arter he went away, the dockter cum up him-
self, and tauked most butiful to her about it. He telled
her about old Missus Ring that had a tooth pulled, and
she held up her mouth and let him put in the pinchers
without saying a single word till it was cleen out of her
head.
The dockter coaxed and coaxed, and they tauked over
all the news in, the place, bekase the docktor thort he
could git her to hav' it pulled if he telled her allthe news,
and he gits 25 cents for every tooth that is pulled out:
but whenever he showed his thing, with its terrible head
to it, she wouldn't let him put it in, but she squeezed her
lips together,'and telled him it would be the deth of her.
At last he went off without pulling it out: but i can re-
member most of the news that he yelled ant, bekase i was
in the room all the time.
He sed that Jeemes Brown and Seraphina Grissle was
sartinly coarting won anuther, artery all that was sed
about it by Sarah Prestin, the old made. I spouse you've
all cheered that.Sarah sed it wooddend nevver be a match,
bekase Saraphina couldn't endure inions, and Jeemes was
horrid fond of 'em. But the docktor sez they will sartin-
lybe marred, bekase he seed Seraphina mending Jeemes's
pantalons.
,besides that, the dockter telled us about Jim Jewel and
his wife. He sez that -they hav' been married only three
munce and that they quirrils and fites like cats and dogs.
-He sez that the last time he went their he cheered 'emn
tocking verry violent, and so he stopt and listened at the
dore, as he bleevedit his dooty to hear what they sed.
He heered Jim say to his wife, 'i'd-as live kiss a skunk
any day as to kiss you.
Then she sod--.'Oh, yes, but i saw you looking at the


54              COMIC LECTURES, &amp;O.,'
nasty good-for-othing Susan Burd all the time you was)
in church. r You'd like to kiss her with her long, black
neck, anifrusty teeth, i no verry well.'
Then he sed-' She's better lookin' than you bee, at any
-   ted-                                          -
rate.'S
Then is wife scotch up the pudding-stick and telled him
that if- he sed that agin she wood thrash him within a inch
of his life
Then the doctor opened the dore and went in, for fewer
sum boddy wood be kilt. As soon as he went in, they was
both as still as mice, and called each other 'my deer' as
long as he staid their. He sed that if he haddened over-
heerd them, he should hav' thort they wos a very happy
couple.
Then he teller us about old Joe Dickson hoo doant ex-
h pect to liv' long and hoo doant no hoo he shall leeve his
property to. The minister tells him it is his dooty to leeve
it to the church, and the docktor tolled him he ort to leeve
it for to establitch a skool for larning doctoring, and offer-
ed to taik charge of it when he dyed.
The docktor telled us abut Maria Goose, the old made,
hoo is in love with all the men she seas. He sed that
she telled him she couldn't do much longer without a man,
and azed him what was the reising they didn't have her.
He telled her bekase they want able to 'presihate her re-
bill ties; but he teller us that it wos bekase she had sitch
a long knows and a chin, and bekase that her breth was
like cats that lay in the sun a weak arter they hav de-
parted _this life~.
The d    or telled us a great many other things, and
amungst the rest, about a feller that dresses spruce and
wares straps to his pantaloons. named George Dump. He
sez that this feller his gin, me a good karkter and sehi
was hansum and all that sort of thing. I never seed him
but once, but i suppose that was enuff for me to taik his

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LASERBLATTE-55
i. When i cum to ax him more about it, hesedthat Dump
was so scrusly in love with me that their was no.doubt
he wood go crasy or commit homicide if i didn't give him
sum hoaps.
Arter the docktor was gone, i put on my bunnit and
went up to see Sally Lewis hoo is acquainted with Dump,
and telled her to tell Dump that he mite hay' hoaps; and
Sally stared at me as if i wos a gost or a Swedenborg-
iannite, and she axed me if i didn't no that Dump was
engaged to be. marrid. i felt mad enuff when i -heered
that and i flew out at her like a re4pepper. At last she
axed me hoo telled me that Dump was in love with me,
and when i yelled her it was the docktor, she busted rite
out a laffiug, and she aed that he telled all the gals that
they was hansum, and that the fellers was in love with
'em.
I intarmined to find out the rites of, and i got Josef to
ax Dump if he had any thorts of committing bommicide
on my acount, and he sed he hadn't thort of yet, but he
diddened no what he mite do, and then he snickered out
a'laffing like a grate kafL
- Them's all the nuce up heer at present, tho' i think i
shall get a bo in the spring, as their will be a kamp
meating hear and then their is always a plentee of bo's
from other parts, and it's queer if i can't pick up sum fel-
ler, and if he doant hav'me i can soo him for breech ot
promiss.                           SAwY TUNNIL.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
BelubbedBruddren:  Owin' to the circumstance dat
your spected preacher hab-been pointed a missionary to
Babylon on Long Island, to convert a injin squaw dat libs
m dat worcinity, he shall take de follerin text:
'Oysters! oysters i here your weon tasted oysters 1'


56               COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C',
Dis is do 'pensive language ob dem 'possles dat cry
aloud and spare not ; dey lilf up dar voice in de 'treet,
and dey cease not day nor night, bekase dey git darlivin'
by it. I spose you all noe dat de icester am a quadruped
dat libs in a shell, one Cn de top and de. todder on de bot-
tom. Dis ar de case wid de icesters, among de nuts. He
is a live nut habing shells and meat in de inside. De fust
diwission ob our text 'spress de word 'icesters.' Dis hab
no lusion to icester bay; but it 'ply dat it is not only a
icester, but more dan one icester., I 'splain him fer you,
Spose Peter Widgeon 'tand up in dis pulpit 'long side ob
your 'spected preacher, den dar is more dan one man in
de pulpit, Darfore dis is de sense ob de text-dat dar ar
icesters and not icester and not icester, and dat is more
dan one icester. Dan dar is anudder 'ting 'bout dis -mat-
ter. Praps dar is sum people ob color in dis 'ouse dat
nebber hab de 'wantage ob an eddication like your 'spect-
ee preacher. Dey may 'tink dat icester is -de. same ting
as a clam ? Dar now ! take keer how you 'rest de script-
er tell you 'spressly dat dis is a icester and 'not a clam.
How you''spect to save your sins if yotn 'tarpret scrip-
tur in)dis way ? I tell you what, niggar, if you come to
dis house and larn nossin heah, you will go away widout
de sense of scriptur.
De second 'diwission ob our text am de word 'oysters'
again. Dis is bekase de fust icesters and de wulgar uiean-
ing, and de second icesters am spiritual. Dar is a differ-
ence 'tween de fust kind and de spiritual kind. De spirit.
ual icester means de word dat is preached-by your 'spect-
ed preacher. Dem dat has de true faith open dar mouth
and swall 'em down widhout winking. Dat is de way
de word should be received. It should be swallowed-
down hole in dat manner. But you tink you 'spected prea-
cher diwide do word. Yes, you rack scorpions, but how
does he diwide it ? He ,'wide it in do raw state. He

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICHI LAGER-BLATTEI- 57
open de mneanin' ob de text'like openin'~dat quadruped
called icester, and den he gib you, de meat to swallow.
De odder diwission of our 'text hab de words-' Here's
your well tasted oysters !' .What is de meaniil' ob dis?
I tell you. I spose you hab seen them plug a wattermil-
lion; well deytaste 'em fust before dey buy. Berry well
now yon undertan' 'em andwe go to 'prove upon de hole
Dat colored lady dat libs in Patty Jenkin's suller hab
'greeddto whitewash dis lIouse. Dis hab ticklerr 'lusion
to de subject ob icester; bekase de lime is made ob ices.
ter shell and clam shell, and de whitewash is ,made ob
lime. Darefore icester'plies a clean bach, as lime makes
'tings clean. Your 'spected preacher hab eludedd dat he
nebber will hab dis house whitewashed no more;- bekase
is is 'proach agin de people ob color. He will hab a new
kind ob black-wash invented ; def de house will be color-
-ed as well as your 'spected preacher and de rest oh do
congregation.-
Sumboddy took de handkercher out ob your specterd
preacher's pocket by mistake. If he bring it back, no
question will be axed him, as it will 'peak for itself. Sum
ob dem white boys in do gallery dar put awdrownded kit-
ten in de hat todder nite, when it was passed 'round. I
'speck dey nebber was well brought up-er dey noe better
dan to bring dead kittens in dis place. Arter dis discourse,
your 'spected preacher mey be found in de sullar by any-
body dat wants to treat.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
SBelubbed Brudden: Your 'spected preacher hab been
adwised to 'preach a charity sarmont for de benefit ob
himself to stir up de pure mind by way ob remembrance
obyour specterd preacher; for do poor you hab always
wdyou, and your preacher am poorer dan any oh you in

4T


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;O.,
dis world's goods though he am richer dan all ob you
put togedder in speritual-tings. Darfore we take de fo-
lowin' text:--
Expenses of printing and binding-five hundred dollars.
Dis language is from de -account ob de Expenses ob,
de corporation. Ue carnal mind can't understan' de sper-
itual meanin' ob dis text. It hab two meanin,' for dar
am two sides to ebery ting, and some tings hab four sides;
but dar am two sides to our text. One ob dem is de
speritual meanie,' and de todder am de carnal meaning ,
Do speritual meanin' hab reference. to your 'spected
preacher.
Your spected preacher is diwided into seven parts.
De fust part is his head; de second part is his tuo arms;
his third part is de body; his fourf part is his legs; de
fifth part is his feet; -de six part is his heel; and de seb-
enth part is his toes; all dis exackly agrees wid )de des-
cription ob de image seen by Nebby Cud Neezar. Dar-
fore dis image is a profficy ob you specterd preacher who
dwas to come in dese last days, and dat part which says
dat his toes was half toe and half clay 'lude to de fack
. dat your 'spected preacher don't wash his feet berry often
and de dirt get between de toes ob your 'spected
preacher.
Darfore de words ob de text say-' Experiences ob prin-
ting and binding-$500.'
Dis text must be taken in 'connexion wid de image and
'ide to de seen diwision ob your 'spected preacher; be-
kase he is ob de clergy, and you know dat my coff hab
de priviledge ob binding on dis airth ebery ting dat is
bound in heben. Do you spose dat if dem dat. does dis
binding in dis world hab $500, dat your 'spected preacher
is to hab no pay for binding tings in heaben.
Den dar is de printing too, which 'lude to do fack dat

K{
BYDEAON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 59
your 'spected preacher's sarmont is printed, Darfore de
pay for printing and binding ought to bea good sight
more dan $500, bekase speritual tingis worth more dan
earthly ting.
Darfore de fust dewision oh our text is your 'spected
preacher's head, which answers to de head ob de image.
Dis head was ob gold, and dar is some gold and silver
too in your 'spected preacher's head at dis moment. Den
de arms and body ob de image was silver; your 'spected
preacher, wish to take silver in his armns. Arter cum de
feet which is iron and dat am de. color ob your 'spected
preacher's feet. His feet am brack -like iron. Darfore
dis am a true profficy ob your ' pected reacher
N ow we look at de seben parts of -your'spectedpreaher.
In de fust place comes de head which quiress a hat to put
on it.- Den his hair must be dressed by de barber and he
must get shaved. Now all dis 'quire de expence ob twenty
dollars a year for de head ob your 'spected preacher. Den
,dar is de arms and body ob your spected preacher which
'quire coat and west, and shirt, and cravat and collar, and
do 'hole expence ob dese in a, year am a hundred. dollars
for de arms and body ob your 'spected preacher. Next
comes de legs, and dat 'quires to be clothed, his breeches
and drawers which am de expence ob -a hundred dollars
in a year. Den comes de feetand toes which 'quired shoe
and tocking and dey am de expense of fifty dollars a
year, and dare is de cloak witc5 am fifty more. Darfore
de seen diwisions ob your 'spected preacher 'quire do
sum of 320 dollars for one year. Den dare am 180 dol-
lars left and dat is 'quired to pay his bill at de sullar, to
wash his close and black de boot of your 'spected preach
er. Darfore 'you see dat it amount to jest $500, which
agrees exackly wid do text, and prove dat do text 'hide
Daror   stehal reerupon do 'hole oh your 'spected


60               COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,
preacher. Do you think dat you make up dis 'sum by
droppin' a cent in de hat once in a while?. You better
look out how you 'fraud de treasury ob de church. On dia
count dar will be a fair got up topay all de expenses ob
youth 'spected preacher. 'We shall hold de fair in dis place
on de thirty fust ob febuary. De follerin' articles will be
exposed of on dat 'portant casion-:-
A pair ob nit drawers worn by our late friend and brud-
der Sam Jonson.
Five tLousand gross ob tracts rit by Massa Miller to
prove de profficy.
Fifty quarts ob clam took out ob de shell.
A red rooster warranted 1o whip any odder fowl ob de
kind in dis part ob creation.'
A silver watch dat is all complete, and wants nossin
but new insides to it, as de works is not dar.
A thousand ob last year's almanacs.
A brick bat dat was thrown at Massa G--, in de
great bobbolition riot.
A lot ob jewsharps widout any tongues.
Seven brooms widout any~sticks to 'em.
One side ob a pare ob tongs.
A hat brush without brussles.
A likeness ob your 'spected preacherwidout de head.
Besides dese is many odder articles too 'ticklar to
mention.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER. 61
LAGER-BLATTER'S LECTURE.
Mine Goot Peoples: Your minister shall give you von
sarmont at dish day, in dish text--
'I had as lieve my words were spoken by the town-crier.'
Dish text shall speak to you apout to preach and to way
tat you shll preach.-Teir shall pe a great many ministers
and only a few of tern shall know to make to preach. To
text shall tell of von tat shall hire te town-crier to give to
sarmont. Tat shall pe von very goot vay, sure enough ;
pecause tern people tat shall not corte to church shall hear
te preach too, and ten tey shall get te religion all apout
to streets ; but-vere shall pe 4e plate? Tat ish to pad
ting. Teir shall pe no-plate. If I shall pay to town-crier
to do to preach, who shall pay me for to trouble ? Te
church shall have von bell, and so shall to town crier ; so
he can ring to bell and give to preach. He shall make
you hear pecause it shall pe his trade to hay von voice,
as it shall pe mit a pig who shall make you hear sure
enough.              S
When I shall give mine sarmont to the town crier to
speak it, he shall charge me more tan you put in to plate,
else I shall hire him to do it, and-estay at home to drink
my schnapps and schmoke mine pipe. Dat shall pe von
ghentleman minister who shall hav von servant to do the
preaching, ven he shall do nothing but vat he shallplease.
I shall not hire a man to schmoke the pipe and trink th
schnapps for me. I shall take tft responsibility mineself
ven to schnapps and to pipe ish to subject.
Mynheer Von Schmidt, Mynheer Von-OGrass, and Myn-
heer Blunderhasset, shall pe to trustees of dis church.
Ven you shall vant to get married, or ven you wish to be
paptised, you shall go to one of to trustees to pe paptis-
ed. Your minister is let aut all tem tings to tem ghen-
tilemen by to job for, ten dollars a year, and you shall pay
temn for teir trouble vot toy sholl charge. you. Tat shall


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;.,'
take to trouble off te hands of your minister, and he shall
have te monish in advance all at once from tem ghen-
temen,,and tey shall take it in as fast as tey shall get it-f
Tey shall talk apout giving your minister von public
dinner. All tem tat ish in favor of te dinner shall hold
up te hand. Every von of you tat hold up te hand shall
put in sixpence for te dinner. Tese tings ish pe eaten at
te dinner vich shall pe so great vot never shall pe.. Tree
roast turkey, von Holland's cheese, two strings of te
sausages, and von bushel of cold slaw, mit haff a barrel
of vinegar.
YANKEE LETTER.
Mster Sur: i pose you haven't heerd' nothing from
down our way this good wile. The gals is generally pitty
quiet and lets the fellers alone, tho' their's two of of 'em
that's dreadful furce arter me awl thee time.
Won on 'em is Johanna Blue. She sais she's intarmined
to hav' me for a husband or dye in thee pursoot. .I spose
thairs no law to maik a feller marry a gal if he doint
want her'; and i've vowed that i won't hav' Johanna. Her
mother maid a party and giv' me a invite, and then she
ke    raising Johanna awl the time we was eeting auper,
end telling how she could make maik a shurt as well as
she could, and how she :as the greatest housekeeper that
ever lived: but'they can't maik me bleeve awl that, for
her stockings ar out at the heel, and she oes slip-s'
around the house awl the time.      doos slip-s
Every Sabbuth, she sets in her pue and looks at me as
if she was going to eat me up with her ize, and once she
got a pare of specktacles and put on, to maikvme think
.fshe was a grate lady, so tha imite fall in love with her:
but it's no kd of use: i  nfall in love in my hart for
her and i won't hay' her if she cries her tue ize out. Sum-

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTR. 63
times she cums up to our house, and sets nixt to me at
the table, and is awfull perlite, and wates on me, and
hands me the cake and bread, and axes me how i feel this
afternoon. 'Once she put her arm 'round my neck and then
i thort i shood hav' busted for sartain.
Tother gal that's arter me is named Deliverance Grime.
She lives away up by thee Skunk Pond,. and she's rather
an old gal. Mother wants me to marry her, bekase she
sais that Deliverance will be like a muther to me, and
wood mend my close and taik kee~r of me ; but she has a
long knows, and thee other day when she undertook to
kiss me, she stuck it into my mouth which -maid me so
mad i was a good mind to hav' bit it.
Her farther and mother was down to our house tother
day and they had a long talk with the old fokes jest as
if I was engaged to be married-to Deliverance. They'ar
dreadful ankcious to git her married off to sumboddy be-
kase she is gitting old. - i mite hav' took her jist to ob--
leege thee old fokes, if she haddent hay got sitch a long
knows, and you can't kiss her till she turns it out of .hee
way anny more than you can go into our cow yard before
the gate is pushed open.
'1'other day the old fokes left us loan, and then Deliver-
ance sot a wile lookin' at me, and arter a bit, she takes a
long breath and lookt cross enuff to bite a feller, and sais,
- Seams to me you're not verry soshible to thee ladys
too day Simeon.'
I felt mad bekase she looked so ugly at 'me, and sais i
-'Mebby i aint and mebby i am.'
Then she giv' a consarnned grunt, and put up her han-
kercher to her eyes. These femail critters can cry as easy.
as it ranes in April, and i'd seen sitch things be4. There
was Alpheus Hopkin's wife, the shewmaker, hoo use to
cry whenever she wanted a new- bonnit,- tho' her tother-
won 'was better than she desarved. At last he broke her


64

COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

of that by giving her a good strapping whenever she
maid a fuss, and as sune as she had to cry for sumthing,
she left off crying for nothing.
So when Deliverance put up her handkercher, i-begun
to whistle as loud as i could. Then she stopped crying
bekase it was of no use; and-when she pulled away her
handkercher, i seed that there want a single teer on her
face-it was all purtence, like that. infernul niggar that
sold us a pig last winter, 'and cum back and stold it the
same nite. i was so mad i was a good mint to hav' cotch
her by the throte and choked her out of the room. Then
she lookt at me agin, and when she seed i didn't speek, she
axed me if i didn't no thatfather and muther wanted ewe
should be united in the bondage of weedlocks. i telled
her i didn't want nothin' at all to -do with her, and that i
wouldent 'marry her for her wate in sollid goold. Then
she axed what i noed agin her carakter, that i wooddent
hav'her. i telled her crakter was neither hear nor their,
that i wooddent hav her if it was nothin' only her long
knows. She sed her knows was just 'as God maid it.
i tefied her that so was the old sow jest as God maid her;
but i cooddent think of having her for awl that. That
stumpt her, and she jumpt up ynd went out of the room,
and sed she would tell, mother how i had suitedd her, and
she would haverevenge for it.
Jest as she was going out -of the room, Johanna Blue
cum dancing in and met her in the dore. Then you'
ought to hav' seen what a time there was. It was like
tue mad cats tied up together in a bag. In the fust
plaice, they both lookt rite at each other as red as a live
cole, and past by a few steps. Then they both turned
and thee fur flew like a snow storm. They called each
other all sorts of names, and I bleeve that if' mother and
father haddent run between'em, they wood hav' bit each
other's heads off. As for me, 'i diddent keer how soon they

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 6
kilt one another. i wish they'd both staid away and
leeve me aloan. If they want to git married so bad, Sam
Botts will hav' 'em both.
Yours forever,
SIMEON BUGGS.
LAGER-BLATTER'S LECTURE.
Mine goot Peoples: Dish vat shall pe te text to-day ish
in de vords:
He little dreamed, when he set out,
Of running such a rig.
You shall set out a great many times ven you shall not
know ver&amp; you ish going Tat shall pe te meanings of
dish text tat I shall give you.
Ven I shall set out to come to dish country ten years
ago, I shall think I vos be going to a country vere to
folks shall pe civilized like tey shall be in te Hollands.
Your minister shall find he shall be got into a place yore
to men shall not know how to schmoke te pipe and, to
vomans shall not know how to skate Vot sort of lad
shall you call tat, yere to vomans shall not skate ? -
Ven you shall get married, you shall not know vere
you ish going ? You shall tink tat teir -vill pe notting
but honey-moons, and tat your vrow vill be von such
good vomans as never shall pe. But you find out very
soon. It shall pe like ven you buy a gold chain at to
auction shop. As soon as to guilt shall be rubbed off
you find she shall pe rotting but von piece of coppers, mit
plenty of brass in to face.
Sometimes you shall set out to come to church, and you
shall shall see von shop mit topacco and schnapps, 'and
shall go in their and sell your prayer-book for something
goot. Ten you go. yore you shall not expect to go von


0 3

' COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

you shall set 'out, true enough. Tat ish very pad, but'
teir shall be worse as tat. You shall tink you ish go to.
heaven: but you shall find ven you never pay for' te
preach mit te monish in te plate, tat you shall.go some-
vere else. You is be run von rig ven you. get to te otter
place ' and ten you say you never, vash tream ven you
set out. Ten you shall tream someting petter now.
Te text shall tell you apout von treams. Vat shall you
tink of tat? Shall you not, pelieve in von treams ? Teir
shall pe no treams in dish country: but in mine country,
their shall pe much tream. You shall tream of von cat,
and you shall have von enemy to bite -you in 'de back,
sure enough. You shall tream of te fires, and you shall
fight mit somebody and get von plack eye. Ah! tat shall
pe a country vere you shall have tream. Teil shall be
Finn in mine country from te Finlands and he shall pe
like von vitches to tell-you vot shall come to pass yester-
day. He shall be acquainted mit te tuyvil as vell as you
shall pe acquainted mit your minister. He shall tell
your fortune in everyting vot you shall ask him. Tat
shall pe te Finn vat shall pe in mine country. But in
dish country, you shall have no Finn, nor vitches, nor
tream, nor notting at all but te politics.
YANKEE LETTER.
Mister Edditor: i taik my pen in hand, in hopes that
these few miserable lions will be excepted in youre paper
and hope you be enjoyin' the sameblessin.' It is of a :
millancolly thing that has happened in these parts and
has maid a tok all over the villedge and the minister has
been up their to see about it and feyther sez he shoodi't
wonder if their wos to bee a law soot about it.
It is of a. .artuous gal that is of a relation to us wich

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICR LAGER-BLATTER. 67
maiks it the more dreadful.. She is enermost 04 year aig
and has been -sedoosed by a prom ass of .mariidge by
Sighlass Konklin. She has got only one eye and the squire
sais that Sighless got the blind side of her. Her name is
Mehitable Goodenuff and she was down tofeyther's and
she and mether had a grate cryin' spell about. it, and she
telled how he cum up their and how he sedoosed her ten-
der hart and she rote hint a letter.
I heered all about it up town where i went to carry
corn to the mill. You sea that Sighlass had got himself
a new soot of gray close and he greeted up his shoes and
went to meetin'! So Mehitable seed him. cum into the nixt
pue to the one that she sot in. So she handed him the
him-book out of perliteness, but she sais that if she had
none how he was goin' for to akt, she would hav' let him
find his own him-book. Then to think of it, that he was
only aiteen yeer old and he go to sedoose a ooman that
was old enuff to be his mother ! That looks a grate deel
wuss' than if he had took a gal of his own size, for it
shews that he had no respecks for old aige.
So when she give him the him-book, he took and turned
over the leaves, and Mehitable watched him all the time,
and he didn't read a bit. Then she kinder leaned over
the side of her pue and laid her arm on his'n thinkin' no
harm of that as he was so inutch the youngest. Then she
telled him softly that she should like to have him call at
the house andsee 'em. But he didn't call all that weak
and she thort it was-very disrespectful. So she put on
her things, and went up to his feyther's house, and she
axed him the raisin that he hadn't been down to sea her
and she axed' him to go out and wok with her into the.
woods.
So he went out with her and then she toked to him very
lane, and she axed him if he wasn't ashaged t6 use his
parts to captivate hier tender hart, and to pretend that he


68

COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

wa all in flames on account of her, and she asked him if
he ne w what was th e punishment for desateful lovers, an,
she told him that she new it was her duty to forward himd
and axed him if he wasn't sorry for what he had done and
for bein' a gay d-seaver. Then he up'd and telled her he
didn't no what she ment and sed how he never had d-'seav-
ed her at all! Then you may think how she felt to hav
him as mutch as tell her she lyedi!!! So she felt so bad
about it that she laid her head - on his boozum and wept
aloud. Then i spose that he begun to repent of his bad
conduct, for he telled her that he never intended to hurt
her. That olny ma d her cry wuss to think that he should
tell such a rong story like..
Then Mebitable telled him she would forgiv' him  be-
kase it was her duty to forgiv' them that injures us, and
she took hold of his hand and laid it on her boozun and be
sez she did it to show him that she had forgiv him in her
hart. But he wouldn't confess that he had d-seeved her.
So she got up off the stump that she was settin on, and
she telled him that he had very handsome eyes and then
she put her arms around his neck and kissed him, and sais
she--' Now Silass, i hav' fulfilled the scriptur and i hav
forgiv you for d'sevin' me and tryin' to brake my tender
heart, and i think it is yure duty to give me a prom ass
of marridge to show me that you didn't meen any harm ;
for if you don't do it, i shall hav' you taken up for tryin'
to sedoose my virgin' hb t!'
So she sez that he odded to her, and you no that was
as much. as to say yes, and so it was his prom ass of mar-
ridge. So she went rite of to the town clerk to get pub-
lished, and he went down to Sighlass's fokes to ax 'em
about it, and don't you think that this good-for-nothin'
Sighlass denied the hull thing and sed he had never prom
ised-to hav' her!
So then poor Mehitable went into all the nabors and

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER. 69
told how her virgin hart had been sedoosed. And she
went down to the squire and teelled him and wanted him
to taik up Sighlass and sew him, for she can prove that
he had been veerry attentiv' to her, and old Missus'Minton
can taik her oath that she seed him taik the him-book
from Mehitable in church, and saw him and Mehitable
whisper together : and then old Zechariah White can swear
that he seed 'em goin' to the woods together and that she
leaned on Sighiass's arm.
There never was sich a dredful case of seduction none
in these parts ; and Miss Floyd that belongs to the fee
mail morral reform society has.been round with a paper
to hav' it signed by everybody to get Sighlass put into the
county-house, and their is goin' to be a track rit about it.
So mother and Mehitable wanted i should rite a leter
all about it to be put into your paper, to see if the Bos-
town fokes wouldn' send a constable up hear to take Sigh-
lass up and hav' him put in prizzing. Yours to sarve,
OBED SQUASH.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURES.
Belubbed Bruddren: Dis child ob color habde saxifica-
tion to 'dress you on dis 'portant 'casion in dose words for
de text---
'When he cum, he 'no cum,
And when he 'no cum, hecuim.'
Dis 'spress de fax ob de bird that cum in winter when-
ever de 'no is on de ground. It hab 'lusion to dat bird
and am berry 'ticklar in consequence ob de fack. You
know berry well dat 'no am diwided into a great many
parts. Dar am de'no ball, de 'no flakes, de 'no drift, and
de 'no storm, Darefore we 'peak to you about all desejn
de fust place, and den we descend to de 'no bird herself.
Do 'no ball am in de hand topelt fokes. Tony Ducklings


hab made a big 'no balland hab rolled him up again his.
sellar door out ob charity for poor people to -set down on
when. dey ar tired ob wakin' wicham werry kind ob dat
gemman. When your 'spected preacher was gwoine down
Union 'treet todder day, dar was a clark in a hardware
'tore dat' fling'no ball and hit your 'spected preacher on
de bak. Your preacher turn roun d dirackly and went to
fine de boss of dis clark, and he 'form de boss how he was
hit on de bak by de clark on dat portent 'casion. Den de-
boss of dis clark, and he 'form de boss how he was hit on
de bak by de clark on dat portant 'casion. Den de boss
ax if your. 'spected preacher was oh a 'spectable family
and as soon as he tell him dat he was deacon Snowball,
de boss say dat he should hab saxifaction and de young
clark promas to 'scribe to~ de Yankee and read de sar-
monts ebery week, for de benefit oh his sole and hope
he 'prove 'pon it and larn better dan to 'no-ball your 'spect-
ed preacher.
Den 'bout de 'no-bird is de todder division ob de' sub-
ject wich am spiritual, and 'lude to variety of parts. Dis
bird signify Love Jackson who is coming from Long Island
to be a help meat for your 'spected preaoher. Dar hab
been so many times dat your preacher hab been 'gin de
bag by de sex ob color and odder fokes hab got 'way de
niggar gal dat he 'tend for herself, dat dar hab been a gal
raised for de 'spress purpose of being a wife to him-
Dis gal will cum as soon as de merchants get .dat pas-
sage through de ice wich deyf tell about.. As your prea-
cher hab been cut out so often by odder dispectable nig-
gems, darfore de 'loved 'tended ob your 'spected preacher
will be hid from the eyes ob ebery body else  and at .de
close ob dis sarvice, we will- take up collection to 'fray
do expense ob buying a canvass bag to put' ober do head
ob dis angel~ ob color, whilst she is on her way from
Long Island, dat nobody else can see her face and fall in

BY DEACON SNOWBALL A 6vbj)I flo -LGTE ~
lab wid her and out out your spe ted+pleacher. She will
hab her face- kivvered up till she open her eyes upon
de charms ob your 'spectedpreacher.
De friends ob your preacher tink dat she will be ber
much struck when she looks upon your spected preacher
for de fust time, and dat like de qu een of Shebear she
will say dat de one half hab'nebber cheered tell on before.
On dat 'portant 'casion, your 'spected preacher will be
seated on a high stool to-'splay ebery part ob his person
to .'wantage. He will be rest in a red west, cordiroi
pantaloons, rack c ote, and pump and white 'tocking
Tese will be de divisions ob your specterd preacher on
dat 'portant 'casion to 'tract de lub ob dat fair sect, de
lubly Love Jackson, whose ladder and mudder was raised
on de farm ob Walentine Hicks, in dem parts. De wed-
ding will be berry select. None will be 'wited dart but
niggars ob de fust 'spectability and 'portande. Sophy
Wheelock, Sally Cropper, will be 'speckted to stay away
from de wedding, and none ob dem ladies ob color who
hab giben your 'spected preacher de bag will be waitedd at
all.
De next diwision am de 'no -drift, when de 'no' gets up
in a great help, and you can't get through 'em. Dat is
berry 'portant. Peter Jonsing lost off one ob his boot in
a 'no drift, de.todder nite when he was gwoine home from
de party obaister Chunks, and Tenperance Briggs dropt
her bustle in anodder drift, and she hunted arter it two
hours and don't 'spect to get it till next spring when de
no am all melted.
De next division is a 'no-torm, and dis am de most'por-
tant ob all. To use de language ob a colored poet on dad
'portant 'casion-.'D.e hebens was dark-comeplected wid
clouds ob color ! de wind rush threw de spacious walt ob
heben and do storm busted forth in all de furies ob abig
'no-torm. On dat 'ticklar 'casion de birds screamed threw


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,
do air ade        wind howled, and clouds ob 'no as
cend fromdecfloudhien de tundeir rolled' threw de heb-
ens, and de~ lightning dart his rays from polo to pole. ,In,
fack it was berry bad wedder on dat 'portant icasion. De
winders ob heben was open, and eberybody hab to use a
umberilla.' Darfore you will please to pass round de hat,
and you wbn't forget de canvass bag.,
YANKEE LETTER.
Farther and me went down to town about a month ago.
We took Temperance with us to see the wonders of the
town. We rid down in the waggin with old sorrill. When
e got down to Charlestown, we required the best house
to ptrup in. So thay telled us the bunker-hill tavern was
the mst 'spectable, and we went and put up their. You
ought to hav'seed how we lived their. We had the vittles
got all reddy for us, and sot on the table before we was
called in, and their was noosepaper their in the bar-room
for foks to ride. It was all dredful fine. And their was
a legslatur mian that put up their, and that was dredful
to hink on, for we was awful afeared of him. He use to
stand up by the- stove and hold his cote-tales under his
arms and then he had spechtecls on, and farther and me
didn't dast to speek to him.,
Temperance seed him cum into the eating-room and take
a cheer and set down to table, and when i tolled her that
he was a legislature man, she said he lookt like Sir Will-
iam Walliss and Thawdeus of Wassaw. She sed she
wondered if he was married, and so father axed the land-
lord. and he sed the man had a wife and ten children.
Then Temperanee said she would retire into obscurity and
bemoan her sad fate like Saffo, and queen Didoes. She
sod she wished that Mary Davenport was their to rite a
peaee of poetness about his noble deeds.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND

la,

Arter we had seen all the wonderful         ear13
town, farther  ent andawt one of i   dery    ers to
carry hum fora eurosiy, Arter that we went across a
great long floor that;was bileoveihe watery and then we
got into the master sitty of Bostown. Their was a hull
passle of peeople and places wherth they sold jingerbread.
Their was hosses and carts, and at last we found a Ock--
tion. This was a plaice where they had all kinds of things
to sell, you. sing out and tell how much yof will give for
'em, and him that sings out the loudest has the trade and
can carry it off arter it is paid for. So farther and me
went up and lookt at 'em and we seed 'em sell the most
butiful things- so cheep that it was a wonder.
There was a elegant watch that lo kt as if it was made
of goold and it was sold for seven dollars, and thenteir
was a brast-pin that was sold for forty centsso farther
and i telled the ocktion man that it was a hame to sell
things so cheep, it was a 'bominable waist of property I
Temperance was with us, and she seed the ocktion man
trying to sell a beautiful pare of snuffers that lookt like
silver, 'and she tolled farther and me to sing out the bids
on it.,So farther sung out 1w'enty-five cents. Then i sing
out thirty cents and then the ocktion man hollered---'going'
going!' and then farther hollered out fofty cents-then
the ocktion man kept saying, 'going, going'-and then
Temperance hollered out fifty, cents. So .he sold it to us
for fifty cents, and Temperance was so afeared that sum-
boddy else would get it away, that she run in amongst
the men and grabbled holt on it and paid .the munny out
of her own pocket. Then they lifted up a pare of trow-
sers to sell and the ooktion man sed they was worth -7
dollars every cent of it,. so i hollered out the bid and sez
seven dollars as ,loud as i could holler, but the ocktion
man kept sayin' 'going I going!' so farther was afeared
we shouldn't get the trowsers and he hollered out eight


71  OmIC LT1RE, &amp;C
dollar. So artel' a while they wos sold to us for eight
dollars, and we bmawt a number more thing bekase they
sold 'em so. cheap.
We took all our things and carried 'em over to the
bunker hill tavern, and farther showed 'em all to the legis-
latr dan, and he didn't say nothin' but there was a man
in their hoowantedt6purtend that the thigs want worth
nothing' So we moed he was tfyi g to git the things sold
to him, for father is very sharp and he noes. when fokes
is trying to taik him inn. So we went home with our ock-
tion things and Temperance went all about the naborbude
to shoe 'em her things and she telled 'em how they went-
to work to git things at the ocktion. The minister's wife
cum down to our house to look at the things that Temper-
ance had bawt at the ocktion and their was grate doing
in dur house.
Jim -later um down to see the things and so he con-
cuded to set p with Temperance seeing that she had
a nich lot of flue things, but she 'maid him a present of a
beatiful bag that she had bawt at ocktion, and so he
went egh e sing and swearng like all pom-zessed.
JmODEIS JamBNSoN.
1CAYOg    W   AWA   LECTUB
Be   k. Bridtrer. Onie artenoon  we shifl explut-'
texate and abominate o dis 'poitant text ob de 'postle
Gibbon:
Therise andd efine of Rome."
Dis text hab seven diwisions,*and de most 'portant of
 dern allisdorice;. asitpones.dat dar is nothin' new unr.
-der de sun. You see dat dar was a massa Rice in Rome,
and darfore de regina1 Jim Crow was dar as well as in die
land ob your 'peted preacher. Dis massa Rice dat goes
albost doecountry pretend dathbe was de fust Jim Crow'

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICE LAGER-BLATTE,'5
and in dat way he bring de reputation ob de colored pop.
pylation-into contemt ; but dat am a lie, as I hab proved
on disportant 'asion, as de fust massa Rice was in Rome
'cording to de 'postle Gibbon. Dar hab ben Jim Crows in
ebery age ob de world*-- De fist jumpin' ob Jim Crow was
Adam and Eve when'dey hab to turn about and'go out
ob de garden.
Den dar-was de people dat was drownded at de flood
who hab to turn about and turn about and look two ways
for Sunday. Arter dat was de Jews in de wilderness ar-
. ter dey leff Egyp, when dey keep turning' about in de wil-
derness and go all sorts ob ways except de 'traight rodo
to Canaan.  Dis shoe dat de population ob color am do
oldest nation in de world.
De prayers ob dis congregation ob color amquested
for our friend Cesar Widgeon who hab got do bag from
Charity Lovett.
De 'ticklar case ob dis courtship am dose in'ticklar.
De missus ob Charity sent for Cesar to bring a basket oh
clams to de house in Union 'treet. Cesar went dar, and he
rap at de door. Charity come to de door and open him to
Cesar, dat de 'scriptur might be filled fullwich sez, "ra
and de door will open ob herself.
Darfore, when he seed Charityy she had on a new frock
and a blew apron, and she look rite at Cesar and ho look
at her in de eyes. So he went into de kitchen and put
down de clam, and he ax her for de nissus. Den she 'tood
t till before him and lookt at him sly.  Cesar feel his
tender hart begin to bob 4p and down andl jump Jim
-u. Den he put his hand on his hart,
and he look berry sly at Charity she '
like St. Poll and 'peak for himself in dose t'rtant words:
'Mirackolus lady ob color! I nebber ee you before
wid dose eyes dat is in  yhe. I  eber de yuefo
evanescence ob do olfactoy ossification dat ted d pas


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,
16
ionoh ub in my-hart, rite away before I change my
sion obubimy
Mind'         mk     curchee and she tell him dat she'd
Den Charity ae after she find out if a -he--niggar from
gib him an anwe-     t  a -ero not. 
Varmount   w gwuiar'oine to hab.her or not
Den Cesar ax her tocome i. derullr, and she should
b a    ra  S  went t  de sullar dat ebening and
get a treas. o sheingnice. Arter dat she come berry
often. Sustibm she inget clamumtime she take a lob-
osten.sulawtie 'casion she suck a pig's foot. Den she
sterbslas an eonade and warm iCe water and 11 sorts
hb tgs for hersaifaction. So Cesar find dat she hab
on tings   and say noSgi1 'bout luv, and Cesar begun to
ink he hab paid a good deal for de privilege obher com-
any; e he paiake de opportunity to 'peak to her on dis
panye ;and she ertend dat she wapt reddy to, make up
her mind. Butelss nite, he take u pde paper and read a
courtt oh do mrridge ob Charity and dat big he-niggar
from Varmount.      -bud
De -Cesar feel dat his hopes was all slighted in do
and he took "up de axe to commit sue-sighed rite off. He
nd on his head tree four times, but it blunt de axe, an'.
it make no more 'pression dan if he hit a lapstone.
Darefore Cesar want 4eprayers oh dis congregation ob
fo. He hab maid out a bill fr all de tings dat Charity
hab    in his shop and he 'tend to sue her rife off or de
I hope you pray dat Cesar may get his iIninny
back as d wittles dat she put into her at de suilar, was
enuff to keep a hoss a 'hole monf.
Your 'spected preacher will lectur' before de poppyla-
tion of color next Friday nite upon de color ob Cain and
Abel, and will prove dat Abel was a gemman bg color,
d Cain was*a white man.  He will also show dat de
*wicked~sarpnt (dat tempted Ehe was all den oh a milk-
,  white, nd he will'splain d profficies and will prove dat

BY DEACONSNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTE.. '
de almanac makers hab maid a mistake, bekase you may
know it aint de year 1843 yet, bekase de world aint'stroy-
ed, an'd de world was to be stroyed in dat year.
Arter dat your 'spected preacher will deliber a coarse
ob lectures on de fiddle, aiid Vat -niggar from Jarsey wid
one eye, will be present totune up on dat 'portant'casion.
A collection will be took up on dis 'portant 'casion to
'fray de expense ob Cesar  rating Charity-de gal who
hab proved herself a gay eceiver. Your 'spected prea-
cher hab lost a 'tocking which will be ob no use to any
one buyde owner as it am a odd one. .Darefore he 'quest
dis congregation ob color to gib'it up if dey hab found de
'tocking ob your 'spected preapch er.
Two hat will be passed 'round on dis 'casio --. one for
Cesar and onefor your 'spected preacher. De brudders
will sing de one thousandth sam wile de hats are passed
'round.'r
YANKEE LETTER.
To the Printer Man: Sum of the fokes up this weigh
bav been righting letters to put in yre paper. :If you
believe awl they tell you, you'll be stft to a ded sartain-
ty. These is a kind of folks tlat don't no nothin' about
the rail civilized kind o'life.  I was born and raisedin
this plaice myself, but i'm ben in a weigh up county and
i lived their with old Zebe Barborn about 2 yeer and cal-
culate that i've seen sonethin' o' life and- can 'struct you
about them parts with something' that's worth a while.
The gals np their is gool for sumthin' else besides put-
ti' on there nue cullicows and settin' up o' nites and re-
ingthe noosepapers, they have to get there one living' an'
them's the sort o' gals that makes good wives for the mun-
nly. Mebby you aint a married man-so i've got one pickt
out for you, and if you think you'd like to hav her, i can

4


COEC LEOTUREB, &amp;C., "  .
bring her down to bostovi if you'll pay the expences.
Her name is Patience Hoxie. She's got but one eye, but
that's a good won and it's always lookin' out for themane
chance. She's got a hand like a johnny-cake agd so broad
that you can't see across it d  a fogy day, and she11 do
more work with them hands of hern than a dozen of your
sitty ladies. Then she'sgot a foot that you can't get into
a bushel basket and a boy t4 years old can't lift won of
her shoes. You ought to see her anchil, it is as big round
as a fence-post and as strong as a crowbar and her shoul-
ders is round-as apunkin-for she was brawt up to work
and can skin a sheep or scald a shote as quick as Jim
Bangs and he's 'T foot in .aithe. She can take Jim down,
for she tried it in Bill Fisher's slaughter-house, injun-hug,
and.the way she flunked him wood hav maid yee stand on
end. One day a miller sassed her up by the mills by Wat-
te's farm, and sie giv' him a poke in the chops that maid
him bend doublaud squirm like a hoss in fly-time. In,
coarse she's no grate at larnin', bekase she never was
brot up to that. Larnin' don't fill the crib, nor by a nue
frock for the child, as the saying is; but it only maiks a
seller stick up to besumo ,and go about with hishands
in his pockets, with his hea  down, studyin' diviltry all
the time. You'll find her e good critter if you git the rite
sighed of her : but if you git i - her way when she's
washing, or if you don't get up when she wants the stool
to seddown by the fire, she'll teach yee the law, and geb-
by she'll giv yee.a kick or 2, but nothin' wus the  that,'
you taik it kidly and don't jaw back.
I tell yee these things. bekase I want to be yer friend
let yee know how to manage when you marry her. A
winter feller's up hear that: seS they ha  a plenty of pic
n the printhi' ofiss. Well, she's grate on pie. She'llcum
to the offiss and make more pie for yee than yee can use
up in a fortnite. You gnust mind how you hug her though

BY DEACON SNOW} AU AND DEDR10H AGE-LATTES.
for if yee was to happen to hurt hur she'd putter nuckles
in yer ribs like a fulling-mill. When she was at a pare
last winter, she bit a feller's ear half offjest bekase he
trod on her foot, for it is frost-bitten and theythink she
will hay' to hay' it egt of yet.
One of her legs is a trife shorter than the other, but
that don't hinder her from galkia' fast, as she always uses
a crutch, and will stump al ng eenamost-as fast as ican.
Her breth aint so sweet yer knew, but it's as' stong as
the rest of her.  It's better now than 'twas, sense she's
taken to eating' inions and so when she ketch her brethyou
git nothin' but the smell of the inions, and every body is
fond of inions.
At any rate i'l bring her 4own and let you look at her
for her father's very mutch on't to have her married, be-
kase he thinks she'd make some good man so tarnal hap-
py'      -
i sot up with Patience one or 2 nites jest to see how it
would go, you know. She let me in the back dore, and
id me ima emty barrel till the old'foes badcrawled off
to bed. Then the came and lifted .the barrel and went in-
! to the room, and held up the candle to look at me, for she
had cotch a bo, and she wasted to see what he lookt like.
She stared at me and i stared at she, aid her eyes was as
green as grass. Then she turned the barrel rong side up
and pored me out on the too;. i felt like' spilt milk, and
was a Jittle skeered. Thertfshe sot me up on the stove,
and their had ben.a ire in it, and-the top of the stove
was hot and burnt me most pleggidly :ihopt of and run
about the room, wiggling like a hen with one wing.
Then-she cum a long and giv me a all-fired slap on the
back that ioeked my tung out about siit inches,' and she
took me by the slack of my trowsis and held me rite off
from the floor, and i wavered up and down like a pare of
sv~ai teed her if she wouk14det e dowh'i would

4-


80               COMIC LECTURES, a,
coat her rite off, and if she didn't i would sware the pieces
agin her, for i was nation mad. When she cheered that,
she carried me along 'and opened the window and giv ie
a toss and out i went rite down into a hog-pent and down
i cum on a big hog that layed there asleep. :As soon as i
got out of the pen, i run home, andgiv her up altogether,
She's tue uncommon a gal .or me, and all the fellers up.
in them parts where i worked hav to stand back when she,
cums along; but if' you thick you can manage her in bos-
town, i'll coax her down there. Where would you advise
me to put up, if i cum down to the sitty ?
She's a terrible eater, though as for that she's not per-
tickler in her meals. . A pound or two of raw salt pork, a
dozen or tue of taters and a quart of 'lasses will satisfy
her well enuff, with a few parsnips, and a bowl of raw
milk and a loaf of thine-injun bread, and praps a pumkin
pie to top off with.  Your servant,  SETH GOOSEBERRY.
A(ER-BLATTE'S LECTURE.
Mine GootPeoples; I shall give you for dish tay dish
text, sure enough:
geen fun! meen fun!-meen fun!'
Dish text shall pe taken from te newspapers, and shall
pe von advertisement of to Chinese what tey shall have
to. put on to skin.
You shall know very wellAt te Chinese shall been no
goot christian to have te preacher and te church like tey
shall have temie mine country. Tey shall have teir gods
made of wood, and tey shall pe made of stones too. Vat
you shall care for such a god as tat vich you can see wit,
your eyes? Teirfore, tey shall call it meenfun. It shall'
pe very meen fun to kneel down and Wforship such a god
like tern, sure enough.
Bu~tey shall have zneen fun in otter places besides tat

BY.DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICiI LAGER-BLATTER. 81
Tey shall have meen fan in dish country as well as in to
Chinese. Teir shall pe vonmeen fun tat tey shall try mit
to house of your minister. Once tey shall tie a string
to to knoker of mine front door, and von string to te knock-
er of mynheer Grouse on te otter side of te street. Ten
tey shall knok at mine door. I-shall go to to door to see
who shall pe come to see me. at te door. Ven I shall
open te door I shall lift up the knocker of mynheer Grouse
on te otter side of te street.- Ven I shall shut mine door,
ten te knocker of mynheer Grouse shall fall down wit a
great knock, and he shall come and open his door to see
who. shall pe teir, and he.shall see nopody' their at all.
Ten he shall shut his door, vich shall make mine door
knock again as loud as never vash. Ten, at last, I shall
vajch py te door, ' and next time his door shall make mine
knock I shall open mine door quick and look out. Ven I
shall-see nopody teir, I shall swear it ish von spook vich
is te ghosts in mine own country. Ten mynheer Grouse
shall stand in his door and I shall holler toihim and think
he shallp6 te feller tat vash knock'  Y  r, and he shall
think I shall pe te von tat shall kneA at his door. He
shall swear at'me and I shall swear at him ; till to morn-
ing comes ven I shall see te'string tatash tied mit von
end to mine knocker and mit to otter end to the knocker
of mynheer Grouse. Tat shall' e mean fun, sure enough.
Anotter time shall pe mean fun ven teir shall pe von
Dutchman boarding at min  house, and he shall put his
arm 'round te neck of mine  vrow, and I shall slap him on
to face. In te night he shall fill mine beeches full of mo-
lasses, and ven I shall went to church te next day mine
breeches shall stick to mine legs, and I shall not know
vot shall pe te matter till I shall got home. I shall try
to pull tem off ven I shall got home ; and tey shall hold
on as if tey vash nailed to mine legs. Oh! tat shall pe
von mean furi, sure enough. Yen I shall watched tat
Dutchman, I shall show him vot shall pe mean fun.


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C',

82

DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Belubbed Bruddren: On dis abs'lute 'vasion, your 'spect-
ed preacher take dis opportunity to 'prove upo de follet-
in' text ob de 'postle Jehorseophat, wich am in dese 'por-
tant words, dat am 'dopted on dis 'casion by your 'spected
preacher:
"0 my bonnet--my new fashioned bonnet,
My bonnet of straw I-                     .
You hab heered ob some dat 'hab stubble for a founda-
tion and build dar house on a sandy.bottom like de shop
oh Simon Phillips in Lynn, But on dis 'portant 'casion de
subjeck is not about de foundation, but de todder 'eend.
Straw is used for de head: Straw bed am used to sleep
on, butde bonnet ob straw am made -ob annoder koin, ob
dat weed.  De 'spectful wife ob Phenix Qionimo hab a
straw bonnet. She hab it on her head at dis minnit, and
you can see for yourself as she sets dar under de gallery
by de stove-pipe. De bonnet ob dat colored lady hab ben
whitened by de smoke oh brimstone, which is. a figge- ob
de 'tate ob de sinnerfarter ho leaf dis world.. If you do
not git whitened by de sarmonts ob your 'spected preach-
er in dis life, you must git whitened by brimstone arter
wards. TIis dis ourse am diwided into sebenteen parts,
and dese parts am diwided into seventeen divisions-as
de human body am diwided into two hands, and dem
hands into fiber fingers apeace baring de thumbs which am
called-fingers as a mare, am called a hoes.
De fust diwision ob 'dis subject am de straw bonnet,
which is dewided into de crown, de top, de bottom, de rim,
de two strings, de two beaux, de lining, de thread to sow
it on, de front, de back and de todder parts wich am 2 te-
dious to mention. Darfore de hat am a proof ob de won-
der ob natur', as a hoss and a cow am a proof ob de won,-
der ob art.. Straw bonnits come in fashion when straw

BY DEACON BNOWBAIL AbD DIRCHLAGERl-BLATTRm. g
was cheap: but in de milliniom de lion, will eat straw like
de ox, and dis text an a proof dat Miller is right, and dat
de million m am close at hand, bekase a hess eat up de .
straw bonnit ob de lady. A hoss am a lion aggeratively,
and a cow am a drummer-dairy.  Darfore de straw bon-
nit ob de lady was eat up by de hoss, according' to scrip-
tui.
De second diwision out o de seventeen divisions am
de lady herself. I tink she was a lady ob color, and dese
am de raisins. In de fast place do smell ob de lady tract
de 'tention ob de hose, and den ladies ob color don't tie
dar bonnet so de boss could pull him off and chaw up de
same. A lady ob color am.diwided into seventeen parts,
Dis is de truff: you hab-de ,wgrd ob your'spected preach-
er, and if you won't believe him, you wouldn't believe de
dead.
De three diwision ob die subjeck am de uses ob a lady
ob color. I want you to lisson for your'spected preacher
'tend to prove dar freenologyy In dejust place dar skin
is black. What you spousee am de use ob dat ? What rite
hbab you to 'qir into dat tickle her ? She is jest as se
was made. Den as respecks de hat, we bab hired Cesar
Widgeon to carry him round and pay him by de year.
When brudder Cole carry round de hatdar was tin four-
pence, clam shell, chaw to back her, p knutt shell, and
rotten apple put in de hat; 'but we hab reformed all dat,
and now we hab Cesar, dai will be grate difference in dem
tickle hers.
Your 'spected preacher hab been 'wited to leo tur at de
Philadelphy leckturs and de fast sibjeck on which he leek-
tur will be de rice and pogees ob de population oh color,
in which he will show dat dar am various kinds ob popy
lation ob color. He will show dat yaller niggars am de
fust popyltion ob de world who was made ob yeller clay
and dey habn't changed color sense. Den de 'traight hair

I,.


84

COMIC LECTURES, &amp;CO,

niggers am cum from de flood, when allude people was
so skeered dat dar hair stood up on eend and 'traight for
de fust time in dar life : but de rail black niggers, like
your spected preacher, am de 'provement on.de hole. De
nigger poppylation was in danger of loosin' dar color when
dey was blackened up afresh, and dese last.hab de jinuine
polish on dem.
DEACQN SNOWBALLS 1 WTURES.
Blubbered Bruddren : On this 'portant and nefarious
eain, your belubbered pastre will superinduce de saivice
;obis church wid de obserwation dat he hab dis ticklar
text for dis 'p rtant 'casion, in dese words which am de
text on dis 'p irtant casion- -
'Diamond out diatxond.'
" ese words am to be found in de varsification ob de
patriarch Beelzebub, which was pronounced at de time dat
Cesar and Pompey was carried away captive into de great
city of Nazareth. .Ipose you all know what diamond
means. It aam de coor ob de poppylation ob color. It am
rack as charcoal andshine like de face df your 'spected
preacher. Darfore diamond is de figerative meanin' ob de
poppylation ob color. Dey is brack, but dey iskwerry pre-
cious. Dianiond is wuth gnore dan marble, ant dey sells

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND D 'DRICH LAGER-BLATTE. 85
it by de pound bekase it is precius.. "Darfore diamond cut
diamond, which am de words ob our text, 'lude to de fact
dat one;.niggar cut anoder niggar. How you tink dey cut
'em ? You tink dey cut .'em wid a knife ?. Dat shows
your ignorance, you brack scorpions! Dey cut 'em like
you see a niggar coming' and you 'fraid he 'peak to you.
Darfore you cross over on fodder sighed of de 'treet, and
hold up your head and pull up your collar and pretend
you is lookin' at somefing else and don't see dat niggar.
He look at you out ob his eye, and he tink dat you don't
see him, and so you go on and take no notiss ob dat nig-
gar. Dat is de case wid. de hire and de lore class ob colo-
red gemmen and lady. Dey cut one anudder in de' treet.
Your' spected preacher was under de necessity to cut
Phillis Jonsingtudder day shehab on a old calico gown
end dat was patched. Your'Ispected preacher seed her in
Dock-square. She step 'cross de 'treet to 'peak to your
'spected preacher. Your preacher look at her out de cor-
ner ob his eye, andrhe see dat de gowend was raged at
de bottom, and he dab too much respeck for 'his cloff jou
'peak to de woman. Darfore he turn down a alley a,_d o
through into''Tate 'treet. Den your 'spected preadIeimet
a long brack niggar cuming up from de wharf, an your
'spected preacher pop down into Sam's sullar to get clear
ob dat niggar too. Arter little while, when your 'spected
preacher was reading do Boston Notion, wich am patron-
ized in de sullar, dat long niggar cum down dar 4_ he
offer to shake hand wid your preacher. Your preacher re-
fuse to shake hands wid him, 'less he would pay for glass
ob likker.  Den he pay for likkpr for two; your 'spected
preacher tell him dat he better'(ave his munny to put in
de hat instead ob laying' it out .a de sullar in such wanito,
ies. Arter he was gone, Cesar perceived dat he .had gin
him a, in fourpence. If dat niggar is in do ordinance ob
your preacher's woice, he is;'quested to cuip up and gib a


808

co~tp.lEtIU&amp;C

doodfourpence for de tin one, as Cesar says dlat your
preacher may hab de good one if he can git it. Darfore,
I 'pect de long brack feller ob color will hap respeck 'for
de doff, and fork over detcash.
De fouf diwision ob diamond out diamond is 'de fack
dat you nust cut ebery one dat don't put' munny in de hat,
bekase dey show sich contempt to your 'spected preaoh-
er, and de fust duty ob de poppylation obcolor 'quire dat
you.'sped' your'spected preacher. A'white feller fling a
a hole handful ob flour at your 'spected preacher todder
day and kiver him 'all over wid.de 'boninable leaven ob
whiteness.. I spose dat he envy de color Qb your 'spected
preacher for I hab often tell you dat de debbilis white as
chalk.' Peter Widgeon seg him up in Charlestown by de
ruin ob de nunnery. DadeAdey 'fing flour on your'spec.
tedpreacher to make hi&amp;jlook -like de debbil. A bowl ob
clam soup and lobster's tail will be given for de conwict-
ion ob de offender. A. committy composed ob Ann Fling,
Paul Jonsing, Abel. Widgeon and Charity Wheeler hab
beet'pointed to.'quire into de fax ob de ease, and find out
who      de flower at your 'spected preacher.-
No    n gwoine to 'prove upon de=hole. Dis is  fust
beginn l'ob de spring ob de year.  De ocean begins to
thawso dat:ships can go ober de waters to foreign ports
ang    tea and sugar and all demtings to sweeten'your
tea, t4:de hills begins to blossom and de stars sings for
oy      arp and de salter audTde sammnodyjanddo drum
and do waives and de whistle proclaims de spring ob de
year an ,de warious tings date is cuin to pass. De sound
ob mi    s heard in de sellies and in de wood 'and de
rie ande noutain tops is filled wid flowers and mu-
sicrand-potatoes is planteddar. Darfore we will pass de
hat round: You ill pt cent in de hat an course dat is
dep     ob de year. D t will rope dat you are sensi-
ble ohbde fack,

BY DEACON-SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGE.eBLATTF . 87
Next.Sunday your preacher and Charity Widgeon. and
Fring Jonsing will go down to Nahant .to enjoy de cool
sea breeze, asayour 'spected preacher is in delicate helf,
and 'spect to lose his appetite, 'specially as clams is get--
ting skerce. Darfore we will take dis 'cursion atbde ax-
pense ob de church,
YANKEE LETTER.
To the Prier  fan: There's a terrible feller that's cum.
to live in our parts: He is six foot hie and has a brother
that goes to see. He will drink more rum than any won
other men that-works for father, and he sez he has licked
too niggars in won day. Everyb dy up hear are afeared
to say a word to him,. he's such  dreadful furce fellerg
You augt to hav heered him sware t a hen the other day.
I stood behind the fence and lookt at him till everything
turned dark be4 my ize. He was up at razing tother day
in Acton. Jop Hoxie was bilding a nue barn; and when
he was up their, he torked so that every one had to stand
back. He telled a black boy up their that he wood swal-
ler hiin $ without salt and wood chaw him up in tue min-
nits!  Then he ketched up a big stick of timber ad he
flung it agin a fence and ript and swored and se de had
licked more men than anybody else on the ground.  0!
you awt to here him tock!
He went into the shew-maker's tother day; and you no
the shop is kepp by Seth Bunnir, and their works-their
Barney Glddins, george Bounceand Amaria  Stebbins
They work their on there ownAccount they would tJink
it a insult toYax 'em to higher out,speciallyAarafor
his grandfather use to be the town-clark. So he -went-i
their and he sot down onto a little bench closntupthe
toe, and when they ehd him cum in,they kpte
their pork and dassent look up on no accdni' hiso-
ever.


ONI C LECTURES, &amp;Q.,

So he sot and:he lookt fust at the one and then at the
other; and at last he squrted out a hull 'mouthful of to
bokker goose and, it fell slap on the stove, and it bubbled
and sissed, and the shewmakers all jumpt rite' up, for it
steered them so that they thort a airthquake was broken
loose.' Then he lookt at them, and hollered out like thun-
der and sez. he-'. what are you skeered of ?"
Then when they heered his voyce, it steered 'em wuss
than ever, andthey all huddled up in one kornor of the
shop and lookt at him jest as. cats looks at a dog when
they want a chanse to run and git off.'
Then he took out a short pipe and sits - down on the
bench with his chin on his hands and smoaks away till.he
had filled the room so full of smoke it was enuff to choak
yo. When they seed he was not a goin' to hurt 'em they
sot dow, agin to work, bt theykepp their ize open and
lookt at him to see if he went to fly at them.  Amariah
sot by the winder so that he cood jump out if this terrible
feller cum a-near him.
At last arter he had smoked his pipe, this dredful cre-
tur roared out like a lyon, and sez he-"Isay, misturj/kin
you maik me a pare of nice boots that will go threw fire-
and water ad that is heavy enuff to stomp the guts out
of   ed niggar ?"
The*,They was all steered agin; but Amariah was the
boldest, for he has got very good currridge, and he spun
kedi up, and sez he-:I don't keer if i maik 'em, if the
genteman wood be so good as to let me taik his major."
So the inan pulled off one of his shews, and 26ld out
his f ot, and,:eze-" There! put yer grapplings on that,
you. old see-gull, and see hat you du ver dooty like a
Soniariali majored him for the boots, and arter he was
done, he like to have fainted awa*- he was so overcome
withfear like. Then he put on his shew, and got up to

88

. 4

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTEB. 89
o and just as he was going out the door, he turned
round and he speaks out as loud as thunder, and sez he-
pm going hum, and I want to give all you young men
a peace of advice in these werds: always treat a gentle-
man and give the path to your betters, and yeu'll 4o well
in the world '  Then they all got up and maid a bough,
and sed, "yes, sir, we shallremember it." Then George
Bounce the youngest s.kewmaker, seed that his cloke was
kinder slipping off his shoulders, and he run and put its
up round him as -effectionate - as he could, and sez he,
"You must take care of yourself, fer if you should ketclh
cold and loose.yeur valuable life, it would be a great loss
to your kedntry."
That was said very perlite, for George had got good
laming and has been to school three winters.
Well, tother day-i think it was tooseday, but i wont
be shure of it. Howsumever, this wunderful fellar was
at the tavern, and their cum in a little fellow from Bos-
town, and his name was Bill. He cum up hear to  work
for old Adonijah Willets. 'Well, as I was saying. Bill
cues into the tavern, and this wonderful man axed him to
drink with him  So they drunk a glass of bier together,.
and then this dreadful feller left Bill to pay for the likker
-then Bill got mad, bekase he said that the one that ax-
ed the other to drink was the one that ought to a  So
Bill jumpt at this wunderfool fellar, and the wunderfool
feller run out of the tavern and B}4 chased him a peace
down the'-rode;- b"it the wunderful feller, had the longest
tairs, aA herun-the fastest, and he hollered out to the
people, and tolled 'em to keteh'old of Bill and hold .
fast, for he knowed if .Bill otc it up with him, be niite
kill him bekase he couldn't keep himself from it.So all
the people run out an  cotch Bill and held limast, for
fear thai the fellow would turn back and smash eyer~
bone in his boddy,


90

VOMJE 1OCTUBES,_&amp;C:,

Then when the feller seed that they had got bolt of the
one that chased him and held him fasthe run hum as fast
as litening, and he always kepp ,clear of him arterwards,
forfear his temper would get riz, and he would smash
all bill's=bones and have to be hung for killing him.
It bill has got enny relashuus in bostown, they had
best send for him rite away,for fear that he should git kilt
ly this wunderful fellow.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTUBES.
B~elubbed Bruddre&amp;: -On dis 'tickler 'casion, your 'spec-
ted preacher ab got a tickler' text dat stress de senti-
rment ob his ind eggs sackly.  It is in dese "portant
words ob Saint  uy Fawkes, an' stress heseff in de fol-
lerin' terms which I'm gwoine to tell you:
Each bottle had a curling ear,
Through which the belt he drew,
And hung a bottle on each side,
To make=his balance true.'
In dose times ob 'peculation and dispute, 'bout de sub-
jek ob bishops' which am gwoine on 'twixt de clargr, it
am berry portant flat you get de rites ob de 'subjeck from
the mouff"ob your 'spected preacher, who is 'pointed to
dat 'puyose in de.chureh. Your belubbed preacher nius
diwide de word aright or you nebber save your sins. On
dis'portant 'casion, w  takeude subje&amp;  ob de word
ob our text andsdiwid  im intfour parts, like de squar.
terms ob de beef riter.
In de fust place de text tell you dat each b6  had a
curling ear. Wharfore de bottle belong to dem, dat lab
ears and let 'em hear. In course you know dat dem bot-
tie is spiritual and means de members ob de church dat
am fl ob de spirit.
The second diwision am de belt. Various am de kind
ob Belt but de spiritual belt must go wid despiritual

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER. 91
bottle. Dis belt is drawed through de two ears: dat hits
you, brack scorpions, for de word dat is preached by you
spected preacher- goes into your ears-it goes into one
ear and comes out at de todder! Dat is what I hab toad
you, how you cum hear to show your new close and npt
to hear de word. Chloe Phillips hab got a new bonnit,
and she cum hear to show dat, and dar is Charity Widge-
on she hab got new red shoe, and she' cum heah to'show
off dem. Now you don't prove and in dese days ob 'pec-
ulation you don't know nossin .'bout de subjeck dat is
gwoin on,bout a church wid a bishop and a church widout
a bishop.  Your 'spected preacher is do bishop ob your
sole to save your sins.
De odder next division ob de subjeck tell you. dat he
hung a bottle on each side.
What you tink ob dat?  A bottle hung on each side.
Dat means you ought to be hurry 'less you make your
'spected preacher balance true, and you can't make his
balance true 'less you put munny in de:hat: bekase your
'spected preacher hab a little balance at de sullar; and
Cesar Widgeon hab sent in his bill, and darfore you muss
put your sent into de hat instead ob spendin' him for od-
der ting. Fringe Johising went out todder day wid a nig-
gar from Varmount to go a slay-riding. I don't know how
much munny he spend: but I hab heered dat he treat her
to tree glass ob wine and ix smok d herring and a bit ob
cracker and cheese. Nowf all d  uny had been put
in de    r your 'spected preacher it would hab- been
saved elped him " make his lancee true" at de sul-
lad  Instead ob dat you lay oitour munny for all sort
ob ungodly tings.
Sophia Mitchel bought a .parasol todder day, and she
gib haff a dollar for'it to Loue Stratton; tink ob dat, you
scoripins. You tink more'- ob presarving your 'plexion
from de sun dan you do of presarvinig your doie from de.


92               COMIC LE CTURE8, &amp;O.,
fame ob fire. Whar do you'spect dat your 'spected prea-
cher will kgit his clam soup, his lobster, his root beer, his
fried"eel and his bitters? Cesar 'sist on habing his pay,
and h tell your 'spected preacher dat his respect for de
idoffi8 not so grate as his respect for de cash in hand.
Yvur spected preacher darfore 'sist dat you plank down
de cash and put in de hat to make his balance true.
NextSatterday is, a week when dar will be a grate
bawl in do sullar. On dat ticklar'casion de orators ob de
Filadelfy lectures will be dar and shake a leg wid all de
young ladies ob color. Your 'spected preacher will be
on bawd dressed in white top-boot and corduroy panta-
loons.
During de cold snap dat we hab had,-Tony Nikkles, Ce-
sar Widgeon and your 'spected preacher run an express
to New York. We hab de root beer cArt of Sam lHickles.
and we tackle up de hoss and we set off to carry letter
and package, We got as far as Dedham in one day, and
den de hoss was tired and we 'top free days to rest em,
Arter dat de navigation was open, and so we cum back
rite off and didn't go no farder. So as we hab to bring de
letters and od4er tings back, we charge for postage both
ways. On dat 'pottant 'casion, we hab a letter front Jane
Widgeon to Sam Phillips of Orange 'treet New York.
We hab tree cards ob gingerbread for a collored lady in
Central 'treet, and two letters from your 'spected preacher
to a young lady ob  or in Cierry 'treet. All dese was
de tingsdat we hab  de Express ob color. S" we hab
to bring dom all back.
Your 'spected preacho~i gwoine to open a coriespond-
ence wid a gemman ob clor in New York to 'spue bout
a church widout a bishop in de same way dat wite fokes
does,:and de letters will be printed Band sold for de benefit
b your bpcted preacher, to "make his balance true,"
Adplean off do scores in de siillar.

BY DEACON SNOWBALLAND 1EDERI1O LAGER-BLATTE L r9
Your'speotod preacher will read you de twoleters dat
hab passed teenn him and dat todder cloff ob color in
New York. Dey am in dese works:-
Rev. Deacon Lily of New York, to Rev. Deacon Snowball of Boston.
Reverend and Belubbered Brudder  I see you kakkel-
ate to 'spute wid dis niggar 'bout a church widout a bish-
op. I tell you wat, Deacon Snowball, if you take hold ob
dis chile, you'll find seven bosses to ride, I 'shure you. I
spose you tink yourself de berry debbil, 'kase you hab
your sarmonts printed in a noosepaper. Look heredar-
key, mind what I tell you.  I'll whip de wool off your
head if you try to 'splatterate wid dis niggat"'bout dat.
You say dat you had radder rule your flock yourself dan
to hab a bishop over you.  When you larn dat, niggar?
I tell you what, Deacon Snowball, you hab grate larnin',
I know berry well;' but dis niggar can stump you for all
dat. I can take de shine out ob you, Snowball.  Mind
what I tell you.
De second argumentification dat you expose'of, you say
dat dar aint cents enuff in de hat for yourself, and dat you
hab got none to spare to gib to a bishop.  Now I begin
my splunctisoation rite off. In do scritu!, de church is
always 'pared to a woman. You minW deat; de church is.,
de bride; she is a woman 'tanding in de sun and de moon
is under her feet. Now I ax you if a woman can git
along widout a bishop! Sumtines dey call it bussle, but
de perlite name ob de ting is bishop f Now Iax youwhar
de bishop is-put? It is ,put on de stern ob de woman.
Darforeis is meant to cogitate dat de bishop ob de church
is rudder oi de stern wich g d  de church. Darfore dis
is 'stinctly 'splained to your sa ifaction,'under de bigger
ob a woman, and! hope you a  nossin   6'bout it on.
-ly ax de'paedon of dis niggar or 'sputingawid him, wen
you see I4wiip you all to pieces.  Look here; Snowball,
di nigti- ig.from ole Wirginny, and is none of your Long
Island breed.

r'


Dar is a sassy niggar lives, up in Broome treee, caled
BillJumboand when dis child teled lIimdis comparison
how dbishop is de rudder to guide de church-he-tell
me dat it signify anudder tingydat de clargy way always
behind de age. I took hold of his wool and his ey 'tick
out : ke a lobster, bekase he 'peak evil of dignities!  I
hope when you rite to.dis child ob color dat youtwill keep
a civiltongue in your headfor I can lick you, niggar so
mindyr eye     Your belubbed brudder,
DEACON Lur.
Deacon Snowball to Deacon Lily.
NUMBER TWO.
e wund and J3elthbered Brudder: dis spected preacher
ob de 'criptur' hab got your letter, dat is rite from New
York, and tink'dat de Wirginny breed are all jaw like a
sheep's head:
You 'tick up for a bishop. Ispose.dat you 'want to be
bishop y6rself. if1t tell you 'bout dat, nigger. If you
cum heiih to IBosson and say dat, we'll scald all de rack
skin off your niggar boddy-.you black scoripin dat am a
disgrace to de poppylation ob color. YQu say dat youban
lick dis niggar( Ogm heah den and try it, you wenemous
wolf in sheep-s in! You say dat a woman wears a bish-
op, and difore dat de church .oust hab a bishop.  You
tink you cum over dis niggar 'in dat way? De churTh am
'pared to a woman, hut you tink it is a white woman; but
itam a lady ob color, for if de woman'was 'tandinginde
sun, don't you spose de. sun tan her brack? darfore de
chrch is p       "red to"a lady ob color, and den ladyob color
disnwear bishop haff d time. Dar am Temprance Dar-
by,MabDe     ary    les, Ann Widgeon, an4Char.-
ity u   o.r  r  eber wear a busslease dey's so fat
i odttick o    Darfore de lade
ir iy, whar you cum from, don't wear bosle and hab
hardly g|ot a petticoat to put on. Recolleot $lt worn-

an in de sun was                         o you tin
she wore a bishop .bei                   woods. Go
and see dea yimwe: datilinde wild     ese ai'd see
if toy hob got'any bishop aon 4ar
Darfore you am used up and can't say another word
and as[ hab beateyou all to pieces.it 'is your treat. I'll
hab a glass ob lemon punch in det sullar and a quart lob
clam soup, and you may pay  r ce same, bekase dis nig-
gar hab beat you.  Your belubbed Brudder,
DEAoN Nb6WBAL.

it

*

4- ,

-      _      .  ,.
W


_ 5           C m aIC , L (1 UTU ,  &amp; d el

LAGERBLATTElWS LECTURE. -
Mine Goot Peoples: your text vas been in dese vords;
"When we have squeezed the orange dry, we throw a way the rind."
Dat ish to vay to do business. Ven to orange is dry,
vat shalgou vant more of to orange all to time. It shall
pe only to peelings as you ish put in to cakes, or you shall
fling ten on to street, and to black nagurs shall pick tem
up.  An orange shall, den, be verry difference from von
pretty girl. When you squeeze to orange, you shall throw
him avay, but vendou squeeze to pretty girl, you shall
take her to be your vrow.
But you shall find von otter meaning to dish text ish to
pe explained by your minister, sure enough.  Ven .you
shall have von friend dat shall not know much, you shall
ask yourself to his house and trink te health of to whole
family, and trink te health to his goot vrow, and shall eat
yourown health; and you shall borrow his money, and
ven his moneyish all gone, ten te orange is squeezed, and
you fling h   y, sure enough. Ten if he shall ask to
borow von f.ing of you, you shall send him to de poor
house, eoause to orange shall pa vorth notting ven it ish
squeezed.

}4ti
_ t
r

1
,

'0   t

BY DEACON SNOWBAiLL              AGER-BLATE.
If you shall pe von vory a                      tat
hash te monish, and yd                  af   id buy
plenty of goot clothes i          4      d    a   n
you shall ,nd oUt Pit o  a     t       orceiyou
shall run a  y, sure  en.      Vie~ t  iuband sall y
squeezed dry, you shall throw aa; tei.     'a shalipe
like te vrow of Myrheer Yanstandt who shall love him all
to pieces like vot never shallpe, ye es&amp;    pe in to
fresh pork bizuss and shal  ake sasagea et      pod
buddings, and head cheese, and sour krout.     ;all
marry hinm and grow so fat tat you sall nottol   h
eyes shall look at you.  I shall heard tell v nday how
much she shall eat of te hea .cheese; her husband shal
go abouteverywhere, to brag how mach h    eeye hi
vrow shall eat. But, after all te day, Mynheer Yawtant
shall fail all to pieces. Te offcer shall ere to ; carryoff
all to head cheese, and toe sauage,ad to ienthesa and to
chairs and tables, and te sofas out of  house  V  his
vrow shall see all ter. tinge going outof te house, ton
she shall go too. -She shall notelove her bsbandiho more
so goot, pecause to ornge shall been all squeezed out
and to rind isli goot for ntiting,pec a e she   annoa
her husband intoca ke. -Ten she  ii    n    diut allat
once tat her :husband salie von verda         d
she can't live  n'it him.  She shalf ge vodive   at
court, and her fader shall pe hier net reN.h
shall get von divorce, den she shal  a
grinder, Vat shall hae plenty of i   Ya*
ther preeches.
To"   PrinrAitaimyEn           t.-
thesetew meserahieesp     tha
the same bleii 1.Md


98               CSC,    TIi &amp;c.
in Bostown is ge ,ga rode m 4 over the ice from Bos
town to englandQ tht tbe steeboat ken go acrossand
how some feh      gene to e and on the ice.  Sister
Temperance and me    a    o o iknoe if its trew, bekase
if it iswe shall tacke up he wagging and cum down to
take a drve oer to ebgland next week and see that
queenictor tht we've heard so much about, and that
has got so in g babies, Sister Temperance wonders if
Victory wo'tlet h  have, one of the little critters jest
to bri  jt borne and show it to mother. We will treat it
well: T carry it back if the ice dont thaw too quick-
P~tgr Richardson would like to g' with us, and he is
Temperancesbo;andso i spose you want to noe how that
happentfoTe   eranee hadn't got no bo when i rit to i you
thedast time.; "
Y   _age that peter cum to our house last fall to help
pickp"en on haffs, Well he use to work till very late,
as the day was kider short, and it was dark be4 he got
hum. When he got hum, we was all dun supper, and so
'Peter would go into the kitchen and-ind nobody-their but
sister temperance, and she was a cooking of his suRer.
Arter she got it on the table, and it was pudding and
milk, then she wouldgo into the best room to' the closet
andt brig out a bit of presarved quince and put it on a'
plate b.hiss bowl, all nice as satything. .,Then he seed
that she was tender-hearted like, and.had a feeling for a
feller ,a'one wood say. So he wood; look up at her as he
was     iat  andwood nod his head, which was as much as
toBay thnkee, you noe.
Arter a while, Temperance got so that when she pui
on4he bit.e"uince on the table,.she would kinder let her
frock rub agin his elbow, and it felt so kinder soft and
bq ot himthat it took away all his apatight, and
mot hriIed h that bekase 'it saved vittles. Then Tem-
pepace got to'gtoppin' in the kitchen till he was, dum

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICE LAGER- MATTER.
eatin'. She sot up in the corner- at first and. wood look
on, to see if he wanted anything.  He dassat say much
to her at fust: but arter a while, he got so that he wood
tell her it was a fine day andethat he thort there wood be
rain,and then she wood say- "' i hope not, Mr. Peter -;for,
if there was to be rain, it wood be;bad for you when you
are out of doors a picki g off the apples.'
Then he noed ' she had a feelin' for a' feller ; and he
seed that she had a mind of her pwn, and she noed how
to 'spress it proper, for she had good learning,  ugh I
say it myself. Then arter-a while, she got to 'setting up
closer to him, so that at, last,,she- would eat her supper
when he eat 'his'n.' So .when they sot, down to table to-
gether, she wood say--' Mr. Peter, wo ' you have ano-
ther slice of bread-Mr. Peter,. won't y  have another
slice of, bread-Mr. Peter, i'm afeard that nilk ain{arm
enuff for you,' and all that air sort of thing, and then he
would lay down his spoon and look as ,if he was balan-
cing himself on a rale, and was afeered of tumbling off.
When she spoke ,to him, he would look up like a duck
when he hears it thunder.
So sister Temperance at last put away the -big tabfe
and sot out the little table for him' and then when they
sot down to supper, they was close together you know,
and one night when they sot eating, her knee touched agin
his nee, and. he sed such a feelin eone over him that he
thought 'he, should have died, and he couldn't eat nothing'
at all arter that, So it got so at last that when the ap-
ples was all picked, and' eter must home about his
.other biziiness; that Temperance sez to him sezseh.-
"Well, Mr. Peter, hope you wont forit'oroldfrinds.'
She .sithed then from the bottom of.her heart an dPeter
he turned rornd and begunoto  k k n.melncnhoy,
and at last hehe shook hands withsto goarhe
blubbered right out, and 'bawled out, so youmient have

_.


100

00)1IJ OrW, &amp;O.,

h   o bi amil. ThenTeTperanoe began to bawl too,
a  ee.d nd bawled together, and sicha
nie a tadegyuever heegrd at all in your wholes
noe  that theg Joved each other
likeq 'lsesandy.Mether telled emperance she ought
to e.      e    (ao let " a  ' kiow. he was so =erce carter
are   iad 'mene orlyied the louder, and sezp
she"               p it,other -he's going away and i
.   n re ;" and thn farther ses to Peter
.  e8d awl so uk a; st k piif you want my
go oa n-git her consent, i doift noe as iv'e any
pe    iobjections as you seemto be a 'dustrious lad
and aintgriven to drinki ."
SOe jiitaout six foot high for joy, and he
run ito  Tegr  cee and he coteh round the middle
buter      d enff to bist open a cider barrel,
i  di.  t huit  her atall, and  se  left offcryin  rite
and they stuck to each otherke a fl in a tar bar-r
rel r c farther sez that hey mu bepublished ud mar
.:d  e    ohe's afeared te   l bust, as they are so
3 oATsri TROOP.
B BruZt    .&amp; Ou i. disrepu~table r:asiou
the              ake foe hitet de folleniu
'po   an      g    dp     1eebar
D     o       rt  ^   aion, and dey
Se+          et't    o  r       di r t 64sin.
i"begyor par-
don'~  ou ~e~~u da  heiebrage   a peak to
Ii~d  hebegWi ~rdn fr'~kngto hin    If )oof.
~iiiiulob  6ad obclor aZR Fqah  e  bonnit, you

BPA DECON S ' 0g0B
say "beg your aaf.  Audbh a~e      htp clor
.  you,"get oYeel yu uno
berry sorryto 'sturbgyour ompsijtay
don."t Permn se do casedef diaso
for de lower clasgdegistootedo
I 'spect you beg yorepeee c p he ardoniwhen
you knock of hiht, lpisc ,    t     f
But your spectere preagherabty
face and =kickyouaden you us be   pa  be
kase he is de belubbed pas tu _and  ' ios   de
fleece. "Grantyour grace" isde
text. I spose you think d A4ra.. dto dblube
co--Grant. DatI hows your ws '  a1ob.ieton dis
'portant 'casion. It am a dictioary g.4and'ude t de
oblong conjunctiveness obgratiggraehich iadpig.
geratie name for claw soup. Foreicu downdhe ul
lar and ax Cesar to gratiinden clausQup andi is al
same ting.
Todder dei  o   subjek presss dat h  oe d
cat will scratch  Qfac          hehop: d
cT o  ee ninpla  a lI ., do:plairau 'n{
ati main g e pan mn~ Ob s4           o
den claws;d  su oder Isd d thrd dsd  t al
daen se o
cno  t  l heYelf?!'d
No  o1-grtve ;meanioh t sracin 4 A.ei
when yu  if rsumode ayp oe ~ ra n
crthyour  wicre,   ~Afseo~4t i~Va
whenJanel~xps c~aodr, o e b#h~h~.
bad  as  iht Y nf~ ctaU-9 ifr"ie'er w.  '   4i' t j~
dek                  t. 'T~ to*0 atd an e ii p~Ti
ye he        ,F  jk _h  w as;, .' do c"-,__t. :
not ShPol   ire

0


102

COMIC LECTURE,&amp;0.,

'spycted preacher, who hab charge ob dis flock, run into
de=h.se as soon as he heah do bleating ob one ob his
sheep. When he got in dar, he seed her husband onde
floor and she was straddle ob his brest, and. scratching
his face widiHer nales. ,At de saine time she holler mur-
der like de beiry debbil. As soon. as she see your 'spect-
ed preacher, she ax protection; so your preacher cotch
holdob. her arms and hold fast to protect her from hurting
her nales against do face ob her husband. , She flew at.
your 'spected preacher and put her fingers in his nostrils
and tried to tear his nose off, and den she holler murder
louder dan eber. A cupple ob wito men bust into de
house and dey koch hold ob your 'spected preacher and
himwhat he was killing' dat woman for. Blood was run-
ningfrom your 'spected preacher's nose and from de face
ober husband    Now dey think dat was proof enuffs d
we was kill' do woman, 'specially bekase she hollered
murder   So dey pushed us boff out ob dorrs, and pour
preacher got off cleaniand run A     dis is de seb-
enth diwision ob our text.
i      shall'prove upon' deho  ddat includes'de
subjekob dem poppylation ob        $ o1   1 a:i y'call Albany
Niggars  Albany niggar am reg-garlike-your 'spect-
ed preacher; and dey'iswite ind r 'plexion: 'kase dey is
'ehamed of dar own color; Dey make .b'leive dat dey am
wie   ks; but dey can't 'ceive dis niggar. .Ie know dat
deyis niga by dar curly har; darfore I ax you to hab
"ossin to do wid dem fellers dat go about for a show and
calldarelfAlbany mnggar.
Odis prantcasion dar will be a c'lection taken up
to buyumassa Garrison a wig. You no dat de brains is
in dhead anddoe bob   ition cause is in de brains. We
issfead dat do cause will cool inhis head if he don't hab
awg   o keep it warm; If lupnp ob snow should fall on
dof    'hdis headit wood freeze up de cause for sartin,
'cepthe hab a wig to kiver up his hald head.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL 4ND D DEICILAE-ANEW R. 1gg
Annudder collection willbe took up ondis
ion, to hab a waxlgger o your 'spected preacher, tbe
put in de museum. On4at 'portant 'casion yoir'spected
preache's wax bigger will hab a pair ob wite top boots
and a pare db spectacles fastened to de nose t eep dem
from slipping off, as your 'spedted preachersnoseis too
flat to hab deM stay on wideut a peg.  Dazore B   r
Cole will pass 'round a big hat foryo = -peted prce r
and Brudder Widgeon will pass round anudder at frde
wig. Dem dat put in a fourpence will be'titled to bowl ob
clam soup in de sulear.
Mine Goot Pecples: You shall not bee in 4isAhousefr
¢ti.gs to-day, as Tshallgot von t    as shall every
Youeriauni
tinsle.,
aidore.  m
Your niinistetshall pe bdl  tot in yon fesri lik
andshall  o           hal i  h.l l."r  pe i te Nbr e s, -u -
ough. , natd  oisg  n   a
ven te get old o~t'e epeng
eyha    p s  p          toDoewiting     tyou shall
knW notingaptu # nly te clergyvat shll know any
ting.
Your minister. hall Pable touop  bt nterier le
~~~~~~~'v-bas better tan MynheerMilrIndfrslneshsal
tlyodadebell shall roar . 1.  ish Siday tr un-
ough, ven all theblip s~rng    Be
halhav .,db eas for dine     ayo
64urdoff.  i _ ne
country, ehe shall have suicl -beleo_ rt o:Sudayt
ontyget hldo e ope noboys~l rn      en   ets
teyshal  e s bg.De   shallpe tolbellsvot nobbd
shall, ring.                              . .


to ,eep pff to rains en you goes to chutcb.
s ish got porasola to keep off te
you shal neer please to womens. Venit
ty sh got to brillers to keep off to rain and
ve it        Ae sun tey shall had te-parasols to keep
0ff  o /god  wv ters; P
o t    hall adore in a cell  He
ri         t     I le in yon cel; and shall
a    fo  t   o de moud4inin von cave. Teir shall
pe:yo herits inlee qw    country who shall hive in to
cells, and shall pe so goot he shall never pe washed, and
his beard shall never pe shaved off. You shall not have
tehermit .imdish country -
last lineis1l tl apontion mess of a loin and te
yke    Taall   e von grept mystery -"but your muns-
di shallTYhd him out. Te yokes iph to beef animals t
*ae s   ono  $e lomn is von loin of beef, and tat i h
to mess  Tat shall show you tat te hermits shall have
something goot toeafter alt .   hermits in to Hollands
shall have plenty of schnapps, An   all schmoake to
pie, -   all $e tu e, to pass aw , ttime.
Itae vonad t  a        rtsshal not have
von, pa to pass'oadl ten     sha get enough to put
tosimge on teir;little house, 9nd to keep von horses and
cach to ride to church. Ah  tat shal pe grand ven to
h   r gto.ohurch in to coaches. Yen I shall pe von
yi it' allhae plenty of big house, and horse and
voach     every', .}thing.t pe rand, and schnapps, and to-
. r, " ; r, sYAN IK,1 LETTER
ak mypen in hand to inform you
a     ;l'ar. all 4oin well, ad hoape thease fue lyons will
ind yu enjoying the same, lesson. ThorA ben a grate
to do p hear about Horrigon, wich they say is cumming

By DEACON SNOW0A   i         -PD  P&amp;Dg LAGEE-3LATT R. 1:oh
to this plains toinaik war. and. ever bodytocks about no-
thin' else
uther taiks on aboutit wuNderfull  ad she thinks
that Mr. Poke.aught to beputuin.riin forFkgR  wars
in thecountry and fetchigthe rrigu  t _te. Oap-
ting Konkha of tlis villidge, ho kepgethe aga f1s has
a grate dealt ay aboutitdndhopes ouhis w     the
tother day and cumri to orhoueandaeus i       had
seen anrtbingeof the ennewy, as hewa4  o  s e   his
valior and slay his thousands and tens of thousands like
GoliahandSaint 3 auL  Thou hed  ad ou hi     long
sword and swung iround;his-head andswore lke any-
thing, and sed that if the Herr  ns cVm th i  nhe  ood
maik sassidge meet of the hll of e  Used e   hould
conker or dye in the persoot! Theuxg Re ldua n4si5-
ter Edoumberance to taik the broom and tlmhpnudi, tick
and do the man oil exercise. He give orders#aattodoo
and when we didn't doe it ritehe sworeotb itskeieed
mother hafdf out of her sev,.Wits  Whenathe cuiin
the house to see;what waathe matter, he wentrite upto
farther and.lati his hand oz his shoulder, anddIookt him
rite in the face for haff ainni t and then se1eet&amp;hin
"Wall, Mister Sooks  h' yo heeSred aboutWth wars and
rumors that'erintothesoparts       ay  you seed in
the papers all snt how Misfer John Sqaiy A awshas
gurded on the same sword that de were in.the.Coktanlo-
cutionary War, and hasgone to ite tha inimies of our
country?"
Whatiilbou?". efft
"About       CapingIonkhn, an he put his    n on
his sword at th saitre,, "itis the     rig   x afr
that we've beeed 'onsolong  It's the wr "tt' ain
up into the highlplaces. The unisayesd        t
is cuming hearto slay your  ee and    4,ook
'em for their supper as you wood roast ansg  hyre

_    _  ;
~                 a'Y  .


4

i i= Fw. t ers ing-nife and their Thomas
.     durthrt from eer to eer           Why
d / n  txr iii gu d on your swotd your musket at on
~  44~zr &amp;Vtioboes on your shoulders, and ad-
5fT" "   ,ez,'it    b  tobskeered, and he azed if their
ngoitt jutepprs     nd nuther ed she.
di4~  ~ t~tie ~h~wa~bon tat she should ver
se~  tdq   ~i  h  eeteOptiin a piof Rap-
As or~i~~,mbrx     e,;h rn rteipt th Cap.
4       it  her      h wetiand quee"d hdim,
~~as sehQee1/ot-"d N~o e  hat i've red, about in
~  l~e 0&amp;e :hefsad Tbd   i oRawmar! ,Har's ahe
brave,       a   dall ';wt ef nr of his conry with his galliant
srdpnhisthigh, andhis noble deeds, and his parro-
ism a~hs allior.  hat's what i like~ to see of all
things, tbe 'eoics ho uins to defend the darters of Co-
lub atb'  oik ttheir alible lives ! ! ! ! !! Hear's
my da  idne bart'beCpig cI'e   m your'n for ifre,
TheJai$. bushe a good deal when she said tha%;
shudr dsi she,"Bd       yeer  ting, i'm afeerd
that yo  gthutb  I you wselto be kiltit wood brake
treed         willfollwyo thes
henatsds the.cah papers had to
sayaoi      wrT      eO(#i 9up          17rysol.
"Jhn6 C04koun !'htyou nvehesr hat name be-
foie~?1't&amp;hi~;that was consarned in the Mortification
,   Mj -  t  f sn cas her "ten we-e all dead
h "

Then ite e~n toakupth      fbse 4
that we ounh o eo b           a~ hew~~
bureusaUup+liv..
hollered,"~'wcr   i.
death I
shelfnteni1Iroa4    e   a   ag     .
the hullhouse.  uhr5raA  ieot~n    p'
and put her arnme'oin theC4A;b  6 t
sword on the floo a
through the widr he  a
up the road on the ful zn  nvr*e~&amp; de  ~s
fast, nor a LI wh3_a f""_.d arterxhim-. M 7ther
thort we ws al con oa erv e ie,6
their kind  th r+ i was the  cat ,'4 \e  a, d
brought ou heiecu of 'the dis wihtepyti
to 'em.
Casting Blossom h
Te m
'It ish von goo et 'a~ee hl e ~tsvr~v
you  shall h. , '           .   ' .
shalpe yenyota'ton'UICI\4A

..  ; ,'  -


GOMIOs,                  4 shall a &amp;lw
se     n yras         all aiwas pe. Te night of to gar"
ter is ye i.you     'e off- your garter to go to pod.
As ?  o nin eS; lf  I hall never I take off to garters, pe.
use s   1 ever take off but seven pair of trowsers
ye'@ n     sleep""in e_trhee'pair of breeches and mine two
n tat vey I shall keeptunne. skin
a,,orno irt shall get to t skina en you keep it cov-
et n  1t tue wit waters, and get dirt on te
b    a   t pe pocause ty shall take off to clothes. Iff
yoknyour clothes yen youee ndeyo get
up  euy. ou sha  cover upte skin andget no dirt on it at
l  nd't  yo  hal nt neod to waters at all, sure
eoh     Ishal never ash hmore tan mine race or hands,
t      hafl feflintuto, cn al yen  ishalpe von little
boy
tat   salnaon darter of to soaP
boiler.; Y  shallYno'wots ap shall pe. It ish vat you
va rub on =o: r hand von yo1 vashe6 to cum to church.
It ta te    omans use von whole bar vn t      sha  pe
eos Mbt t e and      ash to clo:e all day. To darter of
to so. bileesall pe to gal yen her vader sha l boy te
soap n   n p   pot. Dish gal ish to be marred at to man
vot nevr     ;gotedine night without' pulling off
his garn hhaldkow how to boileto soap. It shall
ped    A ad'tzziness tat boil soap;your minister shall,
herd oweyketbh=lip le oya,4 girls in dish country
ndbl t   utike         pin tofegpot.    ie shall pe
frteshallkketch your,
~in$ tr al   b  il hirnand his reeches int .oap.Mn
br* l'as   fad'fieing t.boiled ino sa   evn she
al                         y tat she shalrun venever
Viyon!'erhl              rr      n   -bilor's da rter

BY DEACQNQWBL 4N IPZ   IOH LAGERBIIATTER.
fellr    itend          an'maks motions    it teir
fiers. Your ministere rr sblmrr oedatrttsal
not zike vn soaps, sureenough.  Pass rond toeplate
YANKEE LETTER.
Pzter; They hasbeenatin pedlAin these parts-.
He sept i or bested, and.wheY hewontawayh
mother-a nutmeg greater, and  ster $ookgy gofa:little
tiom squirt ofhim to squirt water atia boyig cho
Farther says thatathis tin4 pe[ riaga  a -=
up' and. torkod , :ith usttill twe;ivaoeekvta4
nose about politics and It nn  ao      t
something what will e  hertold
all about politics=in Bow. He
ler that they call Miste Webste  i g? for t$
the, president, te  cl  im expidei whc.    ;en
that he isexpected to  be, resitHe    .t    h
wholeword epectedome- from the. tia
every body is pecingat a man a so
president. Hoset"that theisisterWe
stout man that couldmow a goods    fei
his talons o a ood use and he's ga   4
for driving team
He has ,eeup couneT
and roundte+e  M zdo ia*      dl   d    eoeket
and Ub 'brige and                            o
r4t,
con and a store.Re sea thei~ whp
pant dow's       ~~le         ,le,~         o
itwas ayal  tgin                     " ;"tbe Y*"o  s, F-'th'y wa-a_
ae ntofte  ktedyi  ntheiqr; a~d hesh     +
w  vry 'fod' f' gin'rotu4ar  5  g$M4
toha gal atall.  " oheWsta~nh    ~

,  '


*

10

otmacITnthSr C, "

and when he was runnin to pull her out of the water and-
sedtat,he noed it was improper for him to go near her,
andheturned and run the tother way, and she wood ha,'
gotdrowned if sum little boys hadn't av seen her and
pulled her out.
Then the pedlar felled us of another case of true love,
dow     Mendon; how it-was of a gal that was in love
ih 'feer thatworked on a farm ; but arterwards, the
young feller that kept the store took her i, and he payed
1tention to her and sot up with herstue mites and wun her
vii     ec shns, and then arter that he went up country
where he'belonged, and that :enermost :broker her tender
hart, and' shepit him 8 letters andutelled him that if he
didn't eim  bak, she wood have ;the 'fust lovyer that
works on a farm. So she went about the villedge with
her.hahrehanging down 'over her neck and called herself
" a cshed' ewer." Then the nabors took it up and
coad herfather to sew the shop-keeper for a britch. of
prema s   So tie lawyer oum to see her and she telled
m   t h     a       broke and she should go down in--
o rl'raedand hav it all strewed with.fiopers.
, T140    er saidthey mut have him sewed,:and so
sheaid"if they could get fve hundreddollars fromn him
foer use, itwuld make Aer feel better and praps that
h  'art     de     eed;   sekaewith all that money
she could et. another'shepez     r her hart was sot
pnw      gahol keeper nthtould make a lady of
rhd     owe tll shet could git
n  e.  fi  wdred dollars would be
idherr h1F6= her father
t1*4~wM downto t      e 'sto get a hig'sh-
w  f*       ~ g      '  np coutry to ketch her lovyer
w4  d big 'him den to.-make himpaythe
50%) dollars  4tfthe last accounts they hadn't foundhim,
d he gal was affditracted&amp;$eifear she wouldn't git
her 1ovyer backator the' 50 dollars nyther.

BY DEACONSN(OWDA; ,DW          A    B    E    111
When the minister cheered that \the pedlar was at our
house, he cub downtheir to talk latin withhim,  So
when the' minister cum  down to our house, he had five
big books-under' his arm, and as soon as he was interdu-
ced -to the pedlar, he sings out-.-
"Hominum bejus liber J"
Then the pedlar sez he-" Yes, yes you want some
hominy for supper. 1 will answer you ;" and then the
pedlar spread out his arms: and sez he:
"Polly voo frang hee ,?"
Then the minister looked in the dictionary a great
while to find the words,.'and= at last, sed he: ".1ara
means bitter ; and Pollmyand Mary is the same thing; so
the fust word is bitter, but £Ican't tell the rests"
So the pedlar seed that he had stumpt the minister,
and he rubbed his hands,'and told wher he was brort up
and eddicated; and the minister wispered to muther and
sed the pedlar was the wunderfullest man- that he ever,
seed.
When the pedlar went away the nixt morning, he left
muther a butiful sarve that wood curethe wringwurna.
It must be rubbed ont the place hot, and whent, is rubj
bed threw the skin into the veins, it pewrefiesthe blood.
If you hear of ennybody that wants" to'highera1a
in a store, or a young feller to skou 'kdnivesin  whittlin-
house, farther sez i can do ary one of themjabs.
'our'   tsarve,
' _  -YAwNKEE ILTT                . B".
Mister Editer: have -.ou heered of th  grate
we've had up heer. It was a man travelling-wit
of mutnkies and qdruids' and othernaheen       &amp;
exibbit it heer at the publick house, fod asixenape.

..


4

112

OOiix Lq TV E, &amp;X

It aetook threw the street iaa grate cat, and the feb
le therithe cart was the blackest nigger   at ever
as een n these. parts. Everybody that is heer iun ar-
tethe carto'see-if theycood peek n and see  ny of
the nibstracious wild monsters that was in. it. As soon
as ever theygot it there to the tavvn theman what ow-
ieed it enr out en the steps and said a speech to all of
us that as there He sed there was going to bea grate
reform in the -country, andrthere was 'awful doins in
Washington, and how a   the members of Congres roast.
ed there sassidgers on thee stove, and eat their tiinners
in th hallwhilst they were spea ig, and how they had
theirtperkad injnn served up t the desks, se for
te eat their vittle on the spot.
Tkre 'went :  to tell about pollities, and how they
=ygolg to hav&amp;eeryhin changed and evverybnddy
astonished hax to peaces.  Then he telled about his
mukiesi iathe tavvuncand sed they as a. wunderful
sp   es and telled about what they cood doo and how
lsrned they way.-P',erybuddy took oph their hats when
he spoke tu'emu and thort he was as big as ,inneral
Washington.
inhe rte.on, sisterConsider washed her .face and
feet, ! ,-1d  .    ewtes and went up with me to
ous ndttra   When we went in, there
was a. felle there wik agpole, a  , lie pushed the men and
boys bck,    kp    li   '-" stand b   ,b entlemen,
ndtbhpladies see the monies.
So all the,      1     :o b d let the wimmnn and gals
ilk up, and they was dredfully pleased with the mun
s and the funny wAys thathey had.    One of them
4ks had   a han tied round his bell, and heb would
S     i on hishind egs like a hoss hen herares up.
wo uld taken ple. their elue a     at it; and
eewas aid there that cood tork.  At firat i thort it

BY DsACGoSeNOWa4IJ 41i LVOULSAGER-BLATER. g
was a Wl bekasejtsUe     sa WoQoked   4tlast they
ed it was a 'pliot alodf ed  to . Then:t se4 fie and
murder andpretty plWhen i found out tha it eood
talk, g  Ret'a6ate6 it and axed it how old it w  htat
diddent answer ne at all, and it leaned its h d m down .a
one side as if.it was d60f of one er and was tryng to
heer what was sed. i telled" the mai his palhogwoodenot
ansur me, and he 3ed it wa bekas  as a       muthy kndof
a bird 8  like asuit   e nthe' o so large.  Then everry-
buddy axed the perd  some q sis       SiteConsider
axed te'boo maid hims a    o see if he kgew his kate
kise.
But gals liked the munkes b":    asd the   wnnies
seemed to like the gals, for they lookedatthe gals  the
time and winke  at 'e  as nat'rala; life. Arter wews
done the exbbition of the _o racioagdrup _. theu
blackniggar had his sho, andhe   um ott and :waolsd
a cork and blowed it out of his nose.Theneatod pp
on his hands, and everrytime he c down ohiofet, he
sed  whew!" and that mid the g .  fdredflly   Ss
ter Consider sed shed ruthesee the =:    th   ,lLthe
other munkine, and the pajot i
" was dredful ihnny-.for'his nose s so~"i; J"ni!"e_  and
when he was tired nd took a long
like a pare of befuses.e
Arter the niggar was dun the she     i ater
on the rising   erati  oftnspgnd thep        s
ting. He e   how there was sonenny       b   i t
country that thewood eat il       te tater and kt
up the ull country into canawltsandhrale odes, so that
their woodn't be1n room for fafenandJopa an alf at
air.: He had oversomn toh leritha     pbod  ed n-
derstand Wht heent.     Andgot 1t              Mher
sed he must hay adte f'l g h     woodu't      geldY.
mutch,


COMIC LECTUREB, &amp;C., - '
I wish you woed cm up heer'and, see the performances,
or it is the mYost wderful things that-ever. was. Muth-
er saia ha t if'the people in Boston cood see this niggar,
they wo&amp;Igive rite up. The squire invited the nigger to
his:oaseadgihigas 'mutch as he cood eet, and the
niggT8toop     n hishands in the squire's parlor, and
necked dow nthe shovel and tongs. He has got a curouis
foot, for it'is wunderful long at-the heel. Sister Consider
sas thatshe shood fall i6el vith him if he was not a
riigar, andif' mother 4  aggreed to it; for she never
fasin lveithigettingsleaf of muther." Shek'ell in
vlujest seven times, and she axed muther's leaf three
ti}  and   thetiesshe aied father's leaf, an  so she
s .ereandnary one' of them loved her; and
she  ntired of loving g'em she 'stopped without-ax-
in leafbj.of anybody . So thenfokes awel ed that she was
o   rostand rter to it sum pie to rite a peace of po-
s;,       ad ptit     te nucepapers but Consid
r sd pthat ::it w9dlt'te worth while, as narywon of the
feee lovedned a hoeof his one, and one of
f'em :.dy;'t.a. s eond cote to his bek; lMuther sais the
les, it mustbe a sitty gentleman, as they
canTpr ~iheNb ith a e achtride in, and losses and
sarizt With livieB 'en,"
Theirs no moe nuce up hear at present.  The nigger
has been onotr fa  ud saishe wod 'have no objeck-
t : .:  rito  efinthe county' if s buddy wod give him a
farm.' rap. they wilL Yours,-
.'Js Gnoss.
DskACO1 90N OWBAUS LECTURE.
bbed Thddr.-On dig indiwiddle and straineous
Ara lon'your 'scted: pre aher haf to'form diis o1, greg.-
'ou~o  eolor dat your 'spected preacher hab seeut'do

I

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER. -Hl5
names ob massa mineral Jacksonand nassa general Tyler
to de Peas Candy and dey was signed to dar estimate
and he 'tend too send 'em a stifficate signed wid his own
hand, so dat your specterd preacher will be one ob de
'stinguished gemmen dat' hab signed to dis candy prowi
ded de gemman dat hab his candy.to sell will gib your
'spected preacher a ninepence to put his name down,
Darfore we take de follerin' language ob de 'postle Salt.
petre, for our text :--
",wish rIwas andldow where
A1n4dI know who was with me."

Dis text .an de most'portant:text dat your 'speted
preacher hab 'proved 'upon sensed time before, last and
todder time, too. Darfore your 'speeted' preaober will
'prove dis text in a berry 'spectful manner. 'He"will
'prove upon die text wid' all de;'trength in his bbdy. As
it am a berry heavy text, he will divide it into-ie parts
to make it lighter, de same as you divide a bag of meal
into two parts to put it on your shoulder when you come
from de mill.
In' de fust place is de follerin' tree conjuuctifioations.
"I wish, I was, I know."
De fust implemement oh dis statistics is de wish. Dat
put your 'spected preacher in mind ob dotexto'criptur
which says--"If wishes was hossea, .eggaracould ride a
hossback ' $ut beggars neber do ride a hossbaek  Dey
ride inclusively in' de South Boston coach hi h hab a
padlock on de outside.
De todder conjunction is was. Drfore was is doting
dat 'sprees what a fellr was ws    Da isam       by
dat always tell you wh  he  as'nd ciding t     at;
he was always a teible seller till4 had do Te3ll year
itch, anddat hurtaim some. Dnar  i }oha 'Jcshg,
she.always tell you dat she had good laying tut=t but
arter she spraint her an'n kill she forgot all about it and
was laid up for a tortnit.


16

00MC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

D  third conjunction ob dis speechification am de word
kno    Darfore If you know anything; you hab de beat ob
degree ; for by knowing a ting, you sometimes make a
b=rygood bargain. Your 'spected preacher swop off a
pair ob white apboot to Ceaser Widgeon todder day
Your'spected preacher knowed berry well dat dem boots
belong tobarudder Cole, and dat. rudder Cole would come
auter oi 'bekas  head only lent 'em to your 'spected
preacher but Ceaser did'nt know nossin-'bout dat. Dar-
fore your specterd preaeber got a pair of small close, and
a pair of second hand tiff brushes; a pair of.mittens, one
eotton'tockin, and a trinab red peppers,-wid as much
lain soup as your 'spected preacher could eat on dat
tpo xa toaion  Dis was bekase your 'spected preacher
enw d   a ting br too, which de oder gemman ob color
khowd±no sinc'bou.Darfore brudder Cole will go arter
his botCo Oeaser Widgeon, and Ceaser must lain better
de nixt time.
Du text form you .dat he wish he was and he knows
whardat was! Darfore it 'gwine grate visdom to 'splain
di tg; bekaseyou got to find out whar dat place was.
DAisa stunt fpr you., Darfore you must read de next
le ob de text, and he says-" I know who was wid me.
Drfore if he was to a balls you know berry well dat he
wasYnot at-a mask ballybekase when you are dar, you
dot know-whowas:widnyou. But dis gemm an ob colar
,      _h as mid hi. Praps you tiank it was Chloe
Jumbo, Phillis White, Black Sarah and some odder nig,
gargalob color. Dat shows your ig'nance, you brack
s'0   ns, How yoid'spet to save your sins if you don't
imdetan' doet ?- Darfore I slain hini too. What you
tink youawill do when your speoted preacher is gone
t    bben?  You tink he eoxe back to slain him for
t                       ew
Daffore de meanin' ob dis text am to be 'splfined in

I

,2

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDIH LAGER-BLATTER. g
dese few words.  Dis gemmnan ob color in de tet;is a
prpofifficy ob your 'spected preacher. He vish he was
and be knows where, and he-knows who was wid him.
Darfore dis 'lude to de fack dat your 'spected preacher
'spect to pay 'tention to that yaller gal dathaajist }'ived
from New York, and he will be in de kitchen of Mrs.
Brown, and Dinah will be wi'd him. Datfore1dis--ide
way dat he mak you undertan' de 'cripture. I hope you
'member 'em on dis 'portant 'casion.
Darfore, I'm gwoine to 'proves upon de 'hole. When
your 'spected preacher goes "to see a gi ob 'color, he set
up close to her an&amp; ticle her under-the chin  id his flin
ger to make her good natutred den he look at her iite in
de eye, and axe her 'de complitntsdb de  e   r. If
she say it is berry. hot, 'den your 'speote preacb says:
"No 'peak- 'em! he buns off de skin obhde colloredpo
lation." If she say it is berry cold, den he pull o   is
mittens and put 'em on, and roll up he eye, anid 'lared
dat de wedder is enuff to fruze de wool of. Den he' shiv-
er and try to coff, and say he hab got bad cold. 'Your
'spected preacher hab got de bag forty-one tines in he
life.
LAGEURBLATTER'S LOTT E-
Mine Goot Peoples: Your minister shall give you von
text in dese vords:
"Turn gntleierniitof ,the dale,
And guide "my lonely. way
To whereyon taper cheers the vale
With hospitable rayI
It ish apout von hermits, like teir shall pe von w
York tat shall live in aicavein von rocks, andisli
ting 'at tall, only look at tobirds. Oh! Ishall tink oVt
mit sh~pe sent to prison alvays, pecause no man shall.


118

COMIo LECTtES, AO.,

p allowed to rxind his own business and. let other folks
alne. Te only vay to pe goot in dish vorld ish to med-
aleit evrgpody's pizziness, and make tem. live like
you      Tat ish vat tey call freedom ven you shall ask
libetg=otblow yqur. own nose.
Dish hermit    text shall live in to toods, and tey
shallcallito dales. Dish dale ish von placp downing a
a Ollowyore thermit shall live true enough, pecause
te vind shall nt blow inte hollows. S6mepody ish in to
dale;somepody shall vant to pe put in to house.  It ish
vongirl tat ish their. She shall see to light in 'te house,
an4shadl is to get into to house,; she shall think it von
hospital. Se.go:to to hospital.  Te hermit shall not
kep oni house, ut h shall live in to cave. He shall
no hs    , vpn dish, nor 'von platter, but only to pipe to
schmke ki'tout any schnapps and oysters, and sour krout,
and :cold slaw.
at shall tat gal be doing out deir in to night? I shall
like to see her go apout here so late at night.. Te hermit
'shall pe von c#pstable to put her in to prisons, sure enuff,
acauseagvooman shall not valk apout in to night.  Oh!
Ishallsee ven von of mine congregation"shall valk apout"
to night, sure enough.  A girl in to voods in to night is
lik- von owl vat shall sing hoot! hoot! She shall vant to
hermit to guide her lonely vay. I shall like to guide her
vay to mine house wen I vas know tat she shall have to
monhtopay hersboard; ,but if she ish not to have to
monish, ten' I shall know how she shall come to mine
house.  shall pay tax to suppor to house of correction,
and if she shall vant a house, to shleep in;,she shall go
teir to lleep.
i ash in New York teir shall pe von girl, who
me to to door in to night,, and say tat she ish got
,co to=sleep, sure enough,  d ish from de country
,~hheyalissk her for de monish, and she

BY DEACON SN&amp;WB4fAS)DJPR LER MBLArR. 1
shall say tat teir ish no monish in her pocket. I shell hit
her over-to head mit mine schmokeepipe, and shall.cell to
vatch; but te vatch shall run.'todder vay; for teplipin
New York shall not care to take .hold of te robber.ii to
night, but shall like better t9 take up to littlesboys  the
day time, because te poys ish no danger.
SY"iKEELETTER.
Mister Eddqtor: They is cun up in our parts a gal
that is called a corkwet. Every lody fez that she is a
c erkwet, and so i 'spose she is wron. She shoz  t p in
making' bleeve she likes a feller, and the h  , im
the mittin. Their is no getting a longiter     y
in the world. She was up. to hour hose, the ot  ite,
and so i sed that she was a going' to make bleeve  e  as
in love with me. So i got eddy for her, and she called
me Mister Obydire. It was the fust :time i was cawled
mister in my hull life, and i snorted rite outa lafflin' in
her face. So she called me' a 'poor. Itelled her i mite
be poor for all i noed; but i was fatter 'round my leg
than she was 'round her middle anyhow.
She sed it was genteeler to be little 'round the middle;
then i sod that a hornet was gentoeler than any other
qnedruped in all creation, for it was so little 'rouid the
middle that you couldn't see it. When'she found i noed
2 much for her, she tried to cum 'roundfarter, 'and to
make him bleeve that she was dead in love with him. So
mother kept lookin' over her spectacles all the timewhen-
ever Barbara spoke to farther, and at;last she thort the
gal was going too fur withhim, and she jumptriteup
and called her a nasty stinking corkwet and tod 4her
to put on her bunnit adrtrot along out of te h   r
quick, or she would thr|Nn her out of the wind
So he oorkwe't got rite up, and sEl     up     i.
I


*                C~O~IO L6O01t0, &amp;,
bi6        stared 'at mother as imperdent as nothing;
  'nd  y's  1b V'to father
4      M  Th~little that your wife is the master of this
hea ~    t I   .shall rememberwhat you hay sed to me, and
wle      ouatthe plae you    intioed according to
a greeinent."
e mother. was so mad     he didD't noe what to do.
She looked at father over her spectacles like a cat in a
dark room, and she took three pinches of snuff i a se-
.;       te e    of her ose ws as sharp as a ray-sir
d     rd as   befsteak. She ketched up the broom and
_,1.   B .rba a,  d o  this  cork'wet  seed  that  mother
whean    letand theti she    mpere.d off in grate style.
Stherom intohe kitchen, and then out
o ithe hen intohegardidh and threw the gardn gait,
herself maid me think that
sli       6 oen    build have brote off and left her in
t        ikeissolvin the union. She-cut out into the
ro, nd     o    arte her, and arter mother was dun of
chasig,_ rF - kep hollerin' ariet her, ad every body
that *ae $din' that way looktstround at the cdrkwet and
o    o    alafn' when they seed her Outtiug up the
r ode ike1gawzest.
sv:ody red it carved her rite for she had maid one
l S   ith' ss half crazy arter her so that he
kdono         rk ai he maid the ri ses ter set on the
tted themto put h     hen on to
j  'ems ? " t-re,%.va 1 $ ,h AidriEs tide boys hoo got to
h               dshedidnt are for nay one of em.
., *.h-5-'e   i~;el  Zaccheu i . h thzthe had a very
~n tz~~  tatmde1d    avg2r ter er    then she
_  _    p tei  a~e  n.':  r us-i,)  t  t             y',cii thla  h inh~ sr~ ~t
der t#
4r'       nd s O theywas th n    gfor heru atre
" u r r5y.   t ir daddy was   i. n -d abaut'4  jyj.'yp  I, a~dso the
nthaLb *d hr r      n5ne±5tethIM   se, h  run'a

-.

r

BY DEACON SNO IhALL AND  1    t LAGERBIATTERMj
her with the pitch fork. She seed him coming and'she
streeked it for the woods, and the last was seen of -her
that day, she was in the middle of the Richardhou woods
eating acorns.' Then a hull passle of fellers went up to
the woods to see the corkwet.It was in the evening.
They carried a lanturn, and sum had pitchforks, nd sum
had clubs and Joe Collins had a sithe, and other sum had
long ropes to tie the corkwet. Sum of em didn't, oe
what a corkwet was.; they: thort it was a sort of wild
beast that lived in the woods; and so they was  oi' up
to ketch it.
When they got up their, they found that-the corwet
want their, and'Sam mown curi up to tell 'em that the
corkwet was gone back to the house where she lived. So
they thort they would go down to the house, :ad when
they heered the corkget was nothing but a al, they co-
chided to ride herd on a rail.
So they got a rale off of the fense by father's barn and
went down to ride her. When they got to the house,
they peaked in at the winder and seed hesetting there,
and mixing sumthming in a bowl. Then they need it was
love powder that she was making, to-captivate sum more
young men in the plaice.
Then we was all, as mad as a greece spwt an&amp;ye
nocked on the door, and a woman cum to the -oor and
we telled her to send the corkwet 'out to us, as we was
going to ride bet on a rale. Then the corkwetsetaut
her respects to us and axed to be 1exqused bekas she
was. very hevvy and she was afeered it would  tieeg s
So we didn't noe what to do. At last, we al   to
the house, and found that she was gone. Theack '
der was opened and she must hay' jumpt out
she had left bhe lve powder behind:er in abt
looke1est le' itgeh.0 We 'sung  d lito t&amp;*   and
then weieaed out for hiula; and that~is thelas  we
hay' seen of the corkwet.


I   '

CQ~ZIZCT1~IAPOC

YANKF  LETTER.
D     Yewj   e   We'reall in the suds up hear about
ths tire filing o&amp; hogs and akin' assidges,.and
aas cross as wasps. So there's no piece up
here =ow. W''vk         anold barrow this seeing, be-
iesandoonerousther pigs, and we've
had.. preehii' in theskhoLhouse. 'Jake run a nale in his"
fltra  they gotfa peace of' rusty pork rind out of the
b r     dp    i    theJplace, and made it as good as
nue    d
twas curous about the nale what went into Jake's fut
He heered a,-e. in the nite and thaut a focks had got
.          :ge pen; out herus with a boot and stock-
ing* oW o ft,,'and ftotr 't had nothing' on except his
Sl thenale run intue the tfut wich had
on t  kveng ad never went a near the naked fut.
Sstange bekuzegrybody thinks their is
d 'nales in your fut when it is nak-
,      t er    wen it i    ivvered with a shew; but
i_ ,tatbois on the other laig, and that it is
dayer ashew and boot than to go with-
naedfta        ot hurat all. Farther sez
a gn                  so strge in this country that
okes w   i b rrn by 'ba-afeered to wear boots and ahews
o     fi         des in the     t.    l  a    was
a o e   out tokeatch the fock  and had a
unHe  s s    thi   in the guice pen an dheab
_o14d t  so     fin. He lade the gun on a tale

- - i   ,-q   04   0 q   I I       I   . .     I   - .      .           -                    -  -   I     I

,4

0*,

.

BY DEACON sNOWAA&amp;NDr        QULGERBLTES.
to shoot it, and fired it off and shot apighat had got in
their witch he thort was a focks. Arter he'd shot that,he
cotch it up by the tale and thenhe found outit wosapig;
so he was going to fetch it intue the house when hetrod
on the nale, witch maid him s madthat he flng -the pig
into the guice pond, and jumpt and hollered like allnatur.
--Then farther cum running outwith a gun and thort a
wolf or a. loin was eating up Jake, for he maid as mutch
nose as if he-was kilt, and that made mother so mad
that i expected she would shoot farther-into the barain.
That's about all the noose theirs up hear, tho'ethe o
say that Isaak Jones has a noshun of payit' ati to
Deliverance Bler. Y w no that Deliverance has alwise
ben a leetle hard of hearin'. Tother dayshe put some
blue cotting in her ears, and that took the i of Isaak
wonderfully. He fell in luv with, that cottingand thort
it becum her dredfully, and arter that he used tobe
poking around her place; and nodding' to her and casting
sheep's eyes, and at last she let him cun  inter the 4o4 se-
for she s6d that his bei' so taken up with her, maid her.
feel kinder tender in her boozumn, and her voycw n-
derful soft when she spoke to him.  at onkuridgd
him like and he stuck up to her  le would  o t the
house and set down.in a cheer and show her h 'hands
how they was hardened by layin' soaal, and.telled
her whaf kinder things he loved to et      as fond
of pudding and milk, and she telledhim how munch sh
had; sowed, and showed him a   h
making or herself. Fokes up hear' that heh bee
very good match and Deliverance wants to know what
they think aotit in oton.
way, as she has sumthat she can exose
like to taik 'em. Ax yure wife if shedon'iwantsi m to
maik kustards. You taik a little sira nd emnk and

4


1U.   ~      Ogg     M~~U*s gO.,
then   in   h&amp; aigs and micks it all up together and
oei    o lsritikkups, and then bake 'em. You mite
pin       lttlgrated nuknegg on top. The wooden
wonsj Wotdoo for that.
tweak acowroke into our milk room and begun
to ete  pthe bgpppyes, and nodked sum of 'em
down: arty; thatshe went ito won corner and stood so
stillgbttiiher woodu't have none their was any cow
theii-When hwntin, only she trod into something, and
liedto had slipped: down. Then she seed the plates
nsed ontheflor, and the big pyes that was in the*
thr dihesl     ete up. She called me to drive out the
c ;;didnlike to go and before i got her out
ah 'eoe     vehe churn and'poilt all the buttermilk.
a  edJoseph. Snif ha , ben missing from this
plai~ a good wile. 'He was a Millerist and sum fokes
ihi    hat be hasgoneyu. He owed considerable mun-
nythse parts, andifhe's gone up, the fokes hay' got,
tolooset; a    th  maik itbad, you no. Did you havy
e:cpse, ofthe moon inBoston. We had it hear, and
nePese     dsistat thyad it over to his house
tire.  heir' a seoomaster pear that teled us all
itthapent. He ais that their is clodde of all
sote             sad that sumties     peace of a thick
ld baky                       inthe sk    smwhere
es  e      pot-ldso that you can't see it,
till itbios;O  ain.But ite Nais she don't think
atoqrenothing about switch
i    terreotheir bible and lan all
{r   1e     a   tety          b  the safe sighed-i
thke                 beed their was nutob good cum
ro   thtorter       ing, thC' I'veg a pritty good ed- -
dt4s zyelfYous to sarve,
0nE LMP.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIRDWUSH LA.E{-BLATTEB. 125
DRACON SNOWBALL'S LECTME.
Belibed Bruddren: Dis is a berry 'portant and unctu-
ous 'casion bekase it is de tree months before de seben-.
teenth ob Juue. Dorfore we take. our text from de foller-
in''portant language ob-'criptur:
"_Mend your manners."
Dis is 'dressed to de wulgar which am de congregation
darseff, and 'lude to mendin' dar inanners and  tern' dar
behavior. It dress itself to den niggar-dat spendde sab-
.ber-day in gwoine down to de wharf and caflioblikker
dar, instead ob watin' till Monday, and buying hin at de
sullar. It also dress Sophy Wing andlvir peters dat
lays out dar money for likkerish, Jewsharps, and'asses
candy, and goes gallavanting about' niglhts arterde fel-
lers., It 'rude to den white fellers dat eat peanut in de
gallery dar: and to eberyboddy'dat 'fuse to treat your
'spected preacher to glass ob root beer.
De second dewission ob de subject is dsperitual mea*
nin' ob de same. . De speritual meanisaddressed to
your 'speoted preacher and 'quest him to mend de manners
ob die congregation oh color. Pe way dat your aspected
preacher do die in de follerin' maner. Demagergeb'de
congregation is 'pared to a pare ob ragged paintaloons.
Darfore your 'spected preacherniust mend 'e  by sewing
dem up. De word ob truth isdefusedle whic  houses
and de thread ob lis discourse isdethread; and dis
thread and needle he try to puta patch on your n ers
and mend 'em up tightand strong.  He sew widdube
thread bekase he gib you d4 twomeanin's o betet de
speritoal ineani'a ti dotoddermeanin'}     uel e
you'pove by do' sample of your 'spe ted pre er  If
you do as you see your 'spected preacherdo ~ yo  wt
mendoyour manner    r 'cerdin' to do 'eachrwd  . . Ex-
a-mpiebelong to4econgregationn4$rle       'g    to
do pasture.


COMIC LECTURE &amp;O.,
Your'spectea.reacher hab received de follerin' letter
from  -oung   ngenan ob color on Long Island, about a
revial indoseparts'which.I will read on dis 'portant 'ca-
Sin t discongregation ob color, and hope you 'prove by
hii  It isin dese 'portant words:
OYSTER BAY, March 34th,}8144.
Reburrand and Belubbed Snowball:    -
e geni t form you dat dis plaice hab been vis-
itted by abeyrrbig revival. It was in do follerin' man-
ner Cirkey Jones killed a hogg, and de bladder was
-ginItoalittle nigger named Toney Slaw. Toney took do
bladder adiiedit and. blowed it up wid wind' out ob his
mouf. Dexi hefound out whar dar was a party ob people
dt was fiddlig  ddaing in do :ebenin', and he went
der widebladde; and won dey didn't tink dar was an-
ybody dathe went:under de winder, and he laid his
blieren degrouid and den he jumpt up about ten fool
ind air anid e:m down squash upon his bladder and it
busted widaloud noise like a 'cannon gwoine of. All
der iked iggars in de house thort that brudder Mil-
le waspttinganend to de world, aind dey run and bol-
lered and screeched, and dey scampered off and sum ob
demn went into do barn and hid aurwngst do hay and fod-
dor-sum went into do woods and begun for to pray on
dat nees  Dis revival lasted about hag an 'our 'fore dey
411D out what it was dat skeerd 'em. I hope dis will be a
nooppation b color, and dat dey will
trytog   e da sin rite off.
Your belubbed brudder
BAnOLOEW CRONY.
Do you. hea dat, you woolly eaded sarpines, and don't
you titk loud call for youyouour brack scorpions an'
ersidat.doh.t e eape do evil of yoiur ways, and mend
"~i~iannHI6ricordidnto do text.
'Tethird diwision ob do text 'ply dat Susan' Weeks

BY DEACON SNOWBALL ANDIEDIO [CLAGER-BMTTER.   7
and Sarah Day ought to mend de hole in de heel ob dar
stockin'. Dey make de suce dpt dar heel is s0 long and
sharp, it wear a hole froo dar stockin'. Pooresquce is bet=
ter dan none, but dis is no squce at alll; bekase ebery
nigger hab de same squce 'bout herself, and your 'speited
preacher might say dat was de reason he hab hole rough
his boot.
Darfore dis leads to prove upon de 'hole; dar is trie'or
four tickler meaning's to de word mend-de fust is to-put
a. patch on your panialoon; de seedxad is todarn 'yor
stockin' and de todder meanin' is to mend y urmanners
Don't you forget 'em; for your 'spected preacher is berry
'tickler 'bout dis 'tickler subjeck.
Week afore las dar will be a syrenade under dewindur
of Phillis Jonsing who lives in de sullar,  To get under
de winder we shall. be 'bliged to dig hole in do airtb and
git down dar to serenade dat lullychild ob Wenus. We
shall go a Maying on de fust ob April so.as.to get dar an'
pick all de powers before do wite ,okes curn dari e eter
Widgeon will be-dar wid de base drum andimorNikkles
will be dar wid de banjo. Three od  niggars  v  een
engaged to scrape de fiddle.
YANKEE LETTER.
Mister Editur: last winter, the skool cum rntty oum tQ
me for to hav me tech the skool foortow   iorthe
winter. Uncle Josiah had gin me a recom  ed.Farther
had: spoke to the town clark about me, forid r  a
far as addition and cood rite likenB
cmmmitty cheered that i had rit for the nooepaperthey
was raving to hayme.
So the skool cummitty cum to our house in.
They wes as folers: abccheu Ooh    ir e     'El.
lis, and drives team to bdstown; J2i5b os at tns

.-


thill";Pete Smith;andold  John Hoxie. So they all
eahQi~se and farther took 'em. ito the best
"  f'oo i   gMuthe utoi hergcleen apui and own in too, she
tot d    in te asy(hair in the kornor. She didn't say
tishe sened to see what they was a-goin' to.
1hen thenskool committy begun to ax me things to sea
i   oeduff      be    o sioo  eer. tn the fst plaice Mr.
a~d tei~ ~0 amy ~tekie. So ielled himii did,
sout o       e    ise, an
.'iiaedmeif"i noed theprice of oats; i tel'd
hi They .a sixpunce a pe; then he axeds me the price
of4butta and i :.teledhim:Then he axed me how old  r
heae                      nd i sed he was fort
s   e!H oed how                mutch
myja~t~r wa de..4,1:  tel1  lnimi posed he wade about too
hn de    end       a h fall of. the year in sassidge time,
orha
Jao   osth'; 'r h1kepsaxe ~o  was the destan in
the wbldandi tllduhm  amson and he sed that was
r:, ar"ct tE:&amp;    ie -ed me boo was the youngest man and
Ised i was Jimflhitson, for he hadn't got no whiskers,
ad codt raze a pare, and he' sed that was rite too.
hundfloxe axed me ho meh the fat ex wade that
was-n, a shi w ay tbb tavurn and i ax srred rite , bekase
it Iw  4t~     ntepaper that is stuok up their.    Hp
e.r              i    aman aught to 1e hed of a
fac       i c o  ld the bescakewin the .olledge?  i sed
,tthae.                    e got mad at ti and sed i
d't    e notn foritwas hi      O    d that soled the
b       e and e    pp store under Mr. muels, the shew
dhe   tfe     paead hcomnmitty  ed i was rite, adthat Mr.
KQhttol04=he b 'te e  'Mister Hote got madder than

BY DEAN 8NOWB14D ND       OH, LAGIRBLATTER.1
ever and he sed he woodn't belong to sich an ignorant
committy, and he put on his hat and veered out; but-the.
rest on 'em 'pointed me to tech the skool.
When the time cum for to begin the skool, i went;taw
the little house where the skool is:kepp, and i found=their
a stove and sum fire, sum benches, arid a desk that had 3
legs to it: but i put a pile of booksunder the other kor-
nor, andeo that did very well.
Then the skollards begin:to cow. In the fist plaice
was misterfBogg's.thrge children a gal and twogboos, a
little boy, SamKomall, a boy about six oot-hi, tho'hes.
only 81 year od:then'their outwo  digals, andlive
or sicks young wens.
Theni axed 'emri theyinewhoiwas, and theytared
at me awhile, and at last SarnmKomallsez, sez he, " ye , i
noe you very well.  You sre Peleg  ounce; I've licked
you 3 times a'redd4, and i'll lick you agin if you aint siv
ole.i
Then i tuk up a ferrill and i thutupt on the. desk and
yelled 'em i wos the skoolmaster, and wos sent their to
taik keer of their merrils and if they would redther
books, they'd lain it os- the hull duty of boise and als
to mind what their techers tell'em
So when they found i wos the skoolmaster they sot
down. Sum ond 'etm sot still, and sm tawked, and other
sum begun to crack shagbarks on 4hestove, and one gal
begun to-fry a sassage on the stove.
Then i telled the biggest boise and gals that they must
belong to the fust class, and them that was a litleshort-
er i put in the second clas, ndthe liestof ali put
into the tother class. So their woeas at:chunkkid.1:ey
their that aed he-wade more than the bigboie and s~e
wanted to be put in the fust class; bit;he was8, tt
as thd big hoise. So i teok a stringad u    Mjte rund
hi wate to sees if ha was big aenuf to put ink tieust


'~4~e~kedid  pktan   and throwed   t  e then
t~1d im o ta~4 p a~be ferglled and he haw hawed
,r't _1 -  y " bo  the he run hum.n  tolled the other
s~qle~1 tati wa la h ws ge, an  Sally Richson
dh  ad thkbe h ept  the timeta kiss-
The iE~ ~1~  u a east oun up, &amp;nd. i axed 'em
h nd theyedit wos made
of irt at4 1teled emther  osnore a tree in it.
'I~hri ca~ed  th seon las and heered 'em say there
~katkiseari t e h  oEerclas sd there-ag b ,and
t'~ni et'm  oatne appl  onthe stove, ad wean
thygte all#atd          e   shood ake roast apple
fron'ei eeytim thy b~hve4 ~bad, nd soti- got five
roastappl    t fust and aast their was a gal that laff-
ed 6tdi' d  uoiwet to tak herroast apples ,bekase
the $~as ne arg wo~,and thendier bo stpck~ up for
ran aatahego e down and the skull
er al rn   ay. Soi'et off keepin' school and went to
dig in'/pertaties for father.
^ aae    so     -
4~neloth J dee:  ish ish vat shall pe te text vat I
3~                     ;illiv;fin' to day :
'}'rI'hisC7, wlfl. sibet hro ut teI U3 nieod  States, except-
ishe .::phrun:;otmpete horse ta teeslle called
~4pse~.n4whieh8hal rnvon tae'and get a pas of
xnny ${     no~h    Tat horse shall not  e seen so
,d :r  igoe,      te ecpee
lht is                andnmake it:arki

'al tetipeleva nevewah1punn in t A~i etg~
to countryfor edyipse.
.To text l1hasay teepse sl
North' Ve _t' orner of'O,, , .r !at h ll yu,.
get your Yankree eceeint tNrhVe  on&amp;Q'1
Oregos, pecae'  n
go teir wit your enhise I hlbr~ttvr e a
you shall niot get i#1ei ityurehis  6 o shal
send Mr. Poke teo             ba  but he
hllom bckwttenelpean  hll77   nev$ ,  CT- in
teir at all, sure enough. Vat hall peteMOrse ter-
ry It shall se onislandouinhem Ne, re te
bear and te wildweidanihallike MI -hl p  e te
converted Jew is gone, as r Eg Sues shalt tell you
apout.            e   ta- shall
It shall pe into NQegons, e  e  hav a great
battle wit te EnlbiiM andto Y.nkees shall . e on got
flog. Tey shall ntihe rmi Vioon
dish time. Le shallfloo  Eish
long toar minecounty.Rehllwie emvotg,.i
to land andlin o  ta
and send to great plague to Lodei; the
mine Got$
If Von 'Tromp bal pehere to 'go iht  wt  est
corner obrgn it h      t: igahi,, eb tbgiio
he shall sw e away  all  f t$ Rnf  .h,--ndina 4  te m
never hall p'  tt u  hAu1l =    *mer:
anda cih teUn all ad to hithsip)l rn~#t
othershianudcath t  ern ooToiat-e. e
tol rdi yevat     ees
a                   r dyen     ih  whs.


.o to ,goose,:If to goose shall not fly quite
ss    Vti' a4yr te 'tutchmans shall catch every
al            asevon day. Teyehall run like te
t ksnd to .bulls in to slaughter
htg02yT:; ,nber   on Plasket, Mynheer Von Buttons,
Mynhoer on bue         and Mynheer Von Balls hall pe
tt            o       ond to plate all summer, as te
veaher4aF p  ht andte    n onlemans shall take offt
tir ot~i      ~ehr      v   ork  t  assarund to plates-.
i          otto spring the monish in your,
pooisyou shall put it in your hat.
LAGE-BLTTES      CTE1.
MinieGooteop-es; Your mini ter shall give you von
Who sweeps a room as forthy sake,
Makes that aid thenotion clean."
Dis e  hvsha~f old you dat yen you ish sweep te room,
ou   e      clean!-Tat shall not be Mynheer Von,
h l op dishroom, sur  enough. He shall
troomcle              ve :beshall sweep him. If
r }ili wep von house and shall not make it clean, den
S  on otter ting; but yen yousweep out dish church,
ah1r deni ha   he your duty to make it very clean, pe-
oae. it is.a  place yre tepreah ish made, and your min-
e hallave fie people to sweep out dish church. In
s          hhaveMnheer Von    pRuskins, who
" veras r °4:to=sweep koit ery week-,,fortwo dollars a
do cul rn be~eu   t~ ckof to prom    li   hall.
sw~p o *oo Ek vn gidronmi wiestrasand all
"  5 i d i"',r n  F' f " rn:."d l ". Ven, y ur   ish  come  nto't
to
to '  c  o  salelng    ee  td off re'had on  ,te clean

place. Yen te ladiesscome i n,tshelall    ptr frock
and showiteir ,  to. towholek congregation. Ib shAllsee
te= le+ o+ie.f yhe Bindes t,:and it shall pe
as pig round asvontree   I shallsoontell tat Woer
to go mit his prooms, to to tuyvil.
Arteratat   sale Mynheer VonRk to sweep to
house. Uesall promised      eep her so cleal     o
shall see your face in ,ito io 4ike te booi.h hall1pe
blacked by te naguysn yVo   Uevon new
proom from Mynhear Nagles, and l    sweep to flooriallt
to time. He shall do notting else butsweeto hneh.
Ven to congregation shalt com  tchrch osuda      y o
shall find Von Rnkoe mihproo, nd o d            s
be so pig tat it shall g  to ey    9    i
fill up.his mouth. He shall eadist li  t          i
te Bible all to time as vat never shallbe. Den hefI1
tell Mynheer Von    Ru notto   weep t     urch  lto
time; and Mynheer VonRau k .hall^get:mad    ca.se he
like to doi duty  llrto tine.
Carter tat ve shall have to ottehre  ep
make fire-in teo stovrin teo intogj to.rVon of:toni ihall -
burn up your minise    at      k                tr
shall find Miss Kupigc+o',prayer book in totpewand
shall sell it all forsschapps  oww  shel  o  yhe
Craws to sweep tochurch   ,d.h shall     tv
enough-only sometimes he ;shall drinkto mchscnapsl
and shall  ake toefireen to stoveon yaterda
shall pgeallJw.
heer Vo Gantlve
voWnane ofgls pu ind tdr         ebn   oi
to seedat yurmiitr shl hav       i~  i  ~rd&amp;nx
veek. Now yo shall ps     runa                 r
thetf our mpniser sall havvo U       ca

=


"4~N

PE4&amp;CON SNWBALL'S LEC~TO1R

e.Your 'pected    4cher think pyop-
rtt 'casion=to 'culpate on do follerin' text
fl  oh ' criptar'                                    -
Wlk up gentlemen, and see the bear dance.",
Diis a p  cy your, spected preacher which was
de      e   e dey wasbiblding Noah's ark, and is s'posed
toha bleen:spoke byde 'possle Absalom while he was.
ah    i indetreeb de earf is head.
n di tex  or spected precher is figgeratively call-
t     bae a bear-is ob de complexion ob
or     eerSecondly,bekase a bear sucks
hs cl!,eand your 'spectedprebcher sacks pig's feet.-
Thzelyk       our 'spected preacher hab to bear a graie
deafrocedcong              tion o color.
D   o     hde to d    derniht when your 'spected
,b     oh olor at d house ob Phillis Wi-
daM  Win.  In dat 'portant 'oasion
hifkes cu in'to ee your'spected preacher dance
Btioi wasspresed Darfore your 'spec.
itettintosben parts. In de fust
pyu'boue     pension ob walk up.-
sum fokeso1riteo"to d+houSeto see your specterd
c           en        look in at de winder, and
otia^'v   -a[i '-tde"'okr,
r1$4.,zd    yeayoh gohn  p- dar is de way dat
u     il        o     phbleywid brush and'ora-
'"_e.i."N 4i.et:'  .,ick  eg" gion  ideofdechimabley
}  4and                               1  s tinib-
-{ti  todlg-e sidep addtkhs  thumb-
miS+aleiy 2 n3at%'Ae   rnoi  t 'ar  till he  getto d,,top.andden .-beholr
oo ie-ol                                  e  e cry
t     oienlen          Di wordiffom de
O1..  geob de dictionary; darfore it is a dictionary word,

BY DEAON SNOWBALL aND DIEo     LAGEERBLATTER
and depolite name for it am iemman. You want to know
what a gemma     darfore I am gwoineoto tell you--dar
am gemmen oh. b  orand gemmen ob de white color.
Your 'spected preacher hab 'ployed a white gemman to
clean de snow off his steps last winter. But -a white gem-
man and a colored gemman ain't so good as de doff; be-
kase de cloft am better dan a gemiman. Agemman iaon
ly called Mister; but your 'spected preacher is called Reb-
urrand, which signify dat he is a berry bigman. Darfore
your 'spected preacher am de sheppard ob dis flock ob co
lor; you am a flock oh back sheep wid plenty ob wool,
and your 'spected preacher take keer ob de fleece..
What you tink is de ineanin' ob a gemman? Sum fokes
tink it is bekase you live in a brick house wid soap-stone
front and hab niggar gal to scour de - door-plate.  Odder
sum tinks dat dey is a gemman, if deyhab on a long-tale
blue coat wid a watch in dar pocket aindhab a:gold chain
hangin down dar belly:ondenoutside.ASumtimes derw kin'
ob colored fokes is geminan and sumtines dey is no gern
men at all. Your 'spected preacher had a glassin his
west pocket, wid a chain, and -white top boot,rhen he
went to de ball, but cononn niggars hab no bininess wid
dem ting. Dey better pay Cesarha t dey owe in de sub
lar. A rail gentleman is one dfatpays for- his clamnsoup
and treats your 'spectedpreaerin desiulhrad puts de
money in de hat.
Todder division is about seein' debeardance. Par is
great danger in dancing .  enWh e ar dnetderigt,
he hit his shin again a wash u dat wa;i  o nn  e
severe pain ohbdat axidenlwadeeda h}lljgerl  rqar
in' lion dat isigeoine about seeki'pwh= he may detour
On anudder 'asion a white bobbl   r
head agin de head of your specterd rehern de ball
room, arid it knocked all densens rut Qb doh  itd-
der.


11991, WM 40
e wa  pve upon de hole. De 'hole haub in-
i     to  4 J     g and ?eter Wid    n who tolee a
err      u     dws-edup o do  atchhouse by
ssa Violinake such kind' ob Music dat
de.;         a ob.:.color do'  t ike todance.to it.  Dey
leff  4is lhm s  de h use uob -70  preacher, and he spect
d"t dey                   19sy.t. Dr fr  he plunderdem wicked Phillis.
chin sadt          tdggod bde churchby boihn'
it in  pt e your:     ted -pacer.D    power ob dis
ha    uestour      te  rea   r to pay for it.  arfore
Pl t    money i d hat to pay for di
S              et up, n   f y    don't pafor it, you
e  t    tde b                ore  ou will put scents
i  e h,  am"sre;day:     - sense enopgh in dis church
tr Slocu                       wll hand 'round de
lldemattocribe ipence apeace to pay
fr dia barnwill la",",e o hirld upFarh'hand.  You brack
A      *   4y hold up his hand but old Simon
andyhjb got no hand and only holds up de.
S tlr . ;. -a'rund.d.hat.  :

'hei is ~thi tucked up beer but the
sa        gthtgoing on all over the world. They
s a t  ths+1 PW"'r y    M eM  c an s   is  a llrM d rmo n s,'a n d  if' th a t's
tr, iny orta be kilt. ifgo in for the doctor-
} _ th tahe e  o  han  ;titeto live no more;than
fiieral taiors hasltthem he
vdoUandlis              cier as he can drink.
B :7" t ta  "i$' Wid ibV  f  o ti ngoin'on  up'eeer tue.
W niy   may'=is, ti the  Mroniotes is eoarting up
_[slyqr'alltrafds mu t 'live or else you
coul~i't iaong now how.

3D DACON BNOW~yAJ   pgLipDgAGER&amp;BLaTTR. Jfl
Sally Lumpking is the chief gal that's doing' up the
coarting now. S   got a new gowud from BQstown and
she wore it to meatin won Sundy, and as sune as the fel.
lers seed that, then was great times i an tell you. They
all got tegether under the shed where thehsses i dept
and begun to tok about Sally Lurnpkins. They konklud-
ed that sense she'd got that nue frock. as she was the
hansumest gal in our parts. All on 'em had thatnoshun
and so they smacked their lips and sed they should:like
to hav her for there true lovyer. That nite Jbe awbus
that works for Mr. Grpnt, went up ,to;thehouse.and call-
ed for to see Sally Lumpking. She waswadina'out the
childs diaper in the soup dish when Job go'ther. So
Job took off his hat and sot down von sideof the door
and look't at her whilst, she was tue ork a washing'
of it.
At last she seed that he lookt at her verry sharp, and
then she sais to him, what are you doin' onbeer? Then
sais Job, i doan't no. £ thort mebby you'd set up with a
feller to nite.
Then she was dredfully astonished , bekase nofellerhad
evver aited to set up With her bed and she lung the dia-.
per under the bed and cum and sot dgwn y  a nd wos
as good as you plieze. Then the old  es    g
anuther and went of,iJnto uthr rowa .Artethe    a
gone, Job sed  her"hatwos a pretty gowedthat you
had on to church today y."
Then she wo still agood_wile and ddn't'  a word
for she'd forgot :abut the gywed; ap            k
ing. She didn't aensura word; fpnor 7ww fy:lte
that it must by the gowned witgl      }
then she thortif itgt wun it :ie-g.t, rtherna
she ha  e;ver: hada   ee   o st sh
to gi4aplenty 'a rn w to m k u 4.ratt)p1 ; fo r
she didn't bleave but what be new pgone4fo


town wold ia plenty of others besides Job, jest as
yo  keh ats   ith a bit of toasted cheese. So arter Job
hAd   arted her up and sed al sorts of things to her, how
h=lik dher like new Bider, and wood lick any man that
se; sh. woe tt a pritty as a ripe gooseberry, and all
oe   of hn    ofthatlkind, ad then when he got up to
g-aud axedheriwhen      he wood let him  um again, she
sed e nedt takallthat trubble to cum all the way
on te       a   anshe wood excuse him from it. He
loot    a  zed as aat whe you drive it out of a cheer
bekase shehald bYeen soAeer at fust. He sed he wood
hve saxifadion fort if it cost him haff a dollar. She
didn't kerfoshe had found out that she could git boze
ifh ee      frock that came front Bostown. He went
o ai slain    d the 'dar so loud'that it woke up the old
fokes  and they thort the Mormons was cum.
Nizt   nd rindaite there was another wun went up their
it was'P&amp;ter Swipes: He went in and begun tu talk to
her about } tDu uefrock she'd gut, and she felt wunderful
ukup; and thort she might sarve him the; same. So
r ad sot abnt tue ousrshe telled him it was
f6hn to go bin. He jumpt rite up and dived rite through
theinderad'sashed2 pins of glass, he was so mad.
n t   er haddenthabeenopen, he wood hay broke
tieullndut hisef intothe bargain. When he went,
okeuthe      fokes te  nd they thort the divvil
had 'run'.awawith oe part of the house: So she waited
ti nut aay    =be thiwas another bo went uptheir.
He ~t ~u ~pat  ofdra  so that' he needn't trimble
whenhhetsto  e4  her,fo r  heought her Bostoun  froc
was snihg grate,,andhbe Na       kdof feared of her
eadin;    hen le seed her in her calliko
ig eastore diddent feel no more afeard
o in he did oTide(ins.  Now when he went there
adseedher ilf er new froe on, be kinder hun doun

BY DEACON SNOWbALL ANDPIDiBX OE LAGER-BLATTER. ig
his head, for he thort she was a terrible big lady. He
lookt at her and she lookt at him, and they lookt sideways
and backwards and crossways, and then lookt at the old
fokes and the' old fokes went out.
As soon as the old fokes was gone, he begun to coart,
and Sally diddent like him so well as any of the rest, and
she giv him the bag be4 he had coated her an our.
He sneaked out the kitchen dore, and fell into the swill
pale jest as he gut out. He upsot the pale ahd gut this
sunday shoes and stockings all fullofswill.le was
afeard the old fokes wood hear how he got the bag andhe
tried to keep it all to hisself, utevveyudd hered on
it, and laffed at him.  e woeso nad he went 'doun to
the 4 corners and hired out to Sam Swett to hoacorn.
The nixt sunday their wos a feller oum up to the house
and Sally liked the looks of him dredfully. He was dred-
ful putty all the gals sed. So he'sot doun, and aint and
sut, and the old fokesGwent off to bed. He tocked a lit -
tie to Sally, and ber:hart went pit a pat so fast.that you
coodnt count the motions. At lastphe lookt round And
inquired for her farther. "He's gone to bed? sais Sall
"so you can say anything yo please toie"
"but it was your faster i'wanted to see, about some
land,"' sais he, and he got up and wentoff.'Then Sally
felt awful, and nobaddy has been to see hersine, and
haf 'a dozen other gals hay gut frooks f r  Bostown
now, and she aint gotno fellor to come for to coart her
up.                            Yourn
Suas GaUanu
DEAoN SNOWBIlT LECT  IM,,
Bell bbed Bruddrena: your 'spected preacher .proximate
dis 'ticklar Jcasionwid-de follerin' superfluous and carnif-
erous. words ob de 'possle -SimonMague
" Our sufferings is intolerable,"


QO -l9 MTVUR-, 4Qof

140

DPafore he, .lou dat our suffering is intolerable, and
di 'hide in a .ftioker manner to de poppylation ob color.
It l   to de fack d t when dey hit dat shin agin a rock
ax sufferrings isIntolerable.  But when dey
ha           a  anytigg den dey don't suffer at all, be-
k    d ei a          hick on 'count dat do brains is bet-
terda a brains    white     , and darfore dey hab a
Sut m in like deseiron safes dat brudder
e  h on            he cllek.  But de suff-
do    a   i   on ohcolor i intolerable also when
y9 tred1on dat heel. Anoader test says, "Get off my
h        y            read onr your -'spected preacher's
heel       e  as a4   awiat was giben by Chloe Phil-
lips, apr den d jsuffein8 ob your 'spected preacher was
ntl 0b lei1   ,: e elher to get off, and den she make a
y" ud ydat ,e hopyourpreacher beg her par-
d n    ,iditl and shp made a curohee clear down to. the
flp.  or '0.             «apected preacher den put his two hands n-
der  idaid a berry polite bow to de lady,
a 'd 1herocmpliments obd seaou, for it was ber-
ry          eandasdefust day oh April when de ripe
fruit was on do trees, degrass was mowed in do medders
a    epeopl had on dar best-close.
Diexti diwidedintthree divisions: de fust diwis-.
ion press de natur of su  ni'; desecond diwision 'spres-
ses 4aeaul *N9odo wordeseff; and de third diwision
'sp}    e sufferi'oh yourspected preacher.     --
Do Leut diwisiow wh   tittiwate on all natur ob sufer-
wu    he   piry sprained  your saxifaction if one ob
di      1longregation o color would 'tep up to de desk and let
your          raher 'tikainn his ear. Whn you
b+ iisedyour sin dais do natur ob suffern.  Now do
s   o     p d poppylation ob color is berry 'ticklar, as de
'cripter tell you, dat "near si my shirt, but nearer is my
aki.

BY DEACON SNOwBALL AND DhIDBIOH LARGE L ATr. 14
Bruddren,-de second bobserwation 'lude to de meaning
ob de word sufferins; de moanin' ob deo word is de same
as suffer. If you suffer, dat means dat you hab sufferins
and .if you hab sufferins dat means dat you suffer, and if
you suffer much, den you suffer so ne, end dat is whatde
word sufferins is 'rived frum. Whenyou go to d polls to
wote, den dat is de sufferins ob de people. In de 'tate of
Rhode Island, dey hab de sufferinscause. I hadn't heered
how dey get on dar wid dat cause but Ispose dey is fit
ing dar yet, and dat thousands and tousands isbleadinin
dar gore.
Todder division stresss de sufferins ob your 'pected
preacher, and dis is de most 'portant ob all; f.eyur' be-
lubbed preacher is at de head ob de church, and, darfore,
when he suffer, you all suffer at de sanie time. Besides
dat, your 'spected preacher 'long to de high class ob soci-
ety ; and when one ob de high class sufferit is great deal
more dan when de wulgar class suer. A pain in your
'spected preacher's great toe is oh more consekence than
for one ob you common niggars to lose your head.
Your 'spected preacher hab had a greater ipany sufer-
ins. Hb hab had de rheumatiz tree-times; do measles
once, and one time he hab de seben vears' itch. Once he
was slapped in de face by Patience -Phillips, and once he
hab his hair pulledby Phillis Jonsing. Once ho hab to
run for his life down Leverett street , when he was chased
by a big.dog; and once he was crossed in ub, de time h6
paid 'tention to' dat caller gal up in Schove 'tre. On
one 'portant 'asion he'like to kit heseif eatiaca oup,
and dey was 'bliged to carry'him hum on a wheel-barh,
Dese is de 'ticklars ob de sauferins ohbyou  spe6ped, pro.
cher wich am stressedd on dis 'ticklar 'casionfor'your de-
struction in righteousne s.
Your specterd preacher hab heeled roin his brudder
lately; dis birudder of his is a berrybig iggar -h'


,wi4 e:4bi ~ as your 'spected Preacher and can lick two
Ui,7       I.n  etln.  Ho 'moved tofong Island to carry
f,       Ir   business. Dat consists of being round
illdarhogs and beggn' de brussels off.
off{    si '.:et  ;de a b  ssles to de shoemaker's and he
ellmto:.ke wazends.  He get a cent for ebery
hundred l  de b r.     When he went dar fust be was
xin d 4et.pkY of a i ra'ernran ob color and begged for
him;rbut -   t e begs. on is swn 'count, hating sot up
for himself.     ar'rote toyor 'spected preacher to say
dat, l e *  'i9. good health except habiag do rumatiz,
and lie hope your #spected preacher was enjoying de sam'
blesing.
shall prove upon de hole. Eberybody hay
ri          ite tieKate Widgeon lhab    a boat
mu  ff andleae her. Peter Jumbo got a wife dat he
xectderniggiars too well; he toW             dis to
yor y i pet,(  precher'n confidence, and I hope she take
wrd        is'portant'easion, afd leay' off dem tricks.
As          tedpeacher hab veered from his brudder
and: h&amp;:to aydpostage on deletter, he hope dat you
11 ptvpletob munnyfin do hat dis time.   Yoiwill
'hge your {peted preacher berry much if you do dat as,
h  s be   short obtcash at dis time.
'YKEE LETTER.
ne: i sposegyou 'aint heered about our Bisha
nor oth t       wenthdown to your plaice. Up their in
y       a    ore heen than their{am up our way; but
h     en gro   en bigger, nor the trees
Ait i6 i ein your w  than they am down this way.
They sa they is more perliter, but they are getting to
be Wte up heor, for they call every woman a lady
j ~ man ajentlerean. Won you. go into a stoare

BY DEACON swOWB4w .&amp;IP DG         EA     R.14;
now, they maik a low bow to you and they say "s sir '"
and  no sir." They atoking about having a ale-rode
tue, and sum think that.they will hav' a ste nabote on the
mipond witch will be the biggest thing that wos evver
none inthese parts; for then the gals can go ad sale
in the steerbote, espeshally the gals that lives in the
factory.
Their is one gal their hoo is so fat that it wood taiktue
steembotes to holdher. Her name is Sally. Jakes. She
beu togrow fat tue yar ago anthe fall, andse has
ben batting up ever sense.  rtstocki0gs is a04g i as a
meel bag, and the only small thingie  ots hebus-
tle. Sum say that she wares none at al    rap  she
doant need won. She ,as been carted by enemy    p all
the fellers in the villedge for the last tue yeer, nd tiey
say how she gets fat .upon: :ove and coartng. Every iss
that she gits puts an ounce of fat upon her; andshe ito-
about-tue duzzen every +er of her life,
Whenever she goes. wn to Wooster every won Iooks
at her and-wants to no where she was raised; and when
any one has the consumpshin he thinks he wi lgo to live
in thelaice where she was raised, as itmust be a very
helthy plaice. Her fokes are verry proud of her dare
always bragging how much she ways. Whenever she
goze down to Wooster, they taik her to the hay scales to
be wade. As soon as she gets ten more pound onto her,
she has the promise of a new frock 4onr the minister.
she has a new frock for every ten pound for the last yeer
and is going to hav' it alwais. Herfokes are in hopes
that if she 'keeps on fatting, she wil  aik her foriniPby
it as she can sell thefrocks carter she gifts a    yf
'em.
The fellers haves no objeckshue to coart her   e
doant keer much about-getting married t'jeras itke
a pleggid big shu for her fut, and the yaani foer ~


j4oiCO() LECTOins, d.,
ris  tld oa i6f   dependent fortin tue; You ort to
; t    cht talk to maik hefa dress., When it is
washed andfangs out on the line to dry, it looks as if
all out of doors wouldn'tt hold it. Besides that she talks
n pleggd ite of witt  . It's calkeltated that the
porkbarflasonly haff as long asit would if she was
not.in the family. As to aigs, she will go into the barn
when ahenis just beginning to set, and drive her off the
nest andLuck ill the aigs in less than no time, and then
she'lfdintue gallon of syder sterward.
Sbe'the ost onstracious eater that evver was rased
inthe  art s, and evvery won is afeared to inarry her
incoarse. i wood hav' the cretur no more than i wood
taikafat oxto board. Her fokes had a noshun to put
her ofien meand they cum up to see farther and muther
aboutit; but we all noed the reason that they wanted to
git her off. Mother axed 'em how -many frocks she had
got, and they sed she had sevex4sen, and they was big
wons tie.  i7en she axed how many petticoats, and they
sed seven  1But they wouldn't agree to giv nothin' extra,
and our fokes wouldn't heer to 'that at awl; because they
ort to hav' gin sumthing hansurn considdering the 'expence
of keepin the critter.
As'for the gal herself, i got mad with her rite off for
she not down on my new hat, which 'was laying in a cheer
dndasuashed it as flat as a pancake. Nothin' ever gits,
6ver it.rter she s sot down on to it. If she sets down
o toacatits as bad as if a mountain tumble on to it;
itnivyirbrethen agiin io more than if it had its head
co    tff. She cuni along andput her arm round - my
neck,'an'ed me if i noed that our fokes was a going to
chase my condition, and i telled her that i noed no sitch
things, axid that she'd better keep of, as i didn't want to
a'uhi' to do    ith her. Ther she axed me if i didn't
1ove )er nid i sod yes, as i loved the fat old SO* out 'in.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL       gp D  LER-BLTTER 145
the pen, aud no better "'hen  he     te tell one hcw
menny fellers 'ha4tist er, and how  he had;:been'c aled
the noblest lookis eo =annthe place
  i was mademff to slap her gegthonly she was so big
that i a kinder feared of her. She's got a fist like an ox,
and i ve heeredtell how she knocked down .a hoes won
day for rkickiig her. in the bowels. i doant suppose that
the hoss didit a. purpose, but he couldn't hel it very
well, -s she kivvered over so much space, and he couldn't
kick tether side of her.
As for our Bisha, if you see him down in yuregarts,
jest tell him that the cow has got a ,af. It. wade born
nite before last and every body sai' that t looksrlikewn
of the family. Ben Staples has been up tsee about git-
ting that colt of his'n, and sais he wod :'wally -g. ing
tue fine hogs and his big dog for him, tho',:for that, he
sais he shan't hay' no use for the colt this ,sumer-, with-
out their should cum awar with the Brit.iFs when
Cappern Sanders will want him to go offnfie the
ennemy.
i wish youd jest inquire the price of a pair of .trowsis
down in yure parts, as i want to git a pare to ware to
meetin', and they tell me that they cum cheeper in Bos-
town than they doors lier. i want you should hay' 'em
to fit well if you buy me a pareIand i'll send you down
the munny in a letter.
Evverybpdy sais that there'll be a war, and thate
begun to fite down to Bostow  now.  f you   d  git
kilt in the war they are havin' d  thir etg
peace put' into sumi other paper, for  ll thali
have red it, and they wato      t in  up     d   d
fully. Sono me from youriy. det^
Soio'B  om

4

4

0


iONC LEO    ;,. LC.
LAGEE-BLATTER'8 LECTUBE.
Mine oot eples: Your ministry shall give you von
text dish dag f our greatshellybrashun:
All dish vorld's von stage-Coach i"
As Mynheer Yen Shakespear say. "pow, how ish dat?"
saysyou.Shut up your ear tight, and I vill tell you; ve
all go vorth into te vorid togedder- Some haf te back
seat -some te vorward-and some in te little, te minis-
ters a  te triVers.  Now dare i h all sort of fokes in te
stage.tSo"re ish in life. Te stage-eoach is only life in
vonlittle shail minitture. Tare you see te lawyer. He
haffvonvery sick face, plenty of-vot you call--cheek,
andvon oily tongue. An he tell you of von treshpass on
te land or in , house. Meanvile ve trees pass as ve ride
aWo    Antresh to doctor-you may shell him out
mit hisvas in his pocket.  And he say, "mine vriend,
you look ale! let me feel your pulsh-oh, mine goot sir!i
ter   , i.oral ash much fever in your plud?  And ten he
eull out his iether-case, and give you von letel powder,
virlif ypu take him, ish all te same just like as if you be
red of mit load of gunpowder in your powers.  An' he
axyu haven't you some acrimonious belchin' in te morn-
in',youBay " Vy, yes, I guess so!".-" Vel," says he, "dat
i  i tdab you not von small pain in your leetel;toe?'
den you tink, tink, and at last you remetber him, dat le-
tel pain u.He give you von plaisturc and say, "put dish
  e afo~~lg, tree' nites, red you no feel dat pain."
outno matter vre; for if you put it
on aaU, you put its n 'von grate "Calf
Andi     ashst age-coach Of life, you find tat tredful an.
imAsh uever -as, te nckleator; he say, "How much,
y rtt " you ay so much. He den' runs on de
price     oe India, R i   and  amschatka; and den
l saygr,  ou so niuch aid, moreash less. But do

BY DEACON SNOWBALLAND DIEDRIOH LAGE'-BBLTER    t
not pite! pecause like all fishermans, under tat paitis vus
pig hook, tat shall ketch you by te jaw; and nothing but
12 men shall pull him out.
Ten tare ish te lady 'of extraordinary vartue, she look
like von duck drinking, so pious and- devout.  And she
sighs awfully and shows the vite of her eye. And den
she look you in her face, so as if you would melt and run
down 4ll your flesh and bones into your shoes. Ha! ha!
dare is grate dangers in dish: you no hold back, she vill
draw you over te' prink of te hill of life- and chuck you
clean over amongst de .sand and rocks, and oder varmint.,
Den tare ish te light-fingered shentelrnan, he very soft
smooth, and sly. His lips drop molasses and'water; and
he tell a story very interesting, and. youneays "indeed!
'pon honor! astonishing!". And so you fin4t ishn de
driver call for hi "fare;" and you find dat  ur pocket-
book is no whare! and dish shweet spoken manji'so.
Now mipe dear shoules, you must conside-, tall de
passengers in de coach must pay de fare. So pass ouad
de plate.
DEACON 81"0WBAWLS LECTURE.
Bellubbed Bruddren: on dis superficial and posthousca -
sion we shall explunge and obviate upon de text dat ii
dese 'portant words ob de 'possle Zaccheus-
ButSooa wonder came to'light
That showl the- rogues they died ;:+
She was .recovered, of the bite,
The 'dog it was that died.'*
In dis text, you see dat a wonlar cum to ,ight'P;r
gest wonder dat your .spected teacher klna  a
dem long taller candles uade b your spTe     e
sister,Phills Orow, who  ariedd-          m ; ,r
Crow." When dese candle    m odeil

t

4


148',        COMIC LEOTtf E, &amp;C",
ji. r= , at   d y a wed de rogues'4at dey lied on lass sat.
te      it is a fortnight.
}  :a treeahe- ggairs and wun she-mggar dat come
i4 dehooise of your 'speoted preacher, kindle a fire, and
out hd ierde kitchin, and when your 's ected
pracherheered e    courting, he got up to see w a  was
;enia.tter- and he seed dein population ob color in de
dain aA ddey make noise like aoat to make your preach-
er bleeve datit was nossin but cats. Den your 'spected
preacher lit one of dese candle and went into de kitchen,
d seed d dey was not cats but niggars ob color. Dar-
e+dese wonders brote to light showed de rogues dey i.
ede De irddiwission ob de text is berryportant on dis
icka  asixd'lude to de fack dat de man recovered
b     te.      eis divided into sebenteen diwiseions;
whn yo       sumboddy and 'when you bite yourself and
when y   btealobster it is anudder' diwision.
f  'chide Tony Nikles dat bit off de e  o Phillis
= Tngngt a camp meeting, bekase he was so happy dat
he had got re ion.
When~rou bite yourself you better be doing sumthig
ee. Tour 's'9ted preacher bit his tongue'one day dat
#hwas eatm  c    soup, and arter date nebber e? soup
w,,    pusJiii his tongue baek out ob de way wid his

ryouat deman recubber ob de bite, aud
~he~ff.Dat is a soleimnaarnin' to de dog pop-
w   0: eybte fokesbek e de text tell you dat
i e ay      dey die darseffand de man gets
is    by do.teo  'botithedderhe die s natural
,'d=r      w9ewas'lt by de wite population
readchr ~s ~i to de 'piion dat dis dog
~skiltfortl  benefit

BYEACON SNOWBALL ANDEDOR-LA      -BLATTER
I hab 'suited wid OCsar Widgeon on de spbjeck audhe
hab de samo'pinion, ad esar hab kop~ Illklong' eiu
to know 'bout dose:tings.
All dis is berry 'strnctive to your corporosity. It ho*
dat 'if you bite odder -fokes, you get used up yourseff. I
hopeyou remember him, you brack scorpions.
De lass -time your 'spected preacher hold forth inz dis
house, he loss a west-coat button. He is credutously in
formed dat Sal Phillips pick it up and 'put it in her pock-
et. She is quested to leaf debuttoh to de keer of Cesar-
and if she'll sew it on, dar'will be no more said about de
matter. Brass buttons will be taken in de hat when you
aint got no cents.  Puter and-horn, buttons will not be
'cepted.
Dat niggar. down dar dat wears so man Hutto  on his
jacket can spare two or three to put in  t,:arBrud-
der Cole shall be 'pointed to cut off your  11,when
dey,ha too miany on dar jacket. What you    ob so
many button?
In dis g'lihtened age, dar am more wo ders dat comes
to light. Some ob dese wonders irberry ark.
one ob dem is Sophia . ig;dat       ,to lht alass
Money night arter she been away to get married widout
axing de- advice ob your 'spected preacher.If .et
married widout axing de adwice ob your belubb    r,
you can't aspectt to do, well, and you must 'spect  tur
ned out ob de church. Before you get marie       ur
duty to 'peak to your 'seoted preacher ad sef
not hab de honor ob hi hand b    ehe
marry you heseff.
NowI'm gwoin_ to prove u on de hole
place daris a dog andani  de test,
twixtt a dog anda man    eyti
hab got two ears, andu  lba  a. D        a

4

4Y

4' 4'

4


] .              :COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,r
nose, but de man's nose is flat, all cept wite cokes 'cause
dey isspurious in' of fokes; den a wite man habno heel,
wieh show dey belong to de dog specie; but de poppyla.
tion ob color hab foot on two sides, before and behind
like bird, .bekase dey is ob de crow specie.
Now Cesar will pass "round de'hat, and dis is de 'portant
bizaese dat dis congregation curn heah for.  Dar will be
Iecktur in dis house at 'leben o'clock dis ebenin' on which
portrait oasion'your 'spected preacher will delectate up-
on de 'wantages ob thin breeches in warm wedder.
YANKEE LETTER.
Mister Editear: I spose you've' heered down your weigh,
about4,{is naa tion of teekus. It's made a grate tock up
hears gverdy is goin' on about it. Farther and un-
ole Ob gedi ez'that teekus shan't be naturalized, as long
as the  ve, for they will call a town meetin' fust and
that ill put" stop to it at wunce.
Farther tellemother all about it, and when she heered
the ,hull story,  e lade down her spectacles and sod that
shew.    sure °mpething was going to happen to 'this
country, and that'the people had got to be so wicked that
su    dredful judgment wood taik plaice, and she sed that
sherad a dream other nite, and she seed in her, dreem
two 'ters a fiting awd won of them tore the tother
one     4 off'and when she woke up, she was all-of a
S}t    tnd he cheered a     rhen crow just as she waked.
a hen that crowed jist before Ant Jeminna
die n tis alwaylookt on as a bad sine for a hen to
:f th  sed bhe bleeved that this teekus affair wood
brn   ab'    hedeend of the wgrld and that that was
a  ster Miner meant in his rofticy.
Pretty aoe old ter 'the miller came n, and

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND;DIEDERICHLAGERBLATTER. i
he begun to' tell abont this ere Teekus, and so we all in-
tarmined to go against the naxstion of teekus. Mother
and sister Patience and all are going against the naxa-
tion. Yesterday in the evening, there was a grate meet-
ing in the tavern up stares and the greatest orritor that
ever was there, and he preached about this ere naxation
of teekus. He said that the was all wild, injuns their and
Spanish niggars, and that if we joined teekus to this
country, the pope wood hay' the rule over the hull place,
and they wood steel and rob us-and their wood be no quiet!
ness hear at all.
He sed that the turks and the, algeines lived in teekus
and they wood come 'hear and devour our corn fields and
eat up our substance, and that there wood be wars and
rumors. He telled about a friend of his'n that had jest
come back from teekus and he telled wha tdredful goins
on their was their. There was no laws there at all, and
the bares and lyons run wild and devoured a hundred and
twenty men, wimmin and children in one day. S, if
teekus was to git jined to this country-their would be
bares and lyons in the United States, and we would'n none
of -us be safety a minit. It was dredful tqyheer him stock.
Then he said that they had niggars to sell theiruand hull
ship-lodes. was brought from: their and carried off to
London to be sold to work on the cotton plantations in
London.
He had a little white hankercher and arter he'd done
talkin', he wipt his face with it, and he took a irink o'
water out of a tumbler.
Then he begun agin and he weit on, and he teded
about the savageous folkes thgre in teekus, andhe aid
that everybody there was gamblers and theirwas nothing
done there only to run races with losses, anteverybedy
was 'layin' 9 pins all the time.,
Arter we heered that 1%ech, we all declared rite off

r
_ :


:ta w    u4'n  here to havin' teekus nazation at no rate
t.a"l. iste i4dtience andruth Jonson hay' been form.
ssiety agin the naxaiion of teekus and they will
et ite smallest fovoirs in munny and close to go
Sagbtee   . rs.an4 to hire fokes to preach again teekus
atthe           pping turtles and wi rds that lives
there }andhowithe eopa i.goin' to liv' in teekus and how
the    living  hopes imidge to the villidge and sell
'emfirs to;wuhip.
The-galhas agreed that theywont marry annyboddy
that likes naxation of teekus. So all the young fellers
has'greed togo aginmthe naxation.
veryb~ddy has sot out on it and they've got the mmn-
riearletter toMr.Jacobs hoo was a member of
t      slatour,and they're gointo git him to vote again
t .t=  ectiify about it, ad'that will stop the naxa-
goie to giv a dinner to Mr. Pease the lawyer,
andwe're :in hpags that that will stop the proseeding and
so thy     tav' no naxation.
in' to hay' a naxation party nixt week
Sads     wantsat you should cni up hear and 'tend the
pary, ad =    ger wife with yer. Their will be as
much :;igerad a you can ete and sumthin' to rink,
a:.nd°yumay fillyu rjpockets and yer wife may fill her
"bag fihl1
SD~  sends her luv to you and wants you to
e           y Jes has got a little book that she-calls
ab               o rite asmthin' in it. Its rt in
OY 4  !e yM1i4dup hear sez the lines is most
loe in grate degree
And ho   youwill rernember me

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DnRICH LAGE    ATTR."
i hope in all good ways yot'lllive
Arid hope is flesh you'll always thrive,
till fat as sister-Patience;you will be
Ad dwell in health wherever that you be."
This poetness was showe4to the minister and the
schoolnaster and they sed it was fust-rate.. Al the als
brort there albombs for me to rite in 'em and i axed four=
pence a-peace to rite, in the albomnbs.
Yours to sarve,
RICHAJ Hozxm-
LAGER-BLATTERS LECTURE.
Aline Goot Peop e: Ydur minister shall puttyou von
text. It shall pe in tese vords
"Long shadowed around us ere streaming
Away from the chaibers of dawn;
From the peach tree inloveliness gteamin,
Or the cowslip that laughs on the lawn.'
Te text shall told you tat shadows vash stre a ng  Te
shadows upon te streams as you shall ee yu face a te
vaters. Teir shall pete chamber of dawn. Vatchamber
shall tat be? Their is te chamber of eers, t achanfercf
vere you shall sleep and te starchamberibut  s h l
pe to chamber of dawn.   tin itkshl be von chaiuber
vere you shalllimi up von ladder lo see teu  ise. It
shall pe te chamber of dawn.
Te todder part of te text shall told yot, tat teir ish Von
cowslip laughingor the lawn.  _shal never hear te
cowslip laugh   ' atishall°Te,  lit    all tin.iou
shallunderstandtrvatt            t
shall slip down ontelawn, and.tIpeeple"shnlt      t
he sure enough.  at   a  t      h       has      e
times laugh at our   ian   r  e      h        don.
.tV rM/y  i   ray Mn  dog  sha~  'l .;9baCi*  iF~'1  rr   ii  .t e '    nd, yvi our ... ..

I,


COMIC. LECTURES &amp;C.,

4gshallpite yourminister very bad on te preaches, and
your mistr sh l4 slip down, and teir shall pe two Yan-
kee ladies'teir, who shall laugh at your mini ter ven he
all .fin te mud, But tey, shall laugh mit their non-
sense for their trouble, for to mud and woter shall not
come through all to preeches of your minister. It only
come. through five pair, and te otter two pair shall be dry
as  yneer Venderblans, ven he shalt, have no schn app
for:von.whole veek.V
Tierpore' you shall see tem have teir pains to laugh for
nottiig at all. If tey laugh ven von cow shall fall down,
it shallpe von great sin; it shall pe blasphemies. If you
Iaugh ven te cow slip down on to lawn, it shall pe all
vol.enough. If she preak off her tail ven she slip down,
S     ou shall laugh te more; but their shall pe von difference
petwena minister and a cow, I.shall tell you. Suppose
a minister fall down and ;proas his neck, ten you shall
haveno preach, and vere shall you all go, if you shall
have no:peach?.
Tetext:tell ou dat from to peach tree shall pe loveli-
ness gleaning. That shall mean tat one pretty gal shall
pe 'u in ge poach tree. You shall look up in to tree and
see lovele    gle ming, as her eyes shall pe so bright,
sure enough. Now you shall put everytig in the plate,
all tat you shall got in your pockets, except your hand-
lercher, sure enough; and ten to church ish out till you
come again.
DEACON' SNOWBAWLS LECTURE.
TBed4 .tddr       On die olfctory 'casion your 'spec-
tedpreacher will delude yon widdo follerin- ortant text
ob criptur', rit by depossle Massa Greely:
"Uinx; nx the 'devil winks,
Thefat begins to 'fry'
Is'portant test 'spres the vanity ob the fair see' and

B3Y D~hACON SNOWBALL AND-DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. I f
'lude 'tcklarly to Patience Phillips. and Luke Jonsing's
widder.  Dis passage ob 'criptur is diwided tintotwo
parts; de top part, and de under part-dar is a middle
part too, but dat is too tedious to mention. -De top part
stresss de parpendicklars ob do debble, and de under one
'spress do 'ticklars ob fat; darfore de fustpart is deiust
diwision, and de second part is de second didission.
Darfore your spected preacher will diwide doeword like
a apple cut' in two haffs, and throw away de corg which is
de third haff and wich is to tedous 'to mention; de fust
diwission is de perpendicklars ob de debbil. Hinx fink is
de speritual name for your 'spected preacher. - Whenebb
ber de debble looks -at your 'spected preacher he winks,
for de sight ob him "makes de debbIe's eyes sore.  He
knaws dat your 'spected preacher is a sledgehammer t-
knock his old brains out, and to stroyy his: kirlgdom wich
he is tryin' to bild up among dis 'spectable flock ob color.
He darfore hate de sight of your 'spected preacher--dar-
fore de fust diwission ob de text presss de fact dat your
'spected preacher makes de debbie' wink.
Now de second diwission is de second part, and stresss
de 'portant fack dat de fat begins to fry. Y  under'tan'
,do meanin' ob dat. When Cesar Widgeon ies clama-in.
de sullar, you know dat he put in a little fat.  If he put
in no fat, he no fry de clam; dar am warous kinds of de
fat-dar is mutton fat, fat ob mutton, fat of beef, and
fat ob lobster, wish is green, But dar is a spiritual fat.
Massa Faro (Pharaoh?) had seen beasts dat was called
kind, but dey wa'n't kind at all for dey eat up dem odder
seven kind dat was lean. When annyboddy -wanta to git
away houses dat b'tongs to sum bdy elsegy ey adat
dey hab a lien on dem houses; dese is like dem nd. :dat
eat up odder fokes. Darfore de speritual meamn' ob-fat
signify de natur ob do debbil. '
Now when your speedd preacher 'tand up in do pulpit


16              COMIC '   $E3J~, &amp;o.,
1epnt     eba in.his frymg-pan, and d fat begins to
fry.W~~r'~ektd preacher preach much longer, he
p a dod fellerrwill be dead. soon.  You glad to
~ard~, oubrak soripins? No, ILguess not-.I guess
4Yty .~ m o u r  =soonthim ?  I  tin k  y o u  'ten d  h is  fu n era l,  y ou
Dde.into seven parts. First division
ahis   ;    se4        is tonue which is like a
k   D   trddMission is .histail which is as long
a a cal .o :asip! I tell you all die for your saxifac-
oi andyur destuction in righteousness. I hope you
tinkon'em.
Your 'spected preacher 'form dis congregation ob color
dat heh"-asgot a letter from his aunt Sally of Peekskill,
and 44 shne 'qest your 'spected preacher to spend de
monf ob August at dat lightfull sittivation, if dis much
'bused congregation'ob color wood spare de money to buy
oot o' done.rand pump' and white 'tokgin  and ruffle, and
payedo expense ohl de erney.. Your preacher will take
do ralerode and will get whitewashed before he start, so
dathean ride in de genteel cars 'cordin to de dignity ob
obhisoff;.' for he will 'fuse to ride in de Jim Crow car on
'con obd   portance ob your spected preacher; for a
ge   an ob his singuished piety and humility is 'titled
.de best place.
Now:I'm !gwoine to, prove upon. de, 'hole; de text tell
ut a daris no fat datis ekal to possum fat; pos-
atd homeyis deopride obedo poppylation-ob col-
:r      Wtik she do           te ing when she gib
.1  oi'pe+t d, preache,.a plate"ob lobster, fat  But pos-
o e trfda double's tail is
re..psomeb oloris.fat; an4 SamnJumboahab got a
fatleg; and dey.caL itdeout bekese helib toigh; he
b ".p hin    s pettre ' stonsC $^go When you lib high

By DEAOON SNOWBALL AND Ipl!DWOH LAGERBLATTE.
On Ais 'tickler 'casion your preaher will pss'oud d
hat hesef; as he wants to see wh puts ien  nto ode
hat; and when he find out who don'puti ent, he  ill
leaf dem out in his prayers, and dey will nebbarAget dar
sins saved.
Eberybodyis 'vited to a ball in de sull r tomorre-
night. Your 'spected preacier-hope dat des lns ting
to drink to pay de axpense. White fokes wailbe 'lwed
to cun, if day 'have darseff. Youra'petedpre;harun-
der'tan' dat Hepsey King=habrelaorteddaty belubbed
pastur ki8Sedher todder night: darfore your'speeted
preacher will sue her for breach oh promise, bekase it is
all a lie.
Mister Editur: i had heered so mutch about that air de-
king Snowball that printshis Barmnts in your paper so
i intarmined to go to bostown and sea him hus Wewas
both consarned in helpin you along With our ritis nd i
thort it wood be very well for tue sich :spectable people
to get akawinted. So i put te appl           each
cote pocket and a hunk of bread in my bre  poket;
and sot out in uncle Josh's wagging to un down to bos-
town and sea the deking.
When i got to bostown i thort that ever yboddy noed
where the dking hived, as-he was suchag i'at ran. so
1 went ito shop and aged 'em  her the dekingSnow-
ball lived, aid=they'axed.me.whi ated       hre i
cum from, and so i got mad and""vh11t out."Then t w
into a place. in Cors hl*h r  raed6d thek*t.w of in
nigger  up to the Wiudet, and ithorttobsre, they'd
nog; but theylooked asmadvaared pee         d
thdt Snonbal was aman and abthe and awl hat ~Ore


ISO8'

COMIC :LEcTURS; ,&amp;a:;

adtheir iseedsumniggars out at the doe
and th    d0l0e toen   Thenr felt shure, i shood find
ou h ed      ied,sd i went into one', shop and
p y '    ig   ar and he axed me what i won.
ted to band i tolled him nothing .
Thn e     e-    raps you wont to sell sumthing?"
l     no-.buti wanted to ax him where decon
Snobal lie
n he got as mad as seven men, and telled me to go
longtofthe shop or he wood lick me rite off. I thort
it wood'be a disgrace to fite a niggar, and so i cleered out
So i thort it was nouse to inquire any more as the decon
was ,nt to'be found.
hena brite thort cum into my head, and when i met a
little nijgar down by Fuunil market, i axed him  where
Sam Johnson's sullar was.  Wall, he stared at me a min-
nist ,nd then sez he-" Ther'aint no sich man. He's ded.
But there's sih afellerj as Cesar Widgeon, and he keeps
his clama soup sullar inCat alley."
t'te erryiplaice," sez i, "and if you show me
where i i   lgiv yer a glass of root beer. So he cum
aloeg wt .    and showed me the plaice, It was a little
suanit      ayoor iuder a little house in Cat alley.
The          eo      ose above takes in white-washin', and
there is family that bords with them and blacks boots.
T    e  al tl.p1l infd    of the ullar,'ad a little
re               ti poleandCA     sou was rit on the
Bat, iwas told that clam soup was nit
th tideoflte sullar door, but nobody could see
th  e         t      assht up.
Wfv               nstepsand one of the steys
wh                 slumpt thewad broke down when
i+trodon it°. Then;the,,an thatkepthe place few out
n clede            er so many hard names for break-'

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DFIUO I  GER-BLATTER- 159
I told him  t was not my folt, for te, step broke down
when i trod on it. He sed that everybody who uowed
anything, knowed that whenever 'you cum' down sullar,
you must step over that step, and tht i must be. sum
green' feller from the country, or else i should have knoed
all about it.
Theh i axed him if he was Cesar'Widgeon; and he sed
he was. So i lookt at him and eggsamined him all over.
He was a short thick niggar'and:haff his hare was gray
and haff was black and it curled up like wool. He had a
kupple of little tables their. and'a long bench; a big su-
gar-box put on two logs of wood served as his bar--so i
treeted the other niggar to his root beer, and took a big
chunk of gingerbred for myself. So when Cesar Widgeon
seed that i had money, he was wunderful good.  Then i
axed him where deking Snowball lived, and he sed he ex-
pected the deking Snowball and sed he was more talked
about than any other minister in the hull town.. Pretty
soon, i heered a kind of bustle at the- sullar dore, and i
seed a little\short niggar cum down, with 3=or 4 wimjmin
hollerin arter him. He was not so black as Cesa Wid-
geon, but he wos about the kuller of a chesnut: He had
ruffles in his boozum, and had on small close and nee buc-
kles, and a long pointed cote that cum away down to his
kaffs.
So.i goze up to him and sez i, "Be you the decon Snow-
ball that prints his leektursint  paper?
So he lookt at 'me and axed me if i4n-ed' that when i
spoke to de clof, i ort to take off my hat.  Thattuipt
me: but, sez i-." don't you noeime thatrites' letters from
our parts to the paper, and' hadn't e ortto een a-
other.
Then he axed me my name, and i telled limit h a
diah~tone;and sez he, " i nebbar heeredgohyrbe re
go 'way, white foke-when you cum into' esullar heab,


140           0COM LECTLtRMS ETC.
u mtt larato teet a gemman like a gerhman!" Then
hemarhed o to tother eend of' the sullar and he tucked
wit 'theunimmin.
T;as so mad at this that i won't speak to a niggar
ai as long as.i ive, and if yer want me to keep on ri-
tin' former paper, i=shall charge a ninepence more for be-
ing bhged to put mny ritins along side of a niggar's.
Yourn, .    OmDIAH STONE.

LAGEBBLATTER'S LECTTJE.
Mine Gool Peoples: Your minister shall gave you dish
text, sure enough:
Thrice is heearmed who bath hig quarrel just;
And he iut naked, though looked up in steel,
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted."
Te text tell you he shall be thrice armed. He shall be
arned tree'iries  le shall had tree muskets instead of
oe th e eai-dge box, treebayonet, and tree rations of
pou i.t  at shall pe likee soldiers 'in mine country.
T y shall had so much arms and so much breeches tat tey
shal not walkmore tan haff a mile in von day, Ven tey
shall marah to':meet toenemy, den to enemy shall not
knw if toy   hall go backwards or forwards. But ven
toy shall beat von retreat, den tey shall show you how to
run, sure  ogh   Tendey hall troraway to arms and
pull oft'-flve pair offpre*oUes and run faster tan to Yankee
soldier sbaW i cfive da-s.
ey tell      ouhe ish;naked ven locked up in steel.
Ven you stealyowishalipe locked up, sure enough; and
vonir  shall have-no clothesand shall pe haf naked,
you shall steal. Tat shall pe te meaning of to text.
Sellyou h     onscience shall pe cori ted. Dat shall
e ikeMynheer V     uhnnkstat who shall : gsotay me for
t F im   cow    shall=steal from',me last ivintr  I think

BY D A0ON SNOWB4LL ANDIWDCDRIC LAGEBLATTEB. }g
his conscience shall pe corrupted, sure enough. Vat shall
he have his conscience made of ? It shall pe von .con-
science made of 4;maged leather, burnt. It shall pe vn
pad conscience like von-old shoe put in te fIres. I shall
not have such von conscience. I shall have von con-
science like schnapps vat shall pe like von schmoke pipe
Mine vrow shall have conscience like von proornetick: It
shall pe little and long.
Dish text tell you he shall pe armed mit his quarrel
just. Ven-you shall had your quarrel just, ahl tat shall
pe te quarrels, sure enough. You shall have your quar
rel just when a horse shall run away mit you and kill
himself, because you shall not pay for ta horse vich shall
pe killed of his own accord. Tehorse shall payfor him-
self ven you shall take ofekin and te shoes. If you
shall quarrel mit te. owner of tathorse, he shall not have
his pay because hto boss shall pe skied and you shall
have no quarrel Just. ;.Tat ish do same von to tuivyl shall
come for your soul. He shall have his quarrel just, pe-
cause you shall have von big sinner, sure enough; be-
cause you shall been sting  to put money into to plate
and shall pay for your schnapps and not treat your min-
ister ven he shall pe dry like von corn cob.
I shall have'mine quarrelju en I shall fite mit mine
vrow, von she shall take up more ta; haf- to bed and
shall stick her knees into de bowels of our rminater, pe-
cause it shall not be just tat she shall get -ore tan haff
to bed. Teirfore 'your minister "sh have his quarrel'just
mi his vrow. She shall take to proometick, and'I±shall
tak&amp; te schmoke-pige and shalarea h    ad
D1ACON SNOWBA  S LRCTK l,=
1-_ _ # ed Bruddree "   Your 'speoted ireacher will :spoa-
tulaton dis jtdicious-sion upondo fllerinanage


2               COM0L    URES, &amp;O"1
-"tSme say 4edebe's dead, and- buried in de harbor,
SQZ6i *O 8  he rose again, and 'prenticed to a barber. '
De language ob de text is berry 'splicit. It tell you
dat so    say de debble is dead. Dead is divided into
two prts.     f st part is when you are dead for sartin
and ed:.todder part is wen you make blieve dat you are
dead,    keep one eye open all de time. Your 'spected
preacher hab seen a spider dat would curl up in a heap
an d  ake bieve dead when you held a candle to,his nose,
fofgfat you kill him true enough. Bed bug will do
d same ting . Praps de debble do dis way sometimes as
he is de fadder of lies; and praps dat de text,'lude to dat
fat,   inform hissef, into a, angel ob light, and make
believe dathe was dead. If he portend to be dead in de
presee of your'spected preacher he would tread on de
nd obhis til, andif dat didn't starthim, he would tick
darning.needle into him. Guess he jump and squeal
dent
Butyour    eeted preacher hab 'ticelar reason to blieve
da   debbl is not dead yet. In de fust place, dar is
IaelJonbo dat'greed to mend jour'spected preacher's
breeches yesterday afternoon, and she no d 'em. Your
'spectedpneacher paid her de ,money in advance, de sum
ob four pence happenny which she 'pend for obster in de
suiar, and your'spected preacher was 'bliged to lay abed
tue da befoehe could get his breeches mended, and de
tanks ob di congregation is giben to Mary Jonsing for
m   din-your spaetedpreacher's breeches. Annudder
r.}n 's pelted preacherdon't blieve de debble
is deadsis ibease when your,,spected preacher was 'tan-"
din' in' 't e tfodder day, dar was a wite feller dat
come.aong and ketched holdhob your 'spected preachers
heel:and'squealed like a dog which made your preacher
ump about tree foot in de air. Your 'spected preacher
Ji   d   nd and cussed hin in hope dat two shebears
wudcome out de Bost Office and eat up -forty five obh

BY DEACON SNOWBALL A1tD IEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 13.
dei white chaps. But de bears didn't come. Darfore
your 'spected preacher 'spose dem to dis congregation ob
color.
-Darfore dese am reasons enough to' show dat de debble
isn't dead, as dem dat 'suit your 'spected preacher am
tosicated by de debble.- De same was de case when
Rachel Jumbo 'fuse to mend your 'spected preacher's
breeches.
D second part ob de text tell you dat de debble is
buried in de harbor. Praps he might hab been shut up
dar lass winter till dey cut a'big hole in de ice and den
he creep out again.
Todder diwision tell you dat he 'hab come to life and
turned into a barber. If dat be de case, I 'wise you to
be, berry keerful who shave you, bekase he may put
brimstone in de lather. If you should happen to get
shaved by de debble in de shape ob a barber, you will
get someting wuss dan de Jackson scratches. Praps he
put lime on your head and make you blieve it is powder,
and take off all de wool, as a- gemman of color dat your
preacher was acquainted wid once did.. He shave you
wid a dull razor and scrape all de brack skin oft youth face
and make you look like white fokes.
Now I'm gwoine to 'prove upon de 'hole. When de
debble is dead, hewill hab a berry long funeral, bekase
dar is many dat will 'grieve for dar ole massa. He is a
'ticklar-friend ob de lawyers and help dem along more
dan dar big books. Your 'spectedpreacher use to.kin-
die de fire and sweep out de foms for him  It wasafore
your 'spected preacher. got tobeb one ob d lcol ando
he make fire for dat, white lawyer. Ebery mee Make
fire dar de room smell 'trong ob brimstone, and oetimes
de grate burn blue, and your'petd dreaer pti
prafdr-book in a cheer and set on it tokyepofd de
who was gwoine about like a siysrpAnt an
like a lion to 'quire who wanted to be devoured. Darfore

,'


164              COMIO LECTURES, &amp;C.,
you better mingyour eye, all you young niggar women
der in de'gallary, for fear de debble will cotch you by de
heel! Now den, fork ober tin mitey sudden!-

YANKEELETTER.
RespecfuZ Sir: their is a coartship that has ben up heer
witch the peeple down to bostown ort to heer about as i
sposerthat sunof them will cum up heer to see about it,
bekabe.it is so astonishing' to the human mind.
Itwere .the skulemistress, and her name is Abigal
Primp, Shetuk and sot up the skule heer and'fell rite a
foul of teechin' the skollards. Sum larnt there a-b abs,
sumiarnt there catty-kise, and other sum larnt to' spell
wurds.Ev'eryboddy sed that she were fust rate at it;'
ands soon as the feelers heered how she were good at
teething the yung idees how to shute, they begun to hay
a sort of noshun arter her.
'Peter Hanks went up fnst to the house and axed if Abdo
agal was in. Her muther lookt very hard at Peter, for
she had aidee that he was carter her darter, and she' noed
that al that family was kinder-low and ignarrant, and
she toed that Abagal was good enuff for sumthing better
nor setch like he was. Fust she was goin' to tell him Ab-
agal wa gone out but she thort she wood like to see how
hwood akt,-and so she let him cum in. So he went into
theme whare Abby wos, and he tuk off his hat and sot
-ith it onhis nees, and lookt rite at her. She was darn-
in' her stocking's, and she diddent hardly look up at him:
but atla t sez he-" Miss Primp, mebby you doant want
tcoart nor nothin'; Do you?"
Then she seeks up as if she was verry much surprised
and sai ,  aw! what are yon talking' on?" jest as nat'ral
aood 'be.
Ien he got kinder scared, and the old woman lookt at

/.r                r.r    .

BY DEACON SNOWBALL ANI)DIEDRICE LAGER-BLATTEB.' 18
him so sharp tue that he soon ketched np his hat and he
cleered not as if he had ben scent for. Peter never went
there agin, aud evveryboddy is laffin' at him about it.-
Sense then he tryed to git Sukey Frollicks; but she toled
him to go about his bizziness, for he was tue lazy to eat.
i doant noe what Peter will do; for i spouse he ort to git a
wife of sum sort to be sure.
Tue or three dais arter Peter was gone, their, was an-
uther feller thar tuk a noshin arter Abagal, and he thort
himself big things as he'd got straps on his panterloons.
So he seed her in chnrch, and when church was out he run
rite out to her and begin to tell-her it wos a fine day; but
she telled him that she noed all tbat be4, and that he nee-
dent tell her nothin' about the day.  But he spunked up,
and sais he, "I'm akquainted with your brother, Miss Ab-
agal."
Then she lookt rite at him and sais, " Mebby, then, it
wos you that stoled his jack-knife tother day."
When he heered that he was dredful- surprised, and. he
lookt down'at his pantaloons straps and thort she hadn't
scene 'em yit. So he tuk panes to stick out his fut in site,
so that she mite see 'em plane. She hooked and spit, and
she spit rite on his shew, and that maid him so -mad that
he up with his fist and knocked her bunnit off, and that
was the last of his coarting'.
Then the fellers all gut kinder steered about Abagal,
and thort it wos of no use to get a courting of her. And
besides she is a dredful big, strong gal, and they wos a
leetle feared that she wood giv' them  a licking.  The
skollards tue sed that she. shode a grate deel of grit in
the skule, and hit won little chap til his headstruck a big
gal in the bowels and hafl choked bg.
But their was won feller that had jest ,um into the'vil-
lidge, and was studying law-of the sqiire; and he was in
tarminied tofind out about this 'gal, and to no 'what she

I'

s
n


168             COMIC LECTURES, ETC.
s maid on.  So he goze and dressis in his best close,
and uock Oat the dore of the house. Abagal had seed be
was coming, and she was orfully tickled becus she noed
he'dgot plenty of munny and alwas wore good close. She
wentup to the dore and she scent her mother to open it.
The fust thing he axed for was Abagal, and her mother
was dredful perlite to him and tuk him into the rum ware
she was. So they ,wos both together, and the old woman
run out and telled the fokes:in the house that now her dar-
ter had.gut a bo hoo wood marry her rite off, and that she
wood be a grate lady and liv' in her coach and all them
fine things.
As for Abagal, she lookt down and was dredful modest;
but he spoke up; for he had lamed to use his toung in
the lawyers ofliss. He yelled her she was pretty as hony
and sweet as a bee, and that he wundered sitch an angle
was allowed to live in this world at all.
So she'thort. he was the dredful finest feller that evver
wos; and she ,telled her muther evvery word that he sed
when he was" gone. So they was all dredful 'stuck up
,and the hull family maid there brags that Mister Snaps
was goin' to hav' Abagal.,
He tuck her out to wock with him every Sunday, and
they went into the woods together and soddoun there and
locked, and was as thick as tue pickpockets; and, Abby
was so stuck up that she wouldn't speek to any of the
other gals, and wood hardly speek to the skollards them-
selves. When her muther spoke to her, she ansured the
old woman as short as if she werea nigger; and as for
her farther, she woodn't seek to him at all. They went
on that weigh for as mutch -as sicks munce, and at last
they wos published trew enuff and then Abby was so
stuck .up that you would have thought her a little quean
of Amerrikky  The day arter they wos published, they
sed'that he'd gone to town; but he didn't cum back, and

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTEL 167
at last Abby gut a leter sayin' that he woodn't cumback
at nil. Sunesever Abby red that leter she turned\ as red
in the face as .sevven rooster's combs. Abby's muther
got-as mad as fire with Abby for tpllin' 'em they wood all
be grate fokes, and sitch a fuss as there was noboddy
nevver seed before. Abby went and locked herself into
her chamber rite off, and their she stade till her muther
busted open the door, andmaid her cum down and go off
to her skool. All the fellers was dredful glad, and so
was the gals, bekase she had been so stuck up. That
serves the critter jest rite for being so stuck- up.
Yourn to sarve,
BETrY DoNE.
LAGER-BLATTER'S LECTURE.
Mine Goot Peoples: On dish big subject what shall be
talked apout to-day,.you shall hear vot I ish told you
apout it. It shall been give te text in dese few words:-
"But time has passed, those days are gone-.
Ay, Mere, long years have fled!
An~d lying o'erthe little brook  '_
A withered trunk and dead."
Te text shall tcld you tat time ish past and long years
have gone avay, sure enough. If te long yea's been gone
avay ten times shall pe passed. Fourth of July shall be
gone avay; but he shall not pe passed pecause he shall
come back every year. Tey shall call it von Fourth of
July ven it shall come back.
Te text shall tell you tat long years have fled. _ler-
haps tey shall pe fled to Texas, sure enough. Every one
tat ish fled shall pe gone to ,'exas vere tey shall fight te
Mexicos. Arter tat tey shall pe fled somevere else, and
dat ish all tat vas done, sure enough.
Ten long years shall pe fled yen tey shall have long
legs; so tey can pe fled very fast, yen tey shall have te


P~ '.

COMbIC LETUR,&amp;,

1ng legg. I shall have years tat vas fled'too like-vat
never salLpe  Yen  shall pe a young man, tenI shall
have years =rich shall pe fled ,ow and ish gone all avay,
sureenogeh.   n tee days, I shall pe one great man
among:te girls and shall have plenty of sweetheart. I
hall pesoha ndsome and fat as never shall be, in tem
days.r I shall pe so fat tat all de ladies shall fall in love
mit him, and come to court him, and ax him tat he shall,
marryten.   But he shall vant to marry none but tem vat
shall had to monish and von goot house to put him in.
Tat shall pe de only vay vat he. shall get married. At
last he shall find his goot vrow who shall vant him very
pad because he shall wore ten pair of preeches in tem
days.
Te text ish said he shall lie over te little brook all with-
ered and dead.' Very well. To prooks ish von vater vat
pslpelong to to cold vater society, and he shall lie over
little prook all, withered and. dead ven he shall get
drunk and lie teir sure enough. Ven Mynheer Stratton
shall see him lay teir, he shall come and pick him up to
carry him off add ten he shall pe put in te house of cor-
rection, sure' enough. Tat shall teach him to lie upon te
brooks and get drunk like von hog in to street. He shall
lay down dead drunk just like von beast. Very yell,
tat shall e him vat shall lay over to brooks like von
tree.
Long ears shallrun away, and a man shall got drunk
and}lie-overte pi-ooks, and tat'shall pe te whole matter.
Mynheer Von Staught, Mynleer Von Stacle, and Mynheer
hVGrunt l  l1 some to wine house last week to eat
dinnerecani e tervrow shall not cook:ter no dinner
a hmse. I"shalol nine vrbw ven shes hall cooked no
dinners4a4shallnot go to eat up te sour krout of nobo,
dy else.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERIOR LAGER-BLATTER. 169
YANKEE LET*.
Mr. Editvr.: i spose yu've heered of the wunderful rane
stawms wea've had up hear: we had so mutch rane that
sum ov the Millurs' men sed tha actually bleaved there
wurld wos a goin' for to bee swallurpd up by the phlud.
Soe tha wos rejoisin bekos tha wood hay there oane way
arter oll, and bekos awl the blasfeemers and the scornors
wood awl be housed cumpleatleigh.
Simun Juniper, hoo is the biggest Millurite hear, sot to
wirk and cut down a hull passle of tree and wos goin to
wirk faugh to build a ark, and he went up 2 0 Mistre Jac-
queth the karpintur to git him tue higher 001 men to bild
the arck.  Mistre Jackqueth telled him he wood as live
wurk for him as 4 ennauther man, one he shud lyke faw
ter noe hoo was gowing to paigh him. Then Simun Ju-
niper tolled him it wos noe matter abowt that, as their
wood be nough paigh in the kase ; bcut the phlud woo4
distroya 'em awl be4 thair pa wos needed. Jacqueth se(
he wood ruther not injaige to dew the gob; bkuz iph the
phlud shdoddent happn to droun him, he wood want their
munneigh, andsas know munneigh wood cum, he woodn't
git his pa for his wirk, and soe the coodn't triade. Then
Simun phlue owt in a dredphul pashion and telled Jac-
queth he was an onskrupolus sinnor, becoz he 'wooddent
aggreigh to doo the Lord'z wirk, und haou whep the Aud
cum he wood be the verra fust man that woz drounded
in the phlud.
As fer the gals up this weigh, they R farela raivin arter
husbans. Sum on 'em runs agin a phellur wen u cum out
oph church, so as ter git u tu pphur to ger hum with 'em.
.Sally Widge is the most furse ov awl fur gittin marrid
abowt thease times; and she trize to get evvera phellur
that she seez.
Pshea cum down to ougher house to se sister Cordiality
the uther nite, and she braught Purseveraie Wunder
with her; and tha both sot and sot till bed-time, and tha


}.? 0 T0fr  I $OTV  S, &amp;O.,  +t
taegspectedne o a t  tpwith wun on 'em: or mebbe
tha thawt i wood opfar ter go bum with um; but 1 sid
oph to bedputtycwic, afd sister Cprdiality kum up into
mi mrne tue sea iph i wo going hum with them gals. -e
telled her ie wooddentd43o noe switchh a thing, and then tha
wo dredful mad;n4,ii heered'urn jaughin down stares a
grate wile ahowt me, bciz i woodent go hum with um.
Iph thiae'd?-stade at hum ta woodent hav wantid nobud-
da to go hom with urn uv gorse.
Sister Cordiality had to ger hum with um-herselph; and
eye gess tat diddent git khur tue set up with um. muth-
er sais that pahe glories in my spuno, fur pshe doant
want meigh tu git marrid to them; but egspects meigh
for to hay sum Bosting lady, as 4ha will be er coughn-
ing up heir B4 long, hull lots of um to C the butees oph
nater.
i-spose u've ol heerd of ,Susan. Peters.  She's been
courted by Silvenus Wares. Nobody thort that she wood
evver git a 1h, bekase she wos so pesky cross; but Silve-
nus had the nack to, maik sumthing out of the critter.
When he frst went their to the. house, she woodn't hav
nottin' to. say to him. She run and hid herself under the
bed. Her either wanted her to hay' sumboddy bekase
she etes so much that it costs a grate. deel to keep her.
So~*er mher runi and cotch holt of w  leig and, holled
her out from. under the bed. When Silvanus seed her
niuther .snaking her into the rume, he run and goddown
on his niece andlade his hand on his heart and telled her
that heloved her as he did his tue ize.
ut her muther had her ,by her tue arms holding her
fast and so se kicked out at Silvanus with her feet to
drive hin %off At last they sot her in the arm cheer, .and
h    muthr tied her in the cheer so that she couldn't git
ayaay and so as to. make her court Silvenus, Then Silve-
uius s6t tpdlWse to her and telled her how she took his i

BY DEACVN SNOWBALL    ,    W;I4AGERBLATTER. 7
most dredful, and that he -  et makeher his living
wife. Then she spit at him, and :e dodged it and axed
her if she want ashamed ef herself, ana.then: she busted
into tiers and'they had a most dredfulftime of it. When
she got to cryin he seedthere was sum heaps, and so he
kep on and tocked to her and axed her how she could ev-
ver expect to git marrid if she akted so mutch like a
heethen. At last she begun to cum rounda leetle and
her muther held her hands wile Silvenus kissed her, and
he sed that she was quite sweet, and then she lolled out
her tung at him.
That maid Silvenus mad, and he telled her that he wos
a good mind to slap her mouth. Arter a while she cum
round and'sot in Silvenus's lap; so that fokes think they
will be a match.
As for me, i've gut a gal that lives up in Pinktownr--
I've gut that gal bekase she's a peeler. She's as big
around as an mare and has got a foot that wood nook
a boss down. Sitch a wife as that is worth having be-
kase their is a plenty of the critter, and she can be of
grate yuse to won. She can kill a -sheep, and. skin him
as well as any other man in these parts; and as for rass-
ling, she throwed down a big niggar the other day jest as
easy as nothin at all.
All the other 41ers is arter that galp, and hr nan -is
Exalted Swamp. - Bill Russells, has been arter her and
tryin' for to git eer' ll the time, but she won't hav' nottin'
ut all to say to him bekase he's gut small hands. Then
their wos a hull lot that went up to see her ou Thanks-
giving and she sent 'em all off as fast as they could.goe
bekase she had true luv in her hart for me; and all the
gals is after me evver sense i got on my salt and pepper
cote. Susannah Bush sed that she neuver heerqd ofastch
a fine feller in all her~ hull life, and das cumming up: to
our house to git akkuainted with sister Cordiality all on


COMIC LECTURES, ETC.

my akkount, buti shaut hav'nottih'-to do with the gals
only jest as fur as to treet 'em with servility wich we
otto street evvery boddy..
JosHUA V. BmM.
LAGERBLATTER' LECTURE.
Mine Goot Peoples: I shall give you for te text in dese
vords, sure enough:-
"The woods re-echoedas they sang:-
About the old ourang outang."
Dish shall pe von text-.apout te ourang outang, vich
shall pe von big nagur tat shall live in te voods mit hair
all over his plack body. Dish shall pe te foolishest nagur
of te whole of to'nagurs; for he shall not know how to
spheak at all, and he shall pe te stupidest of all to otter
nagurs put togedder. I shall see von of tern nagurs, and
he shall pe in.,te museums, sure enough. -'Yen 1-shall say
how do you do to tat. nagur, he shall not answer me nor
take off his cap. Who shall. pring up tat nagur. I shall
never see such nagur.
Yen I shall puy von nagurs to do mine vork, I shall
not give three dollars for tat nagurs, pecause he shall
penagur as shall be got for notting% but otter fokes
shall pay more for tat nagur mit hairs tan I shall pay for
te nagirs mitout te- hairs. Te nagwrs mitout de hairs
shall be almost like von man ven tey shall spheak to you
aid shall take off to hat as polite as von ghentlemans
Sometimes; but to nagurs mit te hairs shall peen brought.
up in to voods and shall never learn vat shall pe to good
manners.   It shall pe pecause tey shall never go to
church ugre you shall learn vat shall pe te goot manners
and shall never put von cent into te plate. Ven I shall
put mine hand toshake hands mit tat nagur of te woods,
he shall open his mouth to bite me, sure enough.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER.v
Vat shall be te nagur vat shall bite von minister ? I
shall like to see such a von in mine country, sure enough.
If he shall pe in te museum ven he shall pite von mini'.
ter, ten he shall be hanged, and te museum shall pe hang-
ed too. Tat shall serve him right for pite von minister,
sure enough.
Some otter nagur shall have wool on te head like von
sheeps, and von long head and long heels. It shall pe
von foot on both sides of te leg, so tat ven tey shall go to
fite tey shall run backwards yen toy iake von retreat.
Tey shall not hay te. trouble to turn 'round at all, sure
enough.
Ven your minister shall run away from te patties, he
shall have to trouble, to turn 'round, and shall ' lose -much
time in tat vay, and shall make te time so 19ng tat vou
soldier, shall stick von baggonet through his ten pairs of
preaches.
Tat nagur of te voods shall sot himself for von show
and tey shall give more.to see tat lack nagur mit hair
all over his pody tan to see your minister mit ten pair of
preeches and hear te preach all togedder. You shall put
in more monish to see tat nagur tan you shall put, into to
plate to hear te preach. "I vish shall pe von nagur in to
voods, yourself.
DEACON SNOWBALL's LECTURE.
Belubbed Bruddren: Your 'spected preacher hab prov.L
ded de follerin' text for dis oilfactory'casion, dat will de-
rogotate for your edication in de clamorous words ob do
architect and 'possle Dan'el Webster;
"fHear ye! bear ye! whereas certain persons
D havee stolen a pig!"
Pos tetbgiswd owrdharhbeaesu-             o


VT'

COMIC LECTUS, &amp;A.,

are so deaf dat def car't hear; and it i a true word dat
"nobody is so deaf as dem dat can't hear"  ,De word is
'peated twice in de beginnin' ob de text, bekase somebody
hab not heered dem de fast time, and if dey don't hear
demr de second time, dey may go widout. De text 'lude
to de fack dat somebody hab stole a pig-.tink oh dat-
sumbody hab took away oneob de swine genious widout
axing leab ob de owner heseff. Darfore a pig hab beli
'tole 'cording to de text; dis is a solemn warning' to dis
congregation ob color to be keerful how dey 'teal pigs, as
de law is berry 'ticklar on dis subjeck.
De uses ob'do pig is various and ob various kinds.
You make passage ob pig-you make head cheese ob pig,
and you eat pickled pigs' feet. If you cum honestly by a
ig, den you 'joy a pig; but if you hook him, you tinkde
passage is made ob dog, and dat de head cheese is made
ob Morphy chess-boards. Darfore all flesh is grass, and
pig is grass too, only de fat which is on pig, and dat is
taller.
Your spected preacher 'joy roast pig berry well, 'kase
he pay foghim, and use de.money dat is.in de hat. Suck.
ing pigs' feet edify hin and do good to de inner man; dar-
fore your 'spected preacher 'mine de pig.
Your 'spected preacher must now put de question wed.-
derny ob dis congregation ob color eber stole a pig?
dar is a gemman ob color libbing in Charlestown dat hab
lost a pig, and he tnk it hab ben tolde. He 'quest your
'spected preacher to 'quire ob dis conjugation ob color if
any ob dem hab took de ting away.
Any one dat hab 'tole dat pig, will please to hold up dar
right hand.
Nobody hold up de hand; dat show dar bringin' up. If
you hab '4ole de pig, I 'quest you to say do truff. What!
do you tink dat nobody 'teal de pig? do you tiuk he went
s way widout handss.

T
1

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDI1rCHILAGER-BLATTER. I15
NOW I tell you bot dat ting dar is a 'pinion on dis
subjeck, 'spresseby de brudder dat lost de pig.f He
tink dat Mary Jonsing and Jir Phillips hab took dat pig.
You needn't turn upde white oh your eve and pout it yovr
'spected preacher.  You a 'spected to hab took de pig,
and I ax you to prove yourseff innocent 'fore I blieve yer.
In de fust place, when the bereaved brudder hut up his
pen he counted de pigs, and dar was seben in de pen. In
dar was one little 'ingtail pig dat. he notiss in a 'ticklar
manner. Dat pig had been compainin' ob want ob appe-
tite for two or tree week and wood  at noasini but cab-
bage stalks: darfore de colored gemran dat owned hiri
took 'ticklar notiss ob dot pig. Next morni' he was gone
out ob de pen. He racolleck dat he see Mary Jonsing an'
Jim Philips go up de street toward de monunment late ing
de evening. Dey was talkin' and laffin' loud onbecuming
for two members ob dis church. A wite fellur dat lib by
de place, heah a pig 'queal about twelve o'clock in de
night. He look out de winder and see sumbody gwoine
off wid .a bag on dar shoulder.  Tony Jumbo neet de
same person; it was so dark he coodn't see the bag, and
he coodn't tell wedder it waS a tian or one of the fair see'
only he was sure It looked berry much like Mary Jonsing.
Dc white fellers tort dat it looked like Jim Philips.- Now
dem two ob color is called upon to prove dar innocence
rite off.
Cesar is 'quested'to stop dem two deliaquents if dey go
to de sullar wid pigs head or anything of that sort to sell.
It is posed dey will set up de sassage bizness widide pig.
Everybody is. 'quested to 'quire into de'ticklars and try toy
convict dem if dey can.
Now Pm gwoine; to 'prove upon de 'hole.  De 'criptur
tell you not to 'teal. What you tink will cumn ob you= if
you steal; dat is de question for you to tink about; and
now I am gwoine to Freshi Pond on de Fourf of July.


176

COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

We shall hab a piek nack in dat placeunder de trees: an
invitaion hasbo sent to Massa Greelyto cum and take
a bowl ob clam soup wid us.
Ebe-y one will carry dar dinner and bottle ob root-beer
in his pocket. Cesar will now pass 'round de hat.
YANKEE LETTER.
Mr. Editor: We had a grate prodigious experience up
hear inthe most wonderful hings and we believe that
our villidge will take the leed herearter in everything,
for this is 'mazing to every boddy in these parts.
It was a man that cum hear for to lectur. He is the
greatest jintleman in the hull world. You ought to a
scene the lose he had on. Mister Flink who is a clark,
in the store, sed he wood hay' a cote maid rite off arter
his pattern. The minister axed him to his house to din-
ner, and all the gals was fritened to death. He gin out
that he was goin' for to lectur on animal magnetics. No.
boddy.,noed what that was; but we all noed it must be
samTiin' dredful, bekase it had such a wunderful curious
name. SObe went all 'round to the housens, with the
minister and the kool master and he was introduced ev-
verry ware by them, and he axed 'em all to cum to his
lectur. So evvery body was afeared to speak to him, and
the men sed they'd.cum to the lectur in-coarse, and the
gas curehed and:sed, 'yes sir."
Then he went and highered the town hall for to deliver
the letur, and when the.times cum, evvery body sot out
to gotheWi. Our gals was in a dredful teaze. There was
Sophia, 'she didn't noe which gowud she aught to ware,
and as, for Consideration, she thawt she must borrow a
newsilk of the ministers darter, but that gal had only
onenewseilk, and ghe wanted that to ware herself. So
isteConsideration was obleeged to ware the best calico
she had gut.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGERBLATTER.
All the fokes byumby crowded into the plaise,'and then
the man that lectured-got up to the desk and he begin to
tock and .he red it all off a peace of paper. They all
sed it wos iligant, and we couldn't understand a word of
it, bekase it was so high-larn't, but the minister explained
it all to us arterward.
He sed that the lectur was all about the way to put
fokes in sleep. He sed it was very hulsome bekase sum-
tirnes you couldn't git to sleep, and another sed she gess-
ed the minister was sumthin' of a magnettic's himself, for
when he preeched- his sarmont, she always felt pesky
sleepy.
Arter this big jintleman was dun lecturin', he axed a
little boy that was with him.to set in a cheer, and then
he set down. before the boy, and he maid up the most
dredful faces, like a mad bull when he is goin to put his
horns ito you. He went on that way till he skeered the"
boy to sleep. And-the boy sot stock still like a post, and
then he trod on the boy's- foot and he didn't start a bit,
and then he held out the boy's arm and you couldn't bend
it.                                             -
Then Aunt Patience jumpt up and sid it r  witch-
craft, and she wouldn't have any sich things dun, if there
wos any law in the villidge. Then the lecturer preeched
a bull passle of high-larnt' to Aunt Patience, and sed he
wos surprised that so beautiful a woman as Aunt Pa-
tience should git into sigh a passion, and he splained it
all to her, and that Aunt Patienee was as good naturgd
as a soaped eel bekase she likes to be praised for her
beauty and to be called a fare seck, tho' none of us ever
corted her yit nor telled her about her handsumness.
Arter thathe wanted to put a gal to sleep, and he cum
along to sisterfConsideration bekase she lookt at himso
sharp, and he axed her to cum up Aand beept1to. sleep,
and she squeeled and run off and hid behind mother. He


118             COMIC LECTtRES, ETC..
chased her a good while, but couldn't ketch her. Then
he went arter Charity Whipple and she didn't run so fast
as siser Consideration. So. he cotch her, and carried her
op to'l the desk. So he sot 'down and lookt at her and
maid -up all sorts-of faces, and she couldn't go to sleep
for lafing. She stuck her finger in her mouth and turned
her head to look at her ho and then she snorted out a laf-
fing, and then her bo he busted rite out tue.
Arter a=wile, every body got tired, when they purseev-
ed that she wouldn't go to sleep, and so they begin to
bundle out andgo home, and i tuck Sally Hatinel up be-
hind me op the boss and away we rid hum to her house,
and when we went in, i begun to try to put her to sleep.
So i sot and lookt at-her in the eyes and she lookt at me
til she seds she felt wonderful" curious, and begun to hug
me and kiss me. 0 lordy! how skeered i wos then! i
hopt up and run, and got my hat and cleered for hum as
hard as i could go, and that's the last' time i ever tryed
to maggittize -the gals, :for' feer i should be hab up for
wichdraft, seeii' thot it maid 'em so dredful strange.
Yourn to sarve,
EZEKIEL DANIELS.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Bel b bed Bruddren: On dis 'ticklar 'casion, your 'spected
preacher will erudite upon de follerin' 'portant conjunct
inn ob de 'possle Saltpetre:
",Bubble, Bubble-!.
' .  , a.Toil and trouble."
Here is four diwisions; de 'wision ob bubble is divided'
into two ob dem; and de todder is diwided into t'oil and .
trouble, which hab nefarious divisions and sub-diwisions
,and propogations.

t

BYD EACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 179
Fust is bubble., A bubble is made of water and some-
times he am made ob sorneting else.' A bubble 'tand on
top of de water like a-little house wid a round top. Now
dar is two bubbles in de text; de fast bubble is bubble,
and de todder is bubble too-and so dat makes two bub-
bles.
Dese two am toil and trouble, and dat 'lude to making
'lasses candy. Rachel Mones is 'ployed in de business,
and she find it all toil and trouble. In de fast place, she
hab to giv de boys 'stibks to go down to de wharf and get
de Masses out ob de hoxit dar. They bring it home, and
den she hab to pay dem and bile urn. She put de 'lasses
into de dust=pan and set urn on de fire, den she 'bliged to
stir hirt till he bile up, ' and deli he bile up agii. She den
is 'bliged to keep him from filing over, and dat is bubble
'corditi' to de text.
In biling dclar soup dar is also bubble, toil and trouble,
fust you hav' to put on de water to bile;den you peel de
'taters and put him into slice, den you put in de clam an'
bile dem all wid red pepper. All dis 'quire toil and trou-
ble; and you tink dat Cesar can afford to trust you for all
dem ting, and bit ob lobster' into de bargain. It is toil
and trouble to make clam soup and he 'spect to get pay
for him-dat is de fourf division ob de text.
In de next place, your 'spected preacher hab, grate toil
and trouble to 'splode de bubbles ob his text and gib you
saxifaction in do 'spounding of de word.  He 'specks to
be paid for all dis toil and ti-ouble, and dat you put M-
ey in de hat.
Fiffly is de trouble ob tryii' to wsh a colored geinan
white. To 'form dig operation, you' hab to 'use gate deal
ob soap and scrubbin'-brush.  You find it i  berry hard
work.. Berry few niggars hab ben washed white. Wool
ein be got off by using a little powdered limea; but it is
berry hard to 'traighten- it out.


180             COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

Your ' pected preacher hab been 'quested to establishh
a library belongu' to die church, for de purpose to 'prove
your mind in larnin' out ob books, and hopes dat dey will
prewent de niggar gals from spending' dar time runnin'
'bout de treatss.
All dem p'oppyalshun ob color dat hab books wil leave'
dem index sullar, to de keer ob Cesar.'- We hab got a Al-
manac for de year 1840, and we hab got de history ob
Blue Bad in: two wollumns, andY a Jim Crow song book.
Besides dese, we hab got some old newspapers and two
or tree new year address dat hab ben kindly furnished by
Peter Jumbo who blacks beot in de sullar.
All deseprecious wollums will be hired outto, de mem-
bersob dis church, for de perusal of people ob color.
A.ra e 'willtake place in dis house, on de forty-fust
day of nixt July, when de follerin' tings will be. raffled
for-one flannel petticat, two cards of gingerbread dat
has been in de sullar ever since Cesar took possession,. 1
side of a pare;of belluses, a turcle-shell comb widout de
teef which'hasa/been broke off, a pearl handled knife wid-
out de handle, a beautiful story book wid all de leaves
tore out, and a pai'e ob breeches widout any legs.
De raffle will begin at haff past ten o'clock arter wich
dey will 'journ' to de s-llartnd partake 'ob a elegant col-
oration wichebery one will bring dar wittles darseff in
hjs pocket and suit hisseff.
On de next day, in dearternoonyour 'spected preachers
nd si odder gemmen ob color willgoto do back side of
rnker Hill to play at de game ob leap-frog. We expect
you to put 'nuff munnty in de hat to pay de axpense of
riding in de stage C*Y-your 'spected, preacher and de tod-
dervgents of color.
On de sebenteenth of June we shall hold a fast in dis
church on 'count of the wictory ob New Orleans wich was
gained by jineral Washington. On dat 'casion your 'epec.

I

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTEB. j81
ted preacher will deliber a speech on de beauties ob lite-
ration, and take up a collection in de hat.
LAGER-LATTEBR'S LECTURE.
--r
Mine (Goot Peoples: I shall give you von text, vat you
shall hear in dish vords :-
" They tell me first and early love
Outlives all after dreams ;
But the memory of a Arst great grief
To me more-lasting seems."
Te text tell you of to first love. Ah! your minister
shall know very well what tat shall pe, tat first love. He
shall remember to first time tat he: shall love sure enough.
It shall pe ven lady in mine own country.-in to Hollands
sure enough yere he shall love. I shall see in te house
of dish lady a plenty of cabbage, and cold slaw, and pot
cheese, and I shall know tat she ish got -a plenty of goot
clothes, and -horses and cow. Ten I shall fall in love wit
dat lady, and it shall pe to fust love, because I shall love
to pot cheese and to schnapps in to house of tat lady,
more petter as I shall love any more schnapps and pot
cheese. So you shall see. Tat shall outlive all after
dreams. I shall dream apout~othng else only tat lady
mit to goot. pot cheese and schnapps, sure enough. I
shall remember tat fust love venever I shall see pot cheese
or cold slaw or schnapps. But I shall forget to lady her
self because she shallget married- to Mynheer Schraup of
Amsterdam, and I shall not think of her; but to fust love
shall not forget to schnapps and cab go.
Te otter part of to text shall tol  ou tat von. great
grief you shall remember long too, just to same. Ohi tat
ish to ting, sure euough. I shall have von great grief
vich I shall remember a great vile t o. It shall pe ven I
shall be von young man, and teir ish von otter young man

^


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;O.,
Who  hi   a plenty of schnapps in his cellar, and I shall
think to get acqaiited mit tat young man sure enough.
I shall wish to know him on account of to schnapps, vich
is ver; goot ven you shall be asked to trink vitout pay-_
ing no monish, dize enough.   !
Ta say=.sh Al try to get acquainted mit tat young man
I sAliloften see him speak to von young voman, and
shall think it is his own sister. So von day I shall see
dish  ung vman carry vontbasket on' her head, and I
shall run toj it and make her very low bow, and shall
ask to carry te basket, sure enough. She shall say, "0,
yes-you shall catry te basket on your head too."  Ten I,
shall take ugto basket and put it on mine head, and ish
cary te basket aloeg to street and she shall walk by
mine aide  At last ve shall see te young rman vat I shall
think i to  bother, and he shall pe te sweetheart, and
not     6ether at l. He shall ax me vot I shall speak
to titoung voman, and shall neck me down mit to bas-
ket aid kick rv eery bad. Oh! I shall never forget tat
gi-ief how I shall pe kicked by to fellow tat own all to
achapys.;
s,          DA. CONQN   ALLS LECTURE'
~ebbd4 BrudM  Do text dat your 'spected preacher
abios fordi'portaniasion am found in dose words
o' de 'pos ible Bar ab:- --
't;Th rye:was a- oldi man in a. velvet coat.
UKis d is n'dald gav5 er'a groat;,
Theg  twas or' , a  and would '1 go;
'           wasnf' W Ssu e a  rogue  to  serve  her so?"Ole  o t u  n  o m a
Sta                                       8ob d  same,
ih i bery tklarto your eddication; it is de part
ob  tr'petd preacher to 'pound it for you. And it is
yoiwr te o'end to what your 'spected preacher tell
t you.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERIOH LAGER-BMATTER. 183
Dis text is divided into fifty-tree parts, and dem -pairts
divided into sebenteen divisions, and dem diwisions is
diwided into fortyfive sub-diwisions. When you get
home you must 'member. de text, and 'lapse all de diwisi-
ons in your mind, or you will neber sabe your sins.
What youttink is de old .gan in dewelvet coat? Ha!
now I got you fast! - You can't tell hin, hey?- Dat shows
how you was brought up. You nebber know nossin wid-
out I tell him to you. You better go out ob de church,
and let somebody come in dat can undertan' de words ob
your 'spected preacher.
Dis ole.man in de welvet coat is dat whiteheaded nig-
gar dat libs up in Cat Alley  He had a gal to lib wid
him, who was called Porcia Emeline Clarissa-Ann Congo.
She was about my -color, only about seen shades black-
er. She wasn't so dark complected as dat little hump-
backed nigger dat sets on top ob de 'tove, and she would
hab been a good lookin' wench only she had cross-eyes,
and one leg was shorter dan de todder, and todder was
longer dan de todder.
She had six fingers on one hand and todder hand was
de biggest. Besides, she had a wooden leg rade ob cork.
Her nose had been bit off in a fite that she had wid Luker
Johnson's sister, and her front tea was knckeout
But she made up for dat, bekase she had two eye-teeth
dat was twice as long as todder teeth and stuck out of
her mouth. So dat she showed se had arudhivo'fvas
odder fokes, and made up in de eye teethwhat she 'lacked
in front teeth.
Dat white-headed -niggar dot hired  p is named Solo-
mon, and he wears a wolves coat sen  er.he canh get
one, which is not perry ofen  He eddiermadonfey -
'tandin' in de entry, and he Went utioher; an dg e;
"lubly, Miss Porcia Eneline Chtrissarn, I 'reyou be-.
ry miuch." Den h laid his hatid on hfisBell*h Ai

'

9    w


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;..'
heart;is, ob course, and he lookt at her so cinder sly dat
sheflier sofbosom all in a flame ob fir . Den he beg
de favorto squeese her sweet lip agaiiis own, and she
was ro modest dat she lookt right down and didn't say a
word .
Dene ried' tokiss her    de lips, and one ob dem eye-
teeth stuck into his cheek, and made him jump right up
in de air.
Den she was so steered dat she run up to put a plaster
on de place whar he 'was 'cratched; and sheknocked -her
cork leg agin his shin; and den he was dredful 'larmed
sure enough,:and thought dat he was dead.
So he turned her out ob de house, and. when she went
to himforer wages,he 'gin her a fourpence happenny;
andwhen:,he went to de sullar to get bowl ob clam soup'
Cesarfund dat it was a tin fourpence-
Dis was berry bad for a 'spectable gal ob color like dis
darkcorpleeted young. lady,. and she come and told your
'seeoted preacher.So your 'spected preacher couldn't do
nosein for her; and she leff de tin fourpence wid your
'peCtedIpreacher, and be passed it off to white foes for
crab, ober to Charlestown.
Yo    spetedhareacher had been 'quested to ax de
prayrs ob dis con   g4ion ob color for Nancy Philips
and Tbed Ambo who hab taken darsef for better and
id bd, ob widelocks, and as boff ob dem think
b            g      sk in marryinde odder, dey 'quest
de pr'yO: s o1 dis.4 ongregation,,oh color.
ur sped     teacher ws ''wited guess at de wed-
di   ud Jeha   icklar observation oh de lubly briqe.
S kblo  ingas de blossoks in autumn when de
fr_ i  . pe for de ikle' {and on one 'portant 'casion, she
f:int awaykwhepthecotch ight oh dat short' nigger what
ns   ~ tourt ede same one dat -she 'gin de 'bag tree
S    gbkase h' e 'fuse tobuy her kid. glove  'She

BY DEACON SNOWBALLAND DIEDEICH LAGER-BLATTEL 186
faint away in de arms ob your 'spected preacher and she
kicked so datgour 'spected preacher couldn't hold her up
and he was 'bligd to let go, and den she cum to her8eff
right off, bekaspshe didn't want to fall on de floor,
Darfore dat is de 'provement on de 'hole and Cesar will
pass 'round de hat.,
Dar will be a raffle in dis house on ,e thirty second
day ob dies month, when your 'spect d preacher will er-
pose of a pair ob white-top boot.. Arterdat Cesar Wid-
geon will hab a raffle for a pair ob flannel drawers.
YANKEE LETTER.
Bespec ful Mr: their is a thiug that has. cum up heah to
this villedge, and it is cawled a winnadg ory! There is
thousands and thousands of venemous beastesses and tha
ar awl in kages:except sum two-legged hairy. things wich
are cawled munkeys. I took sister Jerusha their, and Pa-
tience, and both of them was dredful tickled. The wild
beastesses lookt so quere that they kepp 'em a lafn' the
hull time.,~ But they lookt at the munkeyethe most, be
kase they had such funny ways about thea, they had lit-
tle hands, and did all sorts o' things:with there hands sl
funney. They wood run 'round on 1iere hands an4feet,
and jump like nothin' at all. Then they wood turn over,
and lay down, andojump ver theirselves and turn 'rount
and clime up a rope, and ete things dend theyheld 'e in
there bands like f6kes when they ete a ae1.
The bige a  thing was nedL.E:. 'aut. ;e was ug-
lay assign and as big as.a tree. Hlda longthinglike
,a peskygrate horn onla he coodtwist it about like a cork-
scru, and the upiitended thatit ws his:: trk s I;wt-
ed-fa'ther toby him to ploe&amp;Vithbut Fhesedadt e
tua mutch for him.
SThere was anther cretur and it lookt like apeshi/big


:=16COQI1C LECTURES, &amp;O.,
goose aind they called it a graft.  I spouse it was bekase
the cretur-had ben grafted; -for his neck didident belong
tu his little short body, and i thort it had ben tuk oph of
sum oiler animal and grafted on to his body. He 'pear-
ed to be of no sort of use only to look over fences, tho'
he Mite hav' ben sot up, on top of a meetin'-house for a
steeple..
Then their Was a spotted leprosy and he was dredful
furse.. i neer seed one be4, though i've red of 'em in the
scripters.,
Their was a lyon their in a big kage with up and down
sticks to it, and so this lyon lookt at me with his two ize,
as if i owed him sumtnin' tho' i'd never seed the critter
be°4. When 'i went 'aleng byhis cage he stuek out his
por threw the sticks, and cotchedhold of my sholder and
tore mly nue eote half off
Patience was so mad she diddent noe what tu doo, and
she  as going toalick the lyon. with a stick, but he lookt'
at her and ua'd a kiider noyse and she cleered out pret-
ty  wend wenthack to the nurikeys, for she cooddent
keepher ize o#ffof them, they was so funny in all theii  do-
W Pat 1 ie e-aed the mnat that oaued these beastesses tu
1len ie his eogte to -ire home, bekase his lyon had tore.
minerabt; hewvowed he wooddent do it, and so i was obli-
gdto go humje sas i was,wich maid me veiey inad,
bek    we  D fthBobbins, the gal that i'm payin' at-
tention tue. Shooktatyt,  c   -te all tore to peace and
she onlyha  spoke toete, *Rhii took very  kind. as '
hoA tre$*edhei- to as hAtch gingerbred as shecoogA et,
only eaweakabe4that day.
Sig bass Wilox as gut married.  He.aried. 8pan
Re     aoe. Phrpagnou've eered on her. -She ,ws the
gabthatlapt Joe Tomson in the chops at a bawl the oth-
.a igasdathat maid Sighias fall in Inw with her, on ak-
kount of her spunk

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIED1OH LAGER-BLATTFA.8.j1T
All the gals send there luv to you and boap to see you
up heer when peaches are reype. You, nay hay all yew
can ete,"if As a bushel. Muthdr wishes you'll put the
price of stockins in your paper, as she wants to by 4pare
for Jeemes, and meens to send to Bostown arter 'e4l, wen
farther was in town last spring, he got a bad fopnee of
a man dow  by the Funny Hall, where they hay a mark-
it. He wants you shood go down and git a good one and
send it up to him.
All the gals up hear is ravin' arter youre paper and tha
want to noe if you won't sendzit up to thein, as tha pose
you want t6 distribbet it round like; for that is the way
they duz tracks, and they sai that when you git the tipes
sot, it don't cost nothin' to print the paper.  G. S.
ENN BEE. Does you noe a ,man in a gray cotethat liev
in Bostown i Wish you wood tell him that farther wood
liee to see him about that dung-hill fowl he wanted to cell
him, praps farther will by it, if he will o0m up hear and.
trade.
Postcript. If there's any gals in Bostown that - wood
like to git married, you may tell 'em that their's a plenty
of fellers hear that wood like to be married too, and if
they'll rite to us we'll send the boys down' to 'em.
Yours to sate,
G1 EoN SnooKs

4   LAGSIRBL 'TBIV80LECTUI
mine Goot Peoples: Your minister shall take

dish text

"ir earth we now a-nJ nt to ±
th Soodsof   likeness o'     ed
With vIenes    ong,      nielt
One wide exinded   eld  blood."

Dis text shall tell you apout te vickedness all ovr te

1+


1 188            COMIC LECTURES, C.,
world. Tat shall show you tat you shall vant plenty of
preacato put I4ya te vickedness.
Tetext shal1 told you tat he lament to see te earth; if
he  -g    von"of both his eyes, he shall not see it, sure
enoug"   Heshall not  lik to see te earth ven it shall be
overspread.
In defirst place, it shall be overspread mit wickedness.
Tat shall pe te preaking te sabbath ven you shall not
come to church6to put your monish into te plate. It shall
ye von very big wickedness tat shall overspread te whole
land. JI shall pe von piece of bread yen you ish spread
te butter .all ver te bread. Dish wickedness ish spread
over tewhole world like to carpets on te floor. It shall
be called "floods of wickedness.". Te wickedness shall
pe flods; tat ish like te time tey shall build up te ark
and putin te floods ven it. shall rain like not never shall
pe.
Te text shall ax you cruelty, violence, and wrong. It
shall bevery bad to have wrong too, ven you had cruel-
ty and violefice pefore. Vat shall pe te cruelty? It ish
been crueltyyea you shall get te milk tat you vas bought
and shall find it half vater, sure enough. Tat shall pe
von of te cruelties. It shall pe cruelties ven your,
schnapps shall pe bad gin mit water in it, and ven you
shalibrgke your schmoke pipe.
Tediolence is very pad too. It shall be violence ven
ye o  al have a vrow tai shall take up te proomsticks.
Tat ish violen  in te house, Violence outside of te house
shall p4-,te dogsa shall chas you in testhet and shall
catec yoir-wit te teeth in telegs and tear three pair'of
trowsers.
Butt text shall told you tat teir shall Kpe wrong be-
Vathallpe te wrong? It-shall pe wrong ven your' clock
ish run down and give te Wrong time. It shall pe ven
teyghall charge too much against von mit piece of chalk

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 180
in te tavern. It shall pe all wrong, sip enough. Teir
is much of tat wrong, and violence, anfl cruelty and te
world shape covered all over mid flood, and shall pe
"von vide extended field ob' blood." Tat shalh-pe te
slaughter-house vere ish all Qer blood. Ven y walk
in to street be careful you shall not slip down pecause it
shall pe blood all over te world.
DEACON SNOWBALL'S LECTURE.
Belubbed Bruddren: On dis 'ticklar and 'portant occa-
sion, your spected preacher will abrogate and delectate
on de follerin' text ob 'cripter, from do 'possle Dinah ob de
Feezhans:
"Strange that such a dItrerence there should be
'Twixt tweedle dura and tweedle. dee 1'
Dis is diwided into fifty parts'; arter dat it is divided
into two parts; de fifty two parts is too tedious to nien-
tion. Now, we willItakehold o.de two parts-dey are
tweedle-dum and tweedle-dee. De fust part ob de one is
like de todder, and de fast part ob de todder is -like de
todder. Boff am tweedlein de beginning, and de Just
one is du&amp; in de ending and de todder is dee in de ending'
But de text tell you it is berry 'trange dat dey aint boff
alike; dey might as well habbeen de same ting. It must
hab ben made by white fokes and darfore def"hab urn dif-
ferent. But de text is 'stonished bekase dey is boff^dffe-
rent. Darfore, you must find ut what is dese words?
Your 'spected preacher hp lookT in de dictionary and he
can't find dem; dis is bekase dey habsperitu
and must be sprainedd by.:your 'spected pro  Twee-
die-dum 'ply to de sullar kepp by Cesar Widgeon and
tweedle-dee 'ply to de sullar dat is'kepp b Peter Widge-
on.
Now it is berry strangedar should be so much differ-
ence teenn etwo. In de sullar ob Gesar you get clam


* .OOIO LECTU~WS, &amp;O. ''
soup for fop4'n~ and inthe. sullar ob Peter, yon. hab tc
pay F fourpend4po, but you get no cracker in de- soup.
Tree  ntsia charged for root-beer in Peter's sullar and
don, lW of de frog from de top; but dey charge de
sam .     inCesar'  n dblow of de frofinto de. bar-
gin  gr   de  roenoeg  'teen de quantity when de tum-
bler ishafftfull of frof-
Dofroff is the third division ob de text; froff ob root-
beer is speritual andlude to de speeches i 'lection time.
.Speeeheis de froff, and de lecture's ob your spected prea-
chez ide beer..
De fenrf dision 'ude to dat report, lass, week about
your 'spected preacher and Clarissa.Sims. It was spread
by Emeline¢ones, Miss Jane Porel, and Phillis Jumbo.
Dey purtend dat yourp'spected preacher pay 'sclusive 'ten-
tion to Clarissa which am false in de fust place; de 'ticklar
particklars in dis conjunction am in de follerin' manner:
day sa dat qlarissa took you, 'spected .,preacher on a
'8kgsinr of pleasre, and dat dey hired a hoss and shay
to g1dowA to ahant. It is also said dat your preacher
pop de ggest onto, Olarissa anddat she 'fuse your 'apect
ed preacher-de fax an      yr dese: your 'spected preacher put
his arm 'round de neck of Clarissa, and she gaped and
opaedr her noaflike a duck. and lookt at your:'spected
preacker.wid her eye in de most 'fectin manner. Your
'spted.preaher was feared dat she was gwoine to faint
anha begun nto fa  her wid his handkercher.; den she
d nossaas. de ntter only she feared dat de sun
ud         herplexion.  Datwas all dat passed on dat
'p0 n         and she nebber 'fuse your'spected prea-
chereae        ebber ax her to hab him-dat is de truff.
De}*ayers ohdis con-egation; ob color is 'quested for
Elia Pinkumwhoraants     band berry bad and can't
getnoneS     u spectere   acher offer   reward ob
onebiedlobster and bowl oh clam soup roay gemman
oh color dat will find a hu arid for Miss 'Liza.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DEDE IE LAGERLATTER
Now P'i gwoine to 'prove upon de -lile, hen munque-
toe bite you on de:nose, it istweedle-d m. 'en ge bite
you on, d ear, it is twee4le de fDar i &amp;obvio  dife-
rence.
Gesar ab got a pasleb  daislt in his ulla4ey is
ripo and melk P as a peach. e clrge on. Ce.t a bunch
to de poppyla pIh  ob color: antwo centhanch to wite
fokes. Niggar ga la i'quested not to tel. onio s fro
d    1sullar weA dey pass ont adin
Your 'spected preacher am 'quested to make de  bae,
wation dat sister Flunka wi#, fb her bawl on two  eks
is a Sunday in de afteroog at twelmv o'eck couciely.
All dem dat wish to cum will leave dar name :n de ,sular
wid do money for do ticketswich will be giben out at de
door. Luke Johnson will not be 'mitted to de bawl 'cept
he get a new coat, as his elbow  ik out berry eceedin'-
ly.
On dis 'tishlar ' aisiere fat wil ber pad'oad by
July 'ieke, in  i9 4at yd   zwilputia more money
when a ladjob color tales 'roun d'dh t; 41 del4at
puts in, Afo pence apeae, isa tatlid to  tiek '1~ses
cand
July now will pass 'round de hat, and I hpope at di
oongrega ion will gibgo f ,.ly 1       la4 y of 41olor.
1TANKBN.LTTmL
31r. Editor: They has a monstraciousd       thig
happent uptear, it is a old wotnantht is ae
ver seed won be4,. and.never noed-what          till
i sead her.
We was awl seti down to supe      hen   bg   Peck
cugi rite in, and  he     eirsgiiig to bha  e do.
in's in this  brhd         e   eeeofa          kd

A,4


192

OMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.,

Then muther sot down the t-pot, and lookt rite at her,
and held up both her hands and sez she-" mercy on me!
what has happened now, and what is it that is to pay,
sure enuff?"
Then we left off etein' to see what was the matter.
Then Abagill pulled oph her bunnet and lade on the arm
cheer, and she sot up close to mother and sez she--" i
thort it was bad enuff when Lucy Brown got into a scrape
with that Aldritch feller; but there's sumthing wuss than
that now!"
" Law suz-a-daisy!' sez mother-'is it possible that this
miller book, has cum true, and we're all goin' to be burnt
up?'
"No, it's sumthin' wuss than that!"said Abagill, "it is
a which!"
"A what?" sez mother.
"A which!" sez she.
"Well, now, did you ever?" sez mother, "and a dred-
ful thing is this which i'll be bound to say,"-sez mother,
"what is a which like?"
"Why it's that old Dinah Spooner," sez Abigail, " and
a horrid thing it is.' It's a woman that has a sperritt in
side of her."
"A woman with a sperritt inside of her," sez mother.
"0 dredful! and what does this sperritt do there? Is
there no weigh to git it out?"
"Yes, they say theirs a weigh," sez Abigall-" if you
draw out six ounces, of her blood and hay' it all biled
away in a skillet, it will kill the evil one and her too."
Then Abigall went on to tell about the which, and how .
their was noises maid, and how the lites burnt blew, and
a gray cat was seen settin' in her winder every day at
21 o'clock. Then he telled how Mr. Richardson's chil-
dren had been bewitched by her and had red pimples
broke out all over there face and hands. The doctor sed

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGERBLATTER. Igg
they was poisoned by goin' into the swamp, but Abagill
sez she don't think it is pison at all. She thinks they are
bewitched by this old missus Spooner, 'specially when the
cat was see, tother day, playin' with won of Mistur Rich-
ardson's children.
Soon as ever- Abagill telled us this, we wos all of a
trimble for fear of bein' bewitched, and sister Dorothy sed
she began to feel strange, and so mother and Abagill
looked over her face and neck, and true enuff, they found
a pimpal jest under her ear. Then Abagill held up both
hands and sed that the which aught to be shot rite off,
for she didn't bleve-but what the sperrit that wos in her
had ben bewitched, and then sister busted rite out a cry-
ing, and mother and Abagill axed her what aled her, and
she sed that tother day, when she was goin' cross lots,
there was a cat that run down into the holler amungst
the bushes and she seed her as plane as day.
Then we wos all skeered to deth,. for sister had seed a
cat and had got a pimpal under her ear, and we noed she,
wos bewitched sure enuff. So farther put on his hat and
cote and sot out to go rite up to the minister and ax him
to cum down to the house. Mother begged him not to
venture his life by goin' out of doors when there wosa
which in the villidge;.but he sed it was his duty and
when anything wos his duty he won't afeered of nor-
thing. So he went up and brought down the minister.
The minister heered what Abagill and mother sed, and
then he lookt at the pimpel under sister's ear and axed
her how long it had ben their, and she couldn't tell; but
she told about the cat that she seen when she wos cross-
ing the lot.
The minister lookt very serious, and arter a wile, he
sed he dien't bleeve that Missus Spooner wos a which,
but he told sister it ought to be a warning to her,and
teech her to consider her latter end.


194

COMIC tiCTURE S, &amp;C.,

Then the minister went hum agin, and Abagill, shQ sed
that the doctor' and the minister had laring' and sot up
upon it; but she noed that Missus Spooner wos a which,
for she had bewitched Mistur Richardson's children.
We all concluded to set up that nite and watch, and
we called in tue neighbors to set up with us, and won on
'om was Mister Pussy, the sope biler, and he sed that
their ought to be a town meeting' called to see about it,
aid he sed that. he felt a kinder strange himself ever
sense he had heered about the which, and he bleeved he
seed a cat' a week be4. Then he telled a most beautiful
story about a woman away up to the country wher he
lived when he was a 'prentiss, and how she wos bewitch-
ed and every time she saw a cat, she sed her prayers till
it cured her.
Nit day, we got a few foes to go over to Missus
Spooner's with us, and we peaked'at her while she was
washing' oe her apurn, and every one sed she acted pro-
per strange,,and she kepp wipin her forrid with a hand-
kercher, though there wasn't a drop of aw ett to be seen
on it. We dasent speek to her, but we lookt at her as
much as hafflan'our, and farther sezthat sumthing aught
t be dun about it, and if she has got a sperrit, it ought
to be perjured to cum out of her.
Yours to serve.
NIcuous PETERS.

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDERICH LAGER-BLATTER. 195
LAG -BLATTJR'S LEC'1TE,
Mine Goot Peoples: Your minister shall, give you von
text to-day, vot you shall hear rite off:-
 " Hark! bark! the dog bark,
T'he "beggar come to town
Some- in rags, somie. in tags,_
.            some in olde ret gowns."
Dish is von'verry Yankee text. It shall tell you tat to
togs shall bark. You shall see tern bark on Sunday too,
Vat for you, shall let te togs- park on, Sunday in dish
place? ,Te text tell you tey shall park at te peggars, as
ish come to town. Oh!- it shall pe te beggars, sure en-
ugh, as shall make te-togs bark. Ven te peggars  shall
sed' stuboy to te togg ten tey shall park like von pig can-
ion ball in te house, Dey shall make so much noise vot
never shall-vash peen.
LTe peggar comes to town in te rags; and' ten'dogs
ish park sure enough, pecause tey shall see te rags. Tey

k  °


r4 :

,
,. ,
-
'    -                          ,
F,
T. "y
~  , . ,
ry'

shaink torags ish        lag flying  en toy shall park.
In   nco     a tey shal' put te beggars ino te prisons
t   agsbut in dish country, toy shall let to peg-
gai's djtnrb al4te togssure enough. In mine country,
,gsalpae             e soers shall come to town, and
teir  ala . penoAbe  aeonly shut up inste prisons. Tey
hll    ow. vatt    0ith te beggars in mine country.
' to      hallsee von beggar their he shall not park,
;  t e h l1 ite te peggars9  e Yankee dog shill try to
: ^ te you±gentlewans. Your minister shall be going along
to  st  s*n vonYankeetog shall cone out and take
oldof ha1Y    mithis teeth;but he shell not do nothing
only totear to preehevon little pits  He shall stick in
his.et like-   on  p o vere tore shall pe ten pairs of
re   e   Histeeth shall pe as long as te long embargo,
before  ter.shall raeah through all to preeches, sure en-
onmgh._
Y our  minister shall g' up three pair of stairs, to see te
mn nat shall own ty tog, and ax te dog to be killed; and
~  te1 an v    %sb1   Yyourminister ifhe shall sell sausages,
tat-he shall va t von _ dandot'  So your mnster shall
gual" M IT cr tem. pt at  uch  a  dog :s  tat  an  to  owner
-tg  nmi    ountr, f von man shall say such
' , ti ,   ";' " {miter -,gou a 8' tput ' him   in t  prisons,  and
a.(t suree  ugh.Teney' shall know how to
sa t       miste more peters dat. All tem peo-
S :_'   rt.good ha1+el          made  goot ven'tey  shall
oouNh    o!tat shal!!pe to country yore your
s  Wliv -yTif' y          tollhave to  uteh 'soldiers
'" %i,' 4 7!;'-. ' r e  fo yo  rn tte Mexicgns, ten  you
_d                 nT       il2go toir to Mexicos nmt te
a ut oftpce     But te Yan-
_k ba.... fl e d o ial1          run  avay  rite
y        r '    te l ts    at  eir head
t  -:    '  ' Y
Sti  ,,    u  x '   E   "1r     hY f"  '   '  "    _,  -

/     e    3                            rtrtrt'.t R r
TSi1f.

WjLEOTURES, &amp;c~

BTDEACON SNOWBALL ANT)i DX)LAGEBLT TTE.19R
LAGER-BLATTER'S LECTURE
Mine Goot Peoples: I shall -,eard of te young emman
vot you shall call Tom Fiddle-faddle, a shal kno  more
as his fadder and middei- boff' alike, nsureenugh  But
your minister shall pe more as dad; he shall know, and
you shall put von monish in te plate to pay for suoch :
4 Johnrx boy Iil see you righted,
Johany boy, my fellow,
Dish text shall told you apout Johnny boy who shal
be some big gentlemans, vot he shall got ito troubles
and shall see you righted, Johnny boy shall pe von fellow
too. Tat shal pevon tat he shall. But he shall pe right-
ed for all his troubles. Te vay tat youtshall pe righted,
I shall tell you very soon. If you shall go into von
house, and ask for von glass of sclinapps, and' e  shall
give you some poor gin, instead of to Hollands, ten you
shall preak te pottle lover his head. If you shall camne to
church every day, and shall put notting n te plate teniif
you shall come and put in von white dollar ten your n
ster shall pe righted like vot never shall pe. Tat ish te
vay tat you shall make it all right  it your minister,  ure
enough. Yen your vrow shall give you cold eofee u&amp;t
morning, and you shall upset te tea-kettle overte f or
and hit your 'vrow on to head .i t' tea-c ,ten  ou
shall pe righted for to cold coffee  ure ano g'
Ishall pe rightedin mine own country a grlatsmany
tiues, as never shall pe sot       shal   te coen
tries yere you shall pa righted. Ifpan  onbb
you their, you shall goto yed bgonase      t"l.
and he shallright ala ptfllwa  Thte pri-ns
sure enough; andif he shall pe sucy voned~  i~d
their; he shall hav  o brinskn   ro   t
Now    e shal ha  dish10 hrcIrite    g. t&amp;    Ve
shall' haee t place itevashed pca    e     t
on te walhsAit teir  none"s, and their ish'  n '6t Si-


d e rite oners offto walls as I never shall see. Ye
'4l1h0,6'.voAdmittees to see tolhouse gli cleaned up,
and. oiii hall puteon bottlee of good Rollads in te pub
'pit,1 Vere 'I shallstake von thinks von I shall pe dry. It
sMll help' rlongte preach very much to take one little
6      i     i hile, sure enough.
Nowy'  on:s l lass roundto plate;r'and remember to
in emonish you can parefor te minister, who
nimre gotasyu
'AGE.EBLATTER LECTURE.
Mi ne 9o&amp; P' o; l:.You shall have to test, vich I shall'
give' ou in itese vor
Here ' to he wind that blows,
The~shiip that oe
Andth+lass thtgoves a sailor
It shall be a text; for vat shall you :call him-vat shall
l him 'yen you shall pe gone. for to doctor-Oh;! I
tik    h     efor health  Yenyou hltrink te, health,
ah te;text. Yautrink one:ealth to te
youshatnotin         e health often
rnitttalotbhws-Tafish to von~health, ish to to
otind shallnotstop to hearyou  pecause he
sa  pe '1waygo      fast, andtshallmakeYso Much, noise
hiwself ahe  hl1  xev  eairyvat{you shall saiddto him.
Te otter hoalths ish'petter as that, an shal pe to te
h   hh             h  allgo.To ship shallwent cause
t'-tt   Y    's  trink von goot health
to 4,po        usoto ipshal go    n te   n   hal
4b:s but zrV_:sbal p no healtheoto steam poatsvich.
' s  J} (( t. /yen  'wind shalL pl9w pecasa toyshall
n     r e or to wids nQ more'tai von hwu8e, whic hall
rnot r; aiilon to l'and, xvetoinds shalleplow.surelenoptgh.
Th~  4hi~bps vil sl     ot pe voatheamn poatnish
g~~l ~'ix~evn te indaU 1o      a e   ~ halb

. BY DEACON SNO  ALLAI    I     LAGERBLATTER.
To other health shall been to to las;.tat.shall loe Vo
saiors. I know not vat lass -shall{ aei for te silors, I
to lass shall love to ministerit shallie veryggoot, pe-
cause it'shall pe to duty of allhegwo ens to loretomiin-
istees. But I shall not trink to heaho any l ass t ish
in love: mit v6  sailor, whose  echeha    e,  oer
with tarand his hands ahailpm onselek   f   hat
But if it isYvonsalor of ian eointrVte n    Hl[
trink his health as never shall ~peoesume the th hsai
lors shAll fight on te seas, and.shall nwhipte  agfish^and.
American sailors   Pothilt togebler ita"    r1
shall sweep to sea mit  brooy,anid li toEn}i   r sh'l
run away :vn tey ehalll a* hin do nieiirit1'ta 'broo.
Mine Uncle Mynheer Vonaas shtll pevnt sdilr
too; and he shal fi gall to other ships t  n to grA
I shall hear fror'timlas e shall  ien    tathe ish
going to have 'von hieof Duth p       t, totbeatrlal
steam ships, andsp 8ng te passenger_ t Ar., ri .a ...-2"+ tr
you shall see     t         en to D tchT hlfhve,
steamships, suireenough.
Myneer Van SlwkhberieadM           hrVrnStx-
e i, shallipe  v' a ei"t~ e,  /4"c -e w ho skall   _ -", r'4
te plate; and all m tAthallt      nt
shall pe tuaid ou  fte eburc a'  4ter,4o.4a y. N-_ ;;y=.y
shall pass himiroundo ante commitee sall:kr  u a- d
see.

. Eda  Ant Th   ot by a
whtto fame the liteorttr ds ethiww6
aright T o bout it nd fid o i ~h at W&amp;8At
d see A  ane wa a sitting pt
nd  hen  heWas heitr hedes ,  1' t Yl t he
Ant Jane :as 'ogt4;yirold  A44tor b4

'I,

l


aer "ot up with noa fellers ii her life. So
th- is ;man a)ee               , w.
,terPnch and he      as their aAnt
eot gittin             are of trowsis maid big-
g~ 4 Mit p reyv is  a 4ayleress.  So he lookt atane
n       ane loot at him, andi then
e:t yyokt atne anoth-
er~~in  id~~~idr~ oo/Ant Jnes ',end ,she: kinder
aese    sbhd afelin'er ciu.over
hextha se~iyeI~e~  e4,inhe life when she lookt at a
~'mn. ~e el a~ixie~,tede iniie boozuir and. when
'"e t r  k, n   al.ngn t  wod lost up to her, she
t~kil~ ~flpvr]          ff h~twa our-runner of love, they
:2,ttre           dshest down.Mister Pinch
es4d   n     t:     eadrr h.had lookt at her
arhlea~~~{his~,woo b~e~a oleino her, he spunks
s.ee       'Te      bkde kfedfor she
..  i , 4r.  ' .r  '  ba  t  rita uprnto her throte, as if it
Withhat          orits outplane; Sez be,
bs arts  Then she
pato s a asdfine andperlite as
s,    yas      thank you,-very
~u ~ ~s afftikled todethibekase she spoke so
4ehputffstone leg on henee
of- he otl; a theh.    angeit'oer bad  /\j / Pputtother
Nd o               it 3 or  imes,
~ i oum~iniier to gity trow-
~iij~~'~  ; Tey sedto inc we swhen i wauk.-
,edt       hldupbh bakhandeMand ezxshe,-.
"yu a'tsa  6!Tatut b readful       flowdid
ata: i s    yo. 1j  ea her, r-"itas  ifgrate
Tohe dy        a lyin' tu

BY DEACON SNOWBA0I   D IDP!iCH LARGE BT"TEB.
aall down in mister Dickson's pastor', and  hen i stoopf
down to pick up  heavy stun,ytrowswas so tit
that they busted all out behind."
" 0 dredful' sez Ant Jane,.and lie kinder collugd up.
So they kepp a tocking, and he telled her how'lie hid re-
spectable relations-htw one of his un/clehad aof  a
was reckoned e y smart and howbe cood nlaymore stun.
wall in a day than Sam Phillips the big niggerfronit Var-
mount.
Then Ant Jane thortshe should, have died for ghis love,
and when he laid his' hand.on her nee 'fe tionatelehe
wiggleds thase didn' noewhat wa- th mn.tteWith
herS So heentto=AtHepseys :y'evray d.y rter dat;
and Peter called' every dayt see'if his tiowsgsWasdone;,
and Ant Jane tolled Hepseythat-she' beter not hrry
with the trowsisp and ode dayshe kethe d An1t Jane pck'
ing out the stitches v;hen h erbkack  as.turned _
So he kepp coming everyday to:.e th   h istrowis,
and then he sotand   wkeddi     anhadffaouata
time, and then Jane telled'him thatshe, had  d$eaeof
gray cloth at-horethat w sjestabout bge  ftc ' k
a new seet for hi trowsis; and if he thort eet' she :obd
taik the trowsis to hernone hou  se, ad sw_   on.  o he
was tickled-haff to peaches and-{   e          S  he
took them homeandsow    ene athh             a
leaf to go to Church with hIeoni the uiiztSabbath
So they went    tgeer, and hehda=o  theontroais
with a new seet aind'as soona.he sot down by th&amp;al$
of Jane in the puehejit riiu
a cat; and begun to hop alioutin the pue4 i aw y s
sed; and Ant Jane hortAthatlovewas=in 'hsr    tit? . ,
wasn't that.  it was  ane's needle wihsebd lf
the patch, anda'it run iuto his bhin&amp;a irthaf~? nh
So ht heldaher smad ingtbttl to hiu nosetEen.-
er i, and she was so ffsetioe tatbegggl i lov
with her, and they was published and married.


4Atithy4iad been marie  d awilinthraud site
W{«a woke  ne."p "oz rnt    iii a   hurry ad teled  ji.a t
t + rkw as rntori, i~teyeod' f
4,te r. 4}d, P t~r  71i ,yd;r h . t ' Luo  r" wa  &amp;pretynamt
j&amp;A  4 t  1 TA ~ ' h'4  ' V ,/'.  t  a
a   ,,frGttek j-;'ey f  S 1r-:bort.  So  we 4  are i=;7°  _lIJ  amazed_   s
'd-°' t' . &amp;y h w   i at npo"S t  i.'  air'-th  to,'  name .: ,ts-it  Fay- "ter se
.4,.L '!   ,              )  , Y  +
M  c   '            and  the

was " goin' down ~  pto6ni ~i't~tod  t yua
word orto tell ou how*t _  t oxi n a
.adpunig  Susan 'Skire4 8cOfof'dwn-,, t~
tu&amp; git a OW  ui. nd
rud fh  her,+ a nd4sho w  her.. ,   +  :h &amp; It  b "  :#=AI' 4
dith Promontory she g tori to t n f   e t  ¢'ko4j
she wants  to rmat ya' bo to n jentlrn l7} "ait +
veya d  to                  h.+hay'} hie :'t
cbfftodoabt' wpAwat"o do i t r'    §yth fxh
the nsa~r~,d~b~a1,'         o
ad t aong' eter F hl1      &amp;6~
wth on-fth    wu~ing d.o-It .vii s n -+s
tit  Vt fettha+aiiit  i: erix# to
'uh  C d r ws "mn,-'    '*' th V h ,'.  hYit,;2? Y±

A

j'                               fw '   1"                     F.     I,'
_              j         v-tsfll ,L}' '   .4  r   4"++Y  j,          I=1 +X' " 1'. a"            _     y,
to,
"AN
'        t       "    r    -S' ', l"             T'             ,.,al  i-,  Ord
OA-         I                     f X,
"i"ct ;, .-              .111"       P  +'    _             .r
_-                 i  F'iy 1~.a^'  '1}la's{  *l"J'=J_ ':kiH '.  '  : :iiT" J ,dt  .l+


Si

, "}l=: o ' bdel alway; sacalledRuth the hansumest
$4Ui        for she  its tall and slim and  asgot
y}            bl-:a eyes. So when thifiller, and his
n~i~m    w    hh  as ata  arty were Rth was
,sout, s i.gess he didn't like ita
~~~~ $e'b,"gi asum fokes hay curious
",  i . '  .,"3Y*" I, t ebut' he  iookt  at  her a but he
di4'Vs  a wr. Ten silas Snith cum along and kist
tind hene look atSilasndhuth
zshe-~ ~  i gsi ou'd better go and kiss Abigail
y. F eSfor 1ome foke thinksthat she isbetter than
Ssh    lotite at that airBrown,
~nd~e akiner okred 1eka4 luv was in his heart for
ad t1   r *aeiu .+ he rom, and her father e he-" So
~yuv   tider noio!ate        y dart!e r;,. and eu rer'ryps . =  !T';y, ' ~~   oe
sity intem~nand ieu think that you'll h ay her ~
oBon     s ey, hehad a' kinder notion arter the
gaaL"                        ok
"W.'ea,   . "  don '  no yieu and, i dont no as
you 'eworh  1 thadaerD     you noe your kate-
:  4_y s; benord it ever sense he was 'a boy. Then
him,  hened rarnarad he sd yes.
A' Wll~  ~in much, foinee larded gramar and 'I ,
ri it,a  he
J~ws~evrhe le    rw    e  p that nite with is
~$o  h~ ld oed wettoebed and thesot up.ai
=U- q ze&amp;,'4biaijh{,kshe woodtik; te lis'-in the sitty
.44  b t 44ih. wod i e  swell and axe him'ifhe
kinder
5b     g i $ uet U115    ,B o . e tt  'e   b  i . d r.f t e

owed a _ coach,,.and whe.hetelled ber n&amp;, she =sedtl i ti
she married hi, she sho      eeto h     a cocha
six white horses like inde rille.
Browte edYbig}tahe woodh.a        a coach with
severghorses, and that w a   d beg betr yet.
Thenshe was tiekledup to her eyes,:and sedthat as
soon as he ,botthe     and seven horses to the do she
would get i and}"o ortith hip
Then he aed that theywo a good as ina{riedalr dye
aud he went:up to herto gi hre  a  hug, and he a
her on=the  p nd she  tr  toulh himaw        n   h
wos, so:tronge     e    him -b ckwrdsan   htu
bled  er     at    a                             a
he fell he cotho o fie galtohold himself
turnbe, over oateof him nYdit maid se  a: raeet.that
it woke up th  ldfokesnd Abigails father 0u    n
down stairs iiis shirt-tale and s. B.row;sgot up 4 nd hea
stood their logkin s  d.in the fgge  a  s   eser; and
so hefatherhetell d     mheost p fthe milk hhad
spilt. So{I  ut iitefdown ron hisea  e and -swore fhat
he hadn't a centin is pocket  d   at, e   a
his last si peuce for a jintiel .iga i Thgei bg  be-
gun to cryforsheY4eed t Kt  *osh ul yi' - her &amp;oach
and seven hbsses and Br     sca mpered,:and he':,evr
been seen sense.
~i
'elubbed J:rudcr m: On/dai usaf - r'casion  pus' -=ct--
ed pre herwill edifyd   oq    b die  ongb
color, w  de folerin'  oitet ob de pos
ernes:
Ior ' can'txe Lr ,'         hi"e
# f~ _~_  "   r  ',1"rts "    r '{,_I_' ray v, i-
Vt'5'.

)


,F  "  re " , rt t .4   _ .  _'-K
k ii_ Fe    ,  r . '. "  l U:s 1e.t_'  -Yo'bL  I '11  heeij  ed  ob aJth
th1A IiNwd~ ~nidesm          h~~tra
r-"X" ',  i1t  mipte -.  Dein  d  t is-fosd j.'  plearure
                          t3 c n'0 rc. e'r:wel  dro e ou
m , ,    si. ~~ '   cI  .' a , t .  F, n "4  pl, ! i..tebde  fo14xriu'-tF g  oii its in
rr  ' 'd-t  e   y:  J   u s  r way  t h rak  irr it
}'1y  r  ;  YorrtuJk  %Jes ^p  r  bkln thi   i f- "'    /\! --  n    ')else  t  4ohwt * ,
"f l,,,  k4m" ' r f  it uyi  ^1  * I  soup 8LA~.  A.f/o . oh ou adon t o
friir be  =~sE r y  'i  e. e   'e  rd s  l;'a
:.ri  derk~  l. ~a~r~ :but y0rj 're-tedp e
,' _ .aC  I" ,*  i  r. F,"pS "'_ o  " t,   41 p, o rt i   J.  .Yo~'L, apeete
.0e 0,  f~re#toitl     t;;   de  ii  ttre  J E   kisei t'  da!k
-  1''~elj,^  t ~f7,'di:  roh'";  oh  r,,'''  V   Jay.'  in 'ou_,ato
y   i g~   ,"to _b  e ' yr v x .i Y 'r'u" tt  _-b '  4id ^ d   ime o  .osebei, at"~  i
'r ft W w isio3n.;ud",  tode'raelw4'4t you-r f  °:  , p' "ar
h~~Ay~~~pected~         1ki~ t  &amp;4'e,
~  ~  w~ittt1 *° ~er yugt
.)p I  a     WeuJur'~ptle pa   rwt  i
n; YA;[            W w ..  ,,"'' F."gseo}- -  -.tn  '-,s .- o.~ t
., 4 ar- )_'s peote&amp; p Se-rt'   tl.s^:1;  . ad,  =  ,_ 4 -d' i ,
*&amp;        te y  f J  czf~wrd .  ize' e  tat
d' K.d

13YYIDflACO?; SXOWD*At  MOR
sh oxily:humn ober d r to 'lokat ,unk r IJ ou  :
Darf  ~~Orur Op  drahe'1oit6tQdecro
ohis reye at her,At l~ he  ied    an~     n
made im a. -cuirhee,; and'se gshr-" I thaik"y ouki:= ly,
Datlubly ou   1 Myo   clor dti .h r bd    r      ~
on de grou dar -n464yu' $ete~rh&amp;toe
down to pick itt up; bt.t he  :dt ,w1 w Ftrry cl1l fa
t+' n-i                                +ihdarfore he :t    tU  t heedo  i and. arei;  eb it
to 'dat lady oh 'of r; '   asehe did1 wnV totouhitwi
his 'finger.                     -
fie De+ end  iiin hd   do   'rcumstane dat .y
'I  jp ected 'preaehei'sbrud r hab gth- 1  f o1ogKI~
lad;and  lhe aut t4:,fnd}"umtmngto do inxi line 1He
hab ben Ks d "to -i gandpoknrppeand rnilldti
cowsandas hfrbisie  s  di  n e;o:+ ry ~i
cun olostou -= to Wa sittva :nand hopes yoawF ill rin.
quire if dar i antiugn rhm  od
De third -dii isi~ iS'~~ttfka       eioi l~r
vin' lg m gar soup' is c ang:ed, and;;nows y ;omwU hb
five o'clock in do harte tnoonin' ted oh si;1iflfurther: _0
tiss-price 4 pence. a bowl widout -crackers, h jin ewid ,
derv. Cesar will clo.e .ipa             he ti lz dat
hie augkhteut to sell rwssin;.dent ' codiniy
dor to desnil.a and youcan our &amp;.4rjn  yu. pe
lubbd p° tu*h,bzso :z*' hoeadt     i41 grVei *$wto
y i ll :lat ic= fors.pos4$a ; {; ar  ¢ i l~~pkIt~A
to         Tyz                    'Art i  i"lrAin   4~v~~
bTM,~~t  a ws       g~4n

0.  K            .  A    ,;;;=


Al

a  s* t  afr' d mdt'sgottno.religion. When your prea
d    r gitsd.,,he will hab church in upper part ob
lecturs da every  eek-.
i'de to de wacancy ob saxon in disg
cT  dder  ole 'eak obgin     fishin'to ketch'
na}:. ee° a and i:ewa t. sumbody to take de place ob
da tonan.^Youn a1 b de place for-five-dollars and
st centnYeduty o de saxon is to sweep
out dA  me 'to mako fire in do stove, to'hit boys wid rat-
tb      dey eat peaut: and to 'pass 'roundde hat; for
dis~rie     ea     a  n de fpllerin'mannern wieneber
ao          d    h   ankerolerin. dechuich, or lose
her  oleondfloo,'ade=sax on -hab right- to -pick it up-
an4~keegitffor:h  eft: till he gut enuffob denm ting to hab.
i4    endo&amp;x 4dselL den. oft Beides dathet, hab de
pr"~ob{ b        b clrm'souponce aweekin de sullar.
. 11wlpass 'rounddhat on 40 portentt 'casion,
l~en coleetionwill be took up for your'spected preal
chr' brde.       esidoadat he wants sumwI ere to sleep
"Woi9. igh t.                        "
Me                                     o sPe  Y u   minister  shall. peach  to  you
"T oeada;ate better than one"
D~hi~ e~wpr itaa  w heasis roite petter as
one  A~I ou~cat ~ it t  n  oanings of e
w9~. ~   red i topaers ta sild wasp porn mit
tw~he4s  &amp;t~, ees him fr;   show   Tat is perry
'w4~ ~i h~te   mae-mi t~shid mit~two heads,
~dj~hslal 1~veon  badto  ske    moish at all
~'t   doti~ ~o a  hoW  peaeinqboddy are
~u~f~i   h~e~rly    e   ead; ut if   ounshll

Y DEACON SNOWBALL AN-I        eHLGRiBLAT       2Q
have two heads then every pody shall oallto seeyou;{a
pagte monish intoto pargan.
Dish is a miracle; Ae'i}Edsrish von rnirac:le and
ish perry goot-formuch  t    ainut it i     r:bad,
for de vittles;-peau-e  tans two m    tto
of to head haveuO  dout for et1de'ittles. Wheuyou
shall treat yourself to shnappi you will payvfor wo
glassesof :schnag-p f for boteo  m   touthshics dry
and want todrin.     envonhead can drink ahelth o to
todder head, and te  can:trinke;health of oneinother.
Ven you shall bayete two:head, and youg   oetead
tre or to museumie y charge-yotoete bb     hes e
cause to four eyes shallee tto.play.I io head' tile
shall jine dish church andeto odder head.go.foeyine 50om
otter churc, ah, tat ould be tontuivrl all over, because
te two heads quarel togedder, and nottiugshall pes
pad as quarrel between twoneighborsat.shall live o
close togetter. t
Putt to text hall say ta.w heads is0betteras von,
and you must believe te text or you shall returned out
of tis church.
Darfore, pefore you come in tis wordyt       gt .o
bray tat you peonmid    twoheads;pecuetw
heads isamore.pett r as.a.y   refvosvopLpig   yhO t hU.
te   Ilandsatwas seenpy.mie audnD
strecht, tat -had seventeen hias-ta vo ghst Jit
to text sha" say notting- apout teiea,'nd it
dont say ttoevntehesi*ptz'atioptyo
shall kno tat-,ifrtwo i 1a p;t''wvou;--"..
tem pa together. To -is"ct rz      ehtsEg*       '
m a beads to te1s fliofl'. To'+o#e he;tp    t. :"x-
*                                       p= '
_4,y, /-               7 ,,.'  '    r1

F
./ .      li
t        "  r
1 :    S       i
;        f (
,ham     -';
L.      r  .      - s


B. re :As yus'peefMd prefer habi
ld       l~ .ox eye o en todert
dU ,e  te~t-o  ~ d5want ge ob r de pop.
weu't       6b,

tj ; ,ook t utbi oa 3te h'Ighway"
~ ~yft dt h *~ ~din~ 1~ iScot-
t le~ve dat  ~laY e+ifs -jmewhardewn  East  Whar r
i,  ++    tt'i pa ce z tr:s. co e  cm. De'caite  tl
~beli~ ort o~n.  ie ~*i~a~wads, born only
~Ittishb  oti    Spo te} he' be brn on
p4e's greett h-lie"',or  nd'At s e ecn
F at ~orkorn iMd prta           ame for
ek~s~b~*a~hirig:  h~r~rehe a~ ung ons tie-
S7                        Al(~t  ~at'sxenya  e'  toka wf,
en oh de           *ait oyearoldshe a '
!ki,' ~ i nfr  t5'f4f   +  {^,  r  hi ;   }  it t  ,,t ,t;   +ri  t look  t't Y al  o
V ii e  , r  ;  ij d   I ;i  =fl t s  e'i ck   . "outY'   le  a.
'i bd.i 3kib~a- ljt r kin 'r   w~'" ; }i'+1ee ti s ga  ady~  n

r    i

4

M1  's     ai'h    '

4:

el  ,I

BY DEACO' SNOW     0,LL z ~   4  -BLATTER.
den she; kiss hit- and make a. d r8fee ad  uiak
sir, kindlyY
Defouf diwsion oh d~e t ~tde =her de fack dati h sa
/ pothrj*ffu  x4~~       ut prettbonne  ohr
head; -and-hab  her l air ""c  _dby  d , :bTrber_,  heh _'b' r,  t   ..,
ty brass huiger r  i h&amp;a ;i/he pi ilk +frco~n
dat vwhite ay   U        .nY.~~q~znie~~n  nt
o b doin' like- our 'pte  rezd:Oe krWideou Whb ben
sullar to" sell ol a  = ou , gib  rt o 'al on de hihsy
Hrttat d-al ~jcar, d when he.,owishu i
dem, he '.in n~ :d &amp;ra mo ;y..idt~k  f  a l  i~
put 'on di  hite g al.  t1  ;h  4t"fid 7tdd te
hisr neck ,foer him  Dh Ig s feelbrrery r'el
in' dem--b ting                -  : ;
.I hoe dis ba elniwyni pallds ~te gagio,
ob -color: how 4y~'teal tii/g an pdd e armoey to u-
close for dar ga  4You? 'pe _rdrpisaoher 'lude n'ik
lar to" Luke Jmowh ''ayi'teto      o PIli on
sigand hab gt her a ,newr  ak ndl.petticoat.I°op
dat Luke cum  honest byd, 'm__ -_ t ; .-: , an  l dar-is so.' " s 'pi.r .  '
cion adat he, come -disho a t Pb y  . Defore I h  pe de. al
Ill fuse to take- dem inda  Akbngerbeaed
deceiver is hrad ag-d   ti  f. . 'y
Your~cl'eckbd e ll wh ' dat l~li er ni ,gare
fodonEast 't le . ar _o3  nQ u t  4d&amp;
}    ~ eh cre nggr tn mk "ble'esh t;kd r ii4 hfi
Di/  sh h ab neI  b r Had trpei;   et~bit~
aadttiiuo t ig. 'C batI4

/'

.    _                          _    '
__             i               -             j,       f
r ' !       ..., . 5.. ;    r  ... Wit" ~        i


V                     Vt

"krt olh isular whar d rs sum woodee
pd  ass eat fire. eWhabinwite4
d                             amperorSoldpauee d  Massa Gree-
le~ti~ e~crne-on  b    el, de iEt Fourf,
W    hae.  b)ea              de' 6dder kind
der                      4bell. Brudder
L~e~~bgot a i~~a     h Le  hag up dar, anid
do Hes~wi d   1krywl  ~g     W:     sum one
to d~i~~bl an you Nsped $  pointed
eo into de te'
ndhg basand a tiikleob do simble."
s.ou srit 4;pecher will 1 de. bell, and charge
y~u'affa, 61lr adooo de. neyt e left mi do sullar.
m~ loetaf lab dewm ~% '~oneyr dar-if you
Aid vae has got to go on ae top-ob do 'teeple, so
rudde Wi6 Stiheahonetde 'cqafish dat hangs up
udieellBr ,dde
g11inet  'prvon doe'hole. t'spect dat yon
putoo ltbh oey de hat onds 'portant 'casion,
bekase you 'spe teadher amgwoinee to Fresh Pond
oi              Jumo and odder ladies ob color
onda      0ttcasl  dahas wolunteered to nde with
' r Widgeon widpa= 'round de hat  nd sister
Cr~t~il pas round herbonni 'mong de 'lubly ladies
1r  ', Unclerolr i a nd fartherand me  and cuz-
-G;dh r #' jest' d,huui fm going  in the steem-lte.
4We4 'hdeed adgiatedeal abont'hbe stemebote from
p ruddeepl tak' ws.iwthe cangd ' last we had a wan hoo

BY D1ACQN SNOWBALL ANDDIED ! QT}LAGE-RBLATTER. 21$
cum' to our house to work at moivi'and he:. had ben. in a
steme-bote and he tolled us all abo t it, so then we intar--
mined that we   od seenth&amp;}4ter ad hav' a ride in it,
We had'never had g4i3ge ontle water, ,only in a canal
bote abowt teh mil $d      h leered  kwait no more dana
gerous to ride in aee-bi e thar  won -f thenmaiw.
At the time w e i i:r  a canw  l te:heir -as a grate
many galp in wiah us, a d that ni It. more daneiouser
than ever, bekase e% we had ben eastawa  thegalg  d
hay' clinghed bhld 4'afeller, like a ^ct, aild heldthen
down u4      t# tilthey gatdrownded  Ho:guineve
we, intarmine o in' the stei -bote,  'We   ed.up
the wagging and bid goodbye toy allu r:relations nd we
went down to Portlagd and their was a=stere-b to there
and we noed that 'we coed all. go n it,.  Se we want up
to the place where it was ted fas, to three all-fired grate
posts. We axed    w a mn hoo Vwas takin' big boxes into the
boat, how to git.in. He=telled uswernst wogk' down im'
to the bote on a'big board tat ts their With. onerend: on
the bote and tether on thesairth._  V
Then we locked along on that;air b ord aid i was pes-
ky afeared  shood'fall"offand bb ete pby the. b igwales
that.swimsin theragig mane     As tofarther he     e sd.we  V
must trust t4 Providence and that he 'believedwe shood
git 7s   nothe; og'if. a kept steddy ,At last; We all
gtsafest into.hbotei waeta         y  .ta
got in safet, andthen tenqui edhoowad the river,
we wanted to ride on thoawer.
Nobody wood tell us foagra     w
man cu   up an    dhe     t   aing as hcal
self."'-'                              '
Then farther-and i and uncle John andou z Obad tk
off our hats :and aida lo  b6 rgh}4.nd we sz "We
hoge you ar 1ell, fandallyo'fMr- (
H' lookt           .us very sharp, an4 hedidd1entay nothing
atellyland. thhere w as azi  0hc~an hr  s krr  itee


214             COMIC LECTURES, &amp;O.,

out, so i am glad their is a native party to put down the
irish, hoo awt to all be sent back to Africa whair they R
from.
Arter a wile, this capting asked us what we- wanted
of him. F arther and Uncle Obed telled liim that they
wanted to ride on the water; and if he was the driver,
they wood pay him any munny to git a chance to ride,
He telled us that he was goin' down to Bangyor and wood
ax us a dollar a peace to ride there, and another dollar
to ride back, and we should be obleeged to stay all night
in Bang-yor.
Farther telled him that he wood hay' no sectionss to
stay all night, if his wife new he was out; but she hadn't
sposed he wood stay all nite and she mite be jellus. Then
the capting sed we might do what we was a mind for to
do, dnd he went into a little clozzet and begun for to
rite; and uncle Obed sed he sposed that the capting was
riting to farthers wife to tell her that he wood be gone all
nite.
So we stade in the bote, and the fust we noed, we heer-
ed something rdre like a pesky grate tickkittle a biting,
and we looked up and seed a big black thing, bigger than
the nose of a blacksmith's bellusses and the smoke and
steem was goin' out on it like all natur, and it went whiz
whur-r----.-r-r, and maid all sorts o' noises. Then we
see a hull passle of people hurryin' into the steam boat
and they cum with ban-boxes and trunks, and- then, in a
minnit, the bote begun to ride, and the ropes was ontied
from there bigposts, and a little inn, gallus begun to go
up and down, and there was a dredful hissing- and smok-
ing, and the steemboat rid out into the seize where
the water was deep and the waves lookt as white as a
guce.
There was tue wheels to the bote, and .they kept a
turnin' round and maid a heap of dust in the water,- Far-

BY DEACON SNOWBALL AND DIEDRICH LAGER-BLATTER, g1
ther's wagging has gut four wheels, but this thing had
only tue. 'So we rid all the way to Bang-yor, it was nite.
So then we found a plaice to sleep in, and the nixt morn-
in' we cum back to Portland.
We got into the wagging and rid hum, and mother was
so glad to sea us cum back safet that she upsot a pan-
cake into the fire, and telled uncle Obed to run homr to
his wife who wos worried to deth for fear he was cast
away and got drownded on the raging mae.
Arter this i think i shall stay on the airth for i've gut
eDuf of riding ovh the water
LAGEllBLATTEWl' LECTURES
Mine Goot Peoples:; To text I shall give you shall pe in
tese vords:
On a brben hogshead,
Weeping all forlorn,
Sat a bnited loafer-
All hig gloiry gone !
Two large tears were streaming.
]Down hirsslemn face,
e'en like Free and Jaceson
Rumnng their great race."
Teir shall 'pe many kind of seats, and hear shall pe to
von vich te gemman is setting on-von proken hogshead
sure enough. He shall set down dere pecause all his glo-
ry shall pe gone. Tat shall pe bad mit his glory gone, as
if it shall pe tat all his monish igh gone. Tat ish pad too
ven all te monish shall been gone t
It vash von busted loafer, lie shall had monish vonce,
and now it shall,,pe goiter and tat shall pe von busted loa-
fer. He shall veep all alone, pecanse ven his minish ish
gone who shall vant to see him ten. Ven he shafl had no
more monish to pay for te schnapps who sh all vant to be
mit te man vat shall treat you no more? Vat ladies shall


COMIC LECTURES, &amp;C.

vant to see te man ven he shall not buy tern no more ice-
cream? I shall not vant him in te church, yen he shall
have no oe t to put into te plate, as you shall see ven
rotting shall pe in te pocket, and he shall set on von pro-
ken hogshead:
Teir shall pe two large tears on te face of tat loafer.
Vat shall pe te goot to drop down te tears?  I shall not
drop down any tears ven I shall get married to mine goot
vrow, and tat shall pe te vorst tings tat.I shall ever did,
yen I shall get"married, sure enough.
Teir shall ape von ,nan in mine country I shall hear
apout andhis tears shall pe von shilling-von silver shil-
ling-shall pe every tear. I shall have him here to cry
into te plate, it shall pe-goot. Oh! he shall shed as many
tear as he shall please. I shall like to see him weep a
plenty, sure enough. He shall corne here to veep venever
he shall please.
Te text shall say apout Fogg and Ellsworth tat run
their great race. Tey ish shed tears I suppose ven tey
run. I shalt believe tey shed tears ven tey shall lose te
vager, and shall laugh till tey cryvon tey shall vin to
vager. Tat shall pe te rvay tey shalI shed tears ten.
-shall never shed tears but vonce in minelife. It shall
pe ven I shall fill mine schmoke-pipe and sot down to
schmoke, and vonhorse and cart shall run:avayvere I
set in my door, and pefope  get nut of te vay, te cart
shall run against mine piped leak it all to pieces and
spill all te tobaccos.
THE END.

I


  
             
         
       
   
