
    ----CITATION----
        Prospero.. Caliban .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7516
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Caliban 
            
               CALIBAN: A SEQUEL TO "ARIEL" BY PROSPERO.  "What have we here? A   man, or a fish? He smells like a fish, a very ancient and fishike smell. A strange fish. Were I in England now, and had this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver. There would this monster make a man; any strange beast there males a man. When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian."-SHAKSPEARE'S Tempest. PUBLISHED FOR THE PROPRIETOR. 1868.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.   CALIBAN: A SEQUEL TO "ARIEL." THE Bible is an inspired book, and every word of it is true. This proposition would never have been disputed, if the Bible had been properly understood. But theologians have put into Scrip- ture what was not to be found there, and brought revelation into conflict with history and science. Thus when divines asserted that, according to Genesis, the earth was created some six or seven thousand years ago, that it is the centre of the universe, and the heavens revolve around it, geology and astronomy contradicted the assertion, and seemed to set science at war with revelation, until a more correct interpretation of Scripture brought them into harmony. It has been supposed that the different races of mankind sprang from the same stock; where- as history and science prove the existence of races which could not have had a common- origin. If, therefore, the Bible taught the unity of the race, it would contradict an established fact. But does the Bible teach this? So far from   4        CALIBAN. doing so, it records, at least, two distillnct crea- tions of human beings. Here were men upon the earth before Adam. For proof of this prop- osition, consult the book of Genesis, the only historical authority., In 1655, Isaac La Peyrere, a learned and pious divine, published a work entitled Praeadamitae, in which he sought to prove that Adam was not the first human-being. The writer of this disser- tation has tried, but without success, to obtain a copy of it, and is, therefore, ignorant of its con- tents. The inspired historian records two creations, both by the stame divine Creator; the one, in his eharacter of ELOHM, or GOD; and the other, inl his character of JEHOVAH, or LORD. The transla- tors of King James have wisely distinguished the Hebrew words by rendering one of them GOD and the other LORD. I shall use the original, ELOHM and JEHOVAH. Any one who will look into a Hebrew Lexi- con, will find that ELOHM expresses the/Divinity as all-powerful, whilst JEHOVAH designates Him as intelligent and holy. The first creation sprang from the omnipotence of Deity; the second was the product of His intelligence and holiness. Genesis, chap. 1 and 2, down to verse 6, con- tains ELOHM'S creation. There is also a brief resume of his work in chap. 5: 1-2. The crea- tion by JEHOVAH is recorded in Gen. 2: 6-25. ARIEL says a good deal about the use of the arti- cle in these passages, but nothing to the purpose. It certainly gives no countenance to his singular hypothesis that the negro is a beast, an hypothesis   CALIBAN.         5     i at variance with Natural History and Psychology. The Hebrew article is essentially a demonstrative pronoun, and is used like the same part of speech in Greek and German, viz.: "when a definite object, one previously mentioned, or already lnown, or the only one of its kind, is the object of discourse." (Gesenius' Heb. Gram., s 107. Nordheimer's Heb. Gram. 2. p. 11. Winer's Idioms of the N. .T, p. 94.) This rule proves two distinct creations.  1. "ELOHM said, 'Let us make man.'  So ELOHM created thie man," i. e., the man he re- solved to make, the preadamite. Gen. 1: 26-27. 2. "There was not a man to till the ground, and JEHOVAH ELOHM formed the man, i. e., the man for that purpose, to till the ground, the race of Adam. Gen. 2: 5-7. The creation of the first races is recorded in Gen. 1 11-31. From this account it is evident that the material elements brought forth spon- taneously everything, including man. The words are "Let the earth bring forth grass," etc. At the bidding of the Omnipotent, forests sprang fromll the soil, fish and fowl from the waters, and cattle from the earth. In the same-way He made man; that is, human nature at its first appearance on the globe. The ancients were right in their opinion that the aborigines of each country were earth-born, terrce filitz; they erred only in applying it to the race of Adam. From this account it is clear: 1. ELORIM created the man in His own image, i. e., endowed him with power, a feeble image of  G0     CALIBAN. HTis own omnipotence, and gave him dominiol over all other animals. 2. He appointed the race their work, to sub due the earth, to clear it of wild beasts. 3. He gave them for their subsistence the spontaneous fruits of the earth. 4. He created them "male and female." Both sexes sprang out of the earth, at once, and were independent in their origin. The woman was not, as in the second creation, taken out of the body of man. Hence, she is not his consort, but his slave. Now,- thisis precisely the condition of savage life. The preadamites were wild men, fed by the bounty of nature, and waging perpetual war with wild beasts. They had no agriculture no art no science. The ties of domestic life were un- known. They were only one step removed from the simiadee, the orang-outang and the chim. panzee. - This is precisely what the analogy of nature would suggest. Cre ztion rises, by regular gra. dation, from inanimate matter, through vegeta- ble life, sentient life, the dynasty of the reptile of the fish, of the bird and of the mammal, up to the dynasty of man; and this is the order re. lated in Genesis, as is proved by Hugh Miller in his TESTIMONY OF THE ROCKS. It is, at -once, scientific and biblical. Within the limits of each class, however, there is a progressive advance from the lowest to the highest type. The human class begins with the preadamite, the lowest type. - The creation of Adan, in immediate suc- cession to the ape or the gorilla, would have in-   CALIBAN.  volved a saltus, a leap unknown to nature, a departure fromnt the order of the created universe. For, as is said by Rev. Dr. Sumner, Archbishop of Canterbury, " there is less difference between the highest brute animal and the lowest savage, than between the savage and the most improved man." (Records of Creation, 2, chap. 2. The negro is more like the chimpanzee than like the Englishman. It is remarked by Hallam: "If man was made in the image of God he was also made in the image of an ape." (Hist. Litera- ture, 4, p. 162.) This is true only of the pre- adamites. The affinity of cerebral structure of the negro and of the anthropomorphous ape, is acknowledged by all great naturalists, such as Tiedemann, Cuvier, Serres, Vrolik, Gratiolet, Agassiz, Owen, Huxley. The Bible, in its recognition of a race of human beings prior to Adam, accords with the discoveries of paleontological science. Geolo- gists have discovered the bones of men mingled with the remains of animnals, now extinct, which lived upon the earth long before the creation of Adam. The facts have been collected by Sir Charles Lyell, in his GEOLOGICAL EVIDENCES OF THE ANTIQUITY OF MAN. London, 1863. No in- telligent and candid man can examine the evi- dence without admitting the conclusion. Human beings, races of men, inhabited our globe long anterior to Adam. Their skeletons are found in Europe, Asia, Africa, and even America. In the Delta of the Mississippi and on the banks of the Ohio, the cemeteries of these preadamites have been thrown open to the view of the pre- f.   CALIB AN. sent generation, and given evidence of their successive steps towards civilization. Geologists distinguish these by the name of the stone the bronze, and the iron age. These primi' tive dwellers upon earth manufactured their spear-heads and domestic utensils, first from stone, then from bronze, and finally from iron. Their relics show that they were originally sava- ges, and struggled, through slow degrees after a civilization which they could never reach However, they did the work assigned them by ELOHMA, "to subdue the earth and have do- minion over the fish of the sea," etc. Who were these preadamites? With the light of modern science the question is easily and satisfactorily answered. Naturalists are not agreed as to the races of mankind. Blumen-  bach makes  five. (Lawrence's Lectures p "7.) Dr. Prichard gives seven. Researchel  1. p. 228.)  Cuvier and others distinguish only The preadamites were Mongols and Negroes, together with their mixed progey.  Created male and female, and in many pairs they multi-  plied rapidly, exterminated the wild beasts, and replenished the earth with beings of their ownt Tpec  aes, p enetrating int o every land. The earth was not then divided, -as subsequently, at the time of Peleg, Gen. 10: 25, but formed one con.- tinent, and, therefore, presented no obstruction their dispersion. These, roving freebooters   CALIBAN.         9 blended their blood in mongrel tribes; spread over Europe, Asia and Africa; and even pene- trated into America, passing down to its South- ern extremity, where they survive in their de- scendants, the brutal Patagonians.  The cat- eyed Chinaman, the African Hottentot, the Ma- lay, the Laplander and the Esquimaux all sprang from the primitive races of mankind. In accord- ance with the will of their Creator, they subsist- ed, at first, upon the spontaneous productions of nature; but, in the course of time, as is shown by their recently recovered remains, they began to feed upon the animals they hunted, whilst some of them acquired a relish for human flesh, and became cannibals. They make meals of the missionaries who go to them to convert them to Christianity. These savage tribes, embroiled in perpetual war, destroyed one another and the stronger subjugated and exterminated the weaker. The ancients seem to have attained, in solme way, perhaps by tradition, a knowledge of the origin and progress of these races, which, long rejected as fabulous, is now confirmed by the  disinterment of their remains. Lucretius no- tiees the three ages, stone, bronze ana iron. (De Rerum Natura, V. 1282-6.)  The scholar will recall the passages in Cicero, (De Inven- tione, Tusc. Quaest. 1. 5,) in Juvenal, (Sat. VI, 10. XII, 57. XV, 70,) and especially the fami- liar lines of Horace, (Sat. I. 3, 99,) Cum prorepserunt primis animalia terris, Mutum et turpe pecus, glandem, etc. I*   10      -  CALIBAN. The error of the ancients consisted in con- founding the race of Adam with the'preadam- ites. Aristotle, deriving his observation from the race with which he was familiar, remarks, with more truth and justice, that civilization is the normal state of man, that he is by nature a political animal. -Had our modern philosophers inquired for facts instead of fabricating theories, they would never have raised the question as to whether humanity commenced its career in civil- ization or barbarism. The Caucasian never was a savage. The other races began in barbarism and have never completely thrown it off. Tribes of them occupied this continent, from the era of Peleg down to the time of its discovery by Co- lumbus, without becoming more than improved savages. Even the partial civilization of the Aztecs and Peruvians perished under the inva- sion of their kinsmen, the Indians. The Mon. golian Chinese, pent up within narrow limits, and compelled by the necessities of an overcrowded population to resort to agriculture and handi- craft, and with a history that goes back far be. yond the Flood, are, at this day, only semi-civil- ized. The Negro, in his native haunts, is always a savage; and if reclaimed will, without the con. trol of a superior race, speedily relapse into his primitive condition. The negroes in the South have  already made rapid strides in that direc- tion. Fetish worship has been revived among them. The creation of the Caucasian, or white race, is recorded in Gen. 2: 7-25. Up to this period, the earth, moistened by   CALIBAN.         " mists, yielded its spontaneous fruits for the sup- port of the nomadic hunters; but no rain had fallen upon the soil, and " there was not a man to till the ground." Deity resolved to create a new race, a race of tillers of the ground, and settle 'them in a definite locality furnished with all the natural facilities for successful agriculture. The Adamic race began its career with agricul. ture, domestic life and social organization. The goal of the preadamite is the starting-point of the Caucasian. There are certain marked peculiarities in the origin and destination of the superior race. 1. JEHOVAH 'i"-formed the man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life." He did not spring out of the earth, but was fashioned by the plastic hands of the Creator, shaping the material into human form; and then the breath of Deity, the divine afflatus, was infused into him., In this way, not by the mere fiat of his Maker, he "became a living soul." The Creator intended the Cau- casian to be a workman, a builder, an artist; and hence he performed the part of a divine artist in creating him. 2. The Caucasian was to be engaged in agri- culture, and to be blessed with the elevating in- fluences of that noblest of occupations. Hence, hip Maker did not command the earth to bring forth grass, etc., as at the first creation, but "planted a garden, eastward-on the east of the preadamites--in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the   12        CALIBAN. ground, thus planted, made JEaOVAH to grow every tree," etc. 3. The Caucasian was endowed with a high aesthetic faculty, the love of the beautiful. He was to create and foster the fine arts. Hence, his primitive abode contained trees " pleasant to the sight," as well as " good for food." The sav age is insensible to the charms of nature and art. The loveliness of Eden would have been wasted on the preadamites. The negro, in his native wilds, never constructs a house nor plants a rose. The Chinaman knows nothing of perspective or the effect of light and shadow in painting. 4. The Caucasian, as a tiller of the ground, was provided with the means of artificial irriga- tion, in showers of rain, which, collecting into lakes, or flowing in streams, could be diverted to his fields. 5. The ornaments of civilization were placed within his reach. Eden contained gold and precious stones; both of them to decorate his fair daughters, whilst gold would serve as a standard of value and a medium of exchange in the commerce which flows from agriculture. Sav- ages only barter; the 'civilized man is a mer- chant. 6. He was to advance the sciences. Hence, the Great Teacher gave him the first lesson, by bringing to him the inferior animals-the Fauna of Eden-" to see what he would call them." This was the first classification and nomencla- ture in natural history. From that day to this, science has been the exclusive possession of his descendants.   CALIBAN.         1 7. But the loftiest distinction of the Caucasian consisted in his being made the headl and repre- sentative of universal humanity. He was placed on trial for all mankind. It may be objected that Adam could not have represented the pre- adamites, who lived before him and knw noth- ing of him. But it may be objected, with equal propriety, that hle could not have represented their descendants now living; whilst al orthodox divines hold that he did represent them. The fall was retrospective as well as prospective. This doctrine, however, is the Gordian knot of  theology, which human wisdom is incompetent to untie. This much may be. said, in vindication of Divine Providence, that if the Caucasian has no right to complain, much less have the Mongol and the Negro; for they were represented by one much better qualified to stand the test than any of their progenitors. Besides, Christianity, the remedy of the fall, is designed for all races. This is affirmed by the Apostle of the Gentiles, in a part of his writings, which has greatly puz- zled his interpreters. Col. 3: 11. His words are Greek, Jew, Barbarian, Scythian. Accord- ing to his interpreters, the last term is super- fluous; for were not these Scythians barbarians? They certainly were the wildest of the Caucasian race; and this circumstance ought to have opened their eyes to St. Paul's meaning, which undoubt- edly is, that the gospel is to be preached not only to Jew, Greek and Scythian-the most untutored of the children of Adam-but also to the pro. geny of the preadamite barbarians. 8. The Caucasian is, in form, color, and mental   "        CALIBAN. and moral qualities, unlike the Mongolian, and the very antithesis of the Negro, who is "as disproportioned in his manners As in his shape," and no more resembles the white man than Cal- iban resembled Ferdinand, or the old hag Syco- rax the beautiful, Miranda. He is a being, On whose nature Nurture can never stick- And as with age, his body uglier grows, So his mind cankers." Adam, in the garden, needed only one thing to complete his happiness a wife.  But among the races already in existence, "there was not found a help-meet for him." The Hebrew is che- negdo, according to his front presence, i. e., re- sembling him as one of the same race. As Jr- HOVAH had   shaped Adam  from  the dust he formed a suitable help for him, by building a rib taken from  his side into a woman. She did not spring out of the earth, but was part of him- self transformed and sublimated, "The precious porcelain of human clay." Our first father, en- raptured at the spectacle of feminine loveliness, exclaimed, "The very thing! capital! Bone out of my bones, and flesh out of my flesh; this shall be called ishah, woman, for she was taken - out of ish, man." Thus, the planter became a hus- band, and the family organization took the place of the capricious concubinage of the other races. Happy had it been for him and our fair, sweet   CALIBAN.         15 mother, had they retained their innocence and bliss. The narrative of the Fall is given in the third chapter of Genesis. The tempter was the ser- pent, who is said to have been " more subtle than any beast of the field which JEHOVAH ELO- HM had made." Here the comparative degree is used, as is also the case in the Targum of Onkelos, the earliest and best Chaldee transla- tion of the passage. (Riggs' Chaldee Manual, p. 93.) The tempter was more cunning than any beast of:' the second creation, that by JEHO- VAH, these being superior in organization to those of the first creation. He surpassed all brutes in intelligence; and, therefore, was not himself a brute. What was he? Unquestion- ably, one of the preadamites, the only human beings prior to Adam. True, he is called a ser- pent; and this has puzzled the commentators. Dr. Adam Clarke, pressed by the difficulties of the case, is driven to the supposition that he was an ape or ourang- outang, in which he came very near the truth. The tempter was a preadamite, perhaps a negro; and he is; denominated a ser- pent, by a common figure of speech, just as a vile man is called a reptile, brute, a dog, etc. The Hebrew verb, from which the appellation is derived, signifies, according to Gesenius, "to utter a low, hissing sound, to whisper, especially of the whispering or muttering of sorcerers." It presents a vivid picture of an African medicine- man, or conjurer, with his "grey dissimulation," whispering his diabolical temptation into the ear of unsuspecting Eve. That the tempter-was a   16        CALIBAN. preadamite is evident from his name for Deity "Yea, hath ELOHM said." He knew nothing of JEHOVAH. The first false step taken'by Eve was her recognition and repetition of his title of Deity. "ELOHM hath said." In this, she virtu- ally renounced JEHOVAH and forfeited his pro- tection. She fell, and became the occasion of her husband's fall. But, although fallen, they were not utterly degraded. "They knew   that they were naked," and, with the modesty of their race, " they sewed fig-leaves together, and made themselves aprons."   Whilst the preadamn- ites have always been shameless in their nudity, the Caucasian covers his person. It is the unan. imous testimony of travelers that the negro, even the female, appears perfectly naked, without any sense of indecorum. The existence of so absurd a form of supersti- tion as Ophiolatry, or Serpent-worship, has ex. cited special wonder. It assumes two   forms and is traceable to two different sources. The savage adores the serpent, in honor of his illuas- trious progenitor and his exploits in the garden of Eden; the Caucasian, blending mythology with history, has received his system firom the tradition of the brazen serpent, which AMoses erected, as a type of our Saviour. The antag- onism between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent, originated in Eden, and is irreconcilable. The experience of centuries has only exasperated it. The negroes of the South in their ingratitude and insolent demeanor, leagued with the vilest white Trinculos, who- batten on the miseries of the people; and " steal   CALIBAN.           17 by line and level," are ready, at their behest, to brain their former kind master, "Or with a log, Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake, Or cut his weazand with the knife." In view of all this, well may the Southerner exclaim, "Abhorred slave, Which any print of goodness will not take, Being capable of all ill. I pitied thee, Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour One thing or other: when thou didst not, savaged! Know thine own meaning, but would'st gabble like A thing most brutish, I endowed their purposes With words that made them known. But thy vile race, Thlough thou did'st learn, had that in 't which good natures Could not abide to be with." The first-born of Adam   and Eve was Cain. His pious mother recognized in him "a man from JEHOVAH."   Her fatal experience was well suited to impress her with a horror of " a man from. ELOHM."  As she caressed her infant boy, her heart warmed to him, as the image of his father and the image of JEHOVAH. Next, Abel was born. The sons adhered to the civilized vocation of the father, but with a division of labor. "Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground." Gen. 4: 2.    The cultivation of the soil and the breeding of cattle are the chief care of the intelligent farmer. "And in process of time, it came to pass that Cain brought of the firuit of the ground an offer- ing unto JEHOVAH.   And Abel brought of the firstlings of his flock."  Abel's offering  was accepted, whilst Cain's was rejected. Why was   18       CALIBAN. this? Each of the brothers brought the avails of his own occupation; but Cainll's offering of fruit was the oblation of a preadamnite, recog- nizing only ELOHM, the Omnipotent, whilst Abel's acknowledged JEHOVAH, the Holy One, whom fallen man could not approach, except through the medium of sacrifice. He thus con- fessed himself a sinner; and, by faith in the Atonement, " offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain."  The sequel of the narrative would seem to warrant the inference that Cain was contami- nated by intercourse with the barbarians around him; for he evinced the possession of their mur- derous spirit by slaying his brother. The pen- alty inflicted upon the fratricide is worthy of notice.  Having indulged the temper of a sav. age, he was doomed   to dwell among them. "When   thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength: a fugi- tive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth." The import of this malediction evidently is, that he should no longer be an agriculturist; but must become a savage, eking out his subsistence from  the precarious bounty of nature. "And Cain went out from  the presence of JEHOVAH and dwelt in the land of Nod." As it is impos- sible to escape the presence of the Omnipresent, the expression must mean that he was exiled from the race created by JEHOVAH and enjoying His special protection. This narrative proves, beyond question, the existence of humuan beings prior to Adan; for the murderer exclaimed, " everyoe that find t he murderer exclaimed,  ,everyon that find.   CALI BAN.         19 eth me shall kill me." Whom had he to fear? Abel was dead; and his parents would not harm him. It may be supposed that his apprehen- sions were only the creation of an excited imagi- nation, conjuring up the spectres which always haunt the guilty; but it is added, "JEHOVAH set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him,7 which proves that there were men who might slay him. Cain's fears were groundless. The preadamites, flattered by the visit of a white man, welcomed the felon, and gave him a wife; just as the negroes of the South caress the recreant whites, who, because repudiated by their own race as contemptible villains, have gone among the fireedmen, for the purpose of ac- quilring wealth or political importance. The history of which the above is an epitome, illustrates a fundamental principle of the divine government-the purity of race.   The Lord would not permit Adam to marry a Mongol or Negro. He cursed the first murderer by impos- ing such a wife upon him. Miscegenation is a crime against nature, an unlawful attempt to set aside the ordinance of Heaven, and reverse the wise and beneficent order of creation. It is sin, and the penalty of sin. The mongrel posterity of Cain blended the occupations of civilization with the pursuits of savage life. He himself " builded a city," with the hope of habituating his family to domestic, social and civic manners; but it could have been nothing more than a rude collection of wig- wams. Jabal devoted himself to a sort of pas- toral life; Jubel cultivated music, and amused   20      .  CALIBAN. his leisure with the composition of war songs and corn-dances, whilst Tubal-Cain set up a forge for the manufacture of weapons of bronze and iron. This dutiful son presented to his father Lamnech, the first polygamist, a sword; and the first use he made of the weapon was to try its tempelr upon a young preadamite. In his exul- tation over his exploit, he boasted that the ven- geance threatened against the slayer of Cain was a trifle compared to that which he would inflict upon his assailants. The very temper of the insolent savage breathes in his defiant appeal to his squaws.  Herder calls it "The Lay of the sword."   It sounds very much like an Indian war song: "A man have I slain for his woulnd to me Even a young man, for hurting me;  If Cain was to be avenged seven-fold, Truly Lamnech seventy and seven-fold. The reputation of these hybrid races became 0 infamous that, as early as the time of Enos he grandson of Adam, the Caucasians assumed distinctive appellation. Gert. 4:26. "Then began men to call upon the name of the Lord.' The literal rendering of the Hebrew is: "A be- ginning was made for calling by the name  of JEHOVAH."  This is sanctioned by Piscator, Dio- at, Le Clerc, Bishop Patrick, and other learned men, and is adopted by IKitto, Biblical Cyclo- pedia, ii]., p. 425.' Its meaning is this: the post erity of Adam, in consequence of the awful in. 'ease of wickedness, assumed the appellation of Jehovahites, or SoNS OF ELOIM---not his slaves ?  the preadamites had proven themselves to be,    CALIBAN.         21 4'Ariel" is corr'ect in viewing the deluge as JE- HOVAHS declaration ngainst miscegenation ; but mistakes the natulle of the offence. The crime which occasioned that catastrophe, was not the copulation of men with beasts, but the internmix ture of the races of men. "The sons of God [Cau- casians] saw the daughters of mnen, [preadamites, or, more probably, the hybrid Cainites,] that they were fair, and they took them wives of all which they chose."   The Adamites were en- snared by these lascivious women, mulattoes and quadroons.  The offspring of these alliances were prodigies of wickedness, the perpetrators of gigantic crimes, and filled the earth with vio. lence. To preserve the purity of Caucasian blood, JEOVAII- swept these mong'els fi'om the earth, and saved Noah and his family, the only unadulterated Caucasians then living. Ariel sup- poses that the negro went into the ark, along with the other beasts. But the negroes were never in the ark; nor did they perish in the Flood.  The only persons destroyed were the mulattoes, the mongrel progeny sprung from the amalgamation of the Caucasian and the Cainite. The Mongolians and Nigitians, together with the hybrid races caused by their intermixture, had not committed the crime of which the Deluge was the divinely appointed avenger-the crime of blending the blood of Adam with that of the preadamite. The Flood was only partial, limited to the portion -of the earth's surface inhabited by the culprits. The notion of a universal flood has been abandoned by all intelligent theolo.   22I CALIBAN. gians. The Bible does not teach it, and science utterly ignores it. The race thus rescued by JEOVA.     was ele. vated to higher privileges and blessings.  "I will not again curse the ground any more for mans sake"  The, primitive malediction resting on the soil was removed.   "That old curse," says Bishop Sherlock     (On Prophecy, p. 89) was fully executed in the flood; in consequence of which discharge from the curse, a new bless- ing is immediately pronounced upon the earth," To Cain, the earth, saturated with his brother's blood, was cursed with barrenness; to Adam, it yielded reluctantly and scantily; but Noah and his sons inherited a new world, and, ever since, agriculture has been the most pleasant, healthy and remunerative of all vocations. It is tlle favorite pursuit of the Caucasian race. and the main sp ing of their opulence and p   osper it. lhe first producetion of thle "nriew earth," was the wine-producing glape, the noblest of fiuits which    "cheereth God and man." Jidges 9: 13. The farer, now, had        " corn and  wine," the Scripture epitome of all temporal blessings "Noah planted a     vineyard, and   drank of the wine, and was drunken."    Fanatics are shocked at the conduct of the patriarch; but the Bible does not censure him.  On  the contrary, upon awaking fiomn the torpori of. vinous inebriation, he was filled with the spirit of prophecy, and predicted the fortunes of his sons, in which,   he signified his reproval of Ham's unfilial demeanor by disclosing to him the degradation awaitin his son Canaan.  The common explanation oJ   ' CALIBA-X.         23 this affair is preposterous. It is said that Noah cullsed Canaan, because of the conduct of Ham. Strange justice this, to punish one man for the sin of another-the child, for the crime of the parent. But Noah did not curse Canaan; he merely predicted the curse which was to fall upon him-a curse which has been repeatedly fulfilled in the subjugation of his descendants by the posterity of Shem and Japhet. Remark that this was the subjection of the white to the white. It was reserved for the Radicals of this country, in their fiendish malignity, to subject the white man to the negro. After the Flood, the discrimination between JEHOVAH and ELOHM, as also between the sons of God and men, became less important; and hence these termts are not used with the preci- sion which is observed in the earlier chapters of Genesis. The race of Noah went forth to their mission, under the protection of JEHOVA.-ELO- IMiii; and, as the only men worthy of the name, the subsequent accounts are restrieted chiefly to them. Inspired history is the history of the Caucasian. It contains a genealogical table of Noah's descendants, with the countries to which they migrated. There is not the slightest evi- dence that any of them were colored people. They are, and always have been, white. The Ethiopians, or Cushites, as the Bible terms them, were not blacks. As to Canaan, the effort to identify his posterity with the negro is utterly absurd. Dr. Hickok justly remarks: "It is not probable that distinctions of race at all took their rise in the three sons of Noah." (Empiri. ,   24        CALIBAN. cal Psychology, p. 43.) History and science demonstrate the contrary. These disfinetions existed long before the Flood. The Caucasians scattered over the earth, driv. ing the inferior races before them, and gradually took possession of its fairest portions. At the era of Peleg, the fourth in descent firom Shen] "the earth was divided." Gen. 10: 25.  Th'is was  an occurrence ill physical geography, an earthquake, which produced a vast chasm, sepa- lating two considerable parts of the earth in 0or near the district inhabited by man." (Kitto Bibl. Cyclop. 2, p. 393.)  The event recorded was, doubtless, the disruption of the globe into two continents, by which the preadanites, who had wandered to America, were cut off from the Caucasians, and  intercourse between the two suspended, until the discovrery of this continent where Europeans found the descendants of the original emigrants, and began to press upon and exterminate them. At a  very early pe iod, an- terior to the dawn  of profane history, the Can- casians drove the negro into Africa, and pursued him to the edge of the Great Desert, which he crossed and concealed himself in Southern Afr ica where he has subsisted, an unmitigated barba- rian, to the present time. The Rev T. J. Bowen 1856, and Mr. S. W. Baker, 1866, describe himu is he is in his native haunts, the lowest type of iumanity. The advocates of the Unity of the Race insist tpon the assertion of the apostle Paul, Acts 17 : '4, "God has made of one blood all nations of nen.  This is literally true; and the only won.   CALIBAN.         25 der is, how St. Paul came to know it; for it is a very recent discovery, which could be made only by the microscope. Prof. Lehrmann says: The blood globules are distinguished by peculiarities of form and size in every animal genues. The corpuscules of the blood of many of the rmam- malia can be individually detected and distin- guished from that of man." (Physiological Chenm- istry, 2, p. 156; Kolliker, Histologie Htumaine, Paris, 1856.) Sameness of blood does not prove identity of species, but only of genus. The di- ferent races, or species, of mankind are all made of one blood; just as the lion, the tiger, and the cat are made of one blood; and as the dog and the wolf are of one blood. But the blood of one genus differs firom that of others. Men are of one blood, but of different species. Let the skeptic inform us, if he can, where St. Paul got this knowledge of a fact unknown to Aristotle and Pliny.  Naturalists have been greatly perplexed with the doctrine of species, and some of themn, in their attemnpts to define it, have fallen into the fallacy of the argumentim in circulo, making fecundity the test of species, and species the measure of fecundity. The argument, which they derive from the analogy of other animals, fails in an essential particular-the absence of reason. In virtue of this special endowment, man possesses more vital force, and is, therefore, capable of wider and more varied propagation. The wolf and the dog produce a hybrid off- spring; but the offspring is not prolific. Now, a sound logic arguing fromn analogy, would con  26        CA LIBAN. elude that, as man is superior to the brute, he must possess a superior power of propagation, and the species may intermix beyond any assign- able limits. Hence, mongrelism, which is limited in the different species-of brutes, as the wolf and the dog, the horse and the ass, extends, in man, throughout all generations. There are only three original types, or species, but several hun- dred varieties. The pure Caucasian stands alone, in his character and his achievements. Within a short period after the Flood, he had already founded vast empires, built magnificent cities, and erected the pyramids of Egypt, tihe temples of India, and the gorgeous palaces which Layard and Rawlinson have exhumed from the mounds of Assyria. All history, chronology, art, science, and all literature worthy of the aame, are his. "Ariel's" hypothesis that the Canaanites were a mongrel people, is highly probable, if not abso- lutely certain; although his reasons for it are destitute of force. iHe mistakes a mere gentili- tial or patronymic termination, ite, for the de- signation of a cross between a man and a beast. But the hypothesis is amply supported by the facts of the case. The patriarchs were averse to all matrimonial connection with the Canaanites; and no reason can be given for it but the impu- rity of their blood. Abraham charged his sei. vantf: "Thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, but thou shalt go unto my country and unto my kindred." In what respect were the Canaanites not the- kindred of Abraham, since they had come from   CALIBAN,    ,      2T a common ancestor, except that they had be- come debased by amalgamation and were mon- grels? For the same reason, Esau's connection with a woman of that race was " a grief of mind to Isaac and Rebekah," Gen. 26: 35; and Isaac charged his son Jacob: "Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan." But the clear- est evidence of the fact is found in a very sin- gular circumstance related in Gen. 34. Sche- chem, a young Canaanite prince, had cohabited with Dinah, a daughter of Jacob. He was really  devoted to her, and asked her in marriage, prof- fering her father and brethren any amount of "dowry and gift." This was certainly a fair and even generous offer; but the brothers of the girl, so far firom accepting it, devised a scheme of terrible vengeance which resulted in the ex- termination of the whole tribe. The affair looks like the vengeance of white men exasperated beyond control by their sister's pollution by a mulatto; and this is its most natural explana- tion. Jacob might well have addressed to Schechem the language with which Prospero rebuked the monster Caliban: "Thou most lying knave, Whom stripes may move, not kindness; I have used thee, Filth as thou art, with human care; and lodged thee In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate The honor of my child.'" The Stephanos of the age, inebriated by fa- naticism, have emancipated the negroes, and the liberated brutes, wild with joy, are dancing and crying out:   28         CALIBAN. "Ban, Ban, Ca-Caliban Has a new master:-Get a new man. Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom, freedom!" But when the deluded victim     of drunken philanthropy regains his senses, he will ex.  claim, "What a thrice-double ass  Was I, to take this drunkard for a God, And worship the dull fool.' There is another point, in which "Ariel" has approached, and yet perverted, the truth. He affirms that the law in Levit. 21: 18, which ex- eludes from the priesthood one " that hath a flat nose," was intended to exclude the negro from divine worship. The regulation refers exclu- sively to the priesthood, into which no negro could enter, because it was limited to the pos. terity of Aaron. Nevertheless, the exception is very significant; for it proves that if an Aaron- ite was so unfortunate as to have the blemish of flat nose, that point of resemblance to the negro would interdict his approach to offer the bread of his God." It is an indirect but power- ful testimony against the negro, whose very similitude the God of Israel abhorred. It is unnecessary to pursue the Biblical argu- ment further.  In it, Heaven's protest against admixture of race, the contamination of Cau- casian by inferiorblood, is as plain as if traced in letters of fire, like the "handwriting on the wall."  Our own country affords the most recent illustration of the primitive and unrepealed law. It has been said that the institution of slavery was wrong, and God punished the people of the   CALIBAN.         29 South for sustaining it. This is rank fanaticism and falsehood. Nothing can be clearer than that slavery was not only tolerated, but sanctioned, by Abraham, Moses, our Saviour and his Apos. tles and by the whole Christian Church, down to a very recent period. This was proved, some years ago, by that learned prelate, Dr. England, Roman Catholic Bishop of Charleston, S. C., in his LETTERS TO THE HON. JoHN FORSYTH  , and more recently, by the late revered Bishop Hop- kins, of Vermont. Southern slavery involved no violation of any law, human or divine; and it was the best condition for the negro. He can live with the white man, only as his slave. The South sinned; and the South has suffered, in consequence; but her crime was not slavery, but amalgamation. Boston, New York and Philadelphia were, and are yet, more licentious than Charleston, Mobile and New Orleans; but, in the former cities, illicit intercourse was con- fined to the same race; whilst the sexual cornm- merce of the latter was debased by miscegena- tion The men of the South are, in many re- spects, a noble race; but they tolerated among them a crime which Divine Justice never passes by. They contaminated their blood by admix. ture with the lowest type of humanity. For this, they have been punished-most signifi- cantly-by subjection to the accomplices of their crime. God has permitted unprincipled politicians, vile and wicked men, the basest that the wold has ever seen, to inflict this penalty upon them. So, He permitted the Pharisees to murder our Saviour; but took vengeance on   30  -   .  CALIBAN. them for the crime.  Thie Radicals are the flail of Deity. They offered themselves for the service, and have been accepted. Ruled by self-interest and goaded by rancorous hate they have perpetrated a crime of colossal magnitude ; and, in subjecting the Caucasian to the Negro- the highest type of humanity to the lowest - they have turned traitors to their race, their religion and their God. Never before has the world beheld such criminals; never such a retri. bution as awaits them. "Lingering perdition (worse than any death Can be at once) shall step by step attend Them and their ways." They have exalted the ignorant and brutal negro to be the civil and political master of the South, the legislator and the ruler of white men their wives and daughters. They have thrust him into the jury-box, the magistracy, the Com- mon Council; forced the white into disgusting contact with him in all public conveyances; and filled all places with the noisomeness of his filthy odor, the " ancient and fish-like smell" of the monster. This, and more than this, with cool and calculating ferocity, have they done. These cruelties heaped upon the countrymen and kinsmen of Washington, Jefferson  and Jack- son!  History will be searched in vain for a parallel to the deep, inexpiable wrong iln. flicted by the Radicals upon our brethren of the South,  "It were a torment, To lay upon the dawned,"   CALIBAN.         31 The vengeance of JEHOVAH, the guardian of our race, will pursue those miscreants, and will vouchsafe neither peace nor union to our un- happy country, until they are hurled firom office, stript of the power they have abused, and tram- pled in the dust by the people, whose confidence they have betrayed, whose honor they have stained. This fair land of ours is the heritage of the Caucasian, the Western home of the Ger- man, the Briton, the Irishman; in short, of all in whose veins beat the proud pulsations of "earth's best blood." It is a WHITE MAN'S country. The Caucasian, after occupying and embellishing the fairest seats of the Old World, has reared a mighty Republic on this continent, firom whose western shore, he looks over the Pacific, to the primitive cradle of his race. This is his possession. The negro is an intruder here, an alien and a foreigner, a vagabond, as all his fathers were-and this great Common- wealth will never achieve its destiny, so long as the negro is allowed to vote, or to exercise any political right or privilege whatever. To subject the Caucasian to the Negro is a higher crime against nature than to place the negro under the ape or the baboon; and noth- ing can equal its atrocity. It is "the sum of all villanies, a league with death and a covenant with hell." The doom of the felons who have perpetrated this foul iniquity, this crtmen. lese majestatis against the noblest type of human- ity, has already been pronounced by the Amer-   32          CALIBAN. ican  People.  Outraged   justice and  insulted virtue cry out against them, Never pray more, abandon all remorse, On horror's head horrors accumulate, Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed; For nothing cans't thou to damnation add GREATER THAN THAT.      
         
       
   
