
    ----CITATION----
        Mathews, Joanna H. (1849-1901). Guy Hamilton .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7218
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               GUY HAMILTON; 
               A STORY OF OUR CIVIL WAR. 
             
            BY JOANNA H. MATHEWS.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY,  
                     119 & 121 NASSAU STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, by THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
          
       
      
         
            Guy Hamilton 
             
            GUY HAMILTON. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The sound of thy merry voice 
                        Makes the old walls 
                        Jubilant, and they rejoice 
                        With the joy of thy young heart; 
                        O'er the light of whose gladness 
                        No shadows of sadness 
                        From the sombre back-ground of memory start." 
                     
                   
                
               BREAKFAST was nearly over at Ranleigh Manor-House, though the different members of the family were still seated at the table, with the exception of the master of the house, who had risen and was standing at the window. A tall, striking-looking man of some forty-two or three years, not strictly handsome perhaps; but the graceful, dignified bearing, the calm, penetrating eye, broad, high forehead, and firm, decided lips were all expressive of great powers of mind and strength of character. Few could look upon Maxamilian Van Alstyne and not feel at once, that they stood in the presence of an honorable, high-minded man, a perfect gentleman in the noblest and truest meaning of the word. 
               "The post is unusually late, this morning, papa, is it not?" said his daughter Kate. 
               "And my daughter unusually anxious for its arrival it appears," replied her father. 
               "Yes, this is the third time that she has remarked upon its tardiness," interposed Kate's aunt, Mrs. Arnold. "Who is the correspondent whose epistle you are so impatiently expecting, Kate?" 
               "I expect no letter," she answered rather shortly. 
               "Yet you seemed disturbed at the non-appearance of the bag." 
               "Not in the least, Auntie; I merely remarked that it was late, to the truth of which assertion the clock bears witness," but as Kate spoke she bent her head so that her face was partially concealed by the coffee-urn before her, while she affected to be occupied by the duties appertaining thereto. 
               "There is Michael at last," said Mr. Van Alstyne; and a minute or two later the bag was brought in, and he proceeded to open it and sort the letters. More than one pair of eyes were fixed anxiously upon him as he did so. "'Blessed are those who expect nothing,' is verified in your case, Kate, if a voluminous correspondence is to be considered a blessing; here are no less than five letters for you. Mrs. Arnold, here is one for you, two apiece for Mrs. Brockhurst, Mr. Rutherford and Sybil, and one for Mr. Spencer. Miss Anna," (his voice took a deeper tone as he addressed her,) "I have none for yon, unless you will share the dozen or so which fall to my lot." 
               Anna Hamilton smiled; but the wistful look of expectancy faded from her beautiful eyes to be replaced by one of weary disappointment they now too often wore. Mr. Van Alstyne's look rested tenderly and sympathisingly upon her for an instant before he turned to his own correspondence. 
               "Ah! here is one from your uncle," he said, turning to her again; then running his eye rapidly over the page, he added, "It relates to the renewal of that lease of Mr. Morton's," and he handed it to her. 
               Kate had opened one of her letters and pretended to be engaged in reading it; but it was not difficult to see that her attention was otherwise absorbed. Her color came and went as she furtively watched her father over the top of the sheet she held, while he broke seal after seal until he exclaimed in a tone of pleasure, "A few lines from Stuart himself," when her eyes fell. "He is better," continued Mr. Van Alstyne, "and will join Loring and Morris and be with us to-night. Kate, may I trust to you to see that all is in readiness, or shall I ask your aunt to give the necessary orders? Major Stuart is still so much of an invalid that I should be sorry to him, anything neglected that might conduce to his comfort." 
               "I will attend to every thing, papa," Kate answered quietly, as by an apparently careless movement she swept her letters from the table, then stooped to gather them up. Was it to hide the flush upon her cheek, the sudden sparkle of her eye and the happy smile which for an instant curved her rosy lips? She was rather apt to resent any allusion to her thoughtlessness; but now her father's words passed unheeded so far as they threw any imputation upon herself. 
               As Kate lifted her head, her eye fell upon Sybil Brockhurst's face ant was arrested there by the sight of its unwonted agitation. All her usual icy composure swept away, she sat pale as ashes, with quivering lips, and straining eyes fixed upon the paper she held in her trembling hands. She was seated at Kate's left hand, and as her young hostess glanced involuntarily at the envelope which had enclosed the note she was reading and which lay between them on the table, her astonishment was increased by seeing that the direction was in the hand-writing of her own cousin, Harry Arnold. She asked no questions however, and after a frightened look at her step-mother, who did not seem to observe her, Sybil hastily placed, the note in her pocket, and with an evident struggle resumed her ordinary manner. 
               "Who are your correspondents this morning, Sybil?" asked Mrs. Brockhurst, as the ladies crossed the hall to the drawing-room. 
               Sybil did not heed the question until it was repeated, when she answered reluctantly, "Emily Bartlett." 
               "And the other?" demanded Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               "Harry Arnold," Sybil answered as though the words were forced from her, while she caught her breath, and Kate again saw that expression of extreme terror in her eyes. 
               "I suppose there is no reason why I should not see their letters," said the elder lady, with a sharp glance at her daughter's pale face. But at that moment Mr. Van Alstyne called to her, begging that she and Mrs. Arnold would follow him down stairs and, as experienced house-keepers, give him the benefit of their opinion on a new cooking-apparatus which had just arrived. Quick, to obey his slightest behest she willingly acceded and, for the moment forgetting her curiosity in regard to Sybil's affairs, turned away with him, and the three young ladies entered the drawing-room alone. Springing to the hearth, Sybil drew Harry's note from her pocket; read it again-twice-three times, then tearing it into atoms threw it into the fire and watched till the last fragment was consumed. Then drawing a long breath she turned and, half defiantly-half bashfully, met the wondering gaze of her companions. 
               "Excuse me," she said, with an effort for composure, "it was only a little note from Harry Arnold about-on business-some private business-and I did not wish mamma to a see it." For one instant she gazed at Miss Hamilton with a half appealing expression, then with a forced laugh she turned coldly away. Taking a book from the table and throwing herself into a chair, all trace of emotion was banished from her face, and she was to all outward seeming once more the quiet, indifferent, statuesque beauty, the still current of whose existence it seemed impossible to ruffle. 
               Anna and Kate had watched this little scene with no small astonishment; but the young lady's wards and manners seemed to forbid all enquiry into the nature of her trouble, and they ventured no remarks. 
               A few moments later, Kate was called away by a servant to give some directions, I and Anna withdrew to the large bay-window at the farther end of the room, ostensibly that she might have the light upon her embroidery, really that Sybil might not think she was observing her. Scarcely was she seated at her work, when her hands were grasped from behind, and bending over her shoulder Sybil pressed three or four hurried, nervous kisses on her face. Anna started at the icy coldness of her hands and lips, not less than at this unlooked-for demonstration from the cold, haughty, reserved Sybil Brockhurst. Returning the caress, she said, "You have bad news, Sybil?" 
               "I do not know, dear; it should be good news, I suppose," she answered, with a half hysterical laugh, which ended in a sob; "but oh! Anna, I am so afraid-I dread so-oh! if you only knew!-I cannot tell what is best"-and she covered her troubled face with her hands. 
               "Knew what, Sybil? Can I help you in any way?" 
               Sybil shook her head. 
               "And your guardian, Mr. Rutherford?" 
               "No, no," she said, then as voices were heard approaching, she exclaimed, "I will tell you another time, promise me that you will say nothing of this, promise, quick!" Anna gave the required promise and Sybil escaped by one door as Kate and Mr. Howard Spencer entered by another. 
               Her heart full of pity for Sybil's distress, and feeling rather bewildered by her incoherence and hints that there was some secret she wished her to know, Anna, as she bent her head over her work, scarcely heeded what Mr. Spencer, who had stationed himself beside her, was saying to her, and answered rather at random: 
               "Indeed, I am very happy to hear it," she replied to one of his observations; when she was recalled to herself by a burst of laughter from Kate and the exclamation, "Anna, are you dreaming? Mr. Spencer tells you that he is obliged to leave us to-day on account of the severe illness of his sister, and you say that you are glad to hear it!" 
               Quickly recovering herself, Anna apologized with her usual graceful dignity, uttering some conventional expression of regret at his contemplated departure in order to heal the wound she supposed his vanity had received from her, carelessness; while Kate turned away to hide her amusement at the conviction that the truth had been inadvertently spoken in the first instance. 
               But no such thought disturbed Mr Spencer, and Anna's self-reproach was quite uncalled for: it would have taken a far more severe shock to overthrow his self-complacency. It did not even occur to him that the lady's thoughts were wandering; but interpreting her abstraction and slight confusion in accordance with his own views and wishes he felt rather flattered than otherwise, and stood quite silent, caressing his whiskers and gazing down with a patronizing air, which he intended should be tender, upon the lovely head which was again bent over the embroidery frame. It did not agree with Mr. Spencer's ideas of what was due to his own importance, however, to bestow too great a portion of his time and notice even upon a lady for whom was destined the high honor which the future held in store for Miss Hamilton. Pleading business therefore with Mr. Van Alstyne, he withdrew in search of his host. 
               "Anna," said Kate, as he disappeared, "when that brilliant individual shall have elevated you to the exalted position of Mrs. Howard Spencer, will you still condescend to bestow a small modicum of your affection and notice upon insignificant little me, in consideration of our past friendship, and of the circumstance that your superior charms have deprived me of the honor of his alliance?" 
               "Kate!" exclaimed Anna, partly in amazement, partly in reproach. 
               "Is it possible that no dawning glimmer of the truth has presented itself to your benighted mind, my darling?" said the laughing girl. "Such innocence is inconceivable! I shall think that you are as obtuse as the gentleman himself!" 
               "Your soaring imagination takes a wilder flight than usual this morning, Kate; Mr. Spencer has scarcely spoken a dozen consecutive words to me during the fortnight he has been in the house." 
               "And that is half a dozen more than he has spoken to any one else. The sapient youth sits and gazes at you for hours at a time, and what more explicit declaration can you desire? You are both unkind and unjust to Mr. Spencer, Anna," Kate continued with a pretended assumption of gravity. "You must surely be aware that the small amount of brains he possesses is fully occupied with the contemplation of his own importance and transcendent merit. In view of a subject so vast, how can you suppose that he could descend to any lower range of thought, or put himself on a level with other men by clothing his limited stock of ideas in the common language incidental to ordinary humanity? Howard Spencer wants a wife, Anna, and I have it from good authority that he came down to Ranleigh for the purpose of ascertaining how your humble servant would answer for the situation-now do not say that I have been gossiping-it was your old friend Dr. Wells who gave me the hint-and so I determined to outrage all his 'ideas of propriety' which he is so constantly talking about, by behaving a little worse than usual while he was here. This will account to you for some of my pranks during the first day or two of his visit. But I soon found that I was giving myself unnecessary trouble, as he had, by some laborious process, turned his thoughts from the groove in which they had commenced to run and directed them into a more worthy channel as soon as he had made your acquaintance." 
               "For shame, you crazy child!" said Anna, interrupting this flood of nonsense. 
               "Mr. Spencer has never given me the slightest reason to suppose that he entertains any such purpose." 
               "You will see," said Kate, shaking her head decidedly. "He will write to you I am sure-not make his offer in person, that would not accord with his 'ideas of propriety.' Just imagine what a pompous, arrogant piece of composition his declaration will be! let me see it before you decline it, will you, Anna?" 
               "Certainly not," replied Anna, unable to help laughing. "But you seem to be very sure that I shall decline it." 
               "Humph. I have no fears on that score," retorted Kate. "Perhaps he will ask papa to present his suit, as he seems to have an idea that he has some authority over you. What fun if he does! I would give anything to see papa in such a case, and her laugh rang gleefully and mischievously through the room. Anna made no reply to this last speech as she bent her head a little lower over her work, and the return of the elder ladies from the lower regions of the house put a stop for the present to Kate's nonsense. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Thou art a dew-drop which the moon brings forth, 
                           Ill-fitted to sustain unkindly shocks, 
                           Or to be trailed along the soiling earth. 
                        
                      
                     -WORDSWORTH. 
                   
                
               KATE VAN ALSTYNE was an only child. Left motherless when a mere infant, the little girl had been left in a great measure to the care of servants, her father, statesman and politician, being much absorbed in public affairs. Housed at length to a sense that his child needed some guiding hand, and being himself on the eve of departure for a long residence abroad, he placed her with an aunt, the sister of her lost mother. But Mrs. Arnold soon tired of the charge, and with the consent of Mr. Van Alstyne placed Kate at a large and fashionable boarding-school. Unused to restraint, and setting rules and regulations utterly at defiance, Kate soon proved a rebel of the first magnitude; and before the end of a week her hand was against every man, and every man's hand against her. 
               Anna Hamilton was the only one in the school who was an exception to this rule. Left an orphan some months previous, her only near relative was a brother many years older than herself, an officer in the army, and stationed at one of our Southern forts. Their mother was from South Carolina, and I until her death, about a year before that of Mr. Hamilton, the family had passed all their winters at Charleston, returning in the spring to their Northern home. Upon the loss of his wife, Mr. Hamilton placed his young daughter at Mrs. Ralston's school, where she continued after his death. Anna was the acknowledged queen of the school. Her extreme loveliness of person-for although the theory based upon the text of "handsome is that handsome does," is doubt less very well in a moralizing point of view, still it is a certainty that beauty goes a great way in winning golden opinions for its possesor-joined to her intelligence and aptitude for learning, made her a favorite with her teachers; while her winning manners and perfect unselfishness of disposition gained for her the love of all her schoolmates. She was sixteen at the time when poor little Kate Van Alstyne was placed by her aunt at Mrs. Ralston's school; and gifted with a deep insight into character, she saw in the spoiled, willful, turbulent child, the many noble traits and warm, affectionate heart which more careless or harsher eyes could not discover. Her own sorrowing heart, yearning for some object on which to expend all its wealth of affection, went forth in overflowing pity and tenderness towards the poor little creature whose faults, glaring as they were, she saw were chiefly the result of mismanagement; and who now seeing alike in teachers and scholars her natural enemies, was exhibiting herself in a most unprepossessing light, and drawing upon her own head the united condemnation of the whole establishment. 
               Anna begged that the child might be placed in her room, and given into her especial charge, and persisted in her request, notwithstanding the expostulations of her governess, who at length yielded to her wishes. Her tenderness and loving words effected what sterner measures had failed to do; and though still wild, saucy, and at times willful, Kate soon became willing to conform to rules and to pursue the studies which had been too long neglected. Her love for Anna amounted almost to adoration, and a word or look from her was enough to check her in her wildest freaks; while the hope of winning her approbation sufficed to stimulate her to any amount of exertion. 
               Five years passed away, Anna remaining as a boarder with Mrs. Ralston after she had finished her course of study, in accordance with the wish of her brother who had no settled home to offer her. About this time an uncle who resided in Paris urged Anna to make him a visit, and availing herself of the escort of some friends, she went to him and remained abroad for nearly two years. Meanwhile she kept up a close correspondence with Kate, whose father returned soon after Anna's departure, and who, wishing to have his daughter with him, removed her from school, providing a governess and masters for her at home. 
               Anna had been away more than a year when the cloud of war which had been hovering over the country burst in all its fury. Over the land from north to south, from east to west, the electric wires flashed the startling news that a little band of heroic, devoted men, starved, half suffocated, and worn with sleepless nights and anxious days, had surrendered to a traitor force beside whom their numbers dwindled into insignificance. Who that then lived to witness it can forget that terrible day when the mighty heart of the North was aroused by the word that the signal had been given, and the hand of brother raised against brother in the first blow of the fratricidal contest which for four long years never ceased to scatter destruction and misery over our once happy, peaceful land. Terrible shall the reckoning be for ye who to compass your own selfish ends, thus carried ruin and desolation into bur smiling homes. The cry of the childless, of the widow and fatherless calls for vengeance upon you, and if your punishment comes not upon earth, surely it shall be awarded to you in the great Hereafter! 
               At the first sound of war, Captain Hamilton resigned his post, and joined the ranks of those who had dared to desecrate the flag to which he had once sworn allegiance. His practical knowledge of military affairs, and his known courage, caused him to be invested with a high command in the rebel army. For some months occasional letters from him reached his sister, who bitterly grieved over his defection from the right cause; but finally all news of him ceased, and she knew not whether to mourn for him as living or dead. 
               At length Mr. Arthur Hamilton, still a comparatively young man, feeling that his country required every arm that could strike a blow for her, hastened home with his niece; and was hesitating as to what arrangements he could make for her comfort and safety during his absence at the seat of war, when Mr. Van Alstyne, at the instigation of Kate, who was wild with delight at once more having her beloved Anna at home, and not unmindful of all he owed her with regard to his child, urged her to make her home with them for the winter. The proposition met with the approval of all concerned, and for the last three months Anna had been an inmate of Ranleigh Manor-House. 
               It was now December, and some weeks since indirect news of Colonel Hamilton had reached his sister, partly through private sources, partly through the public press; but beyond the knowledge that he was supposed to be still alive it was scarcely of a nature to bring relief-being to this effect: Some months previous Hamilton had been sent with his regiment into the interior on a difficult and hazardous expedition. This, save for Hamilton's personal misadventure, proved eminently successful. In a severe encounter with the Federal troops, he had defeated and completely routed them, capturing a large amount of ammunition and baggage and some very important dispatches. Upon the following day, however, the Union forces, having been heavily reinforced, rallied and attacked their triumphant foes, and though again driven back, this, time they Carried with them in their retreat the commander of the opposing force. Hamilton had rashly ventured too far from support, and being dismounted and wounded, he was surrounded, and captured, though not till after a desperate but ineffectual resistance The lost dispatches were found upon his person. The knowledge which it was to be supposed he had gathered from these would, if revealed too soon to the Confederate government, prove very damaging to the Union cause; and this, apart from his rank and great personal bravery, rendered him a prisoner of no small importance. Orders were therefore given, that he should be closely watched; but notwithstanding, he had managed to elude the vigilance of his guards and male his escape. There was reason to suppose that he intended to make his way North, and the most strenuous exertions were made for his re-capture, but hitherto without success. 
               This last item, Mr. Van Alstyne's thoughtful kindness had induced him to withhold from Anna, as it was known that if retaken, Col Hamilton would be subjected to the most rigorous confinement; and he had not thought it necessary to tell her more than the fact of her brother's escape. But since that all traces of him had vanished, and anxiety for him, was weighing heavily on the mind and heart of the loving sister. 
               Physically, Anna seemed little fitted to endure such repeated and heavy trials as had fallen to her lot. With her mothers wonderful beauty she had also inherited her delicate and sensitive organization, and the slightest unusual excitement or fatigue was sure to leave its mark upon her. But within the fragile frame dwelt a brave, high spirit, and a rare unselfishness of character which assisted her in her endeavors to throw off the recollection of her sorrows for the sake of those around her. A more than ordinary amount of patience and submission was necessary to enable her to bear with calmness this terrible and long continued suspense; but, with an unfaltering trust she turned to Him whose strength is made perfect in weakness, and with a desperate effort bent all her energies to the task of banishing the vain conjectures and harassing fears which filled her mind with respect to her brothers fate. No means were left untried by Mr. Van Alstyne and Kate to make her forget her anxieties, and in Kate's affection she found a great source of comfort; for the warm-hearted girl more than repaid all the love and kindness which Anna had lavished upon her in former days. Her devotion to Anna was unbounded. For her she believed, and perhaps not untruly, that she could have braved or undergone anything, for her comfort and happiness she thought that she could never do enough; and the least slight or unkindness offered to her was resented by Kate with a passionate vehemence which was characteristic of her warm, impulsive and generous disposition; while Anna returned it all with a heart-felt tenderness which Kate did not fail to appreciate because it was less demonstrative than her own outspoken affection. 
               And unacknowledged even to herself, Anna's weary heart was learning to find repose in a new and deeper feeling. There was a voice whose tones were becoming music to her car, a step whose sound sent the blood to her cheek, and a grave eye beneath whose glances her own veiled themselves under their long, dark lashes. 
               Mrs. Arnold, a good-natured, well-meaning lady, whose chief characteristics Kate averred to be, a propensity for drinking innumerable cups of tea, and a faculty of seeing, saying and doing precisely the very thing that she was particularly desired not to see, say, or do; Mrs. Brockhurst, the widow of an old and highly valued friend of Mr. Van Alstyne; her step daughter Sybil; and Mr. Rutherford, guardian to the last named young lady, a hearty, boisterous old gentleman, who encouraged Kate in all the mischief which her fertile brain was ever devising, and helped her out of the scrapes which were but too often the result of that mischief-were all assembled at this time under the hospitable roof of the Manor-House; and the party was to be completed this evening by the addition of the guests whose expected arrival Mr. Van Alstyne had announced at the breakfast table. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Where is the maiden of mortal strain 
                           That may match with the Baron of Triermain? 
                           Sho must be lovely, and constant, and kind, 
                           Holy and pure, and humble of mind; 
                           Lovely as the sun's first ray 
                           When it breaks the cloud of an April day; 
                           Constant and true as the widowed dove; 
                           Kind as a minstrel that sings of love; 
                           Pure as a fountain in rocky cave, 
                           When never sunbeam kiss'd the wave; 
                           Humble as maiden that loves in vain, 
                           Holy as hermit's vesper strain." 
                        
                      
                     -BRIDAL OF TRIERMAIN. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "I have supported my pretensions to your hand in the way that best suited my character."
                      
                     -IVANHOE. 
                   
                
               KATE was nearer the truth than she perhaps herself believed; for Mr. Spencer's business with Mr. Van Alstyne was nothing less than the subject on which she had been declaiming at such length to Anna. He wanted a wife, and where to find her had long been a serious consideration with him; and truly it might well be; for the list of gifts natural and acquired which the fortunate lady who should be elected to fill the post was required to possess would have sufficed to furnish some dozen of young ladies with the average allowance. 
               Kate Van Alstyne was endowed with several of the requisite qualifications; report spoke of her beauty and accomplishments, and he knew that her father was wealthy and distinguished. He therefore availed himself of a casual invitation from Mr. Van Alstyne, and went to Ranleigh to make her acquaintance and find out if in other respects she was worthy of the offer of his hand; and there he met Miss Hamilton and Miss Brockhurst. Mr. Van Alstyne's hospitality inducing him-much to Kate's chagrin-to invite Mr. Spencer to prolong his visit, he had done so that he might weigh the respective merits of the three young ladies with whom he was thrown in contact. It would have been difficult to find three more lovely women, different as they were, each in her own peculiar style; but Miss Hamilton's charms tad borne off the palm. Kate Van Alstyne was certainly very pretty, with the prospect of great wealth; but her father was a man Still in the prime of life; he might marry again, and brothers and sisters come to divide Kate's inheritance. Then her gay, reckless spirits, saucy ways, and impulsive nature were totally opposed to all his notions of the dignified composure and lofty serenity which should appertain to the future Mrs. Spencer. Miss Brockhurst perhaps possessed this last qualification in an even greater degree than Miss Hamilton, and she would on coming of age fall heiress to a large fortune; but even his dull perceptions had loot failed to discover Sybil's undisguised contempt for himself and his pretensions, and he thought that in Miss Hamilton he should find a wife of more yielding disposition and submissive temper. He had not sufficient discernment to perceive that there lay hidden beneath Anna Hamilton's sweet temper and gentle, winning manners, ten times more strength of purpose, a far firmer will to do and bear, than were covered by the apathetic coldness of Sybil Brockhurst. He had weighed and balanced, compared and pondered in his stolid soul, and Miss Hamilton was destined to win the prize. It never occurred to him that the lady might raise any objections, at least if she were free to choose, or her affections not otherwise engaged; and to ascertain this point was now his purpose in seeking Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               After some little time, he found his host upon the terrace, smoking his cigar and glancing over the morning papers as he walked. Mr. Spencer announced his speedy departure, and then stated that he had a Matter of some importance to discuss. 
               "No better time than the present," said Mr. Van Alstyne, "we shall not be interrupted here." 
               Mr. Spencer forthwith proceeded to enumerate his many supposed advantages, his wealth, fine estate, social position, etc. Surprised at this unwonted flow of words from one usually so taciturn, Mr. Van Alstyne heard him in silence, though much wondering where all this was to lead; but he was soon enlightened. 
               "In fact, Mr. Van Alstyne, I have determined to marry and settle in life." 
               "A wise determination, sir, provided that you 'make a wise choice." 
               "I believe that I have done so, at least there is a lady whom I have nearly concluded to make Mrs. Spencer; but before I decide I have a question or two to ask which I believe you can answer." 
               "It is not possible that the man has fixed his eye on my little Kate," thought Mr. Van Alstyne; "if so I shall soon unsettle his conclusions;" but he merely bent his head as Mr. Spencer paused. 
               "Miss Hamilton is the young lady to whom I refer." 
               There was no reply, unless a closer compression of the firm lips and a slight elevation of the eyebrows might be construed as such. 
               "Before I proceed farther in this matter I wish to ask if her affections are disengaged?" said Mr. Spencer. 
               "Really, sir, I have never inquired," was the cold reply. 
               "But Miss Hamilton has been a member of your family for some time, and you may have had opportunities of judging. Is there any one who visits here in whom you suppose her to be particularly interested?" 
               "There is not." 
               "I have reason to believe that my proposals will not be disagreeable to Miss Hamilton," continued Mr. Spencer. 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes. When I announced my intention of leaving here this morning she betrayed considerable agitation, and I think that as far as she is concerned there will be no difficulty." 
               There was a strange glitter in Mr. Van Alstyne's eye, and could Kate's wish have been gratified, and she have seen her dignified father at this moment, she would probably have thought that he was repressing a strong inclination to kick the conceited young man at his side. 
               "I have naturally," continued Mr. Spencer, "felt some hesitation in allying myself with a lady whose family name has been tainted with the crime of treason; but I have concluded to overlook this." 
               "The faults and mistakes of her brother can reflect no disgrace upon Miss Hamilton, sir," said Mr. Van Alstyne, his hand closing tightly over the paper he held. "No man who can give such considerations any weight is worthy of her, and you may rest assured that if you honor her by your choice, even your name will receive no tarnish in the eyes of the world by connection with hers. Miss Hamilton's preference would confer distinction on any man." 
               The bitter irony of tone and manner was quite lost upon his hearer, who replied with a well satisfied smile, "I am glad that you consider my choice a judicious one. I shall give this subject a little more consideration, and if I decide to take any farther steps shall let you know before I leave." 
               His unutterable self-sufficiency was irrestible, and notwithstanding his indignation and contempt a slight gleam of amusement crossed Mr. Van Alstyne's face as he replied, "The young lady herself is the person to whom application should be made." 
               "Certainly, in the end: but my proposals should be made through you, and receive the sanction of your approbation." 
               "My approbation has nothing to do with it, Mr. Spencer; and may I ask why you choose me as the medium of such a communication to Miss Hamilton?" 
               "According to my ideas of propriety, Mr. Van Alstyne, such matters should always be placed in the hands of a young lady's parents or guardians." 
               "I am not Miss Hamilton's legal guardian." 
               "I am aware of that; but I believe that she is under your protection for the present, and should suppose that she regards you in the same light as she would her father or uncle." 
               "Miss Hamilton is of age, and quite at liberty to decide for herself on any such question," was the somewhat haughty answer, "and you had better address yourself directly to her. At present I must beg you to excuse me, as I have to drive down to Ranleigh with Mr. Rutherford to transact a little business, and the horses are now 'coming around. You said, I believe, that you intended to take the half past twelve train. We shall return in time to see you before you leave," and with a slight wave of his hand Mr. Van Alstyne walked forward to meet his carriage. 
               Business at Ranleigh occupied them much longer than Mr. Van Alstyne had supposed it would do, and it was some time after twelve before he and Mr. Rutherford started to return. 
               "We will drive to the station if you do not object," he said, as they came through the village. "We shall be too late to see Spencer at the house, and I came away without taking leave of him this morning, not thinking that we should be detained so long." 
               Mr. Rutherford gave a rather disapproving assent, Mr. Spencer being no favorite with him; for not even his good nature was proof against the young man's overwhelming self-conceit. They were barely in time for the train was at the station as they drove up. Mr. Spencer was standing on the platform, looking excessively ill-humored, and received Mr. Van Alstyne's courteous apology for his unavoidable detention with an air which he intended, should be dignified, but which was only sulky. Drawing Mr. Van Alstyne aside, he said, "I particularly wished to see you for a few minutes before I left, in reference to the matter we were speaking of this morning, and was obliged to leave a letter for you. A personal interview would have been more satisfactory, as we could have arranged the whole thing, and I should have wished to leave your house as Miss Hamilton's acknowledged lover; but it is now too late, and I can only beg that you will transmit her acceptance of my proposal to me as soon as may be." 
               "It is not possible, Spencer," said Mr. Van Alstyne, looking at him with undisguised anger, "it is not possible, that after what I said to you this morning, you have made me your ambassador in this affair?" 
               "I told you that I should do so," answered Spencer, doggedly, "and I never alter my plans. I consider you the only proper person to apply, to in the absence of Miss Hamilton's uncle." 
               "I must absolutely decline," began Mr. Van Alstyne-when the whistle sounded; "all aboard," was heard, and Mr. Spencer, with a hurried farewell to his host and Mr. Rutherford, jumped into the cars and was whirled away, remaining, in his own ideas, master of the situation. 
               "Insufferable coxcomb!" said Van Alstyne in a low tone, as he stepped, into his carriage and gathered up the reins. 
               "Hallo!" exclaimed Mr. Rutherford. "What has happened to throw you off your equilibrium, my friend?" 
               "Mr. Van Alstyne laughed a little, as though half-ashamed of the expression of annoyance into which he had been betrayed. 
               "Only some of that young man's foolishness," he answered. 
               "Insufferable coxcomb indeed!" cried the old gentleman. "He is the most conceited, pragmatical donkey it has ever been my misfortune to meet with. His vanity and obstinacy are only to be equalled by his stupidity. If he takes it into his head that black is white, all the argument in the world will not persuade him to the contrary- 
                      
                        'One of that stubborn sort is he, 
                        Who if they once grow fond of an opinion, 
                        They call it honor, honesty and faith, 
                        And sooner part with life then let it go!' 
                     
                   I wasted my breath and lost my temper last night, in a vain attempt to convince him that he had made a mistake in his dates when alluding to some occurrence in 'Kane's Arctic Expedition,' and though I sent Kate for the book and showed him where he was wrong, he still persisted in adhering to his original opinion. Excuse is for speaking so of any guest of yours, but I must say that I heartily glad to see the last of him!" 
               It may have been that Mr. Van Alstyne's private sentiments were but an echo of those of his friend, though he was more guarded in the expression of them. Arrived at the Manor-House he went straight to his study, where he found Mr. Spencer's letter. He opened and read it, hastily seated himself at his writing table, and commenced to write; but after a few lines he paused and sat a moment thinking, displeasure and contempt plainly visible upon his fine countenance. Then some happier thought seemed to cross his mind, for the stern eye softened and the grave mouth relaxed into a smile of rare sweetness. He read the letter once more, and saying to himself, "I will do it; it may save her some annoyance," rose and went up stairs to the pretty morning-room where at this hour of the day he was almost sure to find his daughter and Anna. They were both there, Kate at her piano, Anna reading. 
               "Miss Anna," he said, with some abruptness, "I have been entrusted with a mission to you, or more correctly it has been in a manner forced upon me. I believe that the shortest way to execute" it is to show you this," and he handed her the open letter. She took it with some little astonishment, which was not lessened as she perused it; but she had not read the absurd and pretentious composition half through before she looked up with flashing eyes and curling lips to meet the earnest look that was bent upon her. As the lady's face had clouded the gentleman's heightened, and when she encountered his gaze there was something in it which rather disturbed her self-possession. Blushing deeply she turned her eyes away as she said in a tone of strong resentment. 
               "Your friend seems so sure of his ground, Mr. Van Alstyne, in fact he implies so strongly not only that this was looked for by me, but that I should have been disappointed had he not concluded upon doing that which I perceive has already been a matter of discussion between yourself and him, that you must naturally infer I have encouraged him in so doing. So far is this from being the case, that I have never until this instant believed he had any such purpose in view. Had it been otherwise I might have spared myself this," and she held out the letter with a gesture of something very like contempt. 
               "You mistake, Miss Anna," he replied gravely. "I know Spencer too well to have drawn any such inference, though I could hardly suppose even his presumption could go to such a length as this." 
               Here Kate who had turned round upon her music stool, and was watching them intently, gave a shriek of delight; and springing upon Anna, much as a kitten might pounce upon a mouse, caught the letter from her hands, and having glanced at the signature and direction, tossed it from her and commenced dancing about the room in a state of frantic glee. 
               "I knew it," she exclaimed, "I knew it! Never tell me, Anna, that I am not a true prophetess. I told you just how it would be, but I own I scarcely thought that my words would be verified to the very letter," and she pointed mischievously to the sheet which lay upon the floor. Her merriment appeared to be infectious, for Anna's amusement seemed to get the better of her vexation, and covering her face with her hands, she broke into an irrepressible laugh in which she was joined by Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               "So Kate has been more clear-sighted," he said, as he stooped to raise the letter. 
               "Of course I was," said his daughter, still continuing her evolutions round the room, "and I tried to open Anna's eyes this morning, but she refused to be enlightened, so I left the case to Time, and certainly he has proved himself the more skillful operator of the two! Henceforth, Sernit, I hope you will be able to recognise the symptoms. If a gentleman is content to stand, motionless and speechless, beside your embroidery frame or piano for an indefinite length of time, with attitude and expression strongly suggestive of old Tiff's feathered friends, 'who had'nt de sense to know whar to put down de oder foot;' if he makes it his invariable practice when you have been walking or driving with another gentleman to tell you on your return that had he known you wished to go out he would have been happy to accompany you; or if, when he does condescend to converse, he entertains you with an account of the number of acres he has under cultivation, the extent of his water front, amount of his rents, the particular 'flesh pots,' to which he is addicted etc., be sure that all these are tokens of la belle passion,' and take your measures accordingly." 
               "Be quiet if you can, for five minutes, Kate," said Mr. Van Alstyne, recovering his own gravity with some difficulty. "You are not wrong, Miss Anna, in supposing this subject has been discussed between Spencer and myself before. In a conversation which had reference to it this morning, I positively and peremptorily declined undertaking the office he wished to impose upon me, notwithstanding which on my return from Ranleigh I found this awaiting me. Believe me I should not have troubled you with it; but should have adhered to my first impulse of returning it to him with a few lines expressive of my displeasure at his persistency, had it not occurred to me that by settling the matter at once on your authority, I might spare you greater annoyance in the future." 
               Her grateful smile assured him that she did not think he had gone out of his province. 
                
               "But in order to do that this modest epistle requires an answer," continued Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               "There can be but one," she replied a little haughtily. 
               "And that?" 
               "That, I decline the honor Mr. Spencer has seen fit to offer me. Will you please add the necessary acknowledgments on my part." 
               "I do not see that any are required," said Van Alstyne, "his presumption merits nothing of the kind." 
               "Nevertheless"-she said-then paused. 
               "Nevertheless it shall be as you say," he returned, smiling. 
               "You are quite right;" and not discontented with the result of his embassy, he left the girls together. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                   
                     
                        Who comes here?
                      
                     -MOTHER GOOSE'S MELODIES. 
                   
                
               THE short December day was drawing to a close. The afternoon was dull and chilly, with that peculiarly raw, uncomfortable feeling in the air which foretells a snow-storm. Occasionally a single flake floated languidly and reluctantly down, as if loath to exchange its home in the clouds for the frozen lap of mother Earth. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne was slowly pacing, with an abstracted air, the platform of the little railway station at Ranleigh, waiting the arrival of the train. For some time he con tinned his walk, but as the hour drew near and porters and passengers began to crowd the narrow platform, he paused at the extreme end, and stood gazing over the wintry landscape, now growing indistinct in the fast fading light. As he stood thus, a cheery voice addressed him, and turning, he took the outstretched hand of a stout, active old gentleman with a quick, abrupt manner. 
               Ah! good evening, good evening, Mr. Van Alstyne. From all the wheeled accommodation that you have provided here, judge that you are expecting a numerous party by this train." 
               "Yes," answered the gentleman addressed, "rather a military party. You have heard me speak of Captain Stuart, who distinguished himself so greatly in that cavalry fight at S--, and who was so severely wounded in that affair. He has been promoted to a majority for his gallantry; and being now on sick leave and his wound being sufficiently healed to allow him to travel, I have induced him to pass a few days with us. With him come two brother officers, our young friends Captain Loring and Lieutenant Morris. Some new freak has taken Harry Arnold. I have just received a letter from him, saying that he will be here by this train, and bring with him a friend; ail Englishman of the name of Wyndham. Harry gives but little account of him, save that he is under great obligation to him, from the fact that Wyndham nursed him through that dangerous fever he had some three years ago at Charleston. For the boy's sake we must make him welcome, but I should have wished to know something more of him before he was brought into my family even for a few days. Miss Hamilton may be able however to give me some account of him, as I believe that he was a friend of her brother." 
               "The rebel brother do you mean?" asked the old gentleman. 
               "Yes, the only one she has;" replied Mr. Van Alstyne. "Had I known that Harry meditated a visit at this time," he continued, "I should also have cautioned him to keep his Southern sympathies to himself while my military friends are with me. I fear that there may be some warmer discussions than I shall think desirable, for if Harry leads the way Sybil Brockhurst is but too ready to join him in expressing heterodox sentiments. The boy's heart is good, but he is in constant trouble from his extreme rashness and want of thought. I must manage to give him a caution before he has an opportunity to express his opinions in company where they would give offence. Displeasing as they are to me, I can overlook them; but others might not be disposed to be so lenient." 
               "Manage it then before you let him go into your house, my dear sir," said Dr. Wells, "or he will be enunciating his treasonable ideas when you least expect or wish for it. Harry reminds me of the Irishman's flea, 'You put your finger on him and he is not there!' Send him over to me if you find him too troublesome, though whether I can keep him, remains to be proved. One thing I must bargain for, however, in that case. I must have your Kate to amuse him, and Mademoiselle Seriate as Kate calls her friend, to keep them both in some kind of order. You may keep the dashing widow and her handsome step-daughter to entertain your new guests. I sympathize with Kate in her pet aversion." 
               "And encourage her in it too, I fear, my dear doctor. But I could scarcely agree that you should take all the sunshine out of my house, even for the sake of keeping Harry out of mischief. But here come the cars," and as he spoke the train steamed up to the station. 
                
               It was a pleasant picture. The "fitful firelight" danced "upon the parlor wall;" but it seemed as though no "shadows" could lurk even in the remotest corner of the large, handsome room, so cheerfully lighted up by that glorious fire, which was reflected from mirror, vases, cornices and chandelier, and even gleamed in the dark wainscoting which ran round the apartment. Kate Van Alstyne was crouched upon the rug directly in front of the fire, her head resting on the back of an enormous Newfoundland dog, who seemed quite satisfied to perform the office of pillow, if one might judge by the look of supreme content with which he gazed into the fire, and the occasional lazy wag of his tail when the soft hand of his young mistress gave him a slight caress. Few who knew Kate Van Alstyne would have thought that the merry girl, radiant with health, beauty and wild spirits, and whose joyous voice was nearly always to be heard ringing through the house, could have remained quiet and subdued for so long a time as she had lain upon the floor beside old Don. What could be the absorbing subject of thought which had produced silence in the room where she was for nearly half an hour. 
               Anna Hamilton was equally quiet, but that was not a circumstance in itself so remarkable. Her beautiful head was resting on her hand as she sat half buried among the sofa cushions, with her large dark eyes dreamily fixed upon the brilliant flames. A half smile hovered around her lovely mouth and a soft flush was on her cheek; but these presently gave way to an expression of deep sadness, and her lips quivered, while her eyes were closed for an instant, as though some recollection had crossed her almost too grievous to be borne. 
               Suddenly Kate rose from her recumbent posture, eliciting a low murmur of dissatisfaction from Don, whose silky coat she grasped rather energetically as she lifted her head from his neck. "Anna," she exclaimed, "what could have been in that note which papa handed to Sybil this morning at the breakfast table? It was directed in Harry's hand and appeared to contain only two or three lines, and yet she seemed so startled and flurried when she read it, and so anxious to conceal it from her odious mamma; and she has not appeared like herself all day. What could it have been? My mind is in quite a state of fermentation regarding it." 
               "You had better set your mind at rest then, Kitty," Anna replied. "Sybil is not likely to make a confidant of either of us, although I have thought once or twice to-day that she had something on her mind she wished to say to me." 
               "She is an icicle," rejoined Kate, "and I cannot understand the intimacy which has arisen between Harry and herself. There is but one point of sympathy between us, which is that she hates Brock. almost as much as I do. Perhaps I should have frozen into, the same cold, immovable block of marble that she is if I had been doomed to the same companionship that has been her fate since she was a child. I should never have know what an extraordinary power of hating I possessed, had not that woman drawn forth the faculty to its greatest extent." 
               "That is more good in Sybil than you are disposed to give her credit for, Katie, and it appears to me that she is trying to conceal some anxiety or grief that is preying upon her." Anna sighed heavily as she spoke. "But, dearest," he continued, "do try not to provoke Mrs. Brockhurst as you do. It displeases your father and is not becoming your position as the mistress of this house." 
               Kate laughed merrily, and springing from the floor, she threw herself on the sofa beside her friend, regardless of flounces or daintily arranged hair, and clasping her arms round Anna's neck, laid her crimson cheek against hers. 
               "Mistress of the house, indeed! A pretty mistress I should be I No, no, dearest and best, this great house needs a more dignified head than I should make; and, if my penetration does not deceive me, my stately papa is of the same mind. Brock. would agree also as to the fact that I am not fitted to reign, though there would probably be a slight difference of opinion as to the queen whom it would be desirable to elect in my place. She has been fully determined to become my step-mamma ever since papa returned from Europe, and has spared no endeavors to accomplish her purpose. It has been all in vain however. Papa is quite insensible to, though I think not unconscious of, all her wiles; and only invites her here for the sake of his old friendship for her husband, and on Sybil's account; of whom he says as you do, that much which is good and admirable lies beneath that icy surface. Oh! the life I would have led that woman if she had succeeded!" 
               As Kate concluded this rattling speech, the door opened; and Mrs. Arnold entered the room, followed by the obnoxious "Brock." and Sybil. As Anna's eye rested on the handsome figure of Mrs. Brockhurst, a smile crossed her lips as she thought of Kate's last words, and of the saucy girl's ability to carry out her threat, had circumstances favored its execution. Certainly two more antagonistic natures than those of the heartless, scheming woman of the world, and the gay, impulsive, willful girl, have seldom been brought in contact. Kate felt no hesitation in showing her dislike upon every possible occasion, and although the elder lady was more guarded in the expression of her feelings, the gleam of her cold, grey eyes at such times would have betrayed to an acute observer that whatever restraint she put upon herself during these encounters, she cherished in her inmost heart a purpose of revenging herself upon her antagonist whenever an opportunity presented. 
               "No lights yet," exclaimed Mrs. Arnold, as she rang the bell to order them; while Mrs. Brockhurst sank into a large arm-chair, and Sybil walked over to the window. "But Kate, my love," she continued as she turned to expostulate with her niece who had kept her position beside Anna, her glowing, piquant face nestled close to the paler one of her friend, while Anna's dark curls fell over the masses of golden brown hair that were rolled back from Kate's forehead. But the words of reproof were checked upon her lips as her eye fell upon those two beautiful heads, each so surpassingly lovely, yet so strongly contrasted; and for a moment she gazed in silence on the pretty picture. 
               "Well, Aunty?" said Kate. 
               "I was only about to say, my dear, that you scarcely seem like the young lady who, a short hour since, came so bien mise from the skillful hands of Nanette. Jump up, love, and smooth your hair." 
               "It is of no consequence, dear Aunty," answered the girl, "I shall turn the conquering heroes' over to Anna, and none of the rest of us need expect to be honored with the slightest notice. We only shine with a reflective lustre when she is present, you know. Papa said this morning that he depended chiefly upon her for the entertainment of our guests, as I was too giddy to be relied upon for any thing but nonsense. Flattering to my vanity, was it not? but containing so many grains of truth that I was obliged to swallow the dose without a grimace." 
               This speech, though addressed to Mrs. Arnold, was intended for the edification of Mrs. Brockhurst, who, during the two weeks that she had been in the house, had seen quite enough in Mr. Van Alstyne's manner to Anna, to arouse a strong feeling of jealousy and dislike towards one whom she regarded as standing in her way. Of this, quick-sighted Kate was fully aware, and hence she delighted to aggravate Mrs. Brockhurst by repeating every expression of affection or admiration for Anna which escaped her father. 
               But far down in the recesses of Kate's heart was hidden a firm conviction that one at least of the aforesaid "conquering heroes" would not submit to be "turned over" to any one. Springing from the sofa, she ran to a mirror, and hastily smoothing her hair, and setting her dress into something like order, she went to the piano and began to play a lively waltz. Lights were brought, and Mrs. Arnold busied herself in rectifying some of the tokens of the frolic which Kate and Don had been enjoying before they had subsided into quiet upon the rug. Meanwhile Mrs. Brockhurst and Anna fell into a conversation which seemed to be conducted without much spirit on either side, while Sybil wandered restlessly around the room; until the sound of carnage wheels roused them all and once more sent Kate to Anna's side. A few minutes of laughing and talking from manly voices in the hall, and the new arrivals were heard ascending the stairs to their various apartments; Mr. Van Alstyne entering the room alone. 
               Kate flew to him and poured forth a flood of questions, scarce waiting for an answer, but even as he stooped to kiss her, his eye wandered to the other side of the room until it rested upon Anna. 
               "We have an unexpected addition to our party," he said when his daughter paused for a moment; "Harry has come and brought with him a friend for whom he bespeaks a welcome." 
               "Who is he, papa?" asked Kate. 
               "A Mr. Wyndham, a young Englishman." 
               "Ah," exclaimed Mrs. Arnold, "the gentleman who was so kind to Harry during that illness in Charleston." 
               "The same," replied Mr. Van Alstyne. "Harry appears to be quite charmed with him. He seems to be a quiet, unobtrusive man with little to say, and, (although ho wears blue spectacles, Kate,) is a fine looking fellow. He is on his way to Canada, but Harry has persuaded him to pass a few days with us before going further." 
               "And the Major?" said Mrs. Arnold, asking the only question that Kate had not had the courage to put, "how does he look, and what does he say?" 
               "Look? Much as you might suppose a man would look who has been upon a bed of sickness and pain for the last three months; says enough on general subjects, but little respecting himself and his own achievements. You ladies must take good care of him, though that is a needless caution. His pale face and bandaged arm will do more for him than any recommendation of mine." 
               He crossed the room, and seating himself beside Anna, while Kate perched herself upon his knee, said to her in a low tone, "can you tell me anything respecting this young Englishman, Miss Anna? Harry says that he was a friend of your brother, and that he first became acquainted with him at Colonel Hamilton's quarters at Charleston." 
               "I remember that Guy mentioned a gentleman of the name of Wyndham in several of his letters," replied Anna, "and he gave me the impression that they were rather intimate; but I never saw Mr. Wyndham, and know but little respecting him. As far as I remember he was of good family, and travelling in this country for his own amusement. I thought however that he had returned to England long since. But I will look over Guy's letters to-night, and see if I can glean any particulars which do not now recollect." 
               "Do not give yourself that trouble I beg," said Mr. Van Alstyne, ever mindful of Anna's happiness, and fearing that the task of reviewing her brother's letters might prove a painful one; "that he was an intimate mate friend of Col. Hamilton is sufficient to warrant his admission into our family circle." 
               Anna smiled gratefully, even while the tears rose to her eyes. She was touched by the delicate kindness, which so far from casting a reproach on the brother in the sister's presence, would rather convey the idea that his friendship was sufficient to stamp the man who claimed it as a gentleman. Leaving her to master her emotion, Mr. Van Alstyne turned to his daughter and began a playful conversation with her, soon interrupted by the noisy entrance of Mr. Rutherford and Harry Arnold, the latter of whom had accomplished his toilet with that rapidity which was characteristic of all his movements. 
               Again Kate's attention was attracted by the singularity of Sybil's demeanor. When Harry entered the room she looked almost fearfully towards the door, while every particle of color left her face, and she grasped convulsively the arm of her chair. When he shook her hand Kate's quick eye saw that he left in it a slip of paper, while Sybil whispered a few hurried words to him, which caused a look of blank dismay to overspread Harry's face, followed by a quick, troubled glance towards Anna. An instant after Sybil crossed the room, and, under pretence of looking for a book, managed as she thought to read what Harry had given her without exciting observation. No eye but Kate's had marked this by-play, and the girl's curiosity was still farther aroused when she saw, that whatever that slip of paper contained, it had the effect of restoring Sybil's composure in some measure, although her cheek remained deadly pale. It was not long before the remainder of the party made their appearance. Major Stuart, an extremely handsome man, still bearing the marks of great suffering in his face, and with his arm in a sling, was the most conspicuous of the group; and Kate turned her eyes to him, forgetting in her pleasure at meeting him, her interest in Sybil's movements. As the Major greeted her, she betrayed a little embarrassment which was not at all unbecoming; and her manner was rather more subdued than usual as she turned to introduce him to Miss Hamilton. The three were soon engaged in a lively conversation, when Mr. Van Alstyne brought up Mr. Wyndham and presented him to the young ladies. He was a tall, graceful man with a military air. A profusion of dark hair curled round his forehead, andan unusually heavy beard and moustache covered the lower part of his face. Kate merely bowed in answer to his profound salutation, but Anna put out her hand to greet one whom she looked upon with a not unnatural interest as a former friend of her lost brother. The gentleman however, appeared not to see it, but was turning away without opening his lips, when Major Stuart addressed him with an enquiry as to how long he had been in America. He answered in rather a low tone, and very shortly; but to the astonishment of Mr. Van Alstyne, who stood close at Anna's side, she turned quickly towards Wyndham with look of startled wonder in her eyes and a half checked exclamation on her lips. 
               "What is it, Anna?" enquired Kate. 
               "Nothing; I only thought"-but she stopped short; and the announcement of dinner at this moment prevented any further questions. More than once during the meal, however, Mr. Van Alstyne observed that Anna regarded Wyndham with a puzzled air; while every time lib, spoke, which was but seldom, and in answer to some direct question, the same wondering and troubled expression came back to her face. He felt annoyed, although he could scarcely have told why. 
               "A golden eagle for your thoughts, fair lady," said Mr. Rutherford, as he came to Anna in the drawing room after dinner. Anna started from her reverie, and then recovering herself, answered playfully, "You do not offer a sufficiently high price for them, sir. They are worth more than that." 
               "Aye, aye," answered the old gentleman, "I do not doubt that there are others who would give you any price you choose to demand. Put them up at auction and see who will be the highest bidder. Mr. Wyndham's thoughts must be worth their weight in gold, judging from his unwillingness to impart them to others at the dinner table. He certainly has the gift of silence to as remarkable an extent as any gentleman I ever met with. Sybil however seems to be more successful in drawing him forth at present;" and as he spoke he looked towards the window where Sybil and Wyndham appeared to be engaged in an earnest conversation. 
               "He is either very shy or very stupid," remarked Mrs. Arnold. 
               "Or both," cried Kate. "My queen here offered to shake hands with him tonight, and he turned away, quite insensible to the proffered honor. But tell me, Harry, has Sybil met him before? They appear to be old friends." 
               "Yes," was Harry's answer. "You know that Miss Brockhurst was detained at Charleston for some months after the war broke out; and Wyndham being in the same predicament, they became acquainted at that time." 
               "But I understood that Wyndham had sailed for home immediately after he reached the North," remarked Mr. Rutherford. 
               "That need not prevent him from returning here, need it?" said Harry: and he turned away as if impatient of farther questioning. 
               Presently Sybil rose and joined the group around the fire. 
               "My dear," said Mrs. Arnold, "how strangely you look to-night. You were so very pale during dinner, and I observed that you ate nothing; and now your cheeks are quite crimson, and you seem so nervous. Let me recommend a cup of tea if you are not well." 
               "I am quite well," answered Sybil coldly: but had the young lady possessed the wishing cap of the old fairy tale, Mrs. Arnold would probably have found herself transported to some more distant spot than the one she occupied at present. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                        "There is no instinct like the heart."-
                      
                     -BYRON. 
                   
                
               An hour or two later, as Anna was standing somewhat apart within the shade of the curtains which fell around the deep bow window, her eyes intently fixed on Mr. Wyndham, Kate and Major Stuart approached her. 
               "I consider myself to have a special claim upon your friendship, if I may presume so far, Miss Hamilton," said the gentleman, with one of the rare, expressive smiles which now and then lighted up his grave, handsome face. 
               "Rather premature, if he claims it for Kate's sake," was Anna's first thought; but before she had time to utter the more courteous reply his words demanded, he continued as if in answer to her involuntary look of surprise. 
               "You are aware of my obligations to your brother, are you not?" 
               "No," she replied, "I did not know that any existed." 
               "You did not know that I owe my life to him? that years ago he was the means, under Providence, of rescuing from a sudden and violent death the only son of a widowed mother?" 
               "No," she answered, looking wistfully and eagerly in his face. "I know nothing about it. Will you tell me how it was?" 
               "Ah! it was like Hamilton to refrain from publishing his own prowess; and he always persisted in considering as a mere bagatelle that which was really a most heroic act on his part. Tell you how it was? I will indeed, most willingly. May I flatter myself that you know, at least, that your brother and I were at West Point together for a year, Hamilton being in the Senior class while I was in the lowest?" 
               Rather embarrassed that she was still obliged to plead total ignorance, Anna said hesitatingly, I dare say Guy often spoke of you; but he had many friends, and as I was a mere child at that time, you must forgive me if that fact has passed from my memory. I must confess that often as I have heard our friends here speak of you, I have never connected your name with that of any of my dear brother's early associates. Not the less however do I admit your claim," and she held out her hand to him with a winning grace that might have procured pardon for a much greater offence. 
               "Do not apologize I beg of you," returned Major Stuart; "it is more than probable that you never heard your brother speak of me. I know well that Hamilton was far more in my thoughts than I ever was in his. He was several years my senior, and until the occurrence I spoke of, scarcely bestowed more than a casual word or look on one who, however, hailed with eager delight even such transient notice. Gay, handsome and athletic, brave and daring almost to a fault, a brilliant scholar, and die dashing leader of all our sports and exercises, Hamilton was a favorite with every young man in the institution; with none more so than myself, I looked up to him with the most intense boyish admiration, of which he was probably totally unconscious. 
               "One afternoon a number of us were upon the river enjoying what threatened to be the last skate of the season. The ice had been in a precarious state for two or three days, during which we had been forbidden to venture upon it, but a hard frost the previous night had, it was supposed, rendered it safe again, and that afternoon the desired permission had been given. I, with several of my companions, was racing for a certain point, and I had distanced the others when a slight crack gave warning that danger was at hand; but, with a foolhardiness which richly deserved the punishment it received, I disregarded it and pursued my way. Another and a louder crack, a surging crash, a sudden upheaval of the glittering surface around me, and I was struggling for life in the freezing current. I tried in vain to gain a footing upon the solid ice: as fast as I grasped the treacherous edges and attempted to lift myself up they gave way and plunged me again into the water. My companions dared not approach sufficiently near to afford me assistance lest they should share my fate. Some of them had gone for help, but the current was rapid, the water intensely cold, and my strength was nearly exhausted, when I saw Hamilton's tall figure bearing down towards the spot and heard his cheery voice shouting, 'Hold on, Stuart, we will have you out!' I can hear the clear, ringing tones now, and then they seemed to put new life into me. Hastily unbuckling is skates he drew out the straps, fastened them together, and threw one end towards me; but it was too short and did not reach me. Then he laid himself full length upon the ice, crept as near to the edge as possible and again threw the strap to me, bidding me grasp it and hold on until a board which he had sent for should be brought. But my strength was too far gone, my benumbed fingers could not retain their hold, and with a despairing thought of my poor mother I was sinking back for the last time, when your brother sprang into the water beside me, and grasping me with one arm held me up while he supported himself by throwing toe other over the ice. Again and again it gave way as it had done with me-this I heard from others, for by this time I was senseless-but before it was too late assistance arrived. A long board was brought and pushed to the edge of the yawning chasm-with infinite effort Hamilton lifted me up and laid me upon it, and I was drawn safely to the solid ice. Then after several failures he succeeded in climbing upon the board himself, and he too was placed in safety. 
               "If he had been a hero in my eyes before, judge what he was henceforward. My devotion to him was only kept in check by the fear that it might prove annoying to him, and I would have given much had an opportunity ever presented itself in which I might have been of service to him. Have not you, Miss Hamilton, some demand to make upon the large debt of gratitude which has so long remained unpaid and unclaimed?" he continued in a lighter tone, as he saw that he feelings were deeply moved. "Claim what you will, it shall go hard but your requirements shall be fulfilled to the letter. Miss Kate, can not your ready ingenuity assist your friend in putting my devotion to the proof? Here stands a Knight ready and proud to do the behests of either fair lady." 
               "At least," said Anna, smiling and pointing to his wounded arm, "at least we will defer putting it to the test until our knight is able to buckle on his armor." 
               "And beware how you pledge yourself so rashly, Major Stuart," said Kate, "lest my 'ready ingenuity' devises a task top difficult of accomplishment. If you set no limits to the demands you allow us to make upon you they may chance to prove unreasonable. As Anna says, it will not do to try your physical powers too severely at present, but rest assured that before long we shall set you to climb some terrible mental or moral Hill of Difficulty." 
               I know of old that you have a fund of invention in that line, Miss Kate; and I should scarcely dare to put myself so unreservedly in your hands alone; but as you are associated with Miss Hamilton in this instance I shall trust to her forbearance to keep you within bounds and to smooth the ascent with which you threaten to tax my powers of endurance. Should I fail however, believe that It is the ability and not the will that is lacking." 
               "May I ask how long it is since you have seen my brother, Major Stuart?" said Anna, who, her thoughts absorbed with other scenes and other days, had scarcely heeded the gay badinage at her side. 
               "Hamilton graduated the following summer," answered Stuart, becoming serious again as she addressed him, "and I have never seen him since. As you of course know, on leaving the Academy he received his Lieutenant's commission and was immediately sent to join his regiment in Mexico. I heard, as others did, of his gallantry and daring and of his subsequent promotion. He was, after his return, if I mistake not, stationed almost constantly at the South." 
               "He was," Anna replied, then added sadly "you are aware I suppose that he no longer fights under the same flag as yourself?" 
               Stuart bowed assentingly. "It is the only sad thought which mars the pleasure I feel in thus meeting with the sister of my former friend and preserver. Miss Kate happened to mention a few moments since that you were from the South, when it occurred to me for the first time that you might be connected in some way with Colonel Hamilton; and in answer to my inquiries she informed me how close the relationship really was, and I could not resist the temptation of asserting for myself a special title to gain notice on the score of my old affection for your brother. I should never have guessed that you were brother and sister, for I cannot detect the slightest resemblance between yourself and Hamilton as I remember him, although he has probably greatly altered in so many years." 
               "Guy has brown hair and eyes, while mine are black," she replied; "but there is a kind of family resemblance I believe, at least I have heard people remark upon it in former days." 
               "Is it fair under the circumstances, Miss Hamilton, to ask to which side your hopes and fears incline?" 
               "My hopes are with you," Anna answered, "my fears with him. And I have reason for such fears. It is now five long months since I have heard directly from him. You have heard, I presume, of his capture at the battle of G--, and of his subsequent escape. Since then we have not had the slightest news of him, either good or bad. Where he may be wandering or what he may be suffering, I know not. If I could but hear that he had reached home in safety-but I am wrong to let my gloomy apprehensions cloud the pleasure of this meeting. We will talk of them no more." 
               "At least you can take this consolation, Anna," said Mrs. Arnold, who had joined hem as Major Stuart commenced the story of his rescue by Hamilton, and who stood listening to the conversation. Your brother will be sure of one friend if he should ever be so unfortunate as to fall into the hands of his enemies again. What should you do, Major Stuart, if it was in your power to befriend Colonel Hamilton?" 
               "Surely you can have no doubts on the subject, Madame. Befriend him to the utmost most of my ability, and glory in the service rendered." 
               "But if the service required conflicted with the claims you consider your profession to have upon you, how then?" 
               "God forbid that anything so unlikely should ever occur, Mrs. Arnold!" he replied, with more impetuosity than was usual with him, and glancing uneasily at Anna Hamilton. 
               "But what would you do in such a case?" persisted the lady, quite unconscious of the pain she was inflicting on at least two of her hearers. 
               "My duty, Madame," he answered gravely. 
               "But suppose Colonel Hamilton-" 
               "Suppose Colonel Hamilton was here, Aunt Mary, and as thirsty as Major Stuart must be after the long story with which he has been entertaining us, what would be your duty?" interrupted Kate, pointing to the tea-tray which had just been brought in; and off bustled Mrs. Arnold, while Mr. Van Alstyne coming up at that instant took the place by Anna's side which she had vacated. 
               "Miss Kate," said the relieved Major, anxious at once to effect a total change of subject, "are you and Mrs. Brockhurst as warm friends as you were formerly?" 
               "Oh!" said Kate saucily," we have become firmer allies than ever since you went away. She has been here now for a fortnight or more, and during that time she has found opportunities of testing daily, almost hourly, that sobriety of demeanor and patience which are my distinguishing characteristics. Under her fostering care those well known virtues of mine are attaining an astonishing degree of development. Miss Hamilton was remonstrating with me this very evening on the subject of the strong influence which I am allowing Mrs. Brockhurst to acquire over me. She does not approve, thinking that such influence should have its limits." 
               Stuart smiled back at her as she looked laughingly up at him. 
               "How very handsome Miss Brockhurst is," he said. "I have never seen her look as well as she does to-night. That brilliant color is not usual with her, is it?" 
               "No," said Kate, "it must be caused by the advent of her old friend Mr. Wyndham. She seems delighted to meet him, and they have been quite absorbed with each other the whole evening. Quiet as they both are they seem to find enough to say to each other." 
               "Delighted! I scarcely think so, Miss Kate. Miss Brockhurst is evidently unusually excited this evening; but that restless glitter of her eye does not give me the idea of happiness." 
               "Well," said Kate, "be that as it may, I am thankful to her for taking Mr. Wyndham off my hands. I was quite dismayed at the thought of entertaining him. He seems to have a species of fascination for you, however, Anna. How you have watched him to-night." 
               "Have I? I was not conscious of it," said Anna musingly; "but there is something about Mr. Wyndham which seems very familiar, and yet I am quite confident that I have never met him before. You are not the only one who has awakened old associations to-night, Major Stuart, though Mr. Wyndham has done so unwittingly." 
               "Singular!" said Stuart, "he has the same effect upon me. What can be the charm with which he works, Miss Hamilton, thus to bring up sleeping memories which still refuse to be recognized!" 
               "I cannot tell," she replied; "sometimes I think that it is his voice; sometimes some little gesture or turn of his head. But whatever it may be, he does not seem disposed to allow me to push my researches any farther, for he has studiously avoided me all the evening." 
               "What a fancy, Anna!" exclaimed Kate. 
               "No fancy, Katie. I should like to have improved my acquaintance with Mr. Wyndham because he was Guy's friend; but it is evident that the feeling is not reciprocal, for every time that I have happened to approach his neighborhood, he has immediately removed to another part of the room; and I cannot divest myself of the idea that it was not accidental." She spoke lightly, but some hurt feeling was apparent beneath the gay tone. 
               "Well," said Kate, "I can only say that it is his loss and your gain." 
               "But if your brother and Mr. Wyndham were intimate friends," said Major Stuart, "are you quite sure that you have never met him before, Miss Hamilton? You may have seen him when a child and forgotten the circumstance." 
               "No," said Anna decidedly. "His intimacy, in fact his acquaintance with Guy is a thing of quite recent date, extending not farther back than the last three or four years, during which time I was either at school or in Europe. I had only flying visits from Guy while I was with Mrs. Ralston, and he never brought his friend. Last winter he wrote that Mr. Wyndham was about to return home in the spring, and that he hoped we might meet, but we never did, although Uncle Arthur and I were for some months in England before we came home. No, I have never seen him before." 
               "Probably," said Mr. Van Alstyne, "the impression he makes upon you arises from the fact that during association with Col. Hamilton he has acquired some of his little peculiarities of speech and gesture. You often find one person unconsciously adopting the manner of another with whom he is constantly thrown." 
               "From all I have heard of Colonel Hamilton, I should judge that Mr. Wyndham might copy his manners still farther with benefit to himself and his friends," said Kate with a deprecatory glance at the object of her remarks. "But do not trouble yourself any more about him, Anna. Come to the piano, for I have promised Major Stuart that we will sing for him." 
               It was at a late hour that the party separated for the night. Dismissing their maids, Anna and Kate, who shared the same room, had just established themselves for what Kate called "a good talk," when there came a low rap at their door. 
               "Who can that be at this hour of the night?" said Kate, then called aloud, "Come in." But the rap was repeated. Kate sprang up and opened the door, and there, to her unbounded astonishment stood Sybil Brockhurst. 
               "I want Miss Hamilton," she said in a low, hoarse tone and turning her face from Kate as she spoke. 
               "Come in then," said Kate. 
               "No. Ask her to come to my room for a few moments," answered Sybil. "I must see her alone, and she turned towards her own apartment. 
               "Polite! certainly," ejaculated Kate, as she closed the door. "What shall you do, Anna?" 
               "Go to her of course, Katie, she is in some trouble, and if I can give her either help or sympathy, I shall be only too glad to do so. Go you to bed, dearest, and I will return as soon as possible." 
               "And mind that you make no promises of secrecy, at least towards me. I am wonderfully puzzled about her," and Kate related to Anna all that she had observed in the early part of the evening." 
               Anna left the room, but the few minutes lengthened into an hour, and the hour into two, and she did not return. Wearied with rather more excitement than usual, Kate sank into a sleep which was broken by a slight noise at her side. Raising her head she saw Anna, her face pale as ashes, her eyes burning with feverish light, and her hands clasped together, while her whole frame shook with the convulsive sobs which she vainly endeavored to restrain. 
               "Anna!" exclaimed the frightened girl, "what is it, love, what has happened?" 
               Anna threw herself upon the bed beside Kate, but no answer came from the quivering lips. Kate put her arms around her, and drawing Anna's face close to her own, soothed her with the most loving words and tender caresses. 
               At length Anna spoke. "Katie, it is he, it is Guy!" 
               "Who is, what is Guy?" asked Kate. 
               "Mr. Wyndham! he is Guy himself! And oh! Katie, Sybil is his wife! they are married." 
               The astonished and bewildered Kate asked no more questions; but gave herself to the task of calming the frightful agitation which was shaking Anna's delicate frame. In a short time she succeeded in restoring something like composure, and Anna became able to give her some explanation of the mystery. It appeared that Sybil had been on a visit to Charleston when the war broke out, and was detained there some time before her friends could find an opportunity to send her home in safety. During this time she became acquainted with Colonel Hamilton; and the acquaintance soon ripened into a deep attachment on either side. Dreading the interference of her step-mother and guardian, Sybil consented to Col. Hamilton's earnest entreaties that they should be united before she left for home; and they were privately married by the chaplain of Col. Hamilton's regiment on the morning of the very day of her departure. 
               It was not long after this that Hamilton was sent on the expedition in which he was wounded and taken prisoner by the Union troops. After he had succeeded in making his escape he had disguised himself thoroughly and determined, instead of finding his way South, to choose the more hazardous plan of going North, and-after seeking his wife and persuading her to fly with him-to pass into Canada and thence take passage for some Southern port. After various hardships he had arrived in New York, where he cautiously proceeded to make inquiries about his wife, supposing his sister to be still abroad with her uncle. Here he accidentally met Harry Arnold; and aware of the young man's strong sympathy for the Southern cause, and of his warm attachment to himself, he revealed himself to him, and concerted with him the measures for a meeting with Sybil. From Harry he learned that his wife and sister were guests in the same house. He had allowed his beard to grow to an unusual length, and having dyed both that and his hair, the addition of blue spectacles had so totally changed his personal appearance, that it was no matter of astonishment that his nearest friends should not recognize him. 
               Unaware of the presence of the Federal officers under his uncle's roof, Harry proposed to Hamilton to go down to Ranleigh with him under the character of Mr Wyndham. Hamilton eagerly embraced the proposal; and the note to Sybil which had so excited Kate's curiosity, was to inform her of their intended visit. Harry had written to her a day or two before, informing her of her husband's arrival, and of his purpose to seek an interview with her; and begging her to acquaint Anna with these facts; but Sybil's unconquerable reserve, and the fear that Anna might blame her for consenting to the secret marriage with Col. Hamilton, had prevented her from fulfilling this request, and thus Anna remained in total unconsciousness of her brother's proximity. 
                
               When Harry made his appearance that evening, Sybil, in the few words she had been able to say to him, had informed him that this was the case, and Harry was for a moment transfixed with dismay at the fear that Anna might suddenly recognise her brother, and in her surprise betray herself and him. He contrived upon Hamilton's entrance into the room, to let him know how matters stood, and hence had arisen the supposed Mr. Wyndham's avoidance of Anna, and his apparent unwillingness to converse with her or others; as, though he felt secure that she could not penetrate his disguise, he feared that she might be startled by the familiar tones of his voice. This had been the case in some degree, though he had succeeded in misleading her even here by adopting a low tone and a measured way of speaking which were not natural to him. 
               A grave difficulty presented itself in the way of Colonel Hamilton's immediate flight, namely, that he was nearly destitute of funds; and-the small sum in Confederate money which he had with him at the time of his escape being of course totally useless at the North-it was absolutely necessary that he should raise a sufficient amount to enable him to reach a place of safety, and to afford the means of subsistence for himself and Sybil until they could reach his home. This he looked to his sister to furnish him with-Sybil not daring to draw upon her guardian for the large amount which was needed, lest she should excite curiosity and inquiry-and poor Anna's mind was in a fearful state of bewilderment at all that she had heard this night, and at the thought of all that depended upon her immediate action. The risks to her brother increased with the delay of every day, indeed of every hour; and the presence of Major Stuart and his brother officers in the same house added to the danger. Reckless of consequences and declaring that he did not fear detection, he positively refused to leave the house until Anna could place in his hands the sum of fifteen hundred dollars; and Sybil would consent to fly with him. He had wrung from his wife the promise he required; but where was the money to come from? 
               Mr. Hamilton's income, though large at the time of his death, had been chiefly derived from his possessions in the South. All resources from that quarter were now of course cut off; and although the sum realized from the rent of the house which had been their home in New York in former days, was amply sufficient for all Anna's wants, it was not large enough to provide at such short notice the amount required by Colonel Hamilton. Five hundred dollars she had in her hands; but where was the remainder to be procured? To her proposal that Colonel Hamilton should confide in Mr. Van Alstyne, and borrow from him the needful sum, leaving her to repay him at some future time, he returned a positive refusal, declaring that his secret was already known a sufficient number. Guy Hamilton's temper was one which brooked no opposition to my pre-conceived notions or plans of his own; and accustomed to implicit submission from the young sister whom he had left almost a child, he turned a deaf ear to all Anna's expressions of unwillingness to hide from Mr. Van Alstyne the fact that her brother was beneath his roof; and the poor girl's joy at the knowledge of his present comparative safety, and at once more clasping him in her arms, was almost overpowered by the perplexities which beset her on every side. Long and agitated was the conference between the two girls. Kate's brain, usually so fertile in expedients, was here at a total loss; and neither she nor Anna closed their eyes that night. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                   
                     
                        "I do suspect thee very grievously."
                      
                     -SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        I have been used with grief, 
                        sombre way has mine been, all my days. 
                        And yet perchance-oh, Heaven! such things might be- 
                        As that one giant joy should come to me, 
                        Eclipsing common Joys."- 
                     
                   
                
               MR. WYNDHAM appeared in quite a new character at the breakfast table the next morning; He talked, and talked well, entering into every subject that was started with a freedom and ease which showed that Mrs. Arnold's estimate of him was an erroneous one; and that the silence and reserve of the previous evening arose neither from shyness nor from lack of brains. 
               Kate presented herself when the meal was about half over, unaccompanied by Anna; a circumstance which elicited some remark, as the two young ladies were generally the first to make their appearance. In answer to the inquiries addressed to her, she replied that Anna was not quite well, but would be down presently. 
               "Anna Hamilton is looking extremely delicate," observed Mrs. Arnold. "I should not wonder if she went into a decline." 
               "Pshaw," exclaimed Mr. Van Alstyne in a tone of irritation; at the same time pushing his plate impatiently from him, "what an imagination you have, Mary! Nothing of the kind ails Miss Hamilton. She is anxious about that graceless brother of hers, and naturally it affects her health in some measure." 
               "Indeed, my dear Max, I assure you that Anna comes of a consumptive family. Her mother died of consumption, and Anna will probably follow her in the same way." The lady uttered these remarks in a tone that seemed to imply that she was making the most cheerful and enlivening suggestions imaginable. 
               "Nonsense," said Mr. Van Alstyne, as he took up the morning paper, "the next thing you will be saying that my Kate looks pale." 
               "And so she does," responded Mr. Rutherford. "I was just about to say that her cheeks showed more of the lily than the rose this morning." 
               "Are you not well, my love?" said Mr. Van Alstyne, looking over his paper at his daughter. 
               "Perfectly, papa, only a little tired," answered Kate. As she spoke Anna entered the room, and Mr. Van Alstyne started with astonishment and dismay as his eyes fell upon her. Her snowy cashmere robe was not whiter than her face, while the dark lines around her eyes and mouth told of great suffering either bodily or mental. Mr. Van Alstyne questioned her eagerly; but she replied that she merely had a headache, and seated herself at the further end of the table to avoid his observation. But his anxiety once aroused, it was not so easy to allay it, and he insisted that a servant should go for Dr. Wells. Anna's protestations were all in vain, and she was obliged to submit, in order to escape farther notice. 
               "Mr. Wyndham," said Major Stuart, as they rose from the table, "have you ever been in the army?" 
               Wyndham colored slightly, but answered in a careless tone, "Yes, for some years." 
               "I thought I could not mistake your military bearing," said the Major. "May I ask why you left it?" 
               "Family reasons," rejoined the other shortly; and he turned to Mr. Rutherford with some question on farming; which he had not been slow to discover was the old gentleman's hobby, and the two were soon deep in the subject. 
               The promise of the evening was amply fulfilled that morning. A snow-storm, unusually heavy for the season, had set in during the night, and the ground was already covered to the depth of two or three inches, while the large flakes still floated down; and the weather prophets foretold a long storm. Anna and Sybil both heard this prediction with dismay. To have the party scatter for walking and driving, and thus remove Colonel Hamilton, at least for some hours, from the dangerous society he was in, would have been a relief to the two loving hearts that were trembling for his safety. But the state of the weather forbade this; and they must resign themselves to watch and wait, and endeavor to ward off any approach to dangerous topics. This task Anna felt must chiefly devolve upon her; Sybil-never a woman of much energy-seemed totally paralyzed by the trying situation in which she stood, and appearing even more quiet and icy than usual. With Kate's assistance however she trusted to avert suspicion from Guy; and she loved the girl the more as she saw how she exerted herself to shake off the weight upon her spirits, and to appear as gay and bright as usual for her sake. 
               "Major Stuart," said Mrs. Brockhurst, as the Major stood with Kate in the bow-window, "I challenge you to a game of chess! You are a good player I believe," continued the lady, who was herself celebrated for her skill at the game. 
               But the Major was not to be beguiled. The settled purpose of his soul upon this morning was a private interview with Kate, and he was using every device to effect that purpose. Another object also he had in view, which was to watch Wyndham, whom he already suspected to be other than he seemed; and more than once Anna had seen his piercing eye fixed upon her brother with an expression of curiosity that boded no good to her sinking heart. Several times during the morning, when the conversation had turned upon subjects relating to the war, he had observed Wyndham's color rise; and though the latter said little at such times, the watchful soldier had noticed the fierce flashing of his eyes, discernible even under the spectacles which partially concealed them. That all was not right he feared; and although he could scarcely have given any foundation for his suspicions, he determined to keep Wyndham under close observation, and did not choose to have his attention diverted by any thing short of the mischievous lady of his thoughts. 
               "Excuse me, Mrs. Brockhurst," he replied, "my wound makes me still too restless for any occupation requiring so much attention. You would not find me an antagonist worth vanquishing this morning; but I shall detail Loring for duty in my place. He is a far better player than I." 
               Kate laughed as she saw the I comical expression of dismay upon the face of that young officer who was devoting himself to Anna, whose beauty had made a strong if not a lasting impression upon his extremely susceptible heart. 
               "I shall claim that honor for myself," said the good-natured Mr. Rutherford, Observing the dissatisfaction in Loring's face, and ever willing to promote the pleasure of others. And he bustled around, brought the chess-table, and settled himself to the game. 
               Truth to tell, the widow was not well pleased. She had no desire at that moment to play, and her sole object in challenging Major Stuart had been to annoy Kate, who, she was well aware, would feel that she was trespassing upon her preserves. 
               But a few moves sufficed to demolish Mr. Rutherford, who was but an indifferent player, and Mrs. Brockhurst had not reached the end of her expedients for annoying Kate. There was one method of provocation which she at times adopted, and which she knew would be especially irritating to Kate in Stuart's presence, that of treating her as a mere child. Notwithstanding her youthfulness and her almost childlike playfulness and gayety, Kate was very tenacious of her dignity as a grown woman and a young lady who had been introduced into society; and to affect to ignore these claims and to consider her as still a little girl whose merry freaks and flow of spirits were only to be tolerated in view of her extreme youth, was a plan which Mrs. Brockhurst found admirably calculated for trying Kate's impulsive temper to the utmost. 
               Besides this she had not failed to note the more than usually mischievous pranks of "which Kate had confessed herself to be guilty for Mr. Spencer's behoof, and had cherished their recollection as weapons of offence to be used whenever occasion should offer. It was true that Kate had not ventured beyond the bounds of lady-like propriety; but it was not difficult to give a coloring to any allusions to her conduct which might make it appear that she had done so. Once or twice during the first few days of Mr. Spencer's visit, Mrs. Brockhurst had under the mask of a feigned interest in Kate's well-doing, endeavored to draw upon her a reprimand from her father, by referring in his presence to some attempt of the young girl to shock the prejudices of her would-be admirers; but this amiable intention had totally failed. Mr. Van Alstyne read her thoroughly, and had he seen any cause for displeasure in Kate's conduct, he would not have given Mrs. Brockhurst the satisfaction of hearing him reprove his daughter in her presence; and her endeavors to effect this had been checked by seeing oh one of these occasions the amused glance of intelligence which passed between them. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne took as little notice as possible of the feud between Mrs. Brockhurst and his daughter, only interfering now and then to give Kate a private admonition when he thought that she was going too far Through Major Stuart, however, Mrs. Brockhurst hoped to vex Kate more effectually, and as soon as her attention was released from the chess-board she made a fresh attack. 
               "Kate," she said, "if your friend Mr. Spencer had remained until after this show-storm you might have been able to persuade him into accepting your challenge. What a pity that he was obliged to leave." 
               Kate disdained any answer beyond a dry "Do you think so?" 
               "I do," said Mrs. Brockhurst. "I anticipated some amusement in witnessing your exploits, and was really sorry that the last snow disappeared before you could bring Mr. Spencer to the point. You must know, Major Stuart, that Kate challenged Mr. Spencer to a snow-ball match during the time that the last snow was upon the ground. If he was the loser he was to exhibit his powers in knitting a pair of soldier's mittens under her direction, if she was defeated she was to smoke a cigar under his. But he was so long in making up his mind to the trial that the snow, which was a light one, disappeared." 
               "Of course Miss Kate was joking when she made the proposition," said  the Major indifferently; but this bare-faced perversion of the facts concerning some trifling bravado on her part was too much for the maintenance of even the scant measure of ceremony with which Kate was accustomed to treat Mrs. Brockhurst, and facing round upon her tormentor she said scornfully, "May I beg leave to inquire, Mrs. Brockhurst, in what school of veracity you were educated? for it appears to me that your instructions in that accomplishment have lamentably failed in impressing its importance upon your mind." 
               "You do not pretend to deny that you made the proposal to Mr. Spencer, do you, my dear?" asked Mrs. Brockhurst with a provoking smile. 
               "If she did," said Anna, coming to the rescue, anxious to prevent the hasty retort which experience warned her was the only defence Kate would condescend to make to Mrs. Brockhurst's insinuations, "if she did she was joking as Major Stuart says. I cannot acquit her of a desire to horrify Mr. Spencer by proposing a snow-balling match to him; but she never would have done so had she not been perfectly confident that he would reject it. None of us could imagine that Kate intended in sober earnest to undertake anything unlady-like, and if you will tell part of the story, Mrs. Brockhurst, it is only fair to tell the whole." 
               "It is not necessary for you to defend Kate, Miss Hamilton, I had no intention of accusing her of anything unbefitting her youth. What would be unbecoming levity in you or Sybil is quite excusable in a girl of her age, and in these days it is the prevailing fashion for school girls to profess to be fast." 
               "As Kate is neither 'a school girl' or 'fast' we cannot acquit her on those grounds," said Anna playfully, yet with a certain quiet decision her tone, "and in justice to her I shall state the facts, as she does not seem inclined to do it for herself. We were all occupied one morning knitting mittens, when Mr. Spencer, whose ideas we must all allow to be rather peculiar on some subjects, expressed his disapprobation at our employment, alleging not only that such coarse work was not suitable for a lady's fingers, but that it was unnecessary; inasmuch as no soldier could fire his musket with such clumsy things as mittens upon his hands. Kate suggested that a soldier was not constantly engaged in firing his piece, and that there might be other occasions when he would find some warm covering for his hands agreeable, for instance when engaged in a game of snow-ball. Mr. Spencer expressing his disbelief that any grown man would stoop to such a trivial amusement, Kate entered into a glowing description of its delights, winding up by the challenge before spoken of, well knowing how much probability there was of its being accepted, and proposing that if Mr. Spencer was defeated he should knit a pair of mittens. 'As much propriety in your learning to smoke a cigar as in my learning to knit mittens,' he replied, and Kate jokingly professed herself ready io undertake the match upon those terms; It was such mere nonsense that my long explanation may appear unnecessary; but as you seemed to think that Kate had been in earnest, Mrs. Brockhurst, I could not allow her to rest under such an imputation." 
               "Quite unnecessary, as I remarked before," said Mrs. Brockhurst. "A year or two hence will be quite time enough for Kate's friends to take umbrage at any such little escapade; at present if her gay spirits run away with her occasionally they can make allowances, and some day she will become more like other people." 
               I trust not," said Major Stuart emphatically; while Kate exclaiming, I need no added years to know who are my friends!" turned away unwilling to be provoked into farther altercation in his presence. In another moment she had forgotten it while teasingly evading Stuart's entreaties that she would come and promenade the hall with him. 
               Not so Mrs. Brockhurst. Trivial as the quarrel between herself and Kate had been, and although she had succeeded in her endeavor to provoke Kate to an outburst of temper, she felt an annoying sense of defeat and was conscious that she herself had presented the most sorry figure of the two; for she saw from Stuart's manner that he had penetrated her design, and was strongly inclined to sympathise with Kate in her momentary flash of passion. She was enraged at Anna for her interference in Kate's behalf, and had anything been needed to add fuel to the flame of envy and jealousy which had already been heightened that morning by Mr. Van Alstyne's undisguised anxiety on Anna's account, it was now supplied by her resentment. She determined to be revenged upon her, how she did not exactly see as yet, for the malicious sneers and innuendoes which would work Kate into a fury, fell harmless on the shield of Anna's quiet dignity; but she promised herself to take advantage of the first opportunity that presented for inflicting a wound, and unfortunately circumstances were about to favor her more than she could have hoped for. 
               "Miss Hamilton, Dr Wells is in the library," announced the footman, and Anna unwillingly withdrew to see him, followed by Mrs. Arnold. The practised eye of the physician easily discerned the signs of mental disturbance, and he asked but few questions, leaving some composing medicines, and ordering Anna to go to her room and remain quiet. She resisted this command; but the doctor was peremptory, and requested Mrs. Arnold to see that his directions were carried out at least till evening. When he left the room, Mrs. Arnold went with him to order for her patient her sovereign panacea, the unfailing cup of tea, and Anna remained alone. As the doctor crossed the hall he encountered Mr. Van Alstyne, and his anxious questioning and unconcealed uneasiness revealed to the old man the secret which he had not suspected before. 
               "So, so, the wind lies that way, does it?" said he to himself, as he took his departure, after giving Mr. Van Alstyne a promise that he would return to dine. "Well, that poor lonely dove will be a happy woman yet if she becomes the wife of Max Van Alstyne, if he is nearly double her age. His heart is a treasure worth the possession of any woman, be she old or young. But who would have thought it?" and he rubbed his hands gleefully and laughed to himself as he remembered how Van Alstyne had unconsciously betrayed himself. 
               Anna was still alone in the library when Mr. Van Alstyne entered. "The doctor has sentenced you to solitary confinement for the rest of the day," he said as he approached her. 
               "It is a sentence to which I absolutely refuse to submit," she replied, endeavoring to answer playfully. 
               "Suppose I add my commands to his," he rejoined. 
               "I shall still resist," she said, shaking her head. 
               "But you know that we are under military rule at present, and as I claim the post of, commander-in-chief, I shall certainly arrest any rebel to constituted authority." 
               Anna started violently, and became if possible still paler than before. 
               "And would it be so painful then, to become my prisoner, Anna, he said, "as he took in his own the little hand which lay upon the arm of the sofa. Anna rose hurriedly from her seat, and half turned from him; but he clasped closer the hand he held, and passing his arm around her, drew her towards him; while he whispered, "Anna, my love, my darling, will you not listen to me while I tell you"--when that instant the voice of Mrs. Arnold was heard in the hall calling "Anna, Anna Hamilton, Anna," and she opened the door to find Anna deeply interested in the ornaments on the mantelpiece, while Mr. Van Alstyne was busily engaged with some papers upon the table. 
               "Surely you are not going to trouble Anna with business to-day," she exclaimed, glancing indignantly at the papers in his hand. "Look at those cheeks and tell me if she is not already sufficiently feverish; "and she seized upon Anna and carried her off in triumph to her room, leaving her brother-in-law to vent "anathemas not loud but deep," upon her head. Left to herself after the necessary amount of petting and fussing, Anna, over whose troubled heart a strange feeling of peace had stolen even amid the anxieties which oppressed her, laid thinking over the events of the last twenty-four hours. As she remembered what had passed in the library, a rosy flush came over her face, and she turned her cheek to the pillow, as though even in solitude to hide that blush. At length worn out from want of rest and all the excitement that she had undergone, she fell asleep, and thus Kate found her when she came to look for her; and the girl wondered at the happy smile upon her face. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "A wanton mischief dances in her eye, 
                        And lurks within the dimples of her chin." 
                     
                   
                
               NOTWITHSTANDING all expostulations, Anna insisted upon rising and, going down stairs, although she yielded to Kate's entreaties that she would at least stay in her own room until after dinner; but she was too restless and uneasy to remain there all the evening in ignorance of what was passing below. Dr. Wells came up to see her after dinner; and finding her looking better than she had done in the morning, gave way to her wishes, and, after some little rallying, escorted her down to the drawing-room. 
               Here he established her in an easy-chair, and declared that he constituted himself a committee of one, for her especial amusement and protection, and that she was not to talk or exert herself in any way. Mr. Van Alstyne seemed to think that the committee was incapable of fulfilling its duties without help, and forthwith elected himself a member of the same, leaning on the back of Anna's chair while the doctor seated himself beside her. 
               Captain Loring also soon found his way to the spot where his new charmer was seated-that young gentleman fell spasmodically in love on an average of at least once a month-and the three gentlemen were soon engaged in a discussion on the state of the country which at any other time Anna could have listened to and enjoyed; but now her hearing and thoughts were I occupied with other and more painful matters. 
               A few minutes sufficed to convince her that affairs were not progressing smoothly. Mr. Rutherford, Major Stuart, and her brother, were standing in front of her, engaged in a conversation on the unfailing topics of the war and our relation with England: and Stuart was putting questions to Colonel Hamilton, which, although perfectly polite in themselves, were somewhat searching and excessively irritating to Hamilton's temper, which had already been severely tried by the occurrences of the day. The frown upon his brow, and the almost fierce defiance of his manner, sent a pang of terror to Anna's heart, and she felt that but little more was needed to bring about an explosion between the two, which might result in Guy's immediate detection and arrest. 
               And a new cause of alarm existed in Mrs. Brockhurst's manner. It was evident that she also was closely watching not only Col. Hamilton but Sybil as well; and knowing her utter unscrupulousness in the attainment of any end she had in view, and instinctively feeling that she bore no good will to herself, and would be only too glad to bring disgrace and sorrow upon her or any one connected with her, Anna was terrified lest she should frustrate Guy's assumed character. 
               And her apprehensions were not unfounded, although Mrs. Brockhurst had no suspicion that Hamilton was other than the Englishman he personated. Weary of the long separation from his wife, and eager for the sound of her voice and the loving looks from those eyes which turned so coldly on others, Col. Hamilton had lingered near Sybil's side during the greater part of the day; and there was that in their manner to each other which showed that they were more than mere acquaintances. No confidence existed between Mrs. Brockhurst and her step-daughter, but the former was enraged at the idea that Sybil had become entangled without her knowledge; and when the company separated to dress for dinner, she followed Sybil to her room and poured forth a torrent of angry questions and sharp reprimands. She was answered by a wild burst of hysterical sobs, after which Sybil took refuge in what seemed to be a sullen silence. Since then Mrs. Brockhurst had kept Sybil closely at her side, a circumstance which added in no small degree to Col. Hamilton's ill humor. These two with Mrs. Arnold were seated on the 'other side of the fire, while Kate, Harry and Mr. Morris were engaged in a merry strife as to the respective merits of old Don and Harry's pup Frolic, the latter gentleman of course siding with the young lady. But there was danger in Kate's eye; her glances towards Mrs. Brockhurst showed that she was meditating an attack upon that lady, and Anna rejoiced in the premonitions, of what at another time she would have been eager to avert. 
               But she must effect a diversion in Guy's favor, and that immediately, and she rose quietly from her chair, but was stopped by the doctor who laid his hand upon her arm with the question, "Where now, lady bird?" 
                
               "I want to speak to Kate," she answered. 
               "Then let Kate come to you," said Mr. Van Alstyne, calling his daughter to Anna. 
               "Kate dearest, give us some music, will you?" said she, with a meaning glance a the group in the centre of the room. 
               It was enough for the quick-witted Kate, and as she passed Stuart she said to him, "I am going to sing your favorite air from Traviata, Major Stuart, so you are in duty bound to turn over the leaves for me." 
               It was no small effort for Kate thus to cal him to her side; but maiden diffidence must be put aside when so much depended on what she alone could do. 
               The deluded but gratified officer turned to the piano, astonished at this sudden calf upon his attentions. All day the little witch had mercilessly tormented him, eluding al his endeavors to obtain a few minutes' conversation with her, until, half-amused and half-provoked, he had determined to let her alone for the evening, and pretend the in-difference which he was so far from feeling. Delighted at the supposed success of his Stratagem, and attributing the unlocked for condescension entirely to that, he remained beside her for nearly an hour, arranging her music as well as his crippled condition would permit, and listening eagerly to the sweet voice which had for him so great a charm. 
               "Van Alstyne," said the doctor, "has it ever occurred to you that our wounded hero there, may at some future time claim the guardianship of that frisky kitten of yours? Fathers are generally the last to see such things." 
               "What! Kate! that child?" answered Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               She is seventeen. I believe," returned the doctor; and added mischievously, "Miss Anna, did you consider yourself such a mere infant five years ago?" 
               Anna colored, and Mr. Van Alstyne walked over to the piano, where Kate had just concluded a song, and-for the new idea which had been suggested to him was not altogether an agreeable one-dispatched his daughter on some trivial errand to another room. Stuart would have followed her; but his host detained him in conversation, and meanwhile Harry slipped out in pursuit of his cousin. The two soon returned, Kate in a decided pout, for she had not relished her father's interruption of her music, and moreover she was alarmed at the information which Harry had left the room to give her, of Mrs. Brockhurst's attack upon poor Sybil, which the latter had managed to impart to him, at a moment when her step-mother's attention was otherwise engaged. She sought Anna's side, her usual place of refuge when aught occurred to disturb her; but she was evidently in no happy frame of mind; and to all the old doctor's jokes and questions she returned short and almost pettish replies. 
               Tea was brought in, and Mrs. Arnold proceeded to supply the wants of the party; a duty in which she delighted, and which Kate, who never could remember who took no milk and who no sugar, was only too glad to resign to her. Mr. Wyndham brought Sybil her cup and still remained standing near her when Mrs. Brockhurst addressed him. "Mr. Wyndham, it is rather a singular circumstance that Sybil has scarcely ever mentioned your name to me. I had supposed that your acquaintance with her was very slight." 
               Then I have the advantage of you, Madame," he replied, bowing gracefully. "Miss Brockhurst frequently mentioned your name to me during her stay in Charleston." He did not think it expedient to add that it was not in terms either of affection or respect. 
               "I cannot imagine her reason for-" down went Kate's cup and saucer with a crash at Mrs. Brockhurst's feet, breaking into a dozen pieces, and besprinkling her own dress and the widow's with a plentiful portion of their contents. Mrs. Brockhurst rose hurriedly, and, if looks could have killed, assuredly poor little Kate's race had been run then and there. Of course some slight confusion ensued; the broken pieces must be gathered up, and the tokens of the misfortune removed as far as possible from the dresses of the sufferers. 
               "Kate, how extremely awkward," said Mrs. Arnold, when this had been effected. 'If such a thing were possible, one would almost think you had done it purposely." 
               "Quite impossible to believe Miss Van Alstyne capable of such wanton destruction," said the laughing Morris, as he tried to catch Kate's eye. Though totally ignorant of her motive, he could not doubt for an instant that the mischief was premeditated; and he enjoyed it almost as much as Harry, to whom her object was perfectly apparent. 
               "But, Kate, you have made no apology to Mrs. Brockhurst for the destruction of her dress," said Mr. Van Alstyne, who thus far had stood in serene unconsciousness of any "malice aforethought" on Kate's part. 
               "Mrs. Brockhurst cannot refuse to pardon me when she sees that I have been the greater sufferer of the two," she replied, "and she bears her misfortune with such perfect equanimity that I rather think she owes me a reward for affording her the opportunity of showing how well she can keep her temper." And she turned saucily to her father, her blue eyes fairly dancing with mischief, and her red lips quivering with the smile which would not be kept back. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne shook his head reprovingly; but, seeing that Harry and Lieut. Morris were shaking with suppressed laughter, and more than suspecting the true state of the case, he wisely held his peace, fearing that he should only moke matters worse by further remark; but he determined to give Kate a severe reprimand before she went to rest. 
               This little incident seemed quite to restore Kate's good humor, and for the rest of the evening she was as merry and bright as if no shadow had ever crossed her sunny spirit. 
               But Anna look wearied, and her cheeks were losing the slight tinge of color which they had worn during the earlier part of the evening, so the doctor ordered her to her room again, and Mr. Van Alstyne gave her his arm to the foot of the stairs. Harry Arnold and Morris were perched upon a table in the hall, concerting measures for some frolic during the next week, and he had opportunity for little more than the ordinary "good-night." As she turned to go up stairs, he detained her for one moment, saying, "Give me credit for unselfishness if I prohibit you from coming down to breakfast to-morrow." 
               She smiled but did not look up, until he whispered enquiringly, "Anna?" and held out his hand I to her. She timidly placed her own within it, raising her eyes to his for one instant, and he returned to the drawing-room well satisfied with the look and smile she had given him, and too happy to quarrel with any one. So Kate escaped the intended lecture, receiving instead a warmer goodnight kiss than usual. 
               "My pet," said Anna, when, Kate came up to bed, and they had talked over the events of the day, "how could you throw that tea over Mrs. Brockhurst?" 
               "It was the only way I had of stopping her questions," answered Kate, laughing heartily "and I assure you that the spoiling of Brock's dress is the least of my miseries. I was obliged to take some desperate measure, and the only one that occurred to me at the, moment was to occasion a little disturbance and make her the victim thereof. But Papa threatens me with unheard-of tortures if I let you go down to breakfast, so resign yourself to remain a prisoner to-morrow morning." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                   
                     
                        "A snake bedded herself under the threshold of a country-house"
                      
                     -LESTRANGE. 
                   
                
               "Kate," said Harry, meeting his cousin the next morning in the upper hall near Mrs. Brockhurst's door: and with his usual thoughtlessness speaking nearly in his ordinary tone of voice; "Kate, Wyndham says that he must see Anna alone this morning. Can you manage it?" 
               "I fear not," she began; and then perceiving the dangerous neighborhood in which they were, and that the door of Mrs. Brockhurst's room stood ajar, she drew him to the other end of the hall, "I do not see how it can be done, Harry. Anna is far from well, and she cannot bear much more excitement. She is forbidden to come down stairs this morning and I do not know how he can see her without exciting remark." 
               "I wish that I had never brought him here," said Harry impatiently, "I am in a sad scrape. Wyndham will not believe that he runs any more risk by remaining in this house than he would do elsewhere, Stuart suspects something I can see, and my uncle will be very angry if he finds out the trick we have been playing." 
               "I am sorry too, Harry," she answered, "it is a bad business, but what is done cannot be undone, and you would hot be Harry Arnold if you were not in a scrape." With which comforting assurance she passed her arm through his and they went down stairs together, quite unconscious of the farther mischief Harry had wrought in the last minute. Mrs. Brockhurst, standing near her door had heard Harry's first words to Kate. Here was a new riddle for the widow, the solution of which she might turn to her own advantage. 
               As the two cousins entered the breakfast room, Major Stuart's servant stopped Kate. "His master's compliments to Mr. and Miss Van Alstyne, and he had taken a little cold in his arm and was suffering too much to come down." 
               "You seem unusually active this morning, Kate," said Mrs. Brockhurst sneeringly, as she saw Kate arranging with her own hands the tray on which Major Stuart's breakfast was to be carried up. 
               "Yes," retorted the young lady. "I formed a series of good resolutions last night, one of which was to keep my temper as admirably as you do, whatever may be the provocation." 
               "Who is for church this cold Sunday morning?" asked Mr. Van Alstyne, anxious to put a stop to farther dispute. "Mrs. Arnold and Mrs. Brockhurst, will you venture?" 
               Both ladies assented, the latter with a mental reservation. She would go or not, according as the intentions of others revealed themselves. "Miss Hamilton and Stuart of course remain close prisoners," said Mr. Van Alstyne; Sybil, what say you? "Sybil declined, but Mrs. Brockhurst interposed. "You are perfectly well, my dear, and there is no reason for your remaining at home. I desire that you will go." And Sybil had not the courage to persist in her refusal. The gentlemen would all go except Mr. Wyndham, who pleaded a slight indisposition as his excuse. Mrs. Brockhurst immediately reversed her decision, although it did not suit her to declare at present that she had done so. 
                
               When Kate returned to Anna she informed her of her brother's request that she would see him, and told her that all the family with the exception of Major Stuart, who was confined to his room, would be absent at church for the greater part of the morning. 
               "But still I do not see the advantage that will be to you, Anna, for you cannot leave your room; and even if you could do so, some of the servants might meet you and wonder at seeing you with Mr. Wyndham." 
               Anna thought for a moment. "I can see him in the little summer house at the end of the rose-walk," she said at length. "Major Stuart's windows are on the other side of the house, and none of the servants are likely to be in that part of the grounds. Let Harry tell him to meet me there after you have all gone to church." 
               "Impossible, quite impossible, Anna, you are dreaming, you cannot go out," exclaimed Kate. 
               "I must, Katie, I must see him, I cannot think of myself now. How should I feel if any added risk or trouble were to arise for him through my negligence of his wishes. Remember what danger he is in, and put yourself in my place. This is no moment for selfish considerations." 
               "Selfish!" exclaimed Kate, "Who could ever accuse you of being selfish? Forgive me, Anna, if I seem to oppose you, but remember that you need all your strength just now while you are harassed and troubled. The weather is bitterly cold, and if you should fall ill from exposure while so much depends upon you, what is to be done?" 
               "The strength I need will be given to me," said Anna, "and Guy would not have asked to see me this morning had it not been necessary. Oh! do not stand in my way, love," and she spoke in a tone BO wild and excited that Kate offered no further opposition, but kissing her affectionately said, 
               "As you think best then, I will do all you wish," and unwillingly left the room to deliver her message to Harry, saying to herself What would papa say if he knew what she was doing?" 
               The family were assembled, ready to start for church, with the exception of Mrs. Brockhurst, who kept them waiting for what Mr. Van Alstyne, who was the most punctual of men, thought a very unreasonable length of time. At last she sent forward Kate, Sybil, and the three young men declaring that there was no necessity for the whole party to be late. The carriage was scarcely out of sight when Mrs. Brockhurst made her appearance, apologising for detaining them, but she had been attacked with a severe headache and should be obliged to remain at home. 
               Kate's heart sank within her when she saw the others enter the church without Mrs. Brockhurst, and as her father seated himself beside her she whispered to him, asking where she was. 
               "Sick, staid at home, he answered concisely; and was astonished at the look of dismay which spread over her face. She was not wont to be distressed by the non-appearance of the widow. 
               Mrs. Brockhurst returned to her room, leaving the door ajar so that she could watch the hall without being perceived herself: and was soon rewarded by seeing Anna softly stealing down the stairs, wrapped in a shawl and hood. "So, she is to meet him in the grounds," she said to herself, and going to her window watched Anna as she went down the rose-walk until she disappeared from sight. Hastily throwing a shawl over her shoulders, she followed cautiously, keeping behind the shrubs that skirted the walk, until she arrived sufficiently near to the summer house to perceive Anna and Wyndham in earnest consultation. She stood observing them for a few minutes, then slipped back, and stationed herself again at the window to watch for their return. More than au hour elapsed before Anna reentered the house as quietly as she had left it; and shortly after Wyndham came in. 
               Mrs. Brockhurst's object was attained; she had seen quite enough to enable her to make the first move in the game she was about to play. 
               "Colonel Hamilton's wish to see his sister this morning had been dictated by the necessity of some speedy arrangement of his pecuniary affairs. Finding that she had but part of the sum he required in her possession, he had, on the previous day discussed with Harry various plans for raising the remainder; but they all seemed to be attended with too much risk of discovery. Accustomed to the unlimited command of money, Hamilton's proud spirit rebelled strongly at this pressing want of what he designated as "a few paltry hundreds," while there lay his wife's immense fortune in Mr. Rutherford's hands, and they dare not claim enough for their immediate needs. 
               Nor was this second consultation with Anna more satisfactory, and at the end of an hour's talk they seemed as far from a conclusion as when they first met. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne had been charged by Mr. Arthur Hamilton with the care of Anna's affairs during his absence, and any plan that she could devise necessitated an application to the former, and, in her mind, made it imperative that he should be made acquainted with all the circumstances. To this Hamilton positively refused to accede; nor would he listen to Anna's proposal that he should take the five hundred dollars she had and at once start for Canada, leaving Sybil to join him afterwards when she might find opportunity. 
               "You can travel faster and with less risk alone, dear Guy," said Anna, "and Sybil advocates this plan herself." 
               "I know it, Anna," he replied, "but no power on earth shall induce me to leave my wife, unless I should feel that I was in immediate danger of recapture, when for her sake even more than my own I should go at once. Perhaps it is as well, love, that you should give me what money you have in case any such sudden emergency arises; but under no other circumstances can I be persuaded to go without Sybil. She shall not re main here to be tormented by Mrs. Brockhurst while she has a husband to protect her. That woman's tyranny is unendurable. I wish that she were a man," he said, setting his teeth fiercely, "that I might"-he did not say what, for Anna laid her hand soothingly upon his arm and he calmed down beneath the gentle touch. Probably not even her sex would have saved Mrs. Brockhurst from some manifestation of his wrath had he been aware of the laudable occupation in which she was at that moment engaged. 
               "Wait here then, Guy, and I will bring the money to you," said Anna. 
               "No," he said, "I have done wrong already in allowing you to come out in this biting air. I should not have consented to it had not Harry told me that Miss Van Alstyne thought we were not safe from interruption in the house, and to tell the truth I was so annoyed on Sybil's account that I had little thought for anything else." 
               "Little thought for anything else!" He was far enough from any intention of wounding her, as he thus tried to excuse the carelessness with which he now reproached himself; but a pain shot through Anna's heart at his words, the pang which many a mother and sister feels when she recognises for the first time the fact that another and a stranger holds her place-the first place in the heart of her son or brother. But she gave no sign and the feeling was subdued almost as soon as it had arisen. 
               "I will meet you in the library to-night after the rest of the family have gone to their rooms, and you can bring the money there," continued Hamilton. Meanwhile I will decide what is best to be done. It may after all be necessary to apply to Van Alstyne; but it will involve the loss of too much time to raise a thousand dollars by any of the methods you have proposed, and the only way is for you to borrow it directly from him, and you must on no account let him know for what purpose you require it." Anna started and changed color, but not perceiving it he went on. "Go in now, and I will tell you to-night what conclusion I have come to," 
               "I could raise sufficient by the disposal of some of my jewelry, and that would be far better," said Anna, shrinking from her brother's last proposition; "but the, difficulty is to find some way of sending them to New York." 
               "Well," said Hamilton, "we shall see. I cannot let you stay here any longer. Go first that we may not be seen to enter the louse together," and with this arrangement they parted. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX 
                
                  
                     "A rosebud set with little willful thorns."
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "She'll not tell me if she love me."-
                      
                     -Tennyson. 
                   
                
               KATE wandered down to the drawing-room that afternoon, in rather a 'miserable mood. She found it deserted, and going to the bow-window stood leaning her head against the glass, apparently looking out, but her eyes saw thought of the scene before them. Depressed and anxious as she was, hearty cry would have been an amazing relief but she dared not indulge herself so far. She was not given to tears, and their traces might draw forth remarks and questioning which she would find it troublesome to evade. 
               So absorbed did she become in her own thoughts that she heard neither the opening and closing of the door nor an advancing step. Suddenly the rolling of a large armchair in front of the window startled her, and turning quickly around she saw Major Stuart. "Fairly trapped," she thought, half inclined to laugh as she saw how completely he had barred her exit. She did not dare to look at him, but held out her hand with a careless, "I am glad to sec you down again, Major Stuart. How is your arm this afternoon?" 
               "Very painful, Miss Kate," he answered, uttering a complaint for the first time in her hearing, and assuming a disconsolate look, hypocrite that he was; but he was determined to make capital of his sufferings in this instance 
               "And is there nothing that will relieve it?" she asked. 
               "Time and patience," he replied. "But thinking that a little sympathy might be beneficial I came down to seek it." 
               "Let me call Aunt Mary then," said Kate, "petting invalids is her especial province, and it lies entirely out of mine." 
               "It is time that you began to practice then," he said coldly, "and I shall try to be content with your first efforts in that direction." 
               Kate tried to withdraw the hand he still retained in his own; but he held it fast. 
               "Let my hand, go, sir," she said, trying to look indignant, and she struggled to free it. 
               "Take care, Kate, you will hurt this poor arm," and Kate stood quiet as a mouse. 
                
               "Katie, tell me that you thought of me sometimes when I was away." 
               "Of course I did," she returned, "I always think of my absent friends when I have nothing better to do." 
               He looked at her earnestly for a moment, then releasing her hand and taking out his pocket-book, he said, "Will you open this for me?" 
               He had but one available hand, it is true; but he had learned to help himself pretty well with that, and it was singular that it always seemed to lose something of its cunning when Kate was present, as he was invariably more helpless if she was at hand to tender her services than when he was dependent upon others. 
               Taking the pocket-book from him she unclasped it, and as she held it he drew from its recesses a folded paper. Kate looked on wonderingly as he unfolded this, then a second and a third which it contained, until a faded blue flower met her eyes. 
               "An ugly dried flower," she said saucily, supposing that she must have given it to him, although she could not recall having done so. "What a thing to bestow so much care upon." 
               With one of his peculiar, grave smiles, he quietly replaced it in his numerous envelopes and put it carefully back in the pocket-book, then as she returned the latter to him re-possessed himself of the hand which held it. 
               "There is but one thing in the world I should bestow more upon" he said. "Listen, Kate, I have a story to tell you." He paused a moment, then went on again. 
               "One sunny morning nearly four months ago, our quiet camp was electrified by the discovery of a sudden maneuvre of the enemy, which, if successful, would entail the most disastrous consequences. I need not enter into details, it is enough to say that in the course of the movements taken to frustrate it, it became necessary to guard a bridge over a stream running at the edge of a piece of woods and just beneath the brow of a hill. A little band of men were detailed for this purpose. But few could be spared, although it was feared that the enemy would endeavor to cross at this spot in some force, and that little band knew that in all likelihood not many of their number would live to return. But it was absolutely necessary that the bridge should be held at least for a time; it must be done at all hazards"- 
               "And it was done!" she said, looking up at him, her face radiant with a sudden flash of pride and delight, "it was done! I know!" 
               Ah! he did not think how much she knew. He did not guess how for months past she had hung an eager listener upon the words of those who chanced to speak in her hear in of his gallant deeds-how she had gleaned from the newspapers every scrap wherein her hero's name was mentioned, and hoarded them up in the secret drawer where lay two or three other priceless treasures-worthless trash they would have appeared to other eyes-a photograph; two or three flowers, dry and withered as that be had just shown her; a tarnished gold cord and tassel, discarded by its former owner when she had fastened in its place the crimson ribbon she had embroidered and fringed, struggling as she did so to conceal the gathering tears. 
               But she did not know how he had longed to whisper his hopes and wishes then, as he saw the trembling of the little fingers as she tied the gay badge upon his sword. But he refrained. She was still too young, too much of a child to know her own mind, he thought. He would fetter her by no promise then; when he returned she would be older, would have seen something of the world, and then, if it might be, he would gather the sweet flower and wear it for his own. She was not many months older now; and one season at the watering places could scarcely have been supposed to give her much knowledge of the world or life; but he persuaded himself that the test had been all-sufficient, and besides, beneath all her gay caprices he perceived something that gave him a confidence he had not felt before. 
               "Done!" he repeated, answering her eager look with one as eager and enthusiastic, "yes, it was done, Katie! My noble boys! How splendidly they held their ground against that terrific charge, never yielding one inch though three fourths of their number lay wounded or dead before Loring brought his men to their aid. He can tell you of the brave fellows." 
               "He told me the story last night," she said with another bright look, "but it was of one brave fellow' that he had most to say, one who, though bleeding and fainting, would not allow himself to be carried away; but still held the foremost place, cheering on his me-" 
               "Stop, stop, Kate," he said, "this is a digression and has nothing to do with my story. Let me go on. Silence and secrecy were indispensable, and after the men were posted, we remained nearly motionless. Scarcely a sound broke the stillness of the woods except an occasional restless movement of the horses or a whisper from some of the men. So we had remained for nearly an hour when our advancing foes were heard. Just at that instant a gleam of sunlight fell through the trees upon a low bank at my right hand, revealing to me what had before escaped my notice, a little blossom, not then an ugly dried flower;' but blue as the bright heaven above us-blue as the pair of dear eyes I was that moment dreaming of-eyes that I selfishly hoped-Katie, was I wrong?-might be dimmed with tears for me should I fall the coming struggle. Sweet little flower! it seemed to me like a living thing; I could not leave it there to be trampled pled under foot, and bending from my horse I gathered it, folded it in a piece of paper and placed it in my pocket-book. At the instant that I replaced the latter where I usually carried it, in my right breast pocket, a shower of balls fell around us and with a sudden swoop the enemy were upon us. Coming over the brow of the hill instead of around it as we had expected, they had caught sight of us sooner than we had thought possible, and this was their greeting. One ball passed through my shoulder, another, thank God!-struck the arm where it lay across my breast. Who shall say that tiny flower had not been placed there with a merciful intent. Kate, had I passed it by unheeded the ball which happily only shattered this arm, would have stilled forever the heart whose last thought would have been for you." 
               Kate shuddered; then lifting her glowing face she said coaxingly, while smiles and tears, struggled for the mastery, "Will you give it to me?" 
               "Give you what? my 'ugly dried flower?' But you would not care for it." 
               "I would," she said repentantly, "I did not know. Please let me have it." 
               "But I must be paid," he said, "paid with interest, and I told you that there was but one thing in the world I valued more. Are you content to give it in exchange? " 
               She was silent, and he bent his head to look in her half-averted face. 
               "Are the conditions too hard?" 
               She tried to cover her face with the hand, that was free; but with a quick movement he imprisoned that too in his own, and-there was no hiding-place but on his shoulder, and there she buried her sweet face. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                  
                      
                        "For to be wroth with one we love, 
                        Doth work like madness in the brain." 
                     
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "There hath passed away a glory from the earth.
                      
                     WORDSWORTH. 
                   
                
               MR. VAN ALSTYNE stood with his back to the fire, with the air of a man who was well-satisfied with himself and all that surrounded him. 
               "Well, 'monarch of all you survey,'" said Kate, "how supremely happy you look." 
               "Well, my bird, and have I not reason?" 
               And had he not reason? Possessed of an honored name, a dignified position, unlimiting means, and a home beautiful as wealth and a refined taste could make it, an affectionate and attractive child, and, more than all, a conviction that the woman he so devotedly loved returned his affection, who might wear a look of happiness if not Maximilian Van Alstyne? 
               Mrs. Brockhurst watched him for a few moments. She did not love him; not even his noble character could touch her cold heart; but it would gratify her ambition to become his wife, and she would leave no means untried to attain that end. She rose and took another seat nearer to him. 
               "How do you think Miss Hamilton is looking to-night?" she asked. 
               "Uncommonly lovely even for her," he replied, his eyes resting admiringly on Anna, who was talking with Loring and Morris, the former rather incensed that his junior officer should presume to pay his devoirs at the shrine where he was worshiping. 
               "Yes," she rejoined, "she is looking far better than she did last evening. I feared it would be otherwise after her long walk this morning." 
               "Her long walk this morning," he said, in his astonishment repeating her words, "you must be mistaken, Mrs. Brockhurst. Miss Hamilton did not leave her room to-day until she came down to dinner." 
               "Excuse me, it is you who are laboring under the mistake. Miss Hamilton left the house this morning, attired for a walk, during your absence at church; and thinking that the air might benefit my head, I followed with the intention of joining her, but soon found that Mr. Wyndham had been beforehand with me; and they seemed so absorbed with each other that I continued my walk alone, fearing that I should be de trop. I thought her excessively imprudent however, more especially as she remained out for more than an hour. "Mr. Van Alstyne looked incredulously at her, and she added," Mr. Wyndham seems quite to have fascinated Miss Hamilton; I saw that she was much interested in him on the evening of his arrival. I do not, find anything so very attractive about him." 
               "The attraction with Miss Hamilton arises probably from the fact that he was her only brother's dear friend;" and he turned coldly from her; but the arrow had gone to the mark. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne was in a state of utter amazement. He could scarcely doubt Mrs. Brockhurst's positive statement, and yet it was almost impossible to believe that Anna whom they had left in her room, and whom all were regarding as an invalid, to be petted and cared for, should have gone out in such a wintry day, and, could it be? for the purpose of meeting Wyndham as Mrs. Brockhurst's words seemed to imply. And again he remembered with a pang, her agitation on that first evening. 
               But no, he could not, he would not doubt her. She had certainly been guilty of great imprudence in leaving the house for a walk in her present state of health; but of anything worse she was assuredly innocent. The meeting with Wyndham was of course accidental, and he endeavored to dismiss the subject from his mind, while his manner to Anna for the rest of the evening had perhaps an additional shade of tenderness from the slight feeling of remorse he experienced at having for one instant doubted her. 
               He called his daughter back after she had bidden him good-night." Kate did Anna go out this morning while, we were absent at church?" 
               Kate almost gasped for breath. "Yes, sir, I believe so, she went out for a little walk." 
               "What madness! she must surely have lost her senses. Why did you not prevent it?" he said, forgetting that Kate had been away as well as himself, and, after the manner of the nobler sex, venting his displeasure upon the first object that presented itself. 
               "Lost her senses indeed, it will be no great wonder if she does so before long," thought Kate, as she ran up stairs. She found Anna still dressed, sitting before the fire, and to her entreaties that she would immediately go to rest, Anna answered, "I must go down stairs again for a few minutes, Kate, when all have gone to their rooms and the house is quiet. Guy is to meet me the library in order that I may give him what money I have." 
               "Let me take it to him," said Kate, oblivious of propriety. 
               "No, no, dear," Anna answered, "that would never do, and even were it proper that you should do so, I want to see Guy myself. I must make one last appeal to him either to confess all to your father or to let me do it, I can bear this concealment no longer. It is neither just nor right, and I can only wonder that Guy with his nice notions of honor does not see it in the same light." 
               "And papa would be so ready to help him," said Kate, as she stood gazing into the fire. 
               They were both silent for a few moments when Anna said, "Kate, has it struck you that Major Stuart has some suspicions in regard to Guy? I have feared that it might be so." 
               "If he has any he has said nothing of them to me," answered Kate, "and I do not fear that he will harm him. And just now, Anna, I-he-I have given him something else to think about. I have a secret to tell you," and with a low, trembling little laugh she threw herself upon her knees beside Anna, and buried her face in her lap. But minute after minute passed and the secret remained untold. 
               "Well, Katie," said Anna at length, lifting the blushing face between both her hands, and looking smilingly into the bright eyes which for the first time in their long intercourse turned bashfully from her gaze. "Well, Katie, when is my curiosity to be enlightened? What is the engrossing subject of thought with which you have provided Major Stuart?" 
               "Can you not guess, Anna? I do not know how to tell you." 
               "I think I can, dearest, and you shall tell me just as little as you please," said Anna as she drew the pretty head to her and pressed her lips caressingly to Kate's forehead. Kate twined her arms about Anna's waist, and then came the confidence, hesitatingly at first, then more freely as she poured out her full heart. 
               "I do not know how he ever came to care for me, Annie, I am so foolish and careless, and he is so good and wise, so manly and yet so tender, so brave and yet so gentle. If I were like you-but you will teach me to be more worthy of him, more worthy of this great happiness." 
               "I am inclined to think that Major Stuart is quite satisfied with you as you are, dearest, and though I am ready to believe him to be all that you say, I cannot acknowledge that my Kate is not worthy of him. And is your father satisfied?" 
               "He does not know yet. Major Stuart is to ask him to-morrow; but," she said with a sudden sparkle of mischief breaking through her serious mood, "I fear that he will be more amazed than gratified. I find that he has a fancy lately for being considered young; and he may think that a marriageable daughter is a possession rather incompatible with the indulgence of such a claim. It is quite time that he was roused from the delusion under which he labors that I am still a child, but I am sorry that he should have such a rude awakening." Then becoming grave again, she asked, "But what reason had you for thinking that Major Stuart suspects your brother." 
               "Perhaps it may be only fancy, love: I am so ready to take alarm. But I could not help thinking that Major Stuart scrutinizes Guy very closely at times as if he thought there were something wrong." 
               "That is easily accounted for," said Kate, "You know you were puzzled yourself by much that seemed familiar in Colonel Hamilton's voice and manner on the first evening he was here, and the mystery has never been solved for the Major." 
               "God grant that it may not be solved too soon," was Anna's fervent response. 
               "But, Anna, you do not fear that Walter Stuart would lift this hand against the man who saved his life! I Do you not remember the gratified affection he expressed for your brother that evening?" 
               "Yes, Kate, and I remember his answer to your aunt when she asked him what he should do in what we then considered an almost unsupposable case. I do not know how far Major Stuart would regard it binding upon him to give Guy up to the authorities if he knew that he were here; but, unless less I am mistaken in him, he would do what he considered right, no matter how great a sacrifice of personal feeling it involved." 
               Kate was silent, for her own ideas coincided too nearly with those of Anna for her to endeavor to reassure her by offering a contradictory opinion. They sat without speaking for a few minutes, until the striking of the half hour past midnight warned Anna that it was time she should go down to meet her brother. She opened the door and listened. Perfect silence and repose had fallen upon the great house; not a sound was to be heard except the slow ticking of the old clock in the hall, and the lights were apparently alt out save the little gas jet which burnt all night upon the landing; yet Anna lingered. Some undefinable feeling seemed to hold her back. 
               "You are sure that every one has come up stairs, Kate?" she asked. 
               "Yes, dear, they had all gone but papa before I came up, and I think that I heard him close his door immediately after." 
               And hesitating no longer, Anna passed softly from the room and went swiftly down stairs. 
               Adjoining the library at Ranleigh Manor-House, and opening out of it by folding doors, was a small apartment regarded as Mr. Van Alstyne's sanctum sanctorum. Here when the doors were closed, not even Kate ventured to intrude; and here, upon the night in question, came the master of the house, after his family and guests had dispersed, to look for an important paper which he needed on the morrow. Having found what he was in search of, he extinguished the lights, and throwing himself upon a couch, fell into a long and deep reverie. The clock had struck half past twelve, and he was on the point of arousing himself to go to his room, when the door of the library opened, and Wyndham came in. Astonishment at the Englishman's appearance in that part of the house at such a late hour of the night kept Mr. Van Alstyne silent for an instant, and being himself in deep shadow he could not be seen from the library; but he was just about to speak and make his presence known, when Anna entered and came quickly to Wyndham's side. She placed something in his hand, and clasping his arm around her waist Wyndham drew her head upon his bosom, and while his hand caressingly smoothed her hair, he pressed kiss after, kiss upon her forehead and lips. 
               At length raising her head Anna whispered, "Dearest brother, will you not let me persuade you to confide in Mr. Van Alstyne, and procure from him the sum you need? He is so noble and generous, and always ready to lend a helping hand to those who need it." 
               "Perhaps so in ordinary cases, Anna," he returned; "but do you not see that here he would think it was-what are the terms these magnanimous Northerners give it?-'aiding and abetting treason'-'giving help and con-fort to the enemy;' etc." 
               Strange to tell, this view of the case had not truck Anna before; but now she felt that there was too much reason in her brother's words. 
               "But even if he will not help us, can you feel that it is right for you to remain in his house in a false character, Guy? Let me tell him if you are averse to doing it yourself." 
               "If he must know, Anna, I will myself be the one to tell him; but suppose that I do so and he declares that he thinks it right to give me up, how then? He would scarcely thank me for making such a revelation to him just at present. As soon as I am gone, love, you shall tell him all, and, unless I am grately mistaken he will readily forgive the brother for the sister's sake." And he smiled as he raised the bent face which had glowed crimson at his words. "All is fair in love or war you know, Annie, and just now I am the victim of both." 
               "And you will not go at once?" 
               "It is useless to urge me, Anna, I told you before, I will not without Sybil and the means of providing for her comfort until we can reach Charleston." 
               "Would it not do for Sybil to ask Mr. Rutherford for the money? He is good-natured and fond of her." 
               "And cause him to wonder and surmise as to her object in requiring such a sum, and go to Mrs. Brockhurst with his inquiries," said Hamilton impatiently. 
               One or two great tears rolled from Anna's eyes as she laid her head wearily against her brother's arm. There seemed no, way out of this complications of troubles. 
               No part of this whispered conversation had hitherto reached Mr. Van Alstyne's ears; but when Hamilton spoke again it was in a louder tone and Van Alstyne distinctly heard every word which followed. 
               "No, no, love," he continued after a moment's pause, "we must find some other way. You spoke this morning of selling enough of your jewels to bring the sum we want; but who is to dispose of them? You could not go to New York at present, without exciting remark, and it would scarcely be safe for me to take them." 
               "And Harry is so rash and careless," said Anna, "and there is no one besides whom we could ask." 
               Colonel Hamilton reflected for a few moments. "I see no other way then, Anna, but for you to ask Van Alstyne for the money. It is a mere trifle to him and can be returned in a few weeks. But mind, love, no word of for whom or for what you desire it. Tell him merely that you have an immediate necessity for such an amount, and he has too much delicacy to ask any questions." No thought of the shrinking delicacy in Anna's heart at demanding the favor crossed Hamilton's ilton's mind, and yet he was a man who was generally particularly fastidious in all that related to women. "We must leave here by Wednesday at the farthest," he added, referring to Sybil and himself, "and whatever is done must be done quickly." 
               Anna sighed heavily, and replied, "Tomorrow morning then;" and throwing her arms around Col. Hamilton's neck, she drew his head down to her and pressed a passionate kiss upon his lips. Mr. Van Alstyne's hands were clenched until the blood started beneath the pressure of his nails. 
               "And now good night, my own Anna," said Hamilton. "I must not keep you longer," and he led her from the room, leaving Van Alstyne once more in solitude. 
               Unconscious that he was acting the part of a listener, unconscious of all save his own fearful agony, Mr. Van Alstyne had remained a motionless spectator of this scene. And this was Anna, his own Anna! Here on the very spot where he would yesterday have declared his love but for the interruption of Mrs. Arnold, she had stood in the arms of another, lavishing upon him caresses, one of which he would have given half his fortune to receive. And she was about to fly with him-for so he, construed Col. Hamilton's words-to fly from his house! the woman who had given him every reason short of an open avowal, to believe that she returned his love. And he had gloried in the manifestation of his preference in the presence of others. Van Alstyne was a proud man, and to the utter destruction of the hopes so rudely shattered, was added a bitter feeling of mortification and wounded pride. 
               There was nothing to soften the blow which had fallen so suddenly. It was not alone the misery of knowing that she could never be his, that the heart he had coveted belonged to another; but she was unworthy of his love, unworthy of all the trust and confidence he had reposed in her. She had willfully and deliberately deceived him. When he had questioned her concerning Wyndham she had pretended almost entire ignorance, had stated that she had never seen him, and that in the most unconcerned and innocent manner. Nor was this all; for when Stuart had asked her if she had never met Wyndham before, she had reiterated these assertions in the most positive manner, weaving on the spur of the moment what must have been a complete tissue of falsehood. Could this be Anna Hamilton, this woman who must be such an adept in deceit? He had thought her so pure, so noble, so far superior to any woman he Lad ever known. In her he had garnered us so many hopes for the future, had so rejoiced in her influence over his daughter, so hoped to see her mould that daughter's character into a reflex of her own. And this was the end! 
               Strange that no glimmering of the truth crossed him but so it was Day was breaking when he rose from the lounge, and passing his hand over his forehead as if to collect his thoughts, went with a weary, languid step to his own room. 
               "Kate, is your father going to the city this morning?" questioned Anna. 
               "Yes, with the twelve o'clock train," she answered. "But I should like to know what misdemeanor I have unconsciously been guilty of, that has so disturbed him. His frown is worthy of Jupiter Tonans, and when I went, to the library a few minutes since to make my peace if I had done anything to offend him, he was walking up and down the room with one hand behind him, and the other restlessly handling his moustache; a sure sign that he is either angry or unhappy. He was so short with me that I was glad to make my escape without inquiring into particulars. I have treated Brock, with the most aimable consideration during the last twenty-four hours, in consequence of a pathetic appeal which he made to me yesterday, and I cannot divine the cause of his uneasiness. But seriously," she added, after a moment, I wish that I knew what is the matter with him. I do not like to see him look so. Can it be his knowledge of the fact that you went out yesterday? He was vexed about it last night, but it can scarcely be that alone which caused him so much annoyance." And she told Anna what had passed on the previous evening between her father and herself, fearing that she might be startled by some unexpected allusion to it. 
               But this minor cause of annoyance was lost sight of, in the sinking of heart with which Anna looked forward to the interview which she was about to seek with Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               "If your father is alone I had better go down to him now," she said to Kate, to whom she had confided what she, was about to do; and summoning all her courage; she descended to the library. 
               Her low and hesitating rap received no response from the pre-occupied tenant of the room; but a second attempt brought him to the door. 
               "Can I speak with you for one moment?" she said, in a quivering voice. 
               He made no answer, but opened the door wider for her entrance. He placed no chair for her, and, totally unable to support herself, she sank into one which stood near the table. She was feeling too much embarrassment to look him fully in the face: but she could not fail to be struck by the coldness of his manner, usually so gentle and tender towards her; still, recollecting what Kate had said, she feared nothing worse than that she had come at an inopportune moment. 
               "I am sorry to disturb you; but I could not well avoid it. I have come to ask a favor from you," she said, as he stood silent before her with folded arms. Still no answer swer: and she looked up wonderingly in his face. It was white to the very lips, and she shrank from the stern and haughty eye that met her own. Collecting herself once more, she began, "I wish to ask--" 
               "Spare yourself, Miss Hamilton," he interrupted, "any explanation is unnecessary, I know all." 
               "You know all?" she repeated, with a feeling of relief that there was no longer any necessity for farther concealment from him. 
               Yes, I know all." 
               "And you will help me?" she asked, looking pleadingly in his face, and unconsciously laying her hand upon his arm. He shook it off. 
               "Help you?" he repeated fiercely, and looking sternly at her, "do you come to me for help in this matter, to me, who-?" he paused, he would not betray the agony of his heart to the woman whom he believed to have trifled with him so cruelly. No glimpse of his real thoughts occurred to Anna. She believed that his anger was called forth by the attempt to draw him into connivance at Guy's escape. But terrified and bewildered at the dreadful change in his manner, she faltered forth, "And what must I do then?" 
               "Really I can give you no advice on the subject," he replied, still in the same scornful, bitter tone; "you had better consult the gentleman in whom you have already placed so much confidence. Permit me henceforth to decline all interference in your affairs, Miss Hamilton," and he walked into his study, closing the door behind him. 
               Supposing that his last speech referred to Harry, and conscious of little else save his fierce anger and scornful refusal to aid her, but feeling that all was at an end between them, Anna sat for a few minutes half stunned; then rising, slowly left the room. She had not known till now how much she loved him. But she must not give away yet. Too much depended on her maintaining her self-control until Col. Hamilton's escape was safely effected. Then, let her lay down her head and die. 
               Alone in his study, Mr. Van Alstyne buried his face in his hands. Here, in the little room which had seen so many sleepless vigils, while the statesman prepared the orations which were to enchain the minds of the great men of the nation; here, on the spot which had witnessed the conception of so many appeals to the best and noblest feelings of the human soul; the spot which had lately been the theatre of so many bright daydreams, he sat and pondered over the ruins of the fabric he had raised. A wild feeling of rage was at first his predominant emotion. That man should' not remain another hour beneath his roof; and the woman who had so mercilessly blasted his every hope of happiness for the future, should he bid her go also? Should he take his child and breaking up his household, go to some foreign land, there to hide his grief and wounded pride? 
               But softer feelings gradually resumed their sway, as the recollection of Anna's unmistakable suffering came back upon them? and he half repented his harshness towards her. Why was Wyndham so anxious for the money which he had instructed Anna to demand from him? According to all reports of him he should be a man of means. But whatever the motive for its possession, it was evident that Anna's misery arose from the need of it. And he could easily supply that need. Why should she suffer because he must? The world was all dark for him, but let her go and be happy in her own way. And perhaps-might it not be? as he thought of the difference in their years-perhaps she had thought that he looked upon her with something of a father's affection; and he, blind fool that he was, had been mistaken in thinking that she understood him. 
               With these thoughts he drew his checkbook towards him, and hastily signing his name to a check, and enclosing it in a few brief lines to Anna, called a servant and told him to deliver it to Miss Hamilton's maid. The woman found Anna lying motionless upon the sofa, her eyes closed; and supposing that she slept, laid the note upon the table and quietly withdrew, Anna hearing neither her entrance nor her exit. Greatly relieved at Anna's application to her father, and never doubting that it would meet with an immediate and favorable response, and. believing that she now saw a way out of all their difficulties, Kate, after Anna had, left her, concluded to accede to a request of Major Stuart that she would walk with him. Ringing for her maid therefore, she directed her to tell Anna that she had gone out, but would return shortly. The Major's ideas and Kate's differed on that subject however, and he detained her in the grounds for a much longer time than she had intended to be absent. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "When to mischief mortals bend their will, 
                           How soon they find fit instruments of ill. 
                        
                      
                     -POPE. 
                   
                
               AMONG Anna's ornaments was a set of cameos, presented to her by her uncle while they were abroad. The rare beauty of their workmanship and their exquisite designs made them extremely valuable; and she trusted by the disposal of these to obtain the wished-for sum of money. Harry was the only person to whom she could look for the performance of this delicate mission; and after she had left the library she sent to summon him. He willingly undertook the task; the more so, that it was but seldom that his friends were willing to entrust him with the execution of any important errand. With many charges to be careful, and to let no one suspect his purpose, she enclosed the case containing the cameos in some wrappings, and gave it into his care. Harry went down stairs, and finding his uncle in the hall, proclaimed his intention of going to the city with him. 
               Mrs. Brockhurst had been present, when Anna's message requesting to see him was delivered to Harry. She was alone in the drawing-room when he returned and asked if she had any commands as he was going to New York. 
               "A sudden resolution," she thought, as she noticed the parcel he carried, "he has some business on hand for Anna Hamilton." 
               Careless Harry! he laid the package upon the table, and taking up the newspaper, sat down to while away the few spare moments before the carriage should come to convey them to the station. 
               "Harry, will you bring me two or three geranium leaves from the conservatory?" asked Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               As ready to oblige as he was thoughtless, Harry went for them, entirely forgetting his precious charge. Mrs. Brockhurst seized her opportunity. Hastily untying the string and re-opening the papers which enveloped the parcel, she discovered a jewel case. Opening that, Anna Hamilton's splendid cameos, met her eyes. One glimpse was enough, and when Harry came back, his parcel lay just where he had left it, with no sign that it had been disturbed. 
               "I will watch for him when he comes home to-night," said Mrs. Brockhurst to herself, "and see if he brings those cameos with him. If not I shall believe that there is something wrong, and the young lady shall hear of them when she least wishes it." 
               And she did not fail to keep her word in either particular. 
               Morris requested permission to accompany. Mr. Van Alstyne and Harry; and the three gentlemen started for the station just before Kate and Major Stuart returned to the house. Running up to her room with a lighter heart than she had known for the last three days, Kate caught sight of her father's note lying upon the table. She took it up, but seeing that it had not been opened, she turned with it to Anna, who still lay with her face half hidden in the sofa cushions, though she had roused a little on Kate's entrance. 
               "Have you seen this, Anna?" she asked. 
               Taking it from her hand, Anna opened it without a word. It contained the following: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           MISS HAMILTON:-Enclosed you will find a check payable to your order, which you will please fill up with the amount you require. Pardon my roughness and incivility this morning. 
                           
                              MAXIMILIAN VAN ALSTYNE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Anna folded the note and grasping it closely in her hand, laid her head upon the pillow in silence. Kate looked at her, frightened at the stony calmness of her manner. 
               "What is the matter, Anna, what has papa written?" 
               "Not much, Katie, he declined to advance the money this morning, but has changed his mind and sent me a check; but it is not needed now." 
               And she told Kate what she had done with the cameos. 
               "Your beautiful cameos!" said Kate regretfully. 
               "It was a small sacrifice, dear, if it is but the price of Guy's liberty and safety. My only hesitation was in entrusting them to Harry. He promised me to be careful, and he is devoted to Guy; but; It cannot help fearing that his heedlessness may betray us. But it was the only resource that was left to me, and I must leave all in the hand of Him who will do what is best for us." 
               She spoke very quietly; but it was with the quietude of intense suffering, and Kate felt sure that some fresh shock had befallen her since the morning. 
               "Does papa know why you wanted the money?" she asked. 
               "Yes, he says he knows all, and I thought you had told him." 
               "Not a word, dearest; how could you think that I would do so without your permission? It must have been Harry." 
               "I do not think so," said Anna, remembering some wondering and by no means complimentary remarks concerning his uncle's state of mind which had escaped Harry, "unless he has betrayed it through some inadvertence. But it is of little consequence how it came to your father's knowledge, since neither of those who should have told him did so," she added wearily and turning her face from Kate. 
               "Was papa angry?" asked Kate, almost fearing to put the question. 
               "Very, Katie;" and a quick shiver ran over her as she answered. 
               Kate saw that there was more than Anna chose to tell, and asked no farther questions; but a strong feeling of resentment against Colonel Hamilton for the sufferings he was bringing upon the darling Anna had been rising within her for some time past; and her father now coming in for a share of this feeling, she broke forth into a torrent of indignant invective against them both. 
               "Hush, hush, Katie dearest, we cannot blame your father. He has reason to be displeased, and I had some fear that he would not think it right to advance the money if he knew for what purpose it was needed; but I did not think that he could be so angry." I And again that shudder passed over her. Then putting aside Kate's clasping arms, she rose, and seating herself at her desk, wrote- 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "Having made other arrangements, I return your check with, many thanks. 
                              
                                 Gratefully yours, 
                                 ANNA HAMILTON."
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   And re-enclosing the check, asked Kate to give it to her father when he came home. 
               "And I shall tell him what I think," said the incensed Kate. 
               "Katie, my love, do not! Katie, I beseech you say nothing to him. Oh! do not add to my trouble by making me the cause of dissension between your father and yourself!" and rousing from her apathy, Anna seized Kate's hands and held her until she promised to do as she required. Ah! how much of misery might she not have spared herself and the man she loved, had she allowed the impetuous girl to follow her own will in this instance. 
               "But oh! Anna, my own darling, do not look so; you break my heart," sobbed the distressed and frightened Kate. "Lie down and try to take some rest; you are so worn out and exhausted." 
               Anna tried to smile, and drawing the tearful, loving face close to her own, held it there one moment; then laying her head once more on the pillow closed her eyes, and Kate sat and watched her till she thought she slept. But quiet as she lay, no sleep visited her eye lids; memory and thought were too busy. Guy had made all his arrangements for the escape of Sybil and himself as soon as he should receive the money. Harry would probably place it in her hands to-night or tomorrow morning as opportunity offered, and they could leave to-morrow evening. Their escape once ensured, she could think of her own plans. Stay here, she could not; the house was no longer a home for her. She could not go with Guy and his wife, for the addition of another in their flight; would involve greater risk to him; but when he reached a place of security he must let her come to him; but she prayed that ere then she might no longer need an earthly home. Long Kate sat beside her, holding Anna's hands in her own, the scalding tears running, over her cheeks, and totally unheeding the fact that the guests below would wonder at her long absence. She would have given worlds, had she possessed them, to tell Stuart all her trouble, and ask his advice and assistance; but he was the last one who must know. 
               Having, as he supposed, left Mr. Van Alstyne at the railroad depot, Harry made some excuse to rid himself of Morris for an hour or two, and took his way to Tiffany's He had placed his foot upon the threshold, when he felt some one touch him on he shoulder, and turning, he encountered he uncle's grave, stern eye. 
               "Give me that, Harry," he said quietly, holding out his hand for the little parcel. 
               "Harry hesitated, but Mr. Van Alstyne repeated, "Give it to me, I will be responsible to Miss Hamilton for its detention," and Harry, not daring to refuse, placed it in his hand. Mr. Van Alstyne turned away, leaving his young relative in a rather crest-fallen state. When, for almost the first time in his life, he had been entrusted, with a commission of such importance, and one on the prompt execution of which so much depended, to have it taken from him in such a peremptory manner, and as though he were a mere child, without any reasons assigned, it was unbearable; and shaking his fist at his unconscious uncle, Harry went off to find Morris, and console himself with a game of billiards. Mr. Van Alstyne had observed the case in Harry's hand, and recalling the conversation of the preceding night, had easily divined what it contained. Hence he had followed him and arrested his steps ere he had accomplished his purpose. 
               On her way to the drawing-room, immediately before the dinner hour, Kate stopped at her father's door with Anna's note. Placing it in his hand, she would have turned away without speaking; but he called her back, and giving her the package containing the cameos, directed her to take it to Anna. Instantly guessing what it was, she said defiantly, "I think you had better, read your, note first." 
               Too much absorbed in his own painful thoughts to heed her manner, Mr. Van Alstyne turned his back upon her and opened the note. He considered a moment after reading it, and then gave Kate the check, telling her to return that with the parcel, as Miss Hamilton would find she still required it. Had she dared, Kate would have refused compliance; but saucy as she was at times, she stood greatly in awe of her father, and would not venture to commit a deliberate act of disobedience. She therefore returned with both check and cameos to her own room, and finding that Anna had gone down, put them in a place of safety. 
               Great was Kate's astonishment, and still greater her annoyance, on reaching the drawing-room, to find Howard Spencer installed at Anna's side with no diminution of his ordinary self-complacent manner. In answer to her inquiries, he said that his sister was better; but volunteered no explanation of his sudden and speedy return to Ranleigh; probably concluding that she was quite content with the pleasure he conferred upon her in becoming once more her guest. Kate looked at him with wonder, as he stood in the old attitude beside Anna, in apparent unconsciousness or indifference of the fact of his being a rejected suitor. 
               To describe Mr. Spencer's amazement and chagrin on receiving Mr. Van Alstyne's somewhat curt reply to his proposal for Miss Hamilton's hand, were a task impossible; for his inordinate self-conceit had sustained a blow of no common severity. But, when he had once taken counsel with his wounded vanity, it recovered itself with surprising elasticity. Quite unable to believe that any young lady who was free from a prior engagement or attachment, as he, supposed Miss Hamilton to be, would refuse the privilege he had tendered for her acceptance, if it were left to her own decision, he concluded that some adverse influence had been brought to bear upon her; and remembering Mr. Van Alstyne's displeasure at his disregard of his wishes, and being himself quite capable of any petty vengeance when he happened to be displeased, he fixed upon him as the guilty party. Hence, his sister's illness having taken a favorable turn, he decided notwithstanding that he had so recently quitted Ranleigh, to return there for a day, seek a personal interview with the young lady, and make her aware how much she was standing in her own light. Anna's pale cheeks, sad eyes, and languid movements gave added force to the conviction with which he had consoled himself and upon which he intended to act, as he imagined that they were but the result of the crossing of her inclinations by her guardian, as he considered Mr. Van Alstyne to be. Still farther confirmation was given when Mr. Van Alstyne requested him to take Miss Brockhurst into dinner, an arrangement which put nearly the length of the table between Miss Hamilton and himself; and, more than all, he observed during dinner that Anna's eyes were frequently sent with an anxious glance in his direction. He was considerably elated by all these proofs that his conclusions were right, and became rather more talkative in consequence; a result which did not enhance his attractions in the eyes of Kate, who privately confided to Mr. Rutherford her opinion that "a goose meditative was preferable to a goose communicative." But his satisfaction and with it his unusual loquacity were destined to be short-lived, for when they returned to the drawing-room, where, according to custom, he stationed himself beside Anna, a crook in his lot speedily developed itself. 
               Extremely anxious to learn if his sister's application to Mr. Van Alstyne had met with a satisfactory response, Colonel, Hamilton also placed himself close by Anna's chair, that he might take the first chance when no one else was near to question her; and the fiery, impatient glances which from time to time he shot towards Mr. Spencer, penetrated even the dull understanding of the latter gentleman, and convinced him that his presence was undesired by at least one of his companions. All the more persistently for this reason however did he maintain his post, imagining, as a far wiser man than himself had done, that Mr. Wyndham was a lover of Miss Hamilton, and determined if possible to drive him from the field. 
               "Hoity toity," said Dr. Wells, when he came in shortly after dinner, "is this the state in which you return the patient I entrusted to you for forty-eight hours, Van Alstyne? I hold you responsible for these colorless cheeks. What have you all been doing to her?" 
               But Mr. Van Alstyne either did not hear or did not choose to hear; and Anna's imploring look, put a stop to any further remarks upon her appearance. But the good doctor was sorely disturbed at his favorite's wan and haggard look, particularly so, as he saw that the trouble was more mental than physical, and beyond the reach of his skill. 
               Unwilling to have others observe his studied avoidance of Anna, towards whom he had not once looked even when courtesy required that he should address her, Mr. Van Alstyne withdrew to his study, pleading business as his excuse for absenting himself from the circle; and the evening had nearly passed before he re-appeared. 
               Surrounded by others during all this time, Anna had found no opportunity for a private word with Harry, and still remained in ignorance as to the result of the commission she had confided to him. His uneasy looks and even more than usual restlessness, however, filled her with a new alarm and was the cause of the troubled glances which had so often sought Mr. Spencer's neighborhood during dinner, Harry being seated next to that gentleman, who had flattered himself that they were directed towards him. Had this plan 'failed, where should she turn? and it required a fearful strain both on mind and body, to maintain her ordinary demeanor, and to converse and smile with those around her. 
               Mr. Spencer's perseverance proved more than a match for Colonel Hamilton's patience, and the latter finally walked away to his wife. Mr. Spencer lost no time. For the moment there was no one within hearing, and bending his head, he said in a low tone, with his usual infelicitous choice of expression, Miss Hamilton, I wish to ask you-ah-if Mr. Van Alstyne-ah-if Mr. Van Alstyne was not the moving cause-ah-of the answer you saw fit to make to a communication I sent through him last week?" 
               "Sir!" 
               The look and tone would have silenced any other man at once, but had no effect upon Howard Spencer who continued, "I see that you do not understand me. Did not Mr. Van Alstyne influence a decision which I presume was rather hasty and which I thought after deliberation you might regret?" 
               "He did not, sir," said Anna loftily. "The answer Mr. Van Alstyne returned was the result of my own unaided judgment and is not regretted. I understand you perfectly, and I beg that there may be no farther allusions to the subject," and rising she moved away and joined a group on the other side of the room-, hoping thereby to escape her pertinacious adorer. 
                
               Mr. Spencer retreated to a corner, where he remained for some time in sullen retirement. But he did not yet acknowledge himself defeated. As he began to fear that the prize he coveted was not prepared to drop into his arms at the first intimation that he was ready to receive it, he became more eager for its attainment. Concluding that Wyndham must be the obstacle, since Mr. Van Alstyne had not opposed himself to his wishes, he watched him with a jealous eye, anxious to know, how much he had to fear from this source, until Col Hamilton, as effectually prevented from holding any confidential communication with Sybil by Mrs. Brockhurst's constant presence, as he had been from doing with Anna by that of Spencer, left his wife's side, and walking across the room began to talk to Mr. Rutherford. Spencer immediately took the seat he had quitted. 
               "Who is this Englishman, this Mr. Wyndham?" he asked, fixing his eyes as he spoke upon the beautiful, impassive face beside him. Sybil, who-though no one would have dreamed it-as maintaining her selfcontrol with great difficulty in the dread and uncertainty which oppressed her, did not choose to consider herself addressed, and did not even raise her eyes, but Mrs. Brockhurst was quite ready to answer for her. 
               "A friend of Mr. Arnold, who brought him here; a slight acquaintance of my daughter; a very great friend and admirer of Miss Hamilton; and, until he came here, a total stranger to the rest of us." 
               The reply was intended quite as much as a thrust for Sybil, who remained perfectly immovable under it, as it was for an answer to Mr. Spencer's question. 
               "A great admirer of Miss Hamilton, is he?" he said sulkily. 
               "Very much so," said Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               "I presume his object in coming here was to see Miss Hamilton, and he has been extremely assiduous and devoted ever since he arrived." 
               "How long has he been here?" he asked with increasing ill-temper. 
               "Since the evening of the day on which you left." 
               "And does Miss Hamilton like him?" 
               "Oh, fie! Mr. Spencer, you should not ask me such a question, and I am really not, able to tell you. Miss Hamilton and I are comparative strangers, and if you wish for information on such a subject you must in quire of some one who has a better acquaintance with the young lady's secrets than I can claim." 
               "And so I will," he muttered to himself as he relapsed into his ordinary silence." 
               When Mr. Van Alstyne returned to the drawing-room found Mrs. Brockhurst talking to Major Stuart. Upon his entrance she addressed him with an inquiry relating to a valuable painting in his possession. From this with great adroitness she led the way to sculpture, carvings, coins, intaglios, etc. 
               "By the way, Major Stuart," she said, "Miss Hamilton owns a remarkably beautiful set of cameos which I presume you have lever seen." 
               No, the Major had never had that pleasure. 
               "Miss Hamilton, will you allow your cameos to be brought down for exhibition?" asked Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               "Excuse me, Mrs. Brockhurst, they are scarcely worthy such a public display," returned poor Anna, the blood rushing to her head as she spoke. 
               "Allow us to be the judge of that, I beg if you. In my own opinion, it is but seldom that such splendid specimens are brought to this country. The Major is a connoisseur I believe, and you must let him pronounce upon them." 
               "Not if it is not agreeable to Miss Hamilton," said the Major, who saw that for some reason Anna was, averse to the proposal. 
               "Miss Hamilton should be only too proud to show them," said Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               "I shall not hazard the reputation Mrs. Brockhurst has given them by exposing them to your criticism," returned Anna, trying to smile. 
               "But I ask it as a favor," insisted Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               "I beg leave to decline," was Anna's reply, very decidedly given, 
               "May I ask why you refuse us so simple a gratification?" enquired Mrs. Brockhurst. Anna was no angel, she was a suffering, broken-hearted woman, goaded to the verge of madness by the terrible agony of the last few days; and her usually sweet temper was now roused by Mrs. Brockhurst's ungenerous persistence in what the most unobservant listener must have seen was an annoying request. 
               "Because I do not choose it," she answered haughtily, her color rising, and her eyes flashing as she turned them on the widow. 
               "Excuse me," said Mrs. Brockhurst, laughing faintly, had no idea of causing so much excitement. One would really think that the cameos must have vanished in some inexplicable manner, and that you did not wish to have it known." 
               The flush of anger faded from Anna's cheek, to be succeeded by the most death-like paleness; but Mr. Van Alstyne passing behind her, whispered so low that no other heard the words, "Compose yourself, all will be right." Then turning to Mrs. Brockhurst and addressing himself to her, he drew her attention from Anna, Without making it too apparent that such was his object, by continuing to talk on the same subject, but in a way that prevented any farther reference to the cameos, until Kate, who at a look from her father had vanished from the room at Mrs. Brockhurst's first request, returned with them in her hand, and opening the case, displayed their beauties to the astonished eyes of that by no means gratified lady. Once more was she foiled, and this time with her own weapons. 
               "I am sorry to differ from you, Anna," said Kate lightly, but with an intonation which the amazed Anna could not mistake, "but I am entirely of Mrs. Brockhurst's opinion that your cameos are entitled to any amount of admiration. Seeing that you were disposed to depreciate them and fearing if I waited for the conclusion of your debate with her that you might veto their production too decidedly, I acted upon my own responsibility and brought them down that the assembled company may judge of their merits." 
               The cameos were duly admired, and during the discussion over them which absorbed the attention of most in the room, Kate whispered to Anna how they had come into her possession. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Is this the noble nature 
                           Whom passion could not shake?" 
                        
                      
                     -SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               THE object of Lieut. Morris' visit to the city, had been the prosecution of some inquiries relative to Mr. Wyndham, which Major Stuart had directed him to make. Stuart was aware that Wyndham, on his former visit to this country, had held some business relations with a friend of his own; and he therefore sent Morris to this gentleman to ascertain if he could give him any information respecting him. In answer to the questions put to him as to whether Mr. Wyndham was either in this country or meditating a visit to it, the gentleman replied that Wyndham was still at home, and that he had received a letter from him but a few days since, in which he made no mention of any purpose of revisiting America. Here then was one point of Major Stuart's suspicions fully confirmed. The gentleman calling himself Wyndham was not that person. Who and what he was, still remained to be proved: but upon the following morning an accident revealed that, which when the secret was his own, the Major would have given much to be still ignorant of. 
               Kate, whose indignation against her father had by no means subsided, had tried to dissuade Anna from making use of the check sent by Mr. Van Alstyne, urging her to make another attempt to dispose of the cameos or some other ornaments, and to refuse the assistance which had once been denied. But Anna felt that no more time was to be lost, and heart and spirit were too completely crushed to leave room for the feeling of resentful pride which Kate endeavored to arouse. And notwithstanding her deeper interest in the affair, her judgment was calmer and cooler than Kate's. She could not blame Mr. Van Alstyne for his refusal, though she wondered at the storm of scornful anger which her attempt to ask his aid had called forth from one usually so self-controlled and courteous. She had placed the check in her brother's hands therefore, and all that now remained was to let Sybil know that this had been done, and to make the final arrangements for their flight that evening. This seemed likely to prove a difficult matter. Mrs. Brockhurst's eyes had scarcely been removed from Sybil during the last two days; and on the slightest attempt on the part of Hamilton, Anna or Kate to obtain an opportunity for a few private words with her, the widow was immediately at her side, ready to catch everything which fell from their lips; thereby driving Colonel Hamilton into a fearful state of exasperation, and keeping Sybil in a fever of anxiety and suspense. When Mrs. Brockhurst came down to breakfast on Tuesday morning, she said that Sybil was quite unwell, and that she must request that Dr. Wells should be sent for. It was true, Sybil was really ill; but of the cause of her illness her step-mother chose to give no account. 
               As soon as possible Hamilton sought his sister, and urged her to go to Sybil and tell her that all was in readiness, and that she had but to meet him at twelve o'clock that night, at a small gate opening from the park upon a lane which was but little frequented, and where Harry Arnold had engaged to have a carriage in waiting. Anna went to comply with his directions; but Mrs. Brockhurst had returned to her watch over Sybil immediately after breakfast and refused Anna admittance, saying that Sybil was inclined to sleep and she did not wish to have her disturbed. There was an expression of gratified malice and triumph in Mrs. Brockhurst's eye as she thus sent Anna away, which the latter however did not observe. She returned to Col. Hamilton, informing him of the failure of her errand, and it was with the utmost difficulty that she could prevent a sudden outburst of passion towards the woman who was exercising so galling a tyranny over his poor young wife. 
               "Have patience but a few hours longer, dear Guy," she said, "and Sybil will be under your protection, and out of Mrs. Brockhurst power. I will write a little note to her and tell her all you wish; and when the doctor comes Kate shall hand it to him and ask him to give it privately to Sybil. No need for any explanation to him; he will do it, were it but for the pleasure of helping Kate torment Mrs. Brockhurst." 
               Hamilton acceded to her proposal, no other er course seeming to present itself; and Anna was leaving the room to put her purpose 'in execution when Mr. Van Alstyne encountered her at the door. As he opened it he heard Hamilton say, "Hurry back, my darling, I shall wait for you here." 
               At the familiar and affectionate words addressed to the woman he had loved, a torrent of jealous fury rushed over Van Alstyne's spirit. He scorned himself for the feeling. During these last two days, since he had had cause to believe in her love for another, since he thought that he had proved her to be so utterly unworthy of the affection he had wasted upon her, he had struggled fiercely with it, and at times thought that he had subdued it; but again and again it overmastered him; and now as those few loving words of his supposed rival met his ear, all tenderness, pity or kindness were swept away, and he was once more only the stern, relentless judge of a heartless, deceitful woman. 
               It was not unnatural. She was the only woman who had ever stirred his great hear to its inmost depths. His marriage with Kate's mother had been one of those matches where, with a moderate degree of affection on both sides, the parties rather drift in to matrimony, for the reasons that they are thrown together and their friends seem expect it of them. She had been a gentle yielding wife; no striking discordance taste or disposition had made itself felt during the few short years of their union, and he had undoubtedly been fond of her; but she had never drawn forth the passionate devotion which Anna had aroused. Her he had loved with all the force of his strong nature, with all the hoarded tenderness which had so long lain dormant in his heart; and in proportion to the strength of his love were now his anger, jealousy and, disappointment at its overthrow. No fond regrets, no tender recollections came now to soften that jealous wrath; he only saw himself duped, deceived and betrayed, and as Hamilton's incautious words met his ear, he felt that he could have crushed them both as they stood. 
               Controlling all outward manifestation of his emotion, and ignoring Colonel Hamilton's presence, he spoke to Anna in a tone of cold, stiff politeness. "I was coming in search of you, Miss Hamilton. Those papers relating to Mr. Morton's lease are ready for your signature. Mr. Morton is here and Mr. Rutherford is with him in my study, waiting to witness it. Will it suit you to attend to it now?" 
               She signified her assent, and he led the way in silence through the hall and library to his own study. Mr. Rutherford and Mr. Morton were there, and the papers were duly signed and witnessed, the whole occupying but a few minutes. Mr. Morton took his leave immediately, and as soon as he had done so Anna rose to quit the room. 
               "I must ask your attention for a moment longer," said Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               "You do not need me any longer, I suppose," said Mr. Rutherford. 
               "No," replied Van Alstyne. 
               "Then I will leave you," and unheeding Anna's unconsciously appealing look, the old gentleman took himself off, glad of the chance to leave the two evidently estranged lovers alone, as he trusted that affairs would right themselves were but the opportunity afforded them for explanation. 
               "Mr. Spencer has been with me this morning," said Mr. Van Alstyne, as the door closed after Mr. Rutherford, "renewing his proposals for your hand. I supposed that I had, in accordance with your wishes, made my answer sufficiently explicit; but it seems that he is not satisfied, and refuses to consider your decision as final without some reason assigned'. He asked me upon a former occasion if I supposed your affections to be engaged, a question which I disclaimed any right or ability to answer. He now repeats this question, but expresses a wish-perhaps I should say a demand-that I should ascertain that point from yourself and let him know if such is the case, as he states that you will not afford him a personal interview." 
               Each one of his cold, measured words had fallen like an ice-bolt oh her heart, He paused for an answer, but none came. What could she answer? 
               "I cannot now profess ignorance on this subject," he said when he found that she did not reply. "Am I at liberty to satisfy him upon a point on which I can no longer have any doubts myself? " 
               The drooping head was raised, and she confronted him with a look in which amazement, incredulity and grieved reproach were mingled; but he did not meet it. He dared not trust himself to look upon the face wherein had once lain his sunlight, and his eyes were persistently averted. 
               This from him! Could he, so courteous, so honorable, so gentle in all his dealings with women, could he stoop to wound her afresh by thus taunting her with his knowledge of her love for him, the love which he had sought so eagerly until she had allowed him; to see that it was his own, then cast it from him with such scorn and for a cause so slight? There was a moment's silence, then came the reply, or rather reproof, in a tone as cold and steady as his own. 
               "Had no sense of what was due to yourself as well as to me induced you to spare me this wanton and uncalled-for insult, Mr. Van Alstyne, consideration for your daughter's dearest friend might have had some weight with you. My refusal of Mr. Spencer's offer must be considered as final and decisive. Neither he nor you have a right to demand my reasons, and I shall give-none." 
                
               "I am at a loss to conceive wherein lies the insult you lay to my charge, Miss Hamilton. You know best however, whether you have cause to shrink from allusions to the attachment, of whose existence I am too well aware, but of which the knowledge certainly did not come to me through any effort or desire on my own part." 
               What had she done to merit this at his hands? Had not his every word, look and act spoken of a lover's tenderness, of a lover's trust and hope before she had tacitly confessed that which he now so ungenerously recalled to cover her with shame? Shame! She would feel none I She had done nothing unmaidenly, nothing unworthy of herself. His was the shame, that he could descend to this. Indignation gave her strength. She stood there with the air of an empress, all the fire of her outraged and insulted womanhood flashing from her eyes and glowing on her cheek. She would have flung back the degrading imputations she thought he meant to cast upon her, and had the reproachful words which were rising to her lips found utterance they might have opened his eyes; but they were arrested by his own. 
               "One tiring farther. Am I right in supposing that it is your intention to leave my house at no distant period?" 
               "You are." 
               "Then you cannot wonder under the circumstances, if I should request that from that time all communication or correspondence between yourself and my daughter should cease." 
               Oh, God! how much more? How the pride which had upheld her was stricken to the very earth. He had snatched from her the last straw to which she clung in her drowning agony. 
               He felt rather than saw the sudden start and shiver as at some deadly blow; the convulsive grasp of the small hands upon the edge of the table by which she stood; he heard the faint gasp which followed those cruel words, and already he repented, already he wished them unsaid, and that he had left it to time to reveal his stern determination to prohibit all future intercourse between herself and Kate. 
               "I did not need this," she said in a faint whisper as once more she turned to the door. Her trembling hands could not grasp the heavy lock with sufficient firmness to turn it, and he stepped forward to do it for her. As he did so he would have spoken a few words, to soften, perhaps to withdraw, his harsh prohibition; but as the first sound of his voice reached her, she drew away and shrinking from him as though he had offered her some physical violence, interrupted him wildly, "No, no, not now; I can bear no more now! Let me go, oh! let me go!" and as he stood almost aghast at, her sudden vehemence, she was gone. 
               Once more within the refuge of her own room, the doors closed and locked that not even Kate might intrude to witness the flood of agony that for a time rolled its resistless waves over her crushed spirit. Alone with her broken heart; with no eye to mark her but that of the All-Merciful. 
               "Mother, mother," she moaned, as her clasped hands were raised with a despairing gesture above her head, "Oh! mother, I want you so, I want you so, dear mother!" Alas! no mother's eye was there to pity, no mother's tender arms to enfold, no mother's gentle voice to soothe and comfort. Far away in a Southern grave lay the dear mother, beside whom her young daughter might not even hope to rest when this weary struggle should be over. 
               Rest! rest! oh, how she longed for rest! Oh, that to-night when Guy was gone she might lay her head upon Kate's loving heart and sleep there a sleep that should know upon earth no awaking. Ah! what of life's promises, had she known that had not been broken? what of its hopes that had not been blasted? what of its flowers that were not crushed and withered? What more of joy or blessedness did it hold for her? 
               For awhile she wandered up and down the room, that piteous cry for her dead mother breaking now and then from her pale lips; then sinking on her knees by the bed-side, she murmured, "My God, grant me patience, grant me strength to bear all thy will, strength to endure till he is in safety; and then, my Father, have pity; then let the end come quickly, and take me to thyself and to the dear ones who have gone before." 
               Her head sank forward on the bed and she lay there a few moments motionless; then rising wearily she pressed her hands to her throbbing temples as she tried to collect her thoughts and remember what it was that she lad to do. Something for Guy she knew; but her mind was in such a whirl she could, not recall what it was. 
               As she stood there, her dark eyes so full of utter desolation, wandering around the room as though in search of some object by which she might steady and guide the reason which seemed shaken almost to its over-throw, they were arrested by a cross carved from some dark wood, and sent to Kate by a former schoolmate a few days since as a memento of the Holy Land. Long and wistfully she gazed upon it-that visible symbol of a love and self-sacrifice no human devotion can ever parallel, whose depths no human heart can ever fathom-gazed until the wild, agonized look passed in a measure from her face, and something of its own sweet repose returned-until the white hands relaxed from the strained, painful grasp they held upon each other, and the terrible beating of her heart was still. Bending forward, the pressed her lips reverently upon it, then as though the strength she had petitioned for were sent from on high, once more the brave, unselfish fish spirit, triumphing for a time over the might of its own suffering, took up again its burden, and she turned calmly and quietly to the task which lay before her. The note to Sybil which had been so cruelly delayed was written, and with this in her hand she went down to seek Guy. She dared not leave him top long. Too well she knew that the impatient spirit which was chafing itself so furiously against the obstacles which beset him in the execution of his plans, needed the influence of her soothing presence, of her loving words and smiles to keep him from breaking all bounds, and betraying himself by some unguarded word or act. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                  
                      
                        "I could not love thee, dear, so much, 
                        Loved I not honor more." 
                     
                   
                
               MAJOR STUART had as yet found no opportunity of asking Mr. Van Alstyne's consent to his engagement with his daughter. He had gone to the library on the preceding evening for this purpose, but found that his host had retreated to his own study and closed the doors, and Stuart knew enough of the rules of the house to be aware that he must not intrude when such was the case. Nor had he been more successful this morning. First Spencer, then Mr. Rutherford and Mr. Morton, next Miss Hamilton had been closeted with Mr. Van Alstyne; and al length he took Kate out for a walk, hoping for better fortune on his return. 
               Anna had found her brother still in the drawing-room, and after submitting her note to his approval, they remained seated beside each other discussing his plans until the lovers came in. 
               All glowing and rosy with the cold, as well as with that which she Designated as "a great impertinence" of Stuart's, perpetrated just before he opened the front door and allowed her to pass in; looking most lovely, and little dreaming of what was in store for her before she was an hour older, Kate rushed to the fire whither Stuart followed. Anna looked up and exchanged a few words with the pretty, sparkling creature before her I but her attention was almost immediately claimed again by her brother. Stuart was standing directly behind Kate, Anna and Col. Hamilton being just opposite to them. The Colonel was bending towards his sister, speaking in a low tone; and absorbed in what he was saying, he unconsciously raised his hand and removed the disguising spectacles which were a constant source of annoyance to him. The resemblance between the brother and sister was not especially remarkable at ordinary times, when Colonel Hamilton's hair wore its natural color which was a light chestnut, while Anna's wavy tresses were of a glossy black; but the darker hue he had given to it made the likeness somewhat greater, and the removal of the blue glasses gave more of its natural expression to his countenance. The resemblance at the moment was striking. Kate noticed it, and the truth with all its consequences, flashed upon Stuart. He stood a moment as if stricken dumb and motionless, until Kate turned her head over her shoulder and silently looked him full in the face. Unable to meet her eyes or to conceal his agitation, he hurriedly turned away and left the room. Crossing the hall, he shut himself in the "blue parlor" as it was called, when he was almost sure of solitude, as it was but seldom occupied. Here he paced back and forth trying to still the tumult of feeling that had been aroused by the discovery he had made, and deliberating on the course he should pursue. His duty was obvious the arrest of the escaped prisoner and his removal to a place of security. But how could he bring himself to do it? This fugitive from the law whom an unhappy fate had thus thrown into his hands was Guy Hamilton, the man who had saved his life at the risk of his own; Guy Hamilton, the hero of his boyhood, whom it had hitherto seemed impossible to identify as one and the same with Guy Hamilton the rebel officer! He had scarcely realized that truth until it was forced upon him in this dreadful manner. That it should be him of all other men with whom he was now called to stand face to face as a foe! The man for whom, notwithstanding long years of separation, he had always cherished an almost romantic feeling of affection and gratitude. Rather, far rather, he thought in the first shock, that Hamilton had left him to perish, that those cold waters had closed forever over his head ere he had been rescued by him whom he must now deliver up to justice. And this was the end of all his hopes that the day might come when he could show Hamilton that the service he had rendered had been cherished by no ungrateful heart. It was impossible, he could never do it; he could never throw a straw in the way of him to whom he owed all these years of life and happiness. What would his mother say? She who, although she had never seen Hamilton, considered him a something little short of a demi-god, always spoke of him as the best and noblest of men, had invented excuse after excuse for him when she heard that he had been one of the first to join the traitor cause, would hear no word of blame imputed to the man who had stood between death and her only son. 
               He was amazed at himself to think that his suspicions had not taken this direction before. No wonder that the voice of the pretended Wyndham, the voice long unheard, but once so loved, had seemed familiar to his ear: no wonder that from beneath the false, unnatural manner which Colonel Hamilton bad adopted as a means of heightening his disguise, there had occasionally peeped forth tones and gestures which had startled and even annoyed him, because he could not trace the associations they awakened to the source from which they sprang. The only wonder was that he had been so long deceived. And now, God help him! enlightenment had come only too soon. Much which had puzzled him as well as others, in Anna's looks and actions was now clear; and her sweet, sad face rose reproachfully before him as he thought on the sorrow he must bring upon her. But must he do so? Could he not keep his discovery to himself, concealing from others the knowledge that the secret was his own, thereby sparing Anna a load of grief, and himself the terrible necessity of bringing it upon her? And Kate, how would she look upon him if he caused any new distress to her beloved friend? He knew too well the girl's devotion to Anna to doubt for a moment that she would not only be grieved, but would feel highly indignant towards one who should bring upon her any additional trouble. And apart from all these more pressing motives for allowing him to escape unharmed, Hamilton's arrest must necessarily cause great confusion and annoyance even to those of the household who were not particularly interested in his welfare. Why should he disturb the repose and comfort of the circle beneath Mr. Van Alstyne's roof? But he could not hesitate; his duty was too plain. Hamilton was a traitor to his country an escaped prisoner amenable to her laws; and he himself a sworn defender of those laws, pledged by all he held sacred to see them fulfilled as far as in him lay, and to the defeat and punishment of those who had dared to trample upon and set them at defiance. And none knew better than himself the extreme importance of securing Hamilton until such time as all danger should be over from any revelation he might make of the intended military movements of which he was supposed to be cognizant. But one course was open to him; and he must go on in that, unheeding all obstacles, all considerations that might stand in the way of right and duty. 
               As he was deliberating how he might best perform the painful task that devolved upon him, the door was softly opened, and Kate stood before him. One look at her, sufficed to tell him upon what errand she had come. All the mischief, all the playfulness had vanished from that bright face, and Stuart felt that a struggle was before him, for there was an expression of quiet determination upon it which told of some resolve, which, perhaps, boded no good to his hopes. He went forward to meet her and took her hand. She did not resist, but looking solemnly in his face, asked, "What do you intend to do?" 
               Stuart hesitated, but she waited quietly for his answer. 
               "Do," he said, "about what, my darling?" 
               "About that which you were considering when I came in, Walter," she continued, "Do you think I do not know why you so hurriedly left me, a short time since? Do you think I do not know that you have discovered the secret which a few hours more would have rendered secure, or at least whose revelation then-would have been of but little consequence?" 
               Stuart was silent, and Kate once more asked, "What will you do?" 
               "What must I do, love?" he replied. 
               "Will you detain him?" she asked, almost in a whisper. 
               "Have I any choice, Kate?" 
               Kate withdrew her hand. "Walter Stuart," she said, "not two days have passed since you told me that you loved me, and drew from me the acknowledgment that that love was returned. I ask you now to give me a proof of the affection you then professed." 
               "Ask anything consistent with my duty, my own Kate," he returned, "and it is granted ere the words have left your lips." 
               "Let him go, Walter, oh! let him go," she said, clasping her little hands and looking in his face with a beseeching expression that he could hardly find it in his heart to resist. "Oh!" she continued, "before to-morrow morning he will be many miles from here, and none need know that you suspected he was other than Mr. Wyndham. We will keep our secret, Walter, you and I, shall we not? "and she smiled coaxingly as she spoke. 
               "Do not, Kate, my own darling, do not tempt me thus," returned Stuart; "oh! Kate, is not my duty already sufficiently trying? Do not make it more so, dourest." 
               "And my Anna," persisted Kate; "you will not bring this great sorrow upon her? Oh! it will kill her, indeed it will," and her lip quivered while, the tears stood in her eyes. "You do not know all that she is enduring, I scarcely know myself, but I am sure that there is something"--she checked herself, feeling that she had no right to betray that which she had only surmised and which Anna had hot chosen to confide even to her. "Oh! spare her, Walter, spare her, and," she continued in a lower tone, "spare yourself and me." 
               Stuart took those clasped hands once more in his own, and bending his head, touched his lips to her forehead, then releasing her, walked once or twice across the room while very feature was working with painful emotion. Returning to her side, he said, "Kate, who would be the first to despise me should I do this thing, should I shut my eyes to that which is so clearly my duty? I cannot, my love, I cannot give you the promise you require. You know well that I would not hesitate to make any sacrifice you could demand, were it but my own interest or wishes that stood in the way; but how would you look upon this were it another, if your own feelings were not so strongly enlisted in the furtherance of Colonel Hamilton's escape. Think you that I would willingly refuse one request of yours, that I would willingly add one more trial to all that your sweet friend must already have suffered on her brother's account? And, Kate, have you forgotten what this must cost me? Have you forgotten that Hamilton"-he paused, and leaning his arm upon the mantel-piece covered his face with his hand. 
               "No," she said quickly, pursuing, as she thought, her advantage, though her heart smote her as she saw his distress; but she remembered Anna and persevered; "no, I have, not forgotten, Walter, that but for Colonel Hamilton's unselfish heroism you had not been here now to throw yourself between him and his newly regained liberty. Will you make him think that you have forgotten it? Will you cause him to regret that he perilled his own life for yours?" 
               "Kate," he said, without raising his head, "will you make me regret it? Do you know what you are asking of me? All that a soldier, all that a gentleman holds dear the sacrifice of my duty, of my honor. God knows that no regard for the opinion of others would guide me in a question of right or wrong; but what would Hamilton himself think of me were I to allow my own personal feelings towards him to influence me in this matter?" 
               "Colonel Hamilton does not dream that you know him," said Kate, coming closer to him. "No one knows of it but ourselves, and no one shall ever learn it from me. I will never betray it never, never! You will trust your own Kate, will you not, Walter?' 
               "Trust you, my darling," he exclaimed, turning suddenly; towards her and catching her to his breast, "trust you, my Kate; always and entirely; but could you trust me when I had once proved myself unworthy of confidence? " 
               "You will not, you will not, Walter," she said, nestling to him and laying her head against his arm. "I will love and confide in you more than ever; and you do not know all that this involves, all the suffering that it will bring. You will know to-morrow morning when he is gone; but I may not tell you all now. Oh! dearest Walter, dear love, my own darling, "she pleaded, in her earnestness using words of endearment that no persuasions or entreaties of Stuart's could have won from her an hour since, "you will let him go, will you not? you will do this for me and none shall ever know this secret but ourselves." 
               A flood of pity and tenderness swept over Stuart's face as he looked down upon her. "The two of all the world in whose eyes I could least bear disgrace, my Kate. Dear child, do not all these very promises by which you would bind yourself to secrecy show that this which you pledge yourself to hide would bring shame and dishonor on us both? Could you bear to blush even in secret for him on whom you have bestowed the priceless treasure of your love? Should I dare to ask you to share the lot of a man whose every action would not bear the light of day? Oh! dearest, once more I beseech you, do not ask this, it cannot, must not be." 
               Kate had grown very pale, but the resolute look had returned to her face. "Listen to me. Walter Stuart," she "said, drawing herself from his clasp in spite of his efforts to detain her. "I will not speak again of the obligations you are under to Col. Hamilton, obligations which but a few evenings since you declared to his sister you could never repay; I plead no longer for my own sake that you will spare me this sorrow, but you must hear me for one moment more. You can never know, all that Anna Hamilton has been to me. All there is in me of good, all that you can find in me to love or admire, I owe to her. No, you need not shake your head or look so disbelieving. No older sister, no mother could have shown greater devotion than she bestowed on me when, a spoiled, unhappy and motherless child, I was left alone among strangers. Not even she knows how deeply, how dearly I love her, how earnest is my gratitude towards her. I know only too well how very far I am from being what I should, were it but in answer to all her care and love; but I should have been very Different from the Kate you profess to love, had it not been for her. You could never have cared for me, Waiter, had I grown up without her guiding hand. If your happiness depends in any measure upon me, you too owe her a debt of gratitude that this service I ask of you may in some degree repay. But on one thing I am fully resolved. The man who adds one feather's weight to the load of grief that is already almost killing my Anna, can never be more than a stranger to me. And I mean it, Walter. You may have thought me a trilling, giddy girl, too thoughtless to have formed such a resolution, or once formed, to put it in practice; but you will find that I shall not waver. Consign Colonel Hamilton to a prison again, and you break Anna's heart; and we part forever." 
               "But, Kate," Stuart began. 
               "No, sir," she interrupted, "answer me at once, will you let him go, or will you let me go. Choose now without further words." 
               "I have chosen, Kate," he answered, and the expression of his face told her what that choice had been. 
               She hesitated one instant, while the color rose to the very roots of her hair. 
               "Walter," she whispered, "only grant me this and I will yield to you in all else you can ask. If my father consents, I will do as you wish and go with you when you return as your wife." 
               Stuart shook his head. "I have chosen Katie," he repeated sadly; "if it can be called a choice; but oh! my darling-" 
               "I am answered, sir," she interrupted again, turning from him and 'hurrying to the door. 
               "Kate, one word," but she heeded him not. "'Tis for Miss Hamilton's sake I ask it," he said. 
               Kate stopped and looked at him, hoping for some sign of relenting; but she saw none. He stood before her, pale and quiet, but firm and unshaken in his purpose. 
               "Are you about to alarm Col. Hamilton? he asked. Kate started but did not reply. "I would do this thing as quietly as possible," he continued, "and with as little agitation to Miss Anna and the rest of the family as may be; but in order that I might do so, I must require from you a promise that you will give no intimation that I have discovered the secret, nor of the steps I feel obliged to take either to Colonel Hamilton or his sister." 
               "I shall give no such promise, Major Stuart," she replied, dismayed to find that he had divined her intention, and shaking with the agitation she could scarcely control". 
               "Then I must take immediate measures for his arrest, without regard to consequences." 
               Kate grasped at the back of a chair, while she turned so white that Stuart, thinking that she was about to fall, would have passed his arm around her; but she put him from her, saying coldly, "You have resigned that right, sir;" and struggling to overcome the faintness, she added, "I give the promise you are so cruel as to demand," and left the room. 
               Anxious above all things to avoid meeting any one until she had collected her thoughts, Kate flew to an apartment at the top of the house, which had been her play-room when a child; and locking the door, threw herself upon the floor and gave way to all the feelings so long repressed. Anger, grief, and fear by turns strove for the mastery. She scarcely realized as yet that she was parted from Stuart, and that by her own deed; but a wild terror at the now almost inevitable late which hung over Colonel Hamilton, and at the effect which she feared it would have upon Anna, took possession of her. More than once during the last two days, she had seen Anna suddenly press her hand to her side with a quick gasp of physical pain, which although apparently momentary, and which Anna declared to be nothing but the result of a little cold which she had taken on Sunday in her expedition to the rose-walk summer-house, left her pr a time perfectly exhausted, while her rapidly increasing feebleness and the too evident effort which it cost her to arouse her failing strength until her brother should be gone, wrung Kate's heart. She felt, poor child! as though the whole world were leagued against her darling, and she alone left to do battle in her behalf. And now her hands were tied. She must stand quietly by and breathe no word that might warn Anna of the fresh storm about to beat upon her. Once she thought she must go back to Stuart and make a fresh effort in Anna's behalf; she had not been urgent enough, she should have gone on hey knees, wept, implored, entreated yet more than she had done, never left him, never let him go until he yielded to her pleadings. No, no she knew that it was of no avail. Had she not already pleaded with arguments and entreaties which now caused her cheeks to tingle and her heart, to throb faster with mortification and regret. Poor half frantic child! she felt that she might as well dash herself against a rock as against Stuart's stern resolve. 
               At last when the tempest of passion and grief had partly worn itself out, and she lay there comparatively quiet, though those heavy sobs still shook her frame, she was aroused by the ringing of the luncheon bell. With a start she lifted her head from the floor-all was going on in the house as usual-the daily routine of meals-gatherings in the drawing-room-guests to be entertained-conversation, music,-and she must bear her part therein no matter what the weight of misery she was enduring. And she must wear her usual cheerful face, must talk and laugh as though her spirit was as free from clouds as it had been but five short days ago. Till the last moment she must hide the smart of her sore heart, that no one might gather from her manner that there was any tiling amiss. And it was all real-it was no terrible dream, as she had almost tried to persuade herself. She seemed to herself years older than she had done this morning. How could she bear it? She who had never known any real sorrow in her short, joyous life! 
               Sick, giddy, and trembling, she staggered to her feet and shaking back the hair which had fallen around her flushed and tear-stained face, tried to compose herself so far that she might go to Anna without exciting her notice and drawing forth questions which she might find it difficult to parry. 
               But once again a burst of passion shook her, and covering her face with her hands, she sobbed forth, "Oh! Walter, Walter, cruel, how can he be so cruel? And it is all over now, all over; he is nothing to me or I to him." Then throwing back her head and stamping her foot, she exclaimed, "But I do not care for him I will not, for he never, never loved me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "That trying moment hath at once revealed 
                           The secret long and yet but half-concealed.' 
                        
                      
                     -BYRON. 
                   
                
               MEANWHILE Anna had searched vainly for Kate in order to give her the note, for Sybil; but not finding her, and Major Stuart having also disappeared, she not unnaturally came to the conclusion that they were together, and would not wish to be interrupted in their tete-a-tete. When the doctor came therefore, she contrived to see him before he went up stairs, and placing the little billet in his hand, asked him if possible to give it to Sybil without Mrs. Brockhurst's knowledge, as it was strictly private and on no account to be seen by that lady. 
               "You may trust me for that, my child," he answered; "the widow shall not catch one glimpse of your dainty missive. Bah! that woman is worse to me than all the contents of an allopathic drug-shop! That Englishman seems mightily smitten with the pretty piece of statuary I am to prescribe for. I wish that he would carry off the girl from her detestable step-mother. Katie scarcely hates her more than I do;" and he went to pay his visit to Sybil, grumbling at Mrs. Brockhurst as he ascended the stairs. 
               He was rather startled by Sybil's appearance. She was lying on the outside of the bed, dressed as she had been on the previous evening, and she was certainly very ill. Her cheeks were crimson with fever, her eyes closed, her pulse, as the doctor said, "galloping like a race-horse," and she seemed half unconscious of his presence, so that he doubted whether he had best give her Anna's note. Asking Mrs. Brockhurst to have some cold water brought, which she immediately rang for, he sat down beside the bed, holding Sybil's burning hand in his own. The servant came in answer to the bell, and Mrs. Brockhurst went to the door to give her orders, when to the doctor's astonishment, Sybil opened her eyes and whispered quickly, I must see Anna or Kate." He instantly placed the note in her hand, closing her fingers over it, and before Mrs. Brockhurst returned to the bed-side, Sybil had concealed it beneath her pillows, and again appeared to be in a half-stupor. 
               "To what do you ascribe this sudden attack?" he asked gruffly of Mrs. Brockhurst. "She seemed well enough last evening for anything that I saw." 
               "I think you are mistaken, Doctor," replied Mrs. Brockhurst in a tone as bland as the doctors had been gruff; "Sybil has appeared quite unwell and feverish for several days; but I did not call your attention to I because I did not think that she was seriously sick until last night, when she was taken with a fainting fit, and her fever has been or the increase ever since." 
               "Andwhat caused the fainting fit, what has brought on this fever?" he asked. "There has been some reason for all this. All her symptons are indicative of the highest nervous irritability and excitement. Has he anything on her mind?" 
               "Really I cannot tell you, Doctor. It may so for fill I know to the contrary; but I am sorry to say that my daughter is not. In the habit of confiding her secrets to me." 
               "Shows her sense then," muttered the old man below his breath, as he proceeded to put up some medicine for his patient. "I shall see her to-night," he said to Mrs. Brockhurst when he "had given her directions respecting he remedies he left, "and you had better end for one or both of the young ladies to lit with her. It may arouse her for a while, and it would be well to arouse her a little." 
               "I do not agree with you, doctor," answered Mrs. Brockhurst, instantly on the alert at such a proposition from such a quarter, and observing the searching look the doctor bent upon her from beneath his shaggy eyebrows. "Sybil seems to me to need quiet. Miss Hamilton is quite too unwell herself to have any partiality for playing nurse at present; and as for Kate, she certainly is not a desirable coadjutor in a sick room, with her wild and flighty manners." 
               "Kate can be as quiet as any one when she sees the necessity, Madam," said the doctor, his wrath excited by this slur on one of his especial favorites; "and if all nurses had her sweet and unselfish disposition, many a dull and wearisome sick room might be far happier than it now is"-with which remark, leaving the lady to apply it as she thought fit, he left the room. But he' had scarcely closed the door when he opened it again, and put in his head with a snappish, "Mrs. Brockhurst, I'll speak with you a moment here." When he had her fairly outside of the door, he drew it to and said, "If you have any wish to know my opinion, Madam, I think your daughter, extremely ill, and if you have any ambition to show your skill by nursing her through a nervous or brain fever, you will let her be crossed and worried as much as possible. Verbum sap." and he marched off to find Anna again and soothe his ruffled temper in her society. 
               "What spell has come over this house?" he said to himself as he went down. "There is some mystery here between Anna Hamilton and this poor girl, and they both seem struggling with some secret trouble; while Van Alstyne looks as gloomy and stern as though he had lost all he was worth in the world, with his lady love and daughter to boot. And even my Kate of Kates seems less buoyant and mischievous than usual. I shall ask the little woman what has bewitched them all." 
               He told Anna that Sybil was anxious to see herself or Kate, and as he thought she had some particular motive for the request, and it was important that her mind should be set at rest if possible, he hoped that one of them would find means to gratify it. 
               "I have a mind to raise an alarm of fire and frighten the widow out of her daughter's room so that you may find a chance to run in," he said when Anna told him that she had already made one vain attempt to see Sybil. Cannot Kate invent some plan to take her out of the way?" 
               Anna feared that it was useless for her to make any farther effort to see Sybil; but she promised that she and Kate would watch for an opportunity. 
               But Mrs. Brockhurst had no intention of relaxing her watch for an instant. She had fully determined not to leave Sybil along while there was the least probability that either of the girls might take the time of her absence for an interview; for alas! the heartless woman knew only too well the reasons which they had for doing so. In order to tell how she had obtained this knowledge, we must go back for a few hours. 
               Unable to reconcile Wyndham's devotion to Sybil and the good understanding apparently existing between them, with the secret meeting she had witnessed in the garden, she determined to force from Sybil an explanation of the mystery. With this purpose she had gone to her daughter's room on the previous night, and again endeavored by scoldings, entreaties and promises to draw from her the information she desired. All was of no avail; Sybil would not give her the least satisfaction. In vain she reproached her with receiving the attentions of a man who had sought and obtained a clandestine interview with another woman, and who was evidently assuming an appearance of devotion to herself, as a means of diverting observation from a more serious purpose with regard, to Anna. Knowing that of which her step-mother was in total ignorance, and secure in her husband's affection, Sybil remained entirely unmoved by Mrs. Brockhurst's sneering remarks, maintaining what the latter called an obstinate silence; until carried away by her anger. Mrs. Brockhurst declared that upon the next day she should address herself to Mr. Rutherford and Mr. Van Alstyne, and place the case in their hands; and furthermore, that Sybil should not leave her room until she explained all the circumstances to their satisfaction. 
               Terrified beyond measure at this, which she knew to be no idle threat, and seeing nothing but ruin to all their plans should Mrs. Brockhurst complain to her guardian and Mr. Van Alstyne; and dreading also the displeasure of her husband who had so positively forbidden any application to either of these gentlemen. Sybil resolved to throw herself upon the mercy of her step-mother, and confide to her that she was the wife of Wyndham, keeping back the fact that this was an assumed character. She was a woman, and must feel some pity for her, Sybil thought; at least she might be pacified in some degree if she gave her a partial insight into the true state of the affair. 
               But notwithstanding her long experience of Mrs. Brockhurst's temper, Sybil was not prepared for the transport of rage which burst upon her. Those who maintained that she was without feeling would have been strangely surprised had they seen the unhappy girl kneeling at her step-mother's feet frantically beseeching her to keep her secret, were it but for a few days; until exhausted by her violent emotion, she sank fainting upon the floor. Mrs. Brockhurst raised her and laid her upon the bed. She did not call for help, but coolly and indifferently proceeded by herself to take the necessary measures for Sybil's recovery, reflecting as she did so, on what she had just heard. 
               This revelation of Sybil's did not explain Wyndham's connection with Anna; in fact it made the mystery more complicated than ever. If he were already married to Sybil, there could be no engagement existing between himself and Anna; and wherefore then the secret meeting in the summer-house? Could Sybil have made a confidant of Anna, and was she assisting them to make arrangements for an elopement? for she did not doubt that Sybil's entreaties that she would not inform her guardian of her marriage for a few days, were dictated by her purpose to fly with Wyndham during that time. And she was bitterly disappointed; for here she saw the failure of her hopes for effecting a separation between Mr. Van Alstyne and Anna. That a coolness had arisen between them was quite apparent, and she attributed this to the information she had given the gentleman of Anna's walk with Wyndham oh Sunday morning. But when it was known, as it must be sooner or later, that Sybil and Wyndham were husband and wife, this circumstance could be easily explained, and Mr. Van Alstyne's confidence in Anna would be restored. 
               While thinking over this new aspect of affairs, which threatened the overthrow of her well-laid schemes, she unfastened her daughter's dress, and in doing so her eye was caught by a slight gold chain which Sybil wore around her neck, and which had been concealed beneath the dress. She drew it out. It "held a small miniature, the, likeness of a handsome man about thirty rears of age, dressed in uniform, but it was lot Wyndham. The dress was not that of a British, but of an American officer. The lead of the picture was covered with light Drown hair instead of Wyndham's jet black locks. The heavy beard was missing, a slight moustache only taking its place; and the dark hazel eye looked clearly forth from he ivory without any obscuring glasses to hide its light. And yet the face seemed familiar. When had she seen it? and lately too. 
                
               But Sybil showed some symptoms of returning consciousness, and Mrs. Brockhurst replaced the miniature in its hiding place. Somewhat more aroused by this, the still half insensible girl moved her hand feebly towards the treasure she had hitherto so carefully guarded from the prying eyes of her step-mother, while her lips moved as if she were about to speak. Mrs. Brockhurst bent her ear towards her. 
               "Guy, my Guy!" murmured Sybil with a loving accent which told how dear the name was to her heart. 
               Guy!-Wyndham was called Charles. Guy-that most uncommon name belonged to Anna Hamilton's brother!-The missing link was supplied, and the truth was revealed to Mrs. Brockhurst as clearly as it was to Major Stuart a few hours later. But far other feelings did it excite in her breast from those which it afterwards aroused in that of the generous, high-minded soldier. The miniature was a fac-simile of a likeness of Col. Hamilton, in Anna's possession, taken a year or two before the war broke out, and which the widow had once seen in her hand. Wyndham was no other than Guy Hamilton the rebel officer! and the game was still her own. But she must not let Sybil suspect that she had unwittingly allowed her terrible secret to escape her. She must have time to consider the next steps to be taken. 
               As soon as Sybil was sufficiently restored to be conscious of what was said to her, Mrs. Brockhurst promised that for the next twenty-four hours at least, she would not inform Mr. Rutherford of her marriage, and with this Sybil was obliged to be content. Ordering her to go to sleep, Mrs. Brockhurst, determining from this moment to keep the closest watch over her, took an armchair by the bed, and sat beside her all night, buried in deep reflection. 
               But over excitement and anxiety were doing their work upon Sybil as well as upon Anna, She could not sleep and before morning she was in a high fever, and Mrs. Brockhurst did not depart from the truth when she alarmed Colonel Hamilton by stating at the breakfast table that Sybil was very sick. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Thy ways are crooked."
                      
                     -WALLENSTEIN. 
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "She formed a plot that o'er her fair young brow 
                        Should call of shame and pain the crimson glow." 
                     
                   
                
               MRS. BROCKHURST was well acquainted with an officer of high rank, holding a responsible position in New York. To this gentleman she concluded to impart her knowledge that Colonel Hamilton was in Mr. Van Alstyne's house. She could not be sure that Major Stuart was aware of the fact; though recalling many little circumstances, she suspected such to be the case. If this was so, why did he not at once arrest him? He must have some motive for letting him go at large, and this she surmised to be Kate's influence over him and his fear of offending her. He might mean to pretend ignorance and allow Hamilton to escape: and if this was his intention and she gave any intimation of the latter's real character to Mr. Van Alstyne, he might for Anna's sake, manage things so that Colonel Hamilton should have time for flight before he took any steps for his detention. At least she should lose nothing by secretly enlightening the military authorities in the city. By this means, even if the master of the house and the federal officers who were his guests were in league with Hamilton, such information would have led to his capture by others, and, she should thus bring on Anna the reproach of being related to a man who was a prisoner for the crime of treason. She believed that Mr. Van Alstyne was too proud a than to dream for one instant of taking as his wife a woman upon whom all the world might cast this slur. True, Hamilton had been a prisoner once before, and in so far as his intentions with regard to Anna were concerned, this had not seemed to influence Van Alstyne. But Kate had told her that he had forbidden the subject to be mentioned, and this, which was dictated by a care for Anna's feelings, was ascribed by her to sensitiveness on his own account. Hamilton's former imprisonment was known to comparatively few, from the fact that it had taken place at such a distance; but let him be recaptured here and under such circumstances, and "all the world" must know it; and she trusted that the notoriety of the affair must gain would cause Mr. Van Alstyne to shrink from allying his own unsullied name to one on which this shadow of reproach had fallen. Little she knew of the true pride-the nobility of soul which would lead Van Alstyne to cling but the more closely to her whom he loved did unmerited sorrow or disgrace fall upon her; even had her brother's crime been one of far deeper dye, and its punishment a felon's death. Before it was daylight, she wrote a note to General-to the following effect. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DEAR GENERAL;-
                            
                           I have positive information that the rebel Colonel, Guy Hamilton, so noted for his desperate resistance at the battle of G--, is now in disguise at Ranleigh Manor-House, under the character of Mr. Wyndham. You will do well to take any steps you may think proper without delay, as there is reason to believe that he will take his departure before long. Very truly yours, 
                           
                              M. L. BROCKHURST."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               But now the difficulty was to find means of conveying this precious epistle to the city without delay. Should she leave it to be carried by the regular post it would certainly be night, perhaps to-morrow morning before it reached General --, and it might then be too late. She would have taken it herself but for leaving Sybil unguarded, and that was not to be thought of. Besides she must consider appearances. She was forced to acknowledge to herself that Sybil was really extremely ill, and it would look strangely if she left her entirely to the care of others under such circumstances. 
               She was standing at her window deliberating upon the expediency of sending her own woman upon this errand, when she saw Howard Spencer coming up the avenue. It was one of this young gentleman's maxims that a walk before breakfast was conducive to the welfare both mental and corporeal of the human race, and it was his custom to rise before day-light and accomplish two or three miles of walking before any of the household save the servants were stirring. Supposing this idea to be based upon substantial grounds by judging from his uncommonly robust physique, it might appear strange to those who knew him that his growth in the former point had not kept pace with his unusual development in the latter particular. 
               Be that as it might, he was not troubled with any misgivings on the subject himself, and continued his matutinal perambulations in full faith that he was reaping the most desirable results therefrom. 
               Mrs. Brockhurst watched him as he came towards the house, his ponderous figure, and dull, heavy features, looking more unprepossessing than usual in the dim, grey light of a cloudy morning. When he was near the house he stopped for a moment and looked up at Anna Hamilton's windows,-his whole expression one of sullen determination. 
               A thought struck Mrs. Brockhurst. Here was a tool if she dared to use him. She considered for a moment and her resolution was taken. She had witnessed. Spencer's suspicious jealousy of Hamilton on the preceding evening, and had not spared her endeavors to heighten it, partly for the purpose of mortifying Sybil, who must hear all she said, partly because it amused her to aggravate his ill-humor. She now congratulated herself upon this. She Would still farther excite his animosity against "that Mr. Wyndham," and by this means procure his aid in carrying out her treacherous purpose, though she had no intention of undeceiving him in regard to the personality of the rival he dreaded. If he fell into the net, she had nothing to fear from him in the future; for when it came to his knowledge that the man whom he had assisted her to Betray was the brother of the woman he sought as his wife, it would be easy to persuade him that she had been ignorant of this, and however angry he might be when he found that the trap he had laid for another had sprung to his own hurt, he would keep the secret for his own sake if not for hers. She would risk it at all events. 
               Summoning her maid, she spoke to her outside the door that Sybil might not hear what passed, and directed her to go down stairs, and as soon as Mr. Spencer came in to tell him that she would like to speak with him for one moment in the upper hall. The woman opened her eyes in amazement at this extraordinary message, scarcely believing that she heard aright. 
               "Did I understand you, ma'am, that you wished to see Mr. Spencer up here?" 
               "Yes," returned the lady, exasperated at the girl's surprise; "do not stand there like an idiot, but go directly. And mind, Ellen, that you speak of it to no one. If I find that you have done so I shall dismiss you from my service immediately." 
               "And no such great loss, if she does," muttered Ellen to herself, as she went down stairs. "If it had not been for Miss Sybil-poor put-on young lady-I'd quitted her long ago. I wonder what mischief she is up to now. If it wasn't for leaving my place in the winter, and that she would keep her word I'd just like to spite her." 
               She delivered her message, and had the satisfaction of perceiving that Mr. Spencer's surprise was as great as her own. 
               "Mrs Brockhurst wants to speak tome up stairs?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "At this hour of the morning?" 
               "Yes, sir, if convenient to you," replied the abigail, demurely. 
               He stared at her and then turned and walked up stairs, while Ellen, who was possessed of a laudable share of the failing which is so unjustly supposed to be peculiar to the fairer half of creation, lingered about at the foot of the great staircase, hoping that she might catch the purport of what was going on above. But the conversation was carried on in tones too low to reach her. 
               "Mr. Spencer," said Mrs. Brockhurst when the young man presented himself before her, "you will forgive me I know for sending for you at this early hour, when I tell you that I am about to ask your co-operation in an affair of some importance to me." 
               Mr. Spencer fixed his lack-lustre eyes upon her and bowed, but made no other answer. 
               Mrs. Brockhurst continued. "I have here a private letter of great importance which I am extremely anxious to send to New York as early in the day as possible. If I mail it at the usual hour I fear that it will not reach its destination as soon as I could wish. Secrecy as well as despatch are necessary, and knowing that I could rely upon your honor as well as your judgment and discretion, I concluded to ask your assistance." 
               "What is it you wish me to do?" asked Spencer. 
                
               "Merely to have this letter conveyed to General -- as soon as possible. I think that I heard you say you intended to return to the city this morning." She knew he had said he should go in the after part of the day. "Will you be kind enough to take charge of it, and to see that it reaches him immediately; and to mention it to no one?" 
               "I shall not return to the city before noon, and perhaps not even then," returned Spencer, who under no circumstances could have been brought to think that it might be expedient his own arrangements should give way to the convenience or pleasure of another. "I have business to transact with Mr. Van Alstyne. If I go at twelve and it will answer then, I shall be happy to be of service, to you." 
               Mrs. Brockhurst looked rather blank, but Mr. Spencer took no heed. 
               "You will pardon a mother's anxiety, I am sure," said the lady, "If I say that as long as we must be deprived of the pleasure of your society to-day, I am sorry it will not be a few hours earlier. I am so anxious to have Mr. Wyndham away from here for my poor daughter's sake." 
               "How so?" said Spencer, suddenly rousing into interest. 
               "I feel some delicacy in speaking to you on this subject," replied Mrs. Brockhurst, "but as I have asked your aid I cannot do less than confide to you the motives which influence me in this matter. A person of your penetration must, of course, be aware of much which might escape a more careless spectator; and I regret to state that there are circumstances-but I must first ask from you a solemn promise that what I am about to say, as well as the kindness you intend to do me, shall remain sacred between ourselves." 
               Spencer assented, saying to himself at the same time that he had not supposed Mrs. Brockhurst to be a person of so much discrimination of character. 
               "I know," resumed Mrs. Brockhurst, "that you have observed Mr. Wyndham's devotion to Miss Hamilton, and think that you cannot have failed to notice also the extreme depression of spirits under which my daughter is laboring. Unhappily I have no room for doubt that these are cause and effect." She paused for a moment in order to notice the effect of her words, knowing that it would take some time for the idea suggested to penetrate to her hearer's understanding. "Of course you comprehend me fully?" 
               "Well," said Spencer bluntly, "I suppose I do. Do you mean to say that Miss Brockhurst is in love with Mr. Wyndham, and is jealous of his attentions to Miss Hamilton?" 
               "Well," said Mrs. Brockhurst, "you put it in rather a forcible light, but I fear that such is the case. That the feeling is not reciprocated, I need not tell you who have remarked those attentions. What her sentiments may be, I do not know, as I told you last night; though I do not think that she is much interested in him as yet; but of the gentleman's there can be no doubt. This however I do know, that Mr. Wyndham, or the person who calls himself so-for he is no more Mr. Wyndham than you are-ah! you may well look surprised-but I assure you that the name and character of that English gentleman are falsely borne by this man-is no fit match for either Miss Hamilton or my daughter'; and it is no less a kindness to the former than to the latter to remove him from their society. This I think I have the means of doing if you can aid me." 
               "You may command me," said Spencer eagerly, with a vicious glance in the direction of the passage which led to the room occupied by Hamilton. "I am ready to do any thing I can to assist you." 
               "Thank you, I was sure that I might depend upon your kindness." 
               "But if this man is not Wyndham, who is he?" 
               "That I cannot tell you, as I do not myself know his name. I fear, indeed I have reason to know, from something dropped by Sybil last night, that he is an adventurer from the South, in quest of information for the Confederate Government-in fact a spy. You are aware that he was brought to this house by young Mr. Arnold, who is himself a violent secessionist. Having discovered this, my duty to my country no less than my anxiety for my daughter, leads me to take a step that may Appear harsh; but I feel that these two motives ought to outweigh all other considerations, and I have in this note informed General -- that such a person is here. All I have to ask of you is to see that it reaches him without delay. I shall then feel that I am clear of all responsibility in the affair, and shall leave the matter in his: hands. If he chooses to take measures to have Mr. Wyndham removed, well and good. Both Miss Hamilton and Sybil will then be free from any farther association with him. If General-concludes that it is not necessary to have him secured, and he still remains here, I shall leave myself and take-Sybil away. My duty is then done. I can have no responsibility concerning Miss Hamilton, and her friends must look after her." 
               Spencer took the note she held towards him, looked at it, hesitated, and then said, "I suppose that it will not bring me into any trouble?" 
               "Certainly not," answered Mrs. Brockhurst. "Of course General-will not reveal whence his information is derived. What is it that you fear?" 
               "I do not know," said Spencer, fidgeting from one foot to the other. "I do not know; but I thought that Mr. Van Alstyne might be displeased if he knew this had been done." 
               "How is he to know it unless you tell him yourself," replied Mrs. Brockhurst. "And suppose that any one did know of it, who could blame you? You merely carry a note from me to the General. Who is to suppose that you knew the contents? You will keep your own counsel for your own sake as well as mine, and I shall do the same. What can be safer? But do not let me persuade you do this if you do not see the necessity yourself. I have done all that my conscience requires and can take my daughter away; though I must say that I shall regret leaving this man here while there is any probability that he may make himself agreeable to Miss -Hamilton. She is too fine a girl to be thrown away upon him." 
               "I will do it," said Spencer. 
               "Then the sooner that note goes, and Mr. Wyndham is removed from here, as I presume he will be when it reaches General --, the better for all parties." 
               "Well," said Spencer, "I would take it at once if I could, but I must see Mr. Van Alstyne before I go, and there is no likelihood that I shall be able to do so in time to take the early train. I have it!-as what he thought a bright idea struck him-"I have it! How would it do to send my man down at once and let him go directly to General-" 
               "It will do very well if the man is to be trusted to hold his tongue," said Mrs. Brockhurst, who had been aiming at this very thing ever since she found that Spencer was hot to be hurried off himself. 
               "Trusted! Of course he is! Any servant of mine knows better than to talk of my affairs," said Mr. Spencer, who believed that he ruled his servant with a rod of iron; the man himself knowing full well that he held his master in complete subjection. This arrangement having been decided upon, Spencer went down to find his man and expedite his departure. He would show this person, this "mere adventurer," as Mrs. Brockhurst called him, this man who dared not let himself be known by his own name, whatever that might be, what it was to compete with him for the possession of the lady whom he intended to win for himself. That this nameless, probably penniless, individual should dare to enter the lists with him, the representative of one of the oldest families in the state, the owner of broad lands, of an income that was counted by tens of thousands! It was unheard of; and swelling with resentment at the bare thought, Spencer felt ready to proceed to any lengths that would not injure himself in order to remove this Wyndham out of his way. And no barm could well come to him from this, for as Mrs. Brockhurst had said, no one need ever know that he had any hand in it. That his servant or any other should "put two and two together" and draw inferences there from which might be hurtful to him, never occurred to him. 
               When he reached the foot of the stairs he met Ellen, whose curious eyes did not fail to observe that he held a note Which looked wonderfully like the one she had seen in her mistress hand a few minutes since. She would have passed him, but he spoke to her and sent her to call his man. With a toss of her head at receiving such a peremptory order from one whom she was not bound to obey, yet really nothing loath, she went off, and finding Gregory, sent him to his master. 
               Now if Mr. Spencer was in subjugation to his valet, it is no less true that the latter personage was in the most slavish bondage to the pretty Ellen. She waylaid him when he returned to the servant's domains, and by dint of coaxing, and of some distress-partly real, partly assumed-at the prospect of his leaving her so soon, succeeded in drawing from him the reason of his hurried departure, and furthermore in beguiling him into gratifying her with a sight of the note, in spite of all his master's charges to maintain the strictest secrecy in regard to his errand. Ellen's disappointment was great when she found that she had wasted her blandishments to so little purpose; for a letter directed to General -- was nothing so very remarkable if it was in Mrs. Brockhurst's handwriting, and she was rather inclined to ridicule Gregory for making her promise so solemnly that she would not betray his disobedience of orders. 
               A few minutes sufficed for the man's hasty preparations; and Mrs. Brockhurst, who stood again at her window impatiently watching for his departure, had soon the satisfaction of seeing him oh his way to the station. 
               "So far, so good," she said to herself, "fortune seems to favor me. I had less trouble with that fool than I anticipated. I have run some risk in taking him into my confidence it is true; but he will not dare to betray me for his own sake, and not even discovery would be equal to the mortification of seeing that girl Max Van Alstyne's wife. That she shall never be, if I have power to prevent it!" 
               Returning to Sybil's bedside, she stood for a while watching her flushed face and restless tossings, but no feeling of pity stirred her heart towards the unfortunate young creature whose life she had rendered miserable for the last ten years, and whose future happiness she was so mercilessly blighting. Not even when Sybil opened her heavy eyes and looked up with a weary, piteous expression which would have moved any one who was not utterly callous, did she feel the slightest touch of compassion or remorse. She would keep all others from her, lest she should warn Col. Hamilton that she had revealed their marriage, and he might suspect that she knew the whole, and fly ere her message reached General-. She would not even have called the doctor had she not seen that Sybil was too ill to be left without medical advice, and feared that she might afterwards be blamed for neglect if she did not send for him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Who hither come engaged by my oath 
                           Both to defend my loyalty and truth." 
                        
                      
                     -SHAKSPEARE 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Since in the toils of fate 
                           Thou art enclosed, submit, if thou can't brook 
                           Submission." 
                        
                      
                     -SCHYLUS, 
                   
                
               THE weary hours were passing on, and as may be supposed, neither Kate, Anna, nor Harry Arnold, who was also on the watch, could gain one moment's speech with Sybil. Since Dr. Wells had left, none had been allowed to see her, save Mr. Rutherford, although Kate had condescended to plead for the favor with an earnestness which but confirmed Mrs. Brockhurst in her resolution to prohibit all intercourse with her daughter. She would even have refused admittance to Mr. Rutherford when he came and asked to see his ward, but hearing his voice at the door, Sybil raised her head and called to him. 
               "Oh! yes, yes, come in, I want to see you;" and putting Mrs. Brockhurst peremptorily aside, the old gentleman walked in and came to the bedside. He was not a little surprised when, as he bent over Sybil, she threw her arms about his neck, and drew his face close to her own, while the tears ran over her cheeks. 
               "Poor lamb, poor lamb," he said tenderly, smoothing back her tangled hair, and kissing her forehead. "What is the matter, my child, what can your old guardian do for you?" 
               Sybil longed to tell him all, for she both loved and revered him; but she dared not. She had managed to read Anna's note without her step-mother's knowledge; and if she could only send her some little message by which Anna might know that she would meet her husband at the appointed hour, sick as she was! Yes, she would go with him, if she died on the way. Life was nothing to her without him, and better far to die in his arms than to drag on the miserable existence which she had endured for the last eight months. But if Mrs. Brockhurst maintained her watch through this night as she had done on the previous one, how was she to escape? These thoughts had been harassing her all day, and when she saw, Mr. Rutherford and heard his compassionate words, her excited nerves gave way for one moment, and raising her head from her guardian's shoulder, she fixed a terrified look on Mrs. Brockhurst, and exclaimed wildly. "Take her away, take her away!" 
               "You see, Mr. Rutherford," said Mrs. Brockhurst, stepping forward, "you see how the presence of any visitor excites her. She lies perfectly quiet when she is alone with me, and I must insist that no one shall disturb her." 
               Mr. Rutherford thought that it appeared to be the presence of the speaker herself which caused such undue excitement, but he made no reply. He laid Sybil back upon the pillows, and once more kissing her, turned away with a sigh. He paused outside of the door. "What shall I do? "he thought. 
               "Iam uneasy about that child. I knew well enough that she disliked her step-mother, but now she acts as though she were possessed by some terrible fear of her. When the doctor comes to-night, I shall beg him to insist that some other nurse shall share Mrs. Brockhurst's labors." As he stood there Mr. Wyndham accosted him. 
               "Mr. Rutherford, is Miss Brockhurst very ill?" 
               "Yes, I fear that she is, my dear sir, I think her very ill indeed," he answered; and passing his arm through that of the Englishman, to whom he had taken a great liking, he walked with him up and down the hall, telling him all that had passed in his interview with Sybil, and of the unhappy feeling that existed between her and Mrs. Brockhurst; for Mr. Rutherford was a man of little reticence, and when he had anything upon his mind, generally imparted it to the first person who was thrown in his way. 
               Colonel Hamilton was half frantic. What was to be done if Sybil was so very ill? She would not be in a fit state to travel that night, and he was resolved not to go without her and leave her to be tormented any longer by Mrs. Brockhurst. He would appeal to Mr. Rutherford, tell him that Sybil was his wife, and assert his right to see her without witnesses. He had just come to this determination, when a servant came with a message from Mr. Van Alstyne, requesting Mr. Rutherford's presence in the library. 
               "When you have finished your business with Mr. Van Alstyne, will you grant me a few minutes conversation in my own room, Mr. Rutherford?" asked Colonel Hamilton. 
               "Certainly," he answered. "He is going to ask me for Sybil," he said to himself; "and little as I know of him, I am inclined to tell him he may have the girl if she fancies him, and he is evidently desperately in love with her; and even if he should not make her a good husband, she can scarcely be more unhappy than she is at present. Poor fellow, I am sorry I told him how wretched she seemed, he was almost overcome." 
               Colonel Hamilton went to his room, where he wandered restlessly to and fro, considering ing how far he should take Mr. Rutherford into his confidence. If he could only be sure that he would hold his peace until he had made good his escape with Sybil, he would tell the old gentleman the -whole story. But could he depend upon this? Before he had come to any conclusion on this subject, there came a knock at the door. Expecting to see Mr. Rutherford, he hastened to open it, but there stood Major Stuart. 
               "If you are not occupied, Mr. Wyndham, may I beg a few words with you?" he said. 
               "I have an engagement shortly with Mr. Rutherford, sir," returned Hamilton, "and if your business is toot pressing, I beg, that you will defer it to some future time." 
               "It is pressing, Mr. Wyndham, and need occupy but a few moments." 
               Hamilton bowed coldly and answered, 
               "Walk in then, sir." 
               Stuart declined the offered chair, saying that he preferred standing, and placed himself, as if inadvertently, between Hamilton and the door. The Colonel noticed the movement but said nothing. There was a moment's silence while the two soldiers stood gazing intently at each other, Stuart's eyes mournful but steady, Hamilton's haughty and defiant; then Stuart said in a quiet voice, 
               "I grieve to state that you must consider yourself my prisoner, Colonel Hamilton." 
               Hamilton started and turned towards the door, but Stuart was too quick for him and placed his back against it before the other could reach it. Hamilton's eyes flashed with fury, and he raised his clenched hand; but it dropped at his side the next instant as he said imperiously, "Stand aside, sir, I cannot strike a wounded man." 
               "Had I not known you were too brave a man to do so, Colonel Hamilton, I had not placed myself in your power without having assistance within call." 
               Hamilton glanced hastily around the room, but no possible means of escape presented itself. The windows were too far from the ground, and the door opening into the hall, which Stuart was guarding, was the only way of exit. 
               "You have taken your precautions admirably. Major Stuart, in choosing this place for making yourself my captor," he said scornfully. "The ground floor might have given me some chance of eluding you, and you have generously taken advantage of your conviction that I would not touch you in your disabled condition." 
               "That is a less generous remark than I should have expected from Colonel Hamilton' returned Stuart. "Think, sir, for one instant, should you not have felt yourself compelled to take the same step that I have done, had our circumstances been reversed? Having taken this method of claiming you as my prisoner, I knew that I might trust to your honor as a gentleman and a soldier, to make no attempt to escape, if I refrain, as I wish to do, from making any disturbance which might cause a shock to Miss Hamilton." 
               The furious look faded from Hamilton's face. "Ah! my poor Anna!" he exclaimed. Then as the thought of one dearer still recurred to him, "Oh, God! my wife," and sinking into a chair, he covered his face with his hands, and groaned aloud. 
               "His wife!" thought the amazed Stuart, as this exclamation fell upon his ear, "his wife!" A moment's reflection convinced him that this could be no other than Sybil Brockhurst. Was there another then to be involved in the general ruin? and as he gazed upon Hamilton's bowed head, tears that were no shame to his manhood rose to his eyes. "Col. Hamilton," he said, after another painful silence, believe me, I had far rather that I stood in your position than in my own. Only the sternest sense of duty has led me to undertake this terrible task; and if it must cause a fearful amount of Buffering to you and yours, I assure you that I have not spared myself in its execution, for it has involved the destruction of my own dearest hopes." 
               Hamilton made no reply, and presently Stuart spoke again. "Give me your word that you will remain quietly in this house until such time to-morrow as may be convenient for your removal to the city, and none shall know of this until you have been able to break it gently to those who are so interested in you." 
               Hamilton raised his head and again cast his eyes around him. Stuart had left his post at the door and stood beside him, his hand resting lightly on Hamilton's shoulder. Should he thrust him aside, or disable him by a blow, and make a rush for escape before Stuart had time to alarm the house? He knew himself to be a man of great physical power, far more than a match for Stuart even were the latter in full health and strength; and in his present weakened state Stuart would be as a child in his hands. But no; misguided though he was, he was too honorable to abuse the trust, which Stuart had reposed in him. He had not as yet given his word that he would yield himself a prisoner; but the motive which had led Stuart to arrest him in this private manner, and the confidence that he showed that he would take no advantage of it, touched him. His better nature prevailed, and rising, he held out his hand to Stuart, saying "Forgive my insulting words just now, they were undeserved and I wish to recall them. I yield myself your prisoner, and shall make no resistance. But who has betrayed me?" 
               "Partly your own act Colonel, and partly old association. Hamilton, have you so totally forgotten me?" 
               "Forgotten you!" echoed Hamilton, for the first time startled into recognition. "It is not possible that you are little Walter Stuart?" 
               "Only too possible," said Stuart, mournfully. "Only too possible that the man who stands before you is he whom your hand snatched from an early grave; the Walter Stuart whose overwhelming debt to you must be repaid by this. Would to God, Hamilton, that you had left me to perish then and there, than that you should have rescued me to live for the performance of a task whose bitterness no man can ever know! Hamilton, my old friend, now that you know me, has your generous heart no conception of what this has cost me?" 
               Hamilton gazed earnestly at him for a moment, then, every harsher feeling entirely disarmed as he heard and saw the intense though repressed suffering in Stuart's face, and voice, he again grasped his hand. 
               "I believe it, my dear fellow," he exclaimed. "I believe from my soul that you would never have done this had you not felt yourself compelled to it, and you must not let the recollection of old times distress you thus in the performance of what I cannot doubt you think to be your duty. I give myself up as readily, in fact more so, to you than I would do to one who had never crossed my path before. I may think that you have unsheathed your sword in a wrong cause, as you doubtless think I have done; but viewing these things as you do, I cannot but acknowledge that you have done right; nor, although it works to my own injury, can I fail to appreciate that high sense of a soldier's honor which has led you to waive all personal considerations, and treat me as you would have done one who had always been a perfect stranger. I see, Stuart, that you are not less conscientious now than you were years ago. But tell me, did you know me from the first? Strange to say, I never recognized you, never imagined that the bronzed and bearded Major Stuart, whom I regarded only in the light of a foe to be avoided as far as possible, was the delicate little stripling who used to follow me with such affectionate devotion, and who even to this day I find, has magnified the service I once happened to be able to render him, to the height of an overwhelming obligation." 
               "No," said Stuart, "I did not know you till this morning. Your disguise is perfect; but your voice seemed familiar to me from the first, and your whole air and bearing are too unmistakably those of a soldier to deceive a practiced eye. Many little incidents confirmed suspicions which were aroused on the first evening we met; but though convinced you were not Mr. Wyndham, I was unaware of your real character until this morning, when an inadvertence of your own led to its betrayal;" and he informed Colonel Hamilton of the circumstance before related. "And may I believe then, Col. Hamilton," he concluded, "that you harbor no hard feelings towards me for what I have done?" 
               "If I do," said Hamilton impetuously, it is that you should think me capable of such resentment. Judge me by yourself, Stuart, I ask no better." 
               "And your wife and sister?" said the Major. I fear that you cannot answer, as unreservedly for them." 
               "No," replied Hamilton, "you cannot expect that I should. They will not be able to see this in the same light that we do; and once injure one whom she loves, however unwillingly or necessarily, and it is not easy to gain a woman's forgiveness, though she would accord it readily enough were she herself the only sufferer. If I know anything of feminine nature, Stuart," he said half laughing, you will not stand high in the good graces of the ladies when this comes to light. Mrs. Arnold is half a Southerner in her feelings, and honors with a large share of her regard my son Harry's unfortunate friend, the late Colonel Hamilton,'-for she persisted in assuring me that I must be dead-and I think that even that saucy little Kate Van Alstyne may resent it on Anna's account. Her sympathy and affection for Anna are beautiful to witness, and I am thankful that I can leave my sister with such friends as Mr. Van Alstyne and his daughter. I am sure that they will do all they can to alleviate her sorrow; and if I mistake not Van Alstyne is quite ready to take the charge of her happiness for life. Anna has seen more sorrow and suffering than often falls to the lot of one so young; but from all that I had a observed, I cannot but hope that a happy home and brighter future are in store for her. But for my poor Sybil I know not what to do. Remain with that woman she shall not," and turning away he again began his restless walk to and from. 
               Stuart watched him for a few minutes and then asked him how long Miss Brockhurst had been his wife. One question and answer led to another, and in relating some particulars of their various fortunes since they had parted, and in recalling old scenes and incidents, they for a time half forgot the peculiar situation in which they stood to one another, until the entrance of Mr. Rutherford interrupted them. 
               Major Stuart would have retired, but Hamilton requested him to remain; and at once divulged to Mr. Rutherford his real name, his marriage to Sybil, and the painful position in which he was now placed. Mr. Rutherford listened with mingled feelings of amazement, pity and indignation; but to the surprise of both the younger men, the latter was directed against Stuart, whom he assailed with the most violent reproaches. 
               "Pardon me, Mr. Rutherford," interposed Colonel Hamilton, "Major Stuart could not have acted otherwise than he has done. As he justly reminded me but a short time since; should have felt myself obliged to take the same measures in similar circumstances." 
               "Why did he not keep his own counsel? no one would have been the wiser, and all this trouble would have been avoided," growled the old gentleman, who in his newly awakened sympathy for Sybil, and in his propensity to side with what he considered the oppressed party, could take but one view of the question, and for a long time would listen neither to Stuart's reasoning nor to Hamilton's generous defense of the course the Major had pursued." 
               "And what is to be done now?" he asked at length. "I will not be the man to tell those poor girls that their husband and brother is to be taken from them again. Perhaps you have a fancy for undertaking the task, Major Stuart." 
               "No, sir," said Colonel Hamilton, "that, as well as the duty of informing Mr. Van Alstyne belongs to me. But as Major Stuart does not wish to take any steps for my removal from this place before to-morrow, I prefer to say nothing to Mr. Van Alstyne until to-night, and that my wife and sister should remain undisturbed until the morning. I shall account to Sybil for the postponement of our journey by ascribing it to her illness. You must allow me have my own way in this matter, prisoner though I am," he added, with a slight return of his haughty manner. "And another thing I must insist upon, Mr. Rutherford, the immediate removal of Sybil from Mrs. Brockhurst's care. Will you assist me to make arrangements for her comfort while I shall be detained? My sister is happily situated for the present with her kind friends in this house; "for Anna had as yet said nothing of the change which had made another home desirable for her. 
               "Let Sybil come to me," said Mr. Rutherford. "If Mrs. Brockhurst had not opposed it I should have taken the girl long ago. But you have now the right to dispose of her as you see fit; so if you say she shall come to me, neither man nor woman save Sybil herself, shall interfere." 
               "Thank you heartily, sir," said Hamilton, grasping Mr. Rutherford's hand. "It is by far the best plan that could have been proposed, and I am sure that Sybil ii gladly consent." 
               "That is settled then; let Mrs. Brockhurst say what she will," said the old man. 
               "And brighter days are in store for us, my dear fellow. We will have you paroled before long, and in the mean time I shall do my best to make our dear Sybil happy." 
               "You must endeavor to procure me an interview with my wife, my dear sir," returned Hamilton. "How will it do for you to enlighten Mrs. Brockhurst in regard to our marriage, still allowing her to suppose that I am Mr. Wyndham, until it is absolutely necessary to make known the real facts? How long do you give me, Major Stuart, to remain here upon parole?" 
               "I would suggest that you should go to the city, under the escort of Captain Loring and Lieutenant Morris, in the twelve o' clock train to-morrow, if by that time you can come to a decision with Mrs. Hamilton in respect to the arrangement you wish to make for her," said Stuart courteously. 
               Hamilton assented, and Stuart left him with Mr. Rutherford. 
               "Upon my word, Wynd-I should say, Hamilton, you bear this thing philosophically," said the old gentleman; "but what possessed you thus to beard the lion in his den?" 
               "I see now when too late, the folly and recklessness, not to say selfishness, of what I have done," returned Hamilton sadly; "but I should not have been so mad as to venture here had I known that Major Stuart and his brother officers were expected at this time. Once here, however, in their company, I determined to brave it out and remain until I could take my wife away with me: especially after I had seen her and become aware how unhappy she was. I could not take her without some means of providing for her comfort until we could reach home, and it has been the difficulty of procuring this without detection, which has detained me so long in such dangerous proximity to my enemies." 
               "Let me give you all you want, my dear Hamilton," said Mr. Rutherford eagerly, "and then make a run for it. I will bring Sybil to you at any place that you may name, as soon as she is able to travel." 
               Hamilton shook his head. "You forget, sir, that I have given my parole to Major Stuart, and am in honor bound not to stir from this spot. Had I done at the first as you now advise, when I was still at liberty, it would have been far wiser. Sybil and Anna urged it upon me; but I felt so confident that my disguise was impenetrable, particularly after I saw that even my sister did not recognize me on our first meeting, that I had no apprehension that others would do so. Ah! had I but yielded to the persuasions which I thought dictated by idle, womanish fears, it would have been far happier for us all." 
               "Yes," said Mr. Rutherford, "at is best to trust to a woman's instincts it such cases; if she errs, it is on the side of safety." 
               "For myself I have no care," said Hamilton; "this is but the fortune of war, and I have willingly borne in a righteous cause, far greater hardships than any I shall probably now be called on to endure; and I should not give a thought to the physical discomfort of this new imprisonment, did it not involve separation, from my two darlings, and the fresh unhappiness it will cause them." 
               "Come, come, Hamilton, burst forth Mr. Rutherford, "none of your 'righteous cause' to me! I am heartily sorry for you, and would Jo all in my power to help you in this sad business; but the strangest and saddest thing in it all is, that such a fine fellow as yourself, and one with such high and honorable notions, should ever have lent himself to the foulest-" 
               "Let us drop this subject at once, my dear sir, interrupted Col. Hamilton; "this is no time for the discussion of these questions; and I warn you that I can argue them temperately with no man." 
               "More shame for you then," retorted the old gentleman, "for your fatter was a Northerner, and so true a patriot, that had he lived to see this day, it would have been the sorest grief he ever knew to see the hand of his only son helping to lay the axe to the roots of the tree of liberty. But I will not quarrel with you now, though I will say, that I am no longer at a loss to account for Sybil's strong feeling in favor of the cause of the South." 
               A faint smile crossed Hamilton's face and his eye brightened. Yes, they might again be parted lot a time; but whatever befel, Sybil was still his own, her love and confidence in him unshaken, his influence over her unbounded; and he could look forward, as Mr. Rutherford had said, with the trust that brighter days were still in store for them. Those whom his misguided course had paired, dreamed not that ought could reunite them. Stuart, perhaps almost unknown to himself, might cherish a faint hope that when the first shock of feeling was over, Kate would re-consider her decision; but the girl herself would have indignantly spurned the idea; while between Mr. Van Alstyne and Anna a gulf seemed fixed, almost impassable as that of death itself. Of all the aching hearts gathered beneath that roof, he who had been the cause of all this misery, was perhaps the one who suffered least. 
               "We have not yet decided upon the steps to be taken to procure admittance to Sybil," said. Mr. Rutherford, "will you leave it in my hands?" 
               "Yes," returned Hamilton, "and may I beg that you will not delay?" 
               "I shall make this important communication to Mrs. Brockhurst after dinner," replied Mr. Rutherford, "and will detain her as long as possible from Sybil. Meanwhile you must make use of the opportunity to see her, and if Mrs. Brockhurst should take it upon herself to object to your having done so, I shall tell her that it was with my concurrence. And you will tell Van Alstyne tonight?" 
               "Yes, sir," said Col. Hamilton, "though fear that I shall not meet with the same kind sympathy from him that I have received from you. I cannot tell but that his suspicions also may be awakened; for since yesterday morning I have noticed a change in his manner towards me which has been any thing but agreeable; and it has been so evident to me that my presence here was unpleasing to him, that under no other circumstances could I have borne to remain another hour in his house." 
               "That is all fancy," said Mr. Rutherford. "Van Alstyne never yet gave any man reason to suppose that he was an unwelcome guest. That he is depressed and gloomy I can see; but I imagine that it is caused by some lover's quarrel between your beautiful sister and himself. Even such a man a Van Alstyne can be unreasonable at times, if he is in love; and I think it not unlikely that he is displeased at the intimacy between you and Anna. You must grant that he has some grounds for his jealousy, not knowing your claims upon her." 
               "That source of trouble will soon be removed," said Hamilton. "Would that all these dark clouds could be as easily dispersed." He then proceeded, by Mr. Rutherford's request, to give him some information respecting the circumstances of his marriage to Sybil, and having enlightened him on this and some other points, they separated for a time. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Many a time the pain of that neglect 
                           Would strike in blushes o'er her self respect; 
                           But since the ill was causeless, she applied 
                           With busy virtue to resume her pride." 
                        
                      
                     -LEIGH HUNT. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Oh! breaking heart that will not break, 
                           Oh! pale, pale face so sweet and meek," 
                        
                      
                     -TENNYSON. 
                   
                
               HAVING ascertained that all the family were safely in the dining-room, Mrs. Brockhurst descended to the dinner table, leaving Sybil in change of her woman, to whom she gave orders neither to leave her nor to admit any person. 
               Scarcely had she gone when Sybil rose from the bed and made her way with feeble steps to the table, where she sought writing materials, and hastily wrote a few lines to Anna. Rising with the intention of placing this where Anna would find it, she had reached the door when her strength failed, and the maid who was attendance had but just time to prevent her from falling. Again she made an effort to accomplish her purpose, and a second time it was in vain. 
               "What is it you want, Miss Brockhurst?" asked Ellen. "Let me do it for you." 
               Sybil feared to trust her and refused the proffered aid; but the pitying woman urged it upon her with many promises of secrecy if she desired it. "Let me help you, my dear you lady," she said. "I can keep a secret, indeed I can. There's Mr. Spencer's Gregory, he told me this morning that his master had sent him to the city with a note from Mrs. Brockhurst to General-, and he made me promise faithfully to let no person know of it, and I havn't told a soul and don't mean to; and I will do as much for you if you will only let me." 
               The proof which Ellen adduced of her trust-worthiness might not have been particularly encouraging if Sybil had been in a state to notice it; but the woman's earnestness convinced her that she meant to be true to her; and giving her what she had written, she told her to deliver it to Anna as soon as possible, and not to let Mrs. Brockhurst know that she had done so. Ellen promised and in good faith. 
               Young Morris was decidedly disposed to vote the dinner "a bore" that evening. "No one but Mrs. Arnold, Captain Loring and himself, seemed inclined for much conversation, and despite the efforts of these three, the meal proceeded for the most part in a gloomy silence which offered a marked contrast to the hilarity which usually reigned around Mr. Van Alstyne's hospitable board. Even Mr. Rutherford's noisy good humor and talkativeness were wanting, and the old gentleman was as silent and abstracted as his host and the majority of the party. As they rose from the table, he addressed Mrs. Brockhurst. 
               "I have some business with you, Mrs. Brockhurst, if you can give me a little time in the library." 
               "I should prefer attending to it in the morning," she answered. 
               "The morning will be too late; you must be so kind as to give me your attention immediately." And he offered his arm to the unwilling lady and led her to the library. 
               "You will be expeditious if you please, Mr. Rutherford," she said, as he closed the door. "I wish to go back to Sybil." 
               "It is of my ward that I wish to speak, Madam," he said in a severe tone, endeavoring to assume the stern dictator, a character so foreign to his usual habits and feelings that he rather overshot his mark in the attempt to adopt it. "I have something to tell you respecting Sybil, MIS. Brockhurst, which will probably surprise you greatly." 
               "I am beyond surprise at anything I may hear relating to Sybil," she answered, confident that he was about to inform her of that which she already knew. 
               Mr. Rutherford looked uneasily at her. It was evident that she knew something, but how much? It was with great difficulty that he maintained his ordinary civility towards her, for Colonel Hamilton, during their long conversation that afternoon, had told him many things which had greatly roused his displeasure and contempt against her. 
               "Sybil is no longer under your authority or mine," he resumed. 
               The widow made no answer; she was on her guard, and would find how much he was disposed to tell her before she allowed him to see how far her own knowledge extended. 
               "She has been married for some months to Mr. Wyndham," he said in a vexed tone, provoked at her silence. 
               "I am aware of it," she returned coolly. 
               "How did you gain your information, Madam?" he asked. 
               "From Sybil's own lips," she answered, enjoying his look of perturbation. "Since when have you known it? 
               "Mrs. Brockhurst would fain have had him believe that she had been in possession of the facts for some time; for she did not wish him to guess at the true cause of Sybil's illness; but she feared that it would not be safe for her to pretend that such was the case. "Sybil revealed the whole to me last night," she answered, after a moment's hesitation. 
               Mr. Rutherford would have given much to know what "the whole" comprised; but if she was still ignorant of the worst part of the secret it would not do to ask questions which might lead her to surmise that there was something more than the marriage to be concealed. 
               "You cannot wonder then, Madam," he resumed, "that under these circumstances, Mr. Wyndham should seek for an interview with Sybil, nor that I have given him leave to see her. He is probably now with her, and I desire that you will leave them together for a while." Mrs. Brockhurst started up with a face of anger and dismay, but Mr. Rutherford placed himself in her way. "I advise you, Madam, not to risk an encounter with Mr. Wyndham at present. He is bent upon seeing Sybil as he has a perfect right to do, and is not a man to submit quietly to any interference with that which he has set his mind upon; and, as I have told you, he has my permission to do so, if that were needed. My authority over Sybil, as you are aware, is superior to yours, although I have seldom asserted it in order to avoid any unpleasant feeling, and Mr. Wyndham's is paramount to both. Take my advice and avoid any collision with him or you may be sorry for it afterward." 
               "I have no reason to fear him," said Mrs. Brockhurst, unable to restrain a sneer; but she saw that it was not worth while to have any contention on the subject, and she would bide her time. If her message had reached General -- the hour could not be far distant when she should have her revenge. 
               "Has this marriage your approbation?" she asked. 
               "That is neither here nor there, Madam," he returned; "the thing is done and we must make the best of it." 
               Finding that she was not to be allowed to return to Sybil at present, Mrs. Brockhurst, though chafing with unrepressed rage, reseated herself, and endeavored by skillfully put questions, to ascertain if Mr. Rutherford knew that the pretended Wyndham was really Colonel Hamilton. She was quite successful; the simple-hearted old man was no match for the wily woman before him, and his very efforts to baffle her curiosity but served to convince her that he knew the whole story. 
               As soon as Mr. Rutherford and the widow had left the dining-room, Colonel Hamilton, who had received a meaning look from the former which notified him that the old gentleman was about to keep his promise, drew his sister aside and requested her to go and prepare Sybil to see him immediately. Anna departed on her errand and was admitted by the maid when she stated, according to her brother's directions, that she came by express desire of Mr. Rutherford, and that Mrs. Brockhurst would be absent for some time. She sent the woman away, and then delivering her message to Sybil with a few loving words, she assured her that she need fear no disturbance from her step-mother for a while, as Mr. Rutherford was talking to her and would probably detain her for an hour or so; then warmly returning Sybil's proffered embrace, she hastened back to Colonel Hamilton that she might not occupy any more of the moments so precious to him. 
               Before Ellen left the room she had placed Sybil's little note in Anna's hand. She took it scarce observing what it was; but when she had reached the foot of the stairs where her brother awaited her, she remembered that she still held it; and thinking that it might Contain something he should know, she asked him to wait while she read it. Hamilton looked over her shoulder, and as they stood there together, Mr. Van Alstyne came out of the drawing-room on his way to the library. Anna's face was turned from him. She knew his step and did not look up; but Hamilton caught his wrathful glance as it fell upon them. He half smiled as he thought how causeless was the jealousy which called it forth; then when he had watched Mr. Van Alstyne's retreating figure until he was out of sight, he said, 
               "Anna, I intend to tell Van Alstyne tonight who I am." 
               Anna looked up. "He knows, Guy," she whispered. 
               "He knows! and who has told him?" he asked. 
               Anna shook her head. "I cannot tell," she answered; "but when I asked him for the money yesterday, he told me that he knew all." 
               "And when he said that, did you not ask him how he had found it out?" 
               "No," she said slowly and as though it, were difficult for her to speak, "No, I did not think of that." 
               Struck by something in her manner, Colonel Hamilton asked, "And what farther did he say?" 
               A fearful change parsed over Anna's face, and clasping her hands over her brother's arm, she said, "I cannot tell you now, love; go to Sybil, go." 
               Hamilton stooped and kissed the upturned face; but it was with an added pang at his heart that he ascended the stairs. Did he stand then in the way of Anna's happiness? was that dear sister to be sacrificed for him? "Some lover's quarrel," Mr. Rutherford had said; ah! it was more than that, he could not doubt it! Van Alstyne knew all, knew that one whom he would brand as a traitor had taken refuge beneath, his roof, and he resented it deeply. As he had feared, it was this, which had changed the courteous, agreeable manner of his host to the distant, freezing politeness which for the last two days had tried his proud spirit almost beyond control. He must acknowledge that Van Alstyne had reason to feel annoyed that such an imposition had been practiced upon him; but was the penalty to fall upon Anna? Could such a man as he had believed Van Alstyne to be, visit his anger and displeasure upon her innocent and beloved head? Let mm look to it if he was false to her now, when she so needed some sustaining hand. But the love which could not endure such a trial was worthless; Anna would be happier in the end without it, No, he could not console himself with this; the withdrawal of it was breaking the heart of the devoted girl whose young life had been so full of sorrow. That look upon her face haunted him, and a muttered curse upon Van Alstyne and himself, broke from his lips as he crossed the hall to his wife's apartment. 
               Anna stood where he had left her, watching him as he went up. He was all she had, and to-night he was to leave her, and she must stand alone; for as soon as he was gone, separation from Kate must come, and she go forth to seek a home among strangers. Well, God was merciful, and she should not need it long. As she stood thus, again there came that sharp, terrible agony, this time even more severe than it had been before, depriving her for the moment of breath, and, though of short duration, causing such a faintness that he was obliged to lean upon the banisters for support. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne, finding the library occupied, had turned back to the drawing-room, he saw Anna standing there alone, and passed her without speaking; but something in her attitude drew his attention, and after looking back at her he retraced his steps. 
               "Are you ill, Miss Hamilton; shall I call assistance?" he asked. 
               Anna raised the white face upon which his eyes had not once rested since the morning of the day before; and inexpressibly shocked at the change which the last two days had wrought, somewhat of his former feeling of tenderness revived. 
               "Let me bring you something, you are looking very ill," he said. 
                
               Anna did not speak, words could not fin their way just then; and he drew forward chair and placed her in it, then went for glass of wine. By the time he came back Anna had partially recovered. She took few drops from the glass, then gave it back into his hand. 
               "Can I do anything more for you; are you in any new trouble or distress?" he asked. He had to bend his head to catch the answer. 
               "No, only a severe pain; it is gone now," she said faintly, and with a visible tremor as he bent over her, at the same time turning her head and looking up the stairs as though watching for Guy. 
               That slight movement checked the rising tide of sympathy and kindness. She was looking for the man with whom she intended to fly, probably that same night, looking wistfully for him in the very place where but three evenings since those speaking eyes that were now seeking for his rival had given him full assurance that he had possession of her heart. 
               Yet if she loved Wyndham-and alas! he had no room to doubt it-and was going with him willingly, why this evident misery? There must fee something behind all this. Did she fear the anger of her uncle and brother when they should know of her elopement? Surely, if she was so ready to give up all for her lover, the dread of their displeasure was not enough to produce such suffering as was depicted hot only in her countenance, but in her whole attitude, in the tones of her voice, in the very drooping of the little hands now lying listlessly in her lap. Wyndham was a villain; for had he not been trifling with Sybil before Anna's very eyes probably to hide from others his love for the latter. His attentions to Sybil had been a subject of remark with- the whole family. What could the reason be that he dared not come forward and openly assert whatever claim he possessed to Anna's hand and affection, and how had she become so entangled with this man as to make it necessary for her to adopt such a systematic course of deception as she had planned and carried out? Was it not only too probable that there were circumstances connected with Wyndham's past life which would not bear investigation, and which would entail disgrace, not only on the woman whom, he should marry, but on all who were connected with her, and was it not his own duty to circumvent him if possible? Should he tell Anna that he considered himself responsible to her uncle for her safety; that he was cognizant of her intended flight and should take measures to prevent it? No, she might ascribe his doing so to his own disappointment, and he had no legal authority over her. For all he knew, she might already be the wife of Wyndham. He would let her go, nor lift a finger to stop her in the rash step she was taking. Again he steeled his heart against her, while these thoughts chased each other through his mind, and he stood silent beside her until she seemed somewhat better; when with all his former sternness he said, "Can I be of any farther use?" 
               "No, thank you," she replied. 
               "Then I will send Mrs. Arnold, or some one else, to wait upon you; her, assistance may be more efficient than mine," and he would have gone on to the drawing room, when Anna rose, and saying that she needed nothing more, passed on before him. Better no notice at all from him than those cold courtesies which he would have offered to an entire stranger with more of kindness than he proffered them to her, and which were such a mockery after all that had passed between them. 
               He watched her for a time as, rallying all her energies, she called a smile to her lip, and sat talking with the other young people, keeping back with a strong will all outward tokens of the agony that would pain have vented itself in cries and sobs; until he almost believed that the passing weakness he had just witnessed was, as she had asserted, but the overpowering effect of physical suffering. It would have been a relief to him had she testified any resentment at his harshness; but there had been nothing in her manner towards him with which he could find it. There had been no effort to attract his notice or elicit his sympathy, no lessening of the gentle womanly dignity which had always distinguished her; and now he marvelled at the self-control which she exercised ver voice and feature, till a casual observer might have noticed nothing unusual in her appearance, save the singular fluctuations of her color; for her extreme paleness was every now and then varied by sudden flashes of the most intense crimson, which for a moment would dye her cheek and then fade way, making only more apparent that deathlike whiteness which succeeded. But the expression of patient endurance in the sweet yes could not escape him, accustomed as he was to read every change of her countenance. 
               "Yes," said Mrs. Arnold, coming up to him and startling him from his painful reflections by the suddenness, "Yes, you may well look at her as if you did not know what to think of her. I cannot understand Anna Hamilton myself. If it were any one else I should say that she was obstinate and reckless. She knows as well as I do-for if s he tad not heard it, I have reminded her often enough-that the doctor positively forbade my excitement or exposure to the cold; and yet, will you believe it when I tell you that Sunday morning she went out, bitterly cold as it was, and stayed for more than an lour. Mrs. Brockhurst told me, and I thought that she must be mistaken; but when taxed Anna with it she did not deny it; and worse than all, when I questioned her and would be answered, she confessed that she had not gone farther than the rose-walk summer-house and had been sitting there. If she had been walking all that time it would not have been so bad; but, as I tell her, she is paying dearly for her imprudence with that cough. And as for excitement! There, look at her now!" fumed the kind-hearted but fussy lady. "I am really very uneasy about her. She is certainly quite ill enough to be in her room, if not in bed, and should be perfectly quiet; but in spite of all I can say, she persists in being down stairs all the time, and when I expostulate, or even scold, answers me with that sad smile, which silences me at once, and says that she must come. I cannot help thinking that she is anxious to be where Mr. Wyndham is, for she seems restless if he leaves the room even a moment, and she has not been like herself since he has been here. I suppose that he recalls her brother more strongly to her mind; but still I cannot see why that should make her so nervous and uneasy. It would be far better for her if she could make up her mind that her brother is dead. I am convinced myself that it must be so, or she would surely have heard something from him. my this time. I have tried to persuade Mr. Wyndham that his friend is no longer living, but he is quite incredulous and only laughs at me. And now here is Sybil so ill, and Mrs. Brockhurst will not let any one go near her. It is very strange. If she is so sick as to need such absolute quiet, I should think that Mrs. Brockhurst would need some help in nursing her." And so she rambled on for some time, scarcely heeded by Mr. Van Alstyne, who stood with his eyes fixed upon Anna's face as if fascinated, a tumult of thoughts and emotions agitating his mind. When would this mystery be solved? 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "There will come a weary day, 
                           When, overtasked at length, 
                           Both love and hope, beneath the weight give way." 
                        
                      
                     -COLERIDGE. 
                   
                
               COLONEL HAMILTON easily satisfied his wife that it was better their journey should not take place that night. Though anxious to have him removed from the dangers which surrounded him, sue felt that she was totally unfit to travel at present, and feared that she might only be a hindrance to him. With a hopefulness unusual in her, she trusted that she should be better in the morning; and after he had told her that Mr. Rutherford was in possession of all the facts hitherto concealed from him, and would do all in his power to assist them, she made her confession that she had told Mrs. Brockhurst of their marriage, and receiving his assurance that he was not displeased with her, laid quietly with her hand locked in his, soothed by his presence and caresses, and by the belief that all things were working well for him. As Hamilton looked at her, his heart quaking at the tokens of severe illness which his anxious eyes perceived in her, as he thought of what the morrow was to bring upon her, and then remembered Anna's face as she had lifted it to him in the hall, he would gladly have laid down his life that minute, could he but have recalled the past week. 
               "Guy," said Sybil, a sudden recollection flashing over her, "Ellen told me this evening that Mr. Spencer had sent his man to the city this morning with a letter from mamma to General --. Could it have been anything concerning you?" 
               "You have not told her who I am?" he asked. 
               "No, no, love, how could you think it?" she answered reproachfully. 
               "It could have been nothing that would interest us then, my Sybil Mrs. Brockhurst has never seen me in my own character, and therefore it is impossible that she should recognize me; so make your mind easy on that score, dearest." 
               And Sybil reassured, gave no further thought to the subject; nor did the Colonel at that time. He had remained beside her for nearly an hour, when, Mrs. Brockhurst returned accompanied by Mr. Rutherford. 
               Mrs. Brockhurst regretted that she had not been aware until last night of the honor she enjoyed in having Mr. Wyndham for a son-in-law. Hamilton thought that he detected a slight stress laid upon the name, but put the idea from him again. Sybil noticed an expression in his eye, and a curl of his lip as her step-mother spoke to him, which told her that no very courteous answer was to be expected. The warning pressure of her fingers upon the hand which still held her own, checked the reply which was rising to his lips, and unwilling to agitate her farther now, he deferred to another time his inclination to tell Mrs. Brockhurst his opinion of her treatment of his wife. Tolling Sybil that he wished to see Mr. Van Alstyne, and would return to her after the doctor had paid his promised evening visit, he withdrew, leaving Mr. Rutherford to take his place beside her. 
               When he reached the drawing-room he found that Dr. Wells had just arrived, and was talking to Mr. Tan Alstyne whom he had seized by the button-hole, while he stated to him some case of distress which had that day come under his notice. The good doctor was making a long story, and Col. Hamilton stood near his sister, a waiting the moment when he should be able to claim Mr. Van Alstyne's attention. 
               A servant came to the door. "A person wishes to see Mr. Van Alstyne," he said, with rather a mystified air. 
               "Who is it?" inquired his master. 
               "He did not give his name, sir," replied the man hesitatingly; but I think he has come on business." And he disappeared immediately as though afraid of farther questioning. 
               Somewhat astonished at this unusual behavior of his well-trained domestic, Mr. Van Alstyne went out, and as he did so Mrs. Arnold entered. 
               "What are those soldiers doing in the hall?" she asked. 
               "Soldiers in the hall!" repeated Kate. 
               "Yes, three soldiers, one of them a sergeant," she replied. 
               "Some one to see papa I suppose," Kate answered. "He was sent for but what can they want from him? " 
               Anna turned with a terrified glance towards her brother. He did not meet it, but his eyes sought Stuart's, who returned his scrutinizing look with one so clear and open, that Hamilton's momentary doubts of his good faith instantly vanished, while Sybil's fear respecting the letter to General -- recurred to his mind. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne opened the door. Mr. Wyndham, will you step here if you please," he said gravely. 
               Hamilton turned to obey, when Stuart came to his side and passed his arm through the Colonel's. As they reached the door Anna rose and followed them. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne stopped her. "You must not come out now," he said, trying to put her back and close the door. 
               She answered not a word, but lifted her eyes full of supplicating terror, and with an unnatural strength drew the door from his band and slipped past him. 
               The sergeant stepped forward and looked at Colonel Hamilton, then glanced at Major Stuart's uniform and hesitated, as if uncertain what step to take. 
               "Is this the gentleman calling himself Mr. Wyndham?" he asked. 
               "Yes, what is your business with me?" demanded Hamilton haughtily. 
               "You are my prisoner, sir," said the sergeant, laying his hand upon the Colonel's shoulder. 
               "Guy, oh! my brother," burst from Anna's livid lips as she heard the words. 
               Hamilton shook off the man's hand and caught her as she fell, repulsing Van Alstyne who would have snatched her from him. 
               Her brother! was relief or remorse the feeling uppermost in Van Alstyne's heart as he gazed on the drooping form held close to Hamilton's breast? Alas! what had he done! 
               "You cannot arrest this gentleman," said Stuart to the sergeant. 
               "I have my orders to do so, sir," said the man, at the same time laying his hand with a stronger grasp upon Hamilton's collar. Stuart was again about to interpose, but ere a word had left his lips, the sergeant laid upon the floor, felled by a blow from Hamilton's powerful hand. By this time the rest of the party who had been in the drawing-room, startled by the confusion, had gathered in the hall, where they gazed wonderingly on the scene. 
               In a furious rage, the sergeant sprang to his feet, drawing his revolver as he did so. Stuart saw the motion and hastily struck up the man's arm as he levelled the pistol at Hamilton and fired. The ball flew upwards lodging harmlessly in. the ceiling, but ere Stuart could prevent it he fired again, and this time with more effect, the ball passing through Colonel Hamilton's arm and entering his side. His arm dropped helplessly, but he kept upon his feet, still holding his insensible sister. 
               "By whose orders do you come here?" enquired Major Stuart of the enraged sergeant. 
               "By General --'s," said the man, at the same time showing his orders. 
               "You need give yourself no farther trouble in the matter, "said Stuart, sternly. "You have been unnecessarily hasty, for with the assistance of your companions Colonel Hamilton might easily have been secured, in spite of his resistance without resorting to such extreme measures. You may yet be held to answer for this. Col. Hamilton is already a prisoner in my hands, and I am responsible for his security. I am Major Stuart, of the - Regiment in General --'s command. Go back and report accordingly." 
               The man gave the military salute, and sulkily withdrew, no other course being open to him. 
               The report of the two shots had alarmed those who were above. Springing from her bed, Sybil flew to the door and down the stair-case in spite of Mr. Rutherford's efforts to prevent her, her wild shrieks ringing through the house as her eye caught sight of the group below, where she threw herself upon her husband's bosom. Hamilton was growing faint, and Dr. Wells seeing him unable to support both wife and sister, took Anna from him and gave her to Mr. Van Alstyne, who again pressed forward to receive her. 
               Raising his precious burden in his arms, Van Alstyne carried her from the midst of the terrified group into the library where he laid her on a sofa, and kneeling beside her, besought her to look at him and forgive him. 
               Kate, whose thoughts had flown to Anna even in the midst of the general confusion and terror-for Colonel Hamilton was now lying powerless upon a mattrass which had been hastily laid upon the floor of the "blue parlor," his wounds bleeding profusely, while I Sybil hung over him half-crazed-soon followed lowed her father and eagerly assisted him in his endeavors to restore Anna from her death-like swoon; but minute after minute passed and no sign of consciousness rewarded their efforts. Almost despairing Kate went for Mrs. Arnold who had been in attendance upon Colonel Hamilton; but as the doctor was now proceeding to the examination of his wounds and had banished the ladies from the room, she was ready to come at Kate's call. The remedies adopted by the elder lady seemed more successful. At last Anna stirred and slowly opened her eyes. But there was no look of recognition in them. In vain did they call her name with every term of endearment, in vain did Kate's hot tears and tender kisses fall upon her face, in vain did Mrs. Arnold use every means that she could devise to rouse her from that fearful stillness. They might have thought that it was death had it not been for the slight heaving of her bosom. Quiet and passive she laid in Mr. Van Alstyne's arms, unheeding his earnest entreaties that she would speak to him, or the passionate caresses which in an agony of remorseful tenderness he lavished upon her, all regardless of the presence of others. No light came to the sweet eyes, no color to the marble cheek) no warmth to the icy hands. 
               The repeated shocks of the last few days following her wearing anxiety of the past six months had proved too much for the over tasked mind, and for a naturally delicate constitution; but it was perhaps a merciful insensibility which kept her from knowing the extent of her brother's danger. 
               Colonel Hamilton's situation was extremely critical, and it was long ere the doctor could leave him and come to Anna's relief. But all his skill proved as unavailing as the efforts of others had done. 
               "She must be roused from this," he said at last; "her brother's voice might do something, but the agitation it would cause him to see her in this state would be fatal. I dare not risk it or I would have her carried to him. He has asked for her several times and it has been difficult to satisfy him that she was not able to come to him without causing more alarm than I think it safe to excite." 
               Stuart had come in, sent by Hamilton to make renewed inquiries for his sister, and now stood beside the couch, looking with pitying eyes upon that death-like face, so changed since it had met his gaze for the first time but a few days since. 
               "Try her brother's name," he said. 
               Kate put her lips close to Anna's face and called, "Anna, Guy wants you, dearest, come to him, come Anna, come to Guy;" and over and over again she reiterated his name in Anna's ear. It proved successful in arousing her, but alas! with a far different effect from that which they had hoped for. The rigid features slightly relaxed as Kate's voice seemed to pierce her clouded senses, and she turned her eyes upon her with a look of dawning recognition. 
               "Keep on," whispered the doctor, as Kate's sobs choked her utterance, and she renewed her calls. As her voice again broke the silence of the anxious circle about her, Anna lifted herself feebly from Mr. Van Alstyne's arms, gazed a moment longer at Kate with a bewildered expression, then as consciousness more fully returned, she murmured in a faint tone, "Guy, dear brother, where are you?" while she raised her hands and pushed back the hair from her face, glancing fearfully around her as she did so. 
               Feeling renewed alarm at her manner, Mr. Van Alstyne passed his arm once more around her, and bending his head looked in her eyes, while controlling his voice with a strong effort he said quietly. "Be calm, Anna, and soon you shall see Guy." 
               She returned his gaze for one instant; the next that same shivering tremor ran over her, the same look of mortal terror returned to her eyes; then, as the full tide of recollection rushed back upon her, a low, sharp cry burst from her lips, and the blood gushed from her mouth as her head fell heavily back upon his shoulder. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           MAN. I loved her and destroyed her! 
                           WITCH. With thy hand? 
                           MAN. Not with my hand, but heart; which broke her heart! 
                        
                      
                     -BYRON. 
                   
                
               HOW wearily passed the hours of that terrible night to that fearfully smitten household, as they wrestled with the dark Angel, the shadow of whose wings fell so closely around their dear ones. 
               In the one room lay the brother on the hastily arranged couch where they had placed him, when the strong determination which had for a while upheld him after he received his dreadful wounds had yielded to pain and the weakness occasioned by loss of blood. Dr. Wells did not pronounce his condition absolutely hopeless, but his debility was so great and his sufferings so severe that there was much cause for alarm, and the utmost care was requisite to preserve him from the least shock or excitement. It was impossible to part Sybil from him. Her fever had mounted to a height that rendered her inaccessible to all reasoning, and on the slightest attempt to remove her, her cries were so wild and piercing that Colonel Hamilton became distressed and agitated, and the doctor concluded that it was the least of two evils to let her remain. Her husband wished to have her with him, and while there she remained perfectly quiet, sitting motionless with her head resting on the side of his couch, save when some wild fancy arising within the poor disordered brain caused her to raise it and begin to pour forth some restless, wandering utterances. But a whispered word of Hamilton or the, gentlest touch of his hand was enough to calm her; and again she would lay down her head like a tired child, while the anxious watchers could scarcely restrain their tears as they saw the cold, proud Sybil who had hitherto seemed so immovable and passionless, now so completely subdued by this one strong feeling-her devoted love for him whose life seemed hanging by a thread. 
               And was her sun to set thus? Was the only light which had shone upon her sad life for so many years to go out in darkness? the only love she had known since the death of her father to be taken from her, and she to be left desolate? 
               God forbid! thought her guardian as he saw the gaze of intense affection with which Hamilton's eyes rested almost constantly on the fever-flushed face beside him, or marked the soothing effect of his feeble voice when her delirious fancies disturbed the lethargic stupor in which she remained for the greater part of the time; and he reproached himself bitterly that he had not before sounded the depths of that really noble character and drawn forth those warm feelings which, it was now evident, needed but some object on which to expend themselves, unrestrained by the petty tyranny hitherto exercised over her by Mrs. Brockhurst. She had been left to his care by her dying father, and how had he fulfilled the obligations imposed on him by that trust? 
               In his careful hands the large property left by Mr. Brockhurst to his only and darling child had nearly doubled in value in the ten years since her father's death. He had spared neither time or trouble to advance his ward's pecuniary interests; but his easy food-nature and aversion to any thing like a is agreement, had led him to leave the girl in the hands of her step-mother who had refused all his offers to remove Sybil from her supervision. He well knew that Mrs. Brockhurst bitterly disliked the child to whom her father had bequeathed the greater part of the wealth which she had hoped to secure as her own, and now he repented that he had not long since taken the girl into his own care and given her the place in his heart and home which the death of his own children had rendered vacant. 
               And he would have regretted it still more deeply, had he had any idea of the extent to which petty persecution and harsh repression had been brought to bear upon the child, until the naturally warm and affectionate, but reserved and timid disposition, checked and thwarted at every turn, learned to hide all outward manifestation of feeling, whether joyful or sad, even to her heart-breaking sorrow at the loss of the father who had so idolized her. Brotherless and sisterless, worse than orphaned, debarred from all society of her own age, and shunning as far as she could that of her step-mother and the governess who was completely under Mrs. Brockhurst's say, what wonder that the poor young heart, driven back upon itself, and consuming with secret longing for him she had lost, came to believe that there were none left to love her, and that she stood, alone and uncared for in the world. So it had been, and so had she, who under happier circumstances and in an affectionate home would have become a bright and loving, though perhaps a timid girl, developed into the cold, haughty, reserved Miss Brockhurst, whose chilling manners repelled more than her striking beauty attracted. 
               Perhaps Mr. Van Alstyne on his return from Europe was the first to suspect that beneath this frozen surface there lay a heart; but even his efforts had availed little in arousing her from that calm immovability. The habit of years was not so easily shaken off, and though grateful for his kindness, Sybil found it impossible to be much more free and unreserved with him than she was with others; for with him her natural timidity was heightened by her awe of his superior attainments and position. 
               Moreover, although frequently invited to Ranleigh, Sybil was never allowed to go there unaccompanied by Mrs. Brockhurst, and the restraint of her presence was quite sufficient to counteract the effect of Mr. Van Alstyne's endeavors to draw the young girl from her melancholy abstraction and render her more happy. 
               The visit to Charleston during the previous winter would have been an era in her unhappy life, even had it not resulted in that which was to affect her whole future destiny, for she went without Mrs. Brockhurst. Some relatives of her own mother living in that city had often and pressingly urged that she should make them a visit; but Mrs. Brockhurst had constantly evaded the request under one pretext or another. When the invitation, had been repeated last year, backed by the offer of a safe and unexceptionable escort for Sybil, it had again been refused; but Mr. Rutherford at the instigation of Mr. Van Alstyne, declared it was high time that she should be permitted to renew her acquaintance with her mother's relations, and when on being interrogated in regard to her, own wishes, Sybil roused for once from her usual indifference, and manifested a strong desire to go, her guardian at once gave her permission to do so, and settled the matter without further reference to Mrs. Brockhurst who, unwilling as she was to have Sybil removed from her own surveillance, had no excuse for following her to the home of her friends. 
               Once released from that constant watchfulness ness and fault-finding and from the hated society of her step-mother, the incubus on Sybil's heart and spirits was in a measure removed; and when to this was added the genial welcome and affectionate greeting of her long unknown and warm-hearted Southern relatives, it seemed to the poor girl that she had suddenly awakened in a new world. A new world it was indeed to her, and in the bright atmosphere of that pleasant, loving household the icy crust in which Sybil had encased herself melted away, as the slight frost of an autumn night dissolves beneath the first rays of the morning sun. 
               It was while under the influence of these new and happy feelings, and while dreading a recall to her own unloved home, that Sybil was thrown into the society of Colonel Hamilton. From the first hour of their meeting he fell desperately and passionately in love with the beautiful girl whose very reserve and quietness of manner only made her additionally attractive in his eyes. Every minute that he could spare from his military duties was devoted to her; and the handsome, brilliant and fascinating soldier did not sue in vain. It was not long before he had the inexpressible delight of knowing, that he alone of all the numerous aspirants to her favor, could brighten those perfect features into life and animation, of seeing those dark eyes meet his impassioned glances with a shy tenderness, which took an added charm from the reason that they turned with such frigid indifference upon all others. Wholly and unreservedly Sybil surrendered her heart to him, knowing no will but his, no happiness but in his presence and his love, and allowing him to seek her society whenever and where-ever he could, despite all the expostulations of her friends who foresaw nothing but trouble from this attachment, believing that under the circumstances it would be strenuously opposed by her guardian and step-mother. 
               All reasonings, all warnings were entirely thrown away, and had only the effect of causing Sybil to shrink from those who uttered them, and to cling the more closely to her lover; and when the hasty summons came for her return to New York, leaving her but a few hours for preparation, she yielded instantly and without hesitation to his entreaties for a private marriage before her departure. 
               Sanguine by nature and sincerely believing in the right and justice of the cause he had espoused, Hamilton, like many of his confreres, looked forward to no long struggle, but felt confident, not only that the triumphant South would speedily obtain the recognition of her independence, but that she would dictate terms to a vanquished and divided North. He persuaded both Sybil and himself that but a little time need elapse, before he could claim her as his wife and either go for her or demand her return to him; "and who," he said, "should dare to stand between them when the marriage vow and once been pronounced, and she was his in the sight of God and man." 
               One sympathizing young cousin, delighting in the mystery and romance of the affair, was found ready to assist I them; and unsuspected by her relatives, Sybil left their house the wedded wife of Hamilton. The picture by means of which Mrs. Brockhurst had discovered Hamilton's identity, had been his parting gift to his bride in that agonized farewell, when even his hopeful spirit had almost sunk into despondency in view of the possible future. 
               They separated, he to lose in the excitement of the struggle into which he had thrown himself some part of the weight which for a time rested so heavily on heart and soul-she, with her woman's share of the burden, to return to her cheerless home, there to watch and wait,-looking for the summons and the tidings that were so slow to come. 
               Guarding her secret with jealous care, and shrinking more than ever from the scrutiny of Mrs. Brockhurst, who seemed to have grown harsher and more unkind than she had been before, Sybil speedily sank again into the apparent apathy and proud indifference, from which she had been for a time so happily aroused. But one thought absorbed her, anxiety intense and overpowering for the fate of him in whom was centered all her world of love and hope; and she had hailed an invitation to Ranleigh with a feeling of something like pleasure, solely for the reason that Anna Hamilton was there, and from her she might hope to learn some tidings of the beloved one. 
               But it was not long before she wished herself away again. Although she dared ask no questions, she soon found that Anna knew no more than she did herself; and it was agony to hear others speculating on the probable fate of her husband at times when his sister happened to be beyond hearing. 
               Who could have guessed that that pale, quiet girl who sat there with no more sign of emotion than if she had been some beautiful picture or statue, had even a deeper interest in the subject, than the loving sister with whose prolonged anxiety all were sympathizing? What was Anna's longing to hear of his welfare, compared to hers? Guy was her all, her sole treasure there were none besides to love her. But for Anna, had she not others to whom she could cling, others who would watch her and guard her, making her happiness their care? Did not all who knew her love her? Sybil herself loved her, dearly, devotedly, though Anna never suspected it; loved her not only for her own sake, but because she was Guy's sister, her own sister; "my own sister, my sweet sister," would poor Sybil say over and over to herself; yet never daring to make good her claim by coming forward and declaring her marriage. It was with a feeling of envy which almost amounted to jealousy, that she watched Kate's free and unrestrained intercourse with Anna, longing with a yearning that was actually painful, to throw herself in Anna's arms, and making known the tie which united them and which she felt that Anna would be ready to acknowledge for Guy's sake, to demand a share of the affection so lavishly bestowed on Kate. More than once she had fully determined to confide in Anna and tell her all; but when it came to the point, her courage invariably failed, and the momentous secret remained untold, even when she knew that her husband was near at hand, and down to the very night that he arrived at Ranleigh. 
               As much of all this as he knew himself, Col. Hamilton had imparted to Mr. Rutherford this afternoon, and the old gentleman was inexpressibly grieved and touched as he thought of the amount of silent and unsuspected suffering, which his young ward had undergone; and that not only for the last six months, but for years. The Colonel himself was not aware of the extent to which Mrs. Brockhurst's systematic unkindness had been carried; for Sybil, dreading that he would give vent to his anger towards her step-mother without regard to the consequences to himself, had concealed from him all that she could, though his closely-put questions in addition to what he had observed himself, had elicited enough to excite his wrath to the utmost. 
               Mr. Rutherford's indignation against Mrs. Brockhurst, was extreme when the Colonel revealed this to him. Knowing Sybil's intense dislike to her, he had formerly been inclined to think that the girl herself had been partially to blame, for the unhappy state of affairs which existed; and it was only the representations of Mr. Van Alstyne, who saw deeper beneath the surface, than did Sybil's not very clear-sighted guardian, that had of late led him to judge differently. Even then he was slow to believe that Mrs. Brockhurst could act a deliberately cruel part to her daughter; and now that the truth was made clear to him, he was shocked and distressed beyond measure, while he did not fail to take a large share of blame to himself for having left the girl at Mrs. Brockhurst's mercy. Poor Sybil! if she but recovered, whether her husband lived or not, the devotion of his whole life should make amends to her for his former neglect, and many a fervent though silent prayer did the old man offer up as he sat beside that bed of suffering, that the life in which hers was so bound up, might yet be spared to brighten her future days. 
               Nor did he forget in his petitions the sister who in the next room lay even more hopelessly stricken down, than he for whom she had undergone so much. Perfectly prostrated she lay, motionless and senseless, the only symptoms of vitality the faint pulsation at her heart and wrist; and many times, not only through that long night, but during many succeeding days did even these appear to cease, and her loving nurses deem that the worn spirit had gone to its rest. 
               And Van Alstyne! who shall tell the bitterness of his anguish as he hung over her watching for the slightest tokens of life and consciousness. He had won her heart but to show her how it might be tortured; he had taught her to trust to him, and when she had come to him in undoubting confidence to seek his aid, and he might have taken her to his heart, and softened by assurances of his love and sympathy, the denial he should have thought it right to give to her request-for he saw clearly now what had been her motive for desiring the money-he had repulsed her with bitter, scornful words, almost with taunts. He could not forget the touching tones of appeal, in which when he had told her that he knew her secret, she had so trustingly said, "And you will help me," as though no doubt had crossed her mind that he was ready to offer support and comfort in her hour of trial. And he had failed her, thrown her back upon herself; and then he remembered her despairing words, "And what must I do then? "uttered in a tone so heart-broken, when unmoved by her misery, he had placed a barrier between himself and her, disclaiming all farther interest in her. 
               And memory did not spare him one pang. Worse, far worse than all beside came the recollection of what had passed in his study this morning, piercing his heart with a pain that was unendurable. He was at no loss now to know why she had accused him of willfully insulting her. He knew what she had thought, knew what a villain, what a mean contemptible wretch he had appeared in her eyes, tins seeming to reproach her with betraying an affection for him which he had declared to be unsought and uncared for. And this to her! whose slightest word or smile had been more precious to him than anything on earth beside; this to her with whose womanly reserve and shrinking delicacy he had sometimes felt half inclined to quarrel when he would have won from her some token of preference or interest. That he should have humbled her so! 
               Again he heard the sweet, dear tones which her roused pride had rendered so steady, uttering the dignified reproof which had only served to call forth, what appeared to be a still more insulting and unmanly reply, to be followed by, that cruel sentence when the broken spirit crushed at length beyond all power of resistance had for the moment no thought but to escape from his presence, to hide from him whose merciless hand was so ruthlessly breaking down every prop which had sustained her. What wonder that she had shrunk away from him like some poor hunted creature; what wonder that tonight when he had stood with her at the foot of the staircase, those pathetic eyes had looked so wistfully for the return of the brother whose presence might shield her from repeated insult and torture! Aye, she had sought and needed protection from him! 
               It was no consolation to him that he had been deceived by appearances. He should have known her better than to think that one so pure, so womanly, would have met any save a brother, alone, at that hour. And he could make no reparation, could never win her forgiveness. She was passing away from him, for the physicians gave not a shadow of encouragement; she would never rally, they said. That sweet voice would never again stir the very depths of his heart, those soft eyes never again droop shyly beneath his own. 
               "Ah!" said the old doctor, as he stood beside Mr. Van Alstyne, gazing mournfully on the beautiful wreck before them, and unconscious of the wound he was so severely probing, "Ah! I saw that her heart was breaking, and I thought that the grief which was weighing so heavily upon her might be connected in some way with that unhappy man; but I never dreamed of this. Did you know who he really was?" 
               "Would to God that I had!" burst from Van Alstyne's lips, with a groan so full of wretchedness that the doctor started. 
               "And this is but an atom of the suffering caused by the errors and follies which have led to this terrible war," said the doctor, following out his train of thought. "We number up our killed and wounded on the field of battle, our sick and dying in our camps and hospitals, but take no count of the broken hearts and blighted affections, of the desolation in the homes of thousands in this broad land. Yet turn where we will, we see it; directly or indirectly it touches us all. God give us strength to bear the portion that has fallen to us here! "And the tears chased each other over his furrowed cheeks, as he added in a lower tone. "The strong and the beautiful laid low. Two, if not three, to be carried from the midst of us in the prime of their youth and hope, for nothing I fear will save that poor fellow now that fever has set in, and for this dear child-" he sighed heavily as he laid his hand tenderly upon the chill forehead. 
               "Doctor," said Mr. Van Alstyne, suddenly turning to him and laying his hand upon his arm with a grasp that was absolutely painful, "Doctor, give me one word of hope, if it is but that she may revive for a time. I cannot let her go thus; she must speak to me again,-in mercy tell me that it may be so." 
               The doctor shook his head, he could not speak; and as he turned sadly away Van Alstyne, the strong, proud man, the man of firm will and iron nerve, bent his head upon the arm of the sofa where his darling lay, and wild sobs shook that powerful frame until the doctor stood appalled, and spoke in words of expostulation at what he deemed such rebellious grief, unknowing of the agony of self-reproach which wrung Van Alstyne's soul. And when the paroxysm had passed and the doctor left them for a time, he knelt with his daughter beside him and prayed-prayed as only man can pray when he feels that all human help is vain: that the cup of misery which is pressed to his lips is held by an Almighty hand, powerful to destroy, but powerful to save. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Ah! there are memories that will not vanish- 
                           Thoughts of the past we have no power to banish." 
                        
                      
                     L. E. L. 
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "I dared to put it to the touch, 
                        To win or lose it all." 
                     
                   
                
               AND that prayer was heard, and though the answer, seemed long delayed, the dreaded blow was not suffered to fall. 
               For three days they saw no change, but on the morning of the fourth, the vigilant physicians thought that they detected a slight increase of strength in that feeble pulse, and through the day the favorable symptoms slowly progressed, although they dared not as yet whisper of hope. A week longer of almost unmitigated suspense followed, and Anna if not out of danger, showed signs of returning animation in which the experienced eyes of the doctors saw ground for hope. 
               It was the evening of the tenth day. Kate knelt beside the bed with one of Anna's hands held in her own. Mr. Van Alstyne stood behind her, his eyes never moving from that beautiful, pallid face. The doctor sat with his finger on the slender wrist, while Mrs. Arnold stood leaning on the foot of the bed. They had watched her thus for hours, for from the death-like stupor in which she had lain for many days she had passed into a state more nearly resembling a natural sleep, and from that sleep, said the doctors, she would pass away to Heaven, or wake with restored sense and animation to bless them with stronger hopes of her recovery. 
               At length Anna moved her head feebly on the pillow and half opened her eyes. But the dark lashes fell again as she faintly murmured, "Katie." 
               Mr. Van Alstyne started and bent over her, but the doctor hastily put him aside and motioned to Kate to speak She kissed Anna's white lips, saying gently, "What does my darling want of Katie?" 
               The doctor drew Mr. Van Alstyne out of sight as Anna again opened her eyes and fixed them on Kate's face with a dreamy look. "Have I been asleep a long time Kate I she whispered." I feel so strangely, and I cannot remember something which troubled me; what was it?" 
               "You have been very ill, my darling, and I dare say have imagined many dreadful things," said Kate in a quiet, soothing voice; "but you must not talk now or try to remember them; you must be quiet and try to sleep or the doctor will send me away. Take this, love," offering the nourishment with which Mrs. Arnold came forward, and raising Anna's head on her arm. 
               Anna obeyed the last command; but as Kate laid her head on the pillow again her eyes wandered languidly from her face to Mrs. Arnold's, and then around the room as though in search of something. A troubled expression crossed her face and the pale features began to work with the effort to recall her thoughts. Again she was about to speak, when Kate laid her hand upon her lips and said playfully, "I am your nurse, Annie, you must not disobey me, go directly to sleep; "and wearied by even this slight exertion, and apparently reassured by Kate's manner, Anna submissively closed her eyes, and in a few minutes was in a quiet slumber. 
               "She will do now," said the old doctor softly, rubbing his hands gleefully together. "Good girl," he continued to Kate as she rose from her kneeling position beside Anna, though trembling so that she could scarcely stand; "good girl, you managed that matter beautifully. I shall give you a premium as the best or little nurses." 
               Kate tried to answer, but her enforced calmness and strength gave way, and she was sinking to the ground when her father caught her and carried her to another room. She revived almost immediately, and with gratitude too deep for words, father and daughter, clasped in a loving embrace, offered up a silent thanks giving for the great mercy which had turned aside the shadow which had fallen on their home and hearts. 
               From this day Anna slowly improved for several weeks. Happily the attack on Colonel Hamilton by the sergeant had been made after she had fallen senseless on hearing the man's words declaring him a prisoner; and when she asked concerning him, Kate satisfied her by saying that Major Stuart had interfered and prevented his removal; but that he was now lying sick, and was therefore unable to come and see her. For some days her excessive weakness prevented the indulgence of much curiosity on any subject, and this contented her until they thought it safe to tell her the truth. 
               Colonel Hamilton's case had undergone many fluctuations during this time. After the first few hours, when he seemed to be doing as well as there was reason to expect, considering the nature and severity of his wounds, fever and inflammation had set in, caused by the anxiety he felt for his wife and sister. Sybil's illness had culminated in a brain fever, and she had at last been carried from him unconscious of all her sorrows. 
               For many days he also lay hovering between life and death, but perfectly sensible, and tormented by the thought that his own act had laid low not only his own head, but those of the two beings dearest to him on earth. The news that Sybil's disease had abated, and that there was a fair prospect of her recovery did more to restore him than aught else; and from the day that Anna was pronounced out of danger, he progressed as favorably as the nature of his wounds would permit, although his state would not yet allow of his being removed. Every effort was making by his friends to obtain his exchange or to have him released upon parole, and there was a probability that this would be effected by the time he was able to travel, there being no longer any especial reason for his detention, as the contemplated movements before alluded to had been successfully carried out during the earlier times of his illness. 
               This was cheering news to impart to Anna when she could bear it; and Kate wondered that she received it so quietly, and with so few expressions of joy. There was indeed a fervent earnestness in her voice as she exclaimed, "Thank God!" and for a moment she seemed to be engaged in prayer; but when she opened her eyes again, she turned them on Kate with a sad smile, saying, "Then Guy can take me with him." 
               "Take you with him," exclaimed Kate; "no, indeed, do you think we shall spare you now when you have come, back to us from the very gates of death? No, no, Anna, you are mine now;" and thinking of the sacrifice she had made for her friend, Kate hid her face in the coverlet. She could not give her up now. 
               Anna smoothed with her slight fingers the soft hair on that clear head, but made no answer. With increasing strength, memory had come back, and all that had passed before that fearful night, returned to her recollection. Guy might be happy but her life was blighted. 
               She never spoke of Mr. Van Alstyne, never, even when inquiring into the minutest particulars of Guy's arrest, asked any questions in reference to the part he had taken in the affair; and when Kate, seeing that all allusion to him was purposely avoided, would with innocent artifice endeavor to turn the conversation upon him and to picture his despair and agony while she lay so near death, upon the first mention of his name Anna would take refuge in the doctor's prohibition against talking and declare herself tired; while the flushing of her cheek and the trembling of her frame would warn Kate that the subject was too exciting to be approached with impunity. 
               She brought to Anna the choicest delicacies cies, saying that 'papa himself' had sought for them for and wide; rare, books and engravings, the loveliest flowers, gathered and arranged by the repentant lover's own hands, with the hope that they might convey to her without the aid of words, some faint intimation of the depths of his remorse and love, until such time as she should be able to bear what must of necessity be an agitating explanation. 
               It was all in vain. The graceful offerings which he had fondly hoped might show his longing for the forgiveness he dared not at present plead for in more explicit terms, were received with indifference, had it been any one but Anna, Kate would have said ungraciously. She would scarcely look at them, and if Kate pressed upon her notice betrayed something almost like irritability. 
               "See, Anna," said Kate, entering her room one afternoon, holding up a most exquisite basket of flowers, "is not this lovely? I suppose that our own conservatory could furnish nothing rare or sweet enough for our queen, for the Lord of the Manor has himself been to the city for this, and he must have ransacked every green-house therein and deprived each one of its own particular gem to produce this unique and perfect whole. Look at it, dearest, did you ever see anything more beautiful?" and kneeling in her favorite posture by Anna's couch, she held before her eyes the fragrant gift, breathing perfume from each delicate blossom, and, arranged with especial regard to Anna's tastes and preferences. 
               "Yes, very pretty, darling," said Anna reluctantly, lifting her languid eyes to the sweet messengers for one half instant, and then turning them away with seeming indifference. "Take it away, Katie, I am tired." 
               "But it will not tire, you more to look at this for a few minutes, dear. See, Anna, all your favorite flowers, and arranged, if not by papas own finger's, under his immediate direction and supervision, I am sure. Will you not send him some little message, darling, in return for his efforts to gratify you? " 
               "No-yes, tell him I thank him, he is very kind," said Anna, twining her fingers nervously together; "but take them away, Kate. I do not want, flowers here now, they trouble me-oppress me-take them out of the room," and she kept her face resolutely averted. 
               Not daring to say anything more Kate rose and took the flowers away, but bright drops which had not been there when she so gaily brought them in, sparkled among their brilliant leaves as she carried them from the room. 
               "I cannot understand it," she said to herself. "I know that papa was unkind to her once, but she must know that he egrets it now-ah! if she had but seen how tie suffered-and it is so unlike my Anna to cherish such resentment. I thought she cared for him before her brother came to work so much grief and trouble for us all, but if she did how can she-" here a sudden twinge of conscience checked the course of Miss Katie's musings, reminding her that it behooved her to throw no stones at her neighbor's panes. 
               No, you do not understand it, Katie, for you do not dream of the bitter sting which rankles in that gentle heart, that one maddening thought which haunts her day and night. 
               Ah! now that she had been brought so near the dark river from whose border her weary feet were so reluctantly turning back, he perhaps regretted his harshness and cruelty towards her, she believed that he did and that he wished to show her so; and she could have forgiven, could have blotted out all else forever, but not that-not that! How could it be? What woman could ever wipe out from her soul the recollection of an insult such as she had received from him! She wrestled with it resolutely, scornfully, trying to fling the hateful remembrance from her, but it would return and coil itself around her heart. She-she, to be told by the man whom she had so loved and trusted that her love had been given unasked and undesired! She was ready to acknowledge that she had been to blame concerning Guy; she knew that however sorely beset by her brother's commands and her own fears for his safety, she should never have concealed from Mr. Van Alstyne the fact that Guy was in his house, but she was surely innocent here, undeserving of the scorn and humiliation he had heaped upon her. 
               But reason as she might, there would come a horrible feeling of shame and abasement, that such an accusation should be laid to her charge, blameless though she knew herself to be. Bitter and resentful thoughts of which she once could not have believed herself capable now held dominion over her. She dared not testify any interest or pleasure in his gifts; even to send the thanks which common courtesy required was almost more than she could bring herself to do, lest he might ascribe it to the existence of feeling which he had so coldly and insultingly repudiated. 
               A feverish impatience to be gone from Ranleigh took possession of her, an almost frantic desire to gain just sufficient strength to be carried away from the place where she had known so much both of happiness and suffering, where it seemed that all the light had died out of her young life forever away from his home, anywhere where he might never see her, never hear of her again. Then she shuddered at her own angry and rebellious feelings. Was not this fiery trial from the hand of her Heavenly Father, and if it was sent to her did she not need it all-all-even this? Then would come agonizing prayer for strength and patience, until at length sheer physical exhaustion would for a time bring a calmer if not a happier mood. But this could not last. Such fearful struggles of the mind must leave their mark upon a frame which was still so feeble, while her very eagerness to be well defeated the end she had in view, and retarded rather than advanced her recovery. 
               As the days passed on, her nurses and the doctor saw with alarm a listlessness and languor alternating with a nervous agitation and restlessness for which they could not account. 
               "I cannot have this," said the doctor one morning to Mr. Van Alstyne, "she is losing ground instead of gaining. There is something weighing on her mind, and we must run some risk in order to remove it. I shall have her carried down to Hamilton today, perhaps a glimpse of him may be of some service to her." 
               "Let me try, doctor," said Mr. Van Alstyne eagerly; "let me see her first." 
               "Upon my word, my conceited friend," said the doctor, wheeling round upon him, "do you suppose that you have so much influence? Do not flatter yourself; so far as I know, she has neither asked for you nor mentioned your name once since her illness." 
               The cool, collected man of the world, who had faced unmoved the gaze of thousands, colored painfully as the old doctor's searching eye fell upon him. 
               "Very likely, sir," he said, "I could scarcely hope that she would; but though you may think me vain or conceited, I believe that I am answerable at least in a measure, for the suffering that. Anna has undergone." And with a voice shaken by strong feeling, he told the doctor of the interview he had witnessed between Anna and her brother, and of all that had afterwards passed on those two sad days. The doctor turned to the window to hide his emotion. He had had his suspicions that some difficulty had arisen between Anna and her lover, but this was far beyond anything he could have imagined. Still although he was half inclined to resent the sufferings of the gentle girl who had been so cruelly misunderstood, it was impossible to withhold his sympathy from his friend as he poured out his sad tale, not sparing himself in a single particular. He knew how deep must be the love and regret which thus led a proud man like Van Alstyne to bare his heart to another in the hope of being allowed to see her whom he had wronged. But Van Alstyne was right, he saw it at once; here was the weight upon her spirits which was again undermining Anna's strength. 
               "You shall see her," he said, "and immediately; but you do not deserve it. How dared you doubt her? If she ever smiles upon you again, I shall say that she deserves as jealous a tyrant as you are likely to prove when you have control over her. But I suppose, woman-like, she will pity you instead of herself when she hears all you have to say, and accord her forgiveness at once. Mind if I consent that you should go to her it is for her sake, not yours. You ought to be kept in suspense for this long time yet." 
               And Kate was called and told to notify Anna of her father's intended visit. 
               Kate hesitated. "I do not think that it will do," she said presently. 
               "And who gave you leave to think, you monkey," replied the doctor, "or to question the efficacy of my prescriptions? Be off with you, and do as you are told." 
               But Kate still lingered. 
               "Anna is very feeble yet," and it might-it would"-she looked at the doctor, and perceiving that he knew as much if not more than herself, spoke out more boldly. "I do not think that Anna will be willing to see papa just now, and I know that she would be distressed if it were proposed to her." 
               "You know nothing about it," returned the doctor a little testily, the more so that he was himself half doubtful of the result of the experiment. "Go and tell Anna that your father is coming, and if she declines tell her that it is my orders, and that I am not in the habit of consulting the whims of my patients." 
               "No, no, doctor," said Mr. Van Alstyne, "it must not be urged upon her if she is unwilling. If she refuses to see me it is my own doing, and it must now be as she decides." 
               "What you have done you alone can undo," replied the doctor, pulling his wig away. "If any benefit is to arise to Anna from any explanation you may have to make to her, there is nothing to' be gained by postponing it. She will be no more fit or more willing to see you tomorrow, or next week, than she is at present, and I believe that no temporary excitement can be worse for her than lying there brooding over past troubles as she is now doing day after day. Better have done with it at once, Van Alstyne. 'Faint heart' you know." 
               His own inclinations so entirely coincided with the doctor's arguments that Mr. Van Alstyne no longer hesitated, but having sent off the unwilling Kate, followed her almost immediately that as Dr. Wells said, "Anna might have no time to think about it." 
               Anna had been removed on that morning from her own room to the little sitting-room adjoining, where she was lying on the sofa when Kate came to her. 
               "Anna," she said lightly, "Papa is coming up to see you in a moment, so call up your brightest smile to welcome him." 
               Kate was frightened as she saw the blood rush suddenly to Anna's face and then, instantly retreating, leave it whiter than before. 
                
               "Oh! Kate, I cannot see him; tell him to wait until another day. I am not well enough, dear," she gasped forth in a voice which she vainly strove to render steady, while she shook from head to foot. She was still to feeble to call to her aid the pride which at another time would have sustained her; all her ordinary quiet self-possession seemed utterly swept away; and shrinking back among her pillows she hid her face from sight as she again and again entreated Kate to go quickly and tell Mr. Van Alstyne that she was not yet strong enough to receive him. Kate pleaded and persuaded, but it was useless, and all that was left to her was to try and calm the agitation which so completely overcame her, and which Dr. Wells had warned them to avoid. She told her that her father should not come up until she was willing to see him and left her to inform him of Anna's disinclination to the interview. 
               She met him just outside the door, and in a few words informed him of the unsuccessful result of her errand. A heavier shadow crossed his face, but he said nothing until he had once and again paced back and forth through the hall, while Kate stood watching, him, not knowing which of the two she pitied most. 
               "I will risk it," he said at length, and putting aside his startled daughter, he gently opened the door and entered the sitting room. 
               Anna still lay with her head buried in the sofa cushions as though to shut out sight and hearing. Why did he wish to see her? Was it that he might triumph anew in the display of her weakness? Again that stinging sense of humiliation rushed over her as she felt that she dared not meet him now: that she could not command herself sufficiently to preserve her own dignity in his presence. When she was stronger, mentally and physically, when she could school herself to meet him with calmness she would see him, if it must be, but not now. 
               "Anna," whispered a voice beside her in tones she had never thought to her again from those lips. She neither spoke nor withdrew her hands from her face. 
               Anna, can you forgave me?" 
               Still silent and motionless save for the fluttering of her breath and the wild throbbing of her heart. 
               "Anna, I have wronged you, my beloved, wronged you almost beyond the forgiveness I can scarcely dare to hope for, but for which I must still plead. And yet I am not the dastard, the contemptible villain you have every reason to think. Blind, cruel, hasty, maddened with jealousy I confess myself to have been, but God be my witness that the cowardly insult of which I fear you believe me guilty was never intended. Hear me at least until I can clear myself from this reproach and then, if you will, send me from you." 
               Still she could not answer him. 
               "Dearest, I cannot bear this, do not punish me so severely," he said, as he gently tried to remove her hands. She let him have his way. 
               "Speak to me, Anna, look at me, tell me that you pardon my doubts of you, my cruelty towards you, that you will restore the affection and confidence, I once hoped were mine. Can you do it, or is this asking too much? If I was harsh and cruel I have been fearfully punished, bowed to the very earth by the agony caused by a sense of my own Injustice, and the dread that you were to be taken from me ere I had opportunity for atonement. And how can I atone? Scarcely by the unceasing love and devotion of my whole life. Yet say that it may be so, dearest, oh! Anna, speak to me but one word. Once more, can you forgive me?" 
               She had allowed her hands, despite their trembling, to rest in his; and the tones of pained entreaty in his voice, roused her to self control as nothing else could have done. She turned her face towards him, raising her eyes with a questioning look, in which there was some doubt and terror; but as they met his all fears vanished. She murmured a word or two which scarcely reached his ear; but it was enough; and drawing her head upon his bosom, he pressed his lips to hers as he folded her closely in his arms, pouring forth again all his love and contrition. 
               She lay there in a half trance of happy wonder and bewilderment. So sudden, so unlooked-for had been this change that she could scarcely realize it yet, or knew if she were sleeping or waking. He had given her no reasons for what he had done, explained nothing, told her only that he knew he had wronged her, that he had repented and suffered; but she could not but believe and forgive him when she looked into his face and read there the signs of the remorse and agony of which he spoke, or heard the pleading tones of that deep, rich voice asking so earnestly for pardon and forgetfulness. Notwithstanding all that had passed, her anger and resentment melted away, her confidence in him seemed at once restored, and she was content to await his own time to explain all that appeared so dark and mysterious. 
               "Anna," he said after some time, during which the silence had been broken only by his whispered words of endearment and blessing, "Anna, are you in no haste to demand the explanation which you should have had long since had I been permitted to see you?" 
               "When you please," she answered; "but first let me say one thing. You too hare something to forgive. I know now that you were right to refuse what I would have asked of you. I was wrong in coming to you with such a request, but I was scarcely conscious of it then and I knew not where else to turn; but still I did not think-" she stopped. 
               "Did not think what, my dear one?" 
               "Nothing," she replied, almost playfully, "second thoughts are best." 
               "No I must know what you were about to say." 
               She smiled but shook her head. She would not grieve him by telling him that his angry refusal had been as unexpected as it was terrible to her. 
               He guessed what she would have said, and his heart smote him afresh as he contrasted her unwillingness to utter what might seem like a reproach, her ready forgiveness, and unhesitating belief in his mere assertion that he had wronged her unintentionally, with what he now considered his hasty, unsparing judgment of her and the unrelenting severity with which he had treated her. 
               "Do you remember the meeting with your brother in the library, on that Sunday night, love?" he asked. 
               "Yes," she answered. 
               "I was there, Anna, in the little study. I saw it all, I saw you in his arms, saw his kisses pressed upon your face, saw your own given in return." 
               "Well," she said wonderingly, yet half apologetically, for she saw that for some reason the causes he had witnessed had pained him, "he had been so long away from me that you could not wonder if he was a little demonstrative, and he is my only brother; why should that have displeased you?" 
               He blushed to tell her. How could he disturb her innocent heart by letting her know what hard thoughts he had harbored against her? But her enquiry demanded an answer; and for his own justification must he tell her all. 
               "I did not know that he was your brother, Anna; I believed him to be the Englishman, Wyndham." 
               Anna half started from his encircling arms, while her look of mingled surprise and reproach went to his very soul. "And could you think," she began falteringly, but was unable to go farther; and turning her face from him she burst into a flood of convulsive weeping. But she had no need to finish her sentence; he knew too well what she was about to say. 
               "I thought even that, my darling. I misjudged you even to such an extent; and maddened by the thought that the love I sought was given to another, and that for him you were seeking aid from me, I was led to treat you with such cruelty, refusing to hear any explanations, and unmoved by your sorrow, leaving you with such stern and insulting denial of your request. Yes, dearest, I thought you loved this stranger, I gathered from the few words which reached my ears that you-you whom I already looked upon as my promised wife, although these dear lips had not yet confirmed the hope I dared to cherish-were about to fly with him from my house; that you had deceived me, trifled with me; that the love which to me was more than life was for you but the plaything of an hour, encouraged for your own amusement; or that you might thereby reap some advantage for the man who had stolen into my home for the purpose of carrying away the treasure I looked upon as my own. It was to this that I referred when-but I cannot speak of that-you know top well what I mean. How I could be so blinded I know not, I should have known you better, Anna; but when was jealous passion otherwise than blind and unreasoning? And now will the knowledge of how I was deceived clear me in your eyes; now that you know all, can I still hope for forgiveness? Will my great love, my after suffering expiate in any degree my injustice towards you? Look at me, Anna, once more, and do not weep so violently, dearest, you will injure yourself; "and alarmed at her hysterical sobs he drew her head to its former resting place and soothed, her tenderly yet firmly, for he was obliged to exert a little gentle authority ere he could succeed in calming her. It had been almost to much for her to bear, and when quite exhausted, she lay almost helpless as an infant, he trembled as he marked the flushing and paling of her cheek, the transparency of the long, slender fingers and the excessive languor of her large, soft eyes. He felt that she had already borne more excitement than was safe in her present condition, and though he could scarcely tear himself from her side, he knew that she needed rest. He must not risk again the safety of his newly recovered treasure. With another passionate embrace he laid her back upon the pillows, and telling her that he should send Kate, unwillingly rose to leave her. 
               "Mr. Van Alstyne," she whispered. He bent over her again. "Will you pardon Guy for coming into your house under a feigned name? He had much to excuse him." 
               "So much that there need be no question of pardon from one who has so much greater reason himself to sue for forgiveness, my own," he answered; "do not let that trouble you for an instant. I have never thought unkindly of Guy since I knew who he was, and from this hour he is my brother if he will admit the claim. I am going to him now, to ask if he dares to give you into the keeping of one who has proved himself so unworthy of the charge." 
               "Do not say that again," she replied, and all her woman's tenderness aroused by the intensity of his self-reproach, she clasped his hand in hers and answered back his kisses with her own. 
                
               "But, Anna," he said, "you must never address me by the name you used just now." She smiled and blushed a little. "Let me hear you call me 'Max' once before I go, in token that all is forgiven." 
               Most unreasonable of men! had she not already given him sufficient evidence of that? But there he stood looking as if all his hopes for pardon depended upon the utterance of the wished-for word. He had to wait for it a minute, but it came at last, though rather shyly spoken; and he left her with a mingled feeling of intense happiness and of fear lest he might yet lose her. She looked so frail, and there was such an almost unearthly beauty about her, that a thrill of dread ran through him again and again. 
               He found his daughter, and giving her a slight intimation of the state of affairs, sent her to Anna with so many charges and admonitions that Kate was half provoked, and with the first gleam of the old sauciness that he had not seen for many weeks, she said to him: "One would really think that I was a jealous widow, with designs upon your hand, and intended to put Anna out of the way as speedily as possible." 
               Her father shook his head, but Dr. Wells, who had been sitting with Col. Hamilton, came upon them just in time to hear the latter part of their conversation, and he nodded sympathizingly in answer to the mischievous glance she threw over her shoulder at him as she ran off. 
               "Well, sir," he said to Mr. Van Alstyne, "has your presumption been punished as it deserved, or have you played the part of physician to the satisfaction of all concerned?" 
               That he had played it to his own, was evident from his beaming smile and the hearty grasp he gave the old doctor's hand. 
               "But you will see her again before you go, will you not?" he asked. "I am not altogether satisfied with her looks." 
               "No," said the doctor laughing; "as you have undertaken the case I shall leave it in your hands until my next visit. If you have set her mind at ease, I think that your own may be so too." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                  
                      
                        "My heart is sair, I dare nae tell, 
                        My heart is sair for somebody." 
                     
                   
                
               THE doctor was right The medicine of a heart at rest was what Anna chiefly needed; and it was with no little pride and joy that upon the evening of the following day, Kate, having arrayed her in the prettiest of invalid costumes and placed her in a luxurious armchair before the sitting-room fire, gazed tenderly into the lovely face upon which now rested the fullness of unspeakable content. She looked and looked as though she could never be satisfied, until at length Anna laughingly objected to being made the object of such prolonged scrutiny, when calling Don to her side, she seated herself on a low stool at Anna's feet, her head leaning on the arm of the chair and her fingers carelessly playing with the dog's long silky ears. 
               "Kate," said Anna, suddenly turning her eyes on Kate's face, "has Major Stuart spoken to your father?" 
               "No," she answered shortly. 
               "Have you?" 
               "No, there is no necessity for doing so," she replied in the same tone. 
               "Why, Kate, what are you thinking of? It is not right that your engagement to Major Stuart should continue so long and your father not be informed of it and his consent asked." 
               "There is no engagement existing between Major Stuart and myself," returned Kate, lifting her head proudly. 
               "Kate," exclaimed Anna, staring forward, "what does this mean? tell me, dearest." 
               "It means, Anna, exactly what I have said; that Major Stuart is nothing to me, nor I to him. The engagement you speak of only lasted for a, day or two, and we are now no more than mere acquaintances. But on this subject, Anna, I cannot permit even you to speak to me. You must ask me no questions, and furthermore, no one but yourself had any knowledge of it, and you must promise me that you will say nothing of it to papa." 
               "Answer me one question, Katie. Whose doings was this, your own or Major Stuart's?" 
               "Major Stuart's, the choice was his own," she answered, as she again threw her head haughtily back. 
               "And you will not tell me how it came about, Katie?" 
               "No, I will not, therefore ask me nothing more," was the reply, given in a tone as unusual as it was painful to Anna. "But you are exciting yourself, Anna, and quite unnecessarily; only promise me that you will not speak of it to papa, and give yourself no farther concern about it. I am perfectly satisfied and there is no reason why you should not be." Then as Mr. Van Alstyne's step was heard in the hall, with an instantaneous change of manner, she sprang up, and kissing Anna's forehead, said playfully. "This is my secret, not yours, love, and whatever wife-like confidences you may choose to repose in papa, you have no right to tell him this if I forbid it." And she rattled on with one or two more jesting remarks which she well knew would seal Anna's lips, until Van Alstyne's entrance effectually prevented any farther reference to the subject. 
               If Mr. Van Alstyne thought that Anna's manner was somewhat fluttered, he ascribed it to his coming; and rather pleased himself, at the idea. 
               Kate claimed a compliment from him on the score of Anna's improved appearance, but he steadily refusing to give her the slightest credit on that head, she professed herself offended, and was about to leave them when her father caught her arm and seating himself at Anna's side, drew Kate down upon his knee. He took a hand of each and clasping them in his own, raised them together to his lips. 
               "Anna's being uppermost," observed Kate demurely. 
               The color rushed to Anna's forehead, although she could not help smiling at the tone, and Mr. Van Alstyne laughed outright as he pinched his daughter's cheek, saying, "For shame, Kate, have you not a particle of sentiment?" 
               "Not an atom, papa," she replied, "it is an ingredient altogether wanting in my composition." 
               "I believe you," said her father. "But you have not told me how you are pleased with these new arrangements." 
               "Not at all," she answered, "I find my nose excessively out of joint and it is by no means an agreeable sensation. Besides what am I to do for amusement? Lovers are proverbially stupid company, and I do not find that wedded lovers, to wit Colonel Hamilton and Sybil, are exceptions to the rule, any more than another pair who shall be nameless. Tarn seriously considering the practicability of an elopement with Mr. Rutherford as a means of diversifying what threatens to be the unpleasing monotony of my existence." 
               "Go and teaze Major Stuart and Harry," said Mr. Van Alstyne, "it would be quite a charity. Harry has been so long out of mischief that he must begin to doubt his own identity; and Stuart, poor fellow, seems sadly out of spirits. I fear that all the sickness and sorrow we have had in this house, not to speak of the fatigue he has undergone in watching so much with Hamilton, have told upon him more than we have hitherto had time to observe. He is looking far worse than when he came to us. Go and cheer him up a little, Kate. By the way, it seems to me that you are not as good friends as you were formerly. Have you quarreled?" 
               "Why should I quarrel with Major Stuart, sir?" she said poutingly, and choking back the swelling in her throat. "I like variety, you know, and am rather tired of the sight of military uniforms, that is all." 
               "Kate, you have not been trifling with Stuart, I trust. He is a man for whom I feel a strong friendship, and one-" 
               "And one with whom any girl would scarcely dare to trifle, even were she so inclined," said Kate, looking steadily from him into the fire. "No, papa, whatever may be my faults, that of being a flirt cannot be classed among them." 
               His arm had fallen abound her waist, and at his last question he had felt the heart beneath his hand beat with a quicker throb. He looked searchingly at her, but the next moment she turned her face to him with her own sunny smile as she said, "You need have no fears that Major Stuart has been troubled by my neglect. His profession has charms for him far beyond those of any woman. If I have bestowed less attention on him lately, it has been the same with our other guests; and surely you will not blame me if my time and thoughts have been otherwise occupied." 
               He followed the direction of her eyes towards Anna, and the excuse seemed to him quite satisfactory. Whatever doubt he had was laid to rest by her sportive words and careless manner; and he thought that the quickened beating of her heart had been caused by the unaccustomed severity of his tone. 
               Not so Anna. Even had she never known of the tie between Major Stuart and Kate which had been so soon broken, her quicker perceptions would have told her that Kate's gaiety was but a mask, to hide the smart of wounded pride and feeling. 
               Kate ran her fingers caressingly through her father's hair, and with a few more playful words, rose to go. Anna would have detained her; she saw that her firmness must give way in another moment, and hoped that it might do so in her father's presence, and that he would then oblige her to speak openly to him. 
               "Stay, Katie," she said anxiously. 
               "No, dear; your lips say 'stay,' but every line of Papa's face says 'go;' and not caring to have the latter sentiment verbally expressed, I shall vanish before I subject myself to that mortification." 
               "Dr. Wells would have had me believe that there was some serious feeling between that child and Stuart," said Mr. Van Alstyne to Anna as Kate disappeared, "but he was mistaken as I told him at the time. She evidently cares nothing for him, and as she says, I believe that Stuart is altogether absorbed in his calling. Were it not so, it is scarcely likely that such a grave, thoughtful man as he is, should have placed his affections on that careless little witch, attractive as she is. I am quite as well satisfied that it should be so, for I do not care to lose my pretty bird yet, if I have gained a dearer treasure." And he dismissed the subject for one still more interesting to him. 
               Anna checked a sigh even as he pressed her to his heart. A cloud had come over her happiness. 
               The door once closed between them, and all the gay insouciance of Kate's manner was gone. Poor little Kate I how hard she tried to convince herself that she was perfectly happy, that she had no longer a wish ungratified. There was a terrible void in her heart. She tried to think that this was all selfishness, that she was unwilling to resign the first claim upon the affection of the two who were now so much absorbed in each other. They did not love her less, she knew, and she had not only foreseen that Anna would become her father's wife, but it had been her dearest wish; and she could not persuade herself that it was this which caused the dreadful feeling of unrest, that wild longing for something, she would not allow herself to think what. She threw herself in a chair when she reached her room, and the great tears gathered in her eyes. Her dog came and laid his head in her lap, looking wistfully in her face with his great affectionate eyes, from which it seemed hard to believe that no soul looked forth. 
               "Oh! Don, Don," she whispered, "I am so lonely, so lovely; "and slipping from her seat upon the floor, she put her arms around his neck, and as though % she were glad of a silent sympathy, laid her head against him and cried like a grieved child. Poor little sorrowing, but proud and stubborn Katie! 
               She carried matters with a high hand, this little lady. Since the day of Colonel Hamilton's arrest, she had avoided Stuart as much as possible, treating him with polite indifference, and bestowing upon him only as much notice as her position as hostess rendered imperative. She left no room for any one to say that she did not fulfill all the demands of hospitality towards him as well as towards her other guests, in as far as her almost constant attendance on Anna allowed; but the most pointed neglect could not have been so trying to Stuart, as were those careless and seemingly unconstrained civilities which he in common with others received from her. She betrayed not the slightest embarrassment or consciousness in his presence. 
               There was no faltering in her tones when she addressed him, the fearless blue eyes met his as calmly, as unshrinkingly as they did those of her father or aunt, and the only sign that he could perceive that the recollection of the past held any sway over her, was that she never suffered herself to remain alone with him for one instant. Any attempt on his part to gain a few words with her, by means of which he would have appealed to the affection she had once confessed for him, and endeavored to shake her determination, any approach to even, a friendly understanding, was received with an assumption of the most unbounded and haughty surprise. She signified to him as plainly as possible both by look and manner, that she meant they should be-as she had said-no more than strangers. 
               One day, while all still thought that Anna must die, he had met her in the upper hall, and unable to resist the sight of the care and sorrow in that bright young face, he grasped her hand as she was passing him with a slight inclination of her head, saying earnestly, "Oh! Kate, come back to me, my darling, come back to my love and let me comfort you. Why will you persist in inflicting such unnecessary suffering both upon yourself and me?" 
               Snatching her hand from him, she said haughtily, "You forget yourself, Major Stuart. I assure you that if Miss Hamilton, and her brother and sister were but safe, I should be perfectly satisfied with affairs as they now stand. If you are not so, remember that it was your own deliberate choice which parted us, and that you have no right to reproach me. I regret, nothing, save that I should once have allowed myself to be so deceived as to imagine that my wishes or my happiness had any weight with one who has shown himself totally indifferent to both." 
               "Kate, Kate, you know-" 
               "Miss Van Alstyne, if you please, sir; and I know nothing save that I choose to be detained no longer. There is your answer to whatever arguments or reasonings you may have to urge," and she pointed to the door of Anna's room. "That is your work," and the willful, wayward child turned abruptly from him, her young face set like iron. And this when her temples were throbbing and her throat was aching with suppressed feeling, when she was longing so intensely to throw herself in his arms and receive there the love and comfort so earnestly tendered, so haughtily spurned. 
               It was not his work, as he knew, but she would give him no opportunity to tell her so, and he had little hope that it would make any change in her resolution. After Anna was declared out of danger, and he had thought that her feelings might have softened, he had twice written to her, but she had returned life letters unopened; and he felt that it was beneath his dignity longer to sue to one, who treated him with such cool disdain. He began to doubt if she had ever loved him, and when with Anna's returning health, Kate's light-heartedness and wild spirits apparently came back, the doubt grew stronger. When he heard her joking with Mr. Rutherford, or teasing her aunt and Harry, when her sweet voice and merry laugh were heard ringing out as gleefully as ever, how was he to know that all this frolicsome gaiety was dictated by the fear that he might suspect how dear he still was to her; dearer than before; for although she would not confess it to herself, her admiration for his determined persistence in what he considered to be his duty, his lofty sense of honor, and strict principle, had but heightened her love for him. 
               She had an idea that there was something rather grand and heroic in thus sacrificing both herself and Stuart; and while he seemed ed inclined to make overtures for a reconciliation, she had cherished this idea with great fondness. But it would not serve her now, that he appeared to have accepted her decision as irrevocable. 
               Stuart would long since have left the house, for it was torture to him to remain here, but his custody of Hamilton rendered it impossible; and it had not been this alone which made his stay desirable. The unceasing watch which it had been necessary to maintain, not only for days but weeks, over Colonel Hamilton and his wife and sister, had rendered such services as he could give, of great value. Loring and Morris had been obliged to return to their regiment soon after the sad occurrences, which had attended the arrest of the rebel Colonel, their leave of absence having expired; and although nurses had been hired, and friends and neighbors had come forward with offers of assistance, for the sympathy, interest and curiosity excited by the accumulation of misfortunes which had fallen upon Mr. Van Alstyne's family were boundless, the members of the household felt that to them chiefly belonged the duty and privilege of tending the sufferers. For days Mr. Van Alstyne and Kate never left Anna, while Mr. Rutherford devoted himself to Sybil; Mrs. Arnold dividing her attentions between the three sickrooms; and thus to Stuart had fallen the task of attending Hamilton. He seldom left him, except for the needful rest, which the preservation of his own scarce half-restored strength required; and during those hours of restlessness and pain, both of mind and body, which Hamilton had endured and Stuart done all in his power to alleviate, a strong feeling of attachment had sprung up in the bosom of the prisoner towards his reluctant captor; while the affection for Hamilton which Stuart had never ceased to feel, had been strengthened anew by the constant association of the last few weeks. 
               The fascination of manner for which Hamilton had been so remarkable in his younger days, had not vanished now that he had reached maturer years; on the contrary, he still retained to an uncommon degree all those qualities which captivate the heart and the imagination. Impetuous, quick-tempered, and impatient of contradiction or control as he was, mistaken and perverted as had been his judgment on the most vital points, it was impossible to know him well, and not feel that he believed himself to be fully justified in joining heart and soul, as he had done, with those who had arrayed themselves against law and right. If his convictions were erroneous they were no less sincere, no less firmly based on what he thought duty than were Stuarts own; and feeling, as he did, that Stuart's words were true when he reminded him that his own course must have been the same had their positions been reversed, he cherished not a shadow of animosity towards him, and although this subject-as well as the single one on which their views were so totally opposed-was tacitly avoided as though by mutual consent, Stuart felt as sure of Hamilton's ready sympathy and hearty forgiveness for the part he had taken, as he did of his own existence. 
               The first fury of passion over, Hamilton's generous nature readily appreciated the difficulties which had naturally beset a man of Stuart's high-toned feeling in the performance of his duty under such circumstances; although he was still ignorant of the more personal sacrifice which the young officer had been called upon to make. Putting aside for the time all thought of the position in which they stood to each other, Hamilton did not allow it to interfere with the hourly increasing pleasure he took in Stuart's society, growing to love and reverence him more and more each day as he saw how noble and right-minded he was, how clearly governed by the highest principle in every matter, great and small. His enjoyment in their intercourse was unalloyed; but it was not so with Stuart. 
               The more his affection for Hamilton increased, the more he felt the influence of that wonderful charm of manner which threw its spell over all who approached him-forcing those who blamed him most to like him in spite of themselves-the more intense grew his regret that they had been thrown together under such unfortunate circumstances, and that he had been obliged to place himself in such a relation towards the man for whose liberty he would willingly have sacrificed his own, could it, have been done without the loss of his honor. It would have been a hard trial for his sensitive spirit, even had he been sustained beneath it by Kate's love and sympathy; but when in addition to it he was called upon to bear the almost contemptuous indifference with which she saw fit to treat him, his continued stay in the house became almost insupportable to him. 
               But he was needed. Had he chosen to demand it, his nominal task of guarding Hamilton might easily have been transferred to another; but did he do so, he knew that the yoke which his friend now wore so lightly would gall and irritate him, and even were this not the case Hamilton would miss him sadly; and here, as in weightier matters, personal feeling was not allowed to stand in the way of duty. 
               He was not a man to betray his feelings to another, and while he exerted himself to the utmost for the Colonel's comfort and entertainment, in the long talks and confidences which they interchanged, he suffered no hint Of all that lift was undergoing to escape him. But day by day the shadow deepened on his brow and although others beside Mr. Van Alstyne ascribed it to the fatigue and anxiety he had been through-his natural gravity of manner tending to render less remarkable the depression which for more reasons than one he was desirous to conceal-Hamilton did not fail to remark it, and to draw a different conclusion there from. 
               Some two or three weeks previous to the reconciliation between, Mr. Van Alstyne and Anna one afternoon when Stuart thought Hamilton sleeping, he stood leaning against the window frame, his eyes raised to the stormy winter sky, scarcely more gloomy than his face, as thinking himself unobserved he yielded for the moment to a feeling of complete despondency. 
               Hamilton was not asleep, but lay watching Stuart. "What can depress him so terribly at times, when he thinks that no eye is upon him?" he said to himself. 
               As the memory of a long forgotten dream, came back to him Stuart's sad words, scarce heeded at the time, "It has involved the destruction of my own dearest hopes." 
               "He loves Anna then," he thought, with a start, "he loves Anna and thinks that but for the unfortunate relation in which he stands to her brother, he might have won her. Shall I undeceive him and tell him that it could never have been, that her heart is another's? No, it is better not, it is a delicate subject to touch upon, and it is easy to see that he is not deluding himself with false hopes. Time will show him the truth." 
               It was not an unnatural conclusion for Hamilton to draw. He never imagined that Stuart's thoughts and affections were fixed on Kate. His own harassing affairs had occupied him so much that he had little attention to bestow on those around him, and hence what others might easily have seen entirely escape his notice. When he thought of Kate at all, it was rather to wonder at Anna's earnest love for one who to him was little more than a pretty, but spoiled, and, to tell the truth, rather disagreeable child; for Kate had disliked him as being the cause of so much suffering to Anna, and her manner towards him had been marked by a degree of petulant hauteur, which she would scarcely have shown under any other circumstances. Nothing but her fear of wounding Anna's feelings, prevented her from blazing out in open and saucy defiance of him, and even with this check upon her, it need not have taken long to convince him, had he cared enough to notice it, that he did not stand high in her good graces. In her mind it was impossible to testify too great an amount of displeasure, towards one who brought annoyance or distress upon Anna, and she rather enjoyed punishing Colonel Hamilton in this way, a gratification which he was quite unconscious of affording her. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Lord Percy sees my fall."
                      
                     -CHEVY CHASE. 
                   
                
               THE sudden opening of the door interrupted the painful reflections of both gentlemen. It was Mr. Rutherford, who was fast recovering his good spirits, as the invalids advanced towards convalesence. Mrs. Arnold followed him almost immediately with some dainty, which she had been preparing for Col. Hamilton. 
               "Colonel," she said, as she arranged it upon a little table beside him, "it just happened to strike me a few minutes since, that you must be possessed of an amazing fund of assurance, for when, supposing you to be Mr. Wyndham, I descanted to you at great length upon your own good qualities, and expressed my admiration of you as a man and a soldier, you not only assented with the most imperturbable composure to all that I said, but upon one occasion unblushingly asserted that, Col. Hamilton was much nearer to perfection than I could by any possibility imagine. I can recall your exact words for I was rather struck at the time by something peculiar both in your manner and Harry's. Now explain, if you can, such unparalleled self-conceit." 
               Hamilton laughed. "And I can still unblushingly assert that Colonel Hamilton was at that precise moment nearer to perfection than you imagined Mrs. Arnold. If I recollect rightly, I happened just then to be seated between Sybil and Anna, and can you not see that my speech veiled a delicate little compliment to my wife and sister, which was perfectly understood by the initiated?" 
               "Oh! that was it, was it?" replied Mrs. Arnold; "but certainly Anna and Sybil were not always answerable for the cool impudence-for I can call it nothing else-with which you received all the enconiums I so unconsciously lavished upon you to your very face." 
               "What was I to do, Mrs. Arnold?" said the Colonel. "Charles Wyndham, whose name I was bearing, you well knew to be Guy Hamilton's most attached and intimate associate. Had I not responded with some fervor to the praises you so kindly bestowed upon the latter gentleman, should you not have thought the said Charley a lukewarm and indifferent friend; would you not in all probability have remarked upon it to others, and perhaps aroused the suspicions which it was so much my object to avert? " 
               "Perhaps I should," said the lady, who seemed to consider herself in some way aggrieved, "but you might have known, Colonel Hamilton, that I would have done anything for you, if it was only in memory of your former kindness to my boy, and if you had told me your secret I should have been on my guard. Surely if you could trust my careless Harry you might have trusted me who am more than twice his age." 
               "And more than twice as apt to speak of what you should not," thought Hamilton, who knew that neither tact or discretion were to be expected from Mrs. Arnold, and that had she been in possession of his secret, she would, after faithfully promising and fully intending to keep it inviolate, infallibly nave betrayed it to half a dozen people in as many hours. "Harry was my right-hand, man in the affair, Mrs. Arnold," he said aloud, "and but for his connivance I should never have been able to make my appearance here with any show of reason. Besides, I never like to prove a lady in the wrong, and as you appeared to derive a sort of melancholy gratification in the supposition that I must of necessity be dead, and took some pains to impress the same upon my own mind, I thought it best not to bring, proof to the contrary until the force of circumstances should convince you of your delusion." 
               "For shame, Col. Hamilton," said Mrs. Arnold, "it has proved quite too serious a matter to joke about, and I am really vexed when I think how we all, even my clear sighted brother-in-law, were what Harry has the impertinence to call 'sold'. I believe that the good-for-nothing boy enjoys the recollection of it to this day, notwithstanding all the terrible results of your reckless imprudence. He did seem sobered for a time while you were at the worst, particularly after I told him that I should almost feel as if he were responsible for your death, in case you did not recover; but lately he is as light hearted and careless as ever, and as for Kate I have never seen her brighter or in gayer spirits." 
               "It would have been scarcely fair, Mrs. Arnold, to make poor Harry answerable for the deeds of that rascally sergeant." 
               "Or is it fair to blame the man too severely?" said Mr. Rutherford. "He would scarcely have dared to do as he did had he not been acting under orders from a higher quarter." 
               "That is true," said Mrs. Arnold, "and your own impatience was partly in fault, Colonel; for from what I hear, had you not struck the man down, Major Stuart would have sent him off in another minute." 
               The face of the quick-tempered Colonel darkened as he raised himself on one arm. And do you suppose, Madam-" he began impetuously, when Mr. Rutherford interposed with his cheery voice. 
               "Come, come, my dear Hamilton, don't be so peppery. What is the use of exciting yourself in discussing what is past and gone? It is not worth while now to be quarrelling on whose shoulders rests the responsibility of all this; all we have to think of, is how to get you well as soon as possible, and if you are going to work yourself into a fever on the subject I shall advise Stuart to clear the room at once. We shall have Sybil down here in a few days to relieve you of your post as nurse, Major, and then we shall soon have Hamilton about again." 
               "But you must not wish Colonel Hamilton to get well too fast," said Mrs. Arnold, as she prepared to leave the room. "You forget that he will have to be placed in confinement if he is able to be moved before he can be exchanged, and if that should take place. I am sure that it will just throw Sybil back to where she was at the worst, if indeed it does not cost her life or reason, for a relapse in such Cases is always more to be dreaded than the first attack." And having delivered herself of these comforting remarks she vanished. 
               The spoon dropped from Hamilton's feeble hand, as with an exclamation of impatience he turned from the untasted food, for which she had effectually deprived him of appetite. 
               "Confound that woman!" said Mr. Rutherford, almost before Mrs. Arnold was out of hearing, a man never feels particularly pleased or comfortable, that she is not at hand with a wet blanket to throw over him." 
               There was a short silence broken by Harry Arnold's whistle, as he came along the hall, and the next moment his merry face presented itself at the door as he begged to know if he might come in. 
               "Yes, come in, if Hamilton does not object," said Mr. Rutherford, seeming rather inclined to visit the sins of the mother upon the head of the son, "but if you do, keep quiet, if such a thing is possible. We must have no more talking here." 
               Harry's eyes grew round with wonder at this unwonted snubbing from his old friend and ally, and though brimming over with some piece of intelligence he had come to communicate, he was for the moment quite extinguished. He looked around and seeing that all three gentlemen seemed somewhat discomposed, contented himself with briefly enquiring how Hamilton found himself, and then stood hesitating as to the expediency of promulgating his news at the present juncture. "Keeping quiet" however was not one of Harry's accomplishments; the emotions which were pent up in one direction must find vent in another, and having unfortunately stationed himself at the foot of Hamilton's bed, he immediately commenced a violent drumming with his fists upon the foot-board. Hamilton bore it for a few moments, though with rising color and compressed lips; for he had observed the cloud which had overspread the young man's eager countenance at Mr. Rutherford's hasty words and was unwilling to add to his discomfiture, but the pain it caused him soon became insupportable, and just as Stuart perceived what Harry was doing and was about to interpose, the victim himself broke silence. 
               "Harry, my good fellow, if that infernal tattoo too is essential to your happiness, just choose some other place than my bed for its performance, will you?" 
               "My dear Colonel," exclaimed the repentant Harry, seizing the bed with both, hands and giving it a still more violent shake in the energy of his remorse, "I sincerely beg your pardon. I have a mind to beat a tattoo upon the wall with this wooden head of mine for being so heedless, but you see I was thinking of something else. I have made such a wonderful discovery." 
               "That of perpetual motion, Harry?" said Major Stuart, interfering to prevent the continued torture which his friend was enduring under the working off of Harry's excitement. "Just take that chair if you please," pointing to one at a safe distance from Hamilton's bed, "and we will hear of your discovery another time." And with a most rueful expression of countenance, poor Harry obeyed orders and subsided into quiet for the moment. 
               But Mr. Rutherford soon gave him the opportunity he longed for, as taking up the conversation where it had dropped when Mrs. Arnold quitted the room, and forgetful that he had himself tabooed the subject, Re turned to Stuart, saying, By the way, Major, how do you suppose that General -- became aware that Hamilton was here?" 
               "I cannot tell, sir," was the answer. 
               "Perhaps I can give you a clue," said Hamilton. "Sybil told me that Mrs. Brockhurst sent a note to General -- on the morning of that unfortunate day. May not this have conveyed to him the information upon which he acted? " 
               "Scarcely possible," said Mr. Rutherford. 
               "Surely you do not think Mrs. Brockhurst capable of such unwomanly treachery!" 
               "I believe Mrs. Brockhurst capable of anything," said Hamilton emphatically. 
               "And I," said Stuart. 
               "And I," repeated Harry, who had sprung to his feet and was watching for an opportunity to put in his word. "And I, and what is more I am sure that she did this very thing. That is what I came here to tell you, if you would only let me speak. I know all about it." 
               "What do you know, my boy? Let us have it then!" said Mr. Rutherford, while Hamilton again raised himself on his elbow, his brilliant, hollow eyes fixed on Harry, and the more prudent Stuart, though anxious for his unduly excited charge, seeing that oppossition would be useless, and that the Colonel was determined to hear all, no longer attempted to stop the flow of Harry's talk. 
               "You see," said Harry, looking first at Mr. Rutherford and then at Colonel Hamilton, and speaking so fast that his words almost ran over each other, "this is the way I happened to find it out. But I'll begin by telling you what first made me think that things looked queer for 'Brock.' A day or two after you were hurt, Colonel, I was standing on the front porch, when who should drive up but Howard Spencer. I saw at once that he was in what Kate would call a state.' He ordered me to stand aside, called me 'young man,' and permitted himself so many impertinences that I was not inclined to play the agreeable; but not wishing to quarrel with such a dolt, I came away and left him storming and fuming and making no end of a row for some one to come and hold his horse. I went into the drawing-room and sat down in the bow-window and presently he followed, giving orders as he came in that Mrs. Brockhurst should be called. He did not speak to me, and I even doubted if he noticed me, and in a few minutes Mrs. Brockhurst made her appearance. The moment that Spencer saw her he burst forth furiously, "You have served me a pretty trick, Madam! Did you know this man was Miss Hamilton's brother?" I had no idea the fellow could be stirred up to such a state of excitement as he manifested. Mrs. Brockhurst saw me, if he did not, and grew very pale with a caught sort of a look. "Of course not," she answered; "but I will see you in another room, Mr. Spencer," and she opened the door and motioned him out. 
               "Where they went I do not know and I heard nothing more, but of course I was greatly puzzled to know what Mrs. Brockhurst and Howard Spencer had to do with Colonel Hamilton. I saw Spencer drive away about an hour later, and he was evidently in the very depths of sullenness. That evening Mrs. Brockhurst came to me and talked a lot of stuff about Miss Hamilton and Spencer. I forget all she said now, but she implied that Spencer was in love with Miss Anna, and had been jealous of you as Mr. Wyndham. That I knew well enough, for the last evening he was here, Ned Morris and I had found it good fun to keep him on pins and needles by constantly remarking in is hearing on your devotion to Miss Anna. 'Brock,' said that he had come to her to ask if she thought that you were a dangerous rival, and supposing, as was natural, that Miss Hamilton liked you, she had told him that she thought you were. He had gone off that same afternoon, she said, thinking that he stood no chance, and now was unreasonable enough to be angry when he found that the supposed lover whom he imagined was preferred to himself, was only Miss Hamilton's brother, and accused her of having known a fact of which she was as ignorant as himself. Did you ever hear such a rigmarole? I did not believe a word that she said, and was sure that there was something underneath all this; but I let her think that she had humbugged me. She begged me to say nothing about what had passed, as it might be disagreeable to Miss Hamilton to find that she had been made the subject of such speculations. I would give her no promise, however, for I knew well enough that regard for Miss Anna's feelings would never trouble her rest, but tried to put her off by saying it was not likely that anything would ever trouble Miss Anna again, and that it was against my principles to give a promise I might be tempted to break. She was in an awful taking I could see, although she tried to laugh it off; and was particularly anxious that I should not mention it to Kate, but as this was just what I meant to do, she got no satisfaction out of me. As soon as Kate was at leisure to attend to me, I told her all about it, thinking that her cute little head could come at some solution of the matter. But she could make nothing more out of it than I did, and rather seemed to think that I was making a mountain out of a mole-hill. So I thought little more of it until tins morning, when Spencer's man, Gregory, let the cat out of the bag." 
               "Hallo! Harry," interrupted Mr. Ruthford, "pumping a man's servant?" 
               "No, sir," said Harry, coloring furious! at the accusation. "If you wouldn't take fellow up so, you would see that it was a fair enough. You know mother wants a trusty man-servant when we go to New York, and she told me to keep on the lookout. This morning when I was it the city who should I meet but Gregory. He begged leave to stop me to inquire after all our in valids, and improved the opportunity to tell me that he was in want of a place. So I forthwith entered into negotiations with him, and after some questions asked to see his recommendation's. He handed them out, but they all dated three or four years back, She at last went to Mrs. Brockhurst's room, but finding no one there, opened the door which communicated with Mrs. Hamilton's. Her ladies were both there, but Mrs. Brockhurst ordered her away on the instant, telling her that her services would not be needed that night. She had time enough however to see that Mrs. Brockhurst was very angry, and Mrs. Hamilton in a state of the most violent distress. Now, Colonel, keep quiet, or Major Stuart will be for sending me away before I have finished. At a very early hour the next morning she was sent for and found Mrs. Brockhurst up and dressed, although it was scarcely more than six o'clock. My lady sent Ellen down stairs to ask Mr. Spencer, who had just returned from the early walk which he takes, I suppose, in search of his missing wits, to come up and speak with her. They held a conference of some length in the upper hall, and when Spencer came down again he called for Gregory and giving him a note to General --, directed him to before he went to live with Spencer. I asked him if he had none from his late employer, and he answered very spitefully, 'No, and that he did not wish for a carakter from a gentleman who had none to speak of himself.' I thought this very impudent, and told him so; to which he replied in a tone of suffering innocence, 'If you knew of the shabby trick that Mr. Spencer and Mrs. Brockhurst played that poor gentleman who was shot at your uncle's house, Mr. Arnold, maybe you would not think much of him neither.' Of course I was dying to know what the, trick was, but even then did not condescend to 'pump him,' Mr. Rutherford; and it was only when I very naturally asked him why he had left Mr. Spencer, that he blurted out the whole affair. 'Well, sir,' be said, it was all along of that matter of Colonel Hamilton,' and at once launched into all the particulars. 
               "It appears that he and that rosy-faced abigail of Mrs. Brockhurst's, for whom I more than suspect Gregory to have a tendresse, had been comparing notes, and here is the sum and substance of their joint observations. On the night before Colonel Hamilton was shot, the woman waited for the summons to her ladies until long after the usual time. She at last went to Mrs. Brockhurst's room, but finding no one there, opened the door which communicated with Mrs. Hamilton's. Her ladies were both there, but Mrs. Brockhurst ordered her away on the instant, telling her that her services would not be needed that night. she had time enough however to see that Mrs. Brockhurst was very angry, and Mrs. Hamilton in a state of the most violent distress. Now, Colonel, keep quiet, or Major Stuart will be for sending me away before I have finished. At a very early hour the next morning she was sent for and found Mrs. Brockhurst up and dressed, although it was scarcely more than six o'clock. My lady sent Ellen down stairs to ask Mr. Spencer, who had just returned from the early walk which he takes, I suppose, in search of his missing wits, to come up and speak with her. They held a conference of some length in the upper hall, and when Spencer came down again he called for Gregory and giving him a note to General --, directed him to take the early train and deliver it at once. The maid, whose curiosity was greatly excited by these unusual proceedings, persuaded Gregory to let her see the note, and at once pronounced it to be in her mistress hand writing. 
               There was some detention on the road that morning, and the train did not reach town till two hours after the time it was due. When Gregory went to the General's office he was not there, and after chasing him from place to place until long past noon, he caught him at last just mounting his horse at his own door. Gregory handed him the note, and not being certain, he says, whether or no it needed an answer, stood waiting while the General read it. When he had done so, he seemed a good deal excited, threw himself off his horse, called an aide who was at hand, and in a low, quick voice said something to him. of which Gregory only caught the words 'Hamilton' and 'arrest;' and then, telling our friend he need not wait, vanished into the house. 
               "Later in the afternoon while lounging around the ticket office in the railroad depot, awaiting the arrival of his master from Ranleigh, he heard a sergeant who was accompanied by two privates, making some inquiries concerning the Ranleigh station and the road to the Manor House. Putting all this together he came to the conclusion that there was mischief brewing, and the papers of the next evening proved that he was right. He says that Spencer, came home that night in a fearful rage, a thing unusual with him, as when angry he is generally sullen, not furious. In this case he seems to have made row enough. He asked a hundred senseless questions about the delivery of the notes, cursed Mrs. Brockhurst right and left, stormed and swore at Gregory, and finally wound up by throwing his boot-jack at that worthy's head with considerable effect, judging from a scar which is still visible. He was somewhat sobered when he saw what he had done; but the man was not to be mollified and left his place that very night. 'It wasn't so much what he had done to me, Mr. Arnold,' he said, 'as that I could not stay with any gentleman who demeaned himself so like a blackguard, as to tell upon another gentleman who was in hiding in his friends house.' I liked the fellows spunk and let him know that I did, and engaged him subject to mother's approval. He thinks that Mrs. Brockhurst and Spencer both knew you, Colonel, and were in league to betray you, but I do not; for if this was so, why should Spencer have attacked Mrs. Brockhurst so savagely the next day. My belief is that 'Brook.' knew and sent word to General -- that you were here; but that she told the truth when she said Spencer was jealous of 'Mr. Wyndham,' and that by this means she contrived to make a cats-paw of him. But my lady will find that she has burnt her own fingers in the operation, if I am not much mistaken. That is all I have to tell, but if there is not enough to make a pretty strong chain of circumstantial evidence against 'Brook.' my name is not Harry Arnold, and that woman does not deserve to be chopped into mince-meat!" 
               Hamilton had remained half raised upon his elbow during Harry's narrative; but strange to say, except at the time when Harry alluded to Sybil's distress, he had grown less and less excited as the tale proceeded, and at the conclusion he obeyed the gentle pressure of Stuart's hand, and resumed his recumbent posture with a sort of grunt, which was probably expressive of the sentiment, "I told you so." 
               Mr. Rutherford remained speechless for a few minutes, quite confounded at Harry's story, and at the new and very unpleasant light it threw on the affair. 
               "And what do you say to all this, gentlemen?" he asked at length. 
               "Say!" exclaimed Major Stuart in a tone of strong contempt, "I say nothing, lest I should forget that I am speaking of a woman and say too much." 
               "There's nothing to say," shouted energetic Harry, "for the English language, no, nor any other, cannot furnish terms that are bad enough to be applied to her! The abominable, treacherous, old cat!" 
               "If she has done it," replied Mr. Rutherford, "and I fear there is not much doubt of it. What do you think, Colonel?" 
               "Well, sir," responded the Colonel drily, "I should not venture to take my oath that my amiable mother-in-law has nearly beer the means of my losing my life, but I do assert that as Harry says. There is a pretty heavy accumulation of "evidence against her It seems to me that there is no room for an inference but the one." 
               "I shall ask her at once," said the old gentleman, "and if she has done so-" speech seemed to fail him, and stood gazing into the fire with a frown upon his usually serene brow. "What could have been her object?" he said at length, the conviction hat Colonel Hamilton was right, forcing itself upon his mind. 
               "Probably she would tell you that patriotic motives influenced her," said Colonel Hamilton with a sneer. 
               "I never will believe that," said Mr. Rutherford. "Although she has the discretion to hold her tongue on those subjects, I know her to be as arrant a rebel at heart as our wife is, Hamilton. It is the only point on which they do not disagree, and I should have supposed that she would have been inclined to further your escape. No, no, there is no patriotism about her. And yet I can scarcely think that she has done this merely to grieve Sybil. What could have been her motive?" 
               Neither gentleman replied, though each had his own ideas on that point, Stuart's being not far from the truth. His views of Mrs. Brockhurst's character had been at first; somewhat biased by Kate, who head been perfectly frank in expressing her opinion of the lady during Stuart's former visits to Ranleigh. On his last arrival at the Manor-House, it had not taken him long to discover that the standing feud between Kate and the widow had gathered strength during his absence, nor was he slow to see the cause; Mrs. Brockhurst's ill-concealed jealousy and dislike of Anna, and Kate's undisguised resentment thereat. Having on one or two occasions detected Mrs. Brockhurst in attempts to vex and provoke Kate, he had been led to observe her rather more closely than he had previously done, and several little incidents had revealed to him traits which he had not before supposed to exist, and caused him to think that even Kate's judgment of her was more charitable than she merited. 
               Mr. Rutherford's indignation waxed hotter and hotter, until at last he departed to seek Mr. Van Alstyne and impart to him his suspicions. It did not take long to convince the latter that these were not without foundation, and after a little consultation he expressed himself determined to ascertain the truth at once. A message was therefore sent to Mrs. Brockhurst requesting her to favor Mr. Van Alstyne with a few moment's conversation in the library. 
               During the last few weeks the widow had filled a more subordinate post than she was accustomed to hold. She was ah efficient nurse, but her skill was of little avail under the present circumstances. Except for a few days when Sybil lay in a complete stupor, Mrs. Brockhurst's voice or step increased her ravings to tenfold violence; and when the delirium was gone and she began to improve, although she did not express her aversion in words, her start and shudder when she heard her step-mother approach made Mr. Rutherford unwilling to leave her alone with her. Dr. Wells had once suggested that Mrs. Brockhurst might share in the attendance upon Colonel Hamilton; but that gentleman's expression of disgust was so unequivocal that no one ventured to carry out the proposition. Kate rejected her offers of aid in Anna's room, and this she did not request; for although she felt confident that none of the family knew that her hand had been mainly instrumental in bringing all this calamity upon them, her own guilty conscience and the twinges of remorse which would make themselves felt now and then, rendered the sight of Anna almost unendurable to her. Her position was not a very pleasant one. She liked to be of importance, and the way in which she thus seemed to be set aside, was very galling to her. Hence she was rather agreeably surprised at the summons from Mr. Van Alstyne, and at once hastened to obey; but she was somewhat astonished and not at all pleased, to find Mr. must have been dictated solely by hatred to Rutherford with Mr. Van Alstyne. Nor was she pleasantly struck by the latter gentleman's expression of countenance, or his manner to herself when she entered the room. True he placed a chair and requested her to be seated; but it was done in a way which showed that he was forcing himself to treat her politely, and the instant that he had done so, he retreated to a short distance and stood fronting her with much the air of a judge about to condemn a criminal to execution; while Mr. Rutherford stood beside him scowling at her with a look which few who knew him would have thought his good-natured face could wear. Had that wretched Spencer betrayed her? 
               The old gentleman did not wait for his host to put any questions, or give Mrs. Brockhurst any time to collect her thoughts and prepare her line of action; but without the least circumlocution at once plunged into the matter in hand by demanding if Mrs. Brockhurst had notified General -- that Colonel Hamilton was at the Manor-House Taken, as she was, completely by surprise, Mrs. Brockhurst was for once thrown off her guard. She hesitated, stammered, and tried to equivocate, but in vain. Had she been alone with Mr. Rutherford she would have braved it out and denied all complicity in the affair; but this was impossible with Mr. Van Alstyne. She quailed before the stern expression of his penetrating eye, and convinced that she could not deceive him, she endeavored to put a good face upon the matter, and confessed that she had sent the information to General-which had led to Hamilton's arrest, but that she had done so merely to further the ends of justice. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne listened to her excuses with a smile of polite incredulity; but Mr. Rutherford with a growl of very excusable indignation, exclaimed, "The 'ends of justice' would have been as well furthered, madam, had you informed Mr. Van Alstyne that Colonel Hamilton was beneath his roof. He would have taken what measures were necessary, and in a way that would have saved much of the trouble which you have caused; and while it would have been more courteous to him had you done so, you might have spared yourself the disgrace of such an unwomanly act. Nor can I compliment you on your choice of a confederate in this beautiful scheme. Shame! Shame! Mrs. Brockhurst. I knew long ago that you had dealt hardly and cruelly with my poor Sybil-God for give me that I left her so long in your power!-but although I had learnt this evening, that which almost forced me to believe that you had been guilty of what I have just heard you acknowledge, yet I was loath to do so, until it received confirmation from your own lips. And you dare to pretend that this treacherous proceeding, which must have been dictated solely by hatred to my ward, or some other motive equally amiable, was carried out to further the 'ends of justice'! Allow me to observe, madam, that your views must have undergone a marvellous change, to lead you to take this step with such an end in view." 
               Mrs. Brockhurst cared little for all Mr. Rutherford's objurgation, but the coolly contemptuous expression of disbelief on Mr. Van Alstyne's face was more than she could bear with equanimity. He had not spoken since she entered the room, but his silence while Mr. Rutherford was talking was more eloquent, more expressive of his opinion, than any words could have been. He must indeed believe her to be guilty of all that Mr. Rutherford laid to her charge when he would not raise his voice to put a stop to the violent and uncompromising reproaches, with which the old gentleman assailed her. She had no means of disproving them, and the game was lost. 
               "How long do you intend to allow Mr. Rutherford to talk to a lady in this strain, Mr. Van Alstyne?" she demanded. 
               "I am not to be, stopped by Max Van Alstyne or any other man more than twenty years my junior, when I have anything to say, madam," exclaimed the incensed Mr. Rutherford. "In my whole life I have never said half as much to any woman as I have said to you to-day-thank God that I have never before had cause!-but I will not retract one word of what I have said, and though Van Alstyne chooses to say nothing-" he had scarcely given him an opportunity to speak had he so desired-"yet I will answer for it that he thinks as I do," and he turned inquiringly to his friend as though for confirmation of his assertion. 
               But Mr. Van Alstyne still maintained that meaning silence; and assuming an air of injured jured innocence, Mrs. Brockhurst declared that if Her word were doubted, she had better leave the house at once. 
               "I agree with you, Madam," said Mr. Rutherford bluntly, while Mr. Van Alstyne raised no dissenting voice. 
               Enraged and mortified almost beyond endurance, Mrs. Brockhurst left the room. Ellen passed the greater part of the evening in packing; during which process the unfortunate young woman was so aggravated that she gave warning on the spot; and at an early hour the next morning Mrs. Brockhurst quitted the house where she had so ill-requited all the hospitality she had received, and whose threshold she never crossed again. 
               At. Mr. Van Alstyne's request Mr. Rutherford did not speak of this interview to any save Hamilton and Stuart, and at the same time Harry received strict orders from his uncle to say nothing of the discovery he had made, greatly to the young man's chagrin; and it was not until some weeks after that Mr. Van Alstyne told Anna of Mrs. Brockhurst's share in the disastrous affair, which had cost them all so dear. 
               "Kate, though hailing with delight Mrs. Brockhurst's sudden departure, did not trouble herself as to the cause, and remained in utter ignorance that it was she and not Stuart who had been the means of bringing about the affray in which Colonel Hamilton was wounded. She dared not trust herself to speak on any subject with which Stuart was connected, and although her notions of the affair were rather confused, she asked no questions, persuaded that all the responsibility rested with him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Oh God! I am so young, so young- 
                           I am not used to tears at night 
                           Instead of slumber-nor to prayer 
                           With shaken lips and hands entwining! 
                           Thou knowest all my prayings were 
                           I bless thee God, for past delight!" 
                        
                      
                     E. B. BROWNING. 
                   
                
               FOR a week or so Mr. Van Alstyne considered himself the happiest of men; but at the end of that time he thought fit to declare to Anna that he was many removes from it, incited thereto by her reluctance to consent to as speedy a marriage as he thought, desirable. She was unwilling that it should take place while her brother's fate was still undecided, but Col. Hamilton agreed with Mr. Van Alstyne that it was better she should become his wife before he was obliged leave her. She was finally persuaded by their arguments, and the doctor's wishes that she should spend the next few months in warmer climate, to yield the point. They were quietly married, as soon as Dr. Wells thought her fit to bear the fatigue of travel, and a few days later, accompanied by Kate, they left Ranleigh for New York, thence to take passage for Cuba. 
               The day previous to the one on which they left Ranleigh, Colonel Hamilton was removed to Fort Lafayette, there to be placed under closer confinement, and stricter guard than he had hitherto been. He was still feeble and required care, but his state no longer seemed to admit of sufficient excuse or allowing him to remain at Ranleigh. There was reason to hope, however, that his captivity would not be of long duration, and Mr. Van Alstyne's influence and his own invalid condition were the means of procuring for him many alleviations, of which not the least was being permitted to see Major Stuart occasionally; and although the parting from him under such circumstances was a severe trial, Anna gratefully accepted it as a merciful exchange for the unmitigated suspense which she had suffered before his unlooked-for arrival at Ranleigh. 
               Sybil bore the separation far better than id been expected. Whether it was that her husband had infused some of his own sanguine spirit into hers, or that the mere fact of having some tangible hope of love and happiness at which to grasp, was sufficient to rouse her into life and energy, certain it is that all her former cold indifference and apathy had vanished, and that Mr. Rutherford declared that Sybil Brockhurst was no longer recognisable in Sybil Hamilton. She was, he said, "ready to move Heaven and Earth to obtain her husband's liberty," and indeed it seemed that it was so. She would give the old gentleman no peace until he agreed to go with her to Washington, and, to endeavor by every means which money, influence, or perseverance could furnish, to bring about Colonel Hamilton's release. Every moment that intervened between the time of her husband's removal from Ranleigh, and that when she might start on her journey on his behalf seemed to her as wasted, and she could scarcely control her impatience during the forty-eight hours for which her guardian submissively begged, that he might see the Van Alstyne's on their way and have time to arrange some pressing business matters which could not be deferred until his return. 
               With a feeling that he could not do enough to atone for past neglect, he had become Sybil's most humble and obedient servant, and had she been inclined to trespass upon his indulgence, there is no knowing to what lengths she might not have carried her requirements. Strong as was his desire to see the last of his friends, he would not have allowed that to detain him when she wished to be on the way; but he succeeded in convincing her that his business was imperative, and though impatient she was not unreasonable. 
               There was a pretty, earnest gratitude and affection in her manner to him, which was very touching to Mr. Rutherford, and in strong contrast to her former distant coldness and reserve; and he laughingly told her that she was maliciously endeavoring to make herself indispensable to him just when he should be obliged to transfer his guardianship to another. 
               It was a lovely day in March-one of those soft, bright sunny days, so delightful, but so exceptional, when the much vaunted Spring seems inclined to show what she could do were she not determined to disprove all those fallacies and delusions so persistently indulged in by poets and other kindred minds, concerning the delights of the season of which such rare, delicious days are mistakenly considered typical. Spring in our Northern climate! Ugh!- 
               "What can keep Stuart that he is not here to see you off?" said Mr. Rutherford as he stood upon the deck of the steamer which was to leave in a few minutes for Havana. 
               "He promised to see or hear from Guy if possible this morning, and to bring me the last news from him," replied Anna who stood leaning on her husband's arm. "Probably he has been detained, but I do hope that he may come before we start," and her eyes anxiously swept the crowded dock as she spoke. 
               There was another pair of eyes whose restless glances searched the throng, and at this moment they caught a tall, slight figure making its way through the press at the vessel's side; and their owner turning to the two gentlemen beside her who were congratulating themselves upon being her fellow passengers, but who a moment previous had thought the gay Miss Van Alstyne unwontedly dull and abstracted, broke forth into a series of bright sallies and saucy repartees, causing them speedily to reverse their former opinion, and to think that they had never seen her so brilliant. 
               "Just hear that mischievous little monkey. It is certain that this parting does not trouble her much," said Mr. Rutherford, as Stuart reached the spot where he stood with Sybil, Anna, and Mr. Van Alstyne, and Kate's laugh rang out so merrily that even strangers turned to listen and smiled in sympathy. 
               How the sweet, joyous tones jarred on the soldier's ear and thrilled his heart with pain, as he stood there calm and grave beside the eager wife and sister, giving them his tidings of the beloved prisoner. 
               Hamilton had borne the journey well, and, considering all things, was in fair spirits, and Stuart was able to answer satisfactorily the many variations on the questions, "how had he looked?" and "what had he said?" There, when he had told all to the minutest particular, and the moment of farewell had come, he turned to Kate. 
               Even while talking to Mrs. Van Alstyne and Mrs. Hamilton, and apparently giving them his undivided attention, not one word of Kate's sprightly conversation with her attendant beaux had escaped his ear. She had acknowledged his presence when he came on board by only the slightest bend of her head, and had he listened to the dictates of his pride he would have asked for nothing farther. But God knew when or how they might meet again-he was bound for the battle field-and he could not leave her thus. He would make one more effort, but if she repulsed him now it should be the last. 
               She stood with her face turned from him, and a little aside from the rest of the party, the gentlemen she had been talking with having just left her to say good-bye to their friends. Before she was aware he was close beside her, his low voice in her ear. His sternly set features softened as he looked at her, and his grave eyes melted into infinite pleading and tenderness. 
               "Kate, do we part as strangers?" 
               Her heart gave a great bound, but her color did not vary nor her eye quail. 
               "I believe that was the understanding, Sir," she replied in a tone that was almost insolent in its cool unconcern. 
               A sudden flame shot from the quiet eyes, and dauntless as were her own they fell beneath it. 
               "Be it so," he answered. "As strangers we part, as strangers we meet henceforth!-should we ever meet again." 
               His voice fell lower at the last words, and seizing her hand he wrung it almost fiercely for one brief second, then dropping it, turned away. 
               A few minutes later and the last adieux were said, the vessel loosened from her moorings and gliding out into the waters of the bay, and Kate stood beside her father and his wife, watching the fast receding figures on the dock. 
               "Come, Kate," said Mr. Van Alstyne, as Sybil and Mr. Rutherford at last turned away, and he prepared to lead his wife below, 
               "Come, Kate," but twice and even three times was the call repeated before Kate heeded. In those few minutes while she had stood there, her straining gaze fixed on the motionless form of him who still remained like a statue on the spot where he had first placed himself when he left the vessel, there had come to her a sense of all that he was, of all that he would have been to her, of all that she had so recklessly cast from her. She felt it now as she had never done before. Oh! brave, loyal, and tender heart, thrown away and lost forever! 
               The soft airs and sunny skies of the lovely "Queen of the Antilles," joined to her new found happiness soon worked a favorable change in Anna's shattered health, and her husband saw with delight the delicate color return to her cheek and the spring to her step. Her bright smile was always ready for him, her sweet voice prompt to assure him that she was happy, inexpressibly happy; but with all this he fancied at times that there was something about her which betokened a heart not perfectly at rest. Was it the shadow of "her past distress" which lingered around her still; had the gentle spirit been so bruised in the sharp encounters through which it had passed that not even all the watchful love and tenderness which were bestowed upon her now, could obliterate the smart of the wounds which had sunk so deeply? He had discovered that she shrank with a feeling that was almost morbid from any any allusion to their former estrangement, and therefore he did not question her as closely as he might otherwise have done at those moments when a half-checked sigh or a look of care in her beautiful eyes forced upon him the unwelcome conviction that she was not as happy as he had hoped to make her. 
               And, though mistaken as to the cause, he was not wrong in his belief that his wife's mind was not entirely at peace. Hopeful respecting her brother, and resting with a feeling of perfect confidence and repose in her husband's love and care, banishing from her thoughts all painful recollections of the past save when with gratitude unspeakable she compared it with her present happiness, Anna had still one source of anxiety, and this was found in Kate's changed demeanor. When in company of in her father's presence she was noticeable for an even more exuberant flow of spirits than was usual with her; her manner at times showing a wild, reckless gaiety of which her father scarcely approved; but ascribing it to her delight at the new relations between Anna and herself at which she expressed such unbounded satisfaction, he had not the heart to check her. 
               Even when alone with Anna she endeavored to keep up this sportive manner, but she knew that her friend was not deceived, and on one or two occasions when some trivial word or incident suddenly jarred the chords so severely strained, she gave way to such passionate, despairing fits of weeping that Anna was alarmed, and again and again entreated her to tell her the cause of her grief. 
               But Kate obstinately refused. "It will do no good," she would say, "you cannot help me, no one can and then with an effort that it was painful to see in one so young, she would send back her tears, and again assume the forced playfulness which it was almost more trying to Anna to witness, than were her wild paroxysms of weeping. 
               Anna felt confident that the sorrow which Kate was so resolutely but-as far as she was concerned-vainly endeavoring to conceal was connected with the rupture of her engagement with Major Stuart; but Kate never permitted the slightest allusion to this and the only result of any attempt on Anna's part to force the subject upon her, was that Kate would avoid being alone with her for days following. In vain were all Anna's entreaties, gentle reproaches, and even once a half threat to tell Mr. Van Alstyne that there was something wrong with her. Kate received this last with a burst of passion which absolutely frightened Anna-coming as it did from one who never before had given her an angry or unkind reply-and the next moment threw herself upon Anna's neck in a paroxysm of contrite affection, beseeching forgiveness, calling himself all manner of hard names and ending with one of those wild flood of tears which Anna had learnt so much to dread; but through it all imploring her to say nothing to her father. 
               "But this is not right, dear Kate," said Anna in the midst of her own sympathizing tears. "I will no longer ask for the confidence you choose to withhold for the first time since we have known each other; but go to your father, dearest, tell him all your trouble. You owe it to one so kind and indulgent, even though he may not be able to help you in this." 
               "No, no," said Kate forgetting herself for one moment, "for if he knows it you will too." 
               Anna started. "And is it from me then that you are so anxious to keep this secret? Kate, have I been the means of bringing this sorrow upon you?" 
               "No, no," exclaimed Kate, "I did not know what I was saying. Dearest, dearest Anna, you have never been the means of bringing anything but happiness to me; and I am happy, I will be happy. I am a foolish and ungrateful girl. I have you given back to me when I thought I had lost you forever, and I have papa, and what more should I want. I have no right and no reason to be anything but bright and cheerful and you shall not see me otherwise again. Only promise me, Anna, that you will say nothing to papa. Where is the good of troubling him with that with which he can never remedy? You must keep my secret as I once kept yours." 
               And against her better judgment Anna's lips were sealed. 
               And as far as outward appearances went, Kate kept her word. Those variable moods seemed to have passed away, and none who had not the clue which Anna possessed could have guessed that below that gay, frolicsome, unconcerned manner there lay ceaseless regrets and wild longings for that which she had so recklessly thrown away. 
               The early summer had come, and a few days before they were to leave for home, Colonel Hamilton, and Sybil joined them, Hamilton having at length been exchanged, through the unceasing exertions of his friends; but some months sojourn in Fort Lafayette had not tended to the rapid increase of his strength, and whatever his inclinations were, he was still totally unfit to resume his command. They therefore purposed spending some time abroad, Mr. Rutherford advancing them sufficient to live upon until Sybil should be of age, which would be in a few months. 
               Unwilling to exile himself for an indefinite time without once more seeing his sister, Hamilton brought his wife to Cuba, that they might bid Anna farewell. Mr. Rutherford came with them, intending to return home with the Van Alstynes, and declaring that as Sybil was about to desert him and he did not mean to be left without some one to tease him, he had come for the purpose of adopting Kate as his own especial pet and torment. 
               "Then I hope that she will thrive better under your management than she seems to be doing just now under mine," said Mr. Van Alstyne. "She is growing thin and pale and losing appetite and strength, although she declares she is well and is more wild and mischievous than ever." 
               The family were all gathered upon the verandah of their temporary home on the morning after the arrival of Colonel and Mrs. Hamilton. Anna had just stepped aside to speak to a servant, when Mr. Van Alstyne asked, "When did you last see Stuart, Hamilton?" 
               "I saw him the day I left New York," he answered, "and he was looking very ill. He rejoined his regiment before he was at all fit to do so, and the wound in his arm breaking put afresh, he has been invalided home again for some time. You have heard of course of his mother's death?" 
               "Yes," replied his brother-in-law, "it was a very sad and sudden blow." 
               "It was indeed," said Col. Hamilton, "and Stuart seems completely broken down by it. Poor fellow! he appears perfectly careless with regard to his own health and safety, and when I urged upon him the necessity of more care and warned him that he was risking not only health but life by returning too soon to the duties which he might better leave to others until he was fully equal to to their resumption, he replied almost bitterly that the man whose life was of least value could best afford to risk it. I remonstrated with him, telling him, also that I had heard he exposed himself unnecessarily, for Colonel Hunt told Mr. Rutherford that if there was any desperate service to be performed Stuart was sure to volunteer. 'Let me be the judge of that,' he answered, 'but do not think me wicked or weak enough needlessly to throw away the life conferred upon me even though it be a burden. But should I fall, there are none to break their hearts for me, and though I would do nothing to hasten it, I shall welcome the home that it will lay my head in a soldier's grave; therefore when I can save from danger a man who has ties which bind him to this world, I feel it no sin to take his risk upon myself!' His mother must have been a very superior woman to be so grieved for by such a man as Stuart." 
               "Not remarkably so," said Mr. Rutherford, "but she was devoted to her son and he to her. He is left I believe without a near relative in the world. But there has been something more than his mother's death to change Walter Stuart. He was an altered man before that blow fell upon him. I saw that long before we left Ranleigh. He seems to have a curiously morbid feeling with regard to you, Colonel. What was he saying to you about forgiveness when he shook your hand for good-bye?" 
               Colonel Hamilton looked uncomfortable, and having glanced around to see that his sister was out of hearing, replied, "He said that I might easily forgive any difficulty he had thrown in the way of my flight from Ranleigh, for the consequences had fallen far more heavily on himself than on me." 
               "What did he mean?" asked Mr. Rutherford. 
               "I did not ask him," said Hamilton, then as Anna returned he forcibly changed the conversation. 
               Kate sat upon a low step, her lap half filled with flowers which she was busy arranging. She continued her occupation for a few minutes, then rising, she wandered off as though in search of more flowers, plucking one here and there until she could no longer be seen by the group upon the verandah. Then turning from the-path she took her way to a lonely grove which was a favorite resort of hers, and which had witnessed many bitter tears and unavailing regrets. Her steps grew more and more languid, and a mist was before her eyes, but she kept blindly on till she reached the refuge she sought, when the flowers dropped from her hands and she sank upon the ground and burying her face in the soft turf, laid there motionless for hours. How long, she neither knew nor cared. One overmastering sense of misery was all she was conscious of. 
               She was roused at length by her father's voice calling her from a distance. He had become alarmed at her long absence and had come in search of her. She rose and went to him, but she could not meet him now with a smile. 
               "I am sick, papa," she said in answer to his questions, leaning her head wearily against his arm. 
               "You are indeed sick, my child," he answered, looking uneasily at her as he led her to the house, "you have been out too long in this hot sun." 
               Only too happy that he should ascribe her sudden illness to this, Kate submitted for a day or two to be treated as an invalid, glad of the seclusion which this afforded her. But she could, rouse her flagging spirits no longer, and when she once more joined the family circle, she no more feigned the gaiety she did not feel. What though they were parted forever, it seemed a wrong to Stuart that she should laugh and be gay, even though the merriment were forced, while he was suffering, it might be dying. Sick, lonely, and desolate, and she who would lay down her life so that she might comfort and care for him, separated from him by her own proud and wayward obstinacy. His image was ever before her as she had seen him that day from the deck of the steamer, his voice ever sounding in her ear in those tones of suppressed passion and grief. "As strangers we part, as strangers we meet henceforth." For the first time she confessed to herself that he had done right, that had he yielded his sense of duty for the sake of her love, her respect and affection for him would have been lessened, perhaps destroyed. 
               "Look at Kate," said Sybil to her husband as they carne arm in arm up the avenue one afternoon and caught sight of the young girl as, unconscious of observation, she wandered slowly but a short distance from them. "Look at Kate, I never saw any one so altered." 
               "You have not?" returned her husband. "Well then I have seen a far more wonderful change, and one that I trust may prove more lasting than any of Miss Kate Van Alstyne's whimsical moods. I believe that Mr. Rutherford is right," he added with a gaze of loving admiration at the beaming face upraised to his. "I sometimes find it hard to realize that this is the original Sybil Brockhurst." 
               "And of course you find Sybil Hamilton an improvement upon Sybil Brockhurst?" 
               "Well," he said teasingly, "I am not prepared to say that. It was Sybil Brockhurst with whom I fell in love so long ago, and I do not like to draw invidious comparisons so soon. A year hence I will give you my opinion on the subject." 
               "Take care that I do not relapse into the original character," she answered, "and you must not-be still Guy, you are like, an unruly school-boy-you must not talk so of poor Kate I am sure she is not whimsical now." 
               "Upon my word," said Hamilton, "you are coming on. Any more commands? If a man is not to kiss his own wife when and where he likes, and to abuse her friends to any extent he pleases before her face, then is the institution of matrimony a delusion and a snare, and wanting in many of the advantages I supposed it to comprise. But, as you say, my darling," he added more seriously, "Kate is strangely altered, changed from a giddy child to a woman, and a sorrowful woman too. Do you know what is amiss with her?" 
               "I fear that something has gone wrong with Major Stuart and herself," said Sybil. "For some time before Kate left home, I saw that a great coolness had arisen between them, and putting that and Major Stuart's extreme depression together, I imagine that she has refused him. I am surprised at it though, for I thought that Kate was attached to him, and he was very much in love with her. But if Kate has done so, I fear that she regrets it now, for she is evidently very unhappy, though she tries to hide it. When you were speaking of Stuart the other morning, I stood where I could see her face, and she grew as white as ashes." 
               "Kate and Stuart!" exclaimed Hamilton in amazement, "do you mean to say that Stuart was in love with Kate? I thought that it was Anna he loved." 
               "Anna!" returned Sybil. "What should lead you to think that? Anna and Major Stuart never met before the day on which you first came to Ranleigh." 
               "I had' every reason to think so," said her husband, and he repeated what Stuart had said to him on the day when he made him prisoner. 
               Sybil looked thoughtful. "I have it, Guy," she said presently, "you may be sure that Kate has quarreled with the Major because he arrested you." 
               "Nonsense," said Hamilton with an incredulous laugh. "Kate was not likely to quarrel with any one on my account." 
               "As Anna's brother she would do battle for you. You do not know as well as I do, her almost romantic devotion to your sister, and I am persuaded that this is the cause of the trouble that has arisen between them." 
               Hamilton mused for a moment. "I believe that you may be right," he said. "Will it do for me to interfere? For Stuart's sake I wish that I could place matters on a happier footing." 
               "Better tell Anna," rejoined his wife, and leave it in her hands." 
               Colonel Hamilton straightway called his sister, and it needed but a few words from him to enlighten her. Like a flash of lightning the truth came to her, and she blamed herself that she had not guessed it before. She went in search of Kate, whom she found still in the garden, Passing her arm about her, she asked at once, "Kate, was the breaking of your engagement with Major Stuart in any way connected with Guy?" 
               Kate started violently, endeavored to re-coyer herself and answer carelessly, but in vain. A half stifled sob rose to her lips, and the wall of reserve behind which she had so long intrenched herself was at once broken down. Unable longer to command herself, she threw her arms around Anna's neck, and laying her head on her shoulder, exclaimed with a burst of tears, "Oh! Anna, Anna, I am so very miserable." 
               For some time Anna let her weep, satisfied that the tears too long restrained would relieve her; but when Kate became calmer, she said, "My own darling, it has been your love for me which has led to this: is it not so?" 
               Kate raised her head and looked in Anna's face with a piteous gaze which almost overcame her. 
               "Oh! Anna!" she said, "I am almost glad that you know it. It was so hard to keep my secret from you;" and then and there she unlocked her heart and let Anna see into its very depths. She told her all, of her efforts to turn Stuart from his purpose, of his unshaken resolution, of all her coldness towards him, of his unopened letters, of that cruel parting; nor did she stop there, for she confessed that she had never loved him as she did now when her love was hopeless. Simply and quietly she spoke, but there was a tone of desolation in her voice that was very touching. 
               "I am so young," she said, "and I may have so many years to live, and life seems so long and dreary. If I was the only one to suffer I might bear it, for I deserve it all-but he-" and she wrong her hands, as the passionate tears again burst forth. 
               Scarcely able to control her own emotion, Anna held her closely to her heart while she endeavored to confort her, telling her how dearly she loved her and how deeply she appreciated all her efforts to avert the blow which must still have fallen even had Major Stuart yielded to her prayers; and now for the first time Kate learned Mrs. Brockhurst's share in the catastrophe. 
               "And now you must let me tell your father, love," said Anna, "we have already kept this too long from him. And take heart of grace, my Kate, all may yet be well." 
               Kate shook her head hopelessly. "It is too late now," she answered. "He will not stoop to offer again, that which was so often spurned; he said if we met again it must be as strangers, and I cannot call him back. No, it is all over now, and I have only myself to blame. He was right, I see it now." 
               Anna did not dare to hold out much encouragement. She knew not what Stuart's feelings might be after this lapse of time, or how her husband might view any attempt to bring about a reconciliation. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne was seated before a window with a book in his hand, but it was long since he had turned a leaf, and there was a look of care upon his face as his eyes rested thoughtfully upon the scene without. There came a light step behind him, and a small hand was laid upon his shoulder. The cloud passed from his countenance as without turning his head he took the hand in his own, and drew his wife in front of him, and down upon his knee. She pushed back his hair with her fingers and gently pressed her lips to his forehead. 
               "Well!" he said playfully, "what is it now? Such irresistible arguments as that generally precede a demand for some favor, though I must do you the justice to say that it is not apt to be for yourself." 
               "You leave me nothing to ask for myself," she answered. 
               "And yet my darling is not quite happy." 
               She looked up at him with a passionate tenderness beyond what she had ever yet shown. "Ah! yes, I am happy, almost too happy but for one thing." 
               Her husband drew her closer to him as he said, "And have I not a right to share the 'one thing' whatever it may be?" 
               "You have, and should have shared it long ago had not my own fears been so undefined that I scarcely knew what shape to give them. And you will not be vexed?" with a little tone of apprehension in her voice. 
               "Vexed! and with you?" 
               "No, with Kate, because she has concealed from you that which I am going to tell you." 
               "Kate," he replied; "I was just thinking of her when you came. Your brother reports unfavorably of Major Stuart's health and spirits, and I cannot divest myself of the idea that some difficulty has arisen between him and Kate, from which they are both suffering." Then noticing the traces of agitation in her face, he added, "What is it, my darling? I must know what troubles that poor child. She is drooping visibly, and if you know of any cause for it you must tell me." 
               Mr. Van Alstyne's astonishment at the story she told was not unmixed with displeasure that it had been so long concealed from him; but this he was obliged to keep within his own breast. Upon Anna he would not vent it; no harsh word to her should ever again cross his lips; upon Kate-he could not, according to the promise his wife had won from him before she began her tale, and his vexation soon passed as he thought over this proof of Kate's unselfish devotion to Anna. 
               "Poor little girl?" he said. Who would have thought my giddy Kate equal to such an act of heroism? for such it was, although mistaken. Foolish child! to think that she could turn Walter Stuart one hair's breadth from his duty." 
               He was silent for some time, nor did his wife utter a word as she sat leaning her head on his shoulder. 
               "And what is it that you expect me to do? for I suppose that you look to me to put all things straight again." 
               "Not at all," she answered. Men never manage these things properly. When we are at home you must let me write to Major Stuart. I shall let him know that I am aware of all that has passed, and then ask him to pay us a visit. I think that it will be sufficient to induce him to accept our invitation, and then I trust that things will right themselves." 
                
               Her husband looked grave. "Ah!" he said, "I can scarcely consent to that. I fear that you are letting your feelings get the better of your judgment." 
               "Can you not trust to my discretion?" she asked reproachfully. 
               "In all things save where Kate and Kate's father are concerned, and there I think the hand," he answered smiling. 
               "We do not look upon this in the same light," she said. "You think Kate only a child and that she will soon recover from her sorrow; but I know that it is not so. Her heart is breaking, and she has thrown away her own happiness for me." Then as the tears gathered in her eyes, she twined her arms around his neck, pleading, "Oh! Max, let me do all that I can, dearest. I can never be entirely happy while she is suffering; and you cannot think that I would do anything to compromise Kate's dignity or my own." 
               "Do as you please then, love, I leave it all to you," he said as he kissed the tears from her eyes. 
               "And we will say nothing of it to Kate, lest"-her voice shook aud died away. 
               "Lest you should be disappointed, as I fear you will be, my own. I confess that I have little hope Stuart will come to us again. He has been too deeply and justly hurt to make him willing to accept any such overtures from a third party, and of course you could not wish that they should come from Kate." 
               "No," said Anna with a sigh and a feeling that beyond the relief of telling him all, she had gained little by this conversation with her husband. 
               A day or two later, they had bidden farewell to Colonel Hamilton and his wife and were on their homeward way. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne's fears that Anna was doomed to disappointment proved too well founded. Whether it were that Major Stuart was firmly resolved to adhere to the promise which he had made to his wounded love and pride, or that Anna's letter of invitation was so carefully and guardedly worded under Mr. Van Alstyne's supervision and correction that it did not convey the impression she had intended, the answer to it was much what her husband had supposed it would be. Gracefully acknowledging her interest in him, he claimed it only as her brother's friend, thanked her for her invitation but declined it decidedly, saying that he expected to return to his command before the lapse of many weeks and holding out no hope that he might accept it at any future time; and concluding with congratulations on her restored health and happiness, and kind wishes for her and hers. 
               Not one word of her for whose sake Anna had undertaken to mediate, and sadly she agreed with her husband that there was nothing more to be done, and they could only rest in the hope that time might bring healing and forgetfulness. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Dread was the woe in the face so young."
                      
                     -E. B. BROWNING. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "So passed the strong, heroic soul away."
                      
                     TENNYSON. 
                   
                
               TWO days after the battle of Antietam. Mothers, wives, and sisters longing for, yet fearing, the coming of those fatal lists which should change the dread into certainty or give an added strength to the hope which can live on the mere absence of evil tidings. 
               "Killed and wounded!" How many hearts paused for one second ere they scanned the page, sending up a silent petition that his name might not be there! 
               In a quiet, lovely spot by the river side sat Kate Van Alstyne. Don lay at her feet watching her, revolving perhaps in his doggish mind the problem whether this sorrowful and drooping girl could be the bright and merry Kate of six short months ago. Poor Don! sadly he missed the frolics with which his little mistress had been wont to indulge herself and him, but he had long since abandoned as useless all attempts to induce her to renew them, and was content to follow her faithfully in her restless wanderings from place to place, receiving now and then as the reward of his devotion, an abstracted half-unconscious caress. 
               Kate sat with her cheek leaning on the clasped hands which were pressed nervously against the trunk of the old willow tree above her, whose long fringed branches hung almost touching the rippling water at Her feet; but it was an attitude of feverish expectancy, not rest. Her eyes were fixed on the gold and crimson clouds in the western sky when the sun was going down, bathed in a flood of its own resplendant light; but it was with a look which took no heed of their glories. She started at every sound which broke the stillness. At the dropping of a leaf, the crackling of a twig, the twitter of a bird, she raised her head, listened intently, and then suffered it to drop back into its former position. 
               Was that a sadder wind than usual that swept up softly from the South, fanning the cheek that had grown so thin and pale, fluttering the ribbons of her dress, and tossing down a leaf or two to he unheeded on her lap? Else why as it passed over her and went sighing on its way, did the bowed head droop more wearily, and the lip quiver with an agony strange and piteous to see upon that fair young face. 
               It came at last, the sound which she had been straining ever nerve to catch, the distant tant tread of a horses feet, and springing up, Kate darted to the top of the bank beneath which she had been sitting, and stood awaiting the coming of horse and rider. Along the top of the slope wound a narrow bridle-path which, running through the woods and striking the high road at a nearer point to Ranleigh than did the broad oak avenue, was much used by the Manor House servants in their errands to and from the village, and was the route invariably chosen by old Michael whose daily duty it was to go for the morning and evening mail. 
               On they come, the horse and his rider, but so slowly, so slowly. She sees them now, the reins lying loose upon the horse's neck, while with both hands the old servant holds the paper over which he bends his grey head. He does not see his young mistress standing motionless there until he is close upon her, then with a start he tries to fold up the paper and hurry it out of sight. 
               Kate stepped forward as he would have passed her. "Michael, that paper." 
               "Excuse me, Miss," looking away and pretending to misunderstand her, "I'll take it to the master this instant. I was just takin' the liberty to look it over to see if me Johnny's name was there. The Lord be praised! it's not, as yet." 
               "Michael, the paper." The tones were harsh and sharp. 
               "There's but one paper the evenin, Miss Kate, and the master'll be wantin it. Ye'll surely let him see it first, me darlin," said the old man, a faithful and trusted family servant who had often carried Kate in his arms, and who had his own reasons for thinking that the news which had carried grief to his own honest heart would go well nigh to break that of his young mistress. 
               "Michael, that paper!" her voice rising almost to a scream, and Michael reluctantly obeyed and yielded up the fatal sheet. He looked back at her as she turned away and unfolding it commenced to run her eye down the columns. 
               "Ah! I knew it was not for nothin they was always walkin off by theirselves, them two, and that day I saw them through the trees, here in this very spot, he with his arm round her and she teasin of him, poor darlin, the Lord help her!" and he hurried forward to the house. Contrary to his usual custom, he did not deliver his letters, parcels, etc., to a fellow servant and proceed at once to the stables, but threw himself from his horse and demanded to know where his master was to be found. 
               "In the library with Mrs. Van Alstyne. But you've bad news, Michael?" 
               "Bad enough," answered the old man. 
               "Is it Johnny?" asked the other, following him as he hurried through the hall. 
               "Not quite so bad, but nigh to it, Its his Major." 
               "Not Major Stuart?" 
               "Aye! just, him," and he entered the library where Mr. Van Alstyne was sitting with his wife. 
               The gentleman rose and came eagerly forward. 
               "Where are the papers?" he asked, as Michael placed only letters in his hands. 
               "There's but one come, sir, bad luck to-them that knew we'd be wantin' all we could get, and Miss Kate took it from me. May be ye'd better be seein' after her, Mr. Van Alstyne, for there's news in it that 'll be no comfort to them that's in this house." 
               "Where is she?" demanded his master, and Michael having told where he had left her, Mr. Van Alstyne started to find her, followed by his wife. 
               But as they reached the hall-door a figure appeared flying over the lawn with the swiftness of the wind; and with cheeks colorless as her dress, white lips rigidly compressed; her blue eyes fixed with a strained, painful gaze, and that terrible sheet clutched fast in her hands, Kate sprang to her father's side. 
               "See!" she said, pointing to the list of names. 
               Mr. Van Alstyne took it from her hand 
               "-- Regiment. 
               "Col. Hunt-missing." 
               "Major Stuart-mortally wounded." 
               He loooked up from the dreadful column with a pale, shocked face. Anna came close and read the fatal words through a mist of blinding tears, hid her face on his arm for one moment, then turned to Kate. But Kate put her aside. 
               "I must go to him," she said, with her eyes fixed on her father's face. 
               "But, my darling-" 
               "I must go to him, I will go to him! I love him, I have always loved him. He, must forgive me before he dies! I will go to him! papa! papa! would you drive me mad!" 
               "To-morrow then, my daughter, you shall go." 
               "No, to-night, to-night. Who knows-to-night I must go, there is time-" and she went on as if even in the midst of her agony she had retained self-possession to arrange all her plans. "We can reach the city in time for the midnight train for Baltimore, and I cannot lose an hour." 
               Mr. Van Alstyne turned his eyes from her wan, despairing but resolute face to that of his wife. 
               "Yes, let her go," she said in answer to his look. 
               "And to-night?" he said, still hesitating. 
               "Yes, yes, to-night, to-night, papa!" 
               "She is right," said Anna, "let her go at once." 
               "Make ready then," he said, "we have no time to lose," and Kate vanished in an instant. 
               "I scarcely know if I am acting wisely," he said, detaining his wife as she would have followed. "God knows how much she may have to go through with." 
               "Nothing that she will regret, dearest, if she reaches him in time. If not, it will at least be a comfort to her-to us all-to know that every effort was made. Believe me, Max, it is best so; You would not let me go with you I suppose?" 
               "You! no indeed," he said decidedly, "it is not to be thought of, And yet I cannot bear to leave you here alone." 
               "Never, mind that," she answered, endeavoring to speak cheerfully, "I will send for Mrs. Arnold to-morrow, if you are uneasy about leaving me alone." 
               "Mr. Van Alstyne looked as if this suggestion offered no great amount of consolation, but so it was arranged, and releasing his wife to go to Kate's assistance, he followed to make his own preparations for their hurried journey. 
               The promise once given that she should go without delay, and all Kate's arrangements were made with a composure and steadiness which astonished Anna. There was but a short time at her disposal, but Anna herself could not have gathered together more quietly or more thoughtfully, hot only all that might afford comfort to a wounded and dying man, but all that might be necessary to preserve her own health and strength as long as they should be needed. But through it all she moved around like an automaton, never speaking save when spoken to, and then rousing herself with seeming difficulty to give the needful answers. She had but one thought, one feeling, one certainty; and her brain seemed to grow numb and paralyzed in dwelling upon it. 
               "Walter Stuart-mortally wounded." 
               And not a tear, not a sob. Just that same moveless, absolute composure, which Anna would have given anything to shake even at the expense of her self-command. 
               And so it continued, not only during the ride to the city, but through all the long, wearisome night journey. 
               "Sleep if you can, daughter," said her father, as the midnight train started on its way, "you will need your strength tomorrow," and he passed his arm round her and laid her head tenderly on his shoulder, though with small hope that his injunction would be obeyed. 
               She made no answer. After a while she half raised her head and laid a small, cold hand against his cheek. 
               "Papa." 
               "Well, darling." 
               "I may stay until-" 
               "As long as he needs you, my child;" and the fair head sank down again, and she neither spoke nor stirred for so long that Mr. Van Alstyne hoped that at last she slept, and himself sat motionless lest he might arouse her. But when the long night had worn away and the grey morning light stole in, he bent his head and looked into her face, and then he knew that the blue eyes had never closed during those weary hours. There was that same fixed, painful gaze in them which had wrung his heart the night before, not vacant, not unconscious; but a steady, straining, far-away look, as though she were intently watching something in the distance. And he felt that she had worn that look all night. The sweet, girlish face seemed to have grown thin and sharp in the terrible vigil. 
               What was it that she saw? And upon his own mental vision, as though reflected from hers, rose another face than that upon which he looked, a noble, handsome face, shadowed by dark hair, with grave, quiet eyes and firm yet sweet mouth. But he seemed to see it even paler than the one which lay upon his breast, to see the chiseled features settling into a calm repose, to see the death-dews starting on the lofty brow, the pale hand seeking for some friendly clasp; to hear the dying voice whispering some last message to those who were so far away, perhaps sending some token of remembrance and forgiveness to her who had banished him from her side. 
               True heart of steel, tried, strengthened and refined in the fire, much as he had prized it, it seemed to him that like his young daughter, he had never known its worth until it was too late. Would it have ceased to beat ere they reached him? If so there was hero another which would break, and he had scarce a hope it might be otherwise. 
               "Major Stuart-mortally wounded!" 
               And so he did not speak, but sheltered his broken blossom closer in his arms, while his strong heart made its silent moan above her. Those whose eyes fell upon father and daughter that morning, had no need to ask whither they were bound. For whom? the question might arise-where and why? inquiry was but mockery! 
               For was there not war in the land? and were not their faces set towards the spot where had been the shock of contending hosts-where the fields were crimson with the blood of brother shed by the hand of brother-where had been the clash of sword and sabre-where the deadly rain of shot and shell had swept down whole ranks of stalwart men-where the names of the gallant Reno and many another noble soul had been suddenly stricken from the rolls of life-where the dead, the dying and the wounded lay heaped in thousands-where the best, the bravest of the nation, of the land-had turned the tide of invasion, and retrieved the sinking fortunes of the nation? But at what a cost had it been done! And need those who looked upon those two and saw them journeying thitherward, ask "wherefore do they go?" 
               Those in their neighborhood east sympathizing glances at the young face so pitiful in its woe, and hushed their voices as in the presence of death itself. 
               "Van Alstyne!" 
               A hand was laid upon his shoulder. He looked up. It was Mr. Rutherford. 
               "And Kate! My God! is it so?" 
               Mr. Van Alstyne nodded as he grasped the hand of his old friend. 
               Mr. Rutherford looked at Kate for one moment, then seeing that she did not notice him, bent down his head. 
               "My pretty one, my birdie," he said, coaxingly stroking the white cheek as he spoke. 
               She looked up at him with just a faint flicker of a smile, but so hopeless, so piteous was it that it proved too much for his loving old heart, and turning away he took a vacant seat near his friends and breaking down completely, wept as the aged can seldom weep. 
               Strong men wiped the tears from their eyes, and women, bound perhaps upon the same mournful errand, sobbed aloud. Mr. Van Alstyne shaded his eyes with his hand; but Kate still sat quiet and unmoved. 
               When Mr. Rutherford had recovered himself he returned to Van Alstyne's side. 
               "You saw it in last night's paper?" he inquired. 
               "Yes, and started from home an hour after." 
               "Are you doing wisely?" asked Mr. Rutherford, who seldom questioned the wisdom of his friend's proceedings, and a motion of his head towards that motionless figure indicated why he did so in the present instance. 
               "Yes, I think so. I should have come myself and she would never have consented to be left. It is best so even if-. Where have you been all night?" 
               "In the forward car, never dreaming that you were here. I sent a telegraphic despatch to you last evening stating that I was about to start, thinking you would like to know that some one had gone, to him, and thought that you might follow; but I did not look to see her here. How will she bear all that she-" 
               "Mr. Van Alstyne's warning gesture arrested his words, but when he looked at his daughter he saw that she had heeded them no more than if they had not concerned her in the remotest degree. 
               "The regiment was frightfully cut up," said Mr. Rutherford again. "It" must have been in the very thickest of the action. Nearly half of the officers killed or wounded-and Hunt too, poor fellow, missing!" 
               "Sad news for that delicate little wife of his," said Van Alstyne. 
               "Nay," said the old gentleman solemnly, "there is no more sorrow or anxiety for her. You have not heard then?" 
               "Of Mrs. Hunt! No, not dead, surely?" 
               "Yes, dead, on the sixteenth." 
               Mr. Van Alstyne's eyes asked a question. 
               "Yes, mother and child, both. A terrible shock for Hunt if he is alive to hear it." 
               "One could almost wish that he might not be," said Van Alstyne. 
               "Yes, were it not for the loss to the country and army, and to his own regiment in particular. Such men as Hunt and Stuart can ill be spared, and it is but seldom that a regiment can boast of two such officers at its head. True soldiers, true gentlemen, true Christians, and like brothers in their affection for each other, and their single-hearted cooperation for the welfare of their men. Ah! well, ah! well," and turning away he began to pace up and down the car with his hands behind him and his head sunk in a dejected attitude upon his breast. 
               A weary, weary journey, growing more and more disheartening as delay, after delay occurred, and all enquiry by the way proved fruitless. They found it easy to obtain general information, the late battle was the all-absorbing topic of conversation, but few particulars were to be learnt concerning individuals, and none of the one to whom they were hastening. 
               "Oh! yes, that regiment had greatly distinguished itself, fought splendidly, made a magnificent charge, driven the enemy from an important position, been driven back themselves three times by superior numbers, but always regained their ground-cut all to pieces, more than half the officers gone. Probably anyone so fatally injured as Major Stuart was reported to be was still near the front." 
               So on they pressed, and when about noon of the second day their journey's end was reached and they stopped at a small farmhouse but a short distance from the field of battle, even Mr. Van Alstyne, impervious to fatigue as he generally was, would have been only too glad if his anxiety to find his friend would have allowed him to rest, while the old man and the young girl were well nigh exhausted. 
               On condition that they shared their quarters with any others who might need accommodation, Mr. Van Alstyne received permission from the voluble mistress of the house to occupy a small room lately vacated by some wounded soldiers who had been carried away. Here was Kate, still patient, passive and uncomplaining, laid upon the hard, uncomfortable sofa, not even a pillow to be procured for her poor head; and making her as easy as circumstances permitted, and inducing Mr. Rutherford, under plea of watching her, to remain and take some rest in an old-fashioned rocking chair, Mr. Van Alstyne once more sallied forth to visit the hospital tents in the vicinity and make renewed inquiries. 
               But Mr. Rutherford could not settle himself to repose in view of those intent, wide-open eyes. Oh! if they would only close! He could bear it no longer, and drawing his chair close to the window, he planted his elbows on his knees, and his chin in his hands, and so sat with his head averted from Kate, watching for Van Alstyne's return. An hour-more-had passed when he saw him coming towards the house with rapid, excited footsteps. As Van Alstyne came nearer, he saw Mr. Rutherford at the window, stopped and beckoned to him, at the same time laying his finger upon his lips, a gesture which Mr. Rutherford well understood. 
               He turned his head and looked at Kate. The watchful eyes are closed at last! He rose and stole on tip-toe to the door, opened it and looked back at Kate, went out and drew the door partly shut, opened it again, making a frightful creaking as he pulled it back and forth, put in his head and watched her for a moment, then satisfied that she slept closed it softly after him and passed out to where Mr. Van Alstyne impatiently awaited him. They conferred together for a few minutes and then Van Alstyne again hurriedly departed, saying emphatically, "Remember, not a word to her if she wakes." 
               Mr. Rutherford went back and peeped in at his charge, but she was lying just as he had left her, and feeling too restless to confine himself within the narrow limits of the little room, he walked out again and finally wandered round to the other side of the house. Here were half a dozen soldiers, all more or less hurt, lying or sitting on the grass, and he speedily joined them, inquiring into their various injuries and plying them with questions. His simple, hearty, earnest interest in them and the action in which they had so lately been engaged soon won their hearts, and the conquest was complete when he dived into his pockets and extracting his cigar-case distributed the contents with unsparing hand. In ten minutes he had fraternized with them, squatting upon the end of a log which was offered for his accommodation, and becoming so absorbed in the exciting accounts of the late battle which were poured into his eager ears as to forget himself, his charge, and the lapse of time. 
                
               A field hospital, and here he the gleanings of the battle field, with eyes bright with fever or dull with coming death. Maimed, tortured and writhing, seeking for rest and finding none! 
               Pleasant fruit this! a rich harvest truly! The full and bearded grain, and the young and tender shoot, and the seed wherefrom it has sprung still grows and flourishes and spreads its roots abroad through the land. For why should it not? Is it not watered with blood and tears? 
               Come in. Gently, step softly, tread reverently, not alone lest a careless footstep should jar these tortured frames, but because there is a mighty presence here. There is a solemn hush and pause within the tent. Come on to where that group of officers stand at the upper end. 
               What lies here? 
               That which a few days since stood as its Creator's hands had formed it-a magnificent and perfect man. What lies here is man's work! Half of one of the lower limbs torn away, his right arm a shattered, useless mass-ah! well, he will never need it more to wield his trusty sword-while the stained and discolored shirt drawn away from one side of the broad chest discloses the bandages which tell how near the seat of life the messenger of death has passed. The uninjured hand is hidden beneath the shirt upon the other side where the feeble fingers keep fast hold upon something which lies upon his breast. He is breathing softly but faintly-he does not suffer now, the surgeon says. Occasionally his mind wanders for a moment or two, and ho speaks a few delirious words, now calling to his men and giving the word of command, then a broken prayer, then uttering a woman's name with terms of tenderest endearment. 
               Upon the floor at the foot of the bed sits Captain Loring, ghastly pale, his bandaged head supported on his arm, his eyes fixed on the face of his dying chief. The surgeon, the chaplain, and two other officers, one with his arm in a sling, the other unhurt, stand by in silence. 
               So the minutes pass, and the faint breath comes slower and slower, when there is a little stir at the entrance where another knot of officers has gathered, and one who has just joined them detaches himself from the group in haste and enters the tent. 
               Nothing to mark his rank, shoulder-straps and buttons stripped from the tattered and mud-stained coat, no sword at his side, his hair tangled and matted, face scratched, disfigured and pale as death, but still wearing his usual lofty air of command he passes on. The stir seems to follow him. One and another turns to look at him, those who have strength to do it raise their heads, some with a look of glad surprise, others utter a word or two of eager greeting; but he takes no heed and walks on until he reaches the side of that low death-bed, where Loring staggering to his feet with an exclamation of joy which sounds strangely out of place grasps his outstretched hand. The others close round him, there are a few hasty words of explanation, a question or two asked and answered, and turning to that prostrate form he kneels beside the bed, bends over him and speaks his name. The closed eyes are slowly opened and a gleam of recognition and affection lights them. The sight of that beloved face fans for a moment the flickering flame of life and the stiffening lips murmur a greeting and a blessing, while the bowed head of the other sinks lower and lower. Then the hand which has been hidden in the dying soldier's bosom is withdrawn, still grasping what all might have expected to see, a small oval case. 
               "Open," he faintly whispers, but he does not permit it to leave his hand while the command is obeyed. It is done and a fair, sweet face appears. He gazes and gazes, then presses it to his lips, closes and restores it to its hiding place. "Let them leave it here," he says with a look which tells all that he leaves unspoken. "The doctor has a letter-but you will take it-see her yourself-tell her-" 
               The other puts his lips close to his ear and whispers a few words. 
               There is a little start, then a smile of ineffable joy and peace brightens the countenance of the dying warrior, and the dim eyes are uplifted. 
               "My Father, I thank Thee that Thou hast spared her this! And I would have murmured!" 
               A little pause and (again he turns to the grief-stricken man beside him. 
               "You learned it-when?" 
               "Late the night before the battle. I was telegraphed with directions to break it to you; but I would not do it then lest-" 
               "Yes, I understand-but still-you see-" 
               Ah! he sees, and feels to his heart's inmost core! 
               The smile grows brighter. "And she is waiting for me-waiting for me-my darling-my darling!" 
               A longer pause, and when he speaks again it is with greater effort. 
               "My brave boys-they fought nobly-tell them so-tell them farewell for me-you will lead them now=you will care for them-and you, my friend-my brother-most faithful-" his voice dies away, but his eyes remain riveted for some moments longer on the face which almost touches his own, then they close wearily. 
               Slower and still slower comes the failing breath, deeper and more solemn grows the bush. Once more the white lips move. Coming, my darling, coming-" there is a gasp, a slight shiver through all the shattered frame, and so-she whom he loved waits no longer.-" For so He giveth his beloved sleep." 
               "Come," said the surgeon, after the lapse of several minutes, laying his hand on the shoulder of that kneeling figure, and instinctively using the arguments which he felt would have the greatest force; "Come, if you are to do the work he has left to you it is time that you cared for yourself. You must have food and rest at once." 
               "I believe I must," and as he rises slowly to his feet his exhaustion becomes apparent. He turns quietly to the doctor. "Have you a pair of scissors?" They are produced, and he cuts from the head of the dead soldier two or three dark locks, passes his hand lovingly over the marble brow, in a low voice gives a few directions to the officers standing by, pointing as he concludes to the concealed hand and saying, "Remember his last wish," then walks away with the surgeon. 
               As he goes, some of the poor fellows lying there again seem anxious to attract his notice, two or three call his name, here and there a feeble hand is outstretched, but the friendly doctor suffers him not to stop until he nears the entrance, where lies a little drummer-boy. 
               A mere child in years, one who should have been cradled in his mother's arms when suffering- and death were nigh. At the sight of that childish face with that same ashy pallor settling upon it, and the wistful, appealing eyes, the officer resists the well-meant efforts of the surgeon to withdraw him at once from the scene. 
               "One moment, doctor," and withdrawing his arm from the doctor's peremptory grasp, he approaches the boy. "Johnny, my poor boy, I am sorry to see you here." 
               "Yes, Sir," says the little fellow hurriedly, "but it wasn't for that I wanted to speak to you, only to say that I did as you told me, and I didn't move until I was hit here." and he pointed to where a minie ball had torn its way through his breast. "And I didn't come away then, but after a minute I fell, and they carried me off." 
               "I knew that I could trust you, Johnny, but I never meant you to remain there after the spot became dangerous. I thought you would be out of harm's way." 
               "I know you did, sir, but you told me to stay there and so I did," replied the boy simply, "and besides there was many of the boys glad of the water, and the Colonel saw me and he called me a hero and promised to tell you, and I thought you would tell mother; but then no one knew what had become of you, and the Colonel was dying, and so I thought you would never know. But now you will tell mother, sir, and send father the drum?" 
               "Yes, my boy, and is there any thing more I can do for you?" 
               "Well, sir," he hesitated, "I'm afraid that you would think it a liberty, but mother is so far away and I want her so, and I seem to want some one to kiss me, and John Carroll did-he's very good to me-but somehow it didn't seem to go right, and when you came in so sudden I was so glad to see your face and I felt as if I loved you so much, and if it wasn't too much to ask-" a tear fell upon his forehead and a kiss, soft and gentle as a woman's on his lips, and followed by the boy's grateful look the officer passed out. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Her eyes are homes of silent prayer, 
                           Nor other thought her mind admits 
                           But he was dead and there he sits." 
                        
                      
                     -TENNYSON. 
                   
                
               "Now," said the surgeon, drawing a flask from his pocket and administering a much needed stimulant, "Can you walk a quarter of a mile?" 
               The other nodded assent, as though too weary for speech. 
               "Here, Captain Carlisle, you wont talk to him and worry him with questions, just give him your arm and show him the way up to Mrs. Fenton's. Get him a cup of coffee if it is to be had, something to eat, and a place to he down in, and he'll soon come round. Nothing to eat and no sleep for four days!" 
               Evidently proud of his office, Captain Carlisle drew the arm of his charge through his own and marched him off unresisting. Faithful to the character he had received the young Captain asked but few questions, and they walked on until they reached a building which at the present time partook of the threefold properties of farm-house, hospital and inn. Two disabled men sat upon the doorstep, several more lay or sat within the narrow hall. 
               "Hallo! you chaps," said the Captain, "where's Mrs. Fenton?" 
               "Dunno, sir, somewhere round, she's never in the same place two minutes." 
               "Good reason why," said a woman's voice, and a round, kind face looking somewhat weary and care-worn was put out of an inner door. "Who wants Mrs. Fenton now? Oh! Captain Carlisle, I beg your pardon, sir. Can I do anything for you?" 
               "Just what I want to know, Mrs. Fenton. Can you give my friend here a cup of coffee and something to eat? He has been in the hands of the rebs and has had neither food or sleep for nearly four days." 
               "Well now! He looks it, and I havn't a morsel of coffee, sir, nor tea neither, and the boys are all wantin' it, and they promised to send me some when the wagons come in, and they come a good time ago, and none has come as yet, but I can give him something to eat if he'll step into the kitchen." 
               "And leading the way thither she bustled around as though she had not been working night and day for the last four days, and soon set a substantial meal before the half-starved man. Captain Carlisle waited until he saw him doing justice to it, and then said, "I am bound that you shall have that cup of coffee the doctor ordered, Major. In my opinion there is nothing like it for fixing a man up, so I'll just hunt up the quartermaster, and see what I can bring Mrs. Fenton. If I am not back before you have finished, lie down and take a sleep, and we'll have it all ready for you when you wake up." 
               And off he started on his self-imposed errand. 
               "Now, Mrs. Fenton," said the Major when he had satisfied his hunger, "you will do me an equal kindness if you will show me to a quiet place where I can take a little rest." 
               "And that's not so easy, sir," replied his hostess, slightly incoherent and showing a very limited acquaintance with Lindley Murray, The house is chock full as it will hold. The quietest place would be out under the trees, only there's rain comin on and you dont look as if you wanted another wet-tin, to rest you. It's but a small house, and up stairs and down every bed and shakedown I could raise is okkypied and laid close too, poor fellows! I did the best I could for them, and the parlor's full too, ten of em, and them just lyin on blankets and quilts with a little straw under, a pretty mesa there'll be to clear up when the poor dears is all took away and me my legs run off, not that I mind it, and always a pride in my parlor, and the little sittin-room's the only place which three was took away this mornin, and there's the sofy and the big rockin-chair there ony for the two gentlemen and the young lady. And so what shall I do, sir? Will I tell them? for it's like they'11 be quiet enough." 
               "Who are they?" asked the gentleman, following the course of his landlady's ideas with some difficulty. "I should not wish to incommode a lady." 
               "I dont know about the incommode, and I dont know who they are, sir. I did hear the old gentleman call the other by his name, but it was an outlandish one, and I never had no memory for names, ony Captain Carlisle's, and I can't disremember him he's so full of his fun and always prankin round and jokin and givin a helpin hand many a time with the boys, poor fellows,-dont they think a sight of him? ony Fenton he cant abide him, he hates jokes like pison, Fenton does; more's the pity, I dont, and the Captain he do run his rigs on him pretty hard. So, sir, they've come to find some one, dead or dyin they expect to find him; they was askin my man there, an officer it was but I did not hear who, and Fenton he tolled them we hadn't had no dyin nor dead officers here and them there was, four on em, was took in amberlances this mornin and one a secesh and him a broken leg swearin dreadful. So they asked me could they have a room, and I said there was the sittin-room but I could not promise it to them by theirselves, for if any one else come it must be share and share alike, I couldn't turn away them as come to save us from the invadin foe. So the tall gentleman, him with the Dutch soundin name, he said they'd be accommodatin but he must have a place where his daughter could rest while he was inquirin round, he's used to doin as he pleases that's easy seen, and I said they was welcome and they took the sittin room, bein just empty and all cleaned up, by good luck. So her father brought her in out the wagon, and sure enough she did look as if she wanted rest, worse nor you do, sir, but it's rest for her poor little heart I'm thinking, and I'm afraid maybe that's not at hand. So white and so patient, poor little thing, and as pretty as a psalm-book and so young too. Why, she don't look more than a child and to see such trouble too, it just gave me a turn to see her." And the good soul took up the corner of her apron and wiped her eyes. 
               "So he's her father, and Fenton says he's not Ills son, and so he's not her brother, and very young too for a husband or a sweet-heart-but I suppose it is, and the stately gentleman he's gone out, and the old one watchin that poor little thing I spose her grandfather. So, if you've a mind I should ask can you take a little sleep in the big rockin chair? I dont think they'll objeck, and you can be quiet enough for she dont speak ony they speak to her, and besides ony the old gentleman and he a good natured." 
               Anxious to escape his hostess' flow of language the wearied officer accepted her offer, and at her, bidding followed her to the door of the sitting-room. Laying her hand upon the latch she was about to' enter without the ceremony of knocking, when a hoarse voice was heard at the other end of the house. 
               "Licia, Licia, Licia Fenton!" 
               "Lands sakes!" exclaimed the much harassed dame, "the Scripters do say that a man's house is his castle; but I aint faith to believe it, leastways mine aint. Just speak to the old gentleman yourself if you please, Sir, for there's Fenton hollerin and he's no ways patient, so I must go," and she hastily opened the door. 
               Upon the extraordinary article of furniture which Mrs. Fenton dignified by the name of "the sofy" lay a slight, girlish form, with closed eyes. 
               A half uttered exclamation, a step or two forward, and before he knew where he was he stood within the little room, while the hostess, conceiving that she had done all that was needful, closed the door with a bang that shook the house, and shot off to attend the demands of the inexorable Fenton. 
               Kate had not moved since Mr. Rutherford left her, but at the sudden slamming of the door she opened her eyes and looked up with that old wistful gaze. Some one stood there looking at her, not her father, not Mr. Rutherford. She raised her head and sprang to her feet. Pale ragged, travel-stained, exhausted, but alive and unhurt, Walter Stuart stood before her! 
               She took a step towards him, stretched out, her arms to him, tottered and fell. To lift her in his arms and lay her on the hard sofa "was the work of an instant. But she had not fainted. Her eyes were wide open, fixed on him with a startled, half inquiring look, as though trying to take in the reality of his living presence. 
               He knelt beside her, still holding her to his breast. What had brought her there he knew not; but that involuntary reaching of her arms to him had shown him that she was once more all his own. 
               "Kate!" 
               She raised herself a little, placed a hand on each of his shoulders, and still gazing at him, murmured dreamily, "Walter Stuart-mortally wounded." 
               "Kate dearest, my precious Kate, what is this?" 
               "Walter Stuart-mortally wounded." 
               A horrible fear seized him. Was her mind gone? 
               "Don't you know me, Kate?" 
               "Know you? Oh! yes. Walter Stuart-Walter Stuart-mortally wounded." 
               Still that same dreary refrain, the terrible words which had seemed burnt in upon her bewildered brain. 
               "But I am not wounded, not hurt at all; who told you that? See, darling, I am here, alive and well; was it that which brought you here? It was false, love, I am here, your own Walter Stuart!" 
               She looked a minute longer, then seemed to recognize the truth. 
               "Walter!" 
               The name came almost with a shriek. Then a tear followed, another and another, until a copious flood of weeping relieved the terrible and long-continued tension of her brain. She clung to him with both hands while her head lay upon his shoulder, and he let her weep on, only now and then soothing her with a few gentle, caressing words. She ceased after a time, but still seemed bewildered and unable to collect herself sufficiently to reply to his inquiries 'as to how she had come there. Her mind had scarcely yet recovered its balance, and he could not help a vague feeling of uneasiness as he looked at her and saw her watching him with that curious, intent gaze one sometimes sees in infants. But this unnatural expression passed away at length, and she began to look more like herself as his lips recalled the long-banished roses to her cheeks. She asked no questions, did not express any surprise at his unlooked-for appearance; it was enough for her that he was there, alive, unhurt, his arms around her, his voice in her ear, her hands holding him lest he should leave her. Even when Mr. Rutherford burst into the room followed by her father, she did not release her hold of him, showing no embarrassment or shame-facedness at the tender position in which they were found, and the clinging grasp of those little hands was to Walter Stuart as irresistible as if they had been fetters of iron. 
                
               If Mr. Van Alstyne's joy was silent it was none the less heart-felt as he wrung Stuart's hand; and if the only words for which he found voice were, "My dear fellow!" Stuart knew all that they meant. 
               Mr. Rutherford's delight, like all his emotions, was of course more noisy and demonstrative. He hugged the lovers in his arms, kissed them over and over again, Stuart as well as Kate, danced about the room in a manner, little befitting his age or the stoutness of his figure, and finally dropped into his chair and cried as heartily for joy as he had once before done for a different cause. The sight of his tears brought forth Kate's again, and when they were once more dried her over-wrought senses seemed to have regained their equilibrium. Fearful still, but smiling, blushing and trembling, as a sudden consciousness of where she was resting came over her, she turned from Stuart and crept closely to her father, hiding her flushed face and brimming eyes upon his shoulder. 
               Stuart re-possessed himself of one hand. 
               "Will you give her to me?" he asked Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               "Umph!" said Mr. Rutherford, before. Van Alstyne had time to answer, and immediately becoming jocose. "It appears to me that it is scarcely optional with Van Alstyne. Judging from appearances I should say that the coveted gift had already been appropriated without much reference to the rightful owner. But I suppose that you are capable of fighting your own battles, Van, so I will leave you to give him his deserts;" and the delighted old gentleman took himself off that he' might be no check upon his friends. 
               But his impatience would not permit him to remain long absent, and in five minutes he was back again and calling upon Stuart to give an account of himself. 
               "What is the meaning of this?" he asked, pulling from his pocket the newspaper containing the announcement which had brought them all thither. 
               "A mistake in the returns, sir," said the Major, as Mr. Rutherford pointed it out to him, "it should have read, Colonel Hunt, mortally wounded-Major Stuart, missing." 
               "And the Colonel?" 
               "Has fought his last battle. I have just come from his death-bed." 
               There was a little mournful pause, and then Mr. Rutherford asked, "And how came to be missing?" 
               "I fell into the hands of the enemy, have been a prisoner." 
               "And the rascals let you go?" 
               "I did not wait for permission, sir. Finding that-" 
               "Begin at the beginning, begin at the beginning," interrupted Mr. Rutherford eagerly, "Let us have all the particulars. Tell us first how they got hold of you!" 
               "I have no very distinct recollection of that myself, sir," said the Major. "Our regiment had had terrible fighting all day, none in the brigade more so, although all had had their share. The Colonel was always under fire, never away from the post of danger-" 
               "Ah, and another too, I'll warrant!" parenthesized Mr. Rutherford. 
               "And the men fought with a will," continued the Major. "There are two hills on the left of the road on which the rebels had planted dangerous batteries. Late in the afternoon Burnside was ordered to carry one of these. Gathering his troops well in hand, he carried them straight up the hill, silenced the enemy's artillery, drove their men from their guns and sent them flying down into the road beneath. The hill had been carried, but could we maintain our position? Fresh columns of rebel infantry were coming up on the left, while the guns on the hill beyond us sent a frightful tempest of shell down among our men. In a little time a new hostile line appeared on the brow of the ridge above, moved swiftly down upon us, and dashed into our columns. Our men stood firm, while the rebel left gave way and scattered, but their right held their ground until fresh troops came to their support. We were outnumbered and flanked, but still we held our position, hard pressed as we were, while Burnside sent to McClellan for help. Just at that desperate moment a shell came screaming down among us and took Hunt directly in its line. He fell, and I sprang from my horse, ran to his side and raised his head. He was stunned, senseless, and shattered My God! what a sight for me! But it was no time for grief. Our men seeing their Colonel down, gave a yell of rage, then faltered and began to fall back. Once let a panic commence and all was lost. My regiment should not be the one to work such mischief at such a time. I gave Hunt to the care of others, with orders to carry him to the rear, and sprang forward to rally the men. It was all they needed, and in another moment they were pressing forward to recover their ground. But the enemy were close upon us, actually in among us for a few moments, and it became a hand to hand conflict. As I turned to give an order, I saw the butt end of a musket swinging above my head, tried to dodge the blow, and recollect nothing more. 
               "When I came to myself it must have been far in the night. My head was sore and confused, and it was some minutes be fore I could make out where I was. However, when I attempted to raise myself to a sitting posture, a surly growl and a kick, with an order to he still, warned me that I was in no friendly hands. I believe this chap's coming to.1 said the same voice as I dropped my head; and, taking my cue from his words, I feigned renewed unconsciousness. 'Not he,' said another voice which I imagined to belong to the superior office of the first speaker, 'That whack on hi head will keep him quiet for a while yet No fear that he will be ready for a start by himself before we get him well on a different road than tire one he would like to travel.' He turned away and I lay still for some time longer, then without moving my head, half opened my eyes; and by degrees contrived to take in surrounding circumstances. I was a prisoner, there was no doubt of that. All around camp fires were burning, one just a little to my left hand, about which were gathered a number of grey uniforms. A few feet from me were a dozen or so of our own men, like myself prisoners. On the right hand and close to to me was a rough stone wall and beyond that a dark wood. The sight of those woods so near at hand gave me courage and hope; but I lay perfectly still, maturing my plans. I might escape if they but suffered me to he here for the night. After some time it became apparent that arrangements were being made for moving the prisoners farther on, and the officer who had before examined me came to my side. 'Cant get him into marching order to-night,' he said after a fresh inspection, during which I still pretended entire insensibility. 'I doubt if he ever gets over it, poor fellow,' he added pityingly. He left me again, and in a few minutes the other prisoners were marched off, and I was left alone with my captors. From the disjointed talk which now and then reached my ears, I gathered that if I was to make any attempt at flight it must be soon, as they were evidently themselves about to move and to convey me with them. The only man who was very near me was the one who had given me the gentle reminder that I was not my own master, but he seemed to be on duty as my especial guard and kept his position between me and the wall which bounded the wood, my only chance of escape. It was impossible to hope to pass him without a bullet through my head. I think he half suspected that I was shamming, for it seemed to me that he never removed his eyes from me. 
               "Providence favored me at last. The man's officer spoke to him, and, not hearing apparently, he stepped over me and moved a pace or two forward to catch what was said. In less time than I can tell it I was on my feet and over that stone wall. In an instant a dozen bullets were whistling after me and my pursuers at my heels. Fortunately for me my course was soon brought to an end. In the darkness I caught my foot in some bushes and fell headlong into a bed of soft mud which lay beyond them. It was all over now, I thought, as I heard one of my enemies close behind me but what I had thought to be a trap to deliver me into their hands proved to be a most providential hiding-place. The man who was so near passed on without seeing me, and the rest followed him. I lay quiet for a few moments and then crept more closely under the shelter of the bushes. My pursuers returned before long, probably considering the chase hopeless in the intense darkness, and again passed without discovering me, but even after they had gone back to their post I did not dare to move hand or foot. I could be at no great distance from them, and the least motion or noise might betray me. Towards morning the sounds which reached me showed that the enemy were on the move; but whether in retreat or pursuit I could not tell. Totally ignorant of my whereabouts or of the final result of the battle, and knowing nothing of the country around, when the morning broke and I ventured forth from my hiding-place, I was at a loss in what direction to proceed. My pocket had been rifled and my pocket compass, as well as my watch, purse, etc., had all been confiscated. The sun gave me no help, for it was a dull, misty, drizzling morning. I concluded to take a different direction from that in which I thought they had carried their prisoners. After miles of walking and struggling through the close undergrowth, looking in vain by the way for a spring, for I was parched with thirst, the woods became lass dense. At the same time 'that I found I was approaching their edge, I heard sounds which warned me that a large force was in the immediate neighborhood. It was necessary to go pretty near, so thick was the mist, in order to distinguish whether they were friends or foes. They proved to be the latter, and I plunged again into the cover of the woods and thickets. I hid myself once more till night-fall, then striking off at right angles from the path I had taken before, walked on till I was clear of the woods. I had taken the precaution to remove my shoulder straps and to tear the buttons from my coat lest their glitter might betray me. 
               "Stray bodies of rebel cavalry seemed to be around in all directions, and more than once I had some difficulty in avoiding them. At length I came, suddenly upon a large arm-house around which a number of horses were picketed. In all probability they belonged to the enemy, it was a fearful risk to go nearer, I knew, but my thirst was intolerable and water I must have at all hazards. I crept around first in one direction, then in another, searching for a well or spring, but at last came upon the latter. I drank till I was satisfied, then plunged in my head and face, and rose a new man. That draught of pure water was more delicious than anything ever tasted; but I still felt the pressing need of something more substantial, so I ventured upon a farther rconnoissance. Making my way cautiously to the house, I reached a low stoop beside which was a window from whence issued a bright light and the sound of voices. I raised myself and peeped in. As I had feared, there were the hated grey uniforms, and before I could make good my retreat a fresh party came clattering down the road and into the yard. I had no resource but to remain where I was, liable each instant to detection. I crouched as close as possible to the side of the house, and in doing so discovered that a board or two was torn away at the spot where I lay, and into this crevice I managed to insert myself and to hide between the underpinning of the house and the ground. In this unenviable position I remained, not only for the rest of that night, but during the next two days, without the chance of escape. The house appeared to be a rendezvous for parties of patrolling cavalry, and they were constantly coming and going. The stoop just above my hiding-place seemed to be a favorite spot. Here the men would assemble and talk, and from what reached my ears I gathered that Lee had been badly defeated and had retreated across the Antietam. I also learned in what direction our army, lay, and found that all my endeavors to reach our own lines had but served to plunge me deeper within those of the enemy. To make a long story short, on the second day I concluded that it was as well to risk the chance of recapture as to he in that hole and die of starvation, as I felt I must soon do if I did not procure food. 
               "I was overpowered with fatigue but could not sleep, so intense were my hunger and thirst. As soon as it was quite dark I crept out, the way seeming to be comparatively clear, and reached the road without discovery. It was a bright star-light evening, I was able to take the points of the compass and, thanks to the information so unconsciously furnished me by the enemies I had escaped, to strike in the right direction for our lines. I could not make very rapid progress, however, being, as you may suppose, stiff and sore, and exhausted from want of food. When at length I reached our pickets, my first enquiry was for my Colonel. What I heard sent me at once to the hospital, which I reached just in time. In time to receive his last farewell, and to tell him the news which I had withheld the night before the battle, lest his brave spirit should be crushed at such a momentous time. I regretted afterwards that I had done so, but perhaps it was for the best in the end. Coming when it did the knowledge that his wife had gone before him served to gladden his dying moments. I saw him peacefully at rest, then came up here, little thinking whom I should find awaiting me. And now let me thank you all, dear friends, for the affection and interest which prompted you to come in search of me." 
               "On the contrary, our thanks are due to you," said Mr. Rutherford, "for turning up safe. I declare I feel a hundred years younger than I did this morning." 
               "Have you had no refreshment, Stuart?" asked Mr. Van Alstyne. 
               "I have, Sir, had all that I needed," replied the major, with a closer pressure of the hand which lay nestled in his. 
               "But you have had no sleep," said Mr. Rutherford. "Here, put yourself into this big chair, not that it was ever concocted with the least reference to the aching limbs of an over-tired man, but it is perhaps slightly preferable to the rack, and one is not inclined to be choice at these times, particularly if one has had no sleep for four nights. Let go of that hand of which you are taking such jealous care. I will make myself responsible that the owner does not vanish before you have had your nap out." 
               "Presently, Sir," said Stuart. "I am too weary to refuse your offer, but I must first ask a question or two. Had you no trace or word of me until you found me here, Mr. Van Alstyne?" 
               "I had," said the other gentleman, "and came back here expecting to find you. When we arrived this morning no one in this house could tell us anything about you, and I left Mr. Rutherford and Kate here while I went to seek information elsewhere. What I could gather was very vague, though there seemed to be an impression that you had fallen into the hands of the enemy. At length I reached your division head-quarters, where I encountered Colonel Grafton, who told me that you were a prisoner, and had been struck down, but that it was not known to what extent you were injured. I showed him the list which reported you as mortally wounded and Hunt missing, and from him first learned that there was probably a mistake in the returns or a misplacement of the names, as Hunt had been carried from the field by his own men and was lying in a dying condition, while nothing had been heard of you since the battle. He directed me to the tent where the Colonel was lying, telling me that a number of the wounded of your regiment were there, and I might be able to gather some more precise information among them. On my way there I stopped to let Mr. Rutherford know of this gleam of encouragement; but forbade him to tell this little girl, lest we might excite false hopes. Judge of my relief when I at last reached the hospital and heard of your escape and return in safety, and that you had but a short time before been sent over to this very house. As you may imagine, I lost no time in making my way back, found Mr. Rutherford, whom I had left to watch my Kate, neglecting his prescribed duties in the most faithless manner, told him the good news, and you know the rest." 
               "No, he does not know the rest, begging your pardon," said Mr. Rutherford; "for when we entered the house, Stuart, we found our talkative hostess and your Captain Somebody, who says he came up here with you, deep in confabulation outside the door. Van asked madam what she had done with you, and she burst forth with such a string of incoherent apologies and explanations which explained nothing, until your Captain, taking pity on our mystification, signified that you were in here; but that some investigations of his own had led him to the conclusion that you did not desire any company. He had knocked two or three times, he said, but receiving no answer, supposed that we must all be asleep and ventured to open the door, to ascertain if you were 'all right.' What he saw he did not inform us," continued the old gentleman slily, delighted to see that even Major Stuart was rather disconcerted, while poor Kate was covered with blushes, "but whatever it was it induced him to beat a speedy retreat, and he was probably lecturing Mrs. Fenton on the impropriety of admitting a ragamuffin soldier to a tete-a-tete with a young lady, when we interrupted them. I took occasion when I went out just now to enlighten them a little, thinking it only due to them to set their distracted minds at rest. The Captain seemed to think my explanation highly satisfactory, likewise Mrs. Fenton, who declared that it was 'better than the prodigal son, and she wished all that came to save us from the invading foe was rewarded the same, and she was sure a real gentleman though so ragged and not even husks, she understood! That woman's nouns and pronouns would be the death of me if I stayed here long." 
               "And how long can you remain here?" asked the Major, anxious to change the subject. 
               "Ask Van Alstyne. I am under his orders." 
               "Not longer than to-morrow morning, I think," said Mr. Van Alstyne. "There is no accommodation here, and this is no place for Kate." 
               "Not to mention that he thinks it 'no place' for himself while his liege lady is in another," said Mr. Rutherford. "By the way, Van Alstyne, is Anna alone?" 
               "I presume that Mrs. Arnold is with her, as he promised me to send for her," replied Van Alstyne. 
               "Umph!" said Mr. Rutherford drily. "Job had his comforters, and we all know that nature of their ministrations. No wonder that you are in a hurry to get back to Anna if you have provided her with that style of consolation during your absence. Come with us, my dear Stuart. We will none of us be ashamed to travel with you, though you do look like a disreputable beggar; and you can surely procure a few days furlough. 
               Stuart shook his head. 
               "This is no time to apply for leave of absence, sir, I could not leave my regiment now; and, as I cannot go myself, I wished to ask you and Mr. Van Alstyne to take charge of Colonel Hunt's body and see it in the hands of his relatives." 
               The two gentlemen gave a ready assent. 
               "I have another sad duty to ask you to perform, Mr. Van Alstyne," said the Major. "Poor little Johnny O'Connor, old Michael's son, has been fatally wounded and will scarcely live till morning. The body is a hero, as true a one as many whose names will never be forgotten. Early in the day I sent him to take his post near a spring from which he might supply water to the wounded. At that time the place was quite safe for him, but later it became exposed to a heavy fire; but the little fellow, receiving no orders to leave, remained where he had been stationed until he was wounded and carried off. His only anxiety seems to be that his father and mother should know that he was faithful to his duty, and I have promised him that I would see to it. You will doubtless attend to this also?" 
               "I will," replied Van Alstyne, "and will go and see the boy immediately. It may be a satisfaction to his parents to know that I did so." And regardless of his own fatigue and Mr. Rutherford's expostulations, he departed once more for the hospital. 
               Then being urged anew, the weary soldier took possession of the rocking chair, and in spite of its disadvantages as a place of repose, in five minutes was in a slumber which lasted for hours. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Happiest of all, is that her gentle spirit 
                           Commits itself to yours to be directed, 
                           As from her lord, her governor, her king." 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE. 
                   
                
               AND you will take care of yourself for my sake, Walter?" whispered Kate upon the following morning, as she stood alone with Stuart in the little room a few minutes before her departure for home. 
               "Aye, and for my own, dearest," was the lover's answer. "Life is too precious now to be risked unnecessarily. I shall guard it as jealously as honor and duty will permit." 
               "But you and I might-" she paused abruptly and colored crimson. 
               "Might what, Kate?" 
               "I was about to suppose that which can never happen again," she answered, with a deprecating, penitent look; "that you and I might differ as to what was duty. That shall never be, Walter. You shall always be the judge of what is right for me as well as for yourself, and I will never dispute your decision." 
               "Nay, dearest," he replied, "I would rather that you should learn to judge of duty for yourself. Far be it from me ever to attempt to control your conscience." 
               "But my conscience and my feelings do not always agree, and when that is the case I am too apt to let the latter get the upper hand, as you too well know. But I really did not see at first, Walter, how wrong I was, how unjust to you. I could only think of Anna, and my reason was blinded by my fears for her. But afterwards it was only pride and willfulness which kept me from you. I was piqued and irritated because my wishes had not sufficient influence with you to make you forgot all else. I persuaded myself that you did not care for me, and I did not know how much-well, I will say it-how much I cared for you, until that dreadful day when we parted upon the steamer. Ah! My punishment began in earnest then! If I had caused suffering to you, what had I not inflicted upon myself! But I deserved it all, I who had so failed in my own duty and striven so hard to turn you from yours; while you"- 
               "No more of this dearest," said Stuart, cutting short the simple confession which, nevertheless, had both pleased and touched him. "This more than pays me for all, my Kate." 
               "And I do not think that I shall ever be willful and obstinate again, Walter. I have had a lesson which I have laid to heart, and I trust that I shall need no more; but if my judgment still needs some guidance, I have chosen my teacher and-" 
               Here Mr. Rutherford and Mr. Van Alstyne suddenly entered the room, and this unheard-of submissiveness on Kate's part was speedily brought to a close. 
               "Teacher in what?" said Mr. Rutherford, catching her last words as he opened the door. Are you planning to take lessons in the art of war?" 
               "No," said Kate, "in the art of peace rather. I have been promising to perfect myself in the accomplishment of giving up my own will one time out of ten." 
               "Bur we are not to suppose that Major Stuart is credulous enough to put any faith in such promises," said Mr. Rutherford. 
               "Leave her to me, Stuart," said her father. "I will promise to have her in proper training by the time you are ready to take her off my hands." 
               "Do not trust him, Walter," retorted Kate, with reviving sauciness. "He is so busy teaching Anna the various conjugations of the verb aware, that he has no time to spare for any one else. The whole burden of my education will fall upon you, so take warning in time." 
               "Yes, take warning in time," said Mr. Van Alstyne, "I assure you that you do not half appreciate the difficulties of the task you have set yourself. And we must leave him to his reflections on the subject, Kate, for it is time that we were off." 
               With what different feeling from those with which they had come in search of him did Major Stuart's friends set their faces homeward. And yet it was a melancholy journey, for they bore with them all that was mortal of one whom they had loved and valued. They carried the dead soldier home; and before the altar where but a short year since he had stood and taken his marriage vows, where on the very day on which he went to join her, his young wife had lain in her coffin with her baby on her breast, they read the beautiful burial service over him, then laid him to his rest beside her. 
               At Christmas, Major, then Colonel Stuart, came to claim his pupil, and from the hour in which she stood at his side and in a firm, clear voice, repeated the vow to "honor and obey" Kate had amply redeemed her promise that no difference should ever arise between them. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
