
    ----CITATION----
        Locke, David Ross, (1833-1888). Nasby on Inflation .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7105
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            DEEP-SEATED MIRTH HOLDS A PLACE IN EVERY LINE. 
             
               NASBY ON INFLATION. 
               A NEW COMIC BOOK 
             
            BY PETROLEUM V. NASBY. (D. R. LOCKE,) MARK TWAIN'S ONLY RIVAL. 
             
               
                   
                     There's a health in every smile, 
                     A year in every laugh; 
                     A weary hour beguile, 
                     And pick the wheat from chaff. 
                  
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO.,  
                     No. 21 North Seventh Street. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by BARCLAY & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 
          
       
      
         
            Nasby on inflation 
             
            NASBY ON INFLATION. 
             
               Mr. Nasby's experiences as an organizer. He strikes southern Ohio. Building a platform on old "Dimekratic" principles. The party "enthoosiasm." News from Cincinnati. A big mistake. Result of trusting a "Dimekrat's" record. 
               
                  PETTUSES CORNERS, WICH IS IN SUTHERN OHIO.
                
               THER hez bin a heep uv trouble crowdid into the seventy yeers that I hev lived onto this earth-probably more than hez fallen to the lot uv any one man now livin. Them ez hez seen ez much trouble ez I hev, all died under it. I live becoz uv a mind that laffs at misforchoon, and defies fate. And besides I hev suthin to live for. So long ez ther's a barl uv whisky attainable and a Dimekratic party, I propose to exist. When they go out I shel probably succum. 
               I am hevin my reglar amount ov trouble now. Jest es soon ez the day come for the Dimekratic State Convenshun at Columbus, I went over to Pettuses Corners, in Ohio, to assist in organizen that county for the ensooin eleckshun, for I realized the fact that ez Ohio goes this fall so the next Presidenshal elekshun goes, and that the party calls upon every Dimekrat to do his whole dooty. For me success next year is a necessity. That post offis at the Corners must be mine then if ever. Failyoor would break my heart. 
               Pettuses Corners is the most Dimekratic uv all the villages in Southern Ohio. It hez a populashen uv say 500, wich supports six prosprous groseries, two good bars at taverns and a small skool house, wich hez never been finished, and in wich the Methodists hold their meetins. It is a very small skool house, but it is large enuff for meetins on Sunday. The inhabitants mostly devote theirselves to politics and the groseries. The county offishls pay for the likker uv the rest uv the citizens, wich makes it a soft thing all around. 
               Uv course every Dimekrat in the county is born with the expectashen uv, some day, holdin a county offis. To be Infirmary Director is glory-to be County Tresrer is the summit uv earthly grandyer. Them ez is successful start in ez Infirmary Director, then they git to be County Commishner, then the Legislacher, then Sheriff. At this pint most uv em goes hence with delirum tremens. Occasionally one whose stumick is glass-lined and backt up with fire-brick goes on to be Auditor and Tresrer, but them is exceptions. To go the whole string a tremenjus constitushun is nessary. 
               Ther ain't no money in holdin offis ther, for it costs the entire salary the first yeer to sekoor the elechshun, and the entire salary and a mortgage on yoor farm every yeer thereafter to keep it; but then an offishl can't treat a voter without drinkin likewise, so he hez a good time ef he does rooin hisself. 
               Naterally, however, some uv them make theirselves good by an occasional defalcashen, and by spekelatin in county improvements, but it wont do ez a reliance. 
               I arrived at Pettuses the nite uv the day uv the Convenshun, and wuz welcomed with open arms. I got the Dimokrisy together to ratify the nominashens, that we mite go into the campane with that enthoosiasm wich is necessary to succes. We waited for the nominashens impatiently, and finally they came: 
               For Governor-Willyum Allen. 
               For Lieut. Governor-Samyooel F. Cary. 
               "Three cheers," I sung out, "for Allen and Cary!" 
               The cheers wuz given with a will. The Dimokrisy uv Pettus' Corners are exellent on cheerin. 
               The platform adopted by the Convention hadn't come to hand, but I didn't care. I perceeded to draft a resolooshen or two, for I knowd the candidates so well-I wuz so well posted ez to their antecedents and utterances-that I felt perfectly certain wat the platform wuz on wich they wuz placed, and I wrote the resolooshen accordin. The follerin wus the first: 
               
                  Resolved, That it is the yoonanimous expreshun uv the Dimokrisy uv Pettuses Corners, that in nominatin for Governor, Willyum Allen, the elokent champion uv hard-money, the Dimekratic State Convenshun merits the gratitood not only uv the Dimokrisy uv the Yoonited States, but uv every honest man. That his ringin denunshiashen uv dirty ragmoney, and his upholdin uv the old Dimekratic idea uv hard money, will in the fucher ez in the past, be potent for the perteckshun uv a long sufferin and opprest people. 
               "My friends," sed I, drawin myself up so ez to resemble Dan'l Webster ez much ez possible, "before yoo take a vote on this resolooshen, I hev a word to say. Willyum Allen, Ole Bill Allen, honest Ole Bill Allen is emfatikally the people's friend. He is the natural enemy uv monopolists, uv banks and bankers, and the most inveterate, vindictive, deadly enemy uv this flood uv rotten paper money which hez so afflicted the kentry and blited its prosperity. Honest Ole Bill Allen hez from his infancy denounst paper money ez the insidious foe uv the farmer, and the oppressive weapon uv the bloated aristocrat. In the Senit and on the stump, by voice and pen, Honest, True Ole Bill Allen hez demandid that gold, hard honest gold, only shood be considered money, and that the dirty, filthy rag money ishood by a Black Republican Congris be stampt out. That demand he renoos to-day-that demand a Dimekratic State Convenshen hez made by nominatin him, and let us, the Dimokrisy of Pettuses Corners, nailin our kulors, 'Hard money forever,' to mast, pass this resolooshen." 
               The speech fecht 'em, and the resolooshen wus passed with sich emphasis ez I never seed. Then three rousin cheers wuz given for Honest Ole Bill Allen, the friend uv the people and the hope uv the country-the undaunted, unpurchisable friend uv hard money, and the denouncer uv rag money in whatever shape it comes. 
               So far so good. They passed this resolooshen easily, for ez none uv 'em ever had any money they never wuz
                   
                   
                     "We made a Director of Deekin Pogram because he is bald-headed, and therefore respectable. His bizniz is to sit at the window reedin an inflashun paper. It inspires confidence."-See Page 28. 
                     Where is our security? 
                     Faith in the company! Gaze onto that face. 
                     The Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company uv Confedrit X Roads 
                  
                   pertikeler ez to wat pertikeler kind they endorse, but the next step wuz reely a delikit one. I hed knowd Sam Cary for yeers, and knowd him ez the very hed and front uv the temprance party uv the State. I knowd he was a son uv temprance and the most intolerable prohibitionist the State hed ever bin cust with. I hed myself heerd him denounce the likker seller ez only fit to be hung, and it hed been my pleasin dooty to help rotten-egg him on several occashens when he wuz makin rabid temprance speeches. Hence I coodent quite understand why he wuz put upon the tikkit. But I persoomed that our leaders had determined on a bold stroke to ketch the temprance vote, relyin on the known caracter uv the party to hold the whisky vote. So to give Samyool a send off I interdoost this resolooshen: 
               
                  Resolved, That the Dimokrisy uv Pettusses Corners endorse the nominashun uv Samyooel Cary heartily, and likewise the prinsiples he hez so long and ably advokated. That the likker traffic is a evil wich shood be mitigated and finelly eradicated 
               There was sum murmurin at this, but I told em it wuz no yooze to murmur; that we hed to carry the State, and that the end justified the means. And they passed it with three cheers for Cary and prohibishen. 
               Then we adjourned to the various groseries, and the candidates worked up a great deal uv Dimekratic enthoosiasm. 
               The next mornin we assembled at Splidden's grosery to get the Cinsinnati papers with the full perceedings uv the convenshun, wich wen they arrived I read. 
                
               "Why this palenis uv face and this ghastly bloonis uv nose?" demanded the sheriff. 
               "Run!" I exclaimed, "run for your lives. Stop the Battle-Axe uv Freedom, (wich wuz the Dimekratic paper uv Pettus' Corners,) from gittin out the preceedins uv last nite's ratification meetin." 
               It wuz to late; the editor hed showd enterprise for just wunst in his life, and hed the paper out with the preceedins, in full, and a stunnin editorial endorsin the resolooshens. 
               "Wat is the matter?" exclaimed the entire crowd, seein that suthin uncommon moved me. 
               "Gentlemen, we hev made a mistake," I remarkt, with as much camnis ez I cood command. "The Dimekratic State Convenshun hez gone and put ole Bill Allen on a rag-money platform and Samyooel Cary on a whisky platform. I will never trust a Dimekrat's record agin." 
               There wuz only one thing to do. The Dimekratic mind is flexible and versateel. We merely met agin that nite and passed the rite resolooshens endorsin' Allen and Cary and the platform on wich the Convenshun put 'em; and we passed 'em with jist ez much enthoosiasm ez we did them uv the perceedin' evenin', und everything is serene and harmonious agin. 
               I shel stay in this county and organize the party thoroughly before goin' to my old Kentucky home. 
               
                  PETROLEUM V. NASBY, (Wunst Postmaster, and now Paper-money Missionary.)
                
             
             
                
               Teaching Inflation at his "old Kentucky Home." The Corners decide for Inflation and put their ideas into practice. The glorious result of the first step. The Unlimited Trust and Confidence Company. 
               CONFEDRIT X ROADS, WICH IS IN THE STATE UV KENTUCKY. 
                
                  THE Corners hev red the speeches uv Honest Ole Bill Allen and that other gileless patriot, General Samyooel Cary, uv Ohio, on the momenchus subjick uv More Money, till they hev bin worked up to a state uv absloot madnis. The Corners are jist the same ez all other impecoonius people-they want More Money, and the idee uv Honest Ole Bill Allen, that to git it, all yoo hed to do wuz to ishoo it, filld our idees uv finanse eggsackly. It is simple, effectooal and ezily understood. 
                  I determind to put the idee into practice, and to that end sejested to my friends the organizashen uv a Bank uv ishoo, under the name and title uv "The Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company uv Confidrit X Roads." 
                  I hed some trouble to git the citizens into it, but I finelly succeeded. I explained to the people that moore money wood be an advantage to the debtor class, wich, ez nine-tenths uv em wuz in debt to Bascom, settled them. They hailed with joy any movement that wood wipe out their scores and give em new credit at his bar. 
                   
                  To Bascom, and them ez I intended to hev in the management, I showed that more money meant increased trade, and ez the money wood all be ishood on our credit, it woodent cost anything but the printing; we coodent lose anything. So the bank wuz started. I wuz made president, Issaker Gavitt, cashier; Bascom, vice president, with a board of directors consistin of Kernal McPelter and the venerable Deekin Program. We put the Deekin on becoz he is bald-headed, and therefore respectable. His bizniz is to sit in the front window reedin an inflashen paper. It inspires confidence. Yoo have to watch him to keep him from hevin the paper upside down, but in this community that don't matter, ez very few know the difference more'n he does. 
                  It wuz forchnit that our bankin room wuz lokatid immejitly under the printin offis, ez we kin let the printed notes wich we ishoo down to the president's desk by a rope. It saves labor, wich is a great pint in a instooshen like ours. 
                  The theory on which our paper is ishood is very simple. The Company ishoo it and the people take it. We hev no time fixed for redempshun, for the beauty of the biznis is that we don't never intend to redeem. Our notes reads: 
                  "The Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company of Confedrit X Roads, (wich is in the State uv Kentucky,) promises to pay the bearer One Dollar." 
                  We don't say when, where, or how, and therein is the strength uv the enterprise. 
                  Our first ishoo was reseeved with some hesitashen. 
                   
                  "Where is our secoority?" demanded one farmer to whom we offered it in payment for a load uv wheat. 
                  "Faith in the company!" I ansered, lookin at him pityinly. "Gaze onto that face," I resoomed, pintin at Deekin Pogram, who ruther spiled the effeck by brushin off a fly that had lited on his nose; "look at that face and then ask for secoority." 
                  "When is it to be redeemed? "askt another. 
                  "It never wants to be redeemed," wuz my anser. "We shel be libral, and when a note wears out we will give yoo another. Wat do yoo want it redeemed for? Money ishood on faith needs no redempshun. We buy yoor prodoose with it-yoo yoose it to buy your goods, and so it goes round and round in a cirkle, dispensin blessins wherever it lites. Ez long ez yoo take it wat do you want uv anything else?" 
                  Another remarkt that it wuz his idee that paper money wuz all to be redeemed in gold. 
                  "Gold," I promptly replied, "is played out. Gold is merchandise. Our Dimekratic brethren in Ohio hev desided that money is simply promises to pay, and that it don't matter on wat material that promise is stampt-whether gold, silver, iron, shells, or copper. We shel put ourn on paper, cos it's the cheapest. We shell hev no extravagance about this bank." 
                  Pollock, the Illinoy disturber, in the most brootal manner refoozed to tech it, and consekently his biznis suffered. One shoemaker from Ohio followed soot and undertook to argoo agin so much money. He asserted the heresy that addin to the volume uv currency didn't add nothin to its power. Sed he: 
                  "I will illustrate so the Corners will comprehend. Yoo take a gallon uv whiskey and add to it three gallons uv water. Well yoo hev four gallons in the burl, but there ain't but one gallon uv square drunk in it, after all." 
                  I ansered him by readin copious extrax from Cary's speeches, showin that troo prosperity goes hand in hand with plenty uv money. 
                  They finelly was convinst, and took our money for their grain, tho we hed to pay them at the beginnin twenty cents a bushel more for this wheat than other money wood hev got it for. But we didn't care, for we cood make all uv it we wanted. 
                  It wuz astonishin wat a era uv prosperity set in on the Corners to wunst. Money became ez plenty ez blackberries, and everybody hed their pockets full uv it. Land went up in valyoo two hundred per cent. in a week, and the price uv the nessaries uv life raised ekally. Bascom put up his new whiskey from 5 to 25 cents per drink, and sich wuz the run uv trade he hed that his wife and his oldest son, Jefferson Davis Bascom, both hed to stand in the bar to wait on customers. The bank bought all the wheat and other produckshuns, and paid for em in its own money, and we paid sich prices ez happened, for money wuz with us no objeck. The high prices brot all the trade for twenty miles around the Corners, and all the dealers who woold take the money stood up to their middles in it. 
                   
                   
                  
                      
                        "I drawd myself up so ez to resemble Dan'l Webster ez much ez possible."-See Page 22. 
                        Nasby will address Our Citizens. 
                     
                   
                   
                  Then my turn come. Pintin to the crowds uv people in Bascom's, I sed to the doubter: 
                  "Wuz trade ez brisk ez that afore inflashun?" wich settled him. 
                  Improvements are being projected every day. We hev organized a company to build a branch road from here to Secessionville, another over to Bloody Fork, and still another over to Little Andersonville. Five turnpike companies hev been organized, and three factries hev been actooally commenced. The water power on the Run jist above the village is to be improved at wunst, and Bascom is alreaddy at work on a wing to the back part uv the grocery. Town lots are doublin in valyoo every day, and new addishuns are bein perpetyooally laid out. Everybody is spekelatin, and everybody is gettin rich. There is flush times here. The people are all inflashionists. 
                  I am President uv all these compnies, and I see no reason why I cant put em thro. It is troo that the price uv everything hez gone up. The commonest nigger labor is now up to $8 a day, and a pair uv pegged boots is wuth $20, but what difference does that make? So long as Simpson, the printer, kin work his press, we kin manufackter all the money we want; and ez long ez we kin manufackter money, why there must be prosperity. 
                  Pollock and Joe Bigler we hed to git red uv, for they wuz prejoodissen the people agin us. Pollock's stock uv goods and his store wuz wuth, in the old times, before the era uv inflashen, about a thousand dollars, and Bascom and me and Deekin Pogram went to him and offered him that sum for his property. 
                   
                  "Things hez raised," sed he, "and I won't sell for less than $2,500." 
                  We promptly accepted that price, and I sent a boy back to the bank with a bushel basket to bring the money. When it come Pollock refoosed to take it. 
                  "I want greenbax," sed he. 
                  "Our money ez just ez good," sez I. 
                  "I know it," sez he, "but I hev a prejoodis in favor uv other money." 
                  There wuz a crowd about, and it would never do to acknowledge that any money wuz better than ours. I took Bascom to one side. 
                  "G. W.," sez I, "here is a golden opportunity to do two things. First we git rid uv a disturber, and second we give confidence in our ishoos. Rake up what greenbax yoo hev and pay him in em." 
                  "G. W. consented, and it wuz done in the presence uv the people. 
                  "Yoo see," sed I, "my friend, that we'd jest ez soon pay greenbax ez our own money." 
                  The crowd wuz reashoored, and took our bills ez readily ez ever. Pollock and Bigler gave up the property, but they didn't leave the village. On the contrary, they went to the tavern to board, and jeered at us wuss than ever. They sed they hed made more money by this transackshen than they hed ever made in the Corners since they hed landed there. 
                  Deekin Pogram, Capt. McPelter and Issaker Gavitt hev all paid off mortgages on their farms, and I hev bot a farm, and am gettin up plans for a manshun befittin my new position. I am now happy and contented. I hev finelly struck my gait. Bank Presidentin soots me-I wuz born for it. Ef I wuz relijusly inclined I shood pray for Willyum Allen until I hed corns on both knees. 
                  
                     PETROLEUM V. NASBY, President uv the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company.
                   
                
                
                  P. S.-There's a triflin, but still embarrassin, trouble okkurred. The onprecedented run on Bascom in consekence uv the plentifulness uv money, exhausted his stock uv likkers yesterday, and he sent to Looisville for more. The likker merchants uv that mersenary city, ez a mere matter uv form, generally require Bascom to pay for goods afore they ship em, to avoid mistakes. He sent on a thousand dollars uv our money, and they refoozed to take it! Ez he paid all the greenbax that he hed to Pollock, he can't get supplies, and the Corners is parched. Wat to do we don't know. We don't see why our money shoodent go in Looisville. 
                  It will take two weeks to ship enough grain to Looisville to exchange for the likker, and then comes another terrible quondary. Bascom demands the grain uv the Bank and wants to pay for it in the Bank's ishoos! And he insists on hevin it at wat its wuth in Looisville in greenbax! Finanseerin aint the easiest biznis in the world. Our money startid well enuff on the cirkle, but there seems to be a break in it. Ef we let Bascom hev that grain and take our own money for it, were is our profits? Ef we don't let him hev the grain the Corners will die uv
                      drouth! And ef he gits it our money must be taken for it, for it's all he's got. I cood cut the Gorjen knot by failin, but then the wheat wood be attached. I shell hold on and see wat a week will bring forth. Providence never deserted me yit. 
                  
                     P. V. N.
                   
                
             
             
                
               The Inflation idea. The further progress of the Unlimited Trust and Confidence Company. Its continued success, with a few trifling exceptions. The "Bank Notes "a little below par at "Looisville." 
               CONFEDRIT X ROADS, WICH IS IN THE STATE UV KENTUCKY. 
                
                  IF life ever wuz a rose-tinted dream to me at any time doorin my mortle pilgrimage, this is the precise time. I am thoroly happy-so happy, indeed, that the privashens and troubles that I hev bin thro are faden out, uv my memory entirely. I hev paid Bascom's account, wich hez been runnin for so many yeers, and hev his receet in my safe-my safe, I say. Proudly I write these words. My safe! Who-thirty days ago wood hev supposed that I should ever say my safe! Then I hev two soots of cloze-good ones-wich is one and a half more than I hev hed sence I was Postmaster under Johnson-Heven rest his sole! I hev two shirts for the first time in my life, and I am wearin stockins! I hev but one pare ez yet, but one cant rise to the summit uv hooman grandjer at wun bound. I shel buy another pare in a week or two. I think every Bank President ought to either hev two pare uv stocking or return to the stern virchoos uv the Republic in its better days and go barefoot. Goin barefoot or hevin a change is necessary to the keepen uv a Bank President's office in a sweet smellin condition. 
                  But this is a digreshen. Suffice it to say, I am clothed. I pade three dollars and a half a pare for them stockins-they is cotton-which is three dollars and a quarter more then they wuz worth in the old money, but wat difference does it make? That three dollars and a half wuz made by four pulls on Simpson's printin' press, and when money kin be made in that way wat difference does it make wot I pay for cotton sox? 
                  At the beginnin' we ishooed 10, 20, 25 and 50-cent currency, but we hev quit that. Prices hev gone up so, under the general prosperity, that there ain't anything in the Corners that sells for less than a dollar for one, and the frackshnel currency wuz decided to be yoosleis. Besides, it cost jest ez much to print a ten cent note ez it does a dollar, and we bleeve in economizin. 
                  Simpson, the printer, is makin us a little trouble. At the beginnin I yoosed to pay him for printin our bills by just signin enuff uv em ez they come from the press to make his amount, but lately he hez refoozed to take our money, and insists on greenbax. We tried to overawe him, but when he threatened to publish the finanshel condishun uv the President and Direktors, it wuz considered advisable to humor him. It is singler that such men throw impediments in the way uv progress. 
                  The obstacles in the way uv the bank that hev thus far developed themselves hev bin happily and easily removed. Bascom demanded wheat uv us to ship to Looisville to get more whiskey, and we hed to let him
                      
                      
                        "Issaker put some matchez in his pocket-about $3 worth. Matchez hez gone up $4.50 a box-our money. Pugshy's shop burnt up that night and the fire commeneed jist under Pugsby's desk."-See Page 42. 
                        Banks, az weel as nashuns kin be saved in twenty-four hours! 
                     
                      hev it, and take pay in our own money. And ez he demanded that we take our own money jest the same ez greenbax, that being the standard in Looisville, we met a heavy loss. The account stands ez follows:  
                        1,000 bushels uv wheat, cost us, in our own money, at $4.50 per bushel $4,500 00 
                        Sold it to Bascom at Looisville greenback prices, wich is $1 per bushel, takin pay in the same money we hed paid for it 1,000 00 
                        Loss (wich is easily figgered) 3,500 00 
                     
                   
                  We hed one more trouble, wich we got on easier with. Pugsby, the shoemaker, who took our money, run out uv leather, and, when he sent to Looisville for more, the merchants there, ez in the case uv Bascom, refoosed to take our currency. Pugsby knowed uv Bascom's experience and he came up smilin to hev us sell him wheat enuff at greenback prices to renoo his stock. 
                  "Wat kin we doo?" I demanded in dire distress, for really I didn't see why Pugsby shoodent hev wheat to renoo his stock ez well ez Bascom, ceptin that whiskey is more necessary to the Corners than leather. 
                  "Do!" sed Issaker Gavett, with a expreshun uv skorn on his classic feechers. "Do! And yoo claim to be finanseers? Hez Pugsby a safe? No! Well, wher does he keep the $12,000 uv our money? In his desk? Yes! And that is wooden. And his bildin is wood. Very good. Tell Pugsby to come to-morrer and we will give him wheat at a dollar a bushel for all uv our money he hez got. We hev twenty-four hours, and banks, ez well as nashens, kin be saved in twenty-four hours." 
                  And Issaker put some matches in his vest pocket-about $3 worth. Matchez hez gone up $4.50 a box-our money. 
                  That night Pugsby's shop burnt up, and the fire commenced jist under his desk. The next mornin that unforchnit man came to us and insisted on hevin the wheat on the score uv the money he hed uv ours. 
                  "Bring us the money," sed Issaker, beamin sweetly onto him, "and we'll give yoo all the wheat you want." 
                  "But you know that I hed yoor money, and that it wuz burnt up last nite." 
                  "I persoom you hed sum uv our money, but I don't know it," replied Issaker. "No well regulated bank kin live if they shood take every man's word, ez you want us to. How kin I tell but wat yoo hev that money conceeled, and that the burnin of yoor shop was a skeem to defrod your creditors. I am not shoor that it isn't my dooty to investigate the matter." 
                  And Issaker looked so stern that Pugsby left the bank with a howl of terror. 
                  Issaker is developin so great a genius in financeerin that I'm reely jealus uv him. He is the master sperit of the institooshun. 
                  At the Board meetin last nite we discust what we shood do in sich cases ez Pugsby's hereafter, but arrived at no difinit conclooshn. There is sevral uv em, and they will hev to be met. Issaker bleves in the style uv treatment he used in Pugsby's case, but I can't consent to it. It's heroic, I admit, and good enuff for a temprary expedient, but it won't do for a reglar system. Ef our money stimoolates a man's bizniss to the pint uv his bildin a new house, we hev benefitted him, and the commoonity ez well. But ef to avoid the inconvenience uv redeemin the money we hev to burn the house, wat good hev we accomplished? None. We hev got to find some other way. I don't see any other way, but no doubt it will sejest itself to me in time. 
                  It is astonishin how the Corners is boomin, now that it hez money enuff. Five new ralerodes are bein built, twelve new turnpikes, one hundred and twenty-eight cellers for new houses is bein dug, and last week the corner-stuns for eight factrys wuz laid with approprit ceremonies. The gradin is bein dun on the ralerodes and turnpikes, and that part uv the work will be pushed to an early compleshun, for the labrers furnish their own shovels and picks, and take our money for wages. The labrers buy their livin uv the farmers along the line with that money, and then the farmers come to the Corners with it and cheer their soles at Bascom's. 
                  So far, all is serene and sweet. So far the money sheds blessins, ez a skunk does perfoom. But at this pint comes worry. Wat is Bascom to do with it? The Looisville merchants refoose to tech it for likker, and we can't afford to giv him wheat at Looisville prices agin. We would build a distillery, but alas! we can't pay for the nails, the glass, and the 'stillin apparatus in our money, and we ain't got any other. But, thank an overrulin Providence, Bascom hez enuff likker to last two weeks, and suthin will turn up afore that is gone. 
                   
                  Prices hev gone up so that it takes a vast volume uv currency to transact the biznis uv the Corners. Simpson's hand-press won't anser the demands made onto it, and he hez purchased a power-press, wich will print 1,000 sheets an hour. And to facilitate biznis, and to make it perfeckly shoor that we shell hev all the currency we want, I hev hed my name and Issaker's engraved, so that it kin be printed in, this savin us the trouble uv signin em with a pen. 
                  Prices uv things is still mountin up, and general prosperity prevails. Pugsby gits $40 a pare now for pegged boots a great deal eazier than he used to git $4, and Bascom hez put drinks up to 50 cents for new whiskey, and 75 when you take sugar in it. Lots in the corporashun hez quadroopled in valyoo within the week, and reel estate is changin hands lively. I cood wish, however, that the ishoos uv the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company cood hev a wider circulashen. I took a brief vacation this week, was at the Glauber Salt Springs, and wuz beaten out uv $200 at cut-throat loo. The gamblers refoosed to take my money, and I wuz compelled to leave my watch with em; that is, Captain McPelter's watch, wich I hed borrowed to make an imposin appearance. But it wuz all the same to me, ez I paid him for it in our own currency. I wuz sorry to loose it, for I hed depended on that watch to help us out when we got into an excedin tight place. 
                  
                     PETROLEUM V. NASBY, President uv the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company.
                   
                
                
                   
                  P. S.-Another trouble is loomin up on the horizon. Perkins, the blacksmith, is out uv iron, and Sampsell, the carpenter, hez to hev a jack-plane and two augers, all of which hez to be got in Looisville, and they demand uv us sich money ez Looisville will take. Then another mortifyin circumstance happened yesterday. The Directors uv the Bank hed determined to lay the corner-stun uv our new bankin edifis, wich we hev commenst, but after announsin it we coodnt lay it. A bigger rope than any in the Corners wuz nessary to lift the massive stun to its place, (we hed it massive ez an emblem uv our solidity,) but we coodnt rake up enuff currency that they'd take in Looisville to buy one. So that corner-stun ain't laid, and the work on the buildin, I spose, will hev to stop till we kin turn up suthin. There's a crisis approachin. 
                  
                     P. V. N.
                   
                
             
             
                
               The progress of Inflation at the Corners. The trouble that Mr. Perkins started. The present status of the great idea in the place where it is being tested. 
               CONFEDRIT X ROADS, WICH IS IN THE STATE UV KENTUCKY. 
                
                  I HEV hed trouble enough with the unenlitened people uv these Corners, for the past week, to neerly drive me mad. Indeed, I shood hev bin in a loonatic asylum ere this, hed I not bin sustained and soothed by an onlimited faith in the correctnis uv the doctrines uv the Ohio Dimokrisy, ez regards money. And feelin that I wuz assistin, in my humble way, in puttin them doctrines into practis, I determined not to go mad, but to persevere even unto the end. 
                  But the perverse people are doin ther level best to drive me crazy, and I am not shoor that they won't succeed. I bought a pare uv horses uv one uv em for $8,000, and paid him in our own money. He thot he'd rather not tech it. 
                  "When will this be redeemed? "he ask't, innocently. 
                  "Any time you want it," I replied. 
                  "In wat?" he retorted. 
                  "In other notes onto the same bank," sez I. 
                  "And how will you redeem them notes? "sez he. 
                  "In jist the same way," sez I. 
                   
                  "Then all ther is uv it," sez he, "you go on takin up one note by giving another, and all uv them without interest nor nothin." 
                  "That's it eggsackly," said I. "You see, cant yoo, or are yoo an ijeat? that money means faith. Now ef the proud finanshel instooshin in wich I am the hed, ishoos its note, you must hev faith that it will pay, and so long ez yoo hev that faith, and everybody else hez that faith, so that they take it for money, you never want the money on it. So long ez money is taken, you don't want it redeemed, for it is good enuff, you see! Our money is made good by faith-and ez long ez it is sustained by faith it will go. When the notes you hev now wears out, come to us and we will redeem em with new ones. But everybody must hev faith. Cant you see it? EVERYBODY MUST HEV FAITH! Faith in the ishoos uv this Bank uv ourn is nessary to its success and stability. Faith in our money is, ez it is in Religion, the substance of things hoped for, and the evidence uv things not seen, only more so. Wait till I get $8,000 from the printin offis, and take em for yoor horses, and go yoor way. Hev faith." 
                  Perkins, that wuz the farmer's name, took the money and went his way, ponderin ez he went. He walked down to Bascom's with deep lines uv thot onto his face, wich resolved itself into a expreshun uv stern determinashen ez he entered the door. 
                  "Kin yoo sell me a barl uv whiskey to-day-a entire barl?" sed he. 
                  "Certainly," sed G. W., smilingly, "certainly, Mr. 
                      
                        Wonderful effect of inflation. Deekin Pogram appears in a new suit of clothing. He tries to "keep up" under it, but finally breaks down.-See Page 52. 
                        The Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company uv Confedrit X Roads 
                        I wont stay in my seet onless you take off this coat, pull off these boots, and them d-d stockins. 
                     
                      
                      
                        "I sent the boy back to the bank, with a bushel basket to bring the money, but Pollock refoosed to take it."-See Page 34. 
                        Our money is jest as good. 
                        I want green bax! 
                     
                      Perkins. It's only wuth $40 a gallon, or $1,680.00 per barl this mornin." 
                  "I'll take a barl," sed Perkins. 
                  "All rite," wuz G. W.'s response. "I'd ez soon sell a barl to wunst ez by the single drink." 
                  So G. W. and wife, and his oldest son Jefferson Davis, rolled a barl up into Perkinses wagon, aud Perkins remarkt that he wanted to pay for that likker on the spot. Bascom smiled pleasantly. There wuz nothin so pleasant. Perkins continyood, ez payin for things wen yoo get em, ez it saved bookkepin and vexashus troubles uv all kinds. 
                  "Give me pen, ink and paper, G. W." sed this out-rageous Perkins. 
                  Nonplushed, Bascom did so mecanically, and Perkins ran his tongue out, ez people do in the Corners when they attempt writin, and after thirty minits uv intense labor, with swet a rollin from his brow fearful, he handed Bascom the followin dokeyment: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 Confedrit X Roads, Sept. 1, 1875.
                               
                              I promise to pay G. W. Bascom sixteen hundred and eighty dollars. 
                              
                                 JEHIAL PERKINS.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  "Wats this?" askt the astonished Bascom, with an expreshen uv intence disgust usurpin the place uv the smile. 
                  "Pay for that likker," replied Perkins, calm ez a Joon mornin. 
                  "But this ain't pay-it's yoor promise to pay, and yoo ain't got time nor place fixed for payment-yoo ain't got no interest exprest nor nothin. Wen do yoo perpose to pay it?" 
                  "Never, G. W., never. Under the new dispensashen, promises to pay is money. All yoo want is faith. So long ez yoo bleeve that that paper is money, wat do yoo want uv money? I hev bin figgerin this matter out in my intelleck ever sence I hev bin takin yoor bank money. It's all the same. Ef I hev faith in yoor money yoo must hev faith in mine. When this note wears out come to me and I will write yoo a new one. And don't keep it too long-I shell take pleasure in writin yoo notes often, so that they will alluz be new and pleasant to look at. How pleasant it is, Bascom, to pay ez yoo go! How much better I feel to pay on the nale, and how much better yoo must feel to hev yoor cash wen yoo deliver yoor goods." 
                  And Perkins drove off with the likker, lite-hearted, leavin Bascom dumfounded in the door uv the grosery, gaspin with astonishment and blind with rage. 
                  Perkins didn't stop with a barl uv likker. He bot a pare uv pegged boots for $80, and pade for em in the same way, and a kag uv nails, and two soots uv cloze, and calico dresses for his wife and dawters, and a box uv paper collars and a necktie, things he hed never dreamed uv hevin before, and he got so eggscited at his succes in finanseerin that he went home drunk ez a blind owl. 
                  But the misery uv all this iz, every cuss within five miles, seein Perkinses success, is doin the same thing, and an immense volyoom uv wat I may call indivijjle currency is afloat. And they is seriously threatnin to vote to hev the corprashen take the stuff for taxes! The idee uv takin money for taxes that aint printed, and that heznt got no President and Casheer and Board uv Direkters! There is sich a thing ez carryin this thing too fur. 
                  But prosperity continoos her stimulatin rain. We ishood thirty thousand dollars uv our money last week, and the benefishle effeck is visible. Wheat is now $12 a bushel, likker $1 a drink plain, and $1.50 to them ez take sugar in theirn, pegged boots is $80, cotton sox $4, and town lots-well, any price that one chooses to ask for em. The diggin uv cellars is goin on satisfactorily, ez is enything else that we kin pay for in our own money. But I tremble with apprehensions. Wat will happen when they come to want the lumber, and nales, and glass, and other things wich hev to come from Looisville! That's the gost that haunts me. 
                  
                     PETROLEUM V. NASBY, President uv the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company.
                   
                
                
                  P. S.-The most wonderful effeck uv inflashen wuz showd this mornin on Deekin Pogram. The old saint made his appearance at the Bank in a noo soot uv cloze wich Mirandy, his dawter got for him. The old man tried to keep up under it, but finelly broke down. He refoozed to stay in his seet unless we'd take off the coat, pull off his boots, and "them d-d stockins," ez he expressed it, and drip some tobaker joose over his buzm. He swore that he ruther resine his posishen than to wear boots and stockins in the summer time, and ez for paper collars he'd wear none uv em. He wood hev gone insane ef we hedn't stript him and got him back to his normal style. Wat a difference there is in men! Now I took to stokins when I got to be President uv this Bank ez naterally ez tho I hed alluz wore em. But 1 hev moved in better society than the Deekin hez. He is trooly a child of nacher. 
                  
                     P. V. N.
                   
                
             
             
                
               Further Inflation. Four new Banks. And, finally, every man his own banker. 
               
                  CONFEDRIT X ROADS, WICH IS IN THE STATE UV KENTUCKY.
                
                
                  THE man which undertakes to benefit his fellows loads up a very heavy contrack. Half the citizens uv the Corners are a-goin back in the most ongrateful manner onto the Onlimited Confidence and Trust Company. They are a gettin $19 a bushel for wheat, and about the same for oats and corn, and men now talk uv thousands wich never before knowed how to pronounce the word, but yet they ain't happy. They hev a hankerin after redempshun uv some sort-they demand to know when this money uv ourn is again to be redeemed, in suthin else-some other kind uv money-ez tho our money, backed by faith, waznt ez good ez any in the world. Ef these malcontents wood only take it and look pleasant, there woodent be any trouble about it. 
                  But these men are not the worst we hev to contend with. The citizens wich are the stanchest supporters uv the new money hev determind that, ef we hev the rite to ishoo money they hev the same rite. And so four noo banks hev bin started this week. 
                  Mackey and Burns started one with Mackey ez President and Burns ez Cashier with them and a nigger car-
                      
                      
                        Jehial Perkins suddenly becomes a "finanseer," and pays for whiskey with his "home-made" currency.-See Page 51. 
                        I want to pay for that likker on the spot. 
                     
                      penter ez the Board of Direkters. They hev got the drop on us by requirin the officers to give bonds, wich they accomplished by hevin Mackey sign Burns', Burns sign Mackey's, and both sign the nigger carpenter's. Then they hev another advantage over us, for they bought their own press and print their own notes, wich, ez we hev to pay Simpson, the printer, a profit, enables em to make money cheeper than we kin. They call their institoochun "The Nashnel Benefit Assoshashen," hev the bankin offis in Mackey's bedroom in the Pogram House. 
                  Scasely wuz this bank histin out money afore Squire Pettus and Gedney, the shoemaker, started another, wich they called "The Blessin Diffusion Bank uv North Ameriky," with the offis in Gedney's shoe shop, and they got ahead uv us by printin their notes in two colors, which, I must say, gives em a solvent look. 
                  By this time wheat hed got up to $29 per bushel, and wuz scase at that. 
                  Then Parkins and Barney, the plasterers, who hed made a great deal uv money since inflashen set in, they hed to start a bank, wich they called "The Ekitable and Insashable Bankin Company uv the Yoonited States," and they ishood their bills by the bushel. 
                  Wheat went up immejitly to $38 per bushel, and a noo era uv prosperity sot in. 
                  Before these finanseers hed got fairly under way, Butts and Bustard conclooded they'd go into bankin, and behold one morning the bills uv the "Labor Stimyoolatin Company-I. Butts, President"-made their appearance. They didn't hev any offis, for Butts sed he didn't see no yoose uv an offis. He cood pay out money on the street all he wanted to ef the people wood take it, and ez it never wuznt a going to be redeemed, wat did he want uv an offis? He wasnt a going to any sich expense, for he bleeved in economizin. To go to yooselis expenses wuz to show a culpable disregard uv the interests uv the people. Wheat went up to $45 per bushel, and there wuz more prosperity. 
                  Then trouble set in in chunks. The people who wuz not interested in banking refoozed, pint blank, to take any uv their ishoos. Banks wuz a gettin rather too frekent, and the times wuz a gettin rather too prosperous. A reackshen okkured agen our money wich we, who was interested, determined to crush to wuntz. 
                  The offishls uv the five banks in the town met and decided to hold a meetin uv the citizens, at wich steps shood be taken to legalize our ishoos. 
                  The meetin wuz held, and uv course we kerried it without any trouble, for seven-tenths uv em hed our money in ther pockets, and they wuz very favorable to any ackshen that wood keep it a bilin. To that end we past the follerin resolooshens: 
                  WAREAS, The Dimokrisy uv Ohio and Pennsylvany, with a singerly just appreshiashen uv the wants uv the citizens uv the Cross Roads, hev demanded more money; and, 
                  WAREAS, Five compinies hev kerried out the idee uv the Dimokrisy uv Ohio and Pennsylvany by furnishin the people more money: and. 
                  WAREAS. Notwithstandin the onparalleled prosperity that hez remitted from the increse of currency, certain men in the com- moonity, by refoozing to take it, decline to be benefitted; therefore, be it. 
                  
                     Resolved, That this meetin uv citizens demand uv the Town Council that it tuwunst convene and pass an ordnance makin the ishoos uv the five banks legal tender for everything from drinks down to taxes, and that any citizen who refoozes to take it, or murmurs at it, or in any way discredits it, shel be held ez a public enemy and be immejitly hung. 
                  The whereases and the resolooshen waz passed to wunst, and I felt easier. With the power to hang all wich refooze to take our money, I rather think I kin make it current. A rope over a limb uv a tree is a persuader of rare merit, and it is the best endorsement uv our paper that we kin possibly hev. 
                  So far so good. But jest ez I wuz feelin good over my success, that onmitigated cuss, Jehial Perkins, the man wat give his note to Bascom for a barl uv whiskey with sich distinguished success, rose and sed he hed a series of whereases and a resolooshen to pass. He went on to say that he hed given this question of finance a great deal uv study. He endorsed fully the posishen uv the Dimokrisy uv Ohio and Pennsylvany. He bleeved in more money-money enuff for everybody. He pinted with pride to the development uv the Corners since the creashun uv more money, and he bleeved that still more money would make still more prosperity. The idee wuz correct. The Government shood ishoo promises to pay, and faith shood make em good, without any sich nonsense ez redeemin; and if the Government shood do it, why shoodn't banks: if banks, why not indivijjles? That's wat he wanted to know. Ef ther wuz any sich thing ez redeemin uv it in gold or anything else the people mite hev the rite to ask if them ez ishood the money hed gold or anything else to redeem em with, but ez thar ain't no redeemin perposed why that question don't come in. The people hev to hev faith, and that's all the hevin ther is in the transackshen. He wuz a bleever in more money and he proposed to hev more money, and he bleeved that them ez hed the greatest need for money shood hev the privilege uv ishooin it, and so long ez the people took it from each other it ansered all the perposes uv money and wuz money. Therefore he perposed the yoonanimus adopshun uv the followin whereases and resolooshen: 
                  WAREAS, Ef yoo hev a good thing yoo can't hev too much uv it; and, 
                  WAREAS, The increese uv currency in the Corners hez bin productive uv prosperity sich ez we never dreemed uv; and, 
                  WAREAS, It is the dooty uv all earthly guvernments to diffoose its blessins ekally, thereby imitatin the doos uv heaven, wich falls alike on the just and unjust; and, 
                  WAREAS, The manufakter uv money shood not be confined to the few, but shood be the privilege uv the many; and, 
                  WAREAS, We rekognize the justis and propriety uv compellin the people to take sich money ez may be ishood; therefore be it 
                  
                     Resolved, That every man may ishoo his notes uv hand, in sich sums ez may soot his interest or convenience, and that sich notes shel be legal tender fur everything, the same ez the notes ishood by our five bankin institooshuns. 
                  And the d-d ideots abslootly passed the resolooshen without a minit's delay, and they demanded that the Council meet that very nite and pass the ordinance, wich it did. 
                  Ez every last man uv em commenst writin notes to wunst, and buyin all sorts uv things with em, we're liable to hev enuff money at the Corners immejitly-ez much ez our brethren in Ohio and Pennsylvany wood desire, even. 
                  Everything in the shape uv labor hez bin abandoned, for everybody hez gone into the manufakter uv currency, that is, everybody who kin write. Thank heaven that they never favored skools here-the inability to shed ink is the only limit to our inflashen. 
                  One singler result hez followed this ordinance, viz: Nobody hez nothin to sell. I went into a shoe store yesterday, thinkin to treat myself to a pare of boots, but the dealer hadn't any to sell. 
                  "But I see a hundred pare on the shelves." sed I. 
                  "They hev all bin bought by people over in the next county," sed this villin; "they wuz bought for gold. Possibly ef yoo hed gold I cood get one uv em to sell you a pare hisself." 
                  And he sed suthin about bringin a horse to water, but yoo coodent make him drink. 
                  It is plain to me that more legislashun is a goin to be necessary. Up to a certain pint they took our money, but somehow them ez aint a makin it are a fitin shy uv it. 
                  
                     PETROLEUM V. NASBY, President uv the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company.
                   
                
                
                   
                  P. S.-More trouble. Bascom sez he's got to hev something to go to Looisville with beside our paper, or he'll hev to close. And all the mechanics in the village, who hev to buy things in Looisville, are clamorin for suthin they kin buy with, and threaten, ef they don't get it, to bust things. Wun uv em impudently sed that afore the inflation period they didn't hev much money, but they cood do suthin with wat they had. And the people applauded the disturber. 
                  2d P. S.-Bascom hez jest come in. The last drop uv likker is gone, and he swears he'll close his bar ef we don't do suthin to wunst. I hev called a meetin uv the Direkters. Ef Bascom closes we are lost forever. The Corners kin get on with any thing but that. I kin get on a while, for I hev a jug in reserve, but Heven help them who is not pervided. 
                  
                     P. V. N.
                   
                
             
             
                
               The smash of the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company. Thrilling scenes. 
               IN THE SWAMP NEAR CONFEDRIT X ROADS, WICH IS IN THE STATE UV KENTUCKY. 
                
                  THERE is gloom onto the Corners! our sun uv prosperity is sot, and my hopes is blasted. The Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company is not eggsackly no more, but is near enuff dead to make it safe to bury it on a vencher. Its eyes is sot. After a brilyant carrer of five weeks of coruscation along the sky uv finance sheddin blessings at every jump, its life hez gone, its brilyancy hez departed, and it don't corruscate wuth a cent. 
                  We hevnt suspended, nor failed, nor closed our doors, nor nothin, for the simple reason that the bank was constructed on an ijee that made failin impossible, and the closin uv doors onnessary. Ez we don't hev to redeem, wat shel we fail for? Ez we don't perpose to pay nothin, wat shel we close our doors for? Ther aint nothing hidebound about this bank. The people is welcome to come in and discuss finance, and put ther feet up on the benches and spit tobacker joose on the floor, just ez friendly ez they choose, and they may do it ez long ez they choose. 
                  No, the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company aint 
                      
                        "Possibly," said that shoemaker," ef you hed gold. I cood git one uv 'em to sell you a pare hisself."-See Page 61. 
                        They hev all bin bought by people over in the next county. 
                     
                      
                      
                        "The mob wuz playfully forcin Issaker Gavett and Deekin Pogram to set down onto a burnin pile uv their own currency."-See Page 70. 
                     
                      failed, but its kinder petered out, ez it were. It is expirin uv dry-rot. Its notes, wich is its blood, aint hevin any cirkelashen. The people don't take em with that cheerfulness wich is necessary to a proper bankin bizniss. Legislashen don't fetch em. The ordinance wich made death the penalty for refoosin our ishoos only worked so far ez takin em for taxes. The corporashen did take em for taxes in pursooance uv their own legislashen, and here wuz where the trouble begun. The taxes wuz levied on a greenback basis, and the entire levy amounted to $8000. Well, the taxes, for the first time in the history uv the Corners, wuz all pade in full and with great promptness. A more prompter set uv tax-payers I never seed. 
                  The Treasurer hed $8000 uv our ishoos, when it wuz nessary to buy a plow and four spades to do some work on the roads. In vane he tried to git em. The dealers at home knowin wat currency he had to pay in suddenly got out uv plows and spades, and when he went to Looisville, it took $1000 uv his currency to pay his fare, and he offered the hardware dealer the other $7000, for the implements he wanted, but it woodent go. He hed to come back without em. 
                  Then he come and demanded some currency uv us wich he cood yoose, wich, uv course, we hedn't got none, and he become an opponent uv our system. 
                  Two shoemakers, each with $70,000 uv our money, coodent buy a side of sole leather to continyoo their biznis with, and hed to stop-our railroads and turnpike hed to stop becoz, hevin got to the pint where we hed to hev iron and nales and sich things, we coodent go on; so all the laborers hed to be discharged, wich made a desprit populashun all howlin agin us. 
                  But the wust wuz yet to come. We cood hev weathered all this, but alas! Bascom failed! 
                  This wuz the finishing blow-the great staggerer from wich the Corners cood not possibly recover. 
                  Bascom made a manly fite, and I must say did all that he could to stand up for us. He raised the price uv drinks to $2 per drink, and when he saw his barls rapidly failin, he tried to keep the Corners agoin by waterin his likker, jest es we hed watered the currency. 
                  But these expedients didn't work. The higher the price he put on his likkers the more the people seemed to want to drink uv it. It seemed to be a delite to em to pay out our money ef they got anything watever for it. But they woodent do wot Bascom most desired-that is to say they woodent stand his watered whiskey. They sed to him: "Ef $2 a drink aint enuff charge $4. It's all wun to us. Set em up agin." 
                  And the bar-room full wood step up and take suthin, and the man who asked em wood throw down on the bar a peck uv our currency and tell Bascom to help himself. 
                  Bascom come to us and begged that we shood let him hev suthin that he cood yoose to restock his bar. He said that the deelers in Looisville laffed in his face when he offered em our money for likker, and he had but two barls left. 
                  And them two barls wuz visably shrinkin every minit. It seemed ez though the populis got insane for likker at the very time that we didn't want em to hev it. For the fust time in my life I wanted the Corners to be temprit, for every drop drawd from the barls brought our bank that much nearer its end. I sot opposite Bascom's and saw the crowd go in with a sinkin sensashen that wuz akin to death. Drink by drink it went, and ez ef they coodent egghaust it fast enuff by the single drink they got to comin tor it in tin dippers. 
                  "How does it hold out?" wuz the message I sent him at 10 A. M. 
                  The anser came prompt: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              10.05 A. M.-Wun barl untutched-20 gallons in the other, and sinkin every minit. 
                              
                                 B.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Then I sent this: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              10.10-Fill her up With water. Keep Jeffson Davis a pourin in. Hold the fort. 
                              
                                 N.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  And the anser came: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              10.15.-Jeffson Davis is a histin in water ez fast ez he kin carry it. Mrs. Bascom is a rinsin out old barrels, to wich she adds kyan pepper, and camfene. Ef I hed some Scotch snuff it wood help. Will hold out ez long ez possible. But it's terrible. A man jist some in and demands a gallon. 
                              
                                 B.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Twenty minits thereafter Bascom sent this: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              Have jist put a spiggot in last barl, and the Corners is a howlin. It won't last an hour. 
                              
                                 B.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Then an expedient sejested itself to me. I sent this note: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              Time is everything. Bust the spiggot and delay drawin. 
                              
                                 N.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                   
                  Wich he did, thus keepin the wolves at bay for an hour while it wuz bein repaired. 
                  But why harrow the public buzum with the detales uv this painful story? The end wuz inevitable. Drop by drop, drink by drink, pint by pint, that likker wuz ebbin away, and each drop weakened the bank. That likker wuz our life-blood, and ez it flowed we wilted. Waterin the barl wuz merely a palliative-and it wuz with a feelin uv releef that I saw George W. throw up his hands and exclaim: 
                  "It's all gone but a gallon, which I shel keep for my own yoose. It's all gone, and I cant git another drop in Looisville." 
                  And he dropt his head despondenly on a pile uv over $12,000 uv our currency, wich he hadn't taken off the bar, and wept despondinly. 
                  "Why can't you git more?" demanded the excited populis. 
                  "Becoz I aint got no money but this, and yoo coodent get a barl uv whiskey in Looisville for a car-load uv it." 
                  I attempted to reason with the people. I told em that one reason uv our wealth wuz that we hed it in a currency that we coodent spend away from home, thus keepin our capital among ourselves, but they refoosed to listen to me. They d-d my bank-they d-d me. They went for the bank, determined ef there wuz anything there that cood be turned into likker, Bascom shood hev it. It is onnecessary to remark that they didn't find anything. Antissipatin an onpleasantnis, we hed removed the valyooables to a place uv safety, wich wuz the under side uv my bed at Deekin Pogram's. 
                   
                  Then they demanded that the money they held be redeemed into somethin they cood yoose, but uv course we declined to discuss the matter, referrin them to the terms uv the ishoo ez expressed on the note, ez well ez their own indorsment uv the skeem. 
                  But this didn't satisfy em. They deliberately brought out $675,000 uv the ishoos uv the various banks, and pilin it up on the street, set fire to it, dancin a demoniac dance around it. 
                  This amoozed me, for uv course I hed no earthly objeckshun to their redeemin uv it in that way, but when I seed em rigging, ropes' to the trees in the vicinity, I remarkt to my fellow-officers: "Gentlemen, your President hez pressin biznis in yonder forest!" and I got out ez rapidly ez my poor wasted lims would permit. I flatter myself that I made tollable time for a man uv my age,' whose strength is mostly in his stomick. Indeed, when I turned and saw ten or a dozen uv the foremost men uv the Corners close behind me, and all shoutin, "Hang the d-d theef!" no gentle gazelle that ever I heered uv ever skimmed the plain ez I did. I did not cease runnin till I got into the middle uv the big swamp, in a place that I knowd wuz sekoor from em. 
                  Wat bekom of the other direckters, I don't know. The last fond look that I turned toards the bank I saw Issaker Gavett and Deekin Pogram struggling in the hands uv the mob wich wuz playfully forcin em to sit down on a burnin pile uv their own currency. 
                  I am in a deserted swamp wich wuz yoosed by runaway niggers in the old times, and am fed by a
                      
                      
                        "'Gentlemen,' I remarkt, 'your President hez pressin biznis in yonder forest!' The former inflashunists wuz rigging ropes to trees in the vicinity."-See P. 70. 
                     
                      nigger farmer who hez not heerd uv the collapse, and consekently takes his pay in the Onlimited. 
                  Ef the nooze ever gits to him uv the real condishun uv things, and he shets off supplies or reveals my whereabouts, I am a lost man. 
                  Wat changes there is in life! A week ago a successful finanseer and the pet uv the populis-the savior uv the Corners! To-day a hunted fugitive, livin on corn hoe-cakes furnished by a nigger! One needs to be a filosofer. 
                  
                     PETROLEUM V. NASBY, Late President of the Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company.
                   
                
                
                  N. B.-I have heerd from the Corners. The ungrateful people, after half-killin the offisers of the Bank, passed resolooshens that we wuz all a pack of theeves, and that them ez hed sold land and sich for our money shood soo for recovery thereof, and that they'd hang any judge or joory wich woodent decide agin us. 
                  Bascom hez gone back onto us, and hez sold back to Pollock and Bigler the store we bought uv em, and has got greenbax enuff to get a few barls uv likker and hez reopened. He hez put the price uv likker down to 5 cents agin, and refoozes to take anything for it but nickles or postal currency. He sez he aint gittin ez many cart-loads uv money ez he did in the inflashen period, but he's satisfied. The most uv the citizens is bankrupt, and rooin is everywhere. Oh, why did their faith give out at the wrong time! 
                  
                     P. V. N.
                   
                
             
             
                
               Mr. Nasby makes a proposition to the bill-holders of the Unlimited Trust and Confidence Company. The result of the negotiations. 
               IN THE SWAMP NEAR CONFEDRIT X ROADS, WICH IS IN THE STATE UV KENTUCKY. 
                
                  I FELT that ef I hed to stay another week in this infernal cabin I shood die. With nothin but hoe cake to eat-with infrekent and onreliable drinks, with no society watever, life didn't seem to be wuth hevin. Therefore I sent a note to the citizens uv the Corners askin for a promis uv'safety, that I might make em a proposishen, wich, ef they wood accept, wood enable the Bank to go on and become ez permanent ez time herself. 
                  The Corners met and decided to receeve me, and appinted a committee to heer my proposishen, and, on receevin ther answer, I made my way thither. 
                  The meetin wux held in the Church. It wuz an impressive scene. On the platforms in front of the pulpit sot the committee-the auditorium in front wuz crowded with citizens, the most uv whom hed baskets uv my currency, and ther wuz an expectant murmur ez I entered. I wuz delited to see that there wuz a winder jest back uv where I wuz to stand, and also that it wuz open; that it wuz only three feet to the ground, and that the woods wuz only about 80 rods to the rear. Old ez I am I kin make fairly good time for 80 rods. 
                  I wuz respectfully invited to make my statement. 
                  Ez I rose a most anxious silence pervaded that assemblage. Yoo cood hev heerd a pin drop ef anybody hed dropt one. 
                  Wipin my streamin brow I remarked that I hed never intended that the Corners shood loose a cent by our bank, nor did I now so intend. I confest that lookin simply to the idee uv inflashun, follerin the idees of the Dimokracy uv Ohio and Pennsylvany, I hed not given sich careful attention ez I shood hev done to the matter uv redempshen. 
                  At this pint the awjence seemed to be visably pleased. 
                  I hed hed a week uv solitood, and I hed employed that time a wrestlin with the question uv finance, and I wuz happy to say that I hed finally mastered it. I hed matoored a skeem for redempshun wich I wuz willin to present. 
                  "Go on! go on! "the people shreeked delitedly. 
                  "I perpose to redeem the ishoos uv the Onlimited Trust and Confidence in the bonds uv the Company." 
                  Their faces resoomed a expresshun uv stolidity wich I did not like. 
                  "Will them bonds bear interest?" they all askt in korus. 
                  "Certainly they will. We shel be generous. You may fix the rate of interest at wat yoo choose." 
                  "That seems fair," they exclaimed. 
                  I congratulated myself on hevin got through tollable easy, and wuz steppin off the platform to go over to Simpson's to hev the bonds printed, when that feend, Joe Bigler, who wuz a sittin with Pollock, rose and remarkt that he, ez a bill-holder, hed a question to ask. 
                  "Go on!" sez I. 
                  "Yoo'll give interest-bearin bonds for yoor notes, will you?" 
                  "Certainly, Josef,"sed I: "uv course we will." 
                  " Wat do yoo perpose to redeem the bonds in?" 
                  "Why, our notes, uv course. Wat else hev we to redeem em in? Our notes, with the privilege uv convertin uv em into bonds at any time-and faith-is the best money in the world." 
                  "Then wat'll you redeem the noted in?" persisted Josef with feendish pertenassity. 
                  "Why, the bonds, uv course," Was my response. "Wat kin any wun want better than interest-bearin bonds, and wat currency kin be better than that wich yoo kin convert at pleasure into sich bonds? My friends, whenever yoo want bonds for your currency don't hesitate to come for em-don't be afraid uv givin the officers trouble. It is our pleasure to serve the public and we'll go to any lengths-" 
                  "But wat did I un'stand yoo'r goin to redeem them bonds in?" askt Josef agin. 
                  "Our notes! "I answered, out uv pashense with him. 
                  "And yoo redeem the notes with yoor bonds?" 
                  "Certinly; jist ez our friends uv Ohio perpose to pay the nashnel debt." 
                  "And this goes on for time and eternity?" 
                   
                  "Certinly, Josef. A finanshel institooshen, constructed ez ours is, kin go on from time to eternity, becoz it is convertible-one species uv paper into another, and another into one. You see-" 
                  "Yes, I see; but Citizen Bascom, when you hev sold all your likker agin for this paper, and you turn around and 'convert it into bonds, hev yoo any ashoorance that they"ll take them bonds in Looisville for more likker? Did they take the notes afore? How much better does the bonds make em? 
                  "Fellow-citizens uv the Corners-(Josef spoke impressively)-Fellow-citizens uv the Corners, inoggerate this system agin if you choose, but I feel it my duty to warn you that in a week there won't be a drop uv likker in the Corners, and wat's more, you won't be able to get a drop. Yoo are standin on the brink uv a pressipis. Haul off before it is everlastinly too late." 
                  The people seed it to wunst, and with a glare, like so many infooriated tigers, they riz and went for me. I didn't keer to stay to argoo finance with em. The winder wuz open, and I sprang thro it, and made for the woods, wich I reeched just in time. Hed they caught me they wood hev hung me out uv hand. 
                  I am now in the cabin, in wich I hev spent the'last week, sick and sore. Does finanseerin mean perpetooal skootin for the woods? Am I to alluz be escapin with my life? Oh for a quiet, sekoor post offis! 
                  
                     PETROLEUM V. NASBY, President uv the late Onlimited Trust and Confidence Company.
                   
                
                
                   
                  P. S.-The nigger who owns my hidin-place has discovered who I am. He went to the Corners to get pervishens with the money I gave him, and then the cat wuz out uv the bag. He sed hed he knowd who I wuz and wat I wuz a hidin for, he never wood hev took me in. He thot I wuz merely a hunted and distrest horse-thief. Ez I hed nothin to pay him in, he came in while I wuz asleep and took my coat and boots, wich he sez I kin hev when I give him good money for that wich I paid him in. He bleeves I hev some good money about me somewhere. How I am to git away from here the Lord only knoes. 
                  
                     P. V. N.
                   
                
             
         
       
   
