
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Startling Confessions of Eleanor Burton .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7903
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The startling confessions of Eleanor Burton 
            
               923531A

THE

4

STARTLING CONFESSIONS
OPR     TONS
ELEANOR B U RTO0N;

A THRILLING TRAGEDY FROM REAL LIFE.

,

EXHIBITING
A DAK PAGE

IN THE MANNERS, CUSTOMS, AND RIMES
5H~~fE "UPPER TEN" OF NEW YORK CITY,

aBING

 ULL AND ~AUTHENTIC DISCLOSURE OF THE MYSTERIO
AFFAIR IN REGARD TO WHICH SO MAN4Y PARAGR PHS
HAVE APPEARED IN THE PAPERS OF LATE.

PHILADELPHIA:
. E. BARCLAY, 283 MA]
1802.

-;
, $
; ;  ,
x~ ,
,,

A

iuf          r

. FC. r                +
4   a
e   {   t
r°  '
_  .ss   ,


.

01,,r

b eordblg to the'Adf"Co gtGr the year 85
E. E. BARCLAY
-, ''S Orie of the District{ourt for the En1t Di
'                       e; Pensylvania

%VI
j4o--

0

.t44

THE

*   T  ,

CONFESSIONS

0r
JEA.NOR BUR1TO1
A' thege of-eighteen I was betrothed-to.hpgene Burtaay n
an of polished manners, elegant ,exterior, and connpeode4$ g
Aist famsiliesof Newd "rk. I was beautifl1-s g tbewrld
said,-.-eighteen and an heiress. My father was one of the health.
#ekerb1hantsyof'NewYork, with&amp; a princely mansion in tow nand
as princely a mansion for summer residence in 4the country  Lhad
lost my mother sit an ,age oaearly, that I can but 4ily remmbe _
her pallid face. At eighteen I was ,ny father's only-a,4 Wo
etniigfrmboarding-school, where, apart from themusy wo"4
i l passed o ur year ofaAlif e iac h .-aft erwa rdswatopea i
red soingdly es, unnatural, .Iwas investedhmpfathe
ihe keys  :his city _mansion, and installed  s jtB a    ,
Still kept apart from the world,-for my father gordime fr
iM$w14said= tempt tibns with an eye of sleepls0 jeasy   Lwas
eft tolforn iideas of my future life,:from the-fanoeleofay
dreams, or from what knowledge I had gleaned d-
Euge io*a as my father's .head clerk. In that esp o i
quietly isited-our man~ion. To .see him was to loohie
fonn was-graceful and yet manly, his complexion a rieh
eyes dark, penetrating, and melancholy, As for             ..WM
which, amid all my changing fortunes, I have pree*as*     t
of happy and innocent days, shows i girl of eighteen wth  a t ,$°
;o-

i

I::


Co0NEsIoNS of1 R LAwOR BURTON.
that may well be called voluptuous, and a face (shaded by masses
of raven hair) which, with its clear brown complexion, large hazel
eyes, and arching brows, tells the story of my descent on my,
mother's side,-she was a WestTidian, and there is Spanish blood
in my veins. My acquaintance wth Eugene ripened into warm
as&amp;3passionate love; and one day my father surprised me as I
upon -ry lover's breast, and ;instead of chiding us, said with
aof unmistakeable satisfaction:
x R1ght" Eugene ! You have won my daughter's love. When
ayou return from the West aies you shall be married. And once
married, instead of my head clerk you shall be my partner."
father was a venerable man, with a kindlysface and snow-
,  hte hair : as, he spoke, the tears ran down his cheeks, for (as I
awards ascertained) my marriage with Eugene, the orphan
of he dearest friends of his boyhood, had been the mos
e of his life for years
{.left for Havana, intrusted with an important and secret
Uaion from my father. He was to be absent;only a month.
as it on the day of his departure, as le strained me to
 reasstand covered my face with his passionate kisses, that a 4rk
presentment chilled my blood? 0, had he never left my side what
oid   f agony, of despair,-yes, of crime,-would have ,been
tspred to me!
"e true to me, Nell," these were his last words,-"In a
'£ 'wll return.":
14True to you! Can you doubt it, Eugene?  True until death
And we parted.
as once more alone in my father's splendid mansion. One
evemig he-came home, but not with his usual kindly smile.  'e
was pale and troubled, and seemed to avoid my gaze. Without
S trin the sitting room, he went at once to his library ad looked
ikelfin, having first directed the servant to ca   n i eea
, Mr. Morton inquired for 'him. It was after .eigYl he Mr*r-
,  or called and was shown into the parlour, while the erva
toannounce him to my father.
"Misis Ellen, I believe " he said, as he beheld me by thefight
  e astral lamp,-and then a singular look passed over hisface
'r c hich at that time I could not;define, but whicler
ae 'terribly clear to me. This Mr.Morton, who th  Ft
A ,~3 time entei-ed my father's house, was by. no mean8 preysA
g nhis exterior. Over fifty years, corpulent in form;bald-
*     tidhis florid face bore the undiemable traces of a life exhausted
*eiua1 idulgence,.

+ .
t

.O IR$Nss   iLIANOR IaRoTr.          1

While, Iwas taking a survey of this singular visitor, the servant
entered the parlour,-- Mr. Morton will please walk up into the
library," he said.
"Good night, dear," said Mr. Morton with a bow and a gesture
that had as muck  insolence as of politeness in it,-" Bye-bye,-
we'll meet, aga :'
am.
le went up stairs, and my father and he were closeted together
for at least two hours.." At ten o'clock I was sent for. I entered
the library, trembling I knew not why; and found my father and
Mr. Morton seated on opposite, sides of a table overspread with
rpers,-a hanging lamp, suspended over the table, gave hght to
scene. My father was deathly pale.
cMSt down, Nell," he said in a voice so broken and chased,
that would not have recognised it, had I not seen his face: oms.
Morton has something to say to you."
"Mr. Morton1" I ejaculated; "What can he have to say to.
cSpeak to her,--speak, said my father, "speak for I
and resting his hands on the table, his head drooped on hisbe
" Sit down, my dear," exclaimed Morton, in a tone
familiarity; "I have a little matter of business with your father.
There's no use of mincing words. Your father, my dear, isa
ruined man."
I/sank into a chair, and my fathe  groan confirmed Morton's
'opelessly involved," continued Mr. Morton. "cUnless heca
three hundred thousand dollars by to-morrow noon, he i a
d s     poured man. Do you hear me, my dear?  Dishonoured !"
TDhshonoured 1" groaned my father, buryng his head in h
hands.
."cAnd more than this, continued Morton, "your fath  ?inog
his many meroantie speculations, has dabble a, little-ye-, mr
than a little-in the African slave trade. He has rel ti  5      -41
eertan gentlemen at Havana, which, once known to our
ment, would consign him to the convict's cell."
The words of this man filled me with indignation and with.h r"_ ;F
Half fainting as I was, I felt the blood boil i my veins.
"Father, rebuke this har," I said, aS I placed myband , 0i.
shoulder; "raise your face, and tell hin that he is thAe
falsehood as atrocious as it is foolish."
My father did not reply.
"And more than this, Morton went on .as though le h
beard me, "I have it in my power, either to relievey i1Ya 'r
from is financial embarrassments, or,"-he pause~an~u4~


12

Go~*ssioiw O1PLA~tL  I*

e frorahead to *'ootr-#"orto denoince  nii .t6 Gove rint as
one gty of sometbigwhichgitcdalls" i e,   inli"te
relatighip with the African sieve trade."r
Ag    my father groned, btdi d traisei IsI face.
The fi truth burst4uonn.~Niy     tis   $r       d   in tii
an'n  ower. Confused, half maddened I flung     l'tn oii &amp;y
Yk ees, and cplape4  orioibyi tieIiands,
"!you will notrin my ftiir'Ihrieae Sh~iIse
Morton took my hands within is own, and bent down until I felt
is hbeath upon my cheeks-.--
;. "Yes, dill' save him," he Whispered; "thit is, for a price yb
my dear."
isrook could nt b e mistaken. At the same inorneit, i r
'   .khis face from his hands; it was allid, dite'td, stad*1t
- "X  is the only ,ay, Nell," he said in a broken voice -"other-
ie your father must rot in a felons cell
a  the misfortunes of a varied and cangetul lifathe
agony o 'that moment has never once been forgotten. -IfeI ths
bl od ruh to riuy head -"Be it o      ried, and tell like t a eid
n n on the floor tM     n's feet,
The next day we were married. In the dusk of the even 3  u
g   stood in the spaciousparlour of my  at er'e a mansio  f
light of a single waxen candle.  hre was theclergynan,  .mpp
4utbrsurirse up n the parieto this ifl-ass rted Tiiarsiage  ire
was -my father, his countenance vacant  almost to ilieeiity-for
theilow lhad'stricken his intelleet; there was the bridegroom ii
u nt nnce gong with       ensual trium  h;-and there the bride
a 4the. -dal dress whih{ env.lwpr1.iiear w, xchin vabhirt to
j~~aWe were                                   . marei
RicKificed on th altar of an unholy "ma  ae.   e.yer  iar e,
between thie parlour and the   -hoperho        remibed.
/     tan esubunt to the embraces o;tie uuwortiy sensuahst, I
to 1i eeven uon f  a  r'Itrhld of thfe' ideIc am
-               a     i    . . a y+~a
:a ridpa myselfwitha o gnard. 'fut as a glass
bgged by ny  Isard's hia nu benshned my , eason,
 .hen mormag light broke upon.me again, I found myself
+- 1phisarms.                                        #     t
he history of the next three months ma   be rapidly told, for
-thewere months of agony and shame.
~ directed Elugene, by letter, to proceed from Havana to
th  iyof Mexico," said my father to me, the second day after

kC -A Im) 'j.l

the -ia riage.  Rio wil at rettrn for six i4ith, '4  eta ily
until his return shall not hear of this-this-mariage."
My father's mind Was broken, and froi that hou he SUrre dered
himself to Morton's control. Mort6 took charge of his: bu e
made our house 1 home-he was my father's master and mine.
The course which he pursued to blunt my feelings and deadeh etel7
faculty of my better nature, by rousigwall that was sensual within
me, was worthy of him. lie gave parties at our home, to the pro.
fligate of both sexes, selected from a -certain class of 'the so-caild
" fashionable" of New York. Revels prolonged from midnight
until dawn, disturbed the quiet of our mansion; and in the winf-
cup and amid the excitement of these fashionable but unholy orgie,
I soon learned to forget the pure hopes  of my naidenhood. Thre
months passed, and no word of Eugene. My father meanwhile if
sinking deeper every day into hopeless 'imbecility. Atilength _th:
early part of summer, my husband gathered together ap ity tf bib
fashionable friends, and we departed on a tour to Niagara: a1M,
the lakes, then along the St. Lawrence, and to Montreal."it
Niagara Falls we pit up at the -- Hotel, and the orgieswAhiek
had disgraced my father's mansion were again resumed. My fafier
we had left at home in charge of a well-tried and faithful ervant.
One summer evening, tired of the scenes which took placer  r
parlours, at 'the Hotel, I put on a bonnet and =veil and alone pbz-
e4 uy way across the bridge to Goat Island, and from Goat to
'd. The night was beautiful; from- a clear sky the moe
elton     the falls - and the roar of waters alone dist rbE41he
silence Othe scene. Crossing the narrow bridge, which er  s
Goat Island from Luna Island, I took my way'through the deep
shadows of the thicket, until I emerged in 'the inoonlight, uponte
'verge of the Falls.  Leaning against a small beech te 4hich
stati&amp; there, I clasped my hands upon my bosom ind wept. That
scene, full of the grandeur and purity of nature, awoke the tmao
of my pure and happier days.
u One plunge 'and all is o er!" the thought-lshed over me
I Measured with 'a rapid glance the distance between myelf _n
the brink of the cataract. But at this moment I discovered thatX
ras not alone upon Luna Island. A stranger was leanin
,a tree which was nearer to the brink of'the talls than th
against which I leaned. His face was in profle, the lower part
it, covered with a thick moustache and beard; and his game'r s
lifted absently to the moonlight sky. As I dropped my ve oAr
my face, and'gazed at him freely, myself unpereived, I felt my
limbs bend beneath me, and the blood rush in a teetoeyJ4


ESONB br.ELANOU B tuW0 0*
I;h4ad only strength to frame one word,.-." Eugene t" and fell
fainting on his heart.
When ILfecovered my onseiousness, I found myself resting in
lii arms, awhile he covered my face with burning kisses.
"You here, Eleanor !" he cried. "This is indeed an unexpected
pleasure!!"
uHe had not heard of my marriage!I
"I an hierei.-with some friends," I faltered. "QMy father could
hot come with me, and"---
Betweeru the kisses which he planted upon the lips of his be .
        trthed (so he thought), he explained his unexpected appearance at
l garart  Havana he had received the-letter from my father,
O ~rng hiu: ?to  hasten on important business to the city of Mexico.
e had obeyed, and accomplishing his mission sooner than he an-
: tiipated,had left Vera Crus for New Orleans, taken steamboat
ro{Cincinnati, and from thence to Cleveland, and across the Lake
tO+ ffalo and Niagara Falls. "And now I'm onmy way home,
ileanor," he concluded. "What a pleasant surprise it will be for
father!"
aI am married, Eugene !" the words were on my lips, but I could
yet speak them. We rose and, arm in arm, wandered over the
4.idge up the steep and through the winding walks of Goat Island.
y"ening o' AbJd e arm of Eugene, I forgot everything but\that e
loed met and that he was with me. I did not dare o thit
~tmorrow's light would disclose to him, the truth,-.that  ws
ascied, and to another. At length as we approached thebridge,
r.^        which leads from the island to the shore, I said, "Leave me,
Eugene. , We must not be seen to return together. To-morrow
youan call upon me, when I am in presence of my--friends."
One passionate embrace was exchanged; and I watched him, as
,rossed the bridge alone-,until he was out of sight. Why, I
;not, but -n impulse for which I could not account, induced
me to retrace my steps to Luna Island. In .a few moment had
k}:y ssed the bridge (connecting Goat with Luna Island), and stood
once more on the cataract's brink, under the same tree, where an
Ahour before I had discovered Eugene.. 0! the' agony off that
taC1'ent, as g ing over the falls, I called up my whole life, my
ghteds prospects, and my;future without one ray of hope! Should
advancet but a simple step and bury my shame and my sorro#.
Plheeath the cataract ? Once dead, Eugene would at least respect
ay aeuory,iwbile living he qould only despise and abhor re-
hile thoughts like these flashed over my: brain, my ear was
tA wi1Athe..eh.ruw of, a drinking..song, hummed in an uneven

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.

15

-and fremulous voice ; and in a moment my husband passed before
me, with an unsteady step. - He was confused and excited by the
fumes of champagne. Approaching the verge of the island-but a
few feet from .the verge of the cataract Where the waters look
.smooth a4id glassy, as they are about to take the last plunge, he
stood gazing: now at the torrent, now at the moon, with .a vague
half-drunken stare.
2Thatimomen decided my life !
His attitude, the cataract so near, my own lost and hopeless
condition; all rushed upon me. Veiling my face,,I darted forward
and uttered a shriek. Startled by the unexpected sound, he turned,
lost his balance, and fell backwards into the torrent. But as he
'fell; he clutched'abranch which 'overhung: the water. Thus, scarerely
two yards from the brink, he struggled madly for his life, his face
upturned to the moon. I advanced and uncovered my face. He
knew ,me, for the shock had sobered him.
"Eleanor, save me--save me !" he cied.
I gazed upon him without a word, my arms folded on my breast,
and saw him struggle, and heard the branch snap, and, heard his
death'howl as: he was swept over the falls. Then, pale as death,
and shuddering as with mortal cold, I dragged my steps from the
island, "over the bridge, shrieking madly for help. Soon I heard
footsitefpand voices. "Help ! help;!" I shrieked, as ,I was. sur-
ouide by a group of faces, men and women,---"My husband i
My husband ! The falls F" and sank fainting in their midst;
Morning came, and no suspicion attached to me. A murderess,
if not in deed, in thought certainly, I was looked upon as the in-
consolable widow. Eugene left Niagara without seeing me. How
did ha regard me? .I could diot tell. The death of. Morton broke
up our' travelling party, and we returned to New York. I returned V
'in time to attend my father's funeral, and-found myself theheiress,
in my own right, of there9 hundred thousand dollars., An heiress
and a widow, certainly life 'began to brighten  Morton removed,
the incubus which sat upon myfather'srwealth "was gone; and I
was beautiful and free, and--rich, immensely rich.,
But where was Eugene? ,Months.p assed, and I did not see him.
As he was the head clerk:of my father; I hoped toA see *him, in com-
pany with the legal gentlemen engaged in-closing .up my father's
estate.: But he settled his accounts, closed all connexion withmy
father's estate' and business, but did not come near me. At length,
weary of suspense and heart-sick of the loneliness of my desolate
mansion, I wrote to him, begging A  interview. He called.in the
-dusk of the evening, when a siagg handlee lighted up the spaciow.

-I'r, .


MELAJ8'  2  R gN

a gloomy jarle t      6. * *as dressed in deep iourning sad ae
pale-.
"Az&amp;    , yoU wishedeto see me," he began.
His eold and formalhmanner 4ut mne-to the heart.
SEtggsee!" I oried, and flung myself :upon his breast, and pas-
sion:tely, but in broken accents, told him how my father's antioi
pated ruin had forced me to marry Morton.
Eugene was melted-"-    Eleanor! Eleanor! I love you, and
Ya ay sshall love you, but-but---"
He paused: in an agony of suspense I hungupon his word*-
'Butyou are so rich, and I-I---am poor"
I drowned all further words with kisses, and in a moment we
.,ere retrot1hed again.
We were married. Eugene was the master of my fortune,  y
person, and my future. We lived happily together,'eontent with
eac other'e society, and seeking in the endearments of a pure
marriage to blot out the 'memory of an unholy one. My husband,
truly Miy husband, was 'all that I could desire; and by me, he
became the possessor of a princely revenue, free to gratify his taste
or all that is -beautiful in the arts-in painting andraslpture-
,ithu hindrance or, control. Devoted to me, always     eag
togratify my slightest wish, Eugene was all that I' coul  n
e lived to ourselves, and fbrforthe miserable mocke'_rkaled
the fashionable world," into whioh  Morton had intreduoe me-.
Thus a year passed away, and present happiness banishd' the
inmemory of a gloomy past. After a year, Eugene began to have
important engagements, on pressing business, in Philadolphia,
Boston, :Baltimore, and Washington. His 'absence was death to
'e, but having full confidence in him, and aware that his business
austbe of vital imortance-or assuredly he would not leavk me- --
saw him 'depart, time aid again, with grief too deep for words;
id always hailed his 'return-the very echo of his step-with a
joy as deep. On one occasion, when he left me, for a day, on a
'business visit to'Philadelphia, I determined, I scarcely knew why,
to follow him, 'and greet him, on his arrival in Philadelphia, with
'thieunepected but welcome surprise of my presence. Clothing
'myself in black-black velvet bonnet, and tlack velvet mantilla,
and with a dark veil over my face--I followed him to the ferry-.
boat, crossed to Jersey City, and took my seat near him in the
e.s. We 'arrived in Philadelphia late at night. To my surprise
'1e did not put up at one of the prominent hotels, but benit his way

1
Y

sT i:'   m a ,and dsan    rti.a + th1  '.  1&amp;4 M      e
aets part of  e singtpu; nd swhmne kat";        99r f
isolated two-story houe. After ,  .  p jppe94 agjW
ntered. I waited fro. t  h+Eq  e tweti     hr aJee, fut.pid
not toeappear.  sadly, at  with heavy d p s aI ntn y -ayw
the city, and took lodgings t a espectable bt zhid4k-te ay
representing myself as tawidow from thai eriru takig gr
iare ta eenceal my face frpt the gaze of the audlord an4 servants.
Next morning it was my first care to prone   a r  ml=en-4
platters not how or with what cauion: an:-tol e -mad tying it
up in a compact bundle, I made "my way tQ te, oppa, c  ,tryend
toured a wood. It was the rst :f autuzn,.and already the les
'er tilted with rainbow dyes. In the biteost part of the WOd
disposed of my female attire, nd assumed tha iema 4yess-b$ge
gfe~k bl ittonued to the throat, dark pa tlo Q~n &amp;udn'ga tear _boa
dark hair . arranged beneath a' glanroap wih military WAby
Cutting a switch, I twirled it jagntily in3a y hand, awd, nnima
test my disguise, entered a wayside ettage, +ara te Secondtelt
road, ad asked.for a glass of water, While. he bac of the tgea#
of the oottage-a ,aged woman- was tued,; gzed in;'the ol
ing-glass and, beheld myself, to all appearane, a young " m
mediumustature, with brown compLe4on of e oeeding' rihehsa,}Jipp
of chery red, arched brows, eyes of unusual brilliancy,. and hlgek
gliedanged in a glossy mass beneath a glazed cap. It wasthe
simge eC handsome boy :f nineteen, with no down on the lip and
no beard on the chin. Satisfied with mydisguise, and with  half-
formed idea floating through my brain, I bent py steps t the
isolated house, which I had seen my husband enter the night before.
I knocked; the door was opened by a young girl, plainly cla but
of surpassing beauty-evidently, not more than, sixteen years old.
A sunny eomplexion, blue eyes, masses of glossy brown hair,.oqm-
bined with an expression which mingled voluptuous warmth
atainless innocenee-such was her. face. As .t her form alugh
not so-tall as itine, it .mingled; the graceful outlines of he  idga,
with the ripeness of the woman.
She gazed uponme with .uprise.; obeying a.  eQA i puale Ip
said-"Excuse me, miss, bit I, Jrmd to meet riirhere, YOU
M    y," dwith  a polite bow and sg e eyog kanow nwh  T I  e
4' Xactly so---Mr. GrawfurdMy 'p&amp;ijn4,iwle M-
fZded aRltomre,cnd who desired te zoier ta Jhjg'
'Aiy mother is not at honeiaNq4 Npogn       , ~    in
her absence I do not like to---"


1$

eOa1~BszQN0 ion : -c    O1 R vToI!.

"Receive t atgers, yew were about ,to- add? Well, Miss eIm
not a stranger. As the intimate friend of, Mr. Crawford, who
esjecially desired him tQ meet tme here--"
Thesewords seemed to resolve her doubts.' She motioned me to
enter,'and we'passed into a&amp;small room; neatly furnished, with the
light, which came through the curtained windows, shining upon a
picture--the portrait of Eugene Burton, my husband.
"Capital likeness of Crawfurd ?" I said, carelessly tapping my
switch against my boot.
"Yes-yes"-she replied, as she took a seat at the opposite end
of the sofa, "but not so handsome."
In the course of' two hours, in which with a maddened pulse,
and heaving breast, I waited for the appearance of my husband, I
learned from the young girl the following facts: She was a poor
grl, and her mother with whom she lived, a widow in very moderate
M eustances. Her name was Ada Bulwer. Mr. Lawrence Craw-
d (this of course was the assumed name of my husband) was a
wealthy gentleman of a noble heart--he had saved her life in a
railroad accident, some months before. He had been unhappy
however in marriage; wasnow divorced from a wicked and unfaith-
ful woman; and-here was the climax-" And next week we are
to be.married, and mother, Lawrence, and myself will proceed to
Europe directly after our marriage."
This was -Ada's story, which I heard with emotions ,ta aT
scarcely be imagined. Every word planted a hell in my heart:
At length, towards nightfall, a knock was heard, and Ada hastened
tosthe door. Presently I heard my husband's step in the entry,
and th n his voice--
"_Dearest"-there was the sound of a kiss-" I have got rid of
that infamous woman, who killed her first. husband, and have
turned all my property into ready money. On Monday we start
for Europe."
ilHeentered, and as he entered I glided behind the door. Thus
his back was towards me, while his face was towards Ada, and his
arms about her waist.
"On Monday, dearest, we will be married, and then--"
I was white with rage, but calm as death. Drawing the poignard
(which;Ihad never parted with since I first procured it), I advance
and struck him, once, twice, thrice in the back. He neverabeheld
me, but fellFupon Ada's breast, bathed in blood. She uttered a
shriek,-but laying my hand upon her shoulder, I said sternly. :
Iot t1word! This villain seduced my nlyJ sister, as he would
have seduced you !"

I

I

r si }A                          j}
"                  i cf " 4'p +  «ry   j
+n                      r wry


0~Q~8  Q~' 4N~R UWEON9

I tore him from her .arms, and laid him on the sofa; be +a
speechless; the blood ,lowed from his maouth and nostrils,, butukj
his glance, I saw thatshe knew 1-me.;Ada, white as e a hpud,
tottered towards. hip.
useducer; of dyise; havevdet    last ?" I)said aloud,94
then bending  y: facerM his, and-my bosom close to his heart,
hispered-,s The ri eba woman whokilled her:first husband gives
you this"--anddn my 1iageburied the poignard in his breast. Ada
fell fainting to ".e floor, and ] hurried from the house. It was a
dark night, enlivened only by the rays of the etas; but I gained
the wood, washed,'the blood from my hands, andresued myfpl,
attire. In less than an hour I reached the Depot at Kensington,
entered the cars, and before twelve, crossed the threshold of my
wn house in Niw York.
How I passed t e ight-with what.emotins of agony, remorse;
j 3ealousy--matters hot.                And for three days afterwards, .as I
-             awaited further developements, I 'was many times near rayist
The eeo  t of my husband's death filled the pers; V
aoid it was supposed that hey had been killed by some unkrin  az
a revengefor the seduction of his sister. My wild 4deeainu r
att ibuted tonatural grief at hisuntinely.end. ;On the fpur h4V
AI d his body :brought on -from- hiladelphia; and on -h! fi$
elebrato. Yhisfaueral, following; his .crpse to the amily vanu't,
.4 widow's weeds- aud ,blended w"ith tears of grief,  of
despair.  Ada B l wer I never sa: again, but believe she died e
i  year, fonsuption,:or a broke heart.
IF  r :    A rlne inny mansion,,eecluded fromithe world, I pased ma
onthstin barroaing meditations on  the past. Oftentime I sar
the fae of :Tugene dabbled: ins blood, and both awake.and inamy
dreams I               aw, O,,how vividly, his last Zoak1 . I was atill ibp
(although Eugene, as I discovered after his death,.had reeklessly
wiuiidered marbethan one-half of my fotune), but what mattered
id hesX to ono devoured;dike myself, bbyan ea r gnawinggr  orse '
Whatmight I have been had not Morto: forced rme into that
unholy marriage :?This question was neyer op't of -my ,mind for a
Tang year, duringwhich I worethe weeds of widowhood,.and kept
almost entirely t  the limits of mymansion.
Toward the close of the year an incident occured which had n
important bearing on my fate. Near my home stood a church, i
which a young and elpqnent preacher held forth to the admiration
of a fashionable congregation, every sabbath day. On one occasion
I occupied a seatanear the pulpit, and was much struck yhis
6 8


O", ESSION-OP E LEANOR BURTON.
4)s7
oi thfnl appearance, combined with eloquence so touching and
eathesiastie. His eagle eye shone from his pallid faceswith all
the6fire, of an earnest -a' heartfelt sincerity. I was struck= by the
entire manner of the man, and more than once in hisseerinon ha
i~eined t&amp; address me inespecial, for our, eyes met, as though there.
brasa mutuall magnetism in our gaze. When: I returned home, I
could not banish his face-nor his accents from my:memory; I felt
myself devoured by opposing emotions.  Remorse for the past,
mingled with a Sensation of interest in the youthful preacher. At
loagth, after much thought, I sent him this note by the hands of
-  'Oervant in livery:--
.".'Levererd Sir--
"A lady who heard your eloquent sermon, on ' Conscience,' on
bbath-last, desires to ask your advice in a matter touchingthe
pee of her soul. She resides at No.      and- willbe glad to
peeeiv you to-morrow evenin g                      E.
i  singular note was despatched, and the servant'diroted to
t     Maithe' Rr. Herbert Lansing of my full.names.As the
poined hour drew nigh; I felt nervous and restless. Will h '
ale ie? hall I unbosom myself to him, and obtain t least a por o
tioiof}ndatal peace,,by confessing the deeds and thoht- wh
Tet-so   vieav on my soul ?  At last dusk came, tw+ ; aes too s'
ighted onthe mantel of the front parlour, and, seat i-
It-nervously awaited the coming of the preached.
I will confess all ' I thought, and, raising my eyes, arveYed
Yn°eef in:the mirror which hung opposite. The past year with all
t sorr6had rather added, to, than detracted from rn 'personal
appearance. - My form was more matured and womanly4  And the
sorrow which I had endured had given a grave earnatness to-MY
look, whiit in the 'eyes of'some, would have been more winning
than the  glance of voluptuous languor. Dressed in deep:blaol
mybust covered to the throat, and my hair gathered plainly asid.
fromrny face, I-looked the grave, serious--and I mayadd wither
vanity -the beautiful widow. The Rev. Herbert Lansing wasn
bounced at last-how I trembled as I heard his stepin the hall
He entered, and g eeting him with* an extended haadIdthankes
a hin  armly-for calling in answer to my informal note, and motioned
hifto ahair.. There was surprise and constraint in his aranner
'but he  ever once took his eyes from my face. lie stammered, and
sn:l~dshd as hie spoke 'to me.
ad'ou spoke, madami of a case of conscience," he began.

3
i'
i'
1-,
,:
r t
} {
yia
TJ}I
/Y.

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON..

J
;.
{

"A case of conscience, about which I wished to speak-to you-.."
"Surely," he said, fixing his ,gaze earnestly upon me, and his
Fords seemed to be forced from him, even against his will, a"surely
one so beautiful and so good, cannot have anything like -sin upon
her soul."
Our gaz. met, and from that ,moment, we talked of everything
but the case of conscience. All his restraint vanished. His eye
flashed, his voice rolled deep'and full; he was eloquent, and he
was at home. We seemed to. have been acquainted' for years. We
talked of history, poetry, the beautiful in nature, the wonderful in.
art; a.ad we talked without effort, as though our minds mingled
together, without even the aid of voice and eyes. Time sped doise-+
essly-it was twelve o'clock before we thought it nine. *H  os
"all do myself ,the pleasure to call again," he said, and his
oeg'faltered.
' extended my hand. His hand met it in a gentle pressure.
That touch decided our fate. As though my very being andhis
had rushed together and melted into one, in that slight pressure;of
hand to hand, we stood silent and confused, one felling in our g e
blushing and pale by turns.
Worpan !" he said, in a voice scarcely above a whisper, "y«+ ,
~ilLdrre me mad," and sank half fainting on his knees.
I bent down and drew him to my breast, and covered his for.'
head with kisses. Pale, half fainting, he lay almost helplessly
my .arms. "iNot mad, Herbert," I whispered, a]But I will b
your good angel. I will cheer) you in your mission of good.
will watch over you as you ascend, step by step, the difficuItteep
of fame. And, Herbert, I will love you!"
It was the first time that"young Lirow had trembled to awoman'0
kiss,
"Nay-nay-tempt me not!" he murmured, and unwoun m
arms from his neck, and staggeredto the door.
But as he reached the twheshold he turned, our gaze mete.
rushed forward with outspread arms--.--
 I love you!" he cried, and his face was buried on mybosom
From that hour, the Rev.' Herbert Lansing was the const
rsitant at my house.  He lived 'in my presence. I1is sermon.o
rmerly lofty and sombre in their enthusiasm, now became cold^ wd

1

yyn',  ca=r  : :  ,t  e'2:/'.        . , 3_.

t           ., f~, Y t. y f
i        =~. 14      y  r    r     eS
f ..      r  ;ic'  ^
'a-             :JC i $ "   r

)


with a passionate warmth. I felt a strange interest in the beauti-
ful boy: a feeling compounded of pure love, of passion, of voluptu-
ousness, the most intense and refined.
" 0, Eleanor, do you not think that if I act aright in all other
respects, that this one sin will be forgiven me?" said Herbert, as
one sabbath evening, after the service was over, we sat side, by side,
in my home., It was in a quiet room, the curtain down, a light
shining in front of a mirror, and a couch dimly seen through the
shadows of an alcove.
" One'sin?  What mean you, Herbert ?"
" The sin of loving you," and he blushed as his earnest gaze met
mine.,
"inAnd is it a sin to love me ?"' I answered in a lo voice, suffer-
ing my hapd to rest upon his forehead.
"Yes !" he stammered, to love you thus unlawfully."
"Why unlawfully ?"
le buried his head on my breast, as he replied-" I love you as
a husband, and I am not your husband.'
" And why," I exclaimed, seizing him in my arms and gently
raising his head, so that our gaze met, " and why can you not be
my husband?   I am rich ; you have genius. My wealth-enough
for us both-shall be linked with your genius, and both shall the
more firmly cement our love. Say, Herbert, why can you not be
my husband?"
He turned pale and avoided my gaze.S
" You are ashamed of me-ashamed, because I have given you
the last proof which a woman can give to the man she loves."
" Ashamed !  0, no-no-by all- that is sacred, no ! But,
Eleanor-"
And bending nearer to me, in faltering accents he whispered the
secret to my ears. He was betrothed to Mary Somers, daughter
of the wealtiest and most influential member of' his congregation.
He had been betrothed long before he met me. To Mr. Somers,
the father, he owed all that he had acquired in life, both in position
and fame. That gentleman had taken him when a friendless orphan
boy, had educated him, and after his ordination, had obtained for
him the pastoral charge of his large and wealthy congregation.
Thus he was bound to the father by every tie of gratitude ; to the
daughter, by an engagement that he could not break without in-
gratitude and disgrace. My heart died within me at this revela-
tion. At once I saw that Herbert could never be lawfully mine.
Between him and myself stood Mary Somers, and every tie of
gratitude, every emotion of self-respect and honour.

24

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR ]3URTONV

I

Y
a
r

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.

25

Not long after this interview, I saw Mary Somers at church,
made the acquaintance of her father, a grave citizen, who regarded
me as a sincere devotee, and induced Mary to become a frequent
visitor at my house. Sherconfided all to me. She loved Herbert
devotedly, and looked forward to their marriage as the most certain
event in the world. She was a very pretty child, with clear blue
eyes and brown hair, and a look of bewitching archness. I do not
step aside from the truth, when I state that I sincerely loved her;
although, it is also true, that I, never suffered myself to think of
her marriage with Herbert, as anything but an impossible dream.
An incident took place one summer evening-about a year after
Herbert's first visit to my house-which, slight as it was, it is just
as well to relate. It is such slight incidents which often decide
the fate of a lifetime, and strike down the barrier between virtue
and crime.
I was sitting on the sofa at the back window of the parlour, and
Mary sat on the stool at my feet. The light of the setting sun
shone over my shoulders, and lighted up her face, as her clasped
hands rested on my knees, and her happy guileless look was
centred on my countenance. As I gazed upon that innocent face,
full of youth and hope, I was reminded of my own early days, and
at the memory, a tear rolled down my cheek.
"Yes, you shall marry Herbert," the thought flashed over my
mind, " and I will aid you, Mary-yes, I will resign Herbert to
you."                                               f/
At this moment Herbert entered noiselessly, and took his place
by my shoulder, and, without a word, gazed first into my face and
then into the face of Mary. 0, that look ! It was never forgotten.
It Was fate. For it said, as plainly as a soul speaking through
eyes can say--" Thou, Eleanor, art my mistress, the companion
of my illicit and sensual love, but thou Mary, art my wife, the pure
partner of my lawful love !"
After that look, Herbert bade us good evening, in a tone of
evident agitation, and hurried from the room.
From that hour, Herbert avoided me. Weeks passed, and he
was not seen at my house. At church he never seemed to be con-
scious of my presence, and the service over, hurried at once from
the place, 'without a single glance or sign of recognition. At
length, Mary's visits became less frequent; and when she did come
to see me, her manner manifested a conflict of confidence and sus-
picion. That this wounded me, that the absence of Herbert cut
me to the soul, will easily be imagined. I passed my time between


26           CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.

alternations of hope and despair, now listening-and in vain-for
the echo of Herbert's step, and now bathed in unavailing tears.
Conscious that my passion for Herbert was the last link that bound
me to purity-to life itself-I did not give up the hope of seeing
him at my feet, as in former days, until months had elapsed.
Finally, grown desperate, and anxious to avoid the stings of
wounded love, the perpetual presence of harrowing memories, I
sought the society of that class of fashionables, to whom my first
husband-Morton-had introduced me.     I kept open house for
them.. Revels, from  midnight until dawn, in which men and
women of the first class mingled, served for a time to banish re-
flection, and sap, tie by tie, every thread of hope which held me to
a purer state of life. The kennel has its orgies, and the hovel, in
which ignorance and squalor join in their uncouth debauch ; but
the orgies of the parlour, in which beauty, intellect, fashion, and
refinement are mingled, far surpass, in unutterable vulgarity,
the lowest orgies of the kennel. Amid the uproar of scenes like
these, news reached me that the Rev..Herbert Lansing and Miss
Mary Somers were shortly to be united in marriage.
One evening I was sitting alone, in the back parlour, near a
table on which stood a lighted .candle and a wineglass (for I now,
at tines, began to seek oblivion in wine), when Mr. Dudley Haskins
was announced. , Dudley was one of my fashionable friends, over
forty in years, tall in stature, with a florid face, short curling
brown hair, and sandy whiskers. He was a roue, and a gambler,
and-save the mark-one of the first fashionables of New Yprk.
Dudley entered, dressed in a showy style-blue coat, red velvet
vest, plaid pants, brimstone coloured gloves, and a profusion of
rings and other jewellery-a style indicative of the man. Seating
himself on the sofa, he began chatting, in his easy way, about pass-
ing events of fashionable life, and of the world at large.
" By-the-bye, the popular preacher, young Lansing, is to be
married-and to such a love of a girl-daughter of old Somers, the
millionaire. Lucky fellow ! Do you know that I've often noticed
her at church-a perfect Hebe-and followed her home, once or
twice, and that I should not mind marrying her myself if I could
get a chance."
And he laughed a laugh, which showed his white teeth. "Bali!
But that's it-I can't get a chance."
Perhaps I blushed at the mention of this marriage, but he imme-
diately continued--
" On dit, my pretty widow, that this girl Somers has cut you

i

ont. Lansing once was sadly taken with you-so I've heard. How
is it?_ All talk, I suppose ?"
I felt myself growing pale, although the blood was boiling in my
veins. But, before I could reply, there was a ring at the front
door, followed by the sound of a hasty footstep, and the next
moment, to my utter surprise, Mary Somers rushed into the room.
Without seeming to notice the presence of Haskins, she rushed
forward and fell on her knees before me, her bonnet hanging on
her neck, her hair floating about her face, and that face bathed  in
blushes and tears.
"0, Eleanor ! Eleanor !" she gasped, "some slanderer has told
father a story about you and Herbert-a vile wicked story-which
you can refute, and which I am sure you will! For-for----"
She fell fainting on my knee ; the violence of her emotions, for
the time, deprived her of all appearance of life. Her head was on
my lap, one hand sought mine, and'was joined to it in a convulsive
clasp.
0 ! who shall say, that those crimes which make the world
shudder, but to hear told, are the result of long and skilful
planning, of careful and intricate scheming? No-no-the worst
crimes, those which it would seem might make even the heart of a
devil contract with horror, are not the result of long and delibe-
rate purpose, but of the temptation of a moment, of the fatal
opportunity !
As her head rested on'my lap, a voice whispered in my ear---
"Your rival !-retire for a few moments in search of hartshorn
or some such restorative-and leave the fainting one in my care."
I raised my head and caught the eye of Haskins. Only a single
look, and the fiend was in my heart. I rose-the fainting girl fell
upon the floor-I hurried from the room, and did not pause, until
I had reached my own chamber and locked the door. Pressing
my hands now on my burning temples,-now on my breast, I paced
the floor, while perchance fifteen minutes-they seemed an eternity
-passed away.
Then I went slowly down stairs and entered the back parlour.
Haskins was there, standing near the sofa, his face wearing an in-
solent scowl of triumph. The girl was stretched upon the sofa,
still insensible, but-I dare not write it.  Opposite Haskins
stood Herbert Lansing who had followed Mary to the house and
arrived-too late. His face was bloodless:
"40, villain !" he groaned, as his maddened gaze was fixed on
Haskins, a"you shall pay for this with your blood !

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.


CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.

28           CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.

"Softly, reverend sir-softly ! One word of this, and the world
shall know of your amours with the handsome widow."
Herbert's gaze rested on my face-.
"You-knew-of-this," he began, with a look that can never
be forgotten..
" Pardon, Herbert, pardon-I was mad," I shrieked, flinging
myself at his feet, and clutching his knees.
For a moment he gazed upon me, and then lifting his clenched
right hand, he struck me on the forehead, and I fell insensible on
the floor. The curse which he spoke as I fell, rings even yet in
my ears.
*   *       *       *       *       *      *       *
Three days have passed since then. Such days as I will never
pass again ! I have just learned that Haskins has fled the city ;
his purpose to obtain Mary's hand in marriage, by first accomplish-
ing her shame, has utterly failed. Her father knows all, and is
now using every engine of his wealth to connect my pame with
the crime, which has damned every hope of his idolized child.
And he will succeed ! I feel it-I know it-my presentiment can-
not prove false. What shall I do?  Whither turn? And Herbert
is a raving lunatic. This too is my work. Yes-yes-I am re-
solved. I am resolved.
To-morrow's dawn will bring disgrace and shame to me, and in
the future I see the crowded court-house, the mob eager to drink
in the story of my guilt and the felon's cell. But the morrow's
dawn I shall never see !
I am alone in my chamber-the very chamber in which I became
Morton's in an unholy marriage ; Eugene's in the marriage of a
stainless love ; Herbert's in the mad embrace of passion. And
now, 0, death, upon that marriage couch I am about to wed
thee!
The brazier stands in the centre of the -bridal chamber, its con-
tents were ignited half an hour ago, every avenue to my chamber
is carefully closed-already the fumes of the burning charcoal
begin to smite my temples and my heart.
This record, written from time to time, and now concluded by
a hand chilled by death-I leave to my only living r-elative, not

as an apology for my crimes, but as an explanation of the causes
which led me to the brink of this awful abyss.
Air ! Air ! Morton, for thee I have no remorse-let the branch
snap-over the. cataract with thy accursed face ! Thou wert the
cause of all-thou! But, Eugene, thy last look kills my soul!
Herbert, thy curse is on me ! And poor Mary ! Air ! Light !
It is so dark-dark-0, for one breath of prayer !


CONCLUSION.
THE preceding Confession, signed by the tremulous hand of the
poor suicide,, was found in her room with the senseless corse, by
the Relative, to whom she addressed it. For days after the 'event,
the papers were filled with paragraphs in regard to the melancholy
affair. A single one, extracted from a prominent paper, will give
some idea of the tone of the public -mind:-
(Extract from a New York paper.)
"TRAGEDY IN HIGH LIFE.--The town is full of rumours, in regard
to a mysterious event or series of events, implicating a member of
one of the first families of New York. These rumours ai-e singularly
startling, and although they have not yet assumed a definite shape,
certainly call for a judicial investigation. As. far as we have been
able to sift the stories now afloat, the plain truth, reduced to the
briefest possible shape, appears to be as follows: Some years since
Miss E----, daughter of-old Mr. ---, one of our first mer-
chants, was, while under an engagement of marriage to Eugene
B--, forced into a marriage with Mr. M-----, a man old enough
to be her father, but who, it is stated, had the father absolutely in
his power. The marriage took place, but not long afterwards,
M---, while on a visit to Niagara, was precipitated over the Falls,
at dead of night, in a manner not yet satisfactorily explained.
(30)

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.           31

Soon afterward the young widow, then immensely rich, encountered
her former betrothed, and the fashionable world were soon after-
wards informed of their marriage. A year passed, and B--, the
husband of the former widow, was found in Philadelphia, mysteri-
ously murdered, it was not known by whom, although it was
rumoured at the time, that the brother of a wronged sister was, on
that occasion, the avenger of his sister's shame. The beautiful
Mrs. B--- was once more a widow. Here it might seem that her
adventures, connected so strangely with the death of two husbands,
had reached their termination. But it seems she was soon fascina-
ted by the eloquence of a young and popular divine, Rev. H--
L-. While betrothed to Miss M-         5-    , daughter of a
wealthy member of his congregation, the eloquent preacher became
a visiter at, the house of the rich widow, and finally his affections
became entangled, and he was forced to choose between said widow
and his betrothed. He sacrificed his affection for the former, to his
solemn engagement with the latter. The 'slighted' widow endured
the usual pangs of 'despised love' coupled with something very much
like Italian jealousy, or rather jealousy after the Italian school.
The betrothed was inveigled into a certain house, and her honour
.sacrificed by a gentleman of fashion, known for thirty years as a
constant promenader on the west side of Broadway, Mr. D-
1-H   . The widow (strangest freak of a slighted and vindictive
woman!) is said to have been the planner and instigator of this
crime. We have now arrived at the sequel of the story. Unable
to obtain the hand of the Rev. H-- L----, and stung by re-
morse, for her share in the dishonour of his betrothed, the widow
put a period to her own existence, in what manner is not exactly
known, although conflicting rumours state the knife or the poison
phial was the instrument of her death. No coroner's investigation
took place. The body gave no signs of a violent death. 'Disease
of the heart,' was stated in the certificate of the physician (how
compliant he was to the wishes of rich survivors we will not say) as
the cause of her unexpected decease. She was quietly buried in
the family vault, and her immense estate descends to a Relative,
who was especially careful in cloaking over the fact of the suicide.
The tragedy involved in the affair will be complete, when we in-
form the reader, that Mr. D------ H---- has fled the city, while
his poor victim, M- 5-, tenants the cell of an Asylum for
the Insane. Altogether this affair is one of the wildest exaggera-
tions, or one of the most painful tragedies, that ever fell to the lot


CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.          33

CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.

of the press to record. Can it be believed, that a young lady,
honourably reared, would put a period to the lives of two husbands,
then procure the dishonour of a rival who interposed between her
and a third husband?  Verily, 'fact is stranger than fiction,' and
every-day reality more improbable than the wildest dreams of
romance. The truth will not be known until the CONFESSION, said
to be left by the young widow, makes its appearance. 'But will it
appear?  We shall see."
So much for the public press.'
The reader can contrast its rumours, with the facts of the case
as plainly set forth in=the previous Confession, penned by the hand
of the unfortunate and guilty Eleanor.
How this Confession passed from the hands of the Relative to
whom it was addressed, into the hand of the one who writes these
lines, is a matter which may excite the reader's curiosity, but which
the present writer is not at liberty to explain. It passed honour-
ably from one hand to the other, at all events.
A few words more will close this painful narrative.  Eleanor-
was quietly and honourably buried. Her relatives were wealthy
and powerful. The 'physician's certificate' enabled them to avoid
the painful formality of a coroner's inquest. She sleeps beside
her husband, Eugene Burton, in Greenwood Cemetery.
Soon after her decease, Mr. Somers sold all his property in New
York, and with his daughter disappeared completely from public
view.
Herbert Lansing remained in the Lunatic Asylum for more than
a year, when he was released, his intellect restored, but his health
(it is stated) irretrievably broken. After his release he left New
York, and his name was soon forgotten, or if mentioned at all, only
as that of a person long since dead.
Dudley Haskins, after various adventures in Texas and Mexico,
" turned up" at last in California. His last exploit appears in a
San Francisco paper---.
"tAmong the numerous black-legs who infest our otherwise peace-
ful community, none has been so prominent for months past, as one
Dudley Haskins, formerly well known as a man of fashion and pro-
fessed roue in New York, but latterly only known as a professed
black-leg, up to any desperate act, living by his wits, and as reck-
less as he was poor. The last exploit of Dudley, undertaken by
him with a view to retrieve his desperate fortunes, took place near
Sonora, and ended rather disastrously. John Hawkins, a poor

fellow from the States, who had achieved a little fortune in the
mines, was on his way home with his well earned store. He was
found near Sonora barbarously murdered. Unfortunately for Dud-
ley, the knife with which the deed was done was identified, the
property of the murdered man found on Dudley, and Dudley him-
self strung up by Judge Lynch, after an hour's trial. A pitiful
end for the once brilliant roue of New York city.
And that was the end of Dudley Haskins.
A single incident more, and this narrative is at an end.
About a year after the death of Eleanor Burton, a young man
in moderate circumstances, accompanied by his wife (a pale, faded,
although interesting woman) and her aged father, took up his resi-
dence in C--, a pleasant village in south-western Pennsylvania.
They were secluded in their habits, and held but little intercourse
with the other villagers. The husband passed by the name of
Wilton, which (for all that the villagers knew to the contrary) was
his real" name.,
One winter evening, as the family were gathered about the open
wood fire, a sleigh halted at the door, and a visiter appeared in the
person of a middle aged man, who came unbidden into the room,
shaking the snow from his great coat, and seating himself in the
midst of the family. Regarding for a moment the face of the aged
father, and then the countenance of the young husband and wife,
which alike, in their pallor, seemed to bear the traces of an irre-
vocable calamity, the visiter said quietly,-
"Herbert Lansing, I am the Relative, to whom. Eleanor Burton
addressed her Confessions, and whom she invested with the trustee-
ship of her estate."
Had a thunderbolt fallen into the midst of the party, it would
not have created so much consternation, as these few words from the
lips of the visiter. The young wife shrieked, the old man started
from his chair, Herbert Lansing (otherwise called Mr. Wilton), with
the blood rushing to his pale face, said simply, " That accursed
woman!
woIhold her last will and testament in my hand," continued the
visiter; "I am her nearest relative, and would inherit her estate
but for this will, by which she names you and your wife  ary, as
the sole heirs of her immense property."
Herbert took the will from the visiter's hands.
"6As administrator of her estate, I am here to surrender it into

/


44            CONFESSIONS OF ELEANOR BURTON.
your hands. The will was made as a small atonement for the
injury she caused you."
Herbert quietly dropped the parchment into the fire:
" Her money and her memory are alike accursed. * I will have
nothing to do with either."
That night the Relative turned his face eastward, to take posses-
Sion of the estate of Eleanor Burton.
T                                                           '1
THE END.
1                                        r
n

4

1
410


"t_,
o t#T r
t  .
1:-
e S

.#Y,.

,   ,

Y
,


.:    _                      -           :"-,:  ,:  .,.,.:    ,r     -?w 'r     u_       rts'f         ,-.s.,x~ ""  E.r:..  -.,,Yt ~               _. _1,:,"i          a.5e ?_.  r. _,%:.                                     sti
...            . .. .._ _ - -r;                ..     , s z_ :  .... ;" tis , ..        ,:        "L::...,. ,x,:.   :-.{   r..._ -  -. wx.. _. ,     ..._.    -.,;r. ..  -        ",#.         t -                                                           ..                 ".Y     ,.:;'4 ' tr ty  - 4'- ,t1.Fr
.. _               r           -,. ,..  , _,x  ~_    _:        r ..:  ...   ,    .'fit       ,crL?.          _#                  :,,++ ~s.       "        x_.w                     7                            .r?4                                                                   -t'         s.'-   .,,s            x       _          -
:,    , .._,  .-t  :   i.,-.          ?r_   .T  t...   -    ,_..  -""'X.  d     ,-......          a            .t.  -.x. ,  Si,  .        ..-  ,  ..             ...... ..                              -                      "t,                                                  C"              -          :$    t'  '; .  ?
hsr.      ,:  _.,..     ..,,.-,6 h',.  ,.:. a.,.  :F Sn. .,, _.F      ti?   -.   " a        _. r,,...     , .  ,:tTi:.J             ..      .. .;.: !F    ""}}i_,     :. .s, -+                                            yy-                                                                               ?+4             ._ :,
:.:        - s      .,.:     ,.   .. - ,. {+.  -.". :., .,.+.               .'.. . .                "t-" L :".'. ....  a  ,C,:_              .      , a'3. ,,:1.'. ., d   -   _                              '1"  -            YZ'   -                                                                                           -'':H
- '; -,-3f  _ _t_.u*'t. _1:, ii  , , :..  ,   -,:'n ~"_: x  _  -:.:a .., " pp ,   x..,_ ;:r..   .": s  , , , ,_   ._ _                      .  ,. 5. a.-.. n  :. ._            X.      .          :'=                                            5                                                    7{ 'ti  ..                    s::.x
' t~z        r...   ,   , ...   k-T,:,Q-s, a   ,K.   ,t       ,: ?,        2. .irr .. .. J'  ..-                ::,.   -:.     "F. ..,    . ,4,   .,. 5.         _     x        .*.. .a,.     .                     ,                       s                                                                1..         x       f    -,ti.
.         t ....rte -          ..,:::.  -:..  -ttl, .. ,"n  %    -    r     ,-e          .Fsl-hs  tr -     :t          -         ',,"_  '                     " , ra3                                              .tk..                                                       _  .                        F tr    z.{'.s_
~" yt-                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ?..
Y.        , SF..                   r4       .,?.-.  ,        '"tai    7t,:          .'            k                                             t,-       - n "'                                                                                                                                               -
:.zv...      :+.               r'+-        t1      :,.       f ' _.: .., kr...           -.H41: a             aE:. .,.'tit       Fn.     4                                                                                                                                                                      4c } '                 "    :{
-,.. f
'-         - ^ :, ,..    '.,           z x .s..    -:       s-.-z'    '4   _' :, - 5r-'"                     .r e." '}7, . :k=    '$                              _                            -                                                 Cyr.
xi!'F; .  , .^, S, r".55'_+ -. -55;,'' f  '' 2     t 4.                                    z  ri      3rF a  -'  f                                          : +                                                                                                                                                 "  ,3,t, r.;
_..                            's.        :.        - .-.          t       . ,   t.-:_. .           .         'R    4+,:'    Q"            , iZe      '                     _                       :N       att.                     ,.3"                                                                                                                     A         t..
a :        . M        .,:      -'F"'rRw    . _          ,,,_                        , .,Y.   r                ,  '                          "ts,          .,,r     zk Z,             .5                                                                                                   nth;, k                                          ;,"'
t                  Y. -                 tatjS    -               ..#-            p6)z                   s  F                                  4        ". ".y:'t, £*;i ,;   t ,.  ,-r6..  "'in                                                                t"?"  ^,                     r                               --t  S'",r       :
;f         r    -      -     .r"' Y' ,,'  ': ~    ^_"r Vii, - ,   a; t%  a1n .        ' -..t"  ...:  - : - ^-"'  d_  ...  's     , .     F   ,.,.          :s a' '#i ,tit,  "      .'  c"  4^    .. r                                                                                   - a                                         'tS            _
.       K                       .gig.           , 'v:.: , Y.   ;...~,. -  .k.         ..    ..t ".       , ..         - " :Y  ,,             ,. ,.   _  . ,..  x.. fit,+,F tJ  ;.  ",r- -  a -,t  s.                                                                t *                                          ¢                      _  3
.X                      . t . rA         ?, r t 'k                                    ..a:                ,    ,{:.t                                            S . -     " LK-      ? '           t                                                                                                                               ..,  D k
x+. as 1 - : "                                    ..                             ,    .w't        ,    .                     ."E :5?.r'  'ti. .s       ?T!   'r                                                          JS                                                                    (  :[ 'S-.:
y                                                                                       w
..                  _         ,,! ' . .                              n+                            .,     ...           .. , _"s     -         "r : #.   ~.s_ ,.-.    .,-           rag   er    k     sv                                                                                                             e        '-''
r                    t'           .; r'S,    Y.'2.=_.,          S,     -         t_.  $"       ait     "r       't                      ':-r..  *^-i! .-     ... ,r,-F 7t",:  " -       ': ::'.t     , z-r     , ., ..:.,.                                                                                          L          i      W. :.a  ,    y .
...    - -         i't   .",.    a,   :k                 .- r   J     .. '..., . '   ,,.,- "7.-  -i  t[,  - ",1   Eat ,    ..  - " .. e                                                                                                         5'                           .;r,,  4#.           Y ..4                          -                 1
,  -                          ._  _'    ."           1S      k.,. , n .:. 's ,c,.           -:7'.u...t {g,, _   hr'   r .r       '..                                                                                                              , ..       i              {52a. Gt       :t'z.                                     1                    ffrs: -.   ,.    ,s:......  YTM ,. rtf   _  z  ,., i Y  _,tK "-i  , "   ";t.
a.a.                }t  ti C   ' .  ,.       ..      ..     :,           "r.:.  a? .      i .  s  ,..  -              .:.  - "T,. jFxsc.:..         _        -                        _                                                                                                . Yr'                                
    e  # Y"i.        3tir, .      #,-           u.          =r-.:.          * -s .Y %              = %1%^    ,  Yx 'A na"t;:: ,_                                                                                                     p        :    1i ~                                                 t .                              f'
_        -                   S..   s      -            +E"                 ',  - ,°--+rrt"'-'_ ' ,  _ ,_,-,  ..1. " :.g-  r.  :::_ ,...-.s"a' F                                                                        -
"        :
'.c a  ,  rs:               r                                         ..s3
t:-           '.:      ...  f     ..: r, #           t   -s                          ...,,a. +?     ..   "      - tu  i.r..              ...            _t.        ._, ....  $ ,_~"w'-                                                                                 s      -'4r     .  ?, rte..                                                                  -
~ 7ro    _v'             ' .       :  ,      . .   2_ .'               2     "Ly.      ..    i    .,.   Viz.    _.                :^i       sx7-    .L.  ...   .r ":.    o   .,.-.                                                                                                           :"             -            k.
.z           ,..    .-: -       '.--Y  , ,c       -                      -.,.-    -    ,:Fa        =        .-. mod.              3°    =ice    -t;.::   .t                                                                                      _ ,:+ "4 m             _.:_,                                          .?
'          r.-      -     a. T.,r.5.  -            ~-. Y    $ k ". y,  .*,     ..          L -.. -a ^':     . , s_           ::,...t  ...                         *"' -ti,                                                                                    .t           . f,",r                                   . £                                           .
..a.: "..  ..             .,.,r:  _   . . ,      ,,,    ,               .-:..    '- , ,.-             _  t      x.     ..        ... r    .. ,.-                    t.                                                                                         -   .:5     n".     f      ,"s                          is            ..-sr.
Ya   -             ,:x .         )a.:  %"-i  _ ., . --  t7;..     ;sr 't -      '"". .... tr.   E".....  t  w               ....               = 57"  " a         . } -;  " t:i.  -:,. ._  _.:.  '?,.  ...  ,:  s :.t . ,t'%  s  ,.y :   :,  ...  ..  . 1,   -.Fr  .3' a ,
-v                                                                          ,
,,, ',"         .     ,., ..,.                ':-f             ,                 ..,r,.ss"                           ,. r..               "  .                                                                                                        f}  e   F; i" tr:a , s
fi!                                                    t!r                      i            ;:  '? , "''  ', s,. c  r  :  F ,,,.au.:+s:...k,.  . y. . " 3,.'  }                                                            'i Y W                                    ,- f.  ''   s                 .  ti"   "                                                      °:
'?Y s#,2    :'
E-"       '$'  h.°3a3,c _  ar. ."-                                                                                                                                                                            t .,. 1  :.a,  3k.  f  ,-  ;-.    ,  "F,,... ."''_r.   -,:-"# - a.-_ s...  i.  _.,,, e..+ i1, . t:  ,-v. b.. ...  "  ., "G ,a.: , £  ,-i i"t'"  a . ,.  _ t - ~r'  s tr - r    . "..v-.. +::,F. P-:+
T...
,tc"  ..               :  .   .-s',T ..,s"         4. ,..   :..                                                                                     :                                                                 ee-
. 1f..    ,.. ,;   F- : -     t .7 :::i~ '-  ., 2.     7      .fS,
-:a" "         ?3?      'v,      _' c,.x,  it.: x-  t °.2 '?n                                                                                                                                                       'Ya'"=7-7'.,' ' !f! ; 4 _, .a "%      H  ' _  , ts,  4l if.  v                                      "rr yt  ~:
?_ :        = _.    [s.l;                   : "+- ,,,, att  .: ., .. c..  3 .:. - --.t.'"'j y  .5:,,,r '  ._, 4     .-,., .-v    ;' -                                               -                                     _  "+K i::                         -e?'"        r, ; .  _,,x..    .: t              _        '' s '    r t  ,
j'.         ~       r :q                 1         -. ,  '7 ,, ...    _: « r-         1ir" 1.-!"_f::  " - n         1y.,                       -                                                                               '  i,  ,i:.  t. . :_'    5.. a , l x._,s  .  4F'.     .  _ f "  L::  ''-  '_u   _
:.y. ,ii-. :.  .    ,.   '                      + . .f  y:                         -x,.       .   -..    -         -.    .;:    :      4"   :'                                                             1_i           :S ,t   F"   -                                   jj  rt4S "    {                                'f                                      -    - y
"-} fit aY     ,°,      :fir              .t           ~S-,           a              - 'r           :.               ..f                                                                                                  -                                      "1.    i+i  r'.'Y'e s'e  {3i
It  i.    is  ,,     'z'i . , ...  .?rX ;x ..   . r,.                            S{R  ¢p    ' .,  4h    .. .. ,a     +    _ f       _, a. L"                 -                      :.                                          ",i'                                     }:                         A'                                                            .Iic
:,3a    ,",s ,.ry     -  Tj.                  r   x    .,.,.         1.        ,.       - ,   -.-: -.,.  ,-             " !._,  er.{,      " x.         ..                                                   ,. k ,          .:                                   4'                   .$
-  ;. -2- x   a  :.  ,t      C: ..  : .  X  -Ss....  _..a       "-      '_-l        . %,  ......     .,      ..              ..               _ _                                        . ~  ,   rr                                                      F-                "t
S            -         t Y^,   i .3.  ; °i.,.                                                               .3s     rf :iTyy... YvE,,y:      -                                      t, -'                                                          h_,.:.v'               S"-  ,s     .a''
r--., t   ,      sa-      :-#:.,, 39^.:    i. -. 'x.  _                                                                     ., v, a.+5, :.                                                                   'yL''                                         -yes:       ,.  ,         Y, t-'            .+  ,''   "-t'".
s,:. " 1        .. ,."                '"%      '7 ,             .:           .h... ~,             aril+_            : t,.,r                                                                                         as                                         'S     qa ..         ,     _                                    yt4                                     ya
'db  :.r.:;..             :. _ 1+,          3.                   _                                                                        +t_ "                                         fit! k  t              icy ti f S                              'r
;,t _.rp". f                                 'Y                    Rt ..- .,                   +-rr:4,..c. =.yr   1.  : ^r,=,_                                                                                                                                   3   P. ;       ?     r.   3"_             , '
y rzyrt   __, :_                            F       :.. =:....,.,. r.a.,ta L .w               nlit-: 3:;v      'at"                                                                                                t                                         ?         "  4s 1Y?.    ' ,                                                             ,        ° .
Yx .,                                       :, ",   ,.,.-.-.end:.. .r  v?., r "-.2.R'+r        t,. 4p          .' T                                                                                        y         ty                                                  ;'il  fki ):                               _                 sy        q..
' "                                is ., R+l.:                                   .tom             ;       ? x         i                      c,..:                                                  a +                                                   r   , n   r S   ;  '                                                          '
..    :  '                                  .=S' r "'  ,'"            ' .'*-'",';.        :    _.         Y                                                                                                     -                                   ::.rte-L .   ,%r        s     t      }                                               -             '  .'   :
+.."?L '                  .ti  v         k ; .,. i. ,... _._,,, .+.,.ra ..wyv           , .1        .J'.'Ty                                                                                                    i+ :i,                                           ^r     kF    .f '
"'i   i         :t-_                .i, v " a        e    dT .. .... ...... .. .. . . .,ss.~                   ,}Os''                                                                                                           i%             -                         -.:3   S    +::      ?                        4 ,               a..'                  h.  ', ,.
-                                                                                                                                                                                                              r.
4   "3, .v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,a
?S'
'V                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
C                                                     ""R
r:.
yk     _.:  r.                     A.%.. 'c     ':"" :4,'x' ''_              ,:-   :    '                 S a1               f                                                      " ",?~ .Y.." .                                                            :             .;rfd1',iii%{z                                   w                                ,' r"   2
,.'1.   ..                              'Sp _°   4 r", "'t                                                -t J fyr
1 , '." y" ,. -  ,dT '  .41 :..tom  '3  't ar ,.    'Fcf-°,.a-:K ^.  ;1"b.1',                                                                                                                                                                                                              QW    ;
-   i s        -              {                                                -                                               :"7..          t{ i  ir ¢ ! $- S rob' dr'4C  %«_ :1 ,.,.{cti   t. _  F'S- ,y   gy,
'_h_ ":r. dyv ryc: "..: tY,. : 1.,i- kies4 "'it Y"M t  : b4 R ': ,[.Y'?v{  MW
-                                                                                                                                                  t"*  , . , ,,E,  -    3?             "           i    :r£     Yr          .
n- 7
'     i- sy:.       "           .. -4           i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rt       air                                                  -   -        "
Yi :a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m       1
1a   , ,.l  "ttr..,3       F1Yra*i{  ",iS                         I                        4  ti ..          ..  _           (';  [;.r.               sL.                                                                                                   '.Y                             F                      ';
£,   £       _.4        - a1,ia";}- J: 4                   -                               yC f, i "Y                       _ a:,'3y                                                                -                                  -                                                                                                                          '4
S             r                                                                                                                                         F
't. '1 ...Sr  -TF'}a.4      "_ !:t  L: ;';3.  ".a t 37.                                        ,5.             -                                        -                                                                                                                                  P     1      i ,,,3 ,     ''.
's  , ,:''_       ,{S  a,- ; ,:      ".r:    r                                                    %                                                                                                                                                         1                             ,        "    .,                                                           ;
',;,   ,          r+' W . ,.t ,"+  w"ai. is   ,.r       ;a        I                            " .:.                                            " a'                                  -              ..                                                     ..:.;, "                                "trrz                  -     '            y,    -     .- .
pps
,:' 'ri"it    r..%^P''a':.         L  "''-td::'i..° }33            j                               n-                                                                                                      -                                                  ';      t ":                  J , . % ,!     Y     "                     _           .. ^ r.     r 'T , :
,, '"i.             ?A"            . ' f1s  .". ."i"  t }  t                                                                                                                                                                                                         %                            t~ay 4 rs4 '   .15"                                 X       r      s
i.°. "v3a    V' "e' '"  *"      p, "  'r}i;:c':,5+'"'" £" u  "u;, a                        .7 s:                                                     -                                                _.                                                      i i                                 }{                                                             n"_  '
h    X..       i  saa                    a;?"i rj e, lit-t,.ry                           .;+vt                                                                     :                                                                                        ts =. t.:  ?h               z: +'y           ' -k4                                     t7+            ,
t_" ale,'¢t   .d                       a        f y1 E's.; "' .y           rx               a                                                                                                                                                                vA  f                        a      cox n     r
_'       v :xS"."::E                  °z'  .'"      ' : ,.. -F  "'          e R    ..         LT                             -                         -                                                                                                    - *' tT1                     rtZ      ,4k° '     : ;^S t' '
.       ci;?,. '   -                  F a°F +!:     "L_:_.     yl4,#    x:           :sk!            t, r'   ,",'.                                                                                                                                                      1                           ;;55  -     .'S 'e:.          ,-.                                     ,r$
9gd     P;.                         ,,;x     ,i c x, E ;"  lf ; r.F+'r:.          '.tY   a.i                                                                                                                                                                  a!',v t                  s] " :' ';
LA .                           °"  x e    _  ":" 3.: t: "'S-'  #'y :'i :          i-t t     ifr,                                                                                                                                                          's'   "                           :%KS.x        3"-      :r# x. "     ti                             ,   ;
_%" :: ''::                      .t7{"       ;.=".  .f-cS;,p         '    yYXs                                                                                                                                                                                  1                                      ..?c                                              y    .:v
-a +.  e."i;R               "i .. /n .    ,Fr    .3s#.- {  i" i ": -[5         F,   1:    ryY[,               _                    _                              -                                      _                                                     k_    , -               '"4d     ,{         tt.       _         .  ccr  ,r
qq                    1
.a     tt
,    "s, ',              ?y  .zr °"%?'       f.°.  :ai .             : .: , .  S lt          , t t                                                                                                                   jL: _=, .b v                                                                         ~1                        _                        ,'+' y'
+ e      t4"'                          n":4'            r 'ft"                id.                 '-                                                                                                                                                            s                                     z     -                                                    iv.F
r'     s" %'" ,          . .fit                 . ,                                  ":   -    ,                                                                                                                  -.:     3 .                                                          '' :       ,,.a...   r        , !-.
~,k s-'t..  .:.    . +a°   1f3.^'tr- , '} _ 3 ir3. i ".'i : -: !;  ; ,  ',.,_.   -   .'S  ;  ',II.                                                                                                           *.L                                          g t   ' 4r                      ..;n       y                   Mi'                                 T".
"iM Sti'=$ _:.3,-_              'y ."     S            ;{-   ... -                    -          Jx                                                                                                              ,.{T...      ".wi                                   ,'f                               .,sS i                     )j.: 's; ,- ;!£            R  ?'.' ii
,i°ir .,aw                 "- t " .'     K l,"'"S" =    i [ y q ;S:x?       C- :.+ f   , s  ' ':' . . TR,                                                                                                                                                         x.. -                      ' ,       rsT"ti:   ,                                        ,K
fj #3i'.. t.                  s , x.;S'.1                                                                                                              s             "jl-                               c'.                      j  '+a".  _. ,._ ' .:,   r                              -           _  -: i
'%zie     s5                  4                ''} fri;; '       :i"             :F.          ,w.t                                                                                                                  yy        , r                                +...e.t                 ra,.             rye.
Y                              i'.r                                                                                                              "" 2     "": "Sai                                                             :=k .   -.E: k.                                                 :2;n'. ^ tF  iF  -
-,      j."t     =.t',  (-, k i:..i': r ~"  '' , e ..  ^          'f  "t tX                                                                                                                             iy y , F 3                           {F a e              h"^             ] T., aK'+,'" -                      _
k                        '           N            2, .                                 :£                                                                                                                                {. i Sri -                               ! '                    "' f'     '      h'{+ =('
::at+,. ' M                        'tY,      ' -.U ,i   1,{:'   y 1'.e               ' P" .: jA"ar                                                                                                                           r.{                                                        "V3,vi                                                               !!:.aF
.c , t'{.a  .,.         "  ,,:,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '-#_. .uru+14           e                   ' r"-r-.'  ?  . + -t r  }  6+ ".'  'r'11-, .firmer. ,.s  .{ta.  .      r  .'
. +rr" Y..                              trti . ': . t   1r .       4 %Y.a         'tir,               ",t' "'i.'   _                                                                     _             -                                                         a",                    i         sew                                                      ;$
tS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fY
.:.T'o'      t             f                 ..:.             .'{"r -,       .. -                iff..    :'   '. (.""' ;Mt-                                                              ?{{                                                                    -                          tr   'K'f    .- ,:  is                                              zL _
.:         _              _         "       _   .:.    r..{   ,    .,              ..      Sri-     ...   ...                                                          -       ,-i"                                                                                                            rd -,
°-yd''yd":            F ti"                 -'y.;            i, it,     .2.  t^,L            "av,                                                                                          .'t'4rv ;.                                                              4rt.. ..d                      '      *wr
.#L y ¢'"    .$T    tt,  "    z.    q;;                 .:      gaVtt".""  ""U:8               M                 'i *=B+m                                                             x 4c-                 -                                                $F'  N t'            t R            "     "1 '                                          _
.," 7 ,_t,    ' .                        _                            15 .. a[a   t  "'         _ 6'                  s        .                                                             g"               1                                                    ;   ,w.,.,  t                             ;w                                       f
%
'  -                                             'i "          iTq.{fR'                           " i,: . "                                                                                                                                                  a                  t us'a fi+x.         «  ..t                                       f  T '}   i
'"4 el, R' i-p.                                        F              a        - p         Cr,.,.,.,                           _                 -                                                                 "                                               ti  ' E :.             3   -             %, _ 4}?                                            rr,
t        's                                  Fit art      ",        1          _                                      i                                                                                          r.:                                               jn _. Y                       ,t,+' ";                  y   Y  tY        i          to
a    r ,
{ L,.L    '6' ,  ';'r-..-         "r -li'              ,           "Ak"rdW       + tk  ,.  "                                                                          T                                                                    y   _.#  ',  W4
ski                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   {
-                                4                                            .7.i          l                                                         M   St.
-:' w  J,        ,.      y7 .:      }ve + ..'.'-.  s 'frs           ._:. ''ttca      F       _            .t. w,  s  1{:" " irk eg ;+'k ir"                                    j        _                                                                        t-fj ,     t   V                 ,                                    ?S.
,' ..,#:t         #       '!'       r:..n  ,;  ::q.,.     ,.     ,:W     S ' t .'                       w.iY.:   .+. 1 i w   Ffv.."           !'                                                                  -                                               X, .j. ( .?  zzyi,,,,      _                  -                                    y
t"or                                                         -      -:ts  ~YES"                              5;ts'- .,.
3i .1- '  .;,                                                                                                                :a        .      :s          r "7",." -fi-Y,                      a'-
'7  "t.                                                     "'  1 $ ,++ ,                                       '  'ia  :%: "    r: t k    a3 cav                              r                                                                                 a      T'                           a                       '''            4 ;. 5        .f
6W .r
. tt                                                                                                                 Y   ^"i" 14 t r ,F"rwe t.                 i P i                                                                                       f      y'S'           t . f't,
IT            G;                                                                                                                                                                                                       .3L+     1)YT1.,
z                                                                                                                                                                                  t          v
;x, {.sP     . ^ :.   .-{. 7                        .. M      _...    :.                        _                    ..-.n'"  :.. a"                       ";, "  '   . tlt H                                                                       t                        -f. ',T. %s ,.                                         r" .           j,
'        e                                        $                                                                                                               r                            4                 j:
s                                                                                  ,1-.                       V.     '                                    'sf                                                                                                    -.-.. t   +p Y%.""f  4           tat,    ;1 r              '  H        P                  :.  '.
. ,              A            ,F:c t                                , ".  ". r          "           . , ",a;                                                      ' , ..                                                                                     ' y  't   t# r            .' 3., 2   v:  . n       -.                   x1                   - Vie,
y        :            e         Y  ."    #.    ,a-                      ''       '-          i *r?..  ".5 _t.ce...                                  -%..  h    xt                                                            -                                     ,t;t                  ;x                           -             " a'                      ., .
"
,r.*_'                                   "           e r.                                    ,-}'4T s : Y:                                      if        "-:a't                                             t'                                                - *i%-3      a -    isfr.,   -     .c-                                                     +
H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "Ft                                                 #t
ON                          Ar                                                                !                                                                                                                                           4
...  ..           x-       --   ..r     ..      ".-. t_  ..          .,.               ;r .       y,              F  «,              .
....                                                                                F"- '    b;.:     :. m k       _: S::+r:  "..:. 3'A'                                    , Y..                                                  ..  tY:"     is                        ,3t'                           '.;:'"~s
- f-p*a.     :.                        . , _  .  ...   ,#      _. -                        a.  -       v  1".:::    .-,.  _"  -_   _6,
.    _:, ".          t  T"     ,     tt"
R           Q      x        ,cif..  -      _.{,...     ,4..                    3?:+fi:
-.                                     ,,,.         ris -}} Cam           t                         ,,,.r   r ,",.,.           .._.,. N2     _        .v,,:-          -,.c'&amp;             C   9"    .A+3-,          {    T ,R.                   3   :;,'"3"_,1 .,                  t                                                             _
.}.   ; ik .5v                  :s     ,  _          a   -                            a                                 ''ii  'i                               r _1'                              },  r                :                                                 °           . t"
' .,  .     ..t      ..  ."    ?   ..      y  '   .,..  __...    .:    _.     se    tt '                                                                                       al,.
-_ sti.. .,.,  -"                  ktr-:  -'     a.F     t.    ri      . ,        ....  i      ..                                         ::R    r" h,                                        3            x                           rt
,"-......                r       F'.,a    xr ._ a    ,,. T.e: , 3.'-
._f :  .a           ":a :.:.. s .,.    - -  ..   ?    ..... e.    a. ,.    .,           _. ,.              '  - " rs:.:-                                    Y.                                                                        -
?£       ,.  .:tF'                               --- ~- 3...       ,"        .. , ...    b     ^:,:.t       d  -..e  ..           R      t. .._J4 t..                       ...     -              ,                                                            a                       ,Z  .t.,"                                                  -; ;,
...a.r k'F                             ...     ..,.       _       a   ,],,._ i  .         -..., :. -.   ?..        1          ,,e       -1,~_.  -.::                   f.. ;.        ,,4,r"yrs: ,;t r.. .:                                                ;       'Y,., .T                                                                     M     Y,.
-.     :  ..    3   . _                  . f       ...     iG. : +c'i, :     -...:          '..       _      I  -..._  is  ....  4  _  '#  -4P',". t°'.                 .._'        ..:t       -" . , . F  .. ".                         -                                          '"   ir',} '   a.
t.;
It-          IN                        L                                                      AE't's
,..-....:.t  ..  ;j?'_                                  - ,a,  vt--,.w...  :,...  ,: ,  ;,  -,  .. y^4s,,'  s4- ;.t       ,g", 9"..   'ie - ..  ,'xFe ,T  '        ,                   -             -                                          i  _.               r  '!''M,  -. F
..                   -syn.,   rY"  ,: ::. _x, :.                 . -x" .. w.  f    ... #     i ..,.           _            3 :,..    . k :. ~ ,ta.. .,,.. .,:a t  6     F ,.,                                         :.:_      ..,-.                                     ". s                           . ;Y, ". x ,                    -                                       ..mss.
-            R :St..  h.
_,.. y :",,..:  - .. r.=                  _    F ..r..    t,       ,t e        _                    *ar:         ,c         ,:_    ,., ,                                                                                                           'e..__               $ , . i.. yy          sf ,r         :1"..           £
}                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n .
". °       -: x -x..                        ,...T3,,.  C       ;ni      '- .,r s''+     ::..ysv-  -.. "_ ,d r._:.            r.......                  -                                                                                       , , -y-             ..               -'"1~    ri?       _ y                                       _
,. ] t- .. _r...vr..    ....;s              a .C ..  d     'S r..,.     Y        ",     ,_ ., -.a    _, s,,.      t. _,S.v,,.   ,                  _                                                                                                          i'S ptt ti_                               P
-..3-w-.. -"v  '}.          +. _  ._..       ,fr  ...,.  _   '       ,..... ,.     _     ..:LES                r  i ..          ...   ..  ..,.n ,,.      _,.:._.                ,.              ,.   :-                         -...         ,3.           S.  k.'        f;               3 :=  ,i   -K             rii .
~--- ._ .t ..._,,:5-..  i 4.-;_ :-      , . _.t ,_an,      . . ~-.3_.z"i8.saax :          .r  "t_ r . _     .t ....c._,._ _.                                                  ,r.,...                                             ..ti..t..-r.- +t1.   ._a  _  ..    n ;y                    x   4s.,.!  . i      _. , x        "  .^'."             ..:       :


  
             
         
       
   
