
    ----CITATION----
        Miles, George Henry, (1824-1871). The Governess, or, The Effects of Good Example .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7242
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The governess, or, The effects of good example 
            
                 THE GOVERNESS, OR  THE EFFECTS OF GOOD EXAMPLE.  AN ORIGINAL TALE. BEING -  FIRST STEREOTYPE EDITION.  BALTIMORE:  PUBLISIIED BY HEDIAN & O'BRIEN 82 BALTIMORE STREET.  AND SOLD BY BOOKSELLERS GENERALLY.  1851.    Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year eighteen hundred and fifty-one, by HEDIAN & O'BRIEN, in btlhe Clerk's office of the District Court of the State of Maryland. h  DEDICATION.  O A. BROWNsoN, L. L. D. MY DEAR SIR: Will you permit a Catholic, who is striving, in a much humbler sphere, to add his mite to the cause of truth, to inscribe to you the pencil- sketch that bears the name of the Governess. I know not how you, a great labourer in the Vine- yard, may regard the lighter works of a loiterer on the wayside: but long may your hand keep its hold on the plough, and your reward be, as now, the pray- ers and love-of all who reverence a great mind conse- crated to the service of God, and a heart whose child- like tenderness survives the trials and the toils of manhood.   -       THE AUTHOR. BALTIMORE, June 1st, 1851. !^  PREFACE.   THE aim of the Author in this work is to show how a good young Catholic like Mary, without great ability or more than ordinary beauty, by firmness and piety, may recall many wandering souls to the fold of Christ. Our blameless priests, in their higher voca- tion, are laboring from morning till night, from night till morning; and the gifted and the great, whose genius has placed them in conspicuous stations, are manfully battling with heresy and sin. But every Catholic, however humble his l ot, however small his means, however slender his information, if true to his faith, may exert an influence like Mary's, and by the force of example, become an humble missionary in the hands of God. x    THE GOVERNESS. CHAPTER I. "Now, Mrs. Fairface, I'll hear your ideas about tht young woman who was recommen- ded to m for Governess." And saying so, Mr. Felix Fairface applied his slippered toes tenderly to the fender and planted his hands before him, in the attitude of one who is wil- ling to listen. "She was of good family, so I was told," continued Mr. Fairface, "well bred-well edu- cated, and all that sort of thing, which makes her poverty odious to her and agreeable to us. Have you seen ,her?-What does she look like--ugly, or otherwise?" "Why, otherwise, decidedly ;-I was in fact rather favourably impressed with her person- elle," replied Mrs. Fairface, who was in all re- spects, as the world goes an elegant woman.   THE GOVERNESS. She was a tall brunette, with dark hair and a flashing eye:-a shawl, flung over her should- ers could'nt help falling gracefully:-she wrote a neat note and knew how to seal it,- and was just sufficiently traitorous to the Kings' English, to spice it with, ever so little, of the President's French. "I was also struck," pursued Mrs. Fairface, "with the ex- treme beauty and justness of her pronuncia- tion-with that exact nicety of intonation al- most peculiar to the best English families." Here Mr. Fairface shrugged his left shoul- der: he always shrugged that shoulder when his wife waxed eloquent. "Just give me a two minute Daguerreotype of her, my dear," he interposed-"I mean of her person ;-one can't tell what a one's mind is, until one knows them some time. I hope she's brains enough to be a good Governess; in the pre- sent advanced stage of civilization, intelligence is so much commoner than either beauty or virtue, that one expects it as a matter of course. Go on." "Well then," returned the lady in perfect good humour, "she's about the size of our   Edith (which was middle-sized)--a trifle taller perhaps-pale, thin, gray eyes, long lashes, light hair, straight nose, good mouth, excellent teeth, white hands, well made, and little feet." "Rather a romantic creature then," ejaculat- ed the husband. "How does she dress?" "Very plainly, yet with some taste. She would not be an ornament here," pursued the wife glancing complacently around the elegant drawing room, "yet she will ccriainly not dis- figure it." "You think we can trust her at table?"- "Oh, certainly; I have not seen her yet,-but I feel sure that she can eat gracefully. In fact, there is only one objectionto her,-she is a Catholic as you know." "An objection it is true," answered Mr. Fairface, "but if she will only keep it to her- self and not introduce the Pope to our children, we may overlook the defect. In point of fact, I consider one sermon a week, with an occa- sional ministerial visitation, religious instruc- tion enough for me' or any of my family. I never want Governor or Governess to meddle in religion-and if she will only stipulate to     O    THE GOVERNESS eep her mouth shut on the subject, I shall e satisfied,-and ask no more." "I am glad," replied Mrs. Fairface, "though  differ from you in some respects, that you ? ' ake so sensible a view of the subject. For  ny own part, I have a higher aim in view I :onfess a real interest in the young girl, and  lope by precept and example to win her from dolatry. And whenever the Rev. Mr. Easy  oomes to dinner , "Dont invite him oftener though, my dear," ;  put in her inexorable spouse.  "He must let her know what Catholicism is,  ind what Protestantism- -,"  "Isn't," suggested Fairface, chuckling as his wife's eye sparkled menacingly at the in-  t terruption.                 ! "You are more of a Heathen than a Protes- tant," she resumed, "and-- "        g  "Not the less a Christian,--But come," he ; t continued soothing her. "I have a great sym- pathy for fallen families-though I raised my own from indigence to wealth; and success, ,  for once in its life, has not left me insensible  to pitty. So if this young lady pleases you,    THE GOVERNESS.       " Maggie dear, I have not one word more to say about her. I hate Catholics, only because it hurts one in getting along in the world--and I don't want my daughters Catholics. But I leave her entirely in your hands, and make you anti-pope in the matter. But these Romans are hard to conquer; and when you think you have them, in comes Camillus at the gate, and you're gone." "Nous verrons," said Mrs. Fairface consid- erably soothed by this voluntary surrender of authority, "I promise you to have her a better Protestant than you before six months." "Very likely," was the significant reply. Mrs. Fairface either mistook the point of he remark, or wisely preserved a-masterly silence, . terminated by an adroit allusion to mother topic, introduced against all natural association of ideas--which is quite a feminine gift, by the way. The accomplished wife of the successful speculator resumed the conversation thus : "I am quite sure, my dear, that we are in the lands of Providence, the humble means by which this innocent creature may be weaned   THE GOVERNESS. from her images and antiquated mummery to the service of the true, invisible Christ." Mr. Fairface shrugged his left shoulder, and the long pause that followed, indicated, that the Governess, her merits and demerits were soon to be consigned to the oblivion of sleep. Mrs. Fairface said her prayers and went to bed with the satisfied assurance of one who is conscious of having done a benevolent ac- tion-of one who has gained a day. Whilst this scene was enacting, and long after the affluent couple were sound asleep, another event was occurring, which must not be omitted. Mary Lorn, the Governess, and her mother lived in two second-story rooms hired from the Dutch confectioner, who occupied the base- ment with his shop and kitchen, and the attic with his family. Mr. Lorn, the father, had been one of those whole-souled, high-bred men, who live beyond their incomes, die in debt and leave a score of creditors, yet not a single friend. The widow's descent from hec handsome es- tablishment to her present quarters was gradual but inevitable; and there she seemed fixed for-     ever, without the hope or wish to rise. Des- pised by her rivals,-neglected by her friends, she was thoroughly disgusted with rich people and preferred the poor confectioner's wife to the best of the magnates who knew her once to scorn her now. Her religion, which she had neglected in pride, was her only consola- tion: her needle her only support. She was not old--not even matronly old; yet there was a touch of infirmity in her appearance-her high spirit was bent, if not broken. Mary was sixteen at her father's death, and had been educated chiefly by her mother, who was every way equal to the task. She was ex- pected to create a sensation, when the sudden loss of wealth, of course, blighted her pros- pects and her charms. Nothing-not even the small-pox-disfigures a belle so soon as pov- erty. Yet Mary, accurately speaking, had never been a belle: sundry jackanapes in last jackets and premature coats had honored her with oc- casional japonicas and multifarious well mean- ing attentions,--and some went even so far as  to whisper vows in verse. But Mrs. Lorn, tlhough not then a practical Catholic, was mo- 2             '   "    THE GOVERNESS.  ther enough to teach her to despise those pretty absurdities, and was determined that her daugh- ter should not ape the ways of a woman whilst she was yet a girl. So Mary had never been in love; had never imagined- herself superior to her mother, and though sufficiently alive to the comforts of wealth, was far removed from being the slave of fashion. She had made her first communion, and was a regular penitent; for the mother was much more careful of her daughter's faith than of her own. Poverty was thus easier to Mary than to her mother. It made both better Catholics-and they were happier walking to early mass through the K snow-happier stealing home from vespers at dusk-happier at their long prayers in their little rooms, than they tad ever been in the gas-glaring saloons of MNshroom Hill. There was untold joy in working together, with only a single candle between their faces-and they loved each a thousand times better than they ever did before. And Mary's education went on, superintended by her mother, until there were few more accomplished ,ersons than she     Her studies were pursued as a recreation equally delighful to parent and child, and not thatshe might one day be a Governess. For two years this went on, and they had not dreamed of separation. But Mrs. Lorn's sight began to fail,--and her once bright eyes grew dim and were soon weary. She was not able to work as steadily as formerly :--the screens, fans, flowers, fruits, sketches, and stories were almost en- tirely made by Mary, and their slender income was diminished at least by a third. It was painful for Mrs. Lorn to sit idly by that young girl who was working her eyes out-and all for her sake. Perhaps at such a moment, a sigh for their departed splendour might escape the widow's breast:-but it was quickly re- called. In the meantime, the Dutch confectioner grew impatient, and his wife decidedly cross, and a flaxen haired urchin, whose teeth had been spoiled by his father's plums, made faces at the pair. There was no generous knight at hand to chastise these Saracens: Mary had no beaux; and her mother no suitors-they stood without one earthly protector.   16    THE GO   ERNESS. It was then, that Mary determined to seek employment as Governess in some respectable 1 family, where she might exist and maintain her mother out of her earnings. After long seek- ing, she was recommended to Mr. Fairface and waited on by his charitable lady, as we have  intimated. This brings us to the last night that the parent and child may spend together for months,-as Mrs. Fairface was to pro- nounce her final decision in the morning-a decision most likely favourable. Favourable!  what nobler sacrifice is there than that of fe-  minine instinct and feeling at the shrine of  filial duty? So let us call it favourable.  "Remember, my child," said the widow-  "that if you lose one particle of your faith in j this perilous adventure, you will be false to ; Heaven and to me. Remember that all the possessions on earth, cannot repay you for the . ; loss of Catholicity--that without it you Will be Il;. miserably ruined. I know that every artifice  will be employed to shake your constanby-  that every temptation will be offered to dimin- ,; ish your fervour-but I can trust you, my Mary, ; can I not?-"             '    THE GOVERNESS.   17   "Let us trust in God's grace, Mother. So long as I am true to him, you need not fear." "I shall not!" replied Mrs. Lorn, clasping her daughter in her arms. "There is but one thing more and hard is it for my proud, weak nature to bear. You may be treated like a hireling--annoyed----persecuted-even insult- ed,"- and here her dark eye flashed with some of its former fire. "Think not of that, or of me," said Mary, 'I shall be well provided for. My greatest trouble will be that my dear, good mother is living alone, tormenting herself with a thou- sand imaginary fears that I am wretched." '"No, Mary, I am not apt to conjure up im- aginary terrors: I am too much accustomed to real grief. But God alone knows all the just fear and tremblinf of a mother's heart,  when an onhly dLu lter leaves i  her- a., Gover- , I i ness'  "And will mYy Heavenly Father forsake me, because I 'am a Governess'?"-replied Mary, mingling the tear on her mother's cheek with her own.     18    THE GOVERNESS. Thus the night wore away. Early in the morning they went to communion. Their slight breakfast, served as if in solemn mock- ery, was removed untasted. A carriage quar- tered with the Fairface arms, stopped at the door-a sign of acceptance! The flaxen hair- ed urchin clapped his hands in glee-the con- - fectioner grew civil on the idea that his lodgers s were getting great and might want wedding  s cake-and his helpmate's good nature returned, c as Mary pale, tearful and trembling, unclasped S her mother's arms, and with a mute good bye h to all, rode off.     CHAPTER II. WE need not say how Mary's heart trembled as the burnished equipage glided rapidly from street to street. A thousand hopes and a thou- sand fears crossed her mind in such rapid suc- cession, that the ride seemed a troubled dream. She checked her tears at the sight of Fairface house, and entered it, pale but outwardly calm. Mrs. Fairface, who was determined to be civil and patronizing, met her in the passage and kissed the trembling creature. "What are you afraid of, my dear," she said, : and passing her arm around Mary's waist, led her into an apartment adjoining the break- fast room. Mr. Fairface was there, diligently reading the morning paper, that modern sub- stitute for morning prayers. He gently low- ered his spectacles as the Governess entered, - and courteously rising, bowed and took her hand. The instant he met her eye a shudder passed over him, and his florid cheek-grew in , an instant as white as hers on whom he gazed, :i?   20     THE GOVERNESS. Mary was embarrassed5 and Mrs. Fairface could not but discern some rare emotion in the ever placid face of her spouse.  "Your name?" asked Fairface, remembering   himself and recovering.  "Mary Lorn."   "Lorn enough," he sighed after a short pause, during which a watery film gathered in his eye.  This awkward state of things was suspended  by the entrance of Edith. She was one of  those fresh, fascinating characters, all bloom  and joy,-in appearance all that is good and  fair; in reality, nothing. She came slealing in  with a bright, happy, loving smile, and advanc-  ing straight to Mary, without introduction or  other preface, put her arms over her neck and,  embraced her tenderly. The large, warm tears gushed from Mary's  eyes, at this unexpected mercy. She could not  raise her head from Edith's shoulder, but hung  there and wept f w ' Keep her on any terms," whispered Fairface  to his wife, and he bolted from the room, as if  to save himself from suiffocating.  Why Mary wept so long, may easily be  guessed: the gratitude of a true woman's heart    sparkles only in the mute tear that loads her eye. And yet, there might have been in that poor, fatherless girl's heart, -a sense of shame in needing the affectionate support of a stranger, who by the exhibition of sympathy, testified a knowledge of her distress. Edith and Mary were of the same age, and yet how different. Mrs. Fairface, whose kind heart was disposed to magnify the pretensions of her protegee, had rather over estimated her charms. There was nothing striking or capti- vating in her person, face or address, to attract the great mass of mortals. We rarely find out true beauty, either of mind or matter, unless there is some good critic or a finger-board to point it out. No one could eve-r arrive at the gems of an opera or a novel unless there were newspapers to select them. But'Edith was onie of those universal charmers, admired alike by good and bad, wise and silly, old and young-- whom no one can cherish, without having a host of rivals just as able to appreciate her ex- cellence as he is himself. There they stood, Edith rich, happy, healthy-Mary poor, sad and almost prematurely old. It was a contrast that might tempt a better pencil.   22    THE GOVERNESS. Such is the tenderness of the female heart, a that it naturally inclines to relieve misfortune, 1 until years of fashion or sin have weakened or a destroyed the propensity. Edith, from her  tl own impulses and her mother's instructions,  a was resolved to treat Mary as a sister at first, e and to continue in that relation so long as  ii Mary appeared to merit it. If our good reso- t lutions cost nothing but the making of them,. b what a delightful world we should live in. The p generous resolve often proceeds from human  1 nature-the faithful execution rarely follows without the grace of God.  "Shew Mary her room," said Mrs. Fairface,  r l" and the staircases, that she may not lose her- j fi self; and after that we shall have some talk v and she shall see les petits bl'outtvith whom i s I entrust her."      - "Come,' said Edith, and the two new friends  went off together. Mary's chamber was the ack room in the third story, and looked into the garden instead of the street: a provision t for which Mary was as grateful as if it had been a one for her convenience and out of deference 1 to her tastes. It was handsomely furnished, :i well carpeted, clean and neat-a nook in which r I t   THE  GOVERNESS.      23  any bird might be happy to sit and sing all day. But, ah,--the cage? Well, the world is a cage and the body too. But Mary was trebly caged: the wires were three deep. The cold air was adroitly tempered by the furnace in the cellar, every provision was made for her comfort, and in one corner stood her little black leather trunk-a memento of her mother! There was but one picture, and that was over the mantel- piece-an original Raphael Morghen of the :Vierge a la Chaise. "You are too kind," said Mary, smiling through her tears at the superb engraving: she remembered one like it that once hung in her ij father's chamber-but it had been sold. It was a strange circumstance that the same plate should meet her here-here in a strange house --amongst those who refused the title that she loved to say--"Blessed!" "You are too kind," repeated Mary, still looking at the picture:-" and in studying how :- to please me, you have placed before me a print which I value more than any painting in the world." "Indeed!" cried Edith, "we are truly fortu- nate. It was an idea of Pa's, and you must thank him."   24    THE GOVERNESS. Here, the remembrance of Pa's strange man- ner suggested itself, and made the young Gov- erness wonder whether he might be subject to epileptic fits or to any mental malady.- Her speculations were interrupted by Edith's asking her to take a look at the house. Mary could not help contrasting the ample hall and elegant parlors with the rooms at the confec- tioner's-could not help remembering some- thing even more elegant, now scattered and gone. Her mother was not a mile distant, and yet an abyss seemed to yawn between them- the moat which wealth digs between itself and poverty. The drawing room opened into a glass hot-house where rare exotics were living, like herself-the kitchen was peopled with do- mestics who were paid like herself-and so on from garret to cellar. In the meanwhile Mrs. Fairface was prepar- ingi for the great interview destined to precede the temporary concession of her darlings--her two jewels-to another's partial keeping and partial influence. Mary was soon summoned to her sitting room, and there the colloquy began. "My dear Mary," said Mrs. Fairface, "the   THE GOVERNESS.  25   sooner we understand each other, the better; and a full preliminary explanation frequently averts much subsequent misunderstanding." This exordium, which Sam Johnson himself might have envied, was received by the Gov- erness in profound silence. "Almost the only thing that divides us," she continued, "is religion. Mr. Fairface is one of the most liberal of men, nor do I think that I can be accused of bigotry. I promise you, then, perfect liberty of conscience, and perfect freedom of worship: and more than this, I pro- mise that you shall not hear one remark from any of us, to wound or annoy you. But, my dear girl, I exact from you the same liberality; and in the education of my children you must avoid religious instruction, and do nothing to attract them to the faith you profess." "I have already told you, madam," replied Mary, "that I shall not, by word or look, at- tempt their conversion. There is only one point that may give trouble. Your reading books and child's histories are invariably so er- roneous in their facts and so false in their deductions, that I must often contradict the authors we may read. For though willing to 3 a,8  26    THE GOVERNESS. keep silence on the most important subject of life, I cannot be instrumental in circulat- ing slanders, which would have long since died, were they not transplanted from histories to primers." Mrs. Fairface looked blank at this unex- pected declaration of dependence. The em- phatic language and resolute tone of the young girl were scarcely consistent with the character of paid retainer. A haughty reply flew quiv- ering to her lips, but her better nature relented at the sight of the defenceless being at her side: and the privilege of protecting that feel- ing which teaches even the lion's paw to caress, effectually smothered the rising flame. She remembered, too, her husband's parting charge, "Keep her on any terms!" "I trust I have not offended you, madam. The children will not consider whether the as- sertions are made by Protestant or Catholic writers: and I shall endeavor to select books which every Christian may read with pleasure. I thought it well, however, to be candid with you in the outset; for the task I have assumed is a difficult one-too difficult, perhaps, for me to discharge."   1b   "I hope not," replied Mrs. Fairface, com- pletely soothed. "Not too difficult, I hope. At least we must make the trial. You shall now behold your pupils." The door opened, and les petits bijoux ap- peared-Carry and Jessie. Carry wa. a cherub faced, cherry mouthed, rosy cheeked creature of thirteen, in short the ruby; Jessie was two years younger, pale, pensive, timid, light hair and light eyes, and, as Mary thought, the pearl. Carry was like Edith, Jessie like no one in the family: Carry was everybody's pet, Jessie no- body's, not even her father's. The introduc- tion was intended to be imposing, though Mary commanded her gravity only by the remem- brance of her position. Carry looked up in her face and smiled sweetly, shaking her curls archly as she repeated the set speech,- t "You must make us learn so fast, Miss Mary, that Pa and Ma shall be proud of us." Jessie hung her head, blushed and said no- thing, like a good child who-does nothing, be- cause nothing is expected. But with the quick glance of childhood, Jessie had already recog, nized a friend and taken her first lesson-love. Mary stooped and kissed each--perhaps she paused a moment longer over Jessie; but the   28    THE GOV ERNE SS. preference was imperceptible, except to Jessie herself, who scarce knew how to receive, still  less to return an embrace. The child stood still. but in her face arose the flush of happi-  ness, and all around her grew radiant at the b promise of a protector and a friend. "You can play to day," said Mrs. Fairface, patting Carry's dainty head, "Saturday is a  holyday all the world over for the young, and Miss Mary will excuse you until Monday morn- "-' re Mary bowed to the mother, and the children,  hand in hand, tripped away to see what the cook was making for dinner. "What do you think of Carry?" asked Mrs. Fairface.  "She is very beautiful," replied the Gover-  ness.  "As for Jessie," resumed the mother, " she,  is good, but she is a queer child. It is a pity she is so unlike her sisters; but I am sure she will give you no trouble."  "On the contrary, I like her quite as well as ra ier sister."  "You do!" exclaimed Mrs. Fairfac   in  amazement; and Mary wondered no longer at : the pale face of the neglected child.     "Pa is coming," said Edith as she entered the room, and shortly after the prophecy, Pa appeared, accompanied by a young gentleman, to whom Mrs. Fairface was all attentioi, and before whom Edith blushed. "You are happier, I see," said Mr. Fairface in an undertone to Mary. "Believe me, you are not amongst strangers. What were her terms," he continued, taking his wife aside. "As liberal as could be desired," was the reply, "except some unfounded objections to our Protestant school books." "Antiquated lies, as they are," muttered Fairface. "But what were her terms?" "Oh, you mean what she expected us to pay?" "Why, certainly I do." "Well, really," stammered the lady, color- ing, "I omitted that." "Of course you did," said Fairface, smiling in ineffable scorn. "Of course you did, you dear, good, business-hating woman. The ar- rangement's left for me?" "Yes."' "Agreed!"    b( CHAPTER III.          P THE young gentleman before whom Edith blushed was named Henry Arlington, a very  pretty name, suggestive of peerages and battles. L He had just signalized his manhood by casting to his first vote for the successful candidate for the Presidency. He was rather good looking, F -at least Edith thought so,-and had a richfa--  ther; though numerous younger brothers and nt sisters were ready to diminish his birthright at  the favourable moment. There was something  It wild, mournful and dreamy in his large eye,  and this was the only peculiarity about him.- It His paternal abode was not a square off, and : re he was domesticated in the Fairface family. h Mr. Fairface called him Harry-Mrs. Fairface h and Edith said Henry--sometimes Henri, whenever there was occasion for a gush of  tenderness. In one word Edith and qIenry  tt had grown up together-had fallen in love- understood each other perfectly and were to be b married in a year. There were no ugly, exist- t ing impediments-the match was agreeable to  tc to }.   THE GOVERNESS.       31    , This being distinctly understood, it is not surprising that Henry merely glanced at Mary Lorn, the Governess, and instantly drew Edith to the window for a chat. "We have yet half an hour to dinner," said Fairface, observing the movement. "Will you do me the favour Miss Lorn to accompany me?" Mary followed him, in some trepidation, to a small room which he nicknamed 'Solitaire.' It was there he spent his Sunday mornings, read his letters and sometimes answered them. It was there he managed his private documents, received his tenants and his rents. It was there he sat long after midnight, silent and alone, to his wife's extreme annoyance. In short it was the only sport on earth in which Mr. Fair- face took any real pleasure, in which he cast off the conventional coil and emerged himself. "It shall not take us long," he began, "pray be seated. My wife neglected asking your terms-I mean the terms on which you agree to instruct my two children. What are they?"    32    T HE GOVERNESS.  There appeared to be a want of delicacy in i this abrupt demand, and Mary was silent in c: shame.  She did not know that a sensitive nature, ever fearful of paining, introduces the  subject it shrinks from, in the bluntest way.  "Perhaps you have no idea of what your  services are worth," suggested Fairface, "nor ; have I. Let us assume however that they are  worth something. You teach music?"  Yes," replied Mary, "the harp and piano!"  "That saves a music master-at the lowest  estimate thirty dollars a quarter-one twenty,  per annum. Drawing?" "Yes." "Ditto," said Fairface, "two forty. French, English, Writing and Arithmetic, of course.-- Let me see-twice two forty, four eighty-five  hundred say. Are you satisfied with that?"  Mary surveyed him in some surprise-the  sum was so considerable, so much beyond all  reasonable calculation---sh had talked the  matter over with her mother,-that she might  have cried, had she not observed that Mr. Fair-  face, amused at her confusion, began to laugh.  "You offer too much, sir," she said, dropping :!  her eyes before the gaze of this slightly myster-  i   THE GOVERNESS.       33  us man. "You offer too much. ,I shall be content with half the sum." "Half!" echoed Fairface,-"I pay my worst: erk more than that. Do you expect less for vice the service? No, Mary,-Miss Lorn--I can, I offer you what I think fair and right, it  purely a business transaction-a fair remune- tion for your services. If they are worth any- I i  thing, they are worth that. Say yes," he con- tinued rising, "and the matter is closed. Do    f you agree?"; Mary bowed and they returned to the other om, where dinner was soon announced. A  overness at table, nine times out often, is an-  noying to others and a torment to herself.-  annoying to others, because they scarcely know  how to treat her, or what to say to her-they  have to hit the difficult medium between too much attention and too little respect. Even a  poor relation is not half so troublesome-the    family at least is ascertained and there-is one-  i point of communion, though the coat may not  as new or the gown as bright. A torment herself, because she is well aware of the re- straint she imposes on the others; because  reed civility is easily told and little relished; il4   34    T IE GOVERN ESS. because she is rather tolerated than welcomed: a retainer rather than a guest. If human nature were the correct thing it is sometimes said to  be, if its inherent diglity were anything more, than, none of the clearest starch, the case ! might be otherwise. But it is certain that Mary  willed herself any where else in the world,  than just where she was, between Carry and Jessie, immediately opposite Edith and her accepted; and it is equally certain, that young - Henry Arlington would have gratified her wish  with fairy-book rapidity and transported her to  Lapland or New Zealand, without so much as  one regret. And even did we pry too closely into Edith's breast and her mother's heart, a shawdow of the same wish might be discerned. But for Fairface, the meal would have been in- sufferably heavy; but he broke the ice with  the edge of his bold, broad humour, and with- C out any apparent exertion diverted the attention  from Mary, to himself. The high spirited girl- for proud she was-had accepted his liberality without a spark of gratitude, but her heart  warmed to him at this mark of nobler generosity. Hitherto she had doubted Fairface: she now felt inclined to trust him, and when they rose,   THE GOVERNESS.        35     ! he felt as if her guardian angel, lingering at he confectioner's rooms, had just followed her, nd was in the house. And who that moves nto a new house, has not sometimes felt with    Mary?  Edith, the blooming, led the way to the par-  our, assidously escorted by Henry Arlington-  Mrs. Fairface followed with Carry; and Jessie, the forlorn, with-the Governess brought up the rear. Fairface remained at the table, enjoying  .i his cigar and his glass of wine. We are tempt- ed to remain with him and expose the thoughts of this singular compound of delicacy and    .' coarseness,-to exercise the novelists privilege of knowing and telling what passes in the minds ! ' of his characters; but let us leave him to his ! meditations, for Edith is singing. It may be re- Byj. membered that Mary's services were not requir-  ed for Edith, who was accounted perfect-fin- ished in every respect and above tuition. "You must not laugh at me," said Edith to  Mary, as obedient to Henry, she touched her harp. With the prettiest embarassment in the world, she sang a French song, which, like most  French songs .was a Recitative in one key and   Jj a melody in another. Henry was enchanted  I4 , It J    36     THE GOVERNESS. of course, and so was Mrs. Fairface, who stole a look at Mary to observe the effect. Mary smiled approvingly, the young hypocrite; it was so easy to smile to conceal a laugh. That Edith had a pretty voice, no one could deny, but it was vox et prteterea nihil. The half accomplishment of modern school girls is worse than positive ig- norance. They are in that situation deplored by Socrates, just educated enough to think they know what they dont know. A little plain sew- ing or plain sense, is so much better than a little : music and a little drawing. It is more prudent to be silent than to interpret the great masters, as a monkey imitates humanity. Mary's talent for music was not particularly great, but she sang with taste and feeling: some ballads she ren- dered so touchingly, that it was almost painful  to hear her. When Edith rose, she persuaded! Mary to take her seat at the instrument. The , Governess who was timid as well as proud, com- plied with real embarassment and sang: THE BEGGAR BOY. I sleep with the snow-bird, I rise with the lark, In summer I feast like a king, And in. the long winter-night chilly and dark I dream of the bountiful spring.   THE GOVERNESS.         37 A glass from the fountain, a morsel of bread  Are mine, and I ask for no more, Then why should the beggar boy wish to be dead, It is not so hard to be poor? When my old mother lived, there was nothing but love,  And now there is nothing but pain, For I know that she wishes me even above, And I long to be with her again.  So I smile when my body is weary and weak, When the pitiless rich pass me by,  Or if the poor tears sometimes freeze on my check, I think that I'm nearer the sky. The silence in which the "The Beggar Boy"'  was received, warather ominous.  Carry was  perceptibly disappointed and Mrs. Fairface-  quite undecided  Henry Arlington glanced   significantly at Edith as much as to say 'how inferior she is to you?' Edith interpreted the; look and felt still more kindly to the Governess.  The consciousness of superiority is full one, half of the milk of human kindness. In short Mary had made a failure so far as they were concerned.  But Jessie-poor Jessie was trans- ported out of her melancholy, and her large eyes, brimming with tears and love, were fixed upon the minstrel. Jessie would have sat at    Mary's feet, listening forever, and she was build-  4 'i  Iy   38 ,   THE GOVERNE S S.   ing beautiful castles on lofty mountains covered with perpetual flowers, where she and the Gov- erness might live alone together, without father or mother, or sister, or-- No! she would have her absent brother Charles to take care of  them, because he used to love her before he went to Europe-but no one else-not a soul besides Mary, Charles and her own little seqf. l She started and blushed when Mary suddenly turned smilingly to her, as if she had been ti' caught in her truant thoughts. No one dreamed  that Mr. Fairface was near, but there he stood  in the back room, looking steadfastly at the . glowing face of his youngest child. "Jessie!" he said. She turned as pale as death and trembled like a guilty thing. "Come  with me a moment."            '[ Will you go with us to the theatre this : evening, my dear Mary," said Edith, patting 3i the harp. "I thank you," replied Mary, "but I cannot." l "Let me entreat you," interposed Henry  Arlington. 1 am sorry," returned Mary, "but I never  go to the theatre."  This welcome intelligence was accepted as  '3   THE GOVERNEFSS.   39   an excuse. Jessie continued with her father, until they were ready for the play. "Can't I go too, Pa," cried Carry to her father, as he re-appeared. "To be sure you can, if Jessie will stay at home with Miss Mary. Will you, Jessie?" The child raised her eyes in mute thankful- ness, and leaned against his side. "It is time," said Mr. Fairface, putting on his hat. ' Good night, Miss Mary, good night, Jessie." The instant the door closed Jessie drew from her pocket a small package sealed up in white paper and placed it in Mary's hands. It was as heavy as lead. She took it to the light and read:  $250.-- Give the receipt to Jessie. Fairface.  Mary placed the gold on the table and snatched the child to her heart, then pressing back her yellow hair until Jessie's face was up- turned to her own, stooped and kissed her. A new existence was opened to Jessie--she was beginning to live. Silently around Mary's waist she wound her thin arms; and when Mary    % 40    THE GOVERNESS*  sat down at last, the child knelt with her, for  those little arms would not uncoil, and that ' little head kept fast to her bosom.  Something had happened between Jessie and her father,--something that had entered deep into her young heart. It seemed as if a new 4j voice had spoken to her, calling out all the  sunshine and flowers of childhood, to glow and ' gleam in her path: and her half-broken spirit,  reviving at the sound, like a lily bent with dew, : rose through tears in the morning light, fragrant ... and fresh.  When the frost of spring nips the blossom, is the fruit is stunted: parental coldness blights  the noblest child. Poor Jessie had been chilled, ': numbed, but not quite frozen:-a year longer,  and the springs of her spirit might have been sealed forever. But the sun of affection can still preserve, and the little flower may yet emerge uninjured from the bud. "May it be so!" thought MWary, as the child still breathed upon her lap in quiet ecstacy.   CHAPTER IV. It was a time for Jessie to go to sleep, so Mary accompanied her to her room, adjoining her mother's. "Do not leave me yet," she murmured; it was the first syllable she had spoken for an hour. Much as Mary wished to hear what had passed between the child and her father, she did not wish to agitate still more the young heart that was throbbing against her own. Jessie needed silence and the bosom of a friend to lean on. Years of untold trial wrere escaping in those slow but steady tears; visions of future bliss were stealing over Jessie's fancy. Another hour of silence went by, as swiftly as at the theatre, and far more happily. And the child raised her head and smiled, so brightly, so tenderly, so trustingly, that the spirit of an angel seemed to be mingling with her own. "Sing for me again," she said, " sing for me alone ." The Governess had many a pretty Ballad at   TH E GOVE R"N ESS. mmand; but the more she sang the more ssie pressed her to sing again. She had to fuse at last; for the town clock striking ten,  monished her that it was time to say good ght. "Hear me my prayers before you go," said  ssie, and before Mary well realized the terrible ipeal, her young charge knelt before her, sting her head on her knees. There was o blessing, no 'Hail Mary' to follow 'Our ather,' almost every word was a stranger to  ie Governess. And when Jessie rose with iat blessed 'Remember' all unsaid, Mary was embling and in tears. "Why do you cry?" asked the little girl, you are not unhappy too? Don't everybody we you? I go to bed often all alone in the ark." Mary's only reply was to strain to her heart he little being, who, in so short a time, had ecome so dear to her. She felt what a cruel, titter promise she had made-she would have riven worlds to break the pledge and teach the Young supplicant the words consecrated by a housand Saints, dictated by the Church and be-   loved in Heaven.  But-it could not be--her  word had been solemnly plighted!- Sing me a hymn," said Jessie.    "You musn't cry, you have made me so happy.  Sing me a hymn." Scarcely aware of what she was doing, the  Governess began a hymn which her own mother      . had sung over her cradle.  Sleep my child, and when I slumber Do not wake and weep, .  Another mother comes from Heaven To watch thee when I sleep. Though perchance thou mayst not see her,      i- She will still be nigh, For she loves thee truly, dearly,          ' Better e'en than I. Sleep, my child, thy heavenly mother Has no need of rest,               ' And ever with the night she cometh,  To take thee to her breast.           . Thus, in hope and trust I slumber          C  When the day is done,               . For this Mother's name is Mary, Jesus is her Son                  e Wherever Mrs. Lorn obtained this charming hymn, it is a pity it is not more widely known.  It is full of pathos and piety, and withal so     J ii simple, that the comprehension' of a child can d'1,8 I?] ^ '":4   grasp it. If mothers would use it as a lullaby, -afterward, in the storm of maturer life, when a thousand temptatiols and a thousand dangers beset the woman or the man, why then on the verge of sin or on the brink of death, those simple words might recur to save the yielding  soul f-om guilt or perdition.  To Jessie, it opened a positively new idea.-  She rose, leaning her head upon her arm, with an expression of mingled wonder and delight. "Have I a mother in Heaven?" she asked, "Indleed you have," replied Mary, " your mother and mine, Mary the Blessed Mother of our Saviour, the Mother of us all"' ': And will she love me-poor little me? continued the child. "How shall I speak to her-how shall I make her know me? Mary's hand flew instinctively to her medal her impulse was to tear it from her neck and place it aroundl Jessie's. But her fatal promise arose before her, and prevented the act. She was already in a dilemma. and the future clearly indicated one of two courses-treachery or re- treat. "' She knows you already," said the Gover ess, " you have only to love her. So now be a good girl alld go to sleep."   THE GOVERNES S.       45 Jessie, long accustomed to obedience, took Mary's hand and laid it under her cheek. For sometime she Would, now and then, open her eyes and smile, but presently they ceased to open and Mary withdrew her hand; she was asleep. The Governess went to her own room. The moon was shining brilliantly upon the glasses, so she shaded her lamp and sat down by the window. She took Fairface's gold from her pocket, it seemed like a bribe,-there was some- thing unfeminine and improper in accepting it,-she would return it to him in the morning. And yet-the delight of pouring that yellow promise of comfort into her mother's lap-of consecrating thus the first fruits of her new life! For that one privilege she would be a hireling forever, and sit at the dinner table from day to day, enduring coldness or even mockery. However, there was another question still more difficult of solution. She could easily make Jessie a Catholic-and was it not her duty to give, at least, such instruction as the child her- self demanded? Compliance broke her pro- mise,-refusal violated her conscience. Above the mantel piece hung that beautiful engraving, -i   of the mother smiling on her divine babe. The mild face seemed to reproach her, as if those virgin lips were saying-" another soul might now be mile, hadst thou been true. midlst all this tumult of thought, there was one comfort-to-morrow would be Sunday- she was to meet her mother at early mass in the morning. She would tlen consult her confessor -reveal her troubles and end her doubt. While. she was mediating, she heard them re- turning from the theatre--sle heard the front door open and close, accompanied by merry loud laughter. There were two parties in the house, Mrs. Fairface, Edith, Carry and Arling- ton, the majority-and Jessie and herself, the minority; Faitface stodd apparently neutral. At last, all was silence and she began to dream upon her new bed. It was a troubled, unrefreshing sleep. She woke at six o'clock and left her room at seven. To her surprise, she met Mr. Fairface pacing the entry, with the front door wide open. He saluted her kindly and respectfully. This was the moment to speak, if she ever meant to do so. After an irresolute moment, she said:   THE GOVERNESS.       47 "Mr. Fairface, I received frol- Jessie last night, half a year's salary in advance. I cannot accept it, because I may die before I earn a tenth of it,--or you may choose to dissolve our agreement, or -- "Any other possible or impossible absurdity you choose to imagine," abruptly put in Fair- face. "Mark me Mary," he deliberately added, ( though you have been here but one day, you have done me a service I never can repay.- There was a priceless jewel in this house, un- "known or lost to me; you have discovered it and hung it over my heart." "What do you mean?" she asked. I mean Jessie'!" "But-  -" resumed Mary, still proffering the gold. "But   ' returned Fairface, "do you take :  me for a conventional booby? You know, young girl, that men expect their friends to risk their lives for them;.to come to them in sickness and trial, and will accept every sacrifice, except the meanest and poorest on record-a little bleeding of the purse;. though it is amusing to see how soon they jump into a dead man's shoes. Well-I am not of the number, and 1}   THE GOVER NESS. even were this money not yours by your position and right, I should not imagine that I was conu ferring a favor. You are going 'to meet your mother--should you be so sensitive, when she is so poor? And so God bless you. Pray for nme! It was like a dream to Mary, as she walked rapidly to the Cathedral. There was something kind about the man, stern and rough as he was in his serious moods; something even more than kind,-paternal, pro- tecting, tender. An imaginative mind, like Mary's, invents and adopts a resolution with great rapidity. It occured to her, that an appeal in behalf of Jessie to her relenting father could not be unsuccessful; and she determined to embrace the earliest moment of speaking can- didly to him on the subject. The instant this was settled to her entire satisfaction, the thought of meeting her mother arose, absorbing all other ideas. Her interview with Fairface had detain- ed her some minutes behind the appointed time so she made double haste. Young, light, active and eager, she tripped from street to street with unnecessary speed; for she might have known that those good Irish   TH E GOVE RNESS.      49 Catholic servants, whom she was passing every minute, would not have missed the Kyrie of early Mass for a month's wages. The second bell was sounding as she passed the last corner- and there on the steps, stood that old familiar black cloak! Her mother's eye was on her- the next instant their hands were clasped--and that unutterable look of love, trembling and tearful, which only a mother can give, sank like sunlight into her soul. Never before had they knelt so fervent, so thankful, so joyous, so humble, at the mystery of mysteries, at the banquet of redemption, at the august sacrifice of Christianity. And when Mass was over, they hastened to the confec- tioner's rooms, as if their home was a palace.- For there, in that humble chamber the fond em- brace of love awaited them; for there, Mary could outpour her soul and tell all that had hap- pened. Very many may smile at such super- fluous agitation about a days separation; they have either never known what a mother is, or what it is to leave her in such circumstances. No mother will smile. Mary's story was soon told. She described every member of the family-especially Jessie- o   and lel!red uponl thleit' kindness. Theln she prodlucel the gold, and recounted her interview with Fairfce. "Just like him," said Mrs. Lorn. "You know him, then?"' asked Mary. "Do vou think, my child," replied her mo- ther, smiling, "that I would place you with one I did not know?" "Shall I keep it?" said Mary. "You cannot refuse. He is imperious in his generosity, and you will only make him angry by hesitating. You may rely implicitly upon his motives and his actions; there are few nobler men, so far as human nature goes, than this same Mr. Fairface." A world of apprehension was lifted from Ma- ry's heart, and without a word she slipped the money into her mother's hand. Mrs. Lorn grew pale as death, and then a burning blush overspread her fine features. Pride was still strufcrling in her heart-and other emotions may have risen. At this instant in came the Dutch coiifectioner, his wife and his flaxen laired boy. They were all attention, and so deferential, that Mary was amused at their lan- rguage, so suddenly changed by a handsome car- riage from indifference and neglect, to love.   CHAPTER V. AFTER High Mass, Mary received the prettiest little note frion Mrs. Fairface, intimating that as the day was so fine, they should spend it in the country; and that Mary might prefer to re- main until evening with her mother; though of course Mrs. Fairface should miss the interest- ing face of her young friend. A servant in liv- ery had brought the note; so the confectioner and his family were even more emphatic in their attentions. Dinner was served with surplus dumplings and several species of preserves, mixed into one fascinating whole. Yet at that plain deal table, and over that homely fare, Mary sat, a daughter, not a governess, and the meal was one of unmixed thankfulness. We left Jessie asleep, dreaming of the Mo- ther, about whom Mary had sung and spoken. "Jessie is sleeping very long this morning. She 's always the first one up. Go wake her, John," said Mrs. Fairface to the waiter. "Let her sleep," said Fairfiae; and John stood still. "Pcrhaps she 's sick." Mrs. Fair-   52    THE GOVERNESS. face sat still, and took another slice of toast- so did Carry. "Suppose we dine at Oakland, by way of variety," continued Mr. Fairface. Oakland was his country seat. "The d y is charming, and John can have the house warmed before church is out." "Agreed," cried the wife. "Agreed," cried Edith, who had just entered in smiles and roses. "Agreed," echoed little Carry. "And, Mr. Easy," resumed Mr. Fairface, " may per- haps"- "Find it more convenient to stay at home," said her spouse. "I want to break a bottle with some old friends and-excuse me, my dear,-but, indeed, the house is scarcely warm enough at this season-and a cold might de- prive the community of the services of your estimable friend. His life is entirely too valu-  able to be trifled with, merely for my gratifica- tion." "I only mentioned him, my dear," said the obedient woman, "that the Governess might have an opportunity-" "Let her spend the day with her mother;   THE  GOVERNESS,       53 she will enjoy herself ten thousand times more, and so may we, perhaps." Edith smiled: she should have Henry Arling- ton all to herself. So it was decided that the day was to be spent at Oakland, and the note to which we have alluded, was written. "I wonder what keeps Jessie. Ten o'clock? Outrageous," said Mrs. Fairface, forgetting the suggested possibility of sickness. "Go pull her ears, Carry, until she is wide awake." "Never nind, Carry," said her father, gen- tly, " you must be tired of pulling her ears by his time. Let me take my turn," and he marched up stairs, as if he were in earnest. He went to his daughter's bed-side. She was smiling in her sleep, and breathing softly. At that moment she was more beautiful than his other children, and the heavy hand of con- science smote him on the heart for past neglect. There was a flush upon her cheek he had never seen before, and a likeness to himself unob- served until then. He closed the door, as if ashamed to be seen betraying love or pity for this orphan in her father's house, this lone bird in her mother's nest. With folded arms he stood watching her, bending gradually beneath 5*   54-    THE GOVERNESS. the strong attraction of increasing love, until he I kissed her on the mouth. Jessie woke, and steing her father, started at  the unusual sight. He spoke not, moved not, but there was the paternal love-light in his face and a tear in his eye. The child understood it all-when did a child like her ever misunder- stand-and put her arms around his neck. "I'll wear this necklace often," he said to himself, as he pressed her a moment to his breast. "Will you go with us to Oakland?" he said. Oh, yes!" cried Jessie. "Is Miss Mary going '" "No: she is spending the day with her mo- tlher." Jessie's countenance fell. Would you rather stay with her, Jessie, than go with your father?" asked Fairface, half re- proachtfully, though he knew well enough there was no one but himself to blame.       u Jessie looked him steadily in the face, or ra- , tlhcr through the face, for full a minute, and the I tflrowing herself on his neck, exclaimed: "','),i, f/ther; I would rathler go wit/h you!" railface, though any thing but a coward, was  so unmanllned by her look and her decision, that t  9           L1n iu v Ei E S S.    55 he could hardly stammer out a "God bless you," and let her know that breakfast was waiting for her. She dressed as quickly as she could, though her prayers were somewhat lengthened by an effort to remember Mary's hymn. She met her mother on the staircase, and Mrs. Fairface did not fail to make the auricular application, which her husband had forgotten. Nothing daunted, Jessie tripped gaily to the breakfast room. Her father loved her, and dhe had ' another mother' in Heaven, and she was happy. The coffee was cold, but there was a nice plate of toast, which Edith had scarcely touched. But John-- for when a parent neglects a servant scorns- was sweeping this away for the kitchen. "Hold! you scoundrel," cried Fairface, in a voice of thunder, as he entered the room. "Mark me, John," he said, taking the fellow by the collar, "if you, or any of you, ever again insult, mock, mimic, tease, fret, annoy, worry, provoke, or starve, mind you, sir!-starve--or fail in the least or greatest attention to this child, this Jessie of mine,-I'lll horsewhip you, man or woman! Do you hear?" "Yes, yes," stuttered John, dropping his prey.   "Take it up, you scoundrel!-Here.-Go to the kitchen, and get the best cup of tea yo canl and the best omelette the cook can make, and the best toast you can carry, and set the little table for her alone-Do you hear? Do it in ten minutes, or you lose your place. Come Jessie, get your bonnet; lets walk in the gar- den. Pale as death, Jessie ran for her bonnet. Poor child. she feared that the ugly John would re- venle himself on her,-but no, no: that accom- plished domestic was but a third arm of her father's; and from that moment, it was Miss Jessie in the kitchen, and the nice things, in- stead of going to Carry, were labelled ' Jessie ; n d she was voted a paragon; and the ugly John became iher devoted admirer. Mrs. Fairface, Edith and Carry, who were up stairs, in course of preparation for church, soon heard of the storm in Jessie's favor; for such intelligence runs like wildfire through a "This is a pretty pass!" exclaimed the mo- ther, making her dark eyes flash fire. "Are the servants to be treated like dogs, that a lazy child may be pampered and spoiled?   THE G OVERNESS.       57 "Poor John!" soliloquised Edith, arranging a curl. "I see it very plainly," pursued Mrs. Fair- face; "it is nothing, more or less, than the work of the, Governess, Mary Lorn." ' She loves Jessie twice as well as she loves me," suggested Carry, pouting. "She has been persuading Fairface," contin- ued the madam, "that Jessie is an alNel, be- cause she is plain and queer like herself. How- ever," she went on in better humor, "there 's something icomique in it after all. How John must have scampered." Little did Mary know that the first seed of dissension was sown; little could she guess the direction the maternal mind of Mrs. Fairface was taking. As for Jessie,-a thousand times rather would she have swallowed her crust and a cup of wa- ter, or even gone fasting, than be the innocent cause of so much misfortune to John. She was sure that such terrible words would make him very unhappy, andkeep him awake night after n ight: she knew that it woul-ill her. And then she fancied that he could never forgive her, that he would hate and frown at her. -All    THE GOVERNESS. thlese thouhlts were running through her little head in the garden, and though her father tried every invention of love to remove her sadness, she could only smile a second' at a time, for she was -;hkinig more of John than of him.  To her great surprise, when John announced  breakfast, he was in smiles instead of tears, and beroed her pardon so sweetly, that she believed him the best and most forgiving creature in the world. She forgot all his past surliness, his innumerable hard looks and coarse words, scat- tered through the list of her early years of trial. He seemed so contrite, so humble, so gentle, that he won her heart and made her completely happy. When she ran for her bonnet, and met her mother and sisters, they asked her a thousand questions aLout the tea and the toast, and whe- ther she slept well and rose with an appetite. Jessie told the story, and answered all their questions in happy, faithful simpllicity. Child of truth, she knew not they were mocking her, and was their jest without feeling a pang. Such is the privilege of unsuspecting innocence. "It is time for church; the bells are ringing and the carriage at the door!" cried Fairface   THE GOV ERN SE S S from below. The Rev. Mr. Easy was eloquent that day, but Oakland was uppermost in the minds of our party, and glad were they all when they were fairly started. The carriage was full: so much the better-Jessie was in her father's lap, and Henry Arlington close to Edith. It is worth while to note the change in Jessie. Many a lovely child is so withered by neglect, that it soon loses all natural grace and ease, and becomes stiff, awkward, repulsive. Habituated to indifference, it grows shy, suspicious, uncon- genial; thrown upon its own resources, we see it often selfish, timid, stealthy. And thus the work of destruction, begun by accident or ca- price, progresses until every spark of child-like grace, confidence, glee, and archness, is extin- tinguished, as if the fault were nature's. But when the ice-bands are removed, when the sun of affection streams suddenly full upon the flower, has any one marked with what an exulting bound the prisoned leaves expand and wave like fairy wings fragrant and beautiful? So was it with Jessie that day at Oakland. Her father was in a transport of joy and pride, which he concealed in his peculiar way: the rest won- dered what ailed her, and asked themselves  60    THE GOVERNE S S. what singularly llmerry srite was in possession of the girl. She san for her father, notes the sweetest he ever heard, worth all the cavatinas in creation, illustrated by the best Italian voices. She edified her ni{ her with the most remark- able s ceclles--o (d notionfs which had crept upon her in her loneliness-strange observa  tions which sl had made upon men and wo- nen as they/ passed her prison door,f neautifu  thoughts  t hadt dawned upon her fancy when she w -o;e Mweeping; thoughts about the flowers and th- stars, which she had never uttered, but not forgotten. It was like the outpouring of se d nectar, bursting with its own strength and sweetness. Carry was utterly eclipsed, and felt it. What could be the matter with the child? "I protest," said Mrs. Fairface, "you are getting quite forward." "Hia time she should," replied her husband. "Now for a race," he continued, clapping his han1ds--" a race between Carry and Jessie-this : necklace for the winner," anid he shook the golden trinket over their heads. The ponies were pawing at the door, and the smooth road, visible through the leafless ave-   THE GOVERNESS.       61 nues, led through the grounds across the mea- dow, straight below; returning in the same course, describing an elipse. They were soon in the saddle-the terms of the race prescribed. Carry's horse was white, Jessie's a spirited black. Mr. Fairface braced the girths himself, and away they went, side by side. The witnesses stood on the porch, and every heart, but one, was beating for Carry; and when they emerged from the trees into the open meadow, where the road ran horizontal with the house, they shouted and waved their hand- kerchiefs-Carry was three lengths ahead. "Huzza for the black!" cried Fairface im- petuously--"a thousand on the black!"Jessie was gaining-they enter the return avenue. "Jessie's ahead," shouted her father, unable to conceal his preference. It was true-Carry was far behind. But instead of riding to the goal, Jessie checked her horse, and throwing her arm on his neck, threw a kiss to her sister, who passed her at full speed, and reining up at the porch, claimed the prize. "Why did you stop, Jessie?" said her father. She made no reply, but leaped, laughing and glowing, from the saddle. 6   632    THE GOVERNESS "You deserved to miss it for your dullness," said Mrs. Fairface to Jessie, arranging the necklace around her darling's neckO "t ow pretty you look in it, Carry," said Jes- sie, kissin her, " twice as pretty as I should. Doesn't she, mother?" "Your horse was better than mine," said Carry, peevishy. "Let's change them, then," said Jessie,  "and run again for the same necklace." This proposition was at variance with all the rules of the turf, and could not be entertained. It implied a desire to possess what Carry had fairly won. Did it, Mrs. Fairface?-Or did it imply that Jessie viewed as a laurel, what you  c'h rished as a valuablc prize ; i r ,t*   CHAPTER VI. "My child," said Fairface, taking Jessie aside, "how cam it that you did not care for a necklace from your father. You might have won it so easily?" Jessie, touched by an allusion which implied indifference to his kindness, replied: "Indeed, father, I thought that Carry ought to have it-that it was meant for her, because she is older than I, and because I knew it would please mother better." And as she spoke, a tear trembled in her eye. Fairface took her hand: he reverenced her from his inmost soul. That a girl so young, in  the excitement of victory, should be governed by such exalted delicacy, was a surprise: it was a phase of human nature so rare, that though he suspected her motive, lie could not credit it, until thus announced. He gathered her light hair in his hands, as if it were something ines- timably precious, and with all the emphasis of paternal benediction, whispered--"My noble Jessie!" She burst into tears. What was the earthy ,.. ,?f$;s   necklace to those golden, immortal words, ldetinied to ring their delicious chime in her ars, morning, noon, and night, from that mo- ment forth forever  Mrs. Fairface, seeing that she wept, inferred that she had been severely rebuked, and was molther enough to sympathise with tears not caused by herself. , Never mind," she said, soothing the t exulting child, " you shall do bet- ter next time, my dear." -Had any close observer of the human face been on the watch, he might have read in the terrible curl of Fairface's lip, a part of the se- cret of his life. But it was unnoticed, and the scenec was terminated by the arrival of the old friends of the dinner table, whom the proprie- tor of Oakland expected. We must permit the rep st to be served without our supervision, t,.rtttinl that John will have it all a la mode, as the fa;ir holstes desired. They sat until the noon rose ; and though were sung and catches trolled-,though s were made and bumpers quaffed, yet in tho humbHe confectioner's roons, there was rapture which the convivial banquet never kexw. Mts. Lorn seemedl to be re-animated   'Song , je ndstory sparkled on her lips--she ran ovcer the .half-forgotten freaks and follies of  lher youtlh,now serious and now jocose, con- denisiingr thieh- history of :her life: into such a -charming , picture, -that. Mary' looked and lis- tened, like one before whom some conjuror's pageant .is:passing. The fascination and'vari- able power of hermbther had never been so ap- plarent:' her' face was clothed with resistless magic, -as eloquently and passionately she poured out the joy of her soul to her daughter.  But the moon had. risen before they knew it: its light was the signal for separation, for tile fanmily might have returned, and Mary was a Governess!--Sad thought for Mrs. Lorn, in    ; whomn thenembers of. wealth -and fashionl were  not extinct: bitter contrast for her haughlty. na- ture-haughty it' till ;was-between thie present and the past. 'They 'walked together through ,the quiet streets, the mother giving sage advice' the fruit  of her lonr experience, and arranging the time and manner of ni xt Sunday's meeting :-it  mother would never come to see her: it was  -    5g    THE GOVERNESS. useless and painful to ask her. How lg the weeks seemed , bounded by such delight! The walk was a short one, at least to them, though they prolonged it to pass the Cathedral-and they paused at last on the stone steps of Fair- face House.  The family had not returned when they parted, and Mary watched her moe thler's sacred figure stealing away, sad and soli- tary, until the finely curved shoulders by which she knew her, were indistinguishable. And thoen passing hastily into th parlor, her heart !ed at the solemn mockery of the gilt and purlie splendor around her. Whilst she was overcomling her aversion to the place, and meditating how she could best approach Mr. Fairface on the subject of reli- gious instruction, up rolled the heavy carriage, l,^llr ;:Z:reHenr Arling and the whole family, includinfg Henry Arling- tonll, swet into the room. Imagine Mary's sur- lpri:, whceln Jessie, like alother being, with rlscs i ll le ch lleks, alld graceful in the absence of timnidity, bounded forward right into her "Why were you not with us" said Jessie, " lllad the ict day I ever spent. See wNlat a beautifitl necklace Carry has won!   THE GOVERNESS.       67 Carry exhibited the prize with as much satis- faction as if she were not indebted for it to her sister's generosity-as if, in fact, her absolute merit entitled her to it. We are easily deluded into good nature, when what we know to be a failure, is construed by others into success. Carry was just as proud, as if Jessie had never beeh ahead in the race. So much the better for the Governess. Henry Arlington and Edith retired to a cor- ner, where they enjoyed themselves, doubtless. But we shall not dwell over the insipidity of such love. They talked of the fashions, the play, the opera; of what Mr. Dareall did, and of what Mrs. Pratewell said. They exchanged a thousand glances, significant of unutterable affection, and were as completely lost in each other, as if the rest of creation were non- existant, or in shadowy chaos. They gazed upon the moon and stars with indescribable tenderness, and talked prescriptive nonsense with as keen a relish as if it were not as stale as the exploded calumnies on Hildebrand. By way of varying the entertainment, Edith went to the piano, that new refinement of enlight- ened torture.   V piano openI ill a Protestant house on Sun- ;, truck Mary as strange,-but she said th Ig Mr. airface availed himself of the music, to j i\\t Marl'y aside.   . A: e liii-ed you to day" h said, ' at least, A lid. -Iow ws a your mother?" w-eQlito  l,' replied Mary: it was the first l(itiry hl hi;d inade of her.  1-Do you feel at itihoe with us," continued ;iitc'e, who betwet dcellt the ier and thde- - ,!lt of tie ldav, xwas ill the best possible humor,  ;are v -o at;ficd with ylour room-are the wait- rs attel lix-e enough--ltave you every thing you -ish f;,or ' h,) ;ll tie-e questiolns alary replied affirma- 'Yfou ml;ast nlot be discouraged, or grow  lhomle ick, or thak tlat we are not attentive i eiiou '!, or anytiling of the sort." There islittlt teiar otlhat," said Mary. "iBZt  there is one ditliticlty--tlhe children mnay ask me (tluoStiiii l't0l ot (CGthicity, wNlich 1 shall be puzzled( to lanslwe coCisistentlY with my i po- 1is11se . ,: ", o1-:e X11e, exclilll 1ai irface you tiiamv   give them all the information--hey ask or you choose to impart--especially Jessie-whom I place under your particular charge to do as you please with. I say, Mrs. Fairface"-elevating his voice, " can't Miss Mary answer any ques- tions the children choose to ask?" "Most assuredly" replied that lady, directing her attention immediately to the music. Fair- Iace could not restrain a laugh. "You have taken a fancy to Jessie," he said, "and it appears to be reciprocal. Answer all her questions, but don't warp her mind to Cath- olicity."  "I am sorry you could suspect me of-" "Being a good Catholic?" added Ficirface, with marked and almost bitter emphasis. "But," he resumed, for Mary's face colored deeply, "it won't do for you and me to quarrel, when  I propose to be a father to you, for the sake of that clild," and lie pointed to Jessie. 'I know the habit you Catholics have of proselyt- ising and-but I can't apologize and never could. Listen-." Jessie had wandered to the piano, just vaca- ted by Edith. Unconsciously, she was express- ing her overflowing heart in music, and the  - *   U\     1 1, %3 u  --i . v  nello(dy sl.)pcd itself to the words of Mary's "ymn1. Forgetting that any eye was on her, she babllldonIed herselt to the soft charm of the sim- ple Ilotes. Do you know what she did," said her father in a whisper, and he narrated  her conduct at  the race.  Jessie, who seemed to feel they were talking  of her, looked aroulnd: Marty beckoned to her, she rose, wondering what they wanted. So you were beaten in the race," said Mary. "By her own fault," said Fairface. "I hated to beat Carry," was her only answer;  and whlst they were plaguing her, a lady en-  tered, a stranger to the Governess, but evidently : a person high in the consideration of the family.  As this lady is closely interwoven with our story, it may be well to say a few words of her  in advance. Miss Julia Dartmouth was slightly  under thrtv, with one of tlose plain intelligent  faces, that so often pass for ugly, especially at first sight. Olne shoulder was, perhaps, a little lower than the other, but omitingr this, there was no striking personal defect. Her manner was  /, very plain and natural, without the slgtest affectation or pretension; yet, at her entrance,   tme wnioe Iamluy rose as it to greet some superior being-and even  Fairface himself was so far shaken out of his stoicism as to salute her with the utmost deference. The secret of all this was that she belonged to the very first family in the city, and her father was  a public man of much distinction solidified by considerable wealth. That her visits were rare, might be easily inferred; that she was extremely welcome, could not be mistaken. She glanced once or twice at our Governess, and tlen at Mrs. Fairface, who though constru- ing aright the import of the look, declined to give the solicited introduction. Fairface, maddening as he caught sight of Mary's crimson cheek, said in a voice deep  with smothered feeling:  Permit me, Miss Julia-our friend, Miss Lorn"' Mary would rather have encountered a volley of musketry, than such a merciless ceremony-    : merciless, because evidently delayed. A sweet smile from Miss Dartmouth somewhat calmed her confusion, but the arrow still quivered in her side. But Miss Dartmouth's manners were so sim-     R ple, yet so winning--her conversation so artless. --.I1rt   72    THE GOVERNESS. yet so pleasing,-every look, motion and accent proclaimed her such a thorough-bre lady, that Mary soon forgot her transient morti- fication in admiration of the stranger. Miss Dartmouth knew enough of the world to see that Mary was a Governess; Mrs. Fairface s manner had made it plain enough. "Poor girl," she sighed to herself, with more than one glance at Mary's intelligent face and lhead. "You have been a naughty girl," she said aloud to Edith, "do you visit me so rarely, to make me think you an angel when you come!-I amn aw-are," she continued, glancin at Henry Arlington, "that you have more pleasant enr gagements on hand, but I insist on  better treatment, even if under compulsion." "Edith is so timid," said her mother. "A most unfashionable fault,' said Julia, 'You should resent the accusation, Edith." And Edith laughed; the conversation was above her mark. "Don't you mean to invite me to your first party, she resumed, still more playfully. ci Yes-yes indeed," returned Edith, "it would be nothing without you."   THE GOVERNESS       73 Instead of replying, Miss Dartmouth suddenly looked very grave. She was a pious communi- cant of the Established, Transplanted Church of England, and her eyes were riveted on the open piano. Between the ride to Oakland, the dinner and the horse-race, the whole family had forgotten that it was Sunday. How could there be such an oversight! Quick as lightening, Mrs. Fairface closed the instrument and the cloth was arranged, as if to hush up the unin- tentional violation of the Sabbath. "We have been in the country all day," she said,-as if Saturday night were to blame in the matter. It is hard to say under what denomina- tion Miss Opie would class such a delicate deception. Fairface fairly writhed. Had it been any one else than Julia Dartmouth, he would have hurled back the lid and pounded away for the edifi- cation of the neighhourhood. But Julia laid him under a strong restraint, from some cause yet unknown to the Governess. The most familiar faces are soon forgotten when circumstances change, and especially if the features change with circumstances, or are varied, or expanded, or compressed by 7   time. Now, it happened that Mary Lorn was  once a pet of Julia Dartmouth's, that the families were intimate, even friendly, which means vastly more. But the Lorns had fallen upon their high estate, and the Dartmouth family had been with their sire on a mission to one of the first European powers. Mary and Julia kept looking at each other, with an interest that must have seemed singular. Julia had changed most, and Mary was the first to remember that Miss Dartmouth was not a stranger,--that once, in the morning of life, she had been with her laily, that their lips had been joined in the holy union of friendship, that the  stranger had been to her a second lmother, and a mnonitor, whose lessons were still renmembered. The remembrance came stealing over her like distant music, until tlce Julia, the dear Julia of of the past, was blended with the being before her. Every feature assumed its old character, and she was ready to spring upon her, with the boisterous love of a privileged pet. But she recoiled. Between them  yawned the fatal clasm-the pit which wealth digs between itself and poverty. The impulses of her fond, young heart urged her on; but the hand of maiden   modesty restrained an exhibition of affection, which might be untimely or even unwelcome. Equal natures, however, beat in almost equal time; they are rarely out of harmony. "What did you say was the name of that young lady," said Miss Dartmouth to Edith. "Miss Lorn," replied the love sick girl. "Mary Lorn?" asked Julia, intent upon the name and reviewing the past, in connection with the form before her. "Yes," said Edith, "Mary Lorn. She is our  Governess-that is, for Carry and Jessie." "Mary Lorn," muttered Julia to herself; and : their eyes met, and meeting, answered in mutual  recognition. They rose by a mutual impulse-- and as they stood face to face, the half-forgotten  past arose, clear and distinct, like the sun  ": emerging from a cloud.  "Is it you Mary?" said Julia, clasping the  mute Governess to her heart. "You dear, blessed sun-beam of my youth, have I found you again!" And with pure, lofty, genuine feeling, Julia Dartmouth kissed her again and  again, as if time had but sharpened the edge of affection. Silently around them, stood the lar-.o,a,yc  r,a?2   76     THE GOVERNESS. Fairface family, as much surprised as the chief actors in the scene. Question followed question, embrace elm- brace, and the two friends, for more than an hour, continued to indulge in reminiscences, unmindful of the witnesses to their words. Happiest of all was Jessie-she wept with Mary, as if the joy had been her own. And so it was; a noble nature lives a double life, feel- ing another's rapture as well as its own. "And your mother?" 'said Julia. "Is well." W; ill you take me too see her?" "Yes." "To-morrow?"' Mary hesitated. "Yes!" said Fairface. i   THE GOVERNESS.        " CHAPTER VII. The next day, Monday, Mary's duties as Governess be;an. Miss Dartmouth's friend- ship had lremedied the unfivorable impression c:ltcd bjy her )reference of Jessie, and Mrs. F;Iil'tace wass disposed to regard the Governess wt -I I ilcrl'ased affection. EEcn Henry Arling. toi's eyes were opened, and he thought Mary wort!y of an occasional glance, a smile, or a word. Herl p)atl was not the thorny one she expected too read: the recovery of an old friend had smlootlh(ed the way Before Julia called to pay the promised visit to Mrs. Lorn, M}ary had learned froihn Jessie, that Miss Dartmouthl was to be married to bro- tlhtr Clrtrles on his return from Europe. She hloped di at tli:.; brother Clarles might be like Jessic, a(nd in every way equal to one so ac- comllished as Ais., Dartmouth. In short, he beeclme to her an object of special curiosity: but thire was no daguerreotype of him withn reach, and she had to content herself with ideal lictures of her friend's fiuture husband. 7,    We shall not prolong a story already suffi- ciently barren of incident, by relatilg the parti- culars of the interview beteen Miss Dart- mouth and Mrs. Lorn. -It was hard for Mary and her mother to receive their distinguished visiter in the confectioner's rooms; and it was harder for Julia to see the once brilliant Mrs. Lorn in such straitened cirecumstaees But Miss Dartouth  ad see te  ole roun of  pleasure, and was heartily sick of the folly, worldliness, and inelegance of most of her ac- quaintances. She enjoyed the sweet voice, the fine accent, the enthusiasm and keen wit of Mrs. Lorn,--she loved the unaffected simplicity and Unpreteiiding grace of her daughllter,and whe- tiher in a palace or a hovel, it mnattered not to her true heart. Superior to fashion, she had prized them for their worth: constant in every affection, she could not recognise in poverty a plea or even a temptation to fickleness. Mary, unwlilling to neglect her bijoux for any cause, was soon compelled to return. Miss Dartmouth refused to go and it was rk be- fore she could prevail upon herself to leave the widowed mother. It was a tale of sorrow and trial, that which Mrs. Lorn revealed to Julia   but, at parting, she believed the Kind voice that whispered, ' There are happier times!'-- Mary had heard Julia promise to see her mother, almost every day, and this promise was a consolation beyond expression. Her mother  wasnio longer sitting alone and. friendless from we e}  week,-there was one at least-and a frienly one-to share her solitude. As a mat- ter of justice, Mary treated Carry and Jessie  with equal kindness in all their studies. The  case was not so difficult, as it seemed at first;  for after school-hours, Carry preferred to ride or walk with her mother or Edith, and show  her rosy face to admiring boys,-whilst Jessie's delight was to steal up to the room of her Gov-  erness, to listen to her songs and try to repeat   f them. Her father had bougnt her a beautiful guitar: it was not new, but not the less valua- ble on that account. There was a strange re- semblance between the instrument and one which had once belonged to Mrs. Lorn: but guitars are so much alike. Jessie was never happier than when Mary was teaching her a  hymn: she caught the air with incredible rapid-  ity, and added an accompaniment almost in-  stinctively. She would sit on a cushion at  \a;npalr r -,; , . L -^ * ^                ^ c:    S0     TI E G  V E R N E S S. Mary's feet, and whilst the Governess was sew-, i or reading, Jessie invented hymns to the anrels, shaping the sound to tholulghts of her own. At other times, she wfould ask all sorts of question about her mother in Heaven, and wanlted to know where Malry welt to church, beseaching her to take her there sometimes. In this way, an aspiratiou arose in Mary's soul to have Jessie a Catholic-she fancied that she mirlht lead that pure young lamb into the fold of Christ, and give joy to Heaven-that if Jes- sie grew up a Protestant, she would have a ter- rible account to render at the last day, for ncf!rlcting the opportunities now within her reach. Yet how within reach?-By a promise not to use them--by a promise to avoid the subject of religion. Yet, had not this promise been suspended by what Mr. Fairface had  said?--Her doubts were numeDcrless and incon- clusive.  Why, the missionary leaves his native shores and crosses the oceani, forcing his way through forest and swamp, to suffer and die for those wlhoin he went to save. Shall she nc- rlt'ct this lovely girl, who comes to her, invit- i(r the blessing which others would suffer mar- tyrdom t) th etow? Yet she had not gone forth   with the black gown and the cross, the undis- guised minister of salvation, called to teach all nations, and exulting in his mission. She had crept into the house under a false mantle, and felt ashamed to take advantage of a position obtained by fraud. Are these questions for a girl to solve? Is not the director at hand  Yet should the decision be, that her promise was invalid,-that she must retract and admit that she meant to make Jessie a Catholic?- Terrible thought! Thrown out of employment, who was to sustain her mother?-blank, bitter poverty stared them in the face :-for herself she cared not,-but to witness a parent's utter desolation and destitution, to bring down suf- fering, it might be blindness, on a mother's head-Oh Mary this was hard to do! She trembled and shrank from the possibility of such advice; for if once advised, it must be done.  Such was the daily struggle of her-spirit; and little dreamed Jessie of the pain she was inno- cently giving her best friend. Mrs. Fairface was 'determined to carry out her original intention of freeing Mary fromn the antiquated fetters of Popish superstition. To ensure success, she proposed to enlist Miss   82   TTHE GOVERNESS. Dartmouth and the Rev. Mr. Easy in the cause, never doubting but that a complete triumph awaited her. But there was another wheel at  work, which we shall presently see. In the meanwhile, Fairface was as restless as an unbroken horse, wandering about the house like a disturbed spirit, or locked up in his favor- ite ' Solitaire.' .Mary had never been in this sacred retreat, since the evening of her arrival: MSrs. Fairface was never admitted: even Jes- sie was excluded-- with rare exceptions. One evening, however, when Mrs. Fairface, Edith and Carry were at a concert, escorted by Henry Arlington, Fairface astonished the Gov- erness anid Jessie by inviting them into the mysterious apartment. Jessie could not ap- proach it without a certain indefinite awe; as if expecting some strange, unearthly being to start from behind the door, or jump down the chimney. Mary's feeling was one of mere curiosity to k-now what charm a man like Fair- face, appareintly insensible' to literature or art, could find in such half solitude; and, being a woman, she felt a temptation to pluck out the heart of his mystery. But Fairface had no intention of making an immediate revelation.   He motioned Mary and Jessie to a lounge--the only one in the room-and placed himself in his old writing-desk chair, which lie never abdi- cated for man or woman. "So, Jessie," he began, "I hear you are studying hard. Do you know where Rome is?" "In Italy," said Jessie. "And where is St. Peter's Church?" "In Rore." "Do you know who built it?" "Michael Angelo." "Would you like to see it?" "Yes, indeed," said Jessie, with glistening eyes. Fairface shook his finger at the Governess, and drew a jeweller's box from his pocket. It contained a pearl necklace, very much like Carry's, but more costly. "Come here,"-and as the child advanced, he reaclied out his arnm and placed her on his knee. "I also hear," he continued, " tat you are doing Wonders in music, especially on that old guitar. I want to hear you sing. The instrument was in the room. "Shall it be a song or a hymn?" asked Jes-   .   84     THE GOVER NESS. sie, 'q o: t   'oo L::'tcned to speak above a whisper. "A hymn!" ejaculated Fairface. "What hymns do you sing?" A few that Miss Mary has tautght me." Indeed  Then we'll have a hymn by all means," and lieshook his finger still more vehelmntly at the Governess. Jessie began- Sleep my child and when I slumber," singingr it to her own music. Had an electric eel struck Fairface, the shock could not have been greater. "Hush,L lie muttered, stopping her at the first line. " Th 'l';s not It! air.-Give the gui- tar to Mary.--Sing it, Miss Mary," he said, and  leaning back in the chair, whilst Mary sang, he made Jessie lean upon his breast ; anid taking the ornament from its purple case, passed it over hler neck. The change in Fairface com- pelled Mary to pause for breath, in the middle  of the hymn. All his sternness had disap- peared, and an expression of childlike inno- cence and joy shone upon his face. Far away into the dreamy past, the music carried him,   THE GOVERNESS.       85 reanimating the dear ashes which his memory kept, until the scenes of youth were acted over. Is this the way you teach my child?" he said to -Mary. "Do you object?" she replied. "I can not help it. If--" "I don't object!" cried Fairface. "Wlat do you take me for!" "For a man who hates to hear the end of a sentence." "You said that like your---self," he said, smiling sadly. "Jessie," he continued, do you know where St. Paul's Church is?" "In London." Do you know who built it?" "No, sir." "I thought not. Is St. Peter's Church Ca- tholic or Protestant?" "Catholic." "And St. Paul's?" "Protestant." "Which would you rather see?" St. Peter's," said Jeseie. "Why?" said Fairface. "I don't know," said Jessie. 8   88    THE GOVERNESSo "Am I not mother enough?" was her vehe- ment answ-er.  My own Mother," said Mary quietly, "has been to me all that a parent can be-has de-  voted all her time to my improvement-has nursed me in every sickness-and smiled away all my tears;-and yet she is not mother enougrh. I need the prayers of an immaculate mother, who stands above the angels in the presence of God."  ," You make her a Goddess," said Mrs. Fair- face.  "And you deny her sanctity." "In what way?" "By studiously withholding from her, the at- tribute she claims-Blessed." "We do not regard her as omnipotent," said Mrs. Fairface. "But do you not think that the Son who looked up to her on earth, will look down upon her in Heaven, and grant the prayers of the mother he once obeyed?" "Do you expect to convert me!"Mrs. Fair- face exclaimed, rather than inquired. "Why," said Mary smiling in spite of her- self and enduring quietly the dark artillery of   THE GOVERNESS.       89 her opponent's eyes,--"Why, my dear Mrs. Fairface, I freely confess that I have at present no such expectation; but you have been so kind to me and are so generous and forgiving, that I think you could be made a Catholic without much difficulty." The arch smile on Mary's face-the un- expected sweetness of ler tone--the frankness of every word, anld mnre than all, the superior humour of her manner, (1ldi more for the Gover- ness than hours of argument with one who was evidently not her match. "You Jesuitical creature,' said Mrs. Farr- face palpitating between anger atd laughter ' You pay me too great a cornpluuenl ' re- turned Mary, inclining her leatd. What more might have followed, we know not: the discussion was suspended by the ap pearance of Fairface. He noticed his wife's agitation and guessed the reason. "Quarrelling about religion, I suppose," he said. "When two women meet in controversy, good bye to a fair conclusion." "It has come to this,'" said Mary: "I shall see my confessor to-morrow, and if I can stay here without making any attempt to enlighten 8*   90    TIE GOVERNESS. Jessie, I shall do so with great pleasure, other- wise we must part." The Governess was pale as death, as she thus firmly announced her determination a deter- mination dictated by her own judgment and feeling, and matured without advice. It was no easy thing for one so young and so depend- ant upon stranger generosity, to take a step calculated to blight her own prospects and her mother's temporal case. "AIMar Lorn," said Fairface, extending his arms and revolving on his heel, "I hereby give, grant and extend unto you full, free and entire permission to convert this whole house, from me down, Joln the servant inclusive. And 1 hereby command and enjoin upon my wife Mrs. Fairface, to unite and join in the same desire." "On one condition," replied that lady " that I have full, free and entire permission to con- vert her."  Certainly," said Mary. You will go with us to church sometimes," pursued Mrs. Fairface. , Never," replied Mary. "Are you afraid?" "Yes."   THE GOVERNESS.       91 "You fear the truth?" "No-error." "I do not object," continued Mrs. Fairface, "to hear mass occasionally." "There is no reason why you should," re- plied Mary, " you hear the true originals of your best prayers." ' Then why not come with us to hear the translation," said Fairface coming to his wife's relief. "It is not a translation, but a paraphrase," returned the Governess. "And you have taken the shadow without the substance, the symbol without the sacrifice, the altar without the victim." "You certainly have the pleasantest way of saying the most disagreeable things," remarked Mrs. Fairface. "And so had her mother," muttered Fairface to himself. "But a truce to controversy," he resumed, "it never did and never can do any good. When I spoke of converting the whole household, I did not mean to convert this re- spectable domicile into an ecclesiastical forum. I meant-and so Mary understands me--that those silent, inevitable influences, which mortals r   OR, TIlE CHOICE. exercise on each other, may have full play; and that Mary's instructions, must take colour from her own opinions. Let each of us praise our own belief-it is right and fair; but no con- troversy, ladies, if you value my repose. Mrs. Fairface, tlough not entirely pleased wth the result of the conversation, because she perceived her inability to compete with the logi- cal Governess, was only the more determined to retrieve herself through her powerful reserves Miss Dartmouth and the Rev. Mr. Easy. Another subject, not less dear, and more mo- mnentous, divided her thoughts. Tuesday night was fixed for the ball, in which the blooming Edith was to make her dlebut. Edith was on the point of coming out, or; in other words, was about to exllibit lherself to the beau monde as .a marriageable young lady, already blessed with a good offer, but yet not disposed to reject univer- sal admiration, and even willing to exchange er suitor for a better. She was to be launched, wuit all her sails set, upon the private and parti- culr lake of fashion. Young ladies look for- ward to this period with much confidence, feel- ing secure that their charms must triumph ; and like a youlng author, with lis first work, expect   t     T ITHE GOVERNESS.      93 to set the world on fire. M[others, however, who are constitutionally tremblers, and who know the stupidity, insensibility, jealousy of their intimate friends, are not quite so sanguine, Iand mnany a fear possessed Mrs. Fairface, that her daughter might make an undecided hit, or even a failure: that she might lose her self-pos- session: that her beauty and bearing were so superior, that the voice of calumny might be raised against her charms. The day was fixed, however-Edith's appearance was expected- and during the intervening week, all the arts and graces of reception, dismissal, avoidance, solicitation, mock anger and feigned trans- ports, gliding away with averted head, the mo- tion of the fan and the moistening of the lip, the carriage of the arms and the peeping of the toe from the skirt,--all these wonderful myste- ries were to be assiduously practiced. Con- versation was an inferior matter, and came of itself with the impulse of the moment: the gen- tlemen are expected to talk-it is surely intel- lectual enough for a lady to listen. In all these sciences the Governess was unskilled, and Mrs. Fairface humbly confessed herself scarce up to the refinement of the times, and unable to in-   4     f T "E v v  o - truct her daughter. She could take care of  herself, but she wanted a loftier model for her laughter. No pains were spared ; and Edith  had numberless conversations with her friends  who had emerged triumphantly from the ordeal 5ycar before: from them she learned the Ele- isilianl secrets never unfolded to mortal man,- the cobwebs of fascination and the bands of captivation were placed in her hands-- she was told how to entrap the weakness and how to foil the strength of man,-how to conquer by appearing careless of conquest,-- how to hide the mole on her neck and display the dimple in her arm--in short, she was trained to a nicety, for the belle of the season. As the eventful day approached, the whole house. was in commotion,-nothng else thought of. Carry neglected her lessons and pouted whilii reprimanded, until finally dispensed by her motler from class, that she might assist Edith. Even Jessie thought that some great event was to take place, and Mary found it hard to interest her in anything but a ball. What is a ball?" asked Jessie three days be- fore the affair, stopping in the middle of a piece of music.   "Finish your lesson," said Mary, smiling. Jessie ran through it with ease and repeated the question. "A ball," replied Mary, " is something very hard to define. In the first place, a young lady  in society, to gratify her vanity or her friends, sends cards of invitation to her acquaintances begging them to come and spend the evening with her. Then a waiter is hired to provide a magnificent supper. At ten or eleven o'clock the company come in full dress-that is white cravats for the men and bare necks and arms  for the ladies. There is a band of music, or two or three -fiddlers, and they dance until supper time-then eat and drink-then dance until they are tired, then go home and go to bed."  "Is that all?" said Jessie, not exactly com- prehending the enjoyment of thing. "I am afraid that I cannot tell you any bet- ter. Let me see: you remember playing with your dolls, and leaden soldiers, and such things, don't you?" '"I remember seeing Carry," said Jessie. "Well," continued Mary, kissing her, "you know how pleasant it was to see the little crea-   96    TI E GOVERNESS.           V turcs dance. Your sister Edith is tired of her dolls, so she must have real persons come  and dance for her. They are both puppet shows Jcs-ie, with this differcnce, that the first is i"- innocent, the second often guilty, and that one costs a thousand dollars more than the other. "Is there any good music " "Not that I know of." "No singing?" pursued Jessie, whose ideal )a1ll was losing its tints. "Very rarely." "Do they do nothing but dance and eat " They talk and give a great deal of scandal, said Mary. "What's that?" How many more questions are you gong to ask me?-wait until you see it. "Will you be there?" "Not I!" replied Mary, "My dear Jessie it is no place for me."  "Why not," said the wondering child. "I have no dress." "But sister will lend you one of hers."   THE GOVERNESS.       97 No, no," cried Mary, laughing, " it wouldn't fit. And then I have no wish to go." "I'll tell father to make you go." "It is beyond his power," said the Governess. Jessie opened her eyes wide: never before had she imagined that any thing in the world was beyond her father's power. Whilst they were talking, Edith herself ap- proached Mary, saying- "Have you determined yet what to wear?" "At the ball?" said Mary. "Yes." "I am not going." "Not going? Impossible! I insist upon it, and ask it as a personal favor. Indeed, Miss Mary, I shall never forgive you, if you treat me so shabbily." "I shall not be missed, my dear Edith," re. plied the Governess. "No one knows me or cares to know me, and I should have a most unfortunate time. I must entreat your indulg- ence: it is sufficient for me to know that you enjoy yourself." "I am sorry, indeed I am," whimpered the pretty girl. "You must change your mind- indeed you must. And now, I have a favor to 9   Father hates parties, and has always said that he would rathcr be scalped at an Indian war dance, than endure a regular ball. I want mi to use all your influence to induce him to ittr the rooms on Tuesday night. I have set my heart upon it, and you must help me." "I should do so willingly," returned Mary, but I am not aware of having any influence with her father. On the contrary, I imagine that if his daulghter's request be refused, he would only laugh at me." "Not at all. Aother says that you are the very person, and that a word from you will do more than all our persuasion." "It is impossible," and as she spoke Fair- face preselted his square shoulders through the door. Edith gave a side glance at Mary, as if to say-' speak at all events, he is in a good h lvi or. "I wish this fandango were over," said Fair- face, " the house is turned upside down. Is yor, }lwad turning too?" addressing himself to Mary. r'l Trlling upon the tie of your white cravat," rejoined the Governess.   "I never wear a white cravat," said Fair- face. "But you intend to wear one on Tuesday." "Why not?"  "Because it is fashionable."  "Is that a reason? What do you mean,  Mary Lorn? Do you imagine that I am to par- ticipate in the anticipated puppet-show?"  "Why not?" pursued Mary. "Why should I?" said Fairface.  "To protect your daughter." 'Are not you, and her mother, and her own good sense, and my house, protection enough?"  "No," answered the Governess;' "A good  father is a daughter's best safeguard."  "Do you call me a good father?" he retorted, with a sigh that shook his frame for a moment. "Yes, indeed," whispered the musical voice  - of Edith, "the best and kindest father that ever was. You cannot mean to tell everybody that you are indifferent to your eldest child.-  Everybody will be asking, 'Where is your father? Where is your father?' And how shall I answer them--what shall I say?" Say that I am playing solitaire; and if that doesn't content them, add that I have a perfect   100    Tr E GC O V  RNES S. colltlp)t f:,r a!l sorts of (dances; or if tley are -till ,unsatisfied, you ainy eiltly insinuate that th!,ey may go lwhere thllue is no neced of asking i aly ttstiil.: Pe)h' pTs Mis Lorn wishes that I .l1()ldl go to pro!c0Cct ler?" -Not aIt al," replile IiMary, "Irvv-e not the lir'iijt 't itei:1tilon of 1be) n r preselt. o, 1o'!" 1;il:!l Fa-d aiface, "you would t;k ,1 D in the t)illrv nlnd tscape yourself. Yon aret \yoltr ullnmarric dl and sufficiently - ,dWoOd lookil : I (m old, blessed with a family, anlld as Iupre)possessing as a Convent porter. AI1(d vet you dare to catechise me for declining an honour so much more becoming to you than to me." "Pardon me, sir," said Mary; "if I were Edith's father, rm hleart should prompt a distinc- tion which you have omitted. Subtract the head of the house from the ball room, and the remainder is nothing." "A decided comllinmeit to the rest of my family. Jessie, get m-e some cotton for my ears.' Jessie, whlo tlought lie htad the car-ache, as ,roilrr for the cotton, when Miss Dartmouth as unlexpectedly added to the group; not,   THE GO VE RN-ES S.     101 however, before Mary's quick eye had discerned traces of real sorrow and concern in the father's face. "They are pestering me, Miss Dartmouth, to show my forbidding face in the ball-room. Tell them the impolicy of the thing and demonstrate that the. great bear must always be a bore in such an elegant cage." "I should rather advise," said Miss Dart- mouth, " that an additional set of waiters be employed to drag you in the room if you refuse, and keep you there, if you. attempt to bolt." "You had better," he returned, ' employ a select body of old maids to force this refrac- tory Governess there, and leave me to my own amusements." "Why surely, Mary, you are going," said Miss Dartmouth. Mary shook her head very gravely. "Nonsense," continued her friend; but Mary was inflexible. "Let us make a compromise," said Fairface. "If Mary goes, I go; not otherwise?" Do you promise?" said Miss Dartmouth.  "I give you my word," said Fairface, who by  this adroit manoeuvre had diverted the brunt of 9"    102    THE GOVERNES S. the battle from himself and concentrated the at- tack upon the Governess. She felt her awkward position, and was inclined,to tax Fairface with unkindness, in thus escaping by victimizing her. "You have taken a most unfair advantage of me," she said. "I little thought that Ajax was to ficrht behind the shield of Teucer." "'I wish you had had no tongue," growled Fairface. "Get me the cotton, Jessie! Why don't you persecute me too?" he said, catching the child in his arms, as she rose to obey him. "Beg him to come," cried Edith: but Jessie looked up in his eyes and uttered not one single word. "I asked you for cotton," he continued "and now, I want a bandage for my eyes. Don't look at me, Jessie. This is too bad. And here come Mrs. Fairface and Carry to in- crease my perplexity. Let me go!" "Remember! you promise," cried Miss Dart- mouth, as he vanished, slamming the door after him. In the conversation that followed, Miss Dart- mouth consoled the family, by explaining her intention, which was to induce Mrs. Lorn to command her daughter's presence at the ball.   THE GOVERNESS.       103 "Will you go with me to see your mother?" she said to Mary, thus offering an irresistible inducement. The carriage was at the door --Mrs. Fairface suggested that the day was fair-every thing beckoned her to her mother, and not one suspicion of the trap crossed Mary's mind. Even had she divined her friend's in- tention, she would have thought her mother, the last person alive, to advise a step from which she instinctively recoiled.   104    THE GOVERNESS. CHAPTER IX. Mary's good fortune had inspired Mrs. Lorn with new life and vigor. She paid more atten- tion to hler dress, and was able to -ead at night without pain. Her health was improved by long walks, and she was even able to compose stories and essays for fashionable magazines. Her pen was well wielded, and her criticism so keen, sparkling and original, that she was al- ways a welcome contributor, though, of course, inadequately remnulnerated. Her dalughter was delighted with the change, and wondered at her own resolution in taking a stand, which many Catholics are not willing to keep. Mrs. Lorln was surprised at Julia's unexpected visit with Mary, and the confectioner was cal- culating largely upon Miss Dartmouth. She had Inanifested a taste for taffy, and had a su- gar-plum mouth, he was sure of that. "Here we are again," said Miss Dartmouth. "Perhaps we intrude too often upon your soli- tude."   Mrs. Lorn. glanced round the rooms, and kissed them both. "What a little Paradise this would be," she replied, "were you always here. As it is, I must admit that I am  sometimes lonely  enough." "Lonely enough," repeated Julia. "There are times whren one cannot read or write- when we are weary, yet cannot sleep. What do you do then?" Mrs. Lorn drew a pair of beads from her pocket. "I have an unfailing resource in these. I would advise you to try it, Julia, when you have the heart-ache : it is better than the old comedy." Julia shook her head. "I have often re- marked." she said, ' the many resources for consolation invented by Catholic faith. It seems as though you trifled with the dignity of human nature. An Italian peasant girl may soothe her sorrows by counting her rosary, but for a woman like you to point to this, as an antidote for pain, is little short of delusion." "Are you fond of going to church?' asked Mrs. Lorn. "Of course I am." -  106    TII E G  V E R  E S S. "May I ask why?" "Because it is conlsecrated to the service of God." And ,.o are these beads, Jtlia: not by the pre-ellce of a parson, bu. by the blessing of a priest. What is your comfort il sickness or trouble  "In prayer." How then can you wonder that I apply the same remedy. And if you have an old prayer book that has helped you through many a trial, might you not point to it as the vial that con- tained a cordial for your soul? Believe me, Ju- lia, that when the imagination refuses to shape the yl tlbols of salvation, when improper thoughts are crowding the mind, and the little devil lurking in the human heart is playing off his eductive panorama, that the crucifix, or a medal, or a picture, telling the tale of redemp- tion, and presenting to the eye what the heart fails to su-Tt,--that any actual monitor of heareni, like these beads from which you turn, is then treastre and a friend." Miss Dartmouth shook her head. "If you are ever plunged in sorrow-"   THE GOVERNESS.       107 "I have had sorrows," said Julia "and I healed them in the Bible. It is enough for me." "But when we can't read, Julia?" pursued Mrs. Lorn, recalling Julia's own words. "I can always read that blessed book." "And interpret it too?" "Yes." "Are you infallible?" "No." "Is your Church?" "No."- "Then who is the interpreter?" "God!" said Julia, triumphantly. "Through whom?" "Through his church." "Then his clAhK must be infallible." Julia hesitated. "She is infallible," she re- sumed, " but modestly disclaims the attribute." Mrs. Lorn, smiled, as she replied, "but my dear friend, do you not see that she forfeits the claim by denying her title. If fallible, you make her an usurper, if infallible, you reduce her to a deceiver." "Do you confide in such logic?" said Julia. "Had I not confided in it," returned Mrs. Lorn, "I should now be in my grave. When   108    T IE GOVERNESS. deprived by one blow, of husband and fortune,- when cast naked on the world, to weather the storm, with this pale flower at my side,-there was nothing to shield me from despair and ruin, but the sacraments which the Catholic Church alone can bestow, and which heresy pretends not to administer. You speak of sorrow, Julia: if ever your heart is robbed of its brightest hope, if ever your breast is aching beyond relief, if ever your pillow bring you neither solace nor re- pose,-come to ine. I will teach you how to say these beads with me, and you shall be healed." "You are making the conversation too se- rious," said Julia. "I came here for anything else than a theological discussion. You cannot guess what brought me: I have not let even Mary into the secret." "What is it?" inquired Mrs. Lori "Edith is to give her first ball on Tuesday night, and cannot prevail upon her father to be present. I extorted from him a promise to go, if Mary went; and the obstinate girl refuses. I came here to entreat you to lay positive orders on her to go. It is her duty, and refusal must naturally provoke the family. I shall be there   THE GOVERNESS.       109 and promise that every attention shall be paid her." Rarely, alas! rarely can any mother resist such a temnptation, and still less one who has triumph- ed in the arena for which her child is a candidate. Like an exhalation, rose before Mrs. Lorn, the dream of the past. Mary had never been at a ball-she was now to appear the friend and pro- tc-gee of the superb Miss Dartmouth. Who could tell what might come of it? She knew how well her daughter would light up-how exquisitely a flower would sleep upon her hair-she saw her moving like a nymph, outshining Edith, and the rest, as the moon outshines the stars. "You must go, Mary," said Mrs. Lorn. "Mother?" the Governess answered, in amazement. "' You cannot in courtesy refuse." "Are you in earnest?" continued Mary, :' would you expose me to the critical scorn of every whiskered dandy, who knowing my de- pendence, may not hesitate to annoy me." "This is an insult to me," said Miss Dart- mouth, wiping the tear from Mary's eye, "Look at me, Mary,-would I ask you to go if you were not sacred under my protection?" 10   "O   T H  GOVERNESS. "And are you not aware," added her mother, "that the root of your objection is pride?" "It may be," replied Mary; " but it is pride less dangerous than the pride which impels me to go." "Why not call it duty?' said Julia. "It is my duty to be firm, that Mr. Fairface may not suffer from my irresolution." Mrs. Lorn was silent: Mary's allusion to pride had staggered her. She was sad and Mary saw it. Kneeling before her mother she took her hands and said: "I will do as you direct; a daughter seldom suffers frome obedicnce. "Say the word," cried Miss Dartmouth, as Mrs. Lorn hesitated. "O!" said the mother. "And now for the dress," resuned Julia, "Come, Mary, we have no time to lose. You look as though you were to be executed instead of doing execution at the ball." I promise you," replied Mary, "that you shall have the most dejected companion that ever yet attended you at a feast. Good bye Mother, and pray for me."   CHAPTER X. Mary was unhappy: she felt herself almost for- saken by her mother. At least it seemed as if, for the first time, there was a 'difference in feeling between them,-as if they were not en- tirely one. The memorable evening came at Irst. Edith had the services of four chosen friends at her toilet, not to mention the hair-dresser and seve- ral other assistants. The flounces fell ten deep from her waist, and the white skirt was heavy with bouquets; Henry Arlington's she carried in her hand. Four mortal hours were consecu- tively consumed before her mirror. Carry was scarcely less assiduous in preparing her person for the market; she appropriated the spare ad- vice of the four friends, and copied afntr Edith as well as she could. Jessie was entrusted to the Governess: the only ornament she wore was her father's necklace. Jessie wondered more at the transformation in the Governess. This transformation was wrought not by the ad- dition of ornament, but simply by a change in   dress. Mary possessed one of those light, elas- tic figures, which look well in any thing. Hith- erto, she had made her own clothes, and though well made, they were far from elegant. But her new dress was another affair: and though the sleeves were long, and though-(muoh against the milliner's wilD-it was high in the neck, yet it fitted to a nicety. Add to this, that the fortunate change in circumstances had given something of a bloom to her cheeks, and that she was entirely unaffected. She smiled at herself in the glass, but rather in mockery than in pride. She had a way of fixing her hair, taught her by her mother. It was a single twist, whose chief beauty consisted in preserv- ing the curve of the head. A quarter of an hour sufficed for herself, and she did not bestow much more time upon Jessie.   She played the guitar for her little friend until Miss Dart- mouth called for her. Miss Dartmouth called to take her to her mother; for well she knew that it would be a pleasure to see Mary in her new dress. "It is all right," said the mother, after a careful scrutiny. "I could have wished the skirt a shade fuller, but it will do."   Julia was almost as plainly attired as her friend, "I have brought a few flowers," she said, producing some Japonicas and wax balls, or snow balJls, as they were called in the good old days before botany was fashionable. Mary was passive; and her mother, chosing a cluster of white berries, stuck them in her daughter's hair. "Nothing more," cried Julia, restraining the parent's hand, which still unsatisfied, was at- tempting to improve its first careless aim. "It is perfect." Mary bowed so meekly that they laughed. "Lead me forth," she said, " as soon as you please." "Tell me, Mary " asked Julia, "is this indif- ference feigned or real?" "Real, upon my word," answered the Gov- erness. "If I wanted to go to the ball, I should take no pains to conceal my desire; so now I scruple not to expose my complete in- difference. Upon my word, mother," she con- tinued more earnestly, "I would rather sit here and mend stockings from now till to-morrow morning, than spend one hour in that room  to-night." 10  '.         .              :   "4    THE GOVERNESS "But if you were not a Governess7?" said her mother. "It would be the same," replied Mary.- "I believe that my habits are formed, and that though I am as fond of admiration as other peo- ple, I have still such an aversion to general inspection and idle compliment, that nothing in a ball-room can possibly interest me. Why, Julia, our blooming Edith has been all day ar- ranging the gear accumulated in a month, to enhance her beauty; and with it' all on, it is not half so becoming as her morning wrapper. I scarcely know her, she is so wilfully ugly." "Jealous," cried Julia. "I am not jealous," returned Mary, laughing with them, " for I saw in my glass that I look prettier than she does, and it made nme laugh to think of a folly which I am to countenance by my presence." "What a grave moralist you are," exclaimed Miss Dartmouth. "Give me a hill to climb, or a garden to run in,-let me have the flowers blooming, the birds singing and the tress nodding about me,-let us have a romp in the woods and meadows of Oak- land, Julia, and you shall see whether I have    not a soul for fun as well as a taste for censure. But to go and stand up in this pretty white dress, and try to be as agreeable as I can,-to see sights that no Christian ought to see-to wit- ness---I hate balls, indeed I do, and that's the truth." "You have not had an opportunity to like them," said her mother. "Is it an acquired taste," replied Mary, " that, you would have me learn, as a man learns how to smoke or drink?" "Few of us have any trouble in acquiring it," returned Mrs. Lorn, "the cup is sweet as soon as tasted." "And yet you offer me the cup?-Well, I shall taste it, and you shall hear to-morrow how r like it. I must go; Jessie is expecting me." When they were in the carriage, Miss Dart- mouth took her companion's wrist and fastened a bracelet on it. Mary made no resistance, but kissed her friend in silence. And as they rode on she only said: "Why do you love me?" To which, womanlike, Miss Dartmouth gave xn answer, and loved her more than ever. There were some carriages already at the   "6    TI E GOVERNESS. door. Edith was in the room, supported by her mother, in black velvet, on one side, and her father on the other. Mary laughed as she caught a glimpse of Fairface. He was stately and sad, with some cynical bitterness in the corners of his mouth. "See how he enljoys himself-the paternal proprietor!" whispered Mary. "Surely, he is no model for you," returned Julia. The Governess ran up stairs and found Carry and Jessie impatient for her arrival. "We thought you were never coming," muttered Carry. "Did you," said Mary, and turning her brace- let to the light, she saw a circle of diamonds blazing in the centre. Carry saw it too. "Oh me! how pretty!" she exclaimed, and it was pretty, and cost a pretty price. "Wait, Miss Dartmouth, I shall be ready in an instant," said Mary. She went to her room, and there alone before the crucifix, she repeated te Remember, and returned to the dressing room, chleerful and even beautiful.- Yet it was; neither the beauty of passion nor of reonius nor was it that loftier expression which   THE GOVERNE SS.       117 partakes of inspiration: but there was a clear, calm, intellectual light in her face, and a native modesty, unblemished by the corrupting atmosphere of society. "Come!" said Julia, and they entered the room, the Governess last, rather dragged by Jessie, than leading her. Mrs. Fairface greeted her last, with sufficient condescension, however, to spare Mary's blushes. But Fairface shook off his apathy and began to breathe freely. "Let us walk," he said, offering his arm to Mary and returning Miss Dartmouth's approv- ing smile. "I am sick of standing up in the pillory." Had Edith or her mother been occupied with anything else than the debtt, they might have seen in Mary a grace beyond their calcu- lations. But as the rooms filled, so many per- sons began to inquire her name, that Mrs. Fair- face was obliged to explain that she was only a Governess. This intelligence was sufficient to prevent that general attention, which she might otherwise have received, had not Miss Dart- Inouth's patronage been cast into the other scale. But Mary's manner was studiously cold, and her words fell as slowly as drops from a )   "8    THE GOVERINESS thawing icicle. To those, however, who re- membered her mother and spoke of her, she was unreserved and grateful. Edith had, wilfully, deserted Henry Arlington early in the evening, for a dashing fellow in epaulettes; perhaps with the desiign of stimu- lating her lover's affection. Henry was furious, and longed for an opportunity of revenge. He saw the interest created by the Governess and heard numerous encomiums passed on her, even by the 'most censorious. Somebody went so fatr as to sugtrest that the sweet looking Gover- ness could not have lceen long in the family, or Edith would have been dressed in better taste. Encouraged by this, attracted by her appearance, and panting for revenge, he approached her. "May I claim you for the next set?" he said, as graciously as he knew how. "I do not dance," replied Mary. "Do not dance," repeated Henry, who, for some minutes, was unable to imagine any other suitable occupation. "You are jesting, surely. Let me prevail upon you?"  "I hlave already declined," said Mary. "Perhaps you will walk then?" "In an instant," she replied, taking Miss    Dartmouth aside. "This fellow," she whisper- ed to Julia, " has not spoken three words to me since he knew me. Do you see his object?" Miss Dartmouth nodded and smiled. "I cannot resist the temptation, as mother would say, to have some fun." And with a smile to her friend, she took the expectant Henry's arm. As they moved from room to room, the gen- tleman in the epaulettes remarked that Edith became very uneasy and abstracted; and when they disappeared in the Hall, her agitation in- creased so much, that he left her to the next candidate. Mary's spirits rose with the mischief she was making. She soon contrived to inter- est Henry in her conversation, andd amiably lowered her intellect to his level. He was amazetl to find her so agreeable, and wished that Edith would take lessons from her in the art of talkin-. Mrs. Fairface was indignant. Once or twice, she asked Henry if he did not mean to dance. But the youth saw his advantage, and being perfectly satisfied with his present em- ployment, declined. Fairface did not seem to notice them. Now and then he exchanged a   120    THE GOVERNESS. gracious word with Julia, but he kept to him- self, stern and silent. Meanwhile the great heart of the ball was moving in the centre, un- conscious of this side play-of these pulsations at the extremities. The breach between Edith and Henry was widening every moment. To the parties them- selves it appeared impassable, and they internally vowed eternal separation. But Mary, half re- penting her folly, and heartily tired of her com- panion, contrived to rejoin Miss Dartmouth, and when Henry wandered to Edith, he met with a cruel repulse. "See what you have done," said Julia. I couldn't help it," said Mary. "Their wounds must soon heal though, and they r-ill love each other all the better. Are you sleepy, Jessie," she continued, walking to the child, who sat close by, in a corner. Jessie looked up and smiled. "Let us go to bed," said Mary, "it is near midnight." And as Miss Dartmouth took lier place in the Quadrille, the Governess and Jessie made their escape unnoticed. They mret Fairface in the hall, and he insisted on their accompanying him to 'Solitaire.'   THE GOVEN E S S.      121 "Cam pagne an d cream," he said'to John, and led them to the room. "Take the sofa Jessie-you can sit there, Mary-keep an old man company for a minute." He filled a large goblet with wine and drank it off. Then he poured out a little glass for Jessie.  "The next time -you catch me at a ball," he muttered between his teeth. "The next time you catch me at a ball, you may paint me a foolscap and make me a collar of bells, and I promise to walk the public square in them, two hours a day, singing ' God save the King!' As for you, young hypocrite," he said to Mary, "you have thrown the whole camp into confu- sion by flirting with my prospective son-in-law. I might hae known you could do nothing less. Jessie  The child was fast asleep on the sofa. "I am disturbed," said Fairface, filling and emptying the goblet again. "My son should lave been here a week ago: the steamer is ten days out of time. I have kept my fears to my- self to save the woman-kind the usual amount of hysterics in such cases, but I am disturbed," and he drained the goblet for the third time.- "   12    Til E GOVERNESS "Yet w\ith tins mountain on y mind, I have been compelled, to giggle, bos, er, and prate for two hours, whilst my wife was wishing you at the--anywhere else. See how bissfully that girl is sleeping." "I should think you slept very little," said Mary.  "You are right," answered Fairface. "And since your advent, I sleep less." "I an sorry that I help to keep you awake. "So ami I," said Fairface, hangingll his head. "Wy dto you stay so much alone in this lit- tle roon?" ilnquired Mary. "You would penetrate my secret?" 'replied Fairface, bitterly. "You would find out what sort of a creature I am. Suppose- " and his eyes glared as he spoke-" suppose that I hated all mankind, especially the inmates of this house,--my family, except Jessie there, and that boy, who is now tossed on the sea,- suppose I loathed them all, what would you think?" Mary was silent in wonder and terror. Supplose that I loved, early in life, one who deserted me,-that I married for consolation and found despair! Suppose that in spite of   THE GOVERNE Ss.       123 time, and wroing, and guilt, and woe,!Aat love continues, like the Promethean vulture, to prey on ever growing passion,---is this room a mys- tery to you then?" The Governess trembled at his wild words and quivering mouth. "I started life a poet," he continued, and he dashed his hand against the table. "I feasted on literature, as a bee feasts on flowers, or as a deer drinks at a spring, leaving the banquet undiminished for the herd. I was a loving, gentle, generous being, until one day a winning snake poisoned my life, and changed me from little less than angel, to a fiend." The fiown on his face verified his words. "You stare and tremble," he said. "You think me a madman or a fool,-an unnatural monster who insults your modesty. Mary Lorn, Mary Lorn, if books were true to nature ; if they were any thing else than weak, paltry, unnatu- ral lies ;-if they really reflected the heart of man, instead of his mere outward seeming,- You would be prepared for facts like these, and know that it is an every day occurrence." "Heaven forbid!" said Mary. Since then,-since that fatal day-I have   lc4    THE GOVERNESS. longed, burned, thirsted for extinction-flat, absolute, complete annihilation. This little room is my only solace, my only refuge from despair. Here have I fou(rltt aaist opium, al- cohol, insanity, suicide. Look!" he said, draw- i; r'from his desk a loaded pistol, a little golden box, and pointing to a liquor case-"These are my nightly companions, and yet I touch them not! You tliink it stran ge that I should tell you this,--and you despise my weakness. Young girl, for years and years, this secret has fcstered within me, unrevealed. There was no remedy on earth or in heaven. Here I am, a blighted, cursed, corrupted clod, hoping nothing, loving nothneg, and fearing nothing but immortality. And this is the end of-- " "Protestantism!" cried Mary, whose interest had o'erpowered her fear. "The end of Pro- testantism in a soul like yours! Choose an appointed Confessor instead of me, and the load will glide from your soul, ald you shall live again  I heard these words once before!" he said, so mournfully, that the tears sprang from her eyes. "I heard these words once before, and I scorned them. Here is another companion   THE GOVERNESS.       125 of my vigils!" and he handed her a miniature. "Now you know me!" he whispered, as the painting fell from her fingers: and, groaning aloud, he covered his face with his hands. The door opened, ard Mary saw a pale face timidly entering. A stranger stood before her, wrapped in a cloak. He started as he saw her, and they stood steadfastly gazing at each other. Mary looked away and rose to go. "Stay!" thundered Fairface, grasping her arm. As he raised his head, he saw the stran- ger, and staggered forward to meet him. The room reeled around him,-the lights danced and disappeared through the ceiling-the stranger spread his arms-and fainting and powerless the father fell on the breast of his son. "Brother! Brother!" shouted Edith, bound- ing into the room. "It is Charles-it is Charles!" cried Mrs. Fairface, and like a plaything Charles was passed from arm to arm, whilst Mary led the father to his chair and held it to his forehead. When Jessie, who slept through it all, began to rub her eyes, Fairface had recovered enough to speak to his son; Edith and Mrs. Fairface   123    TIIE GOVERNESS. had returned to the parlours, and the ball went on. "Come, Jessie," said the Governess, rous- ing her. "See if she knows me," whispered Charles. Jessie looked at him once or twice, and was puzzled. Good night, father," she said. "Won't you bid me good night, too," said Charles. His voice betrayed him, and she threw her- self on hIis neck: it was brother Charles.   CHAPTER XI. "WHO is that young lady with Jessie," ,asked Charles, as Mary vanished. "Mary Lorn, our Governess," said Fairface. "She has a very striking face," continued Charles.  "She is a very remarkable common-place person," said the father. "I never knew any one so interesting merely through good princi- ple and good sense. She wants the romantic element which is your delight. But you have not seen Julia yet: she is in the other room." "I cannot see her in these clothes," the son objected. "Nonsense," said Fairface. "Throw off your cloak. You are better dressed than most. of them are now : their collars are down-their coats speckled with spermaceti-and half of them too drunk to noti  you.  Come!"- and he forced the reluc at youth before him. Charles stopped at the door, declaring that he would not move another step. Fairface finding that force and entreaty were useless, disengaged   128    THE GOVERNESS. Miss Dartmouth, who had already heard of the arrival, which of course spread through the room with telegraphic rapidity. Her face grew crimson at the sight of Charles; but command- ing herself, she saluted him with forced com- posure. "Welcome home," she said. "You have had a long passage." And a perilous one," replied Charles, "I thouglt there was an end of me, and abandoned the thought of meeting you again." Fairface betook himnself to Solitaire, and Charles walked the hall with Julia on his arm, telling her how they floundered in the trough of the sea, and how his heart sank, when, creeping along the deck, lie encountered the captain weeping over his wife's miniature. ABut he did not tell her that he then remembered her and pressed her picture to his heart; for it was not true, and Charles Fairface, with all his faults, scorned a lie. Perhaps Julia observed a want of something, or felt the absence of the rapture she expected or desired; or, it may be, that too thankful for his safety, she was unmind- ful of herself. But, at all events, there were tears in her eyes; and when the first emotion   T1H1E GOVERNESS.      129 subsided, she listened, pale and trembling, to the recital of his dangers and his joys. In the meanwhile, Mary Lorn was pondering over the terrible revelation she had heard from Fairface; He was not a man of many words, and whole volumes had been compressed into his broken sentences. And then the picture which had fallen from her hands-it was her molther,-young and beautiful, but still her mo- ther. She was not entirely blind ; and the mys- teries of the ' Vierge a la Clhaise' and the old guitar were partially explained. She wept, too, at her own folly in fomenting a quarrel between Henry Arlington and Edith, lamenting that, with all her good resolutions, the ball had been to her an occasion of sin. But amidst all these gloomy reflections, there came a pale face, with a regular Grecian outline, a face something like ler own, only nobler and more commanding,- the same face that had entered Solitaire so cau- tiously and timidly. And this face was upper- most in her thoughts, and served to diminish the gloom that oppressed her. She could not sleep: it was vain to try. Had she been firm,-had ,she consulted her Con- fessor,--had she refused a request her mother   130    THE GOVERNESS. hesitated to make,-she would have been spared the terrible revelation and the strai(re meeting witl Charles,-the separation of Edith and Henry,--she might now be sleeping as quietly and blissfully as Jessie slept on the sofa. But one false step had plunged her in trouble, and she prayed for the morning,-for the sights and motion of daylight, to assist her in banishing the thougilts that usurped and oppressed her mind. She could hear the laughter below,- the bustle of the dancers and the music; and she fancied that Charles must have met Julia, ahd saw them moving happily along, blessed in reunion. The morning came at last, bleak and wet. She rose early and breakfaisted alone, then flew to her Confessor. She returned cheered and strengthened: the record of her folly was al- ready in -Heaven, and she had offered up the tears of penitence to blot it out. Heavily hung the day. Carry and Jessie were unprepared for their lessons: the lhouse was in confusion: Mrs. Fairfiace out of temper, anll the servants stupid. Charles had gone out witlh his father, and Edith, not yet reconciled to lenry, was particularly ungracious and cross-   THHE GOVERNESS.      131 grained. Though it never once entered her mind that she had been unsuccessful in her first effort, or that she was not universally accepted as a beauty of the first water, yet Edith was unsatisfied with herself and every body else. Charles, welco;me as he was, had no business to come in just when he did: she was herself entitled to the undivided honors of the night. Mary Lorn had been entirely too much noticed, and Julia Dartmaouth seemed to forget her en- tirely. A young lady, after a ball, is like, a spring that has been stirred with a stick: no longer clear and calm, all the grosser elements rise from the lotrsnm,--the skies are no longer reflected,--there is no inducement either to stop to gaze, or to stoop to drink;-even the bright gurgling laugh, is but a muddy murmur. Henry Arlingrton woke with a violent head- ache, induced by disappointment and cham- pagne. It was in vain that he tried to invest the Governess with seraphic tints and throne her in his heart : Edith had been there too long, and slih ket her ground. Besides this, Mary was above him, and a man tires of looking up. It was a dismal dawn for all concerned, though some of them knew it not; but saddest   132    THE GOVERNESS. of all was Mrs. Lorn. Her conscience accused her all night long, and she feared a thousand more things than she had hoped. Instead of visions of happiness, she saw Mary neglected, insulted, despised ;-she saw Mrs. Fairface and Edith brush haughtily by, brow-beating the Governess: then the picture would change, and she beheld dangerous men whispering to her daughter, whilst the delighted girl laughed and listened. The picture was torture. She had no peace until Mary came in the morning. "I was wrong, very wr ong, my dearest child," she said, " in forcing you out against your will. I have been too severely punished to repeat the fault, and I promise you never to make a similar request." "Thank God!" exclaimed Mary, fervently. *' We have both erred and suffered: let it be a warning." She then told her mother of Charles' arrival; but she did not feel disposed, or even authorized, to mention the interview with Fair- face. His words preyed upon her mmd, yet she shrank from further explanation of the mystery. Charles' arrival was the occasion of number- less dinners, soirees and evening parties. Edith   THE GOVERNESS.       133 and Henry were soon asintimate and dove-like as ever, and Fairface was happy with his son. Mary abstained from all their amusements, and diligently performed her duties. Jessie learned rapidly and joyfully: and Carry, adroitly spurred by rivalry, was so industrious as to render her mother uneasy lest she should overtask herself. Fairface remembered that he had placed him- self in Mary's power and avoided her. It is dangerous to hear secrets: when confidence is once lamented, either through fear or shame, we are apt to shun the object we trusted. It was not that Fairface thought less of Mary, but that he thought less of himself, for the want of firmness he had betrayed. He could no longer jest with her, as he did: she stood before him an unwilling monitor of his folly and his guilt. Mary rejoiced at the turn his mind had taken. and that he repented his confidence instead of desiring to continue it. She saw little of Charles: he was rarely at home. Much of his time was given to Julia, and Edith was ever planning some frolic or excursion to entice him out. Charles submitted with great good nature: he was retired in his habits, fond of being alone, or rather fond of the society of a few 12   134    THE GOVERNESS. friends. But he had made up his mind to run the gauntlet with the best grace, and all the young ladies styled him a most agreeable per- son with a sweet tinge of melancholy. Well might they call his martyr-look a tinge of melancholy: they saw nothing more and guessed nothing more: it was only a pleasing pensiveness. Right glad was he when Lent closed thie season, and gave him a few evenings at home. On one of those March nights, blustering, clear and cold, when a good fire and a close room constitute a luxury in themselves, the Fairface family were all seated in the breakfast room, determined to see no company that evening. "Can't we have a game of cards," said Charles; "I am really worn out with this inces- sant pArty going, and consider Lent a very sensible invention. Can't we have a game of whist. Do you play, Miss Lorn?" "A  little," said Mary: and cards were broulght. They cut for partners, and Mr. and Mrs., Fairface were matched against Charles and Mary. These two young people were tlhw tcte-a-tete for the first time. Charles had   THE GOVERNESS        135 always paid her the most studious respect; but as both were very reserved, little more than the most common-place greetings had passed be. tween them. They had not finished the second game, however, before the bell rang. "Not at home!" cried Fairface to the waiter. The door opened and Mrs. Fairface heard a well known voice. "It is Mr. Easy, I declare," said the good lady rising and stowing away the cards. "Suppose it is," muttered her husband, but he did not oppose her movement, for which forbearance, he may have had his own good reasons. The waiter, overwhelmed by the authority of the pastor, returned to announce him. "Shew him to the parlor," said Mrs. Fairface. "Nonsense, let's have him here, my dear," objected her spouse. "He is entitled to a fam- ily welcome." And so the Reverend gentle- mIan was ushered in. He was an affable, good looking, well be- haved gentleman, and saluted them all, espe- cially Mary, with great courtesy. t   136    THE GOVERN ESS. You look much better," he said to Charles. "I hope your health is restored." '"Not entirely," returned Charles. "I doubt whether I shall ever be well: but I manage to sleep and eat." "I was sorry not to be at home when you called," continued Mr. Easy. -"I have been longing for some account of you from your owIi lips." "I am a poor talker," replied the young man, who was lamenting the last odd trick. -' I tried to keep a journal, but broke down at the tenth page." "That was wrong. You were there during all the troubles-the Chartist movement-the expulsion of Louis Philippe-the Hungarian revolution-and the flight of the Pope." "I might have easily filled a volume, but lacked the requisite energy. There is a rich field for future tourists." "You were all over Europe?" "I made the grand tour." Were you not impressed with the differ- ence between Catholic and Protestant coun- tries?" "Yes," said Charles, with a glance at Mary.   THE GOVERNESS.      137 "Ai--you are a Roman Catholic, I believe," said Mr. Easy, bowing to the Governess. "You must not be offended: I am merely asking for information." ' Certainly not," rejoined Mary. "England and Italy, for instance," he re- sumed to Charles. "There is no comparison," said Charles, quietly. "None whatever. The immense superiority of--" "Italy," added the young man, displaying a touch of his father's aversion to the end of a sentence. "Italy!" was echoed around the table. "In every virtue and in every art," pursued Charles, apparently unaware of the impression he had made. "Surely you mistake," said his inquisitor. "It may be," replied Charles, " but such is my candid opinion, based on observation and statistics." "But you surely cannot prefer the abject su- perstition and mental servitude of Italy or, Spain, to the might, magnificence and intellec- tual elasticity of England and Germany." 12*   138    THE GOVERNESS. I do prefer it, thoughl,' returned Charles. "I am peculiar ill my tastes, and prefer social purity of life to national grandeur. But con- ceding your facts, I question whether you gain any thing.  Germany is professedly infidel where it is not Catholic ; and as for England, her established Church is split in the centre: one side tottering towards the Dissenters, the other returning to Catholicity." Mr. Easy looked grave. "I am unwilling to believe, my yougtlr friend," he articulated, " that you are an advocate of Popery against the faith of your fathers." "Far be it from me to attempt it, especially i: your presence: but facts are facts,-I leave the in:terpretation to wiser heads." 'I am grlad to hear you recant," replied the minister, partially soothed. "Perhaps Miss Mary may advocate the cause you abandon." Mary grew crimson: she saw clearly enough that Mr. Easy sought to retrieve himself by changingr llis antagonist. ' I am a poor advocate," she said. But you can still give a reason for the faith that is in you," returned her opponent. "I can give a reason sufficient for me," she O   THE GOVERNESS.       139 answered, " but I cannot give one to satisfy you, or I should convert you at once, which is a triumph I little expect. So it is scarcely worth while to ask me." "It can do no harm, at all events. We rarely lose by an interchange of views." If exchanged without passion or prejudice," Mary added. "But there is nothing more try- ing to the temper than controversy." "I am not surprised that it worries you," be- gan Mr. Easy, with a significant glance at Mrs. Fairface. Fairface saw the inuendo, and saw that Mary felt it and held herself in reserve with that calm deliberation which a sting imparts to some natures. He gathered himself up and smiled. It was clear the Minister thought he had a child to deal with. "I shall not require you, Miss Mary," pur- sued the aggressor, "to explain all the mysteries and ceremonies of the Romish Church; but let me ask you, seriously, what you find in it to admire? Is it its idle claim to infallibility-the iron hand with which it fetters reason-the night which it casts on nations? Is it the ceaseless war it has waged against liberty of   "O    THE GOVERNESS. thoulght and action-its open countenance of every crime from whichl the heart of lhumanity recoils-the persecution of innocence, and the protection of guilt?" "If such things attracted me," said Mary, "I should leave my church and join yours with- out an argument." Fairface trod so furiously on his son's foot, that Charles was within an ace of screaming. "What, then, attracts you?" pursued Mr. Easy. "Her apostolicity, her infallibility, her immutablility. But these questions involve long discussion. Let me be questioner awhile. Were you not once in communion with Rome?'" "Assuredly," he replied. Now,7' said Mary, ' if in communion with a false church, you were corrupted by the associa- tion--if in communion with the true church, you erred in leaving her." "But, my fair logician," returned Mr. Easy, "may not we have been the true church, and may not you have left us?" No, sir,') she retorted, "' our doctrines are now as they were then, unllcanged and un- changing yours are not, and therefore you are   THE GOVERNESS.       141 the seceders. But I knew that we should grow somewhat warm, for I cannot speak on these points without appearing dictatorial." "Miss Mary," said the minister, almost in a whisper, "your church defends its antiquated errors with antiqudted sophistry; but its dog- mas, like the syllogisms of the schoolmen, are behind the times." "In other words, religion has not kept pace with science and commerce, and the Church of God has not varied with the appetites of men. Behind the times!" pursued Mary, smiling; ' the ablest minds are just beginning to perceive that the schoolmen they derided are infinitely above them. But, indeed, sir, the idea of deter- mining faith by the times, though not novel, is strange." "Ye shall judge the tree by its fruits." "Yes,' said Mary, "but we must first taste the fruit to know the tree, and the argument renews itself." "She is an incorrigible Papist," said Fairface to the minister; "you are only wasting your strength' upon an impalpable shadow." And the conversation took another turn. But Charles did not join in it. He had never   "2    THE COVERNESS. heard any woman, still less a young girl, speak so clearly, briefly and energetically. He was amazed at her power; and, though lie knew that she was only repeating the argument of some lnaster mind, yet her perfect coinprehen- sion of the points, and the ease with which she managed her weapons, were not the less aston- ishing. He could hardly realize that, the girl then playing with Jessie and answering her child's talk, was the same person who had foiled the minister, and yet dexterously avoided the appearance of victory to spare her antagonist the pain of acknowledged defeat. "I think," whispered Mrs. Fairface to her son, as he walked the room, "that Mr. Easy has made an impression upon her.'" 'I think it very likely," said Charles, with concealed malice. "he has certainly made an impression on me." Mr. Easy, whose respect for Mary had been vastly increased, and who, being really a kind hearted man, was disposed to like her, rose and bade them good night, saying to the Governess, "We shall meet again. Mrs. Fairface must bring you to see me." Charles saw him to the door and then repro-   THE GOVERNE SS.       143 duccd the cards. But Mary declined piaying, for Jessie was sleepy, and it was growing late. Mrs. Fairface and the girls soon followed, and father and son were left by themselves. "What a remarkable mind that young girl has," mused Charles. "She has her part in her mouth like a parrot, but I question whether there's much iIn the head," responded Fairface, examining the ceil- ing. "Rare bird, then," said the son, taking up Sintram, which Edith had been trying to deci- pher. ' Fairface watched his son, looking out from beneath his eyebrows, with an intensity of ex- pression, untusual even with him. At last a strange smile parted his lips: "You are reading fast, Charles," he said. The youth had not turned a page. "Some of these sentences force me to think," he replied, without lifting his eyes; and his father continued to watch him. "Have you seen Julia to-day?" "We took a walk this morning,." "Has she named the wedding day yet?"   "4    THE GOVERNESS. "Some. time in May, I believe," replied Charles. "Sometime in May, you believe," repeated Fairface. "It must seem a long way off.' "What a fine conception Verena is," ob- served the young man, turning a page and closing the book. "I'm sleepy." "I must stop this," growled Fairface as Charles left the room. "Sleepy! Yes-I know how much he'll sleep to-night;" and, full of thought, he went to his dear 'Solitaire.'   CHAPTER XII, Charles Fairface, as his father predicted, was a very long time going to sleep. ' He took up, consecutively, at least twenty books --but to no purpose-there was nothing in them. He succeeded in putting some finishing' touches to an old poem, tacking on new ideas to old lines. Even this soporific exercise did not succeed; and he began to torture the candle with the snuffers. At last his uneasiness subsided, and he relapsed into a settled melancholy. There was some dark cloud over the young man's life; or, to speak classically, a sword dangling over his head) suspended by a fine thread. Some cruel spectre seemed to have a hold on his heart, bound, a la Siamese, to his left side. In the morning, as snipe were in season, he rode out to Oakland to divert himself with his gun, and brought in some choice birds to Julia. Mary saw little of him: ihe rarely dined at home, and was more assiduous in his attentions to Miss Dartmouth than ever. In fact he rather avoided the Governess, but so respectfully, that 13   "6    THE GOVERNESS. she was glad of it. As for Fairface, strange being as he was, the partiality once displayed to Mary, subsided by degrees into coldness. She was no longer invited to Solitaire, and his indifference extended to Jessie. The friend- ship between these two forsaken ones was thus naturally increased, and they were permitted to enjoy it in their own quiet way. By dint of much coaxing, Jessie obtained permission to go to vespers with the Governess. Sweet child! the hymn to her mother in heaven had crept into her heart, and her soul throbbed with joy as she entered the Cathedral. The pews were filled,-not with Catholics, alas!-but with stylish sight-seers, who go to criticise the cere- monies they affect to despise. But Jessie heard not their scoffs and-saw not their smiles. The psalms salnk deep into ler young heart, as, like a young bird taking its first draught, she tasted the bright fountain of truth. And through the curling incense, she saw the crucifix, and the image of her Mother in Heaven, lit by the trem- bling tapers. Who can tell what revolutions are wrrougt, what impressions are flashed upon the soul by the grace of God, when mortal hearts are reverently bending before the re-   deeming body of Christ. Mary perceived the entranced attitude of the child, her lips parted in rapture, suspended in wonder, her little hands clasped, her eyes swimming in tears. A thrill of joy shot through Mary's frame-that delicious thrill of thankfulness, which every - Catholic must feel, to behold a fellow mortal rising to the pure, broad bosom of the Church,- and which once felt, is never forgotten. Mary heard no longer the whispering and giggling of her dissenting neighbors; the flush of holy joy had passed into her face, illumining her pale chleeks, until they shone. But when the bene- diction was over, and the last psalm intoned, as she raised her eyes-she encountered the steady gaze of Charles Fairface, as he stood in the aisle, with Julia Dartmouth at his side. Mrs. Lorn had seen him when he entered, and his earnest look troubled her. They left the Ca- thedral together. Ei    "Mrs. Lorn," said Julia, the instant they were in the street; "I never beheld such irrev- erent behaviour in any Christian temple."' ,' You may well say so," replied Mrs. Lorn. "There are a number of Protestants, and some Catholics too, who appear to attend vespers for i J ....   "8    THE GOVERNESS. the sake of violating every principle of decency and propriety. The evil is becoming intolera- ble, and should ,be remedied. Those who come, simply to hear a song, should at least hesitate to insult the men to whose courtesy they are in-  d4bted for the pleasure, even when they lose  sight of their duty as Christians."  "I am surprised that it should be permitted . a moment," said Julia.  "It struck me," said Charles, "that a good  many went to shew their bonnets and peep into  the prayer-books behind them. I felt an incli- nation to wrench back some of their heads to-  wards the altar."  But it is a pity," pursued Julia, " that your service is of that character which attracts such people." "True beauty," rejoined Mrs. Lorn, " is alike attractive to good and bad. But I must admit, that if our Catholics were as regular at vespers as they are at mass, the annoyance produced, in pait by their own neglect, would be in a great measure avoided." During this conversation, as the street was narrow, Charles had fallen behind with Mary, and they walked some squares together. Nei-   ther said a syllable; and as for Jessie, she was wrapped up in delicious dreams, aid ran against forty different persons. In this way they approached Mr. Dartmouth's dwelling. Julia and Mrs. Lorn were in close conversation on the steps, discussing the tendency of cere- inonials, whether they were apt to substitute empty forms for the essence of religion, or whether they ministered to devotion. This was one of Julia's great points: and as Mrs. Lorn was equally obstinate in opposing her, they were too much absorbed in the debate to think of any thing else. Jessie continued in a rev- ery: and Mary and Charles, still mute, stood together. This prolonged silence became su- premely ridiculous, and Mary began to smile- and the smile soon became a laugh. "What are you laughing at?" said Charles, in perfect sincerity. "At the extent of our conversatioial pow- ers," replied Mary. "What in the world are you dreaming of, Jessie?" "Of what she saw at vespers," said her bro- ther,-and so was he. "Come, Jessie, tell us what you are keeping up such a thinking about." "( There is a little mound under a cedar tree 13  h                !   150   T'rHE GOVERNESS. at Oaklalnd," said the child, with her large grey eyes still fixed on fancy land, "andI I heard a lark singinri there once,-a sweet, yellow breasted lark, that staid there all the morning. I was thinkingi how I should love to be buried there, and that the lark would come and sing there again. Or, may be, God might let me be a lark, and let me fly there and sing to you, though you didn't know who I was, and thought it was only a bird." Clhildren talk more poetry than men write," said Charles, drawing his little sister to his side. Charles spoke the truth: innocence, or at least a love of truth and virtue, is full one half of the highest genius. "I have heard," said Charles, as Jessie wan- dered off towards Mrs. Lorn and Julia, "I have heard of your great kindness to my little sister. I have never thanked you for it, but it is not too late now, I hlope. I saw, as you saw, the cloud of neglect that obscured her natural light; but I was unable to remove it. You have accom- plished, what I only attempted. Do you know what Jessie reminds me of?-Of a chimney sweep who has been toiling through the soot of - r - - --- - --- -----   his dismal asceft, to emerge with an exulting song. I know the figure is odd, and apparently anything but a compliment. Yet I do not mean one of our negro chimney sweeps, but one of those merry Italian urchins, who bounce out shouting their ' Spazza Cammin!' "She is a noble child," returned Mary, who had never heard Charles say hal so much. "There is but one thing to be guarded against," said Charles. "My father is a singu- lar man: his prejudices and affections are sud- den, strong, unaccountable, and' variable. I think I have remarked, even since my arrival, a change in his manner to you and Jessie. It is only a transient revulsion, however, which must soon expire." "His kindness to me has been very great," continued Mary,-" his generosity more than I ever can requite. I had no claim to his friend- ship, and I feel equally sure that I have given no cause for his resentment."  "Resentment is a thing," replied Charles, "which frequently creates a cause for itself, pre-supposing an offence that it may have the mark of retaliation." "Perhaps he may think that, I have too much   152    THE GOVERNESS. influence over Jessie. A parent cannot be more provoked than by witnessing the influ- ence, whether for good or bad, a stranger ex- erts over his child." Charles looked at her for a moment from un- der his long lashes, as if the words had a deeper meaning than appeared at first. His puzzled look revealed to Mary the unintentional ambi- guity of the expression, and turned away to Jessie, wlio had all along been the lightning rod in the conversation. But as she turned who should pass by but Fairface himself, with his wife leaning on his arm. He had come just in time to enjoy the full benefit of the afore- said look. lHe passed them with a bow, and approached Miss Dartmouth, wondering who the lady in black with her back turned to him could be. He did not wonder long; for as he saluted Julia, the lady in question turned full upon him, and he beheld Mrs. Lorn. With that rapid, powerful self-command, which a woman only possesses, as if by some peculiar mercy to conce;-l the intensity of emo- tions with which man is less familiar, Mrs. Lorn saluted him with composure and civility. But   THE GOVERNESS.       153 Fairface, unaccustomed to restraint of any kind, blanched, blushed and quivered, as the tumult of passions swept across his soul. Is your father in?" he gasped to Julia, and without waiting for an answer, passed through the open door. Mrs. Fairface followed him without a word: a bitter shade crossed her fine brow, but she was trained to her silent, uncom- plaining martyrdom: the same arrow had so often pierced her side, tht it was scarcely felt as it entered. Perhaps, after all, if we dealt charitably towards this good womanl, we should find in her heart more to pity and admire than to condemn. Miss Dartmouth, with the delicacy and good breeding that distinguished her, suppressed her natural curiosity, and only said to Mrs. Lorn, "We shall resume our discussion another time." The whole scene was a mystery to Charles, and he made' no attempt to conceal his con- sternation and surprise. He stood rooted to the ground, staring at Mary and her mother, with scarce the ability to reply to their adieus as they moved off togetler. It was then that Mrs. Lorn trembled; when f                 / 1   15-1   THE GOVERNESS. she was alone with her daughter. Mary was burning to hear sonme satisfactory explanation of the mystery which she only half compre- hended. But her mother was silent, and she was too discreet and generous to betray a sus- picion or put an unwelcome question. ( Let us pass the Cathedral," said Mrs. Lorn. "The Church is the House of Refuge for the sorrowing soul. As they knelt in the pew, Mary could hear r lerother sobbing: and when they rose, there were abundant marks of tears on Mrs. Lorn's cheeks. But the traces of sad- ness, the grief, tlre anger, and the tumult had passed away. And as they walked along, the brother said, with measured words and a cheer- ful tone: "Mary, the path of life is a hard one: and virtue niu-t often travel a rough road. The wisest and; the best, if their trials were known, would scarcely be envied by those who repine as they envy their lot. In the spring of youth, we sit on some blossoming bough, singing all the day long : but the nightingale leans her breast against a thorn, whch is sure to wound it. The troubles, the privations you have had, are but a drop in the bitter cup you must drink-   THE GOVERNESS.       155 unless it please Heaven to spare you the trial of longer life. It seemed to me, awhile ago, as if somne cruel fate pursued you. But I have asked God to bless you, and I feel thattlhere is no fate but his holy will. Are you able to suffer?" "I cannot dare much," replied Mary, "but with God's grace, I can endure the worst."   CHAPTER XIII. THE merry month of May had come:--the gardens at Oakland were bright with flowers- the trees were carefully trimmed,--and the family frequently spent the day there. As Mr. Fairface was at his counting room all the morn- ing, it happened, occasionally that as Mary wan- dered through the walks witih Jessie, they met brotler Charles on a similar excursion. And it gave the young gentleman much pleasure to point out the finest views to his little sister, and trace resemblances to wlhat he had seen in summer house, pittlhed on the top of a high ledge of rock, was peculiarly attractive. These accidnaTrcmncontres, were, of course, exclu- sively intendedlfor Jessie's edification, because Charles and Mary had little to say to cach other. However, one morning, Mr. Fairface did not stay at his desk; and it chanced that he was sauntering along the paths of Oakland, he stumnbled upon the identical summer house where the three young people were gazing to- gether upon the green fields and the blue hills   -       THE GOVERNESS.       157 in the distance. Though nothing could be more natural than his appearance, and though there was surely no harm in contemplating the beauties of nature, yet a slight spasm convulsed Charles' lip as he met his father's eye. And though it was by no means imperative on Mary to return home to the hoxuse, yet she ihstantdy proposed to Jessie that they should go practice a new piece on the guitar! "What is the peculiarity of this view," be- gan the father, "that you and Miss Lorn, as your mother tells me, are so fond of looking, at it?" "Nothing more than its peculiar beauty," replied Charles. "You were very much interested in it," con- tinued Fairface. "I fear that I have spoiled the charm." Charles said nothing: he felt that a storm was coming, and braced himself up to meet it. "This is the month of May," resumed the father, "and I have not yet heard the wedding lay named. It is time that this procrastination should end. It is the gentleman's part to soli- cit an early day, and I insist on something defi- nite. Listen to me Charles, and don't sit staring " e   *  158    THI E GOV ERNESS. SO v:Itcrn :'.v : tt I lost owlt  yo:' ] i : e I :theen Cl- ga;rcgd I ;':: .:llh and llltheire is n!,) lo,;!rr a1 Aobstacle to its c(ollpletionl. Yo;ir health is improved a;ndl tleiei is not even a p::'etext for delay. I -i.-s Dartlilouth is a \w(in:in whose and a:t ki itli tt be proul to toto'lh. If I tilou.!lt \v-; we:e( t'-i/liinr with h1, ' tl't. rh I 1love you deatl;!',---tlotr'lj mly own blo), ,Il is flowing in your vKi:is,-yet I sliould disown and de- Iouilce y}lt'. "I am not irifling withh er," cxsJlaimed the youth, I tam incapable of trifliln: with any human li)cii. IlBat it is timeC tlii; bitter farce should end. I honior DMiss Drtt tIth-I rev- erence her viirttues adl respect lher s( tion,-but I do not love li. r af(d never can." Fairface libou:led from the bent-h, like a stricken deer. "You are amazedl, sir," conltiluel Charles, "that I am bold enough to avow a truth that you have long -een. You know t' .t when I was but a boy, this match was forcedl upon me: that I submitted to pletase your priilc--that Julia was dulped into lbelievingr that I w:i, dying of love for her, wlheln, in fact, it was concealed aversion that blighted my youth, and sapped my   ThI E GOVERNESs.       159 strength, and drove me across the water, a broken hearted invalid. You know, that her sihadow is 'till across mly life, darkening every hope and crushing every energy :-yet you start wlhen I con:ess I do not love her." n Impetuous as Fairface was, there was a set- tled despair in the young nma;l's pallid face that awed him. "So long as I did not love another," pursued the youth, who in his strong excitement, cared little about :}ie choice of words,-" so long as I did not love another, I was willing to offer up the remnaint of life for your sake,-willing to consumate a compact into which we were both deceived. But now I cannot-I dare not! In justice to lher-in mercy to myself-I cannot!" "And whoa is this other?" whispered Fair. fice, trembillin with suppressed rage. "She wlo lhas just left mle." And of course she las promised "- "She knows nothing whatever, either of my repugnance to Julia or partiality to herself. I amn not traitor enough to betray my feelings, before I have a right to express them!"' "A right to express them!" shouted Fair- face, at the top of his voice. "You shall never   160    THE GOVERNESS. have the right to express them! Are you mad- tian enough to renounce your noble Julia, that you may carry out your fantastic whim about tills sallow, hathelt-faced, ill-mannered and vilnegar-tonigued Gove-rness? Boy," he mut- tered in a lower, but not less menacing tone-- S. you have brought disgrace on yourself and on me. Dare to break this match,-dare to look again on this Mary Lorn,-and I shall cast you forth fronm my house as I would a leper." So be it, then," said Charles, "the sooner this matter is brought to an end the better." ' Charles," cried the father, clutching him by the throat,--"Charles, you will kill me!" and loosening his grasp, the strong man sank powerless on the bench, weeping like a child. "Look you, boy, I love you better than all the world,-I always loved you-from the moment you were born, until now. I have studied your whims, and gratified thenm all. I never opposed you in any inclination but this-I never asked a sacrifice but one-and that you refuse." "It is the sacrifice of more than life!" "Listen to me :" said Fairface,-"I looked around the world for a wife to suit you: I se- lected the noblest and the best I knew: I fixed   THE GOVERNE SS.      161 my heart upon the match-my life is wrapped up in it, and yet to gratify a passing fancy, you doom me to the bitterest disappointment that mortal man can inflict upon me. I thought you were more generous, Charles-I thought -you loved me better." "Have I not proved that I love you," said Charles, who, though- insensible to violence, was beginning to melt before his father's tears. "Have I not abandoned every bright dream of youth to please you-have I not suffered night after night the tortures -of despair to save you from one poor pang of disappointed ambition." "And if it be ambition," said Fairface, "to aspire to a connection so desirable in every way, it is an ambition I do not blush to own. Charles, with my own hands I have built the pyramid of my life, and it wants the crowning stone. You have it in your power to complete - the labours of fifty years. Do you refuse, my son?" It was a terrible trial for the young man, already wasted by the sorrows he had spoken of,-by griefs, which always strike with a dou- ble edcre. He loved his father dearly-it had been his paramount passion, until a stronger "*   162    T  E GOVERNESS. feeling took possession of his soul. And that feeling had never found utterance until this mo- ment: he had fought against it with all his power, but in vain:--he had striven to conceal it from himself, and now as if increased by the open avowal he had made, it was still more difficult to repress the fondness he had dared to own. "You shrink and hesitate," said Fairface mournfully. "I have but one thing more to add: if that fails, there is an e erlasting wall, henceforth, between you and me. You have pledtged your honour to Miss Dartmouth, and remember, that in breaking it, you not only for- feit your character, by displaying that most con- temlptible and shameless of all vices-fickle- ness,--but that you inflict a deep wound upon her, which no time nor remedy can ever en- tirely heal. She is a sensitive, earnest woman, Charles,--not one of your mealy mouthed, world-debased Misses, who forsake or are for- saken with equal composure,--she is a lady, Charles, who will bend her head, and droop and die."e- "This very morning then,' said Charles, pale as death, but motionless as marble, " this very    THE GOV ERLNES S.     163 morning, shall end the delay--and if she is wil- ling, I marry her to-morrow." "God bless you!" cried Fairface, falling on his son's neck. ".You should have named me Isaac," mut- tered the youth, disengaging his father's arms. "Good bye-will you be in town this evening, or shall I ride back and let you know?" "We shall all follow you to town. Once more, God bless you."   CHAPTER XIV. CHARLES threw himself upon his horse and spurred rapidlly to town. He was glad that clouds were gathering in the south,-that there N as every prospect of a storm. There are times when sunlifght seemis to mock us,--when the gloom of nature is more congenial with our own gloomy thoughts. The young man felt as if he were bidding adieu to daylight. The groom who received his horse, whistled as the youth turned upon his niecl, as much as to say 'I .wouldn't change places with you, my boy, just now.' At one o'clock Charles was in Miss Dart- mouth's parlour. To his great relief Julia did not appear for some minm1utes, and he had an opportunity to compose himself to something like decorum. He examined the damask win- dow curtains, and traced the rich figures in the Saxony carpet, and when tired of this, cross examined the chandeliers and stared at the por- trait of her absent father, that hung, above him so life-like from the faitlhful hand of Jarvis. At last Julia appeared, almost as pale as he, but adorned which her usual sweet smile, and free   'T' E GO'VERNE SS     IOU from agitation. They sat for some time in silence: the interview was to be more trying than that through which he had just passed. "When shall we be married?" he said at last. Julia looked him full in the face until he quailed and dropped his eyes, and then in a firm, calm voice, replied "Never!" "Never!" repeated Charles, who shrank from the very word he wished. "I have delayed the word too long," she said with the same sad earnestness, "because it was hard to utter. I have long foreseen that our un- fortunate engagement would terminate thus, but you must excuse me that I did not act sooner. I prefer, for many reasons, to remain as I am. My father is growing old, and when he returns, will require all my care." "That is a poor reason, Julia," said Charles; "surely I shall not be in the way of your duty to your father." "Since you press me then, I shall speak more plainly. I have long seen that your malady was mental, and I have read in a thousand little things, which you meant not, that I am the un- intentional cause of you, sorrow. I know that   16C    THE GOVERNESS. you could not deceive me, Charles, but I have been deceived. The disparity in our years should have taught me better. You will not be surprisedi te, that I wish to change my posi- tion, and, desire instead of giving you constant pain, to become your friend." The young man took her hand, as he would have taken his sister's, and held it to his fore- head. The object of his aversion was trans- foriled into somletlhing so noble and exalted, that he felt unworthy of her regatrd. Yet he spoke not-he denied nothing--but continued, still as a statue, holding her hand to his fore- head. "I have also seen with pleasure, the direction your heart has involuntarily taken. You know me too well to suspect me of jealousy, and you also know Charles, that though I no longer desire your love, I am determined to compel your esteem. Let us say good bye to the past, Charles and pardon me the pain I have in- flicted." She drew off the diamond ring he had given her and placed it in his hand. One moment more-she had received her own. When Charles recovered his senses-when   1' H E Li  U V ; i IN i; SS i LV 5 the blinding tears he 2ould not restrain had dried upon his cheeks-she was gone.  He looked 1upon his fingrer--there was only the mark of the plain gold ring-of the thin chain that bound his spirit captive for years. The prisoner released from his familiar cell, trembles- and droops in the daylight, and the existence for which he has pined, is at. first dreary and desolate. He longs again for his prison and his chain. Again he mounted his horse and again the stable boy chuckled to think that a gentleman could be so unhappy. Scarce knowing what he did, he threw the rein on the creatures' neck and took the road to Oakland. The family had gone--the hands were in the fields. Leaping from the saddle, he walked straight to the sum- mer house, where he had so often mused with Mary,-where he had so lately promised to obey his father. He threw himself-on the bench, and in the blessedness of solitude, wept as if his heart would break. Man, with all his pretended strength, is rarely superior to the relief of tears. He may harden his heart until pain and sympathy cease to move it, but so I on  as human tenderness remains, the emblem of ,    168    THE GOV E RNESS. contrition assert its power and forces upon him the consolation he recoils from. But the heavy rain drops began to sound upon the leaves-the hours had passed like minutes-it was near sun- set. The horse left to himself had followed his master and was pawing and neighing in the path. "And now to meet my father," he said to himself, secretly rejoicing at the promise of any excitement. He rode more slowly, though it rained hard; and it was quite dark when drenched to the skin, he reached his father's door. As he stood in the passage, he could hear Edith and Henry Arlington laughing within, and his proud lip quivered in scorn. He passed at once to Solitaire, pale as a spectre. Mary was in the room: Fairface had just explained to her that the half year would expire in a month, but that she might take leave as as soon as she thought proper. "Well!" gasped the father, as Mary rose. "Miss Dartmouth has refused me and broken tile engagement."- The enraged parent sprang from his chair and dealt the table such a blow with his clenched hand that the windows rattled. "Hold!" he cried to Mary, as she was pass-   T1' E GO YERNESS.     16f9 ing out, and darting forward, lie buried his fin- gers in her arm. Holding her from him, and fixing upon her a look of bitter hatred and dis- dain, he said in a low, hoarse tone, as if each word were meant to kill: "Mary Lorn, I received you here in mercy, I loved you because you were friendless-- confided in you because you simulated sincerity -I saw you leading my youngest child to idolatry and spared you; but now you have made a traitor of my son-you have destroyed the peace of a noble woman-you have crushed the brightest and only hope of my life. Be- gone from my sight-you and all your blood! Never, never, cross my path again!"- In his violence he gripted her arm like a vice and she shrieked in anguish. "Be a man sir, at least," cried Charles, and with superior strength, wasted as he was, he wrenched his father's hand from his prey. "To the street!" thundered Fairface. "It is raining." said his so'n. "So much the better!" and half frantic with rage, the misguided man strode into the hall and flung open the door. "I will go-it is better," said Mary to 15 I   170    THE GOVERNESS. Charles, who held her hand fast in his own. The family, alarmed by the high voices, gathered in the passage. "Get me my bonnet and shawl, Jessie," whispered the Governess to her trembling little friend: and when Jessie brought them, she knelt and clasped the child to her heart, Are you in earnest, Sir?," said Charles. "Yes." shouted the madman, with an oath. Without another  remonstrance, Charles seized his hat and umbrella. "Mark me, young man," said Fairface, seeing the movement. "If yo6u pass that door with her, you never enter again!" I have no wish ." I will cast you from me like a dog!" "Be it so." I am in earnest, boy!" "And so am I.-Come, Mary." continued Charles, who preserved a bitter indifference. I beg you-let me walk alone," .said Mary. "Never!" replied the young man, and as he uttered the word--the same word he had heard in the morning,-he stepped after her upon the marble portal and the door closed violently be- hind them.   CHAPTER XV.- The two friends, for surely the circumstances made them such, preserved their usual silence, as they walked along. And in truth, there was nothing to be said: the facts would not bear a comment. Our Dutch Confectioner was slightly amazed to see the Governess at such an hour, in such a night, and with such an escort. Sun- dry misgivings crossed his mind: his visions of jellies and orange webs melted away and his wife and he discussed the state of things until morning. As for Charles, though distracted enough, yet his reveries had a more definite shape; he trembled for a creature so young, so fair, so defenceless as Mary.  He paused on the threshold, debating whether to ascend the stair- case or retire. His head was spinning and he was prepared to commit any rash act that might suggest itself, or obey any impulse however sudden and improper. Mrs. Lorn's appearance decided him. "Good night!" he said, and with a swelling heart passed into the street, an outcast from his 2   172    THE GOVERN- ESS. father's house. Yet amidst all his woe and desolation, there was a delicious gleam of satis- faction and content-a wild spark that sought extinguishment in wine and revelry. He wan- dered from street to street, undecided what to do, or where to go. lie passed Miss Dartmoulll's, -the light was burning in the room where she sat wit hecr Aunt, reniembering him perhaps- but remembering to dcspise. Well might the stable 1by congratulate himself. He paused anl instant to mutter a prayer for her, and thlen drifted on. The dark turrets of the Cathedral rose berore him. It was probably there that Julia had pierced his soul's secret. How well he remembered that afternoon, and the thoughts that then absorbed him. As if the hand of an angel staid him, he lingered about the grate: he could not leave it, though his clothes were dripping wet, and though the rain fell in torrents. "I would give worlds to enter there," he thought ; but the door must be locked-it was one o'clockl-there was no evening service, or if any it wats over. Still he ascended the granite steps and tried the door-it was open and a light was burning in the Sanctuary. He walked   THE GOVERNES S.      173 on tiptoe to the pew where he had seen Mary and Jessie at Vespers, and threw himself on his knees, invoking the blessing and mercy of God. Attracted at first by the outward majesty of the Church, the young man had said, as many say, if I ever want a religion, I shall be a Catholic. But it was said rather as a coicession to Christianity than as a comfort to himself. The obligation of faith and the word of God, had at- tracted him to admire, but never inspired him to embrace the truths to which he was indiffer- ent, though not insensible. But now, disinherit- ed and forsaken, with' the wide, stern world before him,-oppressed with the consciousness of his own unworthiness, and, as it seemed, mcst selfish obstinacy, he implored the grace of Heaven to redeem a penitent, who had long disdained the mercy to which he appealed. And as he knelt, a priest accompanied by a gentleman wrapped in a large cloak, entered through the Sanctuary and passed down the aisle, conversing earnestly in a whisper. Charles thought he had seen the gentleman before; there was something in the noble arch of his head, dis- played by the lamp, that reminded him of the pas- tor of St. Timothy's Church, whom Julia loved 15  I   174    THE GOVERNESS. as a father, and who was to her a father and a friend. But what the pastor of St. Timothy's could be doing at the Cathcdral with a Catholic priest,-or why he should make the genuflexion before the altar, was more than he could tell. But Charles was engrossed with other sub- jects: his whole life was passing in rapid review before him--the pleasures, the trials, the sins, the dangers of the past, crowded thick upon lii . He stood upon the bridge that was to connect him with a new existence-new hopes, tnew purposes, new energies and aspirations came welling up from the depths of his soul. The  priest was returning.--Oh, happy moment of grace, glittering like a star suspended from the Almighty hand! Once seized, it lifts j5 to the bright firmament amongst myriads of stars ; lelectCl, it may never re-appear. As if the hand of an angel led him, he approached tlfj' pt'ri'(t-a1ilno1nccd Ilis )purpose and followed h't to the Confessional. Tiiivirs were different at Fairface House. Sincerely glad as Edith, her mother and Carry, were to be rid of Mary, yet her harsh dismissal pained them. They trembled, lest Fairface, the violent, might select another victim for his wrath.   I 1 t U V E , 1lN I E 0. ! t.  He was in a mortal passion, and they could hear him pacing Solitaire like a famished lion in his cage. And more than all this, Charles was gone. "What is to become of him!" sobbed his poor mother, "He will kill himself-they will bring him home a corpse. Oh my noble boy, why should I be doomed to lose you. Never, never, can I forgive that perfidious wretch, who hlas bewitched you with, her dangerous words,- who has embittered you against the sweetest of women,-who has embroiled you with your father, and snatched you from your mother's arms." And in true affliction, the sorrow stricken woman fell upon her knees and poured forth a mother's fervent prayer for her absent, disinherited boy; whilst Edith and Carry, clinging to her side, swelled the chorus of her grief. Apart, in one corner, stood Jessie, pale, haggard, but tearless; her white hands strained together, as she gazed vacantly through the window at the rain. Her life, her joy, her daily pastimes, her hours of music and love and sympathy, lay shivered, like broken glass, at her   176     THE GOVERNESS. feet. Aghast, incapable of speech or motion, she stood watching the rain. Your father has gone out-I pray God it may be to reclaim his o011," said Mrs. Fairface, rising, as the front door was opened and closed as violently as before. "Run, Jessie, and see!"-The child heard her not-stirred not- answered not. "Go, Carry!'"- Fairface had gone-goine without umbrella or overcoat. What cared lie for the rain-he loved it-it cooled him as it fell and calmed the fever in his brainl. On he went from square to square, pursuing the path that Charles and Mary had taken. A rap like a thllnder peal, brought the startled Confectioner to his door. Tell Mrs. Lorn that a stranger wants to sec her," but before tie man replied, the impatient father was ascending the staircase. Mary was leaning on her mother's bosom, happy and tranquil. The undaunted spirit of her mother had risen superior to insult, and with words of consolation, winged by love, she revived the sweet flower so rudely shaken, until it rose again, as if raised by the sun. She was silln ril thlle a merry old ditty, and Fairface stopped for breath, and his knees shook as he   THE GOVERNESS.      1" heard it. But sumimoning all his anger and his strength, he plushed the door open andistood before them. "Give me my son!" were his words as they started to their feet. "If I were a man," said Mrs. Lorn, with a look of deep, proud scorn, "I should hurl you from the room which you have dared to invade. As it is I can 6nly say, Begone! and may the seal of your shame, blacken you forever." "Give me my son!" repeated Fairface. Where have you hid him!"- "Your son is not here, sir; he displayed a delicacy which his father disregards. What an unmanly coward you are. You drive this un- offending lamb from your door in a storm that might tempt you to harbour a wolf, and before I have calmned her terror or dried her tears, you follow her to renew your insults in her mothers' presence. Begone! you profane the room." "I tell you, woman, that this innocent lamb, at your instigation and under your direction, lias filled my houlse with horror. Under the shape of an angel, she has sown discord between nie and all my family-brought me to the verge of madness and sent my son-God only knows   173    THE GOYER NE SS. where. Was it not enough, for you to deceive and forsake me in my youth, that you must train your daughter to blast my age?"- "Make the fault mine then, and not hers; and if you war on womanl, let your adversary be more than a girl. Listen to me, madman, and I will place you in your proper light. When I consented to marry you, you pledged yourself a Catholic in conviction, and prepared to profess the faith you believed. Again and again, I en- treated you to remove the only obstacle to our union: but to no purpose, Your soul was wrapped up in thoughts of gain, and you post- poned a sacrifice that might injure your busi- ness. When I saw you dallying with my affection, when I saw that you preferred your own advancement to me, and riches to your God, I broke a tie that was unfit to bind me, and gave my hand to a better and a truer man."  "It is false," thundered Fairface, "you abandoned me because I was poorer than the spendthrift who left you pennyless." "Vain, false, treacherous, coward," said Mrs. Lorn, deliberately and bitterly, commanding him with her outstretched finger. "Ambition has   THE GOVERNESS.       179 ever been the God of your idolatry, and for a pitiful thirst after the rank to which you were not born, you have sacrificed your love, your conscience, your wife-and your only son. And after this, you presume to question my motives, when your actions are so foul and black, that I thank God, my daughter is free to breathe a purer air. Go home, and humble yourself at the foot of the cross: or if you want another victim, complete the martyrdom of Jessie. Leave me-I command it!"-- Stung to the quick, awed and enfeebled by an encounter with, the only living thing he feared, Fairface receded before her, and, in his impetuous descent, overturned the Confectioner at the bottom of the staircase. "I could have brought him to his knees," said Mrs. Lorn to Mary, "but he does not de- serve such mercy." ' But for Charles' sake"- "Stop!" said her mother, looking her full in the faoce, "Your little head is running on this samn ;Charles. Remember that if you permit the inclination to have scope, you verify or at least countenance this absurd accusation. So end that dream at once. When this maniac   1OV    '1' H h U v GO K iN E ;S 3 regains his senses, and his contrition is as sud- den as his anger, Charles will be dearer than ever, and destined to gratify sonme other paternal whim. Let us not stand in the way of his obedience." "You have omitted Julia Dartmouth," re- plied Mary; "For her sake I should cease to think of him, even were I so disposed." "Well said, my noble Mary. There is a kind Father in Heaven, on whose protection we must lean more confidently than ever, en- treating him to repress our inclinations and dis- po se of our lives according to his pleasure. Let us make our home in the hollow of his hand: and whilst our hearts are inseparably joined(, we need not wander from our little chambers for the uncertain love and sympathy beyond it, or yearn for more affection than lives between a mother and her child." "But Jessie-poor Jessie!" exclaimed Mary, as the suffering child rose before her. "She too is sleeping under his merciful eye."   CHAPTER   XVI. After an early breakfast, Mrs. Fairface, order- ed the carriage: motherlike she could not rest until she had found her prodigal son. She drove from hotel to hotel, and at last enjoyed the inexpressible pleasure of seeing his name written in his ownl bold hand on the record book at A la Mode's. Ordering the waiter be fore, she ascended three pair of stairs and. rapped undecidedly at forty two. "Come in!" and the afflicted mother threw herself in her son's arms. Charles was as calm as a morn in May: instead of the look of reck- less desperation she expected, there was a calm repose more beautifil than any thing she had seen on his face for years: it was the same pure smile that had adorned his boyhood, when he sank to sleep on her breast. "You must return to us, Charles," said Mrs. Fairface. "This will never do. I have borne up against trials that might have crushed me were it not for the hope of better things. But this terrible separation will kill me, I know it. 16   183    THE GOVERNESS. Return, return, my boy-your father will forgive you.' When I am forgiven, I shall return," re- plied Charles-" but not until then."' "Miss Dartmlouth was not in earnest when sln refused you-you have not given her any real cause, and there must be some misunder- standing. I can set it all right in an hour, I promise you-I shall go see her this instant. Stay here until I return." "Mother!" exclaimed Charles, catching her arm as she rose, "It is impossible. I have given Miss Dartmouth more than one reason to act as she did. I charge you solemnly never to mention my name to her, except as that of one whom she has forgotten. "Are you then really in love with Mary Lorn?"- "I am  not in a condition to love any one just now." "You do not mean to marry her?"- "I have no idea of marrying," said Charles. I must first invent some respectable mode of earning my daily bread, before I think of invol- ving another in my misfortune." "Do nothing that is not respectable, I beg   THE GOVERNESS.       183 you my son; remember that your position in society is not to be sacrificed." "I am ready to accept the first honest em- ploy;ment that offers: and as for my position in society, mother, that is something a little more than equivocal at present. All honest work is respectable. I knew a tailor once who had more genuine honour, more native delicacy, more true refinement, and more exalted sensi- bility than any merchant I ever encountered on 'Change." "Your fortunes are not so desperate as that, my son. I have some little property of my own, and whilst that lasts, you must not refuse me the only consolation I have left. Now do not frown and turn away," she continued, pressing her purse upon him. "You insult me, and make a poor return for a mother's love if you refuse again.' But Charles was inexorable and convinced his mother, at last, that his wants were few- tlhat he could not possibly starve-and that he should love her all the more for withdrawing her request. After she had left him though, he felt rather puzzled to imagine from what source, after all, s   184    THE GOVERNESS.  his revenue could possibly spring. But youth is sanguine and he invented a thousand plans of realizing at least a dollar a day. Strange to say, there was no young man in town with whom he had ever been intimate-Henry Arlington was a stick,-and he could not think of one elderly gentleman, who was sincerely a friend. Cat off from his family, he was as desolate as if landed at the Feeje islands, so far as human -intercourse went; but a new channel had been opened to him--a correspondence fixed with Heaven. He had a duty to perform in calling on Mary after the eventful night, and looked forward anxiously to the town clock, visible from his window, wishing the lazy hand to overtake eleven in one long leap. But Mary and her Mother were out, when eleven came, and he called; they had gone a riding, as the Confectioner expressed it, with the lady in the purple coach; by which he meant to designate Miss Dartmouth. Perhaps she may desert me too," muttered Charles, as he strode away. "Be it so: I am able to endure more than this without repining." But he was sad enough in truth, with all his   THE GOVERNESS       185 self-reliance and determination. He could not bear the crowded streets and hastened back to his room: all his books and clothes had arrived -his pictures and his statuettes in which he once took such pride. Whilst arranging them, as well as the cramped apartment allowed, it struck him that the only immediate employment he could obtain was by writing for reviews. But for what review?-However, write first and seek afterward. Yet what under the sun am I qualified to write about? If I had a volume of bran new verses to review, I am in the humour to make the author's muse repent her acquain- tance with earth. Or if I could write, without first reading up to the subject, something might be done at once. Thus mused the young Apprentice, and as he mused- and fumbled over his books, a volume of Shakspeare slid off the table, and fell open at Hamlet. "I'll write a critique of Hamlet," said Charles. "The royal Dame has survived his commenta- tors, and I think I understand him better than any one who has yet spoken." It did not take him long to become full of his subject; he called for paper, pen and ink, and lighting a cigar, fell to work furiously. The 16*   186    THE GOVERNE SS. mt;le he wrote, the more. deeply was he en- chained by the majesty of his author ; he was ready to cry ' Eureca,' when all at once he imagined that he had discovered the true secret of Hamlet's vaccilation. The pride of a poet tingled in his veins, and uninterrupted by the gong and the fire bells, he continued his labours until six o'clock. The sun was still bright, though the shadows were long, and the breeze was fresh and balmy. He thought that he might venture again to Mrs. Lorn's, especially as he had not left his card, and his absence mighrt be interpreted as neglect. His toilet was soon made and he stepped into the street, lighter at heart and well pleased with his labours. There is a way, he thought, of living within ourselves, and the sooner we learn it, the better. But the fresh air suggested that he had eaten nothing all day, and as he stood deliberating where to find the cheapest respect- able restaurant--he hated the table d'hote-he felt a hand on his arm. It was Jessie! She had paced the square for an hour in the hope of seeing him-wandered up and down, expect- ing and praying, yet not daring to venture in. Her heart was full; and her brother, with diffi-   THE GOVERNE SS.       187 culty restraining his tears, carried her to his room. "Oh how pale you are," said Charles, and exhausting all the epithets of endearment, he strove to comfort the little mourner. "Where is Mary?" "Safe at 1iomne. Come with me and see her." "No-no," replied Jessie, shuddering," I have promised father not to." A cloud crossed her brother's face, but it was only for an instant. "You are right to obey him, Jessie. But you must not grieve or drop any more of those big tears for me: I am comfortable and happy. I am going to build a nice house in the country -and you shall come and live with me and have a little room festooned with flowers, all to yourself." "Will Mary be there?' - "You young innocent," said Charles, smiling as he kissed her, "You have a most Socratic way of asking questions. Perhaps she will." They spent an hour together-an hour in which Jessie revived like a parched plant after a rain.   188    THE GOVERNESS. "But I must go," said the child, for the sun had set. "I cannot be out later." "Come and see me as often as you can at the same hour; I will meet you at the door." Jessie promised to come as often as she could and then turning quickly to hide her tears, tripped homeward. Charles took the opposite way and again ap- plied to the Confectioner for admission. They were in. He did not tremble as much on the staircase as his father did-but still his hand was not particularly steady. "I shall ever be gratified for your kindness to my daughter," said Mrs. Lorn, " and am most happy to meet you. Mary said nothing, and the conversation turned upon indifferent subjects-the weather, the news from Europe, and other standard topics of interjectional acquaintance. But though nothing could exceed Mrs. Lorns' polite deference to her guest, yet Charles was frozen and repelled. Mary too, instead of manifesting any particular interest in his fate, was content to ask a few insignificant questions and even look out of the window when he answered them. He had brought his manuscript in his   THE GOVERNESS.       189 pocket, thinking perhaps that she might glance at his ideas on Hamlet. He cut his visit very short, and with his heart'in his throat,-smiled a good bye, which he meant to be the last. "You were cold to him, mother," said Mary. "I know I was, though I felt like taking him to my heart. I over-acted my part, perhaps, and offended him. Well-my motive was a good one; may he live to understand and ap- plaud it." "As I thought," said Charles, "such is human nature. Thank Heaven, I have gained a friend who cannot desert." He opened the book which his Confessor had given him, and collecting his thoughts, prepared for the banquet which had been promised him. It was difficult at first to read: but the explanation of the pro- found mysteries of our faith, soon riveted his whole mind. He read until his eyes were weary; and then knelt to say, for the second time, the Evening Prayers. Not one of all our little circle, slept so soundly and so happily that night, as that disinherited son-Charles Fairface.   CHAPTER XVII. Charles enjoyed frequent visits .iom llis mother and sisters, but contrary ,toMrs. Lorn's prediction, Fairface gawnf&'sign of relenting. The alienation of father and son is mutually painful, and Charles reverted more than once to the days when they walked and rode, ex- chamrnllcr all their hopes and fears. But he knew that, though an outcast, his father did not hate and despise him: he was spared the pres- sure of that melancholy curse. Much of his time was devoted to preparation for his first communion: many of his afternoons were spent with Jessie, who was the only one to whom he confided his intention of becoming a Catholic. He pursued the work that Mary had begun, un- til the child had the Catechism by heart.- When the Cathedral bell rang at six, they knelt together and said the Angelus, and Charles would often murmer, more in joy than sorrow, as he watched her pale face,- "I shall soon have a little sister in Heaven to pray for me.' He continued to write and by repeated ap-   plication was at length admitted into a respect- able review, with a respectable circulation at the respectable price of a dollar the printed page. He had advertised for a situation in a counting-room or at bank, desiring a fixed salary instead of his precarious literary income. But as yet, though a fortnight had elapsed, there was not even a reply to his advances.- In one respect, however, he was more success- ful. He succeeded in gaining admission into t privo tI family, where he might work with more case and escape the noise of the hotel.  ee:gs evenings were frequently intolerably long and heavy and but for the consolation of faith, his epitath had soon been written. He cherish- ed no resentment against Mrs. Lorn or Mary; ;ild when the first bitterness of disappointment was mellowed, he admitted that they were right. But he was determined never again to in- trude; and though, sometimes, after midnight, when his eyes were aching with over-exertion, he wanldered by the humbe dwelling, which he'.ld he treasure of his heart, yet the Confec- tioner's door was never darkened by his shadow, and Mary Lorn only heard of him through Julia   192   THE GOVERNESS. Dartmouth, who still continued to visit the Fair- face family. Mrs. Fairface did not die as she had predicted, and in fact, being convinced that Charles was able to take care of himself, looked forward with pleasure to a permanent removal to Oakland for the season, although it separated her from her son. The evening before they left town,- Saturday-Jessie crept out to bid her brother good bye. This was the hardest blow  for Charles; deprived of every other sympathy, for her father was again stern and moody, the child seemed to linger out her life in him alone. "You will not forget me, Charles," said the lovely girl, twining her arms around his neck, "You will not forget to pray for me. And if I die before you see me again, ask father to let you come out and stand a litttle while by my grave, under the ceder tree where the lark was singing.' She smiled brightly as if she longed for death, though her brother's tears gushed forth at her artless pathos "And tell Mary, I shall never, never forget her-that I remember all her songs and stories and all her kind, good, dear words ; that I wear   THE  GOVERNESS.      193 my medal round my neck, and will never take it off, though they threaten to kill me. Tell her to come too if I die; for I shall be an angel then and shall beg God to soften my father's heart and teach him to love her as I do. When will you see Mary?" "Indeed Jessie, I do not know. Never, per- haps." "She is not dead!" said the child turning pale. "No; she is with her mother." "And don't you see her every day?" "I never see her," said Charles sadly. "You are treating her badly, brother. She loves you dearly,--loves you as much as I do. You are making her miserable." "No, no, my dear Jessie; I am a poor, for- saken outcast. It was easy to love me in hap- pier times, but I am another person now.') "Don't I love you twice as much as ever? And so does she; she is so good and noble and generous, that the more you suffer, the more she will love you. Take her this flowerjfrom me--" "Let me keep it for myself. Do you know Jessie that I am going to Communion to- 17   morrow moring. I must not think of anything else-not even of Mary or of you. But if you could come to the Cathedral at eight o'clock, you might see your brother in the happiest moment of his lie." "I will! I will!" -cried Jessie, clasping her thin hallls. "Oh, that I could go with' you, than I could kneel beside you. But I am un- prepared--worthy--" and unable to add another word, she sobbed on his breast. "Yet," she resulled, recovering her smile and her strength, ' I will ,o kneel in the aisle- to watch you as yon appll ac h the altar-to see the blessedness of Heaven in your fice. I will rge to touch your hand, and let you bless me as your breast wlhich shall then be the cradle of our Lord." They wept in silence and parted. Come," said Mrs. Lorn to Mary.  "The first bell is ringing. What a lovely morning-- come, never mind the strings of your bonnet; we shall lbe late. If you slept better, it would take you less time to array yourself." Mary tied her bonnet rapidly, though her head was aching, and followed her mother.   Just before the Conmmunion, Mary observed a young girl dressed in while kneeling in the aisle. She did not recognize her at first, for her face was concealed by her bonnet, and Mary had never seen her in her summer clothes. Suddenly the child rose, and approach- ing the altar, knelt close -to the railing. As. Mary's eye involuntarily followed her, she saw Charles Fairface in the act of receiving Holy Communion. Butrying her head in her hands, she wept in such a transport of joy, that her mother wondered, until Jessie, staggering under her load of love and rapture, returned from the altar, her face bathed in light, and kneeling oi the cold floor, abandoned herself to profound delight. A glimpse of Charles revealed the mystery. Opening the door of the pew, she seized Jessie by the hand and drew her in. They waited until Charles had conpleted his thanks- giving. l-Brilgt anld blissfully shone the sun, as they left the Church ; the skies were smiling as they had never smiled before. There was no need of explanation. Charles kissed his little sister, who hung upon his lips and thei deliver- ing I to M   ffered his ar-m to i t s. Lorn.   196    THE GOVERNESS. "i Will you not breakfast with us," said Mrs. Lorn, and as Ciarles hesitated, she added, "you must not ally longer misunderstand me. On this sacred day which is celebclate(d in Heaven, let our coldness end, and our friend- ship begin." All places in the world were then alike to Jessie-her father's house and the Confection- er's room wolld lhave been the same, provided Mary and Charles were with her. She took no note of the outward world, apart from them:- she only asked the privilege of breathing. The time passed swiftly with the four friends, all happy in re-union, and Charles blest in that interior peace whch the reception of the body and blood of Christ alone confers. But the Church bells sounding, admonished Jessie that the parting hour had come. They saw her turn pale as she sat on iMary's lap enjoying every minute, every look and every word.  "I must go!" she could not speak another work. She clung to MAary awhile, as if she could never leave her, and then returned Mrs. Lorn's embrace witl almost cqual fervour. Poor Jessie! she did not weep-she felt a cold hand at her heart and submitted in silence.   THE GOVERNESS.       197 Charles took her hand and led her from the room. He held it fast-he could not leave her; he held it until he was in sight of his father's house, and saw the family carriage drawn up at the door ready for Church. Forced to part he raised her in his arms and printed a kiss upon her mute lips. "For God's sake remember yourself-I shall see you soon ;" he said, terrified at her complete abstraction. Revived by his caresses, she smiled and shook her head; then pressing his hand, she kissed  him again and walked away. "She will die," he said, as he watched her slowly receding; and clouded by his tears, she seemed already lile one of the angels. Pausing on the corner of the street, she turned back and vaved him a kiss with ler handkerchief. In after years he never forgot that sweet image of his sister-it accompanied him through joy and trial, aind like the finger of a seraph seemed to beckon him to Heaven. But this Sunday was a memorable one for more than Charles. As Mar; and hert mother were sitting together in the afternoon, Miss Dartmouth presented herself in such agitation 17*   198    T IE GOVERNESS. and grief that they were prepared to hear some awful anltouncement. A What in the world is this, my dear Julia," said Mrs. Lorn,-"I pray  you be calmer. Nothing has happened to your father, I trust." No, lie is well, and I expect him to- morrow. But--have you heard nothing of it?" "Of whlat?" "I am too much excited to speak calmly. But, in one word, the pastor of our Church, ly guide, director, fatler-the man of all others whom I most revere, for his piety, truth, humility and exalted virtue, Dr. Wright, is now a Roman Catholic!"- "Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Lorn, "how you have relieved me." "There has been something on his mind of late, and when he rose in the pulpit this morn- ing, I anticipated some disclosure, but not the sudden, terrible announcement, so calmly yet so resolutely uttered." "Do not speak so wildly, Julia ; these con- versios :rte occurring every day-it must soon cr,.se t, bel a matter of surprise." "He told us," continued Miss Dartmouth,   (THE GOVERNESS.       199 "that he could no longer officiate--that his conscience compelled him to break all human ties, however dear, and that on the next day he should be admitted into the Roman Catholic Church. In words that drew terirs from the men around me, he bade us farewell. Do you ask me why I speak wildly, when the main prop of my life has fallen;--when all the past directed by him, who now renounces what he taught, seems thrown away?" - "My dear child," replied M3rs. Lorn, "you are too much affected, by an incident that mani- fests the mercy of God so clearly, and which is perhaps designed to reward your goodness, by inducing the lamb to follow the shepherd." "Never!" exclaimed Julia, in a firm tone. "It is now time," pursued Mrs. Lorn, half playfully, "to offer you the consolation that lies in these little beads. Say them once-it cannot hurt you Julia." But Miss Dartmilouth declined. "And now" she said, "I have something else to say, which your mother alone, my dear Mary, is permitted to hear." "I hope it is more' good news," returned Mary, taking up her bonnet, "I should be glad   200    THE GOVERNESS. to hear of another conversion." And bowing playfully, she left the room. Julia drew a long breath and took Mrs. Lorn by the hand: "I wish to make an explanation," she began, "on a very delicate point, and you must forgive me if I happen to say too much or too little. You know that however much I may appear to intrude my advice, my only motive is love." "You know you cannot offend me," said Mrs. Lorn, " it is your unobtrusive love that makes vou so dear to me." "Then you are making a fatal mistake, which you mu-st remedy as soon as possible." "What do you mean?" "I mean that you are treating Charles Fair- face badly. He sacrificed the comforts of home and a father's love,-incurred the ills and temptations of sudden poverty, for your daugh- ter's sake, and yet you turn your back on him. Is this fair?' "I did not wish to do more to alienate him from his fatlher, thinking that if I prevented his visits, the breach between them might soon be closed."   THE GOV ERNESS,      201 "OIly to re-open with fresh violence. But rflect: amidIst all the gloom that surrounded tlat poor boy, there was one star to which he turneld his eyes,--the only light he had; and 3'yo }hve t;tket it away from him, leaving him to grope in total darkness. "No-no, Julia," replied Mrs. Lorn, "he is walking, in the sun, in the broad, bright blaze of everlasting truth. I know not when I felt such unexpected joy, as to see him this morn- ing at Communion." "At Communion?" repeated Julia, "Charles Fairface a Catholic?" "I knew nothing of his intention, and my first intimation of it was his reception of the Holy Eucharist before my eyes this morning." "Do you not see, then," pursued Julia, as a bright smile stole over her face, "do you not see that the only obstacle to their union is 're- mlloved."' "Their union!" exclaimed Mrs. Lorn, in unaffected surprise. "You must already suspect, my dear Madam, or your eyes are weaker than mine, the inclina- tion of your daughrter's heart; and I know that   20')    TH E G  V E R, E SS. Charles Fairface loves her, with all the devotion that her rare virtue deserves." "I am  sorry for it, Julia: there are other reasons which make the matter impossible and absurd so let us drop it forever." There are no otlicr reasons," returned Miss Dartmouth. "There are some delusions, in- vented by your sensitive nature, which ought not to be regarded. You do me injustice in supposing me capable of the feeling you im- pute and offend me by the very delicacy with which you act. Do not force me to speak more plainly." Mrs. Lorn for some time atlempted no reply, but continued to regard the 1,)1ble girl before her, with a sentimen t approaching to awe. "He has no profession -no means of sup- port," she said at length. "Is that all?" replied Julia, her lips almost imperceptibly quivering as she spoke, '" or do you urge it, as a mask for the real reason which you cling to in spite of what I say. However, I have done my duty, and relieved my con- science. The rest is with you." They discussed Dr. Wright's conversion un- til Mary returnled and asked whether the secrets   THE GOVERNESS.       203 were over. Little did she guess that she had been the theme of the discourse, or that those confidential minutes were to have any effect on her after life. When Julia returned, she found her father- he had arrived a day earlier than he had written- in better health and spirits than she had dared to hope. In the dear arms of her venerable and loving father, Miss Dartmouth was consoled for all her troubles, and spoke more calmly of Dr. Wright's secession. After tea when her Aunt, who never sat up after eight, had retired, Julia explained to her father her reasons for breaking the match with Charles Fairface. She did not allude to his inconstancy-for it was not inconstancy: but she was guilty of the most unjustifiable hypocrisy in awakening all her father's sympathy for him, by placing him in the most amiable and martyr-like light. I am glad of it---lad of it," said Mr. Dart- mouth, who was a terrible patrician, and who had rather permitted than recognized Charles' advances from the beginning, "I am glad of it, and glad that you bear it so well. There's nobody living half good enough for you-you stand alone unmatched and unenvied--and   204    THE GOVERNESS. you must keep the position. the pride and comfort of your old father." "Indeed I shall,' replied Julia "But there is one thing you must do for me, and do it at once. Mr. Fairface, supposing that his son must have committed some great fault to incur my displeasure, has disinherited him and driven him from his house." "Violent man-violent man,"  said Mr. Dartnmouth. "He is now very poor, and I want you to get himl a situation, since my decision deprived him of a support." Spoken like nmy own daughter; I shall see him to-morrow." "No-not for all the world," interposed Julia, "he is the last man living to accept a gratuity from this quarter. Do it in this way: he has a standing advertisement in the ' Com- mercial;' get some friends of yours who wants a competent clerk to reply to it." "Right--right-you are always right. And now bring in all the servants-I haven't seen them yet." There can scarcely be a more attractive pic- ture than a stately, benevolent patriarch--a man   IL tE G OVERNESS.     205 of years, and honors, and virtue, surrounded by servants who reverence and love hin, who hail him as a protector and a friend and who know that the difference in their station has not dis- turbed the current of pure affection. There are few such groups now-a-days; in the olden time there were more. But there are still some families, where wages are not the only tie be- tween master and servant, and where the sym- pathy between the parlour and the kitchen is not limited to the table.   CHAPTER XVIII. For some days Julia had a happy time of it with her father, but as Sunday approached, she began to feel that the conversion of her pastor had left a void in her life, which could not easily be filled. "I will see him," she said, "I cannot live in this way, it is worse than death." And yielding to what had long been a temptation, she set out with a fluttering heart for the priest's house where Dr. Wright was staying. How different from his own lovely residence, endeared to him by its own beauty and by all the associations which years of peace, and love, and comfort, throw like ivy, around a cherished home. She rang the bell and asked for her friend and for- mer guide. "He is engaged," was the reply. "But I wish to see him particularly." "He's making a retreat, ma'am." "Tell him that Miss Dartmouth wishes to see him." "And much he'll care for Miss Dartmouth," mused the servant, as she stalked away; when   H E GOVERNESS.       207 who should appear in the passage but D;. Wright himself. At the sight of his clear, in- tellirgent, earnest and even majestic face, every spark of resentment or coldness died, and all her former love returned. She sprang forward and seized his hand: "Oh comfort me," she said, " you have left me desolate. "I knew  you would not desert me my child," he said, as they passed into the parlour. I knew your heart was too good and kind to accuse me for obeying my conscience, or to suspect me of duplicity. You are almost the only one who has come near me. How have you been.?" "Sad enough, in truth,'" replied Julia.- "You have destroyed all you ever taught me, and I seem to drift hopelessly on the sea with- out chart or rudder."' You have listened to me so far, Julia, why not continue to hear me? Am I less capable to instruct, tlan I was then? You can have no conception of tie peace I enjoy, though cut off from all my friends, scorned by those who professed to love me, until I feel as if cast on a desert island. My dear clild the Catholic   ')U    T H E GOVERNESS. Church is the True Church, and there is no other True Church; all others are false and un- sound. Remember my words, and examine at least. After this week come and see me-the oftener the better; I am now in a retreat and must excuse myself. Will you read a little book for ne?" Julia assented, and he placed a small volume in her hands. Even after walking home, she was too much affected by the interview, to pay any attention to her father's explanation of the plan he had devised for Clarles' relief. But it chanced the next day that as Charles walked down the street he met-one of his' father's most intimate dining friends, who took the liberty of asking himn what he was doing. "Almost nothing," said Charles, I'm writ- ing for reviews." "A pretty employment indeed; can't you get sometihing better-you have talent, honesty, a grood address and--'  Every thing btlt friends," added Charles. Let a man be his own first friend : he'll have the second soon enough. Why don't you push yourself about town and see what situa- tions are vacant, instead of moping in doors or   cultivating the muses, or advertising your quali- ties. Now, for instance, the Neverbreak Bank is looking for a book-keeper-there's a sure salary of twelve hundred a year. Why don't you try for that?" "Because I don't know a man in the Bank." "You know me-I'm a Director, and would be happy to assist you." "Thank you  sir," said Charles,--" but stop:--you are not offering this from my father -he has not told you to do this?" "He has not, upon my honour. Shall I try for you?" "I shall be much obliged to you." "Then write your application-let's step in here." The application wras written and signed. "I'll attend to the bond, ' said the old tactician, moving slowly off. Here's my card-come see me in a few days." Charles bowed assent. Here was a hope, a faint one it is true, but still a hope. The few days went by very slowly indeed: few is indefi- i te, but it is nearer four than three So on the fourth diay ihe called on 1Mr. Dinewell, who accompamied him to the bank :-his application was accepted. Not for one moment did the 18* i   210    T1 E GOVERNESS. younr man imagine that he was indebted to Julia Dartmouth: he had a lingering suspicion that his father had more or less to do with his success: how could he impute it to the injured Julia? He applied himself dilligently to work; threw by his essays and his squibs, refused all offers to write eveii at an advanced pay, and aspired-though he breathed his thoughts to no one-to the cashiership. He continued atten- tive to his religious duties and being retiring and industrious, formed few acquaintances. His father frequently passed him on the street, but niever condescended to notice him; though once as Charles happened to look round, he saw the old familiar face, gazing after him with a strange yearning. It soon came to pass, naturally enough, that Charles, went more frequently to the Confec- tioner's rooms: that he spent many of his even- ings there, composiing ballads for Mary to sing, or reading or talking, or doing nothing, wliilst Mary and her mother pursued the labour from which their only rcvenue was drawn. Some- times, but rarely, Charles was allowed to walk with Mary alone,-but this was a rare privilege. And as their intimacy increased, Mrs. Lorn re- t-   THE GOVERNESS.      2" signed herself to the worst, and heard without any unpleasant emotion his nightly rap at the door. They were pleasant and cheerful with him, though he thought that Mary had changed -that her cheek was thinner and paler, and her voice weaker than when he first knew her. And Mrs. Lorn, frequently sighed with the fatigue of stitch after stitch in endless rotation. It was painful to see them worlk by the uncer- tain, sallow light of an adamantine candle, wasting their sight and strength, whilst his own energy and health were increasing daily. How could he end their drudgery? Another week solved the problem.   CHAPTER XIX.    I No orders had come from Miss Dartmouth for cake; and Jessie's occasional demand for candies having ceased, and a prospect of a higher rent appearing, the Confectioner and hs wife, disappointed in all their calculations, concluded that their tenants instead of being profitable were rather otherwise. Good thrifty people, calculating to the penultimate cent, they took it into their heads that the two rooms up-stairs might be more advantageously disposed of, and yield more than at present. They were ondthe look out for new lodgers, and ready to pounce upon the least pretext for being uncivil and disagreeable. They were soon gratified. Mrs. Lorn had always paid her rent punctually on the first day of the quarter: she had made ample provision, as she thought, against the first of August. But our best calculations are liable to defeat. It so happened that on the last day of July, she found herself barely mistress of half the reduisite amount. The reviews wanted further time and gave ugly hints of discontinu- ing pressing correspondents; Mary's two music   T HR, CG O V E R N TE S S. 23 THlE GOVERNESS.      213 scholars had suddenly decamped with Papa into the country, and when the sun of the first of August dawned upon the Confectioner's bill slid dexterously under the door, he took a peep at two pale faces utte'ly unable to take out the intruder's stincr. The morning was spent in fruitless efforts to collect outstanding dues, whilst the Confectioner in all the importance of a persecutor, hovered menacingly about his victims, leering hideously through the fragrant cloud exhaling from his pipe. Evening canme, and wearied with ineffec- tual walking, Mary and her mother resigned themselves to the worst. As they sat over their tea, the Confectioner, true to his in- stinct, introduced his curly head and demanded his money. "You shall have it to-morrow," replied Mrs. Lorn. "I vants it ter-night," said the man. "It is impossible," returned Mrs. Lorn. "You have always found me punctual in pay- ing you, and it is surely not too much to request, for once, the grace of a single day." "Bishness ish bishness," croaked mine host, using a phrase which implies that humanity is   214    THE GOV E RN E S S. cut of the question when moine is at issue. "I vants it ter-night, or I shall dishtrain mit no put offsL" "But my good fellow, said the lady, "you to not mean to play the brute and take advantage of an accident to injure two unprotected women. "Man or Voman ish von in bishness. I vants my money. Dere ist von odor ting, too: I doesn't likes ter vay tat te young shentlemen comes in here. Te peoples of ter neighbor- hood is talking apout it." Turning crimson at the boorish taunt, the mother sprang towards the man- "Down to your kennel, you dog!" she ex- claimed, pushing himi towards the door-"You shall have your money to-night and your rooms to-morrow. "Tat ish all I vants," crowed the coward, quailing before her. Whilst the victorious Confectioner chuckled over his exploit, Mrs. Lorn unlocked a small trunk which she kept under her bed, took something out and put it in her pocket. Never before had she felt the sting of an inferior, and thoulgh the circumstance should only have made O    TUE GOVERnESS.      215 her sigh for the infirmity of nature, yet her proud spirit was too deeply roused to entertain anything but indignation. "Where are you going?" said Mary, as her mother put on her bonnet and shawl "For the money : wait here, it will not take me ten minutes," and she went out without ex- plainin; the source from which she expected it. Mary, unable to restrain her tears, leaned on her hand, and thought with bitterness of the perils around and before her. The Confectioner's unmanly sarcasm had rendered her as weak and timid as a child. Hearing the mother depart, the creditor thought that he could not better employ the minutes of her absence, than by torturing her daughter. So re-lighting his pipe, lie once more ascended to the room where Mary was weeping upon the table. "Your tears vill not vash out ter pill," said the fellow, shaking a fresh bill over her head. "Will you leave the room," repeated Mary, calming herself. "It ish mine own room!" and in all the security and magnificence of oppression, he struted up and down, fimigating the curtains and the flowers.   216    THE GOVERNESS, "Then I shall stand in the street, until my mother returns." As Mary attempted to pass him, he pushed her roughly back, saying- "No, no, you vants to cheats me. Te furni- ture ish not enough for te- " He never finished the sentence. A hand like a vice closed upon his thick throat, the pipe in a thousand pieces rolled upon the floor, and when his senses returned, he found himself rather uncomfortably lodged at the foot of the stairs, with his wife lamenting him for dead. Charles Fairface, hearing a man's foot, had paused near the door, naturally curious to hear his voice, and had thus been a witness to the scene, which he brought to a sudden and unexpected close. Mary did not faint, as many young ladies have done or pretended to do, in similar circumstances; but she permitted her head to rest on her deliverer's shoulder and wept there like a good, innocent little girl as she was. Not a word was spoken; but that fair head moved not from its resting place, though another step was on the staircase, and though the next instant her mother was added to the group.   TH E GOVERNESS.      217 Pass we lightly over moments like these; it is a false taste that lifts the veil from such a scene. "Have it receipted, she said to Charles," counting the money into his hand. "I am sorry you hurt him. The bill was receipted, and the next day Mary and her mother had new apartments in a small house near the Cathedral. But that night after Charles had gone, Mrs. Lorn went to the same little trunk and took out another p)ackage -it was the roll of gold received from Fairface, untouched, undiminished. "I have not injured the first fruits of your hard labour," she said, placing the money in Mary's lap, "and you mny now employ it, as you please." Oh mother," esclimedr Mnyy, "how could you imagine that this was mine! You might have saved all this trouble. I hate the sight of it!" and she flung the labelled coin into the corner. Mrs. Lorn smiled and replaced it on the table. "Ask me no more questions, silly one," said her mother, "but let us say our prayers, and we may then talk more calmly. I think our 19   218    THE GOVERNESS. friend, the Confectioner, is unable to give us any more trouble to-night." They locked the door with great precaution, not knowing that Charles Fairface, mistrusting the Confectioner, kept guard below until the rosy fingered morn peeped up in the East and the bells for early Mass were ringing.   CHAPTER XX. Oakland, as has been intimated, was one of the prettiest country seats in the world. You reached it by a smooth turnpike, ascending for some eight miles, until intersected by a lane, through which you darted to the left for a mile or so, when an open gate, open alike to friend and stranger, received you into the magnificent wood that embosomed the house. The land lay on the crest of the highest hills in the coun- ty, and from the front porch you could see the undulating fields sweeping gently to the broad river in the distance, along which the red city was strung; whilst in the rear, the forest trees stretched back to the next farm, making a most delightful solitude. Orchards and strawherry beds accompanied you to the dairy and the pigeon-house; and on either hand, the corn fields, and wheat fields, smoothed by the roller and levelled by the scythe, whether in crop, in stubble, or in grass, breathed an air of solid substantial comfort. Oakland had its meadows too, where Durham and Devonshire, Berkshire and Southdown contributed their   220    TI1E GOVERNESS. tranlsatlantic representativcs to improve the rural scene. It would not do to add more; the place might be known. Yet some may have already guessed it: some, who in the olden time of its first glory, have reason to remember the unfail- ing hospitality that brilltened at their coming, *-who remember the morning ride along the river, or the cveniinr walk--wlio reme mber forms of loveliness that have-since departed or changed. Oakland;was only the central point: the whole neighborhood was scarcely less charm- ing. And scarce a night in summer passed without a gathering---the melon and its ices--- the city guest and the country friend. And many a vow was spok, oken, roe , ept, amongst those silent trees,--- nd many a dream began thcrlfulfilled or unfulfilled, to last through life, a sad, imperishable memory. But what cared Jessie for all this---it swept bv her, like a distant cloud. She could have borne her mother's severity, Carry's petulance and Edith's ncelcct,---sle could have wandered unnoticed amongst the brilliant groups, had her father only smiled again, as he once smiled, when Mary unsealed the fountain of his love,   THE GOVERNESS,       221 There are sorrows in which we cling to friends for comfort; but there are deeper ones, when our own acctising conscience inflames the wound, from which our friends, the witnesses of our weakness, are banished. The bent soul demands solitude and prefers the laugh of a stranger, the lethe of jests and wine, to the tear of sympathetic love. No wonder, then, that Fairface recoiled from Jessie and avoided her: no wonder that he shrank from her appeal- ing look, and felt her pale face crushing his pretended mirth, and recalling all the spectral thoughts that haunted him between the midnight lethargy and the morning vision. There is nothing in afterlife approaching the utter loneliness of a neglected child. As our. years advance, our resources increase: we learn to stand alone, to live in ourselves, and by gradual experience curtail our sympathies and mark the lines between ouraelves and others. But a noble child cannot exist in itself: like , luxuriant vine it shoots out a thousand tendrils beseeching-a prop to lift it from the ground: it must have love, sympathy, support: from within, it gathers nothing:---the tender flower looks up for the light and the dew of human kindness.   222    TH E GOVERNESS. And when those tendrils are rudely shaken from the parent stem,-when the accidental prop of an hour is torn from its bleeding clasp, what after all is the pang of despised love, in contrast with such bitter, hopeless suffering  Yet let us not say that Jessie was utterly hopeless. In her little medal, lay a sweet spring at which her tlirsting spirit drank. And she had inoments of happiness too; for she could hear the lark singing sometimes on the cedar tree; and when Edith and Henry, when Carrie, her father and her mother, surrounded by friends, were scattered over the porches, or drinking and smoking in the hall,-when pairs of lovers strayed amidst the walks, and the proud horses pawed impatiently for the home- ward spur or whip,---then it was that Jessie, unseen and uncared for, could wander to the blessed arbour where Charles and Mary had so often carressed her. It was a beautiful night in Autumn, and the full moon sleeping on the fields, woke laughing and glistening in the river. Jessie was in the arbour:---she had wept herself into something like serenity. When all at once she heard sweet voices and looking towards the river, she   THE GOVERNESS.       223 saw Charles and Mary running towards her, with hands full of flowers. She could not move, but she saw them coming---and again they sat on the old bench, and again her head was in Mary's lap! The horses had been gratified at last---the porches and the rooms were empty, and Fair- face, behind an enormous cigar, was sitting on the steps examining the stars, when he heard Mrs. Fairface call from the window---"Where's Jessie?" "Isn't she in bed?" "No," replied the mother, "she's not in any of the rooms up-stairs." Fairface took a light and examined the house from garret to cellar: the child was not in the hou'se. "Where can she be!" exclaimed the mother, wringing her hands. "In the arbour, I'll bet my life," said Fair- face. "Make yourself easy; I'll go bring her." True enough, she was in the arbour, sound asleep, breathing deeply and quickly. The moon was streaming full on her face---on the face of his child!---Poor forsaken, Jessie!---she looked like an angel and was smiling in her   224    THE GOVERNESS. sleep. Was he to break that beautiful spell, in which she was happy, and recall her to the bit- terness of her actual life? Shaking like the leaves above his head, the agitated father knelt beside her---he felt like a thief, a sacriligious robber, who was claiming the property of Heaven. He passsed one arm round her waist and with the other, encircling her knees, lifted her gently from the bench. Her clothes were dtalap with the heavy autumn dews---her cheek was flushed and cold. As the holy burden of her head touched his heart, the rod of contrition smote him and his tears gushed forth. She awoko : and knowing nothing more than that she -was in her father's arms, smiled again and threw her arins around his neck. It was after midnight.: Mrs. Fairface, relieved but irritated, sprang to meet them. You wicked little thing," she began; but Fairface stayed her uplifted hand, with a look that made her heart stand still. "Get her dry clothes, mIy dear; see how damp these are," he said, in a toine of sepulchral calmness, ': dry clothes: and then bring her to "Ic. boiling water, John,' he continued to the   THE GOVERN E S S.      2 servant, as his wife, obedient to his orders, took Jessie up-stairs. "Bring it to my Library." When John entered with the water, lie found his master stretched, apparently lifeless, on the lounge. The man, on the point of screaming, dropped the bucket, when Fairface rose--- "Fill this pitcher and bring sugar, lemmons and wine." Just as the command was obeyed, Jessie ap- peared at the door. "Now go to bed and leave us alone." As the servant closed the door, the father stretched his arms, and with the fond delay of overwhelming love, folded her slowly to his breast. She thought he would keep her there forever, that his kisses and his tears would never end. At last, remembering himself and startled by her hollow cough, he placed her in the chair, and tempering the water to a proper heat, bathed her feet with the utmost tenderness. "You must drink this too," he said, holding to her lips a glass of hot lemonade, which 1e had rapidly compounded. And as those clear loving eyes showered their innocent light upon him, he knelt and taking her two hands placed   226    THE GOVERNESS. them reverently on his head and leaning forward in her lap, exclaimed again and again--- "Forgive me, Jessie! forgive me!" Oh, bitter, bitter, is the sense of wrong---of having injured innocence in any shape: and bitterer when the grave has closed upon our victim, when love, too late awakcued, is denied tlhe rapture of atoning, of making repara- tion, of dying. Her cheek was flushed---her hands were burning---and at intervals she coughed as if in pain. And yet she smiled through her tears, and blessed him again and again, sometimes with words, but oftener with the pressure of her hand and the steady, merci= ful light of her saintly eyes. He dried her feet---he took her again in his arms and carried her to her little bed : he heard her say her prayers witl her hands still clasped in his and then he kissed her on her pillow. He kissed her medal too: it met his finger play- ing round her neck, and bade her good night, charging his wife in a whisper not to go to sleep and to keep the night air from her. Then returning to his Library he tried to read, but it was impossible; at almost every page the cough of his child rang like a death knell in his   THE GOVE RNESS.      227 ears, and at last his wife ran in pale as death. "I She has the croup." The strong man reeled and leaned on his wife. "Send for the doctor!" Send?---" grasped the father. "No--I'll go. The two matchless grays were harnessed and  Fairface took the reins. "Go for the country doctor John, and mind you bring him!" Lashed by the whip the mettlesome animals bounded forward along the road, which scarce an hour before, had rung with the clatter of merry wheels, of song and laughter. A father riding alone for the doctor---the minutes are years-the miles are Fndless-at every step his fear increases, and undisputed death seems to mock his flight. Rigid and stern, over hollow and hill, he dashed on-the pebbles flew---the horses' hoofs were on fire---the waggoners stared---the man at the tollgate shrugged his shoulders, and Fairface plunged into the city. The appealing look of a parent to a physi- cian, when, doubting all else, he hopes in him alone, is perhaps the same with which the Greek   228    TTI E GOVERNESS. approached the oracle to hear his fate. The doctor was in. "Why Mr. Fairface--  " "My child is ill, sir---she has the croup, sir, --pray you step in with me." "But-- " "For God's sake do not hesitate!" and he wrung the tphysician's hand imploringly. "I have lost one child by the croup---a stronger child than----" he could not name her. In less than an hour they were at Oakland. Let me light you up---I'll wait below---I'm too nervous to see her now. Don't alarm her mother, but tell me all.  The father leaiied against the bannister and listened: he could hear the same short, dry cough,---it had increased and came on in spells: he fancied that he could liear her breathing. What could keep the doctor so long? Long! he had barely felt her pulse. At last he came. F:, i!ricc sprtlang for the light and looked him steadily in the face. "It is rather a severe attack.' replied the physician, for the look was a question but there is no immediate danger." "But is there any danger?"   THE GOVERNESS.       229 "There is always more or less danger in croup." "Great God! what is to be done!" exclaimed the father, sinking down in a chair. "I have given your wife remedies I brought with me and directed her how to apply them. I must intreat you to be calmer." "Do not leave her to-night, dear doctor: stay until morning----she might grow worse, and in the country we are unprovided for emergencies. You shall have a nice bed, and I will not wake you lor a trifle." With all the generosity and sympathy of his noble profession, the physician consented at once. "But I shall stretch out here," he said, taling the lounge, "just throw your cloak over me." "Can't find the doctor," said John, coming in at that moment. "So much the better," muttered Fairface, disposing his cloak carefully around his friend. Then. nerving himself for the trial, he went up to see his child. All night he sat at the head of her bed, trembling at every motion she made, sometimes kneeling to watch her as she caught a moments sleep,---then starting for the doctor 20   230    THE GOVERNESS. as lle woke gasping for breath. When the brirght morning broke in its pomp and curtained glorv, Jessie seemed to wake with it, and stretching out lher hand to her father, smiled upon him. But her hand was still burning and her breath as short as ever. Yet surely she was better: she could not be in much pain with such at joyous look. "To be sure she is better," said Mrs. Fair- face, bathing her parched lips. But the physician looked doubtfully and cau- tioned them to keep her still. He peered out of the window, twirling his hands behind him, and then returned to the bed, examined her pulse, walked away and returned again. I shall be back at one o'clock," he said. "Breakfast will soon be ready. Stay for a cup of coffee and I will drive you in. She is not worse?" he continued, in an under tone. "She i ish," was the minous reply. White as a sheet, stood Fairface; and pressing his hand to his heart, he bent in very pain. The heart-ache is real' it is no unmeaning metaphor. "Father!" Her voice brought him to her side.   THE GOVERNESS.       231 "Are you going to town?" "Yes---maybe---no: do you want any thing there my daughter?" She raised herself slightly on her arm, so as to see him better, and her 'eyes, filling with tears, spoke volumne s. "Tell me what you want, Jessie. You shall be gratified, ask what you will." She took his hand and kissed it. "Oh, how good you are," she murmured, "how good and kind you are. Perhaps I may make you angry with me, father, and I would rather die than do that." "Angry, Jessie? Ask for anything that man can do or suffer, you shall have it: the more you ask, the more I shall love you." "I want to see Charles and ilary ". "They shall be here before two hours." She fell back on her pillow with such a heavenly smile, that her mother knelt as she wiped away the slow tears trickling through the half closed eyelids of her suffering child.   CIIAPTER XXI. Charles had risen early, taken a long walk around the outskirts of the city, and was at his desk before eight o'clock, deep in the 'state of the Neverbreak Bank.' Whilst thus profoundly mystified with enornous columns of figures, stretching up and down the field, like a regiment in disorder, he heard his name pronounced by a voice that made him start. Looking up, he saw his father, pale and languid, leaning over the counter. "I want to see you, Charles," said Fairface. "You must go to Oakland with me: I have left a note for the Cashier, explaining your absence." The family carriage was at the door. Tell William where to call for Mary Lorn- I' must see her too," said Fairface, leaning back in the carriage as he spoke. Charles directed the Coachman to the humble dwelling and took the front seat. He asked no questions: he remembered Jessie as she stood on the corner waving her handkerchief:   -. .   v V Y tN 1E S S. 233 he remembered her promise that he should visit her grave. They sat in silence, but Charles grasped his father's hand, hoping yet dreading an explanation. "This is the house-is it?" asked Fairface as the carriage stopped. "Tell her that Jessie wants to see her,--that she is 'ery-very ill." Mary was ready in an instant. Sit here, my child," said Fairface, making room for her beside him. "'Drive on, William, no more stopping."  The father sat with his eyes fast closed, mo- tionless and mute as marble: they could see a dreadful change in his face: there were new lines of agony ploughed there, since the me- morable night when he discharged Mary and disowned his son. The chisel of remorse had been at Work, and its letters were broad and deep. In the meanwhile, Jessie was playing nwith Carry at intervals : the most singular feature in her disease, being the mirth it permits almost Up to the moment of death. Her mother was as tender and assiduous as a mother can be, whose love is quickened by the rememebrance of neglect. Edith was sometimes at the bed- 20#   234   THE GOVERNESS. side, but oftener on the porch. She would say 'my dear little sister,' and then speculate through the window on the variegated splendor of the fall. She thought that Pa and Ma were giving themselves unnecessary anxiety, and that she might as well ride with Henry Arling- ton, as remaii whlere she was, only to frighten Jessie. And yet she heard tlat fearful wheezing -a word at which no mother will laugh-and hatd he looked closer, she milght have seen the parched nostril and the quivering of the hot, uneasy lip. The plhysician had come again and to Edith's surprise and the inother's consternation, he came not alone. Was the case so dangerous as to require consultation?-They were evidently alarmed. Thle child was worse: the first re- medies had failed: nothing remained but to leech and blister, in combination witl that white universal antidote-a poison and a cure. The two r'irs rattled off-others were suffering-and Jessie was dismissed until evening-they would call again. Jessie had taken her mother's watch: it was after twelve, and Clarles and Mary had not yet come. She uttered no complaint, but her eye  -I   THE GOVERNESS..      235 was fixed mournfuilly upon the minute hand and in every wind that swept the trees, she thought she heard the carriage at the door. Fairface exhausted by excitement and fatigue, by his daughter's illness and reunion with his son, had fainted on the road. It took them hours to revive and compose him. But at last, lon before Canry heard a sound, a smile broke over Jessie's face, her eyes glowed with an eager longing, and raising her head, she whispered, "They are coming: they are coming." The swift wheels flew along the gravel-- stopped by the porch-a rustling was heard on the steps-the sufferer stretched out her little arms and fell forward on Mary's breast. It was done in a moment: she took her brother's hand,-placed AMary's within it and pressed them both in her father's. Already unmanned and shattered, Fairface gazed steadily at them awhile, then sinking on his knees, exclaimed "My daughter, you have conqured." "I slall die, my dear father," said the child, "but I shall die happy--you will love and bless them for me. Won't you?' "I will," said Fairface. "You will let Mary come and   236    THE GOVERNESS. again, and let her plant flowers on my grave, and sing there. Won't you?-" Again the father nodded. "And oh my father, there is one thing you can do for me, and I shall ask no more. It is the last time I shall ever beg you for any thing. God will give me all I ask, when I go to him, and I will never trouble you again. I am a Catholic, father.-I spent all my money in buy- ing little looks about communion, and pictures of children not older than I, who received the body and blood of our Lord. I learned them by heart and burned them, for fear you would be angry if you saw then. May I see a priest don't you leave me-Charles will go for one." "Go-go," said the father-" you will find your horse in his old place-no one has mount- ed him since you did. Go, Charles, ride fast." Stay." said Mrs. Fairface. "Let us send for Mr. Easy,-it is only a fancy the child has taken."  "No indeed mother," said Jessie, ' it has been the hope and prayer of my life. I am not a child in that-I must see a priest!" And summoning all her strength she rose in her bed.   THE GO VERN ESS.      237 "I shall soon be before my God, and, in his name I claim the right I ask." "Wife," said Fairface replacing his child's head on the pillow, "though I once objected to her living a Catholic, God knows I never had the wish to prevent her dying one. I pre- fer it!-Go, my son-bring whom you please." Both of Jessie's'hands were raised above her father, and the "God bless you father," that flew up to Heaven fronl her lips, fell upon his soul like manna in the desert. The nearer death, the dearer: the child that is dying seems of more value than. all the rest. Bat was it not really so with Fairface?-Charles had disappointed himl--Edith was selfish, Carry heartless,--but when had Jessie betrayed a glimpse of ill nature, a particle of meanness, a spark of hypocrisy, a shadow of obstinacy or vindictiveness? Had she not studied to please him in everything, labored with all the diligence of love to win his stubborn smile, and suffered in silence, rather than pain him by complaint?- He recalled a thousand beautiful traits, scarce noticed in their bloom to be treasured in decay, -he remembered the day of the race when she checked her horse to yield the prize, and it   238    THE GOVERNE'SS seemed as if he had turned his back upon a helpless angel now summoned to a better father and a lovelier home. The leeches at her throat, pursuing their blind instinct, were doing more foi hler than he had ever done. Even now he could only sit and tremble, unable to share her sufferings or take them on himself. Her mother was the prompt, ministering angel, gliding noiselessly round the room, anticipating the unspoken wrislies of her child. Yet he could not leave the bedside-though in agony, it was better than absence: the pre- cious moments were flying fast, and his new- born love was miserly of minutes that could never, never return. They had to force him from the room when Charles returned with the priest--Mary's confessor. Jessie kncew him by her description--she re- corgnized the clear benignant smile, the look of mlingled firmness (and benevolence, the dignity of piety, or lumility, from which youth itself could not detract. He was no stranger to her --he had been her companion ever since she knew Mary. It was an old friend coming to see her, bringing the blessing she had craved. he found her well instructed and able to   THE GOVEr  NESS.     239 answer with clearness and precision: and more than this, he found her well prepared for a first Communion that mi(ght be her last. Two hours was Fairface kept from the sacred room where the new idol of his life was gliding from his arms.--- Jessie was better all that day; it was only when she dozed, that the fatal grasp of the disease was perceptible. The physicians pro- nounced her better and prescribed perfect quiet advising the father to leave the room. "In God's name," prayed Fairface, who would have knelt for permission to stay, " let me sit in a corner--I will not speak or move." And he did not: with his arms crossed on his broad chest, he kept his post, rigid as iron, un- seen by his child, and seeing only the waving outline of her head. For two days and two nights sat that penitent man, refusing to eat or sleep, declining exercise or conversation, con- tent with a glimpse of that golden hair, and sometimes stealing like a thief, when she slept soundest, to enjoy the treasure of her face. Softly would he creep from his hiding place- gaze-shudder-and return. On the fourth day of her illness, her Confessor   240    THE GOVERNESS. appeared, smiling it is true, but subdued by the influence of his august burthen. They had raised Jessie between two large pillows-they had placed a crown of snow-white flowers on her head. She was weak-she trembled-and yet her strong spirit seemed putting on its wings for the skies. A stillness deep as death per- vaded the room,-a brightness beyond life shone from the face of the child-as her lips parted-was her eyes swam-as the tremendous words "Ecce Ignus Dei!" were echoed in Heaven.-A cry like the wail of a departing soul scattered the solemn silence. The mother had bIern atnlding at the foot of the bed: stag- grering forward, as if in a dream-awakened by one aw fl p)ang to the folly and ruin of her life -overpowered by emotions till then infelt or repressed. she fell with a shriek at her hus- band's i:f(t. He raised her in his arms, paler than the poor, heart-broken wife on whom he gazed and pressed her head to his bosom- "Let her rest here Doctor,--' 'he said, and a,; she slowly revived, )e, (thered lhel long, dark hair to his heart, and printed to her pallid lips the first long, holy kiss of conjugal love. She knew it:--these terrible revelations-thlese   THE GOVERNESS.       241 blessed changes are wrought instantaneously and in silence. Nobler and greater, and holier was that unspoken union, than even the bedside of the dying child. "Look!"-it was the first word the mother s' spoke. Sill between Charles and Mary with the crown of flowers on her head, was Jessie- there was a world of angelic meaning in her eyes, a moment longey was that strange look, throughl which Heaven itself seemed to gaze, fixed upon the husband and the wife, and then, as if asleep, the eyelids closed and the child in all her innocence and love sank back upon her pillow. They sprang to her bedside. As if she had lived but for that moment of double rapture, the hand of death was laid on Jessie:-but yet it did not come as death-and she was breathing still. They knelt around her, father and mother, hand in hand: the departing prayers were said. Farewell young child of Heaven, sweet sister of the angels,-depart before a cloud has stained the glory of thy morning, before the breath of Sin has sullied the unblemished mirror of thy soul!-Stay not here, to wrestle and to 21   242    THE GOVERNESS. strive with the trials and the temptations that thicken witlh advancing years, When the gates of Heaven are open wide to welcome thee to the bosom of thy God. Go, in the name of the Father who created, of the son who redeemed, of the Holy Spirit that informed thee, go to the land of light and love, never more to weep, never more to wander, never more to want!- Sweet pilgrim thou hast found the shrine, before tile dw was off the flower, before the sandals of thy ilnnocence were lost on the weary road of life! Depart, young Jessie, while the seal of redempltion is on thy lips,-W y shouldst thou live!- "Mary-sing that hymn-' sleep my c '- sing it-sing it.'--It was the last word she spoke, and she kept murmuring' sing it,' until Mary commanding her tears, complied: and as her sweet, low voice died away, a sudden tremor passed over the child :-she was dead.-   CHAPTER XXII. She lay in her coffin in the small room, adjoining the parlor: the crown of flowers was still on her head-a bunch of Oviite roses on her breast-a crucifix in her hands. There was no mark of pain upon her face; but that sublime beauty of dead innocence, the majestic splendor, of which life is incapable, the visible seal of Heaven, impressed upon the pure tene- ment by the angel that took the soul. The friends of the family, some from the neighbor- hood, others from the city, were assembling to pay the last tribute of human respect and sym- pathy. They bent over the coffin, and many a one who had slighted her in life, stooped to kiss that sanctified clay. They knew not that the flower of the flock was gone: they knew not what angelic kindness, what purity and strength of mind, aye, and what genius, had passed away in that inanimate bud; but they had never seen so holy a sight and they whispered, one to another, 'how strangely beautiful!' The bright sunbeams, broken by the closed   244    T HE GOVERNESS. shutters, just flushed the curtains, and the low wind, in subdued sympathy, chimed like an eternal organ. The father and the mother stood at the liead of the corpse, surrounded by Charles and Mary, Edith, Arlington and Carry. But the central figure was the priest of God, never so majestic as whhen, standing forth, the com- missioned minister of the merciful judge, before whom the unsentenced soul is trembling, he rebukes the infirmity of nature, by the promise of endless joy. Though easily moved by the sight of sorrow-though tender-hearted as a child-though tears were flow ing around him- yet the Confessor had no disposition to weep or lament: it seemed sinlfl to grieve over such a sublime Ianifestation of infinite mercy :-the servant of the living God, he could not counte- nace by a tear, the misplaced regret of friend- ship, or even the outpouring of parental love. He once smiled as he sprinkled the unsullied temple tlI it held the youngr virgin's soul,-let there t)be joy on earJll, for there is joy in Heaven. Lilic the angels to the listenitng shepherds he could say' I bring you glad tidings.' The grave was open at the foot of the cedar   TH-E GOVERNESS.      245 tree, within sight of the house. The last look had been taken.-the lid was closed-the line was formed-the ground was blessed. Slowly into the cold earth they lowered her-the first handful rattled on the cofin--she was beyond the reach of human kindness or neglect; her mnedal was round her neck, but no more to warm on her lips,-no more would she wander to the arbour to weep and dream,-or wave her handkerchief in mute farewell. She is in other and better hands--the world and she have parted-we can only remember her! The friends had gone-the family were alone. In the chamber where she died, sat Fairface and his wife. He held her in his arms and gazed upon her face--she was all that remained to him on earth--thie mother of his innocent neglected Jessie-the wife of his bosom. She had become inexpressibly dear, and all the love he had denied, gushed like a strong torrent ftomn his soul. Her faults, whatever they may lhave been, were forgotten in the sad remem- brance of his own fatal guilt. Through her utter grief, and in the deep eyes which some- times opened on him, dim  with tears-with    246    THE GOVERNESS. tears for Jessie-lie saw, what she might now be, had he been different ;--had he not frozen the warm springs of her heart with the frost of undeserved aversion;-had he not despised her weaknesses, instead of cherishing her virtues. Grim in the  distance rose his spectral ' Solitaire,' and as he shrank from the remem- brance, he pressed her head closer to his bosom-. She was calmer; they were one from that moment: in the eternal book, the reconciliation was written.   CHAPTER XXIII. Fairface was a broken-hearted man: instead of recovering from the blow, every day seemed to deepen his affliction. Nothing cou!d ex- ceed his tenderness to his wife, but Jessie was constantly before himn day and night. All her clothes and trinkets, her fragments of songs and verses, her books and her guitar were kept sacredly in his room. He studied enormous folios to select the most elegant design for the railing around her grave. He consulted with artists and architects about a marble mon- ument as tall as the cedar tree, surmounted by a statue of his neglected child. He went so far as to purpose melting his fortune into a golden image of the bright being, who had been so little honored in her life. Mary laughed at his use- less, absurd devotion, for many are incapable of sympathy, and enjoy the, grotesqueness of excessive grief. For instance, Henry Arlington thought the father's anlguish a capital joke, and would amuse some of his boon companions with imitations of the old mlnan's abstraction, his designs of railing   248    THE GOVERNESS. and parian shafts with golden lark on the top of them. "She was a good little girl," hce would say, " but not worth all this fuss:--she died of the croup, a common-place, unromantic thingr, happening every day. And yet they go on, as if her exit had been heroic, as if it were a thing worth talking about. Edith and I must wear long faces and all that sort of thing : in fact, we have Iad no peace since sle died.'"- Sonie men, as if by a freak of nature, must have antipathies, and Arlington became the object of the fatiler's disgust. Fairface hated the sight of him and was willing to accept him a son in law, only as a means of escaping his presence. During the winter, Henry and Edith were married in Grace church by the Rev. Mr. Easy: the bride looked beautiful, the morning papers took due cognizance of the cerenmony aind the happy couple sailcd for Europe,--takin g Carry with them to be educated in Paris, under the maternal supervision of a m1aiden aunt, pretty well advanced in life tand sadly reduced il circumstances. Fairface determined to spend the winter at Oakland to be near Jessie's grave, but as his   THE GO V     E S S.    249 business compelled him to pass his mornings in the city, he thought it better to have a com- panion for his wife to console and amuse her in his absence. One evening he said to here "Why do you not invite some one to spend a month or two with you. I anm so much away, that you must have a lonely time of it." "There are very few now, whom I care to see," replied Mrs. Fairface. "And there are fewer perhaps who would leave their own amusements for the sake of being with me." "Can you not think of one?"  "Of one, and only one," said Mrs. Fairface. "I mean Mary Lorn, but I would not ask her to leave her mother." "Charles can stay with her mother, and she with you. I propose to place my business gradually in my son's hands: but it is better to try him a little longer at the Bank. He will rmake friends and have a chance of showing what is in him. I think the matter can be arranget if you really want her." "Indeed I do," said the wife pressing her husbands hand as the tears rose in her eyes, ' it will not only be a great comfort, but I shall   250    THE GOVERNESS. be able to repair the rudeness with which 1 once treated her." Mary wais soon at Oakland. She had always regarded Mrs. Fairface as a cold-hearted, sel- fish, arrogant woman of the world, but she found her, then, gentle, generous and loving. The transition was sudden, but not the less natural. A husband's hatred may even check the fountain of maternal love and steel his wife against his child. As this secret became un- folded to the Governess, who had not forgotten the mysterious night in ' Solitaire,' her sym- pathy was keenly moved, and she was able to return the respect and love of the injured mother. But there soon appeared a stronger link between them than mere human inclination. We have said that Mrs. Fairface had been awakened by Jessie's death to the folly and heartlessness of her past life. Mary soon per. ceived that her mind was running upon Catho- licity, and that her admiration of Mr. Easy had changed inlo sometling jnot very different from aversion. Her husband's altered manner seemed to have clanged her nature, and she listened to Mary with the most respectful consideration. The Governess, who, to say the least, was able   THE GOVERNESS.       251 to defend and explain the ceremonies and doctrines of our Holy Church,-a point in which so many young ladies are lamentably de- ficient,-was delighted at the opportunity of removing her new friend's prejudices. The winter passed in religious controversy, which we do not mean to repeat: there are so many better reasoners than Mary, that it is quite unnecessary to record her instructions. We are writing for Catholics, not for Protestants. Sometime in the Spring, Mary received a let- ter from Julia Dartmouth, which she read to Mrs. Fairface, and which we beg permission to lay before our readers. MY DEAR MARY:-My father is tired of standing still, and has made up his mind to visit an old friend in the South. He is too in- firm to travel without nm, and has consented to let me accompany him. We shall be away un- til the middle of the summer, when we go, as usual, to our little cottage on the sea shore. I have packed one trunk, and pause half way through the other to bid you good bye and ask you to pray for me. Perhaps you are astonished that I ask you to pray for me. I don't mean astonished that a akd   252    THE GOVERN ESS. poor sinner should supplicate your prayers, but that a Protestant should make it a point in a letter. Well, my dear Mary, I am not a Protestant, I have been fairly caught by Dr. Wright, and am now, like you, in the bosom of our Holy Mother Church. God, in his infinite mercy, has deigned to open my obstinate eyes to the majesty and beauty of his greatest work. My old pastor's influence may have led me to ex- amine, but it was a higher power, my dear Mary, that made me a Catholic. I have ex- amined my heart, again and again, before Com- munion and after Communion, and I cannot detect a trace of any human impulse in this happy change. So now you understand why I ask you to pray for me. Your mother was the first who staggered me in my old opinions: the next time I see her I shall claim that pair of beads. It would amuse you to hear the comments  or my friends about my infatuation as they  civily term it. I wish I had you with me, my young logician, to wing an arrow for me some- times, and give them a little wholesome humili-  ation. The shrugs and sighs with which I am  I   THE GOVERNESS.       253 afflicted are numberless. My father was rather restless at first, but he has relapsed into indif- ference. You must pray fr him too, my dear friend; hie thinks religion only invented for the amusement of children and the consolation of old maids. If our friend's plantation is in the neighbor- hood off a post office, I shall furnish you with my address: for I look forward to your corres- pondence as a pleasure to which I am entitled. There may not be a Catholic Church within fifty miles,-this is the sa-ist deprivation to which my duty as daughter subjects me-an when vou have no news, I shall thank you for a sermon My best love to your mother: I wish she were here to pack my trunk. I have so much less time to spare than I had, that I find my ward- robe an annoyance. Believe me, my dear Mary, Your sincere friend, JULIA DARTMOUTH. Mrs. Fairface read the letter over and over: the influence of example is mrore-potent than argument. Oharles made frequent visits to Oakland and 22   254    THE GOVERNE S S. lent material aid to Mary in her new work. But high over all human efforts, serene and omnlipotent, works the infinite grace of God, strengthening, enlightening and redeeming. Mrs. Fairface became a Catholic, reader. And as she sat at breakfast one morning in May, be- tween Charles and Mary, the tears rolled from Fairface's eyes as he sat gazing steadily at her. The bloom of her beauty had departed, her hair was touched with gray, but infinitely lovelier than ever, she appeared then, than in all the splendor of youth. She was pale and yet her face was covered with brightness,-a subdued joy, a meek rapture shone through the features that had been profaned by fashion and worldly pas- sions :-she was the mother of Jessie. The husband rose and as he approached her, she stretched forth her hand and poor little. Mary burst into tears. "I have been to Communion this morning," said Mrs. Fairface. "It is my turn, now," he whispered, bending his head. "May God accept my contrition and pardon my delay." He called Charles and Mary to his side and silently joined their hands: it was the first time   * THE GOVERNESS.          255, x : ,-    THE GOVERN E S .      25 he had recognized their love. They went forth on the porch, and like an omen of happiness, on the top of the cedar tree, over Jessie's grave, a yellow breasted lark was singing. We have little more to add. Charles and Mary were married in the old Cathedral: though we have not recorded their conversation, their letters or their thoughts, yet they loved each other well and truly, better than most youzg people do; and though each may have their trials and disappointments as life advances, et they are consoled by that -divine faith, which teaches us to welcome the badge of sorrow. Fairface did not long survive Jessie: he died a Catholic and was buried beside her. The lark still came to the cedar tree, and sang as sweetly as ever. Julia's father died at the South. In her lone- liness and affliction, she clung to Mrs. Lorn, and begged her to live with her. Though it w was hard to leave her daughter's house, yet Mrs. Lorn was not the woman to refuse such a prayer. Julia did enter a Convent. In the ages of faith, there were many holy women, who mingling in the world, still preserved the purity and asceticism of the cloister, beneath t    256    THE GOVERNESS. the ornaments of rank and title. And Julia moved like one of these, a shining mark, a bright example, and a blessing; relieving woe and want and sickness, devoting her wealth to the greater glory of God, and rejoicing in the privilege of decorating the altar. THE END.     
         
       
   
