
    ----CITATION----
        Sumner, Charles A. (1835-1903). Round the Horn .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7968
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Round the Horn 
            
               ,ogD THE Ho                                  4 **-**               '        ' he staiswere dim, though clear - t n          '  " h liv CHARLES A7. SUMJSER.  "We listen'd and look'd sideways up I Fear at my heart, as at a cup, My Life-blood seem'd to sip ! i .he stars were dim, though clear the night; ethe Steersman's face by his lamp gleamed white; .,From the sails the dew did drip- , While hung above the western bar I' The gibbous moon, with one bright star Within the nether tip." [  "I moved, and could not feel my limbs: I was so light; almost I tho't that I had died in sleep And was a bless6d ghost."       BY CHARLES A. SUMNER. Scores and perhaps hundreds of our readers have seen the good ship Fleetwing, and someperhaps remember to have stood on her deck. Not a pretentious vessel, either in model or carrying capacity -a thvee-quarter clipper of a thousand tons register. She has made some tventy voyages around the Horn. This was her third or fourth. She had for a captain a Cape Cod skipper by the name of Howes, who had before made two around-the-world trips in the same vessel. According to my observation, and comparison of sailor-accounts, he was in many respects a much better character than the average of his class. And he loudly boasted of his humanitarianism; and it was understood thit he did not wish the officers to kick or otherwise maltreat any of the crew-while he was on deck. (So our cuffing was carried on principally in the night time.) The mate was a State of Maine man; hailing from Portland. And as to the relative merits of the harbors of Boston and 'Portland, I recollect some very earnest discussions between the Captain' and the first officer, while I was. at the wheel. The mate was a gob4? hearted man; though he would fly into a passion and swing"Jitg boot with an emphasis, during the morning watchi if any 'f?-the, men or boys attempted to " soldier " when hauling on the main-brate. I suspect that much of the Captain's. talc ,in favor off htimane treatment of seamen--which came up to us oecasioially tirough the e binnacle-was sheer cant; gathered from some reverend Stiggins circle formed for the special edification of .maSteis of :vessels,. m 'the - dining-room of one of those notorious dens of imp0osiion:kiid:v as. tF Ye s    I' Sailors' Homes '; a title which should belong, in San Francisco and elsewhere, to an institution at once generously supported and con- ducted with rigorous protective honesty. The second officer was a tall, ungainly Yankee, of Nantucket birth and breeding; a cut-throat by instinct, and such a coward as we shall illustrate by-and-by. The first person I saw on deck when I ascended the gangway- ladder of the Fleetwing, as she lay in the stream in New York har- bor, in the summer of '55, was a little, bald-headed gentleman, with- out hat or coat, who was pacing up and down by the binnacle. I supposed, at the time, that he was the Captain; and for several hours during that day I watched his actions and observed his countenance, - as I had the opportunity, for the purpose of determining, in my own mind, what was the' nature of the' master for the voyage. Towards ':evening, as I looked back from the forecastle deck, I thought I saw : is anozther but very similar individual walking up and down or across the main deck, in front of the cabin door--a person bearing a strik- :ing resemblance to that one whom I had mistaken for the Captain. It proved to be the same person; now covered with a large, heavy wig and a continental caps and exhibiting a very blue coat thickly garnished with very bright brass buttons. This was "our passenger "?- our only passenger-b, the officers saluted as Doctor; by the crew nick-named, "Old-slipand go-easy." He was a middle-aged, mediurt.- sized man, with small Iblack eyes, scant but well-dyed whiskers, and a peculiar shuffling gait, which was never changed from the first-not altered by gaining his sea-legs-to which peculiar mode of locomo- tion he undoubtedly owed his closely-descriptive christening.,. I firmly believe from my own experience-although I have never inquired forthe purpose of ascertaining as to whether the emotions -' idreunifortm- that eyery boy born in the interior of the United 4Staets, nd brought up to years-of puberty with nothing more of a sea - i, taquaintance than is gained by books of adventure, or at most an ocp "  I.: c'ain rief viisit to an ocean harbor--Ibelieve that every such,boy , ::' ":a lsi:.aprspective of imagination, reaching out beyond the blue line 3:? .t'::ifi,?6 ocef n horizon, which is in a certain sense infinite, as it is in- ": ...1.esel.:  The romance of the unknown and illimitable stretches a; 'iit^^;n me-s ene;,.and the -irresistible fascination of the :M:!,;^li:.i;fo h4eoeCV  ave :is :largely composed of sensations of  ;.:.:i: :i a.na ,pectatiin. whichfill evey boy's heart with glorious-rap- .:;-'ei: i'il;th),!^^. i!t i es09r :fBarnes;:of Philadelphia, in a remarkable ^ -/'*^ i^ -'^^^ ,^'-1 ^.y;'i:*^, *-'"'.'"  , I - * " '   [3v sermon upon Old Age, written when he himself had passed the term of three score and ten, gives, among other happy suggestions, a grateful notice of the wisdom of the Creator in planting an instinct- ive love for a:.seafaring service in the minds of many boys and men. I am satisfied, I. repeat, that for the country boy there is a period of adolescence in which the thirst for a sailor's voyage is universal. In numerous instances, no doubt, one-- voyage, and perhaps a' very brief one at that, may be all-sufficient to obliterate the-romance or cure the distemper-whichever name you choose for the roaming. disposition., Now I have said this much in what may be called a digression, be- cause I wished to have-that which I shall subjoin appear in a proper light and emphasis. Though many books have been written and widely read by those to whom they were particularly addressed, giv- ing a professedly minute and exact account of the monotonous rout- ine of sailor life, few, if any, of the youthful readers in any degree appreciate the rigor and wearisomeness which it is intended to de- pict. As the sailor himself, once on shore, forgets the toils and hardships of the voyage, and presently longs to return to the deck on which he has- many times sworn he will never again voluntarily put his foot, so-as it were in sympathetioor harmonious anticipation of all this-the lad who has become anxious and resolved to ship before the mast, pays no heed to, or keeps not in memory, those au- thentic descriptions which, in our calmer years, we judge ought, to have been accepted and realized as solemn warnings. And so must I speak for myself.' I had, heard and read a thousand times, I dare . be sworn, that the forecastle was not a place of elegant -comfort; tha t the associations were rough, at the best; that the -sailor'siposi- , tion was often menial and servile. I 'had absolutely forgotten --the : many accounts which I afterward remembered to have , seenof:the, unpalatable flavor of salt-junk, and the very dry (orvery tely), ' characteristics of hard-tack.         ,   . ':, * - I am not about attempting to stuff you'.with commonpilace oi- . . ography. I wish you to understand how, of necessiaty Ani ,h " any false pride, I at first stood apart frim' the majority *oft" tBi!^O!;i and observed their customs and,submitted:o, .teir ingi; , i;' , \new revelation. It occurred o toime inanyy..ti . . : ,:i, many. a time 'to so 'ititelligent: .a .lad., a*s at c: r:'* :, ,'^ .,t and brave an Irish boy. as!ever trpod' d deC - i:h  posted in regard to-thesechapsy siiOtfo!- "plainiprint., So foreth Lone iM1 \-"::    : .,-*q,6 H   [X4] to blame but ourselves ; and saying this I must annex the confession that we who have "made the trip" would not sell that experience for any similar period-of time, and toil, and pleasure, chipped out of opr history. I am glad that it is a fruitless task to attempt to scare 1 Yankee boys from the making of at least one sea-voyage venture. Seventeen persons constituted the crew, including four "'boys," so-called, and a carpenter. I suppose the majority of California clip- per-crews were in those days-as, indeed, I Resiume they are now- motley gatherings; with unique specimens of humanity from widely separated portions of the globe.. We had represented, besides our own nation, Englard, Ireland, Scotland Holland, and Sweden; and there was one ordinary seaman, named"Sebastopol," who claimed to be the descendant of a Russian military officer and a French lady, and whose countenance tended to confirm his distinguished genealog- ical boast. Sebastopol was a A character." He would trip along the deck in a kind of half minuet style-always restless, always intolerant of any sitting work where he could not be in sitting proximity to a ship- mate--with a mode of utterance which was very dignified and even stilted, and-apparently quite out of keeping with his nervous and even fantastic predisposition of body. Many a time have I worked with him on the spars which lay on deck, or on the shrouds, or out on the jib-boom; and, I always felt conscious of th fact that he was boss when we two were comparatively alone togetherHHe would direct me, in his short-off style, to attend to this or that part of the job, which our officer, hail assigned to us. And then he would demand of me, whenever sof disposed, certain matters of infor-m mation-usually a record of somne part of my life;-which inform- ation or record, I now remember, I had no more thought of my right to withhold from him, than I,4ould have questioned, when a child, the authority of my father to ask me to give an account of my where- abouts and actions during a day of constructive truancy. "Long Tom," another leading member of our watch, must also have a paragraph of description; for indeed he acted a prominent part in many another notable sceneon our voyage, as well as on the occasion to which I shall particularly efer. "Long Tom" was six feet two ; born in Sweden, but ;from sixteen to thirty-five, the age at which he had then arrived sailor-bred in the American merchant marine. He did not appear to be well built, though- of sufficient diameter of chest, when taking our usual estimate from the height; but in truth he was a remarkably powerful as well as active man. There truth ,e   was a remarkablypow   , . .     ,   C5 was no aristocracy about Tom. He was always considerate and gener- ous toward 'the boys; and on more than one occasion he interfered to prevent the Hollander (named "Harry ") from abusing Jim Woods in the night timle. \ For this interference, Harry, on several occasions, swore at Tom in a vast quantity of broken Dutch; calling him, among other things, a " chicken-hearted coward."  Tom further illustrated his good;sense and temper by replying to such assaults from diminu. tive Harry with simple advice to i' try and be civil." Harry ,Was a rmean fellow, noisily boasting of his courage, his abil. ity to whip Aidy:!man of his size, and his inclination to make a match with any man twice his size before he would take any "sass." Jim W9tod"s!wasa boy of about nineteen, who had been placed in the Captain'sicharge by his father, a, wealthy old merchant of New Bed- ford; Jim himself informing us that the " old man "--meaning his parent-thought that a whaling-voyage would be a little too steep for him. ,S his sentence, on account of incorrigible wildness, was commuted to the:,'forecastle-of our-clipper. -Jim's own story about his offenses oin land did not make him out a very wicked hoodlum; indeed, it seemed ctto  me that the worst crime .in the catalogue to which he confessed was the'connecting of the door-bell handles and wires of the neighbor's houses with a strong galvanic battery, con- veniently located via the vicinity. With the ivory or glass knob neatly covered wi i ;tin foil, he hadl surprised a succession of visitors to evening patms7;on numerous occasions, in a manner productive- according.'td 4i s account-of remarkable epileptic and St. Vitus maneuvers. He related one or two instances in which very sancti- monious :mifiisters of the gospel had laid a zealous hand on the presumably non-conducting knob, and thereupon momentarily 'had forgotten their professional propriety of speech-indulging in ex- clamatory repetitions of the various names of the Deity, with a tone and manner essentially different from that scrupulously observed in' the regular pulpit exercise of decorous prayer. I think that Jinm was, by birth or breeding, past reclamation as a practical joker. :A short time before entering harbor, he urged. several. members of our watch--including your humble servaft-to. engage in a Conspiracy, the executive plan of which was as follows: The Captain was somewhat of a portly man, and after walking up and down the poop deck four or five times, he was in the habit of leaning on -the roof of the dining-room and pantry cabin to rest himself--pli[g his rounded chin into the converging palms of his   [  :6] 3 hands. Woods had ciphered precisely where the Captain was in the habit of!ocating his elbows. He proposed that a well emeryed sail-needle should be rigged underneath, from the outer aft corner of Ahe steward's pantry, so that, by means of a string run down the side of the pantry, and under the gangway steps! and thence along the spare. main yard, the little dagger might be made to play into the flesh of the "skipper."' This audacious proposition-which, if acceded to and carried out, would probably have resulted in bring- ing all the guilty parties concerned before Judge Hoffman under an indictment for mutiny-was modified, by the council of the more cautious mariners who were willing to agree to a practical joke in this line, so as io have its piercing point in an accustomed sitting- place of the somewhat unpopular steward. -There was a young Englishman in our watch, a chubby fellow of about twenty-one years of age, who had seen service in a British frigate in the Crimea. fIe it was who baptized'"Sebastopol"; for which office he was not beloved by the Russo-Frenchman of whom I have spoken. A little Scotchman, with a remarkable falsetto voice and great, natural gift for music, was also a member of our watch, and his singing of plaintive sailor songs dwells in my memory to-night with a pathos that seems to mne unequaled by any ballads I have heard upon the land; the recollection of his weird chanting of a Scottish herring-bank psalm haunting me many times with its ineffable sweetness. Oscar Arnold, from Sandy Hill, New York, was the youngest boy on board -' not over fifteen at the outside.' He was rather a quiet lad for his years, with a large bump of secretiveness. And Jim Woods used him as a convenient implement for carrying out vari- ous plans for vexation and torment against any of either watch who undertook to "put on airs" with Jim Woods. [Oscar subsequently made a second voyage around the Horn, and then from eighteen months? working in the brokerage business in San Francisco in '63 and '64-his office being on Washington street, near Montgomery --herealized about twenty thousand dollars clear profit. With this sum, as a sufficiency, he has returned' to his eastern home, there to live and lounge upon the interest of his capital.] " -I :must detain you to mention another shipmate. His name was m; in:eWlls; then about twenty-three or twenty-four. years of age. : HEis widowed mother was a wealthy lady, residing in Brooklyn. His   '  [7 ] sister had married one of the nabobs of tat city. He had enjoyed the best of opportunities for a first-class education, and had been crammed up into the Sophomore year of Columbia College. He was on board the Fleetfwingg, as he informed me, as an under-grad.. uate on detached service-a happy combination phrase, evidently made up for condensed reference to his collegiate and militia com- pany training. I have been told that during a number df years since our arrival, Tom was ,an eminently useful copyist- and a very modest actor at a place called the New Bella Union--which Mr. Pickering says is the name of a " minor theater" in San Francisco. Tom had evidently been a hard drinker before he came on ship- board; and I suspect he was more than half an'outlaw from the maternal mansion. The carpenter was a great, burly Englishman-a man of very rare intelligence, and full of ready, romantic information concerning the thousand and one ports he had visited. The cook was a little Irishman, not larger than Oscar; as good- natured as he dared to be; but evidently instructed by experience that it was necessary for him, as a rule, in his intercourse with sailors, to stand on his reserved rights. Blessings upon him for the tit-bits of soft-tack and Sunday plum-pudding which he occasionally left at a point of rendezvous, for his favorites, in the forecastle. I lately heard, with great distress, that while acting in his professional capacity on board an English guano brig, he was tripped on deck by, a " sea" which came over the cat-head and washed him through the disproportionately sized scupper-hole. The steward was a sickly man of about forty years of-age. He incurred the hostility of a majority of the crew at the outset of the d voyage from suspicion to the effect that he had " blabbed " to the Captain about some remarks which the first officer made concerning the ignorance of the chattering "skipper" on some indifferentsubject. I am satisfied the suspicion was unjust; but the steward suffered many things on account of it,-inclusive of the projection of the emeryed needle, mentioned before in this manuscript. -He played on the flute with considerable skill and good taste; and sometim'es-  ;accompanying the little Scotchman, during the dog-watch,-we:had!  an entertainment which was highly appreciated byall o bboards ainid :;:: seemed even to humanize the'-second officer himself. ::; : S i:? ; We made a broad offing from the harbor of dNew Yorki:^t0 : clEai;\ . . the West Indies and the outermost Brazilian cape. rA An;rd' l" ,   ,  ,  , a,  {  , s ,  ,  . , ,  t    * ,  [ 8 ] passage to the line; and extraordinary shower-baths for the new hands during the night when the equator was'crossed. No incident of any note in the North Atlantic, except the meeting and exchange of salutations with the Intrepid. Off the river La Platte came our first experience of a storm, be- fore which we rode toward the cape at the rate of .fifteen or sixteen knots an hour.   When we were within a few degrees of St. John's Land, I over- heard the Captain telling the mate that we -would take the outside; and as I was. then at the wheel I had some orders to change the course in accordance with this instruction. Long Tom had a lame hand; and I agreed to take his trick for him at the morning watch. It was a beautiful moonlight night; and the moon was undimmed in its splendor, though it had reached the westernmost quarter of the heavens when I took the wheel, at four, o'clock. We had passed St. John's Land, and were close to its southern extremity, when this watch began. Suddenly--shooting out from the haze of the sea- all hands on deck simultaneously saw a ship coming up, about four points off to leeward. I noticed very shortly that the intention on the part of the officer in command of the approaching sh'ip was to hail us from the windward. I was venturing something myself, with a view to prevent this maneuver, when I heard the voice of the Cap- tain-he speaking from his state-room below-ordering the man at the wheel to keep her up. In a few minutes the Captain was on deck, and manifesting a considerable amount of uneasiness, which greatly surprised me from so phlegmatic a nature. Th at ship didn't get to the windward. I think the main yard would have been backed before the man at the wheel would have given up hopes of prevent- ing such a catastrophe. Our rear racer gave up that windward job, and slid close up to the leeward. And there sounded hoarsely over the billows: "Ship ahoy! What ship is that?"Our captain replied: "The Fleetwing/ What ship is that?"Instead of replying with her name, the master of the ship which had come up to us from the channel inside St. John's Land repeated his question, and added: ":Is that the Benjamin1 Peabody?"Our skipper again replied as before, when the response came: "Ship Lord Morpeth; bound for Valparaiso." After stating our hailing point and destination, the captain of the Lord: Morpeth shook- out his fore and mizzen royals and unfurling the British banner from his spanker's peak, ex- asperatingly saluted us with, "Good night, little Yankee l"--and   [9] moved rapidly ahead. To this last salutation and intended val- edictory our skipper 'made no reply. In his excess of caution he had ordered not only our main sky-sail, but also our fore and mizzen royal-yards sent down, a full week before this night. His orders now were: "Mr. Goodwin, all hands on deck! Send up those yards." I guess those yards went up in just about as expeditious a manner as any business of that kind was ever transacted. I ,can feel the tears coming in my eyes now when I think about it. It seems to me now as if those sails were bent on by some sleight-of- hand. I remember a long thrill in the roots of my hair when the halyards were simultaneously pulled and the little bellies aloft began to draw. It did'nt need a hint, much less a command, from the Captain to put our clipper right on the white canvas of Lord Mor- peth. And clearer and clearer is it seen, as the Fleetwing glides up like a bird of prey after its victim. Up and up, nearer and nearer! Now we are abreast. Therie has been a little bundle dangling over my head for several minutes past. "Let her fly!" yelled our Cap- tain to the first officer; and with a "Good-bye, John Bull!" fairly crashing through that Boston trumpet, the sharp-edged vessel of Yankee-land flew away from the tardy keel of old England, leaving a wake of laughing waters behind her,--while the flag of the Union whipped out its saucy stripes in the breeze! Moonlight was being superseded by daylight, as through the glass the first officer declared he had lost sight of the rival vessel of the morning. Andlthen the winds began to ' blow, blow, blow," in de- gree and temper fully sufficient to vindicate our latitude off the famous promontory of the south. Before the night closed in uplon us we had a full view of some of the snow-clad mountains which, we were told, constituted a part of Cape Horn proper, and which were only twenty or thirty miles distant from its outermost point. We hoped to see the literal extremity of the Cape on the follow- ing day-a point of vision of which sailors delight to boast; but we were driven too far south, and had in this matter only the Captain's speculation, delivered to his officers, to the effect that through his glass he believed he saw the big-toe of South America. We had a full season in the Fleetwing on that trip, off and below Cape Horn. And for the benefit of the inexperienced, as well as an exclusively legitimate part of my story, I must tell of the new rout- ine, and predicaments, exigencies and intimacies, which pertain to an average Cape Horn season. ,   [ Io] According to our log, we were plump thirty-four days from St. John's Land, until we began, as Pat expressed it, to pull up out of the Patagonian climate. The regular labors of the sailor in the cleanin anand polishing, and painting, and repairing of the vessel are suspended almost altogether. In this sense there is an easier life than when sailing in a temperate or comparatively stormless zone. The business of the watch on deck is principally confined to the sailing management of the vessel, so that during the day'the active watch is often as idle as the men and boys below. This is to my purpose, because you will all now understand the relative novelty of the situation; how the closer acquaintances are formed in that tem- pestuous latitude, in the unusual time for protected and unreproved intercommunications. And here, for the first time, with us, all hands were called on deck in the night time to take in sail or aid in wearing ship. And such scenes, such lively co-operation, contributed to our mutual familiar- ity.  In short, it is the fact that. members of different watches, though bunking in the same house, might land at a distant port com- parative strangers to each other if the voyage was altogether fair and sunny. I became acquainted with that crew, as a congregation of sailors, during that Cape Horn season. By the conversations, the anecdotes, and' tales which I heard, es- pecially during the fifteen days in which we never took- off our oil skins, I commenced to appreciate my society.. Withlthe exception of Jim Woods and myself-Oscar Arnold being too young to pos- sess a combative judgment-there was the most implicit belief on the part of the crew in ghosts and goblins, in hydras and chimeras dire. Although I had by this time acquired something of that cau- tious disposition which I have intimated belonged to the cook, in my participation in the talks in the forecastle, I had the unwise hardihood to laugh incredulously--I was not so courageous as to sneer outright-at some of the' sea-serpent and human apparition stories withwhich the Cape Horn circle of entertainment was opened. Even my hitherto very staunch friend, Long Tom, was not only man- ifestly shocked at my sign of disbelief, but he distinctly gave me no- tice of his suspicion that I was assuming patronizing airs in the premises--" thought I knew a little more than anybody else," and so  forth. I discovered that it wouldn't do to smile even, when an An-/ cient Mariner legend was recited. I further ascertained thai the  , }   \ m second mate was, according to his own admissions, as superstitious as any of the crew. While keeping watch on the forecastle deck, during this season, I was frequently visited by the first officer, who had found it agreeable to talk with me,whenever he could do so without observation on the part of any of my shipmates. From him .I learned that the Cap- tain-whom he exceedingly disliked-had a slavish fear of astro- logical signs ; a fact which he gathered or correctly inferred from the repeated voluntary, untimely, unnecessary disclaimers which the master made. And this I confirmed by my own unavoidable listen- ing when at the dinner hour I stood at the wheel, which was' not above ten feet from the Captain's dining table-the rear door of the house aft opening five or six feet distant from the binnacle. p The staple conversation during the season was founded on ghostly histories,-at once the delight and terror of the igno- rant sailors. On one occasion, Pat Mercer ventured an expres- sion of disbelief, after the English boy had related a yeritable account of the appearance and doings of a mermaid in the Bay of Biscay O; whereupon there was a thoroughly chorused prop- osition to throw the "Paddy son-of-a-gun " over the gangway. Of course Pat was not seriously alarmed by this extravagant threat, but he took it as full of notice; and he admitted with undoubted sincerity, in reply to a- question by no less a personage than the carpenter, that he believed there were such things as mermaids; he had no doubt that the genuine article had been seen, on one or two occa- sions, within the enclosures of the Giant's Causeway. Tom Wells not only informed me, in a very friendly manner, that I would get my head broke if I threw any doubt on such stories, or, perhaps, if I failed to acquiesce in the claim for their truthfulness; but he also privately, and therefore sincerely, informed me that he had no sort of question as to the "possibility " of any of the stories which he had heard, although in each particular instance there might have been some exaggeration. Such were my associations. And I will confess to you, with the confident expectation that it is to go no further, that from motives of pardonable policy, and perhaps, subsequently, out of a feeling of pride in the discovery of some little talent on my part for this class of fabrications: at about the middle of the Cape Horn season I opened and thence continued to extemporize legends and visions which proved to be exceedingly palatable to my hearers, and which I   [ I2 ] am sure were sufficiently horrible to have satisfied the appetite of Jack Halyard, or Midshipman Easy. Within ten days from the date of my accession to the circle of duly accredited story-tellers, I was consciously transferred from the position of a " sub " to the full com- fort arid glory of a favorite story-teller in the forecastle of the clip- per ship Fleetwing. I only suffered one twinge of misgiving or remorse of conscience -and that was momentary--when our doctor passenger, ("Old-slip- and-go-easy," who had by some means learned of my newly obtained position, contemptuously remarked in my insignificant presence, and for my hearing, that there was one fellow in the forecastle who was stuffing the rest of the crew with all the cursed nonsense that they would hold. After reflection, I thought I was justified in my extem- porizings. But the remark convinced me that our passenger was far above the reach of any kind or quality of superstition. On the twentieth of December, it was announced, through the cook, who had the information from the steward-the competent authority at second-hand-that in three or four days we should be "out of the woods "; a land phrase, brought into the nautical diction- ary one or two centuries ago, and probably at the same time that the celebrated Mother-Goose song was originated concerning the red-herrings that grow in the groves and the blackbirds that grow in the sea. In four days, at the furthest, it was estimated, we should catch some available winds on the southern ruffled edge of the South Pacific trades. Then we had been a full month off that terrific Cape, and we all knew we had earned an outcome into better weather. Pat Mercer was the first one to inform or remind the crew, in one of our sociables, that Christmas was at hand; as about a week before the date last mentioned he bethought himself of- his religious obli- gations, and refused to eat meat on Friday. And Pat told us many :a really delightful tale of fairies and witches, and protecting disem- bodied saints, and tormenting demons, who had been known to cut up all sorts of capers in Old Ireland. He took the lead, I may say, in this species of history; while Long. Tom followed closely in the van. Tom Wells and Pat, however, boldly rejected Santa Claus; and it was unanimously agreed that the early visits of that patron of childhood had been succeeded in Great Britain and the United States by direct human agencies. Have I conveyed to you the idea and the impression that our crew were thoroughly possessed by a complete and unhesitating faith in   -              , [13] that class of appearances, a belief in which are especially denomin. ated superstition? But I have not roused a suspicion concerning the effect/which such associations may have upon the vaunting, en- lightened mind; an effect only awating special demonstrations to develop. Those four days of promise and of hope wore slowly away. But we knew we were making at least one hundred miles northing every twenty-four hours. On the third day it was suggested, and accepted as a happy omen, that we would teach fair, pushing winds on Christ. mas Day. It was Christmas Eve! We had bent on arid made more sail during the afternoon; and we felt convinced that the prophecy, that had come to us through the cook, was to be fulfilled on the morrow. The sun set that night amid a great wealth of crimson clouds. The high running sea softened down as-the shades came on. The wind, too, gradually fellaway; at least, there were no more gusts. With much less of sea and wind we were maintaining our speed. Our watch came on deck that night at eight o'clock. I remember, when we came out of the forecastle,looking at the gibbous moon, the Southern Cross, and Orion " bottom-side-up," and smiling within myself as I thought of what the mate had told me the 'light before concerning a division between these luminaries by clouds, which the Captain said he didn't believe signified anything!  Jim Woods was to keep the first look-out, I the second. I walked up and down, from amidship to the cook's galley, in company with Long Tom, until two bells. Then we sat on one of the water casks until it became time to relieve the look-out. The mate came for- ward as four bells was struck,and inquired who was to take the watch by the forestay. And he enjoined it upon me to keep wide awake; for he said we were in a locality in which we might expect a company of strangers. ," Aye-aye, sir," I replied, and took my station. Jim Woods said he couldn't sleep if he -laid down behind a spar-the usual bunking place on deck--and so he would keep me company for a little while. He had not been with me, however, more than fifteen minutes when the mate sang out for the watch to come and haul on the main brace. Presently I heard the familiar "yo-heave," " heave-yo," and then the final order, " belay!"I was waiting in expectancy of Jim Woods' return, when suddenly I was startled by a hoarse whisper, which I at once identified as coming from the mate, but which startled me and put me in a terror, never- e        /   [ 4] theless. The words were: "My God! Sumner, turn round and look up at the port end of the fore-yard!"I first turned, of course, and looked toward the spot from whence the voice proceeded. The mate was standing on the deck, leaning up in the corner made by the starboard round-house and the forecastle platform deck. He was looking in the direction indicated, and as the moon shone squarely upon his face I saw that he was livid pale. Of course, this increased the trepidation which his words had caused me, and it was with considerable effort that I turned my eyes toward the port end of the fdreyard. For some reason, the studding-sail boom, which was rigged above that yard-arm, never had been sent down. It projected a foot and a half or two feet beyond the outer ring. There, seated outside that boom, was the figure of a man, dressed in white overall or drawers, tucked into long-legged boots, with a sea-jacket, with a heavy fur cap, decorated with many feathers. 'The view was of the back, or at an angle to the side of the figure. I felt my heart thumping within me like a piece of ice. I believe I have been able ever since to describe, from that one sensation, the exact locality of that central organ of my body-including all the valves and arterial passages adjacent thereto. But I was not beyond reason. I thought like lightning of the possibilities; that that figure was the person of this, that, or the other member of our crew? And knowing the ca- pacity and limitations of their wardrobe, I took all the possibilities into consideration. It transpired afterwards that the mate had done the same before he hailed me. My pulse had warmed a little during the instant in which this argument was accomplished; but it went back into the frigid zone at the conclusion thereof. Then I turned toward the mate, and as the result of all the resolution I could sum- mon, I huskily said: "What is it?" "The mate replied not; but after a few moments more of fixed staring at the awful object above, he put his hands behind him, and shoving himself out, started and staggered toward the foot of the fore-mast. He was a full quarter of a minute making that distance of less than fifteen feet. He dropped rather than leaned down upon the timbers, and took hold of the tongue rope and commenced tolling the bell. I swung around and looked up. There was no change in the position of the figure. As soon as six bells were struck-one more than could be due- I heard exclamations aft, which of course increased in number and vehemence as the mate kept on tolling that bell. Jim Woods came running forward, and sang out: "What in h-1 is the matter with   I t I   /   [i5] you, Sumner?"He was followed 'up closely by the Hollander, Harry; who cried out that the mate ought to come forward and kick me down the steps. They both saw and recognized the mate before I could reply. They drew up in such an attitude of astonishment as 'you can well imagine, and then they heard me sing out-for I had recovered my voice, and perhaps something of my courage: "Look up at the port end of the fore-yard!" Jim Woods looked up first; thrust his thumbs into the sides of his pantaloons, and walked back- ward against the forecastle deck stairs. After looking at the mate for full a minute, Harry turned round and looked up,! He swung around in his tracks, and dropped flat on the deck as if he had been shot. The exclamatory talk and shouting aft had ceased; and I knew that there had been a discovery in that quarter. I looked all around my horizon of observation. Nothing, in sight. I walked past the capstan and down those forecastle deck stairs, although I was perfectly paralyzed from my hips down, so far as any physical sensation, was concerned. And it occurred to me, right then and there, that I had been playing a game of brag during all the youthful days of my life.                 4 I put my hand on the mate'sshoulder, when he irediately stopped that dreadful bell; and interpreting my purpose, said to me and to Jim, still in a whisper, "Let's go aft!" "Stop a moment," said Jim Woods. He seized the end of the strap which was attached to the cook's bailing-bucket, and which by some accident had been left under the steps; went to the side, to the leeward, threw the canvas bucket over, and drew it up full. He immediately emptied the contents on the prostrate form of the hated Hollander, exclaim- ing as he did so, "That squares us for what I got on crossing the line." This action had not only an immediate arousing effect on the fainting victim, but served to reassure or supply manly stimulus to the mate and myself. The mate at once spoke out in his usual tone: "Jim Woods, you're the'bravest man on this ship." "Well," replied Jim, as we were walking aft, " there's no use being scared before you are hurt. I think that is Old-slip-and-go-easy, with the night- 'mare." As Jim said this we had nearly reached the main hatch- way, and we had passed half a dpzen terror-stricken souls, leaning against water-casks or standing by the side of the Captain's cabin. The Englishman standing up as stiff as a poker-like a corpse on end; Tom Wells in a delirious shiver; Pat Mercer crossing him- self, but at the same time ejaculating, "I'll go up! I'll go up with     [I6] any other man!" The mate at once replied to Jim Woods' sur- mise: "I wouldn't wonder if that was it." He ran into the cabin door, with the well understood intention of verifying the suggestion by a visit to the doctor's stateroom. Jim Woods sang out his theory of the case, and at once there was a rally from all points, and a low commencement of a general laugh over the alarm and'consternation from which it was supposed we had unnecessarily suffered. And Harry was coming aft with growling but indistinct articulation, which caused Jim Woods to shift his knife around into a more convenient place for grasping. We heard the voice of the Captain, as he went up the back stairs, and demanded of the man at the wheel: "What's all this disturbance? Where's the mate?"Long Tom was at the wheel. He had seen nothing; but confessed he' had been alarmed by the ringing of the bell, though he had not the remotest idea of the cause. I had ventured clear aft, and was standing by the edge of the houselon the poop- deck, when the Captain turned from Long Tom to seek information elsewhere. I did not wait for any question. I told the Captain at once what I had seen and what the mate had done; and I said that the mate must have passed the Captain's door on his way to the doctor's room only a few seconds before the Captain came out. I wondered how they could have missed meeting. Just then the mate came up the aft cabin stairs on to the poop-deck, and, addressing me instead of the Captain, said once more in a whisper: "The doctor is asleep in his bunk; so is the steward, and the second mate i. getting up." "'What's the meaning of this disturbance, Mr. Goodwin?" sharply inquired the Captain. "Have you lost your senses?" This rebuk- ing question thoroughly sobered the mate, so to speak; and from that moment on he was perfectly self-possessed, and gave no sign of fear. He asked the Captain to walk forward, on the leeward side. At this moment the second mate came up. I saw by his countenance that he believed the first officer had been frightened by a sea gull, or some such innocent object; and I thought I could read a gloating gladness at the probable disgrace and humiliation of his superior. Somehow I knew I was not trespassing, but was welcome company, when I walked close behind the Captain down the port poop deck stairs, and then beside him up to the cook's galley. There was the figure to be seen as before. When the Captain first caught sight of it he trembled, and leaned up against the galley docr, saying: "I knew those clouds meant something." The second mate went right   I   [I7] down on his knees, and commenced bawling and praying. There were no more orders from the Captain that night. The mate turned around and asked "e to go and take the wheel, and send Long Tom forward. At this moment the steward appeared with the well- known wig of the dpctor in his hand. He had heard of the cause of the sensation from Long Tom, had gone down into the doctor's state-room and found his wig on the pillow, but the doctor not there! There was a simultaneous cry: "It is the doctor after all!"But the words were hardly out of our mouths when the " doctor himself appeared on the scene, half dressed, and more than half dead with fright from the recital which Long Tom had just given him. When he saw the "object," he flopped over on the hatchway like a wet dish-cloth, and laid there until he was camphorised, half an hour afterward. Just at that moment there was a shrill scream heard coming from above us-we all knew from whence!-and the figure slid for- ward and fell down, feet foremost, into the sea!"That's a human being," said the mate, very calmly, but quickly. And he added, in his usual shouting tone: "All hands on deck, and get one of these boats overboard!"Just then, from some unknown impulse, I sprang to the side of the ship and looked over. There was a large six-oared boat alongside, tied to the fore-chains. It contained two casks and a chicken coop. I don't know how I made the announcement. The mate' ordered me again to the wheel. As I started aft I saw him push over the second mate; and I heard Mr. Goodwin say something very bad. Long Tom went forward, and made a glorious illustration of his courage and seamanship. The mate, Long Tom, Jim Woods, and Sebastopol, got into that boat and cast off. We were going at about the rate of two knots, and the sea was almost calm. An object could be distinctly seen. There had been no cry after that scream. I watched the progress of the boat as it made toward and approached the object. I saw a figure lifted into the boat. In less than thirty minutes the boat was alongside again. I heard the mate say: "It is a young man." He was raised carefully to the deck while in an unconscious state. Restoratives applied, as he was laid out on the cabin roof, brought him to within the hour; but he was not in his rightr lnd until the next day. Then we 'learned that he had been wrecked twelve days previous; that he was an English Episcopal missionary, on his way O  L I8sJ to the Sandwich Islands, via San Francisco, in the ship Fairfield; that his water-logged vessel had been abandoned by officers and crew; he having been placed in this boat, in which he had met the Rleetwing, and supplied with provisions and water sufficient to last him a fortnight. The Captain of the Fairfield had said-wheth- er profanely or derisively I did not learn-that the minister could take care of, himself by himself. Indeed, the cause of this isolation was never satisfactorily explained to me. This young, man-Rev. Geo. M. Cooper,-had become crazed with his long and solitary drift- ing, at the time when'he was fairly "magnetized" up to our ship's A-  side,-as he expressed it. He had a vague recollection of fasten- ing his boat, wrapping a rope dife-preservers) around him, and going up a long flight of stairsand out on a corridor, from which he thought he was pushed by some passing fiend. Having two cork life-preservers upon him, he was kept above the water and saved. On the day of his return to reason, and a realization of his wonder- ful recovery, he obtained permission of the Captain to hold a Christmas service of thanksgiving upon the main deck of the Fleet- wing. We all attended that service. And when he extemporized an earnest prayer of recognition and thanksgiving for the kindness of the Almighty to him, we all said heartily, "AMEN." )   r j E :In :j 19 p ' i r    
         
       
   
