
    ----CITATION----
        Newell, R. H. (1836-1901). The Orpheus C. Kerr Papers, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7326
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Orpheus C. Kerr papers, vol. 2 
            
               THE ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. SECOND    SERIES. NEW YORK: Carleton., Publisher, 413 Broadway. (LATE BUDD & CARLETON.) M DCCC LXIII.   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862, BY GEO. W. CARLETON, In the Clerk's office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York   CONTENTS. LETTER      L I I I . NOTING THE LAMENTABLE INOONVENIENCES OF A C"PRESS-CEN808SHP," AND PARTIALLY REVEALING THE CIRCUMSTANCES ATTENDANT ON A MARVELLOUS STRATEGIC GHANGE OF BASE BY THE MACKEREL BRIGADE..............  L ETT E R     LI V. ILLUSTRATING THE DISASTROUS EFFECTS OF STRATEGY UPON NATIONAL LITERA- TURE,. AS EXEMPLIFIND IN THE ORIGINAL TALE BRAD BY OUR COBRESPOXD- BNT BEFORE THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB ....................... ......... . , 17 L ETTE R      LV. ]TTING FOBTH A NgW VILLAINY OF THR BLACK RIPUBLICANS, AND DISOBIBING THE THRILLING CONSTITUTIONAL BATTLE OF DUCK LAKE ................... 60 LETTER    L V I. WHERVIN ARE PRESENTED 80ME FEMNINE REFERENCES, Ar ANECDOTE Y THE EX- ECUTIVE, AND CERTAIN NOTES OF A VISIT TO THE, FESTIVE SHRBANDOAI VALLEY ...... ......   .....     ............................. 69 LETTE R      L II. SUGGESTING MENTAL RELAXATION FOR A TIME, AND INTRODUCING A FAMLIAR SKETCH OF THE WAR-STRICKEN DRAMA IN THE RURAL DISTRICTS ............. 80 L E TTER      L VIII. BHOWING HOW THE GENERAL OF THe XMACKEREL BRIGADE ISSUED AN AFFECTING G'ENERAL ORDRB, EXEMPLIFYING THE BEAUTIES OF A SPADE-CAMPAIGN AS EXHBITED IN STRATEGY HALL, AND CELEBRATING A XOTABLE CASE 0O HAYAL 8TB;ATEGY.   ......*. .......... .... .,. ... .................. 88 rv]   vi              CONTENTS. L E T T E R     L I X.  INSTANCING THE BENEFICENT DEPORTMENT OF THE VENERABLE GAMMON, AND NOTING THE PERFORMANCE OF A REMARKABLE MORAL DRAMA BY CAPTAIN VILLIAM BOWN.... .......... *              .97         j LETTER       LX. REPORTING THE SECOND REGULAR MEETING OF THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB, AD  THN BRITISH MEMBaR'S CITATION OF THE ENGLISSH POETS................. 105 LETTER       LXI. PORTRAYING A SOCIAL EFFECT OF THE POSTAGE-STAMP CURRENCY, DESCRIBING THE GREAT WAR MEETING IN ACCOMAC, RECORDING THE LATEST EXPLOIT OF THE MACKEREL BRIG(ADE, AND INTRODUCING A DtAFTING ITEM ............ 118 LETTER      LXII.  CONTAINING FBESH TRIBUTES OF ADMRATION TO THE DEVOTED WOMEN OF AMER-      j ICA, AND DEVELOPING THE GREAT COLONIZATION SCHEME OF THE GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE FOR THB BENEFIT bF THE BLACK RACE....... 128 LETT ER      LXIII. GIVING A FAMLIAR ZOOLOGICAL ILLUSTRATION OF THE "SITUATION,) AND CEL- EBRATING THE BRILLIANT STRATEGICAL EVACUATION OF PARIS BY THE MACK- XBEL BRIGADS ............       ........................ . . 136 LETTER      LXIV. SHOWING HOW THB COSMOPOLITANS MET AGAIN, TO BE INTRODUCED TO THE * "NEUTRAL BRITISH GENTLEMAN "AND HEAR M. BONBON'S FRENCH STORY ... 143 L ETTER      L X V NOTING THE REMARKABLE RETROGRADE ADVANCE OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE UPON WASHINGTON, AND THE UNSEEMLY RA ID OF THB BECKLESS CONFEDER- AOT Y ---......................... --  .............. .. .....*... *.** 166 1II     CONTENTS,             Vii LETTE    R   LX X I. IN WHCH OUR CORRESPONDENT ASTONISHES US Bt ENGAXING IN SINGLE COM- BAT WITH M. MCHELETi AND DEMOLISHNG "L'^AOUR"AND "LA FEMME.. 174 LETTER       LXVII. GIVING ASSURANCE OF THE UNMTIGATED SAFETY OF THE CAPITAL, EXEMPLI- FYING COLONEL WOBINSONW^ DRAFTING EXPERIENCE, AND NARRATING A GREAT MErAPHYSICAL VICTORY .... .......................... .... ...... LETTE    R   L XVII I. INTRODUCING ONCE MORE THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB, WITH A CURIOUS  LA- MENT," AND A STORY FROM THE SPANISH MEMBER ...........,..... , 196 LETTER     LX   X I X. ILLUSTRATING THE IMPERTURBABLE CALMNESS OF THE NATIONAL CAPITAL, AND NOTING THE ME]MORABLE INVASION OF ACCOYAC ........................ 220 LETTE      LXX. COMMENCING WITH HSTORICAL REFERENCE; RELATING THE EPISODE OF SPURI- OSO GRIMALDI, AND DETAILING THE LAMENTABLE FAILURE OF CAPTAIN SAMYULE SA-MTH TO PERISH HEROICALLY .............. ................. 228 L E T T E R    L X X I. SHOWING HOW THE PRESIDENT AND THE GENERAL OF TBE MACKEREL BRIGADR ISSUED GHEAT RMANCIPATION PROCLAMATIONS) AND HOW THE CHAPLAIN WROTE  A  RADICAL  POEM ................................... ... 238 LETTER       LXXI I. REPORTING THU LATEST SMALL STORY FROM "HONEST ABE," AND DESORIBING THE MOST XERCENARY BAYONET CHARGE ON RECORD ...................... 250 LETTER       LXXIII. MAKING MENTION OF ANOTHER MEETING OF THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB, AT WHCH THR TURKISH AND RUSSIAN MEMBERS READ THEIR STORIES ................. 260 o   Viii            CONTlETS. L E T T E R    L X XI V . OONCERNING THE SERIOUS MSTAKE OF THE VENERAIARTI GAMMON, THE CHAP" "AIN'W8 POETICAL DISCOVERY, THE PROMOTION OF COMMODORE HEAD, AND THE BECEPTION OF THE PBESIDBENTS PROCLAMATION BY THE SOUTHERN OONFBDEBRACT .... ,.  .................  oe.......  .. . 299 L E T T E R    L XX V. SETTING FORTH THB FALSE AND TRUE ASPECTS OF BEAMNG OLD AGI RESPEC- TIVELYj AND sHOWING HOW THE UNBLUSHNG CONFEDERACY MADE ANOTHER RAID             .... .................... ........ .... ........... .................. 10 LETTER       LXXVI. BRFERRING TO THE MOSQUITO A8 A TEST OF HUMAN NATUREt EXPLAINING THE "ONG HALT OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE, AND NOTING THE COURT OF IN- QUIRY ON CAPTAIN VILLIAX BROWN.................................... 320 L E T T E R    L XX    I I. SHOWING WHAT EFFECT DEMOCRATIC TRIUMPHS HAV: UPON THE PRESIDENT, NOTING OUR CORRESPONDENT'S STRANGE MSTAXKE ABOUT A BRITI8H FLAG, AND INDICATING THE STRATEGIC ADVANCE OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE ...... 328 LETTE R      L XX VIII I  IN WHCH THE STORY TOLD BY THE QERMAN MEMBER OF THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB     IS DULY REPORTED     .  .... ............. s. . .... .... , .......... 337 . LETTER       LX XI X. SHOWING HOW THE NATIONAL INSANITARY COMMTTEE MADE A. STRANGE BLUN-  DEBR; HOW THB BELOVED GENERAL OF THE MACKIC]RT. BRIGADE WA8 BRE-  9XVED AND EXALTED; AND ENDING WITH AN INFALLIBLE RECIPE ........ .8  ?,!   THE ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. SECOND     SERIES. LETTER LIII. NOTING THE LAMENTABLE INCONVENIENCES OF A "PRESS-CEN- SORSHIP,") AND PARTIALLY REVEALING THE CIRCUMSTANCES ATTENDANT ON A MARVELLOUS STRATEGIC CHANGE OF BASE BY THE MACKEREL BRIGADE. WASHINGTON, D. C., July 6, 1862. WHEN in the course of human events, my boy, it becomes necessary for a chap of respectable parentage to write a full and graphic account of a great battle, without exasperating the press-censor by naming the locality of the conflict, nor giving the number of the troops engaged, the officers commanding, the move- ments of the different regiments, the nature of the ground, the time of day, or the result of the struggle; when it becomes necessary for a chap of respectable parentage to do this, my boy, that chap reminds me of a  poor chap I once knew in the Sixth Ward. The poor chap took daguerreotype-likenesses in   10      ORPHEUS C. KAER PAPERS.         I high style for low prices, and one day, there came to j his third-story Louvre a good-looking young man,     dressed in a high botanical vest-pattern and six large- i sized breastpins, and says he to the picture chap, coil- fidentially: - "There's a young woman living in Henry-street, which I love, and who admires to see my manly shape; but her paternal father refuses to receive me into the family on account of my low celery. Now," says the breastpin-chap, knowingly, "I will give you just twenty-five dollars if you'll go to that house and take the portrait of that young lady for me, pretend- ing that you have heard of her unearthly charms, and want her picture, to add to the collection shortly to be sent to the Prince of Wales." Having witnessed the worst passions of his landlord that morning, my boy, and received a telegraphic dispatch of immediate importance from his tailor, the artist chap heard about the twenty-five dollar job with a species of deep rapture, and undertook to do the job. He went to the Henry-street palatial man- sion with his smallest camera under his arm, and when he got into the parlor he sent for the young lady. But she didn't see it in that light, my boy, and she wouldn't come down. For a moment the poor chap     l was in a fix; but he was there to take her portrait, or perish in the attempt, and as he saw an oil-painting ! of the young girl over the mantelpiece, he took that, and skedaddled. The next day the breastpin-chap  called at his Louvre again, and says to him:      "Have you taken Sary's portrait ."  "Yes," says the artist chap, "I took it,"       ,'     4!   SECOND SERIES.       1 "Where is it?" says the breastpin-chap with emo- tioni. "There it is," says the artist-chap, pointing to the oil. painting, with a pleasing expression of countenance. As high art is not appreciated in this country, my boy, a policeman called at the Louvre that afternoon and removed the artist-cllhap to a place which is so musical that all the windows hlave bars, and each man carries a stave. As my taste for music is not uncontrollable at present, my boy, and I can't write a full account of a battle withlout referring in some degree to the struggle, which we are forbidden to mention, I shall not be par- ticular-as to details. I am permitted to say that I went down to Paris witl my gothic steed Pegasus on  Monday last, and found the Mackerel Brigade coming back across Duck Lake with the fiantic intention of changing its base of operations. The Conic Section, my boy, had been or- dered to advance and force the Southern Confederacy to compel it to retreat, and the rapidity with which this was accomplished was a  brilliant vindication of the consummate strategy of the general of the Mack- erel Brigade. I  found the general a few miles back of the scene of action issuing orders-for the same, with a  little more sugar, and says I: "Well, my  indefatigable Napoleon, have you changed your base successfully?" The general smiled like a complacent porpoise, and says he: "We've reached our second base, my friend, being compelled to do so by the treble force of the enemy."   12     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. I went on to the second base, which I reached just in time to see Captain Villiam Brown, on his geometri- cal steed Euclid, arresting the flight of Company 3, Regiment 5, under Captain Samyule Sa-mith. "Samyule! Samyule!'" says Villiam, feeling behind him to make sure that his canteen was all right, " is this the way you treat the United States of America at such a critical period in her distracted history?" "I scorn your insinivation," says Samyule, " and rep -yeur observation. I am executing a rapid flank movement according to Hardee." "Ah!" says Villiam, " excuse my flighty remarks. I do not mean to say that you can be frightened,' says Yilliam, soothingly; "-but it's my opinion that your mother was very much annoyed by a large-sized fly just before you were added to the census of the Uni- ted States of America." Villiam's idea of the connection between cause and effect, my boy, i as clear as a brandy-punch when the sugar settles. The battle now raged in a manner which I am not permitted to describe, with results I am not allowed  to communicate. Villiam appeared wherever the fray  i was the thickest, waving his celebrated sword Escali- bar (Anglo-Saxon of crowhar), and encouragig/ all  the faint-hearted ones to get between himself and the blazing Confederacy. Borne a considerable distance ' backward by the force of circumstances, he had reached a comparatively clear spot in the rear, when A he suddenly found himself confronted by Captain    1 Munchausen, of the Southern Confederacy. Captain Munchausen was mounted upon the thin   SECOND SERIE.       1 nest excuse -for four legs that I ever saw, my boy; and what tempted nature to form such an excuse when the same amount of bone-work  would have brought more mone-T'"-"* '-v,qworwould have broughtore money,ow. it was not for mortal man to "Ia!" says Villiam, hastily reining-up Euclid, and touching his sword Escalibar, ominously, we met once more to discuss the great national question of personal carnage."     'Sir," says Captain Munchausen, superciliously waving his keen edged poker and drawing his fiery steed up from his knees, it is my private intention to produce some slaughter in a private family of thle hame of Brown." Fire fashed from Villiam's eyes, he replaced a small flask in his bosom, and. says hle: "Come on, and let the fight come off." Then, my boy, commenced a series of equestrian manoeuvres calculated to exemplify all the latest im- provements in cavalry tactics and patent cilcusses.- Round and round each other rode the fierce foemen, bobbing convulsively in their saddles like exasperated jumping-jacks, and cutting the atmosphere into minute slices with their deadly blades. Now did the deter- mined Villiam amtle sideways t  oward the rebel, thrusting fiercely at him when only a few yards inter- vened between them; and anondid the foaming Mun- cllausen wriggle fiercely backward against the haunches of the steed Euclid, slashing right and left with tumultuous perspiration. It w as when this thrilling combat was at the hottest that the steed Euclid, being exasperated by a large   "     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. blue-bottle fly, arose airily to his hind legs, and carried ?! the Union chamnpion right on top of his enemy. Down . came the glittering Escalibar on the shoddy helmet of  the astonished Mnlchausen; but the deadly blade was not sharp enough for its purpose, and only caused  the foeman to make hasty profane remarks. "All!" says Villiam, bitterly, eyeing his sword as Euclid waltzed backward, "I forgot to sharpen my brand after cutting that last plate of smoke-beef." 'Surrender!" shouted the unmanly Munchansen,   1 noticing that Villian was sheathing his blade, and bearing gracefully down upon him in an elaborate equestrian polka.                 ji  "Never!" says Villiam, drawing his revolver, and- A firing madly into the setting sun. -1r Swiftly as the lightning flashes did the Confederate  champion follow suit with his pistol, sending a bullet i horribly whizzing into the nearest tree. "Die!, shouted Villiam, prancing excitedly in all  directions, and delivering another shot. Then he  X gazed upon his revolver with an expression of inex- pressible woe. The weapon had deceived him!    i: "Perish!" roared Munchausen, discharging another X barrel as he went hopping about. After which, he  ! ground his teeth, and gazed upon his pistol with  ! speechless fury. The weapon had played him false I  I was gazing with breathless interest on this des-  perate encounter, my boy, expecting to see more slaughter, when Captain Munchausen  suddenly turned his spirited stallion, and fled frantically i from the scene; for he had heard the shouts of the ap- '?i j , i   SECOND $MRIE8. S proaching Mackerels, and did not care to be taken just then. "Ha!" says Villiam, gazing severely at Company 3 Regiment 5, as it came pouring forward, "lhas/the Southelrn Confederacy concluded to submit to the 'United States of America?" What the answer was, ny boy, I am not allowed to say.; but you may rest satisfied that a thing has been done which I am not permitted to divulge; and should this lead, as I hope it will, to a movement I am not suffered to make public, it cannot fail to result in a consnummnation which I am forbidden to inake known. But if, on the other hand, the strategic movement which I am not at iberty to describe should be fol- lowed by a stroke I am restrained i'on explaining you will find that the effect it would not be judicious in me to set forth, will produce consequence which the War Department denies me the privilege of devel- oping. I was speaking to a New England Congress chap, this morning, concerning the recent events Which I am compelled to remain silent about, and, sayshe "The proper way to save the Union is to bewilder the rebels by issuing calls for fresh troops at breakfast- time, and Countermanding the calls as soon as the cof- fee comes in. Strategy," says the grave legislative chap, thoughtfully, "is not confined to the tented field; it may be used with good effect by Cabinet ministers; and our recent proposal to reduce the o my 150,000 men was a piece of consummate legisla- tive strategy.'" Legislative strategy is a very good t hing to bewil-   16      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS.  der the rebels, my boy ; and if it also bewilders every- body else, the moral effect of the adjournment of Con- gress will prove rather beneficial than otherwise to our distracted country. Yours, under suppression, ORPHEUS C. :KERB.     J !. 1 ,1   LETTER LIV. ILLUSTRATING THE DISASTROUS EFFECTS OF STRATEGY UPON NA- TIONAL LITERATURE, AS EXEMPLIFIED IN THE ORIGINAL TALE READ BY OUR CORRESPONDENT BEFORE THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. WASHINGTON, D. C., July 9th, 1862. A FEW weeks ago, my boy, -when national strategy seemed rapidly coming to a distinct understanding with the Ameiican Eagle, and the fall of Richmond had resolved itself into a mere question of time--as slightly distinguished from 1ternity,-I became a member of the Cosmopolitan Club. This club, my boy, is a select di-aft from the host of clumsy but respectable foreigners now assembled here to criticize the military performances of our distracted country, and I have the honor to represent my native land, solus, in it. Its members are, a civilized Rus- sian chap named Vitchisvitch, a Turk named N. E. Ottoman, an  Englishman named Smith-Brown, a Frenchman named Bonbon, a, German named Tuyfel- dock, a Spaniard and myself. The object of this small international organization, which meets once dvery three weeks, is to advance the cause of free and easy literature in the luills of national strife, and preserve coherent ideality and tolerable grammar from falling into disuse. The   18   -  ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS,. foreign chaps, my boy, all speak much better English than a majority of our brigadiers; and in order to give a system to, our proceedings, it has been resolved, that each of us, in turn, shall relate an old-fashioned story relating to his own particular country ; and that all shall take pains to contribute miscellaneous items for the general delectation -of the club. The privilege of producing the first story was voted to me, my boy, and at the meeting of the Cosmopoli- tan last evening, I produced from my pocket a mann- script already secured from me by a wealthy journal* for a fabulous sum, and proceeded to regale assem- bled Europe with A QUARTER OF TWELVE. CHAPTER I.-F. F. VICISSITUDES. The forces of the Southern Confederacy-so called because a majority of them were forced into the ser- vice-had just won another glorious victory over their disinclination to retreat, and were rapidly following it up, propelled by the National Irmyn. The richest and best blood of the South was profusely running for the cause to which it was devoted, accompanied by those notable p  ors in whose cases it poured in vein. Seated at his breakfast-table in the city of Rich- mond, with his wife for a vis-a-vs at a board that might well have groaned for more things' than one, and his daughter at his right hand, was Mr. ORDETH, - VANITT FAIR.-ED.   4   a scion of one of those Virginia Families very proper- ly designated as "First '- for the reason that no other Families on earth have ever felt inclined to second them in anything; Mr. ORDETH was a personage of fiery and chivalrous visage, from the lower circumfetence"of which de- pended iron-grey whiskers, so similar in shape to the caudal appendage of a mule, that one might suppose nature to have intended the construction of an asinus domesticus when first she commenced to mould the mortal material, but, having inadvertently planted the tail at the wrong end, was satisfied to finish him off as a man.  His hair was too much of a brush in its own character to agree well with an artificial brush in the objective case; he wore a robe de chambre richly illus- trated with impossible flowers growing on improbable soil-let us say on holey ground ; his nether continua- tions were spotted here and there with diminutive banners of broadcloth secession, and it was noticeable as he stretched his feet mnder the table that his slip- pers had  once done duty as crochet watch-cases. The table spread for the  morning mneal was pecul. iarly Virginiatic, being very rich iln plate and poor in provender; for hoe-cake and firied Carolina potatoes were the only eatables visible, whi' the usual places of coffee-pot, bread-plate and salt- r were supplied with cards inscribed:  "Coffee $20 per lb., in conse- quence of Blockade."- "Flour $2- per bbl.'-' Salt $25 per lb." If any member of the Family felt in- clined to wish for any of these last articles, he, or she , had but to glance at the card substitutes to lose instan-  20      ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. taneously all appetite for said articles. There was  philosophy in this idea, 'mon ami.  "LIBB'," said Mr. ORDETH, addressing his daughter,  whose auburn curls and pretty face were none the less  attractive because they crowned what seemed to be a ji troubled fountain of extremely loud calico with a dash j of moonlight on top--"LIBBY," said lie, "-pass me the mornling journal." l- Tile morning journal, which had recently augmented'  its value as a family and commercial sheet by coming out on uperior wrapping paper,- was passed to her  i  father by LIBBY, she having first satisfied herself, with  a sigh of disappointment, that the list of deaths did  not contain the name of a single one of her friends. Woman, mon ami, does not regard death as yon  and I do. To her it is a sleep in which the slumberer ! himself becomes a dream for the rest of the world; a and its announcement is to her the mere evening breeze  that softly lifts another leaf in the sacred Volume of ! Memory, and lets the starlight, falling through a  shower of tears, rest on a namne henceforth to live im- mortal in the heart. I was told this by a young lady who wears spectacles and writes for the Boston press. j As Mr. ORDETH perused the latest news from the seat of war, his bosom heaved to such an extent that j one or two of theipins confining the front of his dress-  ing-gown to his throat gave out. "HONORIA," said  j he, addressing his quiet little wife, who was spasmo-  dically eating and repairing a rent in her dress simul- taneously,--" we have again defeated the hordes of "NCOLN, and I think, myv dear, that we had better get ready to leave Richmond. The Enguirer says: 'Yes- f   SECOND SERIES.       21 terday a half a hundred of our troops were attacked near Fredericksburg by nearly forty thousand Yan- kees, whom they compelled to retreat after them toward this city. We took four hundred prisoners who will be demanded of the enemy immediately, and all of our men, save the messenger bringing the news, are now briskly pushing forward in the direc- tion of Fort Lafayette.' You see, my dear, we always whip them inland. The Yankees gain all their vic- tories on water." Which -is very true; for it is as -much a fact that the national troops win their triumphs on water, as it is that the rebels do their best on whiskey. Mrs. ORDETH made no verbal reply to her husband's exultations, but assumed that simpering expression of countenance by which ladies are accustomed to denote their amiable willingness to swallow without question whatever the speaker may say. "Providence is evidently favorable to the South, " continued the head of the Family, impressively, " and has thus far treated us in a gentlemanly manner; but should it happen, HONORIA, that the Hessian vandals of LINCOLN should reach this city, I myself will be the first to fire alThold dear, rather than let it fall into the hands of the invader. Yes " exclaimed Mr. ORDETH with enthusiasm, rising from his chair and moving excitedly toward the door of the apartment, --" with my own hands would I apply the torch to you and to my child." "O VICTOR," said Mrs. ORDETH, with tears springing to her eyes, "I reckon you would." "Aside from the wrongs of' the South," continued   2      ORPHEUB C. KEERR PAPERS. the inspired ORDETH, pushing his bowie-knife a little further round behind his back, that it might not hurt : his hip,-" we have Family losses to avenge. On- ly yesterday, my uncle was struck at Yorktown with a shell that completely tore his head from his j body." " "How perfectly absurd!" ejaculated the hitherto X. silent LIBBY.                    ;? "Why it's actually ridiculous," said Mrs. ORDETH. And so it was. The sex have a keen perception of i tile ludicrous.                   i !"How I wish that our vigilants had caught that low-minded Abolition whelp, PETERS," continued the Virginian, grinding his teeth; " but he disappeared : so suddenly that day, that I was entirely bewildered. To think that the hound-my cousin's son as he is--  ^ should' dare to demand payment of a bill from a   ; Southern gentleman! He will find congenial souls among LINCoLN'S hordes, I reckon." 1 The speaker evidently recognized the fact that a man ? with a bill to collect would derive very little benefit from Southern hoards, at any rate. A close observer might have noticed that Miss - "BBY'S cheeks betrayed the faintest tint of virgin wine : at this last speech of her father's ; but as it is not my i business to inquire the wine wherefore of everything, I shall say no more about that at present. While speaking, the paternal ORDETH had placed his hand unconsciously as it were on the knob of the door; and now, fwith a sudden movement, he opened the door. Or rather, lie simply turned the knob; for the door fairly forced itself open against him, and ,.   SECOND SERIES.       23 there unexpectedly tumbled half way into the room a somewhat venerable person from Afric'S sunny foun- tains. From the manner in which this colored person fell across the sill, it was evident that he had been upon his knees the instant before. The ladies uttered little shrieks and then went on with their hoe-cake; but Mr. ORDETH viewed the intru- der with a glance of suspicion. "JOCKO, you black reskel!" said he, in a suppressed manner, " what are you doing here?" The oppressed African, who, like most slaves was pious, rose to his feet with touching humility, and said he: "Ise watchin', Mars'r, for de Angel of de Lor'." "Oh," returned the haughty Virginian, scorning to show how deeply he was affected, " you're watchin' for that, are you .?" "Yes, Mars'r," said the attached slave; " and I hab pray dat my good Mars'r may gib up drinkin' and be one of the good angels too. Oh, Mars'r ORDMTH, I hab wrastle much for you in prayer." I know not how that slaveholder's heart was affected by this beautiful instance, of his humble bondman's devotion; but I do know, mvon ami, that he reached forth his right hand, seized the chattel by the collar, and was heard to carry on a blasphemous conversa- tion with him for the space of fifteen minutes there- I after, in the hall.   24     ORPHEUS C. gERR PAPERS.        J OHAITL R II.-C"ROBERT, ROBERT TOI QUE J'AIMEo. . In a room directly over the one last mentioned-a  room whose only furniture was a rude bedstead, a looking-glass with a writing-table under it and a gas- bracket extending half way across it, and a lounge ex- temporized from three tea-boxes and a quilt-stood ! Mr. BOB PETERS, aged twenty-three, a bachelor and a M fellow man. The time- was just twenty-four hours  I after the scene depicted in my first chapter, and as the ! -rays of the sunny Southern sun poured through a win- ; dow upon the figure of Mr. BOB PETERS, they revealed an individual who was evidently unable, just then, to make a raise himself. ROBERT was a tall, smooth-faced, good-natured-look- ing youth, wearing a coat that buttoned up to his very chin and was painfully shiney at its various angles, corners, and button-holes ; a pair of inexpressibles very roomv and equally glossy about the knees; a brace of carpet slippers, and (although indoors) a hat in a "Marie Stuart" condition. That is to say, the style of hat worn thus inappropriately by Mr. BOB PETERS, corresponded to a fashion in vogue with the ladies not long ago, when the latter imagined that a bonnet very much mashed down in front caused each and all of them to present a touching and life-like resemblance to the unfortunate Queen of Scots. In fact, this bon- net did really give them just about such a fiightened  look as they might be supposed to wear should some   SECOND SERIES.       25 modern ELIZABETH TUDOR order them all to instant ex- ecution. Adding to the consideration of Mr. BOB PETERS' severely straitened costume the fact that he was smo- king an incredibly cheap segar, it is reasonable to in- fer that he was rather hard-up when awake and net much troubled with soft down when asleep. Viewing Mr. BOB PEr'jJRS financially and judging him by a golden rule, one could see about him con- siderable that was due unto others, as each of the others was likely to be dun unto him. "Bless my soul!" soliloquized Mr. BOB PETEUS, hastily turning from a long and profound contempla- tion of himself in the mirror and conmmencing to pace noiselessly up and down the room,-" here's misery I Shut up in the garret of one of the First Families, with a chap thirsting for my blood at the head of the do- mestic circle down stairs, and the whole Confederacy ready to bolt me without salt- which is verydear here just now. Here's. a situation for an unmarried man!" exclaimed Mr. BOB PETERS, insanely tearing his "Ma- rie Stuart " from his head and bitterly crunching it in his hand--" confined here as a prisoner by the young woman of my affections to save my life from her own father's sanguinary designs. Upon my soul!" groaned Mr. BOB PETERS, drearily slapping his left leg, " it's enough to make me take to drinking, and H-". "Dear BOB!"  Were you ever awakened from a horrid nightmare dream of capital punishment and sudden death, mon ami, by the soft, persuasive voice of woman calling you to a breakfast of etherial rolls and new-born eggs I If 2   26     ORPHEUS o. HERR PAPERS. so, you can understand the feelings of Mr. PETERS when these fond words roused him from his terrible reverie. He spun blithely round on his dexter heel, absorbed  the faithful LIBBY to his manly breast, and inconti-  nently kissed for his lips a coating of lustrous bando-  line from the head of the fashionable maiden. "Oh bliss!" ejaculated Mr. BOB PETERS, standing on one foot by way of intensifying the sensation, " my angel visits me in my dungeon, as angels visited other l good men in the Scriptures." "Oh BOB, how you do smell of smoke,"; said the de-  voted LIBBY.                     "And thanks to your thoughtfulness for the regalias ! which have so lightened my lonely hours, since the  day when you brought me up to this room and then  I told a virtuous and unsuspecting-police that I had fled in the direction of the aurora borealis. By the way  "BBY," said Mr. BOB PETERS, thoughtfully, " my se- gar-lighters are all out, and if you could make me a few more out of the rest of those Confederate Treasury Notes-"              '  t"I will, I will," responded Miss ORDETH, lifting first one white shoulder and then the other, as though she would thereby work down her waist more firmly into the belt formed by Mr. BOB PETERS' right arm; "-but now, dear BOB, we must think of how you are to be got safely away'from this house and out of the city. If my pa should find out that you have been here all this time, when he thought you were running for dear life, he would-I really believe"--said Miss LIBBY ORDETH, il   SECOND SERIES.       27 with increasing eyes, " that he would actually apply the torch to me without waiting for the Yankees!" Mr. BOB PETERS shuddered and turned pale, barely saving himself from fainting by clasping his compan- ion more tightly and leaning heavily against her lips. The infatuated girl did not see the face peering in through the half open door behind her, as she con- tinued:- ' Quarter-past twelve is the hour, BOB, though I can't say on what night it shall be, yet. You must be already to start on any night, and in the meantime our meetings are, if possible, to be continued." ' You say that quarter-past twelve is the hour 2" observed Mr. PETERS, reflectively, patting the head against his shoulder in a somewhat paternal manner. "Yes, dear BOB; and I wish I could be sure of pa's going to bed earlier than that; for I know it will be hard for you to go out into the street at that time of night. You are not accustomed to such late hlours at home." And, indeed, he was not; for Mr. BOB PETER's "hours) at home  were apt to be considerably later, especialty when he went into morning for some dear friend. "Sweet innocence!" exclaimed the young man much affected by this evidence of thoughtfulness in is behalf, 'your kindness almnost makes me  forget the treatment I have experienced at the hands of your being's auithor." ' I think you can get off next Sunday night," con- tinued LIBBY, " if brother is sergeant of the guard; for he promised to see that you got across the bridge and   28     ORPHEUS C. KERB PAPERS. past the patrol. Jooio will open the street door for ? yon when you start: and I want you to send me word, if you can. after you get to New-York, what kind of bonnets they're going to wear this summer."      "Dear girl!" murmured BOB, fondly, "I'l find out the style and mention it to one of our Generals, who will let you know by note, as soon as he arrives , here."                        ' : "Dear BoB!--but I must go now. Is there any-  : thing I can send you to make you more comlfortable i" As they stood there facing each other, Mr. BOB PETERs closed his light eye for an instanlt, and suffered the muscles of his mouth to relax, thereby expressing some want too deep for words. "You shall have it," said the young girl, turning to leave the room. At the door she was met by Jocyo, who entered as she passed out, for the ostensible pur-  pose of removing the remains of the captive's recent surreptitious breakfast. i The sound of the maiden's light footsteps soon died i away in the passage, like the vibrations of a high- strung instrument in a passage of music, and the two men stood alone together. There they were-the White and the Black; the one a freeman in all save being deprived of his liberty; the other a slave in all save being unrestricted of his freedom, Who could tell what was working in the mind of each? Who should draw the line between those men, when all was dark for the white and a luck- less wight was the blackl Who should say that the white man was anything better than the black man, . that the latter should bear the bonds of slavery-   SECOND SERIES.       29 bonds as hard to bear even as Confederate bonds? Look at inanimate nature.  Is it not the White of an egg that bears the yolk? Then why should the white man turn the yoke altogether over to the black man I But I must refiuse to follow out this great metaphlysi- cal question any further. The weather is too warm. I will leave it to the Awful and Unfathomable German Mind, which delights to toy heavily with the ele- phants of Thought. "Mars'r," said JocKO, handing a folded paper to the fugitive prisoner, " dis was gub to me for you by my chile EFRUM, dat b'longs to Missus ADAMs; and I hope, Mas'r, dat you will read um with fear an' tretn'lin,' for the Lor' is very good to let you lib in your great sins, Mars'r." How beautiful, mon ami, is that strong spirit of piety we often find developed in the uncultivated, like the rich oyster found on the barren sea-shore. Taken in connection with the childrem of HAM, it is as mustard to a sandwich, for moving us to occasional tears. Mr. BOB PETERS waved the faithful black froml his presence, and read the note, which ran thus: "MR. PETEKS,--SI :-Though, as a daughter of the Sonny South, I cannot but regard you as a traitor to our country, the memory of past hours in my soul-life induces me to act toward you as a heart-friend. I have heard, through those faithful beings of which your friends would rob and murder us, that you are a prisoner, and will save you. Contrive to get out of the house in some way on Sunday (to-morrow) even-   30     ORHPEUS 0. KERB PAPERS. ing, at a quarter of twelve, and you will find those wait- ing for you who will deliver you for a time from our g vengeance It is the impulsive heart-throb of a weak woman that bids me do this-not the epirit-aspiration of the Southern daughter. "EYE ADAMS."    ! Mr. BOB PETERS lowered the hand holding the note until it rested heavily on his right knee, and gazed before him, as he sat on his couch, with a puzzled ex- X pression of countenance. He had been sitting in this X way, perfectly motionless, for five minutes perhaps, when the door was gently pushed open a few inches, a dainty white hand came through the aperture, de- posited a mysterious black bottle on the floor very I softly, and disappeared as it came. In an instant, "  Mr. PETERS sprang to his feet, dashed' the note to the ground, seized the bottle, and immediately applied it to his lips with great enthusiasm. His Mistress had understood that last subtle glance he gave her. With the wonderful insight of man's deeper nature peculiar to girls about eighteen years old, she had divined the one thing required to make the captive comfortable. Oh, woman, woman! In the language of a revised poet-- "Without the smile from partial beauty won, Ah, what were man!-a world without a son!"    SECOND SERMtS.       81 CHAr'1TE III.---THE WIDOW'S MTE. The ADAMSES resided in one of the aristocratic by ways crossing Main Street, and were directly de- scended from those distinguished and chivalric an. ciens pauvres of the Old Dominion, who boasted the blood of the English cavaliers, and were a terror to their foes and- creditors. ADAMS, the husband and father, was a fine specimen of the Southern gentleman in his day, possessing an estate in Louisa County, so completely covered with mortgages that no heir could get to it, and hlaving won great fame by inventing an entirely new and singularly humorous oath for the benefit of a Yankee governess, when that despised hireling presumed to ask for a portion of her last year's salary. He might have lived to a green old age, but for -the extraordinary joy he experienced at having negotiated a second mortgage on some prop- erty not worth quite half the first, which filled this worthy man with such exceeding great joy, that he drank rather more at a sitting than would start an or- dinary hotel-bar, and died soon after of delirium tre- mens, as such noble and chivalric souls are very apt to do. The family left by the lamented ADAMS, con- sisting of awife and one child-a daughter, at once assumed the most becoming style of mourning, moved in a funeral procession through society for six months, and then resigned themselves to the will of Provi- dence with that beautiful cheerfulness which may either denote a high order of Christianity, or a low order of memory, as the case may be.   32      ORPHEUS C, KERR PAPERS. ES At the period of which the present veracious his- tory treats, the bereaved mother and daughter were living in subdued style in the locality designated above. Among their most intimate associates were the ORDETHS, between whose family and theirs there  existed that pleasing and kindly familiarity which  permits the most open recognition of mutual virtues  : in society and the most searching criticism of individ- ual weaknesses at home. The ADAMSES and ORDETHS met at each other's houses with gushes of endearment that edified all beholders; and if Miss EVE said to her mother on their way home from church that LBBY ORDETH looked like a perfect fiight in that ridiculous  new bonnet of hers, it was only because her affection-  ate heart felt a pang at seeing her bosom-friend ap- I pear to less advantage than her own self-sacrificing  self. It is a touching peculiarity of this modern friend- : ship, mon ami, that a majority of the errors its fairest  votaries detect in each other, are those of the head- not of the heart. EVE ADAMS, whose diminutive size  had given occasion to the mot by which she was de-  nominated the 6' Widow's Mite," was calling at the ORDETHS when Mr. BoB PETERS first came in under a  flag of truce from Fortress Monroe, and was witness   to the chivalric reception accorded to that gentleman  by his relatives, before his pecuniary mission was known. In the exuberance of his nature, Mr. PETERS had kissed her with the rest of the family, and from  the moment of receiving that chaste salutation, EVE  had selected the Northern stranger as her hero in that ideal novel of spiritual yellow-covers in which all   ,SECOND SERIES.      33 maidens live, and move and have their beings until stern reality bursts upon them in the shape of a hus- band or a snub. From thenceforth she was a frequent visitor at the ORDETHS, and laid close siege to the gay ROBERTAS heart with all the languishment deemed necessary in such cases, and a tremendous flirtation was going on before the maiden discovered that the affections of the youth were already given to another. Then catne a revulsion of feeling, opening the eyes of the Widow's Mite to the fact that Mr. BOB PETERS was a thieving abolitionist, unworthy the toleration of any true daugh- ter, of the South. After this overpowing revelation, it was the first thought of EVE ADAIMS to at once in- form the festive PETERS of the utter detestation in which she held him, and a favorable opportunity soon offered. At a social, gathering at the ORDETH'S, she had withdrawn for a moment to an ante-room, for the purpose of drawing from her bosom an elegant silver snuff-box, dipping therein a small brush, and subse- quently applying the same to her pearly teeth, when Mr. BOB PETERS entered unannounced, and agreeably demanded a " pinch." The situation was favorable to an avowal of enmity, and a suitable expression was rising to the lips of the maiden, when the thought of a still keener revenge kept her silent, and she contented herself with a temporary sneer and a majestic exit from the apartment. It was soon after this incident that Mr. BOB PETER'S presentation to Mr. ORDETH of the bill for furniture which he had been empowered to collect by a New York house, reminded the latter that it was his duty, 2   34      ORPHEUS' C. KERR PAPERS.        ! as a patriot, to sacrifice even his cousin's son for the ' good of the Confederacy. With the stern self-devo- tion of an ancient Roman, Mr. ORDETH not only accused i his hapless relative of flagrant Abolitionism, but at j once made arrangements with the military authorities  for that relative's immediate incarceration as an  i enemy to the (Commonwealth. An enemy to the Commonwealth of Virginia must be indeed an unnat- ural wretch; for no such wealth is known to be in existence just now, and enmity to the dead is a thing inexcusable. It was a crime of which Mr. BOB PETERS was incapable; yet would he have suffered for it, had not the devoted LIBBY concealed him in the hour of danger.                       i Of this concealment, Miss EVE had learned fi'om  EFRUM, the son of JOOKO, though she knew not how long it was to be continued. CHAPTER IV.-- TWO RHEARTS THAT BEAT AS ONE." Several of the Richmond churches were opened that Sunday night, and thither repaired many of the Cottonocracy, devotional children of Bale, to implore Providence in behalf of an army whose heroes have generally appeared, in the eyes of the Federal troops, to be wholly Leave-ites. The recent intelligence of "another confederate victory," at Williamsburg, had added a finishing touch to the panic created by re- ports of the triumphal retreat from Yorktown previous- ly received, and the fervor of Richmond's piety on   SECOND SERIES.       35 that evening was eminently worthy of a city liable at any moment to be cannonized. The reverend clergy of the rebel capital selected their texts from Exodus by instinct, as it were, and proved so conclusively that the Yankee invader was no man, that the listening eongregations were impressed with an instructive and repentant sense of their own wickedness, (for they are the wicked who invariably flee when " no man" pur- sueth,) and several members evinced their new-born disgust at this sinful world by resolutely closing theiz eyes upon it at once. In his pew sat Mr. VICTOR E. ORDETH, with his wife and son, the latter a member of the Richmond Home Guard. Stiff and erect he sat, like a solemn note of admiration in a printer's case, ready to be used at the end of any sounding passages, suffering an expression of weighty approval to cross his countenance when the preacher hoped the same planets might not there- after be destined to shine on the North and the South. And well he might; for there had been something in the late capture of New Orleans and other ports by the Union fleets to impress the Southern mind with no small dread of the North's tar. "BBY remained at home under plea of sick-head- ache; but no sooner were her parents fairly out of tlhe house, than said plea proved to be entirely invalid. At least, the young lady darted to her own private room  in a very sprightly manner, brought out from thence a small package, and finally repaired to the apartment wherein Mr. BOB P1E'r Ss kept solitary vigils and a bright lookout. Before passing in, however, she paused to have a few words with the faithful   36      ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. JocKo, whom she discovered on his knees before tile door of the, captive's cell, with his right eye slightly to the left of the knob. "JOCKo P" she exclaimed, reproachfully, "what are i you doing here, you ridiculous thing 2?" "Miss LIBBY," said the humble servitor, looming dimly in ,the- shadow of the hall as he slowly arose from his feet, "Ise ben prayin' dat you might become a christian, and one ob these days, when de great Hallelugerum come, hab wings andya harp." Scarcely were these affecting words uttered, when Mr. PETERS tore open the door rather disrespectfully, so greatly discomposing the devoted black that the latter incontinently fled.              i "My dear girl," said BOB, leading his fair visitor - into the room, "I'm delighted to see you. The shut- ters are up, the gas is lit, and I'm prepared to do the sentimental. Oh-um-m-Lubin's Extracts!" ejacu- lated Mr. BOB PETERS. For he had kissed her. "There, dear ROBERT, don't be so absurd. You know you are going to leave us to-night, and I have brought you-" here LIBBY blushed with that exquis- itely ingenuous emotion which is excited by the con- sciousness of benefiting one we love-"I have brought you some things that may be of use on your journey. You won't be angry with me for it, will you, dear, BoB? There's a smoking cap, and a pair of crochet slippers, and some drawing pencils, and a volume of TUPPER." -' My darling LTTRy!" remarked the deeply affected ROBERT, alighting on those tempting lips once more. *    SECOND SERIES.       37 "But did you think, love-did you think to put a quart of ice-cream and a few hair-pins in the package?" "Why, no." "Ah, well," said Mr. BOB PETERS, abstractedly, "I suppose I can buy them on the road." Silence, disturbed only by the beating of those two hearts, reigned for a few seconds, then-- "BoB," said LIBBY, looking shyly up to him, " we shall be very happy when we are married and live North?" "Yes, indeed," said BOB. "We'll live in such a beautiful house on Fifth Avenue, dear, and have such nice things. Because, you know, you can make so much money by your writings." "Millions! my love," said Mr. BOB PE-mcs, withl sudden and wonderful quietude of tone. "When I left New York prose was bringing two dollars for seven pounds in the heavy dalies, and philosophical poetry quoted at six shillings a yard, and no hexame- ters allowed except for EMERSON and loaMER. Ahl!" said Mr. PETERS, his melancholy deepening rapidly to bitterness, " my last poen sickened me. It was called 'Dirge: addressed to a lady after witnessing the Drama of the "Toodles,"' and commenced in this way: Not all the artist's pow'r can limn, Nor poet's grander 'verse disclose, The plaintive charm that ev'ning dim, Imparts unto the dying rose " "How pretty!" said LrBBY.   38      ORPHEUS 0. KEBR PAPERS. "Yes, my dear," responded Mr. PETERS, somewhat gloomily; " but because I used ' dim ' to rhyme with 'limn, all the papers credited it to GENERAL MORRIS." Recollections of this flagrant piece of injustice so affected Mr. BOB PETERS, that he smote his breast and called himself a miserable man. "I really don't know but I'd better stay here and be hung like a respecta- ble patriot," murmured the desolated young man.    "How absurd!" exclaimed the young lady, " you   will be glad enough to get away to-night. Remember, now, you are to start down stairs at quarter-past Twelve,-precisely, alid JocKO will open the front door for you. Then go straight to the bridge, where you will find my brother, who will get you by the guard." "' That reminds me," observed Mr. PETERS, " what time is it? I must set my repeater." "BBY consulted her watch and answered that it was half-past eight, whereupon Mr. BOB PETERS fished from his thb a vast silver conglomeration, and having wound it up with a noise like that of a distant coffee mill, and set it correctly, proceeded to hang it, for con- venient reference, upon the gas-branch across the  mirror. "Dear BOB, good bye." "Fare thee well. and if for ever, still remember me," responded Mr. PETERS, with some vagueness. "' We shall meet again?" said LIBBY, lingering. "If I did not believe it," replied Mr. BOB PETERS, with vehemence, "I should at once proceed to kill- myself at your feet, covering the walls and furniture of the apartment with my gore. " "God bless you, BoB."   SECOND SERIES.       39 They parted wiping their mnouths. Miss ORDETIT- went down stairs in tears. had a fit of hysterics on the sofa, and fell asleep with her head in the card basket. CHAPTER V.--BETRAYED INNOCENCE. THERE he slumbered on that rude lounge, with his head upon his hands and his hands under his head. A man, like you--or me-or any other man. Did you ever notice how you always keep your eyes shut when you are asleep? The lids come down over your orbs, your soul's windows, like night over the sun. You shall have visions of Heaven, or Hiades; according to what you had for supper. Lobster salad, or truffles, will act upon a sleeping man's great, dark soul, like one of PAGE's pictures on the open eye. Make it see light blue landscapes, and pallid faces looking out of pink distances. You think that young man there is sleeping upon a rude couchl No. -le is sleeping upon something not palpable to your worldly eyes nor mine; he is sleeping upon an empty stomach. You dare not pity him. His scornful, stern man's soul would wither you if you talked to him of compassion. Sucl -is man, An animal. A worm, of the dust. Yet proud. Ha! you know it. You blush for your unworthy thought. Such is woman.   Something aroused the sleeper suddenly. It might have been an angel's whisper, or the kiss of an insect. He sprang to his feet, shook himself, and mentally declared that   40      ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. he had come pretty near getting asleep. The idea was rational. "By all that's blue! it can't be, though it is, by Jupiter!" The gas was still burning brightly. Mr. BOB PETERS  had caught sight of his watch as it was reflected in the mirror, with the hands pointing to a quarter past Twelve. With great rapidity he grasped the repeater, stabbed it into his fob, crushed his demoralized hat upon his head, looked regretfully about the room, turned off the gas, and in another moment was stealthily groping his way down stairs, toward the front door. The door yielded to his hand, but no JOCKO was there. "I suppose," murmured Mr. PE- TERS to himself, "I suppose the faithful fellow is pray- ing for me somewhere in the kitchen, with his hands resting on a jar of sweetmeats. Ah! I ought to be a better man than I am."  With this excellent moral reflection, Mr. BOB PETERS stepped into the street and faced boldly for the path to freedom; but at the very first corner his road was barred by two individuals in military caps and the first stage of intoxication. "Aryupeters-eters!" said one, who was evidently desirous of having but a single word with him. With a BOB," replied the fugitive sententiously. "Aw' ri', then," observed the two in chorus, and Mr. PETERS quickly found himself attended on either side by guardians whose affectionate manner of mono- polizing his arms suggested a civil process of the most uncivil sort. "Treachery!" he exclaimed, struggling fiercely. The twain held him tightly, however, with the strength   SECOND SERIES.       41 of tight-uns, and his exertion only caused them to venture divers pleasant oaths concerning the destiny of his eyes. Onward they dragged him, down Broad street and up half a dozen other streets, until a certain rebel institution was gained. -' In with'm," said one of his captors; and they hurried him past a sentry and through a hall into a long, low room, where half a dozen miserable candles stuck up against the walls revealed a dismal company of over a hundred-some stretched upon the floor, some standing about, and others clustered around what appeared to be a cot in one corner. "Is this the Confederate Congress?" asked the astonished BOB, as hs captors left him, turning the key and adjusting various bolts as they went out. "It's LIBBY'S pork-packing-house," answered the prisoner nearest him, "-and you're jugged, I suppose, as a spy." "Pork-packing!" ejaculated the bewildered BOB. '"Why, this is treating me like a hog." Several prisoners at once gave in their adhesion to this logical premise. "Here's a case of betrayed innocence!" soliloquized Mr. BOB PETERS, bitterly, "I've trusted to TRaay, and Libby's taken me in."-- "I'm going to be exchanged, I tell you!" The sound came from the cot in the corner, and as the crowd in that direction opened for a moment, the new-comer beheld a sight that, for a time, made him forget his own troubles. A tall, gaunt man in rag- ged, Zouaveniform was reclining upon his elbow on   42     ORPHEUS 0. KERBR PAPERS.  the miserable pallet, the pale, dismal light of the can- dies disclosing a ghastly wound on his right temple, from which the blood was trickling down upon his rusty and matted beard. "I'm going to be exchanged, I tell you!" he ex- claimed, waving the others away with his left hand  and glaring directly at BOB. I've been here a whole  year, and Eighty's boys wants me back; and I'n go-  ing to be exchanged." "The poor fellow was, shot by one of the sentries  this morning. He's from a New York regiment, and  has been a prisoner ever since Bull Run," whispered one of the unfortunates to BOB. The latter approached the wounded man and kindly asked ; "Can I do anything for you, old fellow?" The dying Zouave regarded him with a ghastly smile; "Yes," said he, " you can go down to Eighty's truck house and take care of little JAKE till I'm ex- changed. Will you, bub, will you?" "Is JAKE your child?" asked BOB. "No," responded the Zouave, softly, "it's only a little yaller dorg. I aint got no wife, nor child, nor no friend except the masheen and little JAKE. He's petty as a picture, bub, and he's slept with me many a gay old night around Catherine Market--he has. You'll be kind to him, bub, won't you?" "Here! what's this noise about? What are yes doin' with lights this time ernight? I'll soon stop his Yankee groaning," were the words of a brutal keeper, who had just come in and was roughly elbow- ing his way toward the cot. "Stand off, you hound!" shouted BOB, throwing   SECOND SERIES.       43 himself between the keeper and the dying soldier. "Stand off!" growled the prisoners, fiercely crowding upon the intruder with murder in their faces. "Hark!" said the Zouave, leaning listfully forward, "there goes the Hall bell---one-two-three  " His features lighted up as with the glow of a confla- gration; his lips opened- t Fire! Fire! Fire!" And the Zouave fell back upon the cot-dead. The keeper crawled forward like a whipped hound, and- eyed the outstretched form with a face full of fear: "Exchanged at last, by G--d!" True, O traitorous hireling! and by God alone. For when that honest, loyal soul went out, there came to take its place an Avenging Spirit, that shall not cease to call on Heaven for vengeance on the South- ern murderer until the cowardly stain of fifty thou- sand murders, such as this, are washed out in a terrible atonement. "Poor little JAKE," murmured Mr. BOB PETERS, "I wonder if he's a terrier." Then, turning to the keep- el,-"How long is my imprisonment in this terrible place to be continued?" The keeper eyed the querist with no very amiable expression, "You'll stay here," said he, "until you take the Oath, I reckon." "In that case, my  native land, good night," re- sponded the interesting captive, Byronically; "my incarceration will terminate with an epitaph--'Hio Facet ROBERT PETERS. A  victim of niss-placed con-   "     OORP-HfEUS 0. K KeR PAPERS. fidence. He died young'--Jailor, you are affected. Accept a quarter!" The Cerberus clutched the proffered coin and eyed it with feverish intensity. It was evidently the first quarter he had seen since the commencement of his services in that hole. The Iman's better nature was touched. "Hist!" he said, drawing Mr. PE'rERS aside and speaking in a whisper: "I can no longer conceal the truth. I am a Southern Union man." It is a beautiful peculiarity of our common nature, mon ami, that crime never sinks so deeply nor perver- sion spreads so obstinately in the human soul, but there is still a deeper current of normal rectitude re- sponsive to the force of currency. ThJat this was known to the ancients, is evinced by the antique cus- tom of placing coins on the eyes of the dead, thereby signifying to all concerned that, whatever faults might have perished with the deceased, de mortuis nil nisi bonunm. "Can't I have a room to myself?' asked BOB, after a short pause. "Follow me," was the response; and he followed the keeper through a crowd of curious prisoners, up a stair-way against a wall, to a room on the next floor. The keeper opened the door with a key from one of his pockets, and led the way into an apartment whose only furniture was a bed, a ricketty chair and a bit of looking-glass on a shelf. "I sleep here sometimes myself," said the keeper; "but you shall stay here for a small rent. Make your- self comfortable."   SECOND SERIES.       45 "Stop a minute," said BOB, as the man turned to leave. "Do you know how I came to be arrested?" ' I don't know exactly," was the answer; "but I believe you was informed upon by some woman. Good night. Here's the candle." The prisoner cast himself upon the bed, as the key grated again in the lock, and was fast asleep before the poor fellows down stairs had extinguished their miserable lights. In the morning the friendly keeper brought him his breakfast, consisting of a cup of something very much like " sacred soil" after a heavy rain, two geological biscuits and a copy of the Richmond Whtig. "What do you call this stuff." asked Mr. PETERS, ruefully eyeing the contents of the cup. "Coffee," replied the keeper, blandly, "real Mo- cha." Mr. PETERS was silent. To call such fluid Mocha was sheer mockery. The biscuits dispatched and the coffee defied, the captive betook himself to deep and admiring contem- plation of the newspaper; and was deriving much valuable instruction from an article written to prove how skilfully and ingeniously the Southern Confed- eracy had struck a telling blow at its ruthless invaders by strategetically surrendering Norfolk, when an early visitor was admitted. Said visitor was a young man contained in a picturesquely-tattered uniform, with a fatigue cap on his head and a rusty sword rat- tling at his heels. "BOB, my boy," said he, " how the mischief did you get into this scrape!"   "     ORPHEUS 0A. KERR PAPERS. "This is some of your family's Chivalry," responded Mr. PETERS, shortly. "My governor certainly did come it over you a lit- tle," observed the visitor, who was no other than the younger ORDETH; "but you might have gone off safely enough if you'd been at the bridge at quarter- past Twelve, as you were told. I don't like the gover- nor's style any more than you do, and if you had come to time I could have passed you out of the lines easily enough." "I did come to time," answered BOB, with great bitterness, " and a pretty time of night it was. How did I get into this scrape? The Southern Confederacy brought me here. I've had enough of you and your family. It affords me satisfaction to contemplate a perspective in which your family are attending a fu- neral'of one of their number whose demise would be attended with funeral honors, if all his comrades were not engaged in the work of running away from M1COLELLAN." Mr. PErrERS hazarded this cutting insinuation of the future with an expression of countenance rigidly se- vere. "But, my dear boy, there is some mistake. You-" "Enough, Sir!" "Oh, very well; if you won't you won't," exclaimed the Confederate youth, growing very red in the face. "All I have to say is, that I have done my -part as your friend.- If you had been at the bridge at quarter- past Twelve last night, you might be back among the Yankees now. And, let me tell you, those same Yan- kees will never conquer the South." C,   SECOND SRIBES.       47 "Perhaps not," said Mr. PETERS, ironically. "One of our officers has just invented a new gun that will soon teach the North manners," continued the Confederate, with increasing heat. "It throws one-hundred-pound balls as fast as a man can turn the handle." "Al!" said BOB, sneeringly. "' Yes ; and it has but one defect." "What's that?" asked BOB, with some appearance of interest. "The h- andle won't turnl" ejaculated the young Virginian, darting hastily from the room to hide his emotion. Mr. PETERS looked vaguely after the retreating form of the sensitive youth, and as one of the keepers relocked the door again from the outside, his face sank upon his hands. What did his visitor mean by accusing him of not making his appearance at the ap- pointed time? It was exactly quarter-past Twelve when he left the house. "I see how it is" murmured Mr. PETrER., between his hands; "the boy has been taking something hot." CHAPTER VI.-ANOTHER VISITOR. The'ladies were taking their usual promenade through the main corridor of the jail, curiously gaz- ing at times through the newly-grated door at the prisoners in the main room, and seasoning their morn-   48     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS.  ing gossip with piquant observations on the probable  execution of the horrid creatures there confined. Mrs. PEYTON took occasion to inform Mrs. MASON that she wouldn't pass a day without taking a look at the wretches for all the world; and Mrs. MAsoN informed t Mrs. PEYTON that her life would hardly be endurable if she did not live in hope of seeing all the Abolition- ists there yet. Here young Mr. BARON ventured to intimate that the Yankee prisoners were fortunate in being favored with such an array of fair before them; i for which he was saluted as an "absurd thing," and received a shower of taps from adjacent fans. Miss ADAMS led her companion, a neighbor's child, to where a keeper was leaning idly against the wall. "Are these all your prisoners 2.' she asked. "All but one that was taken last night and is up stairs," replied the official. "Is that one- on exhibition ]"         i "I. reckon he is, if you want to see him." "Well," said Miss ADAMS, with an assumption of indifference, "I don't know that it's worth while; but -well, I reckon I will look at him." "This way, then, if you please," said the keeper, leading the way up an adjacent flight of stairs and conducting the fair one to the room occupied by Mr. PETERS. BOB was gazing gloomily out of the window and did not recognize the presence of his new guests Until the end of a parasol touched his shoulder. "Miss ADAMS!" he exclaimed, offering his hand. The young lady tossed her head haughtily:   SECOND SERIES.       49 "I don't wish to shake lands with an enemy of my country, sir." I see," said BOB, coolly, " the presence of a third party obliges us to vail our emotions. Heeper, leave the saloon." ', Pay no attention to him, Keeper," retorted EVE, indignlantly, "I wish your attendance." Not at all abashed by the severity of her tone, Mr. PETERS nodded to the officer and smiled pleasantly. "Thlen I must expose you with a witness to it," he said, good-naturedly; "you are offended, Miss EVE because I did not comply with your kind note and' *meet your friends at a quarter-of Twelve, instead of walking straight into trouble at quartter-past, as I did." "You are beneath my notice," was the answer of AlMiss ADAMS; "but since you choose to speak so I must explaiTn myself to tis good man here. You are inrleblted to me for your present situatioll. I am a Southern woman, sir, and it was my duty as a Southh erner, to see that you di- not escape to ifIjure our cause by telling some of your Northernl falsehoods aboult us. I wrote you the note you speak of in order that you might be drawn from your hiding place, and also one to the authorities putting them on the watclh. I may be a woman, but I have the heart of a man. Itf Miss ADMs 'did not have the heart of a man it was owing to no neglect on her part of any possible means to catch such a hleart. That is to say, all her dearest and most intimlate female friends said so. Iler speech was evidently interided to impress the prisoner with a( torturing sense of woman's vengeance, but, contrary to herexplectaltion, Mr1. PETRs received   50   -   ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. it wifh the utmost complacency. In fact, he even evinced a playful disposition and favored the attentive keeper with an insidious wink. ' I don't doubt that your intentions were excellent, Miss Ev," said Mr. BOB PETERS, witlh an air of great enjoyment; " but they did not work as well as your affectionate heart designed. Because--you see-I did'nt coine out at a quarter of Twelve at all, nor did I follow any of your directions. Oh1ino! It was just quarter-past Twelve by my repeater when I departed from my late residence, and it's my private opinion that your dear friend, Miss ORDETH, had the privilege of being mny adviser on that nocturnal occasion. . Don't let your sensitive soul be afflicted with the thoughlt that you have wronged confiding innocence," added BOB, pathetically, " for I do assure you that you are as guiltless as the child unborn."  "What do you mean, sir?" asked EVE, in some haste; " were you not arrested at a quarter of Twelve 2X'            - "Why no!" said BOB. "Don't I tell you that I didn't bleak cover until quarter-past?" "Vell, sir," snarled EVE, withl no little irritation, i' you're here at any rate, and I hope you'll enjoy the society of your Yankee friends down stairs. I hope you'll all be hung. I do." And the injured fair swept magnificently from the, room, dragging with her the neighbor's child, and leav- ing Mr. PI,'ERS alone with tie keeper. "I say, she's a spunky one," remarked the latter. "It's a pity you really did'nt wait till quarter-past. I   SECOND SERIES.       51 would'nt trust a woman with such eyes as hers- I would'nt." "Alld didn't trust them," said BOB. "It was full quarter-past by my repeater when I came out, and if I'm betrayed it's by another woman." "Oh, come now," put in the keeper, deprecatingly, it's all right, you know, between us two. It was'nt but: quarter-past when I locked you in here, you know." "What!" exclaimed BOB. "Fact," said the keeper. Mr. PETERS deliberately drew out his watch and held it up in fiull view. "By all that's true!" said BOB, " it was quarter-past Twelve by that repeater before I was taken last night." The rebel official looked steadily into the eyes of his prisoner for a moment, and then withdrew hur- riedly and in silence. He evidently mistrusted the sincerity of Mr PETERS, or believed that a man with such a fast-watch was too mucll ahead of his time to be trusted without a watch of a different kind. CHAPTER VII.-UNION SENTIMENT DEVELOPING. If some modern BURTON would supply the world with an Anatomy of Patriotish, mo?0 ami, I am inclined to believe that his first discovery in the pro- cess of dissection would be, that the modern quality of that name is essentially lacking in the anatomical   52      ORPHEUS 0- KERR PAPERS. composite of back-bone. Ordinary patriotism in prac- tice, as far as I have been able to observe it, is equi- valent, in general aspect and result, to an irresistible force in contact with an imtmovable body, those who are chiefly carried away with it metaplhorically being the last to yield to its impulsion personally. In short; the quality appears to be a sentiment rather than a motive in its cliaracter, and zmoves us to inspire others rather oftener than it inspires us to move our- selves. Mr. VICTOR E. ORDETUH was a patriot in the conven- tional sense of the termn, and when the Southern heart was first fired he took a very large ember to his own bosom. None could be more ready to repudiate all their Northlern debts titan was Mr. OJRDETH to repu- diate his, and his deadly hatred of the Abolitionist was only equaled by that of a New England man owning a colored drayman, and living next door to him. "We will raise a million of soldiers if need be," said the chivalrous Virginian at a public meeting in Richmnond, 'and sacrifice our last crust." After which he went comfortalbly homne and growled very much at the dampness of his slippers and the barely perceptible chill in his buttered toast. Great admi- ration was evoked on all sides by this spirited con- duct, and when he finally donated one hundred dol- lars of his creditors' money to the Volunteer fund, there was some talk of making him a brigadier; but it happened to leak out that he knew something of military business from early study, and, of course, that project had to be given up. A brigadier with military capability would be an anomaly indeedl!   SECOND SERIES.  O     ,3 And so, this self-sacrificed gentleman meekly wore his honors in private life, lis patriotism deeDening and intensifying until it attained the pitch of verbal perfection demonstrated in the first chapter of this veracious narrative. Suddenly, however, this patriot- ism suffered what its possessor's pocket did not-a 4 sea change :" the Confiscation Act passed by the Congress of the United States induced Mr. ORDETH to consider seriously what might possibly happen to a certain little property of his near Danville, in the event of certain Union achevements; and the news Of MCCLELLAN's advance to  writhin five miles of Richmond, did not tend to increase the patriotic fe'- vor of this clivalrous Virginian. It was on the second mnorning after the summary incarceration of Mr. BOB PETERS, t1hat fMr. ORDETH per- emptorily called for his nlewspaper, and, having ele- vated his feet upon the window sill, proceeded to read the more humorous articles of the journal in question, wlielicl were chiefly devoted to the discussion of divers excellent plans for invading the North in one column, and burning Richmond in tlte next. Tle  only other person in the apartment at the time was Mrs.- ORDET, who tunrned very pale wlien her lord took up llis paper, and watched him as he read, witli considerable agitation. She was evidently expecting an explosion, and it came. Having perused with mitigated satisfaction a leader on the sublime nobility of soul evidenced by the peo- ple who destroyed their city at tlme approach of thle enemy, M1. O(IDETH turned to the Loclal Depalrtment of the reduced sheet befor, him..and was electrified   ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. at the discovery therein of a full and accurate account of the arrest of " one ROBERT PETERS, supposed to be a Yankee spy, who is said to have found refilge for  some timne past in the ]hotse of a well-knorwn citizen, and who was seized at the instigation of a devoted Daugliter of the South, who, by a pardonable device, lured him from, his hiding place for that purpose. But 8 tr the disordered state of things just now, the citizen said to have ]harbored this fellow would be called to account for his equivocal concern in the matter."  I The paper dropped from the hands of Mr. ORDEITH,  s and he stared at his wife in utter bewilderment. : "Don't be angry with us, VICTOR!" exclaimed that lady, tremblingly; for she had seen the paper and an- ticipated what was coming,. 'LIBBY hid poor BOB away because she didn't want to see one of our own relations taken and hung, and when she told me of it I didn't dare to tell you." "And do you mean to tell me that it was in my house lhe was secreted?" asked the Virginian, tragic-  ally.  "Yes, my dear, up-stairs, you know."        i This unexampled revelation might have produced a scene, had not the door been opened at the moment   I by JocKo, who unceremoniously entered with a folded I paper in his hand. "Dis wus8 brung for you, Mars'r, by de angel ob de -I mean by de gemman wid gold on lie shoulder." ) The master hastily snatched the paper from the du- tiful black, waved him magisterially from the pres- ence, and found himself ordered to report on the fol-  lowing morning for military duty at the headquarters   SECOND SERIES.       5 of the military commandant, Richmond.  A new draft was ordered I Passing the paper to his wife, without a word of comment, Mr. ORDETH commnenced to pace the room with long and rapid strides. Finally, lie stopped short before his lady's chair :- "I am beginning to think," said he, coolly, "that the Union is best for the South, after all." "Yes, my dear." "And we must be off for Danville this very after- noon." "Oh!' A pause, and then- "I was hasty a'bout Bo3B. My friend, GENERAL EVANs, has just come in from Leesburg. I must ex- plain this matter to him alnd get BOB discharged; for BOB may be of great service to us, mny dear, when the Yankees take possession." Mrs. ORDrTH understood her huisband well enough t(o appreciate this remarkable chlange in his senti- ments, and refrained fromn exhibiting any astonish- ment at this speech. She only answered: "You know best, VIrot." The head of the house received this judicious reply in frull payment of all demands on his wife's attention, and immediately went forth to puit his designs into ex- ecution-as fine a specimen of the Southern Union man as ever welcomed the advent of the loyal army with enthusiasm, and immediately presented a bill for damnages sustained in the cause of Freedom!   "     ORPHEIUS C. KERR PAPERS. CHAPTER VIII.--WITHOUT END. Seated upon the lounge where he so often had rest. ed, with her elbows resting upon the ttable on which Is8 arms had so fiequently reposed, sat the afflicted "BBY. She had heard her paternal- leave the hlouse an lhour before, and( she had just heard the sound of his boots in the hall below as he returned ; bnt s]e feltno desire to learn the reason thereof: Like lier mother, she had seen the account of Mr. PETER'S arrest in the morning paper, and hler bewilderment at the statement respecting the device used to entrap that persecuted youth by a Daughter of the South, was only equalled by her grief at the unfortunate present. predicament of her lover. So absorbed was she in Iher sorrows that she heard not the opening of the parlor door below her, nor the sound of footsteps on the stairs :- i' Miss ORDETH!" Was it a  dream? The beautiful mourner turned quickly in the direction of the sound, and belield the bodily presentment of Mr. BOB PETERS, who stood near the door with lris shocking bad hat between his hands and an expression of stern reproach upon his countenance. "BOB!-you here?" exclaimed the maiden, starting from her seat with a little shrielk. "Mr. PTERs, if you please, Madame," said the late captive, with much dignity. "Owing to a   great spread of Union sentiment in the bosom of your pater-   SECOND SERIES.     -  57 nal relative, and his consequent representation in my behalf, I am here, to blast you with the sight of the innocence you have betrayed! I slipped up here to confront you, Madame," observed Mr. PIETERS, With some ease of manner, " while the old ones were pack- ing the silver-plated spoons preparatory to a combined movement on the peaceful hlamnlet of Danville." "What do you mean, you ridiculous thing o?" asked "BBY, scarcely believing her own ears. "That we must part," returned Mr. PETERS, calmly straightening an angle in the rim of his hat. "You named an hour for my nocturnal escape-quarter-past Twelve. I fled the Residence at that unseemly hour, though another maiden -had previously invited Ine to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. I went, and walked stiraight into the arms of the unsleepingc Southern Confederacy, who was inebriated at the time, and conducted me to the penal pork-packing es- tablishment. Enough! we part. I go to Danville with you, but only as an ordinary acquaintance of chilling reserve." "Why BOB, what can you mean?." ejaculated "BBr, to whom this remarkable speech was not par- ticularly lucid; " it was not my fault that you were taken. If you ha I gone at quarter-past Twelve, as I told you, all would lhave been well. Oh, BOB, when JOCKO told me next morning that he had waited for you a, whole hour in the hall in vain, and when ma and I found that you had really gone at the wrong time, I sat right down and cried iny eyes out." "Thle wrong time!" exclaimed Mr. PETERs,  striding suddenly toward the mirror. " impossible I Observe   5 8     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. this repeater of mine, which is a reliable time-piece On the night in question, this repeater was plainly before me, hanging on .this gas bracket, before this looking-glass."' Here Mr. PETERS illustrated his asser- tion by suspending his watch friom the bracket, under' which it spun feebly for a moment. ' At the very instant of my waking from a temporary slumber, I caught sight of this same repeater in the glass, and- why! what's this?" In a moment every vestige of resentmneint had faded from the features of Mr. BOB PIETERS, and he stood staring at the reflection of his watchl in the glass with the look of a man in the last stage of wonder. "BBY timidly drew near and placed a hand on his arm. "What's the matted',.dear? ' "Wlat time is it now by the repeater?" asked Mr. PETERS, excitedly, lbut without moving his eyes. "Why, it's ten minutes past Ten," replied LIBBY, glancing at the face of the watch as it appeared in the mirror, and wondering wliat would come next. "Look again I!" thundered Mr. PETERS. "Why," repeated LIBBY, half-frightened, "it's ten minutes past Ten." Mr. BOB PETERS deliberately took down his watch and pointed convulsively at its face with one finger The titne was ten minutes of Ten! Mr. PETERS' first act was to clasp the maiden to ]his bosom and kiss her unceremoniously. Then releasing her, he took two steps in a popular break-down and burst into a stentorian peal of laughter. "I shall have to call Pa," said poor LIBBY. "Not a bit of it i" shouted BOB, ceasing his Terpsi-   SECOND SERIES.        59 cholreanism for a moment; -; don't you see the joke? It's all in the looking-glass, lny pet. When I thought it was a quarter past Twelve and fled the residence, it was really a quarter of Twelve-don't you see? The looking glass reversed the hands on the watch!" And so it was, mnon ami. Hold your own time- piece with its face to a mirror, and you will " see the point.9' But what can excuse that General who, after lead- ing the whole country to expect that he would take Richmond in time for me to conclude this picture of Southern life, as I originally planned to do, now changes his base of operation in a strategic mannler, and introduces a fizzle into romantic literature Here Smith-Brown, who happened to be awake, coughed intrusively, my boy, and says he: "The fault is not the- General's, my friend. The Secretaly of War is alone to blamne for it. He has killed literature.' How true was that speech, my boy. The Secretary is indeed responsible for this literary disaster, as well for everything else ; and if he ever undertakes to stand on his own responsibility, he will find plenty of room to move about. Yours, droopingly, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   ;! LETTER LV.  SETTING FORTH A NEW VILLAINY OF THE INSIDIOUS BLACK REPU-  "CANS, AND DESCRIBING THE-I THRILLING CONSTITUTIONAL BAT- TLE OF DUCK LAKE. WASHINGTOn, D., C., July 12th, 1862. OWING to the persistent stupidity of Congress and    I the hideously-treasonable mlachnations of the unscrll-  pulous black  republicans, my boy, the weather still continues very hot; and unless the thermnometer falls very soon, an exlhaulsted populace will demand an im- mediate change in the Cabinet. I am  very warmn, my boy--I am   very warm ; and when I reflect upon the   I agency of the abolitionists, who flave brought this sort  I of thing about for the express purpose of injuring my   1 Constitution, I am impelled to ask myself: Did our revolutionary forefathers indeed expire in vain a Oi my country! my country! it is very warm. Such   weather, my boy, is particularly trying to Sergeant O'Pake's- friend, THE IRISH   PICKET. I'M shtanding in the mud, Biddy, With not a spalpeen near, And silence, spaichless as the grave, Is all the sound I hear.   SECOND SERIES.        61 Me gun is at a showlder arms, I'm wetted to the bone, And whin I'm afther shpakin' out, I find meself alone. This Southern climate's quare, Biddy, A quare and bastely thing, Wid Winter absint all the year, And Summer in the Spring. Ye min'd the hot place down below? And may ye niver fear I'd dhraw comparisons-but then It's awful warrum here. The only moon I see, Biddy, Is one shmall star, asthore, And that's fornint the very cloud It was behind before; The watchfires glame along the hill That's swellin' to the south, And whin the sentry passes them I see his oogly mouth. It's dead for shape I am, Biddy, And dramein shwate I'd be, If them buld rebels over there Would only lave me free; But when I lane against a shtump And shtrive to get repose, A musket ball be's comin' shtraight To hit me spacious nose. It's ye I'd like to see, Biddy, A shparkin' here wid me   62      ORPHEUS C. XKERR PAPERS. And then, avourneen, hear ye say, "Acusha-Pat-machree!" "Och, Biddy darlint," then says I, Says you, " get out of that ;" Says I, " me arrum mates your waist," Says you, " be daycent, Pat." And how's the pigs and ducks, Biddy? It's them I think of, shure, That looked so innocent and shwate Upon the parlor flure : I m shure ye're aisy with the pig That's fat as he can be, And fade him wid the best, because I'm towld he looks like me. Whin I come home again, Biddy, A sargent tried and, thrue, It's joost a daycent house I'll build And rint it chape to you. We'll have a parlor, bedroom, hall, A duck-pond nately done, With kitchen, pig-pen, praty-patch, And garret--all in one But, murther! there's a baste, Biddy, That's crapin' round, a tree, And well I know the crature's there To have a shot at me. Now, Misther Rebel, say yere prayers, And howld yer dirthy paw, Here goes!-be jabers, Biddy dear, I've broke his oogly jaw '   SECOND SERIE6.       63 I was talking some moments ago with a Regimental Surgeon, who has more patients on a monument than Shakspere ever dreamed about, and says he: "In consequence of the great number of troops now aboult this city, all the oxygen in the atmospliere is exslaust- ed, and we are very warm. Had all these troops been sent to McClellan two weeks ago," says he, using his lancet to pick a dead fly out of his tumbler, " we might be able to keep cool now. There is a terrible responsibility on somebody's shoulders." That's very true, my bov, and it's very warm. There was a panic this morning in financial circles, owing to the frantic conduct of a gambling chap from the Senate, wh1o has been saving up money to bet on the fall of Richmond, and was trying to put it out at interest. "I'll take seven per cent. for it the first year,', says lie, anxiously, " and leave it standing until national strategy comes to a head." A broker took it for five years, my boy, with thle privilege of extending the time after eachl fresh victory. Speaking of victories, my boy, I was present at the recent series of triumphs by the Mackerel Brigade, on the left shore, ot Duck Lake, and witnessed a succes- sion of feats .alculated to culmninate eitlher in the fall of Richmond or the fall of the year. From the head-quarters in the city of Paris to the brink of Duck Lake, the Mackerels were drawn up in gorgeous line of battle, their bayonets resemblino somewhat an uncombed head of steel hair, and their noses looking like a wavy strip of summer sunset. By their last great stragetical manceuvre, they had lured the Southern Confederacy to court its own destruction   by flanking them at both ends of the line, and they were only waiting for the master-mind to give them the signal. Samyule Sa-mith advanced from tills place in the staff as I rode up, and-says hle: "Comrades, the General depends on you to precede him to glory. We had hloped," says Samyile, feel- ingly, " to have the company of two French counts in this day's slaughter; bit those two noble G'auls bad not time to wait, as they desired to visit the Great Ex- hibition in London." These remarks were well received, my boy; and when the order was given fbr Cornpany 3, Regiment 5, to detour to the left, it would have been promptly obeyed but for an unforeseen incident. Just as Capn tain Villlian   Biown was about to break line for the purpose, an aged    chap calne'dashing down  from a First Famtily country-seatnear by, and says hle to the General of the Mackerel Brigade: I demand a guard fobr lmy premises immediately. My wife," says he, with dignity, "has just been mnak- ing a custard-pie for tile sick C(onfederacies in the hos- pital, and as she has just set it out to cool near where my little boy shot one of your vandals this mnornin, she is afraid it might be taken by  youlr. thieving mud- sills when they came after the body. I, therefore, demand  a guard for my   premises, ill the name f th e Constitution of   our forefafthers." Hyere Captain Bob Shorty stepped forward, and says he "What does the Constitution say about custard pie -Mr. Davis      "    SECOND SERIES.       65 The aged chap spat at him, ald says he: "I claim protection under th;at clause which refers to the pursuit of happiness. Custard pies," says he, reasoningly, "are included in the pursuit of happi- es3.' "That's very true," says the General, looking kindly over tlis fan at the venerable petitioner. "Let a guard be detailed to protect this good old inan's pre- mises. We are fighting for the Constitlution, not against it." A guard was detailed, my boy, with orders to make no resistance if they were fired upon occasionally from the windows of the house; and thenl Captai'n Villiam Brown pushed forward with what was left of Cotnpany 3, to engage the Confederacy on the edge of Duck Lake, supported by the Orange County Howitzers. Headed by the band, who played patriotic airs as soon as 'he could shake the crumbs out of his kev- bugle, the cavalceide-advanced to the edge of the lake and opened a heavy salute of round shot and musketry on the atmospllere, whilst Cominodore Head kept up a hot fire at the horizon with his iron-plated fleet and swivel gun. Only lwaiting to finish a game of base ball, in which they hadl been engaged, four regiments of Confedera- cies, at whoom this deadly assault was directed, threw aside their bats and ball dresses, putt on their uni- forms, loaded their muskets and batteries, and sent an iron shower in all directions. Greatly denmoralized by this unseemly occurrence, a file of AMackerels under Sergeant O'Pake immediately threw down their mus- kets and knapsacks, emptied their pockets upon the   "     ORPHEUS 0.' KERIt PAPERS. ground, piled their neckties in a heap, and were mak. ing a rapid retrogade movement, when Villiam sud- denly threw himself inll their path, and says he: ' Where are you going to, my fearless eaglets i" "Hem!" says the sergeant, with much French in his manner, " we thought of visiting the Great Exhi- bition in London." "All!" says Villiam, understandingly, " you have acquired French in one easy lesson, and-" Here an orderly rode up with an order for the Mackerels to fall back fi'om the edge of the Lake im- mediately, leaving their artillery, bayonets, havelocks, and baggage bellind thein; and Villiam was obliged to conduct the movement, which was a part of the strategical scheme of the General of the Mackerel Brigade. As we retreated back into Paris, my boy, we were joined by the Conic Section, and shortly after by the Anatomical Cavalry, both of which had suc- ceeded in leaving all their accoutrements on the field. As we all rushed together before head-quarters in perfect order, and while the Confederacy was eating some provisions, which we had refrained from bring- ing off the late scene of conflict, ttle General of the Mckerel Brigade came fromn under a tree, where he had been faflning himself, and says he: "My children, we ]lave whipped them at all points, and the day is oure."    . Alh!" says Villiam, abstractedly, " ttle day is ho lrs.  "My   children," says the General, in continuation, "we have pushed t e enemy to the wall without frac- turing the Constitutio l, and have only put the war   SECOND SERIES.       67 back six months. We can say with pride, my chil- dren, that we belong to the Ai-my of Duck Lake, and shall have no more Bull BRuns. My children, I love you. Accept my blessing." We were reflecting upon this soul-stirring speech, my boy, and silently admiring the strategy which had brought us all together again so soon, when the sound of drum and fife called our attention to a club of poli- tical chaps who had just arrived by steamer from the Sixth Wald, and were filing past us to a platform re- cently erected in the very centre of Paris. "I do believe," says Captain Bob Shorty, whisper- ingly, ' I do believe we're going to have a mass meet- ing." Onward went the political chaps to the platform. A delegation mounted the steps, advanced to the front rails, and commenced unfurling a vast linen banner. The sun was just setting, my boy, and as his parting beams fell upon the uplifted faces of the polit- ical chaps, a soft breeze unrolled the standard, and the Mackerels read upon its folds- REGULAR CONSERVATIVE NO MINATION . FOR PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES IN 1865. THE GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE. Shall it be said, after this, that republics are un grateful-? I think not, my boy-I think not. We   68     ORPHSEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. have won a great and glorious victory, and the only question remaining to be answered is, Who is respon. sible for it, my boy-who is responsible for it? Yours, in bewilderment, ORPHEUS C. EERR.   LETTER LVI. -WHEREIN ARE PRESENTED SOME FEMNINE REFERENCES, AN ANEC- DOTE BY THE EXECUTIVE) AND CERTAIN NOTES OF A VISIT TO THE FESTIVE SHENANDOAH VALLEY. WASHINGTON, D. C., July 19th, 1862. PERMIT me to return thanks through your nmail, my boy, for a large feather fan recently consigned to my address by one of the admiring Women of America. It looks like a tail freshly pluckled from a large-sized American eagle, and is decorated with a French-plate mirror in the centre and other Frlelchl plates around the edges. The kind-hearted womllan of America (who writes from Boston) says inl her presentation note--"I admire to see a fall in the hands of the sterner sex; for it shows that the same hero-fist that grasps the sword has enough inherent gentleness to wave the cooling bauble.  Such is life. The hand which falls like a hundred pounds of granite on the flinty eye of his ke-yuntery's foes has the softness of a blessing wlhen it caresses the golden head of plastic childhood. Yours, gushingly,   Zepllylina Percy." I find the "cooling -bauble," verv useful to brush the flies from my gothic steed Pegasus, my boy, and am a fanatic " to this extent, no more."   70    . ORKPHEIUS C. KERR PAPERS. And here is what another young woman of America says to ne in a note: "My nma requests me to tell you that you ought to be ashamed of yourself, you hateful thing, for encour- aging the vulgar people to be in favor of this nasty war, that is causing their superiors so much trouble, and has driven away the opera, and made enemies of those nice Southerners, with their beautiful big eyes and elegant swearing. Why don't you advocate a cotmpromise, or a Habeas Corpus, or some other paper with natnes to it, and get Mr. Lincoln to stop the Con- stitution and order the war to be ended before there's any more assassinations'"and things? My pa was once a  leather banker, and sold shoes for plantation ser-  Vants, and made a great deal of money by it; but now ie's a captain, or a surveyor, or somne ridiculous thing,  of the Home  Guard, and may be massacred in cold blood the first time there's a battle in our neighbor- hood.  My pa has to go to drill every night, and when he comes home  in the morning he's so worn ouit with exLaustion that I've known him to lay right down in the hall and shed tears. My  ma often says, that if Beauregard, or Palmerston, or any other foes should attack our house wlaile pa is in that state, it would kill her dead. And I  know it would make me so nervous that I  should be a perfect fright for a week. My bro- thler, Adolphns, has likewise joined the Home Guard,  and has already had a  bloody enrgagement with a Southerner named Tailor, who used to sell him clothes when the two sections were at peace. Adolphus says if it hadn't been for his double-quick, or some ridicu-   SECOND SERIES.        71 lous military thing or other, he would have been made a prisoner. It makes me sick to see how much lowness tlhere is about Adolphus sinlce he joined the ridiculous army; lie calls his dinner (rations,' and addresses Inme as ' Corporal Lollypop,' (the absurd thing!) and calls nma's crinoline a 'counter-scarp.' "My pa says that he shall have to sell the carriage and the beautiful dog-cart if this hatefill war donl't end by the first of next month; and when I asked him yes- terday if we couldn't have the gothic villa next to, the Jolles's at Newport this summer, he actually sw(,re I The Jonleses, you know, are very pleasant, sociable, vulgar sort of people, with a little money; and it would kill me'to see them putting on airs over us be- cause we didn't happen to take a cottage with bow-win- dows like them. AMy la says that old Jones has got a colotract to nmake clothes for the soldiers, and has made a great deal of money by manufacturing coats and other ridiculous things out of blue paper instead ,f cloth. Augustus Jones says if lie don't meet me at Newport this summer he will enlist as soon as he comes back ; and it' would be just like the absurd creature to do it. I don't see why pa can't get out an indictment or something agatist the blockade, and call on the postmaster or some other ridiculous thing to send his new stock of plantation shoes to Alabama under a guard, and bring back the money. I don't see the aue- of living in a republic if one can't do that much. My ma says that you newspaper people could stop the dreadful war if you wouldt only advocate compromises and things, and not be so ridiculous. Whly can't you leave out some of those absurd -advertisements, and   72      ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. publish an article telling Mr. Lincoln that the war is ruining society? If it continues much longer, I shall have to wear my last year's bonnet a whole month, and I'd rather die. Do say something absurd, vou ridiculous thing." Have the war stopped right away, my boy,-have the war stopped right away.  ,. Matters and things here are still in a strategic con- dition, and naughlt has disturbed our monotony, for a week, save a story they tell about the Honest OldAbe. It seems that two of the conservative Border State chaps, who are here for the express purpose of pro- testing against everything whatever, had a discussion about the Honest Abe, and one chap bet the other chap five dollars that he couldrn't, by any possible means, speak to the President without hearing a small anecdote. "Done!" savs the' other chap, gleefully, "I'll take the bet." That very same night, at about twelve o'clock, he tore frantically up to the White House, and com- menced thundering at the door like King Richard at the gates of A\scalon. The Honest Abe stuck his night-capped head out of the window, and says he: "Is that you, Mr. Seward?" "No, sir," says the Border State chap, glaring up through  the darkness. "I'm a messenger from the army.   Another great strategic movemnent lhas taken place, and our whole army have'been taken prisoners by the Southern Confederacy. In fact," says the con- u --- -- ' -- nvr WyJ  L11 L61L\I)   SECOND SF RIES.       73 servative chap, frantically, " the backbone of the re- bellion is broken AGAIN." "Hel i" says the fIonest Abe, shaking a musquito from his nightcap, " this strategy reminds me of a lit- tle story. Thllere was a man, out in-Iowa, sat down to play a game. of checkers with another man, inducing his friends around him to lend him the change neces- sary for stakes. He played and he played, and he lost the first game. Then he played much more cau- tiously, and lost the next game. His friends com- menced to grumble; but, says he: ' Don't you worry yourselves, bovs, and I'll show you a cute move pretty soon.' So he played, and he played, and he lost the third game. ' Don't be impatient, boys,' says he; 'you'll see that great move pretty soon, I tell you.' . Then he played with great care, taking a long time to consider every move, and, by way of ohange, lost the fourth game. Close attention to what he was about, and much minute calculation, also enabled him to lose the fifth game. By this time his friends had lent him all their change, and began to think it was time for that great tmove of his to come off. 'Have you any more change?' says he. 'Why, no,' says they. 'Then,' says he, with great spirit, 'the tinle tor that move I was telling you about has come At last.' As he commenced to rise from his chair, instead of continuing to play, his cleaned-out friends be- thought themselves to ask him what that famous move was? ' Why,' says he, pleasantly, 'it's to move off for a little more change.'  At the conclusion of this quaint tale, my boy, the Border State chap fled groaning 'to his quarters at 4   74      ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Willard's, stuck a five-clollar Treasury Note under the i pillow of Ihe other Border State chap, and immedi- ately took the evening train for the West.      3 buch is the story they tell, nly boy ; but I'm inclined to accept it merely as a work of fiction, with a truth- ful moral. Certain it is, that as strategy increases, small change grows scarcer, and it is the general opi- ! nion that no small change is needed in military mat- i ters.  In company with a patriotic democratic chap, who had come up from New York, for the express purpose : of seeing that the negroes of the Southern Confede- racy were not permitted to inform our forces of the  movements of the enemy in contravention of the Con- stitution, I made a reconnoisance in force, on Mon- day, to the festive Shenandoah Valley. On our way    thither, the democratic chap was greatly bitten by  l musquitos, for which he justly blamed tie black re-  t publicans, who are trying to break up this Govern- ment, and on our arrival near Winchester, we stum- bled upon a phlegmatic fellow-man in a swallow-tailed coat and green spectacles, who was seated on a stone  X by the roadside,* reading the "Impending Crisis."  The democratic chap passed on, swearing, to the near- est camp; but I paused before this interesting stu- dent.                        ! : i "Well, old swallow-tails," says I, affably," what are a you doing in this section 2'  lHe looked up at me with great severity of counten-  ance, and says he :' I have come here, young man, to  I agitate the Negro Question; to open African schools;  I 'et                     *j   fECOND SERIES.       75 and, peradventure, to start a water cure establish- ment.5" "' What for?" says I. "For the love of my species," says he, eagerly, and for any little contract in the way of red breeclies and spelling books that may be required for the re- claimed contrabands?." Was this a case of purely disinterested philan- thropy? Perhaps so, my boy, perhaps so; but the old swallow-tails reminded of a chap I once knew in the Sixth Ward. He was a high toned moral chap of much shirt-collar, with a voice that sounded like a mosquito in the bottom of a fish-horn, and a chin like a creased apple-dumpling. Years before he had mar- ried a Southern crinoline and talked albout the glories of slavery in a polished and }ligh-moral wa:y; but as there happened just then to be a chance for him to run for alderman on the abolition ticket, he expe- rienced a change of heart, and addressed a meeting on the evils of human bondage: "My friends," says bhe, patting his stomach in a heartfelt manner, "I once lived at the South and owned slaves; but never could I feel that it was right. My pastor would say to me: ' These men-slaves are black, you say; but have they not the same feelings with you, the same features-only llandsomer?." I felt this to be so, my friends; I commenced to appreciate the enormity of holding human souls in bondage." Here a susceptible venerable maiden in the au- dience became so overpowered by her emotions, that she placed her head in the lap of a respectable single genLtleman, and fainted away   7;      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. " My friends," continued the high-toned moral chap, "I could not bear the stings of conscience ; my nights were sleepless, but I slept during the day. There was -I, pretending, to be a Christian, yet holding men and women as chattels! Heavens himself was outraged by it, and 1 resolved to make a sacrifice for the sake of principle-to cease to be a slaveholder! I called my slaves together: I addressed them paternally and piously, and then H(here the great, scalding tears rolled down t!e cheeks of the orator, and the audience sobbed horribly)--I bade them be good boys and girls, and then HSOLD EVERY ONE OF THrEM!" there was a movement of thie audience toward the door.  Men and woimen went out silently from the I place, exchanging covert glances of smotlered agita- I tion with each other. Only one person remained with the orator. It was an old file with a blue umbrella, who had occupied a back seat and paid breathless at- tention to all the perforlances. After the others had left the hall, he walked deliberately fromn his seat to where the high-toned moral chap was still standing, and gazed into the face of the latter with an expres- sion of unmitigated won ler. He then walked twice around him; having donle which he confionted him again, thumped the tfertle of lhis umbrella on the floor, anld says he: "Well!"The old file paused an instant, and tleien says he: "well, I'll be dam," and 1 waddled precipitately from the place.       I I've often thought of it since then, my boy; and I've always wondered wliy it was that the solitary         .    SECOND SERIES.        " old file with the blue umbrella should say that he be dam. To return to Western Virginia; I found, upon my arrival in- one of the camps near Winchester, that the patriotic democratic chap was mnaking arrangements to divide the army there into Wards, instead of regi- ments, in order, as he said, that the returns might come in systematically. ' Ftor instance," says he, " suppose that in the skir- mish with the Confederacy which is going on just ahead of us, we should lose-say seventy-five votes; how much easier it would be to say; the ' Fourth Ward shoYws a decrease since -last year of seventy-five Re- publicans', than to say that such a regiment, ofl' such  brigade, of such a division, has lost so and so?" I was reflecting upon this novel and admirable way of putting it, my boy, when an orderly came tearing in, with a report of the skirmishing goilg on. "Ha!" says the patriotic chap to hiln; " ]how does the canvas proceed a?" "Well," says the orderly, breathlessly, "Banks' out- post has lost twenty votes in the Tentlh Ward ty deser- tions, and' has thirty double-votes wounded; but I think Baniks can still keep necl-and-neck with Mc- Dowell." "You do, hey?" says the patriotic chap, in great excitement. "Then McDowell must not lend Banks a single vote. Tell him to keep his Ward Committees under cover until Banks gets through with his canvas; for if he takes parlt in that, and the election results in a victory over the Confederacy Banks will get all the   78      ORPHEUS O. KERR PAPERS. credit of it, and win the card in the next Nominating Convention." So McDowell's votes didn't re-enforce Banks in the skirmish, my boy, and Banks lost much popularity by being worsted by the Confederacy. As soon as the firing had ceased, I went out to meet some of the returning Wards, and came plump upon    the swallow-tail chap, who was agitating the negro question in a corner of the late battle-field, surrounded by fugitive contrabands.               i "Friend of the human race," says I, " how now "?' "Young man," says he, hastily tying a red silk pocket-handkerchief about his head, "I am teaclling these oppressed beings to spell, having extemporized a college on the very scene of their recent emancipa- tion." ' How far have the collegians progressed?" says I. ( They have got," says he, " to their a-b, abs. Thus; a-b, ab ; o-abo ; 1-i li, aboli; t-i-o-n shan--abolition." Shameful- to relate, my boy, the swallow-tailed chap had no sooner said this, than a cavalry ward came charging helter-skelter, right through the college, tumbling' the faculty into the mud, and bruising sev- eral sophomore graduates. Simultaneously, the patri- otic democratic chap appeared on the scene, and in- sisted upon it that the contrabands should be imme- diately returned to the Southern Confederacy, as this is a white man's war. "Otherwise," says he, choleri- cally, " future reconciliation and reconstruction will be impossible." Fearful that I should become confused a little if I remained there any longer, my boy, I at once retired   SECOND SERIES.       79 from the place, in company with two sick votes, who were going liome on furlough, and reached this city again in good order. Almnost the first fellow-being I inet on my return was a seedy and earnest chap from New York, who was worth about a quarter in ready money, avid had come to Washington post-haste to pledge the Empire State's last dollar, and last drop of blood for the vigor- ous. prosecution of the war. "See here, my self-denying Brutus," says I, as we took Richmond together at the bar, "who commis- sioned you to pledge so much as all that ." "To tell the truth," says the seedy chap, confiden- tially, 'a it's all I've got left to pledne. I pledged my pinchbeck chronometer for three dollars," says he, sadly, "just before I left New York; and I'm trying this pledge on speculation." I have sometimes feared, by boy, that our Uncle Sanmuel's concern is turning iinto a pawnbroking estab- lishment on a large scale, where they make advances onl everythiing tangible and intangible, except Rich. mond, my boy-except Richmond. Yours, with a presentiment, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LVIr a 8UGGESTING MENTAL RELAXATION FO, A TIME, AND INTRO-)UC-1 ING A FAMLIAR SKETCH OF THE- WAR-STRICKEN DRAMA IN THE RURAL DISTRICTS. WASHINGTON, D. C., July 23d, 1862. YESTERDAY morning, my boy, I refreshed myself by a lounge across Long Bridge to the fields about Ar-  lington Heights, where blooming Nature still ihas ver-   dant spots untrampled by  the iron heel of strategic   war.  How pleasant is it, my boy, to escape occasionally from  the society of Congressmnen and brigadiers, and take a lazy sprawl in the fragrant fields. It is the philosopher's way of elljoying Summer's DOLCE   FAR  NIENTE.  STILL as a fly in amber, hangs the world  In a  transparent sphere of golden hours,   With not enough of life in all the air  To stir the shadows or to move the flowers;  And in the halo broods the angel Sleep,    Wooed from the bosom of the midnight deep By her sweet sister Silence, wed to Noon.    SECOND SERIES.     '    81 II. Held in a soft suspense of summer light, The generous fields with all their bloom of wealth Bask in a dream of Plenty for the years, And breathe the languor of untroubled Health. Without a ripple stands the yellow wheat, Like the Broad Seal of God upon the sheet Where Labor's signature appeareth soon. "I. As printed staves of thankful Nature's hymn, The fence of rails a soothing grace devotes, With clinging vines for bass and treble cleffs And wrens and robins here and there for notes; Spread out in bars, at equal distance met, As though the whole bright summer scene were set To the unuttered melody of Rest! IV. Along the hill in light voluptuous wrapt The daisy droops amid the staring grass, And on the plain the rose and lily wait For Flora's whispers, that no longer pass; While in the shade the violet of blue Finds in the stillness reigning nature through, That which her gentle modesty loves best. v. The mill-wheel motionless o'.ershades the pool, In whose frail crystal cups its circle dips; The stream, slow curling, wanders in the sun And drains his kisses with its silver lips;   82      ORPHEUS a.' KERR PAPERS. The birch canoe upon its shadow lies, The pike's last bubble on the water dies, The water lily sleeps upon her glass. VI. Here let me linger, in that waking sleep Whose dreams are all untinged with haunting dread Of Morning's finger on the eyelids pressed, To rouse the soul and leave the vision dead. And while deep sunk in this soft ecstasy I count the pulse of Heaven dreamily, Let all life's bitterness behind me pass! VII. How still each leaf of my oak canopy, That holds a forest syllable at heart, Yet cannot stir enough in all its veins To give the murmured woodland sentence start! So still-so still all nature far and near, As though the world had checked its breath to hear An angel's message from the distant skies! VIII. This one last glance at earth-one, only one- To see, as through a vail, the gentle face Bent o'er me softly, with the timid love That half distrusts the sleep which gives it grace. The thought that bids mine eyelids half unclose Fades to a dream, and out from Summer goes, In the brown Autumn of her drooping eyes. Thus irregular in rhythm and vagrant in measure, my boy, are the half-sleeping thoughts of a summer noon   SECOND SERIES.       83 in Virginia; and it was fully an hour before I could sunmmon enough strength of miind to peruse a letter re- cently consigned to me by a rustic chap in my native village. This chap describes to me what he calls the "Down- fall of the Dramy," and says he: "The Dramy is a article for which I have great taste, and which I prefer to prayer-meeting as a regular thing. Since the time I wore breeches intended to facilitate fre- quent spankings. I have looked upon thealtrical artiks with a speeshees of excitement not to be egspressed. I was once paying teller to a barber artik who shaved a great theatrical artik, anid although the theatrical artik never could pay, for his shaving until he drew his celery, he always frowned so splendidly when he turned down his collar, and said: "What ho! there Figaro," that my infant mind yearned to ask him for a few tickets to the show. This great respek for the dramy has grown with my hair, and since this high old war has desolated the dramy, my buzzom has been nothing else but a wil- derness of pangs. The other evening, my fren- which is courting a six story house with a woman in the title deed-called at my shattoe, and prop(osed that we should wander amid the ruins of the dramy. "It's rejooced to a skellington," says he, quite mourn- ful, " and its Eplturibus Onion is gone down into the hocean wave." As my friend used this strong egs- pression, he tried to wink at me, but didn't get farther than a hik-cup. Arm in-arm, like two Siamese-twins ip rejooced circumstances, we walked in speechless *   84:     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. silence to what was formerly the entrance half of a theatre in the pallermy days of the dramy. It was like the entrance to the great desert of Sary, and as we groped our way thro)ugh the grass to the ticket office, I observed six wild geese and a raccoon in a jungle that was a umberella 'stand in the pallermy days. The treasurer was entirely covered with cob- webs, which had been accumulating since the day he last saw speshee, and when he at last tore himself out, the sight of the quarter which I handed in sent him into immediate convulsions. "Excuse me," says he, " if I weep over this preshus coin; but the force of (Ald associations is too much for this affectionate heart." He then sent a fly-blown little boy-for a tumbler of brandy, and was weeping into -it copious when we emerged from his presence. Upon entering the shat- tered temple of the dramy, we found a vetrun of 1812, which the manager had hired to keep company with the man what lit the gas, that artik having declared that if he was kept in solitude any longer he should shoot himself from sheer melanchDly. It was the vetrun's business to keep moving from seat to seat until the performance was over, so that the art- ful cuss of a manager could say " every seat was okipied" in the next morning's newspaper. When the manager, who. was representing the orkest,'a with a comb wrapt in paper, saw me and my fren, he paused in the middle of his overture, and said we should have a pr'ivate box, but that the families of his principal ar- tiks were keepin' house in the private boxes, and was   SECOND SERICiS.      85 rayther crowded for room. Seeing me put my hand in my pocket, he said, tearful: "Tellum me, I conjure ye, are there any such things as quarters in the round world? It is now six months since I last mingled with the world, and I really-forget how many make a dollar. Touched to the quick by his plaintiff tone, I drew forth a quarter, and held it before his anglished vi sion. Never shall I forget how his eyes was sot on that ravishing coin. "an it indeed be real?" says he, '" or is it but a quarter of the mind i" I was afeard he might come the "let me clutch thee" dodge if I inflamed his imagination any longer; so I put it back into my pocket, and axidently revealed the handle of my revolver. When my fren had cut the damp grass away from, one of the orchestra seats with his jack-knife, we sat down and put up an umblrella to keep off the dew. Be- ing a little nervous, I asked the manager if there was any snakes about; a:nd he said hel see a couple in the parroquet last night, but didn't think they had got down to the or!:estra yet. Tile vetrun, which was the audience, stoppd chasing a bull-frog in the vestibule when the manager struck up "Days of Abstinence" on his -comb, and immediately took his seat on chair No. 1, with which le always commenced. The curt- ing was then unpinned, and disclosed a scene in a lumber-yard, with a heavy mortgage on it. The Counit de Mahoginyis discovered in the ak of leaving his young wife, who is seated on a pile of shavings, for the purpose of obtaining immediate relief from the   86     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Union Defence Committee. The vetrun received him with great applause, and moved from seat to seat as though he was in a hurry to reach the gallery. When the artik spoke, there was so much empty stomik in his tones, that my fren said he seemed like a bean from another world. My fren is a spiritualist. The artik then went off at the left entrance, and im- mediately returned in the character of his own uncle, which had come home from California with two mil- lions of dollars, and wished to give it to his affection- ate nephew and niece. He found his niece in the lum- ber-yard, and having heard her sad story, divulged his -intention to her and she immediately danced a Spanish par (which is French), and sung four songs in honor of the sixty-ninth regiment. Then the uncle danced a hornpipe, which he learned on the' hocean; and so they kept agoin till about nine o'clock, when the countess said she heard her husband coming. The uncle was so taken aback by this, that he immediately made himself into a tableau representing the last charge of the Fire Zouaves at Bull Run: and as tile comb struck up "I'm a loan, all a loan," the curtain was pinned up again. Just as the performance ended,* the manager explained that lie could only aford to keep two artiks-a male and female, and -they onlv stayed because he had a mortgage on their wardrobes for over-drawed celery. I'll light you to the door," says lie, taking up one of the foot-lights, which was a turnip with a candle ill it; " and I hope you'll come again when we projooce our new play. It's called 'The gas man's last charge,' and introjoces a real gas- meter and the sheriff." *  #-  e               O   SECOND SERIES.       87 My fren and I made no reply, but walked sadly from the ruins with tears in our eyes." The regular Drama, my boy, cannot hope to suc- ceed, while the war which now monopolizes all atten. tion is believed by some critics to be a regular farce. Yours, tragically, ORPHEUS C. KER:R.   LETTER LVIfm. SHOWING HOW THE GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE ISSUED AN AFFECTING GENERAL ORDER; EXEMPLIFYING THE BEAUTIES OFA SPADE-CAMPAIGN AS EXHBITED IN STRATEGY HALL; AND CELEBRATING A NOTABLE CASE OF NAVAL STRATEGY. WASHINGTON D. C., July 26th, 1862. THE high-minded and chivalrous Confederacy having refused to consider itself worsted in our recent great strategic victory near Paris, my boy, it only renained for the General of the Mackerel Brigade to conmmnence undermining the Confederacy, after the malner of a civil engineer; and when last I visited the lines, I foulnd a select assortment of Mackerels engaged in the balmy summer pastime of digging holes, and dying -natural deaths in thenm. There was one chap with an illuminated nose, who attracted- my particular attention by landing a spade- full of sacred soil very neatly in my bosoin, and says I to hin : "Well, my gallant sexton, how do the obsequies pro- glress?" "Beautifill," says he, pausing long enough to take a powder which the surgeon had left with him. "We've just struck a large vein of typhoid fever, and them air Pen!nsula veterans, which you see in them holes yon-   SECOND SInRIES.        89 der, are already delirious with it. Really," says the clhap, with all air of quiet enjoyment, as he climbed into the hospital litter, just sent after limn--" really, thlere's a smart chance of pushing on our cenetlery to Richmond before the roads become impassable again." I was looking after hiln, as the bearers carried him off, nly boy, when I saw Captain Villiam Brown aln- bling leishrely toward me on blis geometrical steed Euclid, alternately perusing a paper which lie held in his rights hand, and discussing a canteen in his left. The countenance of the warl'ior was tlougltful, and his shovel swung listlessly :against the charlger's fiank. " How now, ny Jack of Spades?" says I, sportively. "Ah!" says Villiam, slowly descending friomn the roof of his stallionl, and suffering the latter to lean against a tree, "here is a new Proclamnation for the moral refreshulent of the United States of Amelica. Read this ilpartial edick," says Villiam impressively, "and you will find it worthy of the Union Track So- ciety." I took the official parchment, my boy, and found in- scribed upon it the following affecting GENERAL ORDER. Whereas, the UJnited States of America now finds himself engaged in an unnatural struggle with the celebrated Southern Contederacy, for the Union which our forefathers planted; and it being our object to show the world that our intentiotns are honorable; it is herleby ordered, that the MackerelelBrigade do take possession of all guns, pistols, and howitzers previously fired at them .by persons now in arms against this gov-   90     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. ernment, keeping strict account of said weapons, in or- der that their owners may be duly and amicably paid for them hereafter. It is flirther ordered that persons of Mackerel descent, occupying the cultivated grounds of the aforesaid Southern Confederacy, shall keep strict account of the time spent upon the same, in or- der that reasonable rent may be paid for the same as soon as the United States of America shall resume specie payment. By order of THE GENERAL OF THE MAC:KEREL BRIGADE. GREEN SEAL,  VINTAGE OF 1776. Having perused this document with much attention, I handed it back to Villiam, and says I: "In purity of moral fone, my hero, that paper is worthy the descendant of 1776." "1776!" says Villiam, reflectively. "Ah!" says Villiamn, "it takes strategy to revive recollections of those days. We have at least seventeen hundred and seventy sick ones in our new hospital already. Come with me, ) says Villiam, genially, " and we will survey the interior aspeck of Strategy Hall." Strategy Hall. my boy, is a fine airy hospital extern- porized finom a barn, on the estate of a prominent Southern Union man, now commanding a regiment of Confederacies. The house itself would have been taken, as it had somewhat more roof than the barn, and a little more shade ; but when the General of the Mackerel Brigade learned that Washington had once thought of taking a second mortgage on it, he gave   SECOND SERIES.       91 orders that no Mackerel should go within half a mile of the front door. On entering Strategy Hall, I beheld a scene calcu- lated to elevate sickness into a virtue, and shed immor- tal lustre upon the kind-hearted women of America. Comfortably stretched upon rails taken from Confed- erate fences, and of which a strict account had been kept, with a view to future compensation, were a whole section of the Mackerel Brigade, in the full enjoyment of strategic health. Over each cliap's Iead hung his shovel, and a shingle inscribed with his name and address. Thus, the shingle nearest me read: "Spoony Bill, Hose Company 123, New York Fire Department." And woman-lovely woman! was there, adminis- tering hot drinks to the fevered head, bathing with ice-water the brow of those shivering with the cruel ague, pouring rich gruel over the chn and neck of the nervous sufferer, and reading good books to the raving and delirious. It was -with a species of holy awe that I belheld one of those human angels stand a hot coffee-pot upon the upturned face of one invalid, while she hastily flew to fill the right ear of a more urgent sufferer with cologne-water. And then to see her softly place one of the portable furnaces upon a very sick Mackerel's stomach, while she warmed' the water with which his beloved head was presently to be shaved; and to see her bending over to ask one of the more dangerously ill ones if he would not like a nice fat piece of fresh pork, while the other end of her crinoline was scraping the head of the Mackerel on the opposite rail.   92      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. O" woman! in our hours of ease, Uncertain, coy, and hard to please, And variable as the shade By the light, quivering aspen made; When pain and anguish wring the brow A ministering angel thou." I could have remained here all day, my boy; for I found the berries, ice-cream, and liquors, prepared for the patients, really excellent; but Villiam hinted to me that a splendid piece of naval strategy was just about to come off on Dluck Lake, and I desired to wit ness our national triumph on the ocean wave. Having quitted Strategy Hall, I repaired to the 'shore of Duck Lake, where numerous Mackerels were already watclling Commodore Head's fleet as it lay waiting for an expected rebel ramn on the treacher- ous element. It appeared that a lurking Confederacy in Paris had waited until the Mackerels were all in their holes one day, and then hastily constructed an iron-plated ran from an old dry-goods box and two cooking stoves. With this formidable monster, he designed offering irregular opposition to the Govern- ment in the way of killing a few vandal regiments, after which he proposed to repair to-the Confederate side of Duck Lake, and send the particulars of his victory to Europe through some of the more vigilantly blockaded Southern ports. He had completed his ram, my boy, and hidden i; under some hay on the Lake shore, ready to commence his carnage when the time came; but one of the Mackerels happened to see it when he went fishing, and Commodore Head was   SECOND SERIES.       93 at once ordered to lhave his iron-plated squadron in readiness' to intercept and destroy the monster when she shhould appear. "Riddle my turret!" says the Comlnodore, in his marine mnanner, as he sighted his swivel gun and placed his fisling-rod and box of bait near his stool on the quarter-deck, "I feel like grappling with half- a-dozen rams of chivalry-loosen lmy plates! if I don't."  And there we stood on that hot July afternoon, watching the noble craft as she sat like a duck on the water, the Mackerel crew sitting aft picking a nmar- row-bone, and the venerable Commodore tilted back on his stool upon the quarter-deck, fishing for bass. Presently we could see the treacherous Confederacy stealing down to where his iron-plated monster lay hidden. Softly lie removed the covering of hay,- and cautiously did he place the ram in the water, carefully exalining the priming of the old-fashioned blunder- buss lie carried under his arm, as lie stepped into this new Merrimlac, and quietly raising his umbrella with one hand, while he paddled off with the other. Th'le distanlce between our fleet and the spectator being fully two yards, Villiam had thoughtfully pro- vided bits of smoked glass for our party, and we now brought thein to bear upon the scene of approaching slaughter. The Mackerel crew on board our squadron appeared to be wliollv absorbed in the pleasing expe- riment of following, witlh a straw, the motions of a fly whose wings he had just pulled off, and Colimmodore Head had fallen into a refreshing slumber in the midst   "     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. of his fishing. In fact, no means had been left unelm. ployed to guard against a surprise. Now, it happened that the nautical Confederacy did his paddling with his back to the bow of his iron- plated monster, and before he knew'it, his ram went smack against the Mackerel fleet, with a sound like the smasling of many dinner-plates. So tremendous was the shock, that the stool upon which Commodore Head was tilted, gave way beneath his weight, and he came down upon the deck with a crash like muffled thunder. Simultaneously, the Confederacy discharged his blun- derbuss two points to windward, and would have fol- lowed up his advantage by boarding at once; but by this time the Mackerel crew had recovered his pre- sence of mind, and poured such a shower upon the intruder from a watering-pot which he found in the stern-sheets, that the latter retreated in great disorder. Meanwhile, our gallant old naval hero had regained his feet, and having carefully put away his fishing tackle and box of bait, lie made his appearance on the starboard, with his spy-glass under one arm, his speaking trumpet under the other, and his log-book between his teeth. No sooner did the now thoroughly exasperated Con- federac) behold his venerable figure, than he hastily shut up his umbrella and violently cracked him over tlhe head with it, knocking off his spectacles, and greatly damaging his new white hat. "Batter my armor!" thundered the comnmodore, picking up his spectacles and bending them straight again. "I don't want yoil to do that again." "Scorpion!" roared the Confederacy, dropping his   SECOND SEIRIES.       95 umnbrella, and dancing up and down in his ram, with his arms in a boxing attitude. "Come on, base old being!" "Then take thy doom," shrieked the maddened cominodore, quickly striking a match on the bottom of one ::f his boots, and touching off the swivel gun. With a report like the explosion of a deadly pistol, the trusty weapon hurled its contents about two inches above the head of the Mackerel crew, wildly- tearing off the cap -of the latter, and sh;king the staulnch craft fromn stem to stern. Somewhat alarmned by this dEnonstration, the C(on- 'federacy comnmenlced shoving off with his ram, using hiis blunderbuss and umbrella as oa rs, and singing the Southern Malrseillaise. "Out with the scullls and give chase!" ejaculated Commodore Head, in a great perspiration. It was found, upon examination, that the sculls had been left on shore, and it was furthler discovered that the Mackerel fleet was aground; otherwise our victory wouldl have been Ino re complete. Withl eyes strained to the utmost we were gazing upon all tlis firol the beacll, when Villiam suddelnly placed a hand upon my arm, and says he: " e ark!" We listened. There was a sound as of a faint human cry, It approached nearer. We could distin- guish words. Nearer and nearer. Then, words now came clear and distinct to our quickened ears. "Extry a-Hter-rr-rr-ald, capture of Vicksburg and sinking of the rebel ram by Commore Head!" Since newspapers have become so plentiful in this once distracted country, my boy, that even the babe   896     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. shews theln upon its minother's lap, the poorest man is enabled to see instantaneously, through a glass As it were, the most distant events--a glass, my boy, which makes things appear much larger at a'distance than they seem to those close by. Yours, admiringly, ORPHEUS C. KERB,   LETTER LIX. INSTANCING THE BENEFICENT DEPORTMENT OF THE VENERABLE GAMMON! AND NOTING THE PERFORMANCE OF A REMARKABLE MORAL DRAMA BY CAPTAIM VILLIAM BROWN. WASHINGTON, D. C., August 2d, 1862. SOME enthusiasm was excited here in the early part of the week, my boy, by thesreturn of the Venerable Gammon from a visit to his aged family at Mugville, whither he goes regularly once a month for the benefit of the sagacious chaps of the press. A great blessing is the Venerable Gammon to the palladium of our lib- erties, my boy; for no sooner does our army cease to change its base of operations, and do other things cal- culated to make the war interesting and lengthy, than he pulls out his ruffles, sighs frequently, and melts v away to Mugville. Then all the sagacious press chaps rush to the telegraph office and flash feverish para- graphs to the intelligent morning journals: "Highly important-Sudden departure of the Venerable Gam- mon for Mugville to attend the death-bed of a relative --Believed in military circles that this indicates a change iu the Cabinet-Border States delegation has again waited on the President-More vigorous policy needed." Whereupon the editors of all the intelligent morning 8   98      ORHPEiUS .C. KERR PAPERS. journals ecstatically print the paaragraphs, affixing to them: i' Note by the Editor. -Washington is a town in the so called District of Columbia-situated on the Potomac. We infer from our correspondent's dispatch that it has not yet been taken by the rebels." Anerican journalism, my boy, in presenting a vast amount of mllatter daily, is eminently calculated to im- press the youthful brain with a keen sense of what a wide distinction there is between Mind and Matter. Immediately on the return of the Venerable Gam- mon, he commenced saying things, which made all the rest of mankind seem like withered children in com- parison with him. He was beaming genially on the throng at Willard's, and lays I to him: ("It would appear, my beloved Pater Patria, that military matters are not quite as interesting as a woman with a headache just now." The Venerable Gammon pitied my youth, and waved his hand fatly by way of a silent blessing to all the world. ': Military affairs," says he, effulgently, " are like metaphysics. Military affairs," says the Venerable Gammon, benignantly, " are like that which we do not understand-they defy our comprehension and com- prehend our defiance." Then all the Congressinen looked at each other, as much as to say the Union was saved at last; and I felt like a babe in the presence of the great Behemoth of the Scriptures. How the Venerable Gamlnon has anything at all to do with this war, I can't find out, my b)oy, but when the affectionate populace learned that the Ven- erable Gammon had rettrlled from Mugville, they   SECOND SERIES.       99 swarmed around his carriage, and entreated him either to spit upon them, or save them from slow decay by a speech. It was then the Venerable man raised his hand in soothing benediction, and says he: 4"My friends, you are young yet. and have lluch to learn concerning war. I can only say to you, my friends, that all goes well with McClellan; and, if you will only hasten to fill up old regiments, raise a few thousand new ones, and go yourselves, the advance upon Richmond may commnence at any time." The most enthusiastic cheering followed this com- forting speech of the Venerable Gammon, and six ec- static chllaps immediately offered to volunteer as major- generals Shall we presume to talk of drafting, my boy, when there is such readiness on the part of the people to lead the troops? I think not, my boy, I think not. Let the draft be protested. On Wednesday I again took a trip to Paris, accom- panied by my frescoed dog, Bologna, and found upon reaching that city that the Mackerel Brigade had built itself a theatre, after the mantler of Drury Lane, and -was about to-partake of the rich intellectual dranma. This chaste temple might possibly be taken for a cow- shed, my boy, by those who are not conversant with architecture in one storv. It occupies a spot which has been rising ground ever since the Mackerels com- oenrced to dig trenches around it, and the front door is so spacious that you have to go all around the build- ing to find where it stops opening. The seats are sim- ilar to those which are supposed to leave been so popu- lar with the Count de Grasse and the stage is exqui-   100     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. sitely extemporized from several flour-barrels, with a curtain created from the flannel petticoats recently be- longing to the wife of the Southern Confederacy. Passing over all intervening events, my boy, let me direct your special attention to the night we celebrated, when I found myself occupying a box (previously used for crackers) in the temple of the Muses, surrounded by uniforms and dazzled by the glitter of the shovels worn by the military celebrities present. In a box (marked "Sperm  Candles-First quality ") on my right, I noticed a number of distinguished persons whom I did not know, and to the left were grouped several celebrated visitors with whom I was not acquainted. The stage itself realized numerous brilliant footlights in the way of bottles containing gorgeous tallow-dips' and when the orchestra brought out his key-bugle and strl;uck up the martial strain- of '"I want to be an A.:lgel," there was a dry eye in the hiouse. (Make a note of this last unparalleled fact, my boy; for you, nor any other mortal man, ever heard of its "currence before.) The curtain having been taken down by a gentleman who had forgotten to wash himself when the wash- stand went round last time, the play commenced; and I found it to be THE UNION AS IT WAS. A HGH  MORAL DRAMA, IN ONE ACK. BY CAPTAIN VILLIAM BROWN, ESKEVIRE. The plot of 'this admirable work is vexr, simple, my boy, and appeals to those sentiments of the human   SECOND SERIES.       101 heart which affect the liver. The scene is laid in Washington, where it has been frequently seen, and the drama opens with a fine CONSERVATIVE CHORUS. Abram, spare the South, Touch not a single slave: Nor e'en by word of mouth, Disturb the thing we crave. 'Twas our forefather's hand That Slavery begot; There, Abram, let it stand Thine Acts shall harm it not. At the conclusion of this spirited National Anthem, the Border States chaps who have been singing it are invited to have another interview with the President, who has only seen them twice the same morning. As they pass out, the celebrated Miss Columbia appears, wrapt in deep thought and the American flag, and reading the twenty-third proclamation for the current month. She asks her heart if she is indeed divorced -if her once happy Union is indeed broken; and as her heart refuses to answer any such common ques- tion, a doubt is allowed to remain iq the bosom of the spectator. In deep agony she kneels at the monu- ment of Washington and softly sings "Hail Colum- bia," while the Southern Confederacy, who his just arrived, proceeds to plant batteries all round her, assisted in the work by reliable contrabands. After some moments spent in prayer for the repose of Secre-     102     ORPHEUS Co, KERR PAPERS. tary Welles, Columbia discovered her surroundings, and is about to make a faint, vhen the spirit of Napo- leon appears, and tells her she has nothing to fear, as he is about to change his base of operations, and take Richmond. He tells her he would have taken it long before but for the Tribune. This is a very fine scene -very fine. The spirit of Napoleon then proceeds to pick up everything .he can find and throw it over to the Southern Confederacy, at the same time swing- ing himself around so that his left fist may be presented to the enemy instead of his right, only pausing long enough to drive back a reliable contraband who has started to desert to him. Matters are progressing ad- mirably, and the Confederacy has- only planted 24 more batteries around Columbia, when the Conserva- tive Chorus comes tearing back to the scene, with the news that the President has determined to pay for all runaway slaves in postage-stamps! This splendid stroke of policy so completely staggers the Confe- deracy, that he only erects thirty-two more batteries, and acknowledges that his back-bone is broken: Strange to say, Columbia still labors under the delu- sion that she is in danger; but is finally re-assured by the spirit of Napoleon, who convinces her that all is going well, and at once draws his shovel and com- mences to dig a hole. Columbia asks: "Wherefore this digging?"To which the response is,: "Our Union in its broken state Is discord to the soul: And therefore are we digging here  To make the Union hole."    SECOND SERIES.       103 The digging proceeds until the spirit of Napoleon is sunk deep into the earth, when the Southern Confe- deracy deliberately steps over the hole and captures Washington, at the same tinge ordering Columbia to black his boots. (Columbia would be utterly bereft of hope at this turn in affairs but for the cheerful con- duct of the Conservative Chorus, who bid her rejoice that the good old times have come again. Columbia then remembers that she did indeed black the boots of the Confederacy in the good old times, and it sud- denly flashes upon her that the Union is, in truth, re- stored--As IT WAS. A' brilliant blue light is thrown upon the scene, and as the curtain falls the Conserva- tive Chorus are seen in the act of taking all the credit to themselves and indignantly refusing to pay tlbeir war taxes. This affecting drama of real life was played en- tirely by gifted Mackerels, my boy, the one who acted Columbia being possessed of a voice as musical as that which sometimes comes from between the teeth of a new saw. When the last round of applause had subsided, and I was leaving the theatre, I came upon the dramatist, Captain Villiam Brown, who appeared to be waiting  to hear what I had to say about his work. Says I to him: ' Well, my versatile Euripides, your play resem- bles the better dramas of Eschylus, inasmuch as it is all Greek to me!' "Ah!' says Villian, hastily assuming the attitude in which Shakspere generally appears in his pictures. "Did I remind you forcibly of the bard of Avon?."   104     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "Yes," says I, kindly; " you might easily be taken for Shakspere--after dark." As I turned to leave him, my boy, I could not help thinking how often the world will call a man a "Sec- ond"So-and-so, long before he has anything like commenced to be first, even. Yours, doubtingly, ORPHEUS C, KERR.   I          LETTER LX. REPORTING THE SECOND REGULAR MEETING OF THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB, AND THE BRITISH MEMBER'S CITATION OF THE ENGLISH POETS. WASHINGTON, D. C., August 5th, 1862. THS is a dull day, my boy; and when there is no longer any sunshine to make steel bayonets and brass buttons glimmer tot the eye, war is stript of half its pomp, and the American mind takes a plain, practi- cal view of the strife. Truth to tell, this secession is a very shabby, unroman- tic thing to fight about. There is really no poetry at all about it, my boy, and when one would rhyme about it, the mantle of poesy refuses to fall upon him, though a bogus sort of Hood may possibly keep him in countenance. The cause of this war is simply this- PER SE. Sepoys-sea-thieves- C. Bonds-see slaves-  See seizures made in every kind .of way; See debts sequestrated- Sea-island frustrated; Segars-'seditionists-and C. S. A.,   106     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Seduced from honor bright- Secluded from serenest Wisdom's light- Sea-pent by ships of war- Selected planters for the world no more; Severely snubbed by all- Secure to fall; Sedately left alone by all who see Seed poisonous sown in sectional retrogression; See-saw diplomacy, sedition foui per se; Sequel-that serio-comic scene-- SECESSION! Speaking of poetry; I attended the meeting of the Cosmopolitan Club on Monday night, and was much electrified by the treautres of British literature unfolded by Smith-Brown. That double-chinned chap brought to view a roll of manuscript, and says he: "Instead of reading a story for your entertainment, gentlemen, I propose to make you acquainted with the war-sentillents of a few of Albion's poet's, as ex- pressed in certain unpublished verses of theirs which have privately come into my possession. "First, let me commend to your attention some amiable rhymes by a bard who knows more about this blarsted country than it knows about hitself': A MISTAKE BY HEAVEN  By Dr. Charles Mack--y. In Heaven's Chancery the Records stand Of men and deeds in each and ev'ry land, And as new rulers rise, or empires fall, Appointed angels make a note of all.   SECOND SERIES.        107 To mark the changes in this world of late There came a Spirit from the Throne of Fate, Instructed closely, to be sure and see Who earth's chief rulers for this year might be. His task accomplished, back the Spirit flew To Heaven's Chancery, as bade to do, And from his vestments took the mystic scroll That named each potentate, from Pole to Pole. Recording Angels glanced it sharply o'er, To note each change from what the Records bore; But found no nations changing potentates Until they came to the United States. "Another President!" the angels sighed, "Another President!" the Fates replied; And straight a pen the Chief Recorder took To write the ruler's name within his book. He wrote-(alas! 'twill hardly be believed The very angels could be so deceived)- He wrote the name that all his sprites might read- Not Abr'am Lincoln; no! but-THURLow WEED. If foreign nations fail to judge your cause In strict accordance with set Christian laws, It is no proof of their intending crimes, Since angels, even, make mistakes at times!   108      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. We were all silent after that, my boy, and says the old British chap: 'The next manuscript expresses the conservative sentiment of Britain's Isle, the measure being pecu- liar and the manner inquiring. Hattention H THE WAR. BY SIDNEY DOBELL. I. Oh, the war, the war, Oh, the war, the war, OH, the war- With pools of gory, dripping grime, And ghastly, beastly, horrible rime, The soldier bloody, stiff and stark- - The cannon thunders, hark! hark! Columbia, how's the war? II. Oh, the blood, the blood, Oh, the blood, the blood, OH, the blood- Curdling, welling, staining the ground, Bubbling from wounds with sick'ning sound; The life gone out in a wind of swords,- Murderers leagued in hordes! hordes I Columbia, how's the blood? "I. Oh, the roar, the roar, Oh, the roar, the roar, OH, the roar--,   SECOND SERIES.         109 Thousands grappling, tearing to death, Fever, madness and hell in a breath; @ Rage, despair, oath and scream- Rivers crimson stream! stream! Columbia, how's the roar? IV. Oh, the blaze, the blaze, Oh, the blaze, the blaze. OH, the blaze, Homes in flames, lighting the storm, Torches for death in a brother's form; Ruin, ravage, ashes and smoke,-- Hopes and heart-strings broke! broke! Columbia, how's the blaze? v. Oh, the groan, the groan, Oh, the groan, the groan, OH., the groan- Mothers sonless, homeless and old, Sisters brotherless, lone and cold, Children starving, wailing for bread,-- Fathers and brothers dead! dead! i Columbia, how's the groan? VOh, the we, the woe, Oh, the woe, the woe, Oh, the woe, the woe, OH, the woe, Cities famishing, villages still, Blood in the valley and fire on the hill;   "O      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. Horror, havoc, curses and tears,-- Dark desolation for years I years! Columbia, how's the woe? 'VII, Oh, the end, the end, Oh, the end, the end, OH, the end, Griefs and graves at every hearth, Heaven offended, outraged Earth: Prayers for vengeance from ev'ry tomb- Borne to the living a doom! doom! Columbia, how's the end? Here Bonbon, the French chap, struck in, and says he: "Oh, the ass, the ass, Oh, the ass, the ass, OH the ass--" "Silence, Napoleon!" says the British chap, " and r-r-remember Waterloo!  The next metrical gemn," says he,- " illustrates the deeper profundity of British thought, and conveys a moral lesson of the deepest significance to babes and sucklings. Hern!"- COLUMBIA'S AGONY. BY MARTIN FARdHR TUP  -R. I hold it good-as who shall hold it bad? To lave Columbia in the boiling tears I shed for Freedom when my soul is sad, And having shed proceed shed again: For human sadness sad to all appears, And tears men sometimes shed are shed by men.   SECOND SEtRIES.        1l The normal nation lives until it dies, As men may die when they have ceased to live; But when abnormal, by a foe's surprise, It may not reach its first-appointed goal; For what we have not is not ours to give, And if we miss it all we miss the whole. Columbia, young, a giant baby born, Aimed at a manhood ere the child had been, And slipping downward in a strut forlorn, Learns, to its sorrow, what 'tis good to know, That babes who walk too soon, too soon begin To walk in this dark vale of life below. When first the State of Charleston did secede, And Morrill's tariff was declared repealed, The soul of Freedom everywhere did bleed For that which, having seen, it sadly saw; So true it is, deat.,-zounds are never healed, And 4aw defied is not unquestioned law. The mother-poet, England, sadly viewed The strife unnatural across the wave, And with maternal tenderness renewed Her sweet assurances of neutral love; A mother's love may not its offspring save; But mother's love is still a mother's love. Learn thou, Columbia, in thine agony, That England loves thee, with a love as deep As my "Proverbial Philosophy " lHas won for me from her approving breast; The love that never slumbers cannot sleep, And all for highest good is for the best.   "2      ORPrHEUS 0. KEER PAPERS. Thy Freedom fattens on the work of slaves, Her Grace of Sutherland informeth me; And all thy South Amboy is full of graves, Where tortured bondmen snatch a dread repose; Learn, then, the race enslaved is neverfree, And in thy woes incurred, behold thy woes. Thy pride is humbled, humbled is thy pride, And now misfortunes come upon thee, thick With dark reproaches for the right defied, And cloud thy banner in a dim eclipse; Sic transit gloria gloria transic sic, The mouth that speaketh useth its own lips. Thus speeds the world, and thus our planet -speeds; What is, must be; and what can't be, is not; Our acts unwise are not our wisest deeds, And what we do is what ourselves have done; Mistakes remembered are notfaultsforgot, And we must wait for day to see the sun. I looked up at Smith-Brown, my boy, and says I: "What does he mean by the ' State of Charleston,' my fat friend?" "Why," says he, "' that's a poetic license, or Amer- ican geography diluted by the Atlantic. And here we have something by the gifted hauthor of ' Locks- ley Hall,' which it is somewhat in that vein:   SECOND SERmES.         13 AMERICA. BY ALFRED TEN   N. WESTWARD, westward flies the eagle, westward with the set- ting sun, To an eyrie growing golden in a morning just begun; Where the world is new in promise of a virgin nation's love. And the grand results of ages germs of nobler ages prove; Where a prophecy of greatness runs through all the soul of youth, And the miracle of Freedom blesses in a living truth; Where the centuries unnumbered narrow to a single night, And their trophies are but planets wheeling round a central light. Where the headlands breast the Ocean sweeping round crea- tion's East, And the prairies roll in blossoms to the Ocean of the West; Where the voices of the seas are blended o'er a nation's birth, In the harmony of Nature's hymn to Liberty on earth. Land of Promise! Revelation of a loyalty that springs From a grander depth of purple than the heritage of kings- From the inner purple cherished at the thrones of lives sub. lime, Cast in glorious consecration 'neath the plough of Father Time- Home of Freedom, hope of millions born and slain and yet to be, Shall the spirit of the bondless, caught from heaven, fail in thee?   "4l      ORPHEUS C0 KERR PAPERS., Shall the watching world behold thee falling from thy starry height? Like a meteor, in thine ending leaving only darker night? Oh! my kinsmen, Oh! my brothers-fellow-heirs of Saxon hearts, Lo the Eagle quits his eyrie swifter than a swallow darts, And the lurid flame of battle burns within his angry eye, Glowing like a living ember cast in vengeance from the sky. At thy hearth a foe has risen, fiercer yet to burn and kill, That he was thy chosen brother--friend no more, but broth- er still; For the bitter tide of hatred deeper runs and fiercer grows, As the pleading voice of Nature addeth self-reproach to blows. Strike! and in the ghastly horrors of a fratricidal war, Learn the folly of your wanderings from the guiding North- ern Star; What were all your gains and glories, to creation's fatal loss, When ye crucified your Freedom on the cruel Southern Cross? Oh! my brothers narrow-sighted-Oh! my brothers slow to hear What the phantoms of the fallen ever whisper in-the ear; God is just, and from the ruins of the temple rent in twain Rises up the invocation of a warning breathed in vain. All thy pillars reel around thee from the fury of the blow, And the fires upon thine altars fade and flicker to and fro;   SECOND SERIES.  Call the vigor of thy manhood into arms from head to foot, Strike!- and in thy strife with error let the blow be at the root. So thy war shall wear the glory of a purpose to refine From the dross of early folly all the honor that is thine; So thine arms shall gather friendship to the standard of a cause Blending in its grand approval British hearts and British laws. Form thy heroes into armies from  the mart and from the field, And their ranks shall stretch around thee in a bristling, liv- ing shield; Take the loyal beggar's offer; for the war whose cause is just Breathes the soul of noblest daring into forms of meanest dust. Let thy daughters wreathe their chaplets for the foreheads of the brave, Let thy daughters trace their lineage from the patriot's honored grave; Woman's love is built the strongest when it rests on woman's pride, Better be a soldier's widow than a meek civilian's bride. Onward let thine Eagles lead thee, where the livid Southern sun Courts the incense for the heavens of a righteous battle won; And the bright Potomac, winding through the fields unto the sea Shall no longer mark the libel-what is bond and  what is free.   "6      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. Rising from the fierce ordeal washed in blood and purified, See the future 'stretch before thee, limitless on every side; And in all the deep'ning envy of the nations wed to sloth, Mark the record of thy progress, see the mirror of thy growth. Rising from thy purifying, like a giant from his rest, Thou shalt find thy praise an echo from the East unto the West;  Thou shalt find thy love a message from the South unto the North, Each its past mistake of duty finding out and casting forth. And thy States in new communion, by the blood they all have shed, Shall be wedded to each other in the pardon of the dead; Each, a scale of steel to cover vital part from foreign wrong, All, a coat of armor guarding that to which they All belong. Thou shalt measure seas with navies, span the earth with iron rails, Catch the dawn upon thy banner and the sunset on thy sails; Northern halls of ice shall echo to thy sailor's merry note, And the standard of thy soldier on the Southern isle shall float. Turning to thy mother, England, thou shalt find her making boast Of the Great Republic westward, born of strength that she has lost; And thy Saxon blood shall join ye, never to be torn apart, Moving onward to the future, hand in hand and heart to heart.   SECOND SERIES.      117 At the conclusion of this last reading, my boy, we separated. When we are "heart to heart " with England, my boy, the heart that is underneath may possibly have ceased to beat. Yours, to beat, or not to beat, ORPHEUS C. KEERB.          ,     s   LETTER LXI. PORTRAYING A- SOCIAL EFFECT OF THE POSTAGE-STAMP CURRENCY, ti      DESCRIBING THE GREAT WAR MEETING IN -ACCOMAC, RECORDING a       THE LATEST EXPLOIT OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE; AND INTRODUC- ING A DRAFTING ITEM. -'           WWASmNGTON, D. C., August 9th, 1862. If tired Nature's sweet restorer, balmy Sleep, should ever take it into her head to invade our distracted country, she would meet with less resistance in Wash- ington than it is possible for' the able-bodied mind to comprehend. Notwithstanding the fact that Presi- dent Lincoln is an honest man, my boy, the genius of Slumber has opened a large wholesale establishment here, and the tendency to repose is so general that the authorities are just able to wink at secession sym- phatliizers. It takes so long to ge t the news of the war from New York, that our citizens grow languid in the intervals. On Monday, indeed, an enterprising chap from Nantucket opened a  tMuseum on the out- skirts of the town, by way of varying the monotony, and quite a numerous crowd assembled to witness the performance. This Museum   comprises a real two shilling piece, inclosed in a strong glass case, to pre- serve it from the violence of the mob, and even respectable old married men go to see it, for the sake of past associations. On the occasion ,f nly visit tc(   SECOND SERIES.       119 this unique establishment I arrived shortly before the exhibition began, and found a brilliant array ot beauty and fashion for an audience. It was quite interesting, my boy, to hear the conversation going on. There was a fine young chap just in front of, me who has recently been appointed to the staff of the Commander-in-Chief in consequence of his great expe- rience in the coal business, and says he to another Lubin's Extracts chap: "Fwedwick, who is that wavishing creatchah ovah they-ar, with the Peach-Orchard eyes and Lehigh hair?" "Aw, dimmy," says Lubin's Extracts., "that's the great heiress. She's worth eighty thousand postage- stamllps." "The wed kind?" says the young staff-chap, eagerly --( is it the sticky wed kind, Fwed?' "No," says Lubin's Extracts, scornfully ; "it's the green ten cent kind." "Intwojoose me," says the staff-chap, excitedly- ' intwojoose me, Fwed; I must know her-upon my soul I must."  Upon his soul, my boy-he said upon his soul  When it is possible for an introduction to take place upon such a soul as that, my boy, it will be compara- tively able to manceuvre an elephant brigade on the extreme point of an infant needle. When the manager of the Museum came out to lec- ture upon hs great natural curiosity, there was immee diate silence; and when the case was uncovered, re- vealing the quarter to fall view, several very old gen.   120     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. tlemen fainted! Alas! they remembered the time when-but no matter now-no matter now. "Ladies and gentlemen," says the manager, point- ing solemnly to his treasure, "the rare and beautiful coin which you now behold was well known to our forefathers, who stamped the figure of Liberty upon it, in order to show the world that this is the only country where man is at Liberty to deal in slaves by. way of financial speculation. This rare coin disap- peared as soon as the Liberty I speak of seemed to be endangered, nor will it reappear in this country again while- there are so many brokers ahead." On quitting this admirable exhibition, my boy, I did not return to this city, but went immediately down to Accomac, to attend the great Union meeting. Acco- mac, my boy, has at leingth determined that this war shall be vigorously carried on, even if it takes several public speakers to say so; and the conduct of Acco- mac, in calling a meeting for such a purpose, reminds me of a chap in the Sixth Ward. Ite was a respectable family chap, who had formed a partnership with all his neighbors for the express purpose of taking entire and exclusive charge of their business for them, and evinced such a deep interest in the most private affairs of his friends, that absence did not conquer their love for him. One Sunday there was a city missionary at the church lie attended, who implored the aid and prayers of the congregation in behalf of a poor but pious family, who were starving to death around the corner. "I Hev any tracts been left with our suffering frens?" says the respectable chap, rising in his pew and pinching his benevolent   SECOND SERI:ES.      121 chn thotughtfully. ," Yes, says the missionary, sadly, w' wre sent themin some tracts on the immortality of the soul; but;, horrible to relate, they gaiped no flesh by them." The respectable chap, who was a baker by profession, was much moved by this revelation of human depravity, and says he to a bald-headed chap in the next pew: "Brother Jones, you must attend to this sad case in the morning. We mitst remember our fellow-beings in affliction, Brother Jones. Early to- morrow you must take some bread to this suffering family.  If you have no bread of your own, Brother Jones," says the respectable chlap, feelingly, , come to my shop atnd H-I  ill sell y,n some for this charita- ble purpose."  But Brother Jones proved to be a grievous backslider, my boy, and said he had an engagement to go to Hoboken on the morning in question. "Very well," says the respectable chap, when he heard this, " then I will arrange it in another way v Tell our starving brothers and sisters to have faith, says he to the missionary, in a heartfelt man- ner, " and  they shall be fed, even as the ravings fed my old friend Elijah." So, the next day he called a meeting of brethren to pray that food might be sent to the suffering ones, and they used up the entire En- glish language in prayer to such an extent, that when the respectable chap topped off with Ca benediction, he had to introduce some  Latin quotations. Thev had just finished this noble work of Christian benevolence, when the missionary came  tearing in, and says he: "It's all over; they're all dead ; the laat child stal ved t{o deritlh half an hour ago." The respectable chap stared at him aghast, and says he: '"Did you tell them to 6   122     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. have faith ." The missionary cracked a peanut, and says he "Verily, I did; but they said they couldn't have faith on empty stomachs." The respectable chap pondered a while, and says he: "If they didn't have faith, my frens, the whole matter is explained. We, at least, have done our duty. We have prayed for them, frens-we have prayed for them." And the brethren went homne to their dinners.       ! Public mass meetings, my boy, to help a struggling country, are like prayer-meetings to aid the starving - poor; the intention is good, but the practical benefit resulting therefrom is not visible to the naked eye. There was a large meeting at Accomnac, several new liquor-shops having been opened there recently,'and the speakers were as eloquent as it is possible for men to be when advising other men to do what they don't care to-do themselves. A chap of large abdomlinal developments was specially fervid. Says he : "Let us show to them as is tyrants and reveling in the agonies. of down-trodden Europe, that this Republic is able to pult down all enemies whatsomever, without inter- fering with any of the inalienable rights of those wlho, though our enemies, are still our long-lost brothers. (Frantic applause.) Shall it be said that twenty-two millions of people cannot put down eight millions without injuring those eight millions? (Shrieks of approbation, and cries of "That's so!") No! a thou- sand times no! We fight, not to injure the South; nlot to interfere with them, which is our own flesh and blood, but to sustain the Constitution rendered sacred by Revolutionary gore! (Overwhelming enthusiasm.) The creatures which is trying to break up this here -    SECOND SERIES.       123 beneficent Government, ask us what we are fighlting for, then? Gracious llevings! what a question is this i Do they not know what we are fighting for--that in this unhappy struggle we-that our purpose, I would say, in prosecuting hostilities is to--is to-DO IT? Of-course it is." This speech, short, terse, and to the purpose, was gloriously received by everybody, except a friendless chap, who said lie didn't understand the last clause; and he was immediately sent to jail for daring to be so traitorously obtuse. Though the General of the Mackerel Brigade was seated upon the highest barrel on the platform, mny boy, ,.nd blew his nose louder than any one else, lie did not wish to be seen, nor did lbe intend that the asscin- blage should call upon him for the speech sticking out of his side-pocket; but when the throng accidentally found him to be the most prominent figure in silht, they thoughtlessly, called upon him to say sometihing. The General laid aside his fan with some embarrass ment, and says lie: "My children, I love you. My children," says the General, motioning to his aid to fill the tumbler again, I  daresay you expect me to say something, and though I am unprepared to speak, there is one thing I will say. If anything goes wrong in this war, nobody is to blame,  as I  alone am responsible. Bless you, an y  children." '     I As the idol of the populace finished these touching rernarks, and resumed  lis tumbler and fat), there was but one sentiment in the whole of that vast assemn- blage, and a  democratic chap imlmediately went and    f     124     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. telegraphed to Syracuse that the prospect for a Demo. cratic President in 1S65, was beautiful. The meetielg mligllt have lasted another week, my boy, thereby rendering tile Union cause utterly invin- cible, but for the imprudence of an insane chap who proposed tlat some of the young metn present should enlist. This malapropos and singularly inconsistent suggestion broke up thle assemblage e at once, in great disorder-volunteering being just the last thing that any one thought of doing. Gre-atly edified and en- couraged by wrlat I lbad hear1d, my boy, I made all haste for Paris, wlelre I found the Mackerel Brigade and Commodore Head's fleet in great excitement over the case of an Irish gentleinan who believed this to be a white man's war, and had sta ted for Paris, just fourteen mninutes after landing in tlhis country, for the express putpose of protesting against :tny labor being performled by negroes, while there were wliite men to do it. Colonel Wobert Wobinsoll, of the Anatomical Cavalry, quieted him by saying tllat, although a num- ber of negroes were then engaged in diggin, -trenches, a new line of holes in a far more unhealthy place would be commenced in the morning, awid that none but Irishmen should be permitted to dig them. On the night previous to my arrival, my boy, while all the Mackerels were watching the stars with a view to prevent any surprise from that quarter, the South- ern Confederacy on the other side of Duck Lake trained four large fowling-pieces upon their peaceful camp from behind a wood-pile, and commenced a ferocious and ear-splitting bombardment. It was some hours before our men could be got into position to return the  SECOND SERIES.       125 fire, as Captain Bob Shorty hlad forgotten whlere they had put the Orange County ITowitzers when last using them. The fleet, too, was somewhat delayed in gettilg into action, as Commodore IIead experienced some dif- ficlty in unlocking the box into which lie always puts his spectacles and slow-match before retiring at night. Finally, however, thie howitzers were discovered behind some boards, and the spectacles and slow- match were forthconing, and our troops were pouring a hot fire across Duck Lake before thle Confederacy had got two-thirds of the way back to Richmond. Next morning, my boy, the Conic Section crossed the Lake, and cleared away everything on tile opposite shore except the- before-mentioned wood-pile. The latter contains the same kind of wood that'was bmrnecd in the time of Washington, my boy, and twenty men were appointed to guard it from the profanation of our troops, We must protect such property at all hazards, my boy, or the Constitution becomes a nul- lity. Having criossed the treacherous element to view the immediate scene of these proceedings, and learned from Captain Villiam Brown that our pickets were within ten miles of the Confederacy's capital, I was about to make some short remark, when a messenger came riding forward in a great perspiration, and says he; "Our pickets lave been driven 'n." "Ha!" says Yilliam, " is the Confederacy again ad vancing upon the United States of America ?" "Our pickets," says the messenger, impressively  126     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. "have been driven in; they have been driven into  Richmond." Alh!" says Villiam, pleasantly, " then send out some more pickets." I strolled away from. the pair, my boy, reflecting -upon the possibility of enough Mackerel pickets reach- ing Richmond in this way to make the Union senti- ment there stronger th :n ever, and was looking list- lessly to my footing, when I chanced to espy a paper on the ground. Picking it up, I found it to be a note from the wife of the Southern Confederacy to her cousin, dropped, probably by one of the Confederacies of the wood-pile. It bore the date of April the First, and read as follows: "DEAR JULEYER:--I have just space of time to write you these few lines, hoping that these few litnes will find you the same, and in the enjoyment of the same blessing. O my unhappy country! how art thou suf- fering at this present writing! I have not had a sin- gle new bonnet for two weeks, my beloved Juleyer, and my Solfering gloves are already discolored by the perspiration I have shed when thinking of my poor, dear South. My husband, the distinguished Southern Confederacy, is so reduced by trials, that he is a mere skeleton skirt. Oh, my Juleyer, how long is this to continue? Ere another century shall have passed away, the Yankees will have approached nearer Charleston and Savannah, and the blockade become almost effective. Since the Mackerel Brigade has changed its base of operations, even Richmond seems doomed to fall in less than fifty years. Everything ,   SECOND SERIES.       127 looks dark. Tell me the price of dotted muslin, for undersleeves, when you write again, and believe me, Your respected cousin, "MRS. S. O." There's only one thing about this letter bothers me, and that's the date, my boy--the date. When very near this city, on my return home, I met a chap, weighing about two hundred and twenty-five pounds, who was on his way to a lawyer's to get his exemption from the draft duly filed. "See here, my patriotic invalid," says I, skeptically, "how do you come to be exempt?" "I am' exempt," says he, in a proudly melancholy manner, "because I -am suffering from a broken heart." "Hem," says I. "It's true," says he, sniffling dismally. "I asked the female of my heart to have me. She said I hadn't enough postage-stamps to suit her ideas of personal revenue, and she didn't care to do my washing. That was enough: my heart is broken, and I am not an able-bodied man."      Drafting, my boy, is of a nature to develop the seeds of disease in the hitherto healthy human system -seeds which, if suffered to fructify, will be likely to ,ultimate in what gentlemen of burglarious accom- plishments would chastely and botanically denominate a very large-sized " plant." Yours, seriously, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   t "- L TTER LXIL               i CONTAINING FRESH TRIBUTES OF ADMRATION TO THE DEVOTED WOMEN OF AMERICA, AND DEVELOPING THE GREAT COLONIZATION SCHEME OF THE GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE FOR THE . BENEFIT OF THE BLACK RACE. WASHINGTON, D. C., August 15th, 1862. Once more, my boy, this affectionate heart would render tribute of gushing admiration to the large souled women of America, who are again commencing    i to luxuriate and comfort our majestic troops witlh gifts almost as useful to a soldier as a fishing-pole would be to the hilarious Arab of Sahara. As I ambled airily near Fort Corcoran on Monday, my boy, mounted on nmy gothic steed Pegasus, and followed by the frescoed dog Bologna, after the manner of the British nobility, I chanced upon a veteran of the Mackerel Brigade, who had come up from Paris on one of those leaves- of absence which grow from the tree styled Sycamore. He was seated under a wayside oak, examining some    i articles that had recently come to him in a package; now and then addressing his eyes in the more earnest language of the Sixth Ward. Having reined-in my spirited architectural animal, and merely pausing to administer a crumb of cracker from my pocket to a hapless blue-bottle fly which had   SECOND SERIES. "      129 rashy alighted from the backbone of the charger, and was there stalving ito death, I saluted the Mackerel veteran, and, says I: "Comrade, wherefore do you select this solitary place to use language only fitting a brigadier when he is speaking to an inferior officer, or a high-toned con- servative when referring to negroes, Wendell Phillips, and the republican parlty s?" The veteran Mackerel signed deeply, as he spread open the package to fill view, my boy, and says he, respectfully : "Are you a married man, my cove?" "No," says I, with a feeling of mingled insignificance and financial complacency, "I never paid a milliner's bill in my life." "Neither did I," said the veteran, with a gleam of satisfaction, " neither did I; I always has them charged to me; but still I am the wedded pardner of one which is a woman. I have loved her," says the vete- ran passionately, "I have loved her better than I loved number Three's masheen, with which I was brought up, and that seemed to me like my own bro- ther. I have stayed home from at fire more than once to go to church with her; and the last words I said to her when I come here was: ' Old woman! if Six's foreman comes here after that wrench, while I'm away, tell him I'll break that nose of Ihis when I come back!' We was all confidence together," says the veteran, smiting his-chest, madly ; ; and I never threw a brick that I didn't tell her of it, and now she's gone and sent me a copy of the Temperance Pledge, a pair of skates, two bottles of toothache drops, and six 6*   130 -    ORPHEiUS o. KERR PAPERS. sheets of patent fly-paper. I really believe," says the veteran, bitterly-- I really believe that she thinks I ain't got nothing to- do here but to keep house and take care of an aged grandmother."  At the conclusion of this unnatural speech, my boy, I hastily trotted away upon my architectural steed; for I had not patience enough to talk longer with one I whose whole nature seemed so utterly incapable of   X appreciating those beautiful little attentions which woman's tender heart induces her to bestow upon the   - beloved object. Since the last time I was sick, my boy, I hlave entertained a positive veneration for the won- i derfiul foresight of that blessed sex, whose eyes remind me of pearl buttons. At that period, when the doe-   I tors had given me up, and nothing but their absence seemed capable of saving my life, one of the prevalent women of America heard of my critical condition,     and, by her deep knowledge of human nature, was enabled to rescue me. She sent me a bottle of stuff, my boy, saying, in a note of venerable tone, that it had cured her of chapped hands several times, and she i hloped it might break my fever. With a thankful, con- i fident heart, I threw the bottle out of the window, my boy, and got well in less than three months. The other day, I went down to Accomac- again, to see the General of the Makerel Brigade, who had invited me to be present while he made an offer of bliss to a delegation from that oppressed race which has been the sole cause of this unnatural war, and is, therefore, exempted from all concern in it. The General, my boy, was seated in his temporary room of audience when I arrived, examining a map of   SECOND SRTRTE.       131 the Border States through a powerful magnifying-glass, and occasionally looking into a tumbler, as though he expected to find something there. "Well, old Honesty,-' says I, affably, " what is our next scheme for the benefit of the human race?" He smiled paternally upon nle, and says he: "It is my purpose to settle the Negro Question in accordance with the principles laid down in the Book of Exodus. Thunder!" says the General, with magis- terial emphasis, "if we do not secure the pursuit of happiness to the slave, even, we violate the Consti- tution and become obnoxious to the Border commu- nities " I was reflecting upon this remark, my boy, and won- dering what the Constitution had to do with the Book of Exodus; wlden the delegation made its appearance, and caused the room to darken perceptibly. Not to lose time, the General waved his hand for the visitors to be seated, and, says hie: "You and we are different races, and for this reason it must be evident to) you, as well as to myself, that it is better you should be voluntarily compelled to colon- ize somne distant but salubrious shore. There is a wide difference between ouIr races; much wider, perhaps, than that which exists between any other two races. Your race suffers very greatly, and our race suffers in suffering your race to suffer. In a word, we bIoth sulf- fer, which establishes a reason why our race should not suffer your race to remain here any longer. You who are here are all present, I suppose." A voice-"Yes, sah." "Perhaps you have not been here all your lives.   132     ORPE[US C. KERR PAPERS.           Your race is suffering the greatest wrong that ever  was; but when you cease to suffer, your sufferings are still far from an equality with our sufferings. Our white men are now changing their base of operations daily, and often taking Malvern Hills. This is on  -! your account. You are the cause of it. tHow you      have caused it I will not attempt to explain, for I do not know ; but it is better for us both to be separated, and it is vilely selfish in you (I do not speak unkindly) to wish to remain here in preference to going to Nova Zembla. The fact that we have always oppressed )you renders you still more blameable, especially when we reflect upon the fact that you hlave never shown resist. ance. A trip on your part to Nova Zembla will bene- fit both races. I cannot promise you much bliss right away. You may starve at first, or die on the passage ; but in the Revolutionary War General Washington lived exclusively on the future. He was benefit. ting his race; and though I do not see much simila- rity between his case and yours, you had better go to Nova Zembla. You may think that you could live in Washington, perhaps more so than you could on a foreign shore. This is a mistake. None but white arrmkv contractors and brigadiers on fllurlough ican live here. The festive isle of Nova Zembla has been in existence for some time, and is larger than any smaller place I know of. Many of the original settlers have died, and their offspring would still be. living had theylived long enough to become accustomed to the climate. You may object to go on accoutnt of your affection for our race, but it does not strike me that there is any cogent   SECOND SERIES.      133 reasons fol' such affection. So you had better go to Nova Zembla. The particular place I have in view for your colonization is the great hghway between the North Pole and Sir John Franklin's supposed grave. It is a popular route of travel, being much frequented by the, facetious penguin and the flowing seal. It has great resources for ice-water, and you will be able to 1have ice cream every day, provided you supply your- selves with the essence of lernon and patent freezers. As to other food, I can promise you nothing. There are fine harbors on all sides of this place, and though you may see no ships there, it will be still some satis- faction to know that yolu lave such admirable harbors. Again, there is evidence of very rich bear-hunting. When you take your wives and families to a place where there is no food, nor any ground to be cultivated, nor any place to live in, then the hunman mind would as naturally turn to bear-hunting as to anything else. But if you should die of starvation at the outset, even bear-hunting may dwindle into insignificance. Why attach so much inportance to bear-hunting is, it 'will afford you an opportunity to die more easily than by famine and exposure. Bear-hunting is the best thing I know of under such circumstances. Youl are intelligent, and know that human life de- f pends as much upon those who possess it as upon any- body else. And much will depend upon yourselves if you go to Nova Zembla. As to the blear-hunting, I think I see the means available for engaging you in that very soon without injury to ourselves. I wish to spend a little money to get you there, and may possibly    131. ORPHEUS C. -KERR PAPERS. lose it all; but we cannot expect to succeed in anything if we are not successful in it. The political affairs of Nova Zembla are not in quite such a condition as I could wish, the bears having oceasional fights there, over the body of the last Es- quimnaux governor; but these bears are more generous than we are. They have n6 objection to dining upon the colored race. Besides, I would endeavor to have you made equals, and have the best assurance that you should be equals of the best. The -practical thing I want to ascertain is, whether I can get a certain number of able-bodied men to send to a place offering such encouragement and attractions. Could I get a hundred tolerably intelli- gent men, with their wives and children, to partake of all this bliss? Can I have fifty? If I had twenty-five able-bodied men, properly seasoned with women and children, I could make a comlnencernent. These are subjects of very g-eat importance, and worthy of a month's study of the paternal offer I have made you. If you have no consideration for your- selves, at least consider the bears, and endeavor to re- concile yourselves to the beautiful and pleasing little hymn of childhood, commencing: "I would not live always; I ask not to stay." At the termination of this flattering and paternal address, my boy, the delegation took their hats and commenced to leave in very deep silence; thereby proving that persons of African descent are utterly   SECOND SICRIES.      135 e  insensible of kindness -and munch inferior to the race at present practising strategy one this continent. Colonization, my boy, involves a scheme of human happiness so entirely beyond the human power of conception, that the conception of it will almost pass for something inhuman. Yours, utopianically, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LXiU I GIVING A FAMLIAR ZOOLOGICAL ILLUSTRATION OF THE as SITUATIONA AND CELEBRATING THE BRILLIANT STRATEGICAL EVACUETION OF PARTS BY THE MACKEREL BRIGADE. - ASHNGTON, D. C., August 22, 18 2. ON Monday morn, my boy, whilst I was pulling on a pair of new boots that have some music in their soles, there arose near my room dool a sound as of one in dire agony, closely followed by a variously- undulated moan, as of some deserted woman in dis- tress. Hastily discontinuing my toilet, and darting to the threshold, I beheld one of those scenes of civil war which impress the sensitive soul with horror and meet the just reprobation of feeling Albion. 'Rampant between two marlrow-bones, my boy, was, my frescoed dog, Bologna, eyeing, with horrid fiery, Sergeant O'Pake's canine friend, known as Jacob Barker, and ever and anon uttering sentences of super- natural wrath. Tl'o these the excited Barlker/ responded in deep bass of great compass, his nose curling with undisguised disdain, and his eyes assimilating to that insidious and fiery squint which betokens inexpressi- ble malignity. There was something not of earth, my boy, in the frescoed Bologna's distortion of cotnten- ance as he attempted to keep an eye on each bone,   SECOND SERIE'S.      137 and at the same time look full in the face of his foe; and there was that in the sounds of his strain which betokened Sirius indecision. As I gazed upon these two infuriated wonders of natural history, my boy, and recognized the fact that that the existence of two bones in contention pre- vented an actual battle, because neither combatant was willing to lose sight of either of them ; whilst the presence of but one bone would have simplified the matter, and precipitated a decisive conflict, I could not but think that I saw symbolized before me the situation of our distracted country. The United States of .\merica, my boy, and the well-known Southern Confederacy, are like two iras- cible terriers practising defiant strategy between two bones, the one being the festive negro-question, and the other the Union. Now it seems to me, my boy- it seems to mne, that if the gay animal with U. S. on his collar would only dispose of the bone nearest him without further vocalism, there would be a better chance for him-to secure the other bone in the combat sure to come. Dogs, my boy, and men, are very much alike in their hlostile meetings, neither seeming to know just exactly which is truly their qmxgngtwh bonurm. Ascending the roof of my architectural steed, Pe-- gasns, on Tuesday, I induced the gothic (animnal to adopt a pace sometimes affected by the fleet tortoise, and went down to Acecomac in pursuit of knowledge respecting recruiting. Jlst before reaching that Ar- cadian locality, my boy, I met Colonel Wobesrt Wobin- son, of the Western Cavalry, who had been down I   138     ORPHEUS c, KERR PAPERS. there to induce volunteering and infuse fresh confi- dence into the masses. He offered a bounty of two hundred dollars; three dollars to be paid immediately, and the rest as soon as the war commences in ear- nest; and promised to each man a horse physically incapacited from running away from anything. "Well, my bold dragoon," says I, cordially, noti- cing that Pegasus had already fallen into a peaceful doze, "how go enlistments 2" The colonel waved away an abstracted crow that was hovering in deep reverie over my charger's brow, and says he: "I have enlisted all the people of Acco- mac." "I want to know," says I, Bostonianly. "Yes," says he, "I called a meeting,-and succeeded in enlisting all--their sympathies." As I gazed upon the equestrian warrior, my boy, methought I saw the youngest offspring of a wink trembling in a corner of his right eye, and I felt that the world renowned Snyder was at that moment labor- ing under a heavy incubus. Such is life. The state of health in A( comac indicates that the demon of disease is abroad in the land, looking chiefly for his victims among those between the tender ages of eighteen and forty-five. Instead of having a sling in his hand, like the young warrior I)avid, each young man I met had his hand in a sling, whilst the dexter leg of more than one able-bodied patriot suggested tlhe juvenile prayer of ' Now I lame me, down to slip." And there were the women of America fairly crying in terror of the draft, instead of bearing them- selves like the Spalrtan ribs of old.   S ECOND SERIES.      189 Alas! my boy, why cannot our people realize, that a nation, like a cooking-stove, cannot keep up a steady fire without a good draft. We need men for the crisis, and we ornly find cry sisses for the men. I could not stay here, so I hastened on to Paris, where a great strategic movement was about to sup- ply all the world with fresh recollections of the late Napoleon. I sa  Napol eonapoleon, my boy, becauseour Napoleoin is apt to be belhind time. As far back as I can remember, I have been fully aware that this movement was about to take place, but would not, like too mahy other correspondents, betray the confidence reposed in me. This bosom, my boy, this manly and truthful bosom, is about the right shop for confidence. Nor is it like the bosoms of those who can truthfully say that they never give important in- - formation to the enemy, though every body knows thatthiey sell it. On arriving in Paris, I saw at once that preparations for outgeneraling the deceived Confederacy had already commenced; for the down-trodden General of the Mackerel Brigade had assembled the reliable contra- bands whom he had uneed for some weeks past, and was taking leave of them in a heart-felt manner. Mounted on a small keg, from-the bung hole of which came the aroma of pleasant rye fields, the Gen eral softly wiped his lips, and says he: "Being members of a race which we regard as a speshees of monkeys, ily black children, the fact that this is a white man's war will prevent your taking part in the entirely different race about to come off. After the manner of Andrew Jackson at New Orleans, I   "O     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. have called upon yon to do something for your adopted country; but as my friend Andrew was particular to make his proclamation read 'free negroes,' there can be no parallel between the two cases further. There- fore, return to your masters, my children, and tell them that the United States of America wars not against them rights of which you are a part. Go! And remember, that as Gradual Emancipation is about to come off, you will soon know the juicy richness of be- ing free to visit all parts of the world, except those not included in the pleasing map of Nova Zembla." The contrabands departed, my boy, in blissful pro- cession, ani many of them are undoubtedly lsappy enough now. Happier, my boy, than they could hope to be if suffered to remain in this conservative and constitutional world. While the Mackerels were coming out of their holes, and polishing their shovels for the march, I observed that the general walked thoughtfully to his tent, in deep silence. I found Captain Villialn Brown expel- ling two reporters from the lines, lest they should pre- maturely divulge the movement then going on tothe Confederacy seated on an adjacent fence, arid says I to him: "Tell me, my fiery warrior, wherefore is it that the chieftain seeks his solitary tent ." "Ah!" says Villiam, reverently, " it is to pray for the cause of liberty and the rights of man, after the manner of George Washington, Mount Vernon, Vir ginia. Come with me, my cherub," says Villiam piously, " and you shall see martial greatness in a touching aspeck."   SECOND SIELUIES.      141 We went softly to the tent together, my boy, and there beheld the beloved general of the Mackerel Bri- gade, with his face devoutly upturned. His f'ace was devoutly upturned, my boy; but we could see some- thingt intervening between his countenance and the sky, and discovered, upon closer inspection, that it was a tumbler. Can it be, my boy, that this good man thought that Heaven, like any distant earthly object, could be broughtnearer by looking toward it through a glass? Here is food for thought, iny boy-here is food for thought. And now, Commodore Head having fished his iron- clad fleet from the tempestuous bosom of Duck Lake, and everything being in readiness-the inarch of the Mackerel Brigade commenced, with a silence so in- tense that we could distinctly hear all that anybody said. First, came a delegation of political chaps from the Sixth Ward, conversing with each other on the state of the country, and considerillng eight hundred and forty excellent plans for saving t le Union, and getting up a straight-out ticket. Then appeared the well-known promenade band of the Mackerel Brigade, executing divers pleasant mor- ce(tsrX on his night-key bugle, an occasional stuumble over a stone giving the airs a happy variety of sudden obliga'ti inmprovetnents. Next appeared the idolized General of the Mackerel Brigade, modestly refusing to receive all the credit for the skillful movement, and assuring his staff that he really would not prefer to be President of the United States in 1865.   342     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Followed by Commodore Head, with his squadron on lIis shoulders, swearing as usual in his iron-plated manner, and vowing to capture Vicksburg before he was twenty years older. Then advanced Captain Villialn Brown, Eskevire, Cap'ain Bob Shorty, and Captain Samyule Sa-mith, each indignantly rejecting the idea that this movement was a retreat, and expressing the hope that Wendell Phillips would be immediately hung for it. Then came a train of wagons containing all the pro- visions that could not be thrown away. Succeeded by the Mackerel Brigade with shovels at a shoulder-arms, and noses suggestive of strawherry patches in the balmy month of June. And was this all the procession? you will ask; did nothing come after the Brigade itself? I am not a positive man, my boy, and care not to assert a thing unless I positively know it to be true. It was growing dark when we reached our destination, and I could not see distinctly toward the rear: yet I think I did see something coming after the Mackerel Brigade. What was it? It was the Southern Confederacy, tmy boy-the Southern Confederacy. Your, excitedly, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LXIV. SHOWING HOW THE COSMOPOLITANS MET AGAIN) TO BE INTRODUCED TO THE i NEUTRAL BRITISH GENTLEMAN," AND HEAR MR. BON- BON S FRENCH STORY. WASHINGTON, D. C., August 26th, 1862 EvER since the British chap read all that unpub- lished British  poetry at the Club; my boy, I have been anxious to favor him with an "Idyl," written by a friend of mine who has traveled much ill Albion, and writes ex-cathedra.  Last night there was a fair chance, and I then introduced THE NEUTRAL BRITISH GENTLEMAN. Incrusted in his island home that lies beyond the sea, Behold the great original and geniune 'TIS HE; A paunchy, fuming Son of Beef, with double weight of chin, And eyes that were benevolent--but for their singular tend- ency to turn green whenever it is remarked that his irrepressible American cousins have made an- other Treaty with China ahead of him--and taken Albion in. This Neutral British Gentleman, one of the modern time.   "4      ORPHEUS, C. KEICR PAPERS. With William, Duke of Normandy, his ancestors, he boasts, Came over from the shores of France to whip the Saxon hosts;        \ And this he makes a source of pride; but wherefore there should be Such credit to an Englishman--in the fact that he is descend- ed from a nation which England is forever pretend- ing to regard as slightly her inferior in everything, and particularly behind her in military and naval affairs-we really cannot see. This Neutral British Gentleman, one of the modern time. He deals in Christianity, Episcopalian brand, And sends his missionaries forth to bully heathen land; Just mention "Slavery " to him, and with a pious sigh' He'll say it's 'orrid, scandalous-although he's ready to fight for the Cotton raised by slaves, and forgets how he butchered the Chinese to make them take Opium, and blew the Sepoys from the guns because the poor devils refused to be enslaved by the East In- dia Company--or his phi-lan-thro-py. This Neutral British Gentleman, one of the modern time. He yields to Brother Jonathan a love that passeth show- "We're Hanglo-Saxons, both of us, and carn't be foes, you know." But as a Christian Englishman, he cannot, cannot hide His horror of the spectacle-of four millions of black beings being held in bondage by a nation professing the largest liberty in the world, though in case of an anti-slavery crusade the interests of his Manches- ter factors would imperatively forbid him to-take part on either side. This Neutral British Gentleman, one of the modern time.   SE:COND SEt:RIE.       14N Now seeing the said Jonathan by base rebellion stirred, And battling with pro-slavery, it might be thence inferred That British sympathy, at last, would spur him on to strife; But, strange to say, this sympathy-is labelled." NEUTRAL- ITY," and consigned to any rebel port not too close- ly blockaded to permit English vessels, loaded with munitions, to slip in.. And when you ask Mr. Bull what he means by this inconsistent conduct, he be. comes virtuously indignant, rolls up his eyes, and says: "I carn't endure to see brothers murdering each other and keeping me out of my cotton-I carn't, upon my life!" This Neutral British Gentleman, one of the modern time. Supposing Mr. Bull should die, the question might arise: Will he be wanted down below, or wafted to the skies? Allowing that he had his choice, it really seems to me The moral British Gentleman-would choose a front seat with his Infernal Majesty; since Milton, in his blank verse correspondence with old Times, more than once hinted the possibility of Nick's rebellion against Heaven succeeding; and as the Lower Se- cessia has cottoned to England through numerous Hanoverian reigns, such a choice on the part of the philanthropical Britisher would be simply another specimen-of his NEUTRAL-I-TY! This Neutral British Gentleman, one of the modern time. When Smith-Brown had heard that, my boy, he sniffed grievously, and says he: "England never was happreciated in this blarsted country." I believe him, my boy. It being Bonbon's turn to read a story, he- unrolled his papers and gave us   ' m   "6     ORPHEJs 0. KEERR PAPERS. THE CONFESSION. 4"During my short stay in France, I belonged to a convent of Carthusian monks, and there became ac-  . quainted with the man whose confession constitutes my story. He had applied for admission to our order, as onle who had tired of life's gaieties, and bestowed his wealth, which was enormous, upon the holy church. Brother Dominique was the name he assumed; and his austere devotion speedily gained him notoriety for great piety; but there was something so unnatlural in his actions, and, at times, so incoherent in his speech, that we, who were his daily companions, involuntarily shuddered when he spoke to us. Ainong the various incongruities of his character, was a gloomy reserve- or, rather, pride, which repulsed all advances of friend- ship, and impressed upon the mind a conviction that Brother Dolninique's religion was more like that of a hypocrite foiled in his schemes, than of a pure-minded man, whose sense of duty to his Creator had induced him to assume the serge and rosary. This conviction was more than confirmed by his occasional exclama- tions of anger and defiance, as though once mnore a prey to the passions of an outer worll and, at the expiration of a year from the time of his entrance, the new brother was an object of suspicion, if not dislike, to the whole convent, excepting myself. "My sentiments in regard to hm were those of pity; for I felt confident that some great sorrow was preying upon his mind; and the wild agony which would often contort his whole countenance, while at   SECOND SERIES.      147 evening prayers, made me anxious to know something of his history. "One evening, having received an order to visit the cell of Dominique from our superior, I was surprised to find a curiously-fastioned lamp, burning in a niche, directly opposite an iron cot, on which the monk was sleeping. Knowing that the convent rules expressly forbade a light at that hour,1 I was about to extinguish it, when there fell upon my startled ear a loud yell, like that of a springing tiger, and, in an instant, I was seized by the throat. Filled with dismay, I struggled to extricate myself, when the bealms of the lamp fell upon the writhing features of Dominique, pallid as those of a corpse, and spattered with froth from his lips. "'Devil, I defy thee!' he exclaimed, dashing me violently against the wall; and then quitting his hold. "Brother Dominique, are you mad?' I asked, as soon as I could recover my breath. "It is a lie! I am not mad!" he ejaculated, glaring fiercely upon me, and biting his lip until the blood streamed from his beard. "Hardly knowing what I did, I again approached the lamp; when he again sprang to my side, and pushed me violently from before it. "' Must I kill you, too?' he said, in a whisper that pierced me. "'You are excited,' I replied, with all the calmness I could muster. 'I thought you were asleep, or I should first have spoken to you about your lamp, the burning of which, at this late hour, is a violation of the rules.' if   "8     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "He covered his face with his hands while I was speaking; and when he again looked up, all traces of former. agitation had vanished. "Forgive me, father,' he said, with Composure. 'Our superior has granted me the privilege of having a light always burning, as I am subject to fits, sucll as you have just witnessed, and cannot do without it. God have mercy upon me! I lligl t lhave murdered you,' he added, turning suddenly pale again, and lean- ing against the damp wall. '"I delivered my message, being anxious to leave a being whose passions were so violent when aroused; but he called me back as I turned away, and resting upon his hard bed, motioned for me to take a seat be- side him. "I hesitated about complying at first; but there was an expression of mingled sorrow and ent.!eaty resting upon his whole countenance, that awoke my sympathy and conquered fear. Closing the door of the 'Sell, I obeyed him in silence,'and sat down with a feeling of awe not to be defined. "'Father,' he saidj laying one hand on each of my shoulders, and staling fixedly in my face, 'Will you hear me confess A' The extreme abruptness of the question made me start from him with a gesture of surprise, but I an- swered not. "' Will you hear a tale of crime from a criminal V he continued, pressing heavily upon me, I a tale of murder from a murderer!' "I felt convinced that I had a maniac to deal with, and remembering to have heard that any sign of tim-   SECOND SERIES.       149 idity but added fuel to the fires of insanity, I steadily returnlied his stare, and responded as quietly as I could. "' Brother Dominique, if your soul is burthened with crimes, why not confess to the superior whlo is our father confessor?' "'No, no ' lie exclaimed, frantically. 'To you, or no one.' "Fearful that, by refusing, I should again arouse him to violence, I drew my cowl closely over my head to guar/d against the damp air, and bade him tell me his sorrows. "H e, at once, fell upon hs knees before me--nor could I persuade him to assume any other attitude. ' Here on my knees,' lie began, ' will I tell a tale that shall freeze your blood, and make you turn from me in scorn, or hatred. You will not betray me?' "I assured him I would not. "I amn the last of a noble Florentine house, which bears the nalnes of sovereign$ upon its registers. My father was a cold, stern man, proud of his high de- scent, and arrogant with those beneath him. My mother was the daughter of a Venetian noble, bright and beautiful as a diamond, and insensible to all the softer warmths of women as is that precious gem. I was thleii only child, and all the love their hearts were capable of feeling was bestowed upon me; all my de- sires were gratified ere expressed; obsequious menials stood about my path eager to obey my slightest nod; velvet received my infant footsteps, and the atlno- sphere around me was one of mellow music. "' I. grew up to manhood a pallnpered clhild of for-   150     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. tune, happy only in the midnight orgie or earlymorn- ing revel, and the most polished profligate of my native city; yet my father regarded me with feelings of pride, and my mother looked upon her son as one well worthy to inherit the flauntinrg fortunes of his house. Although my father was ever kind to me lihe was subject to occasional fits of violence, wlien lie would beat the servants, and render it necessary for his friends to confine him. It was said that he had seized a -gipsey woman who had been caught in the act of stealing, causing her to be burned alive, and that while the flames were torturing the poor wretch, she had denounced her executioner with the bitterest execrations, and declared that he and His offspring should feel the curse of madness. The prophecy so worked upon my father's mind as to occasion periodi- cal attacks of insanity, at which seasons he would rave fearfully, and, as I said before, render temporary confinement necessary. I cannot s:ay that the know- ledge of this fact had any effect upon me then, for I was gay and thoughtless; but, alas! it lias since proved my bane, and poisoned eavery cup that lias touched my lips. "' Onward I flew, in a whirl of wildest dissipation, until my twenty-first birth day, when my father or- dered me to meet him in the library at a certain hour. Not daring to disobey him, although I anticipated some cutting rebuke for my late headlong course, I waited upon him at the appointed time, and was relieved when he asked me in a kind tone to take a seat near him. "( Doninique," he said, ", you have now reached   SECOND SERIES..      15 an age when you must give up childish follies, and be a man. You are my only son, and my titles and for- tune must one day be yours. It is my hope that you may support them with honor; but, in order to do this you must take a decided step at once-you must. marry." "Although arrived at that period of life when women usually becomes the principal object of man's hope and ambition, I was totally indifferent to them, and ridiculed those of my friends who had married, or, as I termed it, become slaves for life. But I knew my fiather's temper too well to thwart him, and ap- peared to acquiesce in his designs for my future ben- efit. He informed me that the lady whom he had selected to be nmy bride, was of a noble family, and would be at our villa in a few days, when he wished me to render myself as agreeable as possible, and at once commence my wooing. "'I left him with a-feeling of despair at being so soon obliged to give up my gay companions and become suppliant to one wholn I had never before seen, and belonging to a sex that I held in con- tempt. "'In my trouble I appealed to a young nobleman, an associate of mine, for advice, and he recommended that I should go abroad without my father's know- ledge--afterwards giving him my reasons for so doing in a letter, and humbly asking his forgiveness. This advice just suited my disposition, and I resolved to follow it. Accordingly I collected sufficient fiunds for my journey, and on the morning of the day when my I                ,   152     ORPlHES o. KERR PAPERS. intended bride was to arrive at our villa, I started with my valet for France. "' Upon reaching Paris I wrote to my father, de- claring my determination to remain unmarried until tired of being my own master, and concluding by asking his pardon for the step which I had taken. My   father did not answer this letter, and hence I supposed that he was seriously offended; but this conviction did not prey upon my mind for any length of time-- indeed, I soon became more notorious in the French   ' capital than I had been at home for unbounded extra- ' vagance and heedless dissipation. The well-known prominence and wealth of my family gained access for me to the circles of the moist exclusive aristocracy. The glory and power of the unfortunate Louis -and hs peerless queen, Marie Antoinette, were already on   l the wane; yet their magnificence far eclipsed that of  I any other European court, and many t'raitors stood in l the glittering throng that swarmed about thlem, whose ir meekly down-cast eyes were destined to blaze with the fires of rebellion, and whose swords were yet    to flash terror into the heart of that sovereign who regarded them thlen as the staunchest bulwarks of' his k throne. With all due ceremony, I was presented to   f the ill-fated representatives of royalty, and quickly found myself the cynosure of all eyes, leered at by languishing dames, sneered at by those of my own sex whom nature had slighted, and honored with the attention of more than one aristocrat who afterwards fell a victim to the fury of red republicanism. But the sword of Damocles was suspended over our heads, and it soon fell with a clash that aroused 1     ,          '.    SECOND SERIES.       153 echoes in every corner of the globe. When first the ferociols ()lub proclaimed its prerogative, I joined with others in treating it as a subject beneath our notice; but, as the flames of insurrection spread, and street barricades :were successfully defended against the assaults of the National Guard, I began to feel the danger of being an aristocrat, and take meas- ures for flight when events should have reached their crisis. It was too late. At the dead of night, I was aroused from my sleep by a violent uproar in the street below, accompanied by a thundering at the court yard gates of my hotel. I sprang from my couch to the window, and, with a vague apprehension of what was to come, pulled aside the curtain and looked forth. Holy Virgin! what a sight was there!- Thousands'of howling demons, fast losing all sem- blance of humanity, surging and roaringlike an infer- nal sea, with ghastly deathllights leaping above its waves and drowning grim shadows beneath. ' Blood! blood!' was their watchword, and I heard my name bandied from lip to lip, with bitter execrations. My pride was aroused, and conquered every other emo- tion. Hastily drawing a heavy military cloak over my head and formn, I opened the casement, and walked out upon tie balcony. So completely did my gar- ment shroud ime, that the bloodhounds knew me not, and for a1 moment their hellish cries sank into dead silence. "'; Open the gates, or we will burn you alive," shouted a hoarse voice. "'"Va;ve eRo!"I shouted in answer. '" Oh, what rage there was in the yell responsive   154  :  ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. to my taunt. It seemed as though Pandemonium had sent its countless fiends to join in the chorus of brutal fury. The gates were fast yielding, and my servants were constantly reminding me with pallid faces that I was ruthlessly sacrificing their lives for my own. IIn a moment, my resolution was made. I hastily assum- ed my usual dress, and wrapping the cloak about me, went down into the court and placed myself in a dark corner. "' "Open the gates," I cried, disguisintg my voice, and throwing it as far folward as possible. "' With quaking limbs, my servant obeyed the or- der, and in another moment, I felt the hot tide of devils bolting past me, into the elegant saloons of my hotel. So intent were the mob upon despoiling and plundering, that I was enabled to gain the street un- molested; but at that point, some enemy- called my name, and with a shout of triumpll, llundreds of in- furiate demons started toward me. Knowing that resistance would be worse than madness, I drew my sword, and clenching it firmly in my right hand, with the point in front of me, I ran swiftly before them. Again arose the shouts, and onward came my enemies, panting for blood. Desperation gave' me strength, and like a hunted deer, I far out-sped my pusuers; but human nature cannot be taxed beyond a-certain point, and as I turned into the Rue St. Martin, my strength began to fail me, and my breath came hot- and quick. Giving up all hope of escape and re- solving to sell my life dearly, I was aDont to stand at bay, when an open door in a house close by caught my glance, and with the rapidity of thought, I darted   SECOND SERIES.       155 througll and closed it behind me. My hunters had not yet turned the corner, but I could hear their cries and( with regained strength, I ascended a flight of stairs and entered an 'apartment, when a scream of surlprise arrested my progress. A young girl stood before me with uplifted hands and astonishment painted upon every feature. "Holy Mother! What would you have, mon- sieur?" "'"I am pursned by the canaille, mademoiselle, and entered here to recruit my strength. I will die like a man." "You are a royalist?". "Yes." "I turned to the door when she eyed me closely for some moments. and then: opening a closet in the wall, pointed to its interior, without speaking. I saw at once that she wished to save me, and after raising ]leia hands to my lips in mute expression of my grati- tude, I entered the closet, and heard her turn the key in the lock. Almost at the same moment, loud shouts arose from the street and heavy footsteps were heard ascending the stairs. "Whose house is this?'" demanded a gruff voice, as its owner apparently entered the room, in company with others. "Citizen Foliere's," answered my protectress, in sweet, caim tones. "'Which side?" "'"Vive la Republique." "'Tres bien. He can't be here, comrades; he has   156.     ORPHEUS C. KERIR PAPERS. given us the slip. Where is your father, mad- emloiselle?"' "'"C He went to join in the attack on a hotel in the Rue St. Honore."! "'"Then he will be back soon, for the building is in flames, though its master has escaped us. Adieu, mademoiselle." "' My nerves and muscles had been drawn to the last degree of tension, excitement had buoyed me up for a time; but now that mny pursuers wel e departing and danger no longer surrounded me, a reaction took place, and I fell insensible upon the floor of my closet, while my fair jailer was in the act of liberating me. "'Soon a scorching heat fell upon my brain, and in fancy I returned to my father's house. Dire shapes of blood haunted mne, until I raved like a mnaniac and cursed the author of my being as the author of my destruction. "' I woke as firom a dream, and found myself lying upon a soft couch, attended by a physician, and a tall, middle-aged man, wearing the red republican badge -I owed my life to one of a class which I had ever despised. Monsieur Foliere had iretulrned home soon after my pursuers had quitted tit; and found his daughter attempting to revive me; great as was the risk he incurred by protecting a royalist, he did not hesitate to send at once for a surgeon, and order every comfort necessary to preserve my life. "'I endeavored to express my gratitude; but the stern citizen frowned, and from that time forth, I said no more on the subject. Health slowly returned to its temple, and 'as it sent the warm blood tingling    S'1CCOND SERIES.      157 freshy through mly veins, love mingled with the cur- rent that flowed to the heart. OCerise, my saviour, my guardian angel, hovered about my pillow like a spirit of light, awaking in imy breast a passion which had never dwelt thele before. - She was not what the world termed a beauty; but there was a quiet grace about her actions, and a smiling, lovely dignlity ever 'shining from her large brown eyes, that so drew her to me, as to make me silent and melancholy when she was not present. "'Not to linger over a period, the purest and brightest of my existence, suffice it to say, that Cerise returned my passion, and I was blest with her love. I told her my name, and painted the splendors of Florence, while she listened with a gentle smile of ap- probation, and consented to become my wife, should her father raise no objection. "'Anticipating no difficulty in that quarter, my happiness was unalloyed, and I considered her as all my own. At length, when iny health was fully re- established, I asked a private interview with Citizen Foliere, and demanded the hand of his daughter in marriage. I described in glowing termlls my love for Cerise and her reciprocation--I. spoke of lny high iran k in Florence, the manly hlonors of my family, and its great antiquity; the advantages which would accrue to him from having such a son-in-law--in fact, pre- sented Iny views in every light of interest and pater- nal affection that I could devise. The stern republi- can heard ine through in silence, and then answered coldly-- " -Young man, you wele received into my house, *   wu - oV-. j&UH PAPEKRS.  a fugitive from retributive justice, and sheltered by, me at the risk of my own good name and life. I pitied your youth,- and yielded my protection, when duty bade me surrender you to my friends. Would you repay me by robbing me of my richest treasure, or forever blighting her existence by arousing in her bosom a hopeless passion? My daughter calnot be yours, thougll you boasted the blood of a sovereign; she shall never sit in the palaces of our oppressors. My decision is irrevocable, and this subject must be foreverl at rest." "'Frantic with- indignation and disappointment, I flew to Cerise, and with the violence of a maniac, ac  quainted her with my ill-success; I swore she should be mine, or I would slay myself at her feet By turns she wept and expostulated, until I accused her of faithlessness, when she threw. herself into my arms, and in an agony of tears, bade me do with her as I  pleased. "'That night I  was on my way from Paris, with my wife clasped to my breast, calling down hleaven's bitterest curses upon my head, sliould I ever cease to ove her as I  then did, and kissing the hot tears from ' iler ceelks in a burning, maddening tralsport of blind levotion. "(' Oh madman! wretch thlat I was-why did I not all a  withered corpse at the feet of that innocent girl, vho sacriliced a father's love fir me B "At Gen..a I  purchased a villa in a retired spot, nd there tasted the intoxicating joys of elysium; but ite was darkening in clouds above mny head, and the ridal garlands were soon to blossom irl a harvest of JO   SECOND 8sRES.       159 blood. I wrote again to my father, acquainting him with the step I had taken, and narrating my escape frorn death ill France. An answer soon came, and in the presence of my wife I read as follows: "'"DOMNIQUE--Foolish boy, you have well nigh driven me to madness by your conduct, and your mother hlas gone to the grave a victim to the filly of her son. Come hither at once, if yon would not kill me also, and behold the wreck that remains of ;" "' YOUR FATHER." "'The vague tone of this communication, and the intelligence of my mother's death, overwhelmed me with sortrow. Cerise, dear Cerise, fell upon my bosom and reproached herizelf as being the author of -all my troubles. In vain did I try to forget my own griefs, and strive to console her; she soon became calm, but the smile of contentment no longer beamed from her eyes, and her peace was departed forever. She insisted upon obedience to lny fathel's request, and when I yielded, accompanied me to my native ^city silent and tearless. " ' Resolving to see my father alone, I left mv wife at an obscure house in the suburbs of the city, and promising to return when I had softened my parent's wrath, I set out with a heavy heart for the home of my childhood. " ' The servants at once recognized me, but I could only learn it froml their glances, for they led the way in silence to the saloon of reception. " My father was seated in a remote corner, con-   160     ORPHECS 0. RERR PAPE RS. versing with some person when I entered, and on be- - holding me, at ,nce came forward and embraced me with every token of affection. Astounded at receiving such a salute, when T expected nothing but reproachl I stood motionless, staring at him in silence, until the other person present approached. Never shall I forgcet the appearance of Lucia on that day. HeL raven locks, f'alling below ler waist and mingling imper- ceptibly with the folds of her sable robe, contrasted j strikingly with the snow-white purity of her complex- ion, over which her piercing eyes, shed a lustre truly spiritual. As my father introduced us, our glances met, and I felt a thrill to my inmnost soul. "'It mnaddens me to dwell upon those scenes, and I will hasten to the conclusion of my story. I forgot Cerise, 'my honor-everything, in the society of her who had once been selected to wed'with me. Day followed day -until a month had elapsed, and I still re mained fascinated to the spot, false to ,ny vows, false to lly wife, and true to nothing bult blind infatuation. My father beheld me sinking deeper and deeper in thile black waves of infamy, and a light of delnoniac ex- ultation burned in his eyes. I marked his triumph, and I, too, felt a savage joy, though for whlat reason, I knew not. "'At length he taunted me as the husband of a lazarone. He pointed with hellish glee to where Lucia stood, the incarnation of perfection, and bade me behold what I had lost. My brain was on- fire, a thousand ftiries tugged at my heartstrings, and as my father clasped my hands in hI's and looked down into my soul, I felt that savage joy again, and a demon   SECOND SERIES.       161 possessed me. My father approached his face to mine, until, his hot breath burned upon my cheek, and whispered in my ear; it was enough. With a loud laugh I left him and flew, rather than ran, to where my deserted wife was .watching for me, sad and alone.' "'Why did she not tax me with my perfidy? Why did not her angel soul arise in its innocent love, to crush me with the glancing of anl eye? Oh, that she had uttered one reproach, one bitter word! She saw me, and with a cry of joy, cast her white arms about my neck, as on our marriage; they were like chains of searing, glowing iron to me, and I dashed her from me, howling in the delirium of my torments. She marked the wild fire that flashed from my eye, the dark flush that burned upon my cheek, my breast heaving with the struggles of the fiend within, my hair hanging in disordered masses over my throbing brow, the cowardly trembling of the Sland concealed in my bosom; she beheld a fiend incarnate in the form of one who had sworn to love and cllerish her forever; yet no word of reproach arose fir6mo those lips I had so often kissed. Again her arms were about me, and again I attempted to dash her to the ground. "My husband, my dear Domninique!" she shriek- ed, clinging to me, and pressing her cheeks, pallid and cold, against Inine, glowing and burning with the reflected fires of hell. The spell of madness fell upon me, as I struggled with that faithful wife, and hissing froth boiled fromn between my teeth, mingling with her long locks of anuburn hair. I suffered all the tor- ments of the damned as we swayed to and fro, until   162     ORrPHEUS . KERR PAPERS. her strength began to fail and her arms relaxed their ]hold. Then, Nith a horlid laugh, I wound her long curls about my hand, and plunged a stiletto to its hilt in her breast. "Tle warm blood of life poured in a torrent upo1n me, and'as my victim lay gasping upon the ground, I danced frantically about her, laughing with glee. "' I did not wait to see her die--1 dar'ed not do it -but all gory as I was, I returned to nmy father.. He met me with a smile, and his calmness communicated itself to me. "'I was happy then-ol I .):es, very lhappy! ' With blood upon my hand, and madness in my brain, I wooed Lucia with all the cunning of insanity, and another gentle heart soon beat ftr me alone. "' We were married! I remember the bright glare of the lights, the holy dignity of the priests, the gay laughter of the brilliant company, as my-health and happiness were pledged in goblets of rare wines, the face of my second wife shining like that of an angel, with fond, confiding love for nme; and then my father! We looked at each other, and smiled exultantly--we murderers, madmen, receiving the homnage of rea- sonable beings. I was filled with mad joy, and sent forth peals upon peals of laughter while the ceremony was being performed.  My father joined in my unna- tural merriment, and surprise and fear was painted on every countenance. I saw the lips of Lucia tremble, and squeezed her hand so that she groaned with pain. Oh! what would I not have given to have been in the open air, yelling my trinunphl to the beast in his lair and the bird on the wing; making nature's arena to   SECOND- SERIES.      163 echo my bursts of mirth, and rising far 'above the earth on a sea of discord. My father continued near me through the ceremony, and left the saloon at its conclusion ; but I knew that lhis feelings were like mine and envied his liberty.' "'Then I grew calm again, and friends congratu- lated me, and music filled the air, and the dance went on, and I kissed my bride until she involuntarily shrank from me in confusion. I was very hlappy then. "'At length the midnight!hour arrived and the maidens of Lucia conducted lher, veiled in blushes, to the nuptial couch. How beautiful did she look, ar- rayed in spotless white, sucll as bright angels wear. An hour elapsed ere I flew to her chamber and threw myself upon the floor in a paroxysm of n mirth. There was a large lamp of glass that burned before a mirror in our bridal chamber, and as its perfumed oil was consumed a delicious odor ladened the air; as I rolled upon the carpet .and tore it with my teeth, the light shone in my eyes, and in an instant I ceased all motio-n and stared fixedly at it, while cold drops of water came out upon my temnple. "'Timidly my bride approached and spoke to me; but I answered her not; for there was another form be- fore my eyes; another bride speaking to my soul. There was an explosion; the lalnp) fell into a thousand pieces, and where it had been there stood my murdered wife, with thl blood pouring from her bosom, and the stilletto in her hand.  I saw her as plainly as I now see you, and she bade me slay her rival! I knew my fate decreed it so; I dared not disobey the dead, and with a howl of fury, I splang upon Lucia, my second   164     ORPHEUS C. KEIRR PAPERS. bride. In vain she clasped her hands to me in prayer  for mercy; in vain she tried to shriek for help; I    grasped her pale throat until my nails sank into the flesh, and a purple hue spread over her face. There I saw her sink fro'm blooming health to ghastly death,  and every feature was visible to me in all its convul- sive workings, although the light was out. "'My spirit wife stood before me and my last vic- tim, until she faded to nothing in the morning light. "'As the beams of the smll streamed in upon TIne, I took my dead bride in my arms and stalked gaily down to the saloon of my father. I heard him laughjs ing lofudly, and with a laugh I answered himn as I  carried my burden into his presence. [le, too, had something illn is arlns, and it was the lifeless form of Cerise, crumbling to decay, and fresh from a banquet of worms. We placed our treasures side by side upon a table, and embraced each other with yells of laugh- ter. Higher and higher rose our mirth, and louder grew our shouts of trinumph, until the street beneath us was crowded with people, and the servants burst into the saloon where we held our revel. "I'we   were seized and carried before the Duke, , with the cold corpses of my wives; but we laughed when they called us murderers, and cursed when others called us madmen.  *  *  *  * "'The keepers of the madhouse Ewoke me from my slumbers to tell mne that my fathler lh;d 'died duringa the night. What was that to me? I   wanted a light burning beside me  all night, and then lie would not colle from the grave to visit me. So I laughed and' was merry to think'that I  was locked up in a mad.   FECOND BERIES.      16 5 house. After many years I was released from my prison, and came thither to take the cowl of a monk. Think not that I am mad, holy father, when I sol- emnly swear that the shades of my wives stand beside me every night, and only wait until the light goes out, to drag me down to hell. I see them now, with bleeding bosom, and throat bearing the prints of my nails! Cerise! Lucia! I defy thee both! Thle lamp still burns! ha! ha! ha!' "1 With a horrid laugh brother Dominique fell upon his face on the ground, like one blasted by a stroke from heaven ; and with a vague feelinrg of terror, I crawled stealthily to my own cell. "On the following day we met at morning prayer, in the chapel, but lie tleated me as though we had never known each other,.and the events of the preced- ing night were never again menitioned by either of us. "One evening, loud peals of laughter weire heard issuing from the cell of the malliac, and several of the monks hastened thitlfer with ime, to learn its cause. On opening the door, I first belleld the lamp lying extinguished in its niche, while brother Dominique was stretclhed upon the stony pavement in strong con- vulsions, giving vent every now and then to sounds of mirth, so dreadful that we stopped our ears, and fled horrified to the superior. When all was again silent we returned to the cell; but the maniac was not there, and the niche was vacant." Such, my boy, was the story lelated by M. Bonbon, the reading making him hoarse, and the plot suggest- ing a nightmare also. Yours, staringly, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LXV. NOTING THE REMARKABLE RETROGRADE ADVANCE OF THE MACK- EREL BRIGADE UPON WASHINGTON, AND THE UNSEEMLY RAIDS OF THE RECKLESS CONFEDERACY. WASHINGTON, D. C., August 30th, 1862. As every thing continues to indicate, my boy, that President Lincoln is an honest man, I arn still of tile opinion that the restoration of the Union is only a question of time, and will be accomplished some weeks previous to the commencement of the Millen- nium. It is the "Union as it was " that we want, iny boy, and those who have other articles to sell are hereby accused of being accursed Abolitionists. I was talking the other day to a venerable Congress- man from Maryland, who had just arrived to protest against the disturbance of mail facilities between Bal- timore and the capital of the Southern Confederacy, and says he, "I have several friends mrho are Confe- deracies, and they inform me that they are perfectly willing to return to the Union as it Was, in case they should fail in their present enterprise. If I thought," says the Congressman, hastily placing a lottery-ticket in llis vest-pocket, " if I thought that this war was to be waged for the purpose of injuring the Southern Confederacy, rather than to restore the Union as it was,   SECOND SERIES.       167 I. should at once demand more mileage of the Govern- ment, and repeatedly inquire what had become of all the ' Wide-Awakes.'" As he uttered this last horrible threat, lny boy, I was impressed with a sense of something darkly deln- ocratic. Too many of the "Wide-Awakes" of the last campaign are indeed fast asleep now, when their country needs them. I saw one of them slumbering near Culpepper Court House last week. He was sleeping with his right arm twisted in the spokes of a disabled cannon wheel, and a small purple mark was on his right temple. But he was not alone in his forgetful sloth, my lioy; thor near him, and rigidly grasping his disengaged hand, was a Democrat slum- bering too-! The sight, I remember, rendered me so honestly in- dignant, that I could not help pointing it out to the Mackerel Chaplain, who was engaged in selling hymn- books to the wounded. The Chaplain looked a mo- ment at the Fusion Ticket before us. "They sleep for the Flag," says he, softly, "and may its Stars shed pleasant dreams upon their loyal souls for ever."  The Chaplain is an enthusiast, my boy, and this is what he has written about OUR GUIDING STARS. The planets of our Flag are set In God's eternal blue sublime, Creation's world-wide starry stripe Between the banner'd days of time.   168     ORPHEUS C. KERIR PAPERS. Upon the sky's divining scroll, In burning punctuation borne, They shape the sentence of the night That prophesies a cloudless morn. The waters-free their mirrors are; And fair with equal light they look Upon the royal ocean's breast, And on the humble mountain brook. Though each distinctive as the soul Of some new world not yet begun, In bright career their courses blend Round Liberty's unchanging Sun. Thus ever shine, ye Stars, for all  And palsied be the hand that harms Earth's pleading signal to the skies, And Heav'ns immortal Coat of Arms. You are probably aware, my boy, that the uncon- Puerable Mackerel Brigade is still advancing upon Washington in a highly respectable and strategic manner; and that all correspondents are excluded from -the lines, lest some of them, in their natural blackness of heart, should construe the advance upon Washington into a retreat from Richmond. But I gained admission to the scene by adopting the airy and pleasing uniform of the Southern Confe- deracy; and am. thereby enabled to give yoi some further account of the skillful retrogade advance to which I dimly referred in my absorbing last.   SECOND SEIES.       169 The uniform of the Sout!ern Confederacy is much respected by many of our officers, my boy, and is the only guise in which a fellow-being may scrutinize the national strategic works with entire safetyl Thus attired, I joined the Mackerel Brigade in its cheerful work of pushing Richmond away from its martial front, and having penetrated to the rear where horrible carnage was being wrought in the frantic ranks of the Confederacy, I beheld the idolized Gen- ral of the Mackerel Brigade anxiously searching for something upon the ground. In a moment, he looked up, and says he to the warriors in his neighborhood: "My children, have you seen anything of a small black bottle that I placed upon the grass, just now, when I turned to speak to mv aid?" A Mackerel chap coughed respectfully, and says he : "I guess it was taken by some equestrian Confedera- cies, which has just made another raid." "Thunder!" says the General, "that's the third bottle I've lost in. the same way within an hour." And he proceeded slowly and thoughtfully to maount his horse, which stood eyeing him-with funereal solemnity and many inequalities of surface. Turning to another part of the line, my boy, I be- leld Captain Villiam Brown and Calptain Bob Shorty in the act of performing a great strategic movement with the indomitable Conic Section, many of whom were employing the moment to take a last look at the canteens presented to them before leaving home by their devoted mothers. A nulmber of reckless Con- federacies"had just crossed a bridge spanning a small stream near by, and the object of -this daring move-   170     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. ment was to suddenly destroy the bridge before they could retreat and then make prisoners of the whole. It was a sublime conception, my boy-it was a sub- lime conceplion, and rich with strategy. Like panthers surrounding their unsuspecting prey, the wily Mackerels swept noiselessly across the bridge, applied their axes with the quickness of thought, and in a moment the doomed structure fell splashing into the water. It was beautiful to see Villiam's Ionest exultation at this moment; his eyes brightened like small bottles of brandy with the light shining through them, and says he: "We have circumvented the Confederacy. Ah!" says Villiam, proudly; " the United States of Ame- rica is now prepared to continue in the exchange bu- siness, and--"i He paused. He paused,'my boy, because he sud- denly observed that Captain Bob Shorty had, com- menced to scratch his head in a dismal Inanner. "I'm blessed," says Captain Bob Shorty, in a cho- lerical manner-"I'm blessed if I don't think there's some mistake here, my military infant!' "Ha!" says Villiam, with dignity; " do you disco- ver a flaw in the great chain woven by the United States of America around the doomed Confederacy?"  Captain Bob Shorty again scratched his head, and says he: "I don't wish to make unpleasant insinuations; but it seems to me that this here body of infantry has left itself on the wrong side of the stream!" And so it had, my boy. By one of those little mis- takes which will sometimes occur in the most victor,   SECOND SERIES.       171 ious armies, the Conic Section had thoughtlessly crossed the bridge before destroying it, thus leaving themselves on one side of the river, while the riotous Confederacies were on the other. How they got across again, at a fordable place higher up, just in time to see the Confederacies cross again, at a forldable place lower down, I will not pause to tell you, as such information might retard enlist- ments. Once more stationing myself near the General of the Mackerel Brigade, who sat astride his funereal charger like the equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington, I was watching his motions attentively, when a body of horsemen suddenly dashed by hinm, and I saw, as they disappeared, that he was left bareheaded. "Thunder!" says the general, winking very vio- lently in the sunlight, and rattling his sword in a fear- less manner, " where's my cap gone to ." There was a respectful Mackerel chap at hand; and says he: "I think it was took by the equestrian Confederacy, which has jest made another raid." "Hum!" says the general, thoughtfully, "that's very true. Thunder!" says the general to himnself, as it were: " this is all Greeley's work " Pondering deeply over this last remark, I sauntered to another part of the field, where the Orange County Howitzers were being prepared to repel the charge of a regilnent of Confederacies, who had just- come within our lines for the purpose. The artillery was well handled, my boy, and not 'a piece would have been captured but for the splendid discipline of the gun-   172     OBPHTUs C. XERB PAPke. ners. They were too well disciplined to dispute or- ders, my boy; and as Captain Samyule Sa-mith had accidentally forgotten to give the order to -"load" before he told them to fire, the effect of our metal upon the hostile force was not as inflammatory as it might have been. The next I saw of Samvule, he was making his re- port to the general, who received hiin with much en- thusiasmn. "Where are your guns, my child?" says the gene- neral, with paternal affability. Samyule blew his nose in a business-like manner, and says he; "Several of them have just gone South." I am unable to state what response the- general in- tended to make, inmy boy; for at this instant a body of horsemen swept between the speakers, one of the riders jerking the veteran's horse violently from under him, and galloping the steed away with him. Up sprang the general, in a violent perspiration, and'says he: "Where's my horse gone to?" ' I guess," says a Mackerel chap, stepping up--"I guess that it was took by the equestrian Confederacy, which has just made another raid." "Thunder!" says the general, '; they'll take my coat and vest next." And he retired to a spot nearer Washington. I would gladly continue my narrative of the ad- vance movement, my boy, showing how our forces continued their Inarcli in excellent order, safely reach- ing a spot witliin ten imiles of the place they gained /                       l   SEOOND EMRIES.      173 on the following day; but such revelations would simply tend to confuse your weak mind -with those great doubts concerning military affairs which tend to render civilization impertinently critical. It is the simple duty of civilians, my boy, to im- plicitly trust our brass-buttoned generals; of whom there are enough to furnish the whole world with war -and never finish it at that. Yours, weekly, ORPHEUS C. K1rRR.   LETTER LXVI. IN WHCH OUR CO RESPONDENT ASTONISHES US BY ENGAGOING IN SINGLE COMBAT -WITH M. MCHELET, AND DEMOLISHNG "JLAMOUR"X AND 4( LA FEMM-E.)5 WABHXQTON, D. C., Sept. 4th, 1862. WHLE I was lounging in a banker's drawing-room this morning, my boy, waiting for the' filthy lucre chap to come down and savythat-he was glad to see me, I chanced to see the eterna!"L'Amour" and "La Femme" lying upon a table in the apartment. The sight threw me into a bad humor, for I detest those books, my boy, and wish the United States of America liad never seen them. Monsieur Michelet, a French individual of question- able morals, first writes a book about "Love," and then clinches it with one about 'i Woman.'"It is hardly necessary to add, that he treats both subjects in a thoroughly French manner, and makes one a con- tinuation of the other. Love is a charming little story in every man's life, "complete in one number?-- Number one. Woman is a love-story,. " to be con- tinued " until, like all other continued stories, it ends with marriage I Such is the logic implied by Monsieur Michelet's two books, and whether it is calculated to elevate or degrade the weaker sex, a majority of educated   '"      GSECOND SERIES.       1 5 American women have eagerly read the books and accepted the sentiments as so imany compliments. And the  men, they leisurely rove through the leaves of monsieur's mental Valambrosa, and say: " How Frenchy !"  And in that natural exclamation we find the most complete and just criticism of " L'Amour " and " La Femme " possible to American lips or pen. This Michelet, my boy, is a man of talent and re- markably clear poetical perception. He is as much like Hallarn as a Frenchman can be like an English- man, and,France honors him for his development of the poetry of her history; but is that any reason why he should be accepted as the modern Iligh-priest of Love and the Censor of Woman? By no means. Madame de Stael was thinking of a Frenchmnan when she wrote: "' Love is only an episode in man's life "- and may have referred to herself when she added: " but it is woman's whole existence." Had an Ameri- can woman spoken this, we should suspect the senti- ment to be nothing more than the reproach of a dis- appointed passion; but of the Frenchman it is indis- 'putably true, as well as of woman wherever we find her.' The French do not know what Fidelity means, my boy; they have chameleon souls, and remain true to one object only until another comes within their reach. Like mad bulls, they are attracted by the quiescent warmth of fiery-red; and, having, attained it, tear it to pieces in tleir passion. What can such people know about Love ? Nothing. They call Love "L'Amour," and when we speak of a   176     ORBHPEUS . KERR PAPERS. man's " amours," we mean that he "loves" like a Frenchman.  Monsieur Michelet is a Frenchman; and supposing him to be an ordinary one, we must accept his sentiments regarding Woman as we would those of an Apicius regarding a delicacy he apostro- phizes before devouring. But Michelet's temperament is poetical, and while he looks upon Woman as a fore- taste of the sensualist's paradise, and upon Love as the means of gaining it, he covers up the grossness of his ideas with robes borrowed from the angels. Adopt- ing Kepler's canon, that "harmony is the perfection of relations," lie makes Woman, the creature, a con- tinuation of Love, the sentiment; and the tenor of his "L'Amour " and "La Femlne " is, that both must be possessed by man, in order to perfect the union which makes them a perfect One. Wherever I go I find these books: cheek to cheek they repose on the carved table of the lady's boudoir; shoulder to shoulder they stand on the library shelf; tete-a-tete they give the rich centre-table an equivocal aspect. Young men and maidens, old men and matrons, children and chambermaids read tlemr; yet they have no social effect. Woman understands love and herself; Man thinks he understands bothl; and the fictitious fervor, of Monsieur Michelet has no more effect upon either than so much prismatic froth. It addresses itself piquantly to the eye, and murmurs like a shell in the ear; but once out of sight and hear- ing, and it is only an excuse for light talk and laxity of thought. I am glad to record this; it shows that our national morality is in no danger of being wrecked on the f   SECOND SERIES.      1" French coast by any such tropical gales as Michelet, Feydeau, or Dumas can blow. Let our publishers bring over a few more cargoes from the Augaean stables of French literature in English bottoms, and I will guarantee them large profits. We will read them, and immediately forget all about it. But to return to Michelet again. Our women read his "Woman," and imagine that it compliments their sex-flatters them. Fortunate is it, that flattery very seldom changes a woman's character, though it may sway her judgment. She accepts it as her right, but seldom believes it. 'Queen Elizabeth graciously ex- tended her hand to be kissed when her noble lover compared her to " the sun, whose faintest ray extin- guishes the brightest planet;" yet-that same hand had signed the flatterer's death-warrant. At the mo- ment she was pleased, and her good sense dazed; but her heart was not reached. Flattery, skillfully ad- ministered, may add fuel to a woman's love; but the fire must first be kindled with something more sympathetic. An American wolman imay read "La Femme," and complacently receive its subtle equiv- oques as so much fuel added to her vanity; but that vanity was kindled into existence in the first place by the genuine homage of some honest main. It was Michelet's "Womaln," my boy, that sug- gested this letter; yet I did not intend, at the. outset, to devote so much space to his unwholesome sophis- try. If I have shown, hiowever, that Michelet's:"Wo- man" is only such. a being as he would have created under that name, could hie have changed places with the Deity, I have .not wasted time and ink. Thank   178     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. fortune, there is but one French deity, and his proper name commences with a D. Now, let me give my own idea of Woman--not "La Femme." As she stands before me in the light of Nature, she is no "enigma," as voluntarily-puzzled poets have called her; but a being easily defined, and not more nearly related to -the angels than man. To the best of her sex we attribute one natural weakness and one virtue-Curiosity and Modesty.  Everybody must allow this much. But why should we mnake such a distinction between these two qualities? Let us trace them back to their exemplar: Eve's curiosity was the first effect of her serpentine temptation. Was it not? Well, that curiosity caused her to eat the forbidden fruit. Having eaten it, and caused Adam to eat, she suddenly became possessed of modesty, and made herself an apron of fig-leaves. It is but natural to infer that her first hlush was worn at the same time, though Milton attributes blushes to the angels. As angels are immaterial beings,'I think Milton was mistaken. Now, if modesty, as well as curiosity, was the result of Satanic temptation, why should one be called a weakness and the other a vir- tue I Are not both the fruits of original sin? Woman's love is said to be stronger and more last- ing than man's. Is it so? Let us trace it back to its beginning:              /* Eve's love for Adam did not prevent her fall. She met the Prince of Darkness and listened to his blan- dishments, as too many ladies of the present time prefer the society of bogus courtiers to that of their   SWCOND SERIES.       179 Adams of husbands. She forever disgraced Adam, herself, and her future family, just to please the tempter. Was this a proof the depth and vitality of Woman's love? And Adam? Why, rather than refuse ally request of the woman lie loved, however extra- vagant, he voluntarily shared in her ruin, and courted the curse of her fall. Did this prove that Man's love is weaker and shortei-lived than Woman's? Now, I should like to see some one impudent enough to assert that Eve was more curious, or less modest, or more fickle than are the best of her female dpscen- dants. Such impudence is not compatible with the present position of civilization. Then, as Eve was the great exemplar of her sex in Modesty and Fidelity as well as Curiosity, it follows that Wooman's Modesty is the result of inherited sin, and her Fidelity in Love no greater than Man's. Alas! for the " angels" of the poets, my boy. Prove that her Modesty and Love are anything but heavenly V and what remains to make Woman angelic? I could honor, love, and lnight obey the Best of lHe Sex; but I shall never worship her. She is not E Deity-only a Woman. I believe that God intendE each woman for a wife; yet six marriages out of every dozen are unhappy ones. And what is the reason Simply this: Before marriage, man generally accepts one of the two poetical theories^respecting Woman. He eithe supposes her to be an angel, purer and more elevates in her nature than he in his; or gloats over her as : delicate morsel prepared for his special delectatiol by the gods. In either case, he finds -out his mistak4   180     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. when it is too late to rectify it, and his disappointment is but the refinement of disgust. He either discovers that woman is only a human being, and very much like himself by nature; or that constant familiarity with her brings her down to the level of a man in his estimation. There is but one possibility of escape from disappointment iu either case; the death of hus- band or wife within a year of the wedding day I Husbands and wives, have I spoken truly I But there are exceptions to every rule. Some ifen marry women for the sake of having homes of their own; others, for money; still others, because it is the fashion. The man who marries for a comfortable home often gets what lie desired, and is contented; the mercenary husband is likely to do and feel the same;' the fashionable husband generally cuts his throat. These exceptions do not break the rule. It may be asked: Why do widowers so often marry again, if they were so disappointed in their first wives? My boy, you are no philosopher. How many men have learned wisdom by experience? Only a few, and they are all dead. If a sailor is ship- wrecked, and nearly killed on his first voyage, does he forsake the sea forever after? If a man buys an image supposed to be made of marble, and discovers that it is plaster, does he never buy another image  Because you and your neighbors chance to buy a barrel of bad eggs, are you satisfied that good ones are not to be had a An enthusiastic young man marries a girl whom he supposes to be an '; angel."  A year passes, and he mourns over his mistake. A few more roll away, and   SECOND BERIES.       181 she dies. Does the widower profit by his experience? No-! He says to himself: "My late wife was not an 'angel ;' but that sweet girl I saw yesterday certainly is. She is entirely different from my late wife." Well, he marries angel No. 2. She proves to be No. 1 in a different dress. A tropical young man is infatuated with the physi- cal beauty of a girl, and marries her with the idea that he will never weary of looking at hler.* A year passes, and he is heartily tired of her. She dies. Does the widower profit by his experience? No I He says to himself:"I was wearied of my late wife be- cause, her hair, eyes and complexion were the same as minn. Physiologists say that opposites are necessary to matrimonial bliss. There is Miss -, with her hair, eyes and complexion, in direct antithesis with Inine. I am s8tre I should never weary of her!"He marries her. And tires of her. Do you see, my boy? And now to remedy this evil: Let us look upon woman as she is. If an " angel" with golden hair, snowy complexion, pearly teeth, heaven-blue eyes, and no appetite, sounds better in poetry than a true woman, with auburn hair, fair complexion, clean teeth, and nice blue eyes, why, let the poets rantabout "angels." But poetry has nothing to do with so practical an event as mnarriage, and its "' angels " will not do for wives. A man cannot be guilty of a more absurd and unprovoked piece of injustice, than that of persisting in. believing his bride more of an angel than human. He might as well go to a jeweller's, and insist upon buying a pearl for a diamond, when   182     OERPiEU C KERB PAPRS. the certain result of such folly would be his denuncia- tion of the pearl as a swindle, when time convinced him of its real character. No true woman desires to be looked upon as an " angel," nor to have her beauty valued as a joy imperishable. It is very common for women to lament the indif- ference of husbands who were the most attentive and obedient of lovers. I have explained the cause of the defection To secure }happiness--or contentment, at least-in the marriage state, we must regard woman as our equal by nature, whatever superiority or inferiority she may possess by virtue of her mental or social educa- tion. We must not look up to her, nor dowgn lpon her; but straight at her. We must not base our love for her upon supposed angelic qualities. If we desire to make her happy, and be happy ourselves, we must recognize her human origin in common with our own, and accept her physical inferiority as security for the continuance of our own love in all its nolrmal strength. Of course there are grades in human nature. Sonme natures are more refined than others, from the effects of their surroundings and education. But the lover should recognize no degree higher than his own when he selects his mistress. Then, if hers proves hgller than his, after marriage, he is delighted; if the same as his, he is satisfied. But suppose it should prove lower than his.?  SIch a supposition is untenable in a marriage of mutual affection. A superior nature will never gravitate to an inferior one by the attrac- tion of real love. There must be a natural sympathy ;   SECOND SERIES.       183 and sympathy is the rock upon which all true love is founded. Love never yet blended incompatible natures in marriage. Money often does--brute-insanity some- times. You have probably concluded, 'by this time, my boy, that my ideas of the tlrue Woman and Monsieur Michelet's views of "La Femme" are decidedly at variance. I have sufficient faith in the good sense of Woman to believe that she will give preference to my doctrine. If so, she will-not translate "La Femme" as "Woman," but as " grisette," " lorette," or " camelia lady." To christen such a work "Woman," is to lay a snare for the Best of Her Sex, and catch the Weakest in it. The female who allows it to affect her may possibly make "a neatly-shod grisette," but never a good wife. It may be asked why I have made "Woman" the subject of this letter, and why I have adopted such a Frenchy style? Simply because there is no subject less understood, my boy, by the generality of young mankind; and because I deem it best to practice the doctrine of similia similibus curantur (in style) while quarreling with Monsieur Micllelet. Yours, sentimentally, ORPHEUS 0. KERR. ^   LETTER LXVI[. GOIVING ASSURANCE OF THE UNMTIGATED SAFETy OF THE CAPITALI EXEMPLIFYING. COLONEL WOBINSON)S DRAFTING EXPERIENCE, AND NlRRATING A GREAT METAPHYSICAL VICTORY. WASHSNTOX, D. C., September 6th, 1862. EVERYTHNG is confident and buoyant here, my boy, a sense that the President is an honest man, inspiring confidence on every side, and surrounding the Gov-. ernment with well-known confidence men. The re- peated safety of the Capital, indeed, has even inspired the genius' of New England, as illustrated by a thoughtful Boston chap, with one of those enlarged business ideas which will yet enable that section to betrade the whole world. The thoughtful Boston chap tas read all the war-news, my boy, for the last six months, and as he happens to be a moral manufac- turer of burglar-proof safes, a  happy. pecuniary thought struck him forcibly. After joining the church, to make sure of Ilis morality here, he came hither in haste, opened an establishment, read lhe war-news once msore, and then issued the following enterprising card:   SECOND SERMES.      185 BUY THE CELEBRATED W A SH I N, G T O N  S AFE! : Everybody thought it was the safe they'd read so much about in the papers, my boy, and several hun- dreds were sold.  There was another chap, named Burns, the inventor of a Family and Military Gridiron, who noticed how the thoughtful Boston chap was making money by the advertising necessities of our distracted country. Hav- ing been born in Connecticut at a very early age, my boy, he was not long in finding a way to make his own eternal fortune, after the same meritorious man- ner. So he at once repaired to a liquor shop, to make sure that a majority of our staff-officers would hear him, and then, says he, in stentorian tones: "My sympathies are all with the Southern Confed- eracy, to whom I send the weekly journals of romance on the day of publication. As to the Union," says the Connecticut chap, hotly, "I have less confidence in it than I have in my Patent Economical Family and Military gridiron." He was immediately arrested for this seditious talk, my boy, and all the reporters telegraphed an exciting dispatch to the reliable morning journals: "Exciting Aifair--Arrest of am Izfluential Rebel! --The celebrated! Mr. Burns has been arrested for publicly saying that he had more confidence in his   186     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. well-known and ingenious patent Economical Family and -Military Gridiron than he had in the Union. Upon hearing of his incarceration, the most sanguine rebel sympathizers here admitted that the cause of the South was lost forever." The Connecticut chap remained in custody until he had received four hundred orders for gridirons, from private families and army-chaplains, and then he ex- plained that the words he had used were uttered in the heat of passion, and he was, of course, honorably discharged from prison, to make way for a shameless, aged miscreant just committed for two years" hard la- bor, on suspicion of having discouraged enlistments by asserting that, although he was too old to go to the war himself, he intended to send a substitute. Simultaneously, all the reporters telegraphed again to the reliable morning journals :  "T]he Burns Affair Settled!-Full Particulars of the Gidiron!/-- Mr. Burns, the celebrated inventor of the famous Patent Gridiron, has been honorably discharged by order of the Secretary of War. His inimitable Gridiron is destined to have an immense sale. "It cooks a beafsteak in such a manner that the ap- petite is fully satisfied froln merely looking at it, and the same steak will do for breakfast next morning. Tthis is a great saving. Persons having notliing to eat find this Gridiron a great comfort, and hence the pro- priety of introducing it in the army." The Gridirons are having a great sale, my boy, and   SEOOND SERIES.       187 it is believed that the business interests of the country are being rapidly improved by the war. Knowing that the Mackerel Brigade was making preparations to entrap the Southern Confederacy at Molasses Junction, I ascended to the upper gallery of my architectural steed, Pegasus, on Tuesday, in order that I might not be .unduly hurried on my journey. Taking Accomac on my way to the battle-field, my boy, I called upon Colonel Wobert Wobinson, who is superintending preparations for the draft there, and was witness to an incident suitable to be recorded in profane history. The draft in Accormac, my boy, is positively'to take place on the 11th of September ; but it is not believed that the enrollment can be finished before the 15th; in which case, the draft must inevitably take place on the 20th. In fact, the Judge-Advocate of the Accc- mac states positively that the conscription will com- mence on the 1st of October; and volunteering is so brisk that no draft may be required. At least, sach is the report of those best acquainted with the more de- cisive plans of the War Department, which thinks of joining the Temperance Society. The exempts were filing their papers of exemption with Colonel Wobert Wobinson, my boy, and amongst them w'as one chap with a swelled eye, a deranged neck-tie, and a hat that looked as though it might have been used as an elephant's foot-bath. The chap came in with a heavy walk, and says he: "Being a married man, war has no terror for me; but I am obliged to exempt myself from military affairs on account of the cataract in my eyes."   188     OBRPfiOus . BERR PAPERs.         Colonel Wobert Wobinson looked at him symppa. thizingly, and says he: "You might possibly do for a, major-general, my son, as it is blindness principally that characterises a majority of our present major-gen-  erals in the field; but fearing that your absence from home might cause a prostraton in the liquor business,  I will accept your cataract as valid."  The poor chap sighed until he reached the first hic- i cunp, and then says he : "I wish I could cure this here  cataract, which causes my eyes to weep in the absence of all woe."  "Do your orbs liquidate so freely?" says the Colo-1 nel, with the air of a family physician  "Yes," says the poor chap, gloomily," they are likei two continual mill streams." "Mill streams!" says Colonel Wobinson medita-  tively, " mill streams I Why, then, you'd better data i your eyes."             ' "I think, my boy, I say I think, that this kindly  advice of Colonel Wobert Wobinson's must have been misunderstood in some way ; for an instant departure '1 of several piously-inclined recruits took place precipi- tately, and the poor chap chuckled like a fiend.   :i It is the great misfortune of our mother tongue, myI boy, that words of widely-different meanings have  precisely the same sound, and in using one you seem  to be abusing another.- Arriving near the celebrated Molasses Junction,  where a number of Mackerels were placing a number of new cars and locomotives on the track-tile object  X being to delude the Southern Confederacy into taking a ride in them, when, it was believed, the aforesaid ,         -    ' XI   SECOED SERIES.      189 Confederacy would speedily be destroyed by one of those " frightful accidents" without which a day on any American railroad would be a perfect anomaly- arriving there, I say, I took an immediate survey of the appointed field of strife. To the inexperienced civilian eye, my boy, every- thing appeared to be in a state of chaotic confusion, which nothing but the military genius of our generals could make much worse. On all sides, my boy, I be- held the Mackerel chaps marching and countermarch- ing; falling back, retiring, retreating, and making re- trograde movements. Some were looking fer their re- giments ; some were insanely looking for their offi- cers, as though they did not know that the latter have resided permanently in Washington ever since the war commenced; some were making calls on others, and here and there might be seen squads of Confederates picking up any little thing they might happen to find. Finding the-general of the Mackerel Brigade lunch- ing upon a bottle and tumbler near me, I saluted him, and says I: "Tell me, my veteran, how it is that you permit the Southern Counfederacy to meander thus within your lines?" The general looked toleratingly at me, and says he; "I have a plan to entrap the Confederacy, and end this doomed rebellion at one stroke. Do you mark that long train of army wagons down there near my quarters i' "Yes," says I, nervously. "Well, then, my nice little boy," says the general,   190     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. . cautiously, "I'll tell you what the plan is. These wagons contain the rations of our troops. It is my purpose to induce the celebrated Confederacy to cap- ture these wagons and attempt to eat those rations. If the Confederacy will only do that," says the general, fiercely, "it will be taken sick on the spot, and we shall capture it alive." I could not but feel shocked at this inhulnan artifice, my boy. The Southerners have indeed acted in a way to forfeit all ordinary mercy, but still, we should ab- stain from any retaliatory act savoring of demoniac :malignity. Our foes are at least human beings. Suppressing my horror, however, I assumed a prac- tical aspect, and says I: "But how are the Mackerel warriors to subsist, my Napoleon, if you allow the rations to go?" "Thunder!" says the general, handing me a paper from his pocket. "They are to subsist exclusively on the enemy. Just peruse this document, which I have just fulminated." Taking the paper, I found it to be the following PROCLAMATION. Whereas, The matter of provisions is a great ex- pense to the United States of America, besides offer- ing inducements for unexpected raids on the part of the famishing foeman ; the Mackerel Brigade is hereby directed to live entirely upon the Southern1 Conlfede- racy, eating him alive wherever found, and partaking of no other food. The Brigade will not be permitted to take any cloth-   SECOND SERIES.       191 ing with it on the march, being required henceforth to dress exclusively in the habiliments of captured Confederacies. We have done with retrograde movements. No more lines of retreat will be kept open, and hence- forth the Mackerel Brigade is to make nothing but great captures. By older of THE GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE [Green Seal.] This able document, my boy, pleased mne greatly as an evidence that the war had indeed commenced in earnest; and though at that moment, I beheld some half a dozen Confederacies ransacking the tent where the general kept his mortgages, his bank account, and other Government property, I felt that our foes were about to lie summarily dealt with at last. An orderly having finally given notice to the Con- federacies rumnmaging within our lines to get to their proper places, in order that the battle mig]ht begin, the Anatomical Cavalry, under Captain Samyule Sa-mith, made a headlong charge upon a body of foes who were destroying a bridge near the middle of the field, and succeeded in obliging them to remain there. This brilliant movement was the signal for a general engagement, and a regiment of Confederacies at once advanced within our lines and inquired the way to Washington. Having given them the desired information, and al- lowed a number of other similar regiments to take a position between the Mackerels and the capital, the   192     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. general gave orders for the Conic Section and the Orange County 1Howitzers to fall cautiously back, in order that the remaining Confederacies might get be- tween us and Richmond.                I You will perceive that by this movement, my boy, we cut the enemy's force completely in two, thus com- pelling him to attack .us either in the front or in the rear, and giving him no choice of any other operation save flank movements. Our plans being thus per- fected, Captain Villiam Brown, with Company 3, Regi- ment 5, was ordered to charge into a wood near at hand, with a view to induce somne recently-arrived re- serve Confederacies to take position in our centre, while still others would be likely to flank us on the right and left. You may remember, my boy, that it has heretofore been our misfortune to fight on the circumference of a circle, while the Confederacy had the inside, and this great strategic scheme was intended to produce a result vice versa. It was a great success, my boy-a great success; and our troops presently found themselves inside the most complete circle on record. Villiam Brown not only charged into the wood, but staid there; and when one of the Orange County Howitzers was dis- charged with great precision at a reporter who was caught sneaking into our lines, the report-was heard by the Venerable Gamlmon at Washington, causing that revered man to telegraph to all the papers, that no one need feel alarmed, as he was perfectly safe, and that our victory was very complete. What particular danger the Venerable Gammon had ,      v   SECOND SERIES.       193 incurred, I can't say, my boy; nor what he knew "about the battle; but his dispatch caused renewed confidence all over the country, and was a great'com- fort to lMis friends. Having got the Confederacies just where he wanted them, the General of the Mackerel Brigade now dis- patched ten veterans under Sergeant O'Pake to attack a few hundred foes who had intrenched themselves in an unseemly manner right alnong our wagons. The Mackerels were well received as prisoners of war, and paroled on the spot; a proceeding which so greatly pleased the idolized general, that he at once issued this second PROCLAMATION. It must be understood, that in his recent proclama- tion directing the Mackerel Brigade to dine exclu- sively upon Southern Confederacies, the general comlnlanding did not intend that such dining should take place without the free consent of aforesaid Con- federacies. It must not be understood that the order concerning the confiscation of Confederate garments is intended to authorize a forcible confiscation of such costume, in opposition to the free will of the wearers. By " no lines of retreat being kept open," is meant: no lines of which the general commanlding was at that time cognizant. THE GENERAL OF THE MAOKEREL BRIGADE. 9   194     OIPHEUS C. OERR PAPERS. This admirable order, my boy, produced great enthu. siasm in the ranks, as no Confederacies had yet been caught, and there was some danger of starvation in the corps.      - And now, my boy, occurred that magnificent piece of generalship which is destined to live forever on the annals of fame, and convince the world that our mili- tary leaders possess a genius eminently fitting every one of them for the next Presidency, or any other peaceful office. By skillful manceuvring, the gifted General of the Mackerel Brigade had succeeded in cutting the elemy's force to pieces, the pieces being mixed up with our own army. Then came the words: ' Forward, double-quick!" Facing toward Washington, our vanguard forced the Confederacies before them to move right ahead. Swift- ly following the vanguard, and evidently fancying that it was flying before them, came a regiment of Con- federacies. Pursuing the latter, as though in triumph, appeared the Conic Section, Mackerel Brigade ; close- ly succeeded in its turn by a regiment of Confederacies in charge of our baggage-wagons, racing after whom was\a reginment of Mackerels; and so on to the end of the li  You may ask me, my boy, with which side reusted the victory in this remarkable movement? That question, my boy, cannot be decided yet, as the whole procession has scarcely reached Washington; but the answer may be said to depend very much upon whether the last regiment coming- in is Mackerel or Confederate. The contest, my boy, has assumed a profound -i'eta-   SECOND SERIES.       195 physical aspect, and the development of a little more military geniusa on our own side will tend to utterly confound our enemies and--everybody else. Yours, ponderingly, ORPHEUS C. KERR. r              '       LETTER LXVIII. INTRODUCING ONCE MORE THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB, WITH A CU- RIOUS "LAMENTE"AND A STORY FROM THE SPANISH MEMBER. WASHINGTON, D. C., September Oth, 1862. You may remember, my boy, that some months ago there was a trespass of depraved burglarious chaps at Wheatland, the seat of Ex-President Buchanan. The matter might have slipped my own mind, had not the British member of the Cosmopolitan, last night, read aloud the following memorandum of- the thing, found in a deserted Confederate camp on the Rappahanaock. The Briton waved his hand for silence, and says he: "AMENT. BY A CHEVALIER D'INDUSTRIE It really seems as if the trick - Of this here game, secession, Was bound to bring disgrace upon        : Each wirtuous profession. f , .    SECOND SERIES.        197 The days of chivalry are gone, When gentlemen wos plucky, And sooner'd starve than lower themselves To make their swag and lucky. Why, when X wos a little prig, And took the junior branches, We all looked down upon the chap That traveled vulgar ranches. It wos beneath a gentleman To stoop to vulgar stealin's; And when I see how things is changed, It really hurts my feelin's. We had some dignity, you see, And upper circles knew it; For if a thing wos wicious mean, We wos too proud to do it! The crib that wos respectable Among the higher classes, We cracked in style, like gentlemen. And took the spoons and glasses. But when a crib wos something low-- An author's, or a preacher's-- We had too much of self-respect To recognize the creatures. If taking watches wos the lay, Or handkerchers, or purses,   lu g     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS, We never noticed wulgar nobs, Nor wictims of rewerses. But things is changed since Johnny died, And our profession's fallen            ;- So werry low, it really ain't         ,.- A gentlemanly' callin'. There's some as once wos gentlemen -When cracksmen's art was balmy, Now shame us all by fig'ring as Contractors for the army'! What wonder, when our former pal, A vulgar, sneakin' knave is, They hang our pictures in a row With Floyd, and Cobb, and Davis? But just as if this wa'n't enough To make us hide our faces, A man we once look'd up to, all, Must add to our disgraces; A base, degenerate, shameless cove Has sullied our profession, By stoopin' to a lay that is Depraved beyond expression.  He's activally come and went- The werry thought's unmannin'- He's activally gone and robbed Ex-President Buchanan!   SItCOND SERIES.      199 Alas! my boy, there is naught so fallen in huma- lity, but it may become still more depraved. I have known members of State Legislatures to be finally elected Congressmen. After the above ]hanson had been read, the Spanish member gave us his story of DON   BOBADIL  BANCO; OR,  WHO    OWNS THE  BABY? "I always respect a man who drinks good Port, especially if he frequently invites me to take dinner with him, aud hence I have selected as my hero, a gallant Spaniard, whose fondness for the delicious juice was never doubted. "Don Bobadil Banco was a gentleman of good fam- ily, who graduated with hlonol at Salamanca, and retired from thence to Madrid, in company with a fellow stulent named Don Philip Fatnesca.  The erudite pair hired lodgings in an aristocratic part of the city, and after mucli  delay, installed one Dame Margy as their housekeeper, cook, and chamber- maid, being resolved to hlusband  their scanty re- sources until, by coming of age, they could inherit the estates and fortunes of their fathers. "It is to be presumed that the friends entered so- ciety and made consummate fools of themselves, as very young men generally do when they first mningle with ladies; but as that period o(f their career cal pos- sess very little unovelty for lmlost people, I shall only favor it with this passing notice, and at once ik-.roduce   200     ORPHEUS 0. KERi P APERS. the gallant pair as the\ appeared on the night  in the month of --, in the year of our Lord at --- o clock.  "In a very small room, before a very small window, was standing a very small table, at the side of which were two'very shabby chairs, on which iwere seated two very young men; and as it was growing very dark. two very small candles, in two very small candlesticks, were placed on the very small table, in company with two very small decanters, filled with very cheap Port, and two very old goblets, of very dirty iewter. The two very young men remained very still for a very long time, save when they made very long ap- plications to the very old goblets-of very cheap Port; and as you lmust be very anxious to know whether these very young men were very ugly or very good looking, I shall be very happy to profit by tilis very opportune state of things, and give a very concise de- scription of their personal charms. "'Don Bobadil was very tall, very thin, with very long black hair, very small black eyes; very yellow complexion, very good teeth, and was dressed very foppishy. "Don Phlip was very short, veery fat, witn very long brown   hair, very large brown eyes, very fair com- plexion, very large mouth, and was plainly attired. "They   both looked very happy, and drank very often. "' Well, Philip,' said Bobadil, at length, 'a bache- lolrs life, in Madrid, is not quite so charming as ill Salamanca; upon my word I   have almost become a   SECOND SERIES.       201 limb of society, and it will prove a sad dismember- ment when I go to mny father's villa. These gay seno- ritas have so completely infatuated mne, that I am never happy out of their companly, and when I think of leavingdthem altogether, it mnakes me reallv misera- ble,' and'the Don consoled himself with a huge swal- low of wine. "I perfectly agree with you,' answered Don Philip, 'and dread the idea of leaving the dear charmers without making one of them a prisoner.' "'We must have more gold soon,' said Bobadil, gloomily, taking a goblet of Port. "'You speak. truly, my friend. Our purses are growing very light, and nothin(g but wealthy wives will make them heavy. How unjust is the decree that makes us wait until we are older before we can help ourselves to the treasures of our famnilies. HEere are nearly thirty hairs upon my chin, and yc the grim old hidalgoes call me a boy yet. Santa Maria! I should like 'to cross swords withl some of those shaking grandees, just to convince theml that I have the strength of a man, if I have not his years.' "' The wish is perfectly natural, Don Phlip, yet it can do us no good at present, when our last flagons of wine stand before us, ;uld Dame Margy grows clamor- ous for her dues,' said Bobadil, imbibing large draughts of grape juice. "'   , beatissimo, neustra Senora! Don't dwell on unpleasant facts, Don )Bobadil,' responded the other;  we must replenish our treasuires, and the mneans to do it should be our present consideration. We must marry stores of maravedis.' 9*   202     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. '" 'That is coming to the point, my dear friend,' and your words are worthy of a sage; but, my dear Philip, to tell the truth, I dread marriage for one rea- son, namely: that, by engaging in it, one becomes liable to incur responsibilities known as babies. I do hate those noisy little nuisances as I hate the devil, and, to have one constantly squalling in I my ears, would soon make a madman of me,' and our hero drank heartily of liquor. "' I will allow the truth of what you say,' replied Philip; 'the cry of an infant is not quite as musical as the harp of Orphetis. Still, it is better to endure such annoyance than to go about with empty purses, and when one who is poor desires to have money, he must endure matrimony, or become a rogue. Now there is Lisette, ready to fall into my arms at any mo- , ment, and brinig mne a long purse; but I will never leave you a bachelor, though I starve.' ' Tears arose involuntarily to the eyes of Bobadil, as his friend spoke thus disinterestedly, and, after holding a cup of wine to his lips for some moments, he answered: "' My dear fellow, you are a sage and I am a fool. You shall not starve for mlie though I have to become the father of five hundred little imps to save you. Yes, dear Philip, I will sacrifice myself upon the altar of friendship, and become a victim of Hiymen.' Here the emotions of the Spaniard became so violent that a large quantity of Port wine was necessary to pre- vent syncope. "Don Philip started from his seat, and eyed his friend with every mark of unbounded surprise.   SECOND SERIES.       203 "' Can you do it ioon?' he asked hurriedly. "'Before another pair of days have shown their tails above the tide of timne,' answered Bobadil with poetic fervor, lhaving recourlse to the decanter contain- ing Port. "'My deal friend, you must be drunk.' ' No, Don Philiip, I amn sober as a monument.' "' Has some fair sonora smiled upoll you a' "Not only has she smiled upon me, but she has actually laughed at me. Port would never intoxicate me.. "' I er lio/! I never heard of this before, Bobadil.' "'Nevertheless, Don Philip, it is true as a pater. My pride would not allow me to mention my case to you, until I became successful in my suit; and when that was decided, I waited until you should be simi- larly circumstanced, and we mighlt marly together. Your frequent absence finom our lodgings, at night, aroused my suspicions, and I resolved to find out your secret before itnlarting mine. Now that you lhave namwed yolr mristress, I will acknowledge that I, also, have one, whose name is Leonora, and I intend to make her my wife, when you lead Lisette to the altar.' "'I am rejoiced to hear you speak thus,' answered Don Philip, ' and Lisette will partake of my joy; but, tell me, Bobadil, will you gain wealth by this union V' "' Gold enough to build a second Escnrial, my dear Philip. Leonora is the daughter of a rich Jew, and can show more marvels than the Infanta of Spain.'   204     ORPHEUS a. KEaR PAPERS. '; Better and better. But how is it that her father will allow her to wed a Catholic?' inquired Philip. "' He is not to be consulted in the matter at all. I may as well relate the circumstances of our acquaint- ance, and you will at once perceive that the Israel- ite's consent is not required. Two weeks ago, I was passing a small house not far from the Plaza del Rio, and, chancing to look up, beheld the face of a beau- tiful Senora looking from a window. Our glances met, whereupon she drew back with a blush, and I gallantly kissed the tip of nmy glove. Although she immediately drew shut the lattice, I fancied, from her look, that she was not displeased with my con- duct, and set about finding out who she was. I soon ascertained that her f ather was a rich Jew, named Miguel, that his wife was dead, and that he lived wit!l his daughter and a wrinkled duenna, whom he had enlisted to watch Leonor a. Much as I despise Jews, the beauty of Leonora liad sunk into my heart, and I resolved to lhave an interview with, her, though our most Holy Church, should excommunicate me for it. Accordingly, I passed the house every day for a week, and each time the lady withdrew fron the window with a blush, as I saluted her. This encouraged me to scrape acquaintance with the pythoness who guard- ed her, and by means of several small bribes, I was at length admitted to a private interview with Leo- nora. My idol was coy at first, but after one or two stolen visits, she returned my passion in an honorable way, and will become my bride whenever it may please me to carry her off from her old thief of a father.'   SECOND SERIES.       205 "'But the Jew has all the gold,' said Don Pliilip, despondingly. "' Not so,' replied Bobadil. ' My angel lias a for- tune of her own locked up in a trunk, and I shall take good care to secure it in ttle first place.' "' His friend's countenance was lighted by a smile, but it passed aay as he as he againspoke- "'Our priests will never conselt to your marriage with a Jewess.' "' What an owl you are,' retorted Don Bobadil; "Seonora shall pass for as good a Catholic as the Pope himself. "' My dear friend, you delight me!' exclaimed Don Philip, springing from his seat and embracing Boba- dil; 'let us then make ourselves and our mistresses happy at once--this very nlight! You can go after Leonora while I seek Lisette.' "Our hero found it necessary to take a drink of somethilg after this proposition, and then responded: "' Spoken like a Spaniard and a gentleman; I will go to the house of Miguel anld brinog the trunlk of trea- sure from thence-that, you know, should be secured first. After bringing it hither I will go back after Leonora, and when next we meet I shall be a married man.' "' Do so, Don Bobadil,' returned Philip, -and I will, in like manner, gain the fortune and hand of Lisette. Let us hastens, mzy friend, and we slall be independ- ently wealthy before morning.' "Together thev draiik the remainder of the wine, and having given certain orders to Dame Margy, left the house, each takitig a different route..   206     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "It rained in torrents, when my hero wrapped his long cloak about him and set out. The tormenting drops rail the length of his nose and poured into his bosoml, they crawled damply down his boots, they trickled grievously into his ears, they clung to his long black hair, and soaked through his sombrero; yet did the brave Spaniard press onward, as a hero advances to the breastworks amid a storm of shot and shells. Love hald cast its thickest blanket about his heart, and a flamne burned glaringly there that nothing but ma- trimony and maravedis could quench. Arriving in front of lhis mistress's abode, my hllero picked tlp a handful of sand, and threw it lightly against a win- dow pane, such being the signal by which he was to make known hs presence when Miguel was at home. Almost immediately a lattice was opened, and a wo- man's head, ornamented with a scarlet cap *le nuit was thrust out. "'.Who's that?' demnanded the duenna, snappishy. "'It's only me,' responded Don Bobtadil, in low tones. "' And who's me?' asked the amialble woman. "' Don Bobadil Banco.' "'Don Bobadil Banco had better go home, if he don't wanlt to have his head broken vith a flower- pot,' snarled the duenna. "' Now, my dear Laura.' "' Donl't ' dear' me! Are you drlnnk V' "' I must see Donnta Leonora,' said Bobadil. "' You are drunk!' sclearne 1 the lady; "'No, I am  not; but, pray, make less noise, my good Laura, or you will have the alguazils about my   SECOND SERIES.        207 ears. Tell your lady that I am here, and you shall -have a pulse of ducats.' "'Oh!-ah! I will,' replied the mercenary woman, retiring quickly fromnthe window and again closing the lattice. ' The adventurous Spaniard stood in soak for half an hour, at the end of which Damne Laura, cautiously ad- mitted him at the door, and lie soon knelt before l}is nistress. Donna Leonora was a charmling little bru- nette, with raven curls and sparklingr black eyes full of nmlirth. "' ( Sancta Maria! what is the mnatter, Don Bobadil?' she exclaimed, eyeing the kneeling personage with surprise. "' Dearest Leonora, idol of my heart!' replied Bob- adil, clasping her waist, ' here on my knees let me im- plore you to become mine forever, and make me hap- pier than the angels. Rlecelt evenlts, which I cannot ex- plain at present, lhave rendered it nlecessary for me to thus intrude upon you at an unseasollable hour, and implore that yoiur promise to become nmy bride may be at once fulfilled.' "' But this is so sudden,' mnrmur ed the lady. "' Pardon my haste, dear Leonora,' answered Don Bobadil. 'I know   how exquisitely sensitive your nature is; but heaven destined us for each other, and when I leave you, I le:lve a part of myself.' "'The gentleman speaks wisely,' interrupted the duenna.: Your father has smoked his opium and will sleep until after meridian to-morrow. Go with -Don Bobadil, Senora, and [Miguel shall learn all from me when he awakes.'   208      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. "Leonora resisted for awhile; but hler objections were speedily overcolne, and she at length yielded to the combined entreaties of her lover, and subtle rea- soning of her mercenary duenna. Such is love. ' Here is a load for you, Senor,' said the latter per- sonage, pointing to a chest studded with brass nails that stood near. 'Carry it off as quickly as possible, and return for your mistress; when you have placed her fortune in a safe place.' 1 "Or hero at once acceded to plans so consonant with his own, and after embracing -the Scnorita, Ihe seized the chest and hastened with it to his lodgin^,s. It was a heavy load for one lman, and the rain still poulred furiously down; but the lover danced on like a feathler before the vagrant zephyrs of spring, and soon deposited his precious freight in the room where he had lately held converse with Don Philip. This done, he hastened back to the house of Don Miguel, impatient to secure his fair bride; but Dame Laura met him at the door, with her fingers pressed upon her lips, and her form barring his f'urtther progress. "'Hi-i! not a word! she whispered cautiously. 'The Jew was aroused by the noise you made de- scending the stairs, and would not be satisfied until he had searched the house with a candle in one hand and a drawn sword in the other. He is quiet now, and if not again disturbed, will soon sleep again. Re- turn to your lodgings, and whlen Miguel slumbers, I will hasten thither with my lady. Not a word! o!' ' Conquering his impatience, Don Bobadil thrust a purse of slim proportions into the bony hand of hise   SECOND SERIES.       209 conlfidante, and turned into the street without breath- ing a syllable. i"As he ascended the stairs to his own room, thle sound of voices fell upon his ear, and fearing for the safety of his treasure, he rushed headlong into tile apartment with his sword drawn and a determination to slaughter the intruders. His anger was soon turned to pleasure, when he beheld Don Philip seated beside a very pretty felnale, whose hlands lie held iAhis owil, and whose ringletted head rested upon his shoulder, with an air o'f filmiliarity that would have been the deatli of any old maid, whose sight could lhave been blighted by such a scene. He also noticed a chest sensewhat smaller than the one he had obtained by right ofoseizure, standing near the window, and felt doubly happy in the conviction that his friend had brought home something more substantial than a wife. "'Lisette, this is my friend, Don Bobadit Banco,' said Don Philip, leading the lady forward and pre- senting her. 'This, Don Bobadil, is my wife, and though she has no proud title, I shall be proud to pre- sent her to ny family as one worthy of a gentlelan's affection." "'My dear Philip, allow me to congratulate you on the possession of a lady, who, if her virtue equals her beauty, must indeed be an angel,' and our hero bowed with his accustomed courte y to the blushinag Selorita.    - "But where is the mistress, of whom you boasted a short title since?' asked Philip, glancing towards the door, as though expecting to behold a fourth per-   210     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. son. 'I supposed that I should find her hlere with a priest.' "' The Jew took me for a thief, and woke up, or Donna Leonora would be here now. But her ducenlta has promised to bring her hither soon and we Imlst have patience.' '"Then take a seat, Don Bobadil, and I will relate the mnanner in which I became possessed of Lisette, for I know you are dying to hear it, though your pride hides your curiosity. While we were at Sala- manca, I became acquainted with a poor orphlan girl, who won tny hleart by her beauty and virtuous con- duct. Other students saw and admired her; but their admiration was not sucli as honor sanctioned, and the girl left the place, preferring a strange place with quiet, to a home in which she was constantly subject to in- sult and annoyance. At the time I knew not the reasons for her suddetn departure, and it filled me with sorrow. I hid my feelings from you, however, fearing that your disposition for mirth might lead you to make a butt of me. I came hither with you, and beheld many fair ladies, but to none did my heart incline, and the fair orphan of Salainanca remnained mistress of lly thoughts. About a week after our arrival in Madl'id, you went to a ball one evening, leaving me to comfort Dame Margy until you came back. Not much liking such company, I strolled forth to the grand plazza and entered a theatre with the crowd. Numerous famliliar fatces appeared in various parts of the building, and while I went about to greet iny friends, the Dlay -vas commenced. I believe I should not have looked upon the stage-at all, so busily was I engaged, had not the   SECOND SERIES. i      2" tones of a voice made ine start back in amazement, and look wildly toward the perfolmers. Near the cenltre of the stage, clad in the costume of her role, and bowing in a flowery train, was a form and face that sent the blood hurtling through my veins like molten lead. After standing like one petrified for some moments, I suddenly quitted the boxes, and gained admittance behind the scenes. I had not been mistaken; the orphan of Salamanca and the actress of Madrid were one. I need not tell an ardent lover like yourself the effect of such a meeting; it is sufficient to say, that Lisette bade farewell to the stage, whither necessity had forced her, and took from thence a libe- ral compensation. Such is the history of my amour, Don Bobadil; and, as we each have caskets at hand, I propose that we become acquainted with their con- tents.' "' Donna Leonora owns the one I brought hither, and it may displease her should-I open it,' answered our hero. "'Not at all, my friend ; she is to be your wife be- fore morning, and what belongs to your wife belongs equally to you.' ' Oh! very well,' responlded Bobadil. "' I will display -the riches of Lisette first to encour- age you, and you may follow with the dowry of Senora Leonora,' said Don Philip, taking off the lid of the second chest. "Our hero looked on in surprise, as his friend dis- played its contents, and his pride made him tremble, lest his own portion should prove less costly. There were gorgeous robes, satin slippers, magnificent orna.   212     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS.- ments of gold, sparkling brilliants, bracelets, neck- laces, and brooches, set with rubies, etneralds, and dia- monds, a tiara sparkling like a constellation of r id- night stars, and an immense leather bag filled with valuable coins. "' Well, Don Philip, you have all the riches of In- dus here!' exclaimed Don Bobkadil, opening wide his eyes in astonishment. "'So much for your discrimination, Bobadil,' re- turned Plhilip. These robes belong to an actress' wardrobe, and are more gaudy than valuable. These rubies, emeralds, and diamonds are pieces of coloredo and crystal glass, intended to dazzle ulsophisticated eyes, but nearly worthless to the jeweler; the gold setting is worth its weight in brass, and these coins alone are genuine. But let ns now look upon your dowry, my friend, when, I doubt not, that we shall be made to wink by the glitter of pure gems and true metal.' "As Don Bobadil listened to the explanations of his friend, his eyes glistened, and at the conclusion he walked proudly towards his chest, with a feeling. of conscious superiority. "'I will not boast,' he said, haughtily; I but Jews are not overfond of tinsel, and my mistress's robes have not a value peculiar to the dinlly-lilghted stage,' so saying, he threw back the cover of his treasure cas- ket.  A shade of disappointment rested upon his features  at the first view, but he d(isdlained to give it utterance, and carelessly threw aside a robe of cheap material, trimmed with imitation ermine. But., alas, the next   p SECOND SVmPRTR.       213 was a garment of scarlet, with bells attached to the skirt; then one of g reen, with faded tinsel ornaments ; another of white flannel, with tarnished silver lace stars about the waist. "During this exhibition, Lisette was apparently en- deavoring to swallow her handkerchief, while Don Philip looked anxiously toward the ceiling, as though its intricate pattern had suddenly become an object of absorbing interest. "Sternly did Don Bobadil delve into his mine of female apparel, expecting soon to strike a vein of mon- strous diamonds with a mosaic of gold. He reaches it at last! Yes, there it is! Mark his glance of pride and exultation as he says: "Don Philip, will you assist me? The Jew's ducats are very heavy, and the bag containing theim rather larger than a Senora's night-cap.' "Don Philip did as he was desired, when suddenly our hero dropped his end of the bag, with a cry more piercing than that of an enraged hyena. Oh shades of Mater .'oney! Por vmda del diablo!   The bag moved, there ca'ne a cry, and thlere appeared in the opening of its leather covering the /heaod of a baby! '"Oh, Holy Virgin! Thunder and lioghtning! Fire! Murder! I'm  lost, tormented, tortured, cheated  Cruel Leonora! Infamous woman! d-d old duenna!' roared the unhappy Bobadil, starping and steaming like an infuriated tea-pot. "' Be calm, my dear friend, I pray you be calm,' cried Don Philip, vainly endeavoring to conquer his mirth, while Lisette rolled on the floor in a paroxysm of laughter.   214     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "'Don't tell me to be calm!' bellowed Bobadil. (Look there! My horror, detestation, abhorrence-a baby! Hear it squeal! I'll strangle the cursed little fiend! Oh, oh, oh!--diablo!'  "'You will arouse the neighborhood.'  ": What do I care! I'm betrayed, swindled, ruined, seduced I Stab me, shoot me, make a bloody corpse of me. Kill that baby, or I'll make6 your wife an or- phan!' "' What's all this?' asked Dame Margy, darting into the apartment and holding up her hands in wild aston- ishment. "Donl't you hear it yell ' howled Bobadil, tearing out his hair by handfulls. 'It's a baby!' "Dame Margy came very near fainting, and Lisette' was obliged to go to her assistapce, whle Don Philip approached his enraged friend and succeeded in sooth- ing him. "' Act like a man,' he said, 'and take measures to punish the perpetrator of the infamous outrage. The baby is a poor innocent little thing, and Lisette will attend to it.- Lisette, look after the baby! Now, Don Bobadil, repress your emotions.' "The retired actress obeyed her intended husband with alacrity, assisted by Dame Margy, who was fully revived, and our hero burst into tears. "' Oh, Philip ' lie blabbered, 'miserable wretch, that I am, what Jhall I do? That infamous woman will be here in a moment, and I know not how to act. Oh! curse that baby!' "W' Woman's wit shall aid you, said the hitlelt o silent Lisette, after whispering to Dame Margy, who imme-.   SECOND SERIES.       215 diately left the apartment. 'Don Bobadil, you must assiume the attire of your housekeeper, and leave Philip and me to account for your supposed absence, when Doinna Leonora arrives.' "As she finished speaking, the old hlousekeeper re- turned with a promiscuous (assortment of female gar- rnents, and before our hero had time to resist, lie pre- sented the appearance, of a stout old lady "'Don't speak a word,' said Don Philip, placing an immense bonnet and veil upon his head, I you nmust pass for Dame Margy, and leave me to settle with your cruel mistress.' "Though not quite satisfied with this arrangement, Don Bobadil accepted in silence, especially as thle sound of approaching footsteps fell upon his ear, as they tumbled hin-to a distant seat. "Dame Margy fled through an opposite door just a two figures, deeply veiled, entered the apartment. "'Holy Virgin! who has rifled my chest? And where is Don Bobadila' exc!ained Leonora, clasping her hands. "'Lady,.' said Don Philip, advancing to meet hef with nuchll dignity. as the friend of Don Bobadil Banco, it is my duty to inform you that lie has dis- covered ALL, and left Madrid forever.' "'All!' exclaimed the lady and duenna in a breath. "' Yes, senora, my friend hates babies i' "Like two agitated fawns, Leollora and her attend- ant dropped their veils and sprang to the side of the chest.   216     ORPREIUS C. KERR PAPERS. "'Why!-lwhat--wio has done this?' exclaimed the fair Jewess, quivering like an aspen leaf. ' You, lady, can best answer that question.' "' It is false! My whole fortune was in that chest! I am cheated, deceived, ruined'!' "( Peace! infamous woman!' thundered Don Boba- dil, no longer able to restrain his rage, and darting toward her. But he stepped upon his skitrts, and pitched headlong to the floor. "'Do I dream?' murmured Leonora in affright. "'You do not,' screalmed our hero, tucking his pet- ticoats under his; arms, and tearing off the vell that concealed his face. Behold! false one! behold! DonH Bobadil Banco!'          ' "' Dear Bobadil, you would not kill me 2' "'No, Leonora, you shall live to repent of this. Take that wretched baby to its father, or I will stran- gle it before your eyes.' "' By the God we all worship, I swear I never saw the child before!' exclaimed Leonora, looking solemnly upward. "' Her air of truthtfulness carried conviction with it, and Bobadil stood like one thunderstruck; but soon a new expression fell upon his countenance, and he turned gravely to the duenna. "' Perhaps you own the-the baby!' "'You're a nasty dirty beast!' retorted the chaste creature, rushing from the room like a ricochetting shot. "' I can answer for the innocence of Laura,' said  Leonora, calmly. "Rebuked by her dignified manner, our hero men   SECOND SERIES.       217 tally exonerated her from all blame ; yet there was the baby, screaming lustily, and no other valuables were found in the chest. "' Forgive me, if I have wronged you,' he said, pen- itently,' I judged too quickly; but then I took those gaudy robes from yonder chest, and-who owns the baby?' "' I see how it is,' said Donna Leonora composedly, turning toward the door, 'you have adopted this plan to rob me of the little fortune I possessed. I would willingly incur a much greater loss to escape from such a monster. Keep my gold, Don Bobadil, and say you become a better man.' "Our hero stood motionless, involved in a maze of doubts and fears ; and the lady was about departing, when Lisette suddenly sprang forward, and prevented her. "' Stop, lady!' she exclaimed, ' the trick has gone far enough--I own the baby!' "' Lisette speaks truly, and Iaam the baby'syather!' said Don Philip, grasping the hand of our perplexed hero. 4 ' Villain!' exclaimed Bobadil, feeling for his sword. "'Wretchl' screamed Leonora, feeling for her handkerchief. "'I humbly crave your mercy, until you have heard my story,' replied Don Philip, coolly placing his arm about the waist of his Lisette. ' This lady,' he continued, ' is my wife, and has been such for two years. I have kept my secret thus rigidly, that it should not reach the ears of ,ny family until I liad ar- 10            t   218     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. rived at man's estate; but when you determined to take a wife I resolved to make you my confidant. While you were at the house of Miguel to-night, I brought my wife and baby hither, wishing to surprise you at your return. I found your chest filled with the riches I afterwards showed you as the property of an actress, and prompted by a spirit of mirth, I exchanged its contents for those of our own. Knowing your hos- tility to babies, I placed the young Bobadil in your casket also, and had you taken notice of small things, you would have observed that I left the lid partly open. It's only a reminiscence of college trickery, my dear Bobadil, and if it has given offence, behold the culprit at your feet.' "The friendly smile of his friend and the imploring glance of Lisette, completely overcame our hero's resentment, and he extended his hand in all gentle- ness; then turning quickly to the silent, though smil- ing Leonora, he fell at her feet, exclaiming: "' 'Dear lady, we are both victims of our friend's frolic, and there should be no anger between us. I do dislike babies so much, that the sight of one makes me desperate; but now that all is explained, I hope you will forgive me.' "The lady smiled so encouragingly upon him, that he soon stood face to face--Imean lips to lips-with her. "'Let us seek a priest,' said Don Philip, with solemnity. "How this proposition was received, may be as- sumed from the fact that Dame Margy soon locked up an empty house. How Miguel the Jew conducted   SECOND SERIES.       219 when he awoke next morning; how the families of our friends received the news of their scions' mar- riages, and how the young gentlemen felt themselves, are matters not explained by history; but it is certain that Don Bobadil and Don Philip were never again in want of ducats, and it is also certain that if any one wished to see an angry man, he could be gratified by eyeing the youngest Banco in a suspicious manner, and asking in mysterious tones--' Who owns the Baby '" At the conclusion of this exemplary Spanish tale, my boy, we ".adjourned " our slumbers to Willard's. Yours, drowsily, ORPHEUS C. KERR. i   G    LETTEPR fIXX. ILLUSTRATING THE IMPERTURBABLE CALMNESS OF THE NATIONAL CAPITOL} AND NOTING THE MEMORABLE INVASION OF ACCOMAC. WASHINGTON, D. C., September 12th, 1862. As I sit looking out of my window, my boy, on the' street below, and notice how tranquilly all-things are going on here, despite the excitement of the time, a deep sense of satisfaction steals over me, and the American Eagle of patriotic pride flaps his breezy pinions on the oak tree of my heart. Tlough I have just been lauglling myself almost sick at the ludicrous manner in which my friend, the Confederacy, has walked right straight into the cunning trap prepared for his destruction by our own noble and profound generals, actually hastening his own annihilation by rushing blindly through our lines, and capturing the twenty or thirty artful villages, towns, and garrisons left there for the express purpose of tempting him to his dreadful doom-though I have just been splitting my sides over this roaring caqse of ridiculous suicide, my boy, the city of Washington still maintains its calmness! Ever' conscious that conquer we must, for our cause it is just, this city remains as placid as a summer dream; nearly all the liquor-shops doing a   SECOND SERIES.       221 good business through the day, and the evening find- ing a majority of our army officers at their posts. Lamp-posts, my boy. There is something touchingly grand in the calm- ness of Washington under such circumstances, and it reminds me of a pleasing little incident in the Sixth Ward. There was a female millinery establishment on the third floor of a building: composed principally of stairs, fed with frequent small rooms, and the expa- triated French comtesse, who realized fashionable bonnets there, used one of her windows to display her wares. At this window, rmy boy, she always kept a young woman of inuch bloom and symmetry, with the latest Style on her head, and an expression of unut- terable smile on her face. A young chap carrying a trumpet in the Fire Department happened to notice that this angel of fashion was always -at the window when lhe went by; and as the thought that she par- ticulally admired his personal charms crept over him, he at once adopted the plan of passing by every day, attired in the garments best calculated to render fire- going manhood most beautiful to the eye. He donned a vest representing in detail the Sydenllam flower-show on a yellow ground, wore inexpressibles representing innumerable black serpents ascending white columns, assumed a neck-tie concentrating all the highest glories of the Aurora Borealis, mounted two breast. pins and three studs torn from some glass-house, and wore a hat that slanted on his head in an engaging and intelligent manner. Day after day he passed be- fore the millinery establishment, my boy,' still behold-    222     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. ing the beloved object at the window, and occasion. ally placing his hand upon his heart in such a way as to show a large and gorgeous seal-ring containing the hair of a fellow-fireman who had caught such a cold at a great fire that he died some years after. "How camn she is!" says he to himself, "and she's as pretty  as ninety's new hose-carriage. It seems to me," says the young chap to himself, stooping down to roll up the other leg of his pants--" it seems to me that I never see anything so cam. She observes my daily agoing and yet she don't so much as send somebody down to see if there's any overcoats in the- front entry." One day, my boy, a venerable Irish gentleman, keeping a boarding-house and ice-cream saloon in the basement of the establishment, happened to go to sleep on the stairs with a lighted camp]lene lalnp in his hand, and pretty soon the bells were ringing for a con- flagration in that district. Immed':ately our gallant firemen were on their way to the spot; and having first gone through forty-two streets on tilhe other side of the city to wake the people up there - and apprise them of their great danger, reached the dreadful scene, and instantly began to extinguish the flames by bring- irng all the furniture out of a house not more than three blocks below. In the midst of these self-sacrificing ef- forts, a form was seen to dart into the burning build- ing like a spectre. It was the enamored young chap who carried a trumpet in the department. He had seen the beloved object sitting at the window, as usual, and was bent upon saving her, even though he missed the exciting fight around the corner. Reach-   SECOND SERIES.       223 ing the millinery-room door, he could see the object standing there in the midst of a sea of fire. '"How cam she is," says he. "Miss Milliner," says he, " don't you see you're all in a blaze?"But still she stood at the window in all her calmness. The devoted young chap turned to a fellow-fireman who was just then se- lectinog two spring bonnets and some ribbon for his wife, in order to save them from the flames, and says he : "Jakey, what shall I do?"But Jakey was at that time picking out some artificial flowers for his young- est daughter, my boy, and made no answer. Unable to reach the devoted maid, and rendered desperate by the thought that she must be asleep ill the midst of her danger, the fiantic young chap inmadly hurled his truln- pet at her. It struck her, and actually knocked her head off! Horrified at what he had done, the excited chap called himself a nliser able wretch, and was led out by the collar. It was Jakey who did this deed of kindness, and says he: "What's the matter with you, my covey?"The poor young chap wrung his hands, and says he: "I've killed her, Jakey,PI've killed her- and she so cam." Jakey took some tobacco, and then sars he: "Why, that was only a pasteboard gal, you poor devil." And so it was, my boy-so it was; but the affair had such an effect upon the young chap that he at once took to drinking, and when delirium tre- mens marked him for its own, his last words were: "I've killed her, Jakey, I've killed her--and she so cam." Washington, my boy, is " cam" in the midst of a conflagration. That is to say, the Government is   224     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "cam," they say ; and it may be doubted whether it would be otherwise, even with its head knocked off. The other day, I paid another visit to the Mackerel camp across the river, and was present at a meeting of officers called to debate upon the propriety of pre- sentilg a sword to the beloved general, for his heroism in the late great battle. Captain Samyule Sa-mith was in favor of the presentation, and says he: "Our inimitable leader, which is the admiration of every- body, richly deserves the blade in question. In the thickest of that deadly fray, his coat-tails were torn entirely off by a parrot shell." Captain Villiam Brown placed the bottle on the ta- ble again, and says he: "At which joint were the tails amputated, Sam- yule a" Samyule took a little more sugar with his, and says he: "Close to the buttons." "Ah!" says Villiam, "which way was the con- queror's face turned at the time?" "I can't say," says Samyule ; " but I don't see what that has to do with it." ' That's because you have a feeble intelleck, Sam- yule," says Villiam, mildly. "The human form," says Villiam, reasoningly, " has such variations of surface, that a projectile hurled at it in a straight line, cannot simply graze it to any extent without making a wound in some place. The coat-tails of the human-form," says Villiam, lucidly, "could not without injury to that form be severed at the buttons by a ball, unless they were sticking straight out at the instant; and it   SECOND SERIES.       225 is important that the United States of America should know whether the face of the wearer was turned to- ward the Southern Confederacy, or in an opposite di- rectioll, at the exact moment of the disaster." The electrifying wisdotn of this thoughtful speech, ny boy, had the effect to produce an immediate ad- journment of the general's friends ; for when the test of anatomy is applied to a man's bravely, that bravery becomes a mere matter of form. The general, my boy, is the idol of his Mackerel children, and as our armies slowly advance to deal the death-blow to this impious rebellion, it will be proved that he was not responsible for a single one of the mis- takes he has made, and could have taken Richmond lonlg ago, but for his inability to do so. Heaven for- give these Jacobin black-republicans who object to his being President in 1865! This is the prayer of twenty millions of firee white men under the Constitution, as was very justly observed to mne by a political chap from New Haven last week. On Tuesday, the Mack- erel Brigkde was on the outskirts of Accomac--Com- pany 3, Regiment 1, being sent ahead, under Colonel Wobert Wobinson, to watch the movements of some regiments of Confederacies, who were believed to be eithler there or in South Carolina. The advance-guard stayed there two days, my boy, and then an orderly came riding in to the general, with the request that he would immediately serid re-enforcements and pro- visions, as Company 3, Regiment 1, was in danger of starvation and defeat, at short notice. The general ceased tanning himself for a moment, and says he to the perspiring Orderly: 10*   226     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "I have heard your request, my child; but before I comply with it, I wish to know what is the present political complexion of Colonel Wobinson." The half-starved orderly clasped his thin hands to- gether, and says he: "I don't know; but for God's sake, general, send us something to eat, and some help, or not one of us can be saved." The general waved his hand magisterially, and says he: "That's very true. But I must first know what are the sentiments of Colonel Wobinson on the negro question." The orderly might have responded, my boy, had he not fainted just then from weakness. In pity for his comrades, orders were at once given for the transport- ation of provisions, and re-enforcements to Company 3 before the end of the month; and had the before men- tioned Confederacies delayed marching into Accomac until that time, I should not be obligei now to chro- nicle anotlher of those disasters to our arms, which the traitorous harangues of Wendell Philips have so out- rageously produced. If this war is to be prosecuted with vigor, my boy, we must repose unlimited confidence in the ability of the Administration and of our generals, resolutely frown- ing down all Jacobin demonstrations at home, and suf- 'fering our leaders to be interfered with by no one but each other. If we permit civilians to manage-matters, the country will be undone; but if, on the contrary, we trust everything to Our generals, the country will be " done "- brown.   SECOND SERIES.       227 Luckily for us all, the occupation of Accomac by the celebrated Southern Confederacy, is a part of the great plan of the General of the Mackerel Brigade to end this rebellion in one crushing blow, and as soon as the entire Confederacy shall have entered Accomac in safety, the Mackerel Brigade will proceed to bag it. You don't see exactly how this is to be done, eh?  There you go again, my boy! always meddling with what you don't understand, and presuming, in your civiliain imbecility, to doubt the practicability--not to say the utility-of a covert invincibility, rendering it a futility on the part of Southern agility to take for weak debility what is really strategic facility, and bound, in its great fertility of warlike inventibility and utter reliability, to turn all the foe's agility to a final accountability, that shall cause him, in future humility, to treat us, at least, with civility. Such, my boy, is the Mackerel plan, to a T. This strategy's lilke some plan for grain depending so much on a fall of rain, that, in less' than a week, should the drought relnain, 'twould ruin it altogether. It-pondereth blindly whether or no the opposite hosts will do so-and-so: and hlow it will end at last, you know, dependeth upon the " whether." Yours, calmly, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LXX. COMMENCING WITH HSTORICAL REFERENCE; RELATING THE EPI- SODE OF SPURIOSO GRIMALDI, AND DETAILING THE LAMENTABLE FAILURE OF CAPTAIN SA3IYULE tSA-SMTH TO PERISH HEROI- CALLY. WASHINGTON, D. C., September 20, 18G2. I AM in a star-spangled state of mind, my boy, in consequence of our'recent great victories, and would most respectfully request the Govelnors of all the States to push forward re enforcements immediately. Having rashy ventured into Accomac after forage and the puirsuit of happiness, the well-known South- ern Confederacy is now hemmed-in with much car- nage, and finds itself hem'd and haw'd. The South, the South, we love her still, no love than ours pro- founder ; and, having cornered her at last, we've thrown our arms around her.         L Let us rejoice together, my boy, over the victory that has brought new lustre to our flag, and proceed to extract from history a few parallels calculated to indi- cate that the United States of America are somewhat superior to the ancients in the art of war. At the battle of Thermopylae the heroic Greeks en- gaged in the conflict with their foes to the number of some thousands, and as their foes also prosecuted hos,   SECOND SERIES.       229 tilities simultaneously, the result was a struggle ter- - minating in the discomfiture of the defeated party. Omnium v ncit orania. At the siege of Troy, the Tro- jans became involved in active warfare with the Greeks, the latter being the adversaries of their oppo- nents, and though either side used their weapons against the other side, victory finally pelched upon the banners of the conqueror, and produced the-gene- ral effect of sic transit glow'ia mundi. Thle Troy 2T:ib- une suppressed all mention of McClellan in its ac-, count of this spirited affair. The dreadful struggle of Argentium was commenced by the attack of olle host upon its antagonists, and raged bitterly, until a cessa- tion of hostilities found the victors holding an advan- tage over the defeated. l'urnside's division was not engaged. In the awful affair of Roncesvalles, thle mylrmidons of Chlarlemalne and the hirelings of Spain committed a breach of the peace by prosecuting a mutual affray, resulting in the overthrow of the legions which were principally overcome, and an advantage for the brigades chiefly entitled to the victory. Nihil est nullus. It will be perceived, my boy, that the army of the Potomac was engaged in none of those celebrated contests, as they did not all take place in the same week. We make much better time, my boy, than the ancients. I told you in my last, that the celebrated Southern Confederacy had courted inevitable destruction by marching mnadly-into Accomac at the very romenlt when the victorious Mackerel Brigade was marching out-and before I proceed further with the tale of in- I   230     ORPHEUS 0. TCRRR PAPERS. vasion, I must pause to relate the strange episode of Spurioso Grimaldi. Spurioso Grilnaldi, my boy, superintended the emi- gration from Italy to this country of a hand-organ that was banished for playing revolutionary tunes some time ago, and on arriving upon our shores pro- ceeded immediately to don a red shirt, and plan revo- lutions for the coming fall and winter seasons. Upon the breaking out of the war he enlisted three volun- teers under his banner from the chorus of the Academy of Music; but it was not until the recent occupation of Accomac that he attempted to put his first revolu- tionary scheme into operatiol. Then, indeed, he armed his three divisions with three George Law muskets, and having gained the borders of suffering Accomac, he issued the following: PROCL A ATION. Accomackians! Itow ate you to day? This is, in- deed, a pleasant morning, and the crops look well. Accomackian., arise! For years you have been the terror of all strangers stopping at your hotels. The accommodations you offer, taken into consideration with the prices you charge, are sufficient to appal the world! Arise! Remember Waterloo, and Wagram, and Bull Run, and other battles in which you took no active part. Now! REight away! Hey? G- RMATT)T.   SECOND SERIES.       231 As the Union element still lives in Accomac, my boy, and wishes nothing done to disturb the neighbor- hood, lie could not but deem Mr. Grimaldi's move- ment ill advised, and issued the following respon- sive PROCT, A M A TION. S. Grimaldi, at the head of an army of three equip- ped and disciplined troops, calls the Accomackians to arms. This is scarcely the tilne for such a call, and -the army of liberation is scarcely adequate to the en- terprise proposed. Some disaster might occur should an army of three equipped and disciplined troops at- tack a force of twenty thousand, under Stonewall Jackson, at this present crisis. Therefore, let Acco- mac rest in peace, and continue to keep a hotel. UNION L. LAMENT. These proceedings caused great excitement down at Paris and Loudon, my boy, and the excellent and in- dependent journals of those places proceeded at once to publish several yards of profound editorial on the probable convulsion of the earth's surface, in conse- quence of S. Grimaldi's revolutionary proceedings. "The entire habitable universe," said the Paris Pit- cher, " appears on the verge of terrible npheavings, and the army of S. Grimaldi seems destined to work an entire change in the economy of the creation, and oblige the North and South Poles to change places permanently."   232     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Not to be outdone, the London Tumbler issued an extra, composed entirely of auction advertisements and an excited editorial: "The black cloud so long brooding over the shrinking countellallce of uptured nature seemns at length prepared to vomit its horrid flames over the entire surface of animated humanity. S. Grimaldi, who is now marching on Accolnac, is llot unlikely to prove the instrumnent of this eartl-rending explosion. The unholy Ameirican rebellion dwindles to insignificant nothingness in comparison with this terrible affair."' So Grimaldi marshaled his three divisions, my boy, and having marched upon Accornac, was promptly ar- rested by the police and incarcerated to await an ex- amination. So much for the episode of Spurioso Gri- maldi l Turning firom events which have a deeper interest for Europe than for our own victorious btt distracted country, let me ,cheer and improve youlr inld, my boy, with some account of the recent glorious victo- lies around Accomac, wherein the fearless and un- wounded Mackerel Brigade acquired another coat of glory, making the third this season. It was Tuesday morn, when Captain Samytle Sa- mith of the advance guard, having satisfied himnself that the Brigade was about to achieve its crowning victory, concluded that the time for expiring after the manner of General Wolfe at Quebec had arrived at last. The battle had already commenced, my boy, and a squad of evil-minded Confederacies were in fill retreat after the Mackerel pickets, when Samyule hastily fell upon his back, and beckoned for the alrtist   SECOND SERIES.        233 of Frank Leslie's Illustrated paper, motioned for the earest reporter to take out his note-book, drew a lock of red hair from his bosom and kissed it, waved Ilis left hand feebly toward his counlltry's standlar(d, anld, says lihe: Tete (I'Arlne! I die, fol the old fla--" "Stop!" shrieked a Mackerel, dashing franltically to his side at lthis instant. "The Anatonical Cavalry, which is ordered to charge the- foe, wishes to know if it shall take its horses along.5' Up sprang Samythe, and s'ays he: "'Tell the horsemen to take everything but their trunks with them, and not to stay more than a week. I really believe," says Samnyule in a great passion--"I really believe the artillery will be wanting to know next if they'd better load before firing." Just at this time, mny boy, the Conic Section of the Mackerel Brigade, under Captain Villiamn B1rown, came chlarging toward the spot witlh fixed bay'onets, their gallant leader waving his sword, Escalibar, over his head, and calling on his troops to lead on to vic- tory. Forward they went like mad, rushing past us in swift filry, and comnposing the lieaviest visitation of red noses ever yet launched upon a foe. To be sure, no foe -was visible in the immediate line of t}heir charge; but as they happened to be going down a pretty steep hill at the time, it was quite possible that they might meet some adversaries before they could stop themselves. Fired by the sight, Captain Samyule Sa-mith flew to take command' of a company of Mackerels, who were busily filing their muskets at some Confederacies not more than two miles distant; and having placed   234     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. himself at the head thereof, was about to proceed in pursuit of warlike adventuress, when he caught sight of a body of men, followed by another body of inen, moving along in the valley below him. "Hem!" says Samyile, ponderingly, " what is this  sight mine eyes belfold?" "  Oh," says a sergeant beside him, " that's the No. 3 army of the Confederacy, escorting some prisoners which they have just taken at Iarper's Ferry." Samyule regarded the spectacle attentively for a moment, and says lie: "Well, there's only one thing inore I want to know about it. I want to know," says Salmyule thoughtfully, "' which of tlem two bodies of infantry is the army, and whichh is the prisoners 2" Was there the tiniest, wee-ist, smallest fragment of sarcasm  in his speech? Find out for yourself, my boy-find out for yourself. It was shortly after this remark, and while the Orange County Howitzers were raining a tempest of shot and shell at everything but the enemy, that a small bit of shrapnell fell near Samyule's feet, and again reminded him of his latter end. Notiang that he was observed by those around him, my bot, and that the surroundings of the scene were picturesque, he uttered a hollow groan and fell plone to the earth. Then picking up the bit of shrapnell, and laying it upon his heart, lhe kicked once, and says he: "Is it almost morning, motler? Hurra for the old fla-" t"Forward with Company 2, immediately," thun- dered a messenger who at this moment came tearing   SECOND SERIES.       235 to the spot. "The Confederacy has flanked the Conic Section, and is trying to escape." Preferring to defer death itself rather than see his beloved country outwitted by the rebels, Captain Samyule Sa-fhith darted swiftly to his feet at the word, and instaneously led Company 2 down the hill at double-quick. I followed-him half-way, my boy, and then turned off into a cross road, where I found Cap- tain Villiam Brown striving to get a portion of the devoted Conic Section into a straight line by ranging it against a fence. Villiam ceased his labors when he saw me approaching, and says he: "Here's conquering beings for you. Ah!" says Villiam, proudly, "I sent these invincible beings-on a bayonet charge just now, and they have all come back without their muskets." "What did they do with them A" says I. "Left them sticking in the foe," says Villiam, ex- ultingly. "Are you sure of that, my Alcibiades?" says I, skeptically. "Why," says Villiam, confidentially, "they didn't bring a single one back with them, and of course they must have left them sticking into the paralyzed Con- federacies." If Villiam could draw a checque as easily as he can draw an inference, my boy, he might paper the out- side of the universe with ten dollar bills and have enough fifties left to make a very deep border. Leaving the decimated corps to reorganize, I has- tened down the hill again, and arrived at the bottom only to find a group of reporters and Mackerels ;   236     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. surrounding a manly prostrate form. Company 2 had just succeeded in routing sotme Confederacies from a melon-patch, and Captain Samyule Sa-mith was im- proving the opportunity to expire once more in an affecting manner. Lifting his feeble head when he saw me, and pulling a small flag a little fuirtler out of a side-pocket in his coat, the perishing warrior smiled half way down his chin, and says he: "I still live! All hail to the old fla--" "One moment, if you please!" shouted Colonel Wobert Wobillson, breaking through the group.- "Could you make it convenient to pay me that dollar you owe me, Samyule?" Samyule arose deliberately to his feet again; my boy, wearing upon his countenance the most awful expressioln I ever saw upon a human face. '- Well," says Samyule, furiously, "I've tried to die for my country three times to-day, and never got further: than the old fla-! There is such vulgarity in them which incessantly surrounds me," says Sam- yule, bitterly, " that they won't even let me die in peace."                l Here a Mackerel chap sniffed differentially, and says he: 'eBut you was trying to die in war, capting." There was something so inhuman in the idea of a man making a joke on such a serious occasion, as that, my boy, that the entire party was struck dumb witlh horror; and one of the spectators retired precipitately behind a tree, where I immediately heard hill laugh- ing wildly with joy over the thought that it was not   SECOND SERIES.      237 himself who had been guilty of such a hideous enormity. It would be useless for me to spend more time in showing how the battle raged to a victorious conclu- sion, leaving the Mackerel Brigade in triumphant possession of the ground it occupied at the outset, and the Confederacy rooted to the spot it held from the commencement. Scarcely had the strife been finished half an hour, when the popular General of the Mackerel Brigade arrived to direct all the movements in person, alnd to gain some knowledge of the victories he had just won. Accompanying him was the political chap from New Haven, who at once proceeded to congratulate tile troops and address them on the subject of the next election. "My brothers in arms," says he, with fond familiar- ity, " having done our duty as patriots, let us proceed to ballot ftor President of the United States in 1865. Need I say that our victorious general is the man?" Truly, my boy, we shall have little difficulty in selecting a chief magistrate next term, when there is such a Geheral longing for the nomination. Yours, politically, ORPHEUS C. KERR. b   "1   LETTER LXXI. SHOWING HOW THE PRESIDENT AND THE GENERAL OF THE MACK- EREL BRIGADE ISSUED GREAT EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATIONS' AND HOW THE CHAPLAIN WROTE A RADICAL POEM. Washington, D. C., September 27th, 1862. "John Brown's body," which has been " marching on " for some time past, my boy, being thus consid- erably in advance of our strictly Constitutional Arny, has at length made a great strategic movement, and evoked the following promissory note firom our Honest Old Abe:  COLORLESS DOMCIL, Sept. 22d, 1862. "Ninety days after date I promise to pay the South- ern Confederacy, or order, the full amount of its de- serts. "; $ Emanrcipation..       H. O. ABE." The morning after this little settlement was made, my boy, I met the conservative Kentucky chap on Pennsylvania avenue, and was greatly edified by his liighlminded remarks on the subject. "Having re- cently disposed of ny attached contrabands to good   SECOND SERIES.      239 advantage," says lie, sagely, "' I am now deeply con- vyinced that my brother-in-law, the Southern Confed- eracy, has 'brought this dispensation upon himself. I lhave said all along that it would be so at last," says the genial Kentucky chap, casting another glance at the score of a recent game of Euchre which lie held in his hand. "I have said all along that it would be so at last, and I am still disposed to sustain the Ad- ministration and crush the Black Republicans." When I remembered the sentiments held by this accommodating chap only about a week ago, my boy, I could not but feel that, he had made a remarkably sudden revolution on the axes lie liad to grind; and as there was a pleasing spice of human audacity in his easy way of suiting his style to the political demands of the moinent, I was strongly reminded of a cliap I once knew in the Sixth Ward. He wyas a young chap of gorgeous vest-pattern, and one Sunday afternoon he went out riding with another sprightly young chap, who was accompanied by his plighted pink bonnet. They were riding joyously along in their hired veliicle, my boy, pleasantly dis- cussing the merits of Eighty's new forelman, and other subjects equally well calculated to entertain and imr- prove the fond fenmale mllind, when, as thley turned a sharp corner, there loomed up, at some distance ahead, a house bearing a sign reading: FEED STORE :   240     ORPIIEUS . KERR PAPERS. No sooner did the spirited ]ivery-horse observe this dangerous sign, my boy, than he dashed toward it in a manner worthy of my own gothic steed, the architec- tural Pegasus; and as there happened to be a few stones in the way, the two chaps and the pink bonnet were presently shot into the surrounding atmosphere without regard to the character of the day. While the excited quadruped went on with the two fore-wheels of the vehicle for the purpose of reading the sign nearer by, the chap of the gorgeous vest-pattern an- nounced his safe arrival in a sand-bank by the appro- priate and ctleery cry of "Fire! fire! fire!" and the other chap and the pink boTnnet warbled hasty thanks- givings in the bosom of a romantic ditch. How they finally caught the spirited livery holse, and induced him to come back to the city again by making a copy of the sign on a bit of paper, and placing it in his mouth, and how they ultimately reached home, you must imagine. ]But in about a week after, the unnat- ural livery-stable keeper brought suit against the smit- ten chap for the two hind-wheels of his wagon ; and when the young chap of gorgeous vest-pattern was put upon the stand to prove that the catastrophe was not the driver's fault, he winked agreeably at the peo- ple, and says he: "My friend and assoshate exerted hisself visibly to subdue the fiery old oat-mill. As it was, his brains was nearly dashed out, his neck-tie was sprained, and hefound his watch wound up." Here the livery lawyer thought he had the- friendly chap in a tight place, and says he: "You say that by being thrown from the wagon so violently, the defendant's watch was wound up. Per-   SECOND SERIES.       241 haps you will illform the court how such a strange phenomenon could occur?." The young chap merely paused long enough to make another desperate attempt to reconcile the bot- toln-edge of his waistcoat to the top-edge of his inex- pressibles, and says he, with a fine smnile: "Why, it was easy enough for his watch to be wound up by it, my covey; because he turned three times in, the air before he lit." Accommodating conservative chaps, my boy, though momentarily thrown out of their reckoning, by reason of sudden proceedings caused by the latest signs of the times, have a happy aptitude for turning-about as often as mav seem  necessary, before alighting on a fixed principle. The Mackerel chaplain, who came up fromn Harper's Ferry on Monday-afternoon, was delighted with H. O. Abe's promissory note, and considers that old John Brown is at last AVENGED. GOD'S scales of Justice hang between The deed Unjust and the end Unseen, And the sparrow's fall in the one is weighed By the Lord's own Hand in the other laid. In the prairie path to our Sun-set gate, In the flow'ring heart'of a new-born State. Are the hopes of an old man's waning years, 'Neath headstones worn by an old man's tears. "   242      ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. v When the bright sun sinks in the rose-lipped West, His last red ray is the headstone's. crest; And the mounds he laves in a crimson flood Are a Soldier's wealth baptized in blood! Do ye ask who reared those headstones there, And crowned with thorns a sire's gray hair? And by whom the Land's great debt was paid To the Soldier old, in the graves they made'? Shrink, Pity! shrink, at the question dire; And, Honor, burn in a blush of fire I Turn, Angel, turn from the page thine eyes, Or the Sin, once written, never dies! They were men of the Land he had fought to save From a foreign foe that had crossed the wave, When his sun-lit youth was a martial song, And shook a throne as it swelled along. They were sons of the clime whose soft, warm breath Is the soul of earth, and a life in death; Where the Summer dreams on the couch of Spring, And the songs of birds through the whole year ring; Where the falling leaf is the cup that grew To catch the gems of the new leafs dew, And the winds that through the vine-leaves creep Are the sighs of Time in a pleasant sleep.   SECOND SERIES.         243 But there lurked a taint in the clime so blest, Like a serpent coiled in a ring-dove's nest, And the human sounds to the ear it gave Were the clank of chains on a low-browed Slave I The Soldier old at his sentry-post, Where the sun's last trail of light is lost, Beheld the shame of the Land he loved, And the old, old love in his bosom moved. He cried to the land, Beware! Beware Of the symboled Curse in the Bondman there i And a prophet's soul in fire came down To live in the voice of old John Brown. He cried; and the ingrate answer came In words of steel from a tongue of flame; They dyed his hearth in the blood of kin, And his dear ones fell for the Nation's Sin! O, matchless deed! that a fiend might scorn, O, deed of shame! for a world to mourn; A Soldier's pay in his blood most dear, And a land to mock at a Father's tear! Is't strange that the tranquil soul of age Was turned to strife in a madman's rage? Is't strange that the cry of blood did seem Like the roll of drums in a martial dream? [   244      ORPHEUS O, KERR PAPERS. Is't strange the clank of the Helot's chain Should drive the Wrong to the old man's brain, To fire his heart with a santon's zeal, And mate his arm to the Soldier's steel? The bane of Wrong to its depth had gone, And the sword of Right from its sheath was drawn; But the cabined Slave heard not his cry, And the old man armed him but to die. Ye may call him Mad, that he did not quail When his stout blade broke on the unblest mail; Ye may call him Mad, that he struck alone, And made the land's dark Curse his own; But the Eye of God looked down and saw A just life lost by an unjust law; And black was the day with God's own frown   \ When the Southern Cross was a martyr's Crown! Apostate clime! the blood then shed, Fell thick with vengeance on thy head, To weigh it down 'neath the coming rod When thy red right hand should be stretched to God. Behold the price of the life ye took; At the death ye gave 'twas a world that shook; And the despot deed that one heart broke, From their slavish sleep a Million woke!   SECOND SERIES.        245 Not all alone did the victim fall, Whose wrongs first brought him to your thrall; The old man played a Nation's part, And ye struck your blow at a Nation's heart I The freemen-host is at your door, And a Voice goes forth with a stern "No More!" To the deadly Curse, whose swift redeem Was the visioned thought of John Brown's dream. To the Country's Wrong, and the Country's stain, It shall prove as the scythe to the yielding grain  And the dauntless pow'r to spread it forth, Is the free-born soul of the chainless North. From the East, and West, and North they come, To the bugle's call -and the roll of drum; And a form walks viewless by their side- A form that was born when the Old Man died! The Soldier old in his grave may rest, Afar with his dead in the prairie West; But a red ray falls on the headstone there, Like a God's reply to a Soldier's pray'r. He may sleep in peace 'neath the greenwood pall, For the land's great heart hath heard his call; And a people's Will and a people's Might, Shall right the Wrong and proclaim the Right.  ,   24] /   ORPHEIUS 0. KERR PAPERS. The foe may howl at the fiat just, And gnash his fangs in the trodden dust; But the battle leaves his bark a wreck, And the Freeman's heel is on his neck. Not all in vain is the lesson taught, That a great soul's Dream is the world's New Thought; And the Scaffold marked with a death sublime Is the Throne ordained for the coming time.        The chaplain runs as naturally to poetry,- my boy, as a water-melon does to seed, and his muse is apt to be-alas! what a melancholy one! In my last epistle; I was somewhat hyperbolical when I meant to be metaphorical, as some of the older writers were allegorical when they meant to be cate- gorical. I told you, my boy, that we had cornered the prudish Confederacy in Accomac, and "thrown our arms around her." Your natural ignorance will de- mand an explanation; and I deem it fit to say,that by the phrase " thrown our arms around her," I meant to say that certain Mackerel regiments, in furtherance of the profound strategy of the General of the Mack- erel Brigade had thrown their arms away, on every side of the entrapped Confederacy. It was believed that the Confederacy was perfectly safe for imme- diate capture my boy; but upon the discovery that the fords of Allkwyet Riyer, in the rear of Accomac, where the Confederacy could cross, were adjoining each other, and extended from the source of the river   SECOND SERIES.       24:7 to its mouth, it was deemed proper to let the Con- federacy court further ruination by retiring in that direction. Hence, whilst the watchfull Conic section took a brief nap, the Anatomical Cavalry was sent rapidly in front of the disgracefully retreating Con- federacy to clear the road for it to the river, aid then telegraph the news of the great victory to all the excellent morning journals. It Was another splendid stroke of profound strategy, my boy, and would have crowned the idolized Gene- ral of the Mackerel Brigade with new laurels, had he not been too bashfully modest to understand it himself. Finding, however, that it seemed to be better than something worse, he told his staff a small story to clear his throat, and then unfurled the following PROCLAMATION. I, the General of the Mackerel Brigade, next Presi- dent of the United States of America, and Comrnmand- er-in-Chief of the Mackerel Army and superior im- proved iron-plated squadron, do hereby swear, that on this-occasion, as in a previous instance, the wari will be prosecuted for the object of practically maintaining the Constitution forever destroyed, and restoring friendly relations between the sections and States in- exorably alienated; that it is my practical purpose to suggest, at the next orderly meeting of the Mackerel Brigade, a practical offer of pecuniary compensation for the slaves of the so-called Border States which have refrained, through patriotic fear, from waging   248     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. unnatural hostilities with the United States of Ame- rica and my practical self. Gradual Emancipation having thus set in, as far as those States are concern- ed, either voluntarily, or by virtue of a superior dis- cretion, persons of African descent will again be pri- vileged, or voluntarily compelled to colonize in Nova Zembla, where bear hunting is still in full bloomn; that on the first day of April, in the year of our Lolrd one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all per- sons held as slaves by what is then known as the ruins of the Southern Confederacy, shall be then, thlence, thenceforward and forever free, if they choose to con- sider themselves so, and are able to achieve their in- dependence; that on the aforesaid first of April, the General of the Mackerel Brigade will designate the States, or parts of States, which have rendered this proclamation nugatory, by returning involuntarily, and by force of our arms, to their allegiance, invit- ing them to elect members of Congress, boarders at Willard's and Senators as usual, the same as though their somewhat-prolonged rebellion against the United States of America liad been a rather ]neritoirious al'- rangement, entitling them to more than ordinary con- sideration. And I do hereby respectfully request all officers to refrain in future from paying the traveling expenses of persons of African descent sent by them to their revolted masters after a term of trench service, as there don't appear to be any common-sense in such expenditure. And the General of the Mackerel Brigrade will flr- ther recommend, that all citizens of the United States   COND SERIE.              24 SECOND SERIES.       24 remaining loyal now, or who may become loyal, vo untarily or otherwise, at any period of the world's hi, tory, be fully compensated for all losses sustained b the United States, including the loss of memory c eye sight. In witness whereof, behold the signature and see of the GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE. (Green Seal.) While I am compelled to admit, my boy, that I d not exactly understand by what authority the Genern of the Mackerel Brigade is empowered to issue thi Proclamation; and that some of its clauses-partilet larly the last--strike me as being somewhat muddle( I yet regard it as at least a faint evidence that the tr mendous farce in which we have so long been playin such bloody parts is at last coming to an end. And since the farce seems drawing to a close, pe haps your farcical Orpheus C. Kerr could select n fitter time than this to withdraw with grace from tl field. As this thought occurs to me, my boy, I look un and behold a couple of our brigadiers a few paces oj with only two tumblers between them. Their face are expressionless. I have seen apple-dumplings wil more expression, especially when dressed with sauc It is impossible, my boy, t!at any wise thing shou enter into the heads of our brass-buttoned genera "nder any possible. circumstances; and with heas heart, I acknowledge the conviction that I must st: rush the quill. Yours, enduringly,   LETTER LXXII. REPORTING THE LATEST SMALL STORY FROM "HONEST ABE,! AND DESCRIBING THE MOST MERCENARY BAYONET CHARGE ON RE- CORD. WASHINGTON, D. C., October 4th, 1862. OUR Honest Abe, my boy, may lack these brilliant qualities which in the great legislator mnay constitute either the live-oak sceptre of true patriotism or the dexter finger of refined roguery, as the genius of, the age pivots on honesty or diplomacy; but his nature has all the sterling characteristics of the heartiest man- hood about it, and there is a smiling sun in his com- position which never sets. That he-is in his anecdo- tage, my boy, is a fact "Which nobody can deny; Or, if they do, they lie!" yet even his anecdotes have that simple sunlight in themn which is, perhaps, a greater ,boon to the high place of a nation in the dark hour, than the most wierd and perpetual haze of crafty wisdom could be. There was a dignified chap here from New York on Monday; a chap who has invented many political conventions in his time, and came here for-the special   SECOND SERIES.       251 purpose of learning everything whatsoever concerning the pre-ent comparative inactivity of the able-bodied Mackerel Brigade. The Mackerel Brigade, my boy, has done little more than skirmish on the festive borders of the well-known Southern Confederacy since the great metaphysical victory in which it gained such applause and lost a few muskets, and the dignified convention chap called upon the Honest Abe to learn the meaning of the pre- sent situation. Rumnor states that it was the Honest Abe's hour of fragmentary leisure when this inquiring chap per- forated the White House; and that he was sitting with his goots on the window-sill, carving a pine tooth- pick from a vagrant chip. "Mr. President," says the dignified chap, affably, "such is the agony of the public mind in consequlence of the present uncertainty in military affairs that I feel it my duty, as a hunmble portion of that Mind, to respectfully request of you some information as to the reason for the cotemporary Mackerel inactivity." "Hem!" says the Honest Abe, combing his locks with his right hand, and placing a small bit of the chip in the right corner of his Etruscan mouth': "( Per. haps I cannot better answer your question, neighbor, than by relating a small tale: "There was a man out in Iowa who owned a large farm, on which he raised everything but the interest of liis purchase-moiney, and it cost him so little to send his crops to the market that he was all the time wish- ing he could find the crops to send. Now, this marl was very tenacious of his rights," says the Honesl   252     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Abe, putting the argument with his jack-knife--" he was very tenacious of liis rights; and when a squatter- sovereign from Missouri came and squatted right on one of his best pieces of land, he determined to whp that squatter-sovereign within an inch of his life, and then send him trooping. So he goes down one day to where the squatter had run up a shingle house," says the Honest Abe, brushing a chip from his right knee, ".he goes down there, and says he to the squatter: 'If you don't make tracks from here in twenty-four hours, you varmint, I'll nmake you smell thunder and see chain-lightnin'.' iThe squatter threw away the axe with which he was thumping down a maple log for a door-post, and says he: 'This is a free country. stranger; and if you'll come to a place where the grass is thick enough to make a tidy tumble, we'll have it out at once.' This put the old nman's dander right up,"- says the Honest Abe, pulling down his vest; "this put his dander right up, and says he: ' Grass be darned! Ilere's a spot of ground as bare as the top of Governor Chase's head, and I'll jest trouble you- y' old varmint you-to find how soft it is f,)r a nighlt's lodgings.' After this speech there was no more to be said; so the two geniuses repaired to the!bare spot, and squared away at each other like all possest. The old man was great on the science of the thing," says the Honest Abe, using the toe of one boot as a boot- jack to pull the other half-way off-" the old man was great on the science of boxing; but the squatter had the muscle, and in about two winks the old 'un was packing the gravel. Up he got again, very ricketty in the shoulder-blades, and came to call like a grizzly   SECOND SERIES.       253 in bee-time' striking out with a bang up science, and would have triumphed gloriously if he hadn't sud- denly gone to gravel again, with all his baggage. On this occasion, he righted with both his elbows out of joint, and says he: ' You're as good as chawed up-y' old varmint, you--but I'll come back here next springr, and have it out with you on this same spot.' The squatter agreed to that, and they parted for the time. ' Now the story of this drawn-fight got abroad, you see," says the Honest Abe, working the blade of his jack-knife with his thumb--" it got abroad; and one day a neighbor went to the old 'un, and says lie: 'There's one thing about that big fight of yours, Uncle Billy, I can't understand. What made you put off the end of the show till next spring?' "'Have you seen the cantankerous spot where we fit ' says the old 'un, moving his shoulders uneasily. "' Truelie,' says the neighbor. "' Well, says the old 'hn, craftily, I'm just wait- ing till that thar spot has a trife of gass8 on it."'  At the conclusion of this natural little narlrative, my boy, the dignified conventional chap hurried from the White House scratching his head; and I r&ally believe, my boy--I really believe, that his sensitive soul de- tected an analogy not gushingly flattering to national strategy and the President of the United States for 1865. Soon after hearing of this, I met him at Willard's, and says I: "Well, my sagacious Mirabeau, what is your final opinion of our Honest Abe?" He merely paused long enough to swear at a button which happened to burst from the neck-band of his   254     ORHPEUS a. KERB PAPERS. shirt just then, and says he: "Ihe Honest Abe is a well-meaning Executive, enough. lie's a well-mean- ing Executive," says the dignified chap, with an air of slightly-irritated good-nature; '; but I wish he'd do solnething to save his country, instead of telling small tales all the time." L Our President is an honest man, my boy, and the glass in his spectacles isn't exactly made of the paper they print telegrams upon. Learning that the Mackerel Brigade was still awaiting abject peace propositions from the exhausted Confed- eracy, on the borders of Accomac, I scaled the -outer walls of my Gothic steed, Pegasus, on Wednesday, and sped thither on the metaphorical wings of retarded lightning. A wisp of hay was clinging to the wiry mane of the architectural animal, my boy, and this I used to delude the spirited steed fi'om making those sudden stops in which he invariably indulges when- ever a passing acquaintance hails us with the familiar salutation of "Hey! -where ale you bound?'"The charger has evidently a confused .idea of the word "Hey," my boy. Upon gaining the outskirts of Accomac, I met Com- pany 3, Regiment 5, Mackerel Brigade, just coming out to make a bayonet-charge upon one of the Confed- eracy's earthworks not far away. I might hlave let the warriors pass by unheeded, my boy, as I was deeply ruminating upon strategy; but as they came nearer, I noticed among them a file of red noses dragging along a Mackerel, who was tearing and glroaning-like a mad- s man. In fact, the chap became so violent just then,   SECOND SERIES.       255 that Captain Villiam Brown precipitately dropped his canteen and halted the company. I looked at the devoted and nearly-sober beings clustered about the struggling chap, and says I: "Has mutiny reared his horrid front, my veterans . What ails our gymnastic firiend?" A Mackerel, largely patched in several departments of his attire, shaded his voice with a- crab-like hand, and says he: "That is Jakey Mogs, which got a let- ter from his virchoose femily just the instant we was ordered to fix bayonets, and he's gone cracked be- cause the Captain can't let him leave for home in a big rush." Helre the refractory chap burst furiously from those who were holding him, fell upon his knees before the captain, and says he, as he cried like a woman: "For God's sake, Cap, do let me go home just this once, and I swear to God I won't stay there more than just one minnit! My old woman wrote this herself (tearing the letter from lhis ragged breast), and she siays our little Torn is dying. He's a-dying--0 good Lord! it's too much! Please let- me go, my dear, good Cap, and I won't be gone an hour; and I'll bring you back thle pootiest little bull-tarrier you ever see; and you can shoot me for desertion-honor bright! My Tommy's a-dying, I tell you, and she's wrote for me to come right away. Just an hour, Cap, for God's sake!-only haaf an hour, and I'll come back and be shot-honor' bright!" As the wild words came pouring out of the poor fel- low's working soul, there fell a br,athless hush up on all his comrades; the line of bayonets seemed to me   256     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. to reflect the soft light of the afternoon with a kind of strange quiver, and though the Captain turned his head sternly away from the suppliant, there was not that firmess in the arm circling to his lip which drives home the sword of the strong. "Take the being under guard," says  Villiam, hoarsely; "for he must go." At the word, the rude father sprang to his feet, with a tigerish glare in his eyes, dashed the letter to the ground, tore his bowie from its sheath; and as, with the howl of a wild beast, he made a furious thrust at one of those who approached to secure him-Nature broke in the tempest, and he fell into the arms of a comrade, in a fit. They sent him back, then, to camp, and Company 3, Regiment 5, moved forward once again, as though nothing had happened. Alas! my boy, when this whole war is the sensitive nerve of a vast nation, and vibrates a thrill of mortal agony to a million of souls at each jar the very air re- ceives from a shot, what mnatter is it if a siingle heart be broken. I pondered this deeply as I followed Company 3; nor did I heed the affable remarks occasionally volun. teered by Captain Villiam Browt until we gained the edge of the field wherein was located a company of bushwhacking Confederacies, as was supposed, behind a scientific mud-work. Captain Bob Shorlty and Cap- tain Samyule Sa-mith were already on the ground to- witness the bayonet charge ; and it was well that they had provided bits of smoked glass to view it through, as the glaring brilliancy of the anticipated feat might have proved hurtful to the naked eye. As I took my   SECOND SERIES,       257 place with them. my boy, I couild not but admire the rapidity with which Captain Villiamn Brown kicked some of his beings into a straight line before the foe's front, and at the same time addressed them after the manner of a great conmmander: "Comrades,"' says Villiam, his voice quivering finely with uncontrollable valor, " the eyes of future ceturies are looking down ],pon you on this present occasio!, and your distracted country expects you to propel the gleamy steel. Ah!" says Villiam, taking another hasty look at his notes, " the distracted country has great confidence in bayonet charges, which are quite valuable on account of their scarcity in tlifs unnatural war. My fellow-beings,7" says Villiam, allowing sev- eral Mackerels to get in front of him, that lie might more readily direct their 'movements, " we will now proceed to charge bayonets." From our point of vantage, we saw that serried host sweep on, my boy, their movements being exceedingly rapid for several yards; when they went slower, and finfally stopped. Captain Samyule Sa-mith eyed them    intensely through hs glass, and says hle: ".It appears to me that there is temporary inactivity in the ranks, and I can see some manly heads turned the wrong way." Captain Bob Shorty frowned until his left eyebrow contracted a delicate streak of smlnke from his glass, and says hle: "You speak like one of feeble mind, Samyule. The legs, not the head, are the portions of the human frame to be , atched in a baynit charge." Taught by this remark, I gazed at the nether con-   258     1 ORPHEUS 0. KERRI PAPERS. tinnations of our country's hope and pride, and my glass told me that many of them were working in their sockets as though belonging to wholly irresponsible parties. Were those devoted nlen about to cleaivge their base of operations and entrap Stonwall Jacksonl's whole force again, without waiting to receive a shot? It was a moment of dreadful suspense. Then did the matchless genius of Villiam Brown arise to the full demands of the breathless occasion, in one of those subtle appeals to human nature's great undercurrent whichi leads men as children often are led. In the rear of the Confederacy's work was the slanting side of a precipitous hll, and to this hill-side he had secretly dispatched the payvmaster of the corps, by a circuitous route, withll a package that looked as though it might contain Treasury Notes unlder his arm. Just at this awful juncture, when the fate of the day  ' hung by a hair, that paymaster made his appearance on the hill-side above the mnud-work, and put on his spectacles to make himself more plainly visible. "Comrades," says Villiam, pointing to- the celestial figure, "yonder is the disbursing genius of the United States of America. Charge baynits, and let us be paid off." Though the whole Confederacy had been in the way at that moment, my boy, it would not have delayed the charge. Forward went Company 3, Regiment 5, with mercenary celerity, capturing the hostile work with great success; and finding therein a Confederate letter, stating that the Confederacy could not so far demean itself as to fight a force whose leader had'not been educated at West Point.   SECOND 'SERIES.       259 There is a point, my boy, beyond which the Con- federacy cannot hope to offer successful resistance to our arms, and recent events would seem to indicate that it is West Point. Yours, formally, OBPH EUS C. K-RPR.   LETTER LXXIII. MAKING MENTION OF ANOTHER MEETING OF THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB, AT WHCH THE TURKISH AND RUSSIAN MEMBERS READ THEIR STORIES. Washington, D. IC., October 8th, 1862. AT the meeting of the Cosmopolitans last evening, my boy, N. E. Ottoman, the Turkish chap, related the tale of THE  SULTAN'S   FAVORITE. "In all Circassia, there was no woman to be com- pared with Zara, for beauty. Her eyes were like the stars, her hair was threads of gold, her teeth were pearls, her complexion more white and pure than the marble of Patras, and her form was like those of the honris, whom Allah has locked up in paradise, for the benefit of all true believers. "The father of this beautiful girl was a mountain chieftain, much noted for his physical strength, bravery, and insatiable avarice. His wife died in giving birth to Zara, and upon her child he lavished all the affec-   SECOND SERIES.       26 tion which his iron heart could nourish; but gold overcame the finer feelings of a parent, and INemnyl beheld the bud of childhood bursting forth into the soul-subduing woman] witlh thoughts in which there was far more speculation than love. "I You shall be sold to the Sultan,' said he to her, ' and he will soon become ,your most devoted slave. You may make him do what you will, and I shall be- come respected and rich, as the father of a Sultan's favorite.' "Zara made no reply to suchl anticipations; for, although she honored the alem, penazl of mankind, her affections had lighted upon another object. "During the war between the Russians and Circas- sians, truces of a few days' duration were quite fre- quent, and at such periods those of both parties who were upon the plains, intermingled, and spoke words of peace to each other. On one of these occasions, a Russian detachment ,was quartered near the habitation of Nemy], and a young officer, who beheld Zara, fell in love with her at first sight, although lie saw nothing but her form; for her face was covered. "Garstoff (for such was his name) made various attempts to have communication with the insensible object of his passion; but, for some days, his efforts were in vain-tile Circassians being very ready to keep truce with his countrymen, but very jealous, also, of any attention bestowed upon one of their own nation. The officer beheld the brief period of peace fast drawing to an end, and was about to resign his darling object, when fortune unexpectedly befriiended him.   262     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. "One evening as he was returning to his camp, a sound of clashing steel fell upon his ear, and, turning in the direction from whence it came, he observed a horseman bravely defending himself against the as- saults of four men in Turkish costume. Swift as light- ning, his sword flew from his scabbard, and going to the assistance of the rider, he made two of the assail- ants bite the dust, while the others took to their heels and quickly disappeared. "Your assistance was most timely, and I owe my life to you,) said the horseman, dismounting from his steed, and peering into the face of his new ally. ' 'I am happy to have been of service to a brave man,' replied Garstoff, ' but who were those scoun- drels .' "I know them not,' answered the other, ' but sulp- pose them to belong to a band of mountain tliieves, who are prowling about the camps in search of plunder. I perceive, by your uniform, that you ale one of our enemies. But we are at peace now, and as you have saved my live, I extend the hand of friendship to you. Come with me to my house, and we will eat salt to- gether.' "' May I know the name of my new friend .' asked the Russian. ";'I am Nemyl, and I put my trust in God.' "'I cannot refuse your kind invitation,' said Gar- stoff. And Nemyl relmounting, his ]lorse, the two set off at good speed not saying another word until they arrived at the house of the chieftain. It was a spaci- ous but rude habitation, and the onl v attendllnt who welcomed the pair was a pretty little girl of scarce l   SECOND SERIES.       268 ten years. Nemyl fastened the horses of himself and visitor under a low shed, and then proceeded to an apartment where rabvls, viands, various fruits, moun- tain herbs, and large vessels filled with -coffee and eastern wines, were placed upon a table with covers for three persons. "' We sup here,' he said, motioning Garstoff to a seat beside the board, and taking one himself. 'I expected to have met one of oilr chiefs to-night, and' brought him   to my house, but those fellows stop- ped me, and I changed my company. Eat-What is your namne .' "' Major Garstoff.' "A shade passed over the features of Nemyl, at the sound of that name, and lie grasped the hilt of his scymetat, for he had heard of the officer's attempt to speak with Zara, and it was only a thought of recent events that restrained him from rushing upon the bold barbarian with the fury of a tiger. "Garstoff beheld the change in his host's manner, and had grasped his own weapon, to defend himself -from any sudden attack, when a door was opened, and Zara entered the department, preceded by, the little slave, looking more beautiful than ever. "Ihe officer was filled with various emotions by her presence; for he at once recognised her as the idol of his heart, and all feelings of anger disappeared at once. "' This is my child Zara,' said Nemyl, with affected indifference. 'The great Sultan has an apartment for her in his seraglio, and his Aga has already bargained with me for her purchase.'             i   264     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Garltoff watched the girl's countenance, while her father spoke thus, and was delighted to perceive that she was disconlposed by his words; but resolving to avoid a quarrel with his entertainer, lie replied: "' Happy must be the man, whether sultan or re- -negade, who is destined to claim so much beauty for his own.' The suspicions of Nemyl were lulled to sleep by - such disinterested expressions, and he eat and drank with his visiter, in all good will, while Zara listened in silence to their conversation. At length, the fames of the liquors which he had swallowed, mounted to his brain, and after giving vent to some incoherent oaths, the Circassian fell upon the floor in a state of insensi- bility. His visitor was quite astonished by such a catastrophe ; but as it afforded him an opportunity to converse with Zara, he rather rejoiced at it. "' Fair lady,' said he, 'can it indeed be true that your charms are destined to wither in the Sultan's harem .' "' It is true, stranger,' answered Zara, in mournful tones, 'the Aga of Soliman, spoke with my father at Constantinople, and I am to be borne thither soon.' ' IDoes such a fate please you, Zara.' asked the officer. "'No I' replied the beautiful Circassian, with em- phasis.. 'But it is the will of Allah, and I must submit.' "She arose from her seat, and beckoning for the attendant, was about to leave the apartment, when Garstoff, laid his hand upon her arm, and gently restrained her.   SECOND SERIES.       265 ' Forgive my rudeness,' he said, with much ear- nestness; ' but, Zara, I cannot behold your sacrifice, without endeavoring to avert it. I arn a stranger to you; but you are not a stranger to me; for I have seen yo0, wlhen you thought yourself unobserved, and a fire has been kindled in my breast, which nothin)g but possession of you can ever abate. Tell me to perform some deed, that I may prove the ardor of Iny love; let me save you finom the fearful doom that threatens you-- "Stop! (Christian,' interrupted the maid; 'I have never seen your face before, and how can I trust a stranger  Go! or Nemyl shall punish you when he awakes. I can hear your words no longer.' ' ' Think not that I fear your father, answered Gar- stoff, ' tlougll I stand in his house; yet I will no longer excite your anger by staying here.' "He arose, and would hlave departed, had not the daulghter of Nemy], placed herself in his way. "' What would you do for me]' she asked hur- riedly.' "'I would sacrifice my life, if necessary.' "'That would not help me, Christian. Dare you appear in the field as a rival to the sultan, for my favor?' "As a rival to ten thousand sultans, for such a reward.' "' Why do you not buy mne, then V? 'The Russian staggered back and turned pale at the suggestion; for it reminded him how wholly the woman was beyond his reach, and filled him with despair. -1 0   266     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. "('What sum would do it ' he asked. "( Five thousand doblas,' answered Zara, compos- edly ;'the great sultan will give four thousand, and if you offer five, my father will surely sell me to you.' "' Alas! what a curse is poverty!' exclaimed Gar- stoff, smiting his forehead. 'I have only my pay, and it would not amount to that sum in three years. What shall I do? "His sorrow evidently affected Zara, and for some momenlts they remained silent. At length, her eyes brightened, and she said in peremptory tones; "' You can bear me away to your own country.' "' That is true!' ejaculated the Russian, kissing her willing hand in extacy. 'Then indeed have I not suffered in vain. I will take you to a country where the sovereign will smile upon you as my bride, and you shall forget a land where women are sold like dogs. Bless you for the suggestion, dear Zara, I thought of it before; but dared not anticipate so much happiness.  When will you fly with me ' "S At this hour, two days hence, I will be in the garden alone!' responded the girl, with a familiar glance. "'It is enough! said Garstoff. 'I will be here with horses and arms, and morning shall behold yolu in the camp of my countrymen.   Till then, fare- well.' "The lovers separated so hastily, because Nenlyl had commenced to move; Zara going with the mute attendant to her 'apartment, and Garstoff departing for his encampment. When both had disappeared, Nemyl arose to his feet, while a dim, but grinll smile,   SECOND SERIES.       267 played about his lips, and all signs of intoxication vanished. ' Oh, ho!' he muttered, between 'his set teeth. 'The son of a dog would rob me of my daughter and four thousand doblas.  I will take good care to be in the garden two days hence, and the son of Shitan shall find what it is to rival the sublime sultan. They thought me drunk with grape juice; but they shall suf- fer for it. By Allah! they shall!' and he threw him- self upon a couch, where he soon fell asleep, to dream of gold and vengeance. "The truce was within three days of its expiration and Garstoff, overjoyed at the success of his impious design, hastened to prepare for its execution. He pro- cured horses, assistants, and arms; and on the night appointed proceeded towards the house of Nemyl. When within a short distance of the garden, he dis- mounted from   his horse and leaving that together with the others provided, in care of a few soldiers who   compose4 his guard, lie drew his sword and walked cautiously towards the place of rendezvous. Climbing to the top of the wall, he paused for a, mo- ment. to survey the scene beneath; but all was still as the grave, and he sprang  into the garden. A few fleecy clouds had  hitherto obscured the moon; but now she sailed beyond their shade, and by her silver light the Russian discovered a figure dressed in white at a  short- distance in front of himn. "'Zara,' he said, -in low, distinct tones, goino toward it. "' Christian, I am here, answered Zara (for she it was,) and in another mnoment she was in his arms.   268     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. "We must haste away,' said Garstoff, when the first rapture of their meeting was over, and she hung upon his arm. "' Yes! yes! I am afraid Nemyl has discovered us. There have been strange men about the house to-day,' replied Zara, looking timidly about her; for guilt is ever suspicious, even in broad day. "Garstoff said no more, but quickly regained the wall; and, drawing forth a rope-ladder from under his- coat threw it over the wall, so that it hung down on either side, and having fastened it ill the middle, de- scended after Zara. Catching her in his arms, he darted back; and, in a few seconds, was standing withi her upon the path. "'Whose steps are those?' she exclaimed, in ter- ror, as the sound of advancilig footsteps fell upon her ears. 'i 'They are mny soldiers, dearest,' answered her lover, applying a whistle to his lips, and blowing a shrill blast; although he was himself astonished thatthhey approached before the signal agreed upon was given. "'Draw your sword, captain--we are surprised ' shouted his followers, as they rode hastily up; and almost before the annoyed Garstoff could clasp his weapon, a troup of fierce Circassians surrounded hinm, while another party attacked his soldiers with great fury. "Surrender, dog of a Christian!' shouted Nernyl, in a voice of lthunder. "' Not while I live 1' answered the officer. "'Then disarm him, my men ; but harm him not at.   SECOND SERIES.       269 your peril!' said the Circassian; and, after a desper. ate resistance, Garstoff was nmade a prisoner, Zara lay fainting in the arms of two stout mountaineers, and every Russian soldier bled to death. "'.To the house with them!' said Nemyl, in his usual tones, leading the way with an ail of triumph. "( Garstoff soon found himnself in the apartment where he had supped with the father of Zara, who now stood before him as his captor. You have repaid my hospitality with a ven- geance,' said Nemyl. 'a' Beware how you abuse a Russian officer!' he an- swered, proudly. "' Remembler, Christian, the truce expires to-nmor- row, and if I keep you a prisoner until then, you will be treated as a prisoner of war.' "'I know it.' "' You are now completely in my power ; and there is but one feeling that withholds my sword from your heart. Do you know what feeling that is?' "' Fear I' "No, Christian devil! Nemyl knows no suchl word! It is gratitude for the preservation of my life towards my preserver. You are free. Depart in peace.' "' I honor the nobility of your sentiments,' answered Garstoff, filled with admiration of such magnanimity; ' yet I would willingly yield Imy life to preserve Zara from the fate you promise her.' ' "'Mention not her naine. She deserves the bow- string, instead of the Sultan's embraces,' said Namyl, sternly. "'Are you then so insensible to--'   270     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. "'Will you give me five thousand doblas for her .' "A hundred thousand, if I had them I' "' But you have them not?' "' Alas, no!' "Then you cannot have Zara. Depart in peace.' "Garstoff looked frantically about him for a motnent and then rushed fron the apartment like one demented. "'My friends,' continued Nemyi, turning to -the mountaineers, who stood behind him---' I wished you to aid me in recovering a lost treasure, and you drew your swords for me. My danglter is delivered from the Christian robber, and six of his soldiers are sent to Eblis. I gave the dog his life, because he saved mine, when it was nearly forfeited; but we shall soon meet in battle, and then let the Giaour beware! De- part in peace, my friends.' "As I have before stated, Zara fell into a swoon, immediately after the first appearance of her father, on the evening of her attempted flight, and was car- ried to her chamber, unconscious of how the affray resulted. For two days, she was kept a prisoner in her own apartment, seeing no one-but the little mute. At the end of that period, her father made his appear- ance, while she slept, and rudely pulled her from the couch on which she lay. "'Holy Prophet, have mercy!" she -exclaimed, in an agony of fear, imagining that he intended to slay her. "' Dress, and prepare to depart!' thundered Nemyl. 'We must be on the road before day-break.' Trembling like an aspen, Zara suffered the attend- ant to array her, and then asked, with quivering lips--   SECOND SE RIES.      271 "'Where do you intend to take ne!' "' To the Sultan?!" exclaimed Nemyl; and, as she sank upon her knees at his feet, he added, furiously, 'Base girl, you would have covered me with disgrace by following a Christian dog; but Allah gave me strength, and I slew the barbarian in his toils.' "In silence the girl rose to her feet, and signified her readiness to depart by a low salaam. ( At the street door stood the litter prepared for her reception, and Nemyl pushing her into it, drew the curtains, and gave the signal to the drivers, while he mounted his horse and accompanied them. On arriv- ing at the city of the Sultan (which they did after a tedious journey), Nemyl conveyed his daughter to the grand bazaar; for, in fact, he never received an offer from the Sultan, but spread the report that other purchasers might present themselves, whose positions i would fail to gratify the desires of hs inordinate am- bition. Not long had he retnained there with the lit- ter, when the Kislar Aga of Soliman entered the ba- zaar, and made directly towards him, with long strides. "'What animal have you in your litter that you keep it closed like a cage?' asked the Aga. ' Your slave will show you that you may judge of it for yourself,' answered Nernyl, and drawing the curtains, disclosed Zara, with tears upon her cheeks. "The Aga started back in amazement at beholding such a display of beauty, and all his anger vanished like snow beneath a sunbeam. He well knew that the addition of such an ornament to the Sultan's hareln, through his instrumentality, would add greatly to his   27      ORPHEUS -C. KERR PAPERS. consequence; and his satisfaction was so evident, that Nenmyl beheld it with delight, and-profited by it. "'How much gold do you want for the gill?' asked tile Aga, endeavoring to appear indifferent. ' Five thousand doblas," answered Nemly, corn- posedly. "'Five thousand doblasl .Bismillah! dare you laugh at our beards? That money woulid buy a dozen women.' "'I was offered that by a Russian officer,' said the Circassian, without moving his eyes. "For a moment the Aga hesitated, but the idea of selecting a favorite speedily overcame all his scruples, and bidding Nernyl follow him with the litter, he pro- ceeded to a private door of the imperial seraglio, and gave Zara in charge of two female slaves. "Thus was the fairest flower of Franquistan placed in the imperial garden, and he who had trained it was soon on his way home, with five thousand doblas in his pocket. "What pencil could portray the delight of his sub- lime highness, or what tongue could repeat the lan- guage of his immaculate lips, when he beheld his Aga's new purchase. "' Barek Allah!' praise be to God; 'what an hon- ri t' he exclaimed, kissing her passionately. "' She is already a favorite,' said the Aga, and smiled. "'She will be a favorite,' said the queen's mother, and frowned. "Zara wept, and would not be comforted during the first few days of her residence at the seraglio; but finally the kind words of his sublime highness con- 12*   SECOND SERIES.       273 quered her obstinacy, and throwing herself at his feet, she made a full confession of her fondness for Garstoff, and his vain attempt to carry her away by stratagem. 'i The Sultan was much afflicted by this news, for he really loved Zara, and was aware, that, should her de- fection become known, his honor would compel him to plunge her lifeless body into the Bosphorus. i' Mydear Zara,' he said, encircling her waist with his armls, 'you have been frank with me, but beware that you speak of this affair to no one else, or your life will surely be sacrificed. This Garstoff is dead, and can now be nothing to you; do not waste your affec- tions upon a skeleton ; but let them revert to me, and Soliman will become the slave of your will.' "In such a manner did the Refuge of Mallkind talk to the daughter of Nemyl, until she gradually drew the veil of forgetfulness over past sorrows, and re- spected his sublime highness, if she did not love him. Taking the highest rank in the harem, no wish of hlers remained unanswered; masters of every art were fur- nished as her instructors; subservient slaves were ever ready to do her bidding, and costly presents of every description rolled in upon the favorite, from those who had-axes to grind. "Eacll day the Sultan beceame more deeply in love with her, and in the same proportion, she became each day more odious to those, whom, from old age, or satiety, the magnificent Soliman had quitted for Zara. Among the most violent enemies of the new favorite was the queen mother, who suborned the Kislar Arga to her will, and through himn, maintained a tl:orougll system of espionage upon every word and action of the   274     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. object of her hatred; but Zara rendered all her efforts futile until one day wrlile going abroad, she observed a person dressed in the janissary uniform, whose form appeared familiar; and what was her emotion, when he turned his face toward her, and discovered the fea- tures of Garstof!" Here the English member interrupted the reader, and says lie; "Good gracious I I thought that fellow was dead.' "No, silr," says the Turkish cllap; " yo- should re- member that Nemnyl spared his life." "I don't remember anything about it," says the British chap, crustily; ' but I suppose you told that part of the story when I was asleep. Proceed." "The Kislar Aga, who stood behind her litter, noted Zara's emotions and their apparent cause, and when he returned to the palace, made his instigatress acquainted with her rival's strange conduct. The wily woman at once perceived that Zara was partially in her power, and instructed her instrument to watch the favorite closely, and gain further information. Meanwhile, their intended victim suffered the pangs of remorse, and old feelings awakened from their long sleep, struggled fiercely with the usurping passions in her bosom.   SECOND SERIES.       275 "The sight of the Russian, whom she believed to be in his grave, made her frantic with sorrow, and she resolved to speak with him, although by so doing, she would risk discovery and an ignominious end. "To accomplish her purpose she called upon the Aga, as he had always appeared devoted to her spe- cial interests, and, describing the person of her lover, asked him to carry a billet to Garstoff, and thus gain a rich reward. "Aga,' she said, with composure, ' you must find this man, and ask him if hs name is not Garstoff. Should he start, and answer yes, give him this slip of paper, and say no more. "With many vows of fidelity, the Aga received the billet, and carried it direct to-the queen mother. Thle latter pelson did not hesitate to open it, and read as follows: "' sGARSTO FF: I have seen you, and would speak with you. MAeet me near-the mosque of Oinar, to- morrow, at the tenth hour.       ZARA.' "' She is caught at last,' said the triumphant plot- ter; 'but we nmust let the affair run on, until the Sul- tan may be convinced by his own eyes of her guilt.' "Accordingly, the slave departed in search of the disguised Russian, whom he sooni discovered from the description given him by Zara. "Is not your name Garstoff.?' he asked. "'Great heavens!-yes, it is!' answered the janis- sary, in great confusion.   5  .a ..uo . Jt I PAP:EtflRS. "'Then here is something for you,' said the Aga; and, handing him the billet, turned upon his heel. "Great was the surprise of Garstoff wlien he read the letter; but joy quickly overcame wonder, and he hfastened to procure a suitable disguise for the strange meeting. "At the appointed hour he stood before the mosque, and presently a muffled figure approached him, whom his beating heart proclaimed to be the long lost ob- ject of his adoration. It was indeed Zara, auld, in one moment, they were in each other's arms. "The Russian hastened to relate his adventures since  they last saw each other, and finished by saying: "'I gave up my commission, dearest Zara, to seek for you, and now  that we once more behold each other, let us never part again. This hated uniform I assumed to facilitate lly seareh; it shall be thrown aside now and forever.' "Then Zara commenced her narrative, but was quickly interrupted. " Zara, tell mne, for heaven's sake, have you list- ened to the Sultan's words of love a Are you, are you -his-slave.?' gasped Gartstoff, staggering against the wall. "Zara looked to the ground. "'I see it all,' he continued, in frantic accents. 'Zara, you are lost! lost to me forever! I go to my death.  Zara, a last farewell!' He was about to leave her, when she caught his arm, and hissed in his ear: 'Is this your love that you once boasted of?' "Zara, let me go; I  am almhnost mad.'   SECOND SERIES.       2" "And I am  ute, emad. Listen to me, faithless Christian. I beheld you in the streets when you saw me not, and have risked honor, life, every thng, to come to you, and be your slave. How could I help what has passed? My father-' "' Zara, you should have died first.' "For a time she remained silent, with her head bowed, and then said, in low tones: "' Christian, you are right; I should, indeed, have preferred death to my present fatel; but it is too late now. I will return to my master; yet do I hope to see you once again. Will you not grant me that favor?' ," Once more,' answered Garstoff mechanically. "'Then come here to-morrow, and you will find a large chest; place yourself in it, and two slaves will will bring you to me. Do you promise ' "'I do, Zara,' and, in deep sorrow, Garstoff turned away. "'Base dog!' nmuttered Zara, as she again muffled her features, 'you  have rejected the daughter of Nenmyl, and she sleeps not while you press the earth.' "The favorite sped hastily back to the palace, and entered by a secret door, while the Kislar Aga, who had concealed himself near her at the mosque, and witnessed the interview, hastened to the queen mother, and made his report, when she exclaimed: "' Allah be praised! this Circassian will soon be under the Bosphorns; for Zara will meet her gallant, and his serene higliness shall behold himself dis- honored.' "Knowing thl1  extreme affection entertained for   278     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Zara by Soliman, the cautious woman was wary in her communication, and did not reveal the whole tnatter, until the Sultan's suspicions had been arousea by her hints. Hle first ridiculed, then listened silently, then believed; and, finally, agreed to conceal himself in the Sultana's apartment, and judge for himself. "He waited until the moment of assignation ap- proached, and was looking upon the unconscious ob- ject of his gaze with returning confidence, when a curtain of the apartment was raised, and two negro slaves entered, bearing a large chest between them. "Zara motioned for them to leave it and depart; and then raising the lid, Garstoff stepped forth, and the Sultan uttered an inward groan. "' Drink this, and. it will give you strength,' said Zara, presenting a goblet of liquor to the janissary. i Garstoff raised the cup to' his lips, and drained it at a draught; -on which the fair Circassian burst into a fit of hysterical laughter. "' Is this a moment for merriment .' asked Garstoff, sternly. "'Wine makes me merry!' she answered, drinking from another goblet. ' And now, Christian, do you know what you came here for?' ' To see you for the last time. "' That is true, follower of Isauri--yo go not hence alive!' "' What mean you, woman?' exclaimed Garstoff, starting from his seat. with pallid cheeks. "' I mean t]hat you have swallowed poison!' screalm- ed Zara, the fire of insanity blazing from her eyes.   SECOND SERIES.       279 cYou scorned the daughter of Nemyl, and she has taken revenge! Pray to Isauri,-pray to-' 'Garstoff dropped upon the floor, a disfigured corpse, and the Sultan bolunded from his place of con- cealment upon Zara; but the purple veins of her fore- head were swelling out like cords, and before he could speak to her she was-dead!?        O "Really," says Vitchisvitch, the Russia'.s member, drawing a long breath, "there is too much of the 'blood ,and thunder' style about that story to suit me; but here is something more quiet." And he proceeded, my boy, to make k]nown unto us THE LITTLE  MAN  IN  GREEN P "On' a clear,.cold night in December, Nicholas Dimitri, a young officer of Cossacks, was walking slowly through a public street of St. Petersburg, with a military cloak thrown over his shoulder, and looking steadfastly to the ground, as though intent upon some prospect of no ordinary interest. Acquaintances of all raiks were constantly passing him, but their silent salutes met no return, and many a surmise was hazarded as to what his mission was, that it causea such evident abstraction in one so generally admired for hit flow. d6?esprit. Unconscious of attracting atten- tion, Nicholas strode onwards wrapped in thought, until he became aware of violent collision with some   280     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS., person going ill an opposite direction. and almost im- mediately a hoarse voice exclaimed: :"What, in the namhe of all thlat's good, are you about? Are not the walks wide enougll for both of us, that you must needs knock a man's breath out of his body in this way? By the Admiral's wig! I've a mind. to return the compliment with my fists, you lubber.' "The officer of Cossacks started involuntarily, as his reverie was thus broken, and beheld standing before him a very stout individual, rather below the ordinary height in stature, with iron-grey hair, prominent fea- tures much embrowned. and clad in a piain green uni- form, such as was worn byT the privates in the ariny. The little man stood directly in his patli, with an ex- pression of good natured defiance resting upon his s countenance, and flourishing a short cane in his right hand. 'S I beg your pardon, sir,' said Nicholas, somewhat provoked, but I was hardly conscious of being in the street at all. Allow me to pass, sir, I am in haste.' He attempted to get by the little gentleman, but that person had no idea of allowing such a move, and in the coolest possible manner linked his arem witht that of the impatient officer. ( 'It's my watch now,' he said, with a short laugh, 'and as you don't bunk in just yet, we may as well be company for each other. I ain't particular about which way you go, so up with your irons and we'll sctld.' "'I can permit no such familiarities,' replied Ni- cholas, angrily, attempting to release his arm. 'Are   ECONDI SERIES.       281 you intoxicated, that you do not perceive I am an of- ficer? Let go my arln, sir, or I will call the patrol, and place yon under guaird.' "Notwithstanding this threat, the little man still hung on, and walked boldly beside him with great good humor. "'Ha! ha! you think I belong to the army, Mr. Officer,' he observed, with muclh jocularity. 'Iknow rather more about the sea, and never tip my cap to anything less than"a frigate captain. But never mind that. This street should be better lighted, and yet if it had been, I should never have known you-dol't you think so? Now really don't you think the Em- peror or Czar should pay more attention to lighting the streets? I should think the people would grum- ble about it--don't they?' "Seeing that his new acquaintance was determined to walk beside him, the officer had resolved to let him talk without venturing a reply, but this slur upon the Czar wounded his pride, and he answered impa- tiently, "'You cannot be a Russian, sir, or you would not dare speak thus disrespectfully of the greatest, noblest, and best living sovereign. Why should we need more light, sirrah, whlen the moon is 'shining brightly? Let me warn you not to speak this way before others, or you may receive rough treatment. Every Muscovite honors and loves the Czar as a father, and a slighter cause than that just given by you has cost many a for- eigner his life in St. Petersburg.' "As the young man spoke, he seemed to forget his   282     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. companion, and yielded his whole soul to the enthu- siasm of loyalty. "'I like you,' said the little man, heartily. "' Indeed!'  "' Yes, and will help you.' "' Help me .' asked Nicholas, stopping suddenly in his walk, eyeing his companion with mingled aston- ishment and suspicion. "' I said so. Is there anything extraordinary in that!' "'Who are you .' demanded the officer, sternly. ' 'No matter about that. I am your friend.' "'How do I know that?' asked Nicholas, still more astonished. "'I will prove it. You are In love!' "' Most men are at some periods of their lives.' "'Very true, but you are in love now, and the lady of your affection is far above you in station.' "' How in heaven's name do you know this? Who are you?' exclaimed the officer, completely thrown off his guard; and staring wildly at his odd companion. "' It matters not how I know, or who I am. Let it suffice to say that I do know, and can aid you,' said the little man, with a mnore dignified air than he had before assumed. ' Restrain your feelings, and merely answer yes or no, to what I atm about to say. You are loved by the lady?' " I believe-or, rather, trust so.' "' She is the Countess Walewski ]' "' No.' H ' Hler ward Olinska i'   SECOND SERIES.       283 "I shall answer no more questions,' said Nicholas, compressing his lips. "'Then, Mr. Officer, I will ask no more questions, but confine myself strictly to statements. You love Olinska, and have a rival in Admiral Praxin, who is favored by the Czar.  So, strong are your rival's claims that you have no resource save a clandestine marriage. You are now on your way to the hotel of the Countess, intending to perfect your plans with her aid, and baffle the Czar in his designs for the advan- tage of Admiral Praxin. Don't say a word to me now, you will receive a message before long. Good night, Nicholas Dimitri.' ( The little man nodded his head most knowingly, and fairly ran off, leaving the astounded lover looking at the moon. "Nicholas remained perfectly still for some mo- ments, looking vacantly upward, and then went on his way, like one who had just awakened froim a strange dream. "' What can this mean 2' he asked himself. 'This man, whom I never saw before, has told me of things which no mortal save myself should know, and he is even acquainted with my name. This matter must be quickly settled, or I shall be placed under arrest, with no hope for the future.' "Arriving presently at the door of an aristocratic mansion, he sent up his card, and was speedily ushered into an elegant boudoir, where a beautiful and richly- dressed lady was waiting to receive him. The Countess Walewski was not a young woman, yet the bloom of earlier years still lingered on her cheek, and the   284     ORHPEUS C. KERB PAPERS. sprightly vivacity of girlhood shot forth from her dark brown eyes. "' My dear Nicholas, -you are behind time,' she said, giving her hand to the young officer, and causing him to take a seat beside her on a velvet couch. ' Lov- ers are not often tardy in keeping their appointments, but as I am not the lady, I must excuse you. Upon my word-I did not observe it before--you look dis- contented. Nothing has happened, I hope?' "' Dearest lady, we are betrayed!' answered Nicho. las, gloomily. "' You are jesting.' "' Would to God, I were! A strange man encoun- tered me in the street as I came hither--' and Nicho- las gave a full account of his interview with the little man in green. "The Countess appeared much alarmed by the nar- ration, and, for some moments after its conclusion, re- mained silent, but at length she recovered sufficient courage to reply, "'This is strange indeed-and yet, Nicholas, this man may be a member of the police, who, as you know, make themselves masters of our very thoughts. You say he expressed a desire to assist you, and declared himself your friend; he may have some object in this we know not of--- "(No living man shall rob me of my prize,' inter- rupted Nicholas, passionately. ' Olinska will be guided by me, and before morning we will be far firom the capital. There is no time to lose; we must hasten to- wards Moscow thia very night. Where is she  - Why is she not here to meet me F'   SECOND SERIES.       285 "' Restrain your passion; be prudent, I entreat you,' exclaimed the Countess, grasping his wrists. ' Olinska loves you, and you alone; but I am her guardian, and she submits to my wishes, as duty bids her. Be your- self, Nicholas, and avoid any rash action. You cannot see Olinska to-night.' "' Has your ladyship combined with my enemies to make a madman of me a' asked the officer, with great bitterness. "' Have my actions been those' of an enemy?' res- ponded the Countess, with a reproachful smile. * ' My dear Niclholas, I would have spared you a pang, but you compel me to tell all. My ward is to have an in- terview with Admiral Praxin to-morrow, by order of the Czar.' "' With Admiral Praxin!' exclaimed Nicholas, start- ing to his feet. "' Such is the truth. I do not believe that Peter will compel Olinska; but his command was impera- tive, and must be obeyed at all risks. Do not fear for Olinska-she is wholly yours, though a king should ask her hand. The Admiral can only sue to be rejected, and after that you must fly.'  "' Lady, I submit to your wishes,' said Nicholas. 'I honor the Czar, as all Russians should honor him, but Olinska shall be mine, though he should send a dozen admirals to thwart me.' "After some further consultation of a desultory char- acter, the officer of Cossacks took his leave, and retired to a bed rendered sleepless by doubts and fears. "On the following morning, before he had com- pleted his toilet, a servant entered the apartmlent to   286     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. announce a visitor, followed by a little creature, not more tlian three feet in height, dressed in a livery of blue and silver. "' This gentleman desired to speak with you, sir, im- mediately,' said the grinning servant, pointing to the new comer, and bowing himself out of the room. If The minute specimen of humanity said not a word, but assumed an air of great consequence, and with much ceremony presented a letter. Nicholas could not repress a smile at the messenger's grotesque ap- pearance, but his mirth sobered into surplrise when he read as follows: "'NICHOLAS DIMTRI: The bearer of this missive is my servant, who will be of great service to both you and myself, in events about to transpire. Answer his questions without hesitation. and rest assured that Olinska shall be yours, despite the Czar and Admiral Praxin, or I amtnmuch mistaken. I will be present at the wedding.  Your friend, "' THE LITTLE MAN IN GREENS. "The young officer dropped the note from his hand, and eyed -tle dwarf in silent amazemnent. "'Is that your death warrant.' asked the latter, ironically.  "' Who wrote this?' demanded Nicholas. "' My master.' "' And who is your master 2' "'The Little Man in Green. Ha I ha!' laughed the dwarf.   SECOND SERIES.       287 "His name? I must know his name!' exclaimed Nicholas. "The abbreviated Mercury placed a finger beside his little nose, in a very knowing manner, at the same time winking sagaciously. "'I can answer no such question,' he said; 'my master desires to remain incog. at present. My name is Orloff, and I wish you to answer one inquiry: Does the ward of the Countess Walewski have an interview with Admiral Praxin to-day 2' "' She does.' "'That is sufficient; you will hear from me soon,' and Orloff fled through the open door, with a speed truly marvelous. "Nicholas called after him in vain, and then called his servant to dress himl, witlh a vague apprehension of evil, and a belief that no lover ever had so many to assist his wooing as himself. "Olinska, the daughter of a noble Polish 'family, was deprived of her parents at an early age, and se- lected for her guardian the high-i inded Countess Walewski. Her clhildish years were spent in Warsaw, the city of her forefathers; but the Countess was obliged to remain at St. Petersburg, being a member of the Czarina's household, and thither she called her ward, to be presented at court, and drown the lmemlory of her sorrows in the gaieties of the capital. "Young, beautiful and unsophisticated, chaperoned by an illustrious lady, and reputed to be heiress of   288     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. great wealth, the Polish maiden speedily became the magnet and toast of a brilliant circle. and a prize for which scores of young nobles contended. But the heart of Olinska was not to be purchased with titles, and while the scions of aristocracy knelt vainly at her feet, she besiowed her virgin affections upon Dimitri, whose silent homage defeated that of all others, with its proud, peculiar dignity. Military rank is esteemed by the Russians as little inferior to that of inheritance; yet they acknowledge a difference, and the line drawn between them by the usages of society cannot be over- stepped with impunity. The young officer, although admitted into court circles, was aware of the distance between himself and the lady in a social sen'se; but the encouragement she gave him, so insensibly drew them together, that disparity of birth was forgotten, and love-the great leveller of conditions-reigned paramount. "HRowever misanthropically a man may express his indifference to the world's opinion, we are all, more or less, its most subservient slaves, and although Nicholas Dimitri assured his idol that the gossip of fashionables was nothing to him, he deemed it proper to solicit the kind offices of the Countess, as a go-between; and ap- parently visited the guardian, when, in reality, the fair ward was the object of his intentions. "Peter the Great, who, at that period, occupied the throne of Russia, had an unpleasant habit of reward- ing his bachelor friends for worthy deeds, with the hand of somle fair maiden of his court; and, having be- held the Polish lady, he resolved to bestow her upon Admiral Praxin, who, though often regarded with sus-   SECOND SERIES.       289 picion by his sovereign, had lately rendered 'the state good service.' Olinska repulsed the old sailor's ad- vances with disdain; but the Czar requested her to grant him a private interview, and a request from such a source being synonymous with a command, the lady felt obliged to grant it. "Alone she sat, in a gorgeously furnished apart- ment, when the Admiral was announced, her sable locks shading a neck and bosom that rivalled the snow in their whiteness, and supporting her head with a hand of nature's choicest modeling. i"Admiral Praxin was a man in the 'sere and yel- low leaf' of meridian life. His form was firm and up- right, and his costume was that of a youthful courtier; but deep wrinkles tracked llis brow with the foot- prints of age, and his hair had caught the snow-flakes of the mountain's farther side. That foretaste of eter nal torments, the gout, had rather confused the lmeas- ure of his tread, and the stout old Admiral entered the lady's presence with an ungraceful limp. "As he passed into the room, a little figure clad in blue and silver, followed him noiselessly and, with wonderful agility, darted behind a curtain of the win- dow. "Olinska received her admirer with some embar- rassment,'which he seemed at first to reciprocate ; but at length, after many leers and grimaces, his counte- nance assumed a determined expression, and he went directly to the point. . "' Madam,' he said, 'you can scarcely be ignorant of the object for which I now visit you ; nor can you feel more deeply than I the extremely unpleasant posi- 13   290     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. tion in which we are both placed, by the desire of Peter. Aside from the duty I owe my sovereign of submitting entirely to his will, I have a sentiment ill my heart, which, should-it find a reflection in yours, will make me the happiest of men. My title and fortune are trifles; but the sentiment of love for yourself, tni- ted to that of loyal obedience, may, perhaps, be deemed by you as more powerful suitors for your hand and heart.' "'It were foolish in me to pretend to misunderstand you, my lord,' replied Olinska, with dignity. 'I am aware that the Czar favors your suit, and looks upon, me as a fitting bride for one whom he delights to honor; but, greatly as I honor and respect both my sovereign and yourself, I must positively refuse obedience in this instance, and assume the riht to act for myself. I amn deeply grateful to you, my lord, for your illtended kindness, but must, with all due respect, reject your offer, and close our interview.' "As she spoke, her bosom heaved with emotions boiling within, her eye flashed, and the right of woman to maintain her prerogative shone from every feature. "' Consider well, lady, before you drive me to des- pair by such cruelty!' exclaimed the Admiral, with vehemence. 'Consider what you are casting-aside as worthless. I have influence at court beyond that of the most powerful; the very Czar fears to offend me, and the wife of Admiral Praxin will be second only to the imperial Catherine in grandeur and-dominion. Let me hope that this is only maiden coyness, and that de. liberation may alter your decision.' "' I will not deceive you, my lord,' responded the YOU) my    resp   SECOND SERIES.       291 lady, (by awaking hopes whicel can never be realized. My hand shall never be yielded to any man by com- pulsion, or implied claims which I do not acknowl- edge; nor do I recognize any other right than my own to dispose of it. Dwell upon the subject no longer, or your title to the name of friend will be forfeited. Al- low me to retire.' "Dismay was betrayed in every lineament of the sailor's countenance, as he m-arked the firm tones in which these words were spoken; but anger quickly took its place as he asked, with a glance of suspicion, "' Lady, have I a rival?' "Olinska answered not, and arose to leave the apart- ment, when Praxin quickly intercepted her, and fell upon, his knees. "'Olinska, you shall not leave me thus!' lhe ex- claimed, in tones hoarse with excitement. 'If love will not incline you to accept me, let ambition do it. Ihave the power to place you on the throne of Russia, if you but say the word; your own countrymen, the refugees from Sweden, and twenty thousand discon- tented serfis will rise at my bidding; the navy is mile, and, by a wave of the hand, I can become an Em- peror.' "With a look of the most unmitigated disdain, the lady regarded the supplicant at her feet. "I will not parley longer with a traitor,' she said, in tones so cold and piercing that he involuntarily re- coiled from her, and- she walked from the apartment with a queenly air.  I'll -be revenged for this,' muttered the discarded suitor, as, with a frowning brow, he took his deparure. /   39.3     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. "Then forth sprang Orloff from his place of conceal- ment, with a smile of no ordinary magnitude distort- ing his little face. "' Good! and now for the Countess!' he exclaimed, following the Admiral.        , "Meanwhile, Nicholas had wandered aboiut the city in a most pitiable state of apprehension, and was about to rush madly to the hotel of the Countess, when he beheld the dwarf hastening toward him, carrying a letter at arm's length. "' Here--from the Countess,' ejaculated Orloff, panting for breath, and handing him the missive. Nicholas hastily tore it open, and read: "'DEAR NICHOLAS :-Olinska has had an interview with the Admiral, and, from its results, I fear the worst. Have a chaise and four, at the private door of my hotel before sunset to-day. You may trust Orloff. "' In haste,    WALEWSKI.' "' (Shall I engage the conveyance a' asked the dwarf, with a grin. (' Yes! I will trust you,' replied the excited officer. ' 'You will find all in readiness, at the. private door, by four o'clock!' said Orloff, and he disappeared as quickly as he came. "At the appointed hour, Nicholas repaired to, the spot where a chaise and its attendants were awaiting him, and right speedily a muffled figure emerged from the private door, and touched his arnm. "(' Olinska, dearest' Olinska.'   SECOND SERIES.       293 "'Let us hasten, Nicholas, I fear we are betrayed,' answered Olinska, trembling in his arms. "The officer quickly placed her in the chaise, and the horses had made their first spring forward when a great tumult arose in the street, and looking forth from a window of the vehicle, Nicholas beheld, to his dismay, half a score of imperial cavalry galloping furiously to- ward him. "'Onward! onward!' he shouted to the drivers, and sank back upon his seat beside the fainting girl. ' At the top of their speed fled the four chaise hor- ses, making the vehicle bounce firom the earth as though it were composed entirely of springs ; but they were no match for the full-blooded animals of the cav- alry, and the latter soon came up with them. "' Stop, in the name of the Czar,' said the leader, drawing his sword. "At the command, the postilliolls dropped their reins, and the chaise came to a dead halt. Then the door was burst open; and Nicholas, with a pistol in each hand, sprang into the road. "( Gentlemen,' he said hurriedly, ' you must allow me to proceed; the die is cast, and there is no turning back. Stand aside, sirs, I do not wish to shed your blood.' '"' Colonel Dimitri,' answered the leader, 'we are sorry that such is our duty, but the Czar has ordered us to apprehend you and your companion; and carry you before him; I. therefore apprehend you in the name of Czar.' "'This is tyranny and' I will resist it to .the last,' exclaimed the excited lover. 'I have not broken the   294     ORPIHEU C. KERR PAPERS. laws, and am no political criminal. Why should I be treated thus? You may take me gentlemen, but not alive.' "' We must do our duty,' answered the other. S Sur- round and disarm him,' he added, turning to his follow- ers. "The soldiers approached to obey his orders, and the desperate colonel had levelled his weapons, when Olinska, sprang from the chaise and knelt upon the ground before him. '; Submit, Nicholas; for my sake submit,' she ex- claimed, energetically, clasping her hands towards him. "Nicholas regarded her attenftively for a moment, and then lowered his weapons. "' I am your prisoner\ he said; ' take me where you will.' "The captured pair, were returned to the vehicle, the horses' heads were turned, and in silence they pro- ceeded to the palace of the Czar. "The imperial mansion was very different in those days from what it now is. No gaudy trappings, neither external nor internal, proclaimed the abode of royal- - ty; for Peter the Great appealed to hearts, not the eyes of his subjects, and for the inspection of foreign- ers he had an army, unrivaled in discipline and accou- trements, by any in Europe. A small ante-chalnber, plainly furnished, and adorned with various models of ships, paintings, and rude implements of warfare led into the the hall of audience, equally unostentatious, and the imperial dining saloon, plain as that of an or- dinary tradesman.   SECOND SERIES.       295 "Into the latter apartment, Nicholas and Olipska were led by their captors, pale and silent, but undis mayed. "A long table, bearing on its centre an inmmense pie, was loaded with a rich repast; and about it, were seated the most distinguished nobles and generals of the empire, and Admiral Praxin; while at its head, on elevated seats, appeared the Czar and Czarina. "' Ha! here are the two fugitives!' exclaimed Peter, observing the entrance of the party and approaching them. "Nicholas started at the sound of 'that voice, and looking up, recognized in his sovereign, Tl/e Little Man in Green. "' Your pardon, sire!' he exclaimed falling upon his knees, and remembering with the great trepidation how scurvily he had treated royalty in disguise. "' Arise, Colonel Dilmitri,' said the Czar kindly; 'you need not think of what has past; I am satified that you are a true and loyal subject. But what pos- sessed you to run away with this little rebel, man? Did you not know that she was affianced to Admiral Praxin?' "' Pardon me sire, I did not,' answered -Nicholas. "' And you Olinska; you have disregarded our Wishes, and thrown the gallant admiral overboard?' con- tinued Peter, addressing the trembling girl, with a mixture of severity and good-nature. ' Olinska bowed her head. " L What say you Praxin? Are you willing to yield your bride to the aimy, and let the navy remain a bachelor?' ( The Admiral had turned all colors, at the first en.   C 96     ORP'HEUS C. KERR PAPERS. trance of Olinska, but marking that she remained si- lent, he plucked up sufficient courage to reply. "'I cannot accept the lady's hand' without her hearlt. "' Did you sue for thlem like a man i' demanded Peter, sternly. "' I h6pe so, your majesty,' "'You lie, base traitor I' thundered the Czar, eyeiing him with a glance that chilled his blood. "' Has she betrayed me ' ejaculated Praxin, turn- ing deadly pale, and involuntarily clutching the han- dle of his sword. "'No,' answered Peter in hoarse tones, ' witness, come forth.' At that moment, the upper covering of the great pie was observed to move, and in another instant, it was thrown back, discovering 'the mighty Orloff, seated within the dish. "'God save the Czar!' said the dwarf, rising and stepping forth upon the table, with a bow of studied politeness. "'Orloff, point out the traitor,' said Peter. "Orloff assumed an air of great penetration, and pointed toward the Admiral, who stood alone, with his back against the wall, a perfect picture of despair- ing guilt. "'That is the man,' said the dwarf. "' Give your proof.' "Your majesty must know, that I was present while Admiral Praxin was wooing the lady Olinska, and. heard him say that your majesty dared not offend him ; he also declared that she had but to say the word, and   SECOND SERIES.      '97 he would make her an Empress, explaining how he had the Poles, the Serfs, the Swedish refugees, and the navy at his command, ready at his bidding to make him Emperor of Russia." "'What say you to this charge?' demanded Peter. "Praxin had regained somewhat of composure dur- ing the dwarfs speech; and at its conclusion he ap- proached the Czar and falling upon his knees, surren- dered his sword and belt. "' I am guilty,' he said, in firm tones.. 'Take my sword, gracious sovereign, and with it receive back the commission I have forever disgraced. In a moment of ungoverable passion I spoke words which should have choked me ere I uttered them, and which I would give my life to recall. I desire no mercy; yet I would ask forgiveness of Olinskaa, for daring to breathe treason in her presence.' "'Let us both forget it,' said Olinska, gently. "' Alas I can never forget it,' he replied, pressing her hands to his lips, and resuming his former atti- tude. ' The Czar gazed some moments attentively and silently upon the face of Praxin, as though to read his inmost soul, and then turning to Nicholas, he said: "'Colonel Dimitri, it is but just that I .should explain my conduct to you and Olinska, as it was by making an unconscious tool of you that I have fer- reted this matter out. I intended that Olinska should llave wedded the Admiral, not knowing that her affec- tions had been given to another; but lately I have distrusted him and ordered a spy of the police to watch him closely. My agent speedily brought me #     13*    298     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. news of your engagement, and your intended course; and I resolved to throw myself in your way, and gain a slight knowledge of your character. You know how I succeeded in that attempt. I also requested Olinska to receive the Admiral privately, and sent Orloff to be present-though concealed-at the inter- view. The Countess Walewski was made acquainted with my plans, by the dwarf, and hence your pre- sence here. As a punishment for an attempt to out- wit ,ne, I command that you be married before you leave the palace. As for yol, Admiral,' he continued, turning to Praxin, 'in consideration of the many ser- vices you have rendered us, I grant you a free par- don. You have been humiliated in the eyes of your friends, and have failed to win a prize worthy of my best subject. May you learn the lesson that passion will not always excuse dangerous words, nor is a sove- reign's leniency everlasting.' "Universal rejoicings followed this generous speech, and the victims of the royal whim retired from the imperial palace, married-for better or worse." This Russian tale sent us all home very thirsty, my boy; for its effect was very dry. Yours, weariedly, ORPHEUS G. KERR.   LETTER LXXIV. CONCERNING THE SERIOUS MTISTAKE OF THE VENERABLE GAMMON, THE CHAPLAIN)S' POETICAL DISCOVERY, THE PROMOTION OF COM- MODORE HEAD, AND THE RECEPTION OF THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLA- MATION BY THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY. WASHINGTON, D. C.; October 12th, 1862. THE Southern Confederacy having delayed to sue for peace, my boy, until the safety of Washington re- quinles that national strategy should continue metaphy- sical hostilities, it may be as well for you and me as a nation to prepare for a speedy commencement of War in earnest. The North. my boy, has not begun to fight yet; and as the stolid centuries roll on, and the hoary years move one by one into the sunless solitude I of Eternity, it becomes daily more evident that the Nortlh's actual putting forth of all its strength is merely a question of time. The giant is only just rousing from his slumbers, and nothing but ]lis legs and feet appear to be thoroughly awake yet. Now, is the time, my boy, for the idiotic Confede- racy to save himself, thy returning penitently to that beneficent Government which would have realized the millenium at half-past two o'clock on the Fourth of July. 1776, but for the unseemly villany of the   300,     ORPHEVS C. KERR PAPERS. accursed Black Republicans, many of whom are shortly to be hung. That is to say, such is the opinion of the Venerable Gammon, whose benignant presence is believed to have proved the salvation of our distracted country in the Revolutionary War, though I can find nothing, except his protecting patriarchal deportment toward all- the present universe, to justify the idea that he ever benefited anything. It soothes the human soul, my boy, to hear this Venerable inan discoursing on the most trite subjects in tones, and with an air calcu- lated to bles s all created things as w"ae paternal be- nediction. Surrounded by a number oi1h idolatrous national children, and standing in front of Willard's the other evening, he pointed fatly to a bright star overhead, and says he: "That star is like our country. That star," says / the Venerable Gammon, with a meaningless smile of an- gelic purity, "is like any other star on our flag; though clouds may Aide it in its ascending node, it is still knowed to be ascending." Then everybody felt cheered with the peaceful con- viction that Columbia was saved at last; and it's my- private belief, my boy-my private belief, that the at- tached populace looked upon this good old man as the one who had made the star. Yet, strange as it may seem, this venerable Bene- factor made a little mistake on Tuesday. A sportive young chap came to him with a newspaper in his hand and says he: "Let me see if you can tell, my Pater Patria, what paper this article. is in "-and proceeded to read the following high-minded editorial:   SECOND SERIES.       301 C TREASON OF THE BLACK REPUBLICANS. "True to their foul instincts, the Greely, Cheever, and Wendell Phillips herd of treasonable fanatics are now accusing their ' Honest Old Abe.' of ruining the country. It was their votes that elected the rail-split- ter, and now they turn tail upon hin and howl male- dictions because he will not carry out their fiendish intents by erecting a revolutionary guillotine in every Northern town and city. That blasphemous mnounte- bank, Beecher, may as well cease his treasonable inl- piety at once; for he and his Sharps'-rifle crew are responsible for the present bankruptcy of the whoie country, and the people will yet hold them to strict ac- count for every drop of blood that has been and will be shed in this unnatural strife." When sportive chap ceased reading, the Venerable Gammon waved his obese'hand with the fond, famil- iar air of a pleased benignity, and says he: "Of course, I know what paper that is, my son. I know the ring of those sterling conservative senti- ments,' says the Venerable Gammon, with calm satis- faction, 'and am blessed in the knowledge that our loyal New York Herald is still true to the Constitution and to the principles of my old friend, Georgey Wash- ington-or 'old Wash,' as he permitted me to call him." The sportive chap softly picked his teeth with a wisp from a broom, and says he: "But this ain't the Herald ' ^  .   302     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPEItS. at. all, you dear old soul; it's a copy of the Richmond Whig!"It was at this very moment, my boy, that the Venerable Gammon was first attacked by that dreadful cough which put an end to all further con- versation, and has since excited the most fearful apprehensions lest a bereaved country should sud- nenly be called to mourn the untimely loss of its be- nign idol. On Tuesday afternoon, I had a talk with the Mack- erel chaplain, who had remained here over Sunday to administer consolation to a dying brigadier, and was grievously wounded in spirit to find that the telegraph had committed a trifling breach of spelling, and that that brigadier was only dyeing his hair, which had suddenly turned white in a single night on the strength of a rumor that there might be some fighting in the morning. The Mackerel chaplain, my boy, is of inestimable value to a wounded man, his vivid and spiritual man- ner of describing the celebrated Fire Department of the other world being a source of unspeakable comfort and reassurance to the sufferer. "I am afraid you have led a sinful life, my fellow-worm," says he to the sick Mackerel, "and can only advise you to buy one of these hymn-books from me, which I can afford to sell for six shillings." But what the chaplain talked to me about, was his discovery, at a village not far from Winchester, of a new   SECOND SERIES.        303 "PICCIOLA." It was a Sergeant old and gray, Well singed and bronzed from siege and pillage, Went tramping in an army's wake, Along the turnpike of the village. For days and nights the winding host Had through the little place been marching, And ever loud the rustics cheered, 'Till ev'ry throat was hoarse and parching. The Squire and Farmer, maid and dame, All took the sight's electric stirring, And hats were waved and staves were sung, And kerchiefs white were countless whirring. They only saw a gallant show Of heroes stalwart under banners, And in the fierce heroic glow, 'Twas theirs to yield but wild hosannahs The Sergeant heard the shrill hurrahs, Where he behind in step was keeping; But glancing down beside the road He saw a little maid sit weeping. "And how is this?" he gruffly said, A moment pausing'to regard her;- "Why weepest thou, my little chit?"- And then she only cried the harder.   304      ORPHEUS C. OKERR PAPERS. "And how is this, my little chit?" The sturdy trooper straight repeated,  When all the village cheers us on, That you, in tears, apart are seated? "We march two hundred thousand strong. And that's a sight, my baby beauty, To quicken silence into song And glorify the soldier's duty." "It's very, very grand, I know," The little maid gave soft replying; "And Father, Mothei, Brother too, All say ' Hurrah' while I am crying; "But think-O Mr. Soldier, think, How many little sisters' brothers Are going all away to fight And may be killed, as well as others!" "Why bless thee, child," the Sergeant said, His brawny hands her curls caressing, f 'Tis left for little ones like you To find that War's not all a blessing." And "Bless thee!" once again he cried; Then cleared his throat and looked indignant, And marched away with wrinkled brow To'stop the struggling tear benignant.   SECOND SErRIES.       305 And still the ringing shouts went up From doorway, thatch, and fields of tillage ; The pall behind the standard seen By one alone, of all the village. The oak and cedar bend and writhe When roars the wind through/gapland braken; But 'tis the tenderest reed of all That trembles first when Earth is shaken. It is with infinite satisfaction, my boy, that I record the recognition of Commodore Head's priceless servi- ces on Duck Lake by the Secretary of the Navy. Our grim old son of Neptune is created Rear-Admiral, with the privilege of snubbing gunboat captains, receiving serenades, attending launches, and lavishing untold scorn upon the feeble imitations of affrighted Europe. Hence, there would appear to be an imperative de- mand in current literature for an authoritative SKETCH OF COMMODORE iEAD. This venerable ornament of our peerless naval ser- vice, to whom the eyes of the whole world are now di- rected, was born of one of his parents at an early pe- riod of lhis existence, and has since incurred the years temporarily elapsing between that epoch and the pres ent auspicious occasion. The subject of our brief bi- ography entered the navy when he was only fifty years   306     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. old, as commander of the Mackerel iron-plated squad- ron on Duck Lake, where he became widely noted for success in fishing, as well as for his skill in eluding ves- sels running the blockade. At one time, indeed, he ca ,l(c very near capturing a Confederate ram, being only prevented by failing to find the key of the box con- taining his spectacles in time to reconnoiter the wily foe. Commodore Head's conversation concerning the speedy capture of Vicksburg, Charleston, Savannah and Mobile, is instructive to all minds, and his promo- tion is an event calculated to prove that the war is about to begin in earnest. Rear-Admirals, my boy, are an aristocratic institu- tion; and their creation must serve to convince besot- ted Europe, that in making a naval distinction between rank and file, our discriminating Government knows how to compromise matters by bestowing a new rank upon ani old file. It was on Wednesday that my architectural steed, the Gothic Pegasus, renewed his usual weekly journey to desolated Accomac, cheerfully conveying me thither at a speed that did not keep the same roadside house in view more than half an hour at a time. Having hitched the funereal stallion to a copy of Senator Sum- ner's recent Faneuil Hall speech, believing that docu- ment sufficiently heavy to hold him, I gave him a dis- carded straw-hat of mine for his dinner, and strolled into the Macklerel camp. To the everlasting disgrace of our rulers be it said, my boy, I found the devoted Mackerel Brigade pro- \   SECOND SERIES.      307 gressing toward deep suffering at a rate which made me thank Heaven that I owned no chickens within sight of the harrowing scene. Being toughtlessly supplied with three days' rations at a time, these ne- glected martyrs incur all the perils of suffocation and cruel nightmare by doing nothing on the first day but eat from morning till night, what is left over at mid- night being used to pelt each other with. Then for two whole days these gallant men who are fighting our battles find famine staring them in the face, and I act- ually heard one emaciated Mackerel chap offering a whole week's pay to another Mackerel chap for a Con- federate cracker which he had picked up in a field, wishing to consign that cracker to his friends at home as a sample of the unnatural food with which an un- grateful Republic feeds its faithful soldiers. I even found many Mackerels without knapsacks and blank- ets, which they had lost in adventures at "Old Sledge"; and there was that in the countenances of others which sured me that their poor faces had not been washed since the commencement of the war! My soul turns sick at these things, my boy, and they even have an effect upon a beholder's stomach. To think that our noble volunteers, our country's pre- servers, should be subjected to sufferings in which they have not even the poor consolation of knowing that somebody else than themselves is responsible there- for. Reflectively I turned from the scene of agony, and had rambled some fifteen minutes in an adjacent bit of woods, when the sound of voices near by. made me l      ao   308     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. stop short behind a tree and peer eagerly through an opening in the nearest thicket. Seated just beyond some evergreen bushes were four dilapidated Confederacies, solemnly discussing the great Emancipation Proclamation of our Honest Abe; whilst close by them, and astride of a mossy stone, was the accomplished sw6rdsman, Captain -Munchausen, frantically, and with many hiccups, endeavoring at one and the same time to caten a phantom fly and maintain hs equestrian position. One of the Confederacies took a bite from a cold' potatoe which he held in his hand, and, says he: "I reckon that it's near time for the unsubjugated South to adopt Retaliatory measures, and proclaim that all prisoners hereafter taken by the Confederacy shall be previously shot and made into bone-orna- ments."  Here Captain Muncllausen burst into an unseemly peal of laughter as he made another wild clutch at the phantom-fly, and says he: "Wher-where's Mary's-ary's-snuff-box?" Not perceiving that this special remark was relev- ant to the question in view, a second Confederacy merely tightened the string which held his inexDressi- bles in place, and, says he: "What has been proposed by the Honorable Gen- tleman from the Alms House is not sufficiently severe. No mercy should be shown to the Washington demon, and I move that any Federal soldiers found disturbing a Confederacy during the progress of a battle shall be at once executed for arson.?" The impression created by this motion extended   SECOND SERIES.       309 even to Captain Munchausen, who fell flat on his face in a frantic attempt to catch the spectral insect, anld exclaimed, in tones of awful solemnity: "I don't want (hic) to be marri-ry-arried-Hic!" After a moment's pause, the third Confederacy fin- ished buttoning his coat with a bit of corn-cob, and says he: "I move that the last Resolution be amended, to make it a capital crime for any person whatever to be guilty of Federal extraction." Now, it chanced, my boy, that there was a Mackerel picket eating a confiscated watermelon in a clump of bushes close behind me; and just at this crisis of the debate, he casually tossed a piece of the rind in the di- rection of the Confederacies. It happened to' fall in their midst, whereupon the enraged statesmen were seized' with great tremnblings, and immediately skedad- dled in-all directions, the last being Captain Mun- chausen, who at first endeavored to carry a rock of some hundred pounds' weight away with him, anld ulti- mately retreated in a highly-circuitous manner, with an expression of abject despair under his cap. It is said, my boy, that the celebrated Confederacy will resent the Proclamation by raising the Black Flag. It is a common belief, that if such be the case, it will be the duty of our generals to raise the blacks without flagging. Yours, if it come to that, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LXXV. BETTING FORTH THE FALSE AND TRUE ASPECTS OF BEAMNG OLD AGE RESPECTIVELY, AND SHOWING HOW THE UNBLUSHNG CONFE- DERACY MADE ANOTHER RAID. WASHINGTON, D. C., October 19th, 1862. t IT is a beautiful and ilnproving thing, nmy boy, to see the wise and polished mob of a great nation pay- ing unmitigated reverence to fussy gray hairs, and much shirt collar; and hence I never grew tired of considering the dignified case of the Venerable Gam- mon, whom everybody regards as the benign paternal relative of his country. When I see Generals, Sena- tors, and other proprietors of Government property, hanging breatilessly upon the words of this sublime old man, just as though such words were so many gal- lows, I feel the cause of Justice typified to my mind's eye, and aln myself enthusiastic enough to believe that hanging is too good for them. Whbther at Wil- lard's, the White House, the Capitol, or in Ihis native Mugville, the Venerable Gammon is ever the same beneficent being, beaming blandly upon the whole universe from above his ruffles, and paternally permit- ting it to exist in his presence. The precise thing he has dlone in hs fearfully long [310]   SECOND SERIES.       3" lifetimne, my boy, to beget such an agony of love and worship from everybody, has not yet come to the immediate knowledge of anybody ; but he is the moss- grown oracle of the United States of America, and it gives me unspeakable satisfaction to reproduce as fol- lows, lIis benign letter of advice to the idolized Gene. ral of the Mackerel Brigade : MUGVILLE, July 4, 1776. DEAR SIRRAH,-.Justly regarding you as the next President of the United States, and an honored suc- cessor of my old friend, Georgey Washington, I deem it proper, by reason of my great importance and ilfir- nities, to repeat in writing with a pen what I have befores spoken to you -with my tongue-this supple- inent to my printed views (dated Apiril the First) on the bligllly inflamed condition of our glorious and distracted Union. To meet the expectations of a populace admiring my venerable shape, I deem it consistent zwith my re- tiring modesty and infirmities to dictate to you the four plans you may pursue by way of making yourself President of our distracted Commonwealth in 1865. I.-Throw off the old and assume a new designa- tion-the sly old party; give the South entire control of the whole country, and, my wig upon it, we shall have no secession ; but, oil the contrary, an early re- turn of the entire Confederacy to) Washington. W ith- out some equally benignant measure, we shallbe com- pelled to fight all the Border ' States and put them   312     ORPelus c. EwRR PAPERS. down at once, instead of keeping two hundred thou- salld soldiers peaceably employed in making their loy- alty continually sure. II. -Collect the war taxes outside of the States where the tax-payers live, or declare upon paper that they are already collected. "I.--Conquer the seceded States by the unheard-of agency of an actual army. I think this might be done in a few hundred years by a young and able general to be found on some railroad, with six hun- dred thousand disciplined spades. Estimating a third of this number to remain for' ever stationary on the Potomac, and a loss of a still greatel number by con- summate strategy and changings of b)ase. The loss of chickens and contrabands on the other side would be frightful, however great the morality of the mud- sills. This conquest would cost money that might oth- erwise go to beautify the South, seenre fifteen swearing and deeply-offended provinces, and be im- mediately followed by a new election for President in 1865. IV.-Say to the Seceded States, in one of which I own some mortgages: "How are you, Sozthern Con-z federacy -" Deliberately, I remain, Your father and the country's, V.- GAMMON.   SECOND SERIES.        313 This touching letter, my boy, I recommend to your most prayerful consideration, as a paternal outpouring of shirt-collared old age. Old age! how- beautiful art thou in the glory of thy spectacles, and the sublime largeness of thy sto- mach and manner. And yet, would you believe it, my boy a I am sometimes possessed of great doubtings as to the genuineness of that majesty which makes a continually-looming Venerable Shape such a great blessing to an imperiled land. Sometimes there comes to me a rickety vision of: AGE BLUNTLY CONSIDERED. As Age advances, ails and aches attend, Backs builded broadest burdensomely bend; Cuttingly cruel comes consuming Care, Dealing delusions, drivelry, despair. Empty endeavor enervatelyt ends,' Fancy forlornly feigns forgotten friends; Gout, grimly griping, gluttonously great, Hasten's humanity's hard-hearted hate. Intentions imbecile invent ideas Justly jocunding jolly jokers' jeers: Knowledge-keen kingdom knurlyably known- Lingers, lamenting life's long lasting loan,        1   314      ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. Mammonly mumming, magnifying motes, Nurtures numb Nature's narrowest nursery notes, Opens old age'e odious offering out- Peevish punctilio, parrot-pining pout. Qualmishy querrying, quarrelsomely quaint, Rousing rife ridicules' repealed restraint; Speaking soft silliness-such shallow show That tottering toysters, tickled, titter too. Useless, ungainly unbeloved, unblest, Virtue's vague visor, vice's veiling vest, Wheezingly whimpering, wanting wisdom, wit, Xistence, Xigent, Xclaims-Xit! Youths, you're yclept youth's youngest; yet you'll Zestless zig-zaggers zanyable zealed. I exhibited that pleasing little poem to a Mackerel chap, who stuttered, my boy ; and he came so near go- ing into apoplexy through his endeavors to read it, that I was obliged to make a joke, in order that he might smile, relax, and recover. And now let your mind fly, like a wearied dove, to the celebrated Arcadian scenes of festive Accomac, where the Mackerel Brigade continues to reconnoitre in force, and awaits the death of the Confederacy by old age. Men, my boy, who entered this strategic war in the full bloom of youth, now go with stooping shoulders and tottering gait when they have a barrel of flour to carry, and the bloom has departed from ev- ery part of them save the extreme tip of that handle   SECOND SERIES.       815 of the human countenance which first meets the edge of an open door in the dark. Even the Mackerel brass-band begins to grow feeble, often making pitia- ble attempts to execute stirring strains on his night key, bugle, as though unconscious that by long disuse in his pocket it had become clogged with bread and cheese. There is, on the Southern border of Accomac, my boy, a solitary house, containing furniture and the necessaries of life, which the Conic Section of the Mackerel Brigade had been ordered to guard.  It stands immediately on the verdant banks of Awlkwyet River, where that stream must be at least ten inches deep; and as the first regular bridge is ten miles be- low it, of course the Conic Section, to guard the house was placed at the end of that bridge-it being a prin- ciple of n-ational strategy never to recognize any Con- federate raid not made across a regular bridge. Now it chanced, that while the Conic Section at the bridge was taking a short nap, having been up very late the night before; and while the beloved General of the Mackerel Brigade was visiting a portion of his beautiful home-circle in Paris, that a very dirty Con- federacy, riding in a seedy go-cart, made his appear- ance on the bank of the river opposite the house, and commenced to make a raid right through the water to the shore this side. His geometrical steed wet his feet thereby, and the wheels of his squeaking vehicle were damped by this barbarian way of offering irregular op- position to the Government; but what cared he for the rules of civilized warfare, which are the only. author- ized West Point editions?  Like all his infatuated   316     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. countrymen, he was rendered less than strategic by the demon of Secession, and he crossed by the unmil. itary ford instead of by the military bridge. This is, indeed, heart-sickening. There was a Mackerel chap who slept in the hous to take care of a large black bottle, and when he heard the go-cart driving up before the door, he stuck his head out of the window, and says he: "What is it which you would have in these" irregu- lar proceedings, Mr. Stuart a?" The Confederacy dismounted from his chariot, tied a bag of oats over his charger's head, and says he: "I'm making a raid." The Mackerel waved his hand southward, and says he: "You'll find the bridge just below. Don't stay here,"5 says the Mackerel, earnestly, " or you'll exas- perate the North to fury." HTere the Confederacy made some remark in which the narne of the North and a profane expletive were connected very closely, and proceeded to bring from the house a hobby-horse which stood in the hall. After placing this valuable article in his go-cart, he next brought out a cooking-stove ; closely following this with some chairs, a dining-table, two feather beds, a tea-set, four wine-glasses and some tumblers, a looking-glass, four sheets, two cottage bedsteads, a Brussels carpet, and a Maltese cat. With these and a few other excep- tions, my boy, he made no attempt to disturb private property; thereby proving that the President's Pro- clamation has already produced a wholesome effect in the degenerate South.   SECOND SERIES.       317 While this was going on, the vigilant Mackerel guard descended privately from a back window, and made a forced march to where the Conic Section were watching something which looked like a man in the Southern horizon-instantly making known the auda- cious raid of the thieving Confederacy, and asking whether the new levies of the Executive's last call were likely to arrive early enough to take measures for the prevention otf the capture of Washington. While the question was in debate, my boy, the be- loved General of the Mackerel Brigade arrived with his trunk and umbrella from Paris, and having caused it to be telegraphed to all the reliable morning jour- nals that the Confederacy were now in a fair way to be captured alive, he at once took measures to cut off the retreat of the latter. Captain Villiam Brown, with Company 3, Regiment 5, was at once ordered to con- struct a pontoon bridge across the river some miles be- low, and watch it vigilantly day and night; Captain Bob Shorty and Colonel Wobert Wobinson, with the Anatomical Cavalry, were dispatched to take posses- sion of a railroad leading to Manassas; whilst Captain Samyule Sa-nith with-the balance of the Conic Sec- tion, was commanded to make a detour of three hun- dred miles, and endeavor to reach the invaded house before midwinter set in. All these movements were in accordance with pro- found strategy, my boy, and cut off the Confederacy from retreat by every route in the world, except the insignificant one he came by. Satisfied that the war was going to end in about sixty days, after which we should ha've ti'me to defeat   318     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS, combined Europe, the Mackerel guard hastened back to the dornicil, which he reached just in time to find the Confederacy topping his go-cart with some kind- ling-wood from the cellar. I regret to say, my boy-I blush for my species as I make the incredible revelation-that upon receiving the information -of his surrounding and probable stra- tegic capture by the vigilant Mackerel Brigade, the irreverent Confederacy burst into a hideous horse- laugh, and at once proceeded to appropriate the poor Mackerel chap's own shoes and stockings. With the deepest horror I record, that he also tweaked the Mackerel's nose. "I did not intend this as a permanent invaslon," says the impious Confederacy, as he remounted his go-cart and turned his geometrical Arabian toward the water again; " but I have just married a daughter of South Carolitna-one of two twins-and reckoned that I needed some things to set up housekeeping. Fare- well, foul Hessian," says the Confederacy., as he splashed through the water to the opposite bank- "fare thee well, and tell your fiendish ruler, that it is somewhat impossible to conquer the sunny South." The Mackerel chap gazed thoughtfully after the go-cart as it disappeared on the other side of the balmy Awlkwyet stream, and says he: "Rail on), my erring brother; but if you'd only stayed here one more week, you might not have escaped thus for seven whole days. Had the army being insufficient to secure you," says the Mackerel to himself, -had the army been insufficient to secure you, why, there's the police."   SECOND SERIES.       319 Raids, my boy, are so intrinsically irregular in their character, that no provision can be made for them in a regular army; hence they are sometimes necessi- tated to take provisions for themselves as they go on. Yours, radiantly, ORPHEUS 0. KERa .   LETTER LXXV1. REFZRRING TO THE MOSQUITO AS A TEST OF HUMAN NATURE, EX- -PLAINING THE LONG HALT OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE, AND NOTING THE COURT OF INQUIRY ON CAPTAIN VILLIAM BiOWN. WASHNaGTON, D. C., October 26th. 1862. EARLY this morning, my boy, I sauntered across the Long Bridge and took my seat upon the topmost rail of a fence enclosing a tranpled meadow. There I sat, like Marius, my boy, contemplating the architec- tural ruin embodied in my Gothic steed, Pegasus, and ever and anon whistling abstractedly to my frescoed dog, Bologna. By the gods! I really love these dumb friends of mine. The speculative eye of the world sces in poor Pegasus nothing more than an architectural dream- the church architecture of the future---and, I must confess, my boy, that 'the Gothic charger does look something like a skeleton chapel at a distance; it sees in Bologna only a mongrel cur, whose taste for the calves of human legs is an epicurean outrage on walking society. But for me, my boy, there is a human pathos in the patient fidelity of these zoological curio- sities which appeals to my best manhood. T have had a hard and thankless life of it; my experience with   SECOND SERIES.       321 the knowing political chaps of the Sixth Ward was enoagli to gi'ind everywthing like lhi:nani tenderness out (of my nature, and make me turn an arrogant and contemptuous misanthrope; but there are times when tlhe cold nose of Pegasus against my cheek, or a wag from that speaking tail of Bologna-which curls up behind him like a note of interrogation, to ask how his master feels-will give me such a sensation of wishing to protect and be kind to the Helpless, that I feel my- self a better man for the practical Christianity of such hllmble society. There is my mosquito, the youthful Hunmboldt, too I He came to me one night, about two years ago, Ily boy, practising much profound strategy to capture my nose; and when I foiled him by a free use of both arms of the service, the unterrified and lhumming manner in which he changed the base of hs opera- tions and came on again, excited my admiration and respect. Catching him in a little net cage made from the musquito bars of my bed, I kept him safely by me, and now use him as a test of human nature.- In God's providence, each minute created thing has its appointed use, my boy, and depend upon it, the use of the musquito is to test human nature. There was a veteran political chap from Albany call- ed upon me last Sunday night. A sage and aged chap of infinite vest, who wears the broad-brimmed hat of reticent respectability, and nestles in much shirt- collar like a centuried owl. ,Having taken a pinch of snuff after the dirty manner of a Gentleman of the Old School, he merely paused to take a hasty glance "*   322     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. at the plan for the next Senatorial election in his note book, and then says he: I'm grievously dis'pointed, .yea, piteously vexed, to see the partisan spirit raging so furiouslv in State elections, at a time when an expiring country calls upon all her sons, irrespective of partyt to join hands in the great work of saving her. Why cannot these turbulent denouncers of each other be like me, who recognize no division of party in this national crisis? I would have- a union of all men to vote for the one great ticket of my choice; and even the democrat I would recognize as a fellow being in such a case." I suspected this grievous old chap to be a hypo- crite, my boy, and I managed to let Humboldt free from his cage for the purpose of testing him. As the aged chap commenced to get warm, Humboldt began to make raids round his sagacious head, and with divers slaps in the air, the aged chap waxed spirited, and says he; "Pshoo! psloo!-As I was saying, we should all strive to conciliate our political adversaries-pshoo! and endeavor to promote a spirit of unity even with the most disaffected peace men--pshoo, you beast!- and not act like Greeley and Wendell Phillips, and Beecher-confound it, pshoo!-and other infernal fanatics; who, by their indiscreet, imprudent--curse it, pshoo!-and infernal, God-forsaken niggerism, are wounding the tenderest feelings-thunder and light- ning, pshool--and rousing the hellish passions of really good democrats, who thereby make capital from their sadly mistaken-blazes and blue lightning, pshoo!-and devilish craziness, which is unfortunately   SECOND SERIES.       823 confusing-good heavens, pshoo, pshoo!--and damn- ing their own party, and knocking thunder out of the. gubernatorial canvass; besides-besides--" Here this aged chap made a flying leap at Hum- boldt, missed his aim, and then dashed madly from- the room. Depend upon it, my boy, a musquito is a great test of human nature. The little chap operates like an outside conscience, and brings the real thing to the surface. Why does not the Mackerel Brigade advance? This, my boy, is the question of the hour. For what do our heroes wait? Is it for india-rubbers, or umbrel- las, or fine-tooth combs? No! be not deceived: it is for none of these. Hem!  The fact is, my boy, many respectable though married Mackerels entered the army of the Accomac when they were in the prime of life; and as old age steals softly upon them, as the seasons and the bases of operations run through their changes, and year succeeds year, the eye-sight of many of them waxes dim, and fails in the process of Nature. I know some thousands of Mackerels, my boy, who are already so blind that they have not seen a rebel for six months ; and hence, no advance-movement can be judiciously made until the brigade is supplied with spectacles. Without these, the idolized General of the Mackerel Brigade will not do anything until he gets ready. It was the want of these, as I now discover, that pre- vented our troops seeing the Southern Confederacy when he made his late raid across Awlkwyet River. Let the spectacles be at once procured, my boy; or an   324     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. indignant and bleeding nation will at once demand a change in the Cabinet. Compasny 3, Regiment 5, is the only Company yet fitted with glasses, and was therefore selected to make a reconnoissance toward Paris, under Colonel Wobert Wobinson, on Tuesday afternoon, for the purpose of discovering whether the Confederacies there were vely tired of waiting yet. Glaring through their spec- tacles, these gallant beings advanced until they mnet a Parrot shell going the other way, and then returned with hasty discipline, bringing with them a captured con- traband, who was so anxious to remain in their com- pany that he actually ran very fast. Upon regaining the camp in Accomac, my boy, the colonel had the intelligent contraband brought before him, and says he: "If I mistake not, friend Africa, you were escaping from the bonds of oppression when we took you 2?" The intelligent contraband shifted a silver soup-ladle from one pocket to the other, and says he: "Yes, mars'r colonel, I hab left my ole mars'r for de good of his bressed soul." Here the attached bond- man sniffed and shook his head. "Are you pious a." says Colonel Wobinson, much af- fected by such an example of humble devotion. "Yes, mars'r I is dat," says the fond creature, wip- ing his brow with a silk vest from his dress coat pocket, "and I wished to save my ole mars'r from de sin of de wicked. I know dat it was wrong for him to own nig- gas, and dat he was more sinful de more he done it. And I run away, Mairs'r Colonel, to save dat ole man's bressum soul from any more dam."   SECOND SERIES.       325 Colonel Wobinson took off his spectacles in order that the steam from his tears might not dim them, and says he : "I had not looked for this in one so black. Leave those silver spoons with mne, friend Africa, and I will send them to my wife. Sergeant, convey this dark be- ing, who has taught us all such a lesson of self-sacri- fice, to the chaplain; and tell the chaplain to look out for his pocket." How beautiful is it, my boy, to see in the uncouth, unlettered slave, a spirit of piety so shiningly practical. When I beheld the brutalized bondman evince such signs of religion, I am reminded of those tender and precocious little babes, who sometimes delight their mothers with exalted utterances of the like, and am in- clined to believe that one knows just as much about it as the other does. It pains me to say, my boy, that Captain Villiam Brown so far forgot himself on Wednesday, upon dis- covering the non-arrival of the spectacles, that he used language of an incedeniary description against the be- lovedl General of the Mackerel Brigade, thereby prov- ing himself to be one of those crazy fanatics wlio are trying to ruin our distracted country. He said, my boy, that the adored General of the Mackerel Brigade was a dead-beat, and furthermore observed that he would be very sorry to take his word. Such language could not pass unnoticed, and a Court of Inquiry, composed of Captains Bob Shortly, Sam- yule Sa-mith, and Colonel Wobert Wobinson, was in- stantly called. The Court had a decanter and tumbler only, to aid its deliberations, it being determined by   326     ORPHEUS C0 KERR PAPERS. the War Department that no fact which could be de- tected even by the aid of a glass, should go unin- -spected. Villiam having been summoned to the presence, Samyule declared the Court in session, and says he: "The sad duty has become ours, to investigate cer- ting charges against a brother in arms which has here- tofore been the mirror of chivalry. It is specified against him: "' First-That said Captain Villiam Brown; Eske- vire, did affirm, declare, avow, testify, and articulate, with his tongue, licker, and organ of speech, that the General of the Mackerel Brigade was a dead-beat. "' Second--That aforesaid Captain Villiam Brown, Eskevire, did proclaim, utter, enunciate, fulminate and swear, that he would not take the word of the Gen- eral of the Mackerel Brigade.' "What has the culprit to say to these charges . Did he say that our idolized Commander was a dead- beat?" Yilliam smiled calmly,- and says he: "The chaste remark exactly fits the orifice of my lips." "Confine yourself to English," says Colonel Wobin- son, majestically. "What do you mean by the obser- vation ." "Why," says Villiam, pleasantly, "I meant, that before he was beaten he must be dead. And after death, you know," says Villiam, reaching one hand ab- stractedly toward the decanter, "after death, you know, we Illust all b'eaten by worms." This explanation, my boy, was satisfactory, and con- veyed a grave moral lesson; but the court felt con-   SECONL) S ERIES.      327 vinced that that the second charge could not be thus simply answered. Captain Samyule Sa-mith set down the tumbler for a moment, and says he: "You're not guilty on the first count, Villiam; but didn't you say that you wouldn't take the word of the General of the Mackerel Brigade?", "Which I did," says Villiam. "Acl what excuse have you to offer, my trooper?" says Captain Bob Shorty, pointing the question with his spoon. " Is the general a gentleman a?" says Villiam, search- ingly. The court believed him to be such. "Ah!" says Villiam, " then if he's a gentleman, he always keeps his word, and of course it is impossible to take it." Verdict of "not guilty, with a recommendation to mercy."        , Courts of Inquiry, my boy, are calculated to draw out the rich humor of military character, and are equally useful and appropriate with all other jokes, in times of devastating war. Yours, smilingly, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   "E1TER LXXVII. SHOWING WHAT EFFECT DEMOCRATIC TRIUMPHS HAVE UPON THe PRESIDENT, NOTING OUR CORRESPONDENT'S STRANGE MSTAKE ABOUT A BRITISH FLAG, AND INDICATING THE STRAGETIC ADVANCE OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE. Washington, D. C., November 7th, 1862. THEu late election in New York, my boy, has electri- fied everybody except our Honest Abe, who still goes about smiling, like a long and amiable sexton, and con- tinues to save our distracted country atfter the manlter of an honest man. On Tuesday night, a high moral Democratic chap, of much watch-seal, who had just received a dispatch all about the election, went to see the Honest Abe, for the express purpose of telling him that the Democratic party }had been born again, and was on the point of protesting against everything what- soever, except the Constitution of our forefathers. He found the Honest Abe cracking some walnuts before the fire, my boy, and says he:  The celebrated Democratic organization, of which I am Assistant Engineer, has carried the State of New York in a manner impossible to express, and will now proceed to demhand of you a vigorous prosecution of that unnatural strife in which are involved our lives, our liberties, and the pursuit of happiness. We ad-   SECOND SERIES.      329 mire to see your harmless honesty," says the chap, blandly, " and we believe you to be a fresh egg; but we protest against the arbitrary arrest of men which is patriots, only conservatively Democratic; and we insist upon a vigorous prosecution of Constitutional hostilities against our mnisguided brothers who are now offering irregtlar opposition to the Government." The Honest Abe cracked a walnut, and says he: "You say, neighbor, that the organization still insists upon a vigorous prosecution of the war?" The Democratic chap sliced a toothpick from the arm of the chair with his knife, and says he: "That is the present platform on which we are JE pluribus unurn." "Well," says the Honest Abe, "I believe that you mean well; but am reminded of a little story. "When I was practicing law out in Illinois," says the Honest Abe, twisting the bow of his black necktie around from under his left ear, " there was an old cock, with two sons, living near me in a tumble-down old shanty. He lived there until lalf his roof blew off one windy night, and then he concluded to move to a 'new house, where the chitnney didn't take up all the upper story. On the day when he moved, he'd got most all his traps changed to the other residence, and had sent one of his sons to see that they werle all got safely in- doors, when suddenly a shower commenced to come up. Thile old man and his other offspring, who had stayed to hurry him, were taking up a carpet from the floor at the time the first dose of thunder cracked, and the offspring says he, ' Hurry up, old clazy-bones, ot we'll be ketched in thie freshet'before yout get up   SECOND SERIES.       330 this here rich fabric.' .The stern parent heeded the admonition, and went ripping away the carpet around the edges of the room, until he came near where the offspring was standing, and there it stuck., H pulled, but it wouldn't come, and he says, says he " "Pears to me that dod-rotted tack must be a tenpenny nail-it holds on so.' You see, the old screw was very blind without his specs," says the Honest Abe, buttoning his vest askew, " and he couldn't see just where the tack was. Another peal of thunder at this moment made the irascible offspring still madder, and he says, says he: ' You misabul old cripple, if you don't hurry up we'll be ketched? I tell you!' As he made this dutiful remark he went stamping to the window, and at the same moment the cantankerous tack came out, and the aged parent went over on his back with the carpet up to his chin. He got up and dusted, and says he: ' Well, now, that is curious-how suddent it went. Then he proceeded to rip away again, until it came near the window, and there it stuck once more. The wild offspring saw him tugging again, and it made him so wrathy that he says, says he: 'Why in thunder didn't you take the nails out first, you crooked old sin- ner, you? It's enough to make me weep afresh for the old woman, to see how you-' But he didn't finish his observation; for, as he walked toward where the haim- mer lay, the tack came out, and the old 'un went to bed again under the carpet. Up sprang the sad pa- rent, spitting rags, and he says, says he: ' Well now, how cur'ous-to think it should come so suddent!' Still on he went, until the carpet was all up from around the edges; but when he tried to draw it away   / SECOND SERIEf.       331 on his shoulder, it was fast somewheres yet. R-r-rum- bum-boom! went the thunder; and says the infuriated offspring, says he: ' Well, I never did see such a blun- dering old dad as you be. We'll be ketched in the rain as sure as grasshoppers; and all because you didn't take my advice about the hammer in the first place.' The poor old 'un tugged, and pulled, and panted, and says he: ' Well, now, it is cur'ous, I swun to massey. There can't be no tacks way out in the middle of the floor here, can they 2' To make sure, the old blind- pate was going down on his knees to take a mouse-eye view, when all of a sudden he gave a start, and he says, says he: 'Why, 'pears to mne, Sammy, you're standin' on the carpet yourself ' And so he was-so he was," says the Honest Abe, smiling into the fire, "and that was the why the carpet had stuck fast in so many places." "Now," says the Honest Abe, poking the Demo- cratic chap in the ribs with his knuckles; " if your or- ganization wants me to move vigorously in this war, tell them not to be standing on my carpet all the time. Otherwise, I must still keep tacking about." The Democratic chap had been slowly rising from his chair as this small moral tale drew toward its ex- citing conclusion, and at the last word he fled the apartment with quivering watch-seal. Onr President, my boy, has a tale for every emer- gency, as a rat-trap has an emergency for every tail. It was on the morning of this same day, that I had a pleasing conversation on the state of our foreign rela- tions with a phlegmatic British chap connected with the English Ministry, who is remaining here for the   332     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. purpose of beholding anarchy in the North, which Ihe has been requested to immediately communicate to one of Great Britain's morning journals. We were taking Richmond together at Willard's, my boy, and had just been speaking of the English Southern pirate "Ala- bama" in terms of neutrality, when suddenly the phleg- matic chap drew a roll of silk from one of his pockets, -fastened it to his cane, unfurled it before my eyes, and says he: "By the way, sir, 'ow do you like this ere h'original h'idea of mine? Do you see what it is i" "Yes, friend Bifstek," says I, Frenchily, " that is indeed the Black Flag." The chap turned veryl red in the face, my boy, and says he: "The Black Flag! what a 'orrible h'idea! You must be thinking of the h'Alabama. What h'in- duces you to suppose such a thing!" "Why," says I, " there's the Sklill and Crossbones plain enough."   SECOND SERIES.      333 "Skull and Crossbones!!" says he, "why, that's the beautiful Hinglish crest-a crown and sceptres; and this is my new h'original design, ye know, for a new Hinglish Revenue Flag." It was then, my boy, that I discovered my error, and apologized for my obliquity of vision. It was strange, indeed, that I should mistake for a skull the insignia of royalty, even though a crown is not unfrequently found identified with a numskull. On the same Tuesday, my boy, there was a small election in a town just this side of Accomac, and I went down there. early in the morning, to the office of the excellent independent evening journal, that I might see the returns as soon as they came in. The editor was talking to two chaps-a Republican and a Democrat- and, says he: "The organ which 3my humble talents keep a-going is strictly independent, and I have no choice of candi- dates. I care only for my country, one and individu- al," says the editor, touchingly, " and can make no arbitrary discrimination of mere parties; but as you both advertise your tickets in my moral journal, a sense of duty may induce me to favor the side whose advertisement weighs the most." After this gentle insinuation, my boy, each chap hastily commenced to write his advertisement. The Republican inscribed his upon a very heavy piece of brown wrapping-paper to make it weighty; but the Democrat selected a plain bit of foolscap, only putting in a hundred-dollar Treasury Note, to keep it from blotting. When the editor came to look at the two, he cough   334     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. ed slightly, and says he : ' I have always been a Dem- ocrat." "But my advertisement certainly weighs the most," says the Republican chap, hotly. The editor ate a chestnut, and says he: "' Not in an intellectual sense, my friend." "My paper is twice as heavy as his," says the chap; "and as to the Treasury Note, I had some scruples--" C There!" says the editor, interruptingly, " you tell the whole story, my friend. In the temple of a free and reliable press, as well as elsewhere, some scruples bear very little proportion in weight to one hundred- weight." The American press, my boy, might occasionally adopt as an appropriate motto, the present Napoleon's observation, that ' L'Empire c'est la PAY." Turning from intellectual matters, let me glan'ce at our country's hope and pride, the Mackerel Brigade, eacli member of whom feels confident of ultimately crushing out this hideous Rebellionl as soon as national strategy shall have revealed the. present whereabouts of the affrighted Confederacy. Last week, my boy, the Brigade moved gorgeously from Accomac, headed by the band, who played exciting strains uponl his night- key bugle; and was only fired upon from the windows of wayside houses by helpless women, .gainst whom the United States of Amelica do not ltlmake war. Woman, my boy, is the most helpless of God's crea- tures; and is so far from having power to help any other being, that she even can't help being herself sometimes. The sun shone brightly down upon the spectacles of   SECOND SERIES.       335 the ancient Mackerels as they once more took the road toward Paris; and as the light was reflected from the glistening glasses upon the carmine noses of which they were astride, it seemed as though each warrior had a rose in the middle of his countenance to symbolize the beautiful idea, that they had all arose for their distract- ed country's preservation. Captain Villiam Brown, mounted on his geometrical steed, Euclid, was conversing affably with Captain Bob Shorty, as they rode along together, when a Lieutenant of the Anatomical Cavalry came dashing toward him, and says he: "Captain, there's something missing from the rear- guard." Villiam assumed a thoughtful demeanor, and says he: "Is it a miss fire?" "No," says the Lieutenant, agitatedly: "but we miss two---" "Not baggage wagons?" says Villiam, giving such a start that Euclid nearly fell upon his knees; " don't tell me that two wagons are missing." "Why no," says the Lieutenant, with emotion, " it's not two wagons that we miss, but two Brigladiers." "Ah!" says Villiam, fanning himself with his cap. How you alarmed me. I thought at first that it was two wagons. Let the procession go on, and I'll send for two more Brigs the next time I have a friend going to Washington," It would please me, my boy, to detail the further movements of the Mackerels, but the cause of strategy demands that I should say no more on that topic just at present.   336     o RPHEUS o. KER1R PAPERS. The beloved General of the Mackerel Brigade was at Washington when he heard of the advance which his enemies would pretend that he did not lead in per- son, and says he to the messenger; "Are my gallant children ready for a fight?" "] Much so," says the messenger. Is the weather clear, my child 2" "Salubrious." "Thunder!" says the General, valorously. "Then I really believe that I must move my headquarters across the Potomac!" The Potomac, my boy-to speak with all due rever- ence for sacred things-in the numerous backs and forths it so constantly imposes upon the military, would seem calculated to turn this war into another Crusade, and make all our heroes literal soldiers of the "cross." Yours, metaphorically, ORPHEUS C. KERR.   LETTER LXXVIII. IN WHCH THE STORY TOLD BY THE GERMAN MEMBER OF THE CO- MOPOLITAN CLUB IS DULY REPORTED, WASHINGTON, D. C., November 12th, 1862. HERR TUYFELDOCK, my boy, the high-Dutch cosmo- politan, supernaturalized the last meeting of the club with his old-fashioned story of HERMANN, THE DEMENTED. "At the base of a lofty mountain, and overshadowed by its beetling cliffs, stood a rude hut, built of heavy logs, and surmounted by a roof, the eaves of which de- scended in broad scollops over the windows of the ten- ement, and gave it the appearance of a small boy wearing his father's hat. In the surrounding scenery there was a wild grandeur and magnificence with which no work of art would have been in keeping. Immediately in the rear of the humble habitation, ab- ruptly rose one of a range known as the Hartz Moun- tains, stretching far away toward the west in waves of bright and shadowy emerald, as the light fell upon      15   338     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. them, and covered with gloomy 'forests, peopled with unblest spirit% by the legends of olden times. In front and on both sides, spreading out its vast expanse of ver- dant soil, until it appeared to meet with the horizon, was a noble plain, bearing scattered clumps of trees, through which a few isolated huts were .discernable. It was like Light and Shade meeting, with the hut un- der the cliff to mark their boundaries. "Evening had just begun to tint the fragrant air with her sombre hues, when a figure was apparent, moving over the plain in the direction of the lonely domicil, and, as it approached nearer, the muscular form and pleasing features of a young hunter were visi- ble. He was exceedingly tall, yet symmetrical in every limb, and quick in his movements as a chamois on its native hills. His dress comprised a coat and leggins of blue material, ornamented with silver but- tons, a pair of heavy boots, and a narrow-brimmed straw hat, from which a wolfs tail depended. He car- ried a long rifle, and a bag for small game swung, with a powder flask, or horn, at his side. "Arriving in front of the hut, he paused a moment to examine some footprints on the soil, and then tap- ped gently at the door with the butt of his piece. In an instant it was opened by a beautiful girl, with light blue eyes, flaxen curls, and a complexion of pure red tnd white, who, though dressed in the coarsest attire, yet looked and shone a perfect goddess of the soli- tude. "i Dearest Mdarcella,' exclaimed the hunter, seizing her extended hand, and carrying it to his lips with all the ardor of a lover   SECOND SERIES.       389 "( (I feared you were not coming to-night, Wilhelm,' answered Marcella, with a blush of pleasure, as she led him into the hut by the hand which she still re- tained. "The apartment thus entered occupied the whole structure, save a portion apparently partitioned off with wolf skins; and a rude table, six chairs, and a goat- skin covered couch, were the only articles of furniture it contained, excepting a few trophies of the chase hanging from the walls, and a woodman's axe placed over the mantel. The floor was composed "of logs, and was very uneven, save directly opposite the fire-place, where a large flat stone was firmly imbedded in the earth; and a small oil lamp, swinging in chains from the arching roof above, gave forth a pale light which mingled imperceptibly with that of departing day in a mellow twilight. "' Marcella,' said Wilhelm, as they sat beside each other-on the couch,' I can scarcely realize that you are the wild little fairy, with whom I used to explore the dark woods of haunted Hartz. I can remember, too, standing with you under the blighted pine, and relat- ing old legends which I heard my father tell, while you listened with breathless attention, and looked like a startled chamois, when the wind rustled among the leaves.' "'Those were happy days!' murmured Marcella. "'They were, indeed!' continued Wilhelm, with en- thusiasm-, yet why should infancy monopolize all the richest pleasures of life , 'As we grow older; our un- derstanding becomes more clearly defined, and circum- stances which rendered our childhood happy, should   340     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS.  become more truly appreciated as blessings, instead of growing homely and irksome to us.' "'It is because the matured mind requires a wider field for exercise,' said Marcella. 'When I used to roam with you in the forest or on the plain, those lo- calities constituted our little world, and I cared for no other; but as my father taught me the learning of books, I awoke to a sense of uneasiness, and a con- sciousness of restricted liberty. The beautiful world of which I read became replete with attractions hith- erto unknown to me, and I longed to quit these wild scenes, and behold the palaces of princes.' "So it was with me,' responded her lover. 'As you may remember, my parents hoarded up their little earnings, that I might enjoy the advantages of educa- tion, and I went to Gottingen with the feeling of one who was about to drink of pleasure at its fountain-head ; but alas! Marcella, the wide world is like a piece of glass, which may sparkle in the distance with all the bril- liancy of a diamond, and after leading us wildly on- ward, becomes the more worthless, for our endeavors to gain a closer view. I imagined that the learning of schools would confer happiness; it became mine, and I found it a mockery. I mixed with the rich, gay and gifted; but my object still eluded pursuit. Marcella, I became convinced that I left true happiness behind me, when I departed from home; and returned to its shelter, resolved to leave it no more. I tasted of the cup, and found it bitter.' "' My father talks in that manner,' answered Mar- cella. ' He hates the world for the injury it has done him, and even our few neighbors excite his scorn, by   SECOND SERIES.      341 their foolish fears of him. I am sure if they knew him well, they could not help loving him as I do; he is so noble, so brave, so generous, that I cannot understand why he is called "The Demented," unless it is because his superior intelligence is regarded by the hinds as a supernatural gift. Perhaps that is the reason,' she ad- ded, haughtily. "You wrong the honest peasants,' said the hunter, hastily; ' who, though ignorant, possess the gifts of rea- son and discrimination. Your father will not allow them to know him better, and the extraordinary quan- tity of game which he obtains would arouse supersti- tious whispers from more enlightened minds.' "'Poor deluded creatures!' exclaimed Marcella, scornfully. 'Because my father's aim is truer than theirs, ought he to be looked upon as one demented? Be- cause, by his skill in woodcraft, he surpasses their suc- cess, should they shun him with looks of horror? Be- cause he refuses to join in their low revels, should they regard him as a ghost-seer? Wilhelm, you have learn- ing, and ought to frown down these foolish supersti- tions, instead of partaking in them. Did you love Marcella as you have often sworn you do, the man who spoke evil of her parent, would from that moment be- come your enemy.' "' And so he should, dearest Marcella; but alas! their suspicions are but too well founded, and though you may be offended, I dare not deny that I myself believe him to'be in league with the Evil One." "'Then leave me!' exclaimed Marcella, starting from beside him. ' Why should you wish to. wed the child of such a man? Might you not find a devil in   342     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. me? Why should I love a being whose lips have de- clared my father a demon? Go! 'Wilhelm, I took you for a man; but you have the soul of a dwarf.' "Her eyes flashed indignation as she spoke, and in the eyes of her lover she appeared more beautiful than ever. "' I can forgive your reproaches, for I know them to be actuated by noble sentiments,' he replied, draw- ing her gently back to her seat. ' Honor to our pa- rents is nature's first law, and God forbid that I should condemn it; but, dearest Marcella, there should be no reserve between us, who have grown np side by side, as it were, and I speak to you as I would to no one else-- not even my parents. That I love you, you surely can- inot doubt, and that love would be worth little to either of us, did it enjoin concealment of our true opinions from each other. I speak as an honest man, when I tell you, that I once beheld your father in the Black Forest, accompanied by a stranger, who was not of this world.' "'Great God!' ejaculated Marcella,' starting up with affright. "' Forgive me, dearest; but you forced me to say it in my own defence. Calm yourself and we will talk of this fearful subject no longer.' "'Wilhelm, you are not trifling with me .' "As I hope to be saved, no.' "The daughter of Hermann trembled for a moment, as though the spirit of Fear had touched her, and the dim rays of the swinging lamp, as they fell upon her finely cut features, revealed the undisguised terror   SECOND SERIES.      343 there betrayed. But she quickly settled rigidly as a marble effigy, and her voice was firm, as she said: ' ' Wilhelm, I believe you, and may God help my unfortunate father. Tell me of what you saw, and dis- guise nothing!" "' It were better to remain untold, Marcella. "'I must and will hear it,' she answered with cold determination. "'Then it must be told,' said the young hunter, with an involuntary shudder. 'On the second day after my arrival from Gottingen University, I started out from my father's cot, to course hares, taking with me my dog and rifle, intending to remain absent all day. For some hours I was quite successful, and succeed- ed in killing a score of the fleet animals, but after noon they grew scarce, and as the sun was sinking in the west, I paused wearied and exhausted on the bor- ders of the Black Forest, while my dog was panting in the shade. As I stood thus, leaning upon my gun, the sound of a bugle call fell upon my ears, and almost immediately afterwards your father suddenly passed me in the direction from whence it came, looking straight forward with a stony, fascinated stare, so full of mingled despair and earnestness, that I trembled with superstitious fear, and even my dog crawled to my feet, quivering in every limb. Onward he strode, unconscious of a watcher, to a shaded spot on the bor- der, just beyond, my position, known as the Witch's Circle. As he reached it, the bugle was again sound- ed, when immediately a tall cloaked figure rode out of the forest to meset him, and they saluted each other in silence. I could not discern the stranger's features,   844     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. but I noticed with breathless horror that the steps of the horse which he rode, as well as those of another which he led by the bridle, gave forth no more sound than if they were planted in air "Wilhelm suddenly paused in his narrative, as a beautiful White Fawn suddenly sprang from bellind a suspended wolf skin, and alighted directly in front of him. Daylight no longer lent its rays to illumine the apartment, and as the animal's eyes were visible through the misty beams of the lamp, they seemed to glare and blaze like coals of vivid fire. "'Heaven preserve ne!' ejaculated the young hunter, crossing himself. "' It is my pet, Leo ; do not fear him,' said Marcella in low tones. "' Your father mounted the unoccupied saddle,' continued Wilhelm, going on with his adventure; 'and together they disappeared between the pines; noiselessly as the falling of a feather. At short inter- vals I heard the sound of the bugle growing fainter and fainter, until it died away in the windings of the mountains. I called my dog and hastened home, without daring to look behind, lest I should behold the mysterious riders following on my track.' "A  short silence succeeded, during which Mar- cella gently wept, and caressed the fawn. A length she spoke: "'Dear Wilhelm, I now see the reason why you have ever avoided my father, and come here only while he is away. Perhaps it is better that you should continue to do so, for he is very irritable, and your meeting might be attended with fearful results. Leave ,   SECOND SERIES.       345 me, Wilhelm; I expect him every moment; it is al- ready past his usual time of return.' "'I must speak with your father to nights dear- est,' said the hunter, encircling her waist with his arm. "'God forbid!' she exclaimed, looking up to him with great alarm. ; (It must be so, Marcella; I am about to ask a gift of him, and his answer will either make me the happiest of men, or leave me miserable for life. I will ask his daughter of him as one who has a just clainm, and I cannot believe he will refuse me.' "'Wilhelm, you do not know my----' "At this moment there came a measured rapping at the door, and Marcella arose to open it, trembling with undefined dread. Hernmann the Demented pressed a kiss upon her brow as he passed the threshold, and; entered his cabin. "He was an old man, for his hair was grey, and deep wrinkles furroughed his brow; but his form was fully developed and upright as that of Ineridian manhood, and there was a changing fire in his eye that indi- cated all the energy of youth. His dress was a mix- ture of military and peasant garb, and lie wore a tall, black felt hat, encircled with a red ribbon. Game of every kind hung in such profusion from his broad shoulders, that it almost entirely concealed his person, and he bore in his hand a rifle which few men could handle.  On arriving beneath the lamp, he deposited his spoils upon the floor, and then, for the first time, observed the presence of the young hunter.. "' Ha 1 is that you Willelm!' he exclaimed, casting   346     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. aside his rifle, and extending his hand in a friendly manner, 'I am especially glad to welcome a brother craftsman to my cover, oli a night when I have had such uncommon luck. Look at that heap, and tell me if you ever saw another such.' "'You are famed as a fortunate hunter,' answered the other, gazing upon the immense pile at his feet with astonishment. "' Yes, yes, Wilhelm, there are few men can bag hares with llermann, the Demented.' and the old man laughed a hollow laugh. "' Your skill must indeed be extraordinary, when it enables you to secure many of these animals-after nizghtfall, and without hounds,' returned Wilhelm, looking fixedly at the hunter with a penetrating glance. "Immediately upon the entrance of her father Marcella had drawn the table from the wall, and com- menced to prepare an humble meal; she was stand- ing in a distant corner of the cabin, when her lover spoke thus: "Hermann started back with a look of fierce anger. "' 'What mean you, young man!' he asked in stern tones. "'I had no intention of giving offence, Mynheer Hermann.' "'Your looks, at least, were impertinent,' muttered the old hunter, turning abruptly from him, and com- mencing to sort his game. "The simple meal was soon ready, and the three persons partook of it without so much as a whisper. When it was finished, and while the young girl was   SECOND SERIES.       347 replacing her few utensils, Hermann produced a large Meersehaum pipe, and having filled it with tobacco, lit it with a chip from the fire-place; looking inquir- ingly at his guest as he smoked. "'You were, doubtless, surprised to find me here?' said the latter, with some hesitancy in his manner. "'I am   not often so highly honored,5 responded Hermann, quietly sending forth a wreath, of smoke from between his teeth. "'Do you understand my object, Mynheer Her- mnann a "' Certainly I do, Mynheer Wilhelm.' '"'-Indeed,' ejaculated the young hunter, with a look of inqniry. "'Of course,' said Hermann, ironically; 'you come to my cot, Mynheer Wilhelm, hoping to behold some diabolical orgie, or the working of some cabalistic spell, by which I secure success in the cohase. You expect to see me in communion with the mountain spirits, and allowing a long-tailed dellon- to breathe upon my rifle. Look around you, my honored guest; is not my daughter some horrid witch in disguise? Is not this gentle fawn, a bloodthirsty spectre metamor- phosed? Do you not see at least a dozen goblins climbing the barrel of my rifle? Ha, ha, ha! you will add another to the thousand and onle legends about Hfermann the Demented. And tell me, young man, what is to prevent my offering you as a sacrifice to my counsellor, the devil? People would say it served you right, for entering this unholy place. You had better depart before my familiar makes his appearance to sup with me, from the skulls of children, I assure   348     ORPHEUS C. KER K PAPERS. you, mynheer, that yonder stone bottle contains human blood. Fly, before the spell begins to work.' "Although the old man frequently laughed while speaking, there was a hollowness, and unreal zest in his mirth, that made the young hunter shudder. "' You have made a great mistake, Mynheer Her- mann,' he replied calmly. '.I came here with no such despicable intentions as those you attribute to me.. To be plain and honest with you, I am here to ask a gift of you." "' What is it, boy 'e "' Your. daughter, mynheer. "Dropping the pipe, and springing to his feeti Her- mann confronted his guest, glaring upon him with vin- dictive fury. "-'Wretch! dare you insult me?' he howled, gnash- ing his teeth. A' Mynheer Hermann, be calm, I beseech you; you have obliged me to make the request thus abruptly, and I am willing to abide the consequences. I love Marcella, and she loves me. I would make her my wife.' "For a moment, the father held his hand to his brow and fixed a glance upon the young hunter, as though to read his inmost soul; then turning quickly to his child, who sat near him, trembling with fear, he asked excitedly: ";Is this true, Marcella .' "'Yes, dear father,' she replied, arising from her seat, and laying her head fondly upon his breast. "He looked down upon her beautiful face, suffused with tears, in silence; slowly the flash of anger faded   SECOND SERIES.      349 from his countenance, leaving the gleam of idolatrous affection shining there. The feelings of a parent overcame all others, and a bright drop glistened on his cheek. "'My darling, my only treasure,' he murmured, pressing her closely to him. 'Your happiness is my only earthly object.' "'Wilhelm,' he continued, placing his disengaged hand upon the youth's shoulder, 'I wronged you in my suspicions, and ask your forgiveness. Your falce, as well as that of my darling, convince me that I wronged you. Yet I cannot grant you my child, until you have first heard somewhat of her history, and my own. Not but that she is a jewel, the proudest king might wear upon his bosom with honor,' he continued, with spirit; 'but no man shall ever accuse me of prac- tising a lie.' "He resumed his seat, still holding Marcella close- ly to his bosom, and went on: "'To no other living being have I ever told my strange story, and there is that in your countenance, -.---which tells me you are no traitor. Listen attentively to what I say: I was born on the estate of a nobleman in Transylvania, to whom my father was steward, and spent the happiest days of my existence roving about those vast domains, a free and joyous child. At the age of thirteen, I was placed in a school, where I ad- vanced rapidly in learning, until I was the acknowl- edged phenomenon of the village, and the pride of nay fond fatther. Years of unalloyed peace rolled over my head, during which I wooed the beautiful daughter of a landed gentleman--won and married her by stealth.   50     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. Her father's rage knew no bounds in the first moments of discovery, and he threatened to separate us; but my wife's entreaties soon banished his anger, and we were soon received in full favor bPth by him and my own parents. Oh! what unsubstantial, foolish, joyous days were those! How did I idolize the girl, whom I had won, as a heathen worships his household god. "' At length a fearful epidemic swept the country; my father was one of the first victims, and miy heart- broken mother soon followed him, bequeathngus her dying benediction. It was my first trial, and in the bitterness of my grief, I left the familiar scenes of my boyhood. To this spot I came with my beautiful wife and built this cabin, resolving to spend the remainder of my days in these soothing solitudes. But my fate was yet to be accomplished. My father's employer found tne out, and sent a message, earnestly request- ing me to become Itis steward. Yielding to the im- portunities of my wife-for I could refuse her nothing -1 accepted the proposal, and journeyed back to Transylvania with a heavy heart; for a cloud seemed hanging over me, a presentiment of sorrow to come. The nobleman received me more as an equal than as a servant, and uttered many elncomniums on my father's worth, which could not but prove grateful to a heart like mine. I loved and honored him at once; and re- solved to testify my gratitude by a faithful discharge of my duties. He was still a young man, but I felt no jealousy, when the idol of my heart praised him, blind wretch that I was! At length, the cloud, so long forming, burst over me in a flood of misery. Almost immediately after the birth of our daughter, the father   SECOND SERtIES.      351 of my Marcella came to me and imparted a secret that almost deprived me of my senses. Poor old man! he thought I knew all before, and my ravings filled him with alarm. Frantically I swore revenge, and with murder in- my heart, was about to seek the des- troyer of mny peace; but the old man restrained me, and after a violent debate, I resolved to say nothing to my wife about the matter, and kept a strict watch upon lier. Alas! her father's suspicions proved too just. I surprised her in conlpany with her paramour, and after loading thenm with the bitterest curses, took my daughter and returnsed to the hut under the cliff. My whole life was blighted, every hope was crushed; but the very madness of my despair gave mne strength, and I swore vengeance on my einemy. On the even- ing of that fearfil day, after lulling mny unfortunate child to sleep, I knelt down on the flat stone before you, and in the fervor of delirium, called upon the Spirits of Hartz Mountains for aid. Scarcely had the sacreligious petition left my lips, when there came a gentle knocking at the door, accompanied by a shrill bugle note, signifying bewilderment in the forest. Like one in a dream, I answered the mysterious sum- mons, and immediately a Wllite Fawn bounded into the hut, followed by a tall stranger, wrapped in a cloak of fine material. "You called me and I have come,' he said, in tones that made me shudder, and peer into his eyes, in which there was a fearful fascination which I could not resist.  "Who are you?"I managed to articulate. "' Y"Varno of the Black Forest," he answered, in a   352     ORPHEUB C. KERR PAPERS. voice of rolling thunder. I know not why it was, but at his reply my fear vanished, and my wrongs arose before ine in their darkest coloring. "' "Can you aid me ." I asked, returning his pierc- ing glance. Never shall I forget the fearful distinct- ness with which he said: ",' Hermann Vandervelt, I know what you would require of me, and you shall be satisfied, but there is a piece attached to my services; three requests shall be granted, and then you must be mine, soul and body. Will you swear to this2" "'Like a maniac, I fell upon my knees before the stranger, shouting, in the height of passion: "Grant me but revenge upon the betrayer of my honor, and I will be yours, eternally yours, soul and body yours; I swear by the God who " "' Silence!" thundered  the stranger, his eyes glowing like coals of withering, devouring fire. "'Herlnann, you 'must swear by the Spirits of Hartz Mfountains." Wrought up   to frenzy, I obeyed him. lIe dictated a fearful oath. and when I had repeated it, he said, in tones that froze my blood:  "' "Hermann Vandervelt, take your rifle -and seek your enemy; he shall fall by your hand. I will leave you this animal (pointing to the fawn,) and when you would see me, let it return to the forest. Remember, r have granted one request; two more shall be grant- ed, and then you will be mine." "' ' Iis horrid laugh is still ringing in my ears. In silence, I opened the door, and beheld, dimly through the darkness, a tall steed with blazing eyes, standing   SECOND SERIES.       353 motionless upon the plain. As the stranger passed me, a momentary chill, like that of the grave, fell upon me; he mounted, and I saw him no longer. Grasping my rifle, I fled through the darkness like a fiend of blood, the White Fawn following my foot. steps like a hound. No rest, no meat, did I take until I saw my enemy lying before me, bleeding to death, while the Fawn lapped his blood. "' "I am Hermann!"I shouted in his ears, and then flew back wildly, as I came. My child was nearly dead from neglect when I returned from the doubly- cursed spot; but I tended her faithfully, and she soon went forth with me to the forest; and the White Fawn never left her side. "' I was a successful hunter at first; but suddenly my fortune changed, and I could get no more food. Then was the spell of madness on me once more, and I set the Wite Fawn free. Again there came a knocking at, the door; again the Fawn sprang in, fol- lowed by its master. My second request was granted- there remains but one more!  From that night my familiar has met me on the borders of the Black Forest nightly, and the darkest depths are filled with game for me. Such is my story, Wilhelm, and here, on my bosom, reposes the child of my affection. Speak boldly, as becomes a man ; would you wed the daugh- ter of Hermann, the Demented?" "While the old man related his fearful story, vari ous emotions were apparent on the handsome face of Wilhelm, but at its conclusion unwavering resolution was stamped upon his features. "Hermaan!' he said, extending his right hand to   854     ORPHEUS - . KERR PAPERS. the old hunter, 'I sincerely pity you as the victim of circumstances, but the blight does not touch Marcella; I love her more dearly than ever, and if you will give her to me, she shall find in me a husband who would shed his last drop of blood for her.' "' Wilhelm, you are worthy of my child, take her and may heaven grant you the blessings it has denied to me. Bring a holy man here to-morrow, and make her rightly yours. I would see her happy before H' He suddenly paused, placed his weeping daughter in her lover's arms, and turned aside to hide the starting tear. "Soon Wilhelm was wending his way over the plain, and the innocent Marcella retired to her narrow apart- ment of wolf skins; but the old man sat with his face be- neath the lamp, and-the White Fawn crouched beside him. Long did he meditate through the lonely watches of the night, and the sweat of agony stood upon his temples. Slowly did he stagger to where the wolf skins hung, and raising them in his trembling hands, dwelt mournfully upon the picture before him. There, on her couch, in all the artless grace of slumber, lay the only being on earth whom he loved. One faultless, arm was hidden beneath the pillow, the other half shadowed hler face, and bore a glossy veil of flaxen curls. Her ruby lips were apart, as though she had fallen asleep while yet the evening prayer was on her tongue. Dimly streamed the light of the swinging lamp upon the human temple of purity, and Hermann, the Demented, wept like an artless child. ';It must Be donle--it is the last,' lie murmured,   SECOND SERIES.       355 dropping the rude partition, and quickly opening the cabin door. "Swift as the meteor falling through the shades of night, flew the Wbite Fawn out into the darkness, with a plaintive cry. With bowed head the old man clasped his hands and listened. He "hears a shot, a bugle note echoes through the dew-ladened air, and the ghostly rider is again at his door. "' You sent for me, and I am here, said Varno, en- tering the cabin, and casting the White Fawn cold and dead, upon the floor. "'I ask your aid!' said Hermann firmly. "'Remember, it is the third and last time,' mut- tered the stranger. "'I will fulfil my oath. Grant me my wish.' 'i 'Beware!' thundered the other. "' Speak not so loudly, or you will wake my child,' said the hunter, gazing fearfully toward where Mar- cella slept. "'Fear not, good Hermann, the sleep of the inno- cent cannot be disturbed by a Spirit of Evil. Declare your wish and it shall be granted.' '(IThen hear me, fiend, devil, or whatever thou art! I would have my child happy; I would have her hus- band ever warm in his love for her as he is this mo- ment; I would have the curse of her parents forever averted from her head. Grant me this and I am thine.' "' It shall be so,'. answered Varno, with something like pity in his tones. 'Thou must meet me at sunset on the evening of to-morrow, beside the Witoh's Circle   856     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PA PERS. -there shall our compact be fulfilled. Th/is is the third and last. Remember. "The dark spirit passed from the hut under the cliff but his shadow lingered behind; and the old hunter knelt beneath the swinging lamp, with the dead fawn at his feet, desolate and lone. "The day smiled brightly on Marcella, the genial sunbeams dispelling night's horrors. She looked sadly when her father told her how the White Fawn had been wounded by some wandering hunter, and had sought the hut to die there; but the presence of Wilhelm made her cheerful as the morn, and Hermann felt re- warded for his sacrifice.  "A missionary monk stood within the old cabin, and said the words that joined two lives in one. When the holy rite was finished, the wedded pair knelt at the feet of The Demented, and called down Heaven's richest blessings on his head; but alas! he could not say ' Anen,' for he remembered his compact, and the words of Varno still rang in his ears. He watched his child with more than earthly care till the sun began to sink once more behind the Black Forest, then seiz- ing his rifle, he kissed her blushing cheek, and sallied forth toward the mountains. "'Dear father, may you soon give up such unholy pastimes,' murmured Marcella, looking fondly after him as his grey hairs floated in the wind. "' God grant that he may,' murmulred her husband, fervently, pressing her to his heart. "But the old hunter returned no more. The. wolf start- ed as he lay in his lair, when a man rushed by his covert in the Black Forest. A bugle, wildly sounded, awoke   SECOND SERIES.       357 the bird in his leafy bower. Two men met at tho Witch's Circle, while a day was dying, and the shades of the wood closed over them forever." Yours, contemplatively, ORPHEUS C. KERl.   LETTER LXXTX. SHOWING HOW THE NATIONAL INSANITARY COMMTTEE MADE A STRANGE BLUNDER; HOW THE BELOVED GENERAL OF THE MACK- EREL BRIGADE WAS REMOVED AND EXALTED ; AND ENDING WITH AN INFALLIBLE RECIPE. WASHINGTON, D. C., November 15th, 1862. As I calmly observe the present situation of ourmil- itary affairs, my boy, and consider how persistently the Blue Ridge continues to get between our great strate- gic army and the dilapidated Southern Confederacy, I am impressed with the idea that the salvation of our distracted country demands the removal of either the Blue Ridge or the beloved General of the Mackerel Brigade. I admit, my boy, that the Mackerel Brigade has spent time enough in one locality since the last battle to remove the incompetent and imbecile Blue Ridge, and that the immense number of spades consigned to that veteran corps might be construed into the belief that they were really engaged in that great stragetic task. Furthermore, that the Mackerels have only suc- ceeded in marching fifteen miles in six weeks, legiti- mates the supposition that they are going up very steep hills; but it must be borne in imind, my boy, that it is   SECOND SERIES.       359 the Honest Abe's best policy to conciliate all political parties for the sake of Northern unity 'of action, and it cannot be doubted that the removal of the Blue Ridge at this crisis would occasion the bitterest lheart- burnings and jealousies in the mlanly bosom of ourna- tion's Democratic organization. It would be con- strued into proof that the Honest Abe had yielded to the fiendish clamor of the crazy Abolitionists, and had rendered a restoration of the adored Union-as-it-Was of our forefathers impossible, by destroying that Blue Ridge which was an essential part of the Union. The manly Organization, my boy, would prefer an armis- tice with the unseemly Confederacy to a removal of the Blue Ridge-a removal, my boy, authorized neither by the Constitution, the pursuit of happiness, nor the rights of nan. Tile Blue Ridge is at the head of our army, and our army is at the foot of the Blue Ridge, The mistaken Confederacy is on the other side, my boy. and the Organization very justly reasons, that the fiendish Abolitionists virtually confess themselves to be, in heart, on the same side with the Confederacy; for if their desired removal of the Blue Ridge were carried out, the distinction of the two opposite sides would be practically lost, and the United States of America aud the Southern Confederacy would be all on one side' and there might be an unconstitutional collision. Hence, my boy, the Honest Abe has concluded to leave the Blue Ridge where it is, and remove the idol- ized General of the Mackerel Brigade. But before I proceed to describe the inexpressible anguish produced by the adoption of even this griev-   360     ORPHEUS C. KERR PAPERS. ous alternative, permit me to record the useful proceed- ings of the National Insanitary Committee, in their philanthropical investigation of the lunacy now pre- vailing to an alarming extent in the Army of Acco- mac. For some weeks past, my boy, insanity has been frightfully upon the increase in the ranks of the uncon- querable Mackerel Brigade. Many Mackerels have even gone having at times, persisting in the vague and incoherent exclamation that they "Couldn't See It." There was some hope that this terrible mental aberra- tion might be stayed, if the superannuated corps were supplied with spectacles; but the relief thus given was only temporary; and finally, when one of the poor man- iac chaps went so far as to yell, that, even by the aid of his spectacles, he couldn't see what was the use of but- ting against the Blue Ridge all the time, it was deemed proper to call in the National Insanitary Committee. Captain Samyule Sa-mith, whose duty it was to draw the Brigade up in two lines-the sane chaps on one side of the fence, and the insane on the other--hastened back to Accomac to finish a game of "Old Sledge," on which four drinks were distinctly pending, and left the aged Committee to perform its task at leisure. In anticipation of this sad ceremony,. my boy, I had sent my architectural steed, the gothic Pegasus, down to Accomac, and thither I went on Tuesday morning, to amble totteringly from thence to the scene of Insani- tary proceedings. The Committee had just commenced work upon its line of chaps, and was examining the patients one by one.   SECOND SERIES.       361 The first invalid, Lively Mike, was born in the Sixth Ward, and weighed ninety-two pounds. He was a poor, slouching chap, my boy, resembling poverty's Ruin, two-thirds covered by an ivy vine of rags. His angular countenance was rich with unwashings, save a clean irregular circle just around his ugly mouth. I asked how it happened that this one part of his face was clean, when all the rest was dirty; and they told me, my boy, that it was the place where his poor old mother had kissed him at parting. Lively Mike's first symptom of his dreadful malady was a feeling of overwhelming weariness, as though he had been for a long time in one spot doing nothing. The feeling deepened into sullen, dangerous madness, until it was finally unsafe to let him go at large, as he had several times attempted to shoot scouting Confed- eracies. The next hopeless patient was Big-nose Jalke. Born at the commencement of his career in the Sixth Ward, and weighing ninety-four pounds without his knap- sack. Big-nose had always enjoyed good health, with the exception of starvation; but was in the habit of muttering to himself that Strategy was a great hum- bug, and he'd rather die at home in his bunk in the engine-house than in a swamp, without a single fire in six-months. His only way of keeping: warm was by occasionally huddling up to a Confederate picket, and receiving his fire.  No.- 3 was Baby Jim, a resident of the Sixth Ward for many years, and weighing ninety-one pounds. His first attack of his malady came in the shape of an in- coherent and irrepressible desire to get up a Directory 16   362     ORPHEUS 0a. KERR PAPERS. of Army Names, so that the families of Mackerels in the Army of Accomac might know where their rela- tives were, and how old they had got to be. Some- times he would be suddenly seized with the absurd notion that the General of the Mackerel Brigade was killing more men by strategy than would be slain in fifty battles. Another hapless maniac was Cross-eyed Tom. His family is well known in the Sixth Ward; weight, ninety-seven pounds. Always enjoved excellent health, until one day, when it suddenly struck him--uncalled- for, as it were-that he hadn't seen the Colonel of his regiment for six months. The demon of insanity tempted him to believe that his Colonel had all along been drinking bad gin and threatening to resign, in Washington, instead of staying with his men and get- ting acquainted with them. He knew that he must be entirely mistaken about this, but couldn't shake off the horrible delusion. A fifth lunatic was the Worth street Chicken. Had voted several times a day in the Sixth Ward, and weighed ninety-nine pounds. The Chicken could not say that he was really a sick man; but had moments when he could not resist the malignant temptation to imagine, that the celebrated Southern Confederacy was just as even with us now as it was a year ago, with several majestic raids for small trumps. At times he was troubled with bad dreams about all the Treasury Notes becoming worthless if the General of the Macke- rel Brigade went into winter quarters. And so the Insanitary Committee went down  the whole line, my boy, closely questioning the poor chaps   SECOND SERIES.      363 who had lost their reason, and eliciting continued proofs of the national ravages of Insanity. "Truly,"' gays the chief Insanitary chap, cleaning his nails with his jack-knife ; " truly these unhappy beings are hopelessly deranged, and must be sent to the Asy- lumn. Their ravings are beyond all precedent." Just as he finished speaking, my boy, and whilst he was picking his teeth to assist meditation, Captain Sam. yule Sa-mith came riding hastily in from his successful game of ' Old Sledge," bringing the stakes with him, and says he: "Well, old Medicusses, have you examined the be- ings which is unhappily bereft of sense?" "Yea," says the Insanitary chap, with a grievous groan, "we've examined all those poor creatures, in that whole line, and find them all hopelessly and in- curably mad." Samyule gave such a start that he split one of his boots, and says he: "Which line V" ' Why, that line there," says the chap, pointing. "PBy all that's Federal!" says Samyule, slapping his left leg; "I'll be blessed if you old goslings hav'n't been examining the WRONG LINE! Them veterans there are the sane ones!" Insanity, my boy, like Charity, so seldom begins at home, that we sometirnes mistake the best kind of san- ity for it when we meet the latter, as a stranger. abroad. The man we call a maniac is frequently noth- ing more than a sane man seen through a maniac's spectacles. But the whole body of Mackerels, sane and insane   364     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. alike, unite in a feeling of strong anguish blended with enthusiasm, at the removal of the beloved General of the Mackerel Brigade. He has been so much a Father to them all, that they never expected to get a step far- ther while he was with them. There's a piece of domestic philosophy for you, my boy. When the General heard of his removal, my boy, he said that it was like divorcinga husband from a wife, who had always supported him, and immediately let fly the following FAREWELL ADDRESS. fHead-quarters of the Army of Accomac, Foot of the Blue Ridge. MY CHLDREN: n order from the Honest Abe divorces us, and gives the command of all these attached beings to Ma- jor-General Wobert Wobinson. (Heartrending and enthusiastic cheers.) In parting with you, I cannot express how much I love your dear bosoms. As an army, you have grown from youth to old age aunder my care. In you I have never found doubt nor coldness, nor anything else, The victories you have won under my command will live in the nation's works of fiction. The strategy we have achieved, the graves of many unripe- Mackerels, the broken forms of those disabled by the Emancipa- tion Proclamation-the strongest associations that can   SECOND SERIES.       365 exist among men-still make it advisable that yot should vote for me as President of the United States in 1865. Thus we shall ever be comrades in support ing the Constitution, and making the Constitution sup port us. THE GENERAL OF THE MAC(KEREL BRIGADE. [Green Seal.] It was while this affecting document was being rea( to the Army, my boy, that a procession of politica chaps with banners and a small cannon, landed from boat on Awlkwyet River, and came filing affably int, camp. Only pausing to insult two correspondents o the Tribune, and to fire the cannon so close to a farm house that it broke all the windows, these pleasan chaps at once organized a meeting and gave order that all fighting should be postponed till after th session. The Hon. Mr. X. Stream proceeded to say that h considered Mr. Lincoln a strictly honest, upright, abl and noble-hearted man (cheers); but it could not b denied that his Administration was a wretched fai ure-a blending of brutal imbecility with hellish dei potism. (Much enthusiasm). While it continued s( everything in the stock-market would go up-up--ui until the bubble burst. The General of the Macken Brigade had been removed (universal sobbing) but was only that he. might shine the brighter before Democratic Convention in 1865. The Hon. Prince Van Brumagen next spoke. UI doubtedly, he would be called a traitor for what b   266     ORPHEUS 0. KERR PAPERS. was about to say, but he was accustomed to that sort of talk from every one who knew him. He wished to see this war vigorously pushed forward ; but hle could, never consent to see violence offered to men who only warred against us because they were mistaken. Our Southern friends had imagined that the Abolitionists wanted to prevent their enjoyment of the pursuit of happiness which was guaranteed to them by the Con- stitution. They were mistaken, and seceded. The Union as it was had passed away from us, but was un- doubtedly somewhere on the Globe; and as the Globe was constantly revolving, we had only to stand' still, and it would come round again to us in due time. The Hon. Fernando Fuel next undressed his thoughts to the meeting. As proprietor of the City of New York, which he had frequently bought, he protested against the removal of the General of the Mackerel Brigade at this inclement season. of the year. The idolized General was beloved even by the Rebels, and his own devoted troops had cheered even louder when parting with him, if possible, than when he had first come among them. Here the speaker was interrupted by a chap who suddenly touched off the cannon and simultaneously unfurled a new banner. Borrowing a piece of smoked glass, I looked through it at the dazzling standard, and read upon its eloquent folds:   SECOND SERIES.      367 REGULAR HGH-MORAL NOMNATIONS! FOR THE SENATE IMMEDIATELY; AND FOR PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES IN  !      is1865. THE (LATE) GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL . BRIGADE. Observe, my boy, this simple rule, to make a hero of a fool: Just keep him where he is, until his lack of wisdom, want of Skill, attract unto his banner those who, from perverseness, will have foes. Then freely make his dullness known; and when you'd cast him from his throne, you'll find become his followers true, all men who seek a feud with you. To serve the always-mal- content, and give their spleen a chance for vent, a knave, a dunce, a stump! would do as well, my boy, as I, or you. When cats and politicians quarrel, " use any cat's- paw", is the moral. Yours, sagely, ORPRHEU C. KERR.   r  - P.   NEW BOOKS And  New    Editions Recently  Issued by CARLETON, PUBLISHER, (Late RUDD & CARLETON,) "3 BR/OAD WAY, NEW       YORK. N B.-TnE PUBLISHER, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any of the following Books, by mail, POSTAGE FREIE, to any part of tho United States. This convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Book- Eellers are not supplied with the desired work. State name and address in lull. Les lliserables. Victor Hugo's great novel-the only complete unabridged trans- lation. Library Edition. Five vols. l2mo. cloth, each, $I oo. The same, five vols. 8vo. cloth, $1.oo. Paper covers; 50 cts. The same, (cheap ed.) 1 vol. 8vo. cloth, $1.50. paper, $1.00. Les Miserables--llustrations. 26 photographic illustrations, by Brion. Elegant quarto, $3.00. Among the Pines, or, Down South in Secession Time. Cloth, $1.oo, paper, 75 cts. My Southern Friends. By author of "Among the Pines." Cloth, .1l oo. paper, 75 cts. 1Rutledge. 'A powerful American novel, by an unknown author, $1.50. The Suthlerlands. The new-novel by thel popular author of "' Rutledge," $I.5o. The Habits of Good Society.- A hand-book for ladies and gentlemen. Best, wittiest, most en- tertaining work on taste and good manners ever printed, $1.5o. The Cloister and the Hearth. A magnificent new historical novel, by Charles Reade, author of "Peg Woffington," etc., cloth, $1.50, paper covers, $1.25. Beulali. A novel of remarkable power, by Miss A. J. Evans. $l.5o. [     BY CA RLE TOY, NEW YORK.       l Thie Great Tribulation. Or, Things coming on the earth, by Rev. John Cumming, D D., author "Apocalyptic Sketches," etc., two series, each $1.oo. The Great Preparation. Or, Redemption draweth nigh, by Rev. John Cumming, D D., author "The Great Tribulation," etc., two series, each $1.oo. The Great Consulmmation. Sequel "Great Tribulation," Dr. Cumming, two series, $1.00. Teach us to Pray. A new work on The Lord's Prayer, by Dr. Curmming, 1.00o. The Slave Power. By Jas. E. Cairnes, of Dublin University, Lond. ed. $1.25. Game Fish of the North. A sporting work for Northern States and Canada. Illus., $1.50. ' Drifting About. By Stephen C. Massett ("Jeemes Pipes"), illustrated, $1.25 The Flying Dutchman. A humorous Poem by John G. Saxe, with illustrations, 50 cts. Notes on Shakspeare. By Jas. H. Hackett, the American Comedian (portrait),1$.50. The Spirit of Hebrew Poetry. By Isaac Taylor, author "' History of Enthusiasm," etc., $2.0o. A Life of Hugh Miller. Author of "Testimony of the Rocks," &c., new edition, $1.50. A Woman9s Thoughts about Women. By Miss Dinah Mulock, author of "John Halifax," etc., $1.oo. Curiosities of Natural History, An entertaining vol., by F. T. Buckland; two series, each $1.25. The Partisan Leader. Beverley Tucker's notorious Southern Disunion novel, $1.25. Cesar Birotteau. First of a series of Honore de Balzac's best French novels, $ I oo. Petty Annoyances of Married Life. The second of the series of Balzac's best French novels, $1.oo. The Alchemist. The third of the series of the best of Balzac's novels, $I oo. Eugente Grandet. The fourth of the series of Balzac's best French novels, $1.00. The National Sehool for the Soldier. Elementary work for the soldier; by Capt. Van Ness, 50 cts   i,    1   ;7'O LIS T OF BOOKS PUBLIISHED Artemus Wardl, Ilia Book. The racy writings of this humorous author. Illustrated, $1.25. 'The Old Ilerchants of New York. Entertaining reminiscences of ancient mercantile New York City, by "Walter Barrett, clerk." First Series. $1.50 each. Like and Unlike. Novel by A. S. Roe, author of "I've been thinking," &c. $ 50. Orpheus C. Kerr Papers. Second series of letters by this comic military authority. $1.25. Tdl arian Grey. New domestic novel, by the author of "Lena Rivers," etc. $1.5 o. Lena Rivers. A popular American novel, by Mrs. Mary J. Holmes, $1.50. A Book about Doctors. An entertaining volume about the medical profession. $1.50. The Adventures of Verdant Green. Humorous novel of English College life. Illustrated. $I.25. The Culprit Fay, Joseph Rodman Drake's faery poem, elegantly printed, So cts. Doctor Antonio, A charming love-tale of Italian life, by' G. Ruffini, $1.50. Lavinia. A new love-story, by the author of "Doctor Antonio," $1.5o. Dear Experience. An amusing Parisian novel, by author "Doctor Antonio," $ 1.00. The Life of Alexander Von Humboldt. A new and popular biography of this savant, including his travels and labors, with introduction by Bayard Taylor, $ 1.5o. , Love (L'Amour.) A remarkable volume, from the French of Michelet. $1.25. Vooman (La Femme.) A  continuation of "Love (L'Amour)," by same author, $1.25. The Sea (La Mer.) New work by Michelet, author "Love" and "Woman," $ .2 5. The Moral History of Woman. Companion to Michelet's "L'Amour," from the French, $1.z5 mIother Goose for Grown   Folks. Humorous and satirical rhymes for grown  people, 75 cte. The Kelly's and the  OKelly's. Novel by Anthony Trollope author of"Doctor Thorne," $1.50    6       LIS 7 OF B OOKS PUBLISHED  Toni Tiddler^s Ground.              I Charles Dickens's new Christmas Story, paper cover, 25 cts. National Hymns. An essay by Richard Grant White. 8vo. embellished, $I o0.    5 George Brimley. Literary Essays reprinted from the British Quarterlies, $1.25. Thomas Bailey Aldrich. First complete collection of Poems, blue and gold binding, $1.oo. 1 i Out of His Head. A strange and eccentric romance by T. B. Aldrich, $1.oo. The Course of True Lovei Never did run smooth. A Poem by Thomas B. Aldrich, o0cts. Poems of a Year H By Thomas B. Aldrich, author of"Babie Bell," &c., 75 cts.- The lriingfs Bell.             ! A Mediaeval Legend in verse,-by R. H. Stoddard, 75 cts. The Morgesons.         - A clever novel of American Life, by Mrs. R. H. Stoddard, l$.oo.  Beatrice Cenci. * An historical novel by F. D. Guerrazzi, from the Italian, $.50o. , Isabella Orsini.  An historical novel by the author of "Beatrice Cenci," $I.25. * H A Popular Treatise on Deafness.  For individuals and families, by E. B. Lighthill, M D., $1.oo00.  Oriental Harems and Scenery.            g A gossipy work, translated from the Fi'ench of Belgiojoso, $1.25. . A it X Lola Montez. Her lectures and autobiography, with a steel portrait, $1.25. John Doe and XEiclard Roe. A novel of New York city life, by Edward S. Gould, $1.00. .  o DoesticksW Letters.. The original letters of this great humorist, illustrated, $1.5o Plu-ri-bus-tah.               A.; A comic history of America, by Doesticks, illus., $1.50.! The Elephant Club.               i A humorous description of club-life, by "Ddaesticks," $i So. 1 Vernon Grove. A novel by Mrs. Caroline H. Glover, Charleston, S. C., $1.00o. The Boolk of Chess Literature.  A complete Encyclopaedia of this subject, by D. W. Fiske, $l.5o0.    I- J     
         
       
   
