
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Royal Greens, or, The Scout of the Susquehanna .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7624
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Royal Greens, or, The scout of the Susquehanna 
            
               TlfE n10AL GRS
-OR, TH-.
tii~tIJFD211fl1Ef4

BYf DR. b-J. H. RdOBO nn
BY DR. J. I. ROBINSON.

r
!
i
f ,--
:
       ;
'
;
F
_J               ^
-r
t
T.
'
r
f
1
(
.t
_       ,
:;
S
; i
f
i
'r
i s f .
refit
.    n
at'
^         "           _

NI
PUBLISHED
1211

W YORK

BY SAMUEL FRENCH,
NASSAU STREET.

I

"
. "


GLEASOIN'S PICT
D              THE BEAUTIFUL AND
-       ,                                                                           The object of this paper is to present, in te most elegant
melange of notable events of the day. Ie columns are dev
poems, by the
BEST~ AXERICAN A~
and the cream of the domestic and foreign news; the who
Each paper is
with numerous accurate engravings, by eminent artists, of
parts of the world, and of men and manners, altogether ma
design in this country. Its pages contain views of every p
all buildings of note in the eastern or western hemisphere, of
of the navy and merchant service, with fine portraits of ever
and female. Sketches of beautiful scenery, taken from i
specimens from the animal kingdom, the birds of the air, an
is now printed on the finest of paper, from a font of ne
expressIy for it,--presenting in its mechanical execution an e
fifteen hundred and sixty-four square inches, giving a great a
trations--a mammoth weekly paper of sixteen octavo pages.
inasmuch as its aim is constantly, in connection with the fun
rich array of original miscellany it presents, to inculete the s
and to encourage virtue by holding up to view all that is goo
evil in its tendency. In short, the object is to make the pap
for its combined excellences.
T ERM E ;-INVARIABLY IN
I Subscriber, one year ......................
4 Subscribers, "  "
..7, One copy of the FLAG Or OUR UNION, and one copy
CoMsANIow, if taken together by one person, one year, for
7- The PICToRIAL DRAWING-RoO      COMPANION may
depots throughout the country, and of newsmen, at six cents
Published every SATURDAY, by
Corner of Bromfield an
WHfOLESALE AGEI
S. FRENCH, 121 Nassau, Street, New York.
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
WENRY TAYLOR, 111 Baltimore and 5 Soul
EA. C. BAGLEY, corner of Fourth and Sycamore
3. A. ROYS, 43 Woodward Avenue, Detroit.
-,E. K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth'and C
THOMAS LUNN, 40 Exqhange Place, New Orl

ORIAL
oi MPA RH10 ],
USEFUL IN ART.
and available form, a weekly literary
oted to original tales, sketches and
AUTHORS,
le well spiced with wit and humor.
notable objects, current events in all
king a paper entirely original in its
opalous city in the known world, of
all the principal ships and steamers
y noted character in the world, male
fe, are also given, with numerous
d the fish of the sea. The Pictorial
w and beautiful type, manufactured
legant specimen of art. It contains
mount of reading matter and illus.
It forms
ad of amusement it affords, and the
trictest and highest tone of morality,
d and pure, and avoiding all that is
er loved, respected, and sought after
ADVANCE.
.............:.......1000
......................20 00
of the PICTORIAL DRAWING-RooM
$400
be obtained at anyof the periodical
per single copy.
F. GLEASON,
d Tremont Streets, Boston, Mass.
NT8
ih Streets, Baltimore.
Streets, Cincinnati.
esnut Streets, St. Louis.
means.


,a ,
z
- ,
4
i/yy
i¢gggg3
i

CHAPTER I.
DUNBAR, THE SCOUT.

ARD byForty Fort,
on the Susquehan-
na river, upon a
balmy morning in
the summer of 1778,
a group of persons,
consisting of men
of various  ages,
stood  discoursing
earnestly. The sub-
ject under consid-
eration  was  ob-
viously of much
importance,   for
every face wore a serious expression, and every
word that was uttered appeared to be carefully
weighed and its exact import understood. The
individuals to whom the reader's attention is
cited, were anxiously debating the best means
Jof defending Wyoming Valley, in case that arch
tory, Col. John Butler, should lead against their
little settlement the malcontents of the Six Na-
tions, together with no less merciless foes, with
whiter faces but blacker hearts, to- be found all
about them and among them-loyalists.. There
were a few persons in the valley who affected to

discredit entirely the startling rumors that were
daily reaching them through various channels.
Of this class were the Lanaways, the Winter-
moots, and the Secards-names well remem-
bered in the history of beautiful Wyoming.
By the joint efforts of the residents, several
forts had been erected, viz., Ogden, Wyoming,
Durkee, Jenkins and Fort Forty. Just above
the latter, Fort Wintermoot had been erected.-by
the influence of the family bearing that name.
Besides these fortifications, or stockades, there
was a small fort on Monockonock Island.
The reader unacquainted with the condition of
Wyoming at that time, might be led to form the
erroneous conclusion that the place was very
well prepared for an attack and would repel a
large force of the enemy with comparative ease.
But this was far from being the case ; for nearly
all the fighting men had been drafted for the
continental army, and the real strength of the
valley was at that time defending other portions
of the country, hile Congress was, apparently,
blind to the danger that menaced the settlements
of the Susquehanna. With a few exceptions,
but an inconsiderable number of old men, and
mere youths, remained to ward off the blow that

fN
.4
I

4                d

I

THE ROYAL GR3 939NS*


THE ROYAL GIEK.

I
Id
P
4.
IS

I

THE ROYAL GREENS.

menaced them from the Six Nations and the us with all his painted creturs, and there'll e
tories combined,                           such a slaughter as has been seldom seen or
Among the able-bodied men yet to be found read on. These are my nateral feelin's on the
in the valley, one of tall and muscular propor- subject, expressed in my off hand and perhaps
tions stood leaning upon his long rifle, listening homely way."ed from the fixed aze of Dungy
to what was said, making occasionally a remark  Lanaway turnedfo  hefxdgaz      fD
when appealed to, but evidently chary of his bar, and Wintermoot moved about uneasily.
words appe"You have then no doubts respecting the -
Near him was a much younger individual, tentions of the tories, and Indians ?" resumed
more talkative, and judging by his physiognomy, Devron, earnestly.
not so, seriously impressed with a sense of peril  "Doubt, sir !" returned Dunbar, "who can
as the others. He asserted in a confident man- doubt after what has been heard I Let them as
ner that the inhabitants were unnecessarily have wives and children, mothers, sisters and
alarmed, and there was no good and sufficient sweethearts, look well to their safety, for fire,
cause for the general apprehension that prevail-, the ballet and the'sword will soon do their work
ed. This young man's name was James Lana- in this valley, and woe to them as can't fly to
way. The opinion which he had advanced with' the mountains as. they did in Scripter times ¢
so much assurance was immediately endorsed and as for that matter, perhaps I might as well
and doggedly sustained by an elder man called add, to them as do take to the mountains, pir-
Wintermoot, the very person who had caused viden' they haven't some strong hand or daunt-
the, fort to be constructed which then bore his less heart to care for 'em."
name.                                        "You haven't been among us a great while,
"So far as I know anything about this mat- 'Dunbar, but ever since you came you have con-
te, there is not much to fear at present," said tinually prophesied evil when there hasn't been
r .                              any great need of it ; and for one I'm tired of
"But what mean all these rumors ?" asked a hearing about dangers that never come," an-
youngman by the name of Edward Gaston,     swered Lanaway, sneeringly.
"o he country is always full of idle rumors,"  " When you don't want to hear, you are at
repliedLatiaway, with a sneer.             liberty to stop your ears, youngster ; but when
"I think we have reason to believe that But- mny advice is asked by a respectable man like
ler with his Tory Rangers, or Royal Greens, as Mr. Devron, I shall allers give it, whether you
they are called, are somewhere up the river, pro- like to hear the truth or not. It isn't probable
paring to' make this now peaceful valley the scene that we shall ever agree together very well, for
of carnage and blood," said Mr. Devron, a fine- a man as has callers loved his country, can't be
looking man of about fifty, whose temples were made to think otherwise of it; sobe advised and
beginning to be silvered over with those inevita- don't make too free with me when we happen to'
ble marks of age-gray hairs.               meet, for I amnt over and above patient and fbr-
"Well, I suppose if yo   are determined to bearin' to them as don't suit my fancy, and it
frighten the women and children (and yourselves, might in some way or another be the worse for
too, for that matterL you can do it; but for my you, and rather work agin you in the long ru,
par I think it is ernel," added  Lanaway, as 'twerej' answered, Dunbar, slowly,,and with-
rout changing his fixed and statue'like posture.
hat is yur opinion?" inquired Devron,       While the latter was speaking, another party "
turning tothe tall man with the long rifle, who, was approaching, toward whom all eyes were
stood wthout moving a limb, or giving any evi- directed; tAnd indeed his figure and bearing were
dence that he had heard a word of the last few not likely tp escape notice even from-less curir'
remarks that had been made.              . ous observers than the inhabitants of Wyoming.
"Yes what do you think of it ?" added Quite commanding in height, straight as an ar-
another.                                   row, with a firm and fearless stepsassured yet
The person addressed was silent for a moment, devoid of swagger, dark and somewhat-swarthy
and then fixing his abr gray eyes on Lanaway complexion, hairblack andcrling, eyes fall and
and Wintermoot, 'replied :                quick in' their movements, all his :personal peen-
"We haven't no time to lose in idle talk-- liarities seemed to denote a marked and uncom
not a single hour-for Butler will soon fall, on .mon character,

10

a

le advanced, nodding in a friendly manner to the dreamy beauty of the valley, that neither
few words with Dunbar, which were not spoken near and finally stood within thfw  acesrof
sufficiently loud to be heard by others, the two them.n a -few paces of
walked away together, leaving-themen of Forty  " You may feast your eyes on it, white men
Fot gngn cotepa them withecurioity; bt eit belong bto the Lenni Lenape," he said,
but no one contemplated them with such an bitterly.' Dunbar and Montour turned sapdy
equivocal expression as Lanaway, whose fea- toward the speaker nstintou  grned sharply
tures took on an expression that at that moment rifles more  er,  tinctivey grasping their
might have been deemed gloomy and foreboding    more firmly as they did so.
and the next defiant and vindictive.   '     "Yes, Castanego is here. Do you envyh m
"It's my opinion those persons ought  to be a single look atelans hato one lngedto
watched," said the individual we have called the Lenapes t the lands that once belonged to
Wintermoot, glancing furtively at his neighbors. scornfullyp.  he asked, his red lip curng
No one made a response but Lanaway, and he   "No, them paint my feeling's, redskin; Ilon't
.fully concurred with Wintermoot. Leaving the hold no haress agia the feelresin ot
men of Forty Fort to discuss whatever subject Lenni'Lenapes, as you. call 'em. You can othe
they may consider most worthy of their atten- at this bit of ground as much as You can look
tion, we will attend the footsteps of Dunbar and welcome, and I for one will make you like, and
his companion. The two proceeded to the river, whatever, so lon as you don't i no objections
but a few yards distant, and directed their way  adtae to   you a dn i  up as 'tet"
toward Lackawonock Gap-the opening in the returned Du    r natural Ing  ways, as 'Were,"
mountain ranges where the Susquehanna forces  ".       no       e       e
its wy ino th valey."Why did not-the Lenapes keep this behuti-
its way into the valley.                   ful valley.when they had possin ?fi " in-
When they had gone a short distance they quired Montour.h       possession of itd"ain-
launched a canoe that had been concealed in the  "auetealdntiswretogr
bushes, and crossed over to a high cliff on the thane the Lenapes. aed nations werestronger
eastern bank called "Prospect Rock," the sum- face " returned Cat agood reason,pale
mit of which commanded a view of nearly the   " Theretrne caanegove, rernly,
whole valley. Climbing to the top of this emi- Montour.
nence, hunbar and his comrade cast their eyes  I I ce
over the fair lands of Wyoming, the possession time and come back here a few moons after this
of which had already cost so much contention keep their cabins fepae faces why they do not
and bloodshed. The whole valley lay before tions, what wi from the hands of the Six Na-
them like a glorious picture-with its gliding netheyay? inquired the.
river, its meadows, its dead levels, its gentle  That the Six Nations were too strong for
sw 1s, and its eternal wall of surrounding moun- them," was the instant reply.
ts hemming in all its variegated and lovely  "And that will be true, for the war-path of the
sceery main itmor lke  faryEden than Iroquois tends this way," continued the Dela-
a spot of common earth.                    ware.ay                 c       .
"It isn't strange in the least," said Dunbar,  "Wha t  hL       sd      e
"that there has been so much wrangling about tour at will the Lenaes do  rescued Mon-
this valley, for you see, friend Montour, that it  "What should they"do
is as handsome a spot as the human eye can should they fbolishl meddle with this  quael
rest on."                              . .Who willgey   them  back  th lans ifae te
"Nature indeed discloses her most attractive shouldliht veWem back their lands if they
features here ; and yet it is not worth the price the white men l No, not The possesions of
paid for it, in blobd," replied the other.  the'Delawares have slipped from pbsieneathth
"So far as that is concerned, it' isn't paid for and they willreave recod fom beneath rioem,
yet; for you may rely on't, it will cost a great inc"hey  ner  recover their former foot-
deal more of that kind of payment, according to  "Do you know anyhin
the present appearance of things," returned ments of Colonel Butler ?' asked Montour.
D  much were they absorbed in contemplating"Go and inquire of the pale faces down in the
valley,"rejoined Castanego ; and then with.

,-
i,

,;
-, - P
.'
°. , -
_.
x
' .,+j gg
,, v
,
,r
' _r,.

1
.,,.... -                       i   e i       !                                                                                                                                                     iRfwWNnlrv yrn
%LxgC S:.  .  .Y6-%aa ,t6' ea _d .'F.  . .c    .r.o..s. '.t..                                                                         .            r

a.         ,;        ,
} ti.
QSI.
1

11

I

I


12                  THE ROYAL GREENS.

,
i
F .
..;
:
:
f,
1
4
Li
. i
Yy r"  .
Y J
f
''    i

clouded brow and compressed lips moved from
the spot, and was soon lost to view in the moun-
tains.a
"Re knows very well there's false-hearted
ones at Wyoming," observed Dunbar.
"I am not so much acquainted in the settle-
ment as you are, but I fear that your suspicions
are not unfounded," was Montour's answer.
" Well, let us go up the river a few miles and
see what's goin' on," continued the other. " I've
been too much in the woods, and seen too-many
of the ways of the red pien to be deceived by
'em; and as for Butler's Royal Greens they're
worse than the savages, although they aint so
common, perhaps, and can't follow a trail so
well."
Montour made no reply, and the two shoul-
dered their rifles, descended the rock, and fol-
lowed the general course of the Susquehanna.
Having reached the spot which they had evi-
dently been seeking-which was a solitary place
in a thicket of birch-they kindled a fire and
Waited the approach of night with obvious im-
patience.
As soon as the evening shadow' began to fall,
the blazing fagots were extinguished, the brands
scattered, and leaves carefully thrown over the
spot where they had burned. Having examined
their rifles to be assured that they were ready for
distant use, Montour and Dunbar took a posi
tion nearer the river, concealing themselves be-
neath a dense cluster of wil4 grape vines' that
grew among the rank alders on the bank. Thus
hidden they remained motionless until the moon
came up and the stars twinkled merrily.  Th
evening was far advanced when a slight sound
reached the ears of Dunbar; it was the light
regular dip of a paddle.
Touching Montour upon the arm to attrac
his attention, the hunter pointed up the river
A canoe containing bitt a single figure was glid
ing toward them.
" It is a Mohawk," whispered the young man
"Yes, and he must die," replied Dunbar
calmly.
"I see no help for it; if he lives, our plo
fails," rejoined Montour.
The hunter made no answer, and the birche
bark drew near. When it was within rifle di
tance, Dunbar took deliberate. aim and fire
The Indian dropped the paddle, and Montou
throwing off his hunting frock plunged into th
stream andswam toward the canoe, which whe
he had reached, he directed to the bank pushing

it before him With his hand. Bythe time he had
accomplished the task, the Mohawk, who had
fallen forward upon his face, had revived and be-
gan to make efforts to get upon his feet, but
was too much exhausted from loss of blood to
do so. Dunbar drew the little vessel from the
water, and then directed his attention toward the
wounded savage.
The'- benignant rays of the moon streamed
down upon the singular scene. The Mohawk
laid in the canoe regarding his conquerors with
stern composure. His eyes, though fast losing
their lucidity, still gleamed with the dark vin-
dictiveness of his race. Death could rob him of
physical power and life, but could not change
his nature.
"Redskin, you have been betrayed," said
Dunbar.,
The words of the backwoodsman caused the
native to start and cast an inquiring glance at
the speaker.
" Betrayed !" he added, without changing his
tone.
"By whom ?" asked the sufferer, instinctively
feeling for the handle of his knife.
-"You came to meet Lanaway ." rejoined
Dunbar, watching  the countenance of the
Mohawk.
The latter was silent for a moment as if decid-
ing how far he might honorably divulge his
*purpose.
" The pale faces were always traitors !" he
exclaimed, with suppressed and husky voice.
" You were a fool to trust to white men who
e betray their own brethren.. Did you think they
I would keep better faith with you than with us ?"
continued Dunbar.
" Pale faces, you are right ; he who is false to
t his own people will be false to' others," replied
the Indian, somewhat less sternly.
- " Of course you are old enough to know bet.
ter than to trust yourself with such hypocritical
. renegades. Shame on you, redskin, to be caught
, in the company of John Butler and his band of
tory cut-throats ! A, man as will fight agin his
t own country and countrymen will sell an Ingin
for a pint of whiskey."
n   "Wa, wa! 'tis so ; for you could not have
s- known what you have told, if Lanaway had not
I. sold me. Pale Face, Butler and the Six Na-
tr tions will soon come down the Susquehanna and
e Wyoming will fall. Wintermoot, will surren-
n der the fort which he has built, to the tories, and
g then fight his neighbors like a hollow heart as

THE ROYAL GREENS.
he is. le and Lanaway have betrayed me,1an   t
I1 will betray them. PaeFcs      ydmad tory' to their patriotism. Both Dun-
do has called t         ea,      good Mone- tour, as has been remarked in another place, had
- douns, c d  e to tgo to the happy hunting- not long been residents in the  pland had
grounds, but I will tell you before I depart that lived in comparative obscurity, which haad had
the birds of war are hovering over the valley. around them a kind of master tha,  d thrown
Yes, I was the messenger of Butler and the Six few gossiping anduncharitable ones, had been
should be struck that will desol       great  ow    terpreted in a manner not friendly to their e-
shuld be stukta      wl    eoate Wyoming. putation.yt                             hi e
g                                                                                     rButI have fallen by treachery, and my shout  But our two friends cared but little for this
shall be heard no more on the war-path."     meddlgd wth                        for bthfe
Where was you to meet Lanaway and Win- acquaina aw no one's business, made but few
termoot to settle these matters ?"          inquisitive  sand no confidants,  perplexing the
"At the second bend below here ; I hope yow they had by  prm  to  ome toenterhat
will go and shoot them, for they are your foes," doubts respecting Lanaway and Winteroon
reumed the Mohawk, articulating with dif- must be sufficiently obvious o the reader from
Th atis reading the foregoing; od those doubts had
The parties stood near the fallen warrior in been greatly strengthened by a conversation to
silence, observing the rapid inroads of the great which they were accidentally a party with
conqueror of men. The native's failing vision knowledge orcosnofh           w h  out the
wandered wildly from Montour tohis companion         e or consent of those whoseInt rim
then he. chanted in a loweand' monotone  o   and ove of country that conversation m Butler was
atwas evidently his death song, and shortly to meet one or both of them  to arrange the de-
after eprhed tebtails of sme imoat moemn, invlving thee
Dunbar searched the body and found what he peace and security    movement, evolving the
expected to; a letter from  John Butler, the certain  s ad tutof Wyoming, they we foot-
cruel leader of the Tory Rangers, which dis- of absolute deo put te matter upon the footing
oosed a scheme of cool-blooded atrocity rarelywatchcreullmons ion  hadresolved to
equalled, even by those loyalists. most active in municationf the common medium  of com
 ein ath          executing plans owvneac.thi rdr             t h-e valley--theSsuhna
eing aus possession of   vengeance.     in orderto surprise and cut off the party corn-
Beig tus n pssesio  ofthesecetof the missioned to negotiate with those upicpe
enemy's intended operationsagainst Wyoming, men who had n  e   ovew  tose unprincipgh-
Dunbar and Montour made their calculations bo              ase  y resolved to give their neih-
accordingly, shocked and justly, at the efid   rs  the tomahawked and the knife.
exhibited by Lanaway and Wintermoot, and perfectly correct, and their efurtspihad  were
many others who had hithrto .been unsuspected  ectly scessfct, and theyafots  d thed
.  fbigayhn -u  tuc    aros      ce  eminently isuccessful- How they avail ed
Dunbar, the backwoodsman and hunter,       selves of the intelligence which the death of the
well as his younger associate, had on e  as Mohawk had procured, will be duly unfoldedas
wellous otheimtives youngrocithe hd pon beeus- we proceed. Who and what Montour and Dun
picousof he  otvesof he persons ablove bar were, it is ntorpeetproet         i
named ; but their feelings in relation to the sub- vuge for it is not our present purpose to d-
ject they had been in some measure obliged to tue; to develop the esicue following  ch
keep almost wholly to themselves; for so adroit other teeti  toe'rticulars.with
and artful had been their management, that idthinteresting  inatters.             cm
many of the good people of the valley would m-iding the canoe in the bushes and cith
,have been disposed to listen'to aught d g  hitting the body of the native to the le t so
gtderoga- thoughtful facsadso    se  wte    aters, with
g  Kes an Blw stps hey eftthe po-

1K
i
H
l f
f    it I

:,  ff
rhi                                                             ..
,                '
V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
'                       i


0

CiHA PThL     -II.
ts one of those snug, comfortable, and yet ter. And this will be the fittest place to remark
romantic cabins for which the valley of Wyo- also that, Mrs. Devron having long since gone
ring was so justly celebrated, seated at a small the way of all the earth, the only offspring of
aid unpretending indowgazing with an ab- their union, Ellen, had for some years been sol
acted and somewhatni   elancholy expression mistress of her father's dwelling.
straceansoehtue               d   nefrm       Teapancofhrprt obviously gave
through the clustering foliage that depended from The pearand of obviously vthe unexpected
the humble roof (which was overnw y spreadadent of LanaWay was productive of pain. She
riant before her, and sloping gracefully to the met his somewhat obsequious salutation with
ivers bank, was a maiden of some seventeen distant politeness, and anxiously turning to her
smmers ba    t w as est with uncommon fatherdirected to him her conversationagerly
beauty of person, it needed no second glance to asking what had been the result of their delib'
determine; for the ruddy lips, the delicately erations at forty Fort.
tinted cheeks, the finely formed forehead,the hI ant msorryato ra  st precise "ys  ae foun
full and soullit eyes, the alabaster skin, the have left the matte  husPrcelaswfon
graceful neck, ,the swelling bust, and the whole it."
c    f   h u    e eloquently testified to the  "What i have no decided steps been taken to
contour of t  g                            meet this crisis ?" she inquired, earnestly.
affirmation."Nohnhabendnm                                                chlndio
She was aroused from her musing and reflec- "Nothing has been done, my child, and no
tive attitude, by the sudden appearance of two particu  course has been resolved on, m e
individuals, who were casually spoken of in the ing dividedain their opinions; some satin  e
previous  chapter--Devron and Lanaway; the thing and some another, although I believe o
former, it will be remembered, being a man con- majority are fully impressedwith result will of
asrably advanced in years.                  impending danger. What tureher     falbe,
'IWaving all useless ceremony, it will perhaps Heaven only knows I"  returned hen-father,
be best to state at once, that the young lady sadly. a
mentioned, and Mr. Devron, sustained the mu- "sIt appears to ne that you magnify the peril
teal and interesting relation of father and daugh- grey

"CYan you for a moment imagine that Wyo- attention of the profoundest and best minls. I
suing is not menaced with destruction ?" Ellen doubt the soundness of your patriotism."
asked, looking steadfastly at the young man.  "tIn my zeal to maintain peaceful relations
"It is possible," he replied, slowly; " that with those around us ahd with the crown, I shall
there are those in the valley who have much to unquestionably be misconstrued, and subjected
fear; but believe me when I say that the inmates to cruel suspicion; but a high sense of duty I
of this cabin are safe. This sheltering roof will hope will sustain me, and ever prompt me to a
never be given to the flames, and tomahawks course calculated to ensure the good of all par-
will never be brandished over this threshold, ties. Such ideas as expressed by Miss Devron,
with savage fury."                          will do very well in romances ; but in practical,
"I confess that I cannot comprehend you," everyday life, they are, I imagine, quite out of
rejoined Ellen.                             place," responded Lanaway. Then turning to
"Accept my assurances, then, without com., her father, he added, in a serious tone, "I hope
prehending them;.for I trust you are so fully a due consideration for your daughter's safety,
convinced of my friendly feelings toward you, will prompt you to adopt -all precautionary
that you cannot 4oubt my sincerity."        measures that may be suggested by one who cer-
"I crave no immunity fromthe general fate, tainly feels a. deep interest in your happiness."
nor can I see by what interposition a single,  "Ishall regard my own honor and Ellen's
cabin can be he r from Indian rapacity and tory safety as.sacred trusts," rejoined Devron, firmly.
cabiny canie ke s ro e Iino rapaitntry  " I arm with you in this matter heart and hand,
The strange hopes which you extend to this Mr. flevron; but as reasonable men, would it
dwelling and its inmates, do not satisfy me; for not be well for us to pause and inquire what
who can measure the baseness of that selfishness will be the consequences of our rebellion ? for re-
which, in times like these, when all should feel bellion it unquestionably is to the mother coun-
their mutual dependence, thinks only of self- try," returned the young man.
preservation I Unworthy indeed should I be of  "Mr. Lanaway, you are at liberty to pause
Heaven's blessings, if all my desires and prayers and consider and retract; but as for me, I will
should have reference only to my own personal live and die a- patriot, animated by a, love of
comfort and safety, when there are so many fai- country which no sophistry; no danger, no suffer-
flies exposed to the shafts of danger, while those ing, can shake, conquer or undermine. The die
strong and willing hands that would naturally is cast; I shall throw all my sympathies, all my
protect them, are away fighting battles for other efforts, and if need be all my means, .into the
settlements and other homes. Such, sir, are the holy and glorious cause of freedom; anji would
feelings that animate me ; and it were better, pain me much to see you deserting ;ur standard
methinks, to fall a victim to the remorseless and taking part with those bloody and unnatu-
hatchet, than to outlive the common sympathies ral ruffians who are devastating the fairest coun=
of humanity,'" resumed Ellen, with increasing try that the light of heaven blesses, and turning
warmth,                                     their ruthless weapons to the hearts of their
" Bravely spoken, my girl" exclaimedDev- friends andneighbors.  I hope for the sake of
ron,                            _ ~~~~~~~~~the friendship which you profess to feel for my aaa .cledbihi, i, adfram  duheefotadadfrsrvtoeie'yuwlsproraktonetog
rn ws-daught and for me,r ou will make one wrong,
'ent was considerably embarrassed,          hesitancy on this. all-important point. . Liberty
I regret," he, added, speaking less confi- is man's prerogative, and it would grieve me
dently, that our whig friends are so energetic truly, that a friend of mine should prove in any
in their opposition. to the home government. manner recreant to his trust, or false to.duty and
They, that-is, we, should be'very cautious about to God."
irritating the feelings of-the loyalists; in fact,  Mr.  evron spoke with much energy, and it
more.policy should be exhibited."          was easy to see that his professions were without
"-The time for the kind of policy you'refer to, hypocrisy;  ' ncerity  and integrity breathed
is past; and the policy which this crisis de- forth with e  ord that left his lips.
mands-is that backed up by powder and .bail;  Lanaway      d his temples as if he felt a
no other will do, and I am sorry to see you dis. sudden pain there, and was striving to assuage
play so little enthusiasm on a subject worthy the it. He did not look up 'and meet the earnest

THlE EYAL GRRt1S.                     l

1b

M
t4
r

9
.r
,°
l
.
,                                     r 4                       K
3tti'
v                    j'                 1

'
. _ ,
L.
41
x
t".
M
t


,
.#
.s

L GREENS.

16                             THE ROYA
eyes of Devron or the searching gaze of Ellen.
Waves of agitating thought appeared to sweep
rapidly across the troubled waters of his mind
and disturb painfully its quietude. His- usually
impassive features changed 'color, alternately
from a deep flush to a livid paleness. Mr. Dev-
ron did not seem to be sensible of the perturba-
tion of his neighbor; but Ellen, more watchful,
had noted the, evidences of the internal struggle,
and drew her own inferences from the same.
"1I dare say you are correct," said Lanaway,
at length.' "When the time that' will test our
principles arrives (as it will shortly), I trust I
shall be found on the right side, doing my duty
like a brave man."
Although he attempted to say these words
with his usual reckless air, his voice more than
once faltered, and that life-giving energy which
should have marked and lent force to them, was
wholly wanting. Raising his eyes, he met those
of Ellen fixed upon him with an earnestness
which he could not brook with that calmness of
demeanor which he wished to exhibit in her
presence ; so taking asomewhat hurried leave he
left the cabin.
His departure was followed by a long and
constrained silence between the father and daugh-
ter. Both gave indications of dissatisfaction
and uneasiness ; Ellen was the first to speak.
"Father," she said, laying her hand upon his
arm, " did it ever occur to you that Mr. Lanaway
is not a true friend to the cause which you have
so nobly and fearlessly espoused ?"
" It is not best to entertain such suspicions,
child," he replied, evasively, as it appeared to
the fair questioner.
"But his manner-did you not observe it?"
" No, no I I saw nothing. Don't cherish such
unkindly thoughts, Ellen; you do him injus-
tice."
" What portend his vague hints about secur-
ing otur safety? What means has he of doing
what you cannot just as well accomplish? If he
has power which you have not, where did he
get it ? Why this mystery?" she continued,
with increasing earnestness.
" Would you distrust your lover, Ellen?" ask-
ed her father, somewhat sternly.
"I care not that he should be laver of mine,"
was the firm reply.
"Be cautious, my daughter-=d not ,sacrifice
your maiden feelings too much to patriotism,"
rejoined Devron, smiling.

"Little affection have I for James Lanaway,"
resumed Ellen.
" Strange that youthful damsels will never
frankly. confess the tenderness of their truant
thoughts ; but so it has ever been from the first
female to the last," was the bantering rejoinder.
Miss Devron reiterated her assurances, but
they apparently had no convincing force over
the mind of her parent, and for the time the sub-
ject was dropped.
On the second evening after tlhis interview,
the fears of the settlers were still more excited
by an incident which will now be briefly related.;
Mr. Devron and Ellen were seated in the com-
fortable little room where' we have just left
them, when Cato, the colored servant, came run-
ning in, crying in a disturbed voice :
" Massa Devron, dars troubil down below,
sartin I"
Both father and daughter followed him into
the open air, to discover the object of his fears.
" Which way, Cato ?" asked Ellen.
"Right dar ; don't yer see de fire "
Miss Devron-glanced in the direction named
and perceived a fierce jet of flame bursting
through the roof of a cabin on the opposite side
of the river.
"De Ingins hab come, Missy Ellen, and-dat's
de game dey's at," added Cato.
" True, too true, Cato I" exclaimed Miss
Devron..
"Worse than savages, perhaps !" said Devron.
" Tories ?" asked Ellen.
"Very probable; but we shall learn soon
enough, no doubt," was the mournful response.
" Jes let 'em come ober de riber, dat's all I"
cried Cato, waxing valorous.
" Heaven forbid, Cato !" rejoined Ellen.
" What should we do ?"
" Do, Missy Ellen? I bring out my doubil-
barril gun and fight for dis here woolly skulp,
and for your shiny locks, too," said Cato.
During this time not a single shot had been
heard, or other sound indicating that the marau-
ders were meeting with any resistance.
"I cannot account for this," said Mr. Dev-
ron, " unless that it is the cabin vacated by the
hunter, Dunbar, and that strange young man,
who is sometimes seen with him, but of whom
no one knows anything in particular. .But why
the fire has not been seen from the fort is sur-
prising."
"I tink I can splanify dat. You see dare a
sort ob kick-up at de fort on todder side, and

TEE ROYAL GREENS.

- -y
4r
yr
3.
Yi4
Sr$
, 14
All-
ONE . 7f  yj
N
z
k  £+
-
.
;Ts
r
1

;
4
R
tkyry''
.
'       1
8
,' +!
ri! '
+      y. ,
F        .
* r
'      i
F
X
k       +
F.
a_      ,
"
z
r
6
r
F
,: r,
f  iy
i.
r:
.'
[    .

,
T1

-     , w.               ,   . U

17-

most ob de fellas and gals am dar a shaking de white Mohawks !" exclaimed Cato, blazing
rebellious foot; dem's de  reason," returned at the approaching loyalists, and wounding away
Cato.                                                         lylss     n   onigto
"At Fort Wintermoot                          of them. This exasperated them greatly, and
"Yeah; dat's de truff."                    one of them cried out:
"An unfortunate time indeed for hilaritLet the gal go, old man! ilet the gal go or
merry-making," cotimned     oro  "ay and we'l fire as you are, and we don't care aout
mymakin continued Devron, "when a killin' such as her !"
murky cloud of destruction hangs over our fair " Leave me, child! leave me !" exclaimed
vlley" WDevron, in an agony of solicitude' for the safety
"What kind, ob cloud am dat you spoke of ?" of his lovely daugtrannoasilefrfr
"Listen ! do you not hear something   ?      hisely         ghter, and not a single fear fo
Ellen, in a suppressed voice. The parties stood  "Never, father, never ! I will perish with you
peetly otinlin thathto catch tany sound let them fire if they will. I will not stir, nor re-
however trifling, that might indicate -the approach lease you from m  mrc.
of an enemy.                       aprah       aeyoufrm my embrace."
of"an Teem ,                               Discharging his rifle once more, the brave man
"There, Cato, did you hear that ?" added drew apso       rmh~sdadtrwn              n
Ellen.-                                ddd    re   a pistol from  his side, and. throwing one
E"en daarm about Ellen, prepared to sell his life dearly.
"I did, and dat am sartin fack ! By de Lord Lienfradhass-teoisruedpn
massy, I b'lieve dey's coming , sure nuff."   Lir puriated beasts the tories rushed upon
"Be quiet, Cato I Now I think I can hear bolirprey; but the faithful Cato threw himself
sounds resembling the. cautious approach of seltdiln between them and Mr. Devron, and pre-
armed men," added Devron,.                   sntg his gun once more, shouted to ..them to -
ard W t cadded don.     k   h   d           "Stan' back, dar--keep   off, or by -dar Lord
"What can he done?   asked his daughter. I'l blow yer to dew debbil's cook-shop:"
" Is there no place of retreat where our lives, at "Tmhw   teblcsoudl"crdte
least, will be safe ?" -                             " " Tomahawk the black scoundrel  cried the
" We will do what we can. Cato, bring out leader. " Off with his woolly scalp "
our arms, and see that you make no noise. WeC    Take dat, y   white nigger !" responded
will all go down'to Mr. Hudson's, whose cabin the o, shooting down the person who had fnade
is better calculated for-a defence, and we mai  h  offensive proposition ; and then firing the
find one or two stout hands there to aid us may other barrel at the individual who had the teme-
findhoe back tostaty hd thee ordr ai" rity'to advance for the purpose of carrying the
The black instantly obeyed these orders, and ordrit    xcto.     Bt     i    arl    o
fastening the door, the parties moved quickly to- being emptyheution.  Both his barrels now
ward the dwelling of their nei-gbeog.epty, he snatched the tomahawk'fo
wathe ten  gf the  ir neighbor. But this the grasp of the person who had received his
step hastened the catastrophe which they wished last charge, flourished it over his head, and dare
to avoid ; for they had proceeded but a fewros'hsasinttocmitvehshadaddrd
Whena smll prty f ared      rods, his assailants to coine on.
when a small party of armed men appeared in    "Give 'em no quarter! shoot 'em all down
sight. Discovery was of course inevitable and never mind the gal; she's no better than th
immediate. Determined not to be taken by rest. Load up, every one, and fire when I give
these miscreants, Devron 'and Cato stopped and the wor!
presented their pieces, hopn oppad theword"
check long enough for Eehoping to hold the n in- Ellen had given up all hope and expected
butethisosheewougd no Elln to reach the cabin; instant death ; and her father still resolved, pre-
but this she would not attempt to dp, but clung scented his cocked pistol at the nearest ot'
to her father, preferring, she said, to share his assailants.
fate, rather than secure safety at the costhof his  Ataats.
life. While the parties thus stood confronting At that moment of awful suspense, when the
the enemy (who were loyalists disguised ing hear of Devron was suffering more than the,
ous ways), several of them discharged then varn- pains of death for the fate of his child, the sharp,
and the bullets hissed aroundtheperson hErguns, quick report of two rifles, from another quarter,
perforating her dress in several places but Een, reached his ears, while two of the loyalists fell,
erforatig her deneeral w e h eth- and a third received a dangerous wound. De-
er she nor her defenders were wounded.       termie noDoh      obdo tervcis hee
"Double shame upon you to fire upon a wo-ofhe tried not to be robbed of their victims, three
man !" cried Devron, returning the fire with his them received s now rushed upon Devron. One of
rifle.           .9                        stemrcie        the contents of his pistol, and
" Dar'll be troublamonganother grasped Ellen by the arm and tore her
"Da'llbe rouil mog yer 'fore soon yer from her father ; hut his rude and pitiless hand

'
.,
s
,,:
,,
A-


wV

1
V       1_-;6

k'              G
t
ft                      '    .
w s
t                      k
r
i

had scarcely touched her, when he was hurled to
the ground by a blow.
"Deluded and inhuman men! will ye murder,
young maidens, and have go ;pity for a father
with gray hairs I" cried he, who had thus sud-
denly come to the rescue.
"Back, back, ye unmannerly hounds I" cried
another voice, and the tall form of Dunbar, the
hunter, was seenlooking through-the sights of
his long rifle.
The young man who had sprang to the relief
of Ellen, caught her in his arms, and bore her
swiftlytoward Hudson's cabin, while the loyal-
ists, not knowing how many new enemies might
be at hand, retreated. 'Follow Montour," said
Dunbar to Devron and Cato ; "follow him to
the cabin as fast as you can, and I'll be there as
soon as you."
Without waiting a second bidding, they obey-
ed, and in a few minutes the parties were safely
at Hudson's.
Great was. the revulsion of feeling that took
place in the bosom of Ellen Devron. In a par.
tially unconscious state she was borne within the
friendly walls of the: cabin. Her 'first - inquiry
was for her father, when, she Ws assured by her
preserler that he was close at hand.. She ven-
tred toexamine the features of Montour mote
closely, and then emembered that he was the
same whom she had seen with Dunbar on many
occasions, but with whom she-had neverexehang
' d a word. The discovery did not sceem..i
disagreeable one, for her delivererhad a manl3
beauty of face and form, not to be slighted b3
even bashful dansels or coy maidens.. She at
tempted, to speak,some fitting words of thanks
but though her voice failed, her embarrtssmen
spoke more eloquently to Montour than all sh
could have said. Her modest confusion wa
relieved by the entrance of her father and Cato
followed by Dunbar.
'f Sad times .these," said' Mr, Hudson, wh
entered the dwelling at the same moment, a
companied by a young man whose name ha
once before been mentioned-Edward Gaston.
Sad-indeed I" returned Devron. "But y

Ought not to complain," he{added, glancing at
Ellen, "when a life so precious has been spared
to me."
" You are right welcome to the shelter of my
roof," Mr. Hudson rejoined, "and if attacked,
we will mutually do our best to baffle the designs
of our insatiable enemies. Ah, here is DunbarI
I am glad to see you, sir, and your friend also ;
for the very fact of his being with you, vouches
for his integrity. Neighbors, make yourselves
at home under myhumble roof, and, if, after we
have done our duty like true men, the worst
comes of it, we will share one common fate, re-
signing ourselves as much as is in poor human
nature, to the will of God."
At that instant an exclamation from Dunbar
attracted the attention of the parties. Devron,
looking from the window in-the direction of his
cabin, saw a few puffs of smoke arising from the
roof, speedily followed by a flickering lisrmae
which rapidly-increased in strength and bril-
liancy until it east a red glare upon the sur.
rounding scenery.
Ellen sighed, and tears moistened her cheeks,
when she perceived the home of her childhood
crumbling to ashes and melting from her sight.
"Our cabin is large enough to shelter you,"
said Elvira Hudson, -taking Ellen" by the Jaind
in akindly manner. " When peace once more
visits the valley, it will be an'easy matter for our
- good neighbors to erect another dwelling, and I
a am sute it will give them pleasure to do so."
y " No doubt, my friend, no doubt; but many a,
y dark night of danger will .pass before-the dayof
L peace dawns upon us," replied Miss:Devron.
, " When that time comes, there'll be manydas
t is alive and well now, wont need no airthly
e homes," said Dunbar, solemnly.
as Expectingfarther molestation, Hudson and his.
, friends (like many others) kept ,anxious vigils
during that long night, but no attack wasnhude.
o In the morning no traces of the tories could be
e- found, save in the blackened ruins of the-two
s cabins, and spots of blood where the conflict'had
taken place; the bodies of the'slain'having been
et removed.

+  -
SS'  4. Y
t   (
s
,
s
-
j
iSf   !
^          iY
,
1     t
"9F     .. ~ .   y.,
x.A

THE ROYAL GREENS;

CHAPTER Z1I.
r        "                     R Tan  asseg ,
O  the following 'morning Mr. Detron and in another form. Think you we shall-eldi.
ing runStoo thing mournfully at the sinoulder- posed to rely on your power to protect us,
sand eeduecteir once pleasant ho'nie. A thou- again "y
sad withei  os of an agreeable kind connect-    u
i  passed through the mind-of the latter, Mr.  ae too hard on the young man,i$
p resng misforlumore sensibly the extent of her "pI have heard that you h
prsn msotne. It g.as to tone like her a was alms mialou cotiad anaewhic.
painful thought, also, that men :professing the    moser mindeo     ed aeway,
game peaceful religion, =and wo-shipping the btye wer      y indeed in a position of great pril
same Creative Power, should so far forget the         Teyf God we have been spared,"
ce     taminon bond of brotherhood, and cast side so fevron replied.
completely all the   r impulses which  "a      .Believe me,"  a   kd  gung man, turning
f talked eeing. While mndulgingin feelings to Ellen, and speakingtn lower tone,," if I
ings hastily pndn, she heard soinie one approach. could have averted tha dager through which
turning she beheld Lanaway: you have passed, I would gladly have doe so
Hisicountenance was exceedingly pale, and he at the hazard of my life."
h    d   u   agitation of raner.             " Unquestionably," was the cold
"You see your bower to protect as I" said    "It pains me much to be treated with cold.
in her te kn         something of sara n   tess and distrust by one in whom  Cofeesso
deep an.interest. In what way can I make
ThiIs was a danger truly unlocked for-,And sensible of my undying attachment t he asked,
widh Ireased.  prepared to expect, he hr min an unsteady voice.
i tenied. cn o                            "The attachment of which you speak, I have
hen you can onlytnuard-astagainst dangers never sought or desired; consequently you
i mea"          c           young lady.   be spared the trouble of bring  the proof re-
"that this ,se rsute Lanaway, stanuer',  erred to," was the dignified reply.
not Anthis onst banof teloyalists was so thing "Yo.odfather hasJustly said that you are har
o  hat is merely repeating what            pon.me," said-LaRnaway,
g      yeu have said   "Small necessity is there that interviews ef

0

'


20

THE ROYAL GREENS.

this nature should be repeated.tI think my sen- "Now  you indeed stoop to threaten! James
timents are quite well known to you."      Lanaway,. is this your manliness . Fortunate
"iYou see what dangers surround you, Miss am I that I have not been deceived by your pro-
vonu ad t  truth that you need a protector fessions. I perceive that you now cast off the
must be sufficiently obvious without any argu- mantle of hypocrisy, and scorn to use glozing
m   ts  of  mfi e,"ntly ume obv hou   wl ov ,  aw ords.  I  w ish  you  no  evil-only  better  princi-
ments of mine," resumed the lover.          ples and sounder patriotism."
" That I need a protector certainly requires p"Do not forget the awful tempest of fire that
no argument, Mr. Lanaway ; and the same may      o not fon     Wfng and o       muh
be said justly of all the maidens, wives and moth- will soon rain upon Wyoming, and how much
ers in Wyoming. So far as I am concerned, I the gray hairs of your father will need a pro-
needed a protector last night," was the ironical testing hand."
reoider.                                    "A few drops of the shower fell last night,"
"And had one, I understand; but we will not added Ellen, pointing to the ruins of the cabin.
dwllund hoe, unortanciRdents of last " That is nothing to the general doom--all
night. I wish to entreat you to give me the Wyoming will be bathed in fire " he exclaimed.
right to  protect you," continued  Lanaway,   "tHeaven's will be done! and if you are a
earnestly.                                 party to the dreadful visitation of which you
"I know well what you mean, but I can give prophesy so confidently, your baseness surpasses
you no more legal power to protect me than any the power of human language ! Before God,
other young man in the valley. This is my an- sir, I should rather be devoured by thedterrible
sewer; so let us understand each other and part element you speak of, than survive and be like
friends."                                  you, if your dark and horrible insinuations afford
"May I ask the, reason of this unqualified any iitdex to your designs."'
rejection n"o                   u      f     For an instant Lanaway gazed at Miss Dev-
" If you make such an inquiry, I am not ron with a sinister smile upon his lips, and then
obliged to answer it, and there is little need of slowly turning from  the spot walked away,
proposing the question."                   leaving her bewildered with astonishment.
"Still I would like to know," resumed Lana-  " What is the matter, my child ?" asked her
way, striving to conceal his agitation.    father, approaching her, and noticing the pale-
"If I must speak on a subject so embarrass- ness of her cheeks. "A lover's quarrel, I dare
ing, I would say that I should desire in the kind say. Do not be proud, my girl-speak but a
of protector which you alluded to, a man of ster- word, and I will call him back."
ling principles, who is devotedly attached to the  "Not for the world, father !"  exclaimed ..
land that gave him birth," answered Ellen, Ellen,
somewhat proudly.                            " Why, how is this ! A serious quarrel, I
" I think the time will come when you will verily believe."
regret this unkindness," said Lanaway, biting  "Father, you misapprehend me entirely inrim
his lips, and folding his arms sullenly upon his nation to James Lanaway. I feel onlyor hi
chest,                                     suspicion, fear, and dislike, and not one of those
" Perhaps you had better try threats," added gentler emotions which you have for a long time
Ellen, with a smile.                       ascribed to me. I sincerely believe him to b
E  n j o y  y o u r  p  we l  ~  i     m o s t  b a s e  a n d  d a n g e r o u s  m a n . "
Enjoy your power while you have it, Miss "Ellen, you amaze me beyond measure! I
"Idid not mean to offend," rejoined Ellen, in had cherished the thought that-th-I"know
a more kindly voice. "Then banish such thoughts forever;
"Enjoy your power, I repeat, but remember what you would say."  him so harshly ?" he
there will be terrible changes here soon, This  "Why do you judge
valley will resound with savageyells, and the demanded, with asperity.
hatchet will receive a dreadful baptism  of   " The man who does not love his country, it
blood."                                    sees to me, is not worthy of the love of
The young man spoke these words with com- woman."
pressed lips, and fixed a menacing glance upon " But what reason have you to suppose that
Ellen.                                     h does not ?

=i4
},1
9n
A"
3t
'Y  rr
r" x
sE,
rt
i s f

THE RiAL
s  hae svedbhi g, and his conduct of Allen had tnaen without its eceeipo
essue~ e that he Is indeed A loyalist, plotting him-so bo e en the ogan gaats
the dest&amp;ctina of Wyoming."            --sopia the yeeYoeng ane gllaII d"
"Heavens, Ellen! this is indeed a terrible graeth intce ofifmine lovelinese-
'accsa~ine             mee    h igi enyonhisshoulde'r he
"And time Wc pove its truth."    ehanicilly trodain tie steps of Dunbar.
"And sooner wirl aps,   th . practice in woods aft had " ade i  habitL
njeiedsoice+ed Dunbajoined t  ware  uticus  hen tlhring the lonely places of
rjeine 'areiu.gnet Mr.Laawa te ildernss, and his moccasoned eet pressed
dWat maydslins al Mtraniawyitor the ohsinds  a noiseless elasticity not possi-
is     a mae s     a trs, oieighboble to the.mere tyro in the ways of the becks.
Devron;ht laced theofwallooktnmttes, anaway woodsmtanI.
i   a estof al me h     had."that Having traversed the ruggedgnf
"Itmaybbe to a it      t     considerable time, they seated themselves on a
"Itmaybe  bu alowig}it oe, Ishelving rc, to rest.        o
have been very blind Letsbeg                 wrock, t  s
fred  Dunbar  even  in these dark  timea  And  and  raisinghis rife thd, and  Moneeur saw the
flwhile  tikoialomet nturewobark $flyosm a tree at some ditance fothe
tn young man is whom I have seen with you  "To a ;tree..I have iisdhim".addedrthe
.  myedeara osicons, and, who so bravely bore huate, Both of them span ti" covert Ithe
mygdearl      fronathe scene .of danger =lastiestait.sping to a covert  an
Iht4 "                            "Be ca'et dof, your ka~Mnnr~epi
am net a person given to tellin' bong Gtofyu p        os a tur ke  i
stories, neighbor Devron, especially nab outougmthan a nh ifeenyoiu   pse ar one it'ncontinue
as don't appear to be over and above cosn  Dunhamn.epece,yoUAre.gonet" cont
cative in regard to themselves. I can only3 sa «Yn  mesn.~j  ido   afr
that Roland i:ontour is a brave     - s netIewntderstand--hilkindmbehohhavenben of trarfare
let him be who he -ny, or what he lmay.r   nonthew th and har bee on the trail
know this 4n't verydeugrite; but it's abnut all I than ie pahand heard bullets Whistle ae
know myself. You see a nateral friendsltip;had  as spea ng aaballmn.ce ,' t While he
sprung up atweenasas 'tIer, and:that's  athekco gd  bll glanced thy thetree that
reason why we're sees.;soinue together -Ishis hupin g f e hi pto te exoed
awarethat certain peoplehave circulated reports altg ihich happened.to be sed
not very favorable to him or me either'so faras  :orvrtpie      g   e
that goes, ib  iwhen youi d a better na thtan fe  dtiozglurine hihparties renaineder.
ontour,, I should' like tosse. him  replied   n we lodgering which timeefi number
Dunbar.e-lodgod in the friendly
xhar heroine and her father raturnedto  gate  protecon. -There was one c.id
ron's,otne ae                       sthaterved to strengthen the hope of
prHudson's,-- then s ewuorje is  aiaiQ hoghn a de~cape;iWhichMwas, that they4 cou ld not vr
rplexit  If' Ellen  drew o mP     etweenawell  be  surrounded,  as  P okno  m ouutsiAv r
pa
SLateand    rai,,  at dtheeformera ed
itn wa;ethl er   aurltie h    icm   it a; asek of exceeding dfiuy oacn di~~s
a         0n, dbeate randif the bravery itss 1 ed eiute of vegetand
er     a   sfya= ?   ~t                          i  .  °'"
othe latter wonmer ~riaie i ie~sr   ~stteaw~tt~~a "eeamdM
ad ,handsoe Faares se'r.vs  obly0.h- or, } tmy."anI_ Fmg-am   .wih
rstr  y Itaks   t nole,I      out,;b 9en  ''e.go. s!tQp, who, seek . nylifei
to witness and record thero aer Aty Am I'ever to be huntd like a beast of
low  w eoland  o r d ohe  ents   fo-  and fplloW dto the  death  by these  hounds
lo  oadMontourm and his.-friend Dunbar. venge.tencehun"sof
toward one of the narrow-deflen  ar    e geen!,
°wararo °deles mthe ieenxta     "Th"
ranges, where for some. reason thy:_e" uc youngster, is inende     -
their footsteps afewboars later   h   ortmeeAs for ou,  fancy" saidthe-
antnsfe          reu         u       rwouldeendorseerouropini e
thnIt as woi _t. wear -n ordinaryo nceuis. hat, had!not-manycogen esn oaem
~ tie beutythin oeise. I believe that I amt nore, pat-
2F

I.
I

fi       ,    ,' i


22               ll4LGW0

ticularly -the object of this demonatration,'the,
laic e   fbe aware of; for I have notfor ynay
}q  poed the cosson .irnmtuaity from
danger t ate    nest TOhW,  sps evresu
Io   psren ois times. ?erhepu It would be
well to tell y.eaW *lwee  aspesing of the
gib ecth t   ,aa * kind"of fetedSnan--spark.
gd fer.eatI byqa secet foe who (lplows ae in
rllplaes and 'glres me little rat. When
phangs ay gheality, fancying that, shell iude
his vengeance; Iam soon undeceivemd' the
music oa bullet, the{trapg ofa t stig or
the Slash of stegl, assures me  t i  9K still
dogged.
-".}*udnet be; sag pish to me iftaetron
for 0entiotna ppxith-s apt ito pasidbeeqtde0
idga, 4'tW0reandstRake p- iI e k seiaUikind
of     g -w  tha, t have no inatundatioi
in truth than the promise.of the king, andthe3
glit ae-mupnscelebestedsfer4lltd gea thow
n   ji herm is fing husinsastSee ttiespliuner
fy!    r'longdo The ytaminta-eppasaeu l
stay contented behind these trees! Keep;-per
feetlstilt, a&amp; 1t trys  old plen of inn
whiha anweed a:goad pur        emoremno
H   FDunbareTrted to aeestledto da
the eethys fre, tlethat haerved ° at object o
~e'tei'I o eas. 1*hing off   t'te ptlade
It -ae end'olftheyrlie r'fhlffiffie.
" Now," said he; to Montot r, "be reiyf
~' e ha h atie to dede a cbhitdi!r
Ms                  k'l ', ta as the 'seOIthis h er Cap, hei'l thin
myr~ti  tthdbe esmt t trioddle Iti
'ba   r crl's/'  -hca              'Oe
Mt4a~aoutftt heii&amp;ei taia~s' eapre
, 5'  t * rshad' brou 'ht   af eip  r
a       fatd fire   he niiyell  r gel
1it- ' rbWld ethat lehad trot mi ste  bsait

and the sister also taking aitvantage of'the co -
fusion which 'the unexpected event produced,
pointed his deadly barrel with its wensue accua
racyand efect,
"It strikes me," he said, cofly, as with
almost incredible:epeItass he forced another
tlet -into tho eIongsdark   be'that the nateral
proadctsof thes.wile ought tobe acquainted with
the sespd ofthioilete eheotl'ipreeof Aine. It
has.apoke-to the rd critters agr at dumber o'
times and never tah withoutt meania' -Vime'
thi'.: 11m, putty artan I'vebeeu.ing mis'
chief, and I fancy judgin' bythnsegedwhich
I heerd, when yon give 'em year bmlue111i;that
. you' nied-the phrysisa1emtertionofl;otene'on
'en, wig     t h bt.,
'shave:thought "f another atteger, re'
plied'Relane,"mnd filitry is,
n    'ihe oy'duinatook off"iiS cap/bst instead
y f Iplidhgit pon his driver, 6s his friend had
. done, planed it to the tree with his knife,'at a
s distance fromn he ground correspondingwish his
I   a'height, dand In'such a manner, That the
d slightet breth of Wind *old casse 1ibgrate
e to and-ft;
VN deoblg   ht':he1 ob ~tis  asthe ftiter
: 14o    Neod his -eainpe , #and then ' boths  threi
t h&amp;nsIes pon the g tnd  Theor-iseorked
di vell';wh-thedc P5sWUras tgone sidein sight
d of the atehf l feet,they ; a*O Sint fired at.
Nwlet cus reep#'' ssidD         ,n a
to low irolce4 "If we can *t reeq htle rift i the
Track 'end us, we are sale. het theta amuse
.    emnae es       e ethh ca ' Abe arefulae that ya
rid keneexactlyiliae ,range p of the trees."
t  The p artiesrwlthrato" of time ompneuped
thdi hdieitandnemusecieve    ent, e.n
tu  tr   enemi e n    iuts    sedth rft
't,   , ,                          poundher n
ieants,  o.t   eotdthem in the paees the
o  had soIos   cu d, th   'ie~ along :the rocky.
on channel 'ito a it vine at 3the zpountaink'a bie,
atand   herupased; lto thewide forest, 1easuin#
6   their red cenmies in igno ueof their escep#

1:

CJAPTRR, IY.
eASiDO O .TEROYAL-ounnus.
ROLAND MONTOUIn and the scout now quick- ed on
ened their pace, rightly deeming it prudent to hon they    nee.A   the  epiratien of ythe
increase the distance between them and their scoutt reached the retreatespkenof y ph
enemies as'much and as speedily .as possible. duced in wasn opening  so  thefcd roepro-r.
Qecasionally they heard a shot. in the distance nature),wiched to a subeterrieanvulsin
weh assured them that the trick had not been side of thremota            sngar sput     e
discovered:                      been accidentally discovered byusb     whl
"I know a place of -safety I think, if we can  enig,   Itwy socrduby   s      Whil
y yeach ft,' aid the-bater.     '       ca                                 7            e4soulOS
only ec    t"si    h   utr    "At the ,foot of fissure being. obsgrvab le onlywhen yo ne ar s: i th
the highest of the mountains yonder--there' is-a stooingpsrcanthnfo          oePrur
cutloas hiding-place). which I-have passed many  pl e of limited d thcumferce oneth p t lrs
a nighrin fat and last, and known, believe, to littlelik e lihooed cfitsuersence--thatnow- t
nobody on airth but me.- You -see, :ityfriend; others.      f        tence-ng known
travelled these forests a great deal within
the past three years,:and have been ind.4aner  They passed-the night there without-moest
more than.once, if the truth                                                        plaaen  but I lion, and were -on-the-pointof leaning the place
aint the person as:loves ,to boait ahout sick  n the morning, when they were detert'ed by
things, and conaequatly but few people -now  seeing a small party of persosi gren-u
teupsand d      n     e epeneed    i   e f   ,pag n    ytheospot-at aidistance ofa han-
especially with the v Armwis of the $uix    died    yard
As for: the Delawares:tj n
A   he   elawaresrthey are: aele enog        "There's some of Butler's Royal .Green, as
in when etonefor they   do ero ca abontfht. true as I'm alive !" whispered Dunb'r.
lag when there's no chance, of          Thg     Rlndpoturs uckeyebdarea,              se
Iroquoais-have cowed -them      udwer  e h   co o  d   optour 's lek ee d #ready ,is
Irouo       e   o      s           taken the covered the approaching party, and was.scanning
sirit outrof .'em, so: far.:as :snaki ig$-ar"onthe :them closely. R  ~civta e  twen-to
Whites- is: eonsarmed.  a        ea~ntefmgoey                 perceived .that .between :two
antests'theontainiotersItweassayin', if.we, of the .stoutest of them, walked a prisoner-whos
a   et theo-the o t  oertisr,We shatl-be arms were pinioned, and he 'instantly  s edhe
heontour    nhenae. ketoeaudr a  -        attention of the scout tothe fact.
onu- lasten-  "Lookagin,     pd see if you can mk      -

/y


THE ROYAL GREENS.

24                            THE ROYA
more nor one in that sad predicament," he
returned.
"As they advance, I think I can see another
captive, and I reallybelieve it is a black," added
Roland.
-   "Jest look sharp and see if you know 'em."
"Devron and the faithful Cato I" exclaimed
the young mai.           '
"That's truer than I wish it was, Montour,"
rejoined Dunbar, mournfully.
" The fatal apathy of the people of Wyoming
makes my blood boil with indignation. They,
take nomeasures to secure their gafety,'and seem
to invite the vengeance of the Iroquois and the
Royal Greens 1" said Roland, in a low voice.
"Ah, yes! them's been my feelin's for many a
long day, and if we fail to enlist the Delawares
in our favor, we can do but little to savb ,he
valley."
"W e an at least warn them of the treachery
of Lanaway and Wintermoot," resumed Roland.,
" We can, but they're so awfully infatuated,
as 'twere, by the artifices of the-loyaliss, that,
it's ten to one if the greater part on 'em wouldn't
disbelieve it entirely, and give us the cold shoul-
det for our pains: See ! what a fair chance for
a shot-eight of'em in all."
-We must do something for the rescue of the
prisoners, Dunbar. You know what tory mercy
is;,and my'conscience will reproach ree if I do
not make an effort in behalf of those brave men,"
replied Roland.
"I'm willing' to try, though the odds are agi
us ; but in sich a case I'm never backward, for
it's uly natur, as I may say, to be doing' sunthin!
in that-way.",
The parties'moved on and when opposite the
place where our friends were so securely shelter-
ed, made a halt. It was obvious that they had
had a weary ,night's work of it, and were glad to
rest.,They sat down upon the ground and held
a hurried consultation.
" Well, sergeant, whatedo youthink the chances
are of getting off, out of their reach I" asked
one of them.
" That depends altogether upon carcum-
stances. If some men as I knew were there, we
should have been overhauled afore this time,"
was the reply.      -
"That's SergeantNorton-a dyed inthe wool
tory  I used to know him well," whispered the
scout to Roland.
" Who might them ' be ?"   continued the
questioner.              --

L GREENS.

"Dunbar, the scout is one-a parseverin',
sharp-eyed, dangerous chap as goes everywhere,
and turns up allers when he aint wanted," added
the sergeant.
" There's a compliment for you," said Roland,
touching the hunter upon his arm.
"Listen, and you'll hear more of 'em pretty
likely," was the response.
"Dunbar," repeated the first speaker, mu-
singly, "it appears to me that I've cheered of
him. Doesn't he shoot a rifle beyond all
account?"
S"He'll bring down a feller as fur as he can
see him. Jest give him a glimpse of a red-coat,
or a red face; and it don't matter a farthing's
worth about the distance-his long rifle cracks,
and it's all over."
"Don't be a talkin' in that way, Sergeant
Norton, for I declare you make me feel nervous,"
rejoined the other.
"T he last chap as spoke is a corporal. He
once lived down at the lower end of the valley
near Naticoke," said Dunbar to his friend.
"If that's the man you fear the i most," said
another, " let me tell you, lads, teat he's been
hangin' about Wyoming several days ; I had the
information from Lanaway himself. And there's
another one with him of the same kind of stuff-
as keen on the trail as a nateral-born Ingin, and
a dreadful hater of tories. It was he that res-
cued the gal t'other night."
"If that's the case, we've got no time to lose,
for Dunbar is as fleet as a deer and will beat
Captain Brant himself on the trail,"
" They say," .resumed the other, "that this
Montour is his equal in daring and all-kinds of
woodcraft and .warfare.  You see he's got a
sprinklin' of Ingin blood, and when you come to
mix the white and red: together, it makes 'em
oncommon smart. Why, it's been said that he
even visited Brant's camp in disguise 1"
"Come, lads, this is no time for gossip--.
there's work afore us, and we must do it.' We
had orders you know, not to hurt the old man ;
but as for the nigger there was no particular
word given about him, and I s'pose we might as
well dispose of him."
"Perhaps he'll jine us," said the corporal.
" We'll try him, though I should be loth to
take the critter's word for it. Look here, you
darkey!' do you want to jine the Royal Greens ?"
added Norton, raising his voice.I
"Does I want to jine ?" 'said Cato, repeat-

*

-1'

25 -

'                                   a

i     !
'
'4a{
,,yam
a

;

ing the question in that peculiar way character-  Cato's arms were bound with a cord which
istic of those of his race,                materially retarded the freedom of his move-
-" Yes, nigger, that's what I asked, and you'll ments, but the eagerness of his pursuers assisted
do well to answer it-as quick as possible."  him to get rid of this annoyance in a singular
Cato mused a moment, and then gravely way ; a bullet struck the cord and severed it so
shook his head.                            that he had once more the use of those useful
" Well, what d6 you fay I" continued the ser- members, when his speed was mucli accelerated;
geant, impatiently.                        for in running the arms play an important part.
"I couldn't change my skin no how," said   In their anxiety to secure- Cato, Devron was
Cato,.C..                                  left quite alone; although for the credit of Ser-
"You refuse to jine the Greens ?"        geant Norton, we will say that he was first in the
I'se made black you understand , and I can't pursuit, butt perceiving that his comrades had in
change my color; darfore you see it ,am their zeal forgotten the other prisoner, he stopped
unpossible.                                after going a few rods.  Wishing to see how
"Then you shall be shot, as the blackest of the affair ended, he tarried a moment to watch
rebels'!.                                  the chase, with his back turned toward Devron.
"It's de work ob natur, and how can a nigger                          -
help it, massy1?"                            A great many philosophers have done their
Will                    . best to make reckless mortals comprehend the
Wilyou fght for the king, or wont you ?,
-Speak up smart, and let's have the question set- value of time, even in its. fractional form of mim-
'Speakt u  "   autes and seconds; and during the brief period
tied at once."g                                                                 P
"I'd like to see de king fwst !" replied the  hhich the sergeant stood gazing at the pursuit,
seedekig  us  rpled the  c    eptergbel atstki
black, showing the whites of his eyes, as in duty  e captive rebel had a striking proof of that con-
bound by virtue of being a negro.          stantly coming and going something which cos-
ve  course upon your slang! you are either onds or minutes; for while he was deliberating
veystupid or very cunning. But 111 show you  thprriyofm
S    that I'muinearnves;ryporga utI'lshwo   on the propriety'of making an attempt to gain
I'm a iea  ; corporal, jest lead him out his liberty, he heard some one say:
a litle way.                               "This way, Devron !"
Glnotlemea  cied siM. Dvron  I beg ou  Now the good man was so astonished at hear-
will not ,harm this simple-minded man. ,Put.
arms in his hands and he'lL fight and be  ithful ing this eihortation, or mandate, or whatever
to you."           a'                      -you may please to term it, that he did nothing
" Do you hear that, lads ? He called us mis- but stare about him in a manner to indicate
considerable wonder, mingled with ,an equal
creants and ruffians not long ago; now' he saysshroficeuty
gentlemen!" the sergeant retorted, derisively.y  "Thisneredre
The corporal followed the directions of the    i  way, friend Devron, added the unseen
sergeant and Cato was led to the distance of monitor, in a more emphatic tone.
some ten yards, and directlyttoward the place  The person to whom this friendly admonition
where&amp;Dunbar and Roland were concealed.     was addressed, mechanically moved in the direc-
Run for life !" whispered a voice near the tin whence the 'voice proceeded, yet without
black, while the corporal was returning to his fully comprehending its exact import.
companions.   The negro looked around but     "Faster, man, faster. The sergeant will be
could see no one.                           back in an instant," was the next direction which
Run for life!" repeated.the voice more im- he received; and he was then beginning to have
pressively than before.                ^   a tolerably well-defined notion that a friend was
This time the idea which this command in- really somewhere in the vicinity; therefore he
volved, worked itself into the African's under- hastened toward the spot where the voice appear-
standing, and without stopping to inquire the ed to be.
origin of the warning whisper, he set oi' at a  He saw directly before him a huge rock, jut-
full run.                                  ting out from the base of the' mountain, seem-
"There goes that confounded nigger I" shout- ingly one of its props and pillars; but he could
ed Sergeant Norton.       -                see nothing more until within three yards of its
"Fire and after him, you stupid idiots ! give ragged front, when he discovered unbar's head
it to himi give it to him!"       .    .   thrustfrom a rift.


a  r+ Sr.l    RF~,    .4- sx-+~~c+ ",e:..  ,  :

26                            TE ROYA
" Come on-give me your hand-ah, haven't
 the use of'em-well, your arm will do as Wel,"
added the scout, and putting forth his brawny
liad, he grasped Devron's arm and assisted him
to clamber into the assure.
"NoW you'e saib," said Montout'.
"God be praised I" exclaimed Devton.
"This I reckon is- rather a lucky dream-
manse, neighbor. I'lljest take another peep out
to see where the sergeant is. le's coming' back
--now look for sport, for he'll rare right up,
lavin' sich an awful  temper, when he's mad,
santthings don't go to suit him."
As the chivalric sergeant drew near the spot
where. he had left Devron; he had a.vague' sus-
picion that he had departed. without a formal
leave-taking. He quickened his pace, expecting
to-see him not far off, for he believed that a
minutebad scarcely elapsed since he saw him.
He looked in vain for his prisoner, and commene-
ed running about in a fever, of perplexity.
" No hidin'-none of your rebel tricks 1" he
cried, thinking it possible that Devron was con-
cealed-somewhere in the vicinity. 4'Come out
-I see you-what's the use of foolin' !" he add-
ed, in a very mild and persuasive way for him
but nobody " came out."
"A good deal you seehim I" muttered Dun-
bar, setting histeeth hard together. "Ifit wasn't
so much like murder, I'd send a ball crashing
through his' skull in a sepond.. But a soul like
his isn't At to appear afore his Maker, and there-
fore 11 try and bear with hin a spell longer,
though the (good Lord knows it's the same-as
pullin' teeth, to my nateral dispersition." -
The officer holding such a responsible place in
tle Royal Greens, now waxed exceedingly wroth
and -said a number of hard things, which it
*ould lot edify the reader to hear. Very nat-
urally supposing,,that if Devron had.attevnpted,
to escape, he, would as a matter of policy run
in a direction wholly opposite to that whither the
pursuit now tended, he accordingly acted upon
the thought and set off in t1hat course.
One by one the pursuers came back, until all
had returned but, the sergeant; but Cato was
not to be seem
" I wonder where the sergeant is," said the
corporal, who was pretty well blown.
"I shouldn't wonder if Devron had given him
the slip," rejoinedone of his comrades. This
reasonable conclusion appeared to carry general
conictidn ; which wan reduced to absolute cer-
tainty, when that officer at length' made his ad-

L GRERN;
vent much out of breath and more out of temper.
After taking a hearty drink i'om their canteens
-which contained something-stronger than lem-
onade-this disappointed fraction of the Royal
Greens resumed' their march toward the encamp-
ment of Butler, far up the river.
When they had passed from sight, Mr. Dev-
ron began to express his sense of obligation, but
was cut-short by theblunt but honest scout, who
refused to listen to anything of that description.
"If I hadn't other things on\ my hands, I
should foller them chaps and cut 'em off one by
one-; but it's time for me to go somewhere else,"'
he said.
" To see the Delaware chief?" asked Roland,
in a low voice.
Dunbar nodded assent and motioned to the
former to follow him to one side, that he might
confer with him' privately.
"I'm goin' to find the Delaware chief, accord-
in' to our original purpose, and see if we've any-
thing to hope in that quarter. As Mr. Devron
isn't perhaps so used to travelling the woods as
we are, I reckon it wouldbe best for you to show
him the shortest way to the valley, in order that
he may get back to his daughter to relieve her-
fears, which are naterallyexcited on his account.
If you feel disposed,. I'd recommend yon to go
with him a considerable distance, and if the idea
suits you, come back to this spot and wait
for me."
To this proposition, Montour readily assent-
ed, and soon set off with Mr. Devron In si-
lence he led the way until his companion began
of his own accord to converse.
" If I am any judge of such matters, you are
quite well versed in the mysteries of woudcraft,"
he observed.
" I think- I have some knowledge of forest
life, sir," replied Roland, modestly.
"And yet you arequite young ?"
"Not so old but^I hope to be older," heit
joined, with a smile.
"I presume you are somewhat acquainted
with the arts of border warfare ?" resumed
Devron.
"1Too much, sir, too much acquainted with
the awful details of war," was the reply.
"And so am I, young man. Our own valley
presents many melancholy evidences of savage
maraud and partial malignity," Devron added.
"As young as I may seem to be, I have had
my share of adventure and-suffering in this great
struggle. Perils have often encompassed me on

THE ROYAL GREENS.

'?t
"rl
ik
i' ;spa
oM
Sol
.rlJ  F'
yY
aF '
tit
j 4 LLt
1l   
f.   l 1
'^ C } LIES

27

every hand. Death has arisen beside me in un-  " She has quite gotten over the affair, and is
expected moments, and stretched forth his cold only, perhaps, a te paler than usual."
hand to grasp me, and Providence has as often  The two  proceeded to discuss the present
snatched me from the power of the destroyer," state of Wyoming, and the aspects which its
returned Montour, calmly.                 prospects assumed. Both agreed in regard to the
"Pardon my inquisitiveness, but I believe you nearness of the danger, aidthe need of an named
have no friends in the valley, with the exception force to defend the settlements; but Montourdid
of Dunbar ?"                              not fell .at;berty to speak particularly in refer-
A slight change passed over the young toan's ence to the premeditated treachery of Lanaway
countenance, as he replied.      '        and Win
"None, Mr. Devron; but I imagine I may mightinsome wayean   that  ucomenmamtteation
safely say that I have enemies there. No, I which the scout and he had framed tomtheplans
have neither friend nor relative; I am alone-, approaching crisis; yet he formed to meethe
alone in the wide weary world." * out a few hints calculated to put the worthy Dcv-
" I trust that it may not be said after to-day ran upon his guard. Whether these honest and
that you have no friends at Wyoming," con- well-meant warnings would be received in the
tinted Devrot. ."same good faith in which they were spoken, or
"And why not I                          be regarded as base insinuations to injure the
"If you will deign to reckon myself and character of another, Roland had little means of
daughter as friends, then you will certainly have knowing, for Devron grew thoughtful and made
two at the valley," said the old man, warmly. no rejoinder.
" You do me much kindness, sir, and I thank When our hero had conductedhiji to a certain
you. I hope your fair daughter has fully re- spot where there wad no probability that he
covered from the effects of her fright ?" remark- would lose the trail, he left him, and turned
ed Roland, unhesitatingly.                toward the place where he was to meet the scont.

4

I,4 S

i
,j
t
,}
' i
x

- 4


CHAPTER V-,

A NEW CHARATER.
As Montour advanced and drew near the lo- upon the left hung a  task-for water, covered with
cality he was seeking, he was surprised at seeing wicker-work-doubtless a piece of skill wrought
thy figure of a man standing within a few feet by the Indians.
of the rift leading to the subterranean vault.          [san  xoRAViNo.
He stood in a meditative attitude, absorbed, ev-
idently, in contemplating the peaks of the dis- His rifle was leaning against a rock at a short
aneranges,castheywere defined, in the indistinct- distance from him. After regarding him atten-
ness of the twilight hour, dimly against the tively fora few minutes, Roland approached him.
skies.                                      He turned quickly at the sound of footsteps, but
skiese.i-g the yon man, his alarm vanished at
In person he was quite as tall ps the scout, seeig   young
but considerably stouter. His features were once.'f
regular and strongly marked--indicative of en-  "So," he said, with a slightly foreign accent,
ergy of character, firmness of purpose, and manly " fortune throws us together again."
strength of intellect. His beard had been suffer-  "Yes," replied Montour.
ed to grow on both upper and under lip, and   " How has it fared with you since we met .?'
now presented to the view of the gazer a some- he added, in a friendly tone.
what redundant growth. His head was cover-    "Asusual, sir-well, indifferently, and badly;
ed by a chapeau, with a broad brim, in some but, as you see, I still survive the ups and downs
respects resembling a quaker hat, but having a oflife. I must not forget to express to you
conical crown.  His. (rock differed from the my sense of gratitude for the important service
hunting frocks of the period-not unlike those you rendered me at our last meetings  s
of more modern. make, and was sicured in front yu "Gratitude !" exlaimed the other, sharply
by large metal buttons. His leggins were sini-  "Guwmratitude. m      t
ilar to those in vogue. , His right hand was  "u owhy nogt if       e    wo      g
tru eath his frock, and just belw thee t- "And why not? If my life is worth  aug
bowon hatsid, apower ornwas slung; then my debt is certainly honestly  dtu."'

F"ImZ-1
r  .
its
n    f
f                                                                                         1
[r                                                                                           "

THE ROYAL GREENS.                            -     29
Roland's answer indicated some emotion of tion to myself, for Dunbar, the scout, was with
"mind, and his companion failed not to per- me. I might, add that more than one felt the
ceive it ; and he quickly replied:        power of our rifles."
"hTo meat least,. nothing is due ;" an~d then  " Young man, you had, so far as I was able to
his voice assumed a tone of sadness.  " When judge, a narrow escape from savage fury. The
the good I have performed is measured by that I marks of bullets in the trees were' such as to
should have done, the balance is fearfully against sufficiently prove that point."
me."    e                                   " How did you follow us ? , We took care to
"And yet I persist that I am much your leave but small trail behind."
debtor. Have you not taken a singular interest  "Partly by the trail, and partly because I knew
in my movements ? And Iam inclined to think, quite well the direction which you would be
moreover, that were the truth fully known, I likely, of necessity, to take."
may look to you as the author'of many of those  Montour bowed in a way to signify that since
mysterious warnings which I have received with- his search had been, successful he was ready to
in the space of a few months, which have no hear what he had to say.
doubt put me on my guard to such an extent at  " For certain reasons I would put you on your
to save my life."                         guard against secret enemies. You would do
"God saves life and not man," returned the well to walk these woods with caution."
stranger, impressively.                     "Now you touch a point which interests me
"One thing I would like to ask'culd. I do much. While traversing these rugged wilds at
so without the appearance of impertinence," various times, I have met with adventures that
added Montour.                            induce the belief that a secret foe was near with
"Speak- freely, young man."             the most dangerous intent. I have mentioned
"Why is it that you walk these woods in this fact to the scout, who. is disposed . to con-
safety, when other white men die by the hands of sider it but a fancy springing from an excited
the Iroquois ?"                           imagination. But it seems that I-am not alto-
"I suppose fortune favors me."          gether in the wrong respecting the matter," he
" Then you are a wonderful favorite' of.the added, inquiringly.
fickle dame."                               "Tread the mountain path with care; walk
"It is barely possible that I have some secret the forest with watchful eyes ; go on the trail of
power with which you are. unacquainted," said the Iroquois with all a hunter's vigilance. Whew
the unknown, musingly, at the same time fixing your fire is kindled let its blase rise in an un-
a strange look upon Roland.               frequented spot and be quickly extinguished.
"I confess that you have solved my thoughts! Be wary of the tangled thicket, and look sharply
but I will not be so inquisitive as to ask con- to the place where an ambush may' safely lie.
ceraing the nature of that secret ; for little has When you pass from spot to spot, go with-can-
that to do with me; although a natural curiosity tious rapidity, and stay not two nights in the
might give me the desire to be informed," re- same place, or in the same vicinity. You must
turned Roland.                            depend for safety and protection on your own
"The answer is discreet, and yet my secret, arm and skill, and not on another. Your life
if I have one, may have some connection with thus far has been one of-"
you. Impulse is not always consulted by men  "Mystery !" added Montour, bitterly.
of the world, but prudence and policy. 'I was "Yes, a life of mystery, and if you die now,
seeking you when I came hither."          you will die in mystery."
."For what did you wish to see me? And-I . "A fitting end to such-an existence," respond-
might ask also, by what singular chance you ed Roland.
were led hither ?"                          " Perhaps so," said the stranger, a darker
" Some two hours' travel from here I found expressionflitting over his face.
what I concluded to be evidence of your work."  " The life that has been entailed upon me in
"Whst might that evidence have been t'  mystery, and been attended with misery, can be
" Undeniable signs of a marksman ; I found resigned by me with but small regret. I have'
a spot where obviously an enemy had been slain, been cared for, I know, to some extent, and
although the body had been removed." should be thankful for the same. I hate, been
"I cannot take all the credit of the transac- educated and redeemed from a life of savage

fI


8".

THE ROYAL .GREENS.

-     d   ha   but what the reason that there is a gentle voice that T love
ignorance, by some friendly hand, bhear
hand, it would indeed sadly perplex me to tell. to  "
I often thought, when my mind was being sthe wi"Some tawny maiden
with the learning of theschools, that perhaps the with some sternnessi d scorned to reply.
trail, the war-path, the onset, the fight, we  bthet-  oytoer foolish arm  ansethat yo.
ter suited'to my nature. Frequently whenwithoIt were a foosste meto ent'on
my books, my truant fancies wandered acrossif took when you rerossed the water to avtce S
the blue waters, to the wild wilderness, and I a life like this,
heard the bleat of the deer, the growl of the shpconsned my own inclinations" reed
bear,. the howl of the wolf, the stealthy tread .o .Montour e
an enemy, and' the war-cry of the Delawares. Mona         d        t
Such sounds were music, and I cast myeye       d   will one day regret the circumstance, I
toward my native shore with unutterable long- doubt noti    nthatconcerns myselfsir,
ing for a wider liberty. What is this that keeps  That i  somethingase we will dismiss the subject,
crying out from my deepest nature.and',prompts and if you pame will dim  the righect.
me to this wandering life ? What is it but.that Since no one came forward to claim any right o
unerring instinct that should be obeyed-instinct govern my actions, I took it upon me to govern
imparted by the Master of Life, to last as long myself."
as breath and thought ?  Strange visions of the  "And are you more happy here ?" asked the
past sometimes swim before my eyes, and the other, earnestly.  element, and I feel that I
green leaves and the bending branches discoure  wHere Iamhiryelse-Wht anonitor would I
again a leasing lullaby, such as cheered and can dwell nowhe  el "        ' w
soothed my infantile years. My heart clings to follow, if not the internal ?"
the Lenni Lenape. The words which you have   The stranger whom we shall call sLawson,.
spoken have forced these recollections, reflections turned from Montour, either o hide someer o-
and emotions, upon me, and I have uttered them  tioo tat som e  itsef un dhis features, r to
I thank you for the warning you have given, but look at some oed his former position, and was
the danger I fear not ; and indeed, peril and at length address the young man, he found that
escape give employment to my mind, aqd' ac- uhet o alone. e gave unequivocal signs of
cord but too well with my wild and wandering  wa inm   e  a  nequivocal    ons of
blood. Look imy skin is white, but I know disappointment, and instantly' mounted one of
that the blood of the Delaware flows in my veins, the large rocks to see if he could catch a glimpse
But I am not ashamed of it ; no, I glory in it, of his figure. Sittingdown, Laine reh
frit sa -ol current flowing from a noble his face with his hands and remained in that
for it is a noble                          attitude a long time, indulging in reflections
The youngman ceased; his chest heaved vio- which could iot have been very pleasant, pro-
lently, and his eyes flashed with singular bright- viding the outward manner was indicative
ness. The stranger stood with his face turned inward emotion,
partly frm him, yet with his gaze riveted upon  Roland Montour, as the reader hell suspect,
the speaker with evident interest-an interest hadentered the rocky vault whie  within lie-
-absorbing and deep.                       attention was diverted from  i  Whoblidto
"You complain, young man, of your birth found the darkness intense, anti was obling .
and its attending circumstances ; and yet it move with much caution to pe walls.g iop-
would seem from what you have said, that few cured by contact with the joge which hep-
youh i ths nw cunty hvehad such gentle lrg about he found the spot upon which he had
youth in this new country have hdsuhgenl .  asd h      revious night, and lying down
nurture. You have been educated; what other pahed the  con     ihtiond lyin hewn
youn   m a   of you   eo d~t on  as  b en  i m i arl   th ugh   ofthe  con versation  of  the  p erson  he  h ad ''
young mred Can young tell me what child of the just left so abruptly. He doubted somewhat,
half-breed, beside yourself, has seen the inside of respecting the courtesy of h having received
an institution of learning, or been taught the leaving him in such a manner,  But the ties
precious lore df the whites'? Silly boy i Why imporwee such that he did not feel to trust one with
d d y o u  le a v e  y o u r  b o o k s  to  r e u n a a n' h s   e e s c   h t h   i   o f e   o t u t o e w t
did u   e y                             the secret of the cavern with whom he felt so
Because my instincts drew me back, and for' little acquainted. As that singular hiding-place

p  '
J tk^
I

THE OR
had been discovered by the scout and used 1
him,.in some measure he might beconsideredi
lawful proprietor,, and Montour questioned h
own right-to let Lawson into the secret.'
Our hero was inclined to cultivate friends
relations with the stranger, although his freedom
of speech had not altogether comported wit
his own independent, notions. He was muc
perplexed at many things Lawson had said, an
in vain sought for some clue to the source of hi
information. He had noticed that hisaccent wa
foreign, and'he tried to remember ifhe had sees
asperson resembling him in that distant country
where he had received his education, but could
recall no very definite impressions of such a cir
cumstance. He had seen many amen there, witi
beardsand voices like his, but he could fix hi
mind on no-one with whom he could thpn iden
tify the stranger. The more he pondered, th
more indistinct and ~disconnected became hi
ideas, and he attempted to place his thoughts on
another-' theme.  Re. ha4 partially succeeded
when the warning of Lawson, that he-should not
pass two nights in the same place, suddenly oc-
curred to him. Had he enemies who followed
him, so closely as that warning would seem to
indicate? .From certain events that had. trans-
pired recently, he feared-that there was too much
truth in the supposition ; but the cavern was so
curiously hidden from observation, that. Mon-
tour felt secure, though not at his ease.
Feeling strongly impelled to go from. the
vault, he obeyed the impulse. As soon as he
reached the rift, he looked for the-stranger,:but
he had gone. With his rifle upon his arm, Ro-
land slowly threaded the forest. The moon had
arisen and cast a mellow light over the wild
scenery. The hour and the solitude were in
keeping with Montour's mood. His soul held
communion with nature, and he forgot in that
high and ennobling converse, that he was aldne.
"This wilderness," he murmured, "is my
home.   The broad sky, studded- with silver
stars, is my roof; the vistas in the overhanging
boughs are my windows; the clouds are my
curtains ; the leafy earth my couch. Here I
seem to hear the very respirations of the mighty
Maker, and my dreams teem with the sweet
imagery caught from his own sacred sanctuary--
the wide courts of nature. With one being to
love, methinks, I could contentedly_ dwell here
forever, wandering up and down amid the wild
and fascinating scenery which the great Artist
has painted with consummate skill upon the
canvass of- earth and sky."

YAL GREENS.                               31
by   Montour ceased to-.soliloquize, and threw a
ts ;startled and hasty look around.
is   "My ear cannot be deceived," he said, after
a pause. "I hear the cautious tread of an In-
ly dian war-party-the steps are quick, light and
m regular."
h   Montour's first thought was to discover the
h direction in which the warriors were moving.
d Throwing himself flat upon the ground he taxed
is both eye and ear to learn this point. Not much
s time was required to determine that matter ; for
n the reader must be aware that they were quite
y near, or the steps could not have been heard.
d They were moving up the river, and Roland
- soon saw their dusky forms passing, one after
h the other, in the same tracks.
s   "A female captive !" he muttered to himself,
- as the figure of a woman glided along, preceded'
e and followed by savages. Montour watched the
s train of warriors -until they had swept from his
sight, and then, with nimble feet hurried toward
the rift. He entered the fissure and pronounced
t the name of the scout. Receiving no answer, he
Srepeated it in a louder voice, but with no better
success.
"'This is unfortunate !" he exclaimed. ".I
never desired his friendly aid more than now.
What shall I do? Wait, I cannot-I am too
. impatient to be on the trail. And yet what can
my single arm do ? I feel the need of food, too,
for I am faint with long fasting."
"Montour ! are you here?" said a voice just
outside the rift, which he knew to be Dunbar's.
"Ah, DunbarI am glad to hear your voice I"
returned our hero, earnestly.
"And I rather think you'll be glad to taste
some of the venison I've brought with me, too.
How fares it with you ?" inquired the scout, en-
tering the cavern.
"A war-party of the Six Nations has just
passed up the -river with a captive," rejoined
Roland, quickly.
" Who have the heathen got now ?"
" One whom you know, the half-breed", Mon-
tour replied, speaking with hesitancy.
"Then they have been hovering about the
village of the Delawares."
"Quite evidently from the fact that they have
taken such a captive."
"I have seen the-chief of the Delawares, and
now I remember that he spoke of danger from
the Six Nations; but the Redskins are so figura-
tive in their speech, as 'twere, that you can't
well understand the critters,- even when you

I'

A
4
1
i
! #
t  .
1
" ,
..,     i
cr
'ci
'1'h  .

:..; Ttnvr


THE ROYAJ GREENS.
know their ways. Can you tell about what num- "Do you remember that hunter's name V
her there were in the party, so we can make Montour'asked, in a subdued voice.
some kind of calculation what chance we shall  "I might have known, perhaps, at' the time,
stand with 'em if we take the trail?"       but I'4idn't particularly burden my mind about
"Not less than a dozen, I should judge; but  memberin'it," said Dunbar, evasively.
"No les tan  doenI soul juge;butleI think I know him, and a kind and noble
if there were twice that number I should follow.  thinkns," h added Montour.
All the best feelings of my nature prompt me to nature s more  ontof
risk life itself to save the Pale Cloud (for it is   we ono    a  ao im; Sowsom-
thus she is known to the Delawares) from thehaerbre wont quarrel about it.Soon after the
fate which is in reserve for her as a captive among half-breed wascarried away, we got news that
the Iroquois. It is probable that you know why she had passed away and gone, as 'twere, to a
I fel hisdep iterstin ermy onsJ~frindbetter country where there aint no more wars,
I feel this deep interest in her, my honest friend flghtin's, murders, and tortures. A lew months*
,Dunbar, and I will not'be so foolish as to at-  sse mon, and a man came from over the
tempt to conceal what must be well understood passed on, as  a man  ae    of oveody'
by ouorto ffet n idiferncewhih s fr-water (who was probably the agent of somebody
by you, or to affect an indiffrence which is for- else) and took the boy away. Well, when a
elong to my nature, and which woul ill become eong time hadelapsed, the Pale Cloud returned
mI honor sic sentiments as them.'my'lad, to, the Lenapes or Delawares, alive, and goes
and hoe you'll allesnmaintain 'em tillm thi lay nearly distracted about the lad.  But it isn't
of your death. Great is the sin of ingratituto best, I fancy, to dwell on these matters, as they
t   m  as  wahom  Ge at ow  me s n o  we i r a n  eo  -m ight ~awake  feelin's  not  altogether  pleasant.
them as whom we owe more nor we can ever As for the trail, I'm ready to take it, and do all
and well old Dunbar, the scout, knows how kind I can to save the oneyou're thinkin' of, from
a wsto a little boa great many years ago, the accursed ferocity of the Iroquois. But first
afore the fist white settlements were made go I will kindle a fire in our cozy hiding-place, that
this valley. And I sha'n't forget in a hurry the the eravin's of nature may be satisfied by prdpe
pride she took in the dark-eyed lad. She was as foodle the friendly scout wa  lighting the
- handsome as a picter then. That was 'afore she            the      fout was l    tn
was carried off by the savages-for you have fagots and Preparing the food, Montour sat iean-
heer ho  shewastake an marhedoff ntoing upon his hands with abstracted air, musing,
herd how she was taken and marched off into ingsuon   what he had heard.- H ow much of
the land of the then powerful Mohawks, and perhaps, onwmuch of regret and happiness, he
everybody as knew her give her up for dead. I pain, hw  mufret and thres he
remember it as though it wasn't but yesterday. might have suffered then and there, we cannot
The boy I've been speaking' of was saved from say ; because sometimes the emotions are pent
captivity by a white hunter that was among the upno the  mere looker on.
Delawares. The child -was then scarcely old known toothezmeresloohereeno
enough to realize his loss, yet he grieved for
the one who had gone, for many a long day." .

~41

CHAPTER VI.
tnza TIAIL.

Wa now pass over an interval of several days.
our present scene opens at'Wyoming Valley,
Lanaway and Wintermoot were earnestly con-
versing in the, forest just above the fort bearing
the name of the latter.
"It is evident," said Lanaway, "that we are
suspected of being more friendly to the loyalists
than what we profess to be. I doubt whetherewe
shall be'safe much longer in the valley."
"There can be no question of that. Many of
our rebel neighbors frown on us, and regard us
With looks that cannot be mistaken. I am in.
lined to think that Dunbar and the young'man
who is always with him, are at the bottom of
this, if the truth Were known," said Wintermoot.
" That is a matter long since settled in my
mind ; and I have taken measures to rid myself
of their troublesome watchfulness," returned the
other.-
"Plans that have reference to them must be
surely laid and well executed, for more expe-
rienced and cunning fellows never trod the for'
eat," Wintermoot answered.
"'Well do I know that they are ever on the
Alert, for already have they baffled my purpose
more than once. But look! who comes here "
"A friend," replied the person whose aps
proach- had excitedthe last remark.
"PFrom whom ?" inquired Linaway.

"I know this man, and can form some guess
of his errand," said the other.
"Is your name Wintermoot V" asked the
man.
" It is ; we are alone-speak freely. Are you
the bearer of any especial message V"
" I come from the camp of Colonel John
-Butler."
" There are no inquisitive ears near us
added Wintermoot, perceiving that the messen-
ger hesitated.
" Not long since the colonel sent an Indian td
confer with you on important subjects."
" Ete;eame-faithful to his trust."
"But has not returned," said the man.
Both Wintermoot and Lanaway manifested
surprise.
"That is most strange. We met him at the
hour appointed, received the instructions of the
colonel, and duly arranged the matter to mutual
satisfaction. We acceded to the propositions of
which the,Mohawk *as the bearer," rejoined the
former.
"A few days ago, the body of the Indian mes-
senger was found in the river,-some four or five
miles above Lac awannoek Gap."
Lanaway and .his friend looked at each other
uneasily, an  a slight paleness overspregd their
features.

rN-

R.

9
,       t     r
E
i
r
to
i
s
i
f
I

!       -


84                  THE ROYAL GREENS.

"Were there any papers found on the body " ed
Wintermoot demanded.                       ly
"Nothing of the kind."
" Then I fear we are betrayed! How was it a"
"A rifle bal passed through his breast, most yo
evidently."                           m
"It is the work of the scout 1" muttered
Lanaway.                                   t
" This is bad. I wonder exceedingly that we sthv  o  eoeti  oetfle itfi oan
havno before thiswont efalle, victim to ai
the. fury of our rebellious neighbors. If the he
scout had a hand in this business, why has he
kept the matter so much tohimself ? why has, b
he not publicly denounced us i"
"He is too cunning for that. Depend on it
he's been studying up something deeper than
that. He is, you are aware, not a man to do i
things by halves. If he really killed the Indian, si
we shall hear from him in some way that we
do not expect," said Lanaway.
" Go back to the colonel and tell him that the
time fixed upon was the second of Jay, at mid- a
night. It will be enough to tell him this ; as-
sure him that I shallbe ready," said Wintermoot.
"This is all you would say "
"All, except to warn you to watchfulness on
your return. Dunbar is busy now, and if heI
takes your trail, you'll never -see the camp of
Butler again."   -
"Is he so dangerous as this special warning t
would seem to indicate "
-" He and a young man called Montour, are
moving about from place to place with the speed
of a moose, observing the movements of the
different partiesengaged in this strife, anddoing
much to hinder the success of the royal arms."
" Iam somewhat used to the woods and will do
my best to keep out of their way. And now, if
there's no more to be said, I'llhurry back to
camp." --The messenger departed, and Lana-
way a dW  intermoot turned toward the fort.
While this scene was passing In the forest,
another was enacting at Mr. EHunlon's. The
family had assembled in the large square room
in whirkthe plentiful board was always spread,
and were about to sit down to the principal
meal of thelday, whensthe scout appeared at the
door, which Mr. Hudson quickly threw open,
and cordially greeting Dunbar; invited shim to
enter.
Ellen Devron beheld his approach with much
Interest, andwondered Iftfontbtr was not near;
for-sincebeth -her fherntberselgrreindebt"

to him for efficient services, she felt a friend-
regard for the gallant young stranger.
" We are very glad to see you again," said
r. Devron. " The last time we met was un-
r different circumstances, and when I saw
ur honest face emerge from the rock, it was to
Le a most welcome sight."
" Well, I suppose it might naturally be, all
ings considered; for you was in a kind of
,might place as one may say. I hope the gals
ad the women folks generally are in usual
health i"
"They may speak for themselves, Mr. Dun.
ar ; you will see them all here, I believe, if you
eok about you."
"Where is Mr. Montour?" asked Devron.
We surely must not be so ungrateful as not to
uquire after the welfare of one to whom we feel
o much indebted." ,.-t
A change passed over the countenance of the
cout, and for an instant he was silent.
" I hope no evil has befallen the young man ?"
dded Devron.
"He's taken" replied Dunbar, mournfully.
" By whom " was the quick inquiry.
"The Mohawks."
'The scout looked up and met the eyes of
Ellen fixed earnestly upon him, and noticed that
her cheeks were very pale.
"What were the circumstances of his cap.
ture ?" returned Devron. .
"Asmall war-party of the Mohawks captured
a half breed woman-near the village of the Dela-
wtes, and we took the trail in order to liberate
her, if possible; because there's somethin' dread-
helin the idea of a human cretur's being' given
up to the tender mercies of the cruel savages,
especially female. We followed 'em two days
afore we could do anything. On the second
night of the pursuit, they stopped to eat and
sleep. After building a fire, and cookin' and
seatin',they set one to watch, and laid down in
their-blankets, having secured the captive in a
way toleave her little chance of-escape. About
midnight the one on guard began to dose, and
finally fell asleep so soundly that he wont wake
till he last trumpet is sounded. We stole up
behind-him  and-and he never knowed -what
hurt him-it was done so sudden and -unexpeet
ed.    e-served all the rest of' 'ami the same
way, with-"onlyone exception,1nd~ he-'idn t get
off-with-a-whole skin. It was a bloody-affair;
but you see there was no help for it ; for the
ale Cloud couldn't'have been liberated in no

A.
a
ol"
" t z "
a"y a
riT" a"
4w f
l rr ' ,
f
ry  r
r  1;  yam
e
4ya EE
t
MO.
Nr tai
oop,
P9, "
QW,
Ct " ' L
E      i
f
F
I
4

E ROYAL GREENS. -
other way. While returning with the woman, Dunbar now for the Birst time seemed to by
Montour, on the second day, near dark, went to aware that Cato was ~resent, and turning hal
kill a 4eer ; for we had fasted long enough to comical look upon hime, ad int ur a af
feel uncomfortably hungry, as 'twere.  In  a voice:   -d
short time I heard his rifle crack and soon ex-  "Run for life 1"
pelted to see him; but h didn't come. The     Cato's .eyes-iustantl# exhibited their white por-
female grew uneasy, and so did I, for I -was eer- tions in a .generous manner, and he -apperdt
tam, In my own mind, that something had-hap comprehend a great deal more atppnce than
penned. Not daring to leave her, I-took herewith usual.
me and started off to findthe young man; but I  "Pat's den    b 1  at's do same ' e   y
only discovered signs of a struggle, and the trail' Golly, mnassa Dunbar, dldn'tit make die daesI
of a large war-party. After attending to the : wool curlide, wrog way," he exclaimed.  @'
safety of the half-breed -woman, I thought I   "What did y       yu think it  ene
would come in and tell you that -the danger is heard it ?" asked th    waswhen youourtt
cirain' eare andnearr.""Why bress your soul, I fught it was, de
No one spoke and the scout continued :     debbi ilaselfome arter. die child  trepliedt e
" The storm will soon burst over your heads; African.   opedthe
for the skies grow dark, as 'twere, and Butler's  "Cato -acquitted himself ve
thunder will soon shako the-hills. You -must get bar," said Devron, smiling. w
word to Colonel Denison to muster the Wyo-    " edid well r e     i'
ming.militia, what there is-of it, and have the rejoined the hunter,  intr,
females lodged in the 'forts.. I've done my best  "I h   u   er, g  sely.
to ~ ~     ~     ~     ~       metIuninhotlennn  eyou have no unreasonable penie
to meet cunning with cunning, and make one against color;?" Ellen remarked,
thing offset another, so that their plans-may fail;  "I  ,e
but I'm sorry to say.that I'-ve but small hope of  Icant say that I have any unreasonable
accomplishin' myups.Iengtbtltl              prejudices, but I have some very -reasonable
aop ihn     y, purpose. I can -getbt little ones. You see, Miss Ellen, a -nigger is a-ni.
help where I expected:much, and the people of  e adyou sean,  wsh it out; nfr h clr is
the Valley haven't yet waked up to -"ousce of ger, and you can't wash it out ; for -the color is
what's afore 'em, ayed what will oon.make 'em  set-dyed -in the wool, as 'twere. I have an
stagger with horror, like the shoc of an airth- idea that an immortal eretur ought to look white;
qaker w     dth e li- the       pl  o ffaceand and hasn't no particular business with-any other
neglect no means of defence thepacein  and complexion. But as lI have said, Cato did well-
ower."orone of that unhappy -hue, - and more than
* I would that our women and .children couldmight be expected, for it isn't every white-'man
Ie set-awayfrom tht raey, saidruds   as would have refused, under the careumstances,
bsoughtfuly. f-, to jine -the Royal - Greens."
wishs. so from  my heart;.butIwhere'"and"I couldn't be nufin but- black, cause dat's
you send 'em-? If they go to the north or to the  "D way s eddicated."
soun, to the east or to the -west,.they may meet l  Do you hear that?" added the scout  tarn-
foes. You are taken in-the tails of the-hunter, cne to lviraHudson,  He says he was eddi-
as I may say. The everlastin' mountains hem    oue do  not ih
you iii. on every aide, and :everypas"u You, do not 'wish to assert that honest Cato
dele is watched by sage -eyes. i Wsnevery was educated to any other color, Mr. Dunbar ?"
C41  isgo ? To the  ouanys. thperis the  torted Miss Hudson, with a smile.
hunger i  There msfet   ainstoprish?' ith   "Sartinly not, miss ; but when once a person's
"huner   eessad-trh in viey         skin has been nade black, he'sjest about ruined,
"1 er'e sense, and -truthbin every wordnhe as were, for this world ; because yeh see soap
utterstaid Ellen, who had been a Silent and and-water-wont do no good; it sticks like the
'at    lteeruh inmark of Cain, and is an eternal witness against
"That there', truth in, It, I -know, And ever hi.
thing  true is  more or  les sensible, acordin' t  lt lh tn i-
bmton in                              Notwithstahnding/DfitItkeielf'nbar spoke in a depreca-
turned the-scout,            t        ,      ne ng manner respecting Cato's color, he still re-
" Dat  ack1" afdCat wh  -     garded him  with-a friendly look that could not
"Dte  ack 1" said Cato, *ho found it qite be mistaken-nismnia
impossible to keep silent any lon.  t    I   nbe mtke  itsomeaiind.
angerr,             In the rapid alternatioan of.,e'ine: a ad itndd ,

t                            ,
;  ,
rev  ' A
. griF
  .


86                    'fl i notAL onIENS.

we haksehitherto spoken of Elvira Hudson'in a
casual way only. We will at this stage of our
storyetate that she was about the same age as
Ellen Devron, and in many respects like her in
person and disposition. A good share ofbeauty
-ad been accorded her by nature-that some-
what erratic dispenser of gifts. - Her fresh and
gwingecheeks; cherry lips, and laughing dark
eyes, had produced a very decided impression
eisn Edward Gaston ; and though he was an
unpresming, person and said btit little, he was
often found in the society of Miss Hudson,'Iook-
ig those gentler'sentiments which he could not
summon courage to express in vocal sounds.
Many a feeling of jealousy had the unpretending
attentions of Gaston awakened in the bosoms of
certain young men of his own age.
Among those who regarded his advances with
settled dislike, no one was so hostile to his pur-
pose as .Martin Secord. This individual had
been a resident of Wyoming but i yeafor two,
and his adhesion to the royal cause was at that
time strongly suspected. He watched the grow-
ing intimacy between the parties mentioned, with
feelings of diseatisfactioll which he could not
well conceal. He had triedin various waysbto
make himself agreeable to Miss Hudson, _but
had been steadily repulsed at all points. It is a
fact generally understood that there is a certain
class of young men who will not accept the brief
monosyllsble. "no," for an answer, when they
venture upon the bold experiment of asking gen
tie damsels hard questions ; but perseveringl
-persist i their purpose, rto the great annoyan
of the faik ones, who prefer to have their ows
choice in matters of this delicate nature-
Martin Secord belonged to the class retrred
to, and npver met Miss Hudson without directly
or indirectly pressing his suit. The constn
refusals which he received served to incree the
acerbity, of a disposition naturally sour,
when he perceived another ready to b af di
coveted prize, hs inherent malignancy and dis
content, received fresh stimulus. With evil ey
Ike noted the visits of Edward Gaston, and con
coeted dark schemes of vengeance. Being tral
royalist at heart, he imagined that he saw ninth
means of working out his designs. Being int
mate with Lanaway, Wintermoot and-others'o
a similar mode f sinking, .he was a party;t
their nefarious plans. With;the first he was:
particularly good ternnsf  it wasin his pw'
to tell an oxpe gaee 4A unlike his own-.-a cif

cumnstance -calcelated to produce sympathetic
relations between them., Miss Ellen Devron
had repelled emphatically the addresses of Lana.
way; while Miss Elvira Hudson had as unequivo-
cally manifested a disinclination to change her
name to Secord,; and these two facts taken to,
gether were enough to produce a strong fellow.
feeling aside from any political considerations.
In Edward Gaston, Martin fancied he sawan
enemy to-his happiness, as well as an enemy to
the king ; but'Lanaway was rejected without
'knowing for whom-Ellep had a partiality, or if she
had a preference for any one in particular. If he
had suspicions respecting her inclinations, by
some inexplicable weans he got the idea into his
mind that I.they--Ellen'a inclinations-tended
toward Roland' Montour.  He was sure .that
there had been but little intercourse- between
them, but he thought there had been sufficient to
beget a mutual liking. How this notion could
justly have been formed, is not easy to deter-
mine; but disappointed lovers are apt to get all
sorts of strange ideas into their cfazy heads., If
the reader taes the trouble to reflect, he will
see at once that but little opportunity has been
given for wooing, so far as the parties named are
concerned, although doubtless they ilave had
' ample time to' do that incomprehensible thing
denoted in everyday parlance, " falling'in love."
f   But it makes no important difference whether
there was any truth in this conception, or how
it had its origin, for when'it was once fairly a
- guest in Lanaway's brain, it assumed' allithe
vitality of sobermatter of fact, dud Rolandwas
a marked out as a particular victimof his traitor
ous plotting. Being the mutual repository 'of
I each other's secrets, the two young men became
objects of their hatred; and their names werd
t written first in the list of their intended victims.
e   Wenhave thought proper to make this digirs-
d slon, because while the scout was talking with
e Cato, or rather just as' that conversation-ceased,
- Martin Secord entered- the cabin. - He saluted
e the partiet in a general though somewhat re-
- strained mnnamer; but when his gea cane' to
k rest upon Dunbar, his embarrassment, was ob-
e vious, or at least was to- two .or three persons
o who were watching his conduct. Among those
i- present he did not see Edward Gaston, and he
)f felt that he could wel dispense with hisbnspany.
g    Refusing the seat whichwasoffered, he paused
q near the door, holding in his right hand his rifle,
rr for- in thoserdays men s9ldom left home' e-
r- armed.

s F 3
.' c, yT
-  ;
.   w°F
tZY'e{ s
i;  y
,
xP   '
{    _
3  Y~sS
j       t
'  '
it
.. ; F
."   '
j; i7s
e,:  at
'  :'S+
'
'
f -  ,-e 5
T
ti I '
,.  Im
,'( t
Y
. 6
r, 4 ~

-T=   ROYAL GREENS.                                 87  ,
We have asserted that Martin Secord was sus-  " Somethin' whispers in my ear and assures
pected of being a friend toethe royal cause ; and me that there will be a long, wvoful Wail of. sot-
he was in fact an object of suspicion to- a greater ' row in this valley, and the waters of the Sue-
extent than he was himselftaware of. ,Dunbar's quehanna will run red with blood--with the very
opinions respecting him were known to but few, life-blood of those who have been neighbors and
for he was one of those prudent, non-committal friends, breathed the same air and' professed the
persons who show their zeal' more by stions same religion. Wicked men and knaves may
than by Words. Martin thought the present triumph -for a season; but etarnal right will pre-
would be a fitting opportunity to draw out the vail at last, and woe ! woe-! to them as we meet
scout's-sentiments ; but notwithstanding all. his arterward face to face, in the field, with the Ged
boldness and assurance (of which he had much), of battles lookid'-down to see justice, done !" he
it was not without some misgiving that he made added, in an impressive tone.
ha     ng inquiry.                           Again the scout struck his rifle upon the floor
"Whtlat news do you bring us, 1 Dunbar.?"' while his swart visage shone as with the' true
Martin didnotlook the scout in the face, lut spirit of prophecy.
b usied himself by gazing vacantly intoithe- muz-
zle of his rifle. There were several individuals  Martin Secord raised his hitherto averted face,
in the room who were steadily observing Secord, and gazed at the speaker ; and while he did so
but whose habits of self-control were such that a painful expression passed over his sinister face ;
they were able to restrain all outward appearance probably a feeling of momentary dread and re-
of curiosity. Miss Hudson, although pretend- gret such as theo false-hearted feel in moments
ing to have her attention fixed upon her friend when the voice of truth produces a single vibra-
Ellen, nevertheless managed to keep a search- tion upon the strings of conscience.
ing glance directed toward Martin, whose posi-  -"Do you think-our cause is lost ?" he asked,-
tion, it must be allowed, was an embarrassing in a tone not quite steady and full.
one.        -                                 "If you mean by our cause the cause of the
" The news that I bring could be put -in an whigs, then I say that it is not and never can be
egg shell, a 'twere ; and though it may perhaps lost ; but if you'mean the tory cause, then I am
have some interest for some people, it wouldn't one as can say afore the God as foamed me from
be of no great consequence to you."         the dust, yes, lost forever and ever, If Butler
"You are so much abroad that I supposed brings down upon us (aided by our most inveter-
you could tell us something about the- move- ate and accursed foes who live among us and
ments of the enemy ?" added Martin, still star- mingle with us daily) the Iroquois confederacy,
ing into the muzzle 9f his gun. -           the Onondagas, Cayugas, Mohawks,=Oneidas,
"Martin Secord, I am scoutin' about consi4- Senecas and Tuscaroras-if he brings them here
erable, and have learned several things as would to sweep the valley-with terrible destruction, I
. make many cheeks turn pale as ashes, if I should predict sure ruin to the Six Nations, fitting pun-
speak boldly out. But the time hasn't quite ishment upon the Joyal Greens and the tories
come yet to divulge the secrets as go with me on generally.
-the trail and sleep in my own brain when I lay  "What can the whigs do ?" said Martin, with
down under the- trees at night. We live in a a start.
strange wof-ld, and there's a heap of nateralhy- "They will muster a force into the field that
pocrisy in it. -I know that these times are dark will sweep northern Pennsylvania and western
and the hand of misfortin' is stretched out agin New York cleaner than the white floor of this
the defenceless dwellers in this valley. Yes, I cabin, as 'twere. Yes, they'll march up the
know it well;ut.let me tell you, Martin, that Susquehanna terrible in their might, and the
the hour approaches when them as conspire homes of the royalists and the heathen will be
agin the peace and safety df women and children, left desolate, desplate!" answered Dunbar, with
will be called on to give an awful account of a voice almost of prophetic emphasis.
their doin's.c  tEvery eye was. now fixed upon the scout,
Here the scout struck the butt of his rifle vi- whose heaving chest and rapt visage contrasted
lently upon the floor, and his hardy face lighted strangely with his usual placid manner.
up with a fierce enthusiasm that no one had seen  " The strength of the rebels is broken," re-
u                           plied Martin,in a low butexcited voice.
3

3t
i
N              i
11
all

0


8    .    .         THE ROYAL GREENS.

" Think so,if you will, you poor, misguided
cretur I Think so, till you hear the crack of
Morgan's rifles, and the loud roar of Proctor's
artillery."
"Morgan's rifles I" exclaimed Martin, with a
quivering lip.
"Agin afore I depart, let me say woe to him
as betrays his neighbor, and doesnot so much as
say 'the Phillistians be' upon thee.'  These
words as I throw out now wont be likely to be
repeated by me ; and some as now hears me
will soon hear me speak in another way-with
the flashing powder and the whizzing ball.".
" May God in his good providence protect
the right !" exclaimed Mr. Devron, in a fervent
and solemn manner.

"Amen, say I to that, and it don't come from
my throat either, but from my very soul-my
soul as is immortal,,and as I hope will one day
be accounted worthy to be saved--saved with
them as prove faithful to their country and the
cause of liberty."
Martin Secord looked toward the spot where
Elvira was seated, and encountered her bright
eyes speaking volumes of scorn, contempt and
pity. To increase his ill-humor and mortifica-
tion, the.door was opened and Edward Gaston
stood in their midst. Casting one dark and
threatening glance toward the fair damsel, and
another upon the scout and the last comer, Mar-
tin grasped his rifle nervously and strode from
the cabin.

CHAPTER VII.
MARTIN'S SCHEME.

THE shadows, of night had rested some three The soft, and flickering, reflections of the burd-
hours on the valley of Wyoming, ana the pale ing wick shone on Miss Hudson's face in a man-
mistress of that dimmer part of the day had just ner to display its loveliness to the best advan-
reached that portion of the skies where she could tage, and while Secord felt his passion for her

vaguely paint the forms of the trees and other
scenery upon the banks, in the waters of the
Susquehanna.
Martin Secord was wandering about like an
unquiet spirit of evil, forbidden' to rest by the
continual chiding of a bad conscience. Many
times during the evening, he had approached the
cabin of Mr. Hudson, and as often changed his
mind and walked away in another direction; but
now bracing up his courage to the point desir-
able, he advanced until he stood by the little.
window. Although it is esteemed bymany per-
sons a breach of etiquette to look in at a neigh-
bor's window, Martin had no such scruples. He
saw a candle burning upon the plain deal table,
and its fitful beams revealed a sight that made
him bite his lips with jealousy and rage.
The dim rays fell upon the forms of Elvira
Hudson and Edward Gaston, sitting not far
apart, conversing-in low and confidential tones.
This was a scene ill calculated to soothe the
already irritated feelings of a rival lover. He
beheld the maiden whom he imagined most dear'
of all in the world, receiving the attentions of
one whom he regarded as a rebel and an enemy.

increasing, his hatred for the young man at her
side grew in the same proportion.
He gazed a mouxent longer upon the sweet
face of the maiden, and then with a muttered
curse fled from the window, as though pursued
by some powerful and dreaded foe, Walking
now fast and then slow, and now pausing to
collect his thoughts, Secord at length reached a
sheltered spot near the river.
With folded arms, sullen brow, and compress-
ed lp, he stood awhile and gazed at the shad-
ows which the gentle moon was flinging into the
limpid water. Those insensible and fantastic
figures 'seemed to awaken reflection.
"Shadows I" he exclaimed, " shadows falling
upon the fickle water, even like the image of
Elvira falling upon my heart."
Martin signed,-and then looking up at the
moon, added :
"Hury on--hurry on, cold, insensate orb I
Hasten on ,thy ethereal way, that the hour of
vengeance may come speedily. Thou alone, 0
unsympathizing planet, shalt be witness of this
deed. Look on then, if thou wilt, and see me
strike a viper from my path, and send a rebel on

'.
I  ,

I

{
:YiSZK-
of711

C

j
lU j
r        eii    "          ,                         +                   y                    '
f     t   v   _                    d                         rs          +yjy  yy .            ._     .wwwo+
114
A. rrw.Nww
V   c                               }                                                 _


r
s
F

LL GREENS.

40                             THE ROYA
his last long march, without beat of drum or
sound of trumpet."
Martin ceased and carefully examined the
priming of his rifle, adjusted the flint,,and took
every precaution to put it in the best of order.
He then crouched 'in the abundant shrubbery,
and thrusting his weapon through the same, so
as to command the path that came very near it,
in one of its erratic bends, lay quite motionless.'
0, night, thou great witness of crime ! how
many a tale of wickedness couldst thou tell,
wert thou sentient and endowed with human
speech !  But thy Master, dark  night, hath
wisdom, and a voice, and an eye more om-
niscient and  omnipresent than  thine, and
verily he reproves the world of sin, of righteous-
ness and of judgment, and bringeth all hidden
things to light.
We cannot trace the direful thoughts that
rushed through the brain of Martin as he laid
there upon the ground ; but they must have been
of a kind akin to the pains of the 'consuming
fire's of Hades. His eyes grew weary of gazing
at vacancy, and picturing forms and faces when
there were none near him. Sometimes a bush
or a twice caused his heart to beat quicker, -and
took, in his morbid sight, a figure familiar, and
flitted about before his tired vision like a mock-
ing phantom.   He was obliged to press -his
aching' eye-balls 'and close the lids upon them,
in order to exorcise the deceptive forms.
Hitt what was that which sent the blood
rushing to its fount, and then forced it back to
his faey with indescribable celerity'? It sounded
like-a footfall, and a footfall it was. Martin
peered from his ambush to catch the first glimpse
of the person who might appear ; but his sight
-     was so clouded that he, saw nothing distinctly at
first. But soon a real figure, endowed with voli-
tion and locomotion, was visible, and he knew
that his strained eyes were deceived no longer.
The man approached - slowly, and Martin
could not well- mistake the height, etep and
bearing of Edward Gaston.    He placed his
cheek to the breech of his rifle, and- looking
along the barrel, covered the breast of the young
man-the honest heart full of the love of Elvira
Hudson. Martin's finger touched "the trigger,
and tried to keep his pent-up breath fromm burst-
ing forth with a nervous vehemence to destroy
the deadliness of his aini. He was sure that his
rival would not live ailother instant, when with
a prolonged and fearful shudder that seemed to
teach the very marrow of his bones, he felt a

hand laid quietly upon his shoulder. Martin's
finger fell nerveless from the trigger, and he
turned behind him a look so startled, and re-
vealed a visage so pale, that his crime was al
ready confessed. Dubar, the scout of the Sus
quehanna, stood beside him. The young man
was about to rise, but the hunter placed his foot
on his prostrate form, and motioned him to be
quiet until Gaston had passed.
There followed a few ;moments of silence,
during which time the emotions of Martin were
not of a nature to be envied. When Elvira's
lover had turned the bend and disappeared, the
scout suffered Secord to recover his feet, which
he did with fear and trembling.
" I wish I was a painter,-that I might make a
picter of a midnight assassin !" said Dunbar,
looking sternly at Martin. "I suspected that
your principles wasn't no better nor this. Mur-
der must come easy to one who tampers with
the enemies of liberty, and cells his neighbors
to John Butler, to be cut to pieces by his ran-
gers ?" added the scout.
" I suppose it don't make much difference
what you think. Everybody don't see the same
thing in the same way,"-replied Martin, sullenly.
"I can't spend much time in talkin' with one
like you, because it's a waste o' words ; but that
I havecaught you in the act of committing a
greatacrime, you can't deny. Now some folks
would have finished you at once, but that isn't
my way of doing business" said the scout.
" Of course I wasn't intending to fire," added
Martin.
"I am too old a man to be deceived by so
foolish a falsehood, and so I'll-spare you the
trouble of repeating it. If-you was better pre-
pared to die, Iwould make an end of you on
the spot ; but I can't bring my mind to send you
out of time in such an onprepared state. You
must be very careful in future in regard to your
conduct; because I shall have an eye on you, as
'twere."
Secord could make no reasonable reply,: and
therefore, with downcast eyes, muttered some-
thing about people's minding their own business.
"-If we should ever chance to meet agin in
sich a manner as we have to-night, we sha'n't
part in the same 'way, but you'll go where you
wont come back to do mischief, and serve the
wicked one, as I may say."
" I hope you wont say much in relation- to
this. You see the girl's beauty has turned my

THE ROYAL

head, and I hardly kpow what I'm doing," said
Martin, in a more humble tone.
"That's a poor excuse, Martin Secord, though
perhaps better nor none." '
"You never loved a fair creature like Elvira
Hudson," returned the other.
"I have loved in my day-and as- fair a cre-
tur as ever walked up and down the airth, but
it didn't make me seek to take the-life of a feller-
bein',"said the scout, sadly.
"How long ago might that be ?"
"I don't care to tell how long or how short;
...:4         that's my secret; ,but I'm  not the worse for
h-in' loved. Ginerwine love, it seems to me,
doesn't make the heart dark with-wicked pas-
sions, but purifies it, as 'twere, from  airthly
dross. I'm not very larned in books, and don't
know much about the opinion, of them as may
have written on the subject, but I've a strange
notion, though it perhaps arises from my igno-
rance, that true love, accordin' to the course of
natur, elevates one's mind, as I may say, and
fortifies it agin the temptations of the enemy."
Martin looked steadily at Dunbar as if he did
not quite take his meaning. Bad is he unques-
tionably was, he could-not help feeling the force
of the scout's reasoning, nor resist the convic-
tion that he was influenced by motions higher
and manlier than his own. There was, to the
dark soul of Secord, something-inexplicably curi-
ous in the honest nature of Dunbar, and the
sentiments which he advanced with so much
simplicity.
'f You look at me as though there was sqme-
thin' oncommon droll in the idea that I should
have loved a fair maiden ; but love' is' a thing
which finds its way into all places, and can't be
kept out by lock, key, bolt or bar. And why
should you stare as though it was out of the
common order of events for a man like me to
confess the power of gentle woman I Secord,
you know but little of the human heart, if you
imagine a roggh exterior cuts one off from the
rest of mankind, and makes him impregnable to
beauty, as 'twerp."
"Did you have a rival ?" inquired Martin.
The scout passed his hand over his eyes and
something like a sigh escaped him.
"I dare say I had a rival, because she was
wondrous fair, and it couldn't well be otherwise;
but I don't know sartin. Sonmetimes I was fool
enough to think she didn't dislike me at all, and
was, in fact, partial to me, as I may say."
Again Dubar paused.'

LL GREENS.                              41
"How long before you forgot her ?" Martin
aiked, with soine interest.
"Forgot her ! that time hasn't come yet !"
replied Dunbar, in a low voice, casting his eyes
upwardd to the silvery sky, with. a patient and
resigned expression.
"Your nature is different from mine," said
Martin.
"I"- should hope so-I wouldn't have a natur
like yours on no consideration whatsomever.
With your dispersition I shouldn't expect to die
a peaceful death, or experience a very happy
hereafter."
During the time this conversation had been
going on, Martin's right hand had been in the
pocket of his hunting frock, and his fingers had
been working nervously over something which it
contained. At one moment his feelings soften-
ed, and at the next some word of the scout
Would change them back to their wonted hard-
ness and impenetrability. There was a conflict
in his breast between good and ill, and he could
neither summon resolution to carry out his half-
formed determination, nor command sufficient
virtuous resolve to abandon 'it; therefore he
strove to prolong the conversation with Dunbar
until he should have worked his courage to the
proper condition. The truth was, that he had
in his pocket a pistol, and it was that weapon
that his uneasy fingers toyed with so assiduously
and clutched with the, nervousness of an imper-
fectly planned deed of wickedness, which was
too far developed to forego, and not matured
enough to execute without some hesitation.
So while the scout stood beside him, merci-
fully scorning to take advantage of the discovery
he had made, and Which in other hands would
have resulted most fatally, he was forming a'
deadly purpose,. forgetful of the forbearance of
the man in whose power he now found himself.
When Dunbar turned his thoughtful face to-
ward the placid heavens, as if to hold commu-
nion sweet with the distant planets, and imbibe
a portion of their gentle serenity, Martin cocked
the pistol in his pocket.
Instantly he felt a powerfulgrasp upon his arm,
and saw the eyes of the scout fixed sternly upon
him.
" Habit, young man, is second natur, and my
ears have long been trained to detect the slight-
est sound. The experience of many years don't
go for nothin'. A poor woodsman should I be,
if I couldn't hear the click of a rifle or a pistol,
or the crackling of the smallest twig,", he .said,


tr
C a,
l.
} dj[
i"
at .                            ,
Y^,       ((T
C ^x:
k3               -
}1ti
lit"
ty
1

L GREENS.

42                            THE ROYA
tightening his hold upon Martin as he proceeded.
" Murder's in your heart agin, but' I'll forgive
ye once more, for it was nateral for one like you
to want to get rid of one who might perhaps be
a troublesome witness agin you. I see that you
wont never be a better man, but it isn't my duty
to judge and punish you at present ; but should
we meet as open foes, in'the field, it will fare-
poorly with you. And I've a sort of presenti-
ment; as'twere, that this long, dark barrel which
you 'see here afore you, will one day look you
n the face, as I may say; if it does, you'll be
done with everything of an airthly natur. - liw
go, and don't stop to look back, or I may lose
patience and break my resolution to give you a
chance to repent, and get into a better state to

CHAPTER VIII.

THE ONnIDAS.

IT has been casually stated that the Iroquois
confederacy (constituting the Six Nations), em-
braced the Onondagas, Senecas, Mohawks, Cayu-
gas, Tuscaroras and  Oneidas. These allied
tribes inhabited northern Pennsylvania and west-
ern New York, committing cruel ravages upon
the north-western frontier.  Small war-parties
under their respective chieftains continually hung
about the border settlements, rushing. from their
covert in the still night hour, slaying helpless
families, firing dwellings, and bearing off in
savage triumph- reeking scalps, torn from the
heads of old and young-from loving mothers
and fair maidens, lisping children, and- hopeful
youth.
It wasone of these predatory bands into whose
power Roland Montour had fallen.- We have
given only Dunbar's brief version of that event,
and therefore deem it proper to make a more
detailed statement in regard to the same. It has
been sufficiently set forth that the half-breed
woman, passing among the Delawares by the
name of Pale Cloud, had been duly rescued by-
the combined cunning and bravery-of our hero
and the scout. The habiteof the Indians to be-
stow nicknames is universally known to those
having any definite knowledge of native cus-1
toms. . Such appellations. are usually derived
from some' peculiarity of the person to whom

they are given, or of the place which they occupy.
It will be enough for the-right understanding of
our story, to say that the name which the half-
breed had originally received from her ]French
sire, Was Katherine ; but. after his decease her
name was little used by the Delawares, it being
considered by them a very hard, unnatuial, and
strange one; so that the sobriquet-of Pale Cloud
ultimately forced the civilized cognomen from
the field. If, therefore, we should occasionally
employ the name derived from the white side of
her pedigree, the reader will be at no loss to
comprehend us.
It will not be profitable to dwell upon the de-
tails of the pursuit and rescue of the half-breed.
We would not direct the attention too much to
scenes of blood-no more than what the fear-
ful pictures of that period reveal-nor even so
much ; for the minds of thesympathizing turn
in horror from the simple history of that dread-
ful dramna, the star actors of which were parti-
zan murderers and native warriors, tricked out
in all the deadly; habiliments of such a stage.
The work had been right well accomplished, and
the sole survivor of his party returned to his
people witha dangerous wound and a story that
produced mourning among the braves.
At the close of the second day's -travel toward
the valley, it became imperatively necesa'ry that

go hence into that unknown region where they
say repentance does no good."
With downcast eyes and unsteady step, Mar-
tin turned from Dunbar, took the path which
Gaston had so - recently trodden, and- in a mo-
ment was out of sight.
The scout moved a few steps down the river
and paused. Perhaps he was thinking of the
past. *Possibly his thoughts dwelt on the maiden
he had been speaking of, and the quiet loveli-
ness of the night in some way reminded him of
that being who had touched the fountain of his
affection with the wand of her beauty, causing
it to send forth a stream that would flow on un-
checked and undiminished until life itself waned
like the feeble flame of a failing lamp.

4t a

,
3
f +g   t
4t
of
w*
li ^
L
li
J.
's
f

r    '    -?''§ R .                   ,' i    '"Ys"" .:Y ' S :.l{tR  _    , . Y_-W- .               r                                     , s    _    .,-   1.L,      y  +..-             .. _..    ,- .-.m                                  r  tl\   .  "1  ,_ " 4         .. 3, yh  _,_
_,                                    ,               xy^vy               t.                   it                                 v              ?415, r  e k       ,!}{%  ,"   5"                      t                              5
" t                                                tin          " Y'                   r'    _     M1       ' lX'fy ,      , ,
n                                                   _               M1y
i
c
.                                                                                                                    c

r'
fr'+ttFdip i:+ .atr.s.a:! 'es'xCtiY¢C . . .wiuH'wy.at5: u.. -. +'
_ ',3'.1G


I     , -

, S
'
0ii
4  I .'.

L GREENS.

44                            THE ROYA
the parties.should partake of refreshment, hav-
ing exhausted their little stock of food the night
previous. 'Their steps had been hurried, their
precautions to elude pursuit many, and no time
had been allowed for sleep.           *
Pale Cloud had borne up under the hardships
of the way, with inimitable courage and pa-
tience ; but Montour could not endure to see
her growing faint and weak for want of nourish-
ment ; therefore bidding the scout proceed to-
wa, the cavern, which could not then be at a
great distance, he directed his footsteps to a well-
known .ot where deer were wont to abound.
Game, in those days, -was abundant in the
Pokbno mountain ranges, and Montour soon
discovei-ed a fat doe'browsing the tender buds
of a birch. 'It happened, however, unfortunately,
ths he had approached the animal on the wind-
ward side, and the breeze carried to itsensitive
nostrils sure knowledge of his proximity Throw-
ing up its white bushy tail, it started off upon
the run, and though the distance was consider-
able and every moment increasing, and the
chances of success rendered still less by its mo-
tion, Montour fired, butevidently without effect.
While loading his rifle, a warrior of the Onei-
da tribe stepped from behind a tree not two
yards distant, with his gun cocked and present-
ed at our ,'hero's breast. Roland would have
resisted, even as -much as-the native had advan-
tage, had not a furtive-glance around him re-
vealed other dusky forms.
You no stand still, I fire I" said the Oneida,
for there were but few of the Indians who had.
not some knowledge of the English tongue.-
"You light, I shoot"
Resistance seemed utterly useless, and with a
feeling of dread Montour surrendered himself to
captivity ; for so well he knew the -usages -of
savage warfare that he was- fully aware of the
dangers before him as a prisoner to the Oneidas.
With a sigh of regret, he saw the chief of the
party examining his excellent rifle with the ob-
vious intention of de$6ting it to his own use.
Nor were his'reflections made of a more happy
kind, when they proceeded to bind his hands
with atrips'of- green, undressed deerskin, so
tightly that his wrist -speedily commenced swell-
ing, giving.him much pain.
"Dog of a Pale Face ! you shall no longer
walk these woods tp be aspy upon the Iroquois I"
exclaimed the Oneida chief.-
S I -am a Delaware,"said Montour.
".The Delawards nre women !" retorted the

Oneida, who was called by the unpronounceable
name of Gi-en-gwa-tah, which signifies He-who-
goes-inthe-smoke.
"They are women no longer ; , they have
washed away the reproach in the blood of the
Shawanese and the Mengwe," said Montour. -
"Itis a reproach they can never wash away,
though they should open a stream of blood as
large as the Busquehanna," returned the chief,
contemptuously..                    .
" The Delawares are bold and magnanimous,
and the Mengwe (the Sii Nations are sometimes
called) are .artful and false. They do not deal
openly like men, but deceive with a smooth
tongue like a gossiping squaw;'and the Lenni
,Lenapes  are ashamed of them," returned
Roland.
"You talk bravely for one whose skin is al-
most white," rejoined the chief, ironically.
"I do not care for color-I have -regard for
deeds. Go and ask the Mohawk if we acted
like women when we followed their trail, hur-
prised them at night, and took away their cap--
tive," resumed Roland.
" They were not Oneidas," said the chief.
"No, but braver men."
The warrior turned upon Montour an angry-
glance, and motioned him to 'walk faster.
Some persons may possibly-question Roland's
policy in thus bearding his enemies while in their
power, and query whether language more con-
ciliatory would not have tended to soften the
sternness of captivity;- but it is a fact well-known
that the savages were wont to respect a bold,
stout-hearted and even audacious captive, more
than -a weak, cowardly and repining one ; and
Montour doubtless understood well the character
of those with whom he was dealing, and governed
himself accordingly. The exhibition of pusilla-
nimity instantly reduces the consideration of a
savage for his prisoners and is the signal to
treat himtwith every species =of insult.
The Oneidas directed their course -toward the
upper'tributaries of the Susquehanna, where the
forces of Butler and-the .allied nations were en-
camped. Like most'of the scouting parties and
predatory hands thrown-out by the main body,
they were few in number, consisting of but seven
-braves,4hree-of whon'had nuar beenon the
war-path b ore. H a ig heard of -the many
bold sctiboMI  bardi4heir prisoner, they had
left the sig ams'of tlseir'eople, reaolvcd to
slay oro capture one or both of then before
their return.- The .three'ho -had never before

. I  "

THE ROYAL GREENS.

trodden  the war-path. had made a 'vow-'not
to wash the paint from their faces until they had
taken a scalp or a prisoner ; and now we-e highly
elated at their success, as fortune had favored
their designs in a particular manner.
As they defiled rapidly through the forest,
'with Montour in their midst, their hearts were
elated with savage joy, and they longed for the
moment when the torture and the death-dance
should-finish their triumph and complete their
vengeance.
After proceeding a couple of hours, the Oneida
leader  stopped  and examined the heavens
through a vista in the trees.
"My brother of the Iroquois wishes to lay his
course direct to the.camp," said Montour, with
' a smile. "And now," he added, "I will tell him
which way to go, for I perceive that his eyes are
not sharp, and he reads but poorly the language
of the north star. My face," continued Roland,
changing his-position, " is now toward the great
lodge of the Oneidas."
The' Oneida hesitated to reply, knowing that
his prisoner was right, and manifested some un-
easiness lest he should fall in the estimation of
his warriors.
"I know," he said at length "the voice of the
north star, for I have listened to its talk many
years, and I will not ask a boy to tell me what
it says about the trail of the Oneidas."
" I have told you the way, cousin-do not
keep me waiting, for I am impatient to see the
sickly faces of the people whom you call war-
riors, but who fight like old women hoeing corn,"
added Montour.
The leader frowned, the three neophyte war-
riors clutched their hatchets angrily, and looked
wistfully to their chief, for a signal to slay the
insulter of their nation ; but the Oneida folded
his arms and smiled grimly.
'We will see how he will bear himself when
the Oneidas light the fire of torture, and apply
the yellow pine splinters to his white flesh !" he
exclaimed, recovering his wonted dignity of
demeanor. -
Just before daylight they halted to rest. The
captive and the warriors laid down upon the
ground, but the leader slept with his back to a
* tree to prevent surprise. Once when Montour
lifted his head to look about him to see if there
was any chanceof escape, he fancied he saw a
face peering cautiously through a thicket of
furzi; but the object passed so quickly from his
sight that he could not well determine whether

I

he had been deceived by some deceptive shadow
or intervening bush, or whether he had indeedd
caught a momentary glimpse of a'human visage.
He turned many a furtive: yet - anxious glance
toward the spot but saw' nothing to confirm his
first - impression.: The darkness soon after fell
thicker, and the clump of bushes was hidden
from his view. He sank into a troubled sleep,
and dreamed of Dunbar .and his long 'rifle, and
saw him on the trail resolved to 'effect his rescue,
or perish in the desperate endeavor. -What a
goodly sight it was (and how it cheered hin
even when he awoke) to see'he scout Ike the
track of the Oneidas, like a hound keen of scent
and sure of foot, never flagging; never despair-
ing, ever sanguine, 'ever true to his better im-
pulses, ever mindful of his friendship.
He opened his eyes and saw the watchful
chief leaning against the tree, and heard the heavy
respirations of the braves. The morning had
dawned. The sleepers were aroused, some dried
venison was eaten in haste, and the march
resumed.
During the day the circumstance of his having
seen a face, or more properly of his having fan-
cied that he had seen one, was often thought of,
and he' cast searching glances behind him  and
into the surrounding woods when he could 'do so
without exciting the attention of his captors.
On one occasion the chief marked the quick,
sharp look which he threw into the forest, 'and
seemed to fathom his thoughts.
"Now-the Pale Face begins to act the womab.
Now his white heart begins to tremble, and he
looks about for help, but," he added, exultingly,
" who can follow the trail of the Oneidas "
"Yes," repeated his grim followers, ' who can
follow the trail of the -Oneidas ?" and they
glanced triumphantly at the prisoner and each
other.,
"I know of one who can track them with his
eyes shut," replied Montour.
" Speak his name," said the chief.
" He is called the scout of the Susquehanna,"
returned the prisoner.
"I have heard of him, and am going to take
h scalp," rejoined one of the braves.
A young boy, who has never been on the
war-path, should be silent and listen to the talk
of chiefs and warriors," returned Roland, most
sarcastically.
" It is very wisely said," added the chief, and
the young brave hung his head with shame.

U

A

I

®rl,
f rff  Y
1

1


. THE ROYAL GREENS.

On the ensuing night more time was taken of Roland, but a second glance dispelled that
for rest, for having travelled rapidly, the Oneidas thought.
believed that they were now beyond pursuit.   While'he was watching this singular prelen-
Besides, they,,were well acquainted with the tation, the entire figure of the owner of the face
condition of Wyoming, and knew there were hut moved from the range of the trees and stood
few persons there dispose to follow a trail a revealed. Seeing that he was perceived by our
great way, for a single prisoner, except Dunbar hero, he made signs for him to be silent, and
the scout,; and of his whereabouts they were at advancing with soft steps, "cut his bands with a
that time ignorant.                         knife. To his surprise Montour recognized the*
When Montour had eaten the stinted portion stranger, lawson, whose appearance on several
thz was given him, and again stretched his other occasions had excited his curiosity so
tired and, aching limbs upon the earth, he was much.
so sleep' that he did not long remain awake to  What now was to be done ?  The Oneidas
think dithe fancies of the previous night. It still slumbered with their arms beside them, and
was midnight before. he awoke.   He looked our hero stood over his captors with free limbs.
around at first almost mechanically,.then more Slowly he approached the chief, and gently
consciously, and with something like a fixed took the gun from his relaxed grasp-his own
purpose in view. The Oneida chief, no longer rifle-and then with eque i caution and success
watchful, slept at his post-or rather with his assisted to deprive the six braves of their wea-.
back to a tree-while his braves stillfless vigi- pons. This daring  feat accomplished, they
lant, slumbered more heavily upon the ground in walked lightly away,
quiet unconsciousness.                        "Now for the Susquehanna," said Lawson,
Montour's limbs were bound, but not in a when they had gone a few rods.
manner to hinder him from rising to a sitting  "It-is not far distant as you perceive by its
position. The idea of, escape was of course up- murmur," replied Montour. They quickened
permost in his mind. He again -recalled the their steps and in a few minutes reached the
incident of the previous night, and wondered if river.
it had the least foundation in reality ; and at the " There's a canoe concealed here somewhere,"
very instant while this query was running through said Lawson.  "Look  in yonder growth of
his brain, the identical circumstance had a vivid alders."
and liflike recurrence-so vivid and so life-like,  Roland didsas directed, found the birchen ves-
that there no longer remained any doubt of its sel and launched it. 'The guns whichwere taken
genuineness.  He saw indeed a human    face from  the Oneidas,- were then placed therein;
looking from  behind an oak, examining the and Lawson and ourhero stepped in and grasp.
sleeping forms. That it was the visage of the ing the paddles, sent the fairy shell down the
scout was the first and most natural conclusion river with the velocity of.a race horse.
"                                    R

NETTHER of the parties spoke for some time,
but plied the paddles in silence; but while they
were thus gliding swiftly down the fair Susque.
hanna, Montour found time to think of his happy
escape and his strange deliverer. Had the
scout himself followed the  trail and effected
his rescue, the event would have awakened no
surprise ; but that he should owe his liberation
to one who might properly be considered a stran-
ger, was an incident well calculated to excite
astonishment.
There were many things to betaken into con-
sideration, relating to the whole affair, that he
could not well understand. He wished to know
how he-Lawson-had become acquainted with
the fact of his capture, and where or how he
had learned the difficult feat of tracing an Indian
trail; but as he was evidently not disposed to be
communicative, he did not press the subject
upon his attention. He pictured to himself the
disappointment of the Oneidas, when awaking
from their profound slumbers, they.should .dis.
cger the escape of their prisoner, and the pecu-
liar circumstances attending the same--the less
of their fire-arms.
The reader must have seen by the account
given of that achievement, that it would have
been very easy for Lawson and our hero to have
slain the natives on the spot; ).ut feelings of

humanity, coupled with the wish to prove to the
chief and his warriors that they were not the
most cunning people to be found and the hard-
est to circumvent, had induced them to take the
course they had. Montour was glad that Law-
son had determined upon such a procedure, for
he was tired of beholding the shedding of blood,
and of participating in such transactions, when
any other course could be pursued with safety.
Another consideration served to ,influence
them to mercy; the Oneidas, though belonging
to the Iroquois confederacy, were somewhat
divided in their sentiments respecting the policy
of making war upon the whites ; and some of
them had already avowed their determination to
remain neutral, while a very few were inclined
to take sides with the settlers against their Eng-
lish and tory enemies.
The chief whomn we have named as the leader
of the little war-party, was in fact a Seneca; but
to strengthen the waning faith of the Oneidas, -
he professed a great friendship for them. He
was to a certain extent successful; and obtained
considerable influence over the minds of a few
young braves who thirsted for renown. Those
into whose hands Montour had . fallen, were
nothing more than a scouting party, led by the
wily Seneca, who wished, by involving them in
some midnight onset in which some atrocious

: y
i
rte!
"
z,
,r
f
'C
}      +'    J  1
rC     ti   '  _  /
,
;%             i

CHAPTERi1X.
A RENCONTRE.

46


'7-"

48                            THE ROYA
deed should be committed, to fully implicate the
Oneidas, and identify them with the sanguinary
plots of the Six Nations.
When it should be known to the settlements
on the Susquehanna, that the Oneidas had gone
on the war-path, and taken scalps or acted as
spies, they would cease to tamper with them and
reckon them as others of the Iroquois league.
It was thus that the politic Seneca reasoned, and
by talking smoothly to his "cousins," produced
the infpression that he gloried in calling himself
an Oneida; for said he, "A, great many moons
ago the Senecas and Oneidas were but one peo-
ple, dwelt in the same country, hunted in the
same woods, and went on the war-path together;
while their women planted the Indian corn side
by side, and took down and set up the lodges
like sisters.'3
Thus it will be perceived that it would have
been highly impolitic for Lawson and Montour
to have slain this little party of Oneidas, whose
actions had been so much stimulated by the
cunning discourses of the -Seneca ; while the
latter, in turn, had been encouraged and set on
by Colonel Butler, who-was anxious to involve
the Oneidas in the war to such an extent that
they could not withdraw from the league. The
result-of the policypursued by our hero and the
stranger, will be seen as we proceed with our
story.
They afterwardlearned, that with the first
faint streaks of daylight, 'the-warriors awoke,
and springing up from their conch of leaves,
missed their prisoner. They glanced at each
other in alarm, and then looked for their guns.
Shame and anger struggled in their untutored
breasts with terrible power, when they discover-
ed the trick that had been played upon them.
With their faces fixed upon the ground, no
one cared to speak. They knew that they had
been fully in the reach of the white man's ven-
geence, and doubted not that hehad spared them
in very contempt for their weakness and want of
skill, and not through feelings of mercy. This
idea  seemed to increase their confusion, and
made them think that they cut .a contemptible
figure as warribra*.
They sat down, smoked in mournful silence,
and tried to think of means of retrieving their
tarnished honor. What would their people sad
of them when they reached home without scajps;
prisoners, or arms" Would they not be met
with contempt, and jeered at by those who had
trodden the war-path successfully ?  Such were

L GREENS.

THE ROYAL GREENS.

some 6f the reflections of the little party of na-
tives, while our hero was passing rapidly down
the river toward the valley.
Suddenly Roland ceased to ply the"paddle,
and fixed his eyes upon a clump of trees upon
the bank.
"What do- you see ?" asked Lawson.
" Human figures,'t replied Montour.
"Your eyes are sharp, young man," said the
other.              -
" Constant watchfulness has made me quick
of sight, although I cannot well claim any supe-
riority over you in that respect, judging by the
specimen which you have given of your skill in
tracing a trail," rejoined Roland.
"Ah, my young friend, I was once more
skilled in woodcraft than at present; buta resi-
dence of some years amid other scenes, has some-
what lessened my ability to -detect a sign or
level a rifle with accuracy. But keep a good
watch of yonder growth of timber. Do you see
anything now ?"
"I do-men in green uniforms-let us hug the
other shore-they are some of Butler's rangers."
" Hold ! I see forms on-the other bank also"
exclaimed Lawson.
" Right, sir-I perceive  them-dressed in
green, too. The middle of the river, then, only
remains to us."
S" We may take the middle of the river, but
we cannot pass yonder point in safety. We
shall certainly be fired upon from both banks."
Both quickly reversed their strokes; stopped
the motion of the canoe; and forced it back sev-
eral yards against the current by their energetic
efforts.
They now naturally queried what course it
was most proper to pursue under the circum-
stances. To go forward or backward would be
attended with danger, for the designs of the to-
ries were already sufficiently manifest.
"There is but little time to -deliberate-we
must act* with decision. What do you ,re-
commend ?" asked Montour.
" I cannot well answer that question. If we
could ma ge to get ashore above them, we
might   r aps baffle pursuit," said Lawson.
Immediately the head of the canoe was turned
up stream and toward the bank. As soon as
this movement was seen by the men on shore,
they changed their position, those on- the left
side 'running toward the -spot to which Montour
was steering, -while thosetrpon the right ran to

49

get opposite the fugitives and lessen the distance it to his face with a quickness acquired only by
between them as much as possible.           long practice. One not familiar withsuch things
Perceiving that the enemy had left the spot would not have believed that he had even seen
which they were desirous-to pass, the direction the whole length of the barrel, much less the
of the little vessel was again changed to itsfor- small delicate sights, before the hammer fell,
suer and -original course, and every nerve was and the report went echoing amid the crags and
strained to give, it a rapid motion. They re- defiles.
ceived, as they expected, a scattering fire from  The tory ranger uttered no cry, gave no sign
both banks, but the distance was such that no of pain, and fell forward into the Susquehanna.
injury was sustained by the parties at whom the  " He is gone," said Lawson. " The long road
shots were aimed.                           that has no end is all before him."
" The Royal .eens must practise target      " Take them alive, lads! - take them alive,, if
shooting," said Montour to his companion.   possible !" shouted a voice from the shore, which
" Yes, there is heed ; but you must remember Montour recognized as that of Sergeant Norton,
that the distance is considerable, and the gliding whose name on - another occasion has been
motion of our fairy bark necessarily adds to the mentioned.
difficulty of sending a bullet to its destined mark.  "Into the water; some six or eight of you,
Ah! that struck near us ; let us not congratu- down there, and bring the rascals ashore, at all
late ourselves too soon.  There is yet time hazards 1" he added.
enough to do us harm."              .         It now appeared that the party was some-
"I can form no very accurate idea of their what larger than they had imagined it to be,
numbers," observed Roland.      -    .-  . and that several still remained below the bend,
-" I should think there might be a dozen of where (they afterward learned) they had been
them in, all. They are probably two small par- breakfasting in tvko squalls, at the time their ap-
ties sent out by Butler to reconnoitre along the proach had been discovered. Notwithstanding
banks, and so down to the valley, or asnear it as the order to swim off to the canoe was far from
they deem it prudent to go," returned Lawson. an agreeable one to the rangers, some half a
thoughtfully.                               dozen threw off their green frocks and obeyed
Look yonder, Mr. Lawson, toward the sum- it.
mit of that crag on our left, and tell me if you " They think shooting would be too merciful
see any object there'?" said Montour with a for us," said Lawson.
start of surprise.  Instantly the eyes  of the  " They wish to see us hanged," returned Mon-
stranger turned toward the spot designated.  tour, " but some of those poor fellows that are
"I perceive, indistinctly, through the leafy now floundering in the water, will never live to
foliage of a bush, the figure of a tall man," an- see that operation. Ah, look, my friend ! there
swered Lawson.                              is a pleasant sight for us-Dunbar and the Dela-
"A noble heart beats in that stalwort form; it ware are moving this way. It will not be long
is Dunbar, the scout of the Susquehanna. And before we shall hear the voice of that deadly wea-
see ! near him arises another figure-a red man," pon that he grasps in his right hand."
added Montour, still more dexterously using his  " Do you suppose he really.recognized the re-
paddle.                                     port of your rifle ?" added Lawson, hurriedly,
"The native looks like a Delaware."       as he placed the, guns they had taken from the
"It is Castanego, the chief of the Lenni Len- Oneidas in such a way that they could be con-
apes. They are on the trail of the Oneidas, veniently used.
They-see our enemies, and are trying to discover  "He is so familiar with its tones that he knows-
the cause of to nuch running and firing. Dun- them as well at he does my own. He.is advanc-
bar knows the sound of my rifle-I will discharge ing cautiously and unseen, and -the quick-eyed
it to atttaet his attention. By heavens ! there is 'Delaware is equally cunning. Here is work-
a good mark-that fellow standing close to the 'let us attend to it."
water, just below, waiting for us to pass. I  By this time the most expert of the swimmers
always shuider at the idea of slaying a human had gotten within a few yards of the canoe, but
creature, but he must die."                 hesitated about coming nearer; and few persons
Montour dropped the -paddle into the bottom there are who 'would not have evinced some re-
of the birchen bark, caught his rifle and brought luctance about being the first to draw the fire of

F#
I',

T


nP TI
t
f.
rt
t"
F
31
"     F
t
Vt
kk
R
f'
I
t  !     t
l
y
"  1
1
4     I,

50                             TIE ROYAL
two experienced woodsmen, of whose skill they
had already received some proof by the- fall of
one of their comrades, from a point ten times as
remote. They paused, and no doubt internally
cursed the order that had sent them to meet
their death ; for they were well aware that at
least two of therp were likely to suffer before the
men could be secured..
"Swim 'back !" said Montour, presenting his
rifle at the nearest, " swim  back, for as red as
as you are with the blood of good men and true,
I ljve' no desire to take advantage of your pre-
sent exposedcondition." =
"On, men, on ! his gun isn't loaded! I've
watched-him ever since he fired it, and not a par-
ticle of powder and never a ball has he put into
it since 1" cried the sergeant from the-shore.
"Don't spare them," said Lawson, in a low
voice; "they are covered with crime, and crim-
son with murders."
The man who had been in advance fell back
and suffered a bolder companion to take the
lead.  Lawson fired at him, he sank, arose
again, and then his less daring friend supported
him with 'his left hand and struck out for the
shore.

L GREENS.
"Now's your time, boys !" shouted the ser-
geant. " Both of their guns are empty."  En-
couraged by this assertion, the rangers made a
fresh demonstration, but soon had cause to re-
pent their rashness ; for 'they were met with
rapid discharges, which not only extinguished
their ardor but life itself in several instances, only
three of the number who had taken to the water
surviving to reach the shore, and two of those
were severely wounded.
Now it happened that the scout and the Dela-
ware were on the same side Pthe river with the
sergeant, and While the latter stood pouring forth
all kinds of reproaches and imprecations upon
his men, for what he had termed their coward-
ice, a ball from Dunbar's rife entered his breast
and stretched him dying upon the ground.
Finding themselves attacked from another quar-
ter, the remainder of the rangers fled after direct-
ing three or four ineffectual fires at the canoe,
leaving our friends the occupants of the field.
With a feeling of sincere regret that human
passions should bring men into such antago-
nistic relations, Montour put the head, of the
light canoe toward the shore, where the Dela-
ware and the scout were calmly standing.

CHAPTER X*
EVENTS AT WYOMING.

Tin sun of the second day of July arose
bamly and bright, greeting fair Wyoming as
pleasantly and cheerfully as it had ever in the
past.
-Ellen Devron and ilvira Hudson, at -a very
early hour, before the glistening dew had dled
from the grass, walked toward' the spot wlee
the home of the former had once been, but; of
which only w few blackened logs remained.
Their kind neighbors had talked of building
another cabin near the site of the old one, and
some timber had already been drawn there for
that object. As they were slowly proceeding in
the.direction of the desolated dwelling, they saw
Martin Secord approaching . them with hasty
steps, and a face giving unequivocal evidences
of excitement.,
The maidens did not hail his appearance with
smiles, nor did his manner-augir an interview of
a very pleasing nature.
"I have come, young ladies,".he said, bow-
ing stiffly,- "to do you :an important service.
Danger is, close at hand, and:4f you wish- for
security, you will hasten to Fort Wintermoot '
" We give the preference to Fort Forty," re-
turned Elvira-
" Fort Forty will not do 1" exclaimed Mar-
I tell you-tiere is safety only in Winter-
moot's Fort.''

"Is the danger pressing 1" inquired Ellen.
" So pressing that the sooner young maidens
like you are where I have said, the better."
"Let us go back to the cabin, then, and spread -
the alarm; there are others who need a place of o3
security. We are not the only maidens in the
valley," said Miss Hudson, fixing a penetrating
look upon Martin.
"Be not so foolish !" cried the latter, quickly
and -energetically. "These friendly words of
warning are meant for you alone. Come, fol-
low me, if you value safety or even life, for Wyo.
ming is near the hour of its-"
"What would you say ?" exclaimed Ellen,
anxiously.
"That this valley is near the hour of that
bloody baptism of which I spoke sometime ago,"
said another voice, and immediately Lanaway
stepped from the thicket near them.
"I cannot and will not comprehend your
meaning. If there is indeed a terrible calamity,
such as war sometimes brings; hanging over
Wyoming, then in gentle pity's - nAme' come
with us' and"sound your warnings in the ears of
those who'will make speedy preparation 'to pro-
vide for the general good as much as conditions
will admit. Why do you speak these words of
mystery to young-maidens only V"
iThis is no time for explanasons--we cannot

0

Ii
'I
I!

,o

Y,
x
' '      }}}
4:5'

n..: ;.a; 'xo W A.

kl


RXll1OYAL GREENS.

77  7:PI w. 

4.

'l

52

however, *as not discouraged, but resolved to
do all he could to defend the place, and protect
the many helpless ones to be Ibund in the val-
ley. In a particular manner did he think of
Ellefi Devron, and he mentally and solemnly
pledged himself to-save her froen the fury of the
merciless foe, even at the sacrifice of life itself ;
so deep. and lasting was the impression which
her beauty had made on a heart naturally alive
to an appreciation of the beautiful, and the claims
of innocence.
Many persons think deeply and much, without
being suspected of anything of the kind; and1
Montour was one of that-character. Since the
first moment he had looked upon the pretty face
of Ellen, her- image had been impressed upon
his mind in such vivid colors that it could not E
be effated without a greater effort than he was I
disposed to make. There were seasons when her
attempted to think less of one whom he really
believed would never sustain a nearer and dear- I
er relation than that she then sustained. Exer-
tions of this nature were always attended with
an oppressive weight of sadness, which depress-v
ed his spirits to such a degree that nothing save s
the excitement of the trail and the dangers of i
some difficult  achievenwnt  could  entIrelyt
obliterate.-              .c
To have looked upon him while threading the a
forest with Dunbar, and daring the perils of
partizan malice-and Indian cunning, few would t
have imagined the fair idea of Ellen was pictured c
in his soul as in a clear and perfect mirror. Who e
maiy say how much this soft reflection of the .v
maiden nerved'his arm, and how much strength it it
gave to his limbs when he dogged the footsteps d
of the common enemy ; or how much it stimu- s
lated him to put forth those efforts (in conjunc- f
tion with the scout) which the uninitiated might
almost have deemed superhuman. We have w
not said,,nor do we now assert, that our hero m
was in love; we leave that matter to make itself cc
apparent'in due time, whether it be so or other- d4
wise. It is not ours to anticipate ; for it is to be te
understood that the reader has, the same chance w
to draw conclusions that we have ; and we will ri
not be so bold as to give ourself credit for more B
sagacity than others having the same means of sp
Judging-                                  so
It is impossible to fathom well the secret m
woerkings ff the human heart, even when it has pr
the capacity to reflect some of its emotions on sy
the face and in the conduct.               na
While the "stern alarms of war " are rever- at
4

berating through the valley of Wyoming, we find
it necessary to look at the movements of one
who figures prominently-in-these chapters-.Dun.
bar-honest, upright Dunbar-a man who loves
the right because it agrees best with his noble
nature--a person rough'in external seeming, but
sensitive as a woman in all that pertains to the
heart.
We perceive him   approaching a dwelling a
few miles below Mr. Hudson's, 'with slow and
thoughtful steps. Sometimes he pauses and
passes his hand across his brow as if to render
his ideas more lucid and quicken'his powers of
perception. He is obviously at a loss in regard
to some important matter, and not only per-
plexed but also troubled, providing we take his
expression as a true index of his feelings. With
his rifle in the hollow of his flexed arm, he
reaches the door and knocks.
During the short interval that elapses before
his modest summons is answered, his sun-burned
visage gives fresh evidence of a mind much agi-
tated. He hears a light step upon the floor
within, and his.stout heart beats with rapid pul-
ations. What magic is there in a footstep, that
t can so affect one who is so venturesome on the
rail, so daring where there is danger, so calm,
ool and self-reliant when those very, qualities
re necessary to secure success ?
The door opens, and a female, of'perhaps
wenty-two summers,' stands before him, who
hanges color, is confused ; but instantly recov-
ring her equanimity, bids our hero enter. And.
while the first common-place greetings are being
interchanged, we will take the (we hope) par-
onable liberty of stealing a few inquisitive and
scrutinizing glances at the young lady's form and
features.
Although she may have reached the age which
re have named, -those years seem none too
nany to develop a beauty like hers; for she is
certainly blessed with what even the most pru-
ent Quaker might safely call a "comely coun-
nance."  She is not gifted with that loveliness
hich is merely physical, but that which is de-
ved from a pure, truth-loving and natural soul.
y the last adjective we mean that.she was not
oiled by those artificial accomplishments that
D often turn the minds of so many youthful
aidens dwelling in cities. Her figure is of such
oportions that it at once gives the idea of
mmetry, and that without taxing the imagi-
tion. But it is not her person that so much
tracts attention as the eyes ; and the latter bor.

ii

ii
1444
N
'
I,

416


54                 'THE ROYAL GREENS.

row all their soft, yet speaking eloquence, from
the mind, whose fitting representatives they ap-
pear to be. Ah, how much is the human face
indebted to the eyes, and how much mischief
have those orbs accomplished when placed be-
neath the " fringed lids " of a-fair woman!, -Just
hear the eye-stricken poet-lover pour forth his
emotions in numbers of rare beauty :
CLThe pearly lustre of the moon went out:
Theenossy banks and the meandering paths,
.The happy flowers and the repining trees,.
Were seen no more : the very roses' odors
Died in the arms of the adoring airs.
All-all expired, save thee-save legs than thou:
Save only the divine light in thine eyes-
Save but the soul in thine uplifted eyes.
I saw but them-they were the world to me.
y sawbut them-saw only them for hours-
Saw only them until the moon went down."
The scot accepted the proffered seat, aid for
a moment sat looking abstractedly at his rifle,
which he had placed against the wall within
reach. The pretty Quakeress (for such she was)
relieved his embarrassment by asking in a soft
and pleasing voice' which sounded wondrously
musical to Dunbar's ears: -
"What news bringest thou, friend David ?"
The scout remained silent an instant,-and then
replied :  -
" News that you will not be glad to hear, Miss
Hammond."
" That may well be said, for it has been long
since we have heard aught save of wars and r'
morse of wars."
"Where is your father and William ?"'
"They have gone forth to muster the men,
to prepare for the defence of our ill-fated settle-
ment ; although it is against their principles to
draw the sword."                       '
"In these times, Miss Hammond, all men
who love liberty, of whatever sect they may be,
maty take arms, I reckon, in the defence of their
homes and their rights," said the scout, casting
a furtive glance at his comely companion.
"I am fully of thy opinion, David, although
once I thought differently. The simple fe of
existence has to be kept with the sword;' for
these enemies of ours have no mercy-pityneither
young uor old-respect not gray hairs, nor soften
at the sight of beauty in distress." ,
" I have come to tell you, Miss Hammond-"
" Thou mayest call me Hester, David." .
" To tell you that there will be a battle here
to-morrow.".
"A battle, sayest.thou I"'    -
"Ay, a great and decisive battle, as I may
,say,"          i.          .

"Friend David, thou art 'a man of sound
judgment and of honest purpose, and- I desire
that thou wilt tell me frankly what thy opinion
is, of the result of the battle of which thou
speakest ?"
"Miss Hester, I will answer you with that
bluntness that constitutes a part of my nateral
disposition, as 'twere. It is my solemn belief
that we 'shall be beaten in the fight of to-morro .
Fort Wintermoot will be given up to the enemy
this night, unless I can muster enough men to
repulse the'advancing tories and Senecas.",
" Wintermoot is false, then ?"
"False as the great deceiver himself, as I may
say !"
" If thou sayest it, .1 can believe thee, friend
David ; but thou wilt find few that are equally
credulous."
" I have heard, Miss Hammond, - that one of
the Wintermoots was highly thought of here-
-by your father and brother," added the scout,
with evident effort.
" I know to what thou dost refer, but perhaps
thou art laboring under some delusion in the
matter. It is true that he has at times been quite
attentive here, but-I tiink I may assert that he
has received no encouragement from me to-
to lengthen his visits or make them more fre-
quent," said Miss Hammond, looking steadily
upon the floor, and exhibiting upon her 'hand-
some features something 'like a well defined
blush.
"I am glad for your sake that the friendship
is no more intimate, for you will hear that of
him and hisbrothers, before twenty-four hours,
that will make them cheeks of yours grow pale
with terror and indignation. If there is anyplace
of safety that you know of, you had better seek
it by all means before the sun of to-morrow
rises.
" Thou mockest me, friend David. I know
of no place where the malignity sd cunning of
our foes cannot reach me !" she returned with a
sigh.
"I know it well, Miss Hester, and therefore I
came over to tell you that if the battle goes
against us to-morrow, if I survive the fight, I
will conse here to save you, although I should
have to cut my way through the serried raniks of
ourvictors, or run through a river of fire, to
reach you."
The scout had hitherto spoken in a low and
quiet manner, but now he raised his voice and

THE ROYAL GREENS..
 spoke with much vehemence. Miss Hammond     " I beg your pardon, Miss Hester. I k
seemed much affected by his last remark, and thatyou wouldn't willingly wound the feeling's of
answered with a warmth that must have been any one, however rough and unpolished he
gratifying to his sensitive heart.         'happen to be in his mays. But I wished to ay
"fMost willingly shall I accept thy protection, that if things take a bad turn, and .your father
iMit o pchased avidDunt toohe and brother shouldn't be able to protect you,
"Miss Hammond, David Dunbar is not the ]111 come to you if there's enough of life in me to
man to ask an exorbitant price for his services, do so."
especially of a woman," returned the scout,   "Friend David, I a   sure that I eel very
mournfully, and evidently somewhat hurt at the grateful."
'     supposed meaning of theyon lady.            -"And
tyoungaIam sure that there never was a human
Tou bast mistaken my meaning, -Dvi     bi'"
.ho    st ike   n   ang,'David," be     more welcome I" said the scout, emphati.
rshe answered, quickly, laying her hand on Dun- cally, not daring to raise his humid eyes to
bar's arm. "I simply intended to be underdhthose brightly beautifully ones that were beams
'stood to say that I should humbly and gratefully ing on him so kindly, and speaking to himin the
accept the safeguard of thy arm, if I could with yeloquentlagu     spe    nguah   e s
Out.  posing thee to too nuch danger."        oun     aguage' of the soul-a language so
-m        voiceless here on earth that it can never be inter-
preted by the lips.

Iif


TifE ROYAL GREENS.              57

'inZ Q f ENE f.       ,
Wrt did not honest tbunbar lift his gafe  n goe=as lyng au body and soul are fgeti
from the white, sanded floor and see ivha't he till the lateral breath and strength which God
might have seen pictured on the gentle face has giten me h*e beef conquered by the hail
that was turned timoidly. tpon himI Why did of death '-
he not look up, if but for a single instant, and  Farther speech *as preefeted bb a Barg
meet the world of sweet rmeaning that reposed ifr knocking. Hester panted a iaomen to collect
tihe dark eyes of Hester ?'                herself, aid then opened the door. Wintormoot;
Ah, dull David! his unpesuming eyes did ohH ststd oe thr steps, said:
not wander farther than the tip of the little ft i "How do you  do,htd ester7" and entered=
that just peeped from beneath the homie-made leaving his cofipanisas outside.,  e *as quite
skirt- =home-made, bat reterlheless neat and intto the rebr and the dor was sidt, before hd
becoming.                                  pefceted Vunbar ; ,and it was apparent to both
" I must g6/' he said, at length, after an a*k- the latter and Miss llatam6nd that the recognif
ward pause.                                tion was not a piedaant oh'e. He nodded to the'
"Not quite 'yet, David. I hear some one scout and took a sett neaf th'e windo*.
coming ; perhaps it is father, or Williar," re-  That the presented of #inbdr embarrassed hint
plied Hester, going to the window.         war obvious. lie, however, made a faint attempt
"What do you see ?" inquired the scout.  to disguise his chagrin and made a fet com-'
" Sever _ person, and Wintetmoot is among mon-place retharks with a very bad grace, which,
them."                                     were scarcely noticed by the scent. Finding
"Shall I go or stay ?"v asked Danbat.   .that or worthy friend hadno intention 4f going;
"Stay, it you have any friendship for me," he considered the best way of atpshiching th
answered the rsaiden, hurriedly. subject uppermnost in his mind yfor it could not
" God knows how much of that I have!' he escape the pebtraifon of Hester that he had' da
exclaimed.                                 particular purpose in flew.
"I, fear these wren *ho are ctozring--I feel'  "I called in to Speak go'rie words to'you fI S
- that sorte tri _ is before mt'; but let what will confidential Way," he said, at length.
come of it, I rely on thee, )avid."         "I am rdady to lisen to thee," replied thW
" You may rely on me as, far as mortal power young ladfy.

What I would say is for your ear.alone."
"Mr. Dunbar is a particular friend, and thee
need not fear to speak freely in his hearing,"
added Miss Hammond.
"What I have to communicate is very im-
portant, and concerns you only," was the re-
joinder.
"I wait to hear thee speak, sir," was the quiet
response.
"Mr. Dunbar," said Wintermoot, desperately,
I wish to confer a few moments with Miss Ham-
mond on important and strictly private matters ;
will, you oblige me by leaving the room ?"
"The instant Miss Hammond desires me to
go, I will do so without delay," the scout
replied.
The face and brow of Wintermoot flushed
with anger, and turning to the maiden, he said,
in a lower tone of voice:
Miss Hammond, I came here out of pure
regard to you to do you a service. I have dis-
covered that it will be no longer safe for you to
remain you." ,
"Where would thee recommend me to go ?"
" Up to our stockade, where you will find
several young ladies of your acquaintance, Ellen
Devron and Elvira Hudson among the number."
have heard that Fort Forty is the strong-il s fate lcso  eec ntevle.
est ofathe pa of defence in th vley."
"Let me say to you," added, Wintermoot in
a whisper, " that the fort that bear's my father's
name is the"only place of safety in Wyoming."
"When my friends return, I will not fail to
ask their advice, for I cannot think of acting
without their consent."
" "You must decide quickly ; while you* are
deliberating this chance of safety may pass,"
said Wintermoot, earnestly..
"As I have said, I will consult my friends."
" Miss Hammond-you must go now ; I have
come on purpose to attend you to the fort."
. I decline'going with thee."
If you have any friendship for me-"
" Nay, I have but little friendship for thee."
Wintermoot seemedutterly confounded by the
calm avowal of the maiden.
"And why is your friendship . for me so
Might ?" he asked, coloring with vexation.
"I will tell thee frankly; because thou art
false to thy country, and leagued with the ene-
mies of peace and liberty," said Miss Hammond,
-t ormly-.-e
By heavens, this is your work.!" exclaimed

Wintermoot, starting to his feet and advancing
toward Dunbar with his eyes flashing fury.
" I have never yet called you a Tory to your
face (although I have given some hints that
couldn't well be mistaken), but now I call you as
villanous a tory as ever conspired agin an honest
man, fired a dwelling, or killed a neighbor in
cool blood i".said the scout, without betraying
the least agitation.
" Spying, lying, scouting scoundrels"  ex-
claimed Wintermoot, fiercely.
Dunbar arose from  his seat, and without a
word doubled his fist and knocked the torydown;
then seizing him by the collar, dragged him to
the door and thrust him out. This was done so
quickly that.Miss Hammond scarcely knew what
was transpiring until she heard the door close,
and the bolt that secured it move into its place.
"Pardos me, Miss Hester, for doing such a
thing in your presence, but I couldn't listen to
his talk any longer. *He is such a traitor that I
have no feeling's in common with him, as
'twero."
" I don't reproach thee, David; I only fear
that he will do thee mischief before he departs.
I will look from the window and observe their
movements."
"What are they doing, Hester?"
" They are giving Wintermoot a drink from a
canteen. Verily, he seems much affected' by
the blow thou didst deal him. Now they are
talking hurriedly' and- energetically. -I think
they meditate a deed of wickedness; they hav'
produced a strong cord, and-"
"And what ?"
"'They have fastened it to a branch of the red
oak in front of the house. In heaven's name,
David, what does it mean ?"
" No matter, Hester, what it means, do not let
it trouble you. I may say that I'm a host, as
'twere, and don't fear no half-dozen royalists in
the country.'
" They willtake thyfe ; is there no way of
escape 6" she exclaimed.
"1I don't think I shall die in that sort of way,
though there's no tellin' what may happen to
one in the world, it's so full of changes ; but I've
alers had a notion that I should give up things
of an airthly natur either on the field of battle
or on the trail. Yes, that's the way I hope to
leave this sublunary state."
" My strength and courage fail me-I shalt
faint-I shall die with horror 1" cried the maiden,
covering her face with her bands.

11

.-I


59

THE RYAGREJNS.THE ROYAL GREENS.

" Nay, Miss Hester, don't let it worry you and bar sprang into the narrow entry and again
gite you pain, as werer, for one life isn't much warned them to go away, but without producing,
in these times,,and an honest man aint never any effect upon those whom he was addressing,
afeared to meet his death, in a'good cause,. when other than to stimulate their efforts.
'his time comes.",                        . Had the dwellings of those unquiet -times been
"1Do not speak of such a possibility. I tell' constructed according to modern architecture
thee the thought makes, me shiver with terror. the work of beating down a door and forcing an
David, they are preparing to force the door."  .entrance would have been a task easily accom-
"Fear not-not a hair of thy innocent head plished ; but such was not the case. The cabins
shall be harmed."                         were built of. heavy logs sometimessquared by
" Think of thyselfr-not of me ' added Hester, the axe, and often fitted into the fabric without
in faltering accents. . s'uch labor. Many a dwelling was in all essen-
- "Be calm-do you not see is-and these, tials a miniature block-house, quite well pre-
too ?" said the scout, pointing to his rifle and a pared to withstand a siege, and to ward off the
brace of pistols hitherto concealed, beneath his sudden onsets of prowling savages, or predatory
hunting frock.                            parties of tories. The doors were made-of solid
. Instantly a gleam of hope irradiated the face and heavy material, and the fastenings within
of Hester. She sprang toa closet and took from were so adjusted as to be made available at a
the same a small pair of weapons similar to those moment's notice, and to be capable of resisting
concealed beneath Dunbar's coat.          a very vigorous assault.
"Little execution will they do in your white  Had not this been the case, a few blows of
hands," said the scout, with a smile.     the axe in the-determined hand of Wintermoot,
Hester laid the pistols upon the table, looked would have given the tories flee access- to the
at them amoment as if conscious of her inability cabin ; hut as it was, considerable labor was re-
to use them properly, and then taking themitp quired to secure that object.,
agaiu,;held them more resolutely than before.-  Admonishing Hester to be of good cheer, the
Dunbar stepped to the window, but thesin- scout kept his position in the entry, waiting until
stunt he appear there, b musket-ball shivered a the first opening which Wintermeotemight 'nake
pane of glass and passed very near his person.  should give him an opportunity to use his weap-
" Come out! come out! or we will beat the one. While he was thus silently biding his
door down !" shouted Winterinoot.         time, it is probable that some part of his person
"Go away," cried the scout, "or mischief will was seen through a crevice, for a cry from Miss
befall you. I'm armed, and it wont take no Hammond warned him that danger was mena-
great provocation to induce me to send a rifle- cing him from another .directioh. A single step
ball through one or more of ye, as 'twere."  across the threshold, explained the meaning of
While Dunbar was giving this friendly warn- -theyoung lady's alarm ; two of the tories were
ing, some one from without discharged a pistol about to eater through a window. Dunbar's
at random, and the leaden ,messenger striking first'act was to throw himself between Hester
the sash, glanced toward the spot where Miss and the assailants; for he"feared that an ill-,
Hammond was-standing, perforating thesleeve directed bullet from 'the muskets which they
of her dress, and slightly wounding her arm. carried might do her harm. It was now that the
The scout sprang toward- her, and asked (white highgtalities of the cout's courage began to
his cheeks assumed an unwonted paleness) if she be exhibited.
was hurt, and received the welcome answer that  "Down! !back, Ibols !" he cried. " Why do
she:was not.                              ye tempt me to slay you ! Well, there is for
Was it not somewhat singular that the man you, if you will have it so, though I've spared
whom-no danger cold daant, and who never you hitherto because you are feller-eretut s."
tretabled for his own; safety, should, suddenly Dunbar's pistols flashed, and the men 'disap,
display a pallid face when the pistol bullet -pass- peared from the window.
ed so near the person of the young wontan ? -  Without .pausing to ascertain how much; mis-
Before the scout's hardy visage had recovered chief .he bead done} he sprang into the entry.
its'wonted ruddiness, heavy blows upon the cabin again just in tiine, to see the blade of the axe
doer admonished those within, that the royal- forced through the door by a powerful blow -
ists were heating it down with an axe. Dun- Re had just raised his rifle to fire through the

;
F: '
r
.
1:
Y "1
aJ
4

i

+5

THE ROYAL GREENS.

aperture, when Hester laid her hand on his arm,  "Thou hast acted the hypocrite well, but
-saying, "Take these !" at the same time pre- there-are- eyes thou didst not deceive. I feared
seating the pistols which she had taken from the thee from the first."a
closet. The scout caught them quickly, and   "Much it grieves me, Hester Hammond, that
more quickly the'ontents of one of them passed I have failed to please you. You know not the
through the opening. The report was answered depths of that-friendship which I feel for you. I
by a groan and a muttered curse.           would gladly save you from the evil that hangs
"I warned them, Hester-you heard me warn over the misguided- people-of this fated valley.
them! But you see that it has done no good-  Go with me to the fort, and I swear to you upon
anger has. blinded their eyes, and perverted my honor, that I will bear no malice in my heart
their judgment."                           for what you have said this day."
At that instant they heard one say "Let's burn  " Talk not of thy honor, for thou art as desti-
the house."                                tute of it, as a dead body of warmth. Go ; I
"But the girl's in there," replied Wintermoot. would hear and see thee no, mor ."
"Tell her to come out," continued the other.. "Are we to part thus? And are my hopes
"And what if she refuses ?" he inquired.  thus to fade and fall ?".
" She'll be glad to come when she sees the "i Even so, and the sooner.thy thoughts tend
fire creep over the roof, and knows that we're in 'in another direction, the better for thee and for
earnest;"                                  me.
" We'll try it," returned Wintermoot.      " This is very madness that possesses you,
" Miss liammond," he added, raising his and makes you resist my well-meant offers to
voice, "we've made up our minds to kill the re- shield you from the fiery storm of to-morrow."
bel at all hazards, but we, wouldn't willingly  " The storm of to-morrow will be boldly met,
hurt a hair of your head, as you well know ; and perhaps its lightning and its thunders will
therefore we ask you to come out to us, for we .be turned aside," added Hester.
are going to burn the cabin."                "Yes, that's very true," said the scout.
Dunbar looked at his fair companion to ob-  "False prophecy-false hope 1" exclaimed
the tory'.
serve what effect this proposal had upon her.  "Perchance I may see you before the sun
"You can easily go out by the window," he risesand sets again," resumed Dunbar, in a
said, quietly.                             sisesiant toe.
Hester's face flushed, and she cast a glance at sig haficant tone.
Dunbar in which there were both reproach and  "IHester.
resolution. She then approached the window, Hester.
and gave her answer as follows :" Look down t oward Naticoke and see i you
can see any one, said Dunbar.
" Whatever happens, I shall' remain where I  Hester gazed a moment in the direction indi-
am. Fire the dwelling, if you will, but know  cated, and soon answered, that a man on horse-
that I shall not leave it to claim protection from back was approaching.
those against whose principles and deeds. my . "Is it one' that you know? Look at him
whole nature revolts."                     sharply with your bright eyes, Miss Hester,"
"That's finely worded, young lady," said returned Dunbar.
Wintermoot, with a sneer.                    " I think that he is a young man whom I have
"How often hast thou visited beneath this seen with thee, friend David."
humble roof in the guise of friendship, and how  " Ware your handkerchief, my brave girlI"
kindly hast thou been received by my father and  " There is no need, for he comes this way and
brother? ill dost thou requite their hospitality," -thy enemies are making ready to depart ; but
said Hester.                               they are somewhat encumbered by their three
"It's of no use to think of them things now. wounded comrades, ne of whom is unable to
By-gones are by-gones, and always will be. The walk; they are placing him tipon a horse. Now
time has come when I can show my colors with- they-are m ving away; thou art saved, friend
out much fear. I'm true to the king, and false David."
only to rebels. The secret's out, and I shan't"- As Miss .Hammont ceased speaking, she
act the hypocrite any longer," answered' the tottered and would have fallen, had notDunbar
tory.                                      supported her to a seat, where she swooned

k
'                                                       ate


i
a
t
. ,
k
jt a
!t
f t!
c
-     {  ;
{; ,
,

quite away, making the scout feel very awk- suffused even her neck and forehead with crim--
ward, for he had never seen a pretty maiden son. Montour glanced from one to the other,
faint, and knew as much about the Greek lan- and read what Dunbar perceived was a secret so
guage as he did concerning what was to be done profound that it was known only to himself.
in such an emergency; therefore after placing And the young man's quick perception went
her very tenderly in a large old fashioned easy- further even, and made a discovery which his
chair, he stood and looked at her greatly alarm- friend would have given worlds to have known,
ed, wondering what would come of it. Hearing He smiled, but did not strive to increase the con-
the sound of hoofs close at the door, he hastened fusion of either party by that good-natured pleas-
to open it. Montour entered, but he could ren- antry, which when employed out of season,
der no assistance, for Miss Hammond had al- often embarrasses painfully the sensitive mind.
ready begun to revive.                     While he contemplated the glowing countenance
Opening her eyes, she looked vacantly around and fairy figure of Hester, he could not find it in
her, as if endeavoring to recall more vividly his heart to reproach Dunbar for being touched
the scene through which she had just passed. with her loveliness. He must indeed have had
Meeting the half-averted gaze of the, scout, the a heart of iron (providing he had been thrown
snowy paleness of her cheeks was quickly suc- much in her society) to have withstood the po,
ceeded by a blush that overspread her fact, and tent power of her beauty.

CHAPTER XII.
THE NIGHT MARCH.

' *

I

BETWEEN the hours of twelve and one, on
the ensuing night, a small party of men were
moving silently up the Susquehanna. Among
them might have -been seen, acting as leaders,
Roland Montour, David Dunbar, Devron and
Castanego the Delaware chief. The latter led
twenty of his people, and some ten or -fifteen
Oneidas, who had recently summoned courage
to side with the defenders of Wyoming. All
counted, whites and Indians, the party did not
exceed seventy-five. Their object ,was to inter-
cept the Royal Greens and Senecas, then de-
scending the river to take possession of Fort
Winternoot.-                     -
Great exertions had been made by Montour
and Dunbar, to raise a large body of Delawares
in addition to the men of Wyoming ; but their
efforts had been rewarded with but*indifferent
success. The dwellers in the valley, as wehave
previously stated, were 'not disposed to believe
implicitly in the treachery of- the- Wintermoots
and Lanaway ; and therefore did not feel. in-
clined to engage in what they suspected miight
be- after all but a silly and fruitless crusade by
night, up the Susquehanna, to meet an imaginary
foe. And so infatuated were many of the in-
habitants, that they did-not, until the following
day, yield credence to the rumor -that Colonel
Butler and his Tory Rangers meditated -'an at-

tack. It may be asked why Montour and the
scout 'did not take some effectual measures to
secure the persons of Wintermoot and Lanaway,
, takd'possession of the fort, and thus stop the
conspiracy.at once. . The reader will be kind
enough to bear in mind, that the stockade ment
tioned, was built with the .ostensible purpose of
defending the valley, and b'y men professing to be
its friends ; and as friends they were generally'
considered.
Taking this view of the case, it would have
required a considerable force to arrest them, and
a body of armed men neither Montour nor Dun-
bar had at their command. Could they have
mustered a sufficient company, and been ac-
knowledged as military leaders by the same,
their first step would have been to make them-
selves masters of the fort; but as this was not
'the case, they took the only step that remained
for their choice ;, for there were more persons
willing to march up the river to see if the enemy
were really approaching, and if so to 'resist their
advance, than to be the gst to lay violent hands
on men who had been hnd. still were, by the
majority of the people, considered very good
friends to the country and the patriot cause.
Even now, as they moved-forward, there were
many incredulous ones among them, who spoke
softly to each other and shook their heads in a

THE ROYAL GREENS.

60

}
i
1
7i
E
1
;r
;
,   '~
,"

I,

9

L      -

,
,'
h


62                           THE ROYAL
dubious way. Two or, three of the party took
particular pains to encourage such feelings, and
the low whisperings grew into audible mutter-
ings as they passed slowly along.
" I said from the beginning that this would
be a wild goose chase 1" exclaimed one of the
grumblers to the man who' was nearest him,
whose name was Vanalstine.
"And didn't I say so, too, neighbor ?"
The person who had made the observation to
which this was an answer, knew very well that
Vanalstine had been the direct cause of his own
discontented mutterings ; but he was ambitious
to appear as wise as others who affected to know
much that they had no knowledge of.
"What's the use of going any farther ?" said
another.
")But little good will come of it," added
Vanalstine.
" This young man Montour, and this Dunbar,
take a great deal on their shoulders, I fancy.
How comes it, friends, that they know so much
*more than we do about the movements of But-
ler ?" continued a fourth.
"Yes, that's the very question that I want
somebody to answer," said a fifth.
"My good neighbors," resumed Vanalstine,
" I have no confidence in these men. They are
comparatively strangers among us (or the yohng-
est is at least), and I cannot see,-for one, why
they are entitled to our confidence."'
"No talking' there, men, no talking ' 1" said
Dunbar, coming up at that moment, and hearing
the murmur of voices.
" You see he takes a vast deal of authority on
himself," added the one who had last spoken, as
soon is the scout had passed on.
" That's the natur of sich people," returned
the man on his left.
" I think," continued Vanalstine, " that some-
thing might be done to put an end to this dis
graceful march."
"There are several of that opinion," was the
immediate response of another grumbler.
It was certain that the party was divided in
sentiment, and that that unanimity without which
success is never certain, and always doubtful,
was an element that w wanting, "to a serious
extent. All these unhappy divisions, that fatal
feeling of security which pervaded so many
minds, had been artfully induced by the royalists,
who, living in their yery midst and seeing them
every day, improved every opportunity to prop
duce false impressions and to spread reports of

"  4N
sll-
/ I

L GREENS.

the pacific intentions of the, enemy, which they
were aware 'would be instrumental in working
their ruin, if accredited. Had these internal
enemies openly avowed their true sentiments,
the mischief would not have been wrought; but
this they were far too politic to do ; so the in-
habitants of the valley walked daily over a hid-
den mine, which could be sprung at any moment.
While this state of things existed, it was almost,.
or quite, impossible to make any important
movement in secrecy ; for it was not easy to
know who to trust; and the reader will not be
surprised to learn that there were unfriendly
ones even among those 'who were following
Montour and the scout, to meet the approaching
rangers.
The former paused ; and while watching the
little army as it defiled along its winding way,
querying whether they would fight when the
hour of trial came, the Delaware glided to his
side with a quick and noiseless step. At the
same instant Montour heard the voices of the
malcontents and prophets of evil, of whom-we
have just spoken, and exclaimed in a low but
stern tone ;       ~
"Be silent, men--be silent I"
The Delaware laughed derisively, but said'
nothing.
Roland turned a searching glance upon him
and asked
" What mean you, Castanego ?"
"Scorn and AngerI" replied the Delaware.
"And for what ?" continued the young man.
" The folly and hollow-heartedness of these
people !" retorted the Lenape.
"My brother is wise in the workings of the
hnman mind, and can read well the language of
the face when the lips are silent. What have
you seen or heard that disturbs you ?"
"Did not my brother hear those voices- ?"
said the Delaware, sharply.
"Ieheard them."-
" What did they sound like ?"
Montour paused to reflect, and then replied :
." It strikes me that they were like the mutter-
ed tones of discontent."
"Let them go to the Iroquois, where- their
hearts are. They are full of-lies, and are afraid
of the,sound of battle. They are hissing their
poisoned words in the ears of others, and soon
your men will refuse to go on."~      .
" I know that the Delaware has sharp eyes,
and never sees 'things that are not ; therefore
this must be looked to."

THE ROYA

" Walk near them and your own ears shall be
opened to their bad talk ; and your own eyes
shall see their hollow-heartedness."
Montour followed the suggestion of the Dela-
ware, and soon had proof of the truth of his
assertions.
Having satisfied himself on that point, he
sought Diubar (who was among the foremost of
the party, where his duty as leader would natu-
rally place him), andcommunicated to him what
he had discovered, and the influence which these
doubtful friends were exerting upon the men.
A halt was then ordered, and the scout, Devron,
the Delaware, and our hero held a hurried coun-
cil. In order that their' deliberations might be,
of a private nature, they withdrew a few yards
from the main body, anid were earnestly discuss-
ing the subject, when the quick eyes of the Dela-
ware perceived that there was considerable.com-
motion among the men.
" The false pale face is giving them a talk,"
he said, moodily, contracting his dark brow.
"Vanalstine is haranguing them," added
Devron.
" Let us go and hear what he has to say,"
said Dunbar, and accordingly the parties ap-
proached the scene they had just left, where the
undisciplined soldiers were huddled together.
round Vanalstine, listening to his speech. We
will not attempt to repeat it word for word, bu4
merely give the purport of it.
He assured them' that they had been deceived
in regard to the intentions of Colonel John But-
ler and the Six Nations-deceived, 'too, by the
very men who were now pretending to lead them
to meet.an enemy--an enemy who, happily, had
no existence save in their, imaginations. He
went on to say that they had patiently marched
several miles without so much as venturing to
speak for fear of alarming the ruthless invaders
of Wyoming, and giving them notice of their
approach. But what had come of it ? Nothing
at all. They had as yet seen no enemies against
which to direct their' arms ; and the probability
.was, that they might wait-there a week with a
similar result..
" Now," he added, with a grand flourish of
his right hand, "the question is, shall we go
home to our families, and retire to bed to re-
fresh ourselves for the peaceful toils of to-mor-
row, or shall we continue this silly march under
the command of men who know as little about
the intentions of Butler as we do ? For one he
was in favor of the former course, unless they

L GREENS.                               63
preferred to kindle some large fires and pass the
night on the spot."
"Villain i" exclaimed. Montour.. "He is
desirous to sacrifice these unsuspecting men, as
a sort of propitiatory offering to the tories and
savages."
"Yes, that's it precisely," replied Danbar;
"but if they refuse to follow us, they will soon
receive a bitter lesson for their foolish obstinacy.
You'd better try and reason with them, Mr.
Montour; you understand talkin' better nor I
do, for I aint remarkably bleA with the gift of
gab, as 'twere."
" I will remoistrate with them, though.I fear
it will do little good,"-he answered, and'mount-
ing a log thus addressed the men of Wyoming.
" Neighbors and friends, I need not remind
you that we are surrounded by pitiless foes, for
the experience of the last few months must have
made you as sensible-of this fact as I am, or any
'other person. We have certain knowledge that
Butler with hls Tory Rangers, and a; large body
of Senecas, are coming down the river. We
have, furthermore, the best of reasons for believ-
ingthat the stockade, known as Fort Winter-
moot, will be betrayed into the hands of our
enemies before the sun rises again. We call
-upon you as men, and lovers of your country,
to stand by us and' resist the advance of the
enemy, as long as you can wield a weapon in
defence of those you love, and who lool to you
for protection. The man who'has just address-
ed you, must be either a fool or a knave, for he
counsels you to neglect your own safety and
sleep; while the sleepless Senecas and merciless
rangers are hanging upon your border, and per-
haps even now within rifle range of where we
stand. Follow his advice if you wish for cer'
tain destruction; but before the red sun comes
up again, you will deeply, ay, most painfully
regret your folly."
At this point in his speech, Montour felt him-
self touched upon the shoulder, and perceived
one whom he had not expected to see, beside
him-.-Lawson.
"Cease to reason with them," he said. "They
are infatuated, and nothing short of the chastise-
ment which they will soon receive, and which
they richly merit, will suffice to bring them to
their senses."
" You've spoken my own sentiments exactly,"
said Dunbar, who stood near our hero and heard
Lawson's remark. " The cunnin' of the tories
has, so sprinkled dust in their eyes, that they

A

f
r
,ti,
x


9

THE ROYAL GREENS.

,A4

wont get their sight clear afore there's been a 1 placed on those numerous evidences which they
blow struck that'll stun 'em, as I may say."  had received of the enemy's proximity.
The men of the valley now1 looked wistfully  The position which they now took was one
at each other, and then conversed together in well calculated for the concealment pf\ a large
sullen tones, The majority were finally induced, body of men ; it was a gorge or ravine, of con-
through the joint representations of Vapalstine siderable length, a few hundred yards from the
and other grumblers, to camp upon the ground Susquehanna, running parallel with ,the same.
where they were, and, in the morning . return Adown this great trench, formed bythe hand of
home.                                     nature, our friends led their volunteer forces,
When Dunbar heard this resolution proclaim- until they judged. they were opposite those whom
ed by Vanalstine, he vehemently remonstrated they had just parted from.
in his rough but earnest way, calling on such to This movement was effected without noise,
follow him as loved the whig cause and .hated Their the scout, and his cordial supporters, Mon-
tory cruelty. About one third listened to this tour, Devron and the Delaware chief, walked
appeal, and- with the Delawares and Oneidas, quietly among the men, disposing them in advan-
moved.on; while the remainder were making tageous positions, and giving them such instruc-
preparations to camp as they defiled rapidly up tions-as they deemed necessary.. The Delawares
the river.                                and the Oneidas listened willingly and.obedient-
"We must change our- course a little now," ly to the orders of Castanego, and proved them-
said the scout. " It wont' do for a mere hand- selves to be under better discipline than the
ful like us to meet several hundred well-armed white men of the valley. It was now nearly two
nen. We must deploy to the right and wait in o'clock.
yonder ravine the result of this unfortunate  "I hope that.they will not be so foolish as to
work."                                    light a fire," remarked Roland to the chief.-
This proposal was readily agreed to ; for it  " What does my brother call that ?" asked the
seenied the only prudent thipg that they could other, pointing towards the river.
do, except returning to the valley, which they  Looking steadfastly in the direction indicated,
did not wish to do from considerations of mercy, our hero saw a smallcolumn of smoke ascending
knowing that those deluded ones who had listen= through the trees, which gradually increased in°
ed to Vanalstine's sophistry, would have need of volbme whil@ he gazed, until it rose in a dark,
aid before .morning, if any reliance could be dense cloud and wps followed by a leaping flame.

Or the starry flag of agreat andgloribus con-
federacy, the American eagle Had not then pet-
thed; in the free pride of his trength ; but, fig-
urntively speaking, that bird -of liberty seenea
switching, from, some high liff of justice, the{
sanguinary struggle, and -plumifng his strong
and daring wings to fly tO the etandaf'd bornd
aloft in the naie of Freedom. -
Could the brave men of Whom we discoursed
in the last chapter, have looked through the
deep mantle of darkness that they obscured the-
horizon of'liberty, and teen the fut re glory and
strength of the land for Which they Were battling,
muethinka their gallant sols Would have shelled
with joy and pride, which not all their rough,
earnest eloquence could express.
It was now proposed by the sturdy scout, that,
one of their number should cautiously approach
the spot where Vanalstine, and those Who had
been so iUnwise as to heed his. oufsel, Were'
cataping. No one being more com jetdhn td per-
form that service than t)udbar, he 1inediatelf
left the ravine with that object in view. He was
abetnt longer than Mantotir had epected, sad
feeling antious on his accoitt, he followed in
the same direction. It was not' long before he
reached the spot, f6r the fire served as an un-
tnistaheable beacon to guide his steps. "
#tanding updn A rock, hie peron piartlall'y

covered by tife intervening trees and bushes an4
the smoke which the wind-blew toward h1m, ho
was able to see without being himself seen by
'the dupes of tory inning who were disposed
in various ways; with the intention'-of passing
a quiet and comfortable-night.. They had spread
their blankets'around the fire, and most of those-
careless and simple ones were lying upoq them I
while a few appeared to be already asleep, and
about an equal number sat talking, smoking or
dozing.
Roland looked about for Vanalstine, and final-
ly discovered him on that side nearest where he
(Montour) was standing and farthest from the
fire., Presently the low murmur of voices ceas-
ed, and: the poor fellows, tired out with the
fatigues of the-night, sunk to sleep with scarcely
an exception. Prudence would have- suggested
a watch, but her voice was not heard,.or ifheard
was unheeded. Among those who gave signs of
being Wakeful, were Vanalstine and the person
with whom he had talked so freely on the march
conuerfitg the finpol y of the ficastire.. ''These
individuals were still' near neighbors, and ocea'
atonally Montodr thought "hey Whispered to
each other.
The dull wings of sleep had not ldng fluttered
over the encampment, when Vanalstine raised
hiniself to his elbow, yawned as if just afousing

~fT1 ,III.
T1t ETIU[ITOiI$'REWARD.

:
.
I¢
E
r
i
i
+
t ;
tf .
_t ,

f
t      S;            ,
r
fl ,
E
,"
t


.. .
'
r
n
r    j
'
"
.
1
f
i
.
f
,t

from sleep, and arose quite to his feet. Gaz-
ing at the slumbering ones an instant, he touch-
ed his friend with' the butt of his usket, when
he also got up;thea the two walked sfty
from the scene, and almost in a direct line for
the spot where Roland was standing. To re-
main perfectly motionless was the best way of
escaping discovery, and so he kept his position
like a statue.
This expedient proved successful, and the
traitors passed within three yards of him-thanks
to the dense clouds of smoke and the sheltering
foliage'!'
When.they had procieded so far beyond his
hiding-place that their figures could withdificul-
ty be discerned gliding spectre-like along amid,
the trees, Montour thought it his duty to follow
them and attempt to unmask their purpose. He
had gone not far when he saw the t)elaware,
manifestly engaged in a similar pursuit. He was
on the point of. speaking to him, when he was
spared that trouble, the Lenape being already
conscious of his propinqity, as he speedily sig-
niied by a significant'gesture, then pausing until
Roland joined him.
"What did I tell my brother not smany hours
agot Did I not say that their heartswere with
the Iroquois, ad their faces tet against their
bietihrel'W 'Now yoi imay cast your eyes yon-
der and ,sod them creeping like slimy serpents
to ":de tie sworn foes of'Wyoming," said
Cutianego.°
aet us hurry after them quickly!" returned
Montour.
"And why should we follow the lying dogs?'
"To discover their object 1" Roland answered
"That is known already. If we go afte
them; it must be to strike them from existence,'
repliedithe Delaware.
.« Come on-come on,'orweshall"be toolate '
said another voice," and thereupon the tall form
of Dunbar was seen' walking swiftly on th
track of the traitors.
"'Tis very good !"; exclaimed tEastanego
" The days of the hollow hearts are'counted b
the Great Spirit."
ot much exertion or time ,was required b
the',psties to gain sight of the;deserters agai
They were following the bindings of the rise
often stopjtg tolsten, and scan, as fras th
were able, the, surface of, the water, which no'
splashed mildly and'pleasantly in the moo
light. They were expecting momentarily to s

the Ilotilla of the royalists and the Iroquo t
league.
"There's evidently an understandin' atween
'em," said Dunbar. "It's plain enough to see
that they're expectin' something' or somebody."
" Of their intentions there is not room -for the
shadow of a doubt," replied Montour.
" Then our duty is plain, and we can't pre-
tend to misunderstand it," added the scout.
"I don't know that I exactly comprehend,"
resulted the young man.
"If you do not, here is one at my side as does
most perfectlyas I may say."
The Delaware made a motion toward his gun)
and smiled grimly.
" It may be needful," said Montour.
" Them' as we have left behind requires it,
Think of the pretty maidens in the valley, and
the old men and young children, and then ask
your heart if it is necessary that the betrayers of
their lies should suffer?" added the scout, with
rough but honest seal.
" I recall to mind the fair face of Hester Ham
mond," said ;oland.
."And do you forget the sweet features of
Ellen Devronx V"
Something like a blush passed over the visage
of yontour, and he was 'silent.
S!There is Elvira Hudson, too -a sprightly
ad comely cretur, and I might nampe a score of
others equally claiming our pity. Now whatis
'our duty as men-as men made stronger than
these-frail and pretty.ones, by natur V"
" To defend them, to the death."
"I knew you would say so., Humanity and
" common-decency, as ='twere demands it of us.
And possibly .Imay -say without boastin', that
r we have tried to protect:the people of the valley
" one and all. Have, we not been wakeful when
others slept have we, not, my friend, been on
the trail when others were on their beds, enjoy.
ing qquiet sleep ? Have we .not dared what
e others shrangkfrom, and slept beneath the open
skies when those for whom we, were ,exposin'
- ourselves were sheltered by comfortable roofs
7 that kept off the rain and the damp dews ? Can
our consciences :accuse us .of inactivity and
y idleness $"
n.   "Before the just Judge, I throw net, friend
r, Dunbar. Anid this very day Iheard the fair lips
sy of Hester Uammond declare, that David Dun'.
w bar'had donefall that mortal could do to pre-
a- vent the destruction of Wyoming."     S
ee   "Did that pretty cretur really say that i

THE ROYAL. GREEN.                6

asked the scout, pausing and laying his great that them two men ought to be disposed of, so
hand on Montour's shoulder,                they wont do no more mischief; the question is
"Dunbar, you know full well that when I who will do it.?"
speak, you hear the voice of one who would not  "It seems ,tp me that my brother's heart is
deceive you for his right hand. Miss Hammond, softening, and he .is becoming a squaw I Why
said those words when you were leaving the should his voice grow serious when a couple of
cabin."                                    false dogs are to die .Come, be a man. Time
"Heaven bless her, I say-heavdA bless her is flying, and soon the shouts of the Iroquois
in the manner she deserves I"              will be heard on the borders of the valley,
" Don't be down-hearted about it, Dunbar--- where dwell the handsome squaws that you
that girl is too good not to be sensible of your love,' added Castanego.  .
merits."                                     "The reproof is, in some respects, merited,
" May God forgive you, friend Roland, for but not wholly; for you must remember, Dela-
speakin' in that way to me ! You know very ware, that thenatur of a red .man and a white
well that I aint apresumptuous man; and never isn't the same, and they don't allers act from the
expected any favor from that quarter. In fact I same motive. It's probable that the Master of
may say that I care no more for the maiden Life has made everything as it should be, and
than I do for handsome Ellen Devron, or any for the best ; but there it is, and can't be dis-
other girl."                               puted, that the two races aint, alike in dispersi-
"My worthy Dunbar, it's no disgrace to love tion. In some respects I don't feel it no dis-
a comely and virtuous damsel, and the brave grace to be like a woman-for instance havin' a
ever deserve the fair."                    pure mind, and a heart ready to melt at the
"It isn't at all likely that my coarse natur is thought of the sufferin's of others--yet when iA
capable of feelin' what you call love---it isn't, in comes to action, why I'm somethin' rather dif-
fact, no ways reasonable to think so; and yet," ferent, I fancy. Now your nation has been call-
added the scout, pausing, "if I was susceptible' ed women by then-"
of that emotion, as 'twere, I know that the beau-  "Hush !" said Monfour, pulling his friend by
ty and goodness of Hester Hammond would- the sleeve in time to prevent the concl'o -of
would produce it, although it would be the most the sentence. "Some telltale bre
hopeless passion in the world."            the sound of our voice yonder,       L4
"Don't be too sure of that; for it is not Ih- you-will do quickly, that we m
probable that you are over modest, and rather friends, who will be alarmed at
blind, withal."                            absence."
"I know that it's an easy thing to be mis-  "We will .go opr and get rather nare'it
taken about matters ordinarily, in this world; isn't best to risk a long shot when so much de-
but the subject you're talking' of is sonethin' pends on it. Now creep softly, Roland, and as
different."                                for the Delaware, in course I needn't trouble
This conversation took place while the par- myself to caution him, for silence has got to be
ties were halting, waiting for those whom they second natur."-
were watching to go on again; for the latter had Vanalstine and his companion continued stand-
stopped at a bend and were turning many a ing by the water. The spot theyoccupied was
wistful glance up the river,               comparatively free from trees of a very large
My white brothers talk much, but not of pgze, and even the shrubbery .was not redindant
what is before them!' said the Delaware. ~ in growth;. but directly behind them  a hill
"But the conversation naterally led to what arose precipitously steep, casting over them  a
has been said, for in trying to reconcile our con- dark and misty shadow, making their Sgures
sciences to what is afore us, we were carried appear in the distanceindistinct, grim, and spec-
back, as I may say, to those as are our friends tre-like. Although our friends were within rifle
and neighbors, and in whomwe, as human cre- range, under ordinary circumstances, without
tours, feel an interest ; otherwise than tIat, I the disadvantages mentioned, but as matters
hold that the talk, as you call 'it, is to the pint, were, it was far from easy to look through the
and on the whole calculated to help us'- do our delicate sights and see such vague, ill-defined ob }
duty by 'em, like men. But now we'll waste no jects. Stealing along close to the water, they
more time in words. The truth is, we all feel hoped to lessen the distance and gain a point

THE ItOTAL GREENS.

it
w
F
1
t
t
C
k
f
y           r' s
.- C "          t
7                  L
3a
3               t
S'
IK'                    i
{{w
t               
i               t"
1t
ii
i
1
-       1
{i
i
. f
FC, y
t
C{       t          "
- t

a
s
" n
f
,y
1
t
1
k
1
¢         t
T
r
n;
4
r!
r,
cJ
3 P

67,


where the shadow of the back-ground would
affect them less. After much effort, and run-
ning some risk of discovery by their movements,
they reached a large rock, behind, *hich they
could stand, and over *hich they could look
and see Vanalstine and his companioti, but still
obscured by the misty veil thrown forward by.
the hill.
The, eout paused an instant ; something like
a sigh of regret escaped him, and then making a
motion to the Delaware, he raised his long'rifle.
The breech had nearly pressed his shoulder,
when again a feeling of irresolution or compunC-
titm appeared to arrest his hand, and he let the
weapon drop gently to the earth.
" It isn't because I'm a- coward, Delaware.
0, by no means i but-bat, red'man, they're my
-countrynen, and it goes agia my feelin's to lift
my hand for their hurt."
- " Give them the power and the sanguinary
Iroquois are not half so cruel," replied Mon-
tour, in the same voice.
"Enought   enough " said the.Delaw re.
",elm ready."' ddd
I hear the sound of oars or paddles," added
The Lenape laid his finger upon his lips to
admo h them to silence, and bent his head tO
lUst: ); j period of some seconds the par.
1ik  .figures of stone.
the  come 1" whispered the
c   :e     n's men and the Iroquois
&amp;r4andkvafley of Wyoming approaches the
hr of   bloody baptism t" said Roland.t
Dunbar passed his hand over his forehead, and
an expression of sadness, deep and palpable
played upon his sune-burned face.
"What now ought to be done " anxiously
inquired Montour.
"Wait," returned the Delaware, "wait til
they sweep round the bend into sight, that
may see how many."
"Good advice-brt these two men mustn't o
no account escape," added the scout.
The sounds grew snore audible momentarily
and in five minutes the foremost of the boat
shot round the bend ; they were filled with me
in green iiforit.

. .
c
1
:)'
. kS
3'    ++\
s
i
L
,{.

"

" The Royal Greens," said Dunbar.
"And here come some of the Senecas and the
Onondagas,'' added Castanlego.
" lalloo I this way !". cried Vanalstine, ad'
dressing one of the boats.
"Who the deuce are you ? What's wanted ?"
was the cturtgeply.
"'We are men;royal acd tre; and a fine job
we've got for you a short distance frotn here."
" Well, what may it be, lads 1"
"A nest of' rebels fast'asleep, to be made into
inince-meat by Butler's Rangers."
" Betrayed, are they 1"
'" Like simple sheep," said Vanalstine.
"Then we will go land shear.them-and close,
" There I" hissed Dunbar, "my feeling's of
humanity are gone. Delaware, take the one on
the right, and I'll do for the other, The Lord
have mercy on 'em I"
This time Dunbar's rifle went briskly to his
shoulder, and his keen, gray eyes seemed to
travel along, the barrel with right goodwill,
Montour could see, by the moonbeams, that his
honsest-looking face Was flashed with indigna
tion, and that his whole expression was as eager
and resolute as ithad been hesitating, undecided
.and sympathizing' a brief space before- He saw
the levelled rifle with no emotions of pity ; that
sentiment had given place to atiother. Were
miscreants, who betrayed them nearest neighbors
without compaction, worthy the commiser'
ationof honorable .mten, however hard their
d ft Montour kept his eyes on the two men. The
Delaware and the scout fired.    Vanalstine
y dropped down where he stood ; but the other
staggered and ran into the water. Roland's
l rifle spring to his face with inconceivable quick'
e ness, and its sharp, deadly voice went reverber.
ating through the hills in a series . of whip-like
n detonations.btheo tory fell forward against the
bows of the boat ; the men drew him in,,but he
y) did not stir ; they glanced at his head---saw the
ts wound, and pushed the inanimate body into the
n river.

P

CHAPTER XIV.

THiE FA2E OF FORT WINTERMOOT.
e mUNeARand his companions did not tarry to Delawares and the Oneidas  athr a
see more ; but with all possible speed retraced  taneor n  b~e   p rt as in,  ot.The
r=, their steps to the ravine,- where they had left hastened fad , bu~ntheore they reatohe The
tr men, and who were now awaiting their re- Susquehanna 'they heard a deafening   e
tu rnwith some degree of impatience and un- m   entry, followed by cries of terro a
m aiess, while the flotilla swept on        o pin
Now, my friends," said Roland, "is the     "Onr deluded neighbors are suffer
time to assert your claim to manhood, and that folly' , adedrne   a        ngfor their
courage which is its true teat. Follow us, and  "Not with a good grace can they claim our
w e  w ill  h o w  y o u  th at  w e  w ere  n o t  m istak en            t ewh n e as r ed h t o u f es e e d sc di g sy m p a thy ,"  an sw ered  L aw so n .
when we asserted that our foes were descending symAdth," addwere Lwohrn.    wl  o
the Susquehanna to make a grand demonstra-    "And yet," added the other, " we will not
tion upon Wyoming.    The man Vanalstine, refuse it."
who created a division among us, and well nigh  Nor an arm to help them," resumed Lawson.
thwarted our purposes (with his no less deceit-  "Haste, friends 1 haste1'"  cried'Dunbar
ful companion), has gone to his reward."    in a resolute voice.
The men of the valley trned their faces earn. There was little need now to admonish them
estly toward Montour, for an explanation,   to speed in their movements. If they had, per-
When sleep had closed the eyes and locked chance, felt any want of confidence in their lead-
the senses of their comrades and neighbors, Van. era previously, it was at that moment fully re--
left them to meet the forces of Butler, which are that they had professed, was at that juncture
now floating down yorer water. We followed sufficiently evident; and thoroughly ashamed qf
them-saw them watching for our foes, heard any doubt that their conduct might h ve implied
themlhail the rangers-and-and    you heard, during the night, they resolved to atone for the
doubtless, the report of our rifles ! That finishes same by their obedience in future, and their
my story."                                  bravery at that time.
The men grasped their weapons firmly, and   Before they reached the river they were met
'lemnde  tobe ed gaiast the enemy. The by several fugitives, who, mistaking them for a

e

r
'
i
t*
-           t
4           '
t
:t
f     '
t     1
r
s
_?x - F
r    _
b
1                A
r                t
f
a        t
S

i
f
s
-   t
4i
ll!
f
's
'
-,
t
;:
'  s
{ {        'x
.. 3 ^2
:"

, I

: ,
. ;,Y «x
i   k
ji:F'          ,
r Latt) tt       4
,,  y t

i
,; r
e                                     _
.

1n RO AL G11   8.


i
6t
t       1.
f
1
{t
t   1
V      {{
r.
: t.
)A
v
i ,
t
r  r          1
v
rk
C
7
t
tr   "                        r
4 #                   '
i
iX        F             ,            r
f             t           ,
1
3  i                                 ,

THE ROTA

L GE'ENS.

70                             THE ROYA
detachment of the enemy, fell upon their knees,
and begged stoutly for mercy.
Up, fools I" exclairged Dunbar; "up, and
show yourselves men and not cowards."
Some of the flying ones, as soon as they saw
how matters really were, fell in with the men,
and looking very penitent and sheepish, kept on
with them ; while others Bed like persons depriv-
ed of their senses.
Arrived at the river, below the spot where
the-fire had been kindled,'Montour and the scout
arranged their somewhat motley army in the way
that would best enable them to pour effectual
volgys upon the enemy when the boats should
pass. The firing abov them soon ceased; for
those who were not slain or wounded at the first
discharge, fled with all practicable speed in vari-
ous directions. Bitterly, when it was too late,
did they regret their folly, obtuseness, jealousy
and mutiny against the authority of those whom
they well knew ,could have no incentive to de-
ceive or lead them wantonly into danger. Those
whd had run off in an opposite course, would
have given all their possessions at the. valley,
for a single glimpse of the tall figure of the scout,
with his calm, honest features. The few who
hW  4   feso- fortunate as to meet the advane-
I   '   d,&amp;natives, said not a word, asked
, but with downcast eyes and
dropped into the ranks. No one
for feeling conscious of their fatal
er       that it had cost severallives, theywere
suffiiently rebuked'
There followed a short period of. silence,
broken soon by the sound of paddles and, oars
in notion. The. strange flotills drew in sight,
presenting a startling spectacle to the, dwellers
irk the valley--nen, however bold they might be
in the hour, ofactual conflict, were undisciplined
and unused' to seeing their enemies in such large
numbers., The Indians of the league were seen
in all their war-paint, dark, ktim and horrible,
skimming lightly over the water in their canoes ;
while the Royal Greens in bateaux, made up the
rest of the unpleasant show;
The whole of this fleet could not betaken in
at a single glance of the eye, fpr it extended up
the river a considerable distance.
"What do you think of their numbers ?I" Law-
son asked of the scout.
"Ishould set them down at a thousand," was
the reply.
"A  thousand men.!"   exclaimed Devron.
"Alas, who will protect;my child"

"Fear not," said Roland. "There are hands
that will not be forgetful of the needs of the
helpless' and the fair, among us."
" Observe," added Lawson to Montour, "how
grim and terrible those dusky warriors look in
the pale moonlight."
"I am thinking," resumed Devron, sorrow-
fully, "where their war-cries will be heard to-
morrow, how many ears they will-fill with des-
pair, how many hearts they will freeze with fear.
If I were alone in the world, much less should I
heed this visitation--much less should I dread
the shock of the storm ; but, friend Dunbar, I
have a dearly loved daughter."
"And a fair one she is, and you may well be
proud of her," responded the scout.
The conversation now wholly ceased, for the
moment of action had arrived. Concealed as
they were in the bushes 'and shrubbery, the
enemy were wholly ignorant of their nearness,
and consequently not anticipating the results of
such proximity.
Stepping to a position whereehe could be seen
by those who now confessed his authority, Dun.
bar waved his hand (which was the signal agreed
upon), and the mountain ranges resounded to
the rattle and crash of musketry, and the loud
war-whoops of savages suddenly startled from a
sense of security by the whistling of the deadly
ballet and the fall of companions seated at- their
side.
The' whigs'and their few faithful allies then
loaded and fired as rapidlyas possible, without
waiting for any 'particular orders.. When Bat-'
ler's army had somewhat recovered from the
first effects of the surprise, the fire was'returned
as random without much auceese, because their
shots were sent after foes whom they could not
see, and if one was wounded, it whs only by
chance. Knowing by the nature 'of the attack,
and the firing, that the assailants were but few
in number, the colonel commanded a strong de-
tachment of his rangers, to land sand force the
audacious handful of .rebels from, theirposition;
but by the.time the first, boas had touched the
bank, the objects of their vengeance were re-
treating.toward the valley, knowing that to re-
sist such everwhel    ,as would: be.in vain,
and result ina needless ateof life-
Balled-in this.purpose, .ioly~remiaed, for
the royalists to. smother- their: anger and. float
down the stream as befbre-
T ere was no lagging,'and every one did his
best to reach thevalley before the enemy. Just

as the sun was rising they came in sight ofl
Wintermoot's stockades Near it was a cabin in1
which a fire was blazingupon the hearth. -Mon-
tour rushed into the dwelling, seized a glowing
brand,'and shouting to the others'to follow, ran
toward the obnoxious fort and applied the burn-
ing wood in several places. .Instantly the tim-
bers ignited, the red flames leaped rapidly up
the palisades, and the works were soon sheeted
with liquid fire. Those who had garrisoned the
stockade, fled at the approach of the whigs, and
just in the border of the forest looked back and
saw their stronghold crumbling to ashes.
The flames darted up fiercely against the sky,
casting an unnatural glare far down the valley
and along the opposite side.
" Many's the time I've-wanted to see such -a:
sight a this," said Dunbar, as they moved on.
"And now," said Lawson, speaking to Roland,
" we must prepare for the great -trial of to-day."
The returning patriots were met at Fort Forty
by many anxious faces ; and many 'voices in.
quired concerning the night's adventures, which
had been heard but the day before s ,r'ng the
idea of danger. The alarms which hldso often
been sontaded were at that juncture fully realized,
and the most incredulous and deceived among
them could no longer doubt:
;We shall not dwell minutely on the prepara-
tions that were made to-repel the invaders. All
capable-of bearing arms assembled at Fort Forty.-
Fly' they could not, even had they been disposed
to do-so, although to their credit ,e it written,
there was no disposition to act such a craven
part when the conviction that :the foe was at
harid became general. The militia turned out,
and under the command of Colonel Zebulon
Butler (no relation of Colonel John), Lieutenant
Colonel Durrance, Major Garratt, and Colonel
Dennison, made ready to give battle to the
royalists.
As we have not mentioned the names of these
officers before, or rerred to them as making
efforts for the protection oftthe valley, it is in-'
.cumbent oil us to remark that they had been
absent on activeservice in the corntinental army,
ani had returned, some the day previ6 s
add others that very morning; hence the reason
that those gallant men have note itispoken'of.
On that eventful morning a council of war was
Balled to decide upon what course of action the.
exjgency required. Colonel-Zebulon 1lutler vas
in faeor of an immediate attack, and when there

a
F
f
i
rt

r
I

'
_!

L GREENS.                                71
had been considerable discussion pro and con,
the opinion of 1)unbar was asked.
\" Whether we had better march out and give
'ems battle, depends altogether upon circum-
stances, as 'twere. If there's any reason to ex-
pect rein1rcements front General Washington,
I should say if would be better to shut ourselves
up in the fort and wait. But it's probable that
you are better acquainted with these -matters
than I am. tinl tt we can take the tories by
surprise; I don't think the chances of success are
very great."
"Those are my own views," replied Colonel
Dorranee. "If 'we had the ability to surprise
our wily foes, we might hope to win the day.'
"I trusted that we might be able to do that,"
returned Colonel Butler, "for they  do not anti"
cipate an attack from us. They have encamped
not far above the ruins of Wintermoot's stock-
ade, as you know, and are regaling themselves,
I dare say, on thebest beeves they can find."
"Come, Mr. Montour, what do you think ? I
should like to know the opinion of one of whoaI
have heard so many flattering things during the
two hours I have been at Fort Forty," said Ma-
jor Garratt, turning to Roland.
An ingenuous blush passed over the young
man's face, for he observed that the eyes of all
the officers were directed toward him. He
quickly regained his self-control, and replied
with befitting modesty :
-" That' his opinion was probably: worth but
little when compared with that of veteran officers
who had 'seen much service; but' still were he
to express his-sentiments freely, he should say
that the -hasard of offering battle Wag great, be.
cause they  had no disciplined troops to 'oppose
the regular soldiery of the royal army. They
could not display in the field over four hundred
-men to do battle with a thousand strong. Again,
their force, consisting, as it did; of old men and
mere striplings, would-very probably be dismay-
ed by the shouts and terrific arts of six hundred
savages and their hideous war-paint-.-experienc-
ed braves who could fight'skilfully behind bushes,
stones and trees, and, creeping like serpents, or
running like moose, outflank their untried
militia."
" Very sensibly spoken," exclaimed Colonel
Dorrance..
"It would be prudent, before making the at-
tack, to send forward a small scouting party," re-
turned Zebulon Butler.

tl,


_ s
i             "
8
$
} ,          ,                    s
" . R's          )                  3
.T
,                               ,

+                   i l
-      -             1r
(                f
r
5                     r
1                 ,
c'
f
r
I+   a                     r
t                    i
f
f
e-
.  j  4                         1,

AL GREENS.

72                             THE'ROY
This was certainly a very reasonable sugges-
tion, and Dunbar was selected as the person best
fitted for this service. It was a duty he was
well qualified to perform, and he proceeded very
calmly to the discharge of the same. Passing
the smouldering timbers of Fort Wintermoot,
and advancing under cover as much as possible,
he was soon able to get a, very good view of the
tory camp. They were at dinner, and gave
evidence of being in the best offpirits. In sur-
veying the motley groups engaged in that agree-
able occupation, his 'eyes rested on Lanaway,
Wintermoot and Martin Secord. The spectacle
made his blood tingle with indignation, and cast-
ing a wistful look at his rifle, he regretted that he
could not use it in a manner which justice de-
manded. - Nor were the individuals whom we
have named the only ones whom, the scout re-
eognized. He saw many who had once professed
to be whigs, and who had freely expressed their
hypocritical opinions when the patriots were
consulting each other for the mutual good, and
given advice which hadserved, as he could now
see, to increase the apathetic indifference of the
lessshrewd.
" Heartless men !" mused Dunbar. "How
can they rejoice and be merry at the thought of
so much suffering as their wicked treachery will
produce ?"
Wintermoot'was talking earnestly with his-
companions, and the scout felt a strong desire
to get near enough to hear the conversation.
Fortunately for him, the Senecas (whb were
under the command of Gien-qwa-tah) were en-
camped 'beyond the tories, between them and
the woods, and this circumstance lessened the
chances of discovery; because the ears .of an
Indian are more ready to hear the light move-
meats of an enemy, and their eyes quicker to
detect the presence-of an unwelcome lurker.
Dunbar crept nearer and still nearer, until the
voices of the royalists were audible. He fancied
he heard the name of Hester Hammond uttered
in a contemptuous tone, and that increased his
desire to hear more. Slowly he advanced. Lana-
way was speaking, and the following words,
greeted his ears, which were obviously in reply
to some remark made by another party.
"If it hadn't been for the black fellow, we
should have done very well."
"Our success would have been certain," re-
sponded Martin, 'helping himself plentifully to.
the eatables.

73

THE RpYAL GREENS.

caped death as if by miracle. Experienced-war-  "Jealous of such a dolt !" he exclaimed, after
riors have been on their trail-they have been a pause."Hes  Hammond cares little for the
dogged night and day, and fired at by marks- like of him."
men considered skilful ; but, as you are aware,  "That's the only true thing you've spoken
the two obnoxious persons are still in existence," this long time," thought Dunbar, whose ehimto
said Lanaway.                              moethat heo d ot   ite an inst der allnimt
" I have surmised, Lanaway, that you had, imagine that he had excited a teiuder sentiment
possibly, some uncomfortable feelings of jealousy in the heart of the fair Quakeress.
in connection with Roland Montour ?" added Some conversation then ensued relating moey
interonneto with aRovert smile.u . especiallytothe respective maidens for whomithey
Wint"Perhaps It have, but thatmconcerns only my- professed to feel a friendship of so peculiar and
self; but I have seriously supposed at times, lasting a nature, and which the scout did not
that you were terribly jealous of that David deem it prudent to wait to hear. The names of
Dunbar."                                   Ellen Devro and Elvira Hudson were the last
An angry scowl contracted the forehead of words that the winds wafted after him as he crept
the tory, and he muttered some kind of an im- away.
precation which the scout could not hear.
t

- .*
"
.
'                  ,
}.                      _,,             t

yj "
_, { .
i;.
=,  '   J r
.,  3
r :  ;
'y'  a
1t.4 Fi
. , ;  ,
,_a   a
P s}:
tY    .
.r'3Yi.
' y ^i      '
.,; Y
r ' .
,      r 3
,         k Xr
.' "
4..
:_     R
_       4fY
+ t
,, ,:,
S ;,ii.
"       ,iF

" The darkey struck uncommonly hard !"
t added the other.
" There is one thing'will tend to console you,"
said Wintermoot, with a laugh. " You suffered
for the sake of beauty; although without in-
creasing your own personal good looks."
" To be sure I have got a black eye, but time
will cure that evil," Lanaway replied.
"And I," resumed Martin, "have not only a
black-and-blue eye, but a bruised and discolored
ear ; and while we are speaking of the subject,
I will remark that I was once kicked by a young
colt, and knocked into a heap (metaphorically) ;
but that was' a mere trifle to the blow that the
nigger dealt me yesterday. But I've chalked it
down, boys, against him, and hope to square' the
account before the day closes."
. "I also," said Wintermoot, moodily,, "have
an account to adjust with a certain person, which
I trust will be duly cancelled."
"How cancelled ?" inquired Martin, with a
sinister smile.
" With blood !" rejoined Wintermoot, Rercely,
"And who may that man be ?"
" David Dunbar."
"The scout of'the Susquehanna I" exclaimed
Martin, with a start.
" The same."
"And right well I. know him ; I have also a
'spore set down to his debt which must be looked
to sooner or later," added Martin.
"There are one or two others of the same ilk,
who have done.us much harm," Lanaway ob-
served, with an unseemly oath.
"Name them ; though there Is small need of
it, f'or I presume we all know who you mean,"
Wintermoot responded.
"Montour, and a stranger, who hovers about
the valley, appearing at different times and
places, and has frequently been seen with the
young fAllow I have mentioned," said Lanaway
"I have learned his name ; he is called Law
son," .resumed Wintermoot.
"I heard the Seneca chief talking of him to
day; he has learned that it was through Law
son's agency that Montour made his escape
after he'was captured by him," continued Martin.
"Then he marred a plan welllaid. It was
Colonel Butler's intention that both Montour
-and Dunbar should be put out of the way, for
they were, figuratively speaking, the eyes of the
valley, and nothing could be done without their
getting knowledge of it. Often have they en-

K
Mkt
t
't
.
i

1 0


It.Fe-? q                                                                                                                                                            "Ca'

;.
t'r        -       ji
4
s
, -
_                 '
t   
Y
_   il
y  t                 ,.

f

CHAPTER XV.

THE BATTLE.
DUNBARf lattered himself that the most criti-  "I don't expect nothing' different from that at
cal part of his task was accomplished, when Gi- your oneds," said Dunbar. "Although t an
en-qwa-tah, attended 'by three or four of his  o I had  ' n  bar.      suficgh not long
warriors (who had been reconnoitering) ap- son for making' A my power and a sufficient rea-
proached id that direction  and came suddenly  take advantage of the circumstance out of merci-
upon him. He sprang-from the ground, knock. ful considerations. But I didn't supposeyou'd
ed one of themi down and would have escaped, remconmbersucatins. uto rer it in kind, and
had not Gi-en-gwa-tah and the other two braves you see I paint disappinted in them respects."
thrown themselves upon him with the agility 'of  Your course is pretty near run, I take it,"
panthers. The scout bestirred himself like a said Wintermoot.
man, and putting forth his herculean strength,  " erhaps it is, but every lau's time comes
attempted to shake off his adversaries, and as sooner nor he's ready for it. Few of us, I reck-
much as the chances were against him would on, will be found prepared for such a wondrous,
possibly even then-have succeeded in his pur- change. But I'vedone my duty, and have
pose, had not the gun of one of the Indians been nothin' to be afeared of in that respect. I've
dischaged in the scuffle, attracting instantly the loved my country, and did itabest for the cause
attention of the tories, a party of whom ran to of freedom. To be sure, I haven't done all I
the spot (among whom were Wintermoot, Lana- wish I could, but enue, to gave doe a clea
way and Secord), who immediately decided the conscience, as I may say, and take away the
matter. His arms were pinioned by tle Seneca terror of what's afore me in giving' up this world
chief', and he whose limbs but a few moments for the other," Dunbar answered, with his wont-
before were free, was now a prisoner. .I ed calmness of demeanor.
Wiutermoot approached and touching the     "Well, we don't want to hear no preaching
scout upon the arm, testified his pleasurQ at see- to-day, for we have other work to do. In about
ing him in uet a situation by a loud laugh, five minutes we will stop your rebel tongue
which had in it something umtural and diaboli- forever," added Wintermoot.ygue
cal. Martin Secord, after looking at the quiet  "As for that matter, I conclude you haven't
face of Dunbar a moment, proposed that he much authority over me, because .I was taken
shodb in~stlypu todeth              by this redskin, and I fancy he'll dispose of me

i

75

f
3                  ,
I
fly.
f   1                          1                                 .
'r
f' I                        t
t                     '
c                     217
l
i
Y
2                            E                      1
j
s
t
E                   1
t
1     7 -                   S
E
Y - ,
E  .
t
f
t
P
1

I
I lim 11                   X  lp 1  1111 Rli;i M   , 11 A I'll III

are there at Fort Forty ?" said the
s he-pleases," Dunbar remarked, for he observ-  g en
ed that the Seneca chief was not pleased with colon.'
hat had ben said.                  you imayr have heard of me, but it'spli
"We sha eide tha" resumed Winter- yoU don't know m anrsweredthe scout. "No
t gasping thescout by the shoulder with man as knows me would ask such a question as
T   moat, graspnth                              that"
intention of dragging him away to a spotthtI
nheitthe    execution of hi threat. But  Butler mused a moment, playing meanwhile
e had reckoned too highly on his power. G- with the hilt of his sword.
en.gwa-rah quickly interposed his authority.  "Come, my good fellow; tell me whatkind of
"Thisaptuive wanto en s a they.ea turn-out they will make Q" he added.
" This captive was notd dakengby thepale    " Enough to make a bloody field-.--enough to
face o! he anriy exclaimed, disengagmng th  send some of your villains home to their father-
handoftheetor  withis sudenp   e   entr- the great prince of the powers of darkness,
-   Wintermoot resented this unexpected inter- moodily rejoined the scout.
ference, and in the first heat of passion drew a  "  ejave  the scor
pisol r~mhisbel, i whch ct e ws iitaed  We have a game fellow here, surely. Sene-
pistol frby his belt, in which act he was-mtathRd ca, you must keep your eyes on him."
at once by his two friends. .cGhiren-gwah and  '"I would suggest, your honor, that he be
his braves clutched their totnhak, adfr       agd at once," said M~artin Secord, touching
moment there was a fair prospect of a serious hanged.
emeute; but Butler opportunely reached the spot  When I want your advice, I'll ask it" re-
at that crisis, and sternly rebuked Winter*oot iWeathecolonel,sternly, andeartin slun await
for provoking the Seneca's ire. The pstols behind Wintermoot,
went back to their places, instantly, and the war- bhI wish so brave a man could have been e
riors of the league looked sullenly at those who   wis o  rase,"  culd have beene-
ha°vrtpe:hi egtmt                       ons     n   t listed on the right side," resumed Butler, glane-
Shad overstepped their legitiinate bounds, and at- iga    ubr
tempted to violate established usages.isgaDnbr
Temt  t vis esabvisd uagtescoutf   ".Then you've got your wish !" exclaimed the
the souout
"This then is David Dunbar,th    cuo    scout.
whose cunning I have' heard so many eftrava- "iIf you could be made to see what is for
said things ' My red brother has done well'your interest, those bonds might be severed."
said the coldfhel.                      n   ""I'd rather wear 'em than change my senti-
The eyes of the Seneas are always open," ments, It was born in me to be airnest in what-
returned He-who-goes in the smoke.          ever I under ke, and I can't be no otherwise.
"They are the boldest of the Iroquois," added "Well, if you rather die a reel than live a
Butler.                                     loyalist, have your own way;
"And the Oneidas are squaws," returned the but you might think your life worth saving."
chief.                                        "Not at the price you name, or rather at the
Yes, they are women, and do not know their price you hint at. I'll submit to my  e
ow  idsri."e                   frto    best wyIcn and hope you'll be able when
"Some of them are yonder in the big fort of you're called for, to go with as clear a conscience ;
our enemies."                               but you've shed too much innocents blood to
"I expected it, and have long been in doubt hope for any peace in the hour of death. It's a
of them; but'the Senecas and Onondagas are pity you hadn't given up life in in cy
full-grown men, with hearts like buffaloes, and you'd well begun it, so thatyou might have been
swift of foot as the wild moose.            spared the infamy which will alleys cling to your
Giun.a-tah heard these complimentary say- memory, and curse your name as on asthe
logs without changing a muscle of his face.  history of these tryin' times shall endure."
"yyoung braves are thirsting for blood,"  The tory le ;r  hs   aeri o      edwt
t  he replied.                             horror, gazed at the glowing face of the scout an
"eThey shall soon have it-it shall run like instant, and  e s   n    s
wate."       *but xcitd voice. Dunbar saw the chief -shake
"And will God have mercy on the souls of his head and frown, and then the colonel walked
them as cause it'to be poured out ?" exclaimed away with a lowering brow.
flunbar.                           Gi-en-gwa-tah motioned for his prisoner t
a            r.             w many fight- follow, and proceeded to the place where his
"Ihave heard of you, sir. How ay g

THE ROYAL GREENS.


fl                         ;!
'i
;R
f                         i,
;
1                       }
:a                        i5'
.                              f
'
!  ,
e       .
i1
"  +                     t
7  l
'r'                      # "
j {
,,
3  .
,"

r,     s
'1 y.,          fill
76

warriors were feasting. There was a small de- that more than once she permitted her mind to
serted cabin near, into which Dunbar was con- dwell upon Roland Montour. Once during the
ducted. His limbs were then more, securely day he had passed the cabin, paused a few mo-
bound, and he was left the sole occupant of the' ments at the door to exchange afew, words.with
dwelling, a guard of warriors being duly placed' her father and Cato. He had seen and recog-
without to prevent the escape of a captive of so nized her with the common salutations of the
much importance. He did not gather any hope day; but by some means the gentle maiden re-
of being spared through the clemency ofhIris cap- ceived the impression that his voice: took on a
tor, because he had prevented Wintermoot and different tone-was modulated  to  a softer
his associates from gratifying their malice on cadence when he addressed her. He had also,
the spot, by adding murder to their other crimes. she 'imagined, changed color and manifested
Too well was he acquainted with savage habits some confusion ; and Miss Hudson averred that
and usages long sanctioned among the aborigi- his eyes had followed the pretty figure of her
nals, to entertain such fallacious views. That friend Ellen, with evident pleasure. This she
he was reserved for a death less easy, he was whispered to the damsel the moment Montour
not so obtuse as not to perceive. His sanguinary had departed, thereby causing her face to become
conqueror wished to submit hirm to those terrible suddenly suffused. It is not improbable that
ordeals which were well calculated to shake the Ellen retorted upon the malicious girl, by some
strongest heart with fear.                 sly reference to Edward Gaston, though of this
With that philosophy which he had learned we have no'positive'knowledge; but it is quite
from nature more than from books, he endeavor- certa* that if aught could be said by either party
ed to reconcile himself to a situation from which calculated to excite a smile and produce a mo-
there now appeared no way of escape. He thought mentary forgetfulness of their perilous situation,
of Hester Hammond, and wondered what would it was not left unspoken.
be her fate when the tide of battle swept down  The sun of the third of July, 1778, passed the
the valley. Who would fly to save her when all meridian, and his rays, poured down brightly
was lost-when the young men and the old who upon the valley.  The green grain, just up,
were now making ready to do their best, lay waved Ih the soft summer air ; the, grass undu-'
stretched, wounded or lifeless, upon the fields of lated upon the beautiful meadows, ad the spring
Wyoming ? Her father and brother would both flowers nodded in the pleasant warmth; the
be in the conflict about to ensue, and if they leaves turned to the gladdening light, and the
should fall-Dunbar shuddered; and devoutly waters murmured musically through the lovely
wished he could think of some subject more com- vale.
forting ; but the painful theme wad forced upon  -"On Susquehanna's side, fair Wyoming!
him and couldn't be dismissed.               Although the wild flower on thy ruined wan,
And roofless homes, a cad remembrance bring
Leaving our friend in this unpleasant dilem-  Of what thy gentle people did befall,
ma, we will,note the fortunes of others .rtie Yet tho wertonce the loveliest land of all
concend wilno the  fns  o  her parties   That see the Atlantic wave their morn restore."
concerned in these events.                   Ellen and Elvirastood at the door of the cabin,
Wearily and fearfully passed the hours at Mrn. okd    pnec     fuiitscn       fta
Hudson's pabin. Fair and anxious ones waite' and looked upon each familiar scene of that
in dread suspense to hear the sound of mortal earthly paradise; and while they gazed, inhaled
combat. Many of the women and children had the perf  med zephyrs, and listened to the cheer-
taken refuge at Fort Forty, but the inmates of ful notes oflinnumeable birds, they tried to think
the dwelling we have named, preferred to re- that the tales they had heard of war and danger
main atltome and abide the issue there. If their were but idle dreams of the night, and that amid
defenders proved victorious, it would make bu  that rural scenery,
little difference whether they were at the cabin or  "The happy she herd swains had nought to do
the fort,*°and if they were vanquished, they  Or skim perchance the  a with lhtes,,
argued that they could meet their fate there as  Recalled from the momentary abstraction, the
well as at any other place. Not a single male m aieca edotheimomentay aces up the river.
protector remained with them-all had gone th e"The valley smiles beautifully to-day, in its
meetthe oe.loveliness," said Elvjra.
That Ellen Devron thought of her father was  "Yes, but methinks there is an awful stillness
very nathral; nor may it be deemed unmaidenly in the air."

"No, Ellen, here comes a, gentle little zephyr I
to  stir your ringlets." *t
" But I mean that there is something terribly
oppressive in the' atmosphere, despite -all its.
fragrance. The sky seems to bend over the
valley with a brassy, fiery fixedness, tht awes my
spirit," said Ellen.
Elvira shuddered and again threw anxious
glances up the river."s
" Do you hear, aught, my children?" asked 
Mrs. Hudson, coming to the door.
"Not a sound to indicate that the battle has
commenced," replied Elvira.               .
"Put up prayers, to the God of armies, chil-
dren," added Mrs. Hudson, in a voice low and
tremulous.
The good lady had scarcely ceased speaking,
when the roll and rattle and roar of musketry,
in rapid and continuous volleys, reached their ex-
pectant ears.
" The dreadful work has begun I" exclaimed
Mrs. Hudson; " Husbands and fathers, brothers
and lovers are now being swept away by the
demon of war. Heaven only knows how many
that-are dear to us are being prostrated by those
fearful volleys I"
Soon a dense volume of smoke arose, and
gradually expanding, hung over the valley like
a thunder-cloud of three-fold blackness. The
air, recently so odorous with the breath of flow-
ers, became impregnated with sulphurous fumes.
With claspedl hands and parted lips, the maidens
continued to strain their eyes toward the scene,
of tumult, and listen to the heavy volleys that
were sending hundreds of souls to the world
eternal.
S" It seems to me," said Ellen, " that the firing
grows more distinct."
'" Then they must be retreating," returned
Elvira.
.Ellen did not ask who were retreating, for she
knew if their friends were the victors, the battle
would roll from them and up the valley toward
Lackawannock.                           -
Now we will approach the scene of conflict,
note the disposition of the Americans and the'
conduct of our hero. When the hastily raised
and ill armed army reached the place where the
battle was fought, they found the rangers and
Indians drawn up in line, and ready to receive
them. The command of the left was entrusted

TAE ROYAL GREENS.

Ai4
1  -

4
t
,.
"     c              .
,
}              ,
E ±±
1
k                   tib
,  s                rt
s
k
4
y {  t           F
rn  II
4
" d](4c
A    Y
I              4i { ,

THE ROYAL

GREENS..                           -'7
to Colonels Dennison and Dorrance ; while the
right was led by Colonel Zebulon Butler in per-
son, aided by Major Garratt. Opposed to the
latter, were the Rangers and Greens, command-
ed by Colonel John Butler. The enemy's right
was led by Gi-en-gwa-tah, and consisted mostly
of Senecas.
The Delaware chief and his warriors were on
the left, and Montour was also in that division
of the army. When the action commenced
Roland looked for Lawson; but he was not to be
seen ; in a few minutes after he saw him ap-
proaching through the thickest of the fight, where
the bullets were flying like hailstones.
" The scout is a prisoner," he said, advancing
to our hero's side. The words fell heavily on
Montour's heart.
"By whom was he taken ?" he asked.
" By the Seneca chief, who is fighting like a
fiend yonder, and whose war-cry rises loudly
above all others on the field."
"Then there is hope for him," returned
Roland.
"A forlorn one, at best."
"He must be rescued," added Montour, wip-
ing the smoke and powder from his face.
"That is more easily said than done," said
Lawson, dily.,
"But I shall try it, nevertheless, though it
cost me the best blood in my body. I cannot
rest while my friend lies bound like a dog, await-
ing the pains of a direful death. You are a
brave man, sir-may I not rely on your aid?"
" Consult yonder Delaware, and I will abide
by the result; I place much reliance upon his
judgment," Lawson-answered.
"Have you been long acquainted with him ?"
asked Roland, with 0 strong feeling of curiosity.
"I knew him when he was but a child, but
that was long ago." Montour looked earnestly
at Lawson, and then advanced toward the spot
where he heard the shout of tbi Lenni Lenape.
He saw men and youth falling on every side of
him, and the ranks of the Americans momenta-
rily growing thinner. He spoke words of cheer
as he passed along, and encouraged them with
hopes which he was far from feeling. On alittle
grAssy knoll he saw the body of a boy with
bright flaxen hair, lying beside the mutilated
corpse of an old man, whose head was white as
the snows of winter.


(

1'
- x
z
f1
! J             f                 "
f    i           r
1                               r
fgAl              F              ,
t" fi
yy     1.       r
]i             ,
t
F
tn4                  {
ff-F
Fr
1TZ                       r   _
S {{{1
1 }                      '
t             I
1                    r
i
3              l
i
'      'Fi' I         1    Fr    +
C
1                            1
1
-                   Sfk
y                      1
y
S    i  t"        ''
s"

CHAPTER XVI.
INCIDENTS OF THE CONFLICT.
MONTOURomoved on, and Lawson walked at     "Yes, we must move quickly-they are cx-
his side. A few yards to his right he saw a lad ercising their skill upon us. See ! a ball whist-
intently watching a bush, and while he was yet led through your hunting shirt."
observing him, a Seneca cautiously put ,forth " My dear friend, do not thus expose your-
his head to elect another victim, when the self-walk on that side," added Lawson, with
youthful warrior shot him.                 some agitation of manner, and placinghimself
"Braveboy ! brave boy !" exclaimed Lawson. between Montour and the fire of the Iroquois.
"Yes, all are bold to-day," returned Roland. And then Roland remembered, though he his
A little farther on our hero saw a wounded not before noticed the fact particularlysthati
man sitting upon the grass, trying to staunch eccentric friend had maintained that position
the bleeding from a wound  in his arm, and during their walk across the field of battle until
threw him his handkerchief to assist him in his the incident of the wounded man hadhanged it.
purpose.                                   At this singular circumstance he marvelled
"I thank you," he said; " I am earnest to much, for his new acquaintance had made no
oin the battle again."                   professions of friendship. He also recollete d
Whilb the soldier was wrapping the handker- (and what had just occurred revived the remem-
chief about his arm,:a bullet from a concealed brance), that at the skirmish on the river, Law-
foeman stretched'him  upon the ground. Mon- son had been continually near his person, and
tour saw the 4moke cui-ling from behind, a rock, often between him and the enemy's fire. Amid
and keeping his eye upon the spot, soon saw a all the horrors and dangers that environed him,
rifle barrel thrust over it, and the painted fore- *he could not but dwell upon so strange a matter
head of an Onondaga. Roland was quick of "You have placed yourself in the mos ex-
sight, and that savage never looked through the posed position," he remarked.
" sights " again. At the instant he discharged  " Have I?  Well, it was quite by chance.
his weapon, a leaden messenger passed through Hark I that was the war-cry of Castanego--that
his cap, and another perforated hiscanteen.  is he running to take a scalp. Here Obse re
" Gi-en.qwa-tah's devils are concealed in yon- near Captain Bidlack's company.
der thicket and quite along to the marsh. We how he cheers his men I"
are under their fire," said Lawson.         Lawson pointed at the gaa

79

directed Montour's attention to him, and before  "I fear your care is useless, Mr. Montour,"
his hand had fallen again to his side, the figure he said. "And I am taking you from a post
which his finger had indicated had received a where you were doing good service."
mortal hurt and was.sinking down upon the,  "There is always a chance for those whoimake
blood-stained turf.                       an effort," answered  Roland, hastening on.
"Rest, gallant soul !" exelaimed,,Roland, and When he had reached the bank of -the river, he
hurried toward the Delaware chief.,       glanced behind -him and discovered that he was
The Iroquois appeared to be divided into six pursued.
bands, and when a loud shout from one party  "Some one is after me," he said, laying his
told of the fall of some brave enemy, it was taken friend gently upon the ground. Turning again
up in dreadful chorus by all the.others and pass- he recognized his pursuer, it being no other than
ed along the whole right wing.            Martin Secord; who had already levelled his gun.
Montour threw himself prone upon the earth,
'Bounfls that mingled laugh. and shout, and s aredal.
To freeze the blood in one discordant jar,  and the bullet went harmlessly over him. Leap
Rung the pealing thunder-bolts of war.  ing to his feet, he hurled his hatchet at Martin;
hAs i unearthly fiends had burst heir bar;  it struck him upon the head and lfe fell..~ Ro-
While rapidly theaarksman's shot prevailed;-  land caught his bleeding burden from the earth,
And ay, as if for death, sonme lonely trumpet wailed;"
and looking hastily about for the means of hid-
"Fight gallantly, lads! Do your best, , for ing him, saw a bateau partly drawn up from the
Butler gives no quarter-to-day !" cried Montour, water. In the bottom of the vessel he placed
springing to the head of-the column, where the Gaston, then tearing out a portion of the lining
captain had fallen.                      of his frock, he bandaged the *ound to the best
Encouraged by his example, they stood their of his ability, and pushed the boat into the
ground against the storm of destruction that stream, when it was immediately taken by the
swept them away and decimated their ranks. current and floated down the valley.
Whileathey were fearlessly breasting ~the leaden " That will at least give him a chance for his
tempest, the voice of Dorranee rang out over the life," said our hero, as he stood and watched the
field, nerving every heart to firmness. One poor bateau a-moment as it was carried away.
fellow flinched as the smoke, fire and sulphurous He went to the spot where Martin Secord had
steam blinded his eyes.                   fallen, but he was no longer there ; he had
"Standup to your work, sir ! stand up boldly, doubtless been stunned by the blow, and not
lad !" claimed Dorrance, whose eye -seemed dangerously wounded.
to be upon every one under llis command.    The-battle had now raged a long time, and it.
Chivalric Dorrancel those were his last words, was beginning to be dark. When he reached
the hissing bullet struck him down where he the left wing again, the Americans were slowly
stood. The head of the column wavered-the giving ground, and the savages, were turning
most reckless and brave hesitated.        their flank. At the time when .he took up Gas-
"Keep your ground, men-all is not lost ! ton to bear him from the conflict, Mr. Devron
Remember that British Butler gives us no quar- and young William Hammond were fighting
ter !" shouted Roland.                    side by side, but now he looked in vain among
"Mr. Montour, I am wounded," said a faint the grim and blackened faces to find them. He-
voice at his side.  Roland turned and saw, thought of the lovely Ellen, and in his solicitude
through the dark haze of battle, the form of for the safety of her father, forgot his own dan-
Edward Qaston stretched at his feet,- " Good- ger, and for a brief space his tried friend Dun-
by, my friend-I expect I'm sped. Tell bar. He ran from group. to group (for ranks
Elvira-"    -                             there were none, the men were so cut up), but
"Take my place, Mr. Lawson," interrupted could not see the object of his anxiety. He
Roland, "while I convey my friend to some passed the foremost of the shattered companies,
spot where he will not lose his scalp, or be trod. and continued his search among the dead and
den to death by the combatants."          wounded.
"Heaven only knows where you will find    "Come back !" cried Lawson, but Montour
such a spot," replied Lawson. Montour took did not heed him, but walked over the ground
Gaston in his arms and bore him toward the which the men of Wyoming had lost, unmind-
river.              ,.                   ,ful of the unremitting fire in that quarter. H .

THE ROYAL GREENS.

t
t'
4
i            i
k
" 1                            "
.M       i   'cr" -   '  lK


i
1         r                    _
1         i
f S
iiCCCC          Y  +
t
f   a/           t
f
i
(r
r

r
,
e

at length found Devron sitting by a heap of the
dead, calmly awaiting his fate-the coup de grace
and the scalping knife. Nor would he have been
kept long in dread of the catastrophe, for a war-
rior was even then advancing with a frightful
cry to give him the death-stroke. Montour met
the Seneca with a strong bound, and grasping
the wrist that swung the uplifted tomahawk,
buried his hunting knife in his bosom. The yell
of triumph subsided to a hollow groan, and an
ominous rattle in'the throat.
"Done, right bravely!" exclaimed Devron.
"Now fly for your life ! Give my love to Ellen,
God bless her 1" Roland made no answer, but
caught the wounded man in his arms.
"Dar'll be trubbil dar !" cried some one whose
voice it was not difficult to know. Montopr
glanced toward a clump of bushes on his right
and saw Cato contending with Wintermoot and
two of the natives.. While he was considering
what to do, he perceived Lawson running to the
scene.
" Good heavens, my dear Roland! you are
extremely rash !" he heard him exclaim.
" Hasten to aid Cato," replied Montour, and
then hurried forward with his burden.
"Leave me, gallant young man ! This-will
cost you your life !" remonstrated Devron, un-
willing to involve another in the doom, which,
to him, appeared inevitable. The retreat had
now become a flight. Vainly did Colonel Zebu-
Ion Butler try to rally his men. He rode back
and forth over the field, his gray hairs stream-
ing in the wind, commanding and entreating by
turns.
"Do not leave me, my children ! Maintain
your ground, and!the victory will be oirs i"
But the voice of the veteran was unable to stay
the, tide of retreat, and restore the fortunes of the
day. A steady blaze'of fire followed his course
over tive plains, while he strove to produce Qrder
and obedience. The curtain of night fell deeper
and darker, and gloomily the smoke of battle
mingled with the shades of twilight. Then com-
menced the horrors of retreat. Order was gone,
and the Americans presented no serried line to
oppose the exultant foe. Wild, disorderly and
fatal was the flight of the miserable debris of the
army. Demons mad shrieked after them, and
direful deeds were done on the fair meadows of
Wyoming..,,*i
As Montour went on with his wounded friend,
he came to a. spot where a- determined handful
still made a desperate stand.

"Our men are retreating-sisll we follow ?"
he heard one ask.
" I'll have one shot more," replied the person
addressed, while at the same moment a ball
struck a tree close. by his head, and a native
sprang toward him with a spear. The whole-
souled fellow, who would have "one shot more,"
had the privilege, and the savage leaped high in
the air and fell with his weapon clutched con-
vulsively in his hand.
"Now come," added his friend, but with un-
parralleled calmness he answered, "I'll load
first."*
" What is that man's name ?" asked Montour,
struck with admiration at his conduct.
" George Cooper," replied Mr. Devron.
"It should be remembered," returned Roland,
with enthusiasm.
If the reader will take the trouble to consult
the pages of Stone's or Miner's History of Wyo-
ming, he will, much to this satisfaction, learn,
that such acts of boldness are not speedily for-
gotten by a grateful people.  Long will the
memory of Butler, Dorrance, Hewitt, Garratt,
and a score of others, be cherished by the lovers
of liberty.
"But these are deeds which should not pass away,
And names thamustnot wither, though the earth
Forgets her empires with a just decay,
The enslavers and the enslaved, their death and birth;
The high the mountain-majesty of worth
Should be, and shall, survivor of its woe,
And from tts immortality look forth
In the sun's face, like yonderAljiine snow,
Imperishably pure beyond all things below."
Captain Hewitt,'whose fate is well known to
those versed in the history of those fearful times,
was at that crisis striving to make the drummer
" strike up ;" but his drum was literally riddled
with balls, and a tin-pan would have been quite
as good for his purpose. .
" Shall we retreat V' asked one of his lieuten-
ants. " We are left alone."
" I'll be shot if I do !" retorted the captain,
resolutely.
He did not stir and was "shot" where he
was. The next day his body was found mutila-
ted and scalped.
Here indeed was a rare exhibition of courage ;
and Montour as he pushed forward with Devron,
prayed fervently that the captain might be spared
to his country many years; but when he looked
back, after going a few rods, he was no longer
to be seen-he was stretched beside other noble
hearts that had ceased to beat.
*This incident, and sevei~l related in this chapter
have the merit of being strictly true.

if

I
Al

THE ROYAL GREENS.

CHAPTER XVII,
OT1R EVEN'T5 OF TMTE N!GIIT.
ONWARD Montour hurried, not well knowing    "Are you a strong swimmer ?" Roland asked,
which way he should bend. his footsteps to find addressing Cato. The negro signified in his
a place of safety. To the oft repeated proposi- own peculiar manner " dat he was awful strong
tion of Devron to leave him to his fate, he gave in dat ar' way."
no attention. It will be borne in mind that he  "I do not think he can keep such a dead
had carried Gaston to the river, and it occurred weight above water for such a distance," said
to him that his best chance of escape was in that Mr. Devron, who was severely wounded in the
direction. The pursuit had - swept by him,.and side.
the few who still remained on the field,.and the  "Stop," replied Castanego, and immediately
yells of the great body of the Iroquois, were ran up the river until his figure was lost sight of
heard on the track of the flying Americans, and in the darkness. The parties awaited his return
this circumstance was greatly in his favor. Oc. in-silence. Cato was the first to announce that
casionally he saw a native lingering behind to the Delaware was coming. He appeared guid.
rob the dead or take a scalp ; and several tories ing a bateau close up under the shadow of the,
he discovered engaged in plundering the stiffen- bank; he had detached it from the enemy's fleet
ing bodies of their former neighbors. He glided of boats above. The African lifted Devron into
along so adroitly that he gained the Susquehanna the vessel, anSI in obedience to a motion from
without being pursued. Looking down the river, Montour got in himself.
he could see by the commotion of the water that "Now, Cato," said Roland, "I commit Mra
many fugitives were trying to swim across, some Devron to your care. On your faithfulness de-
of whom were overtaken and slain, while others pends. his life. When you reach the opposite
sunk from exhaustion and wounds. The last bank, bear your friend and master towards the
sounds that the dying.heard, were the discordant woods as fast as possible, and direct your course
whoops of savages, or the shrieks of some tor- to the spot where you were once bidden to 'run
tured wretch suffering beneath repeated blows. for life."'
Montour paused andsoon saw forms approaching.  "I'll do dat ar'!" replied Cato, "and," he
Happily they were not enemies, but Lawson, added, pointing to his weapons, " dar'll be trubil
Cato, and thM Delaware with a few of his if dey follows dis chile."
braves.                                      " My poor Ellen 3" sighed Mr Devron, coy'

-1

-       'i
x                 ;y        r
E
1,       .
s
1
(               R
r    T,.
1                         i
h                              p

80

4

.
a

z
L
9
k
t
Ir
4
y {j4!
tl
7
x
i,
1,
;3
S
i
! .
t
R
i


*

14
-         x
'               ;

---I-

THE ROYAL GREENS.

ering his face with his hands, " Alas, my poor
girl!"
"She is not forgotten, Mr. Devron, I assure
you she is not. I solemnly promise that I will
save her, if it be in the power of mortal man to
do so."
" I thank you from my soul ! But time is
flying--the tide of death is setting that way,"
replied Devron.
"I know that the tide of destruction is sweep-
ing downward,. but it will be long in reaching
Mr. Hudson's dwelling. Our ruthless victors
have enough work on their hands o keep them
busy for some hours. Avery trembling fugitive
will be hunted up-the fighting men wjll fall
first, afterwards the more tender and helpless
ones will suffer. 13y midnight the valley will
stibam with fire. Adieu, Mr. Devron, for the
present. I trust to see you again before the
morning.''
Cato pushed the boat from the bank while the
wounded man was expressing his gratitude to
Roland. This matter being dismissed, Montour
prepared to turn his attention once more to the
consideration of the means of liberating Dunbar
from his perilous captivity.
"Most of the. Senecas are now eager in the
pursuit, and probably but few warriors are left
to guard the scout," said Lawson.
"I have thought of that, and am encouraged
by the circumstance," Montour rejoined.
"My warriors are ready," said Castanego_
"Let us to the camp of the Meng'we. Their
fireslurn dimly yonder, for their nostrils ac~e
fell ofmthe scent of blood. But many of their
braves have fallen; the eyes of my warriors have
been upon them, and some of ,their strong men
have perished."
*"My ears hear doleful cries," he added, as
the wind bore mournful wailings up the river.
The Good Spirit is angry with my white broth-
era. On! on ! son of t e Delaware,ftliat the
lightnings of the eagle eye and the fires of the
strong heart be, not extinguished." .
" I am young, and my feet have not so often
trodden the dangerous war-path, nor have I
looked so often into the camp of the Mengwe as,
the chief of the Lenni Lenapes ; therefore let
my red brother take the lead, because his heart.
is big and he knows the ways of the enemies of
the Delawa, replied Montour.
"My cousin.has'a smooth tongue; and-speaks
flatteringly to the unlearned Lenape; but the
Lenape knows that he undervalues- his: own

TIE ROYAL GR1i ENS

powers and speaks lightly Of hit skill. The red
man has seen him follow the frail, and strikes
an enemy, and he knows his step is stealthy
and fleet, and his arm swift to avenge a wrong l
let him lead on, and Castanego will follow."
"The words of the Delaware chief do my
heart good; they sound pleasantly in my ears,
and I will do as he bids me, because it is his
pleasure, and not because I am so skilful as he,'
returned Montour.
While these words were being exchanged the
parties were not, standing still, but moving to-
ward the Iroquois camp with much circumspect
tion. In approaching the spot, they passed over
t. considerable portion of the field of battle, and
saw many mournful mementoes of the fight. As
they warily drew near the ground where the In-
dians had made their bivouac, the aspect of
things was greatly changed. The hundreds of,
red faces that had swarmed there during the day
could no longer be seen-they were out on a mis-
sion of death. Montour queried whether all had
not gone, and was about to express his convic-
tion that such was the case, when the Delaware
pointed towardscacabin standing solitary upon
the plains. A closer scrutiny revealed the forms
of men. Lawson suggested that they Were a
party left to guard the scout, who was doubtless
in the cabin. To etect their laudable purpose,
it was necessary to overpower these grim and
watchful sentinels. To approach them in andi-
rect line, would have been injudicious, and in
fact impracticable; therefore theyadvanced in a
circuitous manner. When they had gained- that
side of the cabin farthest from the battle-field,
they discovered that the few .Senecas who re-
mained behind were quite forgetful of their-trust.
The dwelling was no longer surrounded as it
had been, for in their eagerness to know what
was passing down the valley, they had forsaken
their several posts and gathered at that point
nearest the scene of conflict, where, with dis'
tended nostrils, and glowing eyes which shone
through the darkness like fire, they listened to
every sound that was borne to their ears, longing
to join in the dreadful din, yet fearing to desert
entirely the duty that had been assigned-them:
With their feathered heads:bent forward, their
bodies fixed and statue-like, their tomahawks
clutched in their firmly het fingers, they present-
ed a wild and striking tableaux. Their-souls
were with their-brethren,slaying, scalping, shout-
ing the cries of, their nation. Thus intensely
silent they sent their savage thoughts after those

who were shedding innocent blood, and rioting
with untold fury in scenes of horror which no
Imagination can paint.
That was their last battle, real or. imaginary.
The hatchets which they grasped in their ner-
vous, restless hands were never fleshed again in
hnman mortality--their lithe arms never grap-
pled a foe, and never more did theyeraise the
war-cry of the Iroquois. They perished where
they stood-fell suddenly while their spirits yet
+    revelled with the distant strife-sank upon the
turf before they knew danger was near, and died
before a single whoop-or shout went up to speak
their rage or agony.
Montour and his party had crept upon them
warily, and thus they fell. The cabin was en-
tered, but Dunbar was not there. They searched
every part of the dwelling, but their labor was
fruitless-the scout could not be found.
Ellen Devron and Elvira Hudson continued
te gaze anxiously up the river. That the firing
drew nearer, and was more scattering, there
could no longer remain a doubt. This was a
circumstance that boded little good, for it spoke
to the hearts of the maidens of retreat; and re-
treat was equivalent to slaughter, rapine and
devastation. The day faded away, and the last
rays of the setting sun seemed to struggle faintly
with the dark smoke of battle, and to be finally
quenched by its mephitic vapors..,A gloomy
twilight followed, and then night was fairly in
the ascendant. A few dropping, irregular shots
were still heard, mingled with other sounds,
shrill and ominous.
"The sad truth is told," said Ellen. "Not a
hope of victory now remains to us. Too well
do those sounds admonish us that all is lost.
Only a random firing is heard ;, the volleys that
mark a regular engagement have long pince
ceased, and our defenders'are retreating toward
the forts. AlasI who can tell us where are
those who went out from us not many hours
ago-friends, relatives, mutual protectors of our
sex."
"Not many of them will return," replied El-
vira. "And to that painful fact we must try to
reconcile our minds."
" We may well pause and ask what will be
our own fate, children," said Mrs. Hudson.
As if tobear unequivocal evidence to this re-
mark, a fire shot up from the opposite shore
from a dwelling just fired by a savage hand.
The flames ate greedily in to the fabric, and by

its light several fugitives werd plainly seen for a
brief instant pursued by pitiless beings madly
elated with victory. From this spectacle they
were forced to turn to epntemplate another
Wilkesbarre Fort, not far, above them on the
same side of the ricer, was ere long in a blaze,
and the parties who were unwilling beholders of
a sight so terrifying, remembered that many fam-
ilies had taken shelter there. Where were they ?
Was the leaping fire their winding sheet'?- Was
the little stockade their funeral pyre ? They
could not answer these questions at first ; but
presently they were partially solved, for the
glare of the burning fortification revealed the
figures of women and children flying to the ad-
.jacent swamp,
Stone, in his "RHistory+ of Wyoming," elo
quently describes the fearful event, and we can.
not do better than make a brief quotation from
his work.        .
"Theclosing scete of that memorable drama
was in terrible keeping with the bloody acts
which, had preceded. Flushed with victory;
the savage Senecas still pursued their vi}ms,
filling the valley with their wild screams, and
rushing onward in overwhelming numbers. The
few Americans who escaped the murderous con'
fiidt in the field, fled precipitately to Wilkes-
barre Fort, where were gathered women and
children, waiting the dread issue of the contest'
with breathless anxiety. Their return only add-
ed to the dreadful consternation already pre-
vailing in the fortress. Seized with panic at the
idea of being coopedup there with the certainty
of meeting a ruthless destruction if they remain-
ed, they fled to the mountains, and sought refuge
'a the recesses of a dreary swamp, called after-,
ward from   the numbers who fell there,' the
"Shades of Death." But an enemy was on
their track, familiar with swamps, and expert' in
threading the deepest fastnesses.  They were
soon found, when the work of destruction re-.
commenced with a fiercer violence. To the few.
survivors this was 'a night long to be remema,
bered' Behind them theysaw the flames spread-
ing destruction through the valley. O one side
of them was the battlefield, on which 'lay their
brave brethren weltering in their blood. Around
them, the agonizing shri&amp; proclaimed that the
dreadful carnage was still going on."
Ellen and her friends looked at each other in
speechless terror. Those whom they expected
came not to relieve their dreadful anxiety, oT to
guard them from the peril fast drawing upon

I

(

I

1     }M
1       a
E
f
, ,t3     rl
jr
,
' -
,
"     .
,f

I! 1t
At
AL

82

tr
o
4
s
j
S
s
t+t
G
S
l
J
a
(L
4           ,
N}i
x
J          ,
i
J           yt
tiri      '
"      rY

c        *          yg;"
y
r-
;r
a
" t
.f


84                  THE ROYAL GREENS.

them, with the sure portents of sweeping them
away. They beheld the distance between them
and their foes momentarily growing less, and to
add to flie horrors of their situation, a fugitive
passed near the cabin in full flight, pursued by
an enemy, who already exulted in the certainty
of success.
"It is time to go," said Mrs. Hudson.
" Where ?" asked Elvira.
" To the woods," was the hurried response.
" Hear you not yonder whoops and shrieks,
and do you not foresee what our own fate may
be there ?" replied Elvira.
"We will not fly in that direction; I know of
a more secure retreat," added Mrs. Hudson,
who, good woman, was resolved to encourage,
the maidens as much.as lay in her power, and
make them feel, if possible, a hope which was at
that crisis a stranger to her own breast--that of
final escape. She entered the dwelling and
brought thence a small basket of food which she
well knew would be wanted' in the wilderness to
which she contemplated going.

" Ought we not to tarry a short time longer ?"
asked Ellen, still lingering.
" And for what object ! Let me warn you,
child, not to expect too confidently the return-
the return of our friend," resumed Mrs. Hudson.
"It is impossible for me to abandon the
thought that my father will soon appear," added
Ellen. *
"I know it's hard, but many have parted this
day to meet no more in time," returned Mrs.
Hudson. " We have lingered too long already.
Hush ! did you that ? Some one comes this
way-come, girls, come !"
They turned from the cabin toward the forest
in the rear; but had proceeded but a few yards
when - they heard voices behind them. There
were several fruit trees at hand, overhung with
the green vines of the creeping grape, and amid
the verdant foliage, the fair fugitives took tem-
porary shelter.

CHAPTER XVIII.
ELLEt AND ELvInA. ,

WITH fearful, feverish expectation Mrs. Hud- scious thata shuddering went over her frame
son and the two maidens remained in the shrub- when Edward Gaston was mentioned,
bery, listening to the sounds that were momenta-  "Was he left on the field l":inquired Lana-
rily growing more distinct. The voices were way, stepping a little nearer t9 the trees.
heard very plainly, and Ellen 'pressed Elvira's  "No; Montour, our evil genius, discovered
arm convulsively when the well known tone of his dangerous situation and bore him off."
Lanaway saluted her anxious 'ears. Nor were  " Well, what then happened I"
the emotions of Elvira of a more pleasing kind,  "I followed him intending to finish my work,
when she, in turn, became conscious .that the but unfortunately was seen by Montour just as
other party was Martin Secord-            he reached the river (for toward the river he
"They have fled, evidently," said Lanaway went), and the result was that-that-"
to his companion, as both passed near the grape  "What ?"
vines where the females were concealed;     "That I missed my aim,. and in return he
"It appears so; so far as I can judge,- I have threw his hatchet at me" (for you know he always
reason to believe that they did iot go to Wilkes- wears one) with such precision that it struck me
barre Fort, or to Fort Forty on the other side," upon the head and-felled me instantly. I recov-
rejoined Martin.                          ere4 quickly, for the edge of the weapon did not
" Perhaps by looking about we can find them, 'take effect, and getting upon my feet, immediate-
unless some of their friends have lived to assist ely left the spot."
them away," returned Lanaway.               "What became of Gaston I"
"I can name one or two that were not in a  "I cannot tellyou, but it is probable that he
condition to aid them," said the other. will not survive this bloody night' Now if we
This remark produced powerful sensations in could but discover 'the retreat . of these obsti-
the minds of the parties who, were force4 to nate beauties, we might have matters our own
hear it.                                 wa e7itirely, for-ot oneof theirkith and kin will
"EQaston, as I have told you, receiver from  outlive the third of uly"
some friendly hand dangerous wound," added "Hard fares it, witht the Yaug the baptisin
Secord.                                   of blood has come, But r amiot content; a
Ellen who held the band of Elvira, was con- feeling of bitter disapinmen'creeps ovei ie.
6

7

I

LS                ice'
'YSS'       '   f
Yr
.     ,
I              '    5     }r
t;
i                 '4
4                 Il.}

7 t
S
t
{i
1
a      t

;
N

a ..

r
at
F         4
s
.
(               M


86                             THE ROYA
Muchjmore than I have been willing to own)
have my thoughts been directed toward Ellen
Devron. Indeed, friend Martin, I feel that it is
quite impossible for me to be happy without
her," Laid Lanaway, with much emphasis.
"Thus is it with me ; Elvira Hudson has en-
grossed all the love I am capable of feeling. I
may say that I have set my heart fully upon the
self-willed damsel. I had hoped (and have in
truth acted with reference to that matter) that
the events of this day would give mepower over,
the person of the girl; but like you I am deeply
disappointed. " Our royalist friends are victors,
and the rebels are dying by scores, but I con-
fes that I am miserable."
Ren wished that she could safely assure him
that guilt is ever wretched.
" Turn your gaze yonder I What do you see ?
Wilkesbarre Fort in flames. What do your ears
hear?  The exultant cries of merciless savages;
mingled with the agonizing shrieks of vanquished
foes ? But does this content you ? Are you
happy in the contemplation of these direful
sights and sounds ? Far fruit ; you experience
as I do, the unwelcome pangs of baffled hopes
and disappointed love. What then avails this
awful scene ?  To us nothing-to the followers
of John Butler much. And why is this scene
comparatively fruitless to us? For the reason
that those upon whom we have set our. hearts
have eluded uts."-
"You speak to the point, and I acknowledge
that really we have -gained but little, except the
punishment of our=enemies.. Dunbar the scout
is a prisoner-Gaston is wounded, and doubt-
less Devron,, Montour, Hudson, and the Ham-
monds will fall. I dare say before this moment
they have-lost their scalps. More than this I
confess we have not gained, for those who ar-
'vive'this trying ordeal, will forever after hold our
name in detestation," answered  artin.
"True indeed is your last remark,"- thought
Ellen.
"We shall be called monsters and traitors, no
doubt ; but to indemnify ourselves as much as
possible for what we shall safer in the future,,
leta u make sure of those fair.but perverse ones,
who refused to listenuto'refaon, and preferred
danger th safety."
' I ilotd lult to say' !ti usumake sure of
them,* but we have found ahetly that it is ex-
treiule1~yhid o I8o, 'said M$tin.
ow aIwi to  know that tiey are dot hid-
deU iktoe hdi inthe vicinity'''

1  ,
t. '

L GREENS.
" Ill will it fare with them if they are. There
are those in pursuit of such, who are keen at fol-
lowing a flying enemy, and who will not relent
at the contemplation of a pretty maiden, or spare
a woman on account of her sex."
" Heavens I" exclaimed Lanaway. "I shud-
der at the thought of the danger that hangs over
the lead of Ellen Devron ; and yet, Martin, I-
warned her of it-and-and she scorned me for
my pains. I told her that fire would pass over
Wyoming, in awful furyg and that. the toma-
hawk would do a work of blood ; but indignant,
she covered me with reproach."
"Whatever betide them, we know for our sat-
isfaction that they were warned, and might have
been shielded from the devastating storm."
"And, methinks, Martin, that we wooed in a
novel way ; I doubt whether woman can be won,
by threats. When I held before the bright- eyes
of Ellen; a picture of woe like the scene now
transpiring around us, I was lower in her esti-
mation than ever before-immeasurably lower,"
added Lanaway, bitterly. '
"Flattery has ever proved more effectual
than threats, from mother Eve downward to
this day. Speak to them smoothly-praise them-
for their beauty, and they will smile upon -you ;
but approach them'with blunt speech and home-
ly truth, and your room will be more desirable
than your company."
"Let us go ashbrt distance in this direction,"
added Lanaway.
The two royalists, who had been looking.about
them with eagerness while thus conversing, now
drew nearer the spot where the females were con-
cealed,. who, stood, stupified with terror, scarcely
daring to breathe. Martin meanwhile passed
round tlie-trees,, within a few yards of the trem-
bling ones, and putting aside the branches at-
tempted to look beneath the vines ; but it was so
dark that he saw not the forms of the fugitives.
There followed, so far as the latter were con-
cerned, a motment-of intense suspense ; then Se-
cdrd walked from the -spot ; examining every
place within bow-shot where he deemed it possi-
ble for a human being to be secreted.
Lanaway employed himself in a sinillariaan-
ner. Havinagtaken-' an opposite direction, he
suddenly stopped and bent his steps directly to-
ward the fruit' trees.  That the ' fact of their
propinquity would tow ;be -known, seemed ar
longer a question of doubt ; but while he appear-
ed in the very act ofshaking the diedded disco-

0

THE ROYE
ery, some lucky chance seemed to prevent the
catastrophe.
Other incidents now attracted the attention of
Lanaway and his companion. Several panting
victims closely pursued by the triumphant sav-
ages and tories, ran past the spot, hoping to
escape the vindictive fury of foes drunken with
blood.
"We are baffled oncemore," remarked Lana-
way; "but perhaps it isn't too late to deal with
those who have stood most in our way."
"Let us go down to the river; we may find
Gaston, Hudson, Montour, De~vron or somebody
else there," Martin rejoined, and they instantly
hurried away.
"Thank kind Heaven, my children, for .you
have escaped wonderfully from the power of
wicked men.- Come, we must go on."
"Speak softly, mother !I- look  toward the
house I" answered Elvira.
" The savages have discovered it, and are
searching within for its recent occupants," ob-
served Ellen.
" What a yell of disappointment! they dis-
cern that the inmates have gone. What if they
should come this way and look for us-the dis.
tance is so short that I tremble ?" added Elvira.
One of the natives , appeared with a blazing
brand, and proceeded to fire the dwelling in sev-
eral places.
" So many happy hours have passed there,
and now to see it swept away!" sighed Elvira.
"Think of those who lose more thanhouses
or lands-life itself," said her mother.
The fire quickly performed its work upon the
cabin; in ten minutes it was wrapped in flame.
Occasionally a puff of wind carried the smoke
and cinders toward them, rendering their posi-
tion almost intolerable.
Around the flaming fabric infuriated beings ran,
brandishing aloft the' tomahawk and the gun,
entertaining, doubtless, a 'faint suspicion that{
some unfortunate one might be hidden in the
burning building, whowould rush out to escape
a fiery death,: to meet a quicker fate; at their
hands. The leaves of the trees nearest the
dwelling grew sere and yellow, scorched by the
intensity of the heat. The fugitives bgan to
suffer from the increased temperature, 'anid ex-
pected to be drive i from their covert by aehot,
and suffocating gushes of blinding smo that
repeatedly poured upon them. Prone uon the
earth, with their handkerchiefs pressed' closely
to their faces, they awaited in dread expectation,

AL GREENS.                                 87
and with sufferings well nigh insupportable, the
uncertain'issue. Added to the torture of the
seething vapor that enshrouded them, was the
no less agonizing fear of being discovered by
the authors of those terrific scenes.
Ellen felt a deadly stupor stealing upon her-
a painful distension of the lungs-a dizzinessiin
her brain-an awful sense of suffocation, which
threatened a speedy extinction of life. Sensa-
tion, memory, consciousness, grew less and less.
Her mind teemed with feverish fancies and fan-
tastic creations, as dreadful in their imaginary
terrors as the drama, being enacted in the world
of reality in which she dwelt.
She still heard (within) the shouts ofenemies ;
and burning dwellings and dying victims were
pictured with life-like distinctness upon the field"
of mental vision. Suddenly a sound recalled
her from the dark trance that had bound her
senses-a voice smote upon her ear with magical
effect. She raised herself from the earth with a
convulsive effort, and gazing wildly through the
smoke and'fire, beheld Roland Montour being
down the savages. She had a vague conscious-
ness of being lifted in some person's arms and
borne.swiftly away. And this circumstance was
connected with a feeling of, security, strange,
gladdening and soothing to bher perturbed soul.
. The re-action was so great that she knew no
more, and seemed to exist in a, dreamy, curious
and shadowy realm, without pain, without rap-
ture, without fear, and yet without;enjoyment.
In that suspension of all the active phenomena
of existence, Ellen was lost to time, circ imstance,
place, the past and present-ceased to hay
knowledge -of friends or foes, or the t
enacting upon the plainsof Wyoming-one
own delightful home, but now    the reflex f
Pandemonium itself. Yet those friendly arms
were about her, her head was pillowed tenderly
on a bosom full of unspoken kindness, unuttered
'friendship, untiring devotion, unknown love.
"Flower ormy life, so lovely and so lone!
Whom I would rather in this desert meet,
scorning, and scorned by fortune's power,'than own
Her pomp and splendor lavls 6ed at my Ibet;
Turn not frain me thy breath, mote exquisite
Than odors-east on heaven's oft shrine, to please-
'iem    h loveg , gtha luxr more swet
Gie etylvta uuymr weAnd more than all the wealth that leads the b e  reezdls hp rtm rmIda
When Oromande ships return from Lndlan st,
If sentiments like these, pure; gentlee and
hallowing, had , secret :utterance in  Roland's
mind, all unknown. were they to the maideni
hose f9rmhe bore sesoftly. and apparentlylt
so little eaertigg and'so much pleasure, *h i e
traversed the tangled forest.

s     3
a   j
t        F
A
;t  i
{,
i i
t     ,'
J

 a

j         rp
j
tS ,t   ' ;


88                               THE RO,
On a hill the parties, paused and gazed ba
upon the valley. It was agrand yet awful spc
tale; forts were blazing, dwellings crumbli
toashes, and thedemon of partizan fury spread
ing his sanguinary wings over Wyoming.
" Then looked they to the hills, where re overhung
The bandit groups, in one Vesuvian glare;
Or swept, tar seen the tower, whose clock unrung,
Told legible thd midnight'of despair."
Upborne as upon the breath of the devourii
lame, came those Bounds that may not again
heard this side of the infernal shore, where ml

I
=                                       i
'   't   ;                                      S
'   ,_
r
f                                            {
r                                            tii
r                                      }
r                                       S
r     " .                                    t;

CHAP!

S 4)

THE FORTUI
IT will be rememberedby the reader, that we le
Dunbar in a situation extremely unpleasant an
critical ; so much so that a desire to escape mu
have been very natural, and the 'means of a
taming that was the first thing to be consider
Bound and surrounded by watchful warriors
he saw but small chance of effecting' a desig
upon the success of which his life depended,.
But a manlike Dunbar, who had seen so mue
of danger and vicissitude, was not easily subdue
inspirit and resolution. Many similarly placed
v" d have abandoned themselves to despai
'hopeless repinings, without making a single
effort t recover lost liberty.
Picturseif you can, the scdut's feelings during
the'battle. Every volley made him anxious t
join inthe melee, and the shouting and cheering
of the combatants chafed his temper and render
ed him truly miserable under the restraint t
which he was subjected. As the tumult of bat
tle increased,- so in proportion grew his impa
tience. Unable longerto endure the suspense
he  ragged himself, by much exertion, to th(
onl ; 'ndow which the cabin could boast of, to
see what tlhe aspect of things might be. Un
luckily the window looked from and not toward
the seene of battle., He was.greatly surprised to
discover that not a single Idian was to be seen
on that side of the cabin; in their eagerness t
behold the conflict, they had forgotten theirtrust,.

LL GREENS.

ek cry and maddened hate embody their emotions
ec- in direst shrieks. Montour pressed his hot and                                  "The a    is lost'!"  excl
ng tearless eyes, and.unable longer to endure the                                   Weday  k     it by thesca
ud- sightgread out before him, turned to the un-             3                          at shaknt   b hee a
conscious Ellen, and kneeling beside her assisted                              hl wlfat   be the hard    as
Elynra in her efforts to restore animation.                                       l of   e and   he wav
Grimly and with folded arms the Delaware                                           of         I v
,  chief watched the progress of the destroying                                roll downward, as I may say,
element ; and Lawson, leaning on his rifle, was'oneIneito throw                                  anpret
too much affected to speak; while Mrs. Hudson                                   er
ng in the lowly attitude of prayer, prayed and wept,                               hed                      e
be payedforDunbar remained upon the is]
be prayed for those who were suffering, wept for                                  dark, at which time the route of
is- those who had gone.                                                           was complete, as as been sh
lower part of Monockonock, he
numbers of the vanquished runn
bank of the river and leaping int
unfrequently followed by severs
ages, who discharged their guns
TER    XIX.                                                        they were swimming. It was a
4                    island that a whig was slain by'
as related by Stone. Dunbar w
NES OF DUNBAR.                                                                     of an act of fratricide so atroei
the spot before the crime was pert
ft Perceiving the true state of affairs, Dunbar felt                              his knees the fugitive fell at the
id confident that if he could succeed in getting rid                              natural brother, pleading eloquex
st1b                                                               of life, but with an unfeeling os
st of his bands,escape would be practicable, and he                                ot ie     a
t- looked about the rough apartment for some in-                             .    shot him dead.     uas
d. strurent with which to sever [the cords that                                     Son  te Wiksbar swa
s, bound him, but could discover nothing of the                                    lndon thilesbarres,
n kind. Casting his eyes toward the large stone                                    self for a while in the bushes,'
fire-place, he perceived that a little smoke curled                             the conflagration of the fort.
h up from the brands. Working himself to the                                       way toward Hammond's as fas
d spot, he blew upon the-smouldering fagots until                                  of the way would permit, for
he produced aflame, over which he heldhis wrists                                feverish anxiety on Hester's
r in such a manner as to 'set the'- cords on fire            '                     would not let him -emain at re
e and he had the pleasure of seeing them sowl                                      threatened him at every step.
burn off, leaving his hands at gbry  ofe                                          When he passed Mr. Hudson
broflaighshns-at liberty.' To free                                      flames, and his kind heart was
g his limbs was theti'but the labor of an instant                                  the sight; for he thought of i
o. and then carefully removing the sash from the                                   cte sho he sou lo b
g window, he made a safe exit. Securing a toma-_                                   cent ones who had so long foewnn
hawk that was lying upon the ground near the                                     glare oHe re       fi gew
o place of his egress, the stout crept from the dan-                               unare ohe red    dore; thing'
- gerous vicinage, 'keeping within tange of the'                                   unarmed he- could do  a nothing'
- cabin for a considerable distance, and then stiik-t                                   m     t     t
ing off to the right, went toward'the river. Know-                               chance, numbered with the sl
e ing how difficult it would be to traverse a field                                 on, sometimes stopping to cone
swarming" with eaenies, which he would be                                       the keen eyes of toes, and cast
obliged t      reach the A       '                                               upon every side, bitterly regrett
to d to Amercanline, wichslowness of his progress. W'he
were then beginning to waver, he plunged into                                     she    of ha thestance
the water and swam to Monoekonock Islanpdished at Sal                                               or stane
By the time he had accomplished that task, He heard him call to some one
r the men of Wyoming had commenced their dis-                                       appard hiendlnes
astrous retreat.                                                                  apparent friendliness.
"Is that you, Bill Hammon
tai                       The  swimmer replied  in  the -
'"4,.

iYA

THE ROYAl
aimed Dunbar.
ttering fire and
'twere. A sad
t fare with the
es of destruction
and before long
with perhaps no
' hand around
land until after
the Americans
own. From the
was able to see
ing down to the
o the water, not
al tories, or sav-
s at 'them while
ter reaching this
his own brother,
as not a witness
ous, having left
petrated. Upon
feet of his un-
ntly for the boon
ath the monster
,m to the main-
d concealed him-
where he beheld'
[e then made his
as the dangers
he experienced a
account, which
st though death
's cabin it was in
deeply moved at
he 'fair and inno-
a a happy- home'
reflected in the
that alone and
for those 'ho at
, r already, per-
an. He hurried
eal himself from
ing  Wary glances
ing the necessary
n he had accom'
o Hammond's he
ding en the bank.
in' the water,With
affirmative.

Wol(7 .o

c.
K1

I

"                                                                     i

L GREENS.                               89
" Come back," added Secord, in a friendly
tone.
"No ; I can swim across the river slid make
my escape," rejoined Hammond.
"You cannot; the Indians are on the oppo-
site side, and they will kill you. Come to me,
I will protect-ou. If danger threatens you, I
will say you are 'my brother."
Believing that Secord was sincere ii his prom-
ises, William Ilaamond turned and swam back,
and while he was so doing, Martin asked him
several questions in the same easy and confident
tone; among others _f he had seen  Edward
Gas'on. When within a few yards of the bank,
the young man paused and said:
"We were once very good friends, Martin; I
hope you bear me no malice"
"Don't be a fool-come along i" replied the
other.
Hammond came. on fully assured. Secord
stepped into the edge of the water to receive
him, and as he grasped with his left hand the
right of his former friend, with the other he bur-
ied his hatchet in his head.*
For a moment the scout stood.paralyzed with
the unutterable perfidy of the act ; then recov-
ering his energies, he sprang upon the, guilty
villain, and with one blow of his tomahawk laid
him at his feet, gasping in the agonies of dis-
solution.
"Heaven's judgment has overtaken you at
last," said Dunbar. "It wasn't at all likely that
you would be suffered to live after the commis-
sion, of such an awful deed. The fate of Ham-
mond you have richly merited; but ipanly
soul has gone to a realm of peace where you
can't never go ; for heaven would become hell
if you went there."
Martin opened his eyes and stared wildly at
the scout.
"You've got what you can't gegeover," added
Dunbar.
An expression of indescribable terror distort-
ed Second's ghastly face.
" Water 1" he articulated faintly. The.seput
brought some in his lfat and Wet the lips of the
dying man.
" My doom is fixed, I suppose  h  etadded, in
a voice scarcely above a whisper.
" You're dyin' and givin' up ,things of an
airthly naturas 'twere," answered  unbar.
"Death hap tedne before I was ready for it.
* see Stone's "lstoryofWyoming," page 219.


f
: ti
t'
,
"                t
,                          _
_                                    _

isn't there a chance for me yet ?" continued
Martin, in the same hollow whisper.
"Sich as you are never ready to go when the
trumpet of death sound. the retreat from the
battle.figl4 of this movt4 state. I can't say what
ipd ofquarters you'll nd  there-but as good
as you've giyen, I presuppe-full as good. As
for your chance of livn', I sh'oald say it. is so
small that there isn't the least prospect of it
whatever.' So give up that i4ea, and try to
thinkof the new scenes, as 'twere, now openin'
afore your intarnal eyes."'
Second groaned and ,cold treitiors shook his
frame. He put out 'his hands as it swimming in
the air, and then gesticulated wildly as if to some
phantom form.
"Tell Bill Hammond    to go  away !" lie
explained.
"Alas ! unhappy wretch ! he has gone-goneI
too far-so far that I shall never see his honest
fWce agin; and the prettyNester will weep long-
for his absence," rnipunded the scout, brushing
a tear from his eye.'                    -
"Can you pray, Dunbar ' asked Martin, with
suddenly inspired energy.                  1
I have tried to pray now and then for the
poor sinner that stands afhre ye, but I can't say
that I've been a prayin' man in my time; but
I'd advise you toi say 'LoirIhave mercy on' me !'
or soinethin like tha=t-it mnaf do you good."-
"The Lord have merey on me I" saidsartine
in a whisper scarcely audible.' Ae.!  n  a
"Amen I" andggancing again at Secord, Dun- s
bar perceived that he had eased to live.  i
The scout moved on, andin a few moments s
,.asa  r Hammonds cbn which was yet un-
s 8ahed ,b    Indin malinity.    s 'he turned i
aroed the corner of the dwelling,. he saw a  v
female form standing at the - window. His step ,a
startledl6er; and as she was about to fly, the par- s
tiesimtually recognized each other. The female
was "   -le10Cloud, and she- motioned the scout to a
-be silent. Approaching she whispered :    w
The madeh that you love and who leves fa
yen, is in danger.",m
There's no sigh person in existence," replied o
Duznbar; "but "r you mean' that'-tester Ham- re
mond is indanger, show me how and where.'  of
Pale lbud pointed to the window; Dunbar ti
looked in,  ae saw Wintermoot and twomen ; ut
the fistrd standing over Hester, who had he
swoned,   dasA s trying to estore her.0O
"N   o areinfer" he exclainito: r dressing the m
men. "D~o nuotwalt for her to revive ; tAgegher wI

up just as she is, and let us hurry to Butler's
camp."
"Iwisi I had-weapons,"'said Dunbar.
"Here they are,'' returned Pale Cloud, plac-
ing a brace of pistols in his 'hands, The scout .
eagerly caught the instruments,'and when Win-,
termoot led the way into the open air (followed
by the men bearing their insensible burden), he
fired both the weapons in rapid succession.
Wintermoot and one of his accomplices fell,
while the other ran away as fast as possible.
Dunbar took Hister in his arms, and bore her
toward the forest.
"I have been, up to 'Hudson's, but was too
late," said Katherine, as she kept along at.his
side.
"You learned nothing of them   as used to
make the place so pleasant and cheerful like 1"
asked the scout.
" No ;' but owing you a debt of gratitude, I
hastened to Mr. Hammond's, thinking I could
best pay it by offering my services to the maiden
whom you aire bearing to place of safety."
"Yes, what little you may happen to fancy
that you owe me on the score of freeing you
front  the war-party of Mphawks, can well be
settled in that way."
"I have heard that you loved her; Roland
has-
"Hush! for heaven's sake--she revues!'" he
exclaimed.
"Do not feargo     Dunbar. What,,I.have
aid is not so profound a secret as you may be
inclined to imagine, or will it, perchance, prove
o--"
".Be quiet,. woman!1 Do you not see, that she
s becoming conscious of what is said? and I
wouldn't for the world have her hear sich absurd
otions, as I may say'," added Dunbar, with con-
iderable sharpness.
Pale, Cloud directed her attention to Hester,
ad she.was soon sufficiently restored to walk
ith the aid of Dunbar's arm to support her ;
or she dad passed through a scene of excite-
tent so intense thpt it had nearly deprived her
f physical power. Calmly and trustingly she
signed herself to'the guidnce and protection
f the scout, refraining from asking those ques-
ons Foucerning her friends that struggled for
teratce in her breast, fearing that she should
ear news of deription to increase her trials.
f the death of her brother, Dunbar made no
ention, reserving that sad recital for a season
hen she should be better able to bear her grief.

V
V
It

90

THE ROYAL GREENS.

t
t

4
rt
N :
i1
f
l..y'
t.
t s
{a
i
tai
_  +
{I_
tf
Qf_
;
^y'""
r'"
{r
,
_:
t           t
P        it
i
S
%
1
4
ii
s
i'
.r

r1                I

IM

f

THT EOYAOAGERNB.

The present consideration   to escape from  delicate and tender of 'em, and I thank you," he
the valley and find a spy p safety, and not to replied, in a tremulous voice.
dwell upon the calamities 41d&amp; each or all had!  "Does thee love me, David !" asked Hester,
suffered.                                   turning her pale yet placid face toward Dunbar's.
" I am  at home in these woods," said the   "I never was a man to tell an untruth, and
scout, " and you need feel but little fear of pr- let what will come of it, I can't now, even to es-
suit. ' Before midnight I will show you a hid- cape your displeasure, Hester. I confess that I
ing-place, where not one of the heathen can find have so far forgotten myself, and been so incon-
us ; and that is a great deal to say in an hour siderate, blind and foolish, as to love you as if
like this."                                 you wasn't common flesh and blood, but some-
"I feel safe with thee, David," said Hester.  thin' pure, angelic, and unairthly like."
"You might be safe with him for a whole life-
time,"Dunbar bowed his head as he was making this
time," said Pale Cloud,                     confession, and his chest heaved convulsively.
" I would defend her to the last," he earnestly Hester madef no answer, but laid her little
added.HetrTaenoasebtlihe-lte
dI would that your lives could pass together, hand in his rodghstrong one, and then hid her
"I oul tht yur ivs culdpas toethrblushing tearful face in Pale Cloud's- bosom.
and the current of your joys and sorrows flow on  bar stoodhembirassed, Palexed confound-
in one common stream," resumed Pale Cloud, Dunbar sod 'dise n    perplexed, maidn's
turingandplainga  andupo  a~rm.ofed. He could 'disceru no anger in the mnaiden's
turning and placing a hand upon ayahof manner, heard no reproaches, saw her hand
You do wrong" returned Dun, sorrow. lyig passively in his, and looked imploringly at
"odowog;"rtredDnK, sro                atherine for an -explanation.  The comely
fully, and even sternly, " to speak so freely-be- half-rie  f , an  gaaon  The  firsl
fore Miss Hammond. Whatever my feeling's half-breed smiled, and gradually and for the first
have been toward her, I have kept 'em to myself time, the idea that he was loved in return forced
and have never troubled her with my foolish itself upon him.   ris face flushed with hope,
weakness. But now you have thoughtlessly and and carefully  he imprisoned the littlehand-
unkindly betrayed to her what I wouldn't have held it tenderly, hesitatingly
had her know for the wealth of the king of Eng-  "If I dared to hope that I am forgiven," he
land, as 'twere. MissaHester, I hope you'll pass said, slowly, and with a penitent voice.
it oer, and not lay it up aging her, nor think the  "You' are more than forgiven, returned Pale
less of me for it, because':she's excited, as I may Cloud:  "Have you nut eyes except for the trail,
ay, with the scenes of this, deadful night, and no perep ons save for the:approach of an
doesn't-well understand what she's talking' of."  enemy r
"I have nothing to forgive, David,"' returned " Dunbar ,drew Hester gently toward him, and
Miss Hamnond, quietly. as her dark, shining tresses fell upon his breast
"  alikeyou, qMiss Hester you never dideeycla.med:
wantonly hurtatperson'sfeelints, but waslers 1"0themisery, the happiness of this night!

91

,

I)

ML
Y
L
6
e
lo
a

. a


i"tr
2   :'!  L 4

tion, with their inhuman orgies. Welldid Queen
Esther perform the work of that memorable
.night: Passing -around the circle, chanting a
wild, startling air, half, shriek, half howl, she
dealt her-blows at measured periods. Every in-
stant Hudson sawthe priestess of death approach-
ing nearer to his friend Hammond, and he long-
ed to do something to save him. He had'his
loaded rifle in his hand, and no longer capable of
restraining his indignation, horror andsympathy,
he aimed at the female monster,, through an
opening in the circle.
Sharply cracked the weapon, and the crimson
queen fell upon the body of her last terrible of-
fering. The confusion created by this incident
gave Hammond a chance to recover his feet,
shake off the murderers and escape. Hudson
fled and no pursuit was offered, for the savage
actors were quite sated and satisfied with what
they had already done.
In crossing the river, far down below, he dis-
covered Edward Gaston. still in the canoe,
which had lodged against a log. With Ham-
mond's assistance he was taken to the shore,
and conveyed to the woods, were by chance,
they fell in with Montour, while he and Elvira
were directing their attention to the restoration
of Ellen. Soon after the parties were joined by
Cato, who, true to his trust, was assisting Mr.
Devron to a place of security.

( I )

THE ROTA

Our next and last scene Ope  at the subter-
ranean vault in the mountaldi The sun came
up as brightly as though no deeds of wicked-
ness had been wrought in the valley of Wyo-
ming. The winds were as soft and fragrant as if
they had never borne the odor of, blood, or the
cries of despair. The wild birds sang cheerily
in the trees, and there was no sound of misery
there. Roland Montour stood near the rift,'
with Ellen leaning upon his arm. The maiden
looked pale and languid, but not unhappy.. The
young man placed his hand upon hers, some-
what timidly, and said in a low tone :
1' The few words- which I wished to address
to you I will say at once, and I hope you will
not reprove me too severely form temerity.
It is true that a kreat calainity hdi befallen the
valley-a calamity that oppresses all'hearts ; but
I trust that you will not consider it "ill-tined,
when I allude to the feelings which your beauty
and amiability have'inspired."  .
Ellen's face suddenly changed its pallor for a
rich crimson hue.
"It may with some plausibility be said, that
my acquaintance with you is short, but methinks
no measured period of time is required to win
the human heart-to smite the rock of human
affection and make its purest waters gush forth,
I have smothered my passion long-I can re-
strain myself no longer, and an compelled, by a
sentiment that'I am certain will be as lasting as
life itself, to make this bold and perhaps un-
welcome declaration."      -
Montour paused, and' Ellen averted her face
in such a manner that he could not see its
eXpression.
" I am grateful that you hear me thus patient-
ly and kindly. I ought to reflect that you know
but littleof my history, and that the son of a-"
"Ialf-breed," added a voice near at hand.
RolInd looked to his right and saw Pale Cloud
at hi fide.-
"Behold my mother !" said Montour, as Kath-
erine drew near and took Ellen's unresigting
'hand. The maiden , gazed into, the woman's
face a ugorient with' deep interest, and-replied:,
"And do you believe, Roland Montour, tha ,I
could think less of you for confessing'. thisfair
creature for your mother-a being whose every
feature speaks of goodness,,-kindness, gentle-
ness, and purity ofF'soul  Ah, sir, you have
mistaken. my nature,.if you imagined s Lo. eov
is born in the female heart independent of birtd
and outward circumstances; it lives there in'its

1)

LL GEENs.                              93
strength, independent of all such considerations,
'stronger, infinitely stronger than alt"
"May I, dare I flatter my heart with the rai-
turous thought that at some-future time, I may
presume    ,to-la  some slight claim to the
En'iA  sgr of Ellen Devron?"
Thee.aiden sighed, inclined her head gently,
and attemptedtto make some fitting reply, but
could not.
Roland construed her silence in a most favor-
able light, and withwquickness which would have
appeared. quite inagical to honest Dunbar, who,
good soul, had no conception of such interest-
ing matters, save what 'he had'learned upon the
trail.
While Montour was .making all tie natural
efforts that he could command to express his un-
expected felicity, Pale   Cloud uttered a piercing
shriek and fell to the ground ; or more truth-
fully would have fallen, had' iot Lawson sprang
forward, from the shadow of thCeadjacent rock,
and caughtiier in season to prevent that accident.
Here was a new wonder for Roland, and lie
looked at the, strange scene with unfeigned
astonishment.
"It's, what, I allers thought," said Dunbar,
emerging from the  rift.  " It's Zinzendorf,
himself!"-                            -
" 'And who is Zinzendorf ?" asked Montour,
quickly.
f  Ican't reckon youamong the wise children,
because you: don't know your ,own father, as
'twere," replied the scout..
Pale Cloud revived, and opening her, eyes,,was
conscious that she sawno phantom figure.
." Zinzendorf 1" she mirmurgd,.and seemed on
the point of relapsing again- into insensibility ;
but water which Ellen sprinkled;en, oher face
restored her.
f' This seems dream-like and unnatural !" ex-
claimed Lawson. "I have mourned yon as dead
or many years."
"And i toe I not lept for you as long?" re-
plie4 Katherinein trembling accents.
"The report reached me that you had perish-
ed  y the hand of the Mohawk who carried you
into captivity. I was not able to leave rrmany
at that time, forIbad 'just been thrown' into
prison on account ofreh ious sentimtet5 which
I had avowed, having been betrayed by a faise
friend. I sent a  ntto look after burcild,
'who returned with him, confirming in ull the
accounts which I had previously recelivedof your
death.   laid was put- to school, while I re-

Mu. HUDSON, whose name has not yet been
particularly noticed in connection with the bat-
tle, fought in the right wing and was among the
last to leave the field. Being hotly pursued, he
diverged from the general course of the fugitives,
nor paused until he had left his foes far behind.
He stopped about'two miles north of Fort Forty,
and concealed himself in a young, growth of
birch. -But though so distant from the scene of
conflict, he was by no means in a position free
from danger,;and was obliged to remain perfect-
ly quiet to escape discovery. It was while thus
*den, that he was forced to be an unwilling
*ftness of a most cruel spectacle-the tragedy of,
what has since been called "Queen Esther's
Rock." A number of prisoners, quounting in
all to sixteen, were taken to that spot to be offer-
ed as sacrifices to savage malice. The Senecas,
I Mohawks and Onondagas, formed a circle around
the rock, when the victims were brought for-
ward and arranged about it in a mournful ring.
A fire was'burning brightly near the spot, and
by its light Hud'son was able to recognize many
of the doomed ones ; among them he saw Mr.
Hammond, Hester's father.
A weird and horrible-looking squaw, with a
war-club, commenced the work of destruction;
while the , warriors laughed, danced, leaped,
shouted, and made the hourawful beyond des rip-

CHAPTER XX.
AFTER TEARS, SMILES.

S        'z3rS
s   ',                              +k
y     

I

ta  ,
41'
A
xL ai


' t

1

94

THE ROYAL GREENS.

. X  -QYLGENS

naiped in durance several years, not leing per-
mitted to ses him,  a .not  ring o;ernow-
lplge a   relationship, for fear such u cdifssion
wpuld bring ,dwn upon hia the' evil fortune
Sat had followed me.  he boy  r   weary of
confinement, apdleaving isb bpo oudu neas
get back to his native frests,  e ,ri
justice la b'ea done me, I crossed the water
and arrived here a few month ago, ' inee ich'
timnq I have ;taken an indescrilablg pleasur- id'
being near our son and Watcling gverim with
~afther'fpngness, to tield him from danger,
wtJ out divulging the secret that made hirm the
qbjRct of mytender splicjtude. Several time I
have been on the point of6telling him the impor-
tent secret, and folding him ,to the, osom from
which he, has  een4o long estranged by the
force of circumstances, the virulence of religious'
intolerance and partizan policy.'
"A dark matter cesing put verytright," said,
Caetanegg; vho: had joined the group.
Rolan advanced, andZ inser9 embraced
hus.                   . .     ..,'
"'The ag et who took Xoland to Germany
(I learned after I returned from mycaptivity),
reported! that yoiu:iwere dead;, and therefore I
ceased to= expect you retui-," said the I'ale
Cloud.
It is probably knodato you,  that I 'was
formerly a missionary to the Delawaresl'e add-
ed Laws ,'addressingRoland. "eoAinog'them
I sand loved Katharine Montoerrl"your
mother, .to whom I was privately 1aurried by a
dod Mbrsijiian Mreacher. She bore her smaiden
name idiil afte' yed Wrusheredinto the world,
wheti those vist h pined which aseparated us
fI a long lpst'of'ear; ard prevented the tAtt
f.mi beco ii 'khawnthe we had ever been
arried. Heaven has at length, in a mostsey-
traordiinhry saiid  unexpected maaier, fe-united
' u  ahd'joyoese °r'athe emotionS'  ljeh this
event produces."
I nowcabewwhy, btutook the lnost danger'
Quts side *lile we *#e  taversing the battle-
field,,,RBolid remarked.'
" Iavebennear you ofte," resumed Law-
so t ;whyyouhittletheught that a friendly ey
hinj ,ver yon. 'ht empl6iment aai.
t, ' o pe ased me for toe  qktit est"neto
mntain y14c n4ito- f j;'s9p ar fancy of

wayward, he  ip~   and graeless youth," an-
swered
"Then ie's       yo different from wha't I
have. I've known you a long time, and seen
you at your worst as well as at yourbest ; and,
yu'rq th  nan for me, whether in war, orpeace,
on the ira 1r  offd excla md, Dunbar, with
energy.
r       Ia to     a m    of yoursterling
integrity bear such nequivocal testimony to his
character, and I impreud ghat I have snch a
son," replied Zinzenlof.
" Dutiful and kind has he been," added Eah-
erine, with a grateful: look at the subject of her
eulogium.
"  aven'thensp blind as you might nater-
ally sappos' resumed Dunbar, speaking to
Zinzendo fr "I've noticed more than once,.that
you appeared,, fond of the lad, and cast curious
glancesas I may say, at him, when he wasn't
aware of it. I've been trin'to study, it out
since te first time I saw ,yonl together, but I
wasn't able to make much out of it,na,'twere."
" 'or could you, well do so, as the whole affair
has been wrapped in so much mystery," he
returned.
"Look very muck alike," said the Delaware,
laconically.
The parties; thgn entered the cavern, where
Cato; badki die4 afire unpreparedd a mornmpg
meal, which w  , by' in means. unworthy.the,
name of breakfast. This repast, though discuss-
ed in a style somewhat primitive . was highly
relished by all, not excepting the-two wounded
nenm-Devronsand    asten. The ,sub-mountain
retreat had been provided with many articles of
,conveniene:by dlrabar and Montour, who had
foreseen that it.would probably be wanted for
uses like;that, which itwas then subserving.
i that: seedra'hiding-place, the survivors of
the massace f  yf ningremained ireeaske
and safety, until the invaders , had withdaWu
fom the'valley.   ,  +
Roland and Dlunbar wre wedded to the iee-
speetio qJetetf their-nhoife, befoi they-left
their syalsi-home; by Zinzendorf,4ho w-as
q(alinfed to  peroru that interesting ceremony.
Edid Gatstoi'would gladly havn followedtheir
4*ample, but his Wounds 'were not yet healed,
rand he as'obliged to' *ait a" mosutik lnget-
e'.i'disajpointmenttoihtn, no duht."
he fod        yeisa\Geeal SSuivasahie
4'trie vlue  a±' "a &amp; s tht 'the  u y, 4%h a

large force, to the getlakes,   ''farfu
vengeance on those who participated u, the in-
vasion. Both Roland and the scout attached
themselves to a detadhment of Morgan's riflemen
under Colonel Parr, and distinguishedthem
selves by their gallant deeds. That Ellen was
unhappy during the absence of her liege lord;
and that Hester was equally miserable on Dun-
bar's account, isestrictly true, as we learn from
authentic documents, which can yet be seen-
providing they can be found !
Zinzendorf and Katherine resided in Wyo-
ming until death relieved them of the cares and
anxieties of this changeful world; but during
their lives they enjoyed the society of Roland
and their fair daughter-in-law, and experienced
as much of sublunary happiness as usually falls
to the lot of mortals.

95

Peace came with her innumerable blessings,
and scattered flowers in the pathway of Roland
and Ellen. A newand more commodious dwell-
ing was reared on the site of the old one, and
for many summers Mr. Devron was seen sitting
in the sunshine in front of the door, with a cheer-
ful, happy face; while Cato was never far off,
but ready to attend to his wants with alacrity.
Just above, lived the Scout of the Susquehanna;
the most honest and contented of men, with his
loving bride Hester Hammond--the fairest and
most loyal of wives.
"0, Love! In such a wilderness as this,
Where transport and security entwine,
Here is the emp'f thy perfect bliss,
And hetea thoee a god indeed divine.
Here shall no f ns abridge, no hours confine
The views, the walks, that boundless joy Inspire!
Rol on, ye daysofrapturedianfluence, shine!'
Nor, blind with ecstacy's celestial fire
Shall love behoMt   spark of'earth-born time expire."

}

THE END.

,A

''9.
4L~

'    =R
{
1         r
At
SY

#               '4
t
y c
r
4
1
'.J

MW   X lik  .
s.

yx       ,

,'

S                 ,
4
1      'J          , 7
d

tk            {


"1
}!
- S

PROM   "THE FLAG OF OUR UNION."]
THE CASTLE AND THE CRUCIBLE.
BY JAMES DE MILLE.
CHAPTER I.                   the alchemist, but his face and form spoke of
one who had braved many dangers, and was
THE   C RU CI B LE.             still capable of meeting any with fortitude. He
MICHAEL SCHWARTZ sat before his crucible, was poring over a strange manuscript, written
and with a heavy brazen pestle he pounded up in times long past, with mysterious figures mark-
together a quantity of materials. - The chamber ed along the margin. After a while he impa-
which he occupied was situated in an upper story tiently threw it down.
of a house in Heidelberg. It was small, and   "Schwartz," said he, with the air of one used
around its walls were hung many mysterious in- to command, " what is the use of all this
struments. There were jars of grotesque shape, why need the adepts,-if there be anything val-
andstrange utensils-there wereretorts and stills, able in their knowledge-to lock it up in such
mortars and furnaces. These were all arranged mysterious writings ."
loosely, and in some places, lay all mingled in  " Ah, son," said the other, calmly, " it is on
confusion. A brazier filled with burning coals account of its value that we take such pains to
stood upon a tripod beside him, and over it hung conceal our knowledge from the evil gaze, or
a vessel in which some substance was heating.  careless eye. When you have a jewel, you do
s            v      l lki     not show it everywhere, but keep it safely, and
man. His head was covered with hoary hair, expose it only to the few who can admire it."
and his snow-white beard descending to his gir-. "Very well-but where is the. elixir vitae,
die, gave him an air that inspired every beholder and where is the philosopher's stone I For ages
with awe. Hi drs was a lon garment thrown it has been sought'after."
loely about him, ad a strange cap was placed  " We must still segk patiently for the great'
about his head. j arceanum. Some have arrived near to it. I
abon another part of the chan~ber sat a young think-I hope-that there is one who, before he
man not more than twen 4lve yeai-a of age. dies, will find it-"
He was also dressed in a * ' similar to that of " What ! Can you hope it ?"

"I have discovered things as wonderful."
"As wonderful as the elixir vitce ?" ;
" What would you say-were you- to see water
burning, or if you should see. air consumed ?
What would you say if I weg to1 cut off your
leg or the leg of an animal, without any pain to
the subject ?"
"Impossible !  water  and  air burning?
Impossible !"
" We keep these things secret. I have found
many myself. I tell them to none but a few
who can also keep them. Besides, of what value
are these, to-the grand mystery of all ?"
"If you can-do all that you have said, then.I
may almost believe in the gran4,mystery. But,
I cannot believe it-water burn? impossible !"
" I can, with a few grains of black sand, make
thunder and lightning, which wou.4 IgQw this
house in which we are, to a thousand pieces."
"You? a man ! you make thunder and
lightning ?"
"I can," replied Schwartz, with the same in -
perturbable calmness.. "I am  the first who
found out the secret. But if you wish, I will
satisfy your curiosity. Be attentive, Albert, and
your wonder will be aroused."
So saying, he took down a jar from one of the
shelves, which was tightly sealed.
"What is in, t ?"-n
"Nothing. 'Feel it-shake. it. It is full of
air. Watch white I take out the stopper.}"
He took it out, and turned the jar. Nothing
came out. Albert saw nothing ; ~:but moment
after Schwartz passed a lighted brand through
the air before the jar, and a vivid, flash blinded
the eyes of Albert ; for what seemed the air
which he breathed, had turned tofire with a hid-
eous explosion.
" See-the air can be consumed ! Now look
at this !" said Schwartz, taking another jar that
was filled with liquid. What would you say if
I were to burn it?"
" Burn it? Impossible !"
Schwartz touched it with a. brand, and in-
stantlyit flamed, it blazed furiously and fercely,
"What? holy virgin! the liquid burns !"1
cried Albert.
"Ah, son Albert, there are many wondrops
things in my science. I raye shown your some-!
already. I can show you some more still, But
hark ! a knock. Some onecomes"
Schwartz went to the deor,aigd opening it,.
admitted an aged man dressed mint be coasume of
a noble.   -     :     ,           .

"Count Hohenfels-welcome !     thrice wel-
come i" cried Schwartz, to his noble'visitor. I
did not expect you in ipy poor cell."
"How do you progress ?"
"In the smaller serets,--wonderfully. I have
found out the key to many prodigies of nature.
I have discovered great things-to make-"
"But, no. I caernot for them. How in the
great one-the Arcanum-"
"I am getting nearer to it. A week ago I
had it, but the two liquids united and went off
in Are. If I could but reduce that fire to solid--"
." You would have it ?"
"I would ; for you must know that. gold is
solid fire-the essence of flame-"
"You talk, wildly-but I pardon it. Your
adepts. are always carried away by your secret
arts. But Icomehere for the purpose of asking
you to Stamberg,,a-small castle which belongs
to me, I am going, to the diet. My daughter
and her maids, with a few soldiers, have left
Hohenfels for the retirement of Stamberg."
"0, thanks, thanks ! I will find .everything
there, and can.go at once. But I have one re-
quest. I wish this youth, my assistant, to go
with me."
".By all means.. You may bripg a hundred !"
cried Count Von Hohenfels, warmly.
"Thanks, thanks !" muttered Schwartz; and
after a few more words from his'visitor, who also
examined some instruments carefully thadept
and his scholar were left alone.
CHAPTER [I.
TIE CASTLE.
In the midst of a lovely country where the
scenery on every side was grand epd exalting in'
the ;extreme, stood the castle of Stamberg. It
was small in size, and consisted of a square
structure with a courtyard in the midpt., There
were no walls around - itbut its line massive
front rose, up high ,from. the grogn#, and the
structure was flanked at every corner by strong
towers.
Dills rose up behind, but a deep gully inter-
vened, whose steep sides consisted of a vast
growth. of tangled, shrubbery of every kind,
among which a tree occasionally rose.. Beneath
flowed a small torrent, which a few miles below
widened and ,emptied into the ,this.,
Before,,lay an extended plain, covered with a
dense~forest. In clear ah cultivated spot, the

THE CASTLE AND, CRUCIBLE.

97

,
' ,


THE dASTLE A1cD' CRPCIBLE

winding of a river' might be seen, flowing on
along the -fertile borders, yielding gladness' all
around. The-forest camB'tifto within a mile of
the castle, and then stopped, and lovely mead-
ows, green fields,' and aventeus of stately trees
appeared between.
Such was the situation of'Stamberg, one of'
the sniitller castles of the CoutVmn Hohenfels,
and here his daughter had cotie to pass thetime
of his absence in enjoying the beauties of Nature,
which lay all-around. A smallgarrison of abo-t'
thirty men were there' as a guard, and these ac-
companiedher when she wenit out, hovering near
her to protect her from those dangers which: in
those days were of frequent occurrence. "Upon-
such a scene did 'the Lady Adele gaze, as she
looked forth from the uppermost terrace.
"How beautiful !" she cried. " Howfresh
the air is as it comes dver yonder'tistant hills !"
As she spake the sun cast a shadow before'her,
and she turned.
"Ha, the young magician I" she exclaimed,
while a slight blush mantled her face.
Albert bowed, and stood apart at a respectful
distance.
"Can you hunt?" she said, to him.
I can, fair lady. Many a boar has fallen by
my hands. But'you will not hunt to-day ?"
"Why not ? I havenot yet been outside the
castle." '
"Lady, there is danger. The Count Storlach
hates your father. The castellain tell me that
he is hovering about here."
"The Count Storlach ! He would not dare-
My father is the Lord of Itohenfels. Youth, you
have the spirit of a serf, and are a coward, in
spite of your boasts."
A deep flush, dyed the cheeks of Albert. He
clenched his hands."
Thelad'y turned away as though she would
Snot notice him.1 At lengh'she spoke.
"Gotell the casstllaitifti ge tready the men
and arms, for'I will have'u boar hunt."
Albert bowed; and withd'rw.r
a hisioble 'youth !""murmured Adele, gazing
this retiring figure. "Who can he be ? He
;;        cspnot be'a base-brin serf. How came he with
the maglcian"
Perjile~id by curiosity, she steod there;andt n
lexgthdparted'to donher huniting garments.
Two hours elapsed, and at fs'the'deep tones
of the castle belt and'the 'siotes o'thew "idwet's
horn sinsibhd'all to the hint. 'Up wen' the
peirteullis,'sadinde'fleW'thegat'e : Te whole

comp    - departed, and the castle was left with
but t F defenders.
f M as a gallant sight, as the hunting party
rode ragIdlj down toward the plain. The~Lady
Adele was at the head. Beside her, and a little
way behind, roderlAlbert.'On they went, and
disappeared behind a distant hill.
Son the loud tones of a trumpet broke 'the
silence, and proclaimed that the chase 'was start-
ed. Away they went. The boar ran with won-
drous speed. Adele and Albert were close be-
hind him, while the others were far away.
Another was started. It ran toward the castle,
and the other hunters- turned from the first to
pursue the second.  .
" Ha 1" cried Albert, suddenly.  " What's
thip ? Th~e bear is nowhere to be seen !"
"He ran behind yonder rock." '
"But where is he now? Gone ! I see him
not."
" And where are my men ?" said Adele, sud-
denly, and for the first time turning to look.
" Men? why-by the holy virgin ! they are
all gone-the wretches !"
He seized his horn, and bleW aloud, long blast
No answer was returned, except the rustling of
the wind among the forest trees, and the wild
echo of the sound among neighboring rocks.
" Gone-truly. They have forgotten who is
their mistress. This boar has escaped us. We
must-returne"
" How far may the castle be from here, lady ?"
" Three miles. But sound your horn again.
Some of my mn may be near me."
Albert again sounded his horn. As the tones
tied away in the distance, the blast of another
was heard close beside them.
Adele started.
That is not one of the castle horns."
Again'Albert blew his horn. As lie took it
'from his moth, a man' at arms came riding
round a projecting rock. He saw them and
stopped.
"Storlach !" cried Adele.
Suddenly the man pu spu''s to his horse, and
rode'down swiftly, uttering a wild "hallo t."
"'Tis one of Storlach's men. See you not
his arma ?"
"Snrtend r !" criedrthe stranger, in a loud
voice, shaking hls spear t Albert.
;'  " Surrender?"  should Albert, scornfully.
S1)og i'who afe'yoi that eaks thus ?"
'The soldier rushed'ljuriddsly at him. Albert
wheeled his horse, escaped the blow, and the

next-moment his boar spear quivered in the al
diet's heart. He fell, and as he touched  .
earth, another trumpet note was'lleafd'and from
behind the same rock a troop of horsemen came
rushing down.
"Fly! fly!1" shouted Albert.
Away they went, with the speed of the wind.
The horses of the two were of the ,nest Spanish
breed, brought thence by Hohenfels, and they
left behind them the infuriated foe. Shouts fol-
lowed them, and the hoarse voice of Storlach
himself was heard commanding them to stop.
Albert turned, waved.his bloody spear in tri-
umph, and again fled. toward the castle.
There it'stood-but a mile away. The gates
were open, but no man appeared uponthe walls,
Nearer-nearer they ,came. No men, could be.
seen except the solitary warder.
Albert's heart beat with fierce anxiety.
" Holy virgin ! The fool of a castellain and
his men will be intercepted by Storlach," he mur-
mured, as he saw far away a troop of the men of
Adele. On they went. They approached the
castle. They rushed in. Down went the port-
cullis, and swiftly the gates' were closed by the
strong hand of Albert.
" Great heaven !" cried Adele. " They have
not cone home, and Storlach--"
"Fear not, lady !" cried Albert. Fear not,
but trust in Heaven. While I wield a sword,
Storlach shall not enter."
"Alas ! what can we do here ?"
", The situation is strong."
"But Storlach will know that there are no
defenders."
" How ? The others may escape."        '
"Impossible ; but I will see." -
They went to the top ofthe keep, and looked
down. There appeared. the -men of Stamberg,
pursued by Storlach. The troop:of the latter
numbered at least. three hundred. The men of
Adele fledfaraway,inthe directionto Heidelberg.
Albert and Adele watched them long. At
last Storlach finding himself far from the castle,
returned, and in about an hour the enemy were
assembled on the plain below.  I1I

CHAPTER IM'.
THE VAULTS.
.$ecswartz, in his lonely chamber, knew noih
ing of all the events of the day. Evening was
coming. The foe was at the castle, but the adept
' bent over his crucible and worked as before.

"Schwartz !" said a voice.
Suddenly turning, he saw Albert.
"Ah, you have come here at last, have you ?
The great secret has no charms for you."
" I have other business. Schwartz, the castle
will be. taken to-norrow. In enemy is before
it. The Lady 'Adele will be carried off by a
ruffian. If Nature has any valuable secrets, this
is the time to show it. ' Think, Schwartz. Pon-
der over your stores of knowledge.  Devise
some plan whereby all these may be- destroyed,
or at least some way in which *e may be saved."
Schwartz was silent.
'" Ha! hive you nothing? -Foolish old man !
Of what avail is alltiudr'knowledge ?"
"Peace, son. An enemy? The Lady Adele
'taken?"
"Yes, yes," cried Albert, impatiently.
'4Albert; I have that which is powerful enough
to send all these enemies to perdition."
" Have you ?" cried Albert, in delight.
" Since my coming here, I have been making
great quantities of the powerful substance. -Did
I not say I could make thunder and lightning ?"
" You did-but you cannot."
" See here, incredulous youth ; this is the
substance in' which lies the :power of the
thunderbolt."
He took some black substance from a crucible
near him. Albert looked. He laid itupon the
table and touched it with a coal. A blinding
flash, and a loud explosion followed.
"Albert, I have large quantities of this in the
vaults beneath. Count Hohenfels knows its
power. I have shown it to 'him."
" Well."
" The enemy will attack us to-morrow. To-.
morrow.you shall, see them all cold in- death.
But take you the Lady Adele. Fly to yonder
height on the other side of the gully. Be there
by dawn, and you shall see some of my power.
The warder shall stay with me. We willjoin
you early."
And the adept again turned to his crucible.
Through that night Schwartz and the warder
were busy in the vaults,.. They lay beneath the
courtyard of the castle. ,There were largo ves-
sels filled with great quantities of a strange,
black substance. It was the first time in many
years that the warder had entered here, for the
!ceunt was careful about the vaults, and never
permitted any one to visit them.
In front of the castle, Storlach was encamped
with his men. As he knew not the number of

98,

THE CASTLE AND CRUCIBLE.

99

: k  e
Nt


TM C ,T , .ND RTICIBLBF,

those within the castle, he concluded to wait till
morning and then make'his attack.
Morning game. The first streaks of light as-
Ceed frn the .eastern horizon  ind gradually
the sombre shadoyl -departedgiadually the
dawn came on. .tTpon thi summit of a wooded
height,'on the other side of the gylly,;A Bert and-
Adele stood. At midnight they had leti -the cas-
tie, and from this; bill they could gaze unseen
upon the castle and the foe.
As the sun rose, a trumpet spunded in Stor-
lach's camp, and so9p..l were in Inotig. The.
soldiers rose and donned their armor and girded
on their apns4 Then, at tb second signals the
whole troop mstrched in order toward the castle,
No' one could be seen, eithe;, on the walls, or
within any turret. Not a sound could be heard,
not the slightest sign of life could be discovered.
" Thereis some trick here l" cried Storlach.
"Be careful-be wary, my men. herald, do
your duty." 'of]
" I summon this - castle to surrender, in the
name of. Count Reinrich von Storlach, Lord of
Stdrlach and Dowenstein.",..., i
No answer came. All,was still.
Three times the herald sounded, and made his
summons. Thep Storlach grewnimpatient. "On,
my soldiers ! We will teach them the danger of
despising -s,"  With a loud shout the whole
troop poured through the gate into -the court-
yard,  The inner castle ddors were closed.
Storlach shouted : " Open the doors !" No an-
swercame. His men with their heavy halberds
began to thunder upon; them.
Four persons stood on the height beyond.
Besides Albert and Adele, there was the. old
warder, -and Schwartz.  As the noise of the
sumtntlsi and the sounds of blows camelto their
ears;, they gazed with intense anxiety.'
"The hour is nearly up '"muttered Schwartz..
" Surely the fire has almost reached-"
aitddenly, with awful vividness-as though a
hurricane had burst.upon them-with blinding,
dazzling brilliancy, burst forth a flash of light-.
streaming, pouring, upward and around,hi al
directions from the'castle. A deafening noise
followed,-a noise as deep and awful as'thie roar
of' thunder. Large masses of stones and beams;

of doors and gates, unshapely fragments of
work and tiron  ar*, mingled all together
nechatic mass, were hurled' into the air.
en were inhrov nup, and torn to pieces by the
ter  e power of the explosion.' The massive
walls and lofty towers trembled, and fell head=
long down. When the volumes of thick smoke
rolled away nothing was left of the castle of'
Stamberg except a black and fearful ruin.
Messengers were sent by Adele from -Hohen.
'fels to her father. He returned, and when he
heard of all that had passed, his gratitude and
joy knew no bounds.
And what, brave youth, can I give to you as
a reward for delivering my daughter from Stor-
lch ? Speak!" said het to Albert, who stood'
modestly apart with a large, mantle wrapped
around him.
Albert walked up towards the beautiful Adele,
who stood confused and anxious.
"Count Hilbert von Hohenfels, you think me
a serf-a low-born vassal to some poor knight.,
I am not so. In me-" And as he spoke, the
mantle was loosened from him. "In me you
see Alberto Colonna-head of the most princely
house in Italy!"  The mantle fell. He was
dressed in richest armor.
" Colonna! you Colonna! an Italian ?"
" Even so. I had heard of the famous adept,
Michael Schwartz, and cameto Germany for.the
purpose of learning some of his science. I am
soon to return. Count Hohenfels, you wish me
to name my reward. Here is -all I ask." And
he took the willing hand of Adele.
" Take her, Colonna. = Take her, and with her
my blessing.' You have won her. You deserve
her, and: the princely. cpronet of Colonna could
not deck a fairer brow than that of' my daughter
Adele von Hohenfels.
Schwartz found not the elixir vita. Immortal-
ity he could not gain in the way he wished, but
through the despised black substance he won
everlasting fame, and immortality of another
kind. For among the great names of the mid.
die ages, none is more widely known than that
of Michael Schwartz, the inventor of gunpowder.

THE FEND

((1Q0'

1 4-


  
             
         
       
   
