
    ----CITATION----
        Russell, Martha.. Leaves From the Tree Igdrasyl .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7687
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Leaves from the tree Igdrasyl 
            
               A

BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOHN P. JEWETT AND COMPANY.
CLEVELAND, OHIO:
.JEWIETT, PROCTOR &amp; WORTIU2{GTON.
N]~W YORK:
~HELDON, LAMFORT &amp; BLAKEMAN.
1854.

?                                                      4

LEAVES
1~UOM
THE TREE IGDRASYL.
BY
MARTHA RUSSELL.
&amp;' .
I like, too, that representation they [the old Norsemen] have of the tree Igdrasyl.
All life is figured by them as a tree. Igdrasyl, the Ash-tree of existence, has its roots
deep down in the kingdoms of Ilela or Death; its trunk reaches up heaven-high,
spreads its boughs over tbe whole universe: it is the tree of Existence. Is not every
leaf of it a biography every fibre there an act or word ? - CMtLYLE.

S

*


4

A
Xnte~ed according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by
JO~N P. JEWETT &amp; Co.,
In the Clerk's ()IBce of the District Courtof the District of Massachusetts.

Lx
T~EII4~7
Stoweetyped by
HODART &amp; RQBBINS,
~ew England Type and Steweotypa Poundewy,
SO5TON.

V

a
12            ~2
2~.2
A
LOVE'SLABORNOTLOST..............
2~2
.*. $7
.b...115
AN INCIDENT ON THE BEA..SHORE..........................133
DEATH BY THE WAX-SIDE...................
LITTLEBESSIE......................... .. .. . ..............158
SK]~TCIIE8 OF OUR VILLAGE.
I. TH~ STRIFE....................................4. .173
IL OUR 8CHOOL-MISTRES~....................191
IlL A~ABBATHOP1776..........*0*O........201
IV. TIIEFIRSTGRAVE..............~........207 ~
V. MARYGRAYSON.........*6 ~ ....~....218
VI. THE MILLER.................................... .2~G ~
VII. AN HOUR ON TIlE CROSSING POLE................ ....
/
VIII. THE ALMSHOUSE EOY,.....~. ...........209
IX.MELINDADtiTTON.....................
X. THEMAIDENOFTIIEFOU~TAIN, ....,.....&amp;..~
XII. LILIAN LOVIS                      .* .....*.

22

dyr


a
N                                                                    I
4                        T I1~ D IA ThY~2
U-'.., Nov. 9,1851.
No, not that Album, loaded with gilt like aii~1a~tern slave,
even though it be "precisely like the otie on i4ady Blessing-
ton's table," as the giver, 1~I~r. H-, assures ~ne; but this
eN      one, in plain black, with onlphe design of the serpent and the
dove upon the back. It is "plain and substantial," as uld
Mrs. A-. was pleased to say of myself; and when Harold
T- gave it me, pointing to the design, he bade me heed
the symbol well, saying, in that calm, grave way of his, that
I lacked both wisdom and gentleness. "Mi master," I should
hardly have borne tk~t from any one else. ~B4 perhaps he
was right - right, also, when he said that a "wciman &amp;~nnot
*        exist without a confidant."  I denied it then, and resented it
as a libel; but, now, after a four weeks' sojot~rn with these
*         relatives, with whom it seems impossible to establish any-
thing like relations of confidence, I begin to feel its truth,
else I should not be blotting the blank leaves of his gift.
N. 13. I will never own as much to him!
4          I think I will dedicate the book to Vacuna, the goddess
of the idle ~ doubtless many of my self-constit~ed advisers
would think it very apprdpriate. Not that II admit that U
have any more of an inherent proclivity to what, in their
constitutes the "sum of all moral eVil ".-.-- idleness - than
many others; but I am, unfortunately, always doing those
things which I ought not to do, and in a way in wh~eh they
ought not to be done; and, as Aunt1Mirick said, when I saw
no impropriety in carrying from Stewart's to her house a
1*


6           LEAVES FRQM THE TREE IODRASYL.

small parcel, containing a few yards of silk, "there is no
'hope for me!
I know I am neither pretty nor graceful, but I never have
such a saving consciousness of the' fact, as when with my
mother's relatives. I wonder how much such remarks, ut-
tered in a~t~ne of cold, critical commiseration, as, "Elizabeth
is so overgrown, so ~wky Elizabeth is so odd; she has no
taste in dress; h~&amp; head is so large ;~'aud then, her feet ! - she
has not the Sewal look at all, poor child; all Lytton!" etc.
(my rather's alliancee being the one ~" blot in the esTciitcheon "),
have had to do with my awkwardness? They are not partic-
ularly calculated to remedy the defect, I fancy.
Once I felt all this keenly, but I am getting bravely over
it. My head and my feet are as God made them; as for
taste in dress, let them remember that I have had no means
of gratifying it, before they deny me its possession; and, as
to lacking the "~Sewal air," the slightest childish memory
that I cherish of my noble father is more to me than "the
blood of all the $~wals!"
There! There goes the dinner-bell! My fingers are inky,
~my collar the sixteenth part of an inch awry; if I do not
stay to right ib aunt will be 'sure to perceive it; if I do, I
8hall be the sixteenth part of a minute too late at the table,
and~ uncle will look like an iceberg - between them both the
room will be like Spitzbergen. Elizabeth will be uneasy and
distraite for a few moments, then eat her dinner with the
I
*    self-possession of queen Vashti, of old.
Nov. 10th. "A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in
pictures of silver," we are told; but who has not felt that a
word fitly withheld is not less precious?
Had I remembered 'this yesterday, IL should have refrained
from shocking uncle and aunt with my heresies, and saved
myself a long lecture on "womanly proprieties," and "wo"
man's sphere," this' niorning~
Though some moments too late, I was happily disappointed

6

~4-

THE DIARY.
on entering the dining-room, for uncle was too busily occupied
iu~ talking with an old gentleman to notice my tardiiiess,
though the exquisite French time-piece on the'mabtel stared
him straight in the face. Mr. II-, aunt's nephew, ba4
dropped in to dinner.
Query.- What brings him here so often of i~te? An tin-
creasing appreciation o%~his aunt's cz&amp;i~ini&amp;e, or the laudable
desire to keep himself in practice, by pI&amp;~ing oW his Euro-
pean fascinations on a country teacher? ~
He certainly is han~Isome; and,, as aunt and, he sat there,
both so carefully dressed, so seemingly oblivious ~of the fact
that rents and dust, lint' and wrinkles, missing buttons and ~,'
hooks-and-eyes, are' a part' of the evils consequent upon "Ad-.
am's fall," it would have been an inexpressible relief to me
to have seen a speck o~ dust on either of them ; - ay; to
have proved their affinity for "dust and ashes," like other
mortals, I would have been willing to encounter ,a slight si..
rocco, or that cloud which Christian saw at the house of the
Interpreter, even at~A~he expense of my new marron merino,
in which IL fancied I was looking remarkably .well.
H.- greeted me with his bh~ndest smile, and uncle intro..
duced "my niece" to his guest, the Rev. Dr~ Smith. TJpi~,t~s
manner of introducing me as "n~y niece,~' - a title which lie
evidently considers sufliciently~' distinctive for any reasonable
young lady4 - causes some mistakes; for his guests inva-
riably address me as Miss Sewal. This old gentleman 4id
the same, and' when I set him right, he said:
"Ah! ay, yes; the daughter of your sister ~lizabeth, Nr.
Sewal. L remember your mother, my child, when she was
scarce as old as yourself. She married, let me see - a -~"
"4u editor," II said.
"Ah, yes, IL think IL met him once or twice during the
sitting of the 4~sociation 'in this city, some - well some
twenty-five r~ar.4~ ago. How time does fly ~ He~ is well, I
hope."


S           LEAVES. PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                                  THE DIARY.   '4              9

"I trust so," I said, my eyes filling with tears. But'
before I could gather courage to go on uncle had answered
for me:
." Mr. Lytton is dead,
"Indeed!" sM4 the old man, in a tone of concern.
"i'ardon me, n~y dear young lady, I might have heard it,
but we old folks forget1.' But your mother, - is she still in
the city?"
"No, sir," said I calmly, for uncle's cold tones had
recalled me to myself; "my father's health failed soon after
his marriage, 'and my mother accompanied him to his native
village, where he died when I was five years old. Mother
and I have continued to live at the old place, with the excep-
tion of a short residence at G-' two years' ago."
"And it seems but a few months~ since your mother was
here, a girl," said the old man, looking kindly at me. "But
you a~e not like her, child, unless it be about the mouth."
"My niece is all Lytton, as I tell her," said my uncle, as
we seated ourselves at the ~table.
So this old man had known my~ neither before trials, and
po'~erty, ~nd sorrow, had changed her, and I determined to
ni~ke him my friend, if' possible) and see if I. could not get
from him some better conc~~tion of what she was like in her
youth, than I had obtained from her own family, - some-
thing beside descriptions of her beauty, coupled~with ill-
co~icealed regrets that she should have "thrown herself
away" tipon a poor editor, who was "only a farmer's son."
I am sorry to say that I was more occupied with these
thoughts than with 'the doctor's "grace," Which was scarcely
ended, when aunt, reaching forward to adjust th~ fall of my
bertke, whispered:
"That dress of yours is far too large, dear; it wrinkles
quite badly under the arm; and your braids on the left
side are slipping down~ Order is 'Heavei~s ~rst law, you
know."

Dear Vacuna, I had i~et aunt's chambermaid'~ little tod-
dling nephew in the passage, as I came down, and, oblh4~Is~
of hair-pins and braids, had stoppQd to toss hiin4~ up to t~he
moon." But I did not tell aunt this, - I had~ too much regard~
for myself and "bubby Lee,"- I merely s ~ ~s I*olly ~4
my chicken:                                     ยง
"Just so, aunt; but, as we happen to be'still on earth, I
hold it to be wiser to comply with earth's laws; perhaps, in
this way, we shall, in tinie,~eome to understand and fulfil
those of a higher sphere." I
Aunt looked a little confused, as I have noticed she not
infrequently does, at my remarks; and the old doctor, inter-
rupting himself in some remark, asked:
"What was that you were saying about a higher sphere?-
a favorite phrase with th&amp; young people of the present day,
Mr. Sewal."
"I was merely sayin~ that whatever may be the. laws of a.
higher sphere, full play for the lungs is very essential here."
H- laughed, and the old man, after a bland, Vety
true; I am glad you understand something of the wonderful
mechanism of the human frame," turned to dissecting Dr.
Bushnell and his heresies, and, assisted by i.rncle and aun.4,
succeeded pretty thoroughly. I v~tu.red, once or twice~ t~ ~
put in a sort of disclaimer, in tli~~hape of a question, and
11-.-- gallantly seconded me; but we were calmly put down
by a gentle hint that the carnal mind could not judge upon
such matters; and I sat and wonde~4 if the Ii' ~ mind
had~really so changed since the poor and ignorant ,- he pub-
lican and sinner, had gladly accepted the truth, as it fell
from the lips of~ Jesus by the blue waters of the seas of
Palestine.
Th~g they went into the condition. ~ th~world ~n ~erieral,
audi grew quite ~d at heating h9w4st all Christendom
was retrograding into chaos and old ~jht; and yet, a few
moments before, in his "grace befbi~e meat," that 'kind old'

,st

4


10          LEA'~S FRO~! TIlE TREE IODRASYL.
man had fervently thanked God for all the "manifold bless~
ings which ~of his own good will and pleasure he had showered
upon us; but, most of allAhat he had given us our being in
this land of GQspel light and Gospel privileges." It is
strange ~wi~h acceptance I find in the world, and how
Iittl~ intelligent belief. These people were sincere, and
would have thought one mad who questioned their ortho-
doxy; yet, if I took them at their word, they were practical
atheists,: denying the power. ~f truth to regenerate the
world.
Uncle is a born conservative, "dyed in the wool," with a
perfect horror of all restless, vulgar innovators, who threaten
to disturb anything, from the tie of his white cravat to the
foundations of a state. lie wonld ignore time huinself, if
possible. But with Dr. Smith it is different. One can
readily perceive how his conservatism is but the natural
growth of that innate principle whiq~is developed by years
and success in life, aided not a lit~Te by an unquestioning
adhere~ee to' certain theological notions; which haire, spider~
like, spuu their web so completely over his heart, that he has
almost forgotten the warm, gushing, sympathetic throbs of
its, youth, or remembers them only with a pitying smile, as
you.thfal enthusiasm. Enthusiasm! Would that we could
"be true to the dreams of our youth!" Would that we
could take them with us, a~ blessed realities, down the ~shady
slopes of life! Then old age would not be so meagre and
barren.
So I x~ised, until the exclamation, "It is astonishing!"
which usually forms-the affix and suffix to all uncle's remarks
on religion and morals, roused me. "It is really astonishing
how sensible people, Christian people, can be so blind. I do
not blame the south. Were they to come here, sir, and make,
such demands on us, we should see the Impropriety, ,the
absurdity, at once. But that ~uch tuen *.~ Messrs. C-
o~id G..-.~- can be so led away, i0 inered'

THE DXAUYui:                  11
"All the result, of narrow,. sectional vi~ws~ai~&amp; a restless
desire to forestall- the workings of Providence," blan4ly-
answered the old doctor.
They had - aetnally begun "to agitate," those4 two staid
pillars of conservatism, and F opened my ~ ~fo~ I knew
that among my many unknown heresies which l~a'd thought
best tQ leave to the unfolding hand of time, my abolition &amp;
ism," in their eyes, would be the rankest. I thought of~ the -
days in G-, when, from ev~y lesson and ove~y object;
"my master" (IL like the old, sportive title besV) was wont 1~i.
deduce argument~ in favor of liberty and progress; oi~d'how,
in the spirit of opposition, I sought every argum~n1~ on the
opposite side, until obliged to yield. Those were lint battles!
He would never yield an inch to the sex, - never condescend
to say I might possibly be '-right; but, on the other hand, he
treated~ me as an equal, capable of thinking for myself, not
as a pet or puppet. X. d not fully appreciate this, then;
but now, ay, I see it is necessary to get at a distance from.
some people, as well as pictures, to see them trt~l~y. ~
der, if we were to meet again, if we should resume the war;
I wonder - but enough of this. What II would say is this,
that T-'s lessons had fully qualified me to understand th0 --
subject, and I asked inquiringly, and, I must confess, rtWer~
mischievously: -
"But does not God make use of huma~ instri'iments- to
carry out his plans, sir?"
"Certainly, inST child; but not, I fear, of suehine diaries-
as our modern reformers, -men who have cas~ if all
authority, save that of their blinded, seared consciem~es~ nor
of their ignorant, fanatical followers. - Poor tools *Mese, to
do the work ~f the ILao-rd!"
Ah, if the ap~oirited teachers ref~z~ to lead the people
over Jordan, &amp;~ promised laal, siMdl -they grumble if~he
office pass from th~txiba ~f'J~9vi, ~nd h~rzds c~rnsec~a%~ed onlyu
by an et~rnest 1~ve for hizi~d~y :take up the 8aered ark of'

-, - ,,'

11


(
F
F
r
f
1'

truth? Thus I thought, but I did not say it; only sug-
gested that he might possibly misunderstand these men.
Moreover, they were but a small portion of the supporters
of the anti-slavery cause.
Uncle gave me a look that seemed to say that women were
to be seen, not heard, and took up the conversation just
where itihad stood before my interference.
"Quite right, doctor; but something must be done t~ put
down these elements of disorganization, so rife among us.
The church and the ministry are our. only hope; and, I am
sorry to say, these are beebming infected. Why, Messrs.
N- and S- have left our church, Dr. H-'s church,
because thq are too righteous to commune with slave-
holders!"
"I heard it with sorrow, Mr. Sewal; but while we deplore
their errors, we must not forget that they are brethren,
sincere, no doubt, but victims of a restless spirit of change
and the pride of human reason. Let' ihe mind once get loose
from sound, orthodox moorings, arid there is no telling where
it will go; it is a melancholy fact. If these men were guided
less by what they term reason, and more by a spirit of
humility and prayer, they would be led to see how even
human bondage may be reconciled with the law of love, and
conduce to the salvation of this poor benighted ;race."
All the while, during this speech, I had felt what aunt
calls the "Lytton spirit" rising within me, and before the
old gentleman ceased it had risen to my lips. But I mas-
tered it'aud said, quietly, "Pardon me, sir. A few moments
since you were kind enough to explain to me why such men
as 0-- and S-Jcannot be instruments of Providence,
and yet, if I apprehend you aright now, we are to view the
miscreants employed in the slave trade as so many mission-
aries engaged in the conversion of souls."
JJncle arched his eyebrows to a point, in surprise and hor-
ror, but the good old doctor only smiled benevolently as he

12          LEAVES 1~R0M THE TREE IODRASYL.                                                  TflJD DI~RY.                  13

12'

13

said, "What an absurd conclusion, my dear Miss Lytton;
but a fair specimen of womanly logic. 'By no means; I
would be the last to justify evil; but there are sOme things
which we do not understand, - some things permitted to us,
as to the ancient Hebrews, perhaps, on accotiit of the hard-
ness of our hearts. But this we do know: that God permits
these, doubtless for some wise end; that, though he moves in
a mysterious way, he can and doth overrule them all for his
own glory and the salvati~u of man. We must not attempt
to pry into the secret counsels of the Al -
I disclaimed any such intention, seeing that a dozen lives
would not suffice to comprehetid the revelations H~ had given
us, through inspiration and nature; but, as thi~*as a subject
connected with the degradation or elevation Qf man, I thought
it might be discussed in all its bearings without once being
guilty of that sin. "Bitt," I went on, "I do not feel con-
vinced that my inference was incorrect. These men must
either~be doing right or wrong, serving God or the devil,
carrying out his plans or acting in direct violation of that
law which we are told is the holiest of all; and, hypocrite..
cal, wicked, selfish as they are, I do not believe one of them
dare make to his own conscience the excuse that be is serv-
ing hi~ Maker. They know it is wrong and unutterably sel-
fish; but, as long as the wise, and learned, and pious, abet
them in their practice, they will continue to follow it. But,
that God sanctions such things" [uncle gave me a look, -
why, such a one as Balaam might have given his a~s; - but
my spirit was up and I kept on]; "that the infinite, all-wise
Creator cannot carry out his plans without such agencies;
that the unspeakable horrors of the slave-ship and the inter-
nal traffic are a part of the 'divine economy;' that millions
of human beings must perish by the hands of their civilized
brethren before a remnant can be saved, is what I will not,
cannot believe. The intellect and heart revolt at it. I would
Sooner be a pagan than accep uch a God as that!"


I'
I:

15

had a Paixhan shot fallen in our midst, it could not have
excited greater consternation and horror than my poor words.
Uncle, with his silver fork arrested midway between hi~
mouth and the table, looked as if the powers of speech, and
what he prizes quite as highly, mastication, had deserted him
forever; aunt set down her tumbler, and crossed her hands
with an indescribable air, as if she saw, behind my. abolition-
ism, bloomerism, woman's-rightsism, fourierism, sedition, arson
and murder; H------ forgot his usual revenue, and sat pouring
the gravy unconsciously over his plate, while the old doctor,
with a despondent shake of the head, and with a tone, in
which gr~e reproof struggled with real kindness, replied,
"Very l~l~ely, for, 'the carnal heart is at enmity' with
God; and, my young friend, if we take your words as a cri-
terion, I fear we~ shall find you look at this subject with
anything but an eye of humble, trusting faith,: You are
tinctured with the besetting sin of the age, the pride of hit-
rna~n reason, that blind guide which leads so many astray.
It is a poor prop, my child, - a poor prop, as you will find
sooner or later. Not until you are willing to cast it aside
and look at this great subject with an humble, unquestioning
spirit, will the wisdom of the overruling hand be made appa-
rent to you.. Not to the carnally-minded, to the proud of
heart, are these things made known, but to babes and suck-
lings."
Old age! old age! White hairs and furrowed brows! 0, what
a power ye have to move this self-willed heart of mine! As
I looked up in his face, and met the calm but faded blue eyes
bent on me half in sorrow, half in surprise, and thought how,
in early youth, the foundations of his faith had been laid in
sincerity and prayer; how it had grown with his growth,
and strengthened with his strength, until it eticlosed him, as
within a consecrated temple, whose pillars were intertwined
with dear heart-memories, hopes that lived now, only in th~
'light of faith, sorrows that had grown into hopes; I felt how
0

worthy of all' respect is every form or creed that has typified
truth to the human soul, and, stretching forth my hand to the
old man, was about to try to translate something of this feel-
ing into words, when uncle's jaws collapsed, and he 'inter-
rupted 'me, in his coldest, most frigid tones:
"Elizabeth - Miss %ytton - I am astonished, perfectly as-
tonished, to hear such sentiments advanced by a woman, and
a relative of mine! Good heavens.! what are we coming to?
Let me tell you, that the ladies of your mother's family. found
ample room for their talents in the sphere which God assigned
them, domestic life. They were early taught that /Wdman's
province is to obey, not reason."
The tone roused my antagonism at once, and~t said, coldly,
"Then, I am very sorry for them, uncle; fort wide as that
sphere is, ignorant and narrow-minded men can narrow it
down until 'it becomes little better than slavery. Besides,
as God has actually endowed them with reason, they must
find it extremely difficult, at times, to obey both God and
"I see no such difficulty," he condescended to reply; "but,
perhaps, the wisdom of this age may enlighten me. As to
ignorance and narrowness, of course that is not the question
with our family;" and, with an air that seemed to say that
the question of woman's right to a separate individuality was
settled forever, he began discussing the new postal arrange-
~    ments, which H  - had started, and from that they went to
"non-intervention," Kossuth, etc.
I felt choked; I care not how much a person differs from
me, I can respect his notions and try to understand his
views, if he will only let me speak out my thought, and
respect that as it is worthy. But this looking askance at all
one says, this taking a poor soul's words with the tongs and
throwing them out the window, or fumigating them with salt
and vinegar until there is no life in them, before they are per-
mitted to cross the threshold,-.. saddens me. Would have each

14          LEAVES FR0~I THE TREE IGDRA5YL.                                            THE DIARY.

14

rum n1ARY.


143          LEAVES FRO~X TUE TREE IGDRABYL.

THE DIARY.               1

one speak out his own convictions truly, and take them, rich
or poor, as a godsend. We should lose something in smooth-
ness and polish; many relations, now dovetailed together with
suoja care, would find themselves breaking apart; but we~should
be infinite gainers in honesty, ht~rmony and truth.
Nov. 14th. - Scene, a beautifully furnished roim, the
chairs, tables, sofa, what-not, etc., drawn up against the wall
with as much precision as a company of the great Frederick's
soldiers, -Miss Elizabeth Lytton seated on an ottoman, read-
ing Mrs. Browning's noble poem, "Casa Guidi Windows."
Enter Aunt Sewal, who goes through with a critical review
of the furniture, occasionally passing her delicate cambric
handkerchief over it, to ~see if Mary has left a particle of
dust, while she~ keeps up a kind of miserere over the care-
lessness of servants, and the troubles of housekeepers in
general.
"Dear me, Mary has n't half dusted the rooi~n! It is too
bad to hire servants and do your work yourself! And that
Sophie, too! Elizabeth, don't you think that Sophie has
completely ruined my elegant coffee-pot, - melted off the
spout! I do feel as if I should fly every time I think of it!
Such an elegant one as it was!"
Elizabeth is buried in this passage,
"The dead upon their awful vantage ground,      /
The sun not in their faces, shall abstract
No more our strength; we will not be discrowned,
Though treasuring their crowns, nor deign transact
A barter for the present, in a sound
For what was counted good in foregone days.
0, dead, ye shall no longer cling to us!
we will not be oblivious
Of our own lives because ye lived before,
Nor of ou~' acts because ye acted well;
We thank ye that ye first unlatched the door,
We will not make it inaccessible
By thankings in the door-way any more," etc.,

and looks up, with all the glorious hopes it suggests warming
her heart, and exclaims,
"How beautiful !"
"Yes, indeed, twice as handsome as Mrs. A-'s, arid
cost only the same. And to think it should be spoiled!"
Elizabeth opens her great, gray eyes in astonishment. "Hover
what, aunt ? - I don't quite understandd"
"No, I dare say not; no one ever does think it worth while
to understand me or my troubles,- your uncle never does.
As long as everything is on the table at the precise moment,
he never asks how it has been done, or how much I have been
tried. I said that careless Sophie has melted off the spout
to my coffee-pot."
It was evident that aunt's usual pattern-like eqi~animity
was sorely disturbed, and that she expected me to syrnpathiz~
with her; but, having never experienced the loss of a coffee-
urn spigot, I was somewhat at loss what to say or do; so I
merely suggested that it could be mended.
"Mended ! - anpld, tinkered, mended thing on my table!"
(N. B. Aunt prides herself on setting the nicest table in the
neighborhood.) "What would the E-s and the F-s
think?"
IL ventured another suggestion, thti~t she might purchase
another. And so she might, she hoped, a dozen if she chose,
but they would not be half so good as her old one. Mr.
li-'s assortment! she did n't want any one to tell her about
such things. Her old one was worth a dozen of th9m; she
had used it two years, and not a dent in it. What did
I know about coffee-pots?
I saw my failure, and tried another tack, - Sophie's sore
row over the accident, - but this was only adding fuel to the
fire.
Well she might be sorry. To know no bQtter than to set
her urn down before a red-hot range, after all she had done

16

17


18         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGI)RASYL.                                         THE DIARY.                  19

for~her, too! And.she tripped out of the room to receive a
niorning call, and pour her sorrows into a more appreciating
ear, IL trust.
As for me, the steam from that unfortunate urn had com-
pletely dissolved my drean of a glorious future for Italy; so
IL sat and wondered why aunt's servants were supposed to be
under such infinite obligations to her, unless, indeed, she looked
at the matter philosophically, and considered herself in the
light of a Heaveti-sent trial, to exercise them in the rare virtue
of patience.
Nov. 14th. - IL was sitting by the table to-day- improvis-
ing all sorts of designs upon a piece' of Bristol board, and
thinking over my first lesson in drawing, and the quizzical
face of "my master," when he asked me whether it was in-
tended for a horse or a hou~e - when aunt looked up from the
wristband she was stitching, and asked what IL was doing.
"Not much of anything," II answered. "IL sat down to
make a horse for little bubby Lee."
"Is that child here again, to-day?" she asked, sharply.
"No, I promised him some days ago."
"IL really should think, Elizabeth, that child had enough to'
spoil him, without you. His mother and grandmother make
a fool of him; and Mary, she must be running home every
other day to see him; or, what is worse, he is brought over
here. I shall put a stop to this. IL can't abide children!"
I looked up in her pretty, delicate, well-kept face, in won-
dering surprise; but when, a moment after, she turned and
spoke so caressingly to her pet canary, I knew that in the
above assertion she had belied herself and the good God.
Earth without children! 0, 1 do not believe that He sends a
single soul into this world, to bear long, weary years of toil
and sorrow, unbrightened by the love for little children! No,
nor that heaven can be heaven without childish faces and
childish voices; oi that paradise was quite paradise without.

A
/

them! IL did not 'shock aunt by my heresies, however, Lint
said, gayly,
"0, IL don't wonder at Mary! If I had such a nephew~ IL
would go twice as far to get a look at his healthy, happy ~hee,
any day. It is enough to put one in good humor for a month.
IL wish IL had just such a boy!"
IL had shocked her, but had only time to catch her "Why,
Elizabeth Lytton!" when a hearty laugh, followed by a deep
voice, crying, "A right, true, honest, womanly wish! Stick
to the truth, Bessie, and shame the devil!" ~tarted me, and IL
turned to see the ample proportions of~ IDr. G-.-- fllliiig the
door-way, while his cheerful, intelligent face beamed down
upon us from above the' barriers of his fur collar, warm, heart-
inspiring as the sun itself.
IL sprang forward to meet him, for a short illness haB made
me acquainted with his excellences, and, what is bett~r~ won
him to be my friend, but stopped short when he moved ~his
broad shoulders aside, and IL saw that he was accompanied by
11-.--- and Harold T-.--; T-.-----, whom IL had not met in
more than a year.
IL fancy IL have some control over my nerves, but this rush-
ing current of blood is quite another thing. IL felt it pouring
to my heart like water in a mill-race, impelling me to spring
forward and meet him; but IL mastered it, and listened, as,
with my hand buried in his great palm, the doctor went on,
"Get along, II-, and pay your respects to your aunt.
Mr. T-, let me introduce you to a young friend of mine,
Miss Elizabeth Lytton, a good, sensible sort of~ a girl1 who,-
if it were not for a certain Lydia Mason - well,' well, if
there were no ifs in th6 world some strange 'thing&amp; would
happen."
This Lydia Mason is no other than the doctor's excellent
wife, whop, according to him, stands in the way of his wedding
as many wives as Solomon. IL turned to T-.-; but, 0,
Egypt, Thebes, Karnac and Luxor! ye contain not within


20         LEAVES ERO~ THE TRE~W IODRASYL.                                         THE DIARY.                 21

your mysterious temples one figure which can outrival, the calm
immobility and cool indifference of his face, as, slightly touch-
ing my hand, he passed the usual compliments, and moved on
to be introduced to my aunt.
What could it mean? He was the successful lawyer now;
did he mean to ignore all memories and things connected with
his earlier struggles? Possibly so; and for one moment I felt
what Agassiz means by "Ice Periods."
The old doctor drew me along to a quiet sofa, and soon I
roused myself enough to listen to his conversation; it was all
of T-. His father had been an old college friend of his,
a man of unstable mind, who was unfortunate in everything,
if a man could really be said to be unfortunate who possessed
such a son (the doctor is childless) -"the noblest, best boy
that ever lived; the kindest, most considerate of sons"- and,
though T-.---. had never spoken to me much of his youth,
I knew it must have been so - "'~mother, a lovely woman, died
when he was a mere boy, - he 's the very image of her, -
poor Ellen Bryne! I knew her as a girl;" and the good man's
great, blue eyes filled with tears as he gazed proudly upon
T-, who stood talking with aunt.
"She was a cousin of mine," he added,- and it was well he
did so, for IL began to wonder if some Lydia Mason had not
stood between them, so marked was his interest, - "my cous-
in, and her boy inherited her spirit; educated himself', grad-
uated with high hon6r, and had just commenced the studyof
law in the office of Judge B-, when the man, in whose
hands the remnant of their property was deposited, failed, and
left his' father, broken down, feeble, purposeless and en~rgy-
less, dependent upon him for support. He gave up his studies
at once, and took the situation of principal of an academy in
- well, somewhere in your region, IL '11 be hanged' if I can
remember the place, but somewhere on the Sound."
There was no need of his remembering - IL did.
"He staid there two years, when his father happily died.

Don't stare at me for saying happily, child. I did n't pro-
scribe for him; besides, you cannot have lived in the world
thus long, without seeing that there are some people in it
who are evidently out of place.' Mr. T- was one of them
- so he happily died.
"Noi~ his son is a member of the NewFlaven bar, one of
the most talented of his class, and is here, as counsel in the
great case of' Higgins versus Howe.' A noble fellow," added
the good man, rubbing his hands; "you must make his
acquaintance, surely."
So he had ignored me to one who, it seemed, was his hear-
est friend. Well, IL can be as proud as Harold T-, any
day; so I chatted with the doctor and 11-, who came and
took the seat on the other side of me, and allowed him to*
*    wind the crochet purse I was netting over his delicate ~1ngers
(IL do wonder why he cannot let my work alone), and tease to
know if it was ~ designed for him, unchecked. Once T-.---
looked over that way with a glance that an hour before I
would not have met for worlds - even now, it disturbed me
for a moment; but I thought, what right has Harold' T-'-~-
S
to stir my blood thus? Have I thought of him as "my
master" until the sportive title has become real, and I am a.
slave to cower thus before his glance? So IL glanced back
like a northern iceberg; but, only a few moments after, I
found myself yielding to the old fascination of his tones, as
he discussed Whipple~s lecture of the evening before, and, in
roply to some remark of II-, analyzed the lecture and
the lecturer in his calm, clear way, meting out praise and
censure like a god. How those tones recalled the past!
My heart made pictures: there was the small parlor look-
ing out upon the sea - mother on the lounge with her book
and knitting the two figures by the table, one occasionally
looking up from her drawing to answer some remark with
which the other had interrupted his reading; and then that


LEAVES FROM TilE TREE IGDRASYL.

voice swept on again, to the accompaniment of the restless
waters. IDid he not remember it, too?
IL was rous.~d from my reverie by aunt's voice:
"G-2---; why, that is where you and your mother lived
awhile, Elizaketh. You must have been there about the same
time with Mr. T
IL looked T-.-----. coolly in the face a second, before I replied,
"Yes, aunt."
Before she could question or comment, T- said, with
half a smile, "Miss Lytton is no stranger to me; IL have had
the honor of meeting her before."
"The deuce you have!" began the old doctorr; but, having
a sort of instinctive perception, IL presume, that there was
something beside Lydia Mason in the way here, he very wise-
ly paused, and set to teasing H- about his boot. Aunt,
unfortunately, had not his foresight. She kept on: "In..
deed, and Elizabeth is so much changed you. hardly knew her.
Don't you think the change for the better? We flatter our-
selves ills." T- ~bowed, and IL prayed that aunt might
be attacked with bronchitis - anything to stop her mouth; but
she kept on. "We think a year or so with us will quite
overcome her country manners - give her quite a refined ana
elegant air."
"lPshaw, Mrs. Sewal!" fell in the doctor; "we don't want
any air but a natural one; and the girl has that now. Don't
get ~any such nonsense into your head, child."
ll-~ and T-'- both laughed, ana IL was glad when
they left, after aunt haa politely invited T-. to "call
again."
Nov. 17th. I ought to feel flattered, I suppose; for aunt,
if IL do not greatly mistake her, actually thinks IL may do for a
wife for her idol, H-. Whether II- has, had any hand
in bringing her to take this view of the matter, IL cannot say;
IL have no disposition to inquire. 0, these match-makers!
Nov. 24th. A whole week of rainy, dirty, foggy Weather!

'22

T1~E DIARY.                   23
IL don't believe any one Can have patience with such. weather;
not even the "Shepherd of Salisbury Plain," especially if~he
had been shut up in the house with Aunt Sewal all flay, ay,
and all night, too, fbr uncle is absent, and she has insisted on
my occupying a cot-bed in her room, as a sort of guard - IL,
who sleep like a stone! But IL was obliged to yield, under
fear of seeming disobliging; and so have been lulled to sleep,
every night, by a kind of doxology on H-.--.---'s perfection.
IL am cross and out of patience, and would welcome even a
slight shock of earthquake, if it would shake up aunt's ideas,
arid give them a new direction. IL like ll-.; IL liked the
way in which he defended poor Fanny R-.-----. the other day,
who, to say the least, has been more sinned against than
sinning. He took me by surprise. IL find, under the crust
of fashion and conventionality, a good substratum of common
sense; and I would draw it out, and make ~he most of it, if
it were not for this ridiculous plot of aunt's, and a kind of
fancy IL have, that the gentleman does, at times, think hi~-
self irresistible. IL wonder what makes most men fancy that~
every unmarried woman is ready to fall into their arms, just
like a fly~ into a cup of sweetened water? Is it because they
are so much like sweetened water? Why cannot they have
sense enough to see that a woman may really like their socie-
ty, and feel a sincere regard for them, without "being in love
with them,". as the phrase runs? And why cannot the world,
so owlish-eyed in most things, see that such a relation m&amp;y
exist without any desire or intention, on the part of either of
the parties, to endow, Or be endowed, "with alltheir worldly
goods"? It would be such a gain to be able to say to a
person, "I like you," without being misunderst~odl lilt's a
miserable, good-fox'.nothing world, any ~way.
Ah! here comes Mary. That girl's face is a~perfectmaga..,
zine of sunbeanis. And yet 'they say that the death. of her
father and brother ~have within two years reduced her from
decent comp~e~co to the position of servant. As she comes


24          LEAVES FRO1~[ TUE TREE IODRASYL.
singing up the stairs, she calls, "See, Miss Elizabeth! It 's
elpa~ring up!"
"How can you bear to sing in such weary, rainy weather,
Mary?"
"0,1 do~t kno'~; I-sing without thinking; I suppose it 's
a habit I 'ye got. IL was thinking how nice this rain was for
people who needed water! You know it ha~ been so dry all
the fall, Miss, that the cisterns and wells are very low. IBe-
sides, if one is contented, it does n't much matter about the
weather ; -at least, mother says so," she added, in a hesitating
way.
Contented - satisfied with one's self? Ay, that is it.
Have n't j[ been all the week restless, dissatisfied, and uneasy,
layiiig all my misery to the weather? And why? It is
time to face this question boldly. Because IL dare not look
into my heart, fearing to find there a love for Harold T
which is neither sister's 'nor friend's; that I have disgraced
my womanhood by loving unsought, nnasked? No; tbat is
the ~world's utterance, the world's law, not mine. ill am truer,
1e~ter, for that love ; the shame - no, pain li6s here, that
II~e may, has suspected it, and will teach me its futility. 'T is
well; he shall find, me not weak, nor backward in seconding
his aim. I will meet this truth like a woman who is bent
upon doing her best under all life's trials! And yet, what
can I put in its place? The love of God? Alas, the heart
is humanly weak!
"See, Miss Elizabeth! a light streak in the west. We
shall have fair weather to-morrow!" cries Mary, from a dis-
tant chamber.
"Yes, I see!" Thank God that there are, also, light
streaks in the darkest hours of destiny, if we have but faith
and patisnee to watch and -wait. It will dawn for m~, yet!
Evening. - Uncle has returned from New York, bringing
dress-patterns for aunt and me. Mine is a very nice Turo
satin.- aunt's a splendid watered silk. "It is proper that

DIARY.                ,
my niece should be well dressed; I like to see her s6," wa~
uncle's reply to my thanks. I wish he had notsaid just that;
but, then, I am very grateful. I need the dre~s very much;
all tJw~ more because Miss Emilia Cranston, aunt's niece, i~
conk~/up to spend the holidays here, ai~4 -my ~d black silk
would look quite shabby~ I fear. Mother thought I could
afford to have a new one, before I left home, especially if she*
gave up buying an alpaca; but I convinced her that the
alpaca must be had. I confess I am not philosophical
enough to get quite above this matter of dress. I think there
is more in the mind's craving for perfect harmony and fitness
* in outward things, than many of our ~sages admit. The dress
of every Woma~ should be evolved from her own mind -an in-
dication of the grace, truth, purity, and beauty within. Haw-
thorne understands this; - the dark robe of Hester IPrynne,
the gay scarlet of "little Pearl," the rusty silk~ of Miss
Hepzibah, and the variegated dressing-gown of poor Clifford,
are redolent of character. Only as the "outward and A~
sign" of the inward harmony should dress be made a s~t~ ~ -
never for vulgar display. I am glad Miss Cranston is c
They say she is a belle and a beauty; but, as I shall interfere -~
- with her in neither of these matters, IL fancy we shall be ex-
cellent friends.
Nov. 25th. - Helping aunt and Sophia in the kitchen this
morning, and have won their admiration, for all time, by m~
skill in making sponge cake and icing. I have risen as
much as tWo degrees. in aunt's estimation; and rejoieiti~ ~n
this and. the clear sunlight, happy in the thought of my ne~w~
dress, ~Eiss Cranston's expected arrival, and various ot~h~r
things (how little it takes to make ~pe happy sometimes!),
I was really delighted to see I1-.-..~'~h~n he called; all the'
more so (alas, poor human nature!) because I ~aw the horses
as he passed the window, and knew he had come' to escort
me on a horseback ride.
0, whata glorious ride that w~s ! How fresh and i~vig~


26          u~v~s ~uo~~i TliE TREE IGDRASYL.

orating. the rush of keen winter air, as we dashed down the
W- road - the ice-bound river sparkling in the sun-
light, and the bare brown hills leaning back lovingly against
the sky! How I longed to turn my horse's head towards
these hills! I knew that among, them there must be sunny
valleys, like the on~ ~in which IL had, taken my first lesson on
horseback, and. I seemed to descry the very mountain paths~
~up which Annie IB-.- and IL had urged our horses, on our
whortleberrying expeditions to the hills. Poor Annie B
- no, happy Annie ! -her feet have long since trod the dark
valley, and the opposite slopes have been smoothed for her
by angel hands.
Perhaps ll-.---., too, had his memories; for he said, after
a long silence, as we sat watching the scene:
"I like to go out on a winter's day like this, the air is so
still, clear and cold~ It seems to take from life all that i~
merely accidental and factitious, and show it to us in it~
~4~hal dignity and purity. IL feel belittled when obliged to
go back to the daily routine of petty cares. Have you never
f~11 this, Miss Ibytton?"
"Often, very often," IL said, in pleased surprise. "But,
my friend, do we take the lesson aright, if we fail to gain
from it wisdom and strength to dignify these same petty
details?"
"You are right - you are always right, Miss Lytton!"
he said, thoughtfully. And so we chatted on, of life and
Iifa?,s duties, until: we reached home. Was there4 or was
tb~r~ not, a closer pressure of my hand than needf~il, when
he helped me from the horse? Henceforth, I think t shall
be countrified, and spring off unassisted.
Nov. 26th. - All the talk is of T-'s splendid plea.
His talent, his eloquence, meet me on every side ~ prophecies
of his future success; and IL rejoice - miserable confession!
- when I~can spare time from pitying~ myself~
Little 'Ki3ubby Lee ".. is ill nigh unto death, they say.

THE DIARY.                   27
Mary has gone home to assist in taking c~ire of him. I nnist
go and see him to-morrow.
.Nov. 27th. At widow tee's.
They sleep at last, these poor, grief-stricken women, and I
am left alone with the child. As he turns hi~ swollen, pur-
ple face uneasily on the pillow, and I think how soon it may
lie quite still beneath the winter snow, my eyes fill with tears
and my heart aches; but not for the little one whose feet
have wandered but such a little way from the gate of heaven,
      but fo~ the~iother and grandmother, along whose tlr~ry
path he seems the only visible sunbeam. His disease is si~ar-
let fever, ~ind my imprudence, as my friends tern~ it, in
coming into it, will keep me here or at Dr. G-.-..----'~ until all
4
danger of the infection is over. Uncle and aunt are in a
great worry about it; but IDr. G- promises to take care of
me in case 'I do take it. He says he and his wife fear catch-
ing nothing of me but my wilfulnesss." t intend to give
him a taste of it, for I shall not leave these poor peop1~
til some one wiser than I comes to take my place; and
will not be immediately, I fancy, for the neighbors ha ill
little children, whom they dare not expose to the infectioji.
I have no fear and these poor women cling to me and look
up to me as if I were Minerva herself.
It is good to have one's energies taxed thus, and I thank
Heaven for this experience, and every other that has taught
me wisdom, or t~iade me stronger for the battle of life. Mary.
and I do' everything, from the dropping of the medieb~n'~
whose action hangs the life of the child, to the mAki~ij~
the mustard paste drafts for the feet. There is no 4
here, for the days when the widow's~ cruse was filled nuracti-.
lously have gone by; but never did I feel so thankful for the
early schooling that taught me how to "make the most of
little" as now.
Nov., 28th. I sat by the fire this morning toasting a
piece of' bread, and my face shining a Ia Captain Cuttle,


28          LEAVES ruo~i ~nni~ ~im~ XODRASYL.                                              TH~ DIARY.                    29

when I heard Dr. G-~ calling me from the little entry.
Toasting-fork in hand, I hurried out, and found my hands,
bread, fork and all, clasped in those of H-, who, oblivi-
ous of his fawn-colored gloves, poured forth inquiries after
my health.
"There, now you have seen her alive and well, with your
own eyes," interrupted the doctor, as I was assuring him of
iiiy well-being, "IL hope you are satisfied. I could n't get
rid of the fellow, Bessie," he went on, "though I assured
him you were never so well nor so handsome ~tn your life;
though you have got a 'beauty spot' on your~cheek - it
answers for a patch, dear," he went on, grim~oing, as IL
raised my apron to efface the grim mark of the bread or
something else. "He doubted my honor as a Christian man,
the jackanapes, and insisted on seeing you with his own eyes.
Hang him! he might teach perseverance to the saints."
"And in return for this interest I must turn him out the
acor. Indeed," I said, as I put out my hand to prevent his
further entrance, "you must not come in. You can do no
good, and you may do harm to yourself and others."
"And yet you; stay here, Miss Lytton, and peril your own
life, so dear to all your friends!" he said reproachfully. "Is
there nothing I can do?"
"Yes, you can play the widow's good angel, and replenish
our coal-bin; for I confess IL don't understand the art of
saving coal in such weather."
"But is there nothing else - nothing I can do for you?"
"Yes, you can go away now, and tell uncle and aunt that
~I '~in well, and thank them for; permitting me to stay here."
"IL almost forgot to tell you that Emilia Cranston arrived
yesterday," he said~
"Then you can take my place, and play the agreeable to
her," I said, laughing, as I shut the door in his face.
"Coolly done, that," said the doctor. "Take a little of

the starch out of that fellow, so that common sense will have
full play, and he '11 do .-- he '11 do."
Evening. - It has* been a terrible day- the little boy
wrestling with death, and th&amp; mother in hysterical Swoons.
0, it is dreadful to see the sweet, innocent face of a child
thus distorted with agony! My God, why need it be ?~ Mary
and her mother have watched over Mrs. Lee, an~1~I have
hung over the child until I can scarcely breathe. I don't
know what ails me; the top of my head seems hot and heavy
as burning lead.
Later. -- Doctor has come, bringing with him a hard~
featured, b6ny woman, whom he calls Mrs. Lane. She 4hrew
off her things, and came up and shook my hand as if it had
been a mat or piece of rug, saying, half way between a laugh
and a cry:
"So, you 'ye been here all alone, and are clean fagged out,
as such a young crittur has a right to be; for I know t1zem~
there" - with a nod towards the bedroom door, where A~he
poor mother lay-"kind critters as ever breathed the
breath o' life do anything for other folks, but not worth a
snap when trouble teaches them. I 'ye thought on ye all, but
Jim was laid up with rheumatic, so as he could n't stir band
nor foot. But Jim 's as kin a crittur, I must say, as ever
breathed; and when he heard how bad on 't you was down
here, and the neighbors all skewered to death, he toiled me to
send the boy oi~r io Aunt Sally's, and come over; and so I
did."
And she dropped my hand, and w~nt round the r6orn,; p~g~
ting things in their places. I Talk of elastic steps and4airy
feet, girls! When the spontaneous goodness of our hearts
leads us to step as lightly in a sick-room as did this p~or.
Woman, we shall have some reason to be proud!
Midnight. - Mrs. Lane and the doctor watch the child,
while, too anxious to sleep, I sit and watch them. Again
and again the doctor examines the face of the child, while
A
~


80         LEAVES PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                                DIARY.                 81

his fingers never leave the thin wrist. At last a light breaks
over his face, and he whispers:
"He will live, Bessie! The boy will live!"
31 sprang to ~my feet, and was making for th~ bedroom,
when he caught my hand.
"You foolish woman! Will you bring that doting grand-
mother and half-crazy mother upon us, to undo what little
good we~have done? Wait an hou~ or so."
So I sat down again, and began watching the play of his
ยฃ~tures, and thinking I wished I could sketch them, just as
1.e sat. I would rather hav~ his portrait than Kossuth's.
"IDoctor."
"Hush, you witch! Cannot you write what you have got
to say, without yelling like a screechowl ?"
So I took a slip of paper, and wrote:
"Sit a little tQ the right, if you please, doctor."
"What for?" in a whisper, hoarse as the voice of a
young Shanghai.
"I want to sketch your portrait."
"What will you do with it?" Then, with a horrible
grimace, "Will tha~ expression do?"
"Put it in my cabinet of curiosities."
"You can't have it. Do you not know it is written, 'Y~
shall not make unto y~1wselves idols?'"
"Ay, but they must be in the likeness of something in
heaven above or the earth beneath, you know. It is enough
for a reasonable man that I want it."
He looked at me closely a moment, before he replied, -
"Lydia Mason shall she, about that; but to prove that I
am reasonable, I shall take you ~iome with me to-night. So.
get your bonnet and cloak."
"IL shall not go. Leave my charge because you say he is
better!"
"You will !"
"I shan't! "

Dec. 20th. At Dr. G-.--~'s.
I did go; but how, or when~ jil have no distinct recollection.
21?or many days there has been no morning nor evening for
me; only fever, and pain, and delirium; thq, darkness that
steals up from the valley of the shadow of death. 0, it is
good to suffer; for, without this, we should never know half
the kindness and love that lies deep hidden in some hearts!
The rock must be smitten before the refreshing Wers will
burst forth.
What but this could have made unoje and aunt wate
by my bedside; and the Lees,~ and Mrs. Lane, and W
too, all so anxious to do something for me; and, best of
all, glorious Doctor G- and his noble wife? Sur~i~ they
will have their reward; "for I was a stranger and they took
me in!"
Here comes the doctor, holding up a letter; he frowns hor-
ribly at the sight of my occupation. Well, well, I promise
not another word to-day; and so I get my letter.
Dec. 21st. - Mother's letter is unique. The dear wo~aan
~ has all unconsciously achieved the desideratum in letter-writ-
ing; for it places the home and neighborhood interests, cares
and joys, as plainly before me as if IL were in the midst of
them myself. Yet how strange such passagesas these wQuld~
sound in the ears of many of my oit~ friends,
instance, who is enthusiastic over th~ beauty of rural life:
"Potatoes are going down,~and last week George i~-.-~-.
carted all we have to spare to G-, at fifty cents'
bushel. It makes quite a difference in the profits, as we reck-
oned them; but I hope to ~nakn it up ~n the hay. That is
rising, and Mr. F-.- advises m~ to keep it a while longer,
thinking it will, get up to twen1~y diAlars per ton before spri~.
It has been so warm that we have not butchered ~ j~gs
yet; but Mr. F~- killed last week, and liis largest Weighed
four hundred and fifty lb~ BI~ek Ann is to help me about
the work; so you need llQt W&amp;ry about me."


82'         L~AVE5 rno~ THE TREE IGDRASTh.                                                    THE WARV~.                    83

Yet, to me, that fall in the price of potatoes is a serious
matter; for, if We cannot make up the difference somehow, we
may find ourselves h~meIess; for our hard creditor, Mr.
J-, gives us no choice - the interest of the mortgage, or
the house ai4 few remaining acres themselves.
Here is a~ postscript:
"Be very careful to please your uncle and aunt, my child.
It is ver~y kind in him to notice us, and his favor can be 'of
grei~t advantage to you in many ways."
there spoke .-not my~mother, but the worldly wisdom
ich such natures as hers gain from circumstances.
O,'the heaviest curse of poverty is not that we must earn
our bread by the sweat of the brow, but the constant canker-
ing care it brings, eating into the finest natures like rust!
Men praise it as a teacher of great truths, and so it is;' but,
if it sometimes develops the intellect, it not infrequently
dwarfs the heart. To be free from these petty cares to be
able to free others - to lift the leaden weights from the spirit,
and give it a free development - this is why I would be
rich.
As to uncle's kindness in noticing us, methinks it would
have been more apparent, and to the purpose, had he done it
when you, my mother, were struggling to give an education to
y6llr fatherless child! ~ when we have won for ourselves
friends among the g~0#~nd learned, IL fancy it is no conde-
scension in him to acknowledge "my niece."
Dec. 22d. - H- an~ Niss Cranston called to see me
to-day. She is beautiful, and was kind enough to express an
earnest wish to have ,me retiiri~ to 'uncle's. H-.----. is cer-
tainly losing his tact, or he ~~uld' ~tLever have forgotten him-
self so far as to have said it was "'dull and stupid" 'at uncle's
without me, and that lady by his side! ' I thought Miss
Cranston, in spite of her retenue, looked rather annoyed. I.
never knew him guilty of such a 4eti~e before?
Dec. 23d. - IL am to go hom&amp; after dinner, Christmas-day.

/ "      Aunt has been here, and doctor and she have finally, settled
it thus. She was in excellent ~sphits, and talked. of the par-
ties which were to be given during the holidays, and wWch
Emilia and I would b~ expected to attend..~.~" such a good
opportunity for me to see something of city life."'~';
The doctor said nothing, but sat and drew coffins on the
margin of the newspaper before him, as a sort of warning
to me, I suppose, of the end to which these parties4 would
lead; and somehow I grew sad and dismal, and was glad w~en
aunt left. ~ '~ .
Doctor and his wife are plotting some conspiracy~s I be~
lieve; for even now they are whimpering outside' 'the~ door.
When he comes in again, I will make him t~ilnk his ii~oarse
whispers have betrayed his secret~
Dec. 24th. - He came in, the good doctor, with a face so
sad that I almost repented of my plotted mischief. He
pushedd" and "pshawed" at. the "Era," which he took from.
the table, and seemed in anything but a peaceable, Christian
sq':  temper. At last IL said:
"You needn't look s~ solemn, doctor, I' know all about
A     it."
"The deuce you do!" his face evidently brightening~
"Who could have told you?"
"0, it 's an age of wonders; p iaps the rapping spirits.
Of course IL should not be left long i~tgziorance of what so
nearly concerns me."
"True," and he seated himself 1y my side, and looked at
me long and earnestly, before I~ie ~added, "Then you don't
care for this, child?"
"Yes, indeed, very ~uoh~ D~ I. might care a little more~
intelligently, if I only knew precisely what the great 'this'
"Why, you said you did know!"
"So I do, that you and Mrs. G.-. are plotting some
Christmas surprise for n~e~ I heard you in the hall, some~


34          LEAVES FROM THE TREE JODRASYL.

thing to add to earth's sunlight, or it would not be you, kind
friend;" and ~4~r'eyes filled ~~ith tears at the thought of all I
ow~d them.
"Sunlight ~. I wish it was! Such a miserable earth as
this is! fiU~d with all manner of rascalities. I have tried to
'-4
make the best of it until I am tired, and ~the sooner it is
burned up the better!" And he got up and gave the fore-
stick a kick (he insists on my sitting by a wood fire) that sent
a shower of sparks up the chimney, as a preliminary,' I sup-
pope to ~the grand conflagration he deemed so desirable.
Seeing he ~was seriously disturbed about something, Ii
repressed the jest that rose to my lips, and waited his next
words in silences
"I feel just as if I could fight, Bessie," he said at length,
settling himself in the chair by my side. "I am angry at
myself and everybody else, yourself included, for I have some-
thing to say to you, and you don't help me a bit."
"To me!" I said, rather startled. "What is it?"
"It is what you will deem an impertinent question; but,
tell me, child," - he went on very seriously, 'taking my hands
in his, .-" has Harold T------ ever been to you aught but a
friend? - ever by word or glance sought to win your lov&amp;?"
"Doctor G-, will you tell me why I am to answer this
question - which - whloli"
''~ Does not concern me, you would say. Can you not trust
me thus far, my child, without a reason?" he asked. "IL said
by word or glance," he added., seeing me still hesitate.
0, words of mocking raillery, high courage, and earnest
interest, - glances whose mission begun when that of words
ended, - how ye stood out fi~om the past! but not one which
might not have fallen from a brother's~1ip or eye! And so I
told the doctor, and more, how that I had met him at a
period when my moral and intellectual being were 'struggling
for some wider. development than contented those around me;
how he had kindly slackened his own swift pace in the march

THE DIARt                    35'
of progress, to ~aid my stumbling steps; how'he~ had been
teacher, friend, master, but nothing more; an earnest
"Thank dod!" was the reply.
"But may I know," I added, 'after a ent's p~t.use,
"whatledyoutosupposesuchathing?~~
"He told me himself that he had boarded ~with yo~zr
mother more than a year, and, knowing you both, I could not
well conceive ho~ it could be otherwise; besides"
"NVhat, doctor?"
"I would not say what, were it not needed to e4lain i~y~ ;
impertinence. You were delirious when' yow~ were ill,
and ".-.
I saw it all, and buried my burning face in my hands,
while tears of womanly pride rushed to my eyes.
In a moment or two, he gently raised my head as he said,
"Forgive me, Bessie. It was but the raving of delirium I
am convinced. I would n't have distressed you so for a less~
reason."
"What is that reason?" I asked, looking him once more
firmly in the face.
"Harold T- is about to marry the niece of Judge
A-, the widow N-..---.~ I have it on what I believe good
authority; and I could not 'bear to think that he who had
stood to me in the stead of the children God has denied n~e,
was an unmitigated scoundrel;' It is bad, enough as ~it is!"
I drew my hand from his, that he might not mark the
throbbing pulse, and~ after a moment's silence, a~ked,
"This Mrs. N-~-; what kind of woman is she? One
worthy of Harold T---.. V'
'"Yes, rteh,,and vain, and ambitious!" he replied, getting
up and kicking the fire, as if he were punishing Harold by
proxy. "I wonder Leould be so aAgry' when Mr. X--.-.
expressed surprise that she should stoop to him!"
"That i~ no answer to my question, doctor. Is she
worthy of li~nit"

C9


"'Be~sie," he said, again sitting down, "I had got a plan
Into my head~w~iich this news has sadly disturbed, and, like
most positiyerne~i, when they see their schemes thwarted, am
cross andAll4~bapered. Perhaps I would play the part of
Providence~ too much, and so am reminded of my weaknej~s.
]Is~ she worthy? b~it, tell me, what should Harold's wife be
like?"
"Like that," I said, pointing to a drift of unsullied snow
without; "pure in thought, word and deed; yielding to him
li1~e that~ to the rays of the sun, but firm to all the world
beside. $1i~ must be all the world to him, or nothing."
"And Harriet N-is likelier to be something to all the
w0rld than to her husband, unless her passion for admiration
be much abated," he replied, dryly. "He must be attracted
by her wealth, and the connection the match will afford him.
Her uncle has offered him a ~partnership in his office, I hear.
I will never attempt to judge character again, so honest, so
self-reliant, he seemed. He t~ame here to inquire after you
twice before he left the city, and, when he turned away
his face, as I spoke of your danger~, II thought but 't was
all a sham. 0, he has grown scheming betimes! He will
be a judge, yet!"
Why should he ask after me at all? What was I to him,
~what could I give him ? - this poor, undeveloped girl, who
had caught light a~nd life from his teachings.
And then I thought of the beautiful and accomplished
Mrs. N-; of all she could do for him, the weary struggles
which her position and wealth might save him -~- those strug-
gles which ever attend the first years of a poor professional
man's life and I spoke of this to Dr. G-.
"Better that he face them like a man, than escape by a
mercenary marriage!" thundered he. "It is just that which
gives strength and stamina to the character! Faugh! I de-
spise such cowardice."

I:

s a

I
"But the marriage may not be mercenary. He aoubtless
loves her, and she cannot fail of loving Harold. T-.-.."
"Others have, it seems," -he answered dryly; tli~j went on
alternately berating them both, until, for old kindness' sake,
IL roused myself to interfere.
"You wrong them, doctor. You are angry,- and so wroi~g
them both. This Mrs. N- is not unworthy simply becau~0
she is fashionable. Besides, you say, she ihas two children;
and she cannot be quite the frivolous thing you make her
out, with such a bridge between her and heaven."
"Get out of the way, then!" he replied, half way between
a grin and a smile. "It 's enough to provoke a saint, to hear
you defend such folly! If it were not proof that you do not
care for him, IL should be tempted to swear!" And he flung
himself out of the room, and, a moment after, I saw him driv-
ing furiously down the street.
Christmas Eve. ~- The doctor and his yife are singing
Milton's glorious hymn of the Nativity below, and there is a
harmony and tenderness in tluieir tones, as they reach me,
better than all art. So have they sung together, on every
Christmas eve, for twenty-five years. May it be long before
God calls them to sing it on high!
"J3essie, come help us!" calls the doctor.
No, friends; I am passing through the Valley of IIumiia~
tion to-night, and the Miserere Deus mei is a more fitting
strain for me, than that song of joy. I am struggling with
pride and weakness; and when I conquer, as by the help of
God I surely sh~dl, I may, perchance, find that herb, "heart's-
ease," which is said to grow. so plentifully here, and be able
to sing with the shepherd..boy of whom Bunyan speaks:

"lie that is down need fear no fall;
lie that is low, no pride;
lie that is humble ever shall
liave God to be his guide."
4,

A

THE DIARY

LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRA5YL.


LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.
Christmas Day. - Last night life seemed so mean and
worthless, IL was so weak and selfish, that IL could not hear
the song of the angels - could see nothing in this great uni-
yerse, but iuy, own petty self; but this morning it is better.
There is nothing like right, true, honest, friendly words gud
glances to lay evil spirits! They are sometimes better than
prayer and fasting. IL was convinced of this when I met the
friendly greeting of the doctor and his wife this morning, ~tnd
looked upon his radiant face. Surely, IL told him laughingly,
in Sir John Suckling's words:
"No sun upon an Easter day
Was half so fine a ~icrlit ;"
but he suggested "warming-pan" as being, at the same time,
more "correct and professional."
How pleasant was that small breakfast-room, - h~w deli-
cious the coffee and the buckwheat cakes!
"Bessie," said good Mrs. 0- , after breakfast, "we
always let Sally go to church on Christmas day, and, as
we shall have to hurry, we shall press you into the service.
Will you seed these raisins?"
IL don't know what there was about those raisins, but with
every seed IL flung out my heart grew lighter, and IL had
struck up an accompaniment to Mrs. ~ song, as she
tripped back and forth between the breakfast-room and the
kitchen, when the doctor put his head into the door witir,-
"Well, Lydia, IL am going!"
"Where?" she asked, scarcely interrupting her song.
"First, to see Mr. P , then to poor Pat Smiley's."
"IL hope you '11 find them better, poor souls! Sally, don't
let the rice burn!" cried the good woman, as she went up to
her husband to arrange his shirt-collar, which,, whatever may
be the prevailing fashion, always manifests something of the
wearer's individuality, and stands just as it has a mind to.
"0, the deuce take the collar! "-he cried, seizing her haiid

!~tIE WARY.                  89'
and drawing his head in and out of his furs, like a turtle.
"have you nothing to think of but rice and starch, this
morning?"
"0, yes, a plenty of things; puddings, and. vegetables,
and the cranberry sauce, - IL came near forgetting that," she
said, laughing and attempting to get free.
But he held her tight while he said, looking down into her
eyes, gravely:
"There is another sauce for our Christmas dinner, wife,
which I am afraid you have forgotten."
"What is it?" she asked, all the housekeeper stirring in
her at once. "IL have tomato, quince," -
"No, no," he said, interrupting her, "IL see you have not
got it, but if. you will take that nice baked spare-rib, on the
second shelf in the pantry (I 'ye been in there), a few mince
pies, and anything else that comes handy, and put them into ~
my carriage, IL guess IL can find what we want at Pat Smiley's.
Don't you think, wife, that the knowledge that those hungry-
eyed, gaunt little ghouls of his (there are a dozen or so of
them) are well fed for once in their lives, will give a better
relish to our own dinner, than ketchup or cranberry?"
She looked up in his face a moment, before she- fle'WF to do
as he suggested; and that man must be worse than a hL%~ttentot
who would not prize such a revelation higher than ~the ap.
pause of the whole world.
Mrs. 0- and Sally both went to church, leaving mo
watch the baking ; and between that and writing a little to
mother IL spent the morning.
When IL entered the dining-room, IL found out the meaning~
of all the whispering and plotting yesterday, for "Bubby
Lee," looking almost as rosy and plump as before his illness,-
ran into my arms with his "Merry Christh.math, Mith ILtton;"
and the two widows, mother and daughter, and Mary, came
round me, uttering the same kind wishes mingled with grate-
ful ~ear~.


4D          LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.                                               THE DIARY.                  4'

They had 'all been invited t&amp;'dinner, and the doctor, quite
opportunelyfor 'my composure, ordered them all to their
seats at the table, brandishing his carving-knife threateningly
at Mary, who insisted on waiting on the table with $aily.
"IL am as hungry as a bear, good people," he said, as he
piled up their plates'with good things, "and IL heartily hope
that you will keep me company. No, no ketchup; IL got
enough of that sauce we spoke of this morning, to last through
one dinner. Wife, did you know you had an angel for your
husband?"
"IL thought IL had a warming-pan, this morning," she said.
"All right - there is a closer connection between warming-
pans and ang~l~ than some people think. Take some more
of 'this dressing, Mrs. Lee?"
"What soft of an angel, doctor?" IL asked; "there are two
~ kinds, you know."
"One right from heaven, according to Pat Smiley and his
wife; and they, being true believers, ought to know. So no
insinuations, Miss." And he went bn to give us such a lu-
dicrous account of the gratitude of the poor Irish family,
xni~gled with, here and there, true touches of pathos as he
described the condition of the helpless father, as compelled
both oar laughter and our tears.
~The happy faces of the Lees were good sauce for our' festi~
val diviner, arid we ate it with happy hearts. And when, on
rising from the table, the doctor fervently thanked God, not
n~erely for the good things which had been set before us, but
'that He had put it into our hearts to share the~n with others,
IL felt the true meaning of the custom; for the mean and
the dishonest, the wicked and. hardearted, may sit at loaded,
tables.but God alone can put it into their hearts to share
their goode with others.
Catching up the little boy in his arms, he. led the way to
the parlor, which I had found, to my surprise, close' locked, in
the morning. He now unlocked the 4oor, threw it open, ~nd

there, in the centre of the roem, stood a table 'covered with
gifts. No Christmas tree could have supported the beautiful
iltustrate~d copy of Shakspeare that bore my name, nor the
heavy~arin material for winter clothing, which they had
provided for their other guests.
"That will keep you warm on your way to school, this
winter," said the doctor, flinging a nice "Bay State" shawl
over Mary's shoulders, as his wife placed in her hand a certif-
icate of her membership in the "Webster High School," for
the ensuing term.
"Bessie was planning to make a dress-maker of you, Mary,"
said the doctor; "but my wife happened to se&amp;the accounts
you keep for your mother, and thought a0lerks~hip in Mr.
C-'s store would be much better for you,~ seeing that
fashionable dress-makers are, with reference to their a~pre~-
tices, very much like the horseleeches, crying, 'Give! giv~e~ P;
without an adequate equivalent in return. IL know somethii~ig
about this, for Lydia Mason and IL took the trouble to inquire.
And, Bessie, next time you fcA inclined to advocate 'women's
rights,' please bear in mind the fact, that we men do give our
apprentices their board and a fair knowledge of their bi~ia~;
if nothing more; while a girl is made to board hers ,t~imd
kept sewing away at cross-stitch and back~stitch,~4' the
Lord knows what, for a whole si~ months or a year~ and at
the end knows no more about fitting a dress than IL do~ Atid
if she were to stay three years, it would be just so, for whsn
women do choose to serve the devil, they do it With abetter
grace than we men. Is it not so, Bessie'?"
IL was obliged to confess that IL knew more than one young
girl, who had sewed six: months for her mistress, earning her
fair wages, and had returned home an adept in making all
sorts of trimmings, but without ever having been peitmitted to
fit a common muslin dress.
People talk of the eloquence of gratitude, but when the
heart is full, it is still. 'Our guests found it so ; ~-~- they Ihad

at

49

41


42    ~     LEAVES FRO1~ THE TX~EE IODRASYD.
"no words" they said, and that was enough. But as they sit
over their humble fire to-night, talking over their dinner, and
viewing again and a gain their presents, II much doubt if the
do not think, with Pat Smiley's wife, that the doctq~t~4 his
wife are good as angels, or even better, - at lea~t~ better
judges of flannels, lambs-wool stockings and shoe-leather. At,
least, I thought so, when, with loving words and smiles, and
some tears, they wrapped me up, buried me in furs and
shawls~ and with Mrs. G-'s motherly kiss and blessed
words on my brow and in my heart, the doctor placed me in
his carriage and drove to my uncle's.
My heart Was full, too full for words, and the sight of the
happy faces in ,, the street, the troops of rosy children, the
sound of the merry Christmas greetings as we drove along,
only Aeepened my sense of the divine love which it seemed
t penetrate every heart.
rove at uncle's door, H- stood on the steps
to receive us; but, as he sprang to the side of the carriage,
the doctor put him aside, with some joke about being super-
seded by a younger man, and, taking me in his arms, bore me
in and placed me on the sofa.
Th0y gathered round me with their Christmas greetings,
and I,. like a simpleton, burst into tears. Then there was
confusion; uncle crying out that I was fainting, aunt, Emilia,
and 11-A-, running all ways for restoratives, while the doc-
~tor quietly seated himself by my side, undid my wrappings,
and whispered, "Is this really the wisest thing you can do,
Bessie?"
I could not help smiling at his look; and, taking a glass of
watei' from II-, I shook off my tippets, and begged uncle's
pardon for, being so nervous.
Happily, uncle and aunt felt it incumbent upon them to be
very thankful to Doctor G~-.--.-, and say a great deal of their
obligations.
"Obligations!" said the latter, 1au~hing; "ask my wife

THE DIAI3Y.

about that. Why, 't was only yesterday she convincedd me
that we could give more in Christmas charities ~this year than
ever, bee~use God had blessed us with the love of this girl
here. ~ ~My wife has a curious way Qf seeing things; but
H-~- here looks as if he understood all about it."
if 11- did, uncle and aunt did not; but uncle said he
was infinitely obliged to Mrs. G- for her good opinion of N-'
his niece, and aunt always knew her "to be a very kind-
hearted woman;" snd so the doctor took his leave. -
Sophie came in to welcome me back; and certainly. her
yellow face was not the least pleasant thing that met my
sight.
But they were all in excellent spirits; uncle unbent him-
self so far as to laugh at some of the pointed sallies flying
between 11-. and Emilia, and aunt seemed for once in e
world quite forgetful of household cares. Tir~ed ai~dweak~, IW.
sat and watched them, and thought how hand~soine they Wei~~
all four, - and could understand something how a man oi~'
uncle's mental calibre must feel towards one as plain-looking
as "my niece." Emilia and H- are both' worthy of their
race. I could not help whispering some of these thoughts 'to
aunt, who opened her eyes, and answered:
"Ay, just so; Ernilia, though, is more of a Cranston ~than
an 11-. The Cranstons are a fine-looking family. lint
what are you saying, child? You are not 'so very plaiIi~-
not ugly, you know. Indeed, now, I think this illness has
improved you. You have lost that well, that fulness of.
the chest and shoulders, that country look, as I call it. With
a little attention to dress, your figure will be quite. slende~~
to what it was before. By the by, do you know 11- ad-
mires your figure? He says it i~ just the style which one sees
in the paintings of the old masters. We had quite a discus..
sion about it the other day, and he half convinced me that he
was right."
As he always does, I mentallyy added, while I prayed that


44          LEAYZ$ ~RO1~[ TYXE TREE IODUASYL.
H- might not take it into his head to make me the chief
figure in his domestic pictures.
But this prayer was needless, my uncle, my mother's own
brother, has saved me any further trouble on this sc~*~ My
face even now burns with shame, when IL think of the mean,
parsimonious character they must think me'; and IL would fain
have had their esteem.
0, did they know what it is to be in debt! to be obliged
to calculate every little expense, or leave my mother shelter-
less! Could IL make up my mind to explain all this go into
the details; but, no, IL will not do it; IL should be but a
beggar in their eyes -just what IL seem now. IL will go
home - I will go into my school again, and ile who "tempers
the wind to the shorn lamb" wift care for us!
But let me look at this thing as it is. One day, before IL
went to Mrs. Lee's, at aunt's request IL accompanied her to a
jeweller's store. She made some trifling 'purchase, and then
asked Eo look ~at some sets of pearl ornaments, arranged in a
new style, ~which they had advertised. She asked my opinion
of them, and also of some elegant silver' card-cases, and IL said
they were "very beautiful."
"Lizzie Olinstead has just bought a set. Would not you
like one, Elizabeth? They would be just the thing for you,"
she said.
The sight of all these rich and beautiful things had brought
very vividly to my mind the thought of our poverty, and IL
answered hastily,
"No, aunt; f would much rather have the money they
would cost."
I had forgotten all about it, when, just as IL was getting to
feel ~t home among them to-night, uncle placed before Miss
Cranston a box containing one of those identical. sets of pearls,
and a beautifully chased card-case, as Christmas gifts from
himself and aunt; then, turning to me, put into my hand a
bank-note, saying, in his' e&amp;tdest, drye~t tone,

THE DIABY,

4
4
I
V

45:

"It was the intention of your aunt affd n~yse1f" to give, you
a set of ornaments and a case like Miss~Cranston's, Elizabetj~;
but, understanding that you value ready money higher than
such tok~is of affection, you have the equivalent there."
IL did not see H-.-----'s look of wonder or Miss Cranston's
stare. IL only felt them, while IL saw my father laboring with
his pen, with the death-mark on his brow, that my mother
need not ask aid of these who had spurned her for his sake.
IL heard only his low whisper, as he drew my little arms
around his neck, the morning he died, and, With great, bright
eyes looking into mine, whispered between his fits of cough~ ' -
ing:
"Take good care of your mother, my little J3essie; she will
have no one but you now."
This memory, and the consciousness that I had fulfilled my ~
father's command, kept me on my feet now, weak as IL was,
though IL dared not trust myself to speak, bQt ~d motion~
~ in my outstretched hand~ ~4~i to~Ward~
"Is there any mistake, child? Tha 12i&amp;a good one,"
he said, in that same hard tone.
IL could bear it no longer. Dropping the bill on the table,
IL burst into tears, and fled to my room. What must they
think of me? Why should IL care? 0, is this cold, proud,.
unsympathizing man my mother's brother, and 'could he find
it in his heart to humiliate me thus? But he knew not
what he did. Ah, yes, father, he knew not what lie did,' and
IL can bear it. But I will go home.
There, that is aunt's step coming on the stairs! Now no,
more tears.
Dec. 26th. It was aunt, and? to my great $urprise~ BEG
was followed by uncle, both anxious to know if I was ill, if
IL felt any return of my fever, that I behaved so strangely.
IL felt more than ever, as IL listened to their inquiries, that
I could not explain, so IL merely 0aLd that aunt had misunder..


LE4't~B FROkt THE TREE IODRASYL.
stood the meaning of my remark in Mr. R-.--'s store; that
I had forgotten all about it, and therefore was surprised at
being charged with the meanness of hoarding money for
itself.
Uncle interrupted - me by saying that he was very glad to
find he was mistaken; that it seemed strange that one so
young should be tainted by so low a vice, especially a lady,
but from the knowledge he had of my family on my father's
side - I rose to my feet at' once, and, with a firmness and a
pride which I was scarcely conscious of possessing before, in-
terrupted him:
"Allow me to remind you, sir, that, under your own roof,
the name of a guest's father should be sacred. That is one
of the lessons my own father taught me as a child; and you
wrong him, you- wrong my mother, - yonr own sister, sir, -
I went on, my woman's nature getting the better of my calm-
ness, -" when you presume to hint that~he sought her from
uierce~iary motives. 0, you did not know him, or you would
never dream of such a thing!"
Uncle gazed at me a moment between surprise and indig~
nation. I think the former predominated, for the remark
that he made, as soon as he gained breath, indicated that he
did not dream that any one in his senses could talk thus to
a SewaL It was this, and addressed to aunt:
"It must be- that Elizabeth is light-headed still. Had we
not better send for iDr. G-.---?"
Aunt's woman's nature gave her an inkling of the truth.
She said I was weak and tired out, and rather hysterical;
that she would sit with me awhile, while he went down.
Then - Heaven help the well-meaning but simple-minded
soul! she went on trying to explain to me the mistake,
and, in so doing, repeated the remarks my conduct had' elic-
ited down stairs; how grave H- had '-looked, and h~w
Miss Cranston had said she would not have believed it. ~
sihie for any lady to be so mean; and' when she had fried to

I
q

THE DIARY.                   47'
explain, by telling something of in circumstances in life,
Emilia had not thought it so strange, for she "supposed poor
people, who are obliged to count every cent they 8pend, rnu~5t
naturally think a great deal of money."
0, what a Job's comforter was this aunt of mine, with her
lack of tact and heart-knowledge! Sitting there, in her
,rich silk dress, with her exquisite cap and faultless laces, she
brought to my thought another figure. Which looked best iii
the eyes of the angels, I cannot say, but I know which most
comforted my sore and weary heart. It was the figure of our
kind neighbor, Mrs. F , coming across the fields, with hOr
yellow flannel blanket on her shoulders, and a spotted muslin
cap, with wide, crimped borders, shading her face, to see if
mother was quite well if she would need any little thing
done for her, which her boys, Bill or John, could do, while I
was busy in my school - always saying some strong, hopeful,
cheering word. That yellow flannel blanket covers a noble
heart.' Would that I could rest my head ~against it this
moment aiid hear her "Never mind, child, there are '1rier~
enough in one's path at times, I know, but they will all be
cleared away at last!"
New-Year's Day, 1852. - All goes on here the same as
before that scene on Christmas evening, save that uncle's
manners have been a little more frigid and. sta~tely t4ian
usual. Miss Cranston evidently considers me as one whom
she can patronize. She has shown me all her dresses and
jewelry, and given me a history of all her flirtations and
friendships; in short, I am in a fair way to be installed as
confidant to a beautiful belle - not. to say coquette~ A.
strange position for one like me. '
H- seems~more thoughtful, grave and manly, than ho *'~
did before that affair. He lias never referred to it, unless it
was by a glance this morning, 'when he came in to a~k me to
ride a..sh~rt distance, ~nd presented Miss Cranston and aunt
each with, a beautiful br~oooh, while lie placed in my hand a.

'4

4:7

THE DIARY.


48           I~EAVE5 ~RO2~ TIlE TKEIE IODRASYL.                                                   THE DIARY.                      49

most mao~nificent bouqu~6t of pansies, saying something about
my great love of flowers. I was touched by this proof of his
delicacy, and was not ashamed to let him see it. He never
seemed more worthy of being beloved than at tha~t moment.
There have been several parties, the past week, which I have
been obliged to~ enjoy second-hand from the piquant descrip-
tions of Miss Cranston and H-.. I have plead ill-health
for not attending, and the excuse has been accepted. Indeed;
I am not strong, and so to-day I am permitted to keep my
room, while Emilia, after the New York custom, receives
calls. She flits back and forth, between the parlors and my
room, like a beautiful bird, to report her calls. Just now she
came in to tell me she had received a call from H-,
and begged me to guess who was with him.
"How should I know, dear?" I said, smiling at her
eagerness. "Your impatience would never wait until I had
done guessing."
"How stupid! Why, it was Mr. T-, the young
lawyer, whom they are all talking about."
"Mr. T-..; I thought he was in New York."
"0, he 's on his way to Boston, and so calLed' to see me.
0, I wish the P--s and Y--s knew it!"
"Why?"
"0, because it would vex them so. They are dying to get
him to visit at their houses.
"But what is there peculiar about the man?"
"0, ~nough. He never compliments, or, at least, very
rarely. And then he says such queer things, -just what he
thin~w 6f you. For instance, I was playing one day when he
called at our house, and, at his request, kept on. I played
brilliantly;' and when I had finished, instead of professing
himself' delighted.' ' harmed,' and all that, he never said a
word, only gave me a simple bow. Determined to make him
speak, I asked him~ laughingly, if Lhe piece was not well ex...
ecute4? What do you think he said? Why,,~' No; not for

one with my superior talent for music and opportunities foi.~
practice.' Did you ever heat anything so odd? And yet;f~
the life of me, I could n't be angry. By the by," she added,
putting her head back through the door, as she flitted out,
"he said he had m'A you here, and made due inquiries. I
referred him to H-, as being the best qualified to answer,
having driven you out this morning."
"They say he is to marry Mrs. N-, of your city," I
said.
"Not if I can get him myself;" and away she flew. Well,~
well, what is it to me?
Jan. 8th.-" But our house is so much warmer and more
comfortable than even the best of country houses; so much
better for you, in your state of health, that you will not
think of going home until spring, child; certainly~not, now
that your mother has written advising you to stay."
Aunt and I were discussing a letter which I received from
mother yesterday, in which, anxious for my health, she had
advised me to remain in the city until the spring; and aunt;
as above, warmly seconded her wish.
I suppose I shall have to remain a while longer, at lcast,
or deeply offend these good people; but "warmth and com-
fort ! "- there is more warmth and comfort in my mother's
eyes than in all the anthracite ever discovered.
fan. 9th. -I remember having seen somewhere a "diary"
of Peggy Dow, consort of the celebrated Iiorenzo Dow, in
which divers events were put down under the 'head ofi ~cRe~
markable Experiences." I think the affair of this morning
must come under that head. Some half 4ozen times since I
came here I have met uncle's partnerNIr. A-.--~-.--, a tall;
lean, bald-head~d man, witha complexion like an old bank
note, all wrinkled and yellr~w. lie ha&amp;a way of talking in*
monosyllables, as if a niggar&amp;~f his breath. He has never
condescended to notice "my ntece," further than by the short-
est of bows and monosyllables; therefore, I was much sur-
5

s
3


50         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGPRASYL.                                              THE DIARY.                 51

priced this morning, when uncle sent for me to his room and
told i~e, in his most polite tones, that this ~{r. A-.~- had
made me an offer of his hand and fortune; he did not say
heart, and it was well he did not, for I should have laughed
in his face. However, IL kept a grave face, while he conde-
scended to point out to' me the advantages which would result,
both to my mother and myself, from the match. He laid
great stress on our present straitened condition, and the "low*
Vulgar people" with whom it necessarily forced us to come in
contact, if~ not to associate mymother's declining health;
in short, he took me up to the pinnacle of the modern tem-
ple of wealth and position, and showed me all the goodly
things that might be mine if I would sell~ myself to this
respectable piece of old parchment, Mr. A-; and then
very politely saying, with a look at my face and figure, that
a woman in my position could hardly hope to do better, left
it for me to decide.
I very decidedly, bat very briefly, declined the honor, say-
ing that he ought to know that considerations of wealth had
little influence with one of my father's family.
lie stared at m~ a moment, then coolly bowed me Out of
his room, as he would one of his business clerks. But I see
he is decidedly angry, else I should be inclined to laugh at
the whole affair.
Jan. 10th. - I must ride no more with H-.---. It is evi-
dent that he loves me, and I will spa~'e himself and me the
pain of an eclaircissemei&amp;t, if possible. This Queen Yashti
air will not answer much longer; but, 'thank Heav~en, I shall
soon. go home! It is the most convincing proof Qf the truth
of my suspicions, that he thus defers to my will,' he, the
accomplished man of the world. And yet, this very trait
renders him unfit to be my husband. He whom I call by that
name must be guided by no one but God and his own' con-
victions.
Jan. 15th. They have been spoken- those words which

I so dreaded to hear; and) 0, "Heaven! what am 1, that~ I
should inflid ~u~li pahi and suffering upon any human soul?
Never did h&amp; seera s~ truly good and noble as when, putting
aside all - heartily con~iiderations, he plead in trembling tones
for my love, for lif~s test boon from my hands!
And ye1~ never did I feel it more impossible to grant his
prayer. God' knows I would have done so, if I could; I
would have put away my long-chei~ished dreams as idle, had
I found any response to his words. IL even plead for him; I
set before me all his goodness and nobleness, his growing
sympathy with my tastes and pursuits, -the wide influence for
good which, he urged, I possessed over him. I thought of
my mother - of the life of toil and isolation that lay before
me; but there came no response, and I dare not trifle with
eternal truth.
He plead for hope, and urged the love which is the meed
of years of tenderess and devotion. It cannot be. I have
been down into the innermost recesses of my heart, and I
know, by the love that went out so spontaneously toward
another, that there are abysses of tenderness - ay, passion
there, that H-.----. has no power to move; and, knowing this,
I dare not trust to years.
So I let him look into my heart,.-~ God gave me strength to
do it,- and, with an incoherent blessing on me for my truth,
he went out 'into the storm ~nd darkness; but the ~wintry
sleet, nor the north wind, nor ~the darkness, is not more cold
and dreary, than the heart he has left behind! 0, they
know not woman's heart who t4k of the pride of conquest!
There is nothing on God's earth that teaches humility, like
the consciousness of heing deeply and truly beloved!
Jan. 16th. - Kept my room all day, feeling sad, weak,
miserable. There was '" a. lion~ in the way," let me turn
in any direction. Aunt came up, good and prosy and practi-
cal, and talked about blisters back of the ears. Heaven
knows I would have covered myself with theinif they would'~

K

50

maa Draar.


52             I.IIAvr~ FROM  TH~ TRE1~2 IGDRA51~L.

TUR DIARY.               53

4        have drawn back my faith and hope -.niy ~courage and
strength. I heard Emilia below chatting to some yoting
friends, for she has already become a favorite in society, and.
I sat and pitied myself, a plain, poor, ungifted soul, until I
suddenly thought of Milton's noble line:
"Those serve who only stand and w&amp;tt;"
and it brought aid and comfort. What cowards we are!
Jan. 18th. They say H-.---- has gone to New York, en
route for Europe! Doctor G-. was sitting with us when
Ernilia came in, having just heard the news up town. Sud-
denly, interrupting herself in her exclamations of surprise,
aunt turned to me: "You said II- called here the even-
ing we went to hear Holmes' lecture. Did he say nothing of
this, Elizabeth?"
"No, certainly not, aunt;" and joy that I was thus able
to speak the truth gave me courage to~oldly face Doctor
G-.---'s searching look.
But I was glad that uncle came in that moment, and created
a diversion in my favor. He never sees mystery in anything
that cannot be solved by the interest table, and thought. H.-.
gone to Europe on business. "Stock~ are rising, and he has
some interest there, I believe," he said.
"'Stocks, uncle!~' said Emilia, impatiently. "When did
Fred. ll-~----- ever trouble himself about stocks, I should like
to know?"
"I 'in really afraid it 's an attack of brain fever," began
aunt, despondingly. "His fatiler died of it, and he has been
threatened with it more than once. Don't you think so, doc-
tor?" she asked, anxiously.
"Not at all, my dear madam. Not that a young fellow's
brain - ay, and blood, too ~' does not get' into a strange sort
of whirl ~~once in a while, but from other causes than conges-
4, tion." And again he scanned my face closely.
Aunt si~h'ed, and uncle spent a whole twenty minutes, a

K4'

long time for him, in trying to prove to her the impossibility
of there being any he~editar~y taint in the blood of her fami-
ly - a family related to him.
According to "him,~a1l his own relatives have died through
some oversight which might have been seen and provided for,
had they been endowed with hig wisdom. I presume he ex-
pects to be translated.
Jan. 20th. - Emilia takes H-.'s absence to heart.
What does it mean? Underneath that war of words, which
sometimes bordered on sarcasm, between them, did there lurk
a deeper feeling? I must look to this. She is in high spirits
to-night, though, because Mr. E-.---, who lectured before ~he
"Institute" last night, is to dine here to-morrow. She proph-
esies I will fall in love with him at once. Perhaps so; I
shall see.
J~irn. 21st. - He has been here - the author, poet, prophet,
whom I have reverenced for years. I have looked~ upoti his
face, listened to his voice, and it is much to say that he did
not disappoint me. 'The face is good', grave, and serene; but
his chief power lies in his voice and manner, which grows on
one until it becomes a complete fascination.
At least, so~ I thought, when he turned from the mixed
company, after dinner, and began to talk to me of Browning's
poems, which lay upon the table. Perhaps I was prepossessed
by the interest with which he listened to my remarks, but
every word seemed the echo of a loving heart, an' earnest soul,
and a subtle intellect; subtle. and beautiful, rather than
deep or strong - passionless and calm as a Greek statue. He
is a, wonderful man, and- yet I could feel rather than see his
limitations; and, though he talked so eloquently of" Hakeein
in the Return of the Druses," he could never be a "Hakeem"
for 'me- scarcely a "Djabal." And yet, verily', there are
moods when it seems~ an exceedingly pleasa~it sin t~ ~ll down
and worship false gods!
Tan. 22d. - I don't know what is the zw~tter here. aoine.
5*


54          LEAVES FR01~X THE TREE WDRASYL.                                               THE DIARY.

demoniacal influence pervades our atmosphere, and everything
goes wrong. Emiia is capricious as the wind; aunt is haunted
by a legion of household evils, which, like John Barleycorn,
"rise up again" as soon as IL think IL have laid them; and IL
get out of patience, and pray earnestly that IL may never be a.
poor-rich woman.
IL have seen Mrs. N-.--. She is visiting at her uncle,
Judge A-'s, and was at the concert to-night - a beautiful
woman, of right queenly presence.
Evening of Jan. 22d.- Eureka! Etnilia loves II-! IL
went to her room to-day, and found her in a violent passion.
Bridget, the chambermaid~ aunt's new "Bridge of Sighs," in
dusting Emily's room, had thrown down a paper-weight rep-
resenting Psyche asleep, and broken it into a dozen pieces.
IL had often admired the beautiful little gem, and could have
wept when IL saw it in fragments; but IL was surprised at
Emilia's flashing eyes and bitter reproaches. As soon as she
saw me she burst into tears, and exclaimed,
"IL can't help it! See there, Elizabeth!"
The frightened Irish girl t~ok the opportunity to escape,
while IL sat down to try to comfort Emilia with a vision of all
the pretty paper-weights to be had at Kilby &amp; Brown's~ and
proved on about the folly of vexing herself thus for a trjfTh.
She raised her head, for she had been leaning on my
shoulder, - and said, petulantly, shaking back her long curls,
"Tr~/Zes! That is all you know about it, Miss Lytton."
Then, blushing at her rudeness, she said, "Pardon me, Eliz-
abeth, IL am really ashamed of myself; but that Psyche was
a gift to me, some three years since, from a friend, and IL prized
it very much, very much, indeed, for its associations. But
it is as well thus," she added, with a singular expression of
haughty scorn.
So it was the gift of a friend, -~ a lover, IL mused, as IL
went down stairs; and I was fast weaving out, as is my 'wont,
a web of ~romanee, when IL was roused by aunt's voice, asking,

"What has that Bridget done, now ?"
"Broken Emilia's Psyche!"
" What, poor ~ gift?"
So, so, IL thought; "poor H-" (every one is always
"poor" with Aunt Sewal when absent from her) is that
"friend." Now for the nature of~ those cherished associations.
Aunt has not a grain of secretiveness, and one or two leading
questions drew from her all IL wanted to know.
Before ll- went to Europe, he had been quite devoted
to his cousin. The faniilies began to look upon their union,
at some future time, as quite possible; but just before he left
they had quarrelled, and, since his return, though perfectly
polite to each other, they have manifested no desire to resume
their former relations. Aunt conld not say as she was
"sorry, she loved them both as her own children, but they
might as well choose somewhere else. She had seen quite
enough of marrying cousins in Jane Welmot's case." Some-
thing tells me that it will be well with these young friends
yet. IL rejoice!
Jan. 23d. - A letter to-day from our kind neighbor, Mrs.
F-. She says mother has changed very strangely within
a week; thinks she has had a slight attack of paralysis, and
advises me to come home. I have announced my determina-
tion to start to-morrow; but uncle and aunt talk of delay, Qf
"next week," of the necessity of being "calm," and all that.
They forget that my mother is all IL have on earth.
IL have agreed to stay until day after to-morrow, when un-
cle will go with me as far as New Haven, on his ~way to New
York. 0, mother, mother!
Jan. 24th. - I have been to bid good-by to the Lees. I
fear IL envied them, they were so happy. Nary is at school,
thanks to the noiseless kindness of dear' Mrs. n-, and the
mother and sister showed me her first prokl~a in algebra
with a mixture of pride aiid delight whi~h WM rea~1ly ~inus-
ing. The little~boy did not seem to share in their~ reve~enoe

THE DIARTs


56          LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRA5YL.                                             THE DIARY.                  57

for those bits of paper, for he snatched at one of them, and
tore it ~idly, in his resentment at my considering them more
worthy of attention than himself. And, after all, were there
not in that little chubby being problems of far greater impor-
tance than any. which mathematicians have solved - to which
those of Newton and La Place are but trifles, save as they
elucidate man's capability of approximation towards the Di-
vine?
From the widow's U went to iDr. G--------'s. The doctor was
fortunately at home, looking over a ponderous "ledger," or
"day-book," and humming his favorite song, "A man 's a
man for a' that."
"True," IL cried, as II* entered softly, and stole up behind
him; "and, save in the person of the writer of those words,
never stood text and proof in such close relation, doctor."
"How now, you thief! What business have you to be
stealing into a man's house after this fashion? But sit down
there, while I go hunt up Lydia Mason; she 's been looking
for you these two days."
"You may save yourself that trouble, for, if IL mistake
not, I saw her go into the house of your neighbor, Mrs.
as I turned the corner. So prepare yourself to play
the agreeable."
"The LoiA help us, then!" he cried, with a ludicrous ex-
pression of resignation. "I had rather face a case of ship-
fever, than a fashionable young lady!"
"And pray what entitles me to that distinction?"
"look at yourself and answer. Who but fools, which
is but good Saxon for the whole class, - would put velvet and
furs enough about their shoulders to rig out the Grand Lama,
and. leave their feet bare?" and he gave a glance of wither-
ing contempt at my beautiful, new g4ters.
"But these are cork soles, and"
"The devil take the cork soles in such weather as this, fit

only to buoy up witches! Where were your common' sense
and rubbers when you started?"
"One minus, and the other plus," I said,~' laughing. 'KU
did not think the pavement damp, and my rubbers are so
Jarge "-
"That they make your feet look larger. Well, you are
pretty well off in that line," he went on, grimacing; "but
what in Heaven's' name do you suppose a sensible man cares
about how large a woman's foot is, provided it be not de-
formed, and she has brains enough in her skull to balance it?"
And so he scolded an~1 joked till Mrs. G- came, and we
had a long talk of my future.
Why is it that I can speak to these people of things upon
which my lips are sealed to those of my own blood? Blood!
those alone are of our blood who understand us, who help us
on the ways of life! God bless ye, true friends! The cur-
rents of life are driving us far apart, but my way cannot be
wholly dark while I keep the memory of your love!
Passing through Pearl-street, on my way home, I came
suddenly upon my old playmate and schoolmate, James B--.-----.
He would have avoided me if he could, but I saw his intea-
tion and defeated it. He took my outstretched hand, and
answered my greeting without raising his eyes. Alas! then,
the rumors of his "bad way" are true. The pale face, lustre-
less eyes, nerveless figure and shambling step, were proof
enough.
He seemed to wish to pass 'on, but I would not be put off.
I spoke of old times, - of Annie, his sister, long since among
the angels; of his father, mother. Had he seen them of
late? No; he had not been in ID-.--- for more than a year.
Indeed! Would he not promise to meet me there, week after
next, say on Thursday? I intended 'paying 'his father and
mother a visit as soon~' as I got home, and should need him
there to bring up the "IRoibury russets,'~ as of old. Would n't
he promise?


58         LEAVES FROM T~E TREE IGDRASYL.                                            ~&amp;IE DIARY.                59

lie muttered something of engagements; but I urged my
point until he promised.
Will he keep his word? I trust so. He has been the
Victim of evil influences, but He who gave back without
Nain's gates that only son to his mother, is mighty still.
Jan. 26th. -0, it is sad, terrible, to come to one's home,
and~be welcomed, not by the firm, hard clasp, the dear, loving
glances, the warm words of yore, but by trembling hands, a
shaking head, and the thick, troubled speech, that indicate
the, presence of death in life. Mother, mother! How shall
I bear this?
Now I must find some words that will soften this hard-
hearted creditor, Mr. J-.---. Yesterday, when I met him,
the memory of all his villany, - the years when, as lessee of
these few acres, he fleeced us gradually, the hypocrite! until
by one bold manoeuvre he claimed all, - rose up before me,
and choked me. 0, mother, would that I had been older
then, or you wi~er! But your wisdom was never of this
earth. Now I will go down on my knees to him, to keep a
shelter above your head for the little time that is left you.
He must be human, - he cannot be more greedy than death!
Shall IL try uncle again? No, I can work, not beg. I
told him all I could of this, as we came down yesterday, and
got for an answer, "Mortgages are ugly things; best get rid
of it. Your mother never 'had any business tact. Better let
the place go; I advised it years ago."
Sell the place! It might have been done, and wisely,
perhaps, some months ago. But now, when you cling to it
so childishly, mother - no!
Jan. 30th. -"' Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou
shalt find it after many days.' You and yours helped me
years ago, my child, and now it is my turn;" and, with these
words, kind old Widow Dean has installed herself as my
mother's nurse. Ay, and I "reap also where IL never scat-
tered;" for there are bread, and ham, and cakes, and pies,

sent in by kind and thoughtful hearts, and the miracle of the
widow's cruse seems like to be repeated. God reward
'7     them!
Feb. 8th. - To-morrow is the day of my appointment with
James 13-. I regret that I cannot keep it; but it can-
not b~. II will write and tell him why.
Feb. 10th. - IL did go; for when, to please mother, I
explained to whom I was writing, and why, two days ago,
she insisted on my going; and when Ii refused fell a weeping,
like a petulant child, and complained to Mrs. T-, who
happened to come in, tViat I was undutiful and ungrateful.
0, mother, mother, not even death could fall heavier on my
heart than these poor, seusbless words and tears!
Mrs. T-. advised me to go, saying that it was wisest to
keep her quiet, - that she would come in and help Mrs.
Dean, if needed. "And you can take old Starface," added
the kind neighbor; "he has not done anything in a week, for
father 's laid up with the rheumatic, and the boys user the colt.
He is a little stiff at first, like us old folks; but get him
started, and he '11 take you over there like a bird. You.
have n't forgot how to drive, IL ~s'pose?"
I accepted the offer, and at sunset was sitting between old
Farmer B- and his wife, talking of old things and new,
life and death, and the things which lie beyond; for, as the
old man's eyes have darkened (he has been blind for more
than a year, he tells n~e), he has come to see more and more
with the eye of the spirit, which discerneth all things. They
said little of James, though I knew he was ever in their
thoughts; and I did not tell them of his promise, fearing to
raise hopes which might be disappointed. But they told me
of their troubles; of the farm, -how it was~ fast running
down, - buildings and fences going to decay for want of an
efficient master; and thus the hours ran on till the tall old
clock struck nine. I still talked on, u~itil another hour
slipped away, and then, sad ai~d di~appoint~d, took the tall)


A

LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.

glittering brass candlestick which had been waiting for me
the last hour on the stand. There came a knock at the door,
and, begging the old lady to let me go, IL hurried into the
little entry, shutting the door behind me. It was, indeed,
James.
When he saw me, his face lighted up, and, taking my
hand, he said:
"So you did indeed trust me, Elizabeth!"
"Yes, indeed. Why not?"
"Why not!" in a tone of mingled bitterness and surprise;
"do you not know what I am, a drunkard, a bankrupt, an
outcast, a curse to myself and others?"
"The question is not what you are, but what you can be,
James. You are a man, still, for you have kept your word
with me."
"Perhaps so; but who will believe it?" he said, bitterly.
"I do. There are those in the next room who believe it.
Can you doubt that? And there is One above, James, -lie
who seeth not as man seeth, He believes it. 0, beware
how you charge upon others the sin of your own unbelief!"
I was excited and nervous, and burst into tears, as IL drew
him into the next room. I know not well what followed; I
heard only the mother's low weeping, and the blind father's
broken voice, as he gave thanks for "this my son, which was
lost, and is found!"
Again we gathered round the fire; we did not speak of
the past, but the russets were brought up, and we talked
over the condition of the farm, - every field of which was"
almost as familiar to me as to James, - the comparative
qualities of the" Hudson meadow." and the "clover piece,"
for spring wheat, the amount of available rail timber in the
"over-yonder" woods, and, before I slept, we had run a new
fence around the "Juniper lot," and James had rooted out
their spreading branches. May he as easily root up his evil~
habits! But that can hardly be; yet, when I left this morn~

4,

ing, as he placed the reins in my hands, he said, earnestly,
"You have treated me as a man, - spoken to me as one,
Elizabeth, and you shall see that IL will be one." - Ay, with
God's help, James.
Fee'. 26th. - Another stroke of paralysis, and now my
mother knows me no more, - perhaps no more on earth. I
heard Mrs. F- calling to her daughter Mary, a moment
ago. My mother will never call me again, never utter my
name. This is tasting the bitterness of death!
Feb. 28th. A letter froffi Emilia Cranston. How strange
and unreal sound her gay words of "balls, and parties, and
conquests !" 'One thing gives me pleasure, as much as this
weary heart can feel. Fred. H-- did not go to Europe,
only to Cuba, and is now in New York.
March 20th. - All is over! My mother, my 'all, lies
pulseless and rigid in the room below. I have sat by her
for hours in a kind of dull stupidity, scarcely recognizing
anything, feeling anything; but this leaden sense of loss.
When will the end come?
March 2lst.-Last night IL slept, -for the first time in
four nights, - a heavy, dreadful, troubled sleep, - a coun-
terpart of the day. Then I rose and went down to the white
form, lying so still there beneath the white sheet,- that which
was my mother, and yet was not; and for the first time the
tears sprang forth - tears for myself, not her. IL coul&amp;
recognize the hand of' God, but -not trust it. 0, how dark
and lonely looked the way of life! IL walked to the window
and looked out through my blindiiig tears. 0, how dreary
and miserable seemed that prospect which ever before had
worn some new phase of beauty, - that long strip of "tidal
sand" - the tall, black stakes of the "fishing.ponds "- the
ravening waves in the foreground, stealing ever in and in, as
death had stolen on me - the waste of wild waters backed by
a shroud of gray March mist, through which streamed faintly
the weak beams of the rising sun.
6

60

THE DIAR.

61


62         LEAVES FROM ~!HE TUZE IODRASYL.                                              THE DIARY.     ,            63

Suddenly, twittering down upon a bunch of catnip, whose
dry stalks rustled beneath the window, came two little brown
sparrows. As I watched them, hopping from stalk to stalk,
picking at the dried seed-whorls, I remembered His words,
"Ye are of more value than many sparrows." Did He send
them? 0, did He not ? - for my heart accepted their
teaching, and was comforted.
March 23d. I have looked my last upon that face; IL
have seen the dust heaped over the coffin; I comprehend
the mournful significance of the old minister's words, when
he thanked friends and neighbors for their assistance in
"burying our dead from sight."
As IL turned away from that grave, now my only heritage,
my hand was grasped by blind old Mr. B., who, with James,
had come, not merely 'to pay the last respect to the dead, but
to offer to the orphan daughter a home in their house.
I was deeply touched by this kindness, but more by James'
words and manner, when he said, timidly, as if his happiness
might deepen my grief, that "Emily L- had forgiven
him his errors - that she would be his wife in the spring, and
longed to have me come."
For a time I may go to them, but that must not be my
"abiding place." A life of action must be mine. IL have
health and education, and all up and down the great thor-
oughfares of our land are those waiting to be taught. Some-
where among these I shall find a place, an4 labor on until I
go down to the grave, one of those
"Whom men love not, but yet regret."
March 25th. -" God said, Let there be light, and there
was light!" Primordial words; yet have they not a sig-
inificant relation to the experience of every soul? Thus it
hath been with me.
0, the dismantling of our old home; the moving of fur-
niture that seems to have been made to fill just those places,

'4-

and none other; the rifling of drawers, and the desecration
of even friendly hands touching the cherished relics of the
dead! But it must be borne, that Mr. J- may have his
"bond." He had kept, his promise, and IL should mine.
After seeing the few relics IL had selected sent off to Mr.
F.-.'s, who had kindly offered me a home, I begged his
wife to leave me to pass the last few hours of daylight
alone.
0, those hours! too painful for me to recall. The wild
tumult of recollections that coursed through niy mind, as I
wandered from room to room, each one growing dearer and
dearer, until, in the gathering darkness, with a blessing on the
threshold, IL crossed it, never t~o return.
The daffodils, planted years ago by hands now still in the
grave, were out, and I gathered a handful, and stood leaning
over the gate, how well I remembered the time when IL was
obliged to stand on tip-toe to reach the latch! looking up to
the leafless boughs of the maples, upon which the pale sun-
light still lingered.
0, those trees! They were rooted in my heart; they had
mingled their low, slumberous music with my mother's soigs
above my cradle, murmured solemn responses to my evening
prayers, shaded my childish sports, my happy maiden dream-
ings; and was it not meet that they should be leafless, now
that my path was all shadow? Then IL rc~nembered my
father, as he lay in his open coffin beneath them, while
friends and neighbors crowded around to take a last look; I
recalled the very play of the shadows on his pale face, as they
lifted me up to kiss his cheek; and, resting my head upon the
gate, IL wept with the convulsive bitterness of a child. How
long I knew not; I was conscious of nothing, until a deep,
manly voice at my side said, "Elizabeth!"
I did not see the face - scarcely the arms that were held
out to me; but the next moment I was folded close within
their embrace. What were earthly houses, homes, lands to


I

64A

LEAVES FRO1~ THE TREE IGDRA5YL.

me then, when I knew the strong heart beneath my head
would shelter me forever?
Winding his arms closer and closer about me, as one cradles
a weary child, he let me weep on, until my grief spent itself
in long-drawn sobs. Then, raising my head, and drawing my
arm through his, he said, "That will do, Elizabeth; you are
getting cold."
I moved on at once. When did I ever dream of opposing
that tone, so quiet, yet so resistless? I did not even ask how
he came there; it was enough that it was so. Nor did he
tell; but instinctively divining, as it seemed, that my way lay
towards Mr. F-~--'s, he walked on quietly, speaking of the
shows of country life. But, when within a few yards of the
door, he paused, and, taking both my hands in his, said
earnestly, "Elizabeth, you have suffered ex~dtement enough
for one day, and .too much; but, before we part to-night, it is
fitting and right that I should ask and you should answer one
question.
"I love you, Elizabeth. Tell me, is it as I hope? does
your heart fully respond to mine? will it trust me forever?"
lie had put me from him, and stood looking down into my
eyes with that deep questioning gaze of his. For a moment
I could not speak.
"Elizabeth, my pu~pjl!"
"My master, my all!" and then he gathered me to his
breast; his lips met mine, and the garnered love of years was
poured out in that kiss.
Suddenly loosing me from his embrace, he said, " This is
wrong; you are faint and weary, poor child. I have much to
say, but my words must wait until to-morrow. Let me come
to you, say at nine in the morning, and, in the mean time,
please make such temporary arrangements as you wish, for we
must be in New Haven to-morrow night."
"We! SQ soon? What for?" I asked in a breath.
"0, for several reasons," he said, smiling that old quiet

4

THE DIARY.                   ti~
smile; "the strongest, perhaps, because I have busied myself
in arranging a home there, which refuses to seem home until
a certain treasure is there."
"But-but"-
"0, you know, of old, that I never entertain 'buts!' You
have promised to trust me for the future, and I mean hence-
forth that the trust shall be no sinecure. There, now promise
me you will go in and go to sleep; promise, my darling."
My darling! Are there sweeter words in our mother
tongue? I promised, but how can I sleep? There are nights
enough to come, in which to sleep; hut these emotions -~ they
come but once in a lifetime; there may be others, deeper,
richer, more intense, but these come never again! His dar-
ling!
New Haven, April 10th. He came that morning, a~id,
after some explanatory chat with dear Mrs. F-, I went up
stairs, at his suggestion, to put on my travelling-dress, in &amp;rder
to take a short walk before the carriage came, whic~was to
take us to the city. When I came down, T- was still
talking earnestly with Mrs. F-J-, who inspected my dress
closely (it was the pretty travelling-dress I had in ll-.-.),
pulled a plait here and another there, and seemed altogether
nervous and excited, a thing very unusual for her.
We walked on, talking of the past, calling up the days of
my pupilage, and the words and glances which had at once said
so much and so little, until we stood by my mother's grave,
silently, a few moments; then he said, "We are both orphans,
and both free, -free to act as we choose, - are ~we not, Eliz-
abeth?"
And I answered, "Yes."
"Then go with me."
I did not hesitate, though I apprehended his meaning, when
he drew my arm through his, and led me into the church,
where were gathered the old minister, Mr. and Mrs. F---,
and a few of the old neighbors. In a few moments we had
6*


66          LEAVES FRO1~[ TIlE TREE IGDRASYL.                                               TUE DIARY.                   67

ratified before the world the vows of our hearts, and turned to
meet the congratulations of the few friends. T--- spoke for
me, kindly and gently thanking them for all their kindness;
and then, in his quiet way, stepped past them, and placed me
in the carriage waiting at the door.
"My wife, my own wife !" lie whispered, as he took his
seat by my side.
Ah, then I saw my mistake! Then I knew that there were
sweeter words than those of the evening before; but, surely,
none ~n earth or heaven that can equal these!
Now we are at home, a pleasant home, ay, and a rich
one, for it contains two happy human hearts. IL have been
too happy to ask an explanation of the past as yet. But that
Mrs. N-; I '11 ask him about her when he lays down
that paper.
"Harold, hGw was it about that Mrs. N----? Come, ex-
plain."
"Yes, darling, when you please to. enlighten me about that
"0, y~u quibbling lawyer! why don't you tell a~ straight
story, and say~ you were completely fascinated?"
"Because no man is obliged to criminate himself, especially
when he is not guilty."
"But was n't you, a little well, interested in her at one
time?"       -
"No, if', by interested, you mean anything. more than mere
acquaintance. Surtdy, you do not believe it?" and he came
round to a seat on the sofa, by my side.
"No, indeed; but what was there about it? The interest
was on her side, then, was it not?"
"I thought I taught y~ou long ago not to ask impertinent
questions. Now it 's my turn to catechize. Why did n't you
marry young E-----?"
"Because I did not love him well enough. But who told
you he offered himself?"

~'

"No one; I inferred it from some things. Besides, I was
given to understand that it was a settled thing."
"Indeed! by whom?"
"Your aunt, for one."
"And you believed it?"
"Yes."
"Well, I must confess my opinion of your penetration is
lessened perceptibly."
"Very likely; a not unusual experience with married
ladies, I believe. Bat, Bessie," - he went on, prisoning-my
hands in his, and speaking gravely, .--" you ought not to re-
gret it, for it taught me the best lesson I ever learned -how
dear you were to my heart. I hoped that the absurd rumor
about Mrs. N-.--. would do as much for you; but it seems
you defended her like a true knight-errant."
"No, no, Harold; say rather it was a proud woman's ex-
piation for giving, as she thought, her heart unsought~~
"My poor Bessie," he said, thoughtfully, raising my head
from his breast, "you must have suffered."
"I did; but tell me, you have seen Dr. G---- ? ~'
"Yes; or I should~ not have you sitting by my side, ~iy~
wife - the dearest sight a man can see on earth; at least, not
until long years, perhaps of trial, had taught me the truth."
"And he told you that I "-
"No, he said no such thing. But he called himself and
inc all manner of hard names, and ordered me to come right
down to M-, 'an' I loved him.' Moreover he told me
Mr. H- is to marry his cousin, Miss Etnilia Cranston."
"Good!" I exclaimed; and then, sparing H- as much
as possible, IL told him all the story of my stay at uncle's- all
my trials, struggles and temptations; and he, my noble hus-
band, he understood them all, and pointed out to me their
uses; how they had widened and deepened my sympathies with
humanity, made me stronger and wiser fot' the battle of life,
until IL could only weep happy tears.


68           LEAVES FROM THE TREE IC4DRASYL.
Then I showed all my weakness, my want of faith; but he
only answered, drawing me closer to him,
"My bride, my wife, my life!
Lay thy sweet hands in mine, and trust to me."
LOVE'S IIABOIBJ NOT LOST.
"Face and figure of a child,
Though too calm, you think, and tender,
For the childhood you would lend her.
"And a stranger, when 'he sees her
In the street even, smileth still,
Just ~is yu would at a lily."
PART I.
IN the door-way of one of those old, dilapidated, d~~s
populated houses that abound in the great city of ~ew 1~o
sat a pale, delicate-looking child. It was a narrowj~ d~
street, leading down to the river, lined with forlorn, moul
looking old houses, leaning against each oth~*. Poi~ ~upp
and from which dryers loose boards and timbers hung cre
ing in the wind, ever giving warning that.they were about
fall. The air in this street was a strange combination
odors arising from ~the culinary preparations going on in
over-crowded itwellings, varied occasionally by a strong sri
of tar, burned oakum, and bilge water, with which the bre
from the river was laden. In short, it was anything I
he pure, fresh air of heaven, which God gave as the
*          ment of life. Yet, on the evening of which we speak,
mellowbeams of the setting sun, which, like the earnest 5(
are ever~seeking something beautiful under the most ur4ow
appearances, eame peering round corne1~s and through ~
tumbling-down old chimneys, bringing out h~ strong relief
grotesque mouldings on~ the old casements and cornices, pe
'I

ely
irk,
~rk
dy-
ak~.
to
the
iell
eze
but
~le~
the
)Ul,
ard
the
ep-


'TO          LXAY~5 FROM TH~ TRYi~E IODRASYL.                                                LOVE'S LAI3OR NOT L6$T.               71

ing beneath the crushed-looking bonnets of toilworn mothers
returning from their labor, and bathing as in a stream of
golden water the heads of numberless little white-haired
children, as they rushed forth to meet their parents, or played
upon the pavement. One strong sunbeam, like ~n angel of*
mercy, had spied the pale child in that gloomy door-way,
and, creeping from roof to roof, at length fell upon the dwell-
ing above her, then sliding down slowly and silently, like
all sweet, holy influences, rested upon her head, and lit up
her meek, pale face with a glow which was very beautiful to
behold.
A glad light sprang to her eyes, a faint smile broke
round her mouth, as she felt its warmth upon her forehead;
for a moment she watched the motes dancing in its golden
light; then her gaze was directed, as before, earnestly up the
street. As she sat thus, the pavements began to echo to the
heavier footsteps of men returning from their work, and there
was a confused murmur of tongues, - Irish, English, French
and German. But the loudest-toned among them instinc-
tively lowered his voice as he caught a glimpse of that child
sitting -i~i the ~unlight, and not a few of those hard, care-worn
faces greeted her with a kindly smile. One fat, motherly-
looking Irish woman paused beside her, and, taking a small
bouquet of the commonest of garden flowers from among the
mass of articles that crowded the basket on her arm, placed
it in the child's hand, saying -
"May be ye would like that, me darlint."
"0, thank you, thank you!" exclaimed the child, raising
her eyes, gushing with delighted surprise. "It is so long
since I have seen a flower. You are so very kind."
"An' who would n't be kind to ye, aroon, wid the angel
looking out of yer eyes, so like the one that once slept ~n my
own breast, and is now wid the blissed virgin in he~v.en?"
sai'd the Irish mo1jh~, crossing herself,' and pressing iwr hard
hand to her bosom with a mournful gesture, as she passed on.

'A

AJ

To most of my readers, whose lives have been set round
and garlanded with those autographs of the Divinity, - the
blessed flowers, - it will be difficult to describe the intense
joy, the loving tenderness, with which that little girl gazed
on those humble flower, and pressed them to her lips and
eyes; or what a chain of associationS they awoke in her
young mind, which reached from earth to heaven. It' seemed
that these were not all of joy, for the glow of delight which
had lit up her face faded slowly away, and in its place came
a look of patient sorrow a sorrow that gave to her features
the thoughtfulness of mature years.
As she sat, thus busy with memory, a boy, of some eight
years, came rapidly down the Street, and, seeing that'she did
not observe him, crept stealthily along in the deep shadow of
the old walls, until he stood behind her unperceived, and,
clapping his little brown hands with delight as he stooped to
kiss her, exclaimed:
"Oaught, fairly caught asleep once, Susie!"
The little girl smiled, and, holding up her flowers, said:
"See, Willie, are they not beautiful ?"
Then, in reply to his words of admiration an4 inqu~y, she.
went on to tell, out of the gratitude of her heart, of the kind~ -
ness of the world in general, and the fat Irish woman in par-
ticular, as m~ifested toward her; then, returning to the
flowers, she sa~;: ~T
"Look here, Willie; those twc~ and that blue one are just
like the flowers that grew in our garden at Woburn. Do
you remember the violets and blue periwinkle each side of th~
gate, and the clump of lilacs at the end of the alley, and
but no, you. were too small when we left to remember. De~t~
Woburn!" she added, sadly, as if touched by some mournful
recollection.
"Not the flowers, Susie, though I love them well enough for
their own sakes as well as for-yours; but I ~do remember Dr.
Murdook's big dog, Painter, and how he used to let me ride


LEAVES fl~OM THE TREE IODRASYL.

on his back. But don't be sad, Susie," he continued, notic-
~ ing the shade on her face ~with the quick eye of affection;
'when I get to ~be a man, which will be before a thousand
years," and he fairly rose two inches in his shoes, we were
about to say, but cannot, seeing that his feet were bare, - in
his desire to convince her of the speedy fulfilment of his
words, "we will have another cottage, just like the one at
Wobarn, with a garden and lots of flowers; for, though I
don't remember much about it, you can tell me, and you
shall have a little roOm to yourself, with plants in it as big
as trees, if you like."
She drew him down beside her, and, passing her hand lov-
ingly over his mass of brown hair, said, with a smild:
"You are the best and:kindest brother in the whole world,
Willie."
"And who would n't be kind to you, Susie?'~ he replied,
unconsciously repeating the words of the Irish mother; "I
could not be otherwise if I tried. But come, let us go into
the house and see mother."
'~ Mother has gone to carry home the clothes she has been
washing," said Susie, as she turned to reach behind her for
something 'within 'the door.
"Never mind, Susie," said her brother, laying his hand on
her arm, "let me be your crutch to~night. I will be very
steady, indeed I will."
She smiled, and, ashe carefully assisted hef'to rise, it was
easy to see why she, so small and childish-looking herself,
should have spoken to that well-developed boy of her older
memory.
Her face,. with its thoughtful look of patient sorrow, 'might
have been taken, as it was, in truth, for the face of a girl of
twelve summers, but her lower limbs' were small even to
deformity, and oiie hip much drawn from its place.
As they turned from the door, she cast another anxious

A

78

LOVE'S LAEOfl NOT Lt~BT.

glance up' the street, then her eyes sought her brother's face
with a look of sorrowful inquiry.
The boy understood the glance, for he replied, sadly:
"I fear he will not come to-night, Susie."
"Why not? Have you seen him?" she askedeagerly.
"He came as far as the corner of - street with me;
there he met some boys, who persuaded him to go into a tezi'~
pin alley," he replied,' as he slowly guided his sister's steps
along the gloomy old passage that led to their room.
However mean and' poor the room which afforded shelter to
Widow Panvers and her children, however bare of even 'the
common necessaries of life, however harsh and discordant
the sounds which reached it from the crowded ro6ms around,
there was that in the hearts and &amp;u the faces of those chil-
dren, as they emerged from that dark passage, that gave to
its atmosphere a light and a glory which wealth could not
buy.
Willie begau to bring forth their scanty supper, meanwhile
telling his sister all about the great green parrot, whose
gilded cage had for several days been hung from a. window
opposite his employer's store (for WiYiie was ~it ~rrand boy);
of its climbing, and whistling, and mocking the cries ~f the
newspaper vendors; while occasionally the noise~ usie'~
crutches ming~e4 with the chattering of their
assisted him ~. s~rching for something, which they weI*e~ nt
last forced t&amp;i~emember had been all eaten at the previous
meal.
They had hardly finished placing and replacing the .cbarse
dishes, with their scanty contents, upon the t~ble, with. the
childish wish to make them show to the belt advantage, ~and'
thus cheat themselves into a belief of a. suflPAteuey, when their
mother entered from her weary walk.
13y healthy, happy children, bred in ~ midst of 'plenty
and comfodi,, ~he might ha.ve~been taken foi~ a. specIir0,~() waii
and ghostlike dki sh~ look, with that strange, unearthly light
I

'72


74         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                      LOYB'S LABOR NOT LO5T~            75

     in her large, dark eyes. But these children, familiar with
misery, saw nothing in that face but the radiance of a moth-
er's love, and, in her shortened respiration and the quick
throbbing of her heart, as she pressed their young hands to
her bosom and sank upon a chair, nothing but evidences
of her joy at seeing them again. Tirue, little Susie, with her
premature development, born of pain and sorrow, had once
or twice of late felt a shudder pass e~er her, as if the shadow
of the wing of the death-angel re&amp;fed upon her, when she
looked, in her mother's face and noted her failing steps; but
she had shrunk from it, and thrust it away from her, as if
such a fearful thought questioned the goodness of God.
Childhood is so slow to ~pprehend death.
While the weary moth~x listened to the murmuring voices
of the children, another form emerged from the ~rkness of
the passage; but -whether its gloom still clung to him from
affinity, or whether it was owing to the atmosphere of evil
which for many months had been gathering round his heart,
we cannot say- a dark cloud rested upon his handsome,
boyish features, and gave to them a bitter, disagreeable
expression. And i~med that neither the glad welcome
of the ~Jiildren,~ the more gentle one of the another, had
pow9r t~4ase it away; for he threw himself moodily upon
~f*~ chair, and deigned no reply~ to their kind and loving words.
"X fear you are ~iet well, to-night, Gee," said the
mother, approaching and laying her thin, bon~~fingers upon
his wrist~
lie drew hi~ ann hastily away, saying:
"Well? I don't know what any one should wish to be
well for. The sooner one dies and is out of t~ie way the
better."
"But, my dear child ".-.-
"Ah, yes! I know all that you would say," he interrupted,
with a gesture of impatience. "I know all that cant about
God's wisdom, and goodness, and providence, and discipline,

and all that. It is a part of God's wisdom, I suppose; that
allows one man to cheat another out of all he has, -a part
of his providential discipline that we and thousands like us
must drudge, drudge night and day, and starve at that, - a
part of his boasted goodness," he went on bitterly, casting &amp;
glance at little Susie, "that brings children into this world
only to suffer, to drag through life a burden to themselves
and others. Better diq~ at once;~ or, better still, never to~
have been born."
Little Susie, who had maxiaged to get clos~ to his side, and.
lay her thin hand upon his shoulder, drew in her breath, a~
if a sharp pain passed through her,~ and, creeping away,
seated herself in the shadow of the door, for shewould not
that they should see the tears. that thered in her ~yes.
"A bu~4en to herself and others ! " God only knows how
deeply those bitter words pierced her heart. They were~nQt
new to her. Careless, thoughtless people had repeated thew.
in whispers to each other, as they gazed on her wasted limbs~
- whispers which she did not fail to catch and translate into
words; and lips, which should have opened only to bless and
pity her,. had uttered them again and again in i~nes of pier-
ulous complaint; yet custom had not dulled their po~t~ or
taken from them aught of their bitterness. Thay~ brought
a cloud before her eyes and hea~~ so dark and thick, tl~at~. it
cost the child r~any a weary struggle~ before she could agaim~
see and gather~ up the scattered sunbeams that ~am~ ~to
brighten even her forlorn way.
PART lI.~
"Thaiik God, bless God, all ye who suft'eriiot
More grief than ye ~an weep for."
Susie 'Dauvers had spoken of her early home at Woburn,
and in the midst of a life of pain and poverty her heart

74


LOVE'S LABOR NOT LOST.

guarded the memory of the hours passed there like a holy
thing; and since error and sin had driven them from its sheb
ter, and, like the Angel of Wrath at the gates of Eden,
barred the entrance, she had bathed it in the light of a pure
and loving natures until,
"Of all the beautiful pictures
That hang in MenlQry's hail,"
this seemed dearest, brightest and
Her fa1~her had been the village ysician, and, though a
man of 'hasty, impulsive di n, was generally much
respected and beloved, is wife's rich, genial nature was
like sunshine and dew to all who came within her influence.
The~e~ was one object~'towards which she felt drawn with more
than a ~oman's instinctive fondness. This was to little
George, her husband's child by a former maria but, un-
fortwiately for both the mother and the child, the strong
prejudices of his mother's family were brought to bear against
her, and the child at length withdrawn from her care for
months together.
Still, her heart followed him with loving thoughts, and
when God fihibd up the measure of her cup of happiness by
sendir~g her own little Susie, she did not selfishly forget the
xnotherle~s boy, but her thoughts turned to him with even
xn&amp;re tenderness than befbr&amp;~ and the first word the little
girl was taught to utterwas the name of her bMher. During
the short visits which he made at his father's house, the boy
coildn~t, in spite 'of the power of prejudice, i'e~i~t her gentle
influence; and, as he listened to her sweet toncs~ and looked
into hei soft, dark eyes, his thoughts grew troubled, and he
wondered how it could be that one so kind aDd gentle should
be ~o thoroughly selfish as he had~ been taught to believe her.
The longest of these visits was~ made ju~t at the time ~vhen
little Susie was recovering from the terrible illness that had
left her a cripple for life. The little girl' was delighted with
his company; besides, she was so gentle and 'patient in her

helplessness, that he could not help feeling ~drawn towards
her, and he soon cast off his rough habits, and learned to
speak softly and step lightly as his mother herself; and when
she was, at length, permitted to go out in her little carriage,
and he saw her wholly committed to his care, he was delighted
with the responsibility. He felt that he was trusted for the
first time in his life; for the cold, suspicious temper of hi~
aunts, and their harsh' ginents, were ill calculated to foster
in the mind of childhoO ~ither confidence or self~i~s~ect; and
not infrequently, in after years, when 'yielding to th4 evil in-
fluences around him, his heart recalled these brief weeks of
his childhood with bitter regret. When Susie was about eight
years old, Dr. Danvers became security}~ ~ dst~Velative
of his wife, to the amount of several thousand d~ll~~/~ This
person soon became a bankrupt, and involved the doctor in his
ruin. This unfortunate affair filled up the measure of Mrs.
Dancers' unpopularity with his first wife's Telations'; for,
though she had not failed to remonstrate gently and caln4~
with her husband, at the time, on the propriety of' thus,~risking
his all, the whole blame of the affair was thrown upon her,
chiefly because she refused to join in th~ bitter reproaches
with which they chafed his impatient, irrital4e spirit. Though
intelligent, genial and generous, iDr. ]2~anver0 possessed but
little independence of character. He lacked energy t~ meet
his difficulties~and the moral courage to face his changed cir-
cumstances. He was one of those natures "too proud to
dig, and a~hemed to beg;" therefore, notwithstanding the
words of cheer and encouragement he received ~from his wife,
he soon yielded to despair. Well would it have been ~if this
had been all! But, like many another proud, disappointed
man, he soug~ forgetfi~ilness in the wine-cup, and in a short
time all traces of the generous spirit of his youth were
effaced by the r~~id 'encroachment ~of the demon intem-
perance.
Supported by strength which cometh not ~om earthly aidy':
7*

76         LEAVES PROM TIlE TREE IGI)RASYL.                                                                      77

11

A


78         i~r~v~s ~o~x THE TREE IODRASYL.                                          i~ovz'5 LABOR ~0T LO5~.           79

his, gentle wife saw the sure but gradual ruin of her dearest
earthly hopes; saw the quiet home in which her nature had
passed by such pleasant steps from timid, bashful girlhood
into the full life of ripened womanhood, pass into the hands of
strangers; and with her husband, - whose temper grew more
and more irritable and exacting as his health yielded to his
evil habits, -~ and her children, found refuge in the crowded
purlious of the city. We have said "children," for, soon after*
the failure, the marriage of one a~t and the death of
another ~had consigned George again to his father's care, and,
some fQur years previously, little Willie had been added to
their joys and cares,
Georges oharaQter ~was much more marked and decided,
even ~t t~iat. early age, than his father's. His passions and
prejudices were very strong, and the- course of training to
which he had been subjected in his grandmother's house had
not tended to restrain them, while it had succeeded in stinging
~ that was genial and generous in his nature with distrust
and ~uspioi9n. lie had been taught to recognize the law of
Fear, but not of Love. His own property, inherited1from his
mother, had baen lost in the general wreck; and. so deeply
had it been instilled into him that this loss was in some way
the result of his father's second marriage, that the spirit in
which he returned to share their poverty was little calculated
to add-to the peace or comfort of the ruined household. The
selfishness of The father - who, in his degradation, did not hesi-
tate to indulge his own appetites at the expense of his family -
and his fretful, unreasonable temper, chafed and embittered
the quiek, impetuous spirit of the boy to such a degree, that
anger and contention were soon added to the iu~anjmi~eries
of their miserable home. Notwithstaiuling I~is ~trong preju-
dice, the boy had not been with *l~xii many weeks, before, -he-
felt compelled to admire the unwearied patience and goodkiess
of his mother; yet, instead of being drawn to follow heTr ex~
ample, his feeling of admiration often changed into one of

j~

angry contempt that she could so tamely submit to the impe,
rious, unreasonable exactions of his father. At such times~
with a recklessness strange to himself, he would-join his father
in ridiculing her unshaken faith in the goodness of God; and
the infirmities of little Susie formed a ne~r4ailing illustra.
tion on this point; for so rapidly had the demon gained upon
the man, that the father had already learned to look upon his
suffering child as a burden and a trouble,- a care that de-
prived him of the undivided attention of his w1fe,~ and an
expense that curtailed him in many of the ir~dulgenc~s of his
former life, which, in his utter selfishness, he did n~ hesitate ~,
to exact from the labor of his. wife and children. In his in-
most heart the boy often bitterly regretted -yielding :to ,this
dark spirit; and, though he was too proud to manifest it in
words, he would often take up the little girl on his knee,' and,
while bending his head to meet her caresses, talk to her of
their early days at Woburn, until her pale face grew radiant
with delight. Thit beyond the walls of that humble room.
found little to strengthen these faint struggles of the~ better
spirit within him, but much -0, how much !.- to tempt him
on to sin and crime. Soon after their arrival in the city, his
father had apprenticed him to a shoemaker,, in spite of his
strong repugnance to the occupation, and earnest entreati~s to
be permitted to seek some* other mode of living. At the
time of his father's death, which. happened some two~years
after, he left his employer, and, joining a gang of reckless
boys like himself subsisted, his mother knew not how, for
his visits home grew more and more rarer and his mood more
and mor~ impa1~ient and irritable. Even the kind greetings
and I6ving ~qds ~hi ever awaited him in that
home seemed ~ i~e~oa -to the unhappy boy, and sometime0-
he would cease to~ ~1~t t1i~n~. f&amp;months.
It would seem strange to o~ne unticqnainted with the myste-
ries of the human heart, that deep, unswerving love of little
Susie Danvers for this erring brother; but sometimes- and


SQ          LEAVi~ ThO~X !~E TRflE IODRASm.                                           LOVE'S ,LAD01~ NOT LOST.           81

many' of us have tea~on to thank God it is so .- the foibles,
fai~lts, ay, even the sins of those dear to us, draw from us a
double share of that love they so much need. And so it' was
that this moody, wayward brother seemed to possess even a
stronger, tenderer claim upon her, heart than the joyous
Willie.
George had early manifested a passionate love of rnuAc, and
possessed a voice of rare purity and compass.' During his
visits at Woburn he beguiled many of her slow hours of
suffering with his endless songs, and took great pleasure in
teaching her to accompany f~im. To the -gay and happy,
music is a resource, an accomplishment, a pleasant amuse-
ment; but to the'poor it is one of the greatest of God's
blessings the true Lethe of their existence, in which they
can forget for a few brief hours all the troubles that beset
thern~ At least so thought Susie iDan'vers, and so thought,
in all probability, the white-haired, stooping-shouldered old
German, who lived in a gloomy-looking house on the opposite
side ~f the square. What was poverty to him, when, as
evening drew on, he exchanged the implemeiits of toil for
his beloved violin, and, seating himself at the open window,
poured forth the glorious strains, of the masters of his
native land!
~Ah ~ the song of Orpheus is no fable, as that old man well
knew, for the time-stained walls of his dwelling slowly re-
o~ded, and the magic tones led him gently ba~k on the track
of ~his yotith, until he sat once more beneath the vine-covered
trellises of Andernach, with the ~ soft eyes of his Gr~tchen
looking into his, while her sweet voice blended with:that of
his beloved Creniona, gentle eyes, up~n which~the gr~u sod
'~the quiet church-yard of Altenkirch~n h~d pressed fbr so
many years! And ~ too, was' a ~ thought~ and
there was wisdom and pief~y in it, which 'led the old -man,
when his troop of ila en-haired grandchildren gathered about
his knees, and mingled their young voices with his, to play
C

those songs which ~he had loved best ;~ for he felt that her
voice, though undistinguishable to mortal ears, did not fail to
accompany them. We hear much about evil being contagious;
but we belive good is not the less so; for the happiness of that
2      poor German family, their strong affection fox. each other,
bursting forth at eve in rich melodies, seemed to breathe a
benediction upon that miserable neighborhood; and to no one
heart did it bring such a wealth of blessing as to that of the
suffering Susie Danvers.
"Let me sit longer, dear mother-the music eases this wea-
risome pain in my hip," she was accni~t4omedto say, when her
mother spoke to her ~of the necessity of retiring; and thus
night after night found her Beated in the old. door-way, watch-
ing the happy faces of the children, as they clustered around
the old man's chair, by the open. window, until in the gather.
ing darkness she could not distinguish one face from another,
and catching with her quick, unerring ear every note of their
music, until the glorious strains of Beethoven, Handel, and.
Bach, were as familiar to her as her~cradl~ hymns. Presently
she began to accompany them, but very jowly, fearing, in her
timidity and bashfulness, that they would be offended at her
presumption, should they hear her, And this new pleasure
brought another, that helped to while away the wearisome
pain in her limbs - the thought of George's surprise and
pleasure when he became aware of her progress; and 0,
how anxiously, how impatiently, did she watch for him 4o
come home for. somehow she had got the impression that she.
could win him to remain theo, With those glorious strains.
Once, in the interval of many weeks, he h~d x~ade jiis
appearance amo~ig, them, but so irritable and moody that ~she
2      did not even dar~ to ~m~tiou to him her unconsc~s ~eaeb~rs,
0
the Gq~mans ;~ b~4. ~   hs4ep~rtw~,~l~e    ~ herself
'~bittert~ ~for hot cowardice, thiz&amp;kikng that -~b~ might hale
wronged him that perlmps,~ after all, he was not so ill.
humo~e4as he seemed; and W she had' only struck &amp;tew


82         LEAVES YRO~I THE TRES IODRASYL.                                        LOVE'S LABOR NOT LOST.            83

notes of one of Beethoven's symphonies, ~he might have
completely exorcised the evil spirit.
In the light of this hope she had watched for him on the
evening of which we have spoken. We have seen their meet-
ing. We know how those bitter words, "a burden to herself
a,~d others," had darkened that light, and how she shrunk
away in the darkness, with all the old pain in her limbs and
heart, fearful that even her tears would reproach him.

PAR T III.

"And all voices that address her,
Soften, sleeken, every word,
As if speaking to a bird.

And all hearts do pray, 'God love her!'
Ay, and certes, in good sooth,
We may all be sure LIE DOTIL"
"Sorrow, there seemneth more of thee in life
Tlmau we can bear and live."
And yet Widow Danvers did live, though God alone knows
the crushing weight of the blow, when strange hands brought
in her bright-eyed little Willie, and laid him down before her,
a mangled corpse. And poor little Susie it seemed as if
that heavy wall, in crushing him, had stunned her also, so
mute and motionless did sho sit gazing for hours upon the
dead clilld's face. Then there were heavy footsteps in that
dark passage, and the children of the neighborhood hung
round the door, and gazed shylyj~nd curiously at the little
rough coffin that was borne away to the Potter's Field, and
placed beneath its scanty covering of earth. And we~ it,
was that. Susie's lameness, and the mother's failing strengtlj~
prevented them following i~4is grave ~ for~thus they
happily ~pared a knowledge of tli~revolting .featur~ ~f~&amp;
crowded buriabplaces of the poor. And when they~t~~4~
of~little Willie's grave, memory recalled the green g~1p~yard

82

83

of Woburn, with its flower..starred turf and mossy wall, and
it comforted thei~ hearts to think that he slept in isome stick
quiet place. This thought of her boy's last home grew 'vary
dear to the widow's heart, in proportion as the love Which she
had borne him seemed to be drawing her slowly and surely to
lie down by his side. Of her dead child she could truly say,
"lit is well!" but of the living, - the suffering and th~
erring, - there came hou.r~ in which even her strong faith ii1
God was uct sufficient to face the thought of leaving them;
hours which we will not attempt to describe, for none but a
mother's heart could sound their depths of misery. But as
her footsteps drew nearer and nearer the spirit-land, a ray of
its blessed light seemed to fall upon her troubled heart, and
hush it to rest. An orphan herself, she had no relations
nearer than cousins; to these she wrote, confiding both her,
children to their care, and, relying much upon the. promise of
the kind ]Irishwornan (who, won by little Susie's resemblance
to her lost darling, had sought th~u oi4~4 prov~1 her
friendship by many a self-denying deed),~ii~t the litt1~ girl
should not suffer as long as a crust or a potato was to be
shared in her own family, she laid aside 4ie needle, which her
trembling fingers could no longer hold, and awaited her re-
lease. One thought only seemed to weigh upon hei~mind -
George and his future fate. Months had elapsed ~ince his
footsteps had crossed their threshold, and it seemed as if the
hope of seeing him once more had kept alive the flickering
flame of life through the dreary days of winter. But day
after day passed, and she could only w~tch and pray. She
knew not that through her death he was to be quickened into
spiritual life.
"Susie," said the mother, one night, after refusing i~. neigh-
bor's offer to pass Vh~ ni~ht by her ~" draw asi&amp;e that ~frtain,
dear, and let the mooii1~gh~, into the room. It seezus a~ if
there had b~bi n~iti~r, ~D1I~ht nor sirnligI~t ~ this drd ~
city, and I'wquld ~
"4~,  ,~4w

r


84          LEAVES FROM THE 1~RE3 IODRASYL.                                        LOYB'S LABOR NOT LOST.              85,

"Mother!" said the'child, an.xiotisly.
"Don't be anxious, my child. I feel no worse to-night,
and I did wrong to speak in that impatient tone; but I was
thinking of the moonlight at Woburn. Helps me to move
my pillow a little, darling, and then sing. It will, as you.
often say, ease this wearisome pain in my side."
The child arranged the pillows, and was about to place her
~tool clc~e by her mother's side, when the latter, pointing to a
spot where the moonlight slept on the floor, said,
"Not here, my child, but in the moonlight yonder. I can
see your face better there."
Susie. obeyed, and, with her bird-like tones, subdued and
deepened by emotion, began Schubert's "Ave Maria." As
those plaintive notes, so full of tearful, earnest entreaty, fell
upon the mother's heart, she cast one long, loving glance at
the childish figure sitting in the moonlight; then, closing her
eyes as if in sleep, her soul passed with that beautiful melody
from earth t~h~a.ven.
But the e1~d k~iew it not. The narrow strip of moonlight
crept stealthily nearer and nearer the wall, as if conscious of
the presence of the. shadowy terror there; but the singer still
continued to breathe forth those touching notes of supplication
for that aid and protection ~he now so much needed. The
moonlight stole quite away, and in the gathering darkness she
did not see the boyish figure that stood in that dark old door-
way, nor the expression of delighted surprise' that lit, up his
face as he listened to her tones. She did not hear his low
step as he stole across the floor, nor see the startled look of
horror and remorse that crossed his face, as the pale, ghastly
features of his mother met his gate. But his exclamation of
surprise aroused her, and she drew near to his side.
"0! mother, mother!" he groaned, taking the ehild'&amp;iiand
in his, and laying it upon that pale, cold fore~iead. That
fearful chill'wa~ not to be mistaken. it seemed to strike to
the child's heart. She sunk down by her brother's side, and,

forgetting everything but her need of love, hid her face in his
bosom. He drew her closely to him, while he repeated, in that
same broken tone, "0! mother, mother, have I killed you at
last?"
"She blessed you-only a few moments since she blessed&amp;
you, George, and bade me say that, if she had failed to make
you feel how truly she had loved you, as she feared she had,~
you must forgive her," said Susie, raising her head from it~
new-found resting-place.
Again that smothered cry, "0! mother, mother!" so full
of anguish and remorse, burst from the boy's lips, while the
child went on, in a voice broken and full of tears:
"And she told me not to grieve too bitterly, if I was left
alone, dear George; for that you would come back, and love
me, even as she had loved me; that you would. be mother
and brother to ~
"And, by the help of God, I will!" exclaimed the boy;
earnestly. "Mother, I promise!" he continued,. rising to his
feet, and kissing the high, pale forehead of .tlde~d.
Through the long watches of that night the overwearied
Susie slept calmly near her dead mother's side, while George
sat by, nursing high resolves and earn,~s~-purposes; resolves
and purposes which he carried out, notwithout many ~ severe
struggle, and now and then a fall; for the power of tempta-
tion from without and within was very strong. 13i4 an angel,
in the shape of a feeble child, with soft, clear eyes,, and a
glorious voice, walked ever before him on the upward path,
and drew him after, by the strong eoi~'4s of love, until, in
spite of the .weaktiess of his own heart a~nd the sneers of his
old companions in evil, he triumphed. The kind voices of his
neighbors bade him "God-speed," for his mother's sake, and
not a few hard, toil~-~oi~n. hands were put forth to aid both
him and Susie. Amozig these none were n'~re true and
friendly than those ,of, ol&amp;Ileinrich M~iller and his fami1y~to
whom they haa been ixx~de known through the watchful kind-
8

7


86         LEAVES PROM TIlE TREE IGDRAWrL.

ness and unwearied tongize of' their Irish friend, Biddy
IroGee. Their voices were a sufficient passport to the old
man's favor, aside from their story; but when George told
them, without disguise, all his past career of error and sin,
they did not turn away from him, but all heartily assented to
the white-haited grandfather's remark, "If he has sinned, my
children, then there is so much the more reason why we should
treat hifr~ with kindness." Through their exertions, George
found a place much to his mind in a large piano manufac-
tory; and, as for little Susie, she soon made herself a home
in their hearts, and became completely domiciled beneath their
roof.
"Why speak of das Geld, my son?" the good mother Lott-
~ chen was accustomed to say, whenever George laid before her
his scanty earnings. "Is not her gentle temper, and the sight
of her sweet, calni face, worth more than ten dollars a week
to a laboring woman like me, ti~onbled With many things?
21iaQokat her, yonder; see how quiet and good the little ones
are when with herb"
Several years have passed, and few who read our Btory
would recognize, in the junior partner of the fashionable music-
store of Messrs. and 'Co., 'Broadway, New York, the
x~eck1ess 'George IDanvers, the "gallows-bird," as his old
master, the shoemaker, was wont to term him.
* But, should they manifest anything like a true love of
music, he might~ in his enthusiasm, lead them to the neat
parlor adjoining the store, and, in the slight, fragile figure,
'and clear, spirituell6 eyes of her who wakes such a world of
melody from the piani ~before her, they might recognize many
traces of the, deformed child who was wont to sit in that
gloomy 'door-way; and in the tenderness with which the
brother hangs over her andA~watches her every movement4hey
will find the surest proof that she, who~was "bota to be only
a burden to herself and others," has, though the power 'oยฑ~
love, grown to be the richest blessing of his 'life.

4
[

A TALE OF THE COLONY TIMES.
"In the good old Colony times,
When we lived under the King."
CHAPTER I.
Ev~ to this day the inhabitants of New England~ seldom
speak of the tyrannical measures of the British government
toward the colonies, during the reign of George Ill., with-
out some show of indignation. Yet any one familiar with
their history cannot fail to see that, under the preceding
reigns, they had often suffered from far greater wrongs th~ii.
those illegal taxes that struck the keynote to the revolution.
This was especially true of New Hampshire, under the
first royal governors. Mason, the grandson of the famous
Captain John, of Pequod memory,' had, in 11sseiting~%his
claims to his grandfather's grant, succeeded in separating the
colony from Massachusetts, under whose jurisdiction the
first settlement had been made. In this he was aided by his
relative, Edward Randolph, that "blasted wretch,"' as one
of our old historians terms him, who crossed the Atlantic n~j,
less than eight times in nine years, 'in his indefatigable zeaf
to procure the downfall of our charter government, hi which
mischievous errand he but 'too well succeeded.
A President and Council were~appointed, by Ids ~ajesty'
Charles IL, for the government ~f the provin&amp;~; and~ as 'the
separation had been in direct opposition to the wishes of the
people, he shrewdly nominated ~evera1 of the most distin~


$8          LEAVES PROM THE TREE IG]XRASYL.                                     A TALE or THE COLONY TIMES.          89

gushed gentlemen in the colony to the first Council. They
were men who had held high offices, both civil and military,
under the colonial government, and nothing but the unavoid-
able necessity of submitting to this change, and the fear that,
in case of theii refusal, others, less true to the interests of
the people, would be substituted, induced them- to accept the
nomination. Their acceptance was a sore disappointment to
Mason and his coadjutors. After striving for some months
to intimidate or cajole them into furthering theirL selfish and
ambitious ends, Mason returned to England, where he so
completely gained the ear of the voluptuous monarch, that
the form of government was once more changed, and Edward
Cranfleld appointed royal governor.
His commission, which bears the date of May 9th, 1681,
gave him almost absolute power, and he was a man little cal..
culated, either by nature or education, to neglect any of the
prerogatives of his office. A stanch royalist, a devoted ad-
herent to the forms of the established church, he had little
sympathy with the thoughts, ends and aims, of that singular
people whom he came to govern, and his strong -prejudices
and arrogant 'manners were ill calculated to win either their
love or respect.
He was empowered to appoint all general officers, and to
suspend such members of the Council as gave him just cause
of offence, they -being, at the same time, declared not eligible
to the General Assembly, the only body elected -bythe people.
- -    It was -not long, therefore, before. he saw himself supported
by a Council wholly ~iubservient to his will.
-But the members of the Assembly were sternly true to
their trust; and, :cor~voking them twice, and finding them as
resolute and firm in maintaining - their tights as had been
their sires and brothers in the reign of Charles I., like~that
unhappy monarch, at whose court his early youth had been
spent, and whom he seemed to take for his- model, he sud..
denly dismissed them, and, with hi~ Council, assumed the

whole of the legislative power, taxing the people without
their consent, and fining and imprisoning such as dared to
complain of injustice. -
This tyrannical conduct bore heavily upon the inhabitants -
of Portsmouth and its vicinity. Fifty years had elapsed
since the so-called company of "I~aconia," headed by Mason
and Gorges, had raised the first rude hut near the mouth of
the pleasant Piscataqua, yet the inhabitants had lost none of
the peculiar traits that distinguished the puritan character~,-
Their patient perseverance, their quaint garb and godly
modes of speech, and their unshaken confidence in an over-
ruling Providence and his blessing on their cause, were
worthy even of the "Mayflower."
Indeed, there were still living in their nddst gray-headed
old men, who remembered well the falling of the first tree,
and the site of the first hut; men who could tell fearful tales
of the wanderings of the company through the pathless
forest in search of the gleaming. river, and who remembered,
also, that discreet aud-. godly man, Francis Williams, t2he
first colonial governor, and did not fail to contrast, in no
silken phrases, the arbitrary proceedings of the royal gov-
ernor with hi~ wise and just measures.
But, ardent as was their love of liberty, and keenly as
they felt every new aggression upon their rights, they kept
the law ever upon their side. In spite of imprisonment, they
renionstrated firmly and respectfully with their rulers; but
there was no open outbreak no popular riot; foi'~ Puritan-
isin had little 'sympathy with mobs. But their prayers were
marked with greater earnestness, and, perhaps, duration, and
there was a general tendency to wait and se6 what the Lord
would do for them in the matter.
But, when the governor began to attack and suppress their
religious liberties, one deep, indignant throb passed through
the heart of the whole people. But the rulers heeded it not,
and soon came an order requiring them, on pain of his Maj-
8*


90         LEAVES PROM 'THE TREE IGX)RASYL.                                    A TALE ~P THE COLONY TD~E$.          91

esty's displeasure, to abstain from all manual labor on the
approaching Christmas, and to observe the fasts of the estab-
lished church. Silent, but strong, ~- resistless as the mighty
under-current of the. ooean, ~Welled the ~spirit of opposition
in every heart, and many an ohi veteran of the common-
~reaIth and the Indian wars glanced grimly at his brightly-
polished musket, with the thought that he was not yet too
old to strike a blow for freedom.
Such was the state of affairs, and such the feeling with
which the colonists greeted the Christmas of 1684. For
several weeks the snow had lain deep .on the earth, and the
well4rodden paths had grown hard and smooth as marble. It
had been a prosperous and busy season with the people, both
on the land and sea, and, had there not been a principle at
stake, they could well have afforded to r6st one day at the
call of their chief magistrate. iBut to them it seemed a con-
cession to Anti~Christ - a crossing of hands with the woman
clothed in scarlet; and more than one face was turned anx-
iously towards the heavens on Christmas eve, not to seek for
the star in the east, but to' watch the progress of a storm of
sleet and rain which had set in, and which they felt might,
if it continued, compel them to yield, iii appearance, at least,
to the governor's mandate. But, as if in answer to their
prayers, the morning broke clear, serene and cold. Long be-
fore the, low, continuous dropping from the ice-bound trees
and shrubs~ attested the power of the sun, their farm~yards
were full of the shows of life and labor. The measured beat
of the flail and the flax-brake, the ringing stroke of the axe
at the wood-pile, keeping time with those in the woods,
echoed far and wide through the clear air, while the long
teams of oxen, attached to the 'clumsy sleds that passed the
governor's mansion, and the quick, determined tones of the
drivers, might have taught one even less versed in the knowl-
edge of men and things than Governor Cranfield, something
of the spirit of the people with whom he had to deal.

Mason and Randolph were hoth guests at the governor's
mansion at that time - the latter holding the office of eol-
lector, surveyor and searcher of the customs throughout New
England, in which capacity his. arbitrary proceedings excited
universal contempt and distrust.
Whatever the governor might have felt at the utter &amp;~on-
tempt with ~hich his commands were treated, he was too
much of a ~courtier to disturb' the festivities of the day by
any display of his chagrin. He therefore listened to the in-,
dignant remarks of his guests, and the somewhat cutting
jests of Randolph, with an air of moderation, though the lat-
ter was~ too well read in the human heart, not to perceive
that his end was gained, that this assumed tone of modera-
tion was but the prelude to stronger and more stringent
measures towards 'a people whom he both despised and hated.
The great dining-room of the governor's mansion, or Prov-
ince House, as it was sometimes termed; presented a gay
and brilliant scene on that same Christmas day; and, could
those old Puritans have caught one glimpse, from under
their steeple-crowned hats, of the rich festoons of evergreens
which decked the walls (a custom held in utter abhorrence
by them, as savoring strongly of the idolatry that caused
Jsr.ael to sin under every green tree), and the noble ladies
and gay cavaliers who, in the rich costume of the day,
thronged the dinner-table - could they have listened, but
for' one moment, to the light jests, the courtly phrases, the
flippant witticisms and ridiculous caricatures of their own
speech and manners - they might have had some reasonable
doubt, especially after the ladies had withdrawn, as to
whether it was indeed a Christian festival, or a sacrifice to
not exactly Baal, but Bacchus.


92          LEAVES 1i~R0M TIlE TREE IGDIlASYL.                                 A TALE Qi' THE OOLONT TIMES.         93

CHAPTER II.
Perhaps there is nothing more indicative of the character
of a people than their architecture. This was peculiarly true
of the Puritans. Strength and endurance were among their
chief characteristics, and of these qualities their buildings
largely partook. There was none of that jumbling together
of different ideas and orders, which makes so many of our
modern buildings, especially those in country towns, look so
much like the cob-houses we were wont to build in our child-
hood; but there was that same~ significant, independent, self-
sustained air about them, that we see looking out from the
portraits of the old worthies of that day.
The house of Mr. Moody, that "godly man" who for
many years "illuminated" the church of Portsmouth, was an
illustration of these 'remarks. It stood in an ample yard,
the rear of which was planted with young fruit trees, bearing
names whose very sound brought with them, the memory of
Old England. Over this yard the white snow lay in a broad
unbroken sheet, save where three or four paths, in the dire'c-
tion of the barn, crossed and re-crossed each other like dark
threads, and where one, several feet broad, led from the front
door to the gate, near which rose an oak of enormous girth,
one of the primeval children of the forest; for even the old-
est settler did not remember the time when the. lightning had
blighted its top, and raised those wide, dark seams in its
trunk. But the heart of the old giant was still sound, and
from the huge bole had risen limbs of a girth and height that
might well shame the growth of our own days. On each
side of this brave old tree stood a noble specimen of.- we
were about to say, the American plane-tree; but let us call
them by the good old names by which we have known them
from infancy-, buttonwood. Tall, erect, and symmetrical,
their scarred and mottled coats giving evidence of many a wild

struggle with the elements, they stood, rustling a few with~
ered leaves, like a banner of defiance in the wind, meet sup-
porters of the hoary monarch. We have been somewhat par-
ticular in describing these trees, because, in the out-of-door
life which, partly from necessity, and partly from a kind of
natural vagabondism, we have led among the New England
hills, we have learned to love their whole race, and many a
kindly deed have 'they done for us, both in sunshine and in
storm; and, aside from these, we cannot say much for the
embellishments of parson' Moody's yard. Doubtless, the tutfl
was thickly sown with buttercups, dandelions, and daisies,
through the golden summer; and, even in that bleak Decem-
ber of which we speak, there were some faint indications
*     there that went to show that somehow, in that roomy old
mansion, the spirit of beauty had found shelter; for the
*     gnarled branches of a native grape were twisted like serpents
around and above the uncouth porch, and the withered ten-
drils of the morning-glory, that most home-like of all flowers,
still hung swaying from the' strings that had trained them
over the windows. And, surely, no more fitting home could
it have found than in the heart of gentle Sibyl Moody. She
was the minister's only child; for one sorrowful nighf the
angels, of life and death had met beneath his roof, and,
within the same hour, the one to~k from him a beloved wife,
and the other laid in his arms a motherless infant.
Mr. Moody had been sternly educated in a stern schooL
The tenets of his faith, notwithstanding their high spiritual'
aims, were, as generally understooil and taught, little calen..
lated to develop the gentler qualities of the heart; such
development being looked upon by those men of iron natures
as a weakness little ~befitting those who had "a great work in
hand." Therefore, if he manifested in his younger days more
of the zeal of Peter than the gentleness of John, it is not
surprising. Late in life he ha4 married a gentlewoman
many years younger than himself. ~he was one of that class


94         LEAVES ruo~ THE ~ru~ xonu~&amp;sn..                                   A TALE O~ THE COLONY TIMES.         95

of women with whom love seems a necessity of their natures;
whose affections spontaneously, as it were, cling round some
one or some thing, without any very clear recognition of that
stern law of reciprocity so binding upon most of us. With
her, it was, indeed, "more blessed to give than to receive;"
and for a few short years s~he walked by his side, looking up
to him with mingled love and awe, happy in the thought that
she was permitted to minister to the eomf~rt of so worthy a
man, dreaming little of the wealth of deep, earnest feeling
that slept beneath his calm, severe exterior. But it is not
to his victims alone that death unveils mysteries. He has
lessons for the living, also; and when his shadowy presence
darkened so suddenly the minister's dwelling, the miracle of
the desert was repeated -..-.. from that hitherto calm, self-sus-
tained heart welled up to the light a fountain of pure and
earnest love. Then it was that his dead wife became
truly united to him heart and soul, and from out her grave
sprang joy and hope, inexpressibly tender, such as he had
never . known before, and which he~ felt were for eternity.
From that hour the zeal of the Puritan became tempered by
the divine spirit of love.
In this atmosphere of chastened love and faith, Sibyl Moo-
dy had grown up to early womanhood. Her father had
watched over her with a mother's care and love; she had~
been his constant companion, hnd he had developed, guided,
and trained her rich genial nature, until it had the free grace
and symmetry of a young tree of the forest. Bier fhce was
otie of those which in a crowd might easily be overlooked, or
~et down as passing fair; but to childhood and old age it
was exceedingly beautiful, possibly, because the one was still
blessed with faint recollections, and the other with dim fore-
shadowings, of the bright denizens of their eternal home.
One man-servant and Lament Collins, or Aunt Menta, as
she was usually called, made up the minister's household; the
latter being housekeeper, as well ~s maid"of-all-work, and, we

might add, nurse, watcher, and Aoctress-general for the whole
settlement. Moreover, we take this occasion to say that her
name, like a great many others, was a decided misnomer, for
never was a more cheerful or contented being than this same
herb.gathering. syrup-making, salve-concocting old woman.
Like a great many other excellent souls of her day, she
had a great horror of any leaning to the forms of Episcopacy,
and, firmly believing that " c'est le premier pas qui coute," she
had plied her wheel to such good purpose on the aforesaid
Christmas day, that nearly twice the number of knots allotted.
as a day's work had beenreeled long before night, and added
to the goodly bunch of yarn that graced the wall of the old
sitting-room.
Whether Sibyl had meant to give the old dame a quiet
lesson in Christmas tolerance, or whether she had been day-
dreaming (for no one can convince us that those fair shapes
that blessed our fathers' households were not' sometimes dream-
ers like ourselves, for woman's heart beat under those prim
bodices, and woman's love looked forth from beneath those
puritanic caps and bonnets), we cannot say; but, for some
reason, Aunt Menta's last spool was reeled, while hers stiU
lacked many notches of being full. With her clear~ eyes
glancing occasionally from her thread to the hour-glass on
the table, and from thence towards the declining sun, she
busily plied her wheel, while Aunt Menta glided here and
there, with the velocity and something of the look of a blue
dragon-fly, for night was approaching, a puritan Saturday
night, when all secular business, instead of being crowded
into the last hours of the week, and, perchance, Sunday
morning, as is often the case now, was laid aside long before
sunset, and each soul left free to commune with itself~ and its
Perhaps, of all the customs that have had an influence in
the formation of that peculiar character that makes us New
Englanders a marked people wherever we go, none has been


96          L~AVES FROM THE TItFJ~ IODRASYL.                                  A TALE O~ TH~ COLONY TIMES.         97

more lasting or important than this same habit of "keeping
Saturday night."
Though no watcher among the tombs, no worshipper of
"linen grave-clothes," rather than the risen, glorified spirit,
we coiifess that we see with regret this old custom yielding
to the innovations ~f a new age. Not that we consider one
night more holy than another, all time being God's; but it
came to check the current of worldliness, it gathered the fam-
ily beneath the paternal roof, it brought an opportunity for
undisturbed reflection and that self'communion so necessary
to anything like a true estimate of life and life's ends. It is
becoming quite the fashion to speak contemptuously and lightly
of these old mile-stones which our fathers erected on the way of
life, yet they have still a significance for ~is, wouldwe but read it.
Sibyl's task was completed, the tea-table, with the stand-
ing puritanic Saturday-night dish, baked pork and beans, was
drawn in front of the blazing fire, when Mr. Moody, acc&amp;m-
panied by' one of the elders of his church, who had been
closeted in his study with him for a long time, entered the
room. Their faces were unusually grave, that of the min-
ister even sad, as he observed, in reply to a remark of the
elder:
"Verily, the day of our sore visitation is not yet passed,
for the prince of evil never wearieth of devices, and our
enemies are basy, both here and at home. The future
looketh dark, and our hearts might well faint, were it not
for the blessed assurance that God still reigns. And, as -we
would approve ourselves 'to Him rather than man, so must
we judge in this matter of our offending brothers."
While the minister spoke, Aunt Menta was standing by
the window in an attitude of reverent attention; but it must
be confessed that the good dame's eyes wandered more than
once to the opposite side of the common, along which a train
of clumsy but highly ornamented sleighs, or pungs, as they
were then termed, were passing at a furious rate.

The younger and gayer portion of the governor's~ guests
were settling their dinner by a ride, and their rapid driving
and merry laughter, as they passed through the ~streets, were
sadly at variance with puritanic notions pf propriety. As
Mr. Moody ceased speaking, a loud cry from the old dame
cut short the elder's reply, and drew them all to the ~window.
Directly in front of the house the whole train had' come to a9
stand. Some part of the harness' attached to the governor's
sleigh had given way, and the spirited horses, so suddenly
checked in their mad career, were with difficulty held in by the.
driver, while their struggles to free themselves were frightful.
The occupants of the sleigh, among whom were several
ladies, seemed for a moment paralyzed. Then~ the gentlemen
sprang to the assistance of the driver, and being joined by
several of their companions, the horses were soon disen-
tangled, and by the aid of Mr. Moods man, 'John, the
broken harness repaired. Sibyl, in her terror for the young
beings in the sleigh, had stood with clasped hands, leaning
against the window-frame, watching intently the movements
of the frightened horses, unmindful of the admiring gaze of a
lady who occupied a sleigh directly in front of the window.
She did not hear the lady's words of admiration, or see her
touch her cavalier's arm and draw his attention from his im.
patient horse to herself; but she turned just in time to c~tch a
glimpse of a wdll~known face and beaming smile, which Sent
the blood rushing to her very temples.
"Frederic Vane, as true as I live!" exclaimed Aunt 'Menta,
who had also caught a glimpse of the face, using her ~strong-
est form of affirmation.
"Frederic Vane," repeated the minister; "you must be
mistaken, Nenta. The youth still. tarrieth in England '~
"Nay, I believe she speaketh truly, reverend sir. I met
the youth of whom you speak in the hall of the governor's
house yesterday, as I returned from my fruitless interview
with him," said Elder Hale.
9

I


LEAVES PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                     A TALE OP T~IE COLONY TIMES~

"Indeed!" replied Mr. Moody, while, for a moment, the sad,
grave expression of his features relaxed into something like a
smile; "perhaps he hath already grown weary of the world's
vanities - wealth, honor and ambition - aiid returned to
seek a truer happiness here; for the youth was well taught,
and by no means ignorant of the things which pertain to
man's highest good. iDidst thou learn what brought him to
the province again?"
"lie came as escort to the governor's ward, - Eleanor
Meredith, I think they call her, - to whom men say he is
betrothed in marriage."
"Ah, is it so?" said the old minister, sadly. "He often
spoke, when with us, of having his fortune to carve out, for-
getting, after the manner of men, that, though man proposes,
God disposes. Yet there was much that was noble in him -
much that spoke to our earthly affections; and I grieve," he
continued, earnestly, "I deeply grieve to hear that he has
chosen his lot among our oppressors. But the power of the
world is very strong!"
"Who says it? who says it?" whispered Sibyl, suddenly
laying her hand upon the elder's arm.
The words and manner, so unexpected and so unusual from
her, caused both the old men to start.
"My child! my Sihyl!" exclaimed her father, anxiously,
as he caught a view of her white cheek, "you are ill. Some
water, Menta," he continued, folding his arm about her for a
support. "This fright has been too much for you."
"Nay, I am better, my father' she said; "but you have
not replied to my question, Father Hale."
"0, it was only the vain gossip I was compelled to hear,
at the Province House, while waiting to see the governor.
Doubtless you will soon be better informed by the youth him-.
self. But I fear you are little better than a coward, to be so
Lightened at those horses, for all you have grown into such a
tall girl," returned the grim elder, with the nearest approach

to a smile that he was ever known to be guilty of on Satur-
day after twelve o'clock.
The evening meal was over, thQ chapter read, and the fer-
vent prayer offered, at a much earlier hour in the minister's
dwelling than usual, that night, for the thick-gathering troubles
of his people weighed heavily upon the old man's spirit, and
he would be alone with his God.
"My child," he said, as he laid his hand upon her head i~
blessing, "you are not looking quite well, and had best seek
repose."
Her room adjoined his own, and could he hav~e seen her an
hour later, as she knelt there, pressing a richly-chased locket,
with its heavy lock of dark hair, to her lips - could he have
caught the murmured words, "lie false! he wed the govern-
or's ward! 0, they do not know him; they cannot know
him as I do! "- he would at least have made a discovery
which, in the usual routine of their daily life, he seemed likely
never to make. He would have felt that his eh~ld was a
woman - a woman in thought and feeling, with the strongest
links in her chain of destiny already~ forged and pressing upon
her heart.
CHAPTER III.
Some months previous to Governor Cranfield's arrival in
the province,, a young man, bearing the name of iirederio
Vane, had arrived at Portsmouth from the colony of New
York, with private letters of importance for that gentleman.
As the governor was not expected to arrive until October,
and the mansion chosen for his residence was undergoing ex-
tensive alterations, the youth took up his quarters at the
principal inn. The settlement suffered much from an epidemic
fever that season, and, among others, the landlord and the
young stranger were both seized with it. As was then the


'100        LEAVES FR0k~ THE TREE IODRASYL.,

A TALE OP THE COLONY TIMES.        101

custom, the minister and his family were everywhere among
the sufferers, not only to sympathize and advise, but to kelp.
Mr. Moody, seeing that both the patients could not have
the necessary care bestowed upon them at the inn, had the
oung stranger removed to his own house. As was usual
with the members of his profession at that time, he possessed
considerable knowledge of medicine, and, aided by the excel-
lent nursing of Aunt Menta, to say nothing of her wonderful
syrups, prepared after a recipe given to her sainted mother
by one of the Bourchier family,, and used in the family of the
Lord Protector himself, according to the good dame, together
with the gentle ministry of Sibyl, what wonder, the crisis
once passed, that the youth ~grew rapidly convalescent? What
wonder that the gentle stranger - so patient in his illness, so
eloquent in his gratitude grew as rapidly dear to the min-
ister's family?
Mr. Moody was a scholar, a graduate of one of England's
universities. The members of his flock were men of sound
sense and respectable attainments, but they cared little for
the classic lore of the schools; therefore, the good man the
more keenly enjoyed this daily intercourse with a mind so well
cultured, so ingenuous, so full of noble aspirations, as that of
his young friend and guest.
Ill, a stranger in a strange land, this was, as, thank Heaven,
it ever has been with woman, sufficient reason for the interest
with which Aunt Menta and Sibyl watched over him. But,
as the Weeks went on, and the flush of health deepened on his
cheek and lit up his proud, dark eyes, was it still only this that
gave the sudden impetus to the young blood of the maiden at
the sound of his step, and sent it, blushing like a rosy dawn,
over neck and cheek whenever he stole upon her unawares?
Or, as he read, with his clear, low voice and distinct enun-
ciation, those works which bear fruit for all time the glo.
rious essays of John Milton - to the delighted old minister,
was it mere gratitude, and nothing moire, that led him, at each

divine truth and sublime thought, to invariably turn to her,
as if' he sought to gather from her sweet face a double harvest
of pleasure?
So they thought; and, perhaps, the whole experience of
life does not contain hours of purer, more unalloyed happi~
ness, than this unconscious growth of love, this slow unfolding
of the heart's flower, ere passion hath breathed upon its leaves
for fruition or decay.
But we cannot dream forever, and the hours, which linger
only in, the presence of sorrow, soon brought the awakening.
The business which had brought him to Portsmouth was
arranged, and on the evening which preceded his departure
fbr England, Sibyl and he found themselves alone in the Lrge
old sitting-room of the parsonage. The n~inister had been
~uddcnly called forth on ~ome errazid of mercy, and Aunt
Menta was still busy with her household labors in the kitchen.
The night was dark and blustering, but a bright fire blazed in
the wide fireplace, giving a cheerful aspect to the room, near
which sat Sibyl, gazing intently at the glowing embers, while
Frederic Vane paced restlessly the oaken floor.
The maiden started suddenly, as a gust of wind dxove a
shower of heavy raindrops against the window, and, turning
her sorrowful fhce towards him, said, eagerly,
"Hear you that, Frederic? The 'Adventure 'will not ~4l
to-morrow. You will stay with us another day; perhaps
another week."
"Sybil," said the young man, suddenly pausing before her,
and taking both her hands in his, "you will never forget
me?"
"Forget you! you, my brother!" said the young-girl,
raising her tear-dimmed eyes to his face.
"Brother!" repeated he, impatiently. *" Do not call me
so again."
"And why not, Frederic? You promisedto be my brother
always."
9*


102         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IC4DRASYL.                                        A TALI~ O~' ~HE COLONY TIMES.       108

"Because, because," he said, impatiently, "there is a love
stronger, deeper, truer, even, than a brother's. I have heard
of it, but now I know it - I feel it; and you, Sibyl," - he
paused and gazed down into her eyes, until the tremulous,
white lids drooped, and the color in her cheek went and came
like the changeful lights in the northern sky, "you, too,
feel and know it," he added, as he drew her~ to him with a
glance of joy.
For one moment her fair head rested on his breast as he
whispered, "No, we cannot forget, dearest Sibyl. In two
years I shall return to claim ".-.
The quick step of Aunt Menta upon the threshold inter-
rupted his words, but he could not fail to read aright the ex~
pression of those bashful eyes that for one second met his, as
she hurriedly slipped from. his arms and escaped from the
room.
When she returned, she found her father there, and two of
the chief men of the town, who wished to avail themselves of
the young man's return, to transmit letters to their friends in
England.
It is questionable whether, either of the young people prof.
ited much by the sage remarks of the gentlemen, on the
probable length of the "Adventure's" voyage, the prospect
~f fair weather, etc.; but Id: silence only raised him in their
esteem.
"A very discreet and sensible youth; one who has a proper
respect for his elders," observed Mr. Amesbury to his comm
pauion, as they left the house.
Mr. Moody had, indeed,, noticed the thoughtful stIence of
his young guest, but even his heart, schooled to submission by
many and sore trials, grew sad at the thought of parting, and
he did not deem it strange. The slight interruption caused
by the departure of the gentlemen had scarcely subsided, and
the family once more gathered in silence around the hearth,
when they were startled by a. message from the captain of the

ship, saying, that as there was a prospect of fine weather, and
the wind was getting to be fair and steady, the gentleman had
best come on board within a half hour or so, as he should
probably sail at flood-tide.
His trunks were already on board; still there were bustle
and confusion in the minister's quiet dwelling, for each of its
members had thought of something more for his comfort.
Then, they once more gathered in that room, and Sibyl, with
the self-restraint peculiar to her puritan training, forced back
her sobs, while her father'~ low voice rose in fervent petitions
for Heaven's blessing upon their young friend in all his
wanderings. Then the young maD's head was bowed to
receive his blessing. Aunt Menta's good wishes, responded to,
and repeated directions concerning his health' listened to,
with due respect, he turned to Sibyl. For some seconds he
pressed her hands in silence, while his lips trembled as he
gazed into her tearful eyes. "God bless you, Sibyl! You
will not forget," he murmured, at length.
"The child will not be likely to do that," replied the old
man, with a smile. "We shall all miss you much, my son,
and think of you often with prayers.
"But she should have something to remind her of me," he
said, taking from his own neck a locket attached to a. light
gold chain. "You will permit her to wear this for my sake,
dear sir; nor will she prize it the less because it was the gift
of my only sister."
The old man smiled, as he replied, "Be it so. Youth
seeks to remember, old age to forget. Such is life, my chil-
dren."
The maiden bent her head while the young man threw the
light chain over her neck, and her cheek glQwed like the rose
when she again lifted it, for she saw that the light hair of the
sister, which she had often seen within the locket, had given
place to a lock of a darker hue.


104        IJIAYES FROM ~EUE TREE IODRASYL.

CHAPTER XV.
On the day ~ncceeding ~hristma~, the congregation of the
faithful, in the town of Portsmouth, came up to the house of
the Lord with countenances unusually grave and severe, for
one of their own number had fallen into grievous sin, and,
moreover, the arbitrary proceedings of Governor Cranfield
weighed heavily upon their hearts. Yet a gleam of stern joy
lit up more than one face at the thought of the quiet yet
~     decided rebuke conveyed in the conduct of the people on the
preceding day; and the light of eternal truth which they did
hold, though oftentimes warped and perverted by human ertor,
never shone more brightly than on that day, darkened as it
was by the shadow of future trouble.
The service for the day was over when the minister proceeded
to lay before the church the case of John iDenney, a member,
charged with perjury. He stated the case in detail; but it is
sufficient for us to say, that this Denney was the owner of 'a
vessel which had been seized by Randolph, on plea of defraud-
ing the revenue. Her master, however, found means to elude
the vigilance of his agents, and one morning she was missing
from the harbor. Her owner protested that he knew nothing
of the affair, but, upon his trial, there appeared abundant tes-
timony 'to the contrary. He soon found the means to com-
pound the matter with the governor and Randolph, but the
church, of which he had long been a member, were not so
easily satisfied.
Mr. Moody, though he knew he was particularly obnoxious
to the governor and his party, on account of the plainness and
freedom of his speech, shrank from no trial in* the way of
duty. He felt that the purity of his church was at stake,
and addressed a respectful note to the governor, requesting a
copy of the evidence against IDenney, that he might be tried
aceordiug to their ecclesiasticall discipline. The g~yernor had
replied, and, upon this letter, Mr. Moody particularly wished

A TAILE OP THE COLONY TIMES.        1O&amp;
for the opinion and counsel of the brethren. He~j~41i4
read it in a firm, unfaltering voice, and with an undisturb&amp;I
countenance, though the faces around him grew dark wrth in-
dignation. Thus ran the missive:
"We ourselves have pardoned the man, and those to whim
we see fit to extend our mercy are not to be questioned by
any self-constituted authority; therefore, molest him at your
peril."
"My brethren," resumed the old man, after a pause of
some seconds, "when, in my early manhood, I dedicated my~
self to the service of God, to break the bread of life to his
scattered and suffering people, I cast from me all fear of
bodily peril, and have ever striven to act in all things with a
single eye to God's glory. Therefore, I have but one answer
to make to this man whom the majesty of England hath set to
rule, over us.' Ye have heard his words, my brethren; and it
is reserved unto you to say whether this church, gathered
amid suffering and trouble, and nurtured with so many prayers
and tears, shall serve God or man. Let such as fear Him,
rather than man, arise!"
The congregation rose to a man, and the minister looked
down on a crowd of faces, toil-worn, seamed, and scarred
by many a battle with both temporal and spiritual foes, in
many cases pale and haggard from illness, but firm and undi~~.
inayed, ready to strengthen his hands, even as Aaron and 4
Hur strengthened the hands of Moses in the battle of the
*Then followed a unanimous vote to notify the offending
brother that his trial would take place on the ensuing week,
and a 'committee was appointed to visit him once more, t&amp;
urge upon him the duty of confession.
It was the wish of the brethren that the old minister should
prepare a sermon upon false swearing for the ensuing Sabbath;
and, while b~ was very busy in his study, l~ow ~ped the time
with his daughter?


IOti~       LEAVES PROS TUB TREE. IODRASYL.

* hted by hope, although, but by that one glance of
~n, Frederic Vane had not as yet manifested a knowl-
~ ~f1ier existence, yet, like all her sex, her ir~vention in
providing excuses for the being she loved, was inexhaustible.
A dark tempest was gathering over her own and her old
father's head, while she, in her unsuspecting truth and in-
nocence, lived on in hope and trust.
Before another Sabbath, John iDenney, touched by the
earnest prayers and expostulations of his brethren, came be-
fore them, and made ample confession of his guilt, and, with
fitting censure, was forgiven. Ii~ would be difficult to describe
the anger and mortification of the royal governor when he
heard of these proceedings. His occasional outbursts were
the more frightful from the strong self.cor~trol which he was
obliged to place upon himself in the presence of his guests,
many of whom were spending the holidays with him. Ran-
dolph, whose interest in ,the matter was quite equal to, the
governor's, seemed to forget his own anger in the malicious
pleasure he took in probing that of the latter.
One evening, after the ladies had withdrawn, and the gen-
tlemen, some six or eight in number, still lingered around the
dinner-table, he arose, and, as if in reply to some gay remark
of his vis4t-vis, cried, jestingly;
"Hear! 0, noble gentlemen, hear! William de Graiville,
gentleman, of Sussex, England, hath fairly won ten guineas
of me, Edward Randolph-.~-- a wager between us in the case
of the King versus Fanaticism; and, certes, gentlemen, his
majesty may well look grave, when his royal authority, vested
in the person of our excellent host here, is thus trampled'upon
by a crop-eared, psalm-singing knave, unless, indeed," he
added, with a laugh, "the merrier monarch be more inclined
to consider the, crestfallen condition of our puissant selves, as
an especial provocation to mirth, which I think the most
likely."
"Then, by the Lord that liveth!" exclaimed the governor,

A TALE OF TUB COWN~ TIMES.          107
in a burst of ungovernable anger, "his majesty w~W~!&amp;~
only one who will care to laugh twice, at least where ~axd
Cranfield is concerned. As for this ~old priest, he shall~oon
find that he is not in heaven, saint though he daim to be. I
will put him where his treasonable discourses will find fewer
listeners! "
For a moment deep silence followed this speech, for they
felt that his excellence was in no mood for joking. Then
one of the eldest of hi~ guests, whose moderate counsels had
often saved him from rash deeds, remarked:
"But we must not forget that this Puritan is also an Eng-
4      lishman. We must prove his treason before we punish him."
"0, that is easily enough done!" said one of the younger
guests. "Here is Vane, who spent some months at his house~.
He can give us proof by the bushel, I dare say."
"Yes, speak out, Vane. What treasonable homilies did
* old Crop-ear preach to you?" cried another, laughing.
"And so betray the man to whom, perhaps, II owe my life.
Never! even were he guilty of the charge," replied the young
man, rising, while his beautiful mouth, in which there was a
singular blending of strength and indecision, grew rigid with
indignant scorn. "And, believe me, gentlemen," he added,
more calmly, "Mr. Moody, when I knew him, was a kind, well-
educated, generous-hearted man, though deeply imbued i~h
the spirit of his faith, IL grant. He spoke to me openly, as if
I had been his own son, and, during my whole stay under his
roof, IL heard nothing which could be construed into treason
against his majesty or the realm."
"Perhaps, among his gifts, he had that of prophecy also,
and foresaw that th&amp;day might come when you w~uld really
stand in1~hat filial relation to him. 'T is said t~ti~ old man
has a pretty daughter. Eh, Vane?" said another.
"By the mass, iDarcy, your shaft has hit home," cried de
Graiville, seeing the mounting color on Vane~ cheek. "7No
need to blush, Vane; I saw the damsel to-day, and ~he i~ fair


108        LEAVES FROM THE. TREE IODRASYL.

A TALm 01? THE COLONY TIMES.        109

er~ot~gli tQ be worth the trouble of winning. I give' you fair
warning'that I am going to enter the lists with you; but re-
member that I never w~ save par amowrs. I gave her a look
to-day; and Randolph's ten guineas to a crown-piece that I
succeed, notwithstanding your advantage of' previous acquaint-
ance. Your saints are never quite sound at the core."
"Rascal!" exclaimed Vane, choking with indignation, as
he ~uimed a wine-glass at de Graiville's head. But his arm
was suddenly caught back, and the voice of the gentleman
who a few moments before had sought to moderate the gov-
ernor's anger, whispered in his ear, as he drew him aside, -
"Rash blood, rash blood, young man.; though I grant you
had just cause."
For some moments the room was in confusion, when the
governor, as the shortest way of settling a temporary peace,
proposed adjourning to the drawing-room. But the syren
tones and marked preference of the honorable Eleanor Mere-
dith had lost their fascination for Frederic Vane that evening.
His mind, for some weeks occuj~ied by her, was now thor-
oughly roused, and his thoughts busy wiLk the past.
Hitherto, we have said little of young Vane's personal
appearance, and, perhaps, we may as well briefly describe it,
inasmuch as it was a fair index to his character. His face
W~s just such an one as ever wins the love of young and trust-
ii~ hearts, full of rich, sensuous beauty;. that peculiar
moulding of feature and expression which, by self-culture and
careful training, may be developed into the noblest form of
manly beauty, or, by indolence and self-excess, degenerate into
mere sensualism. There was no lack of intellect; and, with
the whole energy of his nature aroused by the events of the
evening, j~rhaps he never looked more wortVy~of admiration
than on the night of which we speak, as he sat in thoughtful
silence by the side of the fair English lady.
As he was crossing the gallery towards his Own room, late
that night, a servant overtook him, saying that~ihe governor

requested a few moments' private conversation 'with~humn, He
turned to his excellence's private room, and met, not the
angry, baffled ruler, hut the smooth, wishedd courtier' of the
reign of Charles I.
After some desultory remarks, and a graceful allusion to
and apology for his own want of self-control at the dinner.
table, the governor laid his hand on a pile of letters, and
said:
"I have had no opportunity t&amp;speak to you of the contents
of your mother's letters. She 'says that the. death of' your
only near male relative and guardian has left me, her distant
cousin, your natural friend and adviser, ~nd wishes me to pro.
cure for you some situation which may be adapted to your
talents. I am willing to do this, as much for your 'own sake a&amp;'~
hers. Your natural abilities are good, my influence at court
not small. With such grounds to start from, it will be your
own fault if you do not reach a high round on fame's ladder.
Only be wary and prudent, boy, and let me hear no mere of
such brawls as that we have just witnessed. Indeed, I much
commend your spirit, but, as a general thing, quarrels are
impolitic. If de Graiville challenges you, as most likely
he will, you must meet him; but, henceforth, quarrel only
when iL will further your ends better than peace. And," b~e
added, smiling, "you are young and handsome marry, '~
Methinks you had one by~ your side this evening who wo d
not need much wooing. Add her wealth to my influence and
your talent, and your way is clear. By Jove, boy, if you
show one half the spirit in wooing my ward, Eleanor, that you
did to-night in defending that old rebel, she will be yours in
a fortnight! As t~ his daughter, let de Graiville woo her as
he lists. It ia ~nght ~o us."
Alas for the vanity and worldliness of the human heart!
Where was the high and noble spirit that had ~hurled
defiance at de ~raiville a few hours before'? Chilled by the
cold breath of worldly wisdom, until, long before he again
10


110        LEAVES PROM THE 'TREE IODRASYL.

A TALE OP THE COLONY TIMES.          111

sought his own room, the gentle memory of Sibyl, which had
been so surely drawing him back to her side during the even-
ing hours, had faded before the fitful glare that gleamed
from the ambitious path which the governor's words had
opened.
CHAPTER V.
Day after day passed, and the light of hope glimmered
fainter and fainter in the heart of Sibyl Moody. The report
of Frederk, Vane's engagement. to the lovely English lady be-
came current among the townspeople, and, though she seldom
trusted her lips with his name, she could not fail to hear it.
Gradually came the conviction that she was forgotten, and
with it that hour of withering anguish, - that bitter struggle
when the young heart finds, for the first time, that its cher-
ished idols are false ~- its love and trust dishonored. It was
a fearful trial that feeling of utter desolation that settled
-upon her heart, congealing for a time its very life-blood. She
met it alone, and alone she sought for strength to bear it.
Though such struggles cannot be, and leave no trace upon the
outward frame, her old f4her, more than usually occupied with
the troubles of his society, happily failed to notice the growing
p~lor of 'her cheek or the unusual lassitude of her movements.
They did not, however, escape the watchful eye of Aunt Nenta;
but she, kind soul, while she urged, nay, forced upon the
maiden double doses of her syrups, could not, when 'she
looked upon her bowed form and careworn face, bear to add to
his anxiety.
One evening, as the old man turned with a heavier step
than usual toward his study door, he suddenly paused and
gazed for some seconds anxiously on the face of his child.
"Sibyl," he said at length, "I wish to speak with you in
my study. Will you come?
The glance and the words brought a deep blush to the

I'

maiden's cheek, as, with a mental prayer for strength to con-
ceal her sulThring, she arose and followed him.
Lie took his arm-chair by the table, and, leaning his head
on his hands, sat for some time as if occupied iii ~ilent prayer,.
while his daughter drew a low seat to his side, and, laying
her head on his knee, as in the days of childhood, awaited
his words.
"Sibyl," he said, at length, passing his hand fondly over
her hair, "thy father hath grown old and forgetful. In the
trials and troubles with which it hath pleased Him to sur-
round my age as well as my youth, I hav&amp; forgotten that my
child hath grown to womanhood. This day, Elder Hale hath
reminded me of it, by asking thee in marriage for his son. He
is a deserving youth, of a family rich' in temporal blessings,
but richer still, IL trust, in the heavenly inheritance that
awaiteth the servants of the Lord. What answer shall I
make to this young man, my child?"
"0, send me not from you! Let me live and die with you,
my father!" cried the poor girl, burying her face in her
hands upon his knee, while every nerve in her fair neck
twitched convulsively in her effort to suppress her emotion.
"I have no wish to send you from me Sibyl; but sore
trouble, imprisonment, and perhaps death, await me. Listen,
my child. This day the governor hath notified me that l~e~
together with Mason and his follower Hinckes, will partake~
of the Lord's Supper with us next Sabbath; and, moreover,
he requireth me~ to administer it according to the forms of the
established church, with liturgy and vain repetitions. This,
of course, I have wholly refused to do; therefore he hath the
pretext against me which he hath long sought. Before
another day he may drag me to prison, and. though~.. I know
that He will not try me beyond my strength, ye&amp;the thought
of thee, my daughter," - and, for the first time since he .com-
inenced speaking, the old man's voice grew tremulous,

9


112          LEAT~5 ~?RO~I THJ~3 ~FREE IODRASYL.                                         A TALfl OP TH~ COLONY TIMES.           118

"homeless and exposed~ to the snares of the spoiler, weakeneth
my heart."
"Father," said Sibyl, raising her head from his knee, and
speaking very earnestly, "could you be happier separated
from your child?"
For a moment there was a struggle inth&amp; old man's heart,
and the rigid lines about his mouth moved convulsively as he
exclaimed, "Tempt me not, my child! 0, tempt me not!"
"Then we part no more. This governor is human; he
cannot forbid the child to share her father's fate. Let that
be what it may, I will not shrink, if so be we may meet it
together. But speak no more," and the enthusiasm, which for
a moment had lit up her pale face, gave place to the exptes-
sion of bitter suffering. "0, speak no more, I entreat of you,
of this marriage!"
The old man bent over her, and for some moments his with-
ered cheek rested upon her head, ere he trusted his voice in
reply. At length he said, brokenly,
"It was not thy love nor thy devotion that I doubted; but,"
he added, slowly, "thou art fair, my Sibyl; thou hast thy
mother's comely face, and I thought of my. death, and the
power of our enemies. Yet, surely, there is one among them
who, forgetful as he seems, would not see thee wronged. I
aDeak of Frederic Vane."
The quick, convulsive shudder that passed through the girl's
frame shook even him, and for some moments he sat in bewil-
dered surprise. Then the truth seemed suddenly to dawn upon
him. He raised her head in his trembling old hands, and
gazed on her pale face for some moments, while his own grew
&amp;emulous with emotion. "]~[y child, my poor child!" he
murmured. That mournful tone was too much for Sibyl.
~Phe self-command that she had struggled to maintain gave
way, and, hiding her face in his bosom, she burst into tears.
"My child, my poor, motherless child!" he murmured
again, as he drew her closely to. his heart. "And so I cher-

I :~

ished a viper under my roof. Blind mole that I was, not to
foresee this! So true and noble as he seemed. ileaveti
knows that I cherished, yea, loved him as a son, and he -
I will "-i---
"Forgive him, father, even as I have forgiven him," whis-
pered a voice in his ear.
"But you must tell me all, Sibyl, all."
She left~ the room, and, after a few minutes' absence, re-
turned and placed in his hands Frederic Vane~s parting gift,.
the locket enclosing the lock of hair. Then, kneeling at his
side, she simply and briefly related the story of her love, while,
with one hand laid upon her head, he gazed thoughtfully down
upon her face.
"So my thoughtlessness has darkened the light of thy'
young life, my daughter, and this man weds another - the
ward of our bitterest enemy. He was unworthy of our love,
my Sibyl."
"Blame him not, father. The lady is said to 'be good, -
beautiful, I know her to be, for I saw her once; more fitting
to be his wife than simple Sibyl Moody. Yet she can never
love him"'- Again her hands were pressed upon her eyes,
as if to force back the rush of tears. "'Enough, my father,"
she added, meekly; "if I have sinned in setting up an earthly
idol - if IL have erred in withholding this matter fro yoi~!
have also suffered."
"I blame you not, Sibyl. It was but natural. Hence-
forth, we will part no 'more, and our only trust ~must be in
Him who is both able and* willing to save. And kneeling
down by her side, in a voice shaken with grief, the old man~
laid his daughter's sorrows before the throne of Him whom he
had served from his youth.
He had not miscalculated the vengeance of the governor.
Two weeks after, the doors of the prison closed behind them.
flaring thirteen weary weeks they were shut away from Gad's
sunlight and fresh air; but no royal authority could deprive
10*


LEAVES PRO?~X THE TREE IGDRA5TL.

that old man of the light of a clear conscience, and he often
felt, that, like the saints of old, an angel ministered unto him
under the form of his child.
And when those heavy doors were opened~ and, nuder the
ban of exile, he was again permitted to go forth, the angel
was still by his side, for she did not vanish suddenly like those
of which we read, but her cheek grew more and more white
and transparent, her eye brighter and her step slower, until,
with the fall of the leaves, she disappeared from his sight.
But the old man looked upward with a calm smile, for he
knew that in a few short days he should again look upon her
in "those boundless regions of all perfection."
V
~-~; f

'4
)

UNCLE JOHN'S YISJT.
A TALE FOIL THE TIMES.
CHAPTER I.
IT came at last, what the fire, Cassandra-likes, had mut-
tered of for several days past; what people prophesied' to'
each other on the street; what ]3i11 Lyman, the stage-dri'ver,
had foreseen that morning, when he called for his heaviest
pea-jacket; what young maidens and school-boys had looked
for with such impatient longings; what the houseless and
homeless had anticipated with anxiety and dread,--tlie snow-
storm.
And a right brave storm it was; none of your light, triflip
affairs, that merely cover the earth with a thin frosting,
that on a bridal loaf, but a regular old-fashioned snow ~
To be sure, ~ was rather coquettish at first, like ~
horse at staAing, but soon it settled down, and went to work ~.
in good earnest. It wove dainty coverlets for thejv~eslet beds ~ N
in the deep old woods, and covered thevi over
mother; it powdered the heads of the cedars, until 4~ey~I
like white-haired giants, and wrapped alike the gray~ ~:
and poor in shrouds of dazzling whiteness.
0, very impartial .wei~e those same little~white, featb~y
flakes, that~ame dancing down at the bidding ef~ the i~Wrxn,
edging alike the blue' cloth cloak of Judge Edm~nds and 'the
ragged garments of the beggar with
"ErminQ too de~r~L' an~EarI.s*

114

I


116        LEAVES PROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.                                          UNOLE JOHN'S, VISIT.         117

Then they made a league with that cool-headed old tactician,
the north wind, and together they went stirring through the
streets, heaving up embankments here, and digging trenches
and forming curves there, rushing round corners, to attack
stout, rosy-checked gentlemen, who fought and sputtered and
dashed the snow from their eyebrows, to see what awaited
them next, while the thinly-clad~ shop-girls drew their shawls
closer about them, and scudded in troops, like little snow-
birds, close under the lee of the houses, to escape their bois-
terous greetings. In the space of an hour or so the storm
had the city pretty much to itself, for whoever had a shelter
was glad to get beneath it, and stay there.
On the corner of C and P streets was a spacious wholesale
clothing stOre, upon which, in hurrying up and down the
streets, after the last stragglers, the storm seemed to bestow
particular attention. It tried to shake the mahogany-cased
windows, and find some crack in them, or in the heavily pan-
elled door, by which it could gain ingress; but, baffled here, it
contented itself with wrapping a white covering over the gilded
sign-board, darkening the windows, muffling the steps, and
piling up a barricade against the door, as if it said, " Never
~mind, I '11 be ready for' you when you do open!"
~New, it was very provoking, no doubt, but none of these
manoAivi~es seemed to disturb the equanimity of Mr. ID.
Orestes Jimps, the owner of the store. All the clerks had
gone to tea; and, while waiting their return, he sat before
the stove, with his heels resting upon a high stool, rather
above the level of his head, and his eyes fixed upon a lamp-
hook in the wall, as a kind of tether to his imagination, as he
counted up the profits of the day's sales, - a very necessary
and commendable process, seeing next day was New-year's,
ai~d1he nntioipated several extra demands upon his purse.
Perb~rn we should not be far from the truth, if we said that,
~t $~ame time, he gave a sort of rough guess at his neigh-
b#~iinper's profits, and wondered just how much and what

he would give at their pastor's donation party the. next even-
ing; for Mr. ID. Orestes Jiinps did not like t~ be cast in the
shade by any one, especially by a rival house; besides, we
are all, at times, so remarkably disinterested, that we tale
more interest in other people's concerns than our own.
But, hurrah! the storm has triumphed! Through the open
door falls the barricade of snow, followed by the wind, that
sends the glittering particles dancing through the whole length
of the store, and raises sueh a commotion among the various
garments, mentionable and unmentionable, suspended over-
head, that it is some tinu~ before the astonished ~1r. Jimps is
aware of the cause of this disturbance.
But there she stands, - a little, shrinking, hollow-eyed
girl, with a cheek almost as white as tho snow~matted in
her abundant hair, and clinging to the folds of her miserable
dress.
"Well, what 's wanting, my girl 7" asked Mr. Jimps, a~
the thin, wan face, scarcely higher than the level of the
counter, was turned up to him, with a timid, appealing
glance.
"Please, sir," began a little, trembling, piping voice, "1
have brought some shirts, and mother. ~wants to know j~i
you will be kind enough to let. her have the money .~r
them."
Mr. Jimp~~k the package which the child drew from
under her shawl, and deliberately counted the coarse gar-
ments it contained, while the little one edged timidly towards
the stove.
"Three, four, five, six. Why, ohi1d,"      the gen-
tleman, as he finished counting, "how is this? flere is~J~ut
I
half the lot we gave out to your mother.'~
"Yes, sir~" returned the child, as she edged back to her first
stand; "mother knew that ; but little Jenni~ has been so1.iok,
sir, that we could not~get any more done; and and ~ ~t is
so~ cold, and the coal is all gone. Mother hoped, swy~i~


118        LEAVES FROI~I THE TREE IODRASYL.                                          UNCLE JOHN'S VISIT.           119

would be kind enough to pay her for these, and we will finish
the others as soon as we can."
"1 thought your mother understood our terms. I told her,
when she took the work, that we made it a rule to pay only
when the lot was done," returned Mr. Jimps. "There are
plenty of people glad to work for us on these terms, and your
mother cannot expect us to make an exception in her favor."
"But, please, sir," plead the little one, "little Jennie is so
sick, and " -
But Mr. Jimps did not stay to hear her out; for, just
at that moment, the outer door again opened, and a person
entered, who slammed it to, right in the face of the storm,
and began to stamp his boots and shake his garments in a
way that gave strong proofs of their firm texture. As soon
as Mr. Jimps caught sight of the high nose that peered like a
projecting battlement over the folds of the red worsted com-
forter which enveloped the lower portion of the new-coiner's
face, he sprang round the counter, and, seizing his hand, shook
it heartily, as he exclaimed,
"Why, Uncle-John Markham! where did you come from?
Did you snow down?"
"No, Dimmie," returned the old man, taking off his low-
crowned hat, and shaking a miniature snow-storm from its
broad brim; "but I 'd like to been snowed ~r. Who 'd
a thought it would have come by such handfuls ?s~j~ld another~
when I started, I guessed there would' be more snow before I
got back; but I did not think of its coming so like a judg-
ment. I~lack Simon and I have had a time of it, I tell you,
Dimmie. Whew! my fingers ache like the toothache!" he
added, drawing off a thick pair of blue and white yarn mit-
tens, and spreading his hard palms to the fire.
"It is the worst storm we have had yet," returned Mr.
Jumps, wincing sligl~tly at the appellation by which the old
man addressedd him. In hi~ native village, he had always
been known as" Diminie Jumps," it being a sort of abbrevia-

tion of the classical cognomen, Demosthenes Ore~tes, bestowed
upon him by his father, which he had ignored ever since his
establishment in the city, signing his name D. Orestes Jimps,
Esq. But he knew there was no use in arguing the case with
Uncle John. lie would always remain Dimmie, with him;
so he smoothed his brow, and said, heartily:
"Come, Uncle John, take a seat and make yourself com-
fortable, if you can, until some of the boys get back; then we
will go up to the house. Julia will be delighted to see you.
You will stay over to-morrow night with us, of~course. To-
morrow night is Mr. E-'s donation party, ~nd you must
certainly attend that. lie asks after you always, .when he
calls." Then, chancing to let his eye fall on the, waiting child,
whom he had quite forgotten, he said, with a gesture toward
the door:
"You had better run home, little girl. Your mother kno4s
my terms, -'can't vary for any one. A man must have some
rules, and stick by them, if he intends to do, anything," he
added, turning to Uncle John.
"Ay, sound doctrine that, Dimmie. But what is this?'
Who could send a child out in such a storm?" said the old
man, hastily rising, and stilding forward tq open the door, the
knob of which the child was'vainly tryin turu. "There,
run home little girl, if you diiii't intend to be buried," he
cried; "your folks are crazy to send you out in su~
weather."
For a second, '~ere she crossed the threshold, ii~e little pal&amp;
face was turned up to his, as 'if to thank him, and he saw that
it was wet 'with tears. ,
"What, what!" he muttered; and was about, to follow
her, when he was recalled by the'voice of Mr. Jimps:
"Oom~ in,, uncle; you will catch your death standing in
that draft!" cried the little man.
"Who was th~t child, Dimmie? and what possessed her

$ 1-
/ 4
i
s


UNOLS JOHN'5 VISfl~.                    121

120          LEAVES ruo~ u~ns ~ia~sm EGDRASYL.

friends, if she has any, to send her out in such a storm?"
asked the old man, as he again seated himself by the fire.
"0, she don't mind it! She is. one of~the thousands you
will find in the city; one scarcely knows who or what they
are. Her mother came here for work; and, as she was rec-
ommended by one of our h~nds, whom we could trust, we li~t
her take some. I should think I had heard some one say that
her husband was a dissipated sort of a fellow. The city is
full of such people."
"But wh&amp;t sent her here to-day? Do you owe them any-
thing, Dimmie?"
"Owe them!" returned Mr. Jimps, laughing. "You n~ust
think me hard run, not to be able to pay for half a dozen
shirts. I always make it a rule to' pay for eath lot of work
when it is brought in and answers inspection; and that is
wI~t I call fair on all sides. it 'this woman wants me to
do more; she has sent in half 'her lot, and wants me to pay
her for these~before the rest are done."
"And you did n't do iDimmie?" said the old man.
"Not I. I should never get my work done at that rate.
If she does not like the terms, she must look elsewhere for
"I s'pose thei~&amp;~re people who would have been foolish
enough to have, done it, or, perhaps, given her a little some-
tiling out of their own pockets," observed the old man, ,~atch-
~ng the faee o~ Mr. Ji~nps with a very peotiliar expression.
"Yes, and foolish enough they are, a~ you say. Now, I
claixu to be as liberal rid benevolent as n~0sV men; but I act
~ipon system in this a~ well as~ everything else. 'I pay my
t~es. promptly, and subscribe liberally to several benevolent
~oeieties; besides, my wife dev~te~ ihaIf her time to their
management. If these people really are worthy, a~nd need
aid, let them apply to s~me of these, or to the city authority.
Casu~d charity only encourages street-begging and idleness."
- I s'pose there are some among them so

I"

proud that they Would rather starve than beg," returned the
old man, with the same searching glance. "I dare say there
are a good many, just in our neighborhood, at home, who
would rub pretty close before they would do it."
"No doubt of it. You would be surprised at the degree of
pride manifested by the people who work for me, though many
of them are poor as Job. These people are doubtless of the
same stamp. Lewis," he added, addressing a young clerk,
who entered, out of breath with facing the storm, "put down
those half d6~en shirts to the credit of Mrs. Ives."
"Miss Sarah Ives, George street?" queried the boy.
"No; Mrs. Mary ]Ives, J3ingham Crossing, York road,"
was the reply, as Mr. Jimps deliberately encased his dapper
person in a wadded overcoat, and enveloped his throat in the
voluminous folds of' a costly merino scarf.
While he was drawing oa his overshoes, his guest took f~om
his pocket a large pocketbook, and wrote a few words on a
blank leaf.
They were soon ploughing their way in the direction of Mr.
Jixups' residence, Uncle John looking the storm sc~uare in the
face, as if it were an old friend, and Mr. Jimps trying to give
it the cut by turning sideways. It bore this a while; but, at
last, as they turned a corner, it sprang out upon him,. and,
flapping the long ends of his scarf in his face, suddenly lifted
his shining beaver from his head, and lodged it in a snow..
bank, which it ha~d been piling up right wider the windows of ~
Governor B-.-..'s mansion, as if for the special ami3~enae~#t
of a group of curly.~headed children and a lovely 'young lady,
who were watching the process with delight.
"0, if it had only happened anywhere else!" thought 1~z
Jimps, as, with ono glance~ ~t the mischievous face ~ Miss
iEva I3-~.. and the laughing little ones, he picked i~ his
beaver, and disappeared round the corner. Unele John !o~
lowed with steady steps. No danger of the storm's playing
triek~ with .Iiis.apparel. His h~ was jammed down upon his
11

I


122          L1~AVE5 FROM ~I~H1~3 TREE IODRASYL.                                                  UNCLE JOHN'S ~VI5IT.               128

bald crown, as if hame~ant it to stay there; and we have a
suspicion that he rather enjoyed the disasters of Mr. Jimps.
"I say, IDimmie," he remarked, seeing that gentleman
pause and turn his hack to the storm to get breath, "that
little girl must have a hard time of it getting home, won't
she?"
"Yes, her people were crazy to send her out at such a
time. Ugh! the snow almost blinds one!"
"Very likely,"' returned the old man, with a peculiar
smile, replying to the first part of Mr. Jimps' rer~rk; "poor
people are apt to do a great many strange things. But here
we are at the door, and there is your wife at the window;"
and, with a nod to the rather pretty-looking lady who looked
down upon them, the old man followed his nephew into the
house.
Uncle JQhn Markham was warmly received by his nephew's
wife. He was a bit of a humorist, "odd as Dick's hat-
band," the people said in his vilh~ge (and, by the way, we
should very much like to know in what the peculiarity of the
said Richard's hat-band consisted). 'KEccentric," Mrs. Jimps
whispered t6 her friends, as she introduced him; but then he
was rich and childless, and rich folks can afford to be "odd."
us visits were ever welcome among his nephews and nieces,
not merely because of his wealth; for, though they were keen-
sighted business people, and perhaps did not entirely put that
out of the question, yet they had sense enough to love and
respect the old man for his intrinsic goodness~
Tea being over, and little Augustus Actelmar, Mr. Jimps'
~pzi and heir, having been sent to bed, after making seVeral
~~~yneys to "Danbury Cross" on the old man's fo&amp;t, the con-
ver~ation turned to the approaching donation party.
"Simpson sent home the Btand today, dear," said Mrs.
Jiwps, turning to her husband. "' It is a love of a thing.
Uncle John, you must see it, -my sift for Mrs. E.-Z-!-.-, our
pastor's wife. I do not believe there will be anytEin~ half so

F.
1~
9,

pretty sent in;" and, running into the ~opposite parlor, she.
returned with a beautiful ixipier mache work-stand.
"Why, it is a pretty thing enough," said the old man,
looking at it with a good deal of interest, as his niece ex-
plained the material and the process of manufacturing ' it;
"that butterfly hovering over the rose, there, is as natural
as life. But what 's it for, Julia? It is hardly strong
enough to hold a mouse.~~
"0, it will hold light things; and, then, it is such a beau~
tiful ornament in a parlor!"                     -
"And what might it have cost, niece?" he asked.
"Only twenty dollars. Orestes, how I wish your vases
had been sent home, so that Uncle John could have seen
them, too. They are such beauties the real Bohemian
glass, and no mistake."
"And what do they cost?"
"Twenty more," was the reply.
"Well, Bimmie, you said you was liberal, to-day, and I
do not dispute it; but it does seem to me, children, with my
old-fashioned notions, that you might have laid out your
money more wisely, considering your minister's wife and chil-
dren. But you mean well, doubtless, and cannot fail to be
benefited 'by it yourselves, whatever your friends iflay be;
for no one ever opened their purse-strings out'ofldzi ~'
without being the better for, it."
"In that case, Uncle John, you will return a mu~1i bet~1~
man than you came, for I intend to make a draft on you,"
said Julia, ~hlushing and laughing. "We are getting up a
society for the ~rnppression of idolatry among the Chinese i~n
California, and I must. have you down for a good r~iA~'
sum." ' ,
*      "Stay a bit, niece. Chinese  I heard they were coming
over the~e by thousands'but I~d~n~t know as ~tiey are much
*    worse' idolaters than our folks ~re there4  ~e~,ides I' have

I
N

4


124

4

LEAVES PflOM THE TREE IODRASYL.

one or two claims of the society ~to which I belong to settle,
before I can think of yours."
"~Xonr society! Why, I did not know as you belonged to
any one, uncle!"
"You were mistaken, then," returned the old man, gravely.
"For inanyjears I have been a member of' the oldest society
in the world, - the same of which our Saviour was a distin-
guished member while on earth, - the Society of Human
Brotherhood, which has for its aim and object all the poor,
oppressed, fallen and down-trodden beings upon God's earth.
I must attend t~ this first, niece; and then I will see about
yours.
There was silence a few moments, before the old man, who
had risen and walked to the window, added, gayly:
"By the by, children, I guess I '11 just step round to the
hotel, and take a look at 'Black Simon."'
"Not to-night,. - you surely need not go out to-night,"
cried Mr. and Mrs. Jimps in the same breath.
"Why not? See, it has stopped snowing, and I am not
quite so frail as Julia's stand there. Simon had a hard time
of it getting here, and the hostler may neglect him, poor fel-
low! You need not think I am lost if I am not back in an
hour or two," he added, as he passed through the hall; "I
niay find so~rie old friends down there, and oii~t a while."
CHAPTER II.
"Black Simon" was looked, after, and talked to for a few
moments, much as if he had been a child; and then, instead
of returning to the warm sItting-room of the hotel, or the
elegant parlor of Mr. Jimps, the old man sturdily ploughed
his way along the snowy streets, until he reached the suburbs
of the city.
Here he slackened his steps, and paused occasionally to
decipher, by the dim light of the lamps, the numbers on some

A                           UNOL~1 ~FOHN'5 VISIT.

:125

of the dilapidated buildings which lined the street. At last
he approached one, from which issued. the sounds of' music
and dancing, and knocked loudly at the door. It was opened
by a rosy-checked Irish girl, in a gay ball costume and dirty
white slippers.
"Is there a family of the name of Ives living in this
house?" asked the old man.
"Yes there be - the poor craythers; but not in there,
sir," was the reply, as she ~saw Mr. Markham about to lay
hold of the latch of a door near by. "That is Teddy
McGuire's room. The Ives' are above, sir. I will be after
showing' ye the way, an' ye please."
Uncle John followed the girl up the gloomy, dirty stairs,
asking by the way (for the old man was a bit of a Yankee)
what was the cause of the festivity below.
"A wedding, sir. Mikey Flaherty is married to Tim
:Doolan's Bridget, the night," returned the girl, with a.
smile; adding, as she pointed to a door at the extreme end
of the passage, "It 's there ye will find them ye seek."
The old man turned to thank her, but she was already
half way down stairs, stepping to the lively measure of an
Irish jie'; so he walked on, and ~knocked gently at t1i~e door
which the girl had pointed out. It was opened by the same
pale-faced child whom he had seen in his nephew's s1~re.
She looked up to him with a quick glance of recoguWi~xk,
singledd with surprise, and then glancea toward he~mot~her,
who sat leaning over a miserable bed, on which lay a little
child, over whose face the ashen hue of death was already
stealing. Seeing that her mother did not observe the stran-
ger, she said:               =
"It 's the gentleman who opened the door Lor me to-day,
mother."
Thus disturbed, the~ woman looked up, ~qii~sVioningly,
almost impatiently, at the inti'uder.
"Excuse me, ina'am," began the old man, i~ an 'a~~logetio
11'

Ii;


126         LEAVES FI~O~I TIlE TREE IODRASYL.
tone, but deliberately shutting the door behind him. "tfear
I intrude; but the little girl is right. I am glad to find she
got home safe. My nephew, Mr. Jimps, did not quite
understand the child, it seems; and J'have come to make it
all straight." And he handed out a five-dollar bill as he
spoke.
The woman took the bill, looked at it a moment, and
returned it with a heavy sigh.
"I cannot change it, sir. I have not a cent of money in
the world."
"It 's all right, ma'am. I don't want any change - I
mean Mr. Jimps don't; he is n't at all particular - that is
I say keep it, ma'am; you need it all, and more too, in
such weather as this."
The woman looked at him with mingled wonder and sus~.
picion. At length she said:
"There is some mistake, sir. Mr. Jimps is a very partic-
ular man, lie owes me but one dollar, and it may bring
both of us into trouble if I keep the money."
"Take it, IL say. Pounds! have not I a right to 'dQ as I
please with my I mean, has n't Mr. Jimps a right to do
what he pleases with his money? Take it, and make your-
selves comfortable."
The woman waited to be urged no more; she eagerly
clutched the money, and burst into tears, as she cried:
"The blessing of those ready to perish be upon you both,
sir. I should not have sent out to-day; but we have neither
food nor fuel, and little Jennie dying!"
"Have you no one whom you can send out after food and
fuel?" asked the old man, with a glance toward the further
corner of the room, where, from beneath a pile of rags, came
the heavy breathing of a man.
"Yes," returned the woman, as with a troubled expression
her eye followed his; "but William, poor fellow, is not well.
He is worn out," she went on, with a sigh, "with care, and

UNOLJ~ 3O~IN'~ VI~IT.~                     12T

want, and trouble. If you ~wil1be kind e~iough to stay~ with
Ellen, sir, I will run down myself, and get what we want.
It 's only two doors from here," she added, seeing the old
man about to remonstrate.
There was something in her manner that recalled to the
old man Mr. Jimps' remark about her husband's intemperate
habits. She fears to trust him with the money, and perhaps
she is right, thought he, as he drew the scanty covering over
the dying child, and began to look about for something to
kindle a fire with, against the mother's return. -
The little girl laid down the coarse shirt-skeve she was
stitching, and came to his aid; but they could find nothing
but a few bits* of paper.
"That is Willie's kite, sir," whispered she, as the old man
laid his hand on that article. "He brought it with him when
we moved from the country; but I don't know as he will
mind it much if we do take it, if he can only be warm."
As she spoke, a curly head peered out from beneath the
rags in the corner, and, presently, a little boy of five or six
years old crept to her side.
"Willie, don't wake father!" she whispered, hushing his
exclamation of sQrprise at the eight of the stranger. '~ We aro
going to have a fire, and something to eat, Willie," she added.
"Mother has gone after the things. Mr. Jimps sent 1~lw
money by this gentleman, and now it 's all right."
The little boy's sleepy eyes flew wide open at the mention
of food and fire, and he whispered, with a shy look at Uncle
John:
"But will ho take us away from this hateful place, sister,
and give us dinners every day, just as we used to. have them
in the country? When I was~ ao hungry, and cried, last
night, you said may-be some one would bring me a whole
pocket full of cakes, if I Would go to sleep. Has h~ brought
them, sissie?"
"Mother has gone after~ them," said the little girl,while

V
[


128         LEAVES 1~ROM THE TREE IC#DRASYL.                                             UNCLE JOUN'S VISIT.             120

Uncle~ John took him upon his knee, and warmed his little
red hands between his great palms. Ellen drew close to him,
too, and he took her on the other knee, as he asked,
"How long has the little one been sick, dear?"
"Mother says she has never been well; but she ran about
and played with Willie and me, until we came here. Ever
since, she has been poorly, and we have had to hold her all
the while. Sometimes she laughs when I show her my rose-
bush, and puts up her hands to catch the leaves. . Biddy
Flaherty gave it to me, sir; but, lately, she does not seem to
notice anything, and mother thinks she will die."
"And then she will go up to God;. away above the clouds,
where the cold weather never comes," said little Willie, lift-
ing his sober eyes to Mr. Markham's face. ." It 's a nice place
up there, sir. Would n't you like to go too?"
Before the old man could reply, the mother entered, fol-
lowed by a man bearing food and coals.
We do not know whose pleasure was the greatest, the
hungry-eyed children's, as they ate their food by the glowing
fire, or old John Markham's, as he sat by and looked o~1. We
think the children's, however; for he could not but be sad-
dened ~by the tale which he heard from the lips of the poor
mother, as she hung over her child. It was the old story, which
has blotted so many of the fair pages of the book of life.
Poverty had followed sickness; thrown out of work, strang-
ers in a strange place, disappointed and despairing, the hus~
band and father had yielded to temptation, and tasted of the
accursed cup, until he no longer cared for aught save the
gratification of his brutal appetite. For some time past they
had depended solely upon the earnings of the mother and
little Ellen for support; and these had, of late, been much
curtailed by the illness of little Jennie. "I could not let her
~ lie and die before my eyes, even though we were all starved,"
said the weeping mother.
Uncle John Markham was not an* eloquent man -.- he never

4,
128

4
&amp;

made a speech in his life; yet, somehow, the words which he
spoke to that fallen, discouraged husband, that night, awoke
feelings of hope, and courage, and self.respect in the poor feb
low's heart, to which he had long been a stranger.
CUAPTER III.

It was quite late when the old man reached his nephew's
house that night, and Mr. Jimps and his wife were too sleepy
to ask many questions; but next morning, at the breakfast..
table, they were disposed. t&amp; be quite curious on the subject
of his late hours.
"Fie, Uncle John," began Mrs. ~Timps, smiling, as she
handed him his coWee; "this never will do. I shall have to
write to Aunt Sarah about it."
"I think I shall write t~ her myself; this morning" re-
turned the old man, in the same light tone.
"But, uncle, these must be very interesting people, these
friends of yours, to keep you up so late," said Mr. limps.
"They are; ~io much so, Dimmie, that I must introduce
them to you. Will you call with me some time lii the'course
of the day?"
"With great pleasure, uncle."
It being New-Year's day, however, Mr. Jimps, amid calls
and business, quite forgot Uncle John's proposal - the more
readily. as that old gent~lemau was absent most of the. 4ay on
business of his own, and it was not until he was about' to
dress for the donation party in the evening that the old. man
saw fit to remind him of his engagement.
"Why, it is too late, now, Uncle John. 'Julia has already
commenced dressing for the party," said the little man.
"Well, I can 't go to this party with you until I have
called on these friends, that 's certain," said the old man.
"If you are minded to go with me, I '11 have Black Simon


130          LEAVES ~'I~OM TUE TREE IC4DRASYL.                                                UNCLE JOII~'5 VISIT.             1~1

and the sleigh at the door by the time you are dressed, and
we can be there and back again by the time Julia gets rigged,
if she is like most women-folks."
Black Simon was at the door in time, and bore them with.
flying steps along the crowded streets. On, on they went, past
brilliantly lighted parlors, from whence came the sounds of
music and laughter on, to where the streets began to nar-
row, and the lights to dwindle, until, with a suddenness that
almost took Mr. Jimps' breath from his body, the old man
drew up before a rickety old building.
"Uncle John, you must have mistaken the place! your
friends surely cannot live here!" cried Mr. Jinips, from be-
neath the many folds ,of his scarf
"May be so we '11 see," was the reply, as the Qid man
sprang out, and, taking a rope from the sleigh, fastened Black
Simon securely to a post.
It was too cold for Mr. Jimps to remonstrate; his teeth
chattered and his scarf was almost frozen to his lips, even
then; so, stepping carefully in his dainty, glistening boots,~he
followed the old man through the gloomy hall and up the
dirty stairs. Mr. Jimps was a somewhat fastidious person,
and might, more than once, have taken exception to the
various smells that, coming from the different rooms, seemed
to congregate in that hall, had he not, fortunately, been too
well wrapped up to be aware of them.
Uncle John rapped ~softly at the lives' door, and, after
waiting a few moments, as no one came, opi3necl it himself.
One glance around the apartment taught him the 'cause of
that silence. Near the stove, with his little boy in his arms,
who was~ sobbing in that ~peculiar spasmodic manner that
indicates the utter exhaustion of the physical frame, sat
William lives, with, his eyes fixed upon the bed which had
been arranged as decently as possible to receive the dead
body of little Jennie. The mother had done all her scanty
means allowed. She had parted the soft hair on the little

brow, straightened the shrunken limbs,' and robed. them in a
pretty white frock, the last relic of happier days. The dainty
edgings with which it was trimmed were in strange contrast
with the miserable bed-coverings edgings wrought by her
busy fingers in those happy days when a mother's glad antici-
pations first stirred her heart. Then she had flung herself on
her knees by the side of the bed, and, with her face buried in
the clothes, neither wept nor moved.
The grave-eyed Ellen stooped over the bed, and was trying
to place a poor, sickly-looking 'rose in the cold hands of the
little one. Uncle John glanced at the hush she had showed
him the night before, and he knew at once from whence it
came. It was' her all, poor thing!
She was the first to observe their entrance,' and soon bqth
parents were mingling words of deep gratitude with' their'
tears.
"I shall never, never forget your kindness, sir, to 'the' day
I die!" exclaimed the mother, turning to Mr. Jimps. "Much
as we needed the money, starving as we were, we thought
not less of your confidence in us than we did of that.' It
was' so kind, so noble in you, to trust us! But you shall be
repaid, sir; William and I are determined to do it, if we
work our fingers to the bone! And this gentleman,. to cbme,
as-he did, through the snow to aid us! 0, how can we ever
be grateful enough?"
My kindness - repay me ~-you here!" exclaimed the
bewildered Mr. Jimps, turning to Uncle John, and rapidly
unwinding the folds of his scarf, as if pressed for breath..
"Yes, IDimmie, I was certain you did not quite understand
the errand of' that little girl, yesterday, so I followed her
home, and settled your bill mysdf. It was well I did, for the
poor things needed it very~much."
"' Save a bit of brea4 for the children, and a spoonful of
milk for for "-.- and the poor mother gla~iced sadly at the


132        LEAVES PROli THE TREE IODRASYL.

white-robed little figure on the bed, - "for ker, sir~ we had
not tasted food for two days.."
Mr. Jimps was neither an unjust nor hard-hearted man;
he had sin~ply been guided by the current custom of the day;
and, when he had subscribed his quota to any benevolent ob-
ject, allowed, himself to consider his responsibility at an end.
Now, a new light broke in upon him; he turned to his old
relative, and said, earnestly
"Thank you, thank you, Uncle John! you could not have
done me a. kinder deed; or," he added, in a lower tone,
"taught me a better lesson. It is one which I shall never
fQrget."
Ax~d, to do Mr. Jimps justice, he never did. lie told the
story to Julia when they got home, and bravely took his share
of the blame, while the tears gathered in her pretty eyes,
and sb~e almost forgot her present and the donation party, in
her interest in the Iveses.
They assisted the father in finding employment, aided and
encouraged jiim in his struggles to overcome his evil habits,
~ud even did not grumble when Uncle John toQk little Ellen
Ives to live with him and Aunt Sally, and be a daughter to
them in tkeir old age, though they knew that the inheritance
of their darling Augustus~ Adelinar would be much curtailed
by the deed.

1..

AN INCIDENT ON THE SEA-SHOI~E.
Ernst ist ds.s Leben.
*         ABOUT midway between Sachem's Head and Double Beach,
those well-known watering places on the Connecticut shore, a1
small cove or creek laps, like a silver tongue, up into the
main land; and the waters, as if weary of the perpetual sLiMe
an4 moaning seaward, cling close to the shore in little curve~
and dents, and put out slender silver arms anig the course,
green sedges of the marshes, as if. seeking f~r that inland
quiet which it is their destiny never to attain.
It is a quiet bit of water that small cove, set in a
of White, wave-ribbed sand, backed by a circlet of house~s, ti
green, rank marshes, and a low range of broken upland,
scarcely worthy of the name of hills, but sufficient hut oft"~
all objects landward, save a blue, hazy line in tli4~*iice,
which indicates the outline of the Tetoket range ~f hills.
But seaward roll ceaselessly the blue waves of the Sound,
and, stretching along at the distance of from one half mile to
some four or five miles from shore, are scattered a dozen or
more islands.                                   -
"Moles that dot the dimpled bosotu of the sunny, Summer SOSi ~
some, at high water, mere hummocks of~~rock and sand, over-
run by rock-p ear, a species of c  ~beq~jng Wossonis of deli-
cate~yellow, with here and there taunted pine; others long,
iow~ barren reaches of sand, easy of access, ~iid therefore the
chosen locations of "fish-houses~ with their accompanying
12

p
4


184         LEAVES ~OM ~    m~ IODnASYL.
reels, great clumsy machines, which, with the salt~'white
seine, stretched over their long arms, remind one of giants
ready ~to do battle with the storms; and some few of the
larger rock-bound nooks of greenery, where the whortleberry
and the raspberry thrive in profusion, and the whisper-
ing pines and ancient bass-woods shelter, summer after
summer, gay parties of pleasure-seekers, old and young.
Beyond these the view is unbroken, save when, on a clear,
sunny day, the shores of Long Island loom fain~4~rough the
distance, golden, azure, and pearl-hued, like the walls of some
enchanted city. Many and many a time, when a child, have
I' watche&amp;'these shores from the wooded hillside pasture ab4ve
our old homestead, and thought of the New Jerusalem, with
its ~lls of precious stones, and its gates of pearl, where there
is n~ more night.
These f~w. islands are not without their legendary lore, as
every bn~ la aware who has ever been honored with a seat in
tb~ stern 6f an old fisherman's boat, when he pulled off, in the
gray dawif or evening twilight, to visit his lobster-p6ts, or
1i~ shared his lunch with one on the "outer reef," when
hunger grew too keen even for the patience of a fisherman -
legends '~#~buccaneers and smugglers; and, sooth to say, the
initiids of'~Q~ptain Kyd, with the date of 1687, cut in the solid
rock on the island that bears his name, and sworn to ~as autheu~
tic by the "oldest inhabitant," gives some coloring 4~o the
former, to say nothing of the great cavity excavated in the
rQOk, and known as the famous captain's "punch-bowl."
But, ~Watever these islands might have been in former times,
they are~ uoted now only as pleasant places for ~pic-iAcs,~ and,
last, but by no means least, as the best flshing-ground~in the
region; and th&amp; above description, we trust, will i~eealtto~niore
than on~e rea~der'the Iong ~  er days' when, with some40iient,
grinn~vist~ged old ftsherma~4y his side, he sat in the r
boat, and, hand~over-hand, drew in his line with i~s~ Ilo~n

AN NC3W~V 'O~ TIlE seA-sIroRE.     18~

I '

ing, fluttering prey, o4~ forgetful of his sport~, lay niiisiiig hi
the stern of the boat, until
"The charmed sunset lingered low adown
]n the red west,"
and lent heart and eye and soul to the scene, until life, with
its turmoils and bitter striving, seemed foreignn andaccidental,
and he felt, with the Lotus J~aters,,,
"There is no joy but calm."
The hamlet itself is small, and, though boasting a. otel d~W
graced with veranda and piazza, almost every houses oj~q4~&amp;
in the summer time as a boarding or lodging heue, and. is
generally Well filled, not, of course, by the most- fashionable,
but by quiet country parties - people of straitened ~n~ans,
with pale, sickly-looking children - stout, mi~dle~aged g~ntle~
men, who' come there because their fathers dkThe~bte~
swear at the new.~fangled cookery at the "Head '~ ~
where they go occasionally to dine with a friend, pride tEi~
on knowing the best fishing-grounds, call the old b~oatiuen 1I~$
the soubriquets which each usually bears in such a place, au4~
make' a great, impression upon new corners, especially W9nnefr
and children. Add to -these some dozen~gentlo~ni~u~fr0m all
quarters, amateur fishermen, genuine lovers of th~fr k and
line, and you have a sample of the "company" wlilch most
does "congregate ~' at the Cove.
As to the jnhabitants. proper, they ai~ ~watnphibious race,
living ec~ually well on land or water, kec~, shrewd observers
of charter, not a little given to "taking in "~ne~
fish, obsequious an4 obliging enough to stra~g~
riou~4y quarreIsome~awong themselves.
I know not whether anirnal~ of amphil~i~nn~ are
nwIe irascible and belligerent '~than others~J~lj~ ~ip~ds
~l~se ha~l~ts~ are invariably given to~ infirriitbie~ ~f t0lxl-


136           LEAV]~S FRQ~X TIfl~ ~TILE1~ I0DM$Th.

AN INOIDIINT ON !m~ SEA-SHORE.   187

per, and their chief notion of liberty seems to be the right of
"going to law."
Some years ago it was my fortune to spend some weeks in
this place. It was in the height of "the season," and the old
farm-house of our landlord, Mr. 13-., was crowded with board-
ers, who presented the usual variety of character. Among them
were three who interested me exceedingly. Two of these were a
mother and daughter quiet, reserved people, whose gar-
nients of plain, deep mourning served to confirm the rumor
that they were a minister's widow and child. The mother
looked like one who bore the burden of some unspoken grief;
and this was in part explained when one looked on the smalJ,
delicate figure of her daughter,~ and noticed the deformitf
of the spine between the shoulders, which no art of dress
could wholly conceal. They never mingled with the boarders
in the common room or on the lawn, but wandered, hand in
hand, alone upon the beach, or sat by the open windows of
their room, (which was divided from my own only by a thin
pine partition), reading, sometimes the poets, Milto~i or
Wordsworth, but oftener from the Bible, the sublime strains
of David and. Isaiah, or the burning words of Paul. The
landlord called the mother NLrs. Davenport, and the latter
addressed the child as Bertha, and that was all I knew of
them.
The other person, whose presence was food for my busy
mind, was Adrian Vannesse, a gentleman of some thirty-five
years; at least, so I guessed, but he might have had a dozen
years more or less, for his face and figure were cast in that
grand, noble, almost severe mould, upon which time seems to
leave~na i~ress.
lie proved to be a former acquaintance and fellow-traveller
* of my dear charge and young relative, Walter Aynton. They
had met, a winter or two previous, in Cuba, and now renewed
their acquaintance with pleasure. Indeed, Walter 'was de-
lighted with this rencontre, and enthusiastic in his praises of

K ~

his friend, and not without reason; for Vannesse attached
himself to our party, and I soon found that, to the accomplish-'
ments and varied knowledge of the man of the world, he
united rare scholarly attainments, habits of deep, ,original
thought, an earnest love for the truth, and that rare and re-
sistless individuality which wins and commands at the-same
time. Tenderness equal to a woman's, too, I soon felt him to
possess, when he took my young cousin under his charge, and
made my office of nurse almost a sinecure. But with all
these rare qualities, combined with wealth and that personal
presence which is better than beauty, I felt that Adrian Van-
nesse lacked something. I could not watch him and Wat~er
long together, without feeling that the slender boy-student,
with his pale cheek and sunken eye, passing so slowly, yet, as
my heart told me, so surely away from earth, ~was far the
richer and wiser of the two, for Adrian was an infidel.
Something - I know not what - but something in his
early experience had come to give strength and depth to those
doubts that sooner or later beset such earnest, inqui6ng na-
tures as his, and he had taken refuge in a refined species of
materialism. This knowledge was an inference .drawn from a
series of incidental remarks, rather than frOm any open state-
inent of his own; for he was no vulgar asserted of his creed,
no Jesuitical proselyter, bent upon bringing every one to his
views.
* To Walter Aynton, pain land illness had been the ar~gel
with which he 'had wrestled, like Jacob of old, until he had
obtained the blessing, the unspeakable blessing of perfect faith.
and trust in God. Thus it was, in all our conver8atie~s oil
life and life's ends, that all that seemed dark and intricate
and contradictory, Walter trusted to God, certain that in the
life beyond it would all be made cle~ir in the "brightness
of the everlasting light." But Ii could read no corresponding
faith in the dark eyes of Vannesse - no glow of~ hope lit up
the calm, stern features of his grandly~chiselled face.
12*


188        LEAVES ruoi~ THE TREE IODRASYL.

AN il~OIX)ENT ON THE SEA"SXIORE.          18w).

One glorious day, as we sat beneath the shade trees on fhe
lawn, Adrian read, in soft, deep tones, that most musical, most
melancholy, because most hopeless, of all Tennyson's poems,
the "Lotus Eaters;" and as he closed he repeated, more to
himself than us, and as if in answer to some query of his
own mind:
There is confusion worse than death;
Trouble on trouble, pain, on pain,
Long labor unto aged breath
Sore task to hearts worn out with many wars,
And eyes grown dim with gazing on the pilot stars ;"
then ~added, slowly, "And this is the sum of life!"
There was something so sad, so inexpressibly hopeless, in.
his voice, that for a brief moment it did seem that this was
indeed all; then~a bright glow lit up Walter's pale cheek, and
he said:
"Not so, dear Yannesse. Old Ulysses teaches a higher,
better doctrine than that, heathen though he be!"
And~ taking the book from Adrian's hand, he read the no-
ble poem that bears the name of the sage of Ithaca - that
poem so replete with kingly dignity, self-conscious power,
melancholy fortitude, and manly self-reliance, softened and
beautified by the memory of joys and trials long since "lived
down," but which have made him
"Strong to will,
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."
Yannesse did not reply for some moments; and Walter,
perchance mistaking the cause of his silence, said, reaching
out a thin hand that was instantly folded in that of his friend:
"Forgive me, Adrian. I have lived fewer, years than you,
A.
in number; but suffering, though bitter, is a rare teacher;
and it seems to me uncommonly cowardly, so to speak, to
doubt the existence or the goodness of God."

I

"I do not doubt the existence of a First Cause, Provi-
dence, Creator, God - by whatever name you choose to
designate it," began Yannesse, slowly. "He must be an idiot
who does that. But what is this speck of a world to an infi-
nite being such as we conceive him? What are we, that he
should stoop to interfere with our affair~, or take note of our
trivialities? Your old Syriac Job felt this keenly, when he
exclaimed, 'What is man, that thou shouldst magnify him;
that thou shouldst set thy heart upon him; that' thou shouldst
visit him morning and evening, and try him every moment?'
And as to his goodness and benevolence, look yonder,"- and,
by a glance, he directed us to where the slight figure of Berm
tha Davenport was slowly toiling up from the beach, -"there
is an argument to the point. What has ~that young girl done,
to be thus cursed from her birth? Endowed, if her face does
not belie her, with all woman's restless yearning for compan-
ionship, love, and yet shut off, by that organic curse, from
all but woman's sorrows. Think you her unbia.~ed verdict
would say much for his goodness?~~
For a moment Walter's face was troubled; then, as he
caught the love-lighted glance which the girl lifted toward
the window where her mother sat, and saw the spiritual ex-
pression of the small, sweet face, his own lighted up, and, ris-
ing and laying his hand on Adrian's shoulder, he said, ear-
nestly
"Indeed, I do think so, my friend. Once, this same thing
would have troubled me; but now I know, Adrian; for,
'Knowledge by suffering entereth,
And life is perfected by death.'"
* Chance, as he would , call it, gave Adrian Yannesse an
opportunity to ask these questions himself in the course ~f a
few days, as the incident I am about to relate will show.
It was towards the last of August,, when, after several
weeks of extreme heat, there came one of those intensely hot

I.
'I
~ 4


i4o         LEAVE PROM THE TREE I(~DRA5Th.                                        AN INCIDENT ON THE 5~A-SHOI~E.      141

days when the earth is like one great kiln, and the very
atmosphere like molten lead. The sea lay flat, motionless,
pulseless, prostrated beneath the fierceness of the sun's rays;
the sedges were crisped and dry and husky, as if a fire had
passed over them.
There was no comfort anywhere; towards night the air,
instead of growing cooler, seemed to be stiller, sultrier, more
stifling, if possible, than before, and, leaving Walter on a~
sofa, Adrian 'Vannesse and I walked down to the beach. We
did not gain' much, for the sand scorched our' eyes and our feet;
besides, it was "dead low water," and the great bare, muddy
flats lay reeking and steaming in the sun, in all their unsight-
liness; for, whatever may be true of the great ocean, I am
certain that everything cast into the sea near shore does not
"Suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange.
However, ~we walked on, until we left the hamlet behind
us, and reached a dilapidated fish-house, which served to
shelter the man who acted as Charon in all our sailing and
fishing expeditions. Once or twice I had penetrated into the
hidden mysteries of the place, for the. sake of seeing the
man's bed-ridden mother - a great, gaunt skeleton of a
woman, half palsied, who sat up in her bunk, sick or well, and
netted seine.
The man himself wa~ a specimen, both in a physical and
psychological view, not
"Lean and lank and brown,
As is the ribbed sea sand,"
like the ancient xn~riner, but sturdy,, and, as Vulcan himself,
with a complexion like the red earth of which he was formed;
neither had he the long "white beard and glittering eye,~~
which wrought such a spell upon the luckless wedding-guest,
but a beard short, and stiff, and grizzled, like a mildewed

4' ';
it
I;
K

stubble-field, and a light gray eye, overhung by massy, shaggy
eyebrows. But, like to old Chaucer's "~hipman,"
('Of a nice conscience, no great care he kept;~~
nor of his temper either, judging from the many stories we
heard of his fierce, ungovernable rage; bursts ~f passion, that
proved him more fit for the mad-house than elsewhere; yet
his neighbors had not failed to take advantage of this infirm-
ity, and had involved him in lawsuit after lawsuit, and given
him one month's residence in the county jail after another,
until he had been reduced from the ownership and mastership
of ~ pretty schooner, to one or two pet sail-boats, and had
exchanged a comfortable home for this miserable shelter, in
which, with his old mother and his only remaining child, a
bright-eyed boy of ten, he contrived to weather out summer
and winter.
One redeeming trait' of manhood he had kept through all
he' was always true to his word, and on all our expeditions
he was punctual to a minute. For the rest, to quote again
from Chaucer:
"In his own craft to reckon well the tides,
The sea~s deep currents *~nd the shoals besides,
The sun's height, and the moon's, and pilotage,
There was none such from Hull unto Carthage."
Now he sat on a decayed piece of timber without the hut,
with his tarpaulin jammed down upon his head, and his, red
flannel shirt-sleeves rolled up above his elbows, splicing a
parted rope. Adrian exchanged a word or two with him
about their plans for the next morning, and 'we passed on to
where the lee of a rocky point promised some hope of ~h~lter
from the sun. Here we sat, and pertinaciously ~iil1ed up
visions of icebergs and Polar seas, of wintry shipwrecks and
frozen mariners, not forgetting


142         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRA5YL,                                        AS INCIDE~TT 0N~ THE ~EA-S1tO1~E.    14S

"The schooner hesperus,
That sailed the wintry sea,
And the skipper who took his little daughter,
To bear him companies "
But it was in vain; we could not even raise an imaginary
breeze. The pale, coppery sky seemed to shut down closer
and closer over us, and we could only sit and laugh at our
own folly. At length there came one or two slight puffs of
air from the westward, and Adrian, who was well versed in the
signs of the weather, suggested that we should go home before
the storm overtook us.
I laughed at the idea of a storm; but, helping me up the
rocks which had sheltered us on the west, he pointed to where,
all along the western sky, from the horizon towards the ze-
nith, stretched fine lines of pale yellow light, saying:
"Look; there is the proof of my words; and, see," he con-
tinued, climbing to the highest point, which gave us an out-
look beyond the range of hill8 to the north and west, " there it
comes, in good earnest."
And all along the west stretched a cloud, black as night,
save where its beautifully-curved edge was bordered with a
strip of clear silvery hue.
"We shall hardly have time to reach home," observed
Adrian, as he watched its rapid strides up the western sky.
Still we lingered, in awe and admiration, until, lighting up
its edge for a few moments with a richer splendor, the sun, dis-
appeared beneath it, and its black shadow fell on land and
sea. Then came the muttered thunder, followed by the crink-
ling lightning. There. was a pause, while the light streak
near the horizon, rapidly widened, and the ocean moaned and
rocked in long, undulating swells; and then came a roar as
of many waters - a rush as of the wings of mighty winds -
and the storm was upon us; not of mere rain-drops, but a
thick, blinding, bewildering spray. and mist, driven before the
fiercest of winds.

Adrian Vannesse drew his strong arm about me, and started
for the fisherman's hut, the only accessible shelter; but ~he
proceeded only a few paces, before he stopped short, exclaim-
ing, in a tone of horror:
"Good God! what madness!"
And, following the direction of his glance, I saw, throttgh
the thick mist and spray, for one moment, the white sail of &amp;
boat, a few rods distant from the ii~ocky point we had just
left - for one moment; then came aloud, shrill, fearful cry of
agony and deathly fear, swelling above the storm; and The
boat, and he who uttered it, went down beneath the leaping
waves.
"Make for the hut!" shouted Adrian Vannesse.
And the next moment I was alone, and he, followed by
another wild, bareheaded figure, that came rushing along the
beach, had dashed into the surf.
I did not heed the storm, scarcely moved or breathed, until
Vannesse emerged from the water, followed by our old boat-
man, bearing in his arms a human body; then liled to the
hut, and reached it in time to see them enter, and lay down
upon the floor the body of the boatman's only son. The man
looked at no one, heeded no one, nor even replied to his old
mother's scream of terror; but, lifting the lad~s head to his
knee, wrung the water from the tangled, sun-burned locks,
and chafed the cold, wet hands.
"ibId your tongue, mother!" he cried, at last. "There 's
life in the lad yet! Get up, you old fool, and gi'e me the
blanket, can't ye?"
"0! Dave,~Dave, man! the lad never '11 breathe again
he 's clean gone!" screamed the old woman; but he cut her
short with a volley of curses, and, with a sudden jerk, drew'
the ragged coverlet from beneath her old bones, and wrapped
it round the child.
'Adrian Vannesse knelt en the earthen fioor,~ and lent all
his aid to assist the father iii hi~ offorta to resuscitate the body

J
N


144         LEAVES YEOM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                                                         145

but in vain. At length, pointing to a dark bruise on hi~
temple, he said:
"' My poor friend, this is useless. Your boy will never
speak or move again. He is dead!"
"Not speak again ! - not move, - my Billy, - the hand-
iest, smartest lad on the whole cove, - dead!" said the man,
dreamingly. "You lie! "he shouted, turning suddenly upon
Yannesse; "he never minded a ducking, - he a'n't dead!"
and he again set to chafing the stiffened limbs.
Adrian did not reply otherwise than by placing the miser-
able father's hand over the pulseless heart. The man drew
back with a start and a shudder that ran through his giant
frame; then, sinking down on the floor, he sat gazing into the
child's pale, open face with a look of vacant, dumb misery.
"Dead! dead! He 'II never hail the skiff again, -never.
0, my boy! my boy!" and the groans of the strong man in
his agony were mingled with the raging of the storm.
Suddenly the old woman raised herself up, and said, in a
tone that was a strange blending of childishness and authority,
"It 's the hand o' God, Davy the hand o' G~od! "~
"Then why didn't he take you, you old worthless hulk, or
me, who am good for nothing but to die; and not the laughing ,
happy boy?" said the miserable man, angrily. "Ah, Billy,
lad, - the last o' ten, all gone! all gone ! -gone where?"
he muttered, as if a new thought were struggling in upon his
gri~f. Then turning to Adrian Vannesse, he seized his arm,
~i~nd said, eagerly:
"Ye are a lamed man, sir, an' I believe a good un! I've
heard ye and other un reading' an' talking' in outla~idis1i tongues,
soch as the likes o' me don't understand, an' ye know a great
many things, - say, where is my boy gone? Shall I ever see
him agin?"
And he, - the all-accomplished man of the world, the rare
scholar, the deep thinker, who prided himself on the strength
of his reason, and boasted that man's intellect was sufficient

AN INOIDEi~T ON THE SA-SHOIW.

for his wants, - stood dumb before the mighty mystery of
Death! Among all his fine-wrought arguments and subtleties
of the intellect, there was not one which could give comfort to
that wretched, questioning father, or lift his bruised spirit
above the lifeless lump of clay at his feet!
"It 's a' in the Bible, wan," muttered the old crone.
"Surely, Dave, I gin ye good schoolin' in the days long
, ,,
sin.
"Ay, and bad enough sin', mother!" murmured th*e man;
"so it is e'en as broad as 't is long;" and again he bent his
deep, earnest gaze upon Vannesse. But, before his lips could
utter again the startling, "Where is he gone?" a slight figure,
with dripping black garments clinging to her delicate limbs,
and long, golden curls streaming over her shoulders, c~me
softly from a remote corner of the room, and, laying her small
white hand on the arm of the giant boatman, said, earnestly,
in low, silvery tones, that seemed somehow to carry with them
conviction:
"ile has gone to God, sir; - that," pointing to the life-
less body, "is only the form, the shell, in which your little
boy lived while here. Now, he has gone home to our
Father in heaven, where there is neither sin, nor sorrow,
nor pain.~~
The bereaved father looked straight into the clear, angel
face of the young girl, full a moment, before he replied:
"If he is our Father, Miss, and good as you say, why did
he let him die? I would n't 'a let hint"
"That you may be the more willing to follow him, perhaps,"
said the girl. "Tell me," she went on; "you have lived a
long time; has life been so very pleasant?- would you. bring
him back to live just the life you have lived?"
The man turned his thoughtful glance from her face to that
of the dead, a moment, before he replied.
"No; if He is good as you say, he is better off there~ But
13

144

145


LEAVES FROM TUE TRJ~E IGDRA$YL.

AN INCIDENT ON TIP~ $A-SUORTh

shall I ever see him agin, Miss? Is it true, what them par-
sons say?" he added, anxiously.
"Yes, you shall see him, if you obey God, for you 'shall
go to him, but he shall return no more to you,' ~' waa the quiet
answer; and then, in that low, sweet tone, she went on to
speak of God - not as the Unknown, the Infinite, over whose
essence and attributes philosophers lose themselves in a waste
of words, but as the all-wise, all-good Father - and of the*
Son, who "carrieth the lambs in his bosom," to whom even
the most poor and ignorant may come, and find pardon and
Adrian Vannesse never forgot that lesson. With Bertha
Davenport leaning on his other arm, we walked home after
the tempest had spent its fury, and learned how she, too, had
been caught in the storm, and forced to seek shelter in the
fisherman's hut; but he said little or nothing until we reached
the porch of our temporary home~. Then, taking her hand, and
baring his head, as if in reverence, he said:
"Pardon me, Miss Davenport, and do me the justice to
believe that I ask from no idle motive. But this religious
faith of yours, tell me, has it brought you rest? Is it suffi-
cient for all times and seasons?"
The sweet, child-like face was raised to his ,a moment, ii~
surprise; then, pointing to where the black clouds rolled in
jagged masses over the western sky, she said:
"There come days and hours, in all lives, - certainly in
mine, - when clouds and thick darkness are about us, like
those yonder; but I know that behind them shines the sure
sun of God's love; and I have peace, deep and abiding
peace."
And, surely, no one who looked upon that serene, thought-
ful face, could doubt it.
Adrian Vannesse, like many another thoughtful soul,
after suffering grievous temptations, is now a preacher of

God's truth; and when doubt or discouragement beset him,
as they sometimes will, he has only to look down into the
clear eyes of her whom he once thought born only ~s the
heritor of woman's sorrows, to read there a never-failing
evangel of faith and hope, as he whispers the sweet, fond
words, "My wife."

I
4
P
V
r
L4j~

146

I
147


DEATH J3Y THE WAY-SIDE.
A ~XETCH.
"Never before had the forests of America witnessed such a sight!
Never again was there such a pilgrimage from the sea-side 'to the
delightful banks of the Connecticut ! "' - BANCROFT.
SUCH is the language of the eloquent historian, with refer-
ence to the journey of that band of pilgrims, who, in the
pleasant spring-time of 1630, turned their backs upon such
vestiges of comfort and civilization as tl~ie infant settlements
of Massachusetts Bay afforded, and, headed by~-thek-heloved-----
pastor, the Rev. Thomas Hooker, made their way through
perils innumerable, across swamps and streams, over rough
and rocky highlands, 'and through tangled woods and deep
green valleys; with no guide but a compass, and no shelter
but the heavens, until, like the Israelites of old, they crossed
the goodiee river," and upon its western bank raised their
altars, and laid the foundation of the pleasant city of Hart-
ford.
And he is right. More than two hundred years have
elapsed, and "companies by fifties and by. Jutndreds" of  ~e~
England's sons, with A~heir wives o~id ~their little ones, have
gone forth from her rigged hula Mid shelteredd valleys, to seek
a~4cher reward for their labor amid the fertile prairies of the-
~est~ or by the golden-bedded streams 'of California; yet, in
character. and influence, in that true courage which lifts the
soul, above fear, a courage, thank God! not dependent on
thews and sinews, t growing out of a firm adherence, to God

t

DEATH BY THE WAY-SIDE.         149

and the right, and. which inspires the heart of the feeblest
woman, as well as the strongest man, - in all that goes to
make up true moral grandeur, none can compare with this.
It is not without significance that the old writers speak of
this company, as consisting"of; " about one hundred souls."
They were not mere bodies, seeking a new field for The grat~
fication of animal appetites and pleasures, but souls, with ends
and aims that took hold on eternity, and who faced famine and
death, not for wofidly gain, but that they might obtain liberty~
to give an external development to those truths which had.
already made them free in spirit. In proof of this, we need
only adduce the fact, that, in all succeeding emigration of
their descendants, the seeds of whatever they have carried
with them that is truest, best, most ennobling, - that which
gives vitality to their institutions, - may be traced 'back to
our early' fathers; and even now they move us with a sway
mightier than any living influence.
No. The world, even, counts few pilgrimages like that!
That there will yet arise prophets and disciples dowered ~itk
a fuller and clearer knowledge of the truth, we earnestly trust
and believe; yet these men shall not die; or, rather, like Abel,
being dead, they shall yet speak, and their voices vibrate along
the chain of existence until time is no more.
It was toward the close of a rare day in June, that the
pilgrims from a ridge of wooded highlands caught their first,
faint glimpse of the beautiful river. Many a hill and valley
swamp and morass, lay between; but then it wa~ like a nar-
row silver thread on a ground ef'green, ~nd, after a moment's
almost breathless silen~c~, there arose an irrepressible sho~it~~-
a clear old English shout ~ that woke the sleeping e~4~1~r
''~ *
miles around.
These had scarcely died away, whenj in tones deep and cka~j
as a bell, Mr. Hooker gave voice to the se iment of the wholo
company, in the eloquent words of King ta.vid;.
13*


150         LEAVEs FROD~t THE TUEE IODRASyL.
"0., give thanks onto the Lord, for he is good: for his
mercy endureth forever.
"Let the redeemed of, the Lord say so, whom he hath
redeemed from the hand of the enemy.
"They wandered in the wilderness, in a solitary way;
1hey found no city to dwell in. Hungry and thirsty, their
soul fainted in them.
"Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he
delivered them out of their distresses.
"And he led them forth by the right way, that they might
go to a city of habitation.
"0 that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, and
for his wonderful works to the children of men!"
At the foot of that wooded range of hills lay a beautiful
valley, and there they halted for the iiight. It was a striking
scene, that halt between the hills, and one well worthy of
the artist's pencil.
The wild, luxuriant beauty of the landscape, over which
neither scythe nor sickle, plough nor axe, had as yet passed;
the flush of life that trembled along the hills, and throbbed
and thrilled in everything around them; the hum of the
myriad insect tribes, the strange birds sitting still on the
boughs, and pouring out their evening songs of rare and won~
drous melody; the occasional cries of wild beasts that their
coming had aroused from their lairs, mingled with the un-
wonted lowing of one hundred and sixty head of cattle which
the pilgrims had driven before them, and, upon whose milk
they had chiefly subsisted during the journey, now greedily
satisfying their~ hunger upon the fresh green grass of the
wdl~y, while the milkers went among them,. tilling th~ir pails,
p~ oratoryy to the evening meal. Here, a party of men, some
~f whom hut a short time before had been the pride of Eng-
oldest university, stood, axe in hand, cutting down
branches of the fragrant birch, or thick-leaved, maple, while
another arranged them into huts and couches for the shelter

DEATH BY THE WAY-5ID~L       .    151
and comfort of the women and. children. There,~a group
were busy unloading the few pack-horses ths~t carried their
extra stores, while, like a second' Prometheus, the accom-
plished owner of Copford Hall, and ex-governor of Massa-
chusetts, John Ilaynes, might be* seen with tinder-box, steel
and flint, in hand, kindling the. fires so necessary to protect~
them from wild beasts, as well as cook their hasty pudding,
and parch their quota of Indian corn. Two crotched sticks,
supporting a goo.d, stout pole, from which swung an iron pot,
answered all the purposes of a fireplace; and around ~these
clustered the busy-handed matrons, not a few of then~ the
cherished daughters of wealth and ease, watching the seeth..
ing, bubbling contents of the vessels, or tending their infants
in the shade; while rosy-cheeked maidens brought water in
wooden dippers, or gourd shells, from a crystal spring, that
bubbled, up beneath the roots of a wide-spreading birch, near
which stood the revered pastor hijjnself, - that "light of the
western churches," whose eloquence had drawn pe4le from
all parts' of the County of Essex to hear him, are he was
silenced for non-conformity, - folding the broad' leaves. of the
hickory into drinking-cups for the fair-haired, blue-eyed
lambs of his flock, that had gathered round him. to slake
their thirst; while. in the~ background rose the daA~k-wooaed
hills, and above them arched the 'deep, unclouded sky of
June.
Not far from the spring, under the shade of a magnificent
oak, were two huts, built of branches like the rest; but con-
structed with far more care, fQr it seemed as if every one of
the conipany had be~ii anxious to do something towards per-
fecting their arrangement4 One was occupied by 1~I4~ne
Hooker and her family, and near the opening of the
reclined a fragile-looking girl, with hair like a fio~ting clot4
at sunset, and eyes deep, serene and cleiu~ as the cloudless
sky above her. This ~was ~aude, the young wife of Geoffrey

t


152

LEAVES FRO~I TIlE TREE IODRASYL.

Winstanley, whose youth, gentleness; and ftviling health, made
her an object of peculiar interest to every beart.
"She had scarcely recovered from the effects of her sea-
voyage, when they started on their pilgrimage, and it had
been too much for her, poor thing," the matrons said, "but
the quiet aud comfort of the settlement would soon set her
up again;" and her husband listened to them eagerly, and
repeated their words to himself, as if by so doing he could
silence the terrible misgivings that haunted him.
Now, the little children brought bunches of luscious straw-
berries, to tempt the appetite of their favorite, and .Win from
her one of those sweet~ smiles, which they had learned to
prize higher than words; and their elders, as they passed,
paused to congratulate her on their nearness to their jour-
ney's end - alas, they little knew how true it was in her
case ! - and to speak words of hope and comfort; but some
there were who, as the gazed upon her face, and noted that
clear, transparent lo~, that gave it such a pee~iliar~ beauty;
turned away with a silent prayer for her and her husband;
for they knew that, like all the highest beauty of earth, it was
but a refie~ from that unseen land towards which she was
hastening.
"Ripening for eternity!" said ]~. Hooker, when, after
evening prayers, he turned from the side of the young in~~a-
lid, with a fervent blessing, and sought the presence of his
wife.
"Our gentle Naude is almost done with the things of
earth!"
"And Geoffrey, poor Geoffrey!" murmured his wife;
"How will he ever bear it? Even but now he hath spoken
e of renewed hope."
Mr. Hooker did not answer; but,. as he stood watching the
noble, manly figure of Geoffrey Winstanley, as he bent over
his young wife, - now arranging the bear-skins upon which
sh~ reclined, with a tenderness and anxiety that seemed never

I

ii

DEA1~H BY TH~ WAY-SIDE.

153

satisfied, now pulling back the rich waves of. hair that fell,
too heavily over her cheek,- and thought of the dread trial.
that awaited him, all the human stirred within him, and
he, too, murmured, "Poor Geoffrey!"
There had been a time when he and many others had
heard, with surprise and regret, that Geoffrey Winstanley,
with his strong will, clear intellect, and sincerely religious
heart, had become the thrall of a young beauty of sixteer4
the favorite niece of the haughty rector of $windon, and
that he lingered in England in the hope of making her his
wife. They felt ready to say to him, in the words of Ma-
noah to Samson, "Is there no woman among the daughters
of thy brethren, nor among all thy people, that thou goest to
take a wife of the unci~,cumcised Philistines?"
But when she stood among them as hi~ wife, and they
heard how, for the sake of the proscribed Puritan, she had
braved the anger and persecution of her relativeS, -~ hen they
saw the tenderness~ meekness, and reverence, with ~w~hich she
looked up to all her husband's friends, - the heart of the mbst
rigid warmed towards her; and with Mr. Hooker's family
she soon became "our gentle Maude.". As the good man
thought of all this, and of her gentle yet earnest ~l4th, and
the many times within the past few weeks when he had vis-
ited her in his capacity of teacher, and came away a learner,
his heart smote him for his injustice.
He was, indeed% right.. Under the combined teaching of
tove and Death, Maude Winstanley was ripening, for eter-
nity. Once she bad resolutely shut her heart against even
the thought of the latter, it seemed so impossible that dt~ath
could reach her,, shielded by Geoffrey's love and sheltered in
his arms. But as the weeks went on, deepening the sym~.
toms of that: fatal disease that steals upon its victims silently
as. autumn steals~upon the hills, and robes them with a beai~ty
which is not of this world, hei~ heart awoke to a deeper in-
sight of spiritual truth; the high doctrines ~so often discussed


154          LEAVES i~no~t TIlE TREE IODRASYL.

4~etween her husband and her pastor grew clearer to her
understanding, and bore fruit for eternity.
Still, the human was strong within her; and there came
moments especially when she felt the deep eyes of her hus-
band k~oking down upon her with such an expression of unut-
terable love and sorrow, and his strong frame shake with
agony if she did but breathe of what awaited them when
h~r lips trembled and her heart shrunk shudderingly from the
thought of the grave and the winding..sheet - when earth
with him seemed better than heaven without him.
Do not blame her too severely, thou of stronger faith, but
remember; she was but a gentle, loving girl, and wisdom and
faith grow but~ slowly in this sphere of ours. If you have
met a trial like this with more unwavering faith, thank God
for it; or, if as yet the bitter cup has not been presented to
your lips, still thank God, - for it is of his mercy alone, -
but blame her not.
God did not, but gave to her heart that assurance, without
which immortality itself would be but a cheat the blessed
assurance that affection dies not with the breath; that in a
little while, a few brief days at most, that love, freed from
the stain~ and impurities of earth, should~ again beam on her
from those beloved eyes, and those arms once more fold her
in their pure, holy embrace.
And Geoffrey Winstanley, while he gazed intQ her spir-
itual eyes, and listened to her lows earnest tones, as she'
poured forth for his comfort those blessed intuitions, felt the
gnawing pain at his heart grow still, but only to return with
tenf~Ad power when they ceased, and he found himself aiozie~
That was n~ boyish fancy that had led him to linger be-
i~i~d his friends in England, and miet their looks of grave
reproof, fq~ the sake of Maude Edgerton. lie had left the
first flush of youth some years behind, when she stole in
upon the unsunned ride of his heart, and gave to life a new,
and, to him, i~ndrearned of beauty and significance.

4

DEATH BY THE, WAX-SIDE.           155
He had been an orphan from childhood, and the influences
under which he had grown to manhood had not failed, while
they strengthened and developed to the utmost his mental
and moral energies~ to deepen the natural reserve of his char-
acter, until even those who knew him best had little concep-
tion of' the earnest enthusiasm, the boundless capacity for
affection, that lay concealed beneath his calm, grave, almost
stern, exterior. Earnest, truthful, noble, and sincerely reli-
gious, he yet lacked that feminine influence so necessary to
man's highest development: to temper~ justice with mercy,
energy with softness, inflexibility with grace, and render his
whole character symmetrical and in harmony with the Divine
Ideal.
This had been Maude's mission; and could he part with
her now, when life first seemed blossoming to completeness
when each hour brought some new, delicious joy, of which
his solitary youth had been defrauded? Could he lay that
head down in the grave, whose every golden tress was dearer
to him than life, and, looking calmly up, say, "Thy will be
done?"
Not without a struggle, the bitterness, of which fc~ even
dreamed, for his was not a nature that manifestedits emo-
tions in those wild paroxysms which pass with most people
for evidences of profound feelingg ; it was rather like the
ocean, when the fury of th~ tempest has beaten the waves to
an ~pparent~calm, ~and none can judge of the wild commotion
below, save those who have felt its power. It is sts~ange how
we misjudge the hearts of men in this world, and call that
coldness and indifference which is simply the trt~qt~ility
resulting from intense~power!
-" It is written, 'Thou shalt not make unto thyself iTh'~
Mr. Hooker chad said, half seriously and half playfully, oยฑie
day, to Geoffrey, as he marked the peculiar expressiofl with
which he watched the movements of~his young wife;, and he
had been startled. a~t the intense feeling that trembled in hi~

4


156        LEAVES ESOM THE TBEE IGDUASYL.                                            DEATH BY THE WAY-SIDE.           157

* voice, as, pointing to where she sat, soothing the feverish
fretfulness of the minister's youngest child, he replied, "It
hath also been said, beware lest ye 'entertain angels una-
wares.'"
The sight of the beautiful river, which had spread such
joy through the band, had not failed to stir the 4eep enthu-
siasm of Geoffrey Winstanley's nature; and, as that. clear
June day deepened into twilight, he sat by the hide of Naude
in that sylvan tent, and spoke, with the heart of a poet and
the eye of a prophet, of their future home, and the mighty
destiny that should yet wait on their humble effo~ts.
Maude listened long and in silence; then, summoning all
her God-given strength, she spoke to hini of the home that
awaited her, tiot with him, on the banks of the beautiful Con-
necticut, but by that river of life whose stream makes glad
the city of God.
She did not need to look up in his face; for the trembling
of the arm that encircled her, and the large, burning tear-
drop that fell on her forehead, spoke plainly of the agony
her words had awoke within him. They seemed to have
changed natures - that high-hearted, calm, grave man, and1
the yielding, fragile maiden,; but, as she kept on, there was
something so serene in her faith, so holy in the calm resigna~.
tion with which she spoke of death, so exalting ira her ~dews
of the life beyond, that he was lifted above himself; and,
leaning his head on those golden locks, he poured out all his
selfish struggles, and told how for weeks past he had been
ready to struggle with God to retain her still on earth.
"Earth! what is earth, my husband?" she replied; "but
a few short years of troubled joy at best; and what is this,
compared with that rest which remaincthfbr the children of
God? That rest will soon be mine; and there I shall await
you. You will not fail to meet me there, beloved."
"God aiding me, I will not. In this hope, and with this
aim, I shall live and die," he replied, fervently.

For a few moments there was silence between them, while
the grateful evening breeze stirred the leafy covering of their
hut, and let in the soft June moonlight, that fell like a halo
of glory over the golden locks of the invalid. A smile flut-
tered round her mouth; then a strange tremor for a brief
second shook her whole frame, and struck an icy chill to the
husband's heart; for, with that passing 'moonbeam, the spirit
of Maude Winstanley swept upward from the earth.
0, death! death ~ death! thou masked angel, whom our
tear-dimmed eyes cannot unveil; thou fearful void, which
reason cannot fathom; thou icy silence, which love cannot
break; thou dread pause, which no earthly power can 1111 -
blessed, thrice blessed is he who can hear through the dark-
ness and desolation, the sorrow and the anguish that wait
upon thy footsteps, the voice of Him, who, by 'that fre~h~
grave in Bethany, of erst sanctified human grief, whispering,
"Lo! it is I-be not afraid!"
Not there 0, not there, with that beloved form stiffen-
ing in his arms, and that heavy, benumbing sense of ~or-
row weighing down upon his heart not when, with kiss
after kiss upon that cold brow, he resigned her to the care
of the weeping women who had gathered round, and rushed
out into the night - not when the hand of Mr. Hooker
grasped his in true and silent sympathy, could Geoffrey Win.~
stanley hear ~4at voice! But when, in the deep watches of
thenight, he knelt alone by the side of his dead, then it fell
upon his heart like an echo of 4~er voice, only fair sweeter
and more heavenly, and that icy silence grew tremulous, as
with the slow beat of an angel's wings.  *   *     *
They buried her "by the way," as Jacob buried Rachel;
but they "set up no~ pillar upon her grave." He~i' initials, cut
in the smooth bark of a young birch that overhung her
grave, were thelnly memorial that marked the spot where
slept all that w~s mortall of. Ylaude Winstanley.
U

h


LITTLE BESSIE.
PART I.
IT was the last morning of the old year. The cold was in-
tense; the dense leaden-hued clouds that covered the heavens
were burdened with snow, and the earth beneath was frozen
almog~ as hard as a miser's heart. The dulling north-east
wind, as it whistled through old passages and round sharp
corners, seemed laden with the last breath of frozen mariners,
who sit death-bound and ice-bound on board their motionless
ships in the 'far northern seas, waiting the coming of our
Lord.
'Ugh! it was freezing cold, and old Mrs. Lyman's hands
~shook like brown withered leaves in autumn, as she tied the
hood and folded the blanket around the shoulders of her
grand-daughter, Bessie, preparatory to 'sending her forth to
gather material to replenish their wasting fire. But little
Bessie's blood was warm and quick; besides, her thoughts
were so divided between 'the; new mittens (not knit of nice r~d
yarn, reader~ like the pair you remember, but made out of
bits of red flannel), which grandmother had finished for her
the night before, and the nice, white chips that Esquire
Brown's men had left in the hill-side woods, and given her
permission to gatb~er, that she did not mind the cold nor notie~
the unusual tremor in her grandmother's hands.
But when the old lady placed a slice of bread in her basket,.
saying she would i~e~d it to keep out tl~e gold, something in
her voice attracted the child's attention. ~l~e gazed anxiously

I

mLL B3E5S11.

159

in the pale', sorrowful face that bent over her, then taking the
bread from the basket, eyed it closely.
"Grandmother," she said, "this is the slice I brought out
for your breakfast. You have eaten nothing to.day. Are
you ill, grandmother?"
"No, my child."
"Then, why did you not eat it? Surely," she continued, as
if struck by some sudden thought, "we have food enough to
last until to-morrow, when I shall carry in the work to Mr.
G-.--, and get the pay. There is the piece of bread and the
bit of fish - and "-
"Ay, little Bessie, you are no fairy, to turn stones into
bread," said the old lady, with a faint smile. "Your list i~
soon told. Besides, you 'forget that there is a storm coming
up, and you may not be able t~ go to town for some days. Th'
that case, we must make what we have last as well as we
can.        -
The little girl stood for a moment gazing vacantly out the
window, while her great blue eyes filled with tears. Suddenly
her whole face lighted up; she dashed away the tears, and,
pointing to a pair of little brown snow-birds hopping about on
the withered branches of catnip that grew beneath the window,
in search of seeds, said:
"See, grandmother, God feeds them! He will not let us
starve."
"Right, child. May He forgive my want of faith," replied
the grandmother, fervently. "Now go, IBessie, and I will
meet you at the foot of the hill, and help you home with your
basket."
Grandmother Lyman and little Bessie had not always been
so poof; but, as the old lady expressed it, things had 'be&amp;n
going wrong with. them ever since poor John, Bessie's father,
was crushed by the falling of a portion of the buib~pg on
which he was at 'work. After son~e months of suffering, God
took him home; and it was not long before hi~ heart-broken

A

'S


160             IEAVE~ ~'RO1~X TH~1 T1W1~ IGDRASYL.                                                                           LITTLIfl DJ~SSIB.                     161

yoaing wife followed him, leaving little on :earth, save the
orphan Bessie. True, Mrs. Lyman had another son, many
years older than Bessie's father, who had left her, while yet a
boy, to gratify~ his passion for the sea. Though she had not
heard from him for many years,. she was 'not certain of his
death; therefore, whenever the great storms arose, and there
came frightful tales of shipwreck and death, her mother-heart
buried him a gain.
After John and his wife were laid in the grave, Poverty
began to look in upon her, in the shape of doctor's, apotheca-
ry's, and grocer's bills; but the courageous old soul faced hIma
bravely, until fever and rheumatism lent their aid to the foe,
when she was obliged to yield.
When she recovered, in some degree, the use of her limbs,
she found that, in order to satisfy her creditors, she must
give up the humble but comfortable home whose very walls
and floors were written all over' to her with household records,
and find a shelter for herself and B~essie elsewhere,.
Many of the neighbors were disposed to assist her, and
some of the most excitable did not hesitate to say that the
doctor and grocer were well able to give in the old widow's
bills; but she reminded 'them that the doctor had two invalid
sisters to assist, and that among the grocer's large family there
was one poor little crippled boy, for whom it would be neces-
sary to make some extra provision. Ah ! Grandmother
Lyman was a thoughtful old 'soul -thoughtful of every one
before herself! Some there were who talked of the poor-
'house, and said she would be compelled to make up her mind
to it at last ; but these were v~y few, for most of the people
sympathized with that -feeling of self-r spect (some call it.
priewhich leads our New ]3ngland po     lation to|jibmit
to privations ere they accept the b ad 'of ublio
A kii   armer offered her the old house in which we found
them, rent free. True, it stood in r( solitary place, quite

II

16&amp;

161

away from neighbors; but, then, it was in close proximity to
the " Seahill woods," where they had permission to gather as
much dry wood as they pleased. Besides, as the old lady
was wont to observe, " Our trials and our blessings walk hand
in hand," and as her infirmities increased, so did little Bessie's
strength. She was soon able to go to the village after their
slight stores, or such-coarse-sewing and knitting as her grand-
mother's rheumatic hands were able to manage. Lately, a
kind lady had procured employment for them at one of .the
cheap clothing stores that abound in the city of H.
Though the remuneration was the merest pittance, yet the old
lady's thankful spirit magnified it to quite a fortune ; more-
over, it afforded her .the means of teaching little B3essie to
sew, and she was already able to stitch and cross-stitch the
long seams in the coarse shirts and drawers of which their work
consisted, when we introduced her to our readers.
The only drawback to this god-send was the long walks it
obliged the child to take. He- was five good miles distant
from their home, and their employer a man f method, who in-
sisted om:having the work brought in punotually at the given
time, else it would be given to some other half-starved seeker in
this great granary of God. Bessie did not mind the distance
in the warm weather, for then the birds sung marches for her
in thie green meadows - now slower; now faster --and the
flowers sprang up through the turf by the way-side, and made
a rich carpet for her little feet even to the entrance of the
city. But she could never quite overcome the feeling of lone-
liness and dread that caine over her when she stood within4
that long, gloomy store in F- street, ari heard the owner'
cold, abrupt, " Well, child, your grandmother is punctual, I
see; a"nd in the cold winter it required all the sunshine hat
the littlegirl had garnered into her heart ddng thie ong
summer, o brighten the way.
After- this long digression, we will only add, that the last
lot- of work was done, and must be sent in on the morrow, or

ilma ausarm.


I~~E5 FROM TUE TREE IODRASYL.                                                     4~XTTLE RESSIE.                188

the next day at the farthest, and leave Mrs. Lyn~an~ to~pre~
pare it for the inspection of Mr. G-.----, while w~follow iitt1~
]3essie to the woods.
Bravely she breasted the keen north-east wind, occasionally
turning to get breath and draw her scanty blanket more close-
ly about her, while the withered herbage, coated with white
frost, crumpled beneath her little feet, as if a giant pressed it.
When she reached the brook where the path turned into
the woods, she did not pause as usual to watch the nodding
bulrushes, now jewelled and gemmed by the frost-like Thiry
wands, nor stop to catch a nearer glimpse of the wondrous
"architecture of the brooklet's winter palace ;" for her young
heart was very, very sad. The more she thought ~of their
scanty stores, and her grandmother's pale, wan face, the more
deeply she reproached herself for certain deeds of which she
had been guilty, and which now, seen through the chilling
atmosphere of want, seemed like wanton extravagance. iDur-
ing the autumn, she had spent whole days in the woo~ls in
search of nuts. On these occasions~ slie~~d ofteii ~hai~ed her
little parcel of dinner with a large, half-famished. dog4hat be.~
longed to a poor drunken peddler that lived at the distance of
a mile or more on the opposite side of the hill. It was
A        thought that the man had stolen the animal in some of his
excursions, for, instead of taking kindly to his master, he
wandered about the woods in search of game, where he made
the acquaintance of little IBessie. At first, the child was.
somewhat) afraid of her shaggy acquaintance, but he soon
foun&amp;~~ans to convince her of his honesty, and a warm
friendst~ip grew upbetween them. For hours, old Jack would
~     lie by her basket while she wandered from tree to tree, occa~
smonally liftim~g~ his head from between his paws, and, looking
round to ~ e himself of her safety, and woe to the mis.
ohievousbo dared to approach her basket! Bessie,~whose
heart overtlo~Ved with love for everything, was deligiht~d~with
her new friend, and bad no other means of ma if~s~iitmg her

p.

sense of. his' preference than by sharing with him her dinner.
True, the meal was rather scant for two, and we know some
people, ay, and dogs, too, who would have taken exception
at the quality as well as the quan~tty; but ]3essie and Jack
could not afford to be very fastidious.
Though the child had often spoken of her friend Jack to
her grandmother, she had not ventured to acknowledge lAm
as the sharer of her dinner, from a kind of misgiving that
the old lady would not think it quite right. It~ was this
question that now troubled the little girl's mind. il3enevo-
lence said that she had done right - her self-denial had saved
the life of the poor animal; but selfishness pointed to the
meagre bit of brcad in the cupboard, and whispered that the
food should have been laid aside against the day of want.
So busy was the little girl with this point of ethics, that she
did not hear the pattering of old Jack's feet, nor see him,
until he rubbed his shaggy coat against her side, and poked
his cold nose under her hood, as she bent over her basket,
They had not met for several days, and the poor dog's joy
was uubpunded. Auci well he might be glad to see Bessie's
friendly face, for the marks of the rope on his ch~fed and,
bleeding leg, and of the whip on his sides, proved that the
faces he had met of late had been anything but friendly.
Poor Bessie! Her resolutions of prudence were not~ proof
against the mute eloquence of Jack's looks, au~ the next
moment the slice of bread was drawn forth from the wrapper,
and by far the largest part laid, before her old friend, with
the half-uttered thought, "Poor old fellow, perhaps I shall
not have anything to give you again in a great while!"
PARW II.
The New Year of 184.- made his entree in~ the midst of
festivities, and greeted 1(ls subjects with a clear, bmjght face.
True, there were signs of a frown hQvering over imi~ brow,

4


164          LEAVES FROM THE TREE It~DRA5YL.                                                        LITTLE ~)E$$tlL

that, to those accustomed to study such things, hinted of'
wfld storms; and some of his poorer subjects shuddered, and
declared that his breath was even colder than the dying
breath of'his predecessor; but their murmurs were drowned
amid the joyous shouts with which their more fortunate
brethren greeted his accession. The present custom -~ which
requires ladies to keep the house on New-Year's day, in
order to receive tile calls of their male acquaintance was
not very prevalent in H- at the time of which we speak;
therefore the streets had not quite so much of a Turkish
look as at the present day. The long vista of Main-street
presented a joyous sight to old and young, with its groups of
restless, happy beings thronging in every direction. Here
~ were troops of impatient little urchins, with cheeks redder
than the scarlet linings of their cloaks, returning from the
toy-shops with their quota of gilded and sugared trifles; then
a half-dozen tall, slender school-girls, their pale cheeks flush-
ing,~ half in anger, half in pleasure, at the admiring glances
of clerks and students; young fathers, with still, younger-
looking mothers leaning on their arms, followed by giggling
boys and girls, pausing to chat with some old acquaintance
equally happy and equally blest; while the children astonished
each other by an account of their New-Year's gifts, and the
lots of marbles they intended to purchase; while sober, discreet
matrons, and silver-haired, benign-looking gentlemen, mindf~A
of the time when they were young, passed by with a glance
of pleasure and a silent "God bless you."
Ah, it was a very pleasant sight! and so little Bessie
Lyman thought, when, wearied by her long walk, and
benumbed with the cold, she emerged from the sunless atmos-
phere of North Main~street into the great thoroughTh~re of the
city. It seemed to the child' as if the air Was warmer there,
for the raya of the noonday~ ~n fell brightly on the pave-
ments, ari4 were reflected from the j ate-glass windows that
lined the street; and the feeling was deepened by the sight

4

of s~ many gay an&amp; happy faces. Happiness is contagious~
and blessed be God that it is so! else little Bessie Lyman's
fate would have been harder still, for very few among Ml
that gay throng noticed the poorly clad little figure that stole
along close to the side-wall, as if she felt herself an intruder;
yet her heart gathered in all the stray smiles and multiplied
them by that wondrous process unknown to any save children,
until she almost forgot her cold and weariness; and the happy
greetings of the New Year, that sprang from lip to lip up
and down the wide street, seemed addressed to her, and fell
upon her heart like a blessing. But when she left that broad
avenue, and entered F- street, the cold breeze from the
* ice-bound river almost took away her breath, and at the
thought of the long, gloomy store, and the unsympathizing
faces there, she shuddered, and the numbness again crept
over her heart. A few moments' walk brought her to the
door, and, timidly swinging it back, she entered and placed
her basket of work on the counter. One glance showed het
that there was no one iii the store but a young boy, who.
stood at the further end, arranging some goods. ~He advanced
towards her, and, feeling encouraged at the sight of hi~round,
good-humored face, she told her errand freely.
The boy took the work from the basket, counting the num-
ber of pieces as he did so. "All right," he said, glancing at
the bill which the old lady had placed in the basket. "Two
dozen pair, at sixpence per pair, amount to just two dolThr~.
Do you ivant the money to-day, little girl '1"
"If you please, sir."
"Then I am sorry you did not get here' a little ear1i~r.
Mr. G-. and all the rest have gone home, and left me to
close the 8tOre, for we are' to have a' half-holidq," l~e r~pl~ed,
looking up in her face for the first time, as if he 3was sure she
would sympathize with h  pleas~we; but one glauo&amp; at her
cold cheeks and eyes fille~with tears eufliced to ohauge hi0
mood, and he said, earnestly, "I forgot;. yew must b0 very


LEAVES PROM THE TflES ZODRASYL.

cold,'little gir1~ Conr~e up to the ~tove and warm yourself.
I w~s~half frozen myself while building fires this morning."
"thank you, I am cold; but but don't you think you
can Pa~y' me for the work? We need this money so much,"
she said, eagerly.
"I don't think I can. I never meddle with the account~;
but stop~- Mr. G- was talking with Deacon 5-.--.- a
moment since, just up the .street. Perhaps they are there
yet," he~continued, going to the door and looking out.
"Yes, there they are by his own door. If you make haste
you can catch him before he goes into the house."
~ ~eoond little ~Bessie was hurrying up the street, while
th~e ~oun~ 4~k turned to his work, saying:
"IIoxV much 'she looks like Fanny Lewis; and Fan was the
prettiest girl in the whole school."
The tgirVs. nimble feet soon brought her to the place where
the gentlemen swore standing; but when she saw how busily
they wem talking, ~he felt tempted to pass on without speaks
ing. 2But the thought of her grandmother's trembling hands
and their ~c~t~nty~ store gave her courage. She paused near
tl~e door~.step~. ~aiid waited An opportunity 4o prefer her claim.
fl.e~e also the sunbeams fell brightly, and the sound of sweet
voic~es and merry laughter reached her from the parlor, and
seasonallyy the bright, rosy faces of children were pressed
~t~i~st the plate-glass windows, the very pictures of mirth
happiness. There was such an air of comfort about the
e that little Bessie could not help being infected by it.
~$h~~egau to dream bright pictures of the nice supper that
~ ~i4d grandmother should ha~Ve when she reached home
y~th ~ parcels of tea and' sugar; and, while she is ~thiis
ovcupi$,ienisturn a Whih~ to the'cnversation of' the 'gen-
tlemen~ They ~wor&amp; bth ~ien 'wh&amp; ta~ke a very active inter-
est in the v~ii~rious~ beuevolent~socie ~es '6f" the day,; and, us
their conver~atiou related to the 'condition of th&amp;L{~hen,

4
4 4 s
at

4Lfl~LE BE$$tI.
and the success of mission~ there will be no impr~prieVyin
our acting as reporter.
"We have indeed great reason to rejoice in the success 'of
our operations," remarked Deacon 5-. "The pA~ica1~'
changes of the last year have given us access to many fields'
hitherto closed against us. But, unfortunately, we cannot
profit by this great dispensation;* for, unless some great and
extra exertions are made to relieve the board of its~ emb~r-
rassments, we shajl be obliged to curtail instead of e' nding
our operations. The disbursements of the last year have
exceeded the receipts by many thousand dollars."
"A most unfortunate state of affairs, truly,'~ ~xei~d
G-; "and, what is worse, the apathy tli~, 'ark4 ?ii~
public mind throughout the country, on this subje&amp;t4 ~ truly
deplorable. Something must be done at 'one; w&amp;must be
more strenuous in our efforts - more self~.dezxying. tieli'
more can be done in our own church and~sooiety thaw has,
been. J feel my own remissness in this re~ot; ~nd "-i
"With as little reason as any~ man in the society," blandly
interrupted iDcacpn 5-. "We all know 1~hoc~col'lecto~r
ever leaves your office empty-handed. Bwt t4ha've we
here?" he continued, dWecting the attention of his fr1en~d t&amp;
the child.
"Some street beggar, of course,'~ replied Mr. G-..~-.
"What are you doing here, child?" he asked, sharply. ~
"Please, sir,", began the child, drawing from her mitt
the somewhat time-stained paper, on which the trembling? ~ ~
hand of Grandmother Lymanliacbnade out the bill, and 4~
ing it foAh -" Please, sir "-~
]~utj~r. G-., with an I~patient gest\~re, interrup ~
her. "Put up your paper, chil e*dd,~sterb1y,. ~
read petitions. They are mer apositi ~ y~u,~ehild,
are old enough to know~the, wi~ke~ues~ *~ yoi~ coizrse. If
yo~i ar~ really in want," he ntinuei~ seei~g~ ~r fri$hte~d
look, "there i~ the alms~house, which 1~b~ public ~$


ifiS         LAVES FRO~X TEE TREE IGI)RA$YL.

4'
4'
'V
'44

ously provided for all such chai~aeters. And now, go," he
'said~ still more sternly, "unless you wish to be sent there!"
'As the poor, terrified child stole quickly a~vay, without
daring to lobk behind her, he turned to the deacon, saying:
"I ne~r encourage street beggars. It only confirms them
in idleness and vice. It is deplorable to see how this evil in-
crease~~ith us. Next time the city council meet, I shall
bring the subject before them, for it is becoming a perfect
nuisan~ But we shall have the pleasure of seeing you ~rid
your family at mywife's party to-night, when we can speak
further of these m~tters."
with a polite rejoinder from the deacon, the gentle.
l~Ir.~ G~-~' found a great many things in this world "truly
deploi~abl4." He was a well-weaning man, but ignorant,
narrow-minded, ~ud conceited. Consequently he often fell
into the mistake .of:looking more to the shams of things than
the reatity,~aiid this was indeed "truly deplorable."
Littl*~ B~ssie hurried a few rods up the street, then7 over-
come by disappointment, hunger, cold and fatigue, she sank
against ~ brick wall; and, drawing her scanty mantle about
her, to conceal1 her face, wept bitterly. It was about the city
dinner hour, and that cross street was comparatively deserted.
The few young clerks that hurried along were far too' intent
ons~ the thought of their dinner, or the afternoon holiday, to
treble' themselves about the forlorn-looking object that
couched against the wall; besides, ragged, miserable-looking
children were no novelty to them~
Presently a number of 1~ish laborers came t~ampin~,up the
sfreet,'tlxe rosy htie of their hroad cheeks deepened ali~i6st to
purple by t.he~'intense cold., As they hurried' along, One of
them almost stumbled over the 'child, who 'seemed tohave lost
both sight and he in the bitterness of her disapjoint-
inent.
"Faith, me 'darlint'!" said the man, catching her 1~y the,

p
#

arm," and it 's a pretty time ye have taken to be sunnin' ye'self
here like a toad, when the cowid is so great that the l4essed
sun himself can't shine, but is creeping behind yon big blsiiket
of a, cloud; and the wind is piping through the streets like a
thousand Connaught fiddlers, every tooth in a boy's he~d~
dancing a devil's hornpipe to the same. There, hinney, trot
along wid ye."
Seeing that the child made no attempt to move, but again
1~aned heavily against the wall, he drew aside her Iwod, and,
catching a glimpse of her pale, tear-dimmed face, he' yelled
after his companions:
"Hello, boys! Bide a bit. The child is ki1t~w~$~wld
or hunger. Cheer up," he continued, seeing ~ frig1it~d
look, "the boys are all friends. Spake, if ~yo&amp;can~ 4I4t~
us what is it that'sailingye."
Mikey Corcoran's rich brogue was~almo~t~iprensibJe
to poor Bessie, but the genuine kindness o~ Ii toiie was ~ot
'to be mistaken; and, taking courage from~hat and th4 kind
faces gathered around her, sl~ strove to keep back her tears
while, she told her simple story.
"The merciless villain! May the ~ur~agf. 8t, 3?atriek
light on him!" exclaimed Mike.
"Warm as he is in his grand biggin yonder, he wiW 'find
it hotter in purgatory, I 'm thinking ~" cried another.
"And it 's the tay, and sugar, and bread, ye~ shall ~ve
for the ould one, and a warm bit for ye'self, if ye will justr s~p
round the corner wid us to Pat Reilly's; though it 's ~
we have to give, and the mouths at home are gaping 1ik~
young swallows at Whitsunti4e."
'tO~t ye sht~ll; and, Te~enco, my boy4nay tlw~ bles~d
Virgin~ send y&amp;LL a thousand happy new-years, just f6~that
same thought!" exclaimed Micy, eatcbing'tlie ~ehiIa ui~iji
his brawny arms, and leading the way to ~he little dwelliz~ of
Pat Reilly.
15

169

ImIJ    uEsEi.                      16


174)        LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                                     LITTLE BESSIE.                171.

PART III.
An hour later, little Bessie ha~ left the city behind her,
and was crossing the wide, bleak plain that stretches between
ll~-~-- and I~1-~.~--. She was so much occupied by the
events of the day, that she did not see that the sun was quite
hidden Jiy the "big blanket of a cloud," as her Irish friend
termed it, nor that the atmosphere was heavy with particles
of snow. . But when the great flakes began to fall, she quick-
ened her ~ for she knew that her grandmother would be
anxious for, her safety; besides~ she much' feared that the little
par~J,~in. her basket, the gifts of the kind-hearted Irishmen,
w~~ild~ get wet. But she could not out-travel the storm.
~Thiekeraiid faster fell the great white flakes, now whirled
in her faoe an~l eyes by the wild wind that swept' over the
plain, ~no~shzkii~g t&amp; i~h~ earth as quietly as the dews of
su~nmer. '~~o~sonie time the child beguiled the weariness of
the way by7 notingK'4he increasing depth of the snow by her
o~n ~footprints; but she soon grew weary of this, and began
to look Q, h~w earnestly ! - for some ~traveller to overtake
her, and give he~r a ride.
Soon her hands and. feet began to grow stiff and numb, and
she could hardly make her way through the heavy snow. 0,
how glad she was, when ~he saw the guide-board that pointed
to N-! for then she knew she was but two miles distant
from . hOme. She paused, and, dashing the snow from her
long eyelashes, looked round. It was almost dark, but she
knew that from that point there was a footpath, leading
4,
through the woods, that would shorten the distance a,~good
half mile. It wa~&amp;n unwise step; but she soon ma&amp; her
way through the drifts over the fence, and began to lay her
course hy the well~known shrubs and bushes, for, by that time
the snow lay~ even -un the shallowest places, several inches
deep.' She soon found that, in the deepening twilight, and
blinded by the snow, it was no easy ~xiatter to distinguish one

clump of leafless shrubs from another. Still she struggled on,
unconscious, for a time, that every step took her further from
home than before.
Finally she was brought to a stand by a ledge of rocks that
rose perpendicularly before her to the height of many feet.
Then she knew that she was lost; but hunger, cold and ox-
haustion, had so far done their work, that she felt eitherr fear
nor anxiety. Numbness and stupeCaetion h~d seized on all
her faculties; she only felt weary, and, 0, so sle~0py ~ $tiii
she had a kind of indistinct consciousness that~B1~shouhPdie
there all alone in the woods; therefore she kne1~ down at the
foot of an old sycamore, that grew close by the ledge,' and.
offered her nightly petition to~ our Father. This done, ~he
yielded to the drowsiness that oppressed her, ~nd laiI hei~self
down in a sheltered nook beneath a shelving ro9k.,
As she laid her head on the eoidp~ozen rth,'sh~ thoughh,
of the little birds that sat in the catnip un&amp;~ the wind0wV
the morning before. "God cares for them -~ he will iiot'for~t
me," she drowsily murmured, while a faint smile broke t~i~&amp;
her l~lue, stiffening lips. Some time elapsed, during ~
there was no more suffering for little flessie. She dre&amp;nie&amp;
of lying on the soft, green turf, among the sweet wild flo'i~rs,
violets, anemones, and the golden adder's tongue, icli
loved so well, while above her hovered those sweet angel f~ces
so often seen in her dreams.
- Presently there was a sound, as of something .wallowing
through the snow - a quick, eager snuffling of the air ~
few short, wild barks, and then, with a perfect yell of delight*
old Jack came bounding through the snow to~her side. :~,
Hd~ like hgman reason seemed the instinct of the noble
animal! flow tenderly he took her garments in his teeth,
and shook from them the snow, and licked her, hands -
and her face, too with his warm, smooth t6ng~ie! E~4r
extravagant his joy, when hi~ efforts to arouse her wer~
croWned with success!


172         LEAVES FROM THE TR~E IGDRASYL.

"Dear 614 Jack!" murmured the child, as his piteous
whining reached her ears; "1 h&amp;ve no dinner for you; in-
deed, I have been very hungry myself."
At length she sat up and looked about her. The snow had
ceased ~to fall, but the scene looked so strange, beneath i~he
faint li~t of the wan, .ghostly4ooking moon, that, for some
noment~,B~$sie o~uld J~jdly comprehend her situation. But
gradua1ly~she r~ ~eevei~ts of the day, and with them
c~ the1~h~ughtsofh~
said,    grandmother's anxiety and terror.
ac,~e        passing her arm around his shaggy neck,
"do you t1 in~4~we can find the way home?"
lie looked i1~ in her, face a moment, with an expression of
abuost hunurn intelligence in his dark eyes, then turned, as if
ready to go. She rose to follow hini, but found that she could
hardly move het benumbed limbs. The faithfid creature led
the way, often looking back, as if to encourage her~ until
finally, hi~ unerring sagacity led them to her grandmother's
do6r.
rY~rshave passed, and Bessie Lyman is now the petted
~iythin~ and acknowledged heiress of Capt. James Lyman,
who, after many years of absence, returned in time to soothe
the last Aays of his mother, and take charge of her little
]3essie. One of the first cares of the warm-hearted sailor was
to seek out Mii~ey Corcoran and his companions, and reward
them four-fold for their kindness to his nieee.
As t~ Jack, his irascible master, touched by little Bessie's
gratitude and fondnes~s for the dog, made her a present of him;
for which good deed he also had his reward.
The noble old fellow is dead, but his memory is fait~~u1ly
cherished, and, over the fireplace in (~tai~ Lyman~neat
parlor, hangs a large painting, which even 1~dwin Landseer
might not disdain, and which Bessie delights to point out to
her friends as the portrait of old Jack.

SKETCI1E~

OF OUR YLTE.
*1*
,I..

TIlE ST RIFJ~.
49.:
To follow the custom of certain wise and. learned historhZns,
reader, we ought to begin at the beginning (we had welbnigb,
put that in French, but, after all, old fleglish ia the beat),
and speak of the geographical positiQn of our village, define
its boundaries rand area, dcsorib~ its geological ibrznatiom~s,
its rivers, lakes and* mountains (for it has at least ~what we.
dignify by these r~ames), the number of its inhabitant~, etC4
but we dislike details, and, besides, are not very~ wise ~
selves, having never been able to comprehend why~ej~~;,
which always rises in the east, as seen from our h9nIe~ ~hp~l4~
from the othei~side of Tetoket, seem to rise in a di~aetly9~O-
site direction.                                *~; x~
Moreover, the country round about us is so broken, the
roads so full of crooks and turns, that, unless you have a
Macgregor's aversion to plains, yQu will not cara to seek us
out1 passing by, therefore, these particulars, we will p~ro-
ceed to speak of the wars, foreign and civil, that hav~e, at
various times caused dire commotion within our preci4lcts;
for,~ imdhis respect, ~ur experience somewhat resembles that
of Hector Homespun, The renowned tailor, in Ooope~'s tale 4f
the~" Red Rbver."
We begin with the Pequ4war. wh~n those redoWt~d capv
tains, Mason of Connecticut an4 ~tou~hton of~ Massaelwsetts,,
pur8u4d the royal Sassaei~s aud his routed. tribe along 01W
15*
19~
~9. 1


I
LEAVES PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.

174

borders, halting at the adjoining settlement of Nenunkatuck,
to behead two captive sachems, who nobly 'refused to betray
their chief. The name of the spot still bears' witness to the
deed. It is now the site of a fashionable watering-place,
but we never pace the broad piazzas of the "Sachem Head
House "'without recalling this scene, and it requires little aid
from fancy to picture forth the spot as it was at that time -
the rocky point, covered with the primeval growth of the
forest; the white-crested waves of the Sound, sweeping tow-
ard the beach like a train of white-cowled friars, chanting in
low, monotonous murmurs solemn masses for the souls of the
waiting victims; the handful of soldiers, resting on their arms
- worn, weary, emaciated, by their harassing march through
the wilderness; gazing with stern countenances, not untouched
by admiration, on those stately stoics of the woods, as they
calmly~and somewhat contemptuously await the order which
shall send them to the happy hunting-ground; while in the
foreground stood the English captains grim, gaunt and un-
dismayed - the very personification of puritan courage.
~e' shall not stay to describe the stout resistance which our
viflag~ made to the union of the New Haven colony with that
of~neeticut, seeing that it is duly set foi'th in that famous
remo1gAr~nce called the "New Haven Case Stated," nor dwell
on the zeal with which our fathers sped the regicides on their
way towards that settlement, while the l4ng's commissioners
sat sipping their "flip~' with the good old Governor Leete at
Menunkatuck - for before us lie the days of "Seventy-six."
Ah~, reader! could you just sit down ,by 'our ingle-side, we
would have a long chat about those perilous times, and we
would get the ancients of our village to tell us of the :spirit
~i4h which their fathers and brothers responded to Washing-
ton's requisition for more troops; of Governor Tryon~s pirat-
ical expedition to New IIa~re~j of the bustle and confusion in
our quiet farni~houses, a~ the echo of his cannon leaped from
hill to hill; and of the stern faces and resolute tones of the

THE STRfl'E,                175
matrons, as they packed their valuables, and gave their :or~
ders to their superannuated slaves, or boys too young for the
camp, preparatory to seeking safety Ibr themselves and their
little ones amid the thick forests of Tetoket. Then, if you
are not one of those who deem the Chinese plant a nuisance,
you should sip your evening beverage from one of 4hose tiny
china cups which date far back in the colony time; and if it
chance to be a summer evening, we sli~~4d place the round
tea-table (a part of the ~wedding portion~ of one of those s~a~ne
matrons) under the great hickory in front of tl~ 1~ous~- a
meet spot to "remember the days of old;" for, rough and
massive as it looks now, seventy-five years ago its smooth,
lithe stein served as a target for certain relatives of ours,
when with their young comrades they~exchanged, for a few,
brief days, the hard service of the camp for the joys of home.
Some rods to the east, where the smooth green knoll slopes
down to the spring brook, stood the old farm-house. Nothing
remains to mark its site, save a slight hollow in the green.
turf; and those brave-hearted boys sleep where they fell,. ~
scores of their comrades, on the field of Whit? P
Another generation has passed away, but the ~A
with the bullets still in its heart, lives on, r
sunlight and dew, blessing us with its shade in' s  and
rattling down its 'burden of nuts every autumn to gladden
the hearts of the children.
But we forget that? we have taken upon ourselve~ the office
of veritable historian; therefore, leaving this household shade,
we shall note but slightly here the great domestic feud that
divided the village a Ia Montague et Capulet, somewhere
about the yeai 1782, as to the proper method of "pitching
the tunes in meeting ;" it, being sufficient to say that, in~ ~he
great society meeting called. upon that occasion, it was then
and there voted, by a large:~n4ori~, to the grea't'~dismay of
certain musical critics, that hen~efo~th the clerk be permitted
to pitch the tuiie after which method he pleased. Neither


176         LEAVES I?1~O1~Z THE TREE IODRASYL.                                              THZ 8~rRIFi~1.              iTT

shall we enter into the details of the bitter ecclesiastical
schisms, during which several influential families seceded from
the established Congregational order, and took upon them-
selves the forms of the ]ilpiscopal church, being duly de-
nounced by theiribrmer brethren as those whom Satan doth
desire to sift as wheat~ Though the prejudice awakened at
that time still continues, in some degree, to tinge the fair cur-
rent of life, we shall not stay to trace its effects at present -~
for our interest lies chiefly in the grand pitched battle which
occurred ~in the centre school-district about the beginning of
the present century.
The old school-honse, the first erected in the district, in
which the village fathers had learned their catechism and
conned over Dilworth's spelling-book, had become a reproach,
even to consciences usually dormant to everything like com-
fort or convenience in school-houses; and, after years of
deliberation and much canvassing, they determined to ~erect a
new building - one which should reflect honor on themselves
and the whole town.
epart from our original intention so far as to
s~h~t~th~ site of our village is a small, basin-shaped val-
le~~Jokped'\oi1t from amid the hills, through the middle of
wh1eWt~ ~inall but beautiful stream goes loitering like a truant
chfld. This ~stream (we valV~it river) separates the village
common from the ancient grave-yard, where sleep the first
settlers~ and, crossing the main road, almost encircles what
~still eontiii~es to~ be called the new grave-yard, though here
and there a sunken grave, with its rudely-s~ulptured slab of
red freestone, proves that many. years have elapsed since the
first lone dweller was laid there. A few feet to the west of
theiold graveyard stood, at the time of which we 8peak, the
old meeting-house, constructed after the most rigid puritanic
notionS of 'architecture, ~ith~ut steeple or bell, aiA with a
multitude~ of small square windows, which gave it more the
appearance of a great warehouse than anything else. Beyond

this, the open common stretches westward several rods, and
here the district decided to erect their ne~ house. Nothing
like the little, low, brown house in which they had tasted the
benefit of birch and IDaboll, would content them now; noth-
ing short of a two-story, two-chimneyed buildhxg, with a room
on the ground floor for the common school, and'the one above
for an academy, to. the want of which they had become~ sud~'
denly conscious.
It was certainly a grand affair, superior to anything in the
adjacent villages; and who shall blame them if they did~ feel
certain pleasant titillations in 'the region of approbativeness,
as they gazed upon the belfry, 'suri~iounted. by its glittering
~ vane - that belfry from which, alas! no "bell was ever des-
tined to sound?
As it was impossible to complete ~the building before the
period arrived for the commencement of the winter school, it
was decided to finish the lower rooms and leave the rest ~sitil
the spring vacation. This was done, and a teacher engaged,
whose chief recommendation seemed to consist' in the fact tht~
he had taught several terms,' was very lippartial, anda~$~W
disciplinarian. In temper he was hasty and dogmo~d~
like too many of his class, 'seemed to be utterly ~d~fioi~nt~ in
that wisdom which seeks to win the lwczrt of childhood, rather
than compel the intellect. Ferule in hand, he drove the chil-
dren into the house~ and out, he drove them through their les-
sons and recitations, and thus he had driven through. several
winters, until he received his wages -i- by fi~r the mo~t impor-
tant part of the contract with him, for what could he have
earned on the farm during the short days' of winter?' his
impartiality 'was manifested by punishing,' on every possible
occasion, the children lof those 'who were officially conneei~d
with the seheol; thereby, as' he thought, showing his' iudepeii-'
dence. T1&amp;s not long' before his severity began to give rise
to complaints, which' were duly' resOnted by the party in
favor of 'rigid di~9ipline; and thus began the great ~ton~x~


178           LEAVES FROM TH~. T1U~E IODRASYL.                                                          TIfli~ ~r1rnnL

179

which swept over the village, like the sirocco, blinding the
eyes and stifling the consciences, causing many families that
had hitherto sailed the sea of life together to part company,
and send after each other bitter words and scowls of defiance,
instead of good wishes and friendly cheer~
lithiel Chittenden, or, to give his military title and name
as commonly abbreviated by his neighbors, Leftenant Ohinnin,
had been one of the most active in engaging the teacher; but
as long as the punishment fell only on his eldest child, Molly,
a beautiful, high-spirited girl of thirteen, whatever he might
have thoug~it, he held his peace, only replying to her indig-
nant complaints, and hearty wishes that the teacher might
slip from the old crossing-pole into the river, and get half
drowned, or fall down on the ice - anything~ to oblige him
to 1~eave the school with a "Tat, tut, Molly; I dare say you
a~e as noisy and mischievous as a flock of king-birds."
But when Mr. 2Evarts laid his heavy hand upon his pets,
his little twin boys, Joseph and I~enjamin ~- when, week after
week, they came home and held up to him their little, fat
hands, swollen and purple from the hard strokes of the ferule,
his spirit was moved within him. J~e sought an interview
with the teacher, and remonstrated earnestly with him on the
wrong of his undue severity. The teacher indignantly and
somewhat ~nsu1tingly resented what he termed his interfer-
ence, and ~manifested his resentment and independence by
punishing slAll more~severely every little fault of his children.
Notwithsts~nding~ his warlike title, the leftenant was a
peaceably-dispo~sed man; it took a good deal to rouse and
excite his combativeness; but this object once fairly attained,
he ~manifested something~ like the obstinate tenacity of the
hull-dog. The circumstance of the interview beV~veen~him
and the teacher became known, and their words duiy~repo4ed
and distorted to suit the views of the contendi' parties.
He explained, corrected and remonstrated, until, out of all
patience~ he vQwed (the lefbenant never swore) by the great

John Rogers, that the teacher should quit the village, or his
children the school.
The party in favor of rigid discipline held up their hands
in holy horror at this manifestation of weakness. They shook
their heads ominously when they spoke of little Joe and
Benje, and talked dolorously of the many instances in which
children, born to their parents late in life, had been ruined
themselves and brought rain on {heir families, all for the
want of a little wholesome discipline. On6 or two even went
so far as to question whether they were justified inpermitting
him to retain his commission, ~s his conduct might tend to
produce a laxity of discipline in the militia, thereby endan-
gering the character of that national bulwark.
The aggrieved party, on the other hand, looked upon him
as little less a martyr than the worthy lecturer on dhrinity
whose name he had invoked, and they began to look upon
the little twin boys with something like the same interest
with which they had been tat~ght to view the nine: ~inall chib.
dren of that worthy man, as represented in a WOod-cut that
invariably graced the pages of the New iI~ngland Primer..
9 Those who are unacquainted with that phase of social life
manifested in country villages, can have no conception ~of the
bitterness and length to which petty quarrels can be carried.
Not that the people are worse, but their facilities are better~,
There are few topics of foreign interest among them, fe~
incidents occur to break the ordinary ro~itine of lil~,~and
they are consequently much occupied with leal affairs. Be.
sides, there is a certain ch~ss, which is never lacking in any
society; the members of which are far better versed in the
origin, faults, foibles, weaknesses, errors and faux pas of
every individual, than they are with their own; and these,
set ou~~by one ~6r two adroit wire-pullers, would breed a quar-
rel in Paradise.
Moreover, the matte~~ is still~ ~worse where the families are
all connected by marriage or blood~ a~ i8 th~ ease with us,


180             LEAVJ~$ FRO~t' trim  TRF~1 XGDRA5YL.

1~1

and where they still retain, to a degree perhaps beyond any
other place in New England, the old English aristocracy of
family, the first question with many of our older people be-
ing, to this day, whenever a stranger is spoken of, "What is
his family - what is his breed?"
This, perhaps, is owing to the circumstance that eight out
of teu of the fine farms in our township are owned and culti-
vated by the lineal descendants~ of their original owners, and
the traveller who chances to loiter away an half hour or 50,
while waiting for his dinner at the village inn, among the
mossy stones in the old grave-yard, may hear most of the
names so rudely carved there a century ago, shouted forth
again and again, by the noisy schoolboys on the adjacent
common.
Be this as it may, our village was soon in a great uproar.
The teacher, the original cause of contention, soon served
only as a central figure in the dark picture, around which
became drayv~i,~ m no neutral tints, all the poor human frail-
ties of which each of the combatants had been guilty, and
some, doubtless, ot~ which they never had thought. And so
did it gloom the social atmosphere~ that all grew dark and
stifling, until men could no longer see to discern the fair
features~ 'of truth a~d charity, and, what was still worse,
even wom~u a~d y~ou~ children felt its baleful influence.
There~ w~re, uot wanting some calm souls to preach for-
baraxw~ aiid. peace,' but their voices were scarcely heard
above the din; and even the strongest influence then known
in a country village, reverence for the minister, was power-
less in this case. The old man who held the pastoral office
&amp;t this time, possessed a keen insight into human native; he
went from hci~use to house, reasoning, exhorting ftnd ridicul-
ing; neither did he fail to belabor them "with apostolic blows
and thumps" from the pulpit; but, alas! he' ~livcd in the
eighteenth century, and could not cast out devils.

The disciplinarians having the majority, and being deter-
mined to retain Mr. Evarts in the school, the aggrieved party
seceded, and, leaving the new housesavrificing all the 4ollars,
cents and mills which they had contributed towards it, with
many self-complacent reflections on the similarity of their
condition with that of ancient Lot, on a like occasion, went
westward some rods, and erected a small, low building by the
way-side, which they painted a bright red, perhaps to make
the contrast between it and the white one they had left as
wide as possible. Their opponents christened it the Revenge,
and had not the name been given before it became known that
they had engaged for teacher an out-and-out Episcopalian,
one who kept Ohristmas, and actually didn't cook for Thanl~s-
giving, nor go to meeting on that occasion, they might have
called it by a more sinister name.
If this unhappy quarrel embittered the tempers and hearts
of friends and neighbors, its evil effects fell not less heavily
upon their children. Some of them took so completely the
tone of their parents, that they would not speak to their
former playmates; and others, who neither knew nor cared
aught about the quarrel, were forbidden to do so by their
parents. None felt this estrangement more' keenly than little
Molly (Ihinnin, and Mark, the son of ~ father'~s neighbor~,
and, until this miserable contention, west intiz~Me ~friend,
Ensign Ross. An unbroken friendship had '~b~~~ny
years between the 1~milies of these men. Their ~ were
separated only by a green meadow and tfft~ of past~ure, and
from~ infancy they had shared their plays and lessons together~.
Together they had learned to skate and swim; together they
had conquered vulgar fractions, and received due punishment
on that same day for singeing the 'teacher's long queue in~
commemoration of that event; together they had 'received
their commissions in the militia ; .- and let me tell yoi~, reader,
that a commission in that body, which at the present day
resembles Falstaff's ragged regiziient, was at that time con-
16

140


182         LEAVES F1~O~! TIlE TREE IGDRASYL.                                          THE STRIFE.                 183

sidered an honor not unmeet for the highest dignitaries in the
land. Together they had wooed, wedded and settled down
on the old homesteads, rejoiced over the birth of their chil-
dren, watched their growing fondness for each other; and, as
Mark grew up tall and straight as~ a young pine, and Molly
like a graceful, beautiful green willow, there was nothing
said; but as they watched them coming home from school,
full of mirth and mischief, or seated over the brawling river,
on the old elm-shaded pole, conning their lesson from the
same woefully dog's-eared hook, or disputing about the exact
number of words on *a certain page, the thoughts of both
sometimes reverted to a beautiful knoll, midway between
their dwellings, which had often been pointed out as a fine
building site, with a kind of wonder as to whether it would
ever be used for' that purpose.
Ensign Ross had no child save Mark; and, having th~ fate
of several only children before his eyes, he early determined
that his boy should not be spoiled by being "babied."
Therefore, he never took his part in any of his childish squab-
bles, and Mark early learned that if he got into trouble there
was no use in complaining at home, for his mother was a
woman of too much sense to pet and pity him in secret.
Though he heartily detested Mr. Evarts, - and the feeling,
to judge from the blows and thumps bestowed upon him, was
duly returned, - yet his father knew nothing of the matter;
or, if his wife sometimes mentioned that Mark had been pun-
ished, he usually replied with, "Ay, ay, and he deserved it
richly, I dare say!"
Of course he was little inclined to sympathize with the
peculiar indulgence which his old friend manifested toward
jiis late-born twins.
"Considerin' that Molly is an only daughter, and. was for
a long time an only child," was 4his frequent remark to his
wife, "I allow that they did pretty well by her. But it puts
me out of all manner of patience, to see such a. man as Ithiel

Chinnin led by the nose by two such imps. Why, it makes
no difference who he is talking to; if it were Thomas Jefferson,
and one of those precious boys were to break in with a string
of questions as long as the moral law, he would stop and an-
swer them all. He not only makes a goose of himself, but
spoils the boys, and IL must tell him so.~,
He did tell him, or at least tried to; but somehow, in this
case, his hints failed of their usual effect. The truth was, the
leftenant was dimly conscious of .the least possible tendency
towards weakness where his boys were concerned; he did not
like to admit it, even to himself, and the frequent hints of his
neighbor touched upon a sore spot.
Ensign Ross was by no means hard or unfeeling. He was
naturally genial and jovial, but he had contrived to get certain
fixed ideas into his head, especially upon. the management of
children, beyond which he never troubled himself to look.
"Spare the rod, and spoil the child," was scripture with him,
and he wanted nothing better. He was naturally impatient,
and could not brook interruption, especially from children;
therefore, he often censured as weakness that which was sim-
ply good nature in his slower and more patient neighbor.
When the teacher punished the little boys so severely, he
stoutly defended him, without inquiring, into their offence
or listening to their father's explanation, and read the lef~
tenant such a lecture on his folly and weakness in all that
concerned his boys, that the latter was deeply grieved and
astonished. Indeed, upon reflection, he felt, himself, that he
had said many things that were unwarranted, even by their
long friendship; but he did not like to confess it, and con-
tented himself with reasoning after this manner:
"If. he has a mind to be mad at a hasty but well-meant.
word, why, let him."
Chinnin, on his part, thought more deliberately. "If Jon-
athan fLoss thinks I, have turned into a natural fool, why, let
him seek those tl~at ~are wiser."


184         LEAVES FROM THE TREE I0DRABYL

THE STRIFE.               185

Thus arose a1 frosty atmosphere between them, chilling alike
the ripened fruit of the past, and the opening hopes of the
future. Had they been left to themselves, doubtless the
memory of the past and a sense of their present folly would
have brought back the summer to their hearts; but a rumor
of their feelings got. abroad, as such things always do in a
country village, and the powers of scandal and schism took
the matter up, going from one to the other, watching every
word and look, distorting, exaggerating and misrepresenting,
until, after a few weeks, they could no longer discern, in the
pictures held up to them by these meddlers, any trace of the
old, friendly features. Still there were some grains of truth
in all these reports; for they were by no means happy, and
their state of heart and mind was one which is prone to think
and say bitter things.
From the day that Leftenant Chinnin withdrew his children
from school, they ceased to speak together, for the epithets,
"Dotard " and "Busybody," which had been angrily applied
to each other on that occasion, seemed to stick in their throats,
and prevent anything like a friendly utterance.
All through the remainder of the winter the snow lay white
and unbroken on the fields between the two dwellings; no
path, trodden hard and smooth as ice, marked the constant
intercourse of the families; no small foot-prints, deviating from
the path at every, few yards, gave evidence of the presence
and exploring propensities of Mark and Molly. Although not
absolutely forbidden to speak with each other, they seldom
met now, - never, indeed, save when Mark contrived to
come round that way from school, and exchange a few words
with her through the palings of the front fence, during which
intercourse he never failed to express a very hearty~ wish
that Mr. Evarts had been in Jericho before he ever saw our
village.
Thus the strife raged through the winter months, until the
raw winds and he~v~ thaws of March, came, bringing with

them a scourge which many in their secret consciences felt ~to
be a judgment for their sins, - the scarlet fever, or, as it was
then called, the black canker. Something was necessary to
bring them back to a sense of dependence and human broth-
erhood. Instead of a blessing, they had made their children
a subject of contention, and God in his wisdom took many of
them home to himself. The rebuke was felt. Those who had
passed each other with stiff necks and averted faces, again
clasped hands over the graves of their little ones, and before
God's altar, in silence and tears.
For a time the disease seemed inevitably fatal; fear and.
grief sat upon every countenance; the school was closed, and
parents took every precaution to guard their children from the
fatal contagion. Thus it happened that Mark Ross was, for
several weeks, shut off from all communication with his young
associates. He chafed like a young lion in his confinement,
more especially when he heard that the fever had seized upon
the leftenant's little boys, and it was thought that they must
die. They had been great favorites with Mark, and if they
were spoiled, ~s his father said, he knew that Molly and him-
self were, in a measure, answerable for it, for they had always
taken their part, and sturdily defended them, right or wrong.
He longed to go over and see them, but he knew that neither
of his parents would consent to this. And, if the truth were
*known, not the less did his kind-hearted mother and.impulsive
father long to go over and speak words of sympathy and com-
fort to their stricken neighbors. But submission to his will
on her part, and a sense of shame and wrong done and re~
ceived on his, kept them both silent. But when the news
came that Molly, too, was stricken down, Mark's course was
taken.
"If father has a mind to be a heathen, and worse than a
heathen," he muttered; one morning as he watched the ensign
on his way to the woods, "why, well and good; but mother
is a Ohristian, I take it. She ought to know better. I will


ISG        LEAVES ~R0~I THR TREE IODRASYL.                                              THE STRIFE.               187

give her her choice; either she or I go over to-day and see
how Molly and the boys are.
He watched his mother with a compressed lip as she went
about her household labor; then, when she had smoothed
her hair and drawn her wheel to her accustomed corner, he
began:
"Mother, Lydia and Tim Linsley, Thankful Harrison, Sam
and David Butler, Abby Barker, and ever so many more chil-
dren, have died. Do you think that Joe and Benje and Molly
will all die, too?"
"I don't know, Mark. Sarah Whedon says that Doctor
Foot gives no hope for the little boys. Poor Hannah Chin-
nin! it will be a sad blow to her .to lose them."
"Mother, do you remember what nice custards and jellies
Mrs. Chinnin used to bring me, when I had the measles;
and how she watched by me and nursed me when you was too
much worn out to hold up your head?"
"Yes, Mark, I shall never forget her kindness!" and the
tears sprang to the mother's eyes.
"Well, then, mother," he exclaimed, rising and giving the
forestick a ldck, as if to settle his decision, "I think it is a
burning shame that we should let them all die, and never go
near them. I, for one, am going over there to-day. I am
but a boy, I know, and can do nothing to help them, but the
children will know that2 I have not forgotten them. As to the
fever, if I catch it, I must. One had as good die with the
fever, as live in a quarrel all his days."
Mark had not miscalculated the effect of his words upon -his
mother. She knew something of his determined spirit, and
exclaimed, hurriedly:
"No, no, Mark! For you to go there would be tempting
Providence outright. If you should catch the fever, I should
never forgive myself. I will go. I will," she continued, see-
ing him begin to button up his jacket. "I have wanted to go
for a long time, for~ these quarrels, as you say, are dreadful.

186

Only promise me that you will not attempt to see them your-
self, and I will go this minute."
"I promise for to-day," replied Mark.
There was no manifestation of surprise when Esther Ross
entered that house of affliction - nothing that marked a mem-
ory of the bitter estrangement between them; but a warn~
pressure of the hand and a grateful look from the over-wearied
mother, as, unable to bear any longer the last fearful struggle
between life anct death, she relinquished her child into the
hands of her old friend, and buried her face on her husband's
shoulder. As in birth, so in death, those children were not
divided. Death gathered them both in the space of a few
hours, and kind Esther Ross (ah, how she inwardly blessed
the wilfulness of her boy, that had driven her forth!) smoothed
their fair locks with a gentle hand, and prepared their little
forms for the grave. Then she sought the room of Molly,
where her presence and thoughtful care were like dew to th9
heart of the fear-stricken girl.
When she returned home that night, an~d related with a
mother's eloquence the sore affliction of their neighbors, Mark
wept outright, and the eyes of the ensign glistened as he
said:
"IL am glad you went, Esther!" Then, laying his hand
upon Mark's head, he added, "Remember, my boy, that
little Joe and Benje are free from anger, and sin, and sor-
row, now."
Esther Ross knew that her husband passed an anxious and
restless night, but she knew, also, that he was one of those
who are best left to the workings of their own convictions;
therefore, she did not ask him, in so many words, to attend
the funeral, and bury all anger in that double grave. Mark,
to her surprise, did not ask to go, and, with a sad and some-
what anxious heart, she went over at an early h~ur to give
such assistance as might be needed.
The grave-yard and the road which led to it were in full

187

anz snma.


THE STRIFE.                189

188        LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.

view from the windows of Ensign Ross' house. The ensign
had loitered about the wood-pile and yard all the morning, in
a restless, undecided manner. When the people began- to
gather to the house of mourning, he went into his house, and
paced the floor with the same restless step, occasionally join-
in~g Mark, who had stationed himself at the window.
Mark covered his eyes with his hands when he saw the old
pastor issue forth from the house, followed by four boys not
much larger than himself, bearing the double coffin; for he
could not bear to think that the fair-haired boys lay beneath
that' heavy black pall.
But his father continued to watch the procession with a
troubled expression of face. Onward it crept with that slow
and' solemn pace, and there came a convulsive twitching about
his mouth, as it filed into the grave-yard, and past a little,
short mound, headed by a slab of white marble, a few yards
to the right of the gate; for he thought of the sad November
day when he and his wife had stood by that open grave, and
well did he remember whose hand had gently lowered the        -
head of his little flaxen-haired Mabel to her last home; and
who, in all times of trial and affliction, had stood by his side
like a brother. He seized his hat, and, hurrying onward, soon
reached the spot, and gently made his way through the crowd
to the side of the grave.
When the solemn prayer of the old minister was ended,
with a gesture of entreaty he took a shovel from the hand of'
a young man, and slowly and reverently sprinkled the first
grains of dust on the coffin below. As he returned the shovel -
to the hand of the young man, his eye for one second met that
of the bereaved father, and he felt that his motive was unde)r- -
stood. His hand laid the last clod upon that grave; his foot
was the last to turn away and join Esther, who still lingered
by the white tombstone of their own child.
They pursued their way home in silence, and, when they
reached that housp of sorrow, as if by one impulse, they both

turned and entered. As they entered the vacant sitting-
room, they heard the voice of the leftenant. raised in broken
expostulations in an adjoining room.
"No, no, my boy; this must not be. We have suffered
sorely; and if you, too, should take the fever and die
The leftenant could not proceed; and, as they drew near
the open door, they saw their own son, Mark, standing by tl~e
bedside of Molly, holding her fevered hand closely in his, as
he replied, with a -quivering lip:
"They have buried up little Joe and Benje, and would not
let me see them, but I will see Molly; I 'ye seen her to-day,
and I '11 see her to-morrow. I don't care for fever; my
father looks cross, and mother sad, and nothing is as it used
to be. This quarrel has made us all miserable enough."
"Ithiel! Ithiel J the boy is right!" exclaimed Ensign
Ross, stepping through the door-way and offering his hand
to his startled neighbor. "I have been harsh, unkind, un-
christian - forgive me!"
The stricken father stared for a second in astonishment,
then, seizing the proffered hand, murmured, as he bowed his
head over it to conceal his tears:
"And I, too, Jonathan I, too, 'am guilty. But I
have left it all there," he added, with a significant gesture
towards the grave-yard. "Let it be forgotten."
And so it was. After a long and weary illness, Molly
recovered; and the lives of the families again flowed on in
the same current until, as white-headed old men, Leftenant
(Jhinnin and Ensign Ross were laid with their fathers.
But, years before they died, the white house upon the hill,
which they had seen in their dreams, had become a reality,
and two little boys had been born there, who, at the special
request of the ensign, were christened Joseph and Benjamin.
The storm of contention gradually subsided, and the old
landmarks became visible. The land has now had rest for
many years, and the traces of the old battle are scarcely dis-


190         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.
cernible to any save such curious beings as ourselves. The
white school-house, minus the belfry, still stands; but the
"Revenge," where we conned our earliest lessons, has long
since gone to destruction.

NOT long since, while on a visit to some kind friends of
mine, IL found myself in the company of several ladies, who
were discussing with much interest the subject of education,
and the respective merits of several fashionable seminaries in
that vicinity. Not feeling particularly interested in the sub-
ject, II joined my friend E-, in looking over Darley's
graphic illustrations of Rip Van Winkle, and soon became so
deeply absorbed that IL heard only the murmur of their voices,
occasionally broken by a word or two uttered in a shriller
key, seeming like the echo of the voice of Rip's good vrowe.
I was suddenly recalled from this ex~chanted valley, by the
voice of the fashionable Mrs. W-, exclaiming:
"Ah, yes! we will ask Miss R-.--." Then laying her
jewelled hand on my shoulder, as if not quite sure thart I wa~
free from that drowsy atmosphere, she continued:
"You have hardly heard our argument, my dear, but we
were speaking of the superior advantages which seminaries in
the city possess over those in the country in all that relates
to the true finish of. a young lady's education. May we ask
at what seminary you were educated?"
There was something so bizarre, so ludicrous, between the
li~dy's expectant tone and the picture her words called up to
my mind, that I could hardly repress a ~mil&amp; as the unvar~
wished trQth rose to my lips; but one glance at her haughty
face brought with it the memory of her wealth, her morbid

*

II.
OUR SCHOOL-MISTRESS.


192         LEAVES PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                            OUR 5OHOOL-MISTRfls5~          193

exclusiveness, her horror of anything "native to the soil,"
and, let me confess the truth, reader, with a feeling strongly
akin to cowardice, I evaded a direct reply by saying, "I was
educated at home."
"Ah! you had ~ governess, then. Your parents were so
wise as to follow the good old English custom. I wish it
were more fashionable here, for it is much to be preferred to
our mixed boarding-schools. I have sometimes thought I
would employ a governess for Celestia; but it is so difficult
to find one possessing all the requisite qualifications. Your
friends must have been fortunate."
My folly had brought its reward. I colored, grew confused,
embarrassed, and was trying to stammer forth something,
when I caught the clear gray eyes of my friend E- fixed
earnestly upon me, while a most provokingly quizzical smile
gathered around his mouth. All at once my confusion van-
ished, and, raising my eyes to the lady's face, II said, quietly:
"I fear I have led you into a mistake, Mrs. W-. I
should have said, that I was educated chiefly at the district
school in my native village."
There was a slight, ahnost imperceptible raising of the
lady's shoulders, and her bland air of respectful~ attention
vanished at once, as she replied, with a slight drawl:
"Ah - ahem! I think I have heard Squire W- say
that there have been some improvements in the common
schools within a few years;" and, turning carelessly away,
she began to discuss with' her neighbor the last new design
for crotchet that had appeared in the Lady's Book.
"Coolly done, that," whispered E-~. "You must re-
member that a great gulf suddenly yawns between people,
* sometimes, even in this world. For a moment, I feared you
would fail to see that little red school-house, of which you so
often speak, in the golden atmosphere that surrou~ids Mrs.
As other people besides Mrs. W-.- sometimes a~k after

my Alma Mater, I have determined to describe it; partly
because I think" our school" was peculiar even in those days,
and partly because i[ wish to daguerre a few traits of one
who has long been among the angels.
Should you ever chance to visit our village, reader, you
will find the main road from the west, for the space of two
miles or so, clinging close to the foot of a rugged chain of
hills, known as the Tetoket range. On the left, you will
have their precipit~us~front, in some places barren and bleak,
and crowned by huge old cliffs:
CC here, dark with the thick moss of cenLuries,
And there of chalky whiteness, where the thunderbolt
has splintered them;"

and in others draped to the very summit with a mass of tangled
green, 'through which rise the heads of the tall cedars; like
watchful sentinels. Very, very beautiful is the old mountain
in the genial spring-time, when he unftn~ls his leafy banners
and displays every shade of green, fror~i the deep bh~ck hue
of the cedar, to the pale, faint tinge of the buttonwood and the
aspen, with the white blossoms of the dog-wood peeping out
from the midst like stars. And still beautiful is he when
the frosts of autumn have fallen upon him, and all the show8
of summer have deported; when the everlasting cedars,
clothed to the very topmost branch in robes of flame-colored
livery, stand, like old martyrs, lifting their upstretched arms
to heaven, and hinting, not dimly, that God still speaketh
froliL the midst of the burning bush, would we but listen.
On the right, the open country sweeps southward toward
Long Island Sound, but so broken and undulating that you
must ascend the mountain, would you catch a glimpse of the
blue water. As you appi~oaeh the village, a valley opens, in
the midst of which sleep two small~ but beautiful sheets of
water, separated only by a narrow, ribbon-like bit of green
meadow. Winding arQund these, you may trace green 1ane~,
17

V


194         LEAVES FRO3~! THE TREE IGDRA$YL.                                            OUR SCHOOL4TISTRE$S.             195

crossed here and there by more public roads, and catch
glimpses of the ~sharp roofs and heavy stone chimneys of old
farm-houses, rising from amidst clusters of green trees.
Not a great many rods beyond this point the mountain
suddenly makes a turn to the north-west, and, like the face of
a stern fellow-traveller relaxing into a smile at parting,
smooths its rugged features, and, with a gentle, loving arm,
embraces our village and the valley north of it, known among
the early settlers as the "pleasant land~of Goshen." Here,
for the first time, you catch a view of the village, which koks
like a bird's nest hidden between the hills, and, just where the
last undulation of the mountain slopes down to meet the main
road, stood the red school-house. I have spoken of its origin,
a~nd described its appearance in~ a previous sketch; but I said
nothing of the old apple-tree ivhose boughs overhung its roof
-tht~t apple-tree, which must, even as a germ, have had a kind
of fore-feeling of its destiny, or surely its trunk would never
have been garnished with such excellent knots for footholds,
its limbs would never~ have twisted themselves into such ad-
mirable seats for children, and its blossoms would never have
been the earliest and 'most fragrant of the season. It was
truly the tree of knowledge of good and evil to us urchins;
and many pleasant half-hours did we sit perched up amid it~
branches, watching the swallows that built their nests in the
belfry of the Episcopal church across the way, or mocking the
bob-o'-linkums in the meadows by the river.
Moreover, from th~ foot of~ th~ trunk sprang divers singu-
larly smooth, straight. shoots~ which sometimes found their
way into a certain corner of the school-room, as incentives to
learning by the inverse, method.
Then, that length of fence under the apple-tree! Never
were rails so smooth or so capitally arranged for climbing.
Ble~ings on the hand that laid them! Why, our 'sleds made
nothing of it, but came darting like arrows from the hill
above, and paused not until we landed on the opposite side of

the street. But I must not linger here; I can almost fancy
that I hear again the sound of the fertile on the window-
casement, the invariable signal which recalled us fromi our
sports.
To my young readers I would say, do not fancy that our
school-room was anything like yours, with yoi~r convenient
desks, your shaded windows, your globes, cabinets, and outline
maps. Ours was a large, square room, lighted by six or eight
windows, through ~hi~h, during the long summer hours, came
a flood of light and heat so intense as to dazzle the eyes and
bewilder the brain of the strongest. Around three sides of
the room ran rude desks, to which were attached rough, nar-
row planks for benches, and inside of these was a row of sim-
ilar benches for the smaller ~cholars. These were witliot~t
any support for the back, and all of them so high that not
more timn one pair of feet out of a dozen could~by any means
contrive to touch the floor. The last side, with the exception
of the space taken up for the door, was occupied 'by the great
fireplace, which yawned from the door-post to the opposite
wall. In these utilitarian days, when
"Men scarcely know how beautiful fire is,"
such fires as we ~used to have are a rarity. No wonder that
the great wooden beam Which served for a mantel-piece took
fire almost every day, even though the inventor of friction-
matches, on whose unfortunate head the old people of our
village lay the blame of all the fires which have desolated
city and country for several years, was not born.
Ah! those great, blazing, crackling fires will never be for-
gotten. The heart of the sailor turns back to them, as he
paces the deck through the wea~r~y night-watches, with the
rain and sleet driving in his face, while the biting north wind
covers hi~'long locks and shaggy pea.~jacket with glittering
~icicles; and brightly do they gleam and glow in the restless
dreams of more than one~famished, bermumbed gold-seeker, as

195

194


196         LEAV~5 PUO~ TUS TREE IODRASYL.

OUR 8OHOI5TR~S5.               197

he sinks down to his last sleep amid the snows of the Rocky
Mountains.
Of maps, we had none. I doubt whether such an article
ever saw the inside of the i~ed school-house, and the Japanese
might have been next door neighbors t~ us, for aught we knew
or care&amp;, The labors of Ii4ndley Murray, Home Tooke, Web.
ster, Ashe, Greenleaf, and Brown, were considered as entirely
supererogatory by both teachers and parents. Indeed, so
strong was this prejudice against grammar, that, when it was
introduced into our schools, some years later, the teachers sel-
dom made any application of its rules. We were taught to
repeat it by rote, and in this way I studied grammar for sev-
eral years, and could repeat the whole, from Etymology to
$yntax, without being able to construe correctly a single
sentence. In the same maimer we studied Orthography
and Prosody, as laid dowr~ in the early editions of Web-
ster's spelling-book. I doubt whether any children we~'e
ever more familiar with that same spelling-book than were
we; not only with the orthography ef our lessons; but the
number of words in a column, the number of leaves in the
book, the leading word on each page, every typographical
error; to say nothing of the hours we spent in studying the
beauties of those specimens of art that illustrated the fables,
counting the apples on the tree in the fable of "The Old Man
and Rude Boy," ~r the exact number of Ilies composing the
swarm :Lhat tormented the poor "Fox in the Bramble." In
reading, spelling, and arithmetic, we were, to a certain degree,
more carefully drilled, and a clear, well-written copy-book
was the teacher's and pupil's pride on the day of examination.
Thus, with the occasional diversion of "choosing sides"
in spelling, and a grand pitched battle with snow-balls between
our boys and their rivals of the white school-house, we passed
the ~i ters. In the summers, when the large boys wote busyin
the-PIds, writing and arithmetic were both laid aside, and in
their place we had~ patchwork with all its endless va~iation~,

marking, embroidery, stitching, and plain-sewitig. For the
qualifications of our teacher in the last, I can well vouch, for
I have a very distinct recollection of her compelling me to rip
the wristband three times from the first sb5rt-sl~ev~ I ever
made, because, forsooth, I did not catch every gather.
It is of this teacher, or mistress,~-for the term was peculiarly
appropriate in those days, - I wish to speak. I have mused
much upon her character, and she ever seems to have been of
those unto whom it i~ appointed to be "mad9 perfect through
suffering." Her whole life was a combat - a struggle with
physical weakness and pain. Hour after hour have I seen
her walk the school-room with rapid, uneven steps, her long,
thin fingers clenched together, her pale lips parted, while the
great drops of perspiration started on her brow, yet not a
word of murmur ever escaped her; and, when the paroxysiw
was past, her voice was low and - gentle as the south wind
after a storm. Her tall, spare figure, and thin, pale face,
bore unmistakable traces of this warfare; but there was a
light in her great, dark eyes- clear, serene and luminous, as
that of the fixed stars -which spake of conquest, and a hope
centered in Him "in whom there is no variableness nor shadow
of turning."
Husbandless and childless, possessing a sufficiency of this
world's goods, it was a matter of surprise to ma.ny that she
did not seek that life of ease which her delicate health seemed
to require. But she feared the ennui and selfishness of a life
of idleness; she felt intuitively that
"Somethin~ the heart mnBt ~ to cherish;
Must loire and joy ~hd-~sorrew~learn ;"
-S
that no woman can be happy ~ithont some occupation, some
interest in life; therefore she took charge ofthe village ~~hool
for ~rnany a pleasant summer.
The children became her children; in their progress, pleas-
nines, tr~izbies and difficulties, she rejoiced or sorrowed; and

Pt


398          LEAVES FUO~i TE~ TREE IODRASYL.                                                         OtR 50110    ISTRESS.               199

if s1~ could not teach the "higher branches," no one better
possessed the secret of inculcating in the minds of the chil-
dren habits of strict honesty, reverence toward God and our
elders, kiiidness and forbearance toward each other, and
courtesy~ toward all men.
She was fond of poetry, especially devotional poetry, and
rhymed 'herself with great facility. Her approbation of our
conduct was generally expressed in rhyme, op small, square
pieces of paper, ornamented with various devices in red and
green ink. But the highest proof of her approval, the one I
prized most, was permission to take a small book, which she
kept, laid away choicely in her desk, containing poems for
children, by Mrs. Barbauld, Jane Taylor, and others, and to go
forth an hour or so, with a companion of my own choosing,
and lie in the deep shadow of the thick-leaved trees, or per-
chance sit perched up in the old apple-tree, while we com-
mitted one or more to memory, to be recited on our return to
the school-room. Another method of manifesting her appro~
ba~ion was to send us forth in parties of three and four,: to
cQmnlit to memory the inscriptions on the stone&amp; in the adja~
vent grave-yard. On a pleasant summer afternoon, wh~n
the sun began to sink behind the mountain, and the si dbw~ to K
lengthen, the passing traveller might have seen .half a dozen
little girls, wu~ndering cautiously among the sunken grates, or
seated amid the tall grass at the foot of some old slab of red
sandstone, tracing the lugubrious inscription with their tiny
fingers.
A friend, to whom I related this peculiar trait in my early
education the other day, k~ighingly remg1~ed:
"And to these yoti~hful 'Meditations among *he Tombs'
m~y be traced your present literary tastes, I suppose."
3?oubtless they were not without an influence upon us, for I
reniember some curious thoughts and speculations pa~se1,
through fll~ bead a~ I sat there, such as I would not lia~ve

been likely to have spoken of to any one, certainly not to any
older than myself.
We always commenced our morning exercises by repeating
a poem called "Daily Duty," and~losed at noon witII another
entitled "Hosanna." I do not 'remember much o~ either;
but I dJ remember how hungry I used to be beCore we got
through with the last, which was somewhat lengthy, and how
many times I have reached behind me into my dinner-basket,
and extracted a piece of cake, preferring- 0, Phoebus Apollo!
- puritan dough-nuts to poetry. The afternoon exercises 'were
also closed with an appropriate hymn, and, by the way, it
should be borne in mind that these stanzas were repeated in
as many keys as there were voices in the school. It was not
of en that death entered our circle, but when he did claim one
of our number, or a child from any of the other districts,
headed by our mistress, we followed in due procession to the
grave, where we ranged ourselves around it, after the coffiui
had been lowered to its last resting-place, and repeated some
lines appropriate to the occasion, either written by our teacher
or selected from her favorite authors.
In looking over the manuscripts of our old school-mistress,
not long since, I came across the following hues, which will
serve to illustrate her character, as well as the occupations in
which she sought to overcome her life-long foe~j~iffering and
weakness. They were addressed to a si~t~r, after a "dis-
tressing illness," and entitled.
EXERCISE THE BEST PHYSICIAN.
A
"My 4ear, I have been spinning tow,
And I desire to have you know
How very well and strong I feel;    ~: p
My best physician ie my wheel.
"If you should see me at my wheel,
Perhaps you 'd thinkI 'd never reel;
]3ut I can spin ten knots a
A noble' task for me, y~u.'ll sq.

t
Nu


200        LEAVES rlW~x THE TREE IGDRABYL.

"it strengthens all my frame, I find,
And does invigorate my mind,
And makes my spirit cheerful, too;
All the result of spinning tow.
"I 'ire put aside ray easy chair,
No longer do I need to wear
My blanket and my shawl, and sit
As if I had an ague-fit.
"Nor do I sigh and cry '0, dear!
I8haIl be ill again, I fear!'
But I am cheerful now, and feel
Quite grateful to my Doctor Wheel."
The spot where the red school-house stood is now a smooth
green bank, the old apple-tree is gone, and the old rail-fence
superseded by a rough, tumbling-down-looking stone wall.
Time and Death have worked their will upon that merry
flock of children, and she, who for so many pleasant summers
moved in our midst like a guiding angel, has long since
"passed through death unto life."

'It.
A SABBATH OF 1776.
LATE in the fall of 1847, it wa~ my good fortune to spend
several delightful hours in the gallery of the "Art Union" in
New York. Among the many exquisite pictures that graced
its walls, was one which particularly attracted my attention.
Not that I either comprehended or was much influenced by
the learned and technical criticisms of the connoisseurs at my
elbow, but it was a New England scene, "The Fjrst News of
the Battle of Lexington," by Ranney, and for it8 truth and
spirit I could well vouch.
It represented a New England landscape in the capricious
niouth of April, with all the shows of awakening agricultural
life and in&amp;ust4. A village smithy in the foreground, which
I ~oul&amp;~r~ve almost identffied,~under the projecting roof of
which ~ood the brawny-armed smith himself, with compressed
lips and knitted brows, fastening a shoe to thei~eking horse
of a courier (how much more significant the old Saxon *ord,
bode), who, still in the saddle, hurriedly told his tale of~4i~ate
and fear" to the excited listeners that had already readi$
the spot. All along the road were seen hurrying~ stalwart
forms, with the implements of toil still in their hands; in the
fields, the plough and oxen were left midway in th~ *~row,
while their master, without bridle or saddle, spraDg i~pon the
~tot$~farin~horse,: and, with his strong hand twisted in hi~ ~haggy
mn~j the gear~ ~till trailing at his ~heels, and nose higl~ in
the air, guided him, at an undreamed~of 9e, across the fields,
and over~fences, toward ~ scene of ex~it~nieut.


202        LEAVE5~TR0M WH~ 2~W ~0~A5YL.                                               A 0A~ATH OP 177G.             203

I knew many in my native village that might have stood ~as
the originals Qf those men; ay, and not a few horses that
might, upon occasion, have taken that very look and gait.
But more than this, as I gazed upon that picture, the shadowy
forms of the white-haired fathers of our village seemed to
take the place of the gayly-dressed people at my side, and
stand leaning, as was their wont, over their stout oaken sticks,
as they told over again their "tales of the times of old." One
of these, which that picture vividly recalled, and which would
not be an unmeet subject for the artists pencil, I shall attempt
to relate.
Gne Sabbath morning, during the gloomy summer of 1776,
when the hopes of the patriots seemed likely~to go down in
darkness and blood, and even the God-sustained heart of
Washington grew troubled, and almost sank within him, the
people of our village came up to the house of God with sad
countenance~ and heavy hearts. News travelled slowly then,
and they were chiefly indebted to such wounded soldiers as
passed through the village, on their way to their homes, fbr
their information of the movements of the army. They knew
that Washington still held New York, and the last poor
wounded fellow that had reached home had told a~ fearful
tale of the state of our own diminished army, and the hordes
of troops, uu~Ier the ilowes, that were gathering around it like
locusts.
~It' ~wasa beautiful mid-summer morning. A light thunder-
shower, during the latter part of the preceding night, had laid
the dust and given coolness to the air. The rain-drops still
hung trembling from leaf and spray, and came dropping down
in showers, as the footsteps of pedestrians or the heavy tramp
of horses, bearing, in most instances, the double burden of man.
and n~atren, with perchance a rosy~child or twpj startledfrom
tl~eir~ quivering perches the silver-throated birds.
The grain was dy harvested, but many fields of grs~s
were still standing iown and sunlurnt; ~nd it w~s voty

evident that some of the crops suffered from lack of proper
cultivation, for many of the most expert welders of the hoe
and scythe had already exchanged them for the musket and
sword. Still, here and there a piece of Indian corn stood up
thriftily, through~the broad leaves ofwhich the faint west wind
rustled with a low, murmurous sound, like the dropping of the
summer rain. In the south-west, just above the top of~ Teto-
ket, appeared the white caps of two or three of those singular
clouds, known among the country people as "thunderheads."
But the people, as they pursued their way along the green
lanes and over the forest-crowned hills, had other thoughts
than of the beauty of the landscape. Their hearts were With
their brothers and friends; their thoughts. turned towards Him
who is both able to build up and cast down, before whose
altar they were accustomed to cast all their cares and trou-
bles.
As with slow and reverent steps, they filed into the meet-
ing-house, and took their seats in the square pews, it was
easily seen that the greater portion of the male part of the
congregation consisted of men advanced in years, and b~oys in
their teens. ~I~he morning service passed i~s usual, and, after
a short intermission, the people again gathered to their places,
and the earnest prayer was offered, and a sermon, suited to
the exigencies of the. times and the wants of the atidienee, was
commenced. Suddenly, the congregation was startle&amp; by ~he
heavy tramp of a horse, which rapidly approached and~ halted
by the meeting-house door. In a moment the rider had
thrown himself from the saddle, and stood within the door.
Handing a note to the aged deacon, who was hurrying down
the aisle to ask the cause of this untoward interruption, with
an audibly w~is~pered injunction to act with speeds he as
hastily mounted,~&amp;id kept on his way. Tl~e deacon cast ~one
glan~ t~t the i~~cription of the pape~r4h~u marche~ rever-
eni~y up the pulpit stairs, and placed ~ ~he ~hand ~ the
zuinister, with th~panie whispered inju~iction. Delib~t

202

203


2&amp;4          LEAVES PRO]~X THE Tfl~ XGDRASYL.                                                  4~ M3n3ATH O? :1778.               2O~

the old man finished his sermon and prayer, then, glancing his
eye over the paper, he laid its contents before the people. It
was a pressing requisition from XVashington for more troops.
He was daily expecting an attack from the combined forces
of the enemy, and each town and village was called upon to
furnish what aid it could. After a few apt and eloquent re-
marks on the critical situation of the beloved chieftain, the
worthy man continued, "Let us not be too much cast down,
my brethren. Our cause is that of truth, and justice, and
righteousness; and, strong in these, we shall yet assuredly
triumph. This business is urgent; and, I trust, it will not be
deemed derogatory to our Christian character, nor an in-
fringement upon theholy Sabbath, if we take such measures
as seem most pressing, to-day. Therefore, all who are wil-
ling to take~ their lives in their hands, and stand by the side
of the commander-in-chief, in this hour of trial, will, after the
close of these services, please range themselves in single file
upon the village common."
Then, with hands clasped, and raised towards heaven, he
took up the sublime invocation of David:
"Keep not thou silence, 0 God! hold not thy peace,. and
be not still!
"For, lo, mine enemies make a tumult; they that hate thee
have lifted up the head.
"They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and
consulted against thy hidden ones. They have said, Come,
let us cut them off from being a nation, that the name of
Israel may be no more in remembrance.
"Let them be confounded and troubled forever; yea, let
them be put to shame and perish.
"That men may know that thou, whose name alone is
Jehovah, art Most High over all the earth !4'~9
There was silence for the space of some ~~ents, an4 then,
to the -strains of o~d "Mear," full, clear, ~ distinct, fr~ni
tarts of the house, rose the words of th~following hymn:

"Attend, ye armies, to the fight,
And be our guardian, God,
Th vain shall numerous foes unite
'Gainst thine uplifted rod.
"Our troops, beneath thy guiding hand,
shall gain a great renown;
'T is God that makes th~ feeble stand,
And treads the mighty down."
The deep silence that followed the benediction was broken
by the low muttering of distant thunder, for the white-capped
thunder-clouds of the morning were climbing with ~giant
strides up the western sky. Contrary to their usual custom,
the people. waited in silence until their p~s~tor had de~eended
from the pulpit and passed down the aisle; then the aged
deacons moved forward, followed by the congregation in due
order. As they issued from the wide doorway, the whole
male portion, as if moved by one impulse, took their way to
the village common. Thoughtfully and silently, to the roll-
call of the booming thunder, they took their places, shoulder
to shoulder, and the old minister saw before him the ava~ilt~ble
strength of the village, each man capable of bearing a musket,
from the gray-haired veteran to the boy of sixteen. Grouped
around him was a small band, to whom age and~~ debility had
left no available weapons save faith and prayer. One other
group must not.. be forgotten - the mothers, wives, sisters,
daughters of those men upon the common, who remained clus-
tered around the meeting-house door, watching, with breath-
less interest the movements of their friends. Love, pride,
anxiety, hope, and faith, lit up their excited features; but I
trow there was little cowardice there.
The old minister's heart glowed within him't~t. the sight of
the resolute, dt~~znined-looking faces before him, as they pro-
ceed~&amp; to a ch~t~4~f omcers. The subordinate o*lic~~ could
readily be filled ~but who should lead thez~i to face danger and
de~th,- ~Jio shouJ~ be their captain?
1.8


206            LEAVES FflOM ~!lI~I Tl~ZH IGbXLASYL.

Who so worthy to do this as he wl~o had stood by them in
all times of trial and sorrow - he who had already aided them
to fight the good fight of faith, th~ir spiritual teacher and
friend, whose moral and physical courage were undoubted?
and, with one accord, they named the Rev. Samdel Eells.
The old man was much moved by this unexpected proof of
their esteem and confidence. It was the highest honor in
their gift, and he fully appreciated the compliment and the
responsibility. He had too much of the old puritan spirit in
him to decline; his heart was in the cause, and, in a few apt
but broken words, he signified his willingness to stand by them
in life and in death. Then, beckoning the females to advance,
he bowed his head,, ~ like a true Cromwellian, called down
tl~ blessing of Heav~non them and their cause.
Thus was th~ first company raised in our village; such was
the spirit with which our fathers responded to the requisition
of Washington; and, in justification of the wisdom of their
choice, lot us add, that,
"Like a. soldier of the Lord,
With his Bible and his sword,"
the old pastor led-4hem safely through manifold dangers,
until they joined the main army in New York.

Iv.
TILE FIRST GRAVE.
"In vain do individuals hope for immortality, or ~ny p~ent freua~
oblivion, in reservations below the moon: there is no antid~t~1&amp;~ainst
the opium of' time, which temporarily eon44~reth alt thii~gs; the
greater part must be content to be as though 1~hey had not been to 10
~bnnd in the register of God, not in the record of man."-. Sm 77.~m~g
Brown.
a century and a quarter ago a pleasant group were
gathered round the blazing fire in the comfortable dwelling ~of
David Allen, 6ne of the settlers of our village. It was a
keen, clear, winter night; the stars shone wIth unwont44irib
liancy, the vast shadows of the unbroken forest stretcbA mo~
tionless across the pure snow, giving a still more solemn and
mystical seeming to the deep silence which brooded over the
scene, undisturbed save by the sudden cry of some night-bird,
or wild ~beast, or an occasional sharp report from the ice-
bound ponds in the vicinity, as their glittering mail splintered
beneath the quiet moonbeams.
But within there were warmth and comfort, and that happi-
ness which ever arises from the conviction of a daywell spent.
The great fireplace, though it stretched across nearly one side
of the room, was ione to~spacious fbi~ the blazing logs that
filled it; none too wide f~or th~ three generations gatIiere&amp;~
round it.                                             '4    1
Alas! alas! in ~h~se~days1 when the free, bold spirit 0r thai
most useful of household servarit~ is cramped and broken by

4

T
s 4


208          LEAVES JROM TUE TIWE 1O~~RA5YL.
confinement ~in uncouth iron prisons, when 'we catch glimpses
of its cheerful face only through the narrow bars of its iron
ma~k, we~can form little conception of its own intrinsic beauty,
or how kindly it was wont to fling its warm colorings and del-
icate shades over the ~rneanest household group, with an artist
tic grace which Titian ud~ht have envied. Like the free, glad
element that it was, it danced and crackled in the brod ore-
place of Farmer Allen on the~night of which we speak, tifrust-
ing its long, spear-like tongues between the great logs that fed
it, sending forth whole showers of glowing sparks ~s the far-
mer occasionally thrust back a protruding stick with his heavy
hoot, eh~ing the dark shadows into corners and little recesses,
lingering with a softened, delicate gleam on. the pale features
an&amp;silvery'locks of the superannuated grandame, as she sat
in her antique arm-chair in the "warm corner," nodding
occasionally, as if to keep company with the youngest little
one at her' sid~,~who every few moments rubbed his round
eyes with'~hi,~ chubby fists, stared fixedly at the fire, and then
the white lids fell drowsily down, and with a sudden nod his
dimiii~d chin rested on his breast. Then, how merrily the
blaze 'winked'back at him, and danced lightly over the curly
heads of three or four other urchins, to the further end of
the huge "settle," to peer into the pretty face of Dorcas Al..
len, the eldest daughter of the house, as she not unfrequently
lifted her' eyes from her knitting to the face of her 'luoyaut..
hearted, handsome cousin, who sat beside her, conversing with
her father and mother, or with a heightened color answered
his questions as he turned to her for information with respect
to their youngAoonipanions; 'for Isaac ]3.~- was a stranger
as it were in hi~ native 'village, having spent most of the last.
A~wo years under the tuitiou'.of the '1~ev. Abraham Pierson; of
Killin~worth, or rather Kennelwortk, as the 'old colonial, rec-~
p~ds have it, first rector~of that infant 'col
under ,the name of "Old Yale,"                    siuce,
has, banyan4~e,'sj~re~d its
shooter over 'thirty different states.

~R5T Oa&amp;vi.               209
Isaac had much to tell of' his life at Mr. Pie~s ~f 'his
studies and his classmates; and his~' simple relati6nlack&amp;1'
not their full quota of local news, marriages, births~de~iths,
clearings, raising, - to say nothing of the" meetinghousee~'
the first "meeting-house" which had ~been' erected duri~j
Isaac's absence, and which was an Iflexhaustible source~ of
pride. and interest to the villagers.
"Well, Isaac," said goodmaniAllen, taking a final squint
at the bow-pin he had been whittling, and carefully brushing
the shavings from his homespun trousers, "I suppose chop..
ping comes rather hard to you, after idlin' so many ino~tb~
over your books in old Mr. Pierson's study."
"Idling! I only wish you had to.~study as hard furs
one week, uncle. But I' can mftnage' to keep up '~#ith Sam
yet, and that is a little more than any one dse can say in th~e
parts, I fancy," replied the young man, or rather boy, laugh..
ing.
"Ha'n't quite forgot your old knack at braggisg,,Isaac,"
said the uncle, with a quiet smile. "To listen to you and
Sam, one would think you would turn the 'world over.'~;~
"May-be I shall, some day," he replied, gayly. "I~Iiall,'
at least, try~ hard to' do it; f'or~ the top round of the ladder
mt~st be mine, uncle, or none; and you see I have a long
to climb."                                       way
"Tsaa~, Isaac, will you never be content with your, lot ?~"
said the quiet Aunt Esther.
"No, aunt, not as long as I feeli that there i~ a better aiid
a nobler one within my reach."
* '~ i3etter!" exclaimed goodman Allen, ip ~urprise. "Now
hear that! Why, one would, think yoti~e~a born pauper.
~W~her~ixi the whole township are' tli'ere two boys better ~1t
~anSam~nd' you, I 'd like to kn~*'? You surely need n~t
grun4je because Sam had the m~ir~ portion of your father~
land. It would go to him, of course, as the eldest.. Your
portion will eddicat~ you, a~ji~ you a fair 'start he
18*


21Q         LEAV~8 P~1O~X TJUI TR~ IODRASYL.
wort4~. ~say~ fiothing of your mother's jointure, which will
be you t bier death. Never talk in that way, boy; it is
downright tempting Pr~vidence."
"Uncle David, Aunt Esther!" said the boy, indignantly,
you don't undemtand ~iie! I don't care for money. Indeed,
espise it, hate it, wh~z~ I see what ~laves it makes of men;
how they plod on, year itfter year, blind and deaf to every-
thing but the clinking of th~ dollars as they scrape them
into their bags. KBetter di&amp;~at~ once than to live a life like
r
that!"
"OhUd!" said the old grandmother, in her quavering
~dbs,, as, roused by the excite&amp; voice of her grandson, she
~ea~hed.across good~mau Allen, and laid her shrivelled hand
e~mmaii~dingly upon his head, "Child! be not wise in thine
o*n conceit. Walk in the footsteps of thy fathers, so shalt
thou find safety and peace."
The n~xt moment she had eank back in her usual attitude,
and.. seemed to have lost all consciousness of their presence.
"Gi~and~other is right, Isaac, though it 's a long time since
I ha~ve heard her speak so connectedly," said David AUen~
"Old paths are the wisest and best."
"Under your favor, uncle, I think not. What if Luther,
Calvin, Pym, IHampden, Russell and Cromwell, had always
plodded along in the old beaten paths? Where would have
been our boasted freedom? They dared to think for theme
selves, and to act out their thoughts, as I hold every true
man should do, else ~he ~ unworthy of the name!" replied
the excited youth.
"~Well, well, my lad, I ca~i't say but what you may be
right; but it takes a longer l~ead than mine to see through
these things," .said the unele~ thoughtfully.
"And what is it you wish for ~- what is it you  orave,
Cousin Isaac?" said the dove-eyed Dorcas, looking up from
her ki~itting.
~zed at her full a second.kefore 1~e replied, not daring

TUU ~!IR5~ ORAVE.              211

or not caring to utter in that preser~ce the o~e sw~e~t n~e
that rose to his lips; then reading, in her dow~t eyes aiad
glowing cheek, that she partly comprehe~ided lii~ 1~esit~.tion,
he said:
"Fame, Dorcas! I would~ be a star among niy' fellow~
men; not," he continued, earnestly~ ~catching the xeprnvizig
eye of his aunt, "from a selfish ambition; not to~ set myself
above them, disclaiming ull fellowship or sympathy with
them, but to guide them in the~midst of~ darkness and trouble
to raise them to a higher and purer life. When Nir. Pier~oz~
tells us, as he sometimes does, of ~ie famous men that lieJuri~d
inWestminster Abbey, and how, as a boy, he used to wa*vl~r
among their monuments, and muse on. their lofty deeds, I feel
their spirit4strong within me. I, too, have a destiny to
achieve. I will make myself a monument in the hearts df
my countrymen, so that, long after my death, in all times of
trouble and danger, men shall turn to my memory as sailors
turn to the polar star. I care not where I (tie, or, ~her~ my.
body lies, but I would not have my name forgotten upou
earth!"
"I shall never forget one I love," said Dorcas, sadly.
"No, child, and there is no harm, as I see, in the lad's wish
to be remembered. It 's natural to us all, I myself should
feel kinder bad, if I thought, after I 'm dea~, none of you
would take the trouble to put up a decent stone with my
name a~d a verse of Scripture or so on it, to, let people know
where I lie," said IDavid Allen. "By the by, Isaac, did ~I
tell you we, have set off the green 'sloping field betweemi the
meetinghouse and the river, for a burial ground?"
~n but they told me so in the village, a~ I c~me along;
stopped a moment, and wondered who would be lai4
first."
S~ IL ask myselfevery Sabhath," said Poroas; I~
"I guess IL kn~QW,~ said one of the curled lwads ~&amp;t the
other end of the set~t~. "Old ~oodman Barker. I~eard~
47
y ~


212         LEAVES 1~ROM THE !rREn X(WRABYL.
Dea~oi~ fla~~ne0 teE ~ the other day, that he was most
gout."
"Nathan, t f"~said~ the JnQther, reprovingly.
"Who is it want~ia gravestone?" asked the ~old grandame,
suddenly rousing up. "Now I think of it, DavidV~ she went
on, without waiting for-a reply to her query, "you be sure
and see that Job Ritton : puts on to mine, Abigail, relict of
SamueVAllen not consort~ but relict, just as it is on old
Madam Eaton's stone."
Here Esther Allen interrupted the somewhat lugubrious
tone of the conversation, by taking the younger children ~nd
the not legs childish grandmother to their beds; after which,
the others drew closer round the fire, and sat chatting cheer-
fully ui$~il the hour-glass on the shelf had marked the tenth
hour since high noon unusually late for them; but then
Isaac's visits were very rare, and he was ever a favorite with
his simple-hearted relations.
Froni hi~ ~hildhood, Isaac's character had been marked by
a4ofty ambition. Though that mind, which took in not only
;; the present, but the future, as its field of action, must neces-
sarily ~be widely different in its inner life from those of his
more contented playmates and friends, yet he possessed a gen-
erosity of character, and a winning kindness of manner, that
readily disarmed envy, and rendered him not unworthy of the
pl~e he held in their hearts.
Even the sternest of his Lather's old friends and nei~h~Irs,
though they sometimes shook their heads very gravely at what
they termed hi~ "carnal pride," and "new-fangled notions,"
liked to hear him talk; for there was a kind of charm, even
to. them, iii the earnest enthusiasm that marked all his
words.
We need hardly say how much he was to his widowed
mother iuud brother Sam. lie was very young at the time of
his father's death; and, ~s ~am was several years his senior,

TXIE ~'IRST GRAVE.

he regarded him with something like the mingled l~ve of
father and brother. Sam was the reverse ef~hi% brother in~
many things; he had none of hislofty ~pirations; heeded
little for the world, or the world's opinion; but he had all
his good-humor and buoyant spirits; and, if he was proud of
anything, it was Isaac.
He was wont to boast that lie brought him up; and.there
was n't another lad in the whole township that could n~a~age
a wild colt, swing w scythe, or chop into a~t~e, quite a~ slick
as Isaac; and, during his short vacations, there wa~ always a
trial of skill between them in aU~orts of labor common to the
season. In good sooth, their Uncle Allen, whose good-natur&amp;
made him a favorite with them, had some reasOn for calling
them a "couple of brags."
The next morning, after the early breakfast was over, th~
chapter read, and the prayer offered, in the house of I~avid
Allen, Isaac started for his home, which lay about a mile and
a half distant, saying, in answer to their entreaties for him to
abide with them longer, that he had promised Sam to go on
to the hill with him that day, to cut the great oak that stood
on the edge of a deep gorge, known to this day as the "Great
Gulf."
"If you want to see what Sam and I can- d~ Uncle Thavid,
just~cozr~e along about ten o'clock, and you 8hall~Iear a crash,"
hea~e, gayly.
am going along up that way myself; by-and-by;
and may-be I '11 stop an4 lend you &amp; hand. Y6ti '11 get tired:
out by that time, I dare say," replied the uncle, in. the sa~j~
jocular tone.                                'C
"Pray be careful, Isaac," said Dorcas; ~
so headlong when you get together."
"Never feWr fur us, Dorcas," cried the youth, as h~a~sed
through the gate.
"Yet it 's a pesky bud spot to fall a tree in, lad," called

-VA-

r..
A

4


LF~AVE5 ~O)X THJ~ TU~ I~*DRA5YL.

j      David Allen after hixn.~ '4Be careful; or you'will have it at
the bottom of the Gulf before you think!"
"Ay, ay, sir!'~ came ringing back through the clear frosty
air.
In about an hour. David Allen had drained his ~nug of gin-
gered cider, drawn on his mittens, and, standing braced out
upon the beam of his sied, something after the fashion of the
Colossus at Rhodes, drove off to the clearing he was making
in the vicinity of the Gulf. The hearth was swept, the old
grandanie placed. in the warm corner, the wheels of the mother
and daughter drawn forth, and plied with busy hands and
feet, while the somewhat strict discipline, which had been
slightly relaxed during Isaac's visit, was again put in force
over the younger children. The two eldest were seated on
square butts of trees, which served for stools, shelling the
bright kernels of the Indian corn into a large wooden tub that
stood between them, while the two little ones built cob-
houses on the floor, in imitation of the leaning towers of
j,    Pisa.
:~: Their voices mingled right pleasantly with the buzzing
murmur of the wheels and the monotonous dripping of the
molting snow from the eaves, and the whole room was in
cheerful coritr~t' to the icy winter without.
Neither the, mother nor the daughter seemed in a very gar-
rulous mood, though they occasionally exchanged a word about
some household affair, and once or twice spoke of Is&amp;ao atid
his ambitious dreams. Thus the hours passed on; the shadow
ondke window-sill had almost receded to the noon-mark, when
the oki grandmother suddenly roused herself, and, looking
eagerly roiind~ asked, in her shrill, tremulous tones :
"Where 's Isaac? Where 's Nabby's boy?"
"Iss~o went home before you were up, mother," returned
~IsVEer Allen.
"Ahwell, Idid n't know what mightn't 'a happened to him.
Was n't he talking about shrouds or 'grave-stones, or some

~mn flflST GRAV1~.
suck things, last night? I wonder what makes kim think
about such things?"
"Isaac's head runs upon everything, n~other."
"Sure enough, so it does; but I wonder what he should be
thinking about his grave-stone for, when I have never quite
made up my mind what verse to have Job Ritton put 'on~ to
mine. Now, mebby that 's what made me dream so last
night I dreamed Isaac was dead. Queer~ enough that I
should dream of Nabby's boy's dying, a'n't it i?" she Tmuttered,
spreading out the palms of her thin hands to the fire.
"Dream of a death is a sign of a wedding, mother," said
Esther Allen, cheerfully.
"Yes, it 's a good sign, but I 'ye known it to fail," returned
the old dame. "Many a time have I heard Submit Leete's
Aunt Leah tell how she dreamed, two nights running, that
Hilkiah Palmer was dead; and, sure enough, he was killed,
not long after, in a skirmish between our troops and Prince
Rupert's. Kiah was Snbmit's sweetheart, you know. Welk.
a..day, this happened a long time ago, before I left home and
came over here with your gran'ther. I spose Leak and Sub-
mit and they are all gone before this time. Your gran'ther
and Submit were kinder cousins.
"Don't you think grandmother more flighty than usual to-
day, otherer" said iDorcas, upon whom the old: dame's: words
seemed to make a painful impression, as she rose and walked
to the window.
"She was up later than common last night, and a little
puts her out," returned the mother,~as she left the room for a
distaff of flax.
As she again entered the room, l)orcas turo~Wb~r
an ashen face, crying, as she pointed to the street ~
"0, mother, mother! He is dead! I knew it 'w~~~'
so; I have felt it all the morning! "' and the good woxuans
cheek turned scaroel7 less pale, as she saw her husband and

4

&amp;


216          LEAVES FROkt THE TREE IODRASYL.                                               TH~~ IPIUST G1~AVE.              217

Sam lift a human body from their sled, and bear it towards
the house.
"It is Isaac - Isaac, another! " cried the trembling girl,
clinging to her for support, while the little ones, frightened
by her cries, fled to the same shelter,
"What 's all this pother about Isaac?" said the old 4gran-
dame~ querulou~4y. "Why do you cry for him? He 's to
be a minister, a lamed gospel minister. Fie, child! such
takings.'on are unmaidenly and improper."
But Dorcas heard her not, her eyes were fixed on the door,
through which her father and1cousin soon entered with uneven
steps, and bore their burden to a bed that occupied one
corner of the spacious room. There was no need to gaze
upon that mangled face to tell who the victim was - one
glance at the faces of David Allen and his nephew was suffi-
cient.
They gathered around the bed in silence, unbroken for
some moments by sobs or groans. The suddenness of the
blow had stunned them. Sam's voice was the first to break
the fearful spell. "0, my mother - my poor mother!" he
groaned, as he stooped his head upon his Aunt Esther's shoul-
der and wept like a child.
We will not attempt to describe the agony of that hour -
we cannot paint the grief that like a gloomy night shut so
suddenly down upon the hearts of those stricken ones, eXtend-
ing, ere nightfall, its dim shadow over the whole settlement-
we need not, for there are few, among those who will read this
sketch, over whose threshold the invisible footsteps of Death
have not passed.
Two days after, the body of the young student, followal
by. aln~iost every family in the settlement, was borne alo~i~
tl~ winding forest path to the recently erected house of ptib~
lie worship. After a brief but touching address by the
young pastor, it was again borne out and laid down in the
grave. His destiny was accomplished .- his yearning wish

realized - but, 0, how differently from what he had dreamed!
His name is still held in remembrance among us, but not for
wisdom, or power, or deeds of high emprise - but, as the
first tenant of our village grave-yard. Even to this day we
point to his moss-grown head-stone, and read, "Isaac B-.---,
172~t."
19

4 s


V.
MARY GRAYSON.
"Man is God's image, but the poor man is Christ's stamp to boot."
"BUT, my dear Miss R-.~----, let me assure you that this
sympathy for paupers is quite needless. Where, in the whole
world, is there such excellent provision for the poor as in our
own New England? The judge, my husband,, who should
know something of this matter, says our paupers are much
better off than we. They have no taxes to pay, nothing to
be anxious about - only to eat and drink, and, perhaps,
labor a little."
And my good, proper, self-satisfied, s~niewhat aristocratic,
but really kind-hearted, "fat, fair and forty" friend, Mrs.
Judge Lawson, who spoke thus, sank back on the sofa, into
her usual attitude of graceful repose, with a look of com-
miseration for my ignorance (I not having borne the weight
of public affairs, as' the wife of a judge).
'~ Indeed!" I replied; "then, I suppose the judge, and,
of course, yourself, would gladly exchange your beautiful
house and ~stablishment for a home in the almshouse; or,
perhaps, you would prefer being put up at auction, to be
struck off at the lowest living price per week, to some coarse,
brutal man, whose aim would be to make you do the mq~
work on the cheapest living. How much care and ~
I XI
y~u would escape!"                                 r
"How absurd! Of course, there are different station~t*~
life. ~. This search for duty out of our own sphere is what
creates so ~uuch conftision in the world," replied my friend,

U

with some show of vexation. "But, excuse me, ~ny dear,
your secluded habits have not adapted you to appreciate
what the judge calls the manifold relations of life"
"Pardon me, Mrs. Lawson; it was because I do feel
these relations so deeply, that I stood beside that old pau-
per's grave to-day, and witnessed the hurried, heartless man-
ner of her burial. Our poor-laws may be very wise, but,
when I heard the circumstances of her death, IL could not
help feeling that the spirit with which they are applied is
very different from that of Him who left us the poor as part
of his dying legacy. Our social life, though rich and beau-
tiflil in many respects, has some barbarism lingering in it."
"Heaven save us! What, strange ideas people do run
away with!" exclaimed the judge's lady, raising herself
erect on the sofa. "I am astonished, my dear, that a person
of your correct taste and excellent judgment should indulge
such fancies. What could induce you to go to that old
woman's funeral?"
*' Respect for the character of one who, in very humble
and trying circumstances, has lived a true and noble life."
"Did you know her?"
"Yes." And, catching the inquisitive glance of my
friend's daughter, Eveline, a rose-lipped girl of sixteen,
whose sense of les convenances I had somewhat offended by
taking ber to a pauper's funeral, I added, "If you are in-
clined to listen I will tell you something of her story."
"0, do, Miss R-!" exclaimed Eveline, snatching a
low ottoman, and placing herself at my feet. "I do so love
to Jwar stories, and we all know mamma's penchant that
~ And, pi~ay, begin at the beginning; for,, when. I see
women, I can searcel~y believe that they
and fair."
~Perhaps Mary Grayson never realized, the standard ef
l5eauty peculiar to young ladies of sixteen, ~dear Eva; but
she once had youth and health, which are ever intrinsically

MARY GRAYSON.              219

219


220         LEAVES 1~'ROM THE TREE IuDRASYL.                                             MARY GRAY50]~T.              .221

beautiful, and a goodness of heart and cheerfulness of dispo-
sition, which transfigured, as it were, her semewbat irregular
features, and gave her words and actions a charm which does
not belong to mere physical beauty.
"She was the only child of her mother, who died when
she was about ten years old. Her mother's place was soon
occupied, not filled, by another woman, who, though natural&amp;
kind and well-meaning, from feeble health and an excessively
nervous temperament, was ill-calculated for the trials, toils
and cares of married life, especially when a rapidly increas-
ing family, together with narrow circumstances, made inces-
sant demands on her health and patience. Of course, the
atmosphere of Miles Grayson's house was not always clear
and bright as a June day. It more frequently resembled a
November fog; and it would be idle to say it was not often
so thick and dark that the cheerful warmth of Mary's heart
could not gush through it. iBut if she could not always
banish the cloud from her father's brow, nor soothe the fret-
ful spirit of her step-mother, nor even transform the risi1~
group of children into little angels, yet, by the grace of God,
she could bear all with patience, which is, perhaps, the next
best thing.
"One thing is certain-they all loved her. True, it was a
too selfish love, that appreciated not so much her unWearied
devotion as their need of it. Her true worth they appre-
ciated as little at they did the quiet sunshine that stole
through the broken windows to glorify their mean room.
But, when one is beloved, even in this poor way, the path of
life seems less barren and difficult.
"Thus passed ten years, for time does not stand still eyen
at the doors of the unhappy. Then came deaih~, un~1er 'tEe
form of a malignant fever, and carried off the father and fbur
of the children. A still heavier burden was now lai4 on
Mary. The expenses of sickness exhausted what little prop-
erty her father had left; the oldest remaining child, a boy

220

221

of nine, could do little to aid her; t~nd it was difficult to
say which made the largest demand on her patience and love
the feeble, despairing mother, or the poor, puny baby.
Poor Mary! She saw how much was to be done, and how
little there was to do with, and almost gave way in despair.
"Besides, there was another sore trial. Like all young
maidens she had her dreams of the future; and, for the last
two years, she had not dreamed alone. There was one, an
active, intelligent young mechanic, ~who appreciated her
worth, and who had spoken to her words that had flooded
hex heart with happiness. They were both poor. Therefore
they had decided to wait until the young iftan could lay by
something, before they attempted to realize together their
dreams of married life. Mary was, no subtle reasoner, but
she had a strong sense of duty, aided, no doubt, in this case,
by her sad experience of the miseries of poverty, and its
frequent, though not necessary, accompaniments ill-humor
and sourness of spirit.
"She was deeply attached to this young man; but now,
when he came to her, with kind words and loving looks, and
spoke hopefully and beautifully of their future, though she
laid up every word in her heart, she mournfully shook her
head and wept, from joy and sorrow - joy that he was so
good and true sorrow that, in her present circumstances,
she could do nothing to bless his life or make their dream
real; for how could she leave her helpless mother and the
little ones for a life of happiness? Would not that little
babe, with its hollow eyes and its limbs swollen with scrofula,
haunt her, even in a husband's bosom? And how could she
consent to burden him with these hapless ones? lit could
not be.
"The hopes that had blossomed so brightly in her dreary
path were too dear to be easily renounced. Long, earnestly
and prayerfully, she strove to choose the right; and, to her,
this now seemed to be self.renuneiation. I will not 8ay this
19*


I

LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.

222Z

decision was made known to her lover calmly, or without
many tears, for she was a loving woman. But I know that
all his expostulations failed to change~ it, and that he, at last,
in some measure, felt its necessity.
"This trial over, and her thoughts all bent on what seemed
duty, the way of life grew clearer' to her. She found a
Diane for her little brother With a kind farmer, and directed
all her energies to the 'task of supplying the wants of her
mother and hifant sister."
"And her lover, Miss R-.--," inVerrupted Eveline; "did
her lover take her at her word? Did he make no more
,efforts to win her?"
"He did not give her up easily, Eva. Por a long time he
cherished the 'hope of a 'good time coming.' He was good
and true, and more than once sought to change her decision.
But, as the years went, through the misconduct of an older
brother, his own mother became dependent on him for sup-
port, and he finally took Mary's friendly counsel, and mar-
ried a worthy girl who had long been a friend to them both."
"How horribly unromantic and common-place!" ex-
claimed Ev~a.
"Yes, my dear; but your grandfather was always more
remarkable for good sense, than romance, I believe."
"My grandfather! You are joking, Miss IR-."
"No, indeed. I mean it seriously."
" You are certainly mistaken, my dear Miss IIr-.----,"
broke in Mrs. Lawson. "It cannot be that you are speak-
ing of Judge. Lawson's father."
"'It certainly was as I say. Mary Grayson's lover was
no other than your husband's father."
"How strange! Now, I do recollect hearing the 'judge~
say, that, owing to some reverses, the family ~ at one'
time, quite reduced."
"0, yes, mamma! Don't you remember when papa was
sick, a great many years ago, he used; to make sueh pretty

*

MARY GRAYSON.

22S

chairs and tables for my dolls, and how he told Fred. and me,
what nice times he and Aunt Mills used to have playing with
the chips and shavings in his father's shop; and how pleased
they used to be with a pair of new shoes, and all that?"
I cast a rather curious glance at my friend. For a mo-
ment a light frown darkened her smooth brow. Then, dis~
missing her judicial dignity, she gave way to the revived
feelings of the time, when, as the wife of a promising
young attorney, she was rationally happy in her husband and
children. She laughed in every feature and motion, as she
replied:
"Yes, indeed; and how, regularly as the 'day came, you
littered our only parlor; and Fred., the little mischief, bored
holes in the carpet- all the carpet we had; and how morti-
fled I was when Senator Smith and his wife called and found
our parlor transformed into a workshop."
Rejoiced to see my friend, by the force of memory and
love, bursting the chill shroud of conventional pride which
for some years she had endeavored to wear, I pressed her
hand and went on with my story.
"Mary's untiring devotion to her mother and sister awak-
ened much sympathy in her behalf among the neighbors. A
kind neighbor taught her to weave; and, in those days, when'
the wealthiest thought it no disgrace to wear homespun, and'
when every young maiden- was required to furnish her linen-
chest with the labor of her own hands, weaving, though labo-
rious, was a rather lucrative employment. The whirr of her
shuttle an4 the stroke of her lathe were heard from morning
till night. Yet how few of the good housewives and merry
maidens, who admired the firm texture of her cloth, orI~he
tasteful patterns of her table-linen and coverlets, understood
the disappointed hopes and bitter tears which the poor girl
had inwoven with them!
"Then came a time, amwl a sore time it wa~ 'when the
mother cpuld. no longer- bear the noise of the loom. For


224        i~kVE5 FRO~I THE TREfl IGI)RASYL.                                                   G1~AY8ON.              225

many months she was confined to her bed, a prey to all man-
ner of hypochondriac fancies. The slightest noise, a breath
of air, even the draught through the keyhole, she fancied
would cause her immediate death. For many weeks, Mary
sat in the close, unhealthy atmosphere of that small room,
ministering to her capricious wants, or soothing the fretful-
ness of little Ellen, while every spare moment was devoted to
her needle. At length, God mercifully sent a release, by
taking the mother from earth. I say mercifully, Eveline.
Look not so surprised, for death is oftener a friend in dis-
guise to its victims, and those near them, than we suspect. I
said to your washer-woman, this morning:
"'Your Aunt Sarah is dead, I hear.'
"'Alt yes, Miss!' she replied with much feeling; and then
added, 'She has been waiting to go a long time, and now
grandfather and grandmother can have their bed-room again.
They will be more comfortable, and grandfather's pension
will go much further.'
"This was not want of affection, Eveline; but poverty is a
hard master, and food and room are essential needs. 'For
some years after the death of her mother, Mary supported
herself and her little sister comfortably, and even laid by a
small sum to aid them in case of sickness and misfortune.
John, the brother, was placed at a trade, and all seemed to
go well.
"She had much joy, also, in the thought that her undevi-
ating patience and kindness had aided to work ~ change in
the heart of her invalid sister. Ellen was not without strong
affections, but her temper was irritable and violent. She was
by no means a pleasant companion for the children of the
neighbors; yet she was extremely sensitive, and their slights,
together with the many privations of her condition, tended to
produce in an envious, discordant state of mind. As she
grew older~tb~se feelings developed themselves more fully,
until, at the time of her mother's death, ~he was a V~eZ~y disa-

c
99
c
,

greeable, unhappy child. But pain, that 'G&amp;d-comxnissioi~ied
angel,' as one of my friends calls it, is often sent to sow the
seed of eternal life; and, watered and tended as it was by
the unwearied love ofMary, this seed, in the fullness of time,
produced in the heart of Ellen a rich harvest.
"She became patient, meek, self-sacrificing, and, by true
inward goodness, learned the great secret of making herself
agreeable to others. Thus, when the scrofula fell into her
eyes, neither she ~nor Mary felt as others who said the great~
est of all trials had come upon her. They knew that an en-
vious, unhappy disposition is far worse, for that blinds the
soul. Mary shed sorrowful tears when the darkness, that was
to shut out the beautiful world from her sister's eyes, began
to steal over them; but they bowed themselves to this
stroke.
"Then Mary felt her privations most keenly. She could
not bear to leave Ellen alone, day after day, in her darkened,
solitary room; but she could not see to sew there, and their
daily bread depended on her labor, for their little hoard had
been eagerly expended, with the vain hope of saving the poor
girl's sight. Every moment she could steal from her work
she passed in Ellen's room; it was not dark in their heart~,
though the brightness of God's sunlight was carefully ex-
cluded; and the shadow rested on their faces. After many
weeks, Ellen came forth from that darkened room, bitt totally
blinded. She soon learned, by Mary's patient teaching, to
fill the quills for the shuttle, and to do many other little
things; and thus, humbly and trustingly, they went hand in
hand on th~ way of life for nearly thirty years, until the
blind one ~~ssed from the darkness of this earthy into the
light of perfect day.
"Mary was now a gray-haired woman. 'The ion~ years
of confinement and ~zcessive toil had broken , ~ponstituti~in;
but inot until the last care was taken from ~did she f~el
her wo&amp;kness. Still~she strove on, and gradually her serenO,

4


226         LEAVES ThOM THE TREE IGDRA5YL.                                               MARY QRAYSON.                227

motherly face, became a gladness and a light in all those
dwellings about her where sickness, sorrow, or trouble, had
taken up its abode. She was an angel to all who suffered.
H~r experience 'of trial and suffering had ennobled her. It
gave weight and efficacy to her creed, which. she invariably
whispered in the ears of the sorrowing, 'We know not what
is best; but our Lord, he doeth all things well.'
"There are some. gentle souls, who, through the blessing
of God, seem to have coma early into harmony with the
Highest, whose lives seem attuned to some inward music, so
quietly and gracefully do they pass along the ways of earth.
Others there are, whose destiny is to be made perfect
through suffering. IBy reason of passion and temptation,
they are 'without form and void, and darkness is on the face
of the deep.' For these there is combat and suffering, before
they can begin to utter truly the 'Miserere mci Deus,' and
feel that the Eternal Spirit broods over their life. At length,
in such souls, the jarring, conflicting elements are charmed
into peace at His voice,~ and their sad 'Miserere' changes to
the joyful but solemn 'De profundis ' -' Out of the deeps
have I called unto thee, 0 Lord.' There ~re others, meek
and patient, who, through sins and misfortunes not their own,
are compelled to bear the cross always, onward to the grave.
These belong, chiefly, to what are termed the 'lower classes -
the Helots, the burden-bearers of life. Among these, we may
find angels on earth; but, often, not till they die do their
nearest friends rightly appreciate them, and discover that
they have had angels with them. Mary Grayson was one of
the unQbtrusive, unnoticed servants of humanity.
" F&amp;r many years before her death, the conduct of her
brother John had caused, her much sorrow. He was a good
workman, but of an unstable, restless temperament, steady to
nothing, but cQnstantly roaming from, pIac~ to place in search
of better wocrk or wages. Finally, he married a young girl,
whose life ha been passed chiefly in a factory, aud~~~io

knew little or nothing of domestic affairs. Matters went
badly with them. They both became intemperate, and their
large family of children, instead of awakening 'in them a
sense of the duties and responsibilities of life, only proved a
source of discord and misery. They went from place to
place, until, about a year ago, they took up their residence
in E-. There the miserable mother sickened and died.
John, roused for a while from his habits, remembered his
sister Mary, and wrote to her, bewailing his errors, and
beseeching her to come to him.
was twenty miles distant; 'Aunt' Mary was old
and feeble, and, besides, she had never in her life undertaken
such a journey.~ The neighbors advised her not to go. Rut
she thought of the children, hoped to bless her brother, and
went. A miserable abode, indeed, was that which awaited
her. She found her brother fast approaching a drunkard's
grave, His children were ragged, quarrelsome and ungov~
enable. But love and patience can do much, even in such a
place; and gradually the discordant elements began to yield
to her power. She was like an angel of hope among them;
but, it must be confessed, it was sometimes almost impossible
to feel or hear her through the tempest of violent passion that
was apt to rage there. Her brother died, but she had 'the
joy of knowing that he left the world sober and penitent.
Her mission on earth was now to close. The next morning
after the funeral she did not rise as usual; and when the
frightened children gathered round her bed, she was speech-
less from paralysis.
"The town authorities' of E~-.---- now took the ir~il~ in
hand. The children w~re sent as paupers to the ~1~ces of'~
their birth, and Mary~ w~s carried to the almshouse, where
she remained 'several weeks, until she showed some ~yix~toins
of amendment. Then ~he was placed in a c~nx~ion lumber
wagdii; s~nd ~nt 'to her native place. She ~ir~s born and
li'r~d~,' '~the second school seeiety iii this town. But the

&amp;


228        LnAVES Th~OM THu TREE IODRABYL.                                          MARY OR&amp;Y5O~.               229

driver brought her here; and when they proceeded to take
her from the wagon, tbey lifted out a corpse."
"But, surely, there was no need of such inhuman pro-
ceedings!" exclaimed the judge's lady.
"Certainly not; but then she was only an old pauper, you
know; and it is not the fashion to be very attentive or deli-
cate with, paupers."
"But the laws require paupers to be taken care of!"
"Ah! yes; but I tell you it is not so much the laws I
speak of, as the spirit in which they are applied. The select-
men of E- would be very much astonished if any one
should charge them with inhumanity. They acted for the
public, and their chief aim was to save their town unneces-
sary trouble and expense. In my childhood I knew and
loved Aunt Nary; but, in the shifting scenes of my life, I
had, for several years, lost sight of her. The particulars of
her death I gatht~red from one of her old neighbors, who had,
walkednearly three miles to attend her f~ineral.
Only to think of it, Miss IL-.--,' she sobbed, 'that she
who was so good; and who so patiently fulfilled the blessed
words, "Bear one another's burdens," could not be permitted
to die under shelter, like a Christian! "'
"But, my dear friend," said Mrs. Lawson, "this case is
an exception to the general rule. There are few such cases,
I trust. Believe me, if I had known 'her, I would have
attended to her myself;" and she spoke with a look of
earnest sincerity, that made her really beautiful. I rej~died:
"I do believe you; but, until we learn to look beyond the
external and accidental, we shall notbe likely to appreciate
such ch~raeters. But Eva, dear~ what is it?" I inquired,
on seeing Evelino look in my face, with , an expression~ of
anxiety and hesitation.
".1 am afraid you will think poorly of me, Miss IV.-'-----,
but I-wish to tell you how silly I was to-day, wh~i~eft
the road to Mrs. Granger's and fell into that fuu~,
p

I

sion. I wondered what you could mean by mingling with
such meanly-dressed people. And when Annette Granger
and her brother drove past, as we stood by~the grave, to
escape their notice I let go your arm, and slipped behind that
great, fat, horribly-dressed woman, to whom you spoke after-
wards. But henceforth," she earnestly continued, "I will be
wiser. I deem it an honor to have followed that old pauper
to the grave, for she seems to me to have been a true
heroine."
"Yes, my love," replied the mother, "and in that sphere
of life, and in circumstances where it is, perhaps, most difficult
to live heroically, and yet where, I fear, such lives, are most
often found. We will thank our friend for her story, and,
try to remember the lesson," sl~ continued, glancing signify~
canty at me; as she passed her hand caressingly though her
daughter's curls.
Now God be praised, I. thought. If Mary. Grayson. ~oau
look down from heaven upon them, and see how her "wQ~ks
follow her," how they have power to thaw the benumbing ice
of conventionalisin from the heart of my' friend, will she not
say, even of her pauper death, "We know not wh~t is best
-'-lie doeth all things well"?
20

j


VI.

THE MILLER.

OHAPTEU I.
"Full merrily rings the millstone round,
Full merrily rings the wheel,
:Full merrily gushes out the grist-.
Come, taste my fragrant meat.
"The miller he's a worldly man,
And mnawn hae double fee;
So draw tlie~slu.i~e izi the o~iurl's dam,
And                            )?~fin Miller.
I~AR up amid the deep gorges, the tangled thickets and
~4~r groves of old Tetoket, spring forth numberless moun~
tairi brooks, that come leaping and tumbling down the 1~izgged
inoux~tain sides, calling to one another in uierry, musical
~yoices, like children at hide-and-seek, until wearied with their
sport, and catching, as it were, the deTep solemn. voi~e of the
ocean, they mingle their waters in one channel, and With
hushed voices go winding quietly through our village, to seek
the bosom of their xnigh~y mother. 6
After this "meeting of the waters," th tr~ani winds along
for about two miles, through; a broker~ valley,' then inakii~g a
sudden turn, finds itself imprisoned I between A~wo hills, across
'the southern opening of which is ~ massive dam, built~f eat
bbick logs, against which the indignant water ~4~1i~
foaui~, and tItez~ subsiding, ~drips, drips, with ax~ ~

m~utnful murmur, MNif bewailing its fitte, while the distant
voice of ol&amp;'ocean calls in vain for her child. The eastern'
bank rises in a high b1NW~ then stretches away~it~ ;~i~e pas-
tures; but on the west the ground sippes grad~ially a6k, and,
sheer from the water's edge, is studded with mzgi4flee~it oaks,
~alnut~ and maples, interspersed with here a hei~e a dark
and stately cedar. The pond stretches bac half-mile or
so, and along its margin float the queenly watei..lilies,, like
fairy boats, intermingled with tall flags and the tassels of the
drooping alders. Close by the dam, and half overhanging
the water, as if it ever had a fancy to topple in, stands the
weather-beaten mill, with its great, skeletQu-looking wheel,
which, like some giant monster, grinds and poundsi3he ~impid
water, until it exhales away in glittering spray, or, ~caping~-
fronr its clutches, sighs faintly amid the wiUow..r4$~ '~and
rushes that fringe its bed below the bridge. TheiooWi*bui
is strewed with sacks and powdered over with xzte~ ~
which the tracks of the miller and his visitors de~e4be ~l1
manner of figures ~ the cobwebs overhead are ~
until, they look like frosted flowers, and the
"Very air about the door
Is misty with the floating nical."
here dwelt Jedediah ~ewall, the miller, for the fau-h~se~~'
a few rods west was to him nothing more than a lodgii~g.'
house. Miller .Ted, as he was generally called, was a littl~ 2
withered man, with joints distorted by hard labor, ~ia inns-
des of iroip Flesh he had none to s~eakof, and~the tongli~
brown skin stretgied over'the joints, and cI 'to the bone~,
a~ if it had s~ 'time undergone' a baking pi~cess. mAils
aly snit~ wi , ~1ittering'.black eye4eering~ut f~1~'
beneath the b~i oils white, hat and powdered hai~'~e
lo ~very i~iucK'1tf~e one of the great spiders coiled i4~ in
white ~bw oti th&amp; ra~
~ in more ~ers overhead; and the rese*
paints 'than one, foi', like the spider,
~

THE MILrJER.~                2~i

291


LEAVES PROM THE TREE I(2~I)RA8Y~.

whatever came within hi~ clutches never found its way out
again. For more than forty years he had lived in the mill,
sniffing the mealy air, shouldering heavy sacks, and compel-
ling the free, glad waters to toil for him, while, with his keen
eyes bent over the trough, with his long bent SIngers he
scooped out handful after handful~ of soft white meal for toll.
People, said that his fingers were ever ready bent for grasp-
ing, but that no one had ever known thena to relax under the
influence of charity ~nd human love.
Money, money was his dream by day and night - his
god; and to it he had sacrificed his manhood - his human-
ity. True, after maturely counting the cost, he married, late
in life, his housekeeper, to save her wages; wisely considering
that she would eat no more as his wife than as his house-
keeper, and, besides, in this way, he ~hould gain possession
of not only what he had paid her, but also the small sum
which she already possessed when she came there. There was
one result of this marriage which, although it could hardly
fail, in the end, of exerting a humanizing influence over him,
Seemed for many years to render him only, more miserly and
grasping. This was the birth of a son, whose existence cost
his mother her life. It would be wrong to say that the miller
did not feel some unusual thrills about his heart. as h~ gazed
upon the helpless infant, or a strange sensation of terror and
awe as he looked upon the rigid features of her whom he had
called wife. But scarce were the clods of the grave-yard
pressed over her, when his thoughts returned to their
wanted channel, and avarice began to repine that she did not
live to nurse the child. It would have been such a saving.
But, as Death is deaf alike to the voice of Avarice and
Leve, the old woman who had officiated as nurse to t
mother was retained to take charge of the child, which thro ~
finely under her care, and manifested a fondness for her which
gladdened the lone old creature's heart. Isaac, for~ s6 they
called the boy, was about seven years old before, Miller Jad

thought of sending him to school. Not that the boy was alto-
gether ignorant, for Widow Barker had taught~ him the names
and habits of the various birds and squirrels that made their
homes in the woods behind the house; he knew all the herbs
that grew about there,. and th~ir uses; and something too of
ichthyolog~* he knew, though if old "Grannie ~p~rker," as he
called her, had heard that term applied to ~her'lessofls, she
would have lifted her great-eyed spectacles, and rubbed her
forehead in sore amazement. Nevertheless, she had often
taken him up the borders of the pond with her, in search of
greens, or some rare herbs, holding him closely by the hand, -
for though Miller Jed seldom noticed him, yet, ever since hi~
wife died, he had manifested a great dread of death, and had
strictly forbidden Isaac to go near the pond alone,- and pointed
out to him the minnows glancing ari4 poising themselves in the
clear waters, the rosy~gilled roach, and the slender, graceful
perch. Then, during the long winter evenings, the old woman
brought into requisition her library, consisting of her Bible
and hymn-book, and a strangely retentive memory of the most
remarkable cases in Fox's Book of Martyrs, which she had
met with some time in her younger days. With these the
child became early familiar, and to their influence pe$i~ps
may1e traced his fated as a man. He was a bright, g&amp;ntie,
affectionate boy, a little more thoughtful than is usual for
children of his age, owing to the solitary life he led with his
~ld nurse, for they saw no company, save when some farin~r
chanced to call to see some very choice specimens of grain, or
some poor debtor, whose mismanagement or misfortunes had
given the old miller a claim upon his property.
How long his father would have kept him at home, with no
teacher save his old nurse, if the boy himself had not expressed
a wish to go to school, we cannot say. But all through the
pleasant spring days the child had seen a tall, spare woman,
lea~ling a~ little girl aboi~ his own size, come along the wind-
ing cart-path which led through the woods, ur4jl they reached
20*

THE MILLER.                230


234        LEAVES ~RO]~t TIlE TREE IODRASYL.                                           TEE MILLER.                235

a pair of bars by the road-side. Here, after helping the little
girl over, and placing a gayly-colored basket in her hand, the
woman left her, and retraced her path through the woods,
often turning to mark the progress of the child as she moved
down the green lane. And at about the same hour in the
afternoon, when the shadows began to Thngthen, the little girl
came tripping up the lane, swinging her basket in her hand,
and was met, either by the pale-faced woman, or a white-
haired old man.
Isaac was very curious about these people, and Widow
Barker told him that the child was Mercy Ward, on her way
to school; and that she lived with her mother and grand.
father at the distance of more than a mile on the other side
of the woods. "And an old rickety-looking place. enough it
is now," she added, more to herself than the child, "though I
mind me of the time when the Wards held their heads as high
as anybody; though for that matter I can't say but they do
now; for old Captain Adam Ward has pride enough himself
for ten, generations."
Widow Barker was no~ great friend of schools;, she thought
it a ~crime, deserving little short of hanging, to shut children
up all day to pore over books; and, as Isaac had gained all
his ideas from her, he heartily pitied the little girl, and
thought she 'had much better stay and 'play with him, lie
longed to tell her so; but he was a shy boy, and contented
himself with watching her morning and evening, as she skip-
ped along by the side of her mother, or with a more demure
manner tried to make her uneven steps correspond to the reg-
ular pace of her grandfather. It sometimes happened that
she arrived at the bars some moments before her friends came
to meet her; and, on one of these occasions, Isaac, who had
been gathering raspberries along the fence, ventured to ap-
proach her, and, holding up the purple fruit, strung after' a
primitive fashion, taught him by "Grannie Barker," on a long
spire of herds-grass, offered to share it with her. The offer

i

was readily accepted, and when Jane Watd came to meet her
child, she found her seated on a large flat stone by the side
of Miller Jed's boy, her lips and lingers stained to a deep
crimson by the rich fruit, gravely striving to overcO~ne his
prejudices against schools. Isaac stood on the spot, watching
them until the trees hid them from his sight; then he walked
thoughtfully into the house, and, to the consternation of Mrs.
Barker, declared he was going to school. Stories of cruel
teachers, of great, reckless boys, of perils~ by the way-side,
made no impression upon him, and the old woman, declaring
it to be her honest belief that the child was "possessed," ap-
pealed to his father. The miller seemed struck with th~ idea,
and said the child must know something about reading,~writ-
ing and arithmetic, to get along in the world, and might as
well begin then. Again th~ld woman brought up her fear~,
and, when she went:on to speak of the possibility of the child's
being gored to death by some vicious anh~al in the street, he
involuntarily glanced towards the corner of the room where
the dead body of his wife had lain, and said, hastily, that she
could ask old Ward's grand-daughter to call for him every
day. What proteQt~ion there could be i~i the presence of little
Mercy Ward, Miller :Jed would have found it difficult to tell;
possibly, even his hard, ~elfish natur~ felt the power of inno-
cence.
0I1:A~PTER II.
"The lovely cottage, with its own dear brook,
Its own small pasture, almost its own sky ~"
"Ward's lIollow"is a green, pear-shaped valley, shut in
between ranges of low, wooded hills. A small, clear brook,
that has its source in some hidden spring beneath the rocks
on the northern side, wind~ leisurely through it, as if loth to
leave its sheltered precincts, until, catching a view of the


2~6         ia~&amp;v~s FRO~X THE TREE IODRASYL.

gleaming mill-stream through an opening at the southern
extremity of the valley, it dashes forward 'with a new im-
petus, like a delighted school-boy, to overtake its companion.
At the northern end the hills assume a bolder front, and
are seamed with gray ledges of gneiss, amid the crevices of
which grow' many wild flowers, and queer, grotesque-shaped
trees, butternuts principally, at all angles with the horizon.
The ground at the foot o~ these bluffs is the highest 'portion
of the valley, and here, directly facing the southern opening1
stood the old Ward farm-house.
Here, at the first settlement of our village, Adam., ninth
son of 'Corporal Adam Ward of Ely, one of Cromw~lP~ old
troopers, raised his rude hut of logs, and manifested tKe~me
energy and perseverance in subduing the wild forest, ~s had
animated his father, when he Thll~at the head of his banl, at
the celebrated siege"of, Basing House. *And well ~dict mother
earth reward his toil. The valley, or .HQllow, as he naiiied it,
lay like a rich garden smiling up to haven, and in th~ course
of years he added to it many broad acres beyond' that~circle
of green hills. They were a kin&amp;.hearted, upright, rigidly
honest race, somewhat" opinionated' perhaps, but respected by
all men; and thus three' generations went down to the grave,
leaving Adam, the grandfather of little Mercy, the sole heritor
of the name and estate. He was very young when hi~ father
died, but so truly did his mother train ~him in the ways of those
who had gone before, that, when the revolutionary war broke
out, it seemed as if the very spirit of old Adam of Ely still
breathed in the breast of his descendant. He joined the
troops, where his cool bravery, his instinctive military skill
and intelligence, coupled with his unswerving integrity, soon
won him a commission. When the unrighteous stiife ceased,
he returned to his neglected estate, poorer by hundreds in
purse, but rich in the love and esteem of his fellow-officers,
and the admiration and reverence 6f his townsmen.' Most of
what was called the "Outside Land," which lay without the

hills, was sold to pay off debts contracted during the war, but
the'Hollow remained, and he diligently set himself to repair-
ing the inroads made upon it by so many years of neglect.
This done, he became more and more conscious of the loneli-
ness of the old farm-house, for his mother had lived barely
long enough to welcome him home. He was still in the prime
of life, and with his high character~ and military fame, which
was something more than a prestige in those days, he might
have chosen a b~'ide from any of the wealthy families of his
acquaintance, with a dower sufficient to have repaired his
shattered fortunes; but he passed by them all, and, seeking
out Mercy Lindsay, his early. playmate in the humble farm-
house, where since the death of her friends she had won her
daily bread by the labor of her owu. hands, ~he took her to his
bosom as his wife, companion ar~&amp; friend. They had but one
child, and for several years this green earth contained no hap-
pier family than the one at Ward's Hollow. James was an
active, spirited boy, and, as he grew older, the green valley
became too narrow for him. He longed~ to go out and mingle
with the great current of life, and all~that1iis father told him
of his own experience* there only jucreased his longing. It
was a sad thing to 'his parents when they beca~ne convinced
that a, quiet agricultural life would never content him; but
they were too wise to force upon him an occupation which he
so thoroughly disliked; therefore they procured him a situa-
tkn as clerk in a mercantile house in the neighboring city, in
which, after two or three years' service in'that capacity, he
became a partner.
For some years all seemed to go well. He married a pleas-
ant, excellent girl, and two children were welcomed as a veri-
table gift from God by them, and, most especially, by the soli-
tary old couple at the IJollow~ These children spent much of
their time there, and~theirpre~ence seemed to lead the gi'and-
parents back on the tracks of their youth. It was pleasantkgto
see little Adam imitating the erect, military bearing of his

TIlE MILLER.              237


grandfather, or going through with the evolutions of the drill,
while the old soldier gave oi~t the word of command. Then
his epaulets~ cocked hat and sword, preserved with such fond
care, were a never-ending subject of interest to them. How
.many times the little boy looked at that tarnished cockade
and faded plume, and wondered when he should be big enough
to wear a hat like that!
Though Adam Ward had not passed through those years
of military service without knowing pinching hunger and sore
fatigue, yet he knew little of those bitter sorrows which touch
the soul. It seemed as if Providence, in its wisdom, had
reserved this experience for his age. A malignant fever,
which passed like a scourge through the city, numbered James
and his little boy among its first victims; and so sudden was
the blow, that it was not untiL long after he had seen them
laid down by the side of the son of the old Cromwellian in the
village grave-yard, that he could realize its truth. His was
not a grief to find vent in words; like his love, it was deep,
silent and strong, and there came many, many weary hours, in
which he was ready to exclaim, with Syrian Job, '~ He hath
stripped me of my glory and taken the crown from my head;
my hope hath he removed like a tree." The sudden an-
nouncement of the bankruptcy of the firm of which his son
had been a partner was scarcely able to rouse him from this
mood; but when it was found that there was strong reason
for suspecting the honesty of the other partner, indignation
and contempt came to his aid. But this was not the worst.
Not only the cash capital which he had advanced for his son
was swallowed up, but examination proved that they had used
his name for an amount which his whole estate would barely
cover. He knew that this was unjust, and appealed to the
law; but it was proved that on one or two occasions he had,
in the negotiation of* some small sum, given them liberty to
use his name, and, the case went ~against him. None save
those whose lives are passed in some quiet nook in the green

LEAVES FRO~I THE TREE IODRASYL.                                            THE MILLER.                239

country, on acres that have descended to them through many
generations, can form a true conception of the old man's grief
when called upon to part with his farm. Those fields were a
family biography. Each tree, shrub, rook, brook, fence and
gate, were so many chapters of it, and well he understood
their language. 0, it was a bitter trial to that white-haired
old man! Not the less so, that these beloved fields were to
pass into the possession of one who had never been known to
manifest anything like sorrow or sympathy for others; one for
whose character he felt a strong dislike, not to say contempt.
But what cared Miller Jed for old Adam Ward's misfortunes
or opinions, when he saw before him the prospect of grasping
at one clutch the green meadows and fine pastures of the Hol-
low? He had had his lynx-eye upon it for years; he had
counted over and over how much more it might be made to
yield than it did under the old-fashioned system of agricul-
ture pursued by its ancient owners; he counted much on
James' inexperience, and chuckled inwardly when he went
into a store; then he began to mine in the dark, like one of
the rats of his own mill; he watched all the movements of
the firm, and, when he found them pressed for funds, had his
agents ready to lend on old Adam Ward's security; and
should he forego his long-cherished plan, for the sake of prov-
ing himself a kind neighbor? Not he; he would "have his
bond."
There was one alternative for the old soldier; he might
mortgage his acres for a sum sufficient to pay off the debt,
and many of his old friends advised him to this course. But
his independent spirit could not brook this; he had been a.
free man all his life, and would not consent, in his old age, to
become a servant; therefore, he let it all go, alL but the old
house and a bit of meadow on which it stood. Still the fields
retained their old name; for, like the excellent qualities of the
ancient owners, it was too strongly associated with the settle-
ment and history of the village to be easily relinquished. At


249

LEAVES FROM TIlE TREE IGDRASYL.

the time of the commencement of this story, the old captain's
wife had been laid by the side of her son, and James' widow
and little daughter, to whom poverty had left no other shelter
since the death of the husband and father, continued to reside
with the old man, and the industry and good management of
the former did much towards lengthening out the old soldier's
pension, while the scrupulous care with which she sought to
keep~ everything about the house as he had been accustomed
to see it from his youth, and the reverence and respect with
which she treated him, made her well worthy of the daughter's
place which she held in his heart. Little Mercy, how dark
that old house would have been. without her! was a sun-
beam, a hope that ever went before them, casting a serene
light on their otherwise. cloudy future.
CHAPTER III.
"Childhood, with sunny brow,
And floating hair."
June, with her rich, vigorous life, and thousand musical
voices, revelled, in Ward's Hollow. It had been one of those
"heavenly dt~ys which cannot die," and the sun, as if enam-
ored of earth and beauty, lingered on the wesL~n hill-tops,
while his level rays streamed across the Hollow, and fell on
the wooded range on the east, like a baptisni of fire. The
whole beautiful. valley was like an enchanted lake filled with
waters of the hue of burnished gold, through which the white
blossoms of the daisies~ looked forth like stars. The evening
meal at the ~ld farni-house was over, and the old. captain sat
in his grea4 arim.ehair, in froz~t of the open door, gazing over
the beautiftzt ~ceue with a sereue~ountenance, for, in submit-
ting tqr t~ie~ discipline awarded him, he ha4 learned that in
transferring the title.deeds of hi~ estate to another, he had
not parted. with hi~ inherent right t~ its beauty. The ~ido~

I

THE MILLER.

241

plied her needle by an open window, through which the faint
west wind brought the rich perfume of the many fragrant
flowers and herbs, that a century's care had collected in the
old garden beneath, while little Mercy sat on the door-step;'
that low, flat, well-worn stone step, with its edges half buried
in the thick lurf, constructing various chains and curls from
the long stalks of the dandelions, with which she had filled
her apron, alternately talking to her grandfather and mookirig
a whippoorwill, that nightly poured forth his plaintive strain
from the hedge behind the house. Suddenly she threi~ aside
her work; and, turning to the old man, said:
"Grandfather, that little boy wants to go to school with
me, and I shall like it very much. His mother, or the
woman that he lives with, asked us to-night if I might not stop
for him every day."
"And what boys do you know, I should like to ask?"
replied the old man, laying his great hand on her shining
air.
"Why, Isaac - he said his name was Isaac. Isaac
the boy that lives in the house by the mill."
Something like an expression of pain passed over the grand-
father's face, as he turned to her mother, and asked:
"What is this, Jane? Does she meati Jedediah;$ewall's
child?"
"Yes, father; I should have spoken to you about It when
we came home, but you was busy in the garden ; besides," she
added, with a glance at Mercy, "I did not know but we had
better wait until we were alone."
Jane Ward was unwilling to have her chill catch aught of'
that bitterness of spirit which she and ~ie~r fat~~eould n9t
help feeling at the name of MillerJed~a~ I~ias if hy
common consent, was seid ~6r never i~ieix~oned ~tbeeld
farm-house.
~The old man uhderstood her nio~ive, and, sensing 1~erey
21


242

LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.

~4Y on some slight errand, listened with compressed lips to the
miller's request, made known by, the old h6usekeeper.
"Have nothing to do with them, Jane!" he exclaimed,
hastily, as she ceased speaking.
"Such was my first thought," she replied; "but the little
boy plead so hard, that I could hardly find it in my heart to
refuse him."
a doub1e~faced imp, like his father, I dare say. Let
the children remain strangers. No good ever did or can come
from knowing any of that race."
"Perhaps you are right, father. But, after all," she
added, after a moment's silence, "the poor child must not be
blamed fQr his father's faults; and, when I think of him, with
no one to care for him but that hard-hearted, selfish old man,
I cannot help pitying him. Somehow, he reminded me of our
little Adam."
The old man arose and walked the floor for some moments;
at length he paused before the window, and said:
"And you think we might possibly do something towards
~iu4dng this child a better man than his father. us it not so,
Jane?" he added, with a sad smile.
"We could tryr father," was the reply.
"Well, you may be right, but I have little faith. I have
known Jed Sewall, man and boy, for sixty years,. and I neVer
knew him otherwise than mean, grasping and underhanded.
]~ut, as you say, his child is motherless; and, as Mercy will
have to associate with him, if he attends school, you can try.
Let her wait for him at the bars, for on no account would IL
have her enter his 'house."
It mattered little to Aliller Jed in what spirit a favor was
granted, so long ~as. he was sure of it; therefore he hardly
listened, to the eot~dition attaeb~ed to this. In fact, he was
quite willing Mercy should keep out of his. house, for who
knew what mischief Isaac and she, might not commit there
together?

I

THE~ MZLtEE.

248

Thus the children became schoolmates, and it was not long
before their little fingers began to smooth the tangled 'skein
of life between the two families, at least, as far as Isaac was
concerned. He often waited op the fiat stone by the bars,
until Mercy's friends came to meet her; and, perhaps, as~ with
Jane Ward, the memory of little Adam ~plead in the old
soldier's heart for the child, quite as much as his own ingenu-
ous face and winning manners; at any rate, the old Znan's
prejudice wore~ slowly away; and, as the weeks passed on,
Isaac became not only a frequent but a welcome guest at the*
Hollow, though, in obedience to her grandfather's commaj4,
Mercy's foot had never crossed his father's threshold.
And with this arrangement Miller Jed was content; for,
with all his contempt of the Wards, and what he termed their
bad management, he could not escape feeling a kind of respect
for them; besides, if the boy was there; he would be out of
mischief at home.
It was not often that the shrewd old miller had recourse to
the law; but when Isaac was about fifteen years old, finding
the validity of certain mortgages in his possession questioned,
he placed the business in the hands of ~n attorney. The c~
was decided against him; and so exasperated was he by the
loss, and the round fees demanded by his luwyer,~that he
swore henceforth he would have~a lawyer of hi~ own. Tile,
had one son, and he should be a lawyer. Like all peop~
with only one idea in their heads, this became a manh~. ~wi&amp;.
him. True, it would cost a sight of money to educate Idni,'
but then Isaac would get it all back. Lawyer~ could not only
look sharp after their own property, but their very w~rd~
were gold. Miller Jed retained ~ very vivid memory o*~ t14
sum he had paid into the hands of Sq~iire G-~.-, and ~ain
and again he computed Io~ many such; s~iins he Wou~l4
receive in a y~~ar. The investment would bring a rare
interest, he thought; ther~fbre Isaac 2was s~nt away to school,

I' ~

"4-


244         LEAVES FROM TIlE TREE IGDRA5VL.                                               THE MILLER.                245

preparatory to entering on a course of law, under the tuition
of the somewhat celebrated Judge G-, of IL
It never occurred to him to consult the taste of his child
in this choice of an occupation; but, happily, Isaac loved
books better than' anything else in the world, save Mercy,
whose sweet face had gz~own to be a most rare book to him,
ever fresh and new; therefore he made no objection.
CHAPTER IV.
"Let it be so. The barbarous Soythian,
Or he that makes his generation messes
To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom
Be as well neighbored, pitied, and relieved,
As thou."

Six years passed, eager, anxious, bustling years, with
NIiller Jed, during which he had, spider-like, put forth many
a cunningly-laid thread around the feet of needy debtors,
which would eventually draw them within his clutches; then,
the simpletons! if they made any outcry, Isaac would be
ready to deal with them. In company with such thoughts as
these, the old miser's heart seemed growing hard as his nether
millstone. With the family at the Hollow these years had
gone by "as still as stars." The tall figure of the old soldier
was still unbent, though he leaned oftener than of yore on his
aiF er-headed cane, the gift of a brother officer, as he passed
along on his way to meeting on 'a sunny Sabbath. A few
white hairs gleamed upon the widow's temples, while Mercy
had shot up tall and graceful as a green willow.
They, had counted time only by Isaac's vacations; for then
Jiollow regained the old golden glow of sunshine, some of'
which, it seemed, he' took with him at his departure. His
vacations were mostly spent there, for his own home seemed
cheerless and uncomfortable. Even Widow Barker's kind
old wrinkled face failed to me~t him at last, for her inoreas-

ing infirmities had compelled her to give up her trust, and her
place was occupied by a stranger. Though his father felt a
kind of pride in him, and did not fail to manifest toward him
that kind of respect which ignorance not infrequently pays to
talent, especially talent which can command money, not a
single day passed in which the son did not feel, with a trou-
ble which made him sick at heart, the meanness and selfish-
ness of his father's character. Every visit home deepened this
feeling, and servi3d to convince him that he never could con-
sent to become the mean, pettifogging character for which 'his
father designed him. Even the profession itself began to
grow repulsive to him; and, restless, dissatisfied and unhappy,
he entered upon the last half-year of his term.
About this time commenced that seemingly new movement
in the life of the churches of New England, known under the
name of" Revivals of Religion." The movement soon reached
IL , and Isaac and his fellow-students were numbered
among the converts.
Then, how different seemed life, with all its aims and ends,
stretching into eternity! If his father's life and opinions
looked poor and contemptible to him before, what were they
now, in the light of his newly-awakened feelings? How wil-
lingly would he have laid down his life to have made his father
conscious of their wickedness! He felt that he must see it;
he could not fail to do so, God's law was so plain. He would~
strive with him as never yet child strove with a f'athet', ~d
then, casting aside all worldly ambition, joyfully go forth as a
missionary, to speak the words of life unto the suffering mu.,.,
lions of earth.
Thus, in words' steeped in the glowing enthusia~~f hi~
own heart, he wrote to his father and the family at the aol-
low; for, though the close of his term was near at' hand,, his
ardor could brook no delay.
The Wards received the tidings with ui~igned pleasure. ~
They felt that his talents wer~ much be1~ter adapted to the
21*


246        LEAVES FRO~i THE TREE TODRASYL.                                                 THE MILLER.                24T

pulpit than the bar, and they rejoiced in the consciousness
that their teachings and influence had not been in vain. It
was not so with Miller Jed. Not until he had read, the letter
over three times, and carefully examined the handwriting,
would he believe that he was not the object of some hoax.
That Isaac should really think of opposing his will, he could
not comprehend.
~' Fool ! ", he muttered, contemptuously; "does he think I
~m going to throw away so much money on a poor chanting
priest? Ay, I see it all now," he continued, suddenly turn-
ing pale with rage; "this is old Ward's scheming. He thinks
to marry his grandchild to this whining fool, and so regain
his estate. 1 '11 see the devil have them all first, the poverty.
stricken old rascal! He called me cheat once; we '11 see who
will cheat or be cheated, now. I '11 fix matters for them!"
and shutting the water-gate with a violence that brought the
great wheel to a sudden stand, and threw the glittering water
in miniature cascades from every black rib of its skeleton
frame, he settled his white hat more firmly on his powdered
head, and sped, like a great gray moth, through the shadowy
forest, toward Ward's Hollow.
Had the prince'of darkness himself suddenly appeared on
the threshold of that old farm-house, his appearance would
hardly have been greeted with more surprise. The old sol-
dier arose, as did also the mother and daughter, and stood
~ilerit from astonishment. But they did not wait long, for the
ola miller, without stopping for ceremony, began to pour forth
~u~h a torrent ot anger, invective, and furious vituperation,
a~ those old walls had never heard before. When he men-
tioned the name of Mercy, in connection with their designs on
his son, the hitherto flushed cheek of the girl grew pale as
death, and she clung to her mother for support. Not so with
the old soldier; all' the spirit of "seventy-six" seemed t~ swell
in his veins, as with compressed lips he listened to the old
miser'~ tirade. When th~ milker was fairly out of breath, he

drew up his tall, stately form to its full height, and said, in ~.
voice which rung with the strength and clearness of youth:
"Are you mad, old man? I seek to wed one of my race
with a Sewall! IDo you know of whom you speak - or what
you say? Begone!" he added, with a commanding gesture
towards the door; "begone, I say, and pollute neither my
house nor my sight any'longer!"
There was something in the mien and tone of that 014 ~9V
dier, before which the brazen spirit of Miller Jed quaiJKe4.
Thus it had ever been in all their intercourse; he could not
help feeling it, and he hated him so much the more. He
withdrew as suddenly and as silently as he had entered, and,
until his dusty figure was quite hidden behind the hills, not a
word was spoken by the inmates of the old farm-house., Th~n~
the old man said, thoughtfully:
"My children, Isaac Sewall must come here no more. I
said no good would come out of it, at first; and it seems I w~s
right. Pardon me, Jane," he continued; "I am, Qver4iasty.
Good has come of it. Isaac will be a better, wiser, truer
man, for the teachings he has received from you, and God be
praised that it is so! Still, we must make up our minds to see
him no more. It will be a sad trial to him and to us, for
somehow the boy has become very near tome; but better
bear this, than the slightest suspicion of scheming for the end
of which that old man spoke."
As usual, they questioned not his wisdom, nevertheIess~ t~1i~
heart of Jane Ward yearned after the child of her ~do~io~,
and Mercy borrowed deeply but silently, at the thought ~f
meeting him no more. About a week after his fathers visit
to the Hollow, Isaac, with a heart teeming with hope
and faith, came up the green lane, paused a few moments on
the flat stone by the bars, where he had first met with Mercy,
then passed on to his father's house. Miller Jed, save when
under the influence of some ungovernable burst of anger, was
a man of few words. lie had~dec(ided to waste no breath


248         Iaiavi~s ~moi~ THE TREE IGDRASYL.                                              THE MILLER.                 249

upon his eon's 'whims, for he had one argument, of the potency
of which he had not the slightest doubt. Therefore, he greeted
him in his usual brief way, and listened in dogged silence
while Isaac spoke humbly, but eloquently, of the change in
hi~views,, and of his hopes and wishes for the future; and, at
his usual early hour, retired to his bed without a word of com-
ment. The young man found hope in his silence, and fer-
vently thanked God for disposing his father's heart to listen
favorably to his request.
The next morning, instead of going to the mill as usual, the
old man was busy for some time in his own room. Pre~ently
he called for Isaac to ,join l~im, and, laying before him upon the
table a great, black leather pocket-book, stuffed to bursting
with papers of all hues, bade him see whether his "school
larnin"' could tell how much those papers were worth. The
spider-like old miller seated himself at one end of the table,
and kept his glittering eyes steadily on his prey, while Isaac,
pencil in hand, examined the different notes and mortgages,
and made an estimate of their amount.
"Nine thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars," he said
at length, running his pencil again up the column of figures,
to see that they were correct.
"Right, nine thousand seven hundred and sixty dollars,"
4
repeated the old spider; "and this year's interest will make
it a trifle over ten thousand. A pretty nest-egg that, Isaac!
I Wonder if any minister can show as good a one ?" he added,
with a wily glance, at his son, as with his crooked fingers he
tenderly replaced the papers in the queer old receptacle.
"Perhaps not," was the reply; "they are men who live
with a higher aim than to lay up treasures on earth. Theirs
is, I trust, in heaven."
"Ay, I, for one, am pretty sure it a'n't here," chuckled the
old man; "but come, boy, I want you to go up the hill with me."
Carefully placing the old pocket-book in the breast pocket
of his coat, he led the way through the dewy fields in silence.

When they reached the highest point of the ridge that over-
looked Ward's Hollow, for the first time the old man paused.
It was a beautiful scene that lay before them. On the east
stretched out the deep, green woods, along the further edge of
which crept the winding mill-stream, until, meeting the resist-
ance of the heavy dam, its waters recoiled upon themselves,
and lay spread out in motionless' silence, like a young heart
when it first finds its love and trust dishonored. On the west'
lay the green Hollow, over whose rich midsummer beauty
streamed those pensive gleams of golden light, the first faint
prophecy of autumn. Isaac gazed abroad with a full heart.
Like that heart, nature seemed overflowing with love. A
benediction seemed to breathe forth from everything, and he
blessed God for life - ay, even for breath. He thought of
Mercy,-of his silent but ever deepening love for her, -of the
time when he might fold her to his heart as the crown of all
blessings; then a rude hand was laid upon his shoulder, andy
his father's shrill tones fell upon his ears.
"It is a goodly bit, boy. From the red hills yonder 'to the
river, and from the road clean away up to Monroe's Notch, it
is mine; secured by good warrantee ae&amp;ds upon record. Ay,
you may well stare," he continued, seeing Isaac's vacant look;
"it's not many men that can show a farm like that,' worth
good five thousand dollars to-day, to say nothing of the mill,
which brings in, on an average, two hundred a year more. It
took a long head to get all this property, Isaac; it will take.
quite as long a one to keep it. I have spent e'en-a-inost ~
thousand dollars - e'en-a-most a thousand-to teach you how
to keep it, and to add now and then a penny to it; for
who knows how much snore I might have got, if I had only
known enough about the points of the law? You do know
enough, and it shall be yours; only, mark me, boy, I must
have no more nonsense about priests; you n~ust be a lawyer,
- a rich lawyer, Isaac, and nothing else."
"I know how much you have done for me, father. Believe


2~O         LEAVES FRO~! THE TREE IC*DRA5YL.                                               ~i~XIE MILLER.               251,

me, I am not ungrateful; but do not drive me into a profes-
sion in which I know I shall never succeed. I don't care for
money, only let me follow the way which' my conscience'
and"..-
"Don't care for money!" screamed the old miller, aghast.
"At~y~owmad, or a fool, or both? How often have I told
you that a man could succeed in anything, if he only had
money enough?"
"Father! father!" exclaimed the young man, much agi-
tated, "would that I could persuade you that there is some-
thing better, higher, worthier of a life's devotion, than money.
It is God's love - his peace. Has not Christ himself said,
'What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose his own soul ?"'
'.' Don't talk to me about souls!" angrily exclaimed the
father. "These I see and know," he continued, pointing over
tha ~rich fields he called his own; "and these," he added,
striking his hand upon his breast, where lay the swollen pocket-
book; "bt~t of souls you nor I know nothing. And now," he
went on, seeing Isaac about to speak, "I can't stand parley-
ing here. Once for all, are you going to obey me? Mill
you be a'lawyer, or not?"
The 'young man moved back and forth hurriedly for a few
moments, then, with one glance at the lovely landscape and
the blue heavens, he fronted his father, and said, sadly, but
firmly:
"Had you left it to me, father,, or even consulted me, I
should uever have chosen the profession of law. Not that it
is not honorable and great - even sublime in its principles
and aims; but our views of it are widely different. Were I
to follow it, you would be sadly disappointed, for never would
I consent to advocate a cause Ii knew to be wrong; never
Would I stoop to become the instrument of oppression and
injustice. When I think how some of these very lands have
been won, I cannot, dare not, obey you."

"Damnation!" exclaimed the father, trembling with dis-
appointment and anger. "Then not a cent shall you have of
mine, to save you from the poor-house. Go, and my curse go
with you!" he added, as he sprang hastily down the hill-side.
Isaac sank down upon a shelving rock, and, covering his
eyes with his hands, as if that beautiful scene had st~d4PiAy
become painful to him, strove to collect his troubled th.ouglits.
It was a fearful moment. All his past life, all his future
hopes, seemed pressed into it, and he could only bow his head,
and, in the anguish of his spirit, cry, "Our Jather!" As if
in answer to that prayer, a calmer mood came to bless him.
He carefully scrutinized all the circumstances of his short
life, and the motives that had led him to renounce a course
which he felt could only be to him a death-in-liTh. Then came
the memory of his old nurse's legends of the ~arly martyrs,
and his imagination kindled. "He that loveth father or
mother more than me, is not worthy of me," he murmiged, ~s
he arose and slowly took the way toward the old farmhouse
in the Hollow. Just as he entered a thicket of young birch,
at the foot of the hill, he met a boy with a fishing-rod over
his shoulder, who placed, in his hands~ a letter, saying, old
Captain Ward had given him some pennies to carry it to the
mill. Isaac knew the old man's habits; something unusual
must have occurred to rouse him to the effort of writing a let~
ter, and, with a foreboding of sorrow, he broke the seal. It
needed little skill to decipher those round, regular characters.
There they stood, plain as the green earth beneath him, say~
ing, in kind but firm words, that he must visit the Hollow no
more.
"Cursed by him, and through him!" murmured, the young
man, as, in the utter loneliness of his heart, he sank upon the
half-decayed trunk of a fallen t~ee. No one knows, no. one
ever can~ know,: the sorrow, doubt, agony and despair, of
the succeeding hours of that glorious mid-summer day.

4 }


252         LEAVES FR0~' THE TREE IODRASYL.                                              THE MILLER.                 258

CHAPTER V.
"Eyes which the preacher could not school,
By wayside graves ~re raised;
And lips 5i~y, '~4od be pitiful,'
Who no'er said, 'God be praised~'"
~ One, two, three, four, five, six weeks they occupy but a
little 4ace oii our paper, yet they crawled over the Hollow
like so many weary years. They brought sorrow and grief to
the simple, affectionate hearts there, and, were we writing a
mere love-story, we might tell how the heart of Mercy sank
beneath The first taste 6f life's bitter chalice.
Six weeks! and how passed they .at the mill? We 6nly~
know that the great mill-wheel dashed round and round as of
yore~ the waters moaned and sobbed, while Miller Jed con-
tinued to scrape up the soft meal with his bent fingers, as he
9ccasionally said to himself, "An obstinate dog; but he '11
come round yet. Poverty is a rare tamer."
Then, a man on horseback paused in the whitened atx~s-
phere at the mill door, and delivered him a letter.
"I was going on to M-.--, and promised onr minister that
I would come this way and deliver that letter,'~ he said. "It 's
sorry news, I reckon, an' you be his father;" and, with a
whistle to his horse, he cantered across the bridge and up the
hill.
Miller Jed started4 at his wards, a~d stood for some time
turning the letter over and over, as if he already appre-
hetided its contents. Then, suddenly breaking the seal, he
took them in at a glance.
~ Fever come to him~- die 'death," he murmured, as
~ in his trembling han~'ds. "lie shall not die!"
J~ ~z~1ni~d ~vehei~ntly, as he hifr$edly stopped the wheel.
"fl~ o~niiot so" young, and."' - he ~started' ai~14ooked over
his sh&amp;k1~r iii fear. A f'e~ ~drops of water ~#~ilen 'on his
hand, anil he thought of the told damp forehead of his dead.
wife, 'and that old terr~iK~eized him.

I

He hurried to his horse, and, with the meal still powdering
his gray locks, like the ashes of repentance, mounted his sleek
mare, and took the road towards L-.---.
Weary, faint, and almost despairing, Isaac Sewall had
reached IL-, he hardly knew how, and, presentingi4rnself
before Judge G~-.- and the old minister, stated 4I1~ 'his
troubles, and besought their advice. "I am honele~s~- an
outcast; but I had rather die than become the mean, petti.~
fogging character for which my father designs me," he said,
sadly.
The old men were much impressed by his earnestness, and
through their influence he was soon engaged as assistant in a
large school in that vicinity; but he had hardly entered upon
his new duties before he was seized with a raging fever.
When Miller Jed reached L-~, the disease was near its
crisis. All that night the miserable old man sat crouched in
a dark corner of the room, scarcely daring to look upQ~ ~he~
faee:of his child, listening to his ravings and low moans~ with
feelings too fearful for us to describe. Sometimes h&amp; was
with his fellow-students, but oftener at the Hollow with Mercy;
and, as if a gleam of the truth still reached his troubled
brain, he would moan piteously, "0, take me home! ~Let
me see her once more!"
It was never of his own home, but of the Hollow, that he
spoke, and only once his fbvered lips murmured the werd
"Father." The very tone was like a dagger to the old mii..~
ler's heart. The) next day the crisis was pa~t, and the
sicians spoke of hope, though the old man scarcely e~rniiie~
ended their words, but, through the live-long da~y s~t Wz~t~
in the same place, casting fearful.glances at the $W~ ate~z~u~.~
ated figure stretched on I~ke bed, so like 1~ ~ne~ t~t hxi~d~iioe
lain stiff and ~tark in his own lkuse. When Isaa~ was able
to look up, hi~ I~*ther's presence was made known to him, and
a gleam of ple~snre lit up his pale~ce, but f~w ~ords passed
between them,~aud neither referi~ed &amp;the past. .As he began
'22

K


254.        LEAVES ~RO~X TUE TREE IGt'RASYL.
to gain strength, one yearning desire took possession of his
mind. "Only let me go home, and I shall be well," he
pleaded, day after day, until the kind-hearted physician
yielded a reluctant consent. An easy carriage was procured,
and, bolstered up with beds and pillows, Isaac bade farewell
to his friends, and, at a. snail~iike pace, set out for home.
j' I much doubt the wisdom of this step," said the old min~
ister as the carriage disappeared round the corner. "It is
sixteen miles to B-, and the poor child is very weak."
"So do I," replied the physician, with a sigh, "yet it can
make but a few weeks~ difference, at the worst." Then seeing
the minister's inquiring look, he added, pointing to a golden
leaf that floated slowly toward the ground, "our young
friend's fate is like that, No earthly skill can change it."
When the carriage reached the point where the green lane
turned off to the IrIollow, Isaac raised his eyes imploringly to
his father's face, and made a faint gesture, as if he would go
that Way. Implicitly the old man obeyed, and, at. a slow
funereal-pace, they drove on to the old farm-house. The sight
of the carriage brought the whole household to the door.
"He wcrtdd come," said the old miller, as if in apology, as
they gathered round the carriage.
"Yes, grandfather, mother, Mercy," said Isaac, faintly, as
he stretched out towards them his thin hands, "I would
come. You. first taught me how to live you mus1~ now
teach we how to diet Forgive me, father," ~he added, laying
his hand in the old millers, "they can pare for me better here
th~ni at home, and yoa will come to sc~ inc daily."
The old miller looked anxiously toward Adam. Ward. "If,"
he murrmzred, hesitatingly, "money, can;repay you, take all I
have, oR4y kt him stay only save bite."
"Gladly will ~we~take him for his own sake," replied old
Adam Ward, as he raised the poor invalid in his arms, and~
assisted by Jane, bore him. into the house.
Those pensive, goida~ ~let~nis, the prophecy 4 autuxri~i, tbM

TilE MILIiER.

255

slept upon the hills the last time that Isaac SewalPs. feet had
trodden ~Jiem, had deepened into reality; end slowly, as the
leaves change from green to crimson, and, impelled by their
own weight, floated toward earth, so waned the life of young
Isaac Sewall toward the grave. Loving hands tended him,
and loving hearts lavished their wealth IQf tenderness ~ipon
him, and he was serene and happy. He knew it was much
letter to die thus than to go through life cold, selfish and
unloving. And -he was happy in another thought; for all
those sunny, autumn days his old father sat by his sidesome-
times sobbing like a very child as he spake of death and
heaven, listening humbly and earnestly to the sacred Word as
it fell from the lips of Mer9y, - words which he had heard a
thousand times, but never felt before, - and joining with un-
feigned humility in the petitions which Adam Ward raised
daily to the Father of all. Yes, Isaac was happy. ~Qnly
when his eye rested on the tear-dimmed face of Mercy, ~au4~
his ear caught the sobs which she could not wholly repress,
was his heart troubled. Then he would take her hand, and,
drawing her cheek down to his, murmur~;
"Yes, it was a sweet dream,, beloved; but a little while,
only a little while at the longest, and we shall mee%~gain;"
In the mellow light of an October day they laid him in the
village grave-yard, with very sorrowful but calm feelings.
The perfect quiet of his last moments seemed to have de-
scended on theni, especially upon the old miller. Henceforth,
to him; death had put off his terrors. The thought of his
~hild seemed ever before him in the way of eternal ~
With an eager hand he strove to repair the 'sorrow which his
gra8ping selfishness had caused, and most gladly would he
have deeded back to Adam Ward his ancient in~ritance;
but. the independ~it spirit of the old soldier would'ner~ait
this. He declined, saying:
~' Do what y~oi please for my children.; but, for me, I have
about &amp;rne with the cares of earth."


256        LEAVES ~RQ~ THE TBE~ IODUASm.

Therefore, though no deeds witnessed the transfer of the
estate back to the Wards, the wealth of the old miller flowed
in many an open and secret channel around their lives;
channels opened by death. And, for many years afterward,
two old men might often be seen, seated like brothers near
the open door of the old farm-house, while the golden sun-
light rested like a glory from the celestial world on their
hoary locks, speaking earnestly and hopefully of the life to
come.

~~TJI.
AN hOUR ON THE CROSSING POLE.
CHAPTER I.
"WHAT a pleasant old lady!" exclaimed Kate Lee, as we
turned from the door of Mrs. 5-. "How kind and agree~
able she is, and her face is so' calm and serene - so handsome!
Surely, Miss R-.--, she must have escaped all the trials and
sorrows which you wise people say are a' part of life, though
II am sure I do not see why it need be so."
"Look here, Kate," I returned, pausing, and placing my
hand on the bole of one of the young shade-trees that 'lined
the walk. "Is not this bark very smootbi and fresh?"
"Why, yes, it feels like silk, whi1eit~t above and below is
dark and rough. Why is it so, Miss 1~-?"
"Two je~4~s ago, the bark was' Dearly strippe4~from the
tree in this place; but you see it is quite healed over, so that
none but a close observer would detect the place of the woand~
It is so injife~ Kate; a serene, calm look, like that of Grand-
mothc~ S~.-, i~ often the badge of victory won ovez~ suffer-
ing and sorrow."
We walked oil. in silence until we reached a mOssy p,, e~
that spanned the noisy mountain' brook ~which we n~ust cross
in our way home.
4'        4'
This pole, shaded by ancient buttQn-woo~s, whose 1~O~tA$ W4t~
half unearthed by the busy stre~4 was a fhvori~e ~esti~g
pla ~iith me; and, ~' we seated ourselves, Ellen Ashton,
our th9ught~fld ~o~ig ~pmpanion, spoke fb~r the first tzrne ~
~e bade goody to our venorable~iend.
22*


258        LEAVES F1~LO1~Z THE TREE IODRABYL.                                AN HOUR ON THE CROSSING ro~.       2&amp;9

"Will you tell us more aboui~ Grandmother S.-, as you
all call her, Miss B-? Why, she is like the wounded tree;
for, notwithstanding her face is so calm and serene, as Kate
says~ so like 'those faces IL sometimes picture to myself among
the clouds at sunset, and her ways are so cheerful and social,
I cannot help thinking that she has been sad, very sad, some
time in her life."
"Now, that is just like you, Ellen," began Kate, "always
fancying romances, when I see nothing but very plain matter-
of-fact people, who eat and drink, go to bed and get u~, after
the same old humdrum fashion. Not that I would apply that
epithet to Grandrhother 5-, for there is nothing humdrum
about her - nothing sad or gloomy - nothing "--.
"0, no! I don't mean that she is gloomy," interrupted
Ellen. "Indeed, it is difficult to express what I do mean,"
she continued, after a pause; "but it is a certain something
in her 'eyes. I have seen the same look in sister Jane's eyes
ever since her husband was lost at sea; especially when she
stands, as she sometimes does, for a long time, gazing on his
portrait. It seems to me as if Grandmother 5---- sees por-
traits in the air, sometimes."
"Perhaps she does, Ellen," I began; but at'~hat moment
Kate, who was as thoughtless and as grace~if is the stream
at our feet, suddenly whisked a long branch t~fWil1ow, which
she had been idly floating in the water, over our heads, and,
unmindful of the shower-bath she was giving us, exclaimed:
"Look, Ellen, look! What a funny old building! Why,
tE~~of runs completely down to the ground behind! I won-
der where the baek-4oor was; and the chimney -see; it is
large :et~ou7gh for a house of itself. What was it, l~~iss
-4; 'a h~use~ or a fort, or a jail? "~
A~ both my young frie~4s were natives of the city, and
this was the first time they had ~ever g6t beyond ~he suburban
villas which they call country, into a reM agricultural dl~rict,
I did not so much wonde~'at their C~irzO~i~y concetiiu~g an
4'.

old-fashioned farm-house, then little better than a ruin,
whose timbers had been laid nearly 'a century and a half
befQre.
"It is, or rather was, a dwelling-house, Kate. Several
generations lived and died beneath its roof; and not afew
young maidens, fair and merry as yourself, have gone forth
over that old threshold to gather the parti-colored sheaf of life
in other and brighter fields~ Of one of these I may some
time have something to tell you.
"0, tell us now! Pray tell us, now!" they cried in ~
breath.
Yielding to their request, I began: "Sixty-JIve years
ago "-
"Mercy, what an age!" interrupted Kate, drayving a long,
breath. "Are you sure you are awake, Miss R---? Why,
it troubles me to think of it."
"You will find that trouble diminish as the years go on,
chatterbox," I replied, as I agaii~ to~k up my broken sentence.
"Sixty-five years ago, every room in that old house, even
the great yard around it, was busy ~jth the' stir of life. 1~alf
a dozen or more negroes (for Connea1~ieiit had not then thrown
elf the curse of slavery), their black faces and white teeth
glittering iii the. clear sunlight of a May morning, were passing
from the stables. to the street, leading horses, with saddles,
side-saddles, and billions, duly arranged; for that was not the
day of wagons, tho~igh there were two or three cluinsydooking
covered vehicles, called chaises, in those. days, that not only
attested the wealth and rank of their owners, but wh
nesses seemed a sore puzzle to the grinning blacks ~ ast,
two' tine-spirited animals were led~ ~ut to th~ " ~ ~ld
horse'block, and held as quietly as possible ky tW
"~['hey did not ~Wait long, fo~,spon, over that old~ h9k1,
eqin~ a young girl, l~Miing cm the ann of a handsome, athletic~
loo~4ng. youth,' on ~iose open, ~nly features eorr~w seemed
struggling with joy. After ~i oame two gray~headed

n


AN HOUR ON TEE ORQ5SING POLE.     261.

i~vss PROM THE' ~REE IODRASYL.

couples, followed by a whole troop of relatives and friends, of
all ages. The maiden's face wa~ hidden by a veil; but, as
she turned it aside to take one more look at the home of her
childhood and the dear faces clustered round her, one could
see that it was beautiful - fresh and' beautiful as that bright
May morning, 'andas dawy with tears - tears which again
flowed rapidly, in spite of her efforts to suppress them, as,
with her hand clasped close in that of her companion, she
bowed her head to receive the parting blessing of their
~w~nts, and the last good-by of those 'who had been her friends
fr~in childhood.
" Then) her brother's stout arm encircled her, and, with
one kiss on her cheek, he placed her in her saddle. Her com~
pinion sprang lightly into his, and, at a quick pace, without
trusting themselves to look back, they 'crossed the same brawl-
ing brook, and took the road yonder, where it winds towards
the west.
"The group remained in the yard, watching them until
they saw them turn on the brow of the hill there, and v~rave
a last farewell; then, the elder guests gathered round the
parents, to speak a few words of cheer ere they departed for
their homes. The younger ones grouped around theold porch,
and discussed the wedding which took place the evening before;
and the children ran in and out, with huge pieces of. cake in
their hands, supplied from the liberal store of black Time, the
head female slave.
"It was agreed among the elder guests that James Sher-
~nan~j~as an intelligent, steady, industrious fellow, who ~a's
sure of making his way in the world anywhere, especi~dIy in
that 'we~tera world. for which he had just started wi4h his
young hrid&amp;~ and many were the flattering pro~heeies 'tittered
witWrcgard to his future success and position in that un~tl~d
section, to all of which the bride's mother lent a
while 1i~r heart murmured, 'Poor Mary!' The you~g~~s
were ~zot 'the less unanimous i~ deciding that it was a capital

match - that they were the finest-looking couple. they had
seen for many a day that the bride's dress was beautiful -
that her gray-coating riding-dress and round beaver hat were
very, becoming and 'just the thing' for her journey; but,
after all, it was a kind of wonder to. them how Mary Burgiss
could ever consent to go .' clear away olX' to the ~Whitestown
country' (as they called the settlement of old Judge White,
in central New York), to live among bears) ~nd wolves, and
those horrible Indians; and, as he listened to their Words,
and recalled some of the fearful tales of frontier life which lie
had heard, a dampness gathered upon the stout brother's eye-
lashes, and he, tob; murmured, 'Poor Mary!'
"Then the gnest~ mounted their horses, and turned chatting
to their homes; and an hour later all was as quiet as usual'
in and around yon old farm-house."
CHAPTER II.
"In an open glade, formed partly by nature and partly by
the woodman's axe, in the heart of the solemn old forest'
that, little more than a half-century a~go, covered the rich
swells and luxuriant vales of what is now Herkimer county,
New York, stood a comfortable-looking log-house.
"All around, for miles and miles awny, stretched that bil-
lowy sea of forest-leaves, and, save by a narrow ~foot-path
that led from the cabin-door across the clearing, and~was lost
in the forest on the side towards the nearest settlement, the
dwe1jl~rs in that solitary place seemed to be entirely shiiiK~;
~from cqnimunicatiou with the bustling, busy world. 2
'~yt~hing about the clearing gave evidenceof$iet1iri*~
and activity of the owner, and rude and. reugh a~~W th&amp;
exte~&amp;~~ of the dwelling, indications were not wanting to.sho~r
tli~ X~#d of taste ~had been busy there also. 'The ~rea~
log~ ~rined the sides were half covered by the luxuriant
bran~lies of the wild, creeping roses, while around the win-

t
i
7
i


262         LEAVES PROM THE TREE IGDRA$YL.                                       AN HOUR ON THE ORO5SINE* i~oia~,     26&amp;

dow and over the low door-way, the gay, flowering bean and
the home4ike morning-glory mingled their scarlet and purple
blossoms.; and in the carefully-weeded bed, beneath the
eaves, were ~a tribe~ of hollyhocks, marigolds, four-o'clocks,
bachelor's-buttons (you know I like the pld-fashioned names,
girls), pansies and pinks, mitigled with rue, hyssop, worm-
wood, sage and fennel - every leaf, every blossom of which
was as dear as the face of a friend to the heart of her who
tended~ them, because so full of sweet memories of that home
where the seed from which they sprung had been ripened and
gathered, far away amid the rock-bound~ v~les of Connecti..
cut. Such had been the aspect of the place through the long
summer hours; but, at the time of which we wish to speak,
the frosty breath of autumn had withered this wealth of
greenery, and the long, brown trailers of the bean and morn-
ing-glory swung mournfully in the breeze.
"The glorious days of the Indian summer, during which
the mighty forest had been as a sea of flame, almost too daz-
sling to behold, were already gone, and the cold, raw, whis-
tling winds of November began to moan and whine around
that lonely cabin.
"It was at the close of one of these leaden-hued days that
a woman appeared in the door-way of the cottage, and gazed
anxiously down the footpath where it disappeared in the for-
est. As a gust of wind lifted aside the checked apron which
she, had carelessly thrown over her head, it was easy to recog-
nize the fine features of Niary Sherman. Her cheek was a
shade or two browner, perhaps, than when she crossed yon
old t~reshel&amp; a brid~ but her slender, girlish flgur~ had
ripen~h. into the luxuriant development of womanhood, and
there.was an abiding light in Iier dark eyes, so serene~ deep
and tender, that one feW at once that some new revelatkaL of
life's mysteries had been vouchsafed toller.
." More than once she appeared in the do*, lo4kin~

anxiously into the dense forest, and at each time her brow
wore a deeper shade Qf anxiety.
"Suddenly her practiced eye caught sight of a well~knowx~
form hurrying along the narrow path, and, with a flush of'
joy on her cheek, and words of thanksgiving upon her lip~
she sprang forward to meet her lni~band.
"'You have been frightened, Mary,' he said, in reply to
her exclamation of delight, a,~ he threw his ann ovei~ her
shoulders, and gazed fondly down upon her upturned face.
"'No; at least not for myself, James, but for your'. she
replied. 'You arp. later than usual - later than you prom-.
ised, and you kn6w there have been rumors of a party of hos-
tile Indians being seen in the neiglibQrhood.'
"'But they were twenty miles off, if, indeed, any were
seen, which I much doubt. Ned Emmons is always seeing
Indians behind every bush and stump. Ypu would make a
capital frontier-man's wife, Mary, if you could only forget
other folks as readily as you do yourself. And now,' he con-
tinued, pausing and laying his hand upon her arm, as she was
about to raise the wooden latch to their door, 'Whom do y~u
think I haveseen?'
"She looked up into his animated face for a moment, and,
her own glowing with sudden hope, exclaimed;
"'Some one from home, is it not? Brother John ha~
come!'
"'No;' and the glowing light began to pale as her hus-
band went on. 'You will have to guess again, Mary; but I
will not tease you. It is George Allen; and here, see what
he ~as brought,' he ~added, as he drew fr9xn the deep ~
of his l~iznting-jacket a great, square letter, direetad. in the
large, ~und characters which ~she recognized at once as ~ke~
fatlwi9s hand,
"'A letter! Ohow glad I am!' she exclaimed. 'AI4
it w4$i;ke almost as good as seeing John to see
Whei~ is he? Why did he not coma hrnie with you?'


264        i&amp;~vxs n~oM ~nj ~nz~i IODRASYL.                                       AN UGUR 0~. THB OROS5flTG POL~1.      26~

"'He only arrived' this noon, and his cousins would not
hear of his coming with me to-night,' replied the husband, as
he-9pened the door and .~et the butt of his rifle rather heavily
upon the floor.
"'Hush!' said Mary, softly, springing across the room,
and laying her hand ona~ ~clumsy cradle, evidently the work
of James' jackknife and saw, while she began to murmur
over the nestling occupant some old New England strain.
James~ Sherman moved stealthily to her side; and when, after
a few moments, the eyes of the young parents met, as they
lifted them from the face of their first-born ~hild, it was very
evident under what form that new revelation of life's mys-
teries had been given them.
"As the twilight deepened into night, the wild winds woke
in the forest and swept in fitful gusts across the clearing,
driving before them occasional showers of sleet and rain, rat-
tling against the cabin walls, and shaking the wooden fasten-
'ings with a violence that threatened their security. But
James Sherman, ~0nfident in the strength of the good sea-
~oned oak, only smilecPas he saw his wife start at the clamor
of the baffled winds, and drew his chair nearer to her side,
while he continued to speak of the contents of the welcome
letter, which they had. read over and over again, and of his
meeting with their old friend; until Mary almost forgot to
rock the cradle at her side in the interest which the subject
awakened.
"'How good it does seem to get a letter from home!' she
said. 'It is almost like seeing them every one. So Grand-
mother Fowler is gone at last the kind, old souL She
spun this very yarn that I am knitting; and I remember, ~as
well as it' it had happened to-day, what she said when ~he
gave it to me. " There, child," she said, "I have spun a
double portion for you, for you won't have any old grand-
nwther to spin for you out in the woods there; and mayhap
she may notj* ~iere when you oom~e back."'

"After a moment's silence to the memory of' her kind old
relative, she went on:
"'And Fred. Hoadley and Lucy Stone are married. Well,
I should think it was time they were, if they ever intended
to be. Why, he had waited on het a year or two before we
came away. And to think that Hannah Meigs has got a.
baby! That beats all. Why, they have been ~married as
much as ten years! But when is George coming here, James,
and how long ~ll he stay~'
"So the happy young' wife ran on, and her husband
replied:
"'He will come here in the morning. Jim Lee is coiiiing
over with him, and he will stay around here about a week.
He stopped two weeks at his sister's, on the way, and he says
he must certainly reach home by Thanksgiving.'
"'And, if he does, our folks will get a letter from us just
at the right time. They will all be at home Thankful, and
Sarah, and Eunice, and Eben, with their f~x~lies. They will ~'
all be there, James - all but lI~;' and the tears spran~ t&amp;
her eyes, as she thought of the pleasant old festival, and the
family gathering beneath her father's roof.
"Her husband drew her head to his shoulder, and, gazing
thoughtfully into her eyes a moment, said:
"'You were ever a home-bird, Mary, and I have some-
times thought, when I am all alone in the woods, that I did
very wrong in bringing you so fa~ away, to' this lonely
place.'
"'No, no, James; how coul4~y~i ever think so? I have
been so happy here!' she added; ~Wiehig at the fair, round
fao~ in the cradle. 'I only tJiou~ht, at that moment, how
pleasant it would be to see them all once more for you, and
I, and baby, to ~tep in upon them. 'Would nt they stare? '-
she went on, smiling at the picture her words brought up;
~-~' for you know that they don't know anything aboift bal~y
yet; but I shall write all'about her, awl t~U ~th~r that we
23


n6ui~ ON THE CROSSING POLE.      267

266        IZ&amp;vES FROM TH~I TR~E IGDRASYL.

are going to call her Clara, after her. You are sure George
will come in the morning, James?'
"With her babe on her arm, and a smile on her lip, at the
thought of meeting her old friend, Mary Sherman sought her
bed, to dream, perchance, of yon pleasant' old homestead.'
"Some two hours later she was awakened by a yell that
struck the terror of death to her heart. It was the terrific
war-whoop of the savages. Her husband sprang to his feet,
and, seizing his rifle, made for the door. The heavy wooden
bars still resisted the pressure from without; but at that in-
stant the blows of half a dozen hatchets fell upon the thick
plank.
"'The chest - quick help me, Mary!' he whispered;
and, following his motions rather than his words, the terrified
woman united her strength to his, which seemed at that in-
stant almost 'superhuman, and they succeeded in moving the
heavy wooden piece of furniture, which contained all their
household valuables, against the door.
"Going to the back part of the house, where there was a
narrow door, seldom used, and then completely hidden by the
clinging ~osos, the husband bent his ear for a moment, and
listened breathlessly.
"'The devils are all in front, Mary,' he whispered, going
to the bed and pressing one kiss upon the soft cheek of his
child, as he placed it in her arms. 'Fly, dearest; this is
your only hope! Quick~ !'~ I will follow as soon as I have
placed a few more things ag~dnst the door. It may help to
deceive them. For God's &amp;~ke, fly!' he repeated in agony,
as he unclasped her arm from his neck. 'Take the path to
the big oak in the east woods. I will be with you in a n~o-
ment! 0, God ! he murmured, as she disappeared in the
darkness; and the strong man, reeled ~as' he turned to his
barricade.
'Drawing her scanty night clothing around ~her babe, to,
shield it from tJi~ bitter winds, Mary She~iuau fled, like ~

leaf' before the gale, in the direction which her husband had
indicated. In the edge of the wood stood the giant oak,
and, crouching behind its great trunk, she awaited, iW~an
agony that no words can describe, the coming of her hus-
band. Unmindful of the cold, sleety 7~ain, that drenched her
thin garments, but pressing her babe more closely to hez~
breast, she kept her eyes strained in the direction of h~r
home, as if she would pierce the thick darkness that lay be-
tween them. Suddenly a ferocious yell rent the air, and the
tall spiral flames shot up from the thatched roof of her
home, casting a red glare over the clearing, and bringing
into clear relief the dusky forms of the yelling savages.
With a groan of agony, the wretched wife sank down at the
foot of the friendly tree.
"From this state of happy insensibility she was at length
roused by the failings of her child. The poor little thing
was almost dead from cold. Instinctively, she crept along a
few yards, to where lay a great hollow log, which she had
often noted in happier days. Creeping into this shelter, with
her baby in her arms, she awaited, in fear ~nd agony, t~1ie~
coming dawn.
"She almost shrieked in return, as she heard the yells of
the departing Indians, as they plunged into the woods, and
once she raised her child to flee, as a low growl from the
other end of her strange shelter fell on her ear. ~-Qut fear
of the foe without gave her courage, to remain and face that
within, if need be; and when the gray light of dawn stoip
into her shelter, and she saw a monstrous bear rise from his
bed in the opposite end of the log, and stalk slowly toward
the forest, without evea glancing at her, she drew her child
closer to her breast, and thanked God that the brute had
been more pitiful than man.
"When George Allen and his guide from the settlement
reached the, clearing of his old friends,, the next morning,
~hey found their comfortable cottage a sniouldering heap of


268        LEAVES YRO~I THE TREE IQDRA5YL.

ashes, and about a rod from that narrow back door lay the
happy group of the evening before - the scalped and lifeless
body of James Sherman, his insensible wife, and the little
child moaning by their side."
"Did n't she die on the spot, Miss R----?" exclaimed
Kate Lee. "Surely no woman could survive a night like
that!"
"No, Katie; as is our day, so is our strength. Mary
Sherman lived - lived to bring up her fatherless child -
lives now to bless with her counsel her children in the third
generation; and your young eyes have failed to perceive any
traces of this 'baptism of pain."'
"Our eyes, Miss R-.? Have we seen her?" both my
young friends exclaimed at once.
"You have looked upon her face today, dear girls; for
Mary Sherman is now Grandmother S-.."

K

VIII.
THE ALM8IJOUSE BOY.
"THERE - take that and that - and that!" and Mrs.
Rhoda Tallman brought her hard hand against the ears of an
eight-years-old urchin, with a force and dexterity that would
have excited the admiration of any professed pugilist in
Christendom.
The child was, evidently, used to it; he did not shrink or
dodge, but stood and took the blows with an air of stubborn
indifference. Retreating a step or two, she eyed him from
head to foot, a moment, and again went on:
"Now, look at them 'ere trousers - all i mastered over
with mud! You 'ye been through every mud-puddle between
here and the school-house! Shut up - not a word out of
your mouth!" she continued, seeing him about to speak.'
"Who do you think is goin' to pay me for rubbing the skin
off my hands every week, to keep you decent - to say
nothing of wood and soap? Not the selectmen, I car~tell
you! It 's little enough they are willing' to pay." Tiieii, ~s
if, to use one of her own expressions, "she did n't know ~hovr
to keep her hands off from him," she strode forward, caught
him by the colh~r of a poor, faded, forlorn-looking cotton
jacket, and shook him, very much as we have seen a snarling
cur shake a kitten that had presumed to ctoss hi~ path.
"There, now go into the garden, and ~ee if' ~rqu ca~ w&amp;d
23*

268


270         LEAVES FROM T1~E TREE IODRASYL.                                          THE ALMSHOUSE BOY.              271

out the beet beds; and let me catch you picking green cur-
rants, or getting down on your knees in the dirt, if you dare!"
The boy walked slowly away until he reached a corner of
the building, when he paused, and pouted out his lips, and
shook his clenched fists, in a way that indicated anything but
submission and respect. It was well she did not turn back,
~s usual, to see that her orders were obeyed, but hastened in-
to the house to join a gossip, whom she had very impolitely
left alone while she performed this little scene.
After taking breath, and assuring her visitor that she
might "thank her stars that she had n't any of the town
poor to deal with, for a more provoking, shiftless, idle, lying
set of folks never breathed the breath of life," she took up
hei' work, arid with it the topic of conversation which had
been so suddenly interrupted by the vision of little Ned Nor-
ris' mud-bespattered trousers.
"As to the family in the other part of the house, as I said
before, Mrs. Gadman, I know precious little about them, but
that 's quite enough. I wish they had kept where they
belonged."
"Why, Mrs. Rhoda, I thought you would be pleased to
have some one in the house with you. That part always
looks so dark and pokerish that I 'in almost afraid to pass it
after dark."
Mrs. Gadman spoke mischievously, for she well knew that
Mrs. Rhoda did not, ~ts she often said, "fear the face of
clay," besides, she knew, also, that her vixenish temper was
the chief reason why the half of. the house, belonging to a
brother, remained unoccupied; those who had tried living
there declaring that people might as well try to live in a
hornet's nest as with such a woman.
"Yes, IL dare say. There are some folks in the world who
are callers afeard of their own shadow can't be contented
without. they are surroundedd a whole tribe of people U'
said the old dame, sharply, "IJ~ut I like their room bett~

than their company. Thank the Lord, I a'n't nervous, and
as to ghosts, I 'd rather deal with ~all that ever walked than
this woman's young ones. Look at that great grease-spot,"
she went on, pointing to a stain on her well-scoured floor.
"They are all the time cantering throug~i the ~pace~ and yes-
terday one of 'em took it into his head to come in here with
a great slice of bread-and-butter in his hand, and drop it on
my floor. Now, I may scour and scrub a month to get it
out. But I 'itt not going to put up with their, running in
and out here, and so I told her, pretty plainly."
"What did she say?"
"0, butter would n't have melted in her mouth! 'She
was so sorry that sonny had made me any trouble; but he
must he very careful, and promise good Mrs. Tailman not
to do so again.' Faugh! I 'd a sonnied him if he 'd been
my boy!"
"I dare say. But how does ~this woman live? They say
she is very poor. Mrs. White says she never saw such a
mean load of goods as they brought. Yet she looks respect-
able enough. I met her the other slay, as I came out of
Darling &amp; Brown's."
"Yes, and she feels respectable enough, too, I can assure
you. But, with all her managing, anybody can see that they
are as poor as Job. She has nothing but what she earns
with her needle; but, Ia me! she 's as particular about what
her young ones say and do as if she was the minister's wife.
They must go to school every single day, to learn geography
and gram mar, and such like. I wonder if she expects it
will get 'em a meal of victuals? The oldest boy 'is larnin' a
trade in New Haven, and I really believe that she and the
children would starve through the week rather than not have
something good when he comes home of ~a Sunday. Then
she -makes such a fuss over him tells ~h~ixn all h0r plans,
and asks his advice, jest as if the opinion of a~ 'prentice boy
was of any conseqnenee! She may be a decent sort~of a

1'
/

K

270

271


272         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.                                              THE ALMSHOU$E ]30Y.             27&amp;

woman enough for aught I know, but she hadn't the least fac-
ulty to get along in the world or to- govern her children.
There 'a nothing like makin' children know their places, neigh-
bor Gadinan, and Widow Banks will find that out before
many years, I guess. That oldest boy of hers rules the
whole roost, now;, it fairly makes me ache to see how she
lets 'em go on; for, let my boys be what they may now, as
long as they were under my thumb, they had to walk pretty
straight. I 'ye got one thing to comfort me - it can't be
said I spoilt them by indulgence!"
"Certainly not," said the guest, as she rose to leave, anx-
ious to discuss Widow Banks' "ways and means" at the next
house; and "certainly not," we repeat, Mrs. Rhoda, for
when wert thou ever liable to th~ J" soft impeachment" of
showing indulgence to aught beneath thy control?
Rigidly just, according to thy poor, meagre conceptions
of justice, we grant thee; but indulgent! - why, the sharp,
fife-like tones of thy voice, the cold, steady gleam of thy light~
blue eyes, thy sallow, diminutive, froze-and-thawed visage,
would be sufficient vouchers of thy innocence, even if we we~e
unable to ~oint to the example of thy two strong-limbed,
stout-hearted boys, who embraced the earliest opportunity to
slip from beneath thy maternal thumb, and, true to their
early habits, have continued to "walk straight" away, with-
out pausing to cast one regretful glance on the home of their
childhood, or wishing, even in dreams, to see again their
mother's face; but, violent, selfish and unprincipled, one now
hunts the cunning beaver along our western waters, a savage
among savages, while the other makes one of the crowd that
fill our prisons, the victim of his own unbridled passions.
Alas! for thee, Mrs. Rhoda Tallman! Alas! for all poor,
stinted sc~uls, who have learned to recognize no higher law
than mere physical force - who still cling to the old code of
tex~ taticinis, as. tenaciously as if they had had their birth. en
th~ plains of Syria, beneath the shadow of a Hebrew tent.

But, in justice to the old woman, we must say that, if she
had seen three-score years without catching one strain of the
angelic chorus of peace and good-will which, for eighteen
centuries, has been filling our atmosphere and the heart of
every reverent listener with hopes mightier than death and the
grave, it was, in part, owing to other causes than wilful ig-
norance.
Born amidst the squalid misery of the drunkard's home,
where the very 'atmosphere was heavy with strife and curses;
alike the victim of a drunken father's rage and th~ ungov-
ernable temper of her miserable, fretful, sorely-tried mother,
she had grown up to maturity, with some dozen more young
immortals, ignorant, selfish, and ungovernable. As she had
advanced towards womanhood, several influences came in to
soften, or, rather, conceal the sharp, disagreeable points in
her character. At eighteen, she married Jo Tallman, an
easy, good-tempered, indolent fellow, who, after one or two
futile attempts to enforce his authority on a disputed point,.
found himself obliged to leave the field to his shrewish part-
ner, and in a few weeks became as subi~iissive as a lamb.
If cleanliness be next to godliness, as is asserted, then
Mrs. fLhoda was certainly in a yery enviable condition; for
she possessed this virtue to an extreme degree. Even in her
own squalid home she had been noticeable for her habits of
cleanliness and industry, and, when she had a home of her
own, they soon came to comprise, in her view, all religion
and ethics; indeed, we much doubt if she would have been
contented in heaven unless there were some floors there to
scrub or some stains to scratch out.
Jo Tallman was a blacksmith by trade, and it cannot be
denied that when he came~fr from the shop, his shoes left many
unsightly traces on his wife's, nicely-scoured floors, especially
in. damp, rainy weather, which *ere sure to call forth her
sharpest words. This roused themalignant spirit of recrhnin-
ation, which left foot~priuts in their~hearts far more unsightly


274        LEAVES 1~'ROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.

and difficult of erasure than those on the floor. The wordy
conflict was unequal. Jo had no great development of the
organ of language; besides, lie was too easy to scold; so, by
degrees, he found that he could enjoy himself far more to his
mind in a corner of the Village bar-room, than at his own
fireside, thus leaving his two little boys wholly to the control
of his stronger half. During their early years, by dint of
scolding, threatening, and whipping, the mother managed to
keep these boys remarkably ignorant of the mysteries of mud
pastry, measuring the depth of brooks, climbing trees and
fences, and all that department of ,science to which the mind
of childhood "doth seriously incline." As they grew in
years and stature, she by no means relaxed the pressure of
her thumb, but, by equivocation, deception; and open false-
hood, they often cQntrived to slip from beneath it, until in..
physical strength they became more than a match for her,
and treated her commands with contempt and defiance. This
state of things was not reached without many severe struggles
on her part to retain her arbitrary control over them, and
their home not infrequently echoed furious words ~f anger
and strife. They soon followed their father's example, and took
refuge in the tavern. In time, the evil influence of the place
began to show itself in the habits of both father and sons,
and the demon of intemperance ~was added to domestic strife.
But the wife and mother was the last to see it. She sat
alone by her nice hearth diligently plying the needle, and
comforting herself with the reflection that there is "no loss
without some gain;" if they were away, she need n't burn
so much wood, neither would they be littering the room
ii~i with whittling and other rubbish; the tavern was the*
place for such things - a handfi4 qf dirt there, more or less,
did not matter anyway.
Such was Rhoda Tallman~ in her youth, hard, querulous,
and exacting; and she was in no wise changed for the better

274

THE ALM$HO1J$E IIOY.

~75

when, husbandless and childless, she took little Ned Norris
to live with her. Ned was' one of
Love's outcasts on the earth;
The child of love,- betraying and betrayed, -
The blossom opened in the Upas' shade."
So ran the rumor, for the mother, poor, young, friendless
thing, refused to answer questions; and, a few hours after his
birth, exchangecf the bitter charities~ of the village almshoiise
for the grave.
When the child was about four years old, the town mag-
nates, in their wisdom, decided that it would be less expen..
sive to board out the few paupers dependent on them, than
to support an almshouse. Accordingly, at the annual town-
meeting, they were put up at auction, like any other town
property, but with this radical difference, they were~struck
off to the lowest instead of the highest bidder. Thus it hap..
pened that little Ned Norris, after going the rounds of some
half-dozen families that necessity or the desire for gain had
induced to "bid him off" at the lowest living price per week,
became, at last, an inmate of 1~iJrs. Rhoda Tallman's dwelling.
He was a bright, quick-witte~d, impulsive boy, and, young as
he was, did not fail to see, or rather feel, that the aim of each
family was to make the most out of their bargain; and, as
they were usually coarse pe~iple, with whom cuffs were more
ready / coin than caresses, the consequence was, that he be-*
came indifferent to shame and punishment, careless, idle,
and ~tubborn.
But the angel of mercy never wholly abandons the heart
of childhood, and sometimes &amp; gift from a schoolmate (the
selectmenn" always stipuliited with the people who l&amp;~pt
him, for so many weeks' schoQling, or, at least, a pretence
towards it), or a kind word fro~ii~the teacher, would stir his
better nature, and kept it from becoming entirely enoru~ted
with evil.


276          LJEAVES 1"RO~ THE T1VBE IODRASYL.                                                 THE AL~t5HQU5E BOY.    .           277

* Until the Widow Banks and her children came to reside in
the house, Ned had never given much thought to his friend-
less, isolated position. Sometimes, indeed, on the "last day"
of school, when the picture-books were distributed, and his
schoolmates ran shouting home to display them to their
mothers and sisters, he had slackened his pace, and wondered
why he had no relations - wishing very much that he had a
sister, or, at least, a cousin, to whom ho could show his pic-
tures.
But when. George and Sarah Banks became his school-
mates, and he listened to their ceaseless quotations of "main-
ma," and references to "brother Fred.," this feeling became
more distinct. Many times, as he bent over the garden beds
after school, with his allotted task before him, his eyes would
wander to the window where Mrs. Banks usually sat cease-
lessly plying her needle on "band, gusset and seam," occasion-
ally turning her head to reply to little Allan's "bo-peep," or
listening with a pleasant smile to the bird-like chatter of
George and Sarah. He could not help feeling the difference be-
tween their home and his; and he wondered if Mrs. Banks
never scolded nor got angry like Mrs. Rhoda, and how it would
seem to have such a home. His fingers would forget their
mole-like, task, and he would sit dreaming of these things
until the sharp voice of~ his mistress roused all the old Adam
in his nature, and be would pursue his work, muttering:
~ If she wants weeds pulled ai~y faster, she may pull them
herself."
After turning to bestow on Mrs. Rhoda the grin of hate
and defiance, on the occasion which we have described at
the ~ommencement of the story, ho walked slowly into the
garden, and began jerking up tl~&amp;weeds, with a strong wish in
his heart that he could jerk Mrs. Rhoda in just the same way-
He di4 not once * look up to Mrs. Banks' window,' nor heed
the voices of her children, whQ were speaking very eagerly.
They were speaking of him, and, presently, Mrs. Banks laid

two beds, before sundown."

2

down her work and c~nie out into the garden; but he was
too angry - too intent on listening to the evil thoughts
which filled him-~.to heed her step, until she laid her hand on
his head, and said:
"George tells me that you fell and hurt your ankle, while
helping Sarah to escape from some unruly cattle, to-day."
"I could n't help it!" began the boy, in a tone of depre-
cation; for Mrs. Rhoda was no believer in accidents, and he
mistook Mrs. Banks' tone for one of censure. "~I stepped on
a stone, and it rolled."
"Of course you could not; no boy falls when he can help
'       it," she replied, rather amused at his manner. "I did not
intend to blame you for falling, but to thank you for your care
of Sarah, and to see how badly you are hurt. Which foot is
it?" she asked, bending down to examine it.
The child looked with a kind of bashful wonder into the
widow's face, then down upon his little, bare, brown feet, and,
hastily drawing back, he rinsed theni in a shallow pool of
water left by the recent shower, and held up the ankle for
come off, ma'am."
her examination, saying, in a tone of hesitation: Now put it
It is
bear your weight upon. it. Where
does it hurt w~orst?" she added, pressing her fingers lightly
on the swollen place.
The boy winced, and said: "Please don't - don't turn it
that way, ma'am!"
"It is a bad sprain, and will make you lame for some
days, I fear. If you will go into the house, Twill bind it up
fot you."
The boy hesitated. "I am afraid Mr&amp; Rhoda will thrash
me, if I do."
"Thrash you?" repeated the widow, in surprise.
"Yes; whip me if I don't get all the weedspulled in these


278         LBAVE5 FROM ~I~HE TREB IODRASYL.                                       TRE ALMSHOU$E BOY.             279

"Did you tell Mrs. Tallman you had hurt your ankle?"
"But you should have told her when you first came home,
and she would have bound it up nicely. Why did n't you
tell her?" she asked rather curiously, as she marked his sud-
den change of expression.
"Because because," he stammered, while his lip trem-
bled at the memory of the blows that had~ scarcely ceased to
tingle; "because she would not let me; and if I had, she 'd
only said, as she callers does, she was plagny glad of it - it
would learn me to stand up, next time. I won't stay here!"
he continued, more vehemently, "I '11 run away -I hate
her - I wish she was dead!"
"Hush! hush! my boy," said Mrs. Banks, gently. "This
is all wrong. You don't know what you are saying. You
don't wish any such thing."
"Yes, I do, and I wish I was dead, too, for everybody
thrashes me;" and the poor boy drew his ragged straw hat
over his face, and burst into tears.
This time there was quite as much sorrow as anger in his
tones, and the motherly heart of Mrs. Banks was touched by
his friendless condition.
"Poor boy .- poor little fellow!" she said as she gathered
one of his little hands in hers; "have you no friends - no
one to look after you?"
The boy shook his head and continued to sob.
"You must not feel so badly, Edward," she added, after a
moment's silence. "I will be your friend, and I will ask
Mrs. Tallman to let you come and see us often. We will all
love you vd~y much. Indeed, George and Sarah do already;
Only think, if you had been dead to-day, who would have
saved Sarah? You have no mother, they say,'~ - she felt
the boy's hand tremble in hers, -" but if you try to be a
good boy I will be your mother, and George and Sarah and

little Allan shall be your brothers and sister. You will like
that, I dare say~"
"Yes, xna'am," whispered the subdued child, but with a look
of wonder, as if he did not comprehend just how all this was
to be brought about.
"I will go iiow, and talk with Mrs. Tallman about your
ankle, and, if she will permit, I will send George to help you
with your weedino"
Mrs. Rhoda ~had parted from Mrs. Gadman, and resumed
her work when she saw Mrs. Banks approaching her door.
"What can ~he be after here?" she muttered. "To bor-
row something, I '11 warrant. I 'ye been expecting it ever
since she came. But I 'm not goin' to begin any such thing,
and so I '11 let her know in the first of it."
This amiable determination made itself felt in her fingers,
which twitched the needle through the coarse cloth she was
sewing with a more decided jerk than usual, and her whole
attitude said, as plainly as words can say, "I neither borrow
nor lend."
Mrs. Banks paused at the door, wiped her shoes with a
degree of care which in any other mood would have won the
old woman's admiration; but she did not look up until that
lady said pleasantly, "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Taihuan. I
saw you at the window, and was tempted to come in and chat
with you a while; but your floor is so white I am almost
afraid to step on it."
This compliment acted as a slight solvent on the old wo-
man'sAetermination, and she condescended to look up and say,
"Come in, ma'am. You need n't be afraid of stepping on
my floor, for it is dirty enough, IL am sure, though IC washed
it up this morning. But there 's no use in a body's trying
to keep decent in such weather, when it rains once in two
hours, and with that good-for-nothing boy to run in and out,
and make more tracks than a dog."
"But we housekeepers must confess that, if the frecjuent


280         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.                                             TILE ALJ~15HOU$E BOY.           281

showers do make bad work with our floors,' they make the
scene without very beautiful. I have been looking at your
garden; it really does me good to see how bright and thrifty
everything looks4. I can almost see the plants grow."
"And' the weeds too, I 'II warrant; for that boy is the la-
ziest of all mortals."
"Perhaps he would work better if lie had some one with
him. I find that children soon get tired of working alone."
Somebody with him! Do you suppose I 'm going out
there to pull weeds, when I keep him for seventy-five cents a
week, and don't make a cent at that, the Lord knows!" cried
the old woman sharply.
"Certainly not," said the Widow Banks, with a significance
she tried in vain to repress; "but 'my George is constantly
teasing me for something to do. When I could afford to have
a garden he used to help me a great deal. He will be very
happy to assist Edward, if you will permit him, and, indeed,
I shall take it as a great favor."
Mrs. Rhoda's first thought was to refuse, but a moment's
reflection told her that four hands would be better than two,
especially as she was very anxious to have the garden
weeded; besides, they would be directly under her eye; there-
fore, she consented.
Mrs. Banks then spoke of Ned's ankle, and the cause of the
injury. The old lady hastily interrupted her:
"J~ell di~wn! I thought he had, by the look of his clothes
when lie came home. If he 's hurt his foot, I 'm glad of it.
What business had he to go near the oxen 'I But I don't
believe a word about it. He 's callers inakin' up some lie or
other!"
"]~ut his ankle is really badly sprained, Mrs. Tallman, and,
as it was done in assisting my child, I think I ought to attend
to it, though I know I shall not do it so skilfully as you
would."
"Skilful or not," began Mrs. Rhoda, "I shan't find ban.

dages and liniment for every little scratch that young one
gets. But you can do as you 1ike~ You can afford it I
suppose!"
Mrs. Banks took no notice of the sneering emphasis which
Mrs. Rhoda placed upon her last remark, but said mildly:
"Ii trust IL shall never be too poor to be grateful - espec-
ially to one who has, perhaps, saved the life of my child."
"Umph!" muttered the old dame, as the door closed on
her visitor. "I should think she 'd got young ones enough of
her own to look after, without troubling herself with the town
poor. But 't would be 4.just the same if she had a dozen. I
knew she had n't any faculty."
George soon joined Ned in the g&amp;4den; and, though Mrs.
Rhoda watched them sharply, she never caught them even
once gathering the currants or otherwise neglecting their work.
Therefore, when George came in after tea, and asked if Ned
might go home with him and have his ankle bound up, she
said, "Do go along and done with it!"
The ankle was duly cared for; and then there never was,
in Ned's opinion, such curiosities as the children displayed to
his admiring gaze. There was little Allan's new alphabet,
gayly printed on Bristol'board which "brother Fred." had
brought him from the city; there was, also, Allan's file of
tin soldiers, a sadly mutilated set, some wanting an arm and
some a head, but all the more natural, as Qeorge observed,
for it proved they had seen actual service. Then, there was
George and Sarah's box of books - a wonderful box, ~to say
nothing of its contents, with Doctor Franklin pasted on the
centre of the lid, flanked on either side by run-away appren-
tices, stray horses, dogs, cows, ships~ steamboats, hats ~ind
muffs; while directly above his head ran a locomotive with a
whole train of cam. Ah! it was a wonderful box quito a
Picture-gallery in itself......,.and it seemed as if Ned would never
tire of looking at it and asking questions. They had scarily
come to the books when Mrs. Banks re4n4~ tl~em that Mrs.
24*

280

281


282        LEAVES FRO~X THE TREE IODRASYL.                                          THE ALMSHOUSE BOY.            288

Taliman had not given Ned permission to stay, and might be
displeased if he did not return. The children were very
anxious to have him stay just to see on~ more, and Ned looked
very wistfully at a red-and-blue Robinson Crusoe which sat
holding the gentle Zama by the halter, in the book that
George had just opened; but when Mrs. Banks repeated her
remark, saying, if he went now, Mrs. Tailman would be more
willing, perhaps, to' let him come again, he turned away reso-
lutely, saying, "Please, ma'am, won't you ask her?"
"I will," and the kind widow kept her word. Mrs. Rhoda
consented, though in no very gracious manner, muttering,
"If he was there, he would be out of her way."
So little Ned became a frequent visitor at Mrs. Banks'
apartments. As his bashfulness wore off, she found that he
was coarse and rude in his language and manners, - how
should he be otherwise? - and very ignorant.
She did not, reject him, however, as a bad boy who would
contaminate her own children, but her kind heart yearned
over him, and she strove, by kind and gentle teachings, to lead
him to "overcome evil with good." It was long before she
could perceive any radical change, in those respects, yet her
"faith was large in time," and she did not despair.
She was right. In her room he caught glimpses of child-
hood's fairy land, from which he had been excluded from his
birth. lIe was not ungrateful, and gradually her smile of
approvall or glance of reproof came to have more influence
over him than all the cuffs he had received from his birth,
and these had been neither few nor far~ between. He cer-
tainly was a better boy, or Mrs. Rhoda a better woman; for,
though she continued to raise her hand in the old scientific
~ ~nri~riner, the blows were much less frequent and heavy. Pos-
~bl~ a breath of the atmosphere of quiet happiness that per.
vaded Widow Banks' rooms had stolen through the key-hole
*     (Mrs. Rhoda usually kept the doors locked t~ keep out the
*     children), arid somewhat softened the acerbity of her disposi-

tion; or, perhaps, the change might be traced to the many
daily little attentions and deeds of kindness which Mrs. Banks
persisted in showing her, notwithstanding the indifferent and
often coarse manner in which they were received.
Bat to whatever influence we ascribe it, iii is very certain
that she one day called all the children to her door and divid-
ed between them some fine large apples, and not only gave
Mrs. Banks permission to fasten her clothes-line to a post on
her portion of the yard,- a f~vor which she had peremptorily
refused when she first came there, -but even accepted an in-
vitation to take tea from that lady. Unfortunately, this visit
did not terminate as happily as Mrs. Banks hoped, for the old
lady did not fail to criticize the management of her children,
and enlarge on her own superior method.
"My boys were never allowed to litter up a room like
that," she exclaimed, pointing to a corner where George was
engaged in manufacturing a chair for Sarah's doll, while she
and Allan watched the progress with delight. "If they
wanted to whittle, there was room enough out of doors, and
that was the place for theme"
"Yes, I highly approve of out-of-door exercise for both
boys and girls," said Mrs. Banks, innocently; "but I find,
if we leave children too much to themselves, they are liable to
get into mischief, - contract evil habits, and "-
"iDo you mean to 'twit me to my face.?" cried the old
woman, angrily. "I guess my boys were no worse than some
others, and some folks that I know may live to see theirs hu'ng
yet !" and, jerking her head up and down like a beetle against
a wall, she marched out of the room, banging the door behind
her.
For several weeks after this visit, she met all Mrs.
attempts at conciliation with a frostiness that wo~l4 b~tv~
chilled a less hopeful nature; but gentleness and paL~nce,
combined with faith and love, can do much even in oux world


284:        LEAVES I~'ROM THE TREE IGERASYL.                                            THE ALMSIIOtTSE BOY.             285

of discord; and, in time, they did not fail to soften the anger
of Mrs. Rhoda.
To the surprise of the whole neighborhood, Mrs. Banks con-
tinued to reside in the house until her lease expired; then, in
hope of obtaining better employment and being nearer her son
Fred., she removed to New Haven.
It was a sad day for Ned Norris when the Banks family
left M-; how sad none but thQse whose childhood has
been lone and friendless as his can tell, and God grant
they may be few! He had earnestly promised the good
widow to remember her teachings, and to try to be a good boy;
but, as he stood on the steps, watching the slow progress of
the wagon that bore his friends and their few household chat-
tels away, the prospect of ever being able to fulfil that prom-
ise seemed to grow more and more hopeless; and when it
turned the corner into the great stage-road, and GeorgQ waved
his hat for the last time, he burst into tears.
To the honor of Mrs. Rhoda's nature be it recorded that
she did not box his ears, or make any demonstration towards
it, bu~ contented herself with saying:
." Well, well, boy, there 's no use in crying. George could
not stay here forever. You '11 find enough to~ cry for, before
you die, without crying after him, though I must sa~y," she
added to a neighbor who had run in to see them start., "that
he4s one of the best-behaved boys I ever saw; and the won-
der is how he comes to be so, for his mother has n't got the
least faculty for managing children.~~
"I never thought she had much faculty fbr anything; if
~e had, she kept it to herself, for she was u't a bit sociable,"
replied the woman. "She was always kinder queer."
"Queer or not," said the old woman, rather testily, "she
had a~ few bad streaks as anybody I know, and everybody
has some.~,
Ay, and everybody has some "good streaks," friend Rhoda;
but thine, which had been drawn out and made faintly lumi-

28A

nous by the sun of Love, soon began to fade in its absence,
and, in a few weeks, became dim and dingy as before.
Little Ned felt the change, and, between the bitter temper of
the old lady and the influence of his old habits, became dis-
couraged and discontented, and almost ceased to wish to bQ a
good boy.
But he did not forget his friends; and when Dick Mills,
the stage-coach driver, occasionally brought him some such
trifling presents from the Banks family as their limited
means enabled them to procure, he longed for something
to send in return - some little thing to ptove that he
was not forgetful or ungrateful. But all his little keepsakes
had been their gifts, and if he sometimes received a penny or
two for some slight service rendered a neighbor, they were
always taken into the close keeping of his old mistress.
One summer day, he was at his old work in the garden,
when there came a thought to him which brightened his face
at once. There was the raspberry-bush in the corner of the
garden; his bush, - for even Mrs. Rhoda called it his,- with
its fine, large, delicious fruit just beginning to ripen. "They '11
be almost as big as acorn-cups," he said, eying them with de-
light, "and I '11 send them. I don't believe they '11 get any
in New Ha~Ven half as nice.
But the nezt thing was a basket to put them in. He
would not ask Mrs. Rhoda for one, because he feai~ed being.
forbidden to think of such nonsense. After s~verai futile at-
tempts to construct one from some old splinters he found in
the garret, he gave it ~p, a d decided to ask his friend, Dick
Mills; to lend him one. I so happened, that the d~y pre$.
ous to the one on which Di had promised to take charge of
his berries, Mrs. Rhoda         to be absent from~ hon~e.
She set some cold food on the table for his dinnerand, after~
laying out work enough to keep him busy through~, the day,
left him alone..
Ned worked very industriously until he began to grow

w

285


28f         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                          THE ALM$ItOUSE BOY.            2$7

hungry, and cast frequent glances toward the noon..mark on
the kitchen window-sill. At length the lazy shadow orept
quite up to the notch, and he was proceeding to the house to
get his dinner, when he observed a forlorn-looking Indian
woman coming~ down the street with several baskets dangling
from her arm. Seeing him look at her very earnestly, she
came up to the gate, and asked him to buy one. There was
one just the size he wanted. Ah, how he longed to possess
it! The splinters were so smooth and white, the red and
yellow stains upon it so gay and bright, lie did not heed
the woman's jargon, but stood turning round and round, with
a very wistful look, until her "You '11 take it, my little man,
it 's only a sixpence!" aroused him, and he put it back,
with a sigh, saying, "No, no, I can't."
"If your mother would just give me a bit of dinner for it,"
suggested the woman.
Mother! Ned sighed again; but, suddenly remembering
his own dinner, he asked her to wait a moment, and, running
into the house, he brought out the bread and meat that Mrs.
Rhoda had left for him, and asked if that would answer.
"Yes, my man, though cheap as dirt at that," she replied,
as she took the food, and placed the basket in his hand.
Ned hid his prize in the thick currant-bushes, and returned
to his work in high spirits, and with such a good will that
even Mrs. Rhoda, on her return, condescended to say that
he had done quite as much as she expected.
After supper he ~gathered his berries, and covered them with
a nice piece of white paper, wgich George Banks had given
him. He was stealing past the dpor, when his old mistress
saw him, and called him hack. "Her great handkerchief,
her great red cotton handkerchief," was missing, and he was
toquired to give an account of it. He disclaimed all knowl-
edge of it; but a glimpse of the basket, which he in vain
tried to' hide behind him, aroused her suspicions at once.
"Whose basket is that? Where did you get it, and what

have you got in it, you little scamp?" she cried, angrily, as
she snatched it from his hand.
"It is n't there. I have n't got it nor seen it," cried the
boy, earnestly, as she tore off his paper cover.
"What 's all this? Where did you get the basket of
berries, and what are you going to do with them?" she re~
pleated.
The boy was obliged to repeat the story of his purchase of
the basket, but as soon as he mentioned the Indian woman,
her anger burst forth with tenfold fury. Regardless of his
repeated declarations that the woman did not enter the gate,
and that he had not seen the missing article, she insisted that
the squaw had stolen it, or that he had given it to her in ex-
change for the basket.
Again the blows fell thick about his ears, and in a manner
that proved that her right hand had by no means "forgotten
its cunning." "There! into the house with you, you little
lying, thieving rascal ! "she exclaimed, driving him before her
to the door.
The color mounted to th~ boy's cheek as he paused, and,
facing her, said firmly, "I am no liar. Will you give me my
basket?"
"Your basket!" she replied, mimicking him. "I should
like to know by what means it became ~~ours. ]Y guess
you '11 learn not to peddle off my things again to a drunken
squaw - thief'"
The boy cast on her a fierce look of hatred and defiance
as she placed the basket in the cupboard, and ordered him
to bed. lie went to his garret, swelling with rage and dis-
appointment. " She shan't have it!" he muttered, as he
sat down on his bed, with clenched fists. "I hate her worse
than eVer. I 'II steal it and run away.. I '11 g&amp; this very
night!"
Mrs. Rhoda's bedroom door stood open, but Ned~s tare
feet gave no sound, a~ he stole across the floor to the cup-


THE ALMSUOUSE 130Y.           289

28S         LEAVES PROM THE TREE IGDRA$~L.

board, and seized upon his basket; neither did the slight rate
tling of the kitchen latch, as it yielded to' his pressure, disturb
her slumbers.
The next moment he stood beneath the quiet stars, as
friendless as on the day of his mother's death. But he was
too young to reflect'; besides, he was very, very angry; and he
walked down the street with a firm step and tearless eyes,
until he reached the stables of the village inn. There were
watchful eyes not easily cheated, and out sprang old Lion,
Dick Mills' great dog, with a low growl; but, instantly recog-
nizing him, he sprang upon him, wagging his tail, thrusting
his nose up to his face, and manifesting his delight by quick,
short barks.
The boy's whispered "Get out! Get down, Lion!" o~ily
made him redouble his gambols; and, fearing to wake some
one in the house, if he spoke louder, he permitted the dog to
go on, until he reached the outskirts of the village.
Wobla old Lion! He had an older claim on the boy's
heart than even the Banks family. After they moved away,
he was the only thing the child had to love, or that returned
his love.- Ned felt this, and there was a choking sensation in
21      th'ro~t as he pushed his old friend down, and strove to
spk~tern1y to him, and drive him back. Perhaps Lion was
corc~i&amp; of this struggle, for he did not obey, but, springing
in advance a few rods, lay down directly in his path, and,
laying his head between his outstretched paws, looked up in
his faee with s~~h wistful, beseeching expression, that the
poor boy sat down' by the road-side, and burst into tears. At
'length he brushed them away from his' cheek, and, 'patting
the old do~9s head, said:
"No, no, old Lion, you must n't go. They would say I
'stole, you, too, it suppose. Go home! Go back, sir !" he
continued, ste~u1y. The dog retreated a step or two, and
stood eying ~him with the, same wistful look. Ned caught up
a stone, and, turning aw~y his heads hurled it at him. The

dog gave a' low hoarse growl, and turned towards home. The
boy went his way, but, in spite of his efforts to restrain them,
the tears rolled slowly down his cheeks, and he often turned
as if he expected nay, hoped - to see old Lion at his
heels. At sunrise he was crossing the long 'bridge on the
eastern side of the city. His heart sank within him at the
sight of so many houses glittering and gleaming beneath the
morning sunlight, for how should he ever find the one in-
habited by Mrs. Banks? Then he began to ask himself
what that good woman would say. She might blame him,
and, perhaps, send him back. He grew irresolute. Once or
twice he ventured to ask some boys, whom he met, to tell him
where Mrs. Banks lived; but a quizzical reply, or a shout of
laughter, was all he received. Weary, hungry and discouraged,
he wandered along Water-street, until he found hir~iseIf in the
vicinity of Long Wharf, where he sat down on a pile of
lumber, and watched, with a listless gaze, the movements on
board of a brig' which was fitting out for sea. The scene
soon became a very busy one. Drays and carts began to
rumble along the street; then came gentlemen on 'foot and in
carriages, whose very canes had a business-like look, an4~
finally, a large drove of mules which, amidst kick~
snortings and no verj gentle coaxings from the sal
transferred to the brig's deck. The boy became i~: Wd1
and drew nearer and nearer, until he sat down on a b~t;olo~
to the vessel's side. Two portly-looking gentlemen stood
there talking with a powerful, athletic m~n, with a profusion
of dark crispy hair, slightly sprinkled with. gray, and a;i~ open~
good-humored f~ce, barring a slight irritable expression of im-
patience. They were about to leave the spot,~ when the latter
turned, as 'if to give some further orders, to ~ an~pu board
the brig) and his eye felt on the child.
"Up with y~u~ my lad!" he cried, hastiIy~ '~hat ~box
should have gone' on board before. Halloo, ther~P' ~ie~added1
motioning to one of the men. "Take that box onVoard, and'
25

IE


290         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                         THE ALMSHOIJ5E BOY.            29L

see that it is carefuUy stowea." lie was turning away, when,
struck by the boy's eager, earnest look, he said, impatiently:
"Well, out with it, my lad. What do you want?"
"To go to sea, sir," replied Ned, instinctively.
"To go to sea.!" replied the captain, - for it was none
other, - gazing at. him from head to foot, with a quizzical
look. "What berth do you expect to fill? Do you know a.
marling-spike from a rope's end?"
'KNo; but I can learn, sir.~~
"True enough, and in more ways than one, too. What do
you expect?"
The boy looked up inquiringly.
"I mean what do you expect me to pay for your valuable
services?"
"What you please, sirs"
"Come, Ifliugham," said one of the gentlemen, who had
stood, during this conversation, impatiently tapping his boot
with his gold-headed cane; "you have shipped one boy, and
that is enough."
"2But the rascal has sent word he can't go, and, as you in~
sist on my taking out these passengers, I must have some one
W to walton them besides old Joe. I will overtake you in a.
fe~ ~Qments."
lie then turned to Ned, and, by a few well-directed queries,
4~ew f~r6m him his whole story.
"The old sea-cow!" he muttered, as Ned related the cause
of his running away. "Well, you got your basket; I 'm
glad of' that. You~ are good grit. You shall go with inc.
I'll feed and clothe you, and give you a trifle beside, and,
what 's more," he continued, smiling, "a good whipping now
and ~hei~;justt6~remind you of that old alligator."
"I 'i~Kt~e to that!" cried the boy, catching the quick,
che~4\t1 to~.of the skipper.
~I~he oapt~i c~dled to a negro, who answered to the name
of'~" Cook," and gave the boy into hi~ care for the 4ay. The

290

next day at twelve o'clock, the brig "Swan" was off Mon-
tank Point, bound for Berbice. But as we are neither a
mermaid nor a' Mother Carey's chicken, we will not attempt
to follow them, but go back to the village, and listen a moment
to the, conversation between two of the selectmenn " who
stand talking at the corner of the green. Mrs. Rhoda has
duly notified them of Ned's elopement, and their faces wear
such~ a serene, self-satisfied look, that we scarcely need to hear
Esq. G-'s closing remark, "There is no need of making
a fti~s about it; it will be quite a saving to the town," to
convince us that they are very public-spirited men, and
have a very distinct idea of the difference between dollars
and souls.
Twelve years have passed - years in which that rare da.-
guerrean, Time, has added many a scene to the gallery of
memory, sketched amidst sin and suffering, perchance, but
they all look beautiful in this ~haded light. One sketch more,
and we have done.
It is, in the phrase of the old German minne-singers, the
"sweet springtime," and our 'quiet town of M- lies
bathed in the fresh, dewy beauty of a new creation. Its
aspect is little changed,' for twelve years effect mtmch kss
change in such a place than twelve weeks in a crowded city;
for time is far more lenient than a board of aldermen, or the
incendiary. Moss has accumulated' on the northern roofs of
some of the old houses; blinds have been added to some;
on others the unpainted clapboards have taken a. deeper
brown; but few save such retI~ospective souls as thou and I,
reader, Would note the change. Therefore, wn.need no guide
to Mrs. Rhoda's dwelling, nor introduQtion t~4he a her-
self, who, in her clean cap and checked linen' ~pt0~ ~. ds in
the door-way' looking down the street; f~#te4e~yxnad
freaks time may have played with our ring~t~nzd roses, ho

291


292        LEAVES PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                           THE ALM5HOUSE BOY.             293

has left her unscathed; indeed, a1~ this distance, she ,even looks
renovated.
She is watching for some one, I'll wager ~' and here comes
the stage-coach, dashing past the tavern, regardless ~f the yells
of'o~ young dog, the successor of old tion, who has long since
gone the way of all 'dogs, and~ draws up at Mrs~ Rhoda's door.
Down springs J)iek 2NIills, whose short, stout figure and rnbi-
cund phiz defy time and weather, and lets down the steps.
A hax~dsome, manly-looking fellow, in a blue round-about
jacket and a Panama hat, steps out and returns the old woman's
greeting.
"Ned' Norris!" We did not need her exclamation to tell
us that, for the eyes and hair are the same, though those
heavy whiskers are a foreign growth, and his cheek, between
wind and, weather, has deepened to an oriental hue. ]~e turns
to~the Carriage, and pretty Sarah Banks, who has been his
wife for more than a 'twelve-month, carefully places 'a butidle
in his arms. What can it be?. Some rare eggs, perhaps, or
a new set 'of choice crockery for Mrs. Rhoda's table;. some-
thing, at least, which he is very anxious to show her, for,
awkwardly enough, he begins to undo the fastenings, while
the old dame scolds, and Sarah, springing to the ground, says,
as she takes it from him, "Do wait, dear Ned, untjl we get
into, the house!~'
In a few moments they are seated, and the skilful hands of
S~raEyemove the soft wrappers, and out looks a baby - a
beautiful, blue-eyed baby, fresh and fair as an angel. ~O,
what a baby that is ~ "Neighbors, have you such an one?"
How the father's eyes glisten, with pride 'and joy as the old
woman praises its beauty and points out its resemblance' to
its mother! How she trots it and croons over it, while Ne{
and Sar~h ihaw fr9rn the big basket (not Ned's little one) the
few tAfi~es thoy have brought for her! Tr~f1es 4 there is '~tea
and eug~r enough to last a reasonable woman six months, to

"I

say nothing of ~ nice new cap from Mrs. Banks, and an apron
from Fred.'s wife.
Ah M~s. Rhoda has found her heart. See how iher old
eyes flU with' tears while she protests that Ned is "kinder to
her than hei~ own soti could be, and that she has not the heart
to take a single thing now he has a. family of hi~ own to sup-
port. ~Xt 's robbing the baby; ~od bless it!"
"Never mind the baby, Aunt Rhoda," replies Ned, laugh-
ing.' "I can manage to fill his mouth ~nd a~ dozen mom, if
need be, for t6-morrow morning I sail master of the 'Orion,'
if wind and 'tide are fair; so give the baby to me, mother,
and get us a good dinner, for we must g&amp; ~back in the return
stage."
The seed sown by the good Mrs. Banks in the heart of that
friendless boy did not fall on stony ground, but, under the
kind aid somewhat 'whimsical nurture~ &amp;f. Captain Biugham,.
throve and brought 'forth fruit, not unmixed with weeds, of
course; bat the* are fast disappearing under the gentle influ-
ence of Sarah.
Captain Bingham never deserted him; beneath his eye he
became a thorough seaman, and was gradually advanced until
he gained the command of a fine new 'brig. For some years
he had supplied many of Mrs. Rhoda's wants, and though he
wholly refused to take her into his family to live, as Sarah
once suggested, he continues to provide for her, and ha~ never
permitted the recently~awakened warxntl~ in her 41d hieai~t to
grow' colcPfroin neglect. Her 8iberia~i visage will relax and
become almost tropical when' she speaks ~f him to her n~igh~
bors, and ~1~e is often heard to remark, "Boys will be boys,
and there'~a'n't no use i1i trying to make 'em ~walk a erack."
Wise people will tell you, dear reader, that t~e ~age of
A
miracles is past. But believe it not 0, believeL~t$1-for
faith, and hope, and love, are ~ViIJ on earth, an'~~ great
God still in' heaven! i
25*


~LIN~A DUTTONO                  295

'Ix.
~L~LI~I~4 D'UTTO~N~
"IT is a kind offer enough, Melinda; but Why iiot stay here.
and learn a trade?"
"Becanse I hate sewing, and have no idea of being scolded
by some fretful old seamstress or milliner. Out there I can
at least do as I please."
"perhaps so; but I shall be much sur~uised if yo~i ~are
cdn~tebt to stay there~ six week~, thoiigh I Eair&amp;n~ wish to dis-
courage you."
"Oont~ent!" cried the laughing girl; "that would, indeed,
be something new for me. But tell me something about these
old relatives; you have been there, you say. They are rich,
certainly."
"Yes; I went there once with your mother. It 's quite
out of the world, among the woods aid rocks. The place
ga~eme a 'netio'n of the world before the flood; and Aunt
Eunice i~ nothing at all like your grandmother. I doubt if
her ideas ev'ei ~van4er beyond the limits of her farm. tour
mother, IL remember, happened to tear her dress in passing
through one of their clumsy gates," continued theAady,
laughing. "It was a silk, and you should '~have heard Aunt
Eunice's lecture on the extravagance and degeneracy of the
times that permitted a woman to wear a silk dress anywhere
dave' to church. However, your mother listened with meek-
ness~ and was well repaid; 'for the old woman loaded us down
with good things when~e canw home. She is kind, I think,

though certainly queer. But they~ are rich, and can't live
forever."
The above i~ hut a fragment of the conversation that took
place between Mrs. Murdock, o'f Mi~dletown, an4)i~W young
friend, Melinda Dutton. Melinda was an orphan, tl~&amp;jet of
a doting grandmother, who had done all she could towards
spoiling her. She w~is ignorant, unttained and conceited, -
not that she had lacked faeilit~es for education; fbrr her grand-
mother had ~sentherto the most fashionable 'school~ in the
city, and she had, as the old lady proudly observed," I eexi'
through all the branches;" yet of all that was useful and
necessary for one in her condition of life sh&amp; was wholly
ignorant. Nature had given her a q~iick, b$ght intellect, and
a loving heart, yet, at sixteen, she was indolent, ignorant,
self~willed and diseontcntcd.
Melinda's another had died soon after her birth, and ~her
father had spent most ~of his time at the Bo~Zth, 141in busihes4
was lucrative, yet his habits were $uch:that~t his death there~
was nothing left for his child. The grandt~other di4 not loi*
survive him~ and left the 'girl not only portionless, but nearly
friendless. In a remote corner of our town the old lady had.
a brother and sister still living. They were unmarried, and,
when informed of her death, wrote to offer a home to her
orphan grandchild. It was this letter that gave rise to the
above conversation.
Mrs. Murdock has given her impression of Aunt ]~nice;
now, dear reader, let me give you nnne She ~ i~t~ in~
deed, anything like Melinda~s grandmother, but a slvewd,
strong-minded, energetic ~w~xnan, who' knew little, and q~red
less about that portion of the world which could not be seen
from the old farm-house door, where she had always 4welt
with her brother Jonas. Her prepossessions and preJt~dices
were very strong, and not easily changed, for she 'was seldom
contradicted, none of~tlie neighbors caring to' '~get into a
8narl" with ~Aunt Euaioe, Her tong~ie was swift and sharp,


296                                                                                                           297
LEAVES FROM TIlE TREE IODRASYL.

her manners somewhat rough; but she had a true, kind heart,
though the way to reach it often seemed somewhat intricate.
She bad about her that kind of rude dignity and that' marked
individuality which are Veculiar to people who, as one of our
hard-fi~ted neighbors expresses it, "never look up to nobody
but themselves ~ "and, for all such as ~allowed themselves to
feel or manifest ~ny craving to be "fishionable and gen-
teel," she felt a heartier contempt than a Thrk feels for a
Christian.
Personally, she was fine-fooking, tall and erect, with eyes
of that deep, brilliant blue whose intensity often surpasses
those of a darker shade, ~and high but well-cut featured, indic-
ative of great firmness and decision of character. At three-
score not a single line of silver thridded the mass of dark-
brown hair which seldom suffered the confinement of cap or
bonnet, and her 'skirts were of the narr&amp;West fashion, and her
short-gowns of the most antique pattern possible, made up
from ht~u~ stores of home-made flannel, or, in summer, of gay
chintz ~Vhich she had purchased years ago. A flannel ~blanket
in winter, and one of Uncle Jouas' east-off straw hats in sum-
mer, answered for head-gear; and in this guise she appeared
in the great yard back of the house, at sunrise every morn-
ing, with her milking-pails on her arm and a great bowl of
corn-meal in her han4, followed by a motley group of hens,
ducks, geese and turkeys, gobbling, crowing, cackling and
screaming, while her own sharp voice was heard ab&amp;~te the
die, lecturing some belligerent pld turkey-cock or gormandiz-
ing gander, or in' softer* tones' commending some mothei~ly ~old
hen; for, like most, childless women, she had contracted 'the
habit of talking to everything, animate and inanimate, as if
it ware human. Her house was scrupulously neat, but she was
too iii~Uch of an utilitarian to cover her floor with a carpet
"plagny dirty things, good for nothing but the moths;"
neither had ~he sofas, lounges or ottou~xans, but her parlor was
furnished with great arm-chairs, and these were piled full of

I

I

woollen blankets with all sorts of striped borders, and cover~.
lets of all imaginable patterns.
On the cherry bureau, and in the corners of the room, were
divers rolls of homespun cloth, linen, and woollen, and linsey-
woolsey, shining cam-colored flannel for her own use, and. but-
ternut-colored ~' dress cloth" for Uncle Jonas' wear. Aunt
Eunice did not like black, it'" was such a rotten color."
The old-fashioned round table was guiltless of lamps or
books, or engravings, but, at the proper season, was covered
with great pewter platters, full of sliced apples, or peaches,
or berries, drying for winter use. The walls were garnished
with sundry bunches of yarn, and from a projecting beam
hung the old people's Sunday suit.
The sitting-room or, as they called it, the "out-room," was
scarcely less bountifully furnished. Here were, usually,
baskets of apples standing about, and, across the hearth in
summer, stood Aunt i~unice's great wheel, while close at hand,
on the red chest, lay several bunches of wool-roll~ ~ra~fdy~or
spinning at moments of leisure from the kitchen.
Eunice's peculiar province waS the kitchen; here her ~lory '~
was reflected in the bright tins which lined the shelves, the~
pails and noggins, the quantities of dried beef, and string of
apples, pumpkins, red pepper and herbs, that dangled from~
the beams overhead. The great wooden screen before the
fire was hung with clean linen bags, and, perchance, a shhi~
or pair of trousers of Uncle Jonas'; and, in each corner of
the yawning fire-place, stood the dye-pot sand salt-mortar -
those lares of our fathers' hearth-stones, quite as useful 'and.
quite as venerable as those of Rome~ or Pompeii ~v certainly
quite as venerable, for, who, IL ask, ever saw a new salt.
mortar?
Here, Aunt Eunice had spent sixty years,~ busy, independ-
ent, contented, and happy- happy, except at ti or three
periods, when she had been trouble with tlAe suspicion that
Uncle Jonas thought of getting married. And'~ she was

MELINDA DUTTON.

296

297

}
t
?


298

LEAVES FRQM THE TREE IODRASYL.

respected and beloved too; for the sharp words and stinging
proverbs which she bestowed upon her neighbors were pretty
sure to be followed by4 kind deeds.
But I must not forget Uncle Jonas. Dear, kind, sunny-
hearted, Uncle Jonas! with his, benevolent smile, his quiet,
thoughtful manner, and his few, yet pleasant, words. ille
was the patriarch of the neighborhood, whose footsteps were
hallowed by angels, in the shape of little children, who gath-
ered around and looked upon him with love and reverence.
Of course, Melinda Dutton was very poorly qualified to
appreciate or enjoy her new home. Mrs. Murdock's words
were not. without their influence, and they constantly recurred
to her mind, after she was seated in the stage-coach that was
to convey her to Maplehurst; and, by the time that vehicle
stopped at the rustic tavern where she was to get down, she
had come to seriously regard her old relatives with excessive
repugnance, and to pity herself as the most unfortunate and
wr~et~,. , s~f mortals.
~ ~ou brought my niece, Mr. Green?" asked a full-
tone~i, pleasant voice, as the driver opened the coach-door. It
was Uncle Jonas that spoke, and who went forward and care-
*Wly assisted her to alight. His words were so kind and
cheerful, his manner so cordial, as he-led her into the house,
and asked about her journey, that the girl's brow grew clearer,
and she watched his movements, as he transferred her baggage
to his square farm-wagon, with unexpected interest.
The Dudley farm was about three miles from the village.
They were soon on the road, and, as they passed along, Uncle
Jonas pointed out the old farm-houses, and told her the names
of the owners. The sun set soon after they left the village;
the twilight deepened, and as the road crept carefully and
cautiously on among the hills, and grew more and more
rugged, the old man relapsed into, silence. The moon arose;
gradually the dark shadows fled; ~nd the dewy forest-leaves
quivered and glittered like glad living spirits, as the soft

I

4k
4,4
299~ ~

MELINDA DUTTON.

moonbeams slid down among them in search of the swe~t,
fragrant flowers. It was a new scene to Melinda. There
was that in her nature that answered to it, and she uttered a
low exclamation of delight.
"Ay, yes, the heavens declare his righteousness, and all
the. people see his glory!" said the old man, in a deep, low
tone, involuntarily slackening his horse's pace, and raising his
eyes reverently to the heavens above them.
They turned into a dark, narrow lane, overhung by the
luxuriant branches of the cherry-trees that shaded it, and, soon
afterwards, the horse stopped, and Uncle Jonas, pointing to
th9 dim outline of the old farm-house, shut in by trees, told
her that was her home. He had scarcely ceased to speak
when Aunt Eunice appeared, coming frGnl the house with a.
tall candle in her hand, which she was trying to screen from
the current of air, alternately addressing that and the old
house-dog, who was manifesting his delight at his master's
return, by barking and gamboling directly in her path.,
"Get out of the wayr you black scamp! Be stil1~Xjt~y~ I
There, &amp;weel out, will ye, - plague on -the pesky thib~! I
wish I 'd got the lantern. Jonas! I say, Jonas, is that y094
And have you got Lindy 'I"
"Yes, here she is, Eunice, - you can't mistake that face! "~
he said, leading the girl forward; "she 's a Dudley, every
inch of her."
"So much the better!" cried the old woman, shaking her
heartily by the hand, and raising her light to get a better
view of her fac&amp; "You 're the last of a good stock, for
Jonas never 'will get married now, and I 'm proper glad. you 'ye
come to live with us. But come in, child'; you are tired and
hungry as a bear, I dare say."
Melinda followed her into the honse, and was soon seated
at a table loaded with eatables, but arranged in a manner that
greatly disturbed all h~i~ i4eas~ of propriety. There was ~t.
great platter of cold beef, flanked by plates of butter, smoked

4.       1


~00

LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGDRASYL.

* beef, pickles, cakes and pies. On opposite corners of the
table the old lady had placed a loaf of bread, and almost a
whole cheese. Between the old people stood a pitcher of
cider, whieh they drank alternately with their tea.
"Out for yourself, ]Iiindy!" said the old lady, handing
over the loaf and a sharp knife, The girl hesitated, and she
continued: "I s'pose you are 'used to having a whole plate-
ful cut up every time you eat, just as Thankful Stone did
here, last winter, when I sprained my ankle. But I put a
stop to it pretty quick. What was left was all dried up, and
Miss Thankful did not like dry bread nor odds and ends any
better than other folks, and IL was n't going to stand dog for
the whole family. It 's rank waste to cut up bread in that
fashion!"
After being pressed to take this and that, and "jest a
crumb more" of something else, Melinda withdrew from the
table, and surveyed the kitchen with visible astonishment.
All was strange, and Aunt Eunice, rattling away her dishes,
asking~her questions about her journey, lecturing he dog, or
inquiring about some sick person, or society matters, of Uncle
onas, strangest ~f all.
The next morning Melinda rose at a late hour, and made
her way to the kitchen.
"Good morningtindy! You look chirk as a cricket!"
was the old lady's greeting. "Come, get your breakfast,"
she, continued, taking a covered dish from the hearth. "Jonas
and I eat two hours ago, but we thought we 'd let you sleep,
seeing you had come so far yesterday." ~
"Breakfast!" echoed Melinda, with a g1anc~e at the old
clock. "Why, it is but eight o'clock now, and we never haye
breakfast until that time, in town!"
"Then you are a pesky lazy ~set! I should,, faint clear
away before that time. Why~ could n't you get it before?",
"Because we never got up; or grandmother used to get

MEILt~TDA DUTTON.              $01'
uptG be sure, but she never called me until it was ready, and
that was at eight."
"Well, then, she did not do her d~ity by you," said the ~ld
woman, bluntly. "IL gj.iess you'll have to turn over a new
leaf here. 'Airly to bed and airly to rise' is qur creed."
The girl ate her food in silence, then loitered to the window
and looked out. After a while, ~he said, "What a lonesome,
dreary, out-of-the-way place this is, aunt! I wonder how any
one in his senses i3ould think of building a house here!"
"Your great-great-grandfather, Ambrose Dudley, settled
here before the old war, and if he wasn't as wise as any of~
your city folks, I should like to know it. He was a justice
and a deacon. Besides, when folks have enough to do, they
aren't apt to find fault with such an old homestead as this,"
replied the old lady, dryly. "But, come, child, if you 'ye
nothing else to do, wash up the breakfast dishes, and let me
see how smart you can be; but, lawful sakes!" she added,
glancing at Melinda's light muslin, "you don't expect to
wash dishes in that gown, IL hope. It 's as bad as white, and
flimsy as a cobweb."
"It is one of my usual summer dresses, aunt. As to
housework - I never washed a dish in my life!"
"Well, now, if that don't beat the T~utch V E'n-a-niost
seventeen, and never washed a dish!"
"iJou~ework is for servants. No lady does housework
it is n't genteel!"
"Genteel! ~i. poor, good-for-nothing set of critters they
must be, running $~ debt and cheating other folks out of their
honest dues~eM~ a~ Tim. Hatton did. He married a fine lady,
and set uji f~r' a marohant, and cut a mighty dash f~r a while,
and then run out of' the little' en4 of the horn. Some folks
got plaguily bit by him. Lord save us from all such crit~
ters!"
"But, aunt~ you are 'rich enough to live without work.
Why don't y ire ~ervants?"


~o2

LEAV~5 FUQM ~flEE3 ~      IODItASYL.

"Child ! "-~-- and the old lady was quite erect, while she flour-
ished the bunch of scouring-grass which she held in her hand,
with double vigor,-" from Ambrose Dudley down, your fore-
fathers have been prudent, pains-taking, industrious people.
They never grudged a poor man a meal of victuals or a load
of wood; but they were saving, and, thought it no disgrace to
work. My father was well to do in the world; when he
died we all shared alike. Your grandma married and set up
for a fine lady, and spent all her part years before she died.
Jonas and I have held our own, and added something to it,
mayhap. I don't want to boast; but let me tell you, child,
w~ aren't going to. squander what we have. Why should I
keep servants? I have to slave hard enough now, and I
don't want a pack of servants to manage. I would n't take
all the southern negroes as a gift."
"0, I would! There ought to be slaves everywhere to do
the drudgery. But I suppose it is of no consequence how
people'live in such a place as this. In the city you would
ka~e to live like other people."
"I.tave to! I 'd like to see them that would make me
have to be such a lazy, good-for-nothing critter. I 'd like to
know, Lindy, if the folks in Middletown are all monkeys, that
they must ape one.another? They read their Bibles, I sup-
pose, and don't they know that He who made all things pro-
vided two hands for every mouth, and that he that won't work
sha'n't eat? Learn to help yourself child, and always
remember that the highest price you can pa~$r a favoi~ is
to ask for it."
Melinda soon found that it would not be so easy to hw~4
"her own way out there" as ~he fancied. Aunt tunice, 1~-
garding all her previous~ habits and opinions with inexpressi-
ble contempt, was determined to make her a thorough house-
keeper, and ~he was a much xnore formid~~liaraeter thail
the girl had~ fancied; but, with all h&amp;r ze4A~ Eunice was,

M~A 3~UTTO~

38

as yet, not quite wise or gentle enough~ ~tQ undertake to
remodel her niece's character with any great hope of success.
Melinda set about her tasks with considerable zeal, influ-
enced ,as much by the novelty of the thing as a desire to make
herself useful. But her ignorance, her carelessness, and,,
aboVe 'all, her endless inquisitiveness, hourly exhausted her
aunt's small stock of patience. Besides, Aunt Eunice had a
way of her own for doing things, and would tolerate no inno-
vations, and Melinda soon developed a strong passion for
experimenting. If she moulded the bread, it was sure to be
after some new method her own; or, if her aunt charged
her to stir the cream "round with the sun," she would invam
riably stir it the other way, to contradict, by experiment, her
aunt's theory.
"I tell you, Lindy, you '11 bewitch that cream. It '11 never
come until doomsday if you stir it that way. It mi~st go
round with the sun!"
"The sun does n't go round, aunt. It 's the earth that
moves; it 's more philosophical to stir it in this way."
"Fiddlesticks-ophical V Are you blind or turning fool, to
say the sun don't go round? Why, look yonder. A little.
while. ago you might have reached it with a pole, e'enamost,
from the top of High hill. Now it has got clean away up in
the sky, - and d~n't it go down every night behind Joe
Page's woods?"
"So it seems, aunt. But every child knows that the sun's
motion is only apparent; it seems to rise and set because the
eatth revolves on its own axis every day, something~ in .this
way;" and Melinda caught up a ball of yarn, and began twirl-
ing it round, in illustration of her theory..
~ me, there goes my nie~e yarn intothe cream! What
~sful fools the~j~ ,~ in this world I Do. you s'pose that I 'ye
lived ~ixty ye~' ~ world and sto6d on my head half the
ti~in itl~out g it? It stands to reason. there is* no
ing.       in the name of wonc1~.r would come of us


804

LEAVES FROM TEE TURE XG~)i~ASXL.

all if'the world did turn over? Every dish on my shelves there
would be smashed into inch pieces ~"
"Why, aunt, I supposed no one doubted the fact. As to
standing on your head and breaking your dishes, all that can
be philosophically "-
"Lindy, Lindy Dutton, I care nothing about your ~oso-
phy! What' I do know I know for sartin. If you had
studied your Bible more, you' would n't be so ignorant.
Did n't Joshua command the sun to stand still? and would
h~ have do~ie that if it had not been a moving? I guess
Joshua, the son of Nun, knew as much as some folks now-a-
days!"
"But, aunt "-
"Silence! Don't let me hear. any more such heathenish
notions! I wonder how sister Rachel could let any one put
such dreadful things into a child's head. It beats 'all!"
Melinda had too much of her aunt's spirit to have her
grandmother censured without an attempt at vindication.
But this course only made the old lady more caustic and
peremptory. They did not take kindly to each other. ' Me-
linda had a quick and loving appreciation of beauty, - Aunt
Eunice saw nature' only in a 'potato patch or field of turnips.
In her view everything Was useless 'that did not directly min-
ister to physical needs or fill a purse. As to spiritual needs,
she did not recognize any as legitimate save such as could be
amply satisfied by reciting the catechism and listening to two
sermons on the Sabbath. Therefore she forbade' ~ll the girl'~
attempts to adorn the ample door-yard with shrubbery, and
made endless war on all such things as "briars and weeds
stuck into pots to clutter up the house;'~ saying she felt it
her "bounden duty to break her of such shiftless habits.'~
With Uncle Jonas the girl was on bette~~rms. To him
her 'yonn~ face i~as like a sunbeam in th~ 4e old Jiouse.
He really liked her.; 'and though he wa~ bliu&amp; t er
faults, he always ~ad some word in palilat~ ~ He w~ one

MELINDA DtJTTQN.               ~05
of those kind souls who find it difficult ~q frown, or believe
aught' but good of their fellow-beings. Melinda became
unconsciously attached to him, lie would have made it all
sunshine in the house; but though, in reply to his sister's
daily catalogue of the girl's faults and misdemeanors; he spoke
many calm, wise words, the~clouds would stay.
The old lady had limited her niece's society to a few fami~
lies for whom she had a particular regard. But the girl soon
grew weary of these pronouncing the girls "animated
churns," and the young men more stupid than their oxen.
Not far from the Dudley farm, though on a more frequented
road, lived Mr. Ilatton, the father of Tim Hatton, the bank-
rupt, whom Aunt Eunice denounced daily with inexhaustible
bitterness. It was shrewdly suspected that the great leather
pocket-book in which she kept her deposits was miuzts sev-
eral hundreds through Tim's failure. However this might
be, ~hc~re was no reason to doubt her sincerity when she
declared that she "e'enamost hated the whole bum' on
'em!"
Melinda occasionally saw the flatten girls at meeting.
Their dress and manners indicated pretensions to fashion quite
above those of the families she was accustomed to visit, and
she wished to make their acquaintance, partly because she
expected to find more in common, with them than with the
others, and partly from a strong desire to contradict Aunt
Eunice, and have her own way. Accident favored her; they
met at the village st6re, whither she sometimes accompanied
Uncle Jonas. The young clerk introduced them, and, in a
few moments, they~ had commenced an ardent intimacy. They
were pleased with her, and she readily promised to call on
them to meet their brother's wife, who was a Middletown
woman, and knew several of Melinda's friends.
Sh~ had cal1o~ on the flattens severe ~iuies before Aunt
Euulc~ was aw~j~e of it; then followed a scene of bitter
reproaches an4ga1lling hints of dependence on one side, and


806         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                          MELINDA DUTTON.               80T

wilful, unflinching obstinacy on the other. Henceforth Me~
linda threw aside 'all seeming restraint or respect for her
aunt's commands, and even Uncle Jonas began to view her
character with serious apprehensions. Had Aunt Eunice
been guided by a more intelligent appreciation of the girl's
mind, or more largely furnished with the wisdom of winning~
souls, it might have been otherwise. But she was not con-
scious of her own shortcomings, of course, and laid all the
blame on her niece, whom, she said, "a bad bringing-up had
completely spoiled." So, when winter came with its lonely
sights and sounds, Melinda grew more and more unhappy and
dissatisfied, and longed to get away.
One evening, as she sat moodily watching the patches of
snow as they slid from the boughs of a hemlock tree ne~r the
window, she was startled by the unusual sound of sleigh-bells
in the lane. Presently a sleigh paused before the door, and
a gentlemaii sprang out, whom she at once recognized~' as a
Mr. Langley whom she had known in Middletown. He was,
at present, cl~frk in a large wholesale store in New York.
He was spending a few days with some friends in the village,
and, hearing that Melinda was in the place, had called to see
her. She was delighted with this mark of attention; he was
handsome, fashionable, agreeable, and conversant .with all the
details of that life for which she so ardently ~pined. He
called frequently during his stay in M-.--~, took her to ride,
or whiled away the hours by her side, and soon read in her
manner that tale which no man ever reiLds with indifference.
At first this knowledge awoke no feeling but gratified vanity.
But soon other feelings began to unite~with this, and, guided
by motives which he did not stop to analyze, he continued the
intimacy, until her whole soul was bound up in him. His
visits were very disagreeable to ~Annt Eunice, who, partly
from instinct aud partly from prejudice, disliked him, But
she did' not mmonstrate wisely, nor even show any o~ that
maternal wisdom that is so well versed in the mysteries of

womanhood. Melinda refused to give up Langley, and began
to meet him by stealth.
"Full oft they met, as dawn and twilight meet
In northern climes; she full of growi~ig day,
As he of darkness,"-.
until '-but why need i[ say what followed? lit was the old
story'- old as passion and time. 14cm the fresh, up-gushing
fountain of her heart there arose a mist of golden splendor,
through which she failed to see the heartlessness and ~elfish-
ness of him in whom she trusted. She' loved, was deceived,
led astray and destroyed; but no, not entirely, not forever
destroyed.
It was only when she found herself deserted, miserable,
suffering, destitute, and an outcast in a distant city, that the
delusion utterly vanished. Then she saw that the halo ~f
light in which her eyes had been dazzled was but a reflection
from her own passionate nature, and in her misery and utter~~
self-abasement she longed to die. Then it was, 'with the
blush of shame on her cheek and its keener burnings in her
heart, that she began to feel that her old relatives, in spite
of their peculiarities, had been her only true friends.
Never had the old farm-house known such a commotion
bcne~th its roof~ as on the morning succeeding Melinda's
flight. At first the old people could not believe her gone;
and, when they could no longer doubt it, they were fill4~with
anxiety, dismay a#id grief Aunt Eunice spoke her indigna-
tion, weeping the' while with heartfelt~ sorrow; and lIJficle
Jonas, with great misgivings, endeavored to hope that all
might yet be well.                        /
More than a year passed, and nothing was heard from Me~
linda beyond a few vague rumors. i~frerything at the old
house had settled into its habitual gait, when one evening, as.
Uncle 'Jonas ~eated himself by the ~iidle..stand~ he said:
"Eunice7 hand me my speQtacles; Joe Page's boy has


LEAVES FRO~Z THE TREE IODUASYL.                                         MELINDA DUTTON.               309

brought me a letter from the store. From Esq. Gleason, I
s'pose, something about the deed~ for the grist~mi1l."
She took the letter up while he arranged his glasses, but
laid it down with a contemptuous -
"I wonder if he calls that thing a J? I vum, I can. do
better myself! Squire Phge's writing was as plain as print.
But now-a-days, when folks pretend to know everything, their
larnin' is like Cinda ~ones' 1k~nnel, all thrui~s. Now I think
on 't, Jonas, I want you to get me some walnut bark in the
morning. I want to color my blanket yarn."
Re was too much absorbed in his letter to heed her remarks.
She caught a word or two occasionally, as he read on, pro-
nouncing each word in an audible whisper, as was his habit.
At length, she interrupted him:
"What 's that, Jonas? Who 's destitute? What the
rosset ails you, man? John Doolittle has n't failed, has
he?"
"No, no," he said, in very tremulous tones. "It's about
Lindy, poor child ! "
"Lindy! you don't say, Lindy! What of her? Where
is she ? -~ is that letter from her?"
"Read it," he replied.
"What, I read such writing as that! I can't make head
nor tail to it. It 's worse than goose4racks. Read it your-
self, Jonas."
He read the letter aloud. It was written, without Melinda's
knowledge, by a person who had known her in Middletown,
and was well acquainted with her subsequent history. It
gave a touching account of her present condition, and pleaded
earnestly with Uncle Jonas to go to her, forgive her, and take
her back. Uncle Jonas' voice grew husky, and it was not
without considerable swallowing and clearing of his throat,
that he read the note to the end. In Aunt Eunice's heart the
fountain of pride was still quite as deep~ as the fountain of
pity, and she exclaimed:

"There, Jonas, it has turned out just exactly as I always
said it would. The~ minute I set my eyes on that feller,
Langley, I knew he was a good-for-nothing scamp, and I told
Lindy so over and over again; but I might as well have
talked to the east wind. She has made her own bed, and
now she must lie on it. She has found out now, I guess, who
knows best!"
The old man ~at in deep thought, slowly folding the letter
and saying to himself:
"Poor child ! -her mother died when she was such a little
girl. Ii 'm afraid we were too hard with her. She wasn't used
to our ways, - and, then, she was so good sometimes. Poor
dear, what will become of her?" He seemed weighing some
great question; at length he arose, and both his looks ~nd
words evinced that the decision was made.
"Eunice," he' said, "you may put me up a mouthful of
something to eat, and get my other clothes ready, for it 's a
considerable of a long way to New York, and I shall want to
start pretty early. I '11 just step over to neighbor Page's and
get Joe to come over and look after th6 cattle and do chores
while lam gone."
"Why, Jonas Dudley! you don't mean to goto New York!
How are you to find the way? You '11 get lost, and robbed,
and 'murdered! And what can we do with Lindy, here?
How can she ever look anybody in the face again?"
"We 'II treat her kindly, Eunice, and do our duty by her,
as I 'm afraid we did not when she was here. And if she is
a good girl and behaves herself now, I tell you, she shan't be
put upon by anybody. She 's got sadly out of the way, and~
mayUps, we have our share of blame for it. Think of the
poor, young thing dying among strangers! and remember our
blessed Savioth' had words of peace and forgiveness for those
Worse than she."
Aunt' Eunice was softened. "Sure enough ; I wonder how
I could forget His example, a minute. But ~ cut me to ~he

st 4
1 4 4


810          LEAVES 2?~iQM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                                 ~ui~LfrWA DUTTQ~

heart to have TAndy turn out so dreadfully. May-be I was
te~ty, too, and did n't have as much patience as I' ought; but
you shall bring her home, Jonas, and I don't care if folks talk
till their tongues blister."
She was thoroughly roused by Melinda's need of pity, and,
long after Uncle Jonas was asleep, she was still up, busily
engaged in making preparations for his journey - prepara-
tions that would have sufficed for a journey to Oregon.
It is well to listen to the voice of sorrow. Aunt Eunice
had an intense family pride, and an intense scorn for all such
erring ones as Melinda, and she felt these things as women
frequently feel them; bnt now, attacked as she was from a
new quarter, they were completely broken down and dis-
comfited.
She went about her household affairs, reflecting upon the
influences under which Melinda had grown from a child, and
with a growing feeling of self..accusation as to the circum-
stances under, which she went astray, until there was born in
her heart a larger sympathy. New light and warmth gushed
in; and the "winged seed dropped 4lown from paradise,"
which had lain so long smothered, started into sudden and
rapid growth, rooting %~ut many of the strong, rank weeds.
When the ilay fixed for their arrival came, she was rest'.
lessly;~ busy' in perfecting the minutest preparation for ~he
invalid. Once or twice, when everything seemed in readi-
ness, she drew out her wheel and tried to spin. But the flax
would- slip from the distaff, and the thread catch in the fliers,
until, half angry with herself, she put it away, and piled
up nearly half a load of wood in the capacious chimney
corners.
At last, while she was yet in the chamber doing something
add to her arrangements, the joyful bark of the old dog
announced their approach. She hastened down, and met
Jonas a~' he entered the house, bearing his shrinking, sob-
bing niece in his arms, 'as he would have borne a little ehild.

"Heaven be praised, 'Jonas, you 'ye got back alive and'
brought our 'child with you!" she cried. "I 'ye had the
fidgets about you, TAndy ; - child, don't cry so! I 'in proper
glad to see you; I never was so glad to. see any one in my'
life!" she added, as Melinda hid her face in h~r cloak, and
sobbed still more bitterly. "Let me take off your cloak,
child.?'
"Glad to see me, autit ~" said the poor girl, attempting 'to
look up. "Can you, indeed, forgive me ? - forgive all the
sorrow and distress I have caused you? O~ you are too
good!"
"No, not good ; - the Lord' knoweth, not good. I 'ye
been to blame. If I had been a true mother to you, I don't
believe you would have gone astray. But I ~ll do better,
now ~ and' you '11 do better, and may the Lord forgive us all!
But, that Langley I shall hate him as long as I live and
breathe!"
Aunt )~unice proceeded to untie the gi~l's hood, and Dielin-
da's tears fell 'fast on her hands, as she said:
"Heaven Hess you, aunt! I had not dared t~ hope for
this!"
"It has blessed me already, child, in showing me my~ errors
and bringing you back to us. I should have rern~knbered that
you had neither~ father nor n~other.' But I 'If try to be a
mother to you now, TAndy." Aunt Eunice's tears caine~i~ast,
and she drew down' her glasses and said to Uncle Jonas, "Do
open that entry door, Jonas. It smokes here enough to put
one's eyes out. It 's that pesky back-stick; I knew it would
smoke when I put it on."                         ~'  ~'
Many weeks passed before Melinda was able to leave her
room. ~Had 'there 2been no change in Aunt Eunice's manner,'
there would have been a total change in her sense of it; for, ii*~
her experience of suft~ring, she had learned wisdo* But
Aunt Eunice wa~ changed; she strove hard to overcome h~er
fretfulness and be considerate and kind. Melinda had p~e.


812          LEAVE 1?ILOE THE TREE IODRASTL.

pared herself for the severest reproaches, and this unusual
tenderness, that avoided even the mention of her error and
disgrace, was, as she said, "too much." Poor girl! she felt
these words~and looks to be the good angels that were
_______ To breathe away
The 4lust o' the heart 'with holy air."
She came forth to the world a new creature. Her saddened
woman's nature,-whose crown had fallen, made itself a beauti-
ful wreath of the flowers of faith, humility and patience, which
suffering had caused to spring along her path. Serene and
strong in her love for all that was good and beautiful, she
became t~ her old relatives a ministering angel, and watched
and tended '~i~eir old age with unwearied love and care. And
even Aunt fl~utiice came to see how divine it is to have com-
passion on the sinning, to save the soul that is '~ready to
perish.
It may not be amiss to add, that on the death of her old
relatives, when their, great estate became hers, Henry Langley
again appeared, and sought to make her his wife. Buti, to hi~
surpri~e and confusion, he did not Ilnd the thoughtless girl that
hiss arts had seduced, and was refus~d with that lofty scorn
which ever4yit~oh villain deserves.~ Firmly and patiently she
walk~4 th~KWttys of life, doing all things nobly, because she
comi~iuied with the $pirit, and believed in Him whom to know
"is life eternal."

~3~; *~jm~

3~3~

X.                            p3
THE MAIDEN OF THE FOUNTAIN.
"THERE - there - she has gone vanished! 0, Annie!
how could you waken me?" claimed Richard Fanshaw, as
lie, buried his elbow in th~ rich moss on whi ~ie lay, and,
half raising himself, gazed with a look of rej~*~ia~E and dis-
appointment on the laughing face of a fair girl of some fifteen
summers, who, in the very spirit of mischief, stood dipping a
graceful wand of young birch in the limpid waters of the
spring at her feet, preparatory to giving-him
ling.                                   a s~con4 sprink-
"Wake you, Richard!" she replied, with a musical laugh;
"Why, your eyes were wide, o~en-aa wide as Mr. ~ip~s
yonder," she continued; casting a whole sh~ri, ~ hr1~1it
drops at a squirrel, that peeled at them with ~bi~ rnd,~lght
eyes, from a hole in the trunk of~an old hv~ory~a fe~paces
distant.
tell 3you, I was fast, asleep," said the young man, or
rathe~ boy, for he could scarcely have seen tw~uty years, in a~
tone of petulant impatience; "and your ill-timed mi~ohi~f3ha~
destroyed the most -~beautiful dream that ever blessed the
heatt of man."
The young girl drew ~ him, ax~d~ laying her small , ~zand
on his shoulder, look~4 ~ ~his disturbed face, until ;~the ex-
pression of mirthfulness ~t~iat ~znoment before 'had Aimpled
over her own, gave place to ~ne of ~ sadne.~s.

y

312


814         LEAVES FROM THE TREE IGI)RASYL.                                         TIlE MAIDEN OP TUE I~OTTh~TAIN.       815

"You are angry with me, Richard," she said, "angry with
your own little Annie."
For a second, Richard Fanshaw returned her earnest
glance; then a smile broke round his mouth, and stole upward
to his eyes, .chasing away every trace of his petulant mood.
"No, no, Annie, I am not angry only sorry that you
awoke me so soon. I was wrong to speak so hastily; but sit
~ down here, you little mischief!" he continued playfully, draw-
ing her down by his side, "and I will tell you my dream.
There, sit where -
He paused, and looked at hcr with an air of' bewildered
surprise.
"What is the matter, now, Richard? Are you going to
sleep again, ~r do you expect to put me to sleep?" asked the
girl, archly
"Hush ! - sit still, Annie. Do not stir%" he replied, in
almost a whisper. "There - now the resemblance is wonder-
ful. I could almost think it was she."
"She ! - who?" said Annie, starting up and looking round
as if she expected to see a third person peeping from behind
some one of the forest-trees.
"The Maiden of the Fountain, child. There was some-
thing in your face, just then, when the slant sunbeams from
between the branches, of yon old maple fell on your head, that
reminded me~strQr~g}y of her. There, now, those mischievous
dimples have spQiled it all. But sit down and watch the
bright water While I tell you all about it.
"I had traced the 'branch' from the 'notch' down to the
mill-dam, Annie, in search of trout, and, tired of my unsuc-
cessful morning's sport (if sport it can be called), I struck
across the woods for home. I reached the spring, and, after
slaking my thirst, lay down under the old birch, and watched
the sunbeams that came prying through every nook and
crevice in the thick green leaves, peering up the ravine yon-
der, as if haunted by a sense of something far more beautiful

than they had yet discovered, -just like me, Annie, ..- and
the beautiful, and, in many~ cases, grotesque grouping of the
old trees yonder, with their deep, motionless shadows changed
to delicate mosaic by the restless fingers of the saucy sun-
beams. Then I mused on those beautiful fables of ancient
Greece, of which I told you the other day; of that simple
faith that peopled forest and stream with living spirits, thus
recognizing its .own intimate relations with Nature, until my ~
vivid fancy re-created that time in all its freshness, and
peopled this spring and woods with the shapes of many a
'fallen old divinity.' I fancied that I saw more than one fair
face peering shyly from the green depths of yonder clump of
young chestnuts, and but you laugh, Annie. This is all
nonsense to you.''
"Not exactly, Richard. I do not know na~b. about Gre-
cian mythology, to be sure; but sometimes, when I ha'v'e come
along through the woods from school, I htwe fancied that the
trees were talking to each other, and have stopped to listen;
but, though I stood very still, I could never catch a word;
for, when I stopped, they became silent; and seemed watching
and waiting for me to go on. But tell me more, Richard."
With her hand in his, and her clear eyes raised to his face,
the young girl listened while. Richard Fanshaw went on to
tell how, busy with these fancies, he fell asleep &amp;id wandered
in the wondrous realm of Dreamland, through regions of en-
chanting loveliness, steeping his soul mi that bewildering
atmosphere, and revelling in pleasure, until he well-nigh~
forgot his high aspirations, that would have plucked the stars
from heaven. How, suddenly and swiftly as the shooting of
a star, the memory~ of them came upon hii~u~, falling his soul ~
with unrest and disquiet , and, haunted by a ~ense of imper-
fection and loneliness, he fled onward through a region in
striking contrast to the one he had left; arid, gloomy and
barren; destitute of vegetation, save where rank; poisonous
water-plants grew around pools of green, slimy water, that lay

816

8M

Yi


~S1ti       LEAVES X1LO~X THE TREE IGDRASYL.
sweltering beneath the lurid ann. Ugly, fiend-like faces
grinned at him from the murky atmosphere, and clutched at
him. with their long, bony fingei~s wher~e~er he lost his foot-
hold in the treacherous sands, or slipped by the dreary pools
of wate;.~ their mocking tones were in his ears, filling him
With terror; but above them all sounded one more fearful still,
for it seemed like the voice of his own heart driving him
onward to destruction. A terrible thii~st consumed him; his
steps began to filter, and hi~ eyes to grow dim; but his hear-
ing, like that of many dying people, became more acute, and
he could still hear the mocking voices and resolve the dis-
cordant sounds into words. One and all they cried, "Fool!
dreamer!, trt~th is a fable. Purity and goodness are idle
dreams! J~njoy the present, for there is no future!" while
that strangel~r4~uniliar voice kept repeating the words in low,
but distinctly audible whispers, as if it mused upon their
import. Just as he was about to yield to their influence, his
ear caught the sweet murmur of forest leaves, and a breath
of pure, fresh air fell on his throbbing brow. His weary
heart recognized them as heaven-sent messengers, and, rally-
ing his strength, he sprang forward in the direction from which
they came.
The fearful, voices grew fainter, dying away like the wail-
ing winds of autumn; his step grew firmer; his eyesight
clearer, until every trace of that hideous landscape disap-
peared, and there lay around him a scene of exquisite beauty,
yet widely different from the one that had so enchanted him
at first. That atmosphere had enervated while it intoxicated;
but this was pure and.healthful as the kiss of a gentle mother.
Suddenly, he came to a crystal fountain, shaded by a drooping
birch, and set round with broad, cool stones; in short, it was
very much like the spring at their feet, save that the waters
werefar clearer, and the yellow sand at the bottom of a far
brighter golden hue.
How, ehol~ing with thirst, he eagerly knelt on the brink;

THE MAIDEN OY TIlE MOUNTAIN~.

817

but just as his greedy lip neared the water, a wondrously-
beautiful maiden stood before him. Whether she rose from
the fountain, as the agitation of sand at the bottom seemed to
indicate, or stepped from the bole of the old tree, he could
not tell. With one hand she gathered her loose rob~ about
her, while in the other she held a few broad leaves of the
Egyptian Calla, encircling the wand-like stalk with its creamy
spatha and blossom. With this she motioned him back, and,
in tones far sweeter than the murmur of the waters, though
strongly like it, she said:
"Mortal, what brings you to my fountain?"
With an effort to loosen his parched tongue, he replied:
"A weary, thirsty heart."
"Drink, and thirst no more," she replied, folding on~ of
the broad calla leaves in the shape of a cup, 'ai~id placing it
in his hand.
Richard Fansliaw paused, and sat for some moments look-
ing thoughtfully into the spring.
Little Annie, who watched his countenance intently, nestled
closer to his side, and pressed the hand that still clasped hers,
as if to remind him of her presence.
"1 saw her no more," he said, at length, "for, just as I
raised the cup to my lips, your love of mischief awoke me.
Yet she must have been a real maiden," he continued, "for
her hand was soft and' warm as yours, Annie; and, when her'
fingers met mine, as she gave me the cup, a strange, indescrib-
able feeling run through my whole frame; as if my heart
suddenly gushed over with happiness, just as the water there
gushes up -at the bottom of the spr3.ng."
We need harcTly~ say that Richard Fanshaw was a dreamer
a dweller in the beautiful land of shadows.~ The love of
beauty, from the undefined yearnings of childhood, had grown
with his, growth, until it had become to him a passion and a
hope; and, as he walked 'homeward, along the windjn~ forest-
path, with his arm thrown protectingly around the shoulders
27*

w


318        LEAVES FROM TILE TREE IODRASYL.                                    THE MAIDEN OF THE FOUNTAIN.        819

of his young companion, still dwelling on his dream, there was
a light in his dark eye, and an earnestness, an exultation in
his tones, that told, far more plainly than his words, how
deeply his heart accepted 1~he dream as a prophecy that this
hope wonic yet become a certainty.
It would be not only a curious, but an interesting study, to
trace out the circumstances that exercise a controlling influ-
ence in the formation of such characters as that' of Richard
Fanshaw. Of cours , the e timate must ever be partial,
because connect ral~ t w re disposed to think that if those
who are so ready to condemn, were to take the study up, or
~~even to look into the history of their own inner life, they
would gain some new lessons in psychology; and partake some-
what more largely of that divine charity "that thinketh no
evil."
We have said that young Fanshaw was imaginative; but,
until now, nothing had occurred to give shape and coloring to
the vague reveries that thronged his busy brain. But this
dream - this egeria of the 'fountain - caine like the angel of
Bethesda to stir the slumbering depths of his heart, and fill it
with passionate longings and delicious unrest.
That form, those eyes, clear, dark and deep as' mountain
springs, haunted him by day and night, and became identified
with all the
"Hopes, dreams, desires of wild ambition born,
Whose dazzling light athwart ha early morn
streamed radiantly, and on his spirit fell
Like a. fire-baptism."
Each day deepened the conviction~ that he was born to
achieve a lofty destiny, and he brooded over the thought
until the quiet monotony of Maplehurst b~bame irksome to
him. With a. crowd of prQi4 aspirations rioting in his heart,
he kissed the sobbing Annie, his pet and plaything from her
birth, took th~ blessing of his dewy-eyed mother, end, eager

to forestall time, threw himself into the. rushing' current of
life.
We may not follow him in all his wanderings through the
world-wide search which his restless, haunte&amp;jheart led him.
Iceland and Italy, Germany and Arabia, the wila C~ucasian
regions and those of "far 'Cathay," left, their cosmopolitan
influence upon him,
"~Until the mother that him bore
Would scarce have known her child."
We may not number the "shrines of beauty at which he
put up prayers," - shrines before which his yearning heert
lay hushed in prophetic anticipation, like the sea. beneath the
rising moon; nor how they all proved but 4's~immer pilots
unto the shores of nothing.
Neither will we attempt to sound the depths of error into
whioh his impetuous nature led him, the consequent suffering
and self-renunciation. We love not such records, and, there-
fore, hasten to say that after an absence of many years, gray
at heart, world-worn, care-worn, with his ideal still unfound,
and all his lofty dreams unrealized, he returned to his native
village, and stood beneath the roof that sheltered his child-
hood, a stranger.
It is a quiet spot, Our Village, so quiet as almost to
cheat Father Time ~himself into forgetfulness. Undoubtedly
a blank leaf or' so in the church records had been filled out
with births, deaths and marriages; the old brown houses had
taken a dingier hue, and the button-woods before the doors
cast a much broader shade than when he left; a railing had
been added to the'bridge; but the &amp;ld crossing-pole, back of
hi~ mother's house, was still the same, even to t~ie patches of.
green moss on ~s crumbling sides; and the stepping-stones,
which he had laid' s~ many years before, were all in their
places, with the clear water rippling around theni, exactly as
of yore. But his mother slept in the grave-yard beyond the

318

819


THE MAIDEN OF THE FOUNTAIN.       821

320        LEAVES FROM THE TREE IOI)RASYL.

river, and his brother's gentle wife sat in her place, sur-
rounded by a group of bright-eyed children, who were ready
to hide their faces in the folds of their mother's dress at every
word and c~ress from their dark-visaged, foreign-looking uncle.
The news of his arrival flew with telegraphic speed, and
old acquaintances, curious to hear his adventures, and eager
to welcome him home, called to see him, and left the house
disappointed. Instead of the bright-faced, joyous youth they
remembered, they found a tall, dignified-looking man, polite
but reserved, and little disposed to gratify their curiosity by
becoming the hero of his own story.
He heard, with more of interest than he had before mani-
fested, that Annie Bradford was still unmarried, and, as soon
as he could disengage himself from his visitors, he took the
well-remembered path toward her dwelling. He had not
gone many rods before he diverged from it, as if struck by
some sudden thought, and took the more circuitous one that
led round by the "Sibyl's Spring." That, too, was unchanged,
and he stood and gazed into its clear depths, while old memo-
ries gushed up from his heart as rapidly as the bright
water from the golden land. Suddenly a light touch fell upon
his arm. He turned, and met the clear, friendly glance of
Annie Bradford.
"Richard ! "-"' Annie! "- they. exclaimed in the same
breath.
With a thoughtful, yet eager look, as if he found there the
key to the destiny whose shadow had so long lain upon his heart,
he gazed into those clear eyes, now deepened and intensified
by all the hopes of ripened womanhood, that were upturned to
his, until the white lids grew tremulous,' and drooped involun-
tarily. With ready tact, and something of her childish arch-
ness, she said
"Have you found her, the Maiden of 'the Fountain,
Richard? You know you promised to bring her with you
when you returned."

He did not reply, but kept his eyes riveted on her face, as
if it were the book of fate. At length a bright smile, like a
star from behind a heavy cloud, broke over his sunburnt face,
and he replied:
"I lw;ve found her, Annie.~~
"Where, where is she, then? They told me you came
alone."
Richard Fanshaw threw his arm around her waist, with
the ~miliarity of days long gone, and, drawing her forward a
step or two, pointed to the image of her own sweet face mir-
rored in the limpid water.
"There, Annie, there!"
Again their eyes met, and the object of his long and weary.
search was accomplished. His destiny was solved.
Drawing her closer to him, he continued:
"My toilsome search is ended, the dream of my boyhood
interpreted. I bring you but a weary, thirsty heart. Will
you accept it, Annie?"
Her reply was lower, but far sweeter to his wayworn heart
than the musical murmur of the watery. Once more they
sat, hand in. hand, on the green moss beneath the old birch-
tree, and, as Richard Fanshaw gazed on the fair face resting
on his shoulder, and wondered at his stupid blindness, he re-
peated more than once the words of one who has built to her.
self a shrine in every loving heart:
"0, happiness, how fat we flee
Thine own sweet paths in search of thee I"


THE OLD MAPLE.                823

x' I'.
TIlE OLD MAPLE.
CHAPTER I.
"I found him garrulously given,
A babbler in the land."
* "As each person has hisown separate iemembrances, giving to some
places an aspect and significance which he alone can perceive, therc
must be an infinite number of pleasing, mournful, or dreadful associa.
tions spread over the inhabited earth." - Foster's essays.
WAS it wholly the power of which wise John Foster
speaks, that made the place so sadly pleasant, as I sat by the
old maple, tracing with my fingers the seams in its rough
bark, counting the incisions through which it had for years
poured forth its life-blood to sweeten the teas, if not the
tempers, of the Brae family, and - thinking? Or was the
spell assisted by some "fallen ~old divinity" hid in its mas-
sive bole? The divinity must have had a share in it, for IL
remember noting a low, musical murmur among the swelling
'buds above me, that were yearning in their velvet prisons to
look out into the warm eyes of Spring. Let us reverently
believe so, reader mine, for neither of us, I trust, belongs to
that painfully wise class,
"Who think all happy things are dreams,
Because they-'~overstep the narrow bourn
Of likelihood.'~
It was a pleasant, sunny spot, - just like one of the "wee
green neuks" you wot Of, fair lady, in some of the deep
vales of your native state; too tame to be romantic, too
quiet to interest hasty observers, and yet too ~w~et and dear

to be forgotten. I doubt whether Mr. Brae, or his son
John, who were on the knoll above me, ever thought of it
otherwise than as a valuable part of their well-watered and
productive farm. I. had not seen the place for years; and
now I felt that, for me, it was written all over with heart-
histories.
And then just over the knoll was the old farm-house, with
its spacious barns arid well-thatched sheep-cotes. I wondered
if there were as many swallows' nests as of yore ~e1ustered
beneath the eaves or plastered to the rafters of the barn;
and if the old wren still built her nest in the hollow limh of
the apple-tree that overhung the great horse-block by the
gate. Ah~ me! I had gaged on many a masterpiece of art
that seemed to glow with divine fire, and yet not one of them
spoke to my heart more deeply than that same old, rude,
misshapen horse-block. To us children it was a city of
refuge when our happiness became too obstreperous for the
long-suffering nerves of kind Mrs. Brae, or when, by &amp;ny
mischance, a slice of buttered bread came in too close contact
with the floor. Thus in summer it was our table and play-
room. There often, in the warm sunshine of the springs that
will never c&amp;ne again, were Nelly Brae and I perched, with
a pile, of willow branches, and a broken penknife which we
owned between us. 0, the whistles we made! for we did
make some perfect ones, though often unsuccessful; and whez~j
after a long attempts a perfect (that is, a very noisy) wh~sVI ~
was finished, how proudly we sprang to our feet and poured
forth otir notes of triumph!
Do not frown; fot, believe me, we were daily told to "sit
up straight and 'behave like women." But, somehow, the
first puff of fresh air blew the less~ii~' out of our ,heads, A~d
besides, all sorts of funny-looking rag babies lying about
bore witness that we were sufficiently feminine. And we had
dolls too...~.- real wax ~dolls; but,~ like some other careful
Another~, 'we deemed them mizoh too choice for the touch of'


824         LEAVES PROM TUE TREE IGDRASYL.                                          THE OLD MAPLE.               825

common air. And there was also a ~whole set of acorn tea-
cups and saucers stowed away in the great knot-hole under
the second step of the horse-block, which served us for a
china closet.
On my right, as I stood there communing with the past,
lay the wooded pasture, well kn~rn through the neighbor-*
hood as the "maple lot." I looked for the narrow footpath
by whicl~ we were accustomed to reach the "sugaPworks"
sooner than by the rather devious eart~path. There it was,
with~ its show of tender, green grass, looking like a narrow.
green ribbon amid the dead, dry herbage of the preceding
summer.
I left my seat, and, following the path, crosse&amp; the spring
brook on the identical old stepping-stones, and ~t6~id on the
spot that had so often been the village gathering-place -
the very centre of mischief and frolic. It. was now sadly
chan~ed~Uhe rude building was gone. The ~rough furnace
was ~ixribling down, and from the rich, damp mould beneath
sprang a tall sweet-briar. Ah! the glory had left i~he 'old
sugar-works!
Some of the "sugar.trees" were still standing. But I
missed the stately form of many an c~ld friend, *hose Qrph~ic
murmurs gave me a clearer insight into the mysteries of
being than I have since gained
-"~oml~7
Or study-w~h~i~~
The new, white chips scattered around many of the stumps
showed some of the treca had been felled lately. Th1t the
stumps alone remained Off two that had stood in ftont ef~ the
sugar.house, between whose half unearthed ro6ts Nell and 1
used to spread our red flannel blankets for carpets, and ar-
range our houses, wheii ~4 played "g~ ~o see one another?'
ThIt the ev&amp; kind Nature, that C It~r~ee~ and bves eve~ii
what man cases oft~, had bidden the ground-lanrel sprea&amp; its

shining green leaves~aroiind the decaying stumps, and the sil-
very brown unibels of the gnaphaliuin crowned them with an
everlasting crown.
Re-crossing the b~~ok, I met Mr. Brae, and pointing to the
old maple I expressed my joy to find it still standing.
"Why, it is a kind of ci oked disciple," he replied, "and
might as well be cut down. But, somehow, the children
always took a kind of liking to it, especially Nell j~nd her
little boy. I guess she was here as often as once a when
she was at home last summer. And that little rogue, Harry,
says his mother's tree shall not be cut down."
Yes, Nelly loved that old tree, and well might its wide
shade se~Xn'. to her a consecrated temple; for underneath its
spreading Vr~nches she first listened to words and tones that
became the charm of her life, and which death has no power
to destroy.
But before I "tell you all about it," as the children say,
I have a word or two to offer touching Nelly ]3rae h~#~lf.
Were it possible I would describe her in such terms as would
make her steal your heartsas~entirelyas she did ours. I
might as well, attempt to describe th4 wi~d. Not that she
was beautiful we neyer thought' of ealJhigjer a beauty;
but she was so wild and wayward, ~pparentlyso changeful,
and yeo gentle atid true, so full ~f heart. Indeed, she
was more like a. ~ ~glad suxrni~er breeze than ~aught else on
earth; and, lik&amp; that; she ~w~t wi~dering ab6ut~the green
fields and along the shining hi~ooks~ gathering freshness and
fragrance, while- her soul unconsoioi sly grew rich by daily
s~eeking.
KPerbaps this waywardness, this~~~~ spirit of non-conformU~y,
lent the ~peIl that saved her fro&amp;becoming that most disa.
"greeabl~ of all pets, a spoiled grandchild. Some powerful
influence wa5~ needed~to ~neutralize the effeok of granchnqther
]~rae'~ 6verweeniig~4~driess. Mr.' Brae w~s a man of the
old seh~oL His z~otkrns of flimily government, as manifested
28

- f
A


826                                                                                 THE OLD MAPLE,               827
LEAVES FROM THE TREE IODRASYL.

in the training of his own children, were very strict, if not
always very wise. But when he undertook to pursue the
same course with little Nell, his heart turned traitor.
When he had cause to reprimand her,~ie invariably began
with a stern voice and still sterner look. But he never could
proceed far before her slight, will&amp;wy form would grow indis-
tinct, and he would seem to hold in his arms a rosy infant,
that lo~9d up in his face, and laughed and patted his wet
cheeks, as he bent over the coffin that contained the dead
form of its fair young mother, He would remember how his.
own brave boy died before his child saw the light; how,
after the mother was laid by his side in the church-yard,
they brought the baby to the old farm-house and 1aid it in
the long-unused cradle; how they sat by it, filled with heavi-
ness and sorrow; and how the smiles that hroke over its
face gradually kindled their minds to faith and joy. When
the old man thought of all this, and how the child had been
to th~m "a smile from God" to dispel the darkness from
their pathway, his brow would relax, his voice grow tremu-
lous, and his censures all change to blessings.
Thus the child grew up like a bright wild-flower, planted
in some quaint, old-fashioned garden. She seemed to' have
established a secret correspondence with Nature, for "all
things talked thoughts to her." Fot her each bird, flower
and passing elo~id seemed to have a particular message. She
always spoke of them as ~her bfrds, her flowers, her clouds.
Strange fancies of this sort seemed to increase aS she grew
older; and even on her wedding day, when j: flung a twig of
ivy and a handful of sage into her lap, andlaughingly bade
her study their meaning,; she gathered them up, andplacing
them in her bosom, declared gravely that they should be the
oracles of her household, and that her first ,are should be to
* plant with her'~ own hand,  round her ~new abode, those em-
blems of love and virtue.

*            CHAPTER     II.
"Curse the tongue,
Whence slanderous rumor, like the adder~s drop,
]Mstils her venom, withering frie~idship's faith,
Turning 1o~e'e favor'." Hilllzouse.
Nelly Brae and I had been playmates from infancy. Our
homes were on different roads, but we were near neighbors,
for the long, triangidar tongue ~f lana between the roa4s~vas
narrow, and the well-trodden path across it showed plainly
that our families were not strangers to each other.
We were still school-girls when Mr. Markham, the new
pastor, succeeded in awakening the people to an interest in
church music, which had been sadly neglected during the last
years of good old Parson Mines. A liberal sum of money
was subscribed, and a committee appointed to, arrange a sing-
ing-school.                                 ,
A winter singing-school in New England! Who, that
draws breath beneath her changeful sky, does not feel hi~
heart beat quicker at those words! Not with remembered
pride o1~ progress in the heaven-born seienee, but at the mem-
ory of pleasant faees:~ merry greetings, "nods and becks,. and
wreathed smiles," and friendships formed, among which, per-
haps, was that one which grew~to dear love, a~4~gave to hii~
the cherished oi~'fWm whe~e ey~ and voic&amp; he has since
learned music by heart.
The projected singing-school became a matter of absorbing
interest to the young people, when it was announced that the
committee had been so fortunate as to engage Mr., Henry
Wilson, a graduate of Yale College, and a personal friend of
M~. ?~Xarkham. My parents were very anxious that my
brother and I should o~tend the. singing-school, but n~ persua-
sion~ could gain Mrg.Ilrae's consent to Nelly's attenda~iee.
We talked in vain of her swect~ voice; for wJi~eiiever the old

826


828          x~ivns FROM !~HE TREIfl IQJ)RASYL.                                                    TH~1 OLD MAPLIL                  329

lady seemed consenting, she would suddenly recollect that
there was "no one to go with her," for John (the only son
remaining at home) would not always come home when she
did, and iDick and 1, she said, eould notf always come round
that way, for the fields would sometimes be full of snow.
]3esides, she conjured up such horrors of colds, wet feet, brain
fevers, lung fevers and consumption, that Nell and I gave
way in despair.
Nelly was mortified and indignant at the thought of being
ke~%t at ~home like a little girl, a child, when she was sixteen
years, ten months, and I will not undertake to say exactly
how many days, old. lint her slight figure, as well ~s grand-
xnoth~r, Jirae's notions, was against her, and "child" she
wa~ considered by the whole neighborhood.
Th'&amp;teacher was to spend two or three days. with his friend,
Mr. Markham, before he commenced his sch'~ol. The morn-
ing after his arrival in town, as Nell and 1 sat talking it over,
and? considering what could be done in her behalf, we were
almost beside ourBelves ~ith delight, to hear the old lady
say, as she passed the, corner where we sat:
"Well, well, child, 1 '11 see about it. You needn't feel so
poorly;. maybe you'll go, after all. There is time ~nough
to think about it between this and Thur8day night."
We viewed the matter as settled, fbi~ Mrs. Brae's "1 '11 see
about it" w always eqnivMent to a positive assent. Of
this we felt ~o sure, that, dtirin~ recess at scl~ol that day,
we talked only of the dresges we should wear to the singing-'
school, and on our way home made the importantdecision that
our hoods should be lined and trimmed with ~Ixnsou instead
of pink. Therefore, I was someWhat surprised, that evening,
to see Nell come panting in, and fling herself into a chair with
..a I~I~k vf~ comical distress.
"What i~ the matter, Nell ?" askad my mother and 1. to~
gethet.
"They will not let me go!"

"Go where?" inquired my mother, who did not: under-
stand.
"To the singing-school," she replied, endeavoring to hide
her tears.
"Won't let yen go, Nell!" I cried. "Why, your granA-
mother as good as promised you might go!"
"Yes, but Mrs. Crane came over to-night, and made such
a fuss about her 'Bubby,' and such dreadful complaints
against me, that grandpa is ~really vexeU, and grandma says
I shall stay at home till I can behave myself and ~keep~ut
of mischief."
"What has that great booby, bubby Crane, to d~ with
your going to singing-school? Did n't you help him put on
his mittens? IDid you let him fall down?"
"Worse, though I did n't mean to hurt him. Yo~x know
Aunt Mary gave me a box of rhubarb for grandmother.
hubby Crane thought it was ground cinnamon, and teased
me all the way home to let him taste it. Well, he called me
stingy, and made such a~fuss that I opened the box and let
him taste. I did n't Think he would be so greedy, but he
lapped up a ~r~eat mouthful of it," she continued, with an
expression of merriment dimpling round her mouth, "and I
guess he s~rallowed a good dose. lit half strangled him, and
I could not help laughing to see him spit. He ran screaming
home, and humediately his z4other came over with a fLirid~us
complaintt against me."
We all laughed at the idea of Mrs. Crane's baby, a great
boy, ten ye44~ohl, with his mouth full of rhubarb
"What i&amp;~o be done now, Nell ?" I asked.
"0, I don't knoW! Go home with me, Fanny; perhaps
you can~ persuade her."
We were soon seated, with our knitting, by th~ sid~ of
Mrs. h~rae.. Nothing ~as said of Nelly's misdemeanor. The
old lady w~s gradually led to talk of the days of h6r youth,
and she soon oquent in maintain
became el                ing that people
28*


880         LEAVES PROM THE TREE IODRASYL.                                               THE OW MAPLE.                 831

now-a.4ays are not half aS healthy, wise, or good as they
were when she was young. She sang us old' tunes, which
I praised. She made us sing with her, and qualified her
praise of our singing~ by saying we should "do well enough
if we did n't open our mouths so wide and sing so loud."
We were all quavering away on "Majesty" when Mr. ]~rae
-. entered, accompanied by Mr. Markham, and a stranger, who
was introduced to us as our teacher, Mr. Wilson.
"I wished Mr. Wilson to become acquainted with some of
the families in the neighborhood, and 1 believe I have
brougl~t him to the right place now, Mrs. Brae," said the
minister. "" You are all singers, and my young friends here
will atter~d the singing-schooj, of course."
"~Fa1~ny is going, I believe," began the old lady. "I did
think of sending Nelly, but she is so wild and mischievous
that ehe will only trouble the gentleman. Besides, there is
no one to go witja her; John is such a crazy head he wouldn't
come home with her half the time."
"0, you must let N~lly go! She has a beautiful voice."
"Why, yes, she can sing a little," said the old man, look-
ing at her proudly and fondly. "Come here, Nelly, 'and
sing one of the old songs you sung to me last night. "~.
Nell rose, and stood timidly by her grandfather.
"Which' shall I sing?" she asked, without venturing to
look up.
"Either9; child; they were all good, for they were home
songs.
She began the old, ever beautiful, "Aftou Water," and
sang it through in clear, unfaltering tones. ~1er voice was
untrained, but full of deep, rich melody. Wilsox~ listened
with evident surprise and delight. He turned to the old~ man,
:" You., will not refuse to let her become my pupil, Mr.
8rae! '~Such a voice as that should be cultivated 'by all
means.

The old man was pleased; Nell looked ~wistfully i~ his
face, and he said, with a smile, "They are all on your1~ide,
child. If there wa~4only some one to go with you, I wouldn't
say a word."
"Dick and I will come round this way, every night," I
exclaimed, eagerly.
"Ay, that would do, Fanny, if there were to be no
snow."
"If that is your only objection, Mr. ]3rae," said Wilson,
"it can be removed, if you will trust your grandad
my care. I shall board with your neighbor, Mr. ~ and,
if you do not object, shall be happy to call for h~"
The old people hesitated, and talked of the trqutile.. lIVEr.
Wilson insisted that he could not do without Netl~r's voice;
Mr. Markham seconded his proposal, and it was finally a~r~ed
that Nelly should attend the school under Mr. Wilsori'~ es-
cort.
This arrangement pleased all but herself. "I wonder how
you could tell him I shall go!" she said, as the door ,closed
on the visitors.
"Why, I thought you wanted to go, child."
"So I do; but I don't want to go with him. lIe is so min~
ister-like, that I shall not dare to breathe on the way. I
wish Mr. Markham 'had not brought him here."
Fie! child      id the grandmother. "Mr. Wils~n's
offer to take care of you was very kind, and I 'ni~glad if you
'are afraid of him."
"lean tim away frQm him, you know," said Nell, laugh-
ing.
She did not run away from him, though4 After a week or
two, she not only ~breathed with her4 accustomed ease, but
laughed as merrily as ever. True she was not always iv,
him, for she was frequently kiting off, as Mrs. ]3rae expre~
it, in pursuit of some wayward fancy; now for w~s1ide v
'Some~texnptingpiece of ice; now to di'aw her fingers across

880

gi


I

882

LEAVES PROM TUE TREE IODRASYL.

a row of icicles that hung from the topmost rail of the fence,
~vhen she would hush us all to listen to their music, as they
splintered in the still moonbeams.
Harry Wilson was an indulgent guardian, and she soon
found that the grave expression of his eyes could change to
one of mirth, and that his somewhat haughty mouth could
relaz into a smile as sweet and merry as her own. He soon
became a great favorite with old and young, and his school
succeeded admirably.
We met in the White School House. As Mr. Wilson.
wa~ usiially one of the last to leave, Nell, at his request,
waited imtil he was ready to attend her. This soon drew
the attention and excited the pleasantry of the older girls;
but when Mrs. Morris, an empty-headed, gossiping busy-
body, assured them that Mrs. Brae as good as asked him
to wait on Nell, and that she knew that he wished the little
plague a thousand miles off, their smiles became contempt.
uous titters.
As the weeks went on, they grew surprised, and-even indig-
nant, to see that, instead of making an effort to shake off the
"little plague," Mr. Wilson not only stopped an hour or so
after singing-school, but passed most of his leisure evenings
at Mr. Brae's.
"What could he find there to interest him?"
Had they asked him instead of Mrs. Morris, he might have
answered, "A home!"
Somehow he loved 'to be at Mr. Brae's; somehow he loved
to sit by Nell, and hear her voice mingle with his in a favor-
ite melody; somehow her wild .~olian tones gave his heart a
fuller, brighter sense of existence. He taught her music be-
cause he delighted to do so, and he did not ask himself why
he taught her to drop "Mr. Wilson" and call him Harry.
lie might have said, also, that most other people, where
he called, showed an over-anxiety to impress him with the
notion that they knew something of gentility and fashion;

THE OLD MAPLE-.

388

while many were so distressingly formal and ceremonious in
their manner toward him, that he did not care to call a
second time.
Mrs. Morris, true to her first statement, insisted t1~at
"Grandmother Brae" was constantly scheming to secure to ~
Nell a double share of instruction in music; and, in~ the plen-
itude of her benevolence, she determined to assist him out, of.
the scrape." -
"It was a shame and disgrace," she said, "that he must
not only have that child tagging after him to singin~*sehool,
but must also go there every other evening to give her musie
lessons."
The evening after she came to this determination, it hap-
pened that Mr. Wilson sat down at home to copy some music
for Nell. Mrs. Morris sat near him, rocking to and fro, and
watching for an opportunity to begin her good work. At
length, as he laid down his pen and opened his portfolio for
another sheet of paper, she began:
"You ought to have been at home this afternoon, Mr. Wil-
son. I had some calls, or perhaps they were intended for you;
one can't always tell, you know."
"Indeed!" he replied, taking his pen again and proceeding~
with his copy.
"Yes," she' continued, as if determined not to be foiled,
"~Maria Bennet and Sarah Slocum have been here half~.the
afternoon. I inquired about your school; t their heads were-
so full of the party John I3rae is going to give at his sugar-
works, that they could think of nothing else. You h&amp;ve heard
all about the party, I suppose."
"Yes, I believe so," he replied, bringing down his pen with
a heavy staccato on the last notes of the th4rd 'bar.
,Thoughtless things'! i~ nzade me sad to see 'them," she
went on; "b t gir re ~irl~, though they 'don't behave n~ow
as' they did 1 my day. There~ is Mary Grant, and Fanny'
Alden, and my old neighbor J3rae's girl; they are nothing but

'4

- I


884         LEAVES FROM THU TREE IODRASYL.                                             TUE OLD MAPLE.

334

children, and,. Ia me! look at them! They are as pert and as
forward as if they were twenty years old. I dare say you
have noticed them. II like to see children know their places,
4on't you, Mr. Wilson?"
"Certainly," said the young man, mechanically, without
pausing from his work.
"Ah, I knew you would agree with me, Mr. Wilson!* I
hate pertness and forwardness above all things; but you can't
expect much from a child whose grand-parents are constantly
pushing her forward, and fastening her to other people, whether*
they want her or not. There are not many who would beai
it as you do."
Hero Mrs. Morris was obliged to -pause, for Mr. Wilson,
who had not attended to a word of her harangue, caught up
his flute, and, after playing the music once or twice, took his
hat and left the room.
"Well, now," she said to herself, "he has gone right over
there again! I meant to have had a little more talk with
him,. but I have found out that it is just as I supposed. I '11
set matters to rights to-morrow; I '11 go over there and tell
Nelly just what he thinks of her. It will be no more than
friendly, for she has no mother, and grandmother Brae is get-
ting old and foolish."
Mrs. Morris did not forget her resohition. She went over
next day, immediately after school, and found Nelly alone.
After some inquiries about the family, the lady's voice sud-
denly changed from its usual loud, shrill key, to the piteous,
disagreeable whine commonly adopted by women of her stamp
on like occasions. Then she went on to relate her conversa-
tion with Mr. Wilson, making, from the outset, only the
slight mistake of imputing to him the language she l~ad used
herself.
At first Nell opened her clear, brown eyes, as if she did
not understand. ]3ut as Mrs. Morris went en to say he
called ~her pert and forward, and laughed at her grand

835

parents, a thousand gleaming rays seemed to converge and
centre in the pupils of the girl's eyes, and her sudden excla-
mation, "I don't believe it!" fairly startled that amiable
lady.
"I suppose not,~ my dear; people are not apt* to believe
unpleasant things," she said; "but I heard him say it, else I
should' hardly believe it myself. But you need n't 'take it on
my word. Thb young folks have been talking it over this
month past; if you don't believe me, ask them."
On my way to singing-school that night I called on Nell.
Instead of answering my merry greetings~ she burst into teats,
and it was a long time before she would tell the occasion of
her grief.
"I do not believe it!" I said, as she closed her some-
what disconnected account of' her interview with Mrs. ~or-
ris. "I have heard something of this before, but I do not
believe Mr. 'Wilson ever said or thought such things. I 'II
ask him."
"Not for the world, Fanny! not for the world! Mrs.
Morris says she heard him say it, last night, and it must be
so. You know he never would have thought of calling for
me, if grandpa and grandma had not spoken just as they did
about my going to singing-school. But to have him make fun
of me, and say I kept putting myself in his way, ~t is too
bad!" and her tears fell fast.
I thought it was too bad, but felt there must be some mis-
take, She refused to attend the singing-school again~ until I
said such a course would occasion more talk, and told 'her
that Dick and I would come for her' Very early, and that
when there was much snow she' could spend the night with
me. She consented to 'this arrangeim~ut, but refused to go
that night.
Illarry Wilson called at the usual hour. When Nell Ijeard
his steps oi~ the threshold, she caught up a deep hood, and


386

LEAV~5 PRO3~ THE TREE IODRASYL.

drawing it over her face, bent over a porringer of gruel that
stood on the hearth, and began to stir it.
"1 have brought the music II promised you, Nelly," he said,
with a smile. "We shall~not have time to practise it till after
~ohool, for it is almost half past si~ now. Come, get your
bonnet and cloak."
Nell murmured something about her grandmother's illness,
and staying at home.
"Why, child, you need not stay at home on that account,"
said the old man.
"Indeed, I think I shall not go, grandpa; I shall be wanted
here," she said, with a firmer tone.
"Well, I will call as I return, and we will try the music.
To-morrow Mr. Markham and I start for H-. We shall
be absent two or three days, and you must have the air per-
fect when I return. But pray don't stir the bottom of that
dish out while I am gone," said Mr. Wilson, laughing, as he
closed the door.
Long before he returned, Nell went to her chamber. She
was grieved, wounded, bewildered. She could not under-
stand such baseness, and she laid her head on her pillow
that night with feelings to which she had hithei~to been a
stranger.
Harry Wilson and Mr. Markham returned late on Saturday
night. The next evening, on his way to singing-school, he
called, as usual, fore Nelly. But she and I were already at
the school-house. He was disappointed and disturbed. Some-
how his short absence had made him feel, more deeply than
ever, that to see and speak with Nelly was necessary to his
happiness. And he would see her, he thought, as he returned.
But no; Nelly had obtained permission to spend the night
with me, and before most of our companions had arranged
their hoods and cloaks we were half way home.
That night Mr. Wilson was in no mood to listen to the
endless gossip of Mrs. Morris. He was angry with himself;

I

I

THE OLD ~!APLD.

837

with Nell, and not particularly pleased with the world in
general.
"She is too flighty, too thoughtless," he said to himself.
"I have seen too much of the world for such childishness to
trouble me." His knowledge of the world had been such as
to make him morbidly sensitive in all that related to the affec-
tions. Many a fair face had caught his fancy; but it was
really true thatnone had touched his heart like little Nelly
Brae's. He now began to see that he unconsciously treasured
up every graceful movement and winning smile, and made them
the food of his dreams. He was startled at the strength srnd
depth of his feelings. What did Nelly mean? Why did she
avoid him? What did he mean himself?
CHAPTER III.
"0! rook, upon thy tower tQp
All throats that gurgle sweet!
All starry culmination drop
Balm dews to bathe thy feet!
"The fat earth feed thy branohy root,
That under deeply strikes!
The northern morning o'er thee shoot
High up in siWer spikes!
It was early in the sugar season, and tTohn Brae had given
out invitations for a party at his shanty, on the first pleasant
evening of the full moon. This happened the next evening.
Nelly and I spent the afternoon at the "sap-works," assisting
John in his arrangements. His shanty was a building some
fifteen feet square, rudely constructed of posts A zough
boards. John had devised an addition, of which the two old
maples in front were to be the corner posts. Branches of
cedar and hemlock served for clapboards and thatch. 1Wo
wreathed the bare walls of the main building with everg~ee~ ;~
29


338         ia~.&amp;vr~ ~uo~ THB TI~ IODRASYL.                                                TH~1 OLD ~XAPL~J.              889

and the great half-hogshead tub in the corner, covered over
with clean, white boards, served for a side-table, on which we
placed sundry dishes of butternuts, walnut~ and apples. A
large covered-basket stood in the centre, containing bread,
butter, salt, and, several dozens of fresh eggs, which usually
formed the chief article of refreshment on such occasions.
The last seat was arranged, the rude floors nicely swept,
and, having nothing more to do, we paused to survey our
wor'k.
"It is really a very pretty place," said L
"Pretty enough," Nell replied, sadly.
~ "Pretty enough!" II exclaimed, rather vexed at her scant
praise. "lit is beautiful! If it could be well lighted, it
would look about a~well as the church on Christmas eve."
"Sure enough," said John, coming up.~ "Can't you contrive
to have it well lighted up, girls?"
"We have candles enough, but we have only eight sticks,
for grandmother will not let us have her plated ones.
"Wait a bit, girls. I '11 fix it," he said, opening a box
that served as a kind of tool-chest; and presently, by means
of augers and pine blocks, he provided a great supply of
candlesticks.
Our arrangements all finished, we went home to get tea, and
dress for the evening9 Nell would gladly have remained at
home, but she kiiew that her absence would excite surprise and
conjecture. Besides, she had been the chief influence in per-
suaditig John to give the pa~rty.
When we reached our woodland bower, the beams of the
rising moon~ 'were around the leafy door-way, struggling to
steam and sleep on the floor, as longingly as if it had been
of Paria~n marble; and~a few stars looked down through the
openings in the hemlock thatch, like guardian spirits. Our
candlesticks did well, and the effect of the 'light was fine,
though here and there a bunch of hemlock leaves crisped and
~aekled as they came in ceita~t with the blazing Wiek~. The
V

night was beautiful. The atmosphere was so clear and elas-
tic, that we could hear the voices and footsteps of our guests
coming across the fields long before they. reached the ~shanty.
Ah! those were happy hours; as happy as yo~ith, health
and unworn hearts could make them. I will not pretend to
say how many games of forfeit were played; nor how many
of the forfeits were kisses; nor how often the long, spiral
apple-peelin~s, when dropped over the right shoulder, formed
the very letters which, by all the laws of magic, they were
bound to form; nor with what a half-pleased, half-coquettish
air the maidens held forth their palms full of apple-seeds,
while John, Fred, or Sam, or whoever had "Darned the
apples," counted them over and over, to see if they w~nld
spell the given name; nor how, if he succeeded, they were
thrown into his bosom with a toss of the head, and, "I won-
der how any one can be so ridiculous!"
Apples! 0, blessed be apples! they have been famed in
philosophy and song; but neither the golden ones of idaliun
Aphrodite, nor the famous one of Sir Jisaac Newton, ever pos-
sessed such delightful magic as the Rhode Island greetingss
that made part of our entertainment that evening at John
Brae's sap-house.
The whole arcana of magic lay hid in their seeds, if one
only possessed the skill to interpret them, and Nelly was
deeply versed in all such lore. At our gatherings she was
the acknowledged sibyl. But she was too busy now ~rran~-
ing the table, and discussing with John and a merry-p~4 old
bachelor the precise number of minutes nece~ary to boa an
egg, to pay much attention to the calls for ~
At length Mary Qrant came into the back room, an
ing her arm around Nell's'waist, attempted to draw her int6
the "green room," as we styled the new apartment.
"No, excuse, ~~Nelly," she cried; "we are dete~mine~,to:,
have our fortunes told. You, are the only witch present, ~&amp;
you must come."

- :K


340

I

LEAVES FUO~[ THE TREE IODRASYL.

"Nonsense, Mary! I can't go; II am busy."
"You had better come, Nelly," she said, significantly;
then, lowering her voice to a whisper, she added, "some of
them say you would not be so sober and old-womanish if' some-
body they could name were here."
Nell colored deeply, and, yielding to Mary's movement,
passed into the green-room. Here she became the centre of'
the company, and, Mary having stealthily put a wreath of
holly-leaves around her head, she sat with comic gravity
uttering predictions that were received with shouts of' laugh-
ter, when suddenly the rude door opened, and Harry Wilson
entered. He was received with a loud welcome, and imme-
diately drawn into the circle.
Until within a few~days Nell had poured forth her thoughts
and feelings with the unconstrained freedom of a bird. But
she was now learning to act the woman, with the owlish world
for a tutor, and of' course her first lesson was concealment.
She pressed down her rising heart, and, taking advantage of
her assumed character, she bowed gravely to Mr. Wilson and
went on with her predictions. Presently she arose, and,
placing the wreath on Mary's head, said, "There, good folk,
I can stay no longer; I must away."
~' No, no! you have not told Mr. Wilson's fortune yet.
You cannot go yet!" cried three or four, pressing round to
prevent her escape.
"Indeed, I must go; there, John is calling me now; do
let m~ go!" she exclaimed hastily, as if' afraid to trust her
voice~
Mr. Wilson himself' made way for her to pass, saying, as he
did so, "No, no, good friends. It is. unwise to attempt to
compel fate. I fear my fortune would be a dark one if' told
by an unwilling sibyl."
A merrier set than was gathered round our table that night
could not be found in old Connecticut. Mr. Wilson, as our
most distinguished guest, was seated by Nell at the head ~f'

THE OLD MAPLE.

841

the table. But no words passed between them, save such as
were absolutely necessary. We kept primitive hours, and at
ten o'clock there was a general call for hoods and cloaks.
Amid the confusion, and "more last words," Mr. Wilson ap-
proached Nell, who stood by the table searching a great
basket as if she expected to find happiness at the bottom, and
proposed to escort her home. He did not catch her reply, fQr
at that moment half' a dozen gathered round him to inquire
about the approaching concert. When he turned to offer hi~
arm she was gone.
He mingled with the group around the door, but she was
not there, Vexed and wounded by her strange conduct, he
took the more frequented path home, but he had not pro-
ceeded far before he caught a glimpse of her form moving
rapidly along the path that led round by the old maple. He
paused and hesitated. He knew she could not cross the
stream on the stepping-stones, for he had tried it that even-
ing. The, late rains had made the crossing so difficult that he
had been obliged to turn back and take the other path.
The next moment he was following her with rapid steps.
Before he reached the crossing-place, he left the path and
sprang across the stream, some rods higher up. In her haste
she had proceeded about one third of' the way across, before
she saw that the stones in the middle of the stream were
completely out of sight. She stood hesitating, when he sud-
denly appeared, caught her in his arms, and bore her across
without speaking. She gazed at him a moment in astonish-
ment, but, as he turned to leave her, she burst into tears, lie
paused, and, turning back, asked eagerly:
"What does all this mean, Nelly 't"
She could not reply, for tears. He stood a moment .irre~L
olute, and then led her on to the old maple.
"Will you not tell me what it means?" he asked again.
She made an 'effort to stifle her sobs, and, looking up through
her tears, said, "I suppose it was nOt quite proper for ~ie to
29*


342

LEAVES F]~OM TIlE TREE IGDRASYL.

say what grandfather did. But he did not mean anything im-
proper. I was foolish to go, - but I did not think y~u could
be so unkind, so cruel, Harry~"
"But what have I done, Nell?"
"Perhaps you did ~iot mean it just as Mrs. Morris makes
it seem; but to think you could talk so of me!" and she
sobbed again more deeply than before.
"Hush, hush, Nelly! Do explain yourself; what have I
said to Mrs. Morris?"
By degrees he drew from her an account' of her interview
with Mrs. Morris. We need not say how eagerly and indig-
nantly he exculpated himself; nor what earnest and~beautiful
words he whispered, as he drew her closer and closer to his
bosom. Memory, or the prophetic yearnings of your own
heart, will tell you what they were. I will only say that the~
lazy sap in the old tree took a livelier motion; and ever
afterwards troops* of sweet flowers, such as the anemone and
meok-eyed arbutus, came yearly to dwell at its foot, and bless
it with their fragrant beauty.
*       *      *       *      *       *
"And is that all, 13'anny?" asks E-, with a look of
disappointment not very flattering to my story-telling talent.
"Ay, that is all, and enough too. Did I not tell you the
story was like the old maple?"
"J~ut, Fanny, it is no story at all. You have not said a
word about the wedding; we do not even know they were
married."
"0, if you wish to hear about a wedding, take up the
newspaper yonder. There is an account of the. Empress
Eugenie's. These romances in white satin are wearisomely
a1ik~. Th1t I will add, that some four years ago I visited
Nell at her pleasant home on the banks of the Quinebaug. I
found them both unchanged in heart; but she had really
grown beautiful. Her face had gained in tone and express~
sion; her eyes beamed with light that seemed to flow from a

r

TIlE OLD MAPLE..

343

heart brimming with untold happiness,~and her voice was, as
ever, 'the sweetest midst the cadences of girls.'
"We sat in the parlor, calling up old times. As I looked
from the open window, I saw that one of the pillars of the
piazza was wreathed with ivy, and near by, under the shade
of a rose-bush, grew a large bunch of sage.
"'So you really planted them, Nelly ! - the sage and ivy
I mean,' I said, pointing toward them.
"'To be sure she did,' replied Harry, laughing; 'and they~
thrive well. Come and see the fruit, Fam~y.'
"He drew us both into the next room, and, putting aside a
muslin curtain, pointed to a beautiful babe that lay asleep in
its cradle.
"The young mother stooped to kiss it, and as she raised her
head their eyes met. Ah! that glance, so fulV of unspeakable
happiness! I involuntarily repeated those words of the dis~
ciple of wisdom: 'A babe in the house is aiwell-spring of
happiness, a messenger of peace and love, a link between
ai~gels and men.'"


XII.
LILIAN LOVIS.
"SIXTY-ONE two - three. It must be old Aunt Saun-
ders," I observed, as the tolling of the old church bell fell
upon my ear. For the first time in my life I listened to its
mournful tones with a feeling of relief, if not pleasure. Not
that I have so far outgrown humanity as to be able to look
Death in the face without fear, for I have still a childish
dread of shadows, - but I knew that a lamp, whose flame
had been long dimmed by the unwholesome vapors of earth,
had been relit in heaven - that a harp, whose chords had
been too tensely drawn while here to give forth sweet music,
had again caught up the hymn of life in that blessed land
where all beautiful things
"Keep the high promise of their earlier day."
I put on my bonnet, and in a few moments stood in the
chamber of death. I have ever had a proclivity to antiqua-
rianism, reader; but my researches have been rather in the
soul-world than in the world of old ruins or Roman antique
ties. I love to take some old, careworn, world-worn face,
and recast it in the mould of youth to strip from it, one
by one, those mummy-like envelopes which time, education
dnd custom have wrapped around it, until, Galatea-like, it
stands before me, glowing with youth, hope and beauty. ~But
Aunt Saunders' face (she was the "village aunt," reader);
had ever been to me most tantalizing. Occasionally Ifancied
that I could detect a gleam of light in her sunken eyes, that
betokened something like human interest ~ but, like a spot
&amp;

LILIAN L0VIS.                845
of untarnished gilding on some old, illuminated manuscript, it
only served to show more plair~ly the dilapidated condition
of the rest.
How could T dream that she had ever been young and fair?
that those faded, sunken eyes had ever flashed back the sun-
light, or mirrored in their depths an image of love and hope?
that those shriveled lids had ever drooped, in very bashful-
ness, beneath the gaze of loving eyes which were earnestly
striving to read that tale which no man reads unmoved? By
what magic could I smooth out the unnumbered wrinkles that
circled round her mouth, and make it once more the gate of
love and mirth, of song and ringing laughter?
Death revealed to me far more than life. He did not enter
that solitary chamber alone. The angel of mercy had stood
by the pillow of the dying one, and retouched those faded
lineaments with something~lik~ the freshness of early life.
Then I learned (and coi~ld well credit the tale) how, in
early girlhood, she had been, for three blessed years, the
cherished flower of young Henry Gr~sham's heart -his Lily,
as he fondly called her, filling his pathway with fragrance
and beauty. Those sunken eyes had returned light for light,
those shriveled lips, love for love, and the young x~ian forgot
his proud mother and worldly-wise father, while he sat by her
side and received both at her hands. Lilian Lovis had
nothing to recommend her to the wealthy Greshams but her
sweet face and guileless heart. These were priceless in the
eyes of young Harry; but, unfortunately, the old people
thought differently. They saw no beauty save through the
yellow atmosphere of gold, no worth save such as could be
found between the leaves of niouldy family records. Their
children had been trained to implicit obedience, axid they did
not fail to represent to Harry their disapproval of his taste
in such a way as to leave him no choice between love and
what they called - and, alas! he thought duty.
They succeeded in convincing his intellect, but not hi~


346

LEAVES FROM TEE TREE IGDRA8YL.

heart, for there the fragrance of his Lily lingered long after
the daughter of rich Jacob Greene called him husband. And
once or twice, during the first years of his marriage (we say it
in a whisper, reader), he was so very foolish as to entertain
something like the thought that Manning Farm and Long
Acres were a poor exchange for the pure soul and loving tones
of Lilian Lovis. But he was prudent as well as dutiful, and,
in a few years, succeeded, to all appearance, in burying the
image of his youth, together with that of his meek-eyed Lily,
'under a load of speculations that finally made him one of the
richest men in the county.
For some time after Harry Gresham's marriage, Lilian
Lovis' eyes had a dreamy look, and, not infrequently, a
bright drop gathered on the long lashes, and fell silently
down her cheek. Still she did not repine. She had been too
deeply schooled in 'the "meek lessons of humanity" to do
that. Harry had ~obeyed hi~ parents fulfilled the com-
mandment - and, with her New England education, she could
not blame him. With an earnest effort t~ gather the sun~
shine into her heart once ~more, she lifted her head, and sought
strength and comfort in the strict performance of such duties
as' fell to her lot.
Lily was still young when her mother died, but she had a
high character for faithfulness and honesty, and this drew
upon her the attention of old, rich, rheumatic John Saunders.
He wanted a wife, or, rather, a nurse and housekeeper under
that name, and his choice fell upon Lily.
She' hesitated - but friends w~iispered, nay shouted, max-
ims of~ prudence and worldly wisdom in her ears, mingled
with hints of dependence, until, bewildered, confused, with a
shudder which she prayed Heaven to forgive, as the move-
ment of a rebellious heart, she laid her hand in the bony one
that reached out to grasp hers, and gave him the name of
husband.
IoI' many long months her new home ~eemed dark and

'I

LILIL~ LOVIS.

847

empty, - but "something the hea~j~ n~ust have to cherish,"
and, as her husband grew more and niore feeble, pity took the
place of love, and led her to think of him with ~. feeling nearly
akin to that which a mother feels towards a peevish, suffering
child. Irritable and impatient, he could not bear to trust her
from his sight; and the freshness and fragrance of Lily soon
faded in the close atmosphere of that sick-chamber, while the
flower-dust of the heart was daily brushed away by some new
exaction on the part of the querulous invalid. Yet he loved
her, as well as he was capable of loving anything aside from
himself, and thought he made ample compensation~for all her
care and patience by leaving her a competence in his will.
So thought her friends when, after a lingering struggle of
many years, he at length yielded to death~ They spoke much
of his generosity, and Lilian assented to their remarks with-
out comprehending them.
Afl~er. so many years of seclusion their voices annoyed her.
She had not loved old John Saunders as a wife she could
not; but his pale, wrinkled face, peering over the back of his
arm-chair, watching her every movement -~ his sharp, queru~
bus tones, calling her name until he obt~dned a reply, were it
a thousand times, had, by the mere force of habit, become a
part of her daily life, of herself..-~- and now, in her utter iso~
nation, she often turned from the condolence that sounded so
much like congratulation, towards that old arm-chair, almost
expecting, and half wishing, to hear again his sharp-toned
"Lilian." Her long confinement had unfitted her for the
rush and stir of life; but ~he gradually grew to be~n ora~ls'
at births and deaths - a rare compounded of embrocations
and syrups, and nurse to the, whole town. To these she
united another occupation that of shroud~maker; and many
a time have II watched her attenuated fingers pressing the
long needle through the starched muslin, and thought, if the
white folds were only gathered aroutid her, the illusion would
be complete. Lifi~ and death, a funeral or a birth, seemed.

4


348         LEAVES FROM TIlE TREE ICfDRASYL.

alike to her; and, to me, ~1ie was a being without human sym~
patties. But. I was mistaken. One chord in the harp of
*     life still vibrated to the music of earth. On the day before
her death the rich Judge Gresham, while presiding at a meet~
f
ing of the dWectors of the railroad, was taken with a fit
of apoplexy. He lived but a few hours, but, during that
time, succeeded in making a few orders and requests under-
stood. AOne was, that ]i4lian Saunders should make his
shroud. The person who conveyed the order to Aunt Saun..
ders did not note the trembling of her hands, or the sudden
gleam of her eye, as he mentioned the death of her early
lover and his request. For some seconds after the door
closed upon the ulessenger, she stood gazing at the snowy
folds of cambric in her hand, as in a dream. "'T is more
than forty years since," she murmured, as she mechanically
laid the cambric on her pillow, and pressed her cheek against
the white folds. For a few moments, perchance h~ui~s~ she
was again hi~ Lily, and then - Death 'and Niercy took her
home.

848


  
             
         
       
   
