
    ----CITATION----
        Roberts, E. F. (1819-1864). The Twin Brothers, or, The Victims of the Pressgang .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7601
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The twin brothers, or, The victims of the pressgang 
            
               REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTO         LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

I1

25 CENTS

i

By EDWIN F. ROBERTS,
AUTHOR OF  THE ROAD TO RUIN  &amp;C.
CINCINNATI:-
PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES,
NO. 167 WALNUT STREET.

TiJ

THE
TWIN UIOTfH'IS
OR,
TIIE TECTES F TIE PRISS-4AHS.

She drew the trigger desperately :-" All," she said-" take all."--Sea page 85.

PRICE,


Catalogue of U. P. James' Publications, Cincin ati.

The Library of General Know-
ledge ; Embracing a great variety of subjects
in History, Biography, Astronomy, Architec-
ture, Natural History, Poetry, Tales, &amp;c., &amp;c.,
and about one hundred and, twenty useful.
Receipts. Embellished with over two hundred
Engravings.   One volume, imperial octavo,
cloth binding. Price $1.50*
James' River Guide (new edition): con-
taining descriptions of all the Cities, Towns,
and principal objects of interest on the naviga-
ble waters of the Mississippi Valley, flowing
west from the Alleghany Mountains, east from]
the Rocky Mountains, and south from near the
Northern Lakes, including the rivers of Alaba-
ma and Texas flowing into the Gulf of Mexico.
Also, an account of the Sources of the Rivers;
with full Tables of Distances, and many inter-
esting Historical. Sketche,, of the Country,
Statistics of Population, Products, Manufactures,
Mineral Resources, Scenery, &amp;c. Illustrated
with 44 pages of Maps, and a number of En-
gravings. Paper cover, 8vo. Price 35 cts.
This work contains a vast amount of useful
and interesting matter to all who desire correct
information in regard to the wonderful re-
sources and giant strides, in population and
wealth, of the Mississippi Valley. It gives the
localities of all the most valuable mineral
deposits bordering on the rivers--Coal, Iron,
Lead, Plaster, Salt, Sandstone and Marble quar-
ries, Limestone, &amp;c., &amp;c.; the kinds^ of soil -
productive- or otherwise; Descriptions of the
surface of the country-mountainous, hilly or
level; Prairie, Timbered or Swampy lands; the-
climate and products of different regions and
latitudes; where the best-mill sites are situ-
ated ; the great Pine forests-.of the North-west,
showing- the inexhaustible supplies of lumber
(for a long period at least) and the rivers by
which it may be rafted to the best markets.
Also, a great deal of interesting matter con-
nected with the early history and settlement of the
country-the many hard and bloody struggles
with the India is. Descriptions of the remark-
able and curious antiquities-mounds, fortifi-
cations, culinary and war implements (of
which we have no record) found scattered over
the country.
An account of the great earthquake of 1811,
at New Madrid, on the Mississippi. Battle of
New Orleans.   D' Iberville's and De Soto's
explorations. The descriptions, Statistics, &amp;c.,'
include Cities, Towns, and Places on the Gulf'
coast-Pensacola, Mobile, Galveston, and other
places in Texas -Vera Cruz and Mexican
ports-Havana, Chagres, Panama, &amp;c., &amp;c-.
To all-the emigrant, traveler, capitalist, and
general reader-this is, an invaluable com-
panion.
" This is, perhaps, the cheapest and best
book of its class ever got up, arnd just such
a one as the traveler on our great waters
would be anxious to secure. It will inform
him of the exact locality of every place lie may
be likely to visit, with sufficient infoi-mation
to get a correct estimate of any town or city

in, which he may wish to transact business.
We have often wished for such a companion."
Texas Portfolio.
"To every person, whether he designs trav-
eling over these waters or not, this is an
interesting book.--tar in the West."
How to be HIappy: or, the Laws of
Life, Health, and Happiness rendered clear to
the humblest intelligence:  An Admonitory
Essay for general and family perusal, on
Regimen, Expediency, and Mental Government.
By ROBERT J. CULVERwELL, M. D., 8vo. Paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
CONTENTs OF HOW TO BE HAPPY.
Happiness, its definition: health, what con-
stitutes it-On Ill Health-On the Preservation
of Health-On Infantile Diet-Diet from one
year of age to ten-Diet from ten to twenty-
Diet from twenty to fifty-Diet and Regimen
for Advanced Life--Summary upon Diet-Iliow
to strengthen the Body-,Diet for the Active,
the Sedentary, the Humble, and the Affluent-- .
Air and Exercise-The Philosophy of the Mind
-How to strengthen the Mind-On the Value
of Life -- The Indignity  of Sick Health -
Anntomy of' Low Spirits - Melancholy and
Nervousness -Danger of Melancholy-Petty
Ailments .-The Folly of Feasting-On Tem-
perance and other Matters--Folly of Excesses
-On Fruits, Vegetables, and Pastry-Giving
way to Sleep-On Early Rising-Relaxation-
Rest-Sleep-Spacious Apartments, Sleeping-
rooms, &amp;c.-Traveling --- Horse-riding -Per-
sonal Appearance-Personal Clothing -Cheer-
fulness and Good Temper--Fear of Ghosts-
Sleeping  Alone - Inconsolable , Grief -- On
Amusements -On Marriage, its Advocacy-
Family Jars-Embarrassment-Artificial Teeth
-Mischief and Danger of Snuffing-On Smok-
ing-On Suicide-Happiness of Old Age.
Guide to Health and Long Life,
or, what- to Eat, Drink, and Avoid; what Ex-
ercise to Take, how to Cpntrol and Regulate
the Passions and Appetites, as- to the general
conduct of life, whereby health may be secured,
a happy and comfortable old age attained. To
which is added a popular exposition of Liebig's
Theory of Life, Health, and Disease.   By
ROBERT J. CTTLVERWELL,'M. D. 8vo. Paper cover.
Price 25 .cents.
'   CONTENTS OF HEALTH AND LONG LIFE.
On Nervous and I)elicate Health-How to
Live-What to Eat, Drink, and Avoid-Diet-
Vegetables-Remarks on Condiments-Liquids
-Beer-Wines-Spirituous Liquors-Relative
Digestibility of Different Articles of Food-List
of Articles of Dieti, with the Time required for
their Digestion-Cookery--Quantity of Food--
Time 'of Eating-Snuffing and Smoking-Late
Hours-Exercise and Fresh Air-On the Pas-
sions-Suinmary--Diet and Regimen, with Re-
marks-Dietetic Rules-L~w and Middle' Diet
-Special Diet, for a Nervously-Debilit ated In-
valid-Full Diete-Milk, Farinaceous,YVegetable,
and Fruit Diet, and Directions for making Curry.

THE
TWIN BROTHERS;

OR,

.l
5,
r
i f
:
S ,
4
_
fir.
s
s
'{
i
1
f

THE VICTIMS OF THE PRESSiANG.
A ROMANCE
OF THE LAND AND SEA.
Y EDWIN F. ROBERTS.
CINCINNATI:
PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES,
NO. 167 WALNUT STREET.

8

i     ..._ _                             _                                ---                        -                                       --                                             '

,,   ,


* :r 4CCi fL" t.F F  'w "r _
r4,, }

I
a
C
a
b
S
Ii
g
a
ii
1
Ic
'la
i
L
ri
ci
18
at
(1
w

I12Xi TWIN BR OTILERS"

1    I '

u  "',  .

I,

's," 4,   '

I

4'   S  y  ' '  "  '  x ,C   i ''rVr to
11' 'Al.                    '

417
! f

1r I  a}        x

f 1  , 9  lQ  '7  t 1  '!,rr      l+"°$I L 'V  ER  OQU8 s skt
MoRE than (ortyy     asogWhen armies met each other aied convulsed the
earth ajikd t the, shck battle, ad"thsoundr of'etinp rang across the 14in
of Iurope ; when the dead and th' dying coTered the rads fronp Spain to thei
North Sea, and from the steppes of Russia to tie cotufines of the Atlantic DOean;
when great flees met: ob the, atersaj4 sent Thir iron hail and storminshot in
belphing'res against each other; and grappled side by sie acid man to man in the
fiere; clap o f'Fate and death; jWhen: the eniqueror; rode grimn an woody acros'
thnmyriad porep;e  = of his enemieshen war was ada s. adeityand glryha
blinded tie eys of ien,I say, more tian forty year ago, there dtelt a family
in the pretty village of Waltonr(sone three miles mfro  theitwn of Iiverpool,
who, fron certi socialpecuharitymight have beeninstaed as a, picture of
repose in"the'nmidst 'of tuimoil, of tranquility in thneheat"6f siife and of unosten
tatious happiness where all around them,"even in that retired  were seized with
the mania of the day; and contented with their 1lt, ingully devoted to each
other industrious, an refied far above their'apparent conditiontheycommanded
a general esteem ans  c Iwlwhich was repaid by  a "frank' and neighborly
bearing on their part that'silenced  ie tongue of envy,4nd by an independence
that wasnot-without its valeanong the inhabitants, from'whom tiis quality (id
general highlypied when' not; carried to an 'absurexcess'acteduiversal
resp ct.    {:   "'   r        t C;                d
Martin Palm r and  s*ife 'came ori finally from 'Devonshire, and had been
settled in Wal tofor soni sixteen or seventeen years atV the 'tino 6ut'stery opens.
'To the trades of carpenter and' wheelwright,"he' added'i&amp;ii.qualifibations of a
machinist, and was as hale and hearty a specimen of the artizan class, in its most
superior grade,as could've met with anywhere. In 'their family th'e counted two
sons-twigs born-r-between whom the nost sensitive affectiohxisted: in addition
to which, a ,graceful irl, ,with nothing af the peasant'in her form and manner, an4
related closely to Mrs ;Palier, beingin fact her sister's child, 'dwelt' ini the si iet
pleasant home with'themyi.
The two'lad-..ine, well-built, haiid'omeyon n men of about twenty=followed
the same employment as their-'father; anindsry,. a  d' bywell-ieveloped
mechanical skilL, had rendered lice to them as hipg 'as 'contentment and- a nore
than moderatesuccess could make it. The remarkable likeness which existed
between then sruckevery 'one, a d as they ge (erally dre edtielves alike--
taking a certain pleasure, as tief did, in their resenibla  ditis'difcult'to tell
the' one from the other. Edward. Palner, when' he.t'b6o1 esidel is~ither Charles;
had a more' firnily-set and manlier, appearance. ~I4ie'wasshade 'darer-, too, in

'.4 'C
"I I

co
w
al
ce
tb
at
N
in
Cc
PC
g£
bc
a
hi
be
to

_               ,r

I


I
I
C

t
a
t
n
e
g
a
i1
St
dl
L
ri
st
le
al
at
(f
w
nt.
co
w
al
ca
te:
th
at
Ni
ex
in
co
p
pa
ge
pa
bo
a
we
hit
be
to

4

4                      THE   TWIN    BROTHERS.
the color' of his hair and the deeper hues of 'his cheeks, while the gravity of hei
countenance contrasted agreeably with the fairer and merrpr face of -Charles.
Many laughable mistakes, however, had occurred, from the one being taken for the
other ; but, on the whole,'a close observer would have seen a sufficient difference
to prevent error, while their excellent dispositions and affectionate nature prevented
any jealousy arising between them which would have made the distinction more
pointed.  ,n ore h  pyfam'lY t an Martin',ahner' aI a swget s39t than
Rose.C pog,tc ' d 4it ejsil ftaye bd4n seer . ai
I an not going o dwell upon the inany charms .hic this pleasant an venerable
old ,village possessed, with its green slopes and fruitful orchards : with its quaint
cottages, pretty houses, charming'villas, and its several relics df manorial beauty ;
nor shall I amplify upon the striking object which the antique church tower
formed in the landscape, surrounded by great elms and beeches and nodding poplars,
where rooks had dwelt for generations, rendering the sweet summer air the more
dreamy from their busy fight, and their perpetual "cawing."  I need not dwell on
the dim and distant view of the Irsh,sa.(een from a neighboring hill,) dotted as
it was with- the white sails of s'ips- 9th=&amp;o 'i'svans" of the ocean-which have
lifted there town of Liverpool, in an incredibly short space of time, to a height of
commercial prosperity se~elf 'elnialled. The-'wlif1e country, hill and dale, tree
arc streamlet formed series.of pictures thatbave more than once pleaped the ye
of .tS'  ssingr ove e amin   a tiimie emga ed ti ,pencil of thy ,rtist. The
business of our story defiinds m6reiimordIao:attenitinan, wththe tedded'
leave,fwewil p4 once.enter uo'n it.
1t w     :as oina1peasant evening i i'the summer of 1$-, and at th;very height of
a warwith France, thatdWead and his cousin, Rose rainir,m.night have been
keeni   sil wawso'l1the beneath the shade of the great blosso ing chestnut
ie swhicl bociered the  didleading to' Lierpodl. Iy the ma ntr i wincli he
hel her am   iis b th tender clasp of la right hand, whih hld h's,bi thes
earnest "and lowtone i n  iwhoh he spotde, and'by the  aidenii  downcast face,.the
.arkliaof her softb dit ees, and the  bliish that's u  sed herpretty face.it
ery le'ai that'hwmikinfher the partaker of a etiment that wa :of the
most endeari g'and delightful  ature. He was telling her a secretwhich how
ever, with her iman s tact; phe had long guesad t ihewas tellng her; in act,
how dearly be khved .iei; aiid hewas discovefing with s'thrill of the most heart'
felt delight'that he was'ndt indifferent toher, butfpn the contrary,.beloved with
the stren th of a nature that was'essentially affectionate end devoted-for, with
her "tilave wasindeed' to live.
11 her sawyoid lobk so beautiful, my Own Rose 1 he said, tenderly; "and I
am sure' Tnever believed'that I sai'ang oiethat could -ompare With you at any
time, for, I love you, Rosh, dear RoseI.love you with all my heart, and soul, and
bein   teIme thenQnc   blore-for yo ido 'not k0ii('hat a rnhsic there is in
o   vee Yvhen it is t   oe th 6 sweet melody of oe--4eti droe that you do indeed
mov'e. rii.#"
I love you verydearly, indeed, Edward,",he said in that t w, but earnest tone,
in which so muci more is conveyed than m'eet 'the ear.
SI thitik,"/he said " that the air is singing around me, and that the flowers are
tee velytijetreegreener,.the birds 'blithernd all th  A iappie, as yog
say those word,'' h6 continued, iapturously.. " Oh .think ya fo ' them, Rose
hey jll lightep, 1 y path. They will repayme fr doubts thatt  Ametimes grew
despa r 'and I dared not,speak to -you ti t9-mgt.t-,
D  d you 'then dubt me,'Ed afra ?" she skud-looking into hs face,
-I thikik I f aed moye' tli' euran" bed ji',' heauswered. ' Idoubted myself,
b1t'              'wefaIoul he    ant e                  ' a-e;  ' 1Vose  But Ch arles,--
jny'b~otbe'r Char) Sv   Iih sa     4e at g~nce interruptedlih mielf, as if
struckk Whht~  Sdiy an'q at the same time, an glasant ikfectionl
Charles !M Waieaii, t2Ekwd ?" ad Rtose;'stalrting bac~km inmxomcitary
iazanint and' ~reatlv'sudrrised at the total chaG that had talken ph~ee in his

THF TWIN, BR ,TBFl        S..
" I fear that'he, too,,loves you. I fear ,that he whqmI hays loved por=muchi wh9
loves m, and, it possible, with something more..eve w th  ractlpr.s ffe 'p,
willI lokgnw va ohe iewith   a jneyof jealousy, for 'robbiiig  19 p,, '
replied Edward, gloomily.
"Oh! Edward, do not speak so," returned Rose. " It is not just to him, to me.
or to yourself. Do not see evil which existnot."
"I tried to conquer my love, Rose," was his reply. " I think I am not de-
ceived, but it is the only topic ongwh iph wiJve)never dealt with each other with
that frankness that never before left'i with any secret unspoken. , My love for
you was too great to be silent."
"Set your heart at rest,'then Edward," Yeplied.eRbse, "for I know that while
he is to ;me even more than a 1rother,- --that is,",she wadS1 , itln ingenupus
blush, "for your sake 1one, he t p,; his madehis ele to}; "id  s ale:9f hgh$
illuminated'h&amp;.face.                               i
"Idee9!"  claimed Edward with surprise  Iwas a+pe of        (; pd 19
has never 'said-a  fllable toine-not a "   d'th4 is' ery strnge, ;Q added,
douhtfIUl}y                                                           . .i
" I drt injure hni iu your thought:Edwvard  sa if ese, fort I amure he ;oes
not ded~i~e it.
-IT i aire :dh anel," was his vey.atuwal r p y,, g  printedakIS, 9nhe'
fai foreheai  " a I l   ,hot wrng him, or my one, mmy thong  fo   ioment,
if I can avid it. Btit to  e, ho n thegoes he JIoy},( p. e   1 "it { Aiok u.s to
kno ..,   t      ±1                          tI               3j
"No less.a person tha4 th °be le'.of the t9m--of the country, eEe  ll
Freshille," egplid' Rose, With }ilaugih.
"What?". cried Edgard-." EllenFeshgyille Ttt-eproud eo"ue$te14he pretty
jilt-thi ha;hfr.heirssfo ih° gm   ietst man that ever .ooe dow.g fromA,
stati61 °  hich, ,afteral "a'16nothigher, h n. ours- upon ail "are "  'm ps rely,
worthy afrsoitioy ! I ai sorry fdr't
*Do6it sa so, Edward, ' urm dose, geny :     whateverbetheir fitlove
will' inatke isinboth, dpand upon  t.
.Begit"hod  aFe ou tp khcwthisRope      endd F     ard            ,
i  dc: remfhisk  .  f h cait"    ep ed f beyoe e fpire yaesrn      a
H doin  in  ieof h   ;"ttogh  ysalf havesenvh en lanisgmng
h   w*aywad'  f'fTtdct 'vays,'he' oyes hmram s  ; ane, as forppor 9Cgres,e
worships the very gronud she'trefgI1 upon." t
W ,'ell ' 'ill e' difi, wil ;hell him, wil Nid hhnd " said .Eihyl  au  no wr
de r T e, 1mrhf oinfgjwid Iihalighthear sand full of hope--"
t To'Livespool this ev  in ?"4sbe1 no, gravely
"e; tobuy soie thber: wh  4s9 g4 y atwo bours' walk Qr,so. -. shafl
stay at 1Mr. Louis's t9-night-he is, our ,merchaqt,,you know and al4ysgives pne
did    elebe   c tod-orygdw shal l beak again."
" Oh;"Et+1dar!' ' exi m  Rpseg ehl asi doen gaeness ovgyppgad ,l4q. fage
' talpe car 6f yoiself i  vail eyry gdngp-shyn pl qjpany1, .ay e d
such Iterriblci                tebi---       x 'n ef1 b mng :taken- ---"  ,,  . t."
"Danderf-what daier4"     ekei Ednard, laughihg, ~  'y,     o e ypp ;
mnakethld"1f Viesnyoaur.nx ee
'* don't know    y      a "ce  te e   os t terrib e  igiu'Ag  It'a p
f~oish,"h'e a      rkt-f,«bi        popdtno lepttith-gouyill   p e egagry
with m6, #ill          ria'id ap tin se faq   i      r tsr es   il w
furned-up to hist .f                                     i
1 A 1-'   r         x 1tA' OA  Q            .       1;3 4    iQenht1


I
t
t
t
t
n
S
Ri
.g

'TH' WI  BROTHIRRS,

:#I

T HE T    I'i i]1tO6THERS.
ere he had turned out of' sight, he cast one more glance to where she stood, and
waving his. hand in adieu, descended the1hilly wile Rose slowly and sadly walked
baek' to'the cottage.
A LOVER'S QUARREL.
I was ho ever, perfectly true that Charles had for ever and hopelessly surren"
denied his heart to the flirting bnttbeautiful Ellen Freshville; .and it was equally
true, that thehandsomest youth in Walton, "gentle or simple,'' had obtained a
greater share of herheart than any other man had ever yet gained. Her father,
a mnan of most exaggerated=ideas, dnd of shattered fortunes, comparatively speak-
ing, was an exacting, unloving man., Frorm  a frivolous and fashionable mother
she had received the elements.of her exquisite beauty, of her hollow and useless'
attainments ; and a residence in the metropolis had confirmed her in that detesta-
ble doqetry, which' is in a 'woman, what gambling or dpunkennesas-i in man-the
sure germ of future misery. Although for the present, the seed sown by coquetry
and flirtations do not produce at once the terrible harvest we may not unfrequently .
see raised, still it may be counted upon with the same certainty that results follow
certain daises; and should be t he more guarded against, that it is a vice asodious
and hateful as it is evident and plain.
Yet to look ilto her bright beautiful face, to gaze into her sparkling eyed, and
dwell on het 'moist ruddy lips,-to see that wildly tossed hair, in glossy ringlets
flying'lbneath the coquettish gipsy hat, was to see and to surrender. There was
magic in the music of her thrilling contralto yoice. There was witchery in the
waving -hair. To see that light form, clad in white, a blue band around her waist,
a gauze scarf, floating fairy-like from her shoulders,"and to see ringlet and curl
tosss 'with the' most infantinte gtace aroundwherneck, agl down her shoulders; .to
hear 'the laugh, to catch a glimpse of the wicked eyes sparkling benetth the strw
hat, was to'fee aifor(in that was calculated to make the most ineffaceable impres.
sion upon a heart so inflammable as that of Charles.
It was so vast, overwhelming, and intense;'that 'he would have been dumb in en-
deavoring to 'describe it. Words failed to depict the fire that was. consuming his
heart. So much the morerwas his bliss'when' she smiled, but also,'"s. much the
greater was his agony when she frowned,' whether beauyt Was- shocking to look
at, and every charm for a moment faded' away.
The truth is, that Charles, who often met the dashing. beauty at church, at
town parties (for the standing of the'Palm'ie familywas good), at;a ball occasion-
ally, and-at a score of other places, till' lately by accident or design, had not been
able to pluck up the courage to tell her his love. He had danced with.her, of late
had escorted her home, and met her in her walks oftener than formerly. She com-'
greherided all in a moment ;' and there was'that in his fair, ingenuous,, and strik-
ingly handsome face and demeanor,that insensibly attracted her despite herself.
Finally Charles,'through the medium of "cousin" 'Rose, had taken heart;of grace,
anid inaking 'h  the mistress of his secret, had- thusiuformed Ellen of his love,
till, by banter- and laugh, he laid his heart himself'at her feet, and in * a torrent of
burning eloquence, that. startled the noyel-reading girl, struck some, sacred and
holy'chord a moment-in her breast, and she pledged her love to him in return..
A vivid imagination could fancy the delitvium of delight 'whichh nps~t have filled
the feverish brain 'of' Charles as he walked' home, the accegpIted lover, on that night
of .nights-that night marked in his' calendaLr, by a wven' a1endor of moon and
etafs such as never before tmet-his ecstatic sight
"I love you, death Charles ! I love!"

Such were the-rapturois sounds that the air sang, as thougL every fibre was the
chord of a harp and become vocal.
lays passed l7y, and, they were happy, though their walks and interviews were
few and unwitnessed,' for Ellen afteiallAhad a hesitation' in' ltting it be known
generally that Charles had been her choice. To do this would be'"to' surrender
every other chance of flirting; of'missing the compliments of young, "'Squire," of
goin 4to the balls given bythe garrison of Liverpool-for her- father knew the of-
ficers of the mess well.-and of visiting the theatre-after, of doing and'saying a thou-
sand things, which it did not suit her temperament to surrender, so that--they had
much bickering, many quarrels. But 'she 'had enslaved him ; she was now his ty-
iant, and h was adaptive 'at' hetknee.
Uridet a huge'beech, that' stood at the foot-ofr the little wooden bridge, crossing
the brook to a greep lane, there, perfectly clear of intruders, and' about the same
hour that Edward was holding hisifterviewwith-Rose, Charles stebd with Ellen
by his side,.
"'Wel," said 'the petulant beauty, ' why do you 1not speak to me ?  Have I
taken all this troulble't6 dress=my hair in 'the -ringletW you rave-about so much, to
have no.word ? Am IQgrown.hideout to-night ?"
"Oh, o--Elei" e&amp;replied; hrriedly; "you are only too beautiful."
Too beautifulI" she sacl; smiling,'yet flattered. " I don't understand that.-
'Just look me in the'fsee now,'and speak the truth without any ambiguity. ' Come,
turn-now speak out ;" and taking him by the arm by a sort of gentle force she
made him obey her, as if he had 'been a child.
There was something'audacious -ii the unceremonious nature of her sway over
him, and yet it was full of a resistless attraction. As he did look into her face,
with its great wealth 'of beauty, his heart filled with a sense of pain ; for after all,
with her'lightness' and -her mood like that of April weather could she really love
him? and if not, hoW. dreadful''the deceit ! But lovely she certainly was. The
eyes of Charles were dazzled, and again they grew dim. He smiled at first, and
then the smile vanished. :His cheeks paled with his deep love. His lips trembled.
sever had she rpssed other beautiful hair more attractively.
"Why, good gracious !" she exclaimed,' " what's the matter with you, Charles?
Are you really, going to 'cry because I look better }than usual ?"
'No'; that wad not what would have m ade him 'cry,he thought.
"   naery wretchedEllen,"' said he, hanging down his head.
" Why ?" was the natural question ; and at the moment he could not help fan-
cying she laughed at hir. "'l'
"You are going to Liverpool to-night,".said he, "to 'a ball, given by the offi-
:ers of the garrison, to mingle among the crowd of fashionables, in the gay, heart-
less throng who have no feeling for others, and care not how the world goes if
their own'selfish pleasures are not marred."
"I am going to eijoy the music, the dance, the company," replied Ellen. " Are
you sorry that I intend tobe pleased ?"
" The smiles and the cot pliments of the, men !" exclaimed' Charles, bitterly.-,
" Oh ! you should have added those. Elen, you love those praises ot' your beauty
far:too well."
' Heyday, sir, what is this?  And are you not going?  You have been invited,
that I' know ; -for 'you'told me so a fortnight back."
"I refused it," replied Charles. "Mr. Louis desired it ; but I declined it."
" And knew that I was going, all the time," said Ellen.
" I thought'in huad gienup' the idea," was his reply.
"I changed my ifrnd, and youhad better do the same. Why should I not en-
joy those pleasures that are suitable to my age, temperament, to my place and sta,
£ion ?"
S" Do not go, Ellen, if you love me," urged Charles, staggered at the question.
" And why, for that very reason, should&amp;I not go ?" insisted hllen.

fI

a'
ii
ac
11
's
di
L
ri
P1
st
le
cl
la
at
sb
(f
w.
co'
at
ca
wi
th
at
N(
ex
in'
*Co:
ph
PO
ge
pa
ho'
a-
wob
hirt
be
to


t
a
n
A
e
9
g
a:
10
d4
L
ri
P'
st
le
el
la
at
(f
(W.
ne
co.
alz
ca
wi
th
at
N#
ex
in'
co:
p1;
Pa
ge
pa
bo
a
wo
hij
be

j
I

I
t
a,
I

to

IL'

6THE,  W1N       P    HENS.
'$cause it would make ple verymiserable and, unhappy," said; he; "I shall
not go to the'ball, n6r to anywhere."
S Ad why-pray,. 1hpl that prevent me,I want to know ?"''
,   - -p hotlior-610           .14n," was ,his huidrxpy.,
a, 1hve no iget ioforbid you "
"Are you quipesure that yo yre perfetly rasonabe? " sheye quietly asked.
"Fprbd ,1p I0 'N Roi1hsgnecme-tp tat~yetb 4jud.yqu ask 19e nqt to go be-
c   eit makesyou.igerygbe. N9wtn A     ,   aslt yq  npt to be ipiserable--
t4Auglr I do go all the sape,  dq notl kq toive these child sh restraints throws
overfipe,1especially as yoiq do not grooffer per a repson- ~,,,
"You will there see men whom you know  qd  ph hate ,ut h ve   contempt
for I cannotepz-ess,"paid Chglge; angd~th jeeuggpang tat gentl us heart gave
~a sardonic tucht ltthe tone of ths yqipe4 '.' . g::a
" Visit eepu e they are youg, horhanPsone, ttA 4you  qy a---poptempt--7
for them ?" asked Ellen, sarply. .
:  G'wily dregse, with.gogeopas soglet; coat s ibreerd w th' gold and, laee,
,apd:therest--yosn have ddd tl a  oo' sayL Cr1s,.with great bitterness
of'voice. "Yes, I hate their fripperyn i  a    no3          0    -
" Welh I like elegant coatsnrembrideredeWtl .gek4andlacef":was the, frank. re-
ply ;Yndto do. her justice, she had mcei reason qo' , sidr at; the: moment for
.followingher bent than he had~in his .ohjechion, tpu~gb athiggonly ,arose frop the
mannerinmwhich it 'pas ;nade, .e       '
"I have nothing more to say now, Elen,' wqr his bui-uied and broken words,
' f, yougo--go, Ellen., I woulddnpt,d a wqrd more to diysuade' you-but re-
miemnerthis           '
"4re you then gpong to add amenae.?" demanded Ellen, falling back a step,
and, as itwere, turnzng-all;the full light of her. gorgeous eye ;euponhim. ."Are
.yoy1 going tor make it a coislition with: me,, that: to retain yon nflectioni I 'zus$
Bubn' t to every (dictation,' however unreasonable ?"
,'No, Ellen-no," aswere d Chares,. wih;. a profound andjmelancholy submis
sion in his tone ; " neither menace ng-,coindtygg will 1I attept tQ make. You do
noorlpve, me, that is.a1,and.have pthipgjarse tosay.. ',
" You are a child,", shqpetuanplyrepied.i "  dpGsere to see  sbmit in
dune obedience to your whims. ,5l all,sir,;;anpi lek 1m see y9W here, with pro-
per apology and complaints, this, timno-erow evening, or else I will,'punish
you by.not speaing;to -ifor aw.ee1 tQ, cone
"D   not torture yourself or me by inventing fresh me9.nof ppmi. IEspeak nlQ
more-=Imeet you no m- eo,
i" What l'"sheexclaimed::' "are' you.ijn earnest
" In ad, 4eep earnestt, Elleii, ,was~his answer...
For a moment her heart misgave her;,as .sheheard his low but firm .voice,, an4
looked in his handsome,, bt deadly palefape.: To have submitted tot that would
.have rendered her' his queen and ruler no miorp., Tq pe thenhse ton of rile
at his feet wold. have .een riot to-talge at up r e"jsodid4up9Sher;too .well-to
feep his wor,, He woul4{see her,,aga4apcd elJh     eauifpil gs' before;d:
she loved triumph too'well to lose even the last opportunity of showing heextet
of her'power. :' 'f
"Very well," she said, as collys she co .hl. "  As ypn will, sir,", and wallky)
"Adieu, lllen !" he murmurd., " F areweJl Vt'' .
When she turned her hea back ep .wasn  e ktp 1esen  ;h r3heart felt a cold
and:dreary; vpha nit; that t+e, gaut e, fatrtq  bilt aupy 9f ler conquests,
thatb&amp;lenight could not obljtprate., ; ',
- .7 ' -.'

THE TWIN BROTHERS.
CHAPTER 111.L
TH ~PI98GN
DARKNESs had fallefi cveV the street of Liverp6ol, and e" so earlY as pine
o'clock, ad in the tieig'horh o 'o tie docks and the river especially, scarcely a
human form-was to beseen, save the watchman, or a'femalemore daring than he
husband, goig fort o some errand ofiecessity, for the {pi-ess-gang' 'at;hor-
rid resort for manning the navy, was in active for-ce'- ien were,.scarce,and "no
trick was left untried to ,entrap them;,"r to'seize "hli' i by fore iii thestreets.
The few dini' oil-lai ps inkled dismally alopg "the' uays, Wapping"En id St'and
Street, then the most central pait in'aiose proxim  with the shipping  and far
away up the river Were a;. "tender " and at-brigweie at anchorin'the
aI'ne   (anaime givento a portion of the river opposite to one of the' feriies
on' t e  heshii-e side, where v   lssi of small draught lay,) the anteirn-lights
twinkled&amp;  The wind 'ebt ot     le'he} water' s ith  aasigh' and the'i"ie went'
plashing ofiward with' ie ebbing dde, mating,to any one that heard6h'  sounds
a significant and ominous moan. All, round the'docks was stilll as death, sae
where, -in'some den, yet'open, t eacduesd "crimp " regaled his victiins with
liquor ; or the more ruffianly manlof-v 's man, fitted foif his abhorrent 'oi-k of
"pressing" men, sought to c herheheavy time with a disinal'dit which had
nothing' of 'the sailor's'franik jdvality batit'itah.
At the corner of Wapping (which runs from the corner of the space now occu-
pied by the :new Custom House) and'-f 'a dini' ,pd foul entry, d' ified 'by the
nnie'of Ansdell St'xeet, ahd oppositeto6the Sallion'ee "Dock, stood a{house, indi-
cated by a blurred light' hung in a dinky, glass fr Fme, and dignified'by~he name'
of the "Bacchanals 4' (the "Bag o'Nais ""of' the'seamen,)'in which a party of
the "pressgang" had i cated'theinselves, from whence they were ready to ounce
upon any stray unfortunate that might. be w ndering in the neighborhood. They
were armed with pistol, cutlass, atdstretchrrwith the"two later of high they
were by no means paiti ilaifi h1ns .
This hbuse was kept j nfriian',' knowis;" Black 'Pick ;f and as, uot of an
absolute necessity,. sails and ship-ca penthns werde)onipelled'to fr dentite'
neighborhood, it wa 6,hnthe ease, th'at many paid to this wretch a sor ofblack-
msil for intef'e-ing in-their' behalf; while the hickless Wight i'hmDick' 1ight
have marked, for -eitierrefusing to use lis den or'submitting  th ' foruedlcontri-
bution,.was sure to be waylaid and borne :away to.the tender that lay in the river.
Tlie hardship to which the working nien were thui subjected was of a most at-,
trocious nature. 'No one was safe ;w s and while families were thns robbed] of their
protector and "bieadinner," maters were depi'ived of their- best "hands, and
prO perty itself 'beane' insecure fo! the very minie Yeas'on that the liberty of the
su bect was violated. '. esistanee Wasin' n ost cases wrse than useless, as there
were usually half-a-dozen brawny , men'6 Egh'e,. a d illtreatment was sure, toensue.
In a dirty and ill-fhelling bar-parlo' sodlve'ia f-dozen were sitting onthy night
in question, smoking bad'tobacc  and lejoiihg'hi woi-de liquor  The 'coiversa-
tio  was 'on a pa'r with, their l-velry,' an 'a worse-looking set of'humani deinons
could not hive been stumbled up'6i b' "the ,ndtsinister chace.t
"I'll}toil you what it is,.my lads," laid'oMe;takiiig a siort lack pipe out of'his
month, 'and rpjoicing in the soibibr 'of. "Sliptldind,'" ron the murdernus
nature'of .the stories he told of himself0 Imd' fi-'im h'ik' rerally ferocious disposi-
tion,-'-A TVll tell you what' it' is ~+f 'd46iitjk'u sorne live lumbei( t-night,
we sladl get a keel-himling frin' that th iideling lef'nant of ours,  wegt
ou board to-morrp-, or myibanifes ist~-',                     n'egt
J                               -


r'
v

I
1'
t
a
I
I

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

iiO

t
.a
t
JA
S
g
a:
ii
10
di
L
ri
P)
le
cl
la
at
sh
(f
wi
nE
co'
wi
ab
ca
wi
th
at
Ne
ex
in.
co:
ply
ge-
pa
bo.
a
wo,
hir
be
to

"Don't tell us your name, old 'Slip-the-wind,'" interrupted another, with a
wrin. " We knows it too well: but what's to be done, bo'? If the lads get shy,
and small blame to 'em, they can't be catched like blackbirds with salt on the
tail."
"Salt be hanged," returned a beter-dispositioned member of the gang. "'Who's
to blame the poor devils?  Shiver my timbers, if I wouldn't rather be nigger-
hunting on the Gold Coast than skulking here, and in no such good company,
than picking mayhap, some old messmate, after giving him a wipe of a cutlass.
It's the most onhiiman dodge, mind me, as ever was hit oti for manning the
navy-"i
"Do you mean me, by your good company, Jack Jigger ?' asked Slip-the-wind,
With mock politeness ; "'cos if you does-"
"Well, what if I does ?" growled the seaman.
Why, that's my-answer, that's all I" and as he spoke,;the ruffian seized a'heavy
jug and hiirled it with such fury at him, that had it :net. the other's head in all
probability no thickness of skull could have saved itz from fracture. As it was, it
passed him within an inch, dashed the glass bar-window into atoms, and came
with such force against "Black Dick," the landlord (who was just then bargaining
with another of his genus for a capture,) as to drive him, blaspheming and groan-
ing, into a corner under his own'bar, whence he was picked up, covered with blood
and liquor, looking a- ghastly object."
" Curse you !" roared the fourth, who it appears .had. charge of the party;
" can't you keep your flappers still, spilling good grog and kicking up a shindy.
Take that,' and be d-d to you!I" and instantly, with a frightful crash, descended
on the aggressor's head an immense bludgeon, which in turn laid Slip-the-wind,
under the table..
As the men in the hurry of their surprise had seized their " stretchers," it would
not have taken much to make the fight general, but the hoarse voice of their
leader, bidding them stop their quarrel,' brought a truce, and the next moment
the face of Black Dick, whose head had been bound with a cloth, through which
the blood was oozing, appeared at the door, and his voice in a hissing, half whis-
per, attracted their attention.
"There's a chance," said the scoundrel. " And so that's the boy that hit me a
lick, isit ?"' he added, as he saw Slip-the-wind rn'pretty much, the. same condition
as himself, seated on a chair, preparations of brown paper and vinegar being on
hand; " Ah ! I'll remember the swab, I'will.'"
'Stow all that' said the leader, "and tell us what's in the wind,"
" Why, there's a kid just acrossing the lane by the maripe store-shop, where
he's going in; old Carney Grogger told me of him this minute. If you watch
him out, you can nail him; and, bo'sun, don't forget my ' tips.'"  . .
"KBe off-be scarce, you ugly hound," replied Jack Jigger. ."You and Carney,
who is an unhanged robber, would sell your own fathers, I believe, and-"
"Bear a hand," interrupted the leader, authoritatively, "and 'let's have none of'
your ' bosh,' Jack Jigger, or I'll report you whenwe gets on board ; if I don't
-   -" and he uttered a tremendous litany of oaths. "'tCome get your tools, and un-
der weigh, and remember he must not be missed."
The next moment they were stealthily creeping down the dirty alley, under
cover of the darkness, and crossing the road, erouched under the shadow of an old.
shed opposite some small houses, on one of which the sign of the treacherous
store-dealer surmounting a black doll, was to be seen.
A young man, who had ,the look of an artizan, with his apron half tucked
round his waist, by the momentary blink of the moonshine was seen to emerge
cautiously out of, the shop, the door of which was instantly closed behind him,
and in another instance he was surrounded y half-a-dozen men, who, with, oaths
and menaces and flashing weapons, would have startled a man of a-far more comn-
posed nervous system than the unfortinate rey they now made sure of.
" Not so much noise, my chickens," said blip-the-wind, whose head, bound likle

the landlord's, gave to his cadaverous and livid blood-stained face the most hcsribl~e
appearance, as he, caught hokd of the youth's arm, he having just fellpd:one ina,
by aClever' blow, to the ground, and, with, a c1ry that' roseto a shriek, the' streets
risounded to-.
[ "Ielpi..murder-I help! The press-gang.  Help, for the love of God!"
For- an instant there ran, like fire in a powder magazine, like the vision of sud-
den death from, a pistol-shot or mortal stab, a thrill of horror through 'his whole
being.
Seh .a; terrible :cry, was not likely to raise any in -his defence, while'the an-
moungement. of the press-gang would only have a tendency to hurry avay those
already flying to his aid, as the first words rose' shrilly on the night air.
rNeyertheless t did 'attract one to his side, who, to say the truth, had better
have been a hundred miles, away, and he had already mingled in the melee before
a sense;pf his frightful danger dawned upon' him.
Edward had arrived in town, and either ignorant, or'presuming upon his imden-
tures (as apprentice to his father, for the law had, a clause, oftener neglected.than
heeded, i favor of the approutice), had traversed Dale Street, Water Street, and
the Goree, in order to make across the .most dangerous, locality in Liverp6ol, at
the time, towards Treatham, bordering the river, where several 'houses, (timber
yards, and shipwright's workshops stood, and among which Mr. Louis dwelt.
He was already stumbling on the gang, when the awful cry startled him, and in
its agony woke all his sympathies.
Thenext moment he was among them. The strife was determined and furious,
but ;birefand;bloody! ;Senseless, and severely wounded, both the young men were
dragged into a boat that lay in a neighboring basin, which put off at once into
the river.
CHAPTER IV.
THE BROTHER'S PRESS       ENTIMENT.
"WHAT'O the matter, Charles?" asked IRose,,the next morning, as they met be-
low. "You look ill, and worn. I hope that nothing has occurred between you
and Ellen?""-
" No-no," he replied: "nothing of consequence-t4iat's not it," and the poor
lad drew his-hand across his pallid- brow. "It's far other than that."
" What then, Charles, is it?--for thelove of'heaven; tell me," she exclaimed in
alarm.
Something has happened to Edward. I know it. It was told to melast night
as I was going to bed," said he in a decided tone.
"Told you-told you, last night!. ;Something' happened to Edward !' and she,
too, turned deadly pale, as she remembered what had struck her, as her lover left
her, with a smile on his lips, and a promise to be back next day.
' 'I Don't youknow that we are twins,?" said. Charles, with a gielanciolly smile.
"It isno less strange than true thatwe,have both of us had a presentinent of any
ill happening to the other, and that has, occurred from boyhood, w'en we were
separated by school, or anything else.: This 'i so infallible that I never mistake it.
I tell you, Rose, that some danger has occurred to him."
Rosesank fainting on., chair, just as Martin Palmer came in to breakfast, and
his wife entered from her bedroom,
A5 Why, Charley, ladi" said the old man, " what the deuce ails you, that you look
so whiter and scared'?"
: -" And here's Rose," exclaimed nTrs. Palmer: "sh is faig. Do go, Martin,
ar-d get her a cup of cold water.

4~

/

I HE TWIN BR6T'liERS

.  -


X[2

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

II
t
I;
C
t
a
b
U
A
ii
S
g
i
ii
w
lo
dE_
L
ri
c1
le
CL
is
at
sh
(f(
wi
ne
col
,wi
ab
ca
wi
th4
at.
Ne
ex"
in
cot
ple
P01
get
pa'
bo
wo
hin;
be
to

]'~3

ihn d~iA as he.was desired ;and, while his wife was, restoring Rose, Charles
t      aprh'the.rdsenti r ent which he had felt with regard to his brother.O
thp      e         bofu  exrdnge tf 'the itic y mpathg Which
existdbeteest heir cliildreti and had fiew'ebec i unbsrfly4lmed, they
were nowrallytg moioe so astheyl stened to his rely, on,.r
"I      stgoingtobed d'" {  i les'said  whe hapdiinntg 'to'gaiuince  t 'the
lio where th inn shione .inyeg brightly 'for a lew'noments Isaw the out-
lin of a form that at fiist was'iiastirict, but which I rebognisedt as ]dar l's:. L
Tie,_ fe w ls pale "  thought it w4      th blood    "
dgral   h6 radead       e  the listeners; and the old
peopl e trbee, esirf o,                   nynid    6t6is evil' A   Wat
.vey e   us      + "e wisa nw anbtha,  :siotid knoW'it ,continued Charles.
"The face was vrIy wai;, &amp;'nd wore the'sddestldok I everwW."'
"        wK  ait ser than your, oni is fi  m " said! the father- dth' an -ef-
ort"    must havedbeen sad indeed. But, are otiulte sure ?'
ti  ertaii'' answered Charles, ib adcided vdie. ";I sydke to him, bu.
recevedit nrye  ..:   shade stood  amoneut, and then vanished away, as the
.moon went' be i d'acloudthat obscued'hert'
i'l1 go,  i     iiiistait, sail old Miattn, ingreat agtation  "It capi'tbe
oskible-  onlyknow' 0fon4 thig  -"
"What's that? ]denandedt he' isteners breathlessly:
he  egs-   .! " replied, the oldspnan solemnlyF
There seemed     hng so dredfl ir these worcs that they struk upo* them
in the ane'man~nr as a sentence o f6k1th iMoil   hsv&amp;edme, and thenese " were
just arrived to extinguish every hope.  .'                              #
" Oh, Martin I Martin! why did you send him ?" exclaimed the mother passion.
ately. " My brave, handsome boy stolen"from me. But why should I reproach
you, dear Martina?-forgive me. Oh ! I shall never, never see him more ;" and
she sobbed in agony on her husband' ,s hg 4(er while Rose was speechless with
nameless terror.
"Let me godfather " said 'Charles; "let, me go to Liverpool, and inquire about
him. I'll find him bit; I  rrhti e ; afe-i T "'      :
"No, Charles-no, my boy," was the resolutee denial. " If they have taken him,
they may take you'too; and'weinitiotoflose both:i heblow 'is hard enough
for youroor mother. 'What tld it be then   y
"Oh, Edward ! Edwar4 !" murmured Rose, "why 'did I' not obey my presentih
mnert' too, Nd,'prevebt yourf oing
"  o,, Charis'contiiuedl his alier, " I will tobnyot mnst staybehind. m
has his 'indentues withI'hini-Thy'lliot taicb me P-n t&amp;d old  I'I go!atponce,
and call on Mr. Louis, and the magistratep, and, hat. can be done to save him
shall be &amp;one, or my "name's not Martih Paih e ,- M  but coat;stoes,.stick-.--
quick, ,myl4ldrerquick-not a  6oieht'to 6l "4 d  'V    '    '
nmst ,pec nicalg,'b b it m rela iC i  ra idit, : ',orders were ob'yed-
and he had kissed-'  1, bliese  ei, ndeft-thehouse, ere they hadd 'redovert
ed thetupefactionl to Whichtiehe'd'hi' o 9w; a d tht was onlytof wait
andweep. . lia4estjirn'dsadly away, and'ent'intor the' workshops, 'while' Rose
an'd Mrs.Pamefhnt even attemptih  to ' disblet' thenisblvesiourn d'ed the lest
youth ; andthen iw was that the gobd rihthe l hInvthe stoy of he bo!'s lovi f'r
his pi'etty coosi, *tiiehlddd&amp;tdK'1 grief, wldenshe sa  hew. nuch-lapfineswas
likely tg be lost to them all.
The day Wore on drealify,"andi all its sunshine' was Iturned into gloom.' .The
heart of Charles was heavy as lead ; for the dMtisO in 1tive he bore afo# Eflbi
Freshville'hhd'cised a most' dreadfnil'shdel.k 146 MWas 'a, youth of 'de high' and
prQ d natur ,and -thoug-h humble and copceding in most things; when it btecames
ai-e 6of Sriciple w~itliim, 'his ddterinAatiodn ha§ of U niost unswervig /kitd

I

I?

#e A seen Ellen go"dfofit'hi ily mppayal9d'the previ6ns night, acco ipanied ,by
her, fthy, in a glass cqachof aytiqnated form, and the 'tftt'e stab dad been igiv-
en." He was jealous.  I drladed er natdiiiso' npredsion ,ble hlr heauty,.so
tempting ; her .4ighlpegs so trivial - h' iriatiable apdtite for, admratioi and
praise. He knew every evil quality she possed wdl ; 'hut her ace was  sd, 'fair,
be, lveliness was so  vine tohip, thatbut for this act-to lay ;herself oft'for
'the'4ze',or iien-to bebdanced with lby'bone - handed to the supper room by an-
other       ng:teni to'the blandidhuients of a third, -all these were a degradation fto
'   lc ti  it.of is 6v6;' a"d h    5mned or it iisad '4lene as a father 'QUins
Qv  WQ.belyd clit he4,asdstlot
Co this 4 s de       sr s dd   sfiqr' btethees f 'isls Tha  something
tad    ur    o pa t    mor     m   fro fr er, he firily believed, an  ie
om     ?? o# ho in thi resuAts ol leisether's search.   ethet adben
one osUnsii me fomn, was now clouding over itli soirms ;hat d   itsi ni
tohim wvheriit gr kq tori ~O   this he brgoded deeply;&amp; apd. songttung 'lYi e'
tDgus te     no4 f P wh, gvar 4'fortnes 'dwied upon his mind, which he
rejected wiha shudd&amp; when&amp; remembered ho6w dsOlt The old  g of is pa-
rents would thus be rendered. The thought was almost impiety.
He was startled by a light footstep late in the afternoon while alone in the shop,
leaning moodily against the work-bench. Little had been' done that day. He
lifted up his eyes, and saw that it was Rose. Apprehension and fear were written
on her face, but he had no consolatgioni.toloffer, her, and he stood gazing upon
her.
"Oh, Charles," she said, ",speak to me, say. something to relieve me of my
dreadful terrors. Your poor hiothr 'has actuallyy sobbed herself to sleep. Your
father has, Rot yet returned, and I cannot bear my own thoughts or company. You
do not speak-you tyiiiia ay,you'rBea
" Alas l Tose," h Aaid, " what'cai Y'sa, hadf have  'o he'
. rid i'loved  him so mudh', en odeei,"i cried the poor girlp, w ing. "It was
but fast diihtefoye he parted, that he tolm m how deadI was to him. I "am
pure hb h , rowt1Fein ,.,ery dear 6 t ie."
"It is seinthin' toiemepi6r tha6 t you loved, Rose," said Charles, " and that
}ou wee be9 ed with the'full- trength ofaheart i"s constant, true, and brave as
your owni.
"And have youfnot that' consolation, dear Charles?" asked Rose,curiously ex-
amniii~  sludfegtures and ti'O ti idlyshrnking fromf the soinbfre'loom
tht replaced their usdalmhi eh f il expression.
'No,    se,'aI' save' not.;" ;hnd his tone was 'so  hopeless that' she c6ncluded at
si  dehatis ne huar had occurredbetkeen hi m and llen. This "toQ "wad the
worse, ps 'sihenewIiow infISibre, and yet hwterider'hid nature was. 'b Th  blow
She sighed deeply. " I ai 'sorry to hear this, Charles, 'she said.; ",for though
I feared she gsgiddy I' did not think she would' have given you any seriouscause
of' dunhappines 's---- " '
,  She does not love me, Rose," was his quiet answer: "arid that's'.)nough."
ABut yeO .hu guite ce taIn, OlharldA Do notuagide her hastily -I thmk you
oill not harshly inany case. Thmtit well 'ver', Charle."
at iter little, Rose ' my dreau is over-brgken, like a potter's vessel, an
only the fragmnts reluijn  and as to thinktir it over; I can only think that a
itn                                            n hd ihart in her hands atid thatIlb did' not thihk it worth the kep
ung. ' You 'say iy motheis  s?' he 'added, as if'desirods of stopping 'the
.converption, or of turning it into another channel at all events.'
;fes, , h4pe'it vj  ehve her, too,'' replied  dose.
"I 'hdpe so, with yu'  "
. '"Wil  odt coin ip" inskedl Js, as semove4,to the 'door.  ''
t h . Icant earto e  ithin ang~here. I *111 gO and 'take A iwalk,

1
r

TWIN rB  fi,'o Ir H 1a1t, S .


44

THE' TWIN B QTH ERS.

THE TWIN .B,ROTHEUS.

1
t
I;
iI
C
t
a
-b
A
Ii
S
'V
g
a]
ii
'V
10
w
d
ri
PI]
su
le
ci.
la
at
sh
(f+
wi
ne
co'
Wi
ab
ca
*1
th
at
Ne
ex
in(
pai
bo
ca
hin
be
to

1i5

and I shall be back by and bye ;". and he flung his working jacket off and replaced
it with'his. ordinary coat.                         .
" Do. nothing rashly,.,Charles," said Rosetiinidly  " and again be as lenient to
Ellen as you can. I am certainshe loves yu-"'
" You are'?" he quickly exclaimed. " Ho do you know that?"
"By myself."         ~   - -
"Pshaw I" he harshly replied. "She is iot like you. There are few like 'you,
Rose. I never thought sle was as good in all things,; but she was so beautiful-
and I believed that my love would have made her the angel that she looked; but
God bless you, Cousin Rose ; I would give my life, to have Edward back, if'.only
for yo 4p sake;'" andhe kissed .her forehead tenderly. "Letushope for the best,
though heaven knows I have little indeed. But let us not lpok at the 'worst side
. of things  I shall take ,a walk, and be. with you by the time'my father returns.-
two in, and' take care of our mother; 'for she has been as long and ternder to yon
as tome, Rose--" '
"That' she has, indeed," murmured Rose, as Charles iastflyleft the workshop,
and crossed the church-yard for the fields, while she went b ek inti the now deso.
late house.                                     ;.
CHAPTER V.'
THE   E NLIST MENT. .
IT was a lovely afternoon, and the populous village of Kirkdale was fnl of bustle
and merry-making, for drums and fifes were in the street. The recruiting-sergeant
was at..work; beer was fdwing, the whole place had the semblance of a fair ; and
men, women, and children were out- adding to the vivacity of'the scene, though
groups of tipsy laborers, here and 'there, -with the, fatal butsch of 'ribbons in theii-
caps, showed the thoughtless creatures had been caught-s me under the pressure
of evil times, some from the result of intoxication, the ser eant's oily tongue and
mendacious promises ; and others, through a 'propensity for ;what seemed a life of
- glitter and false glory. There were women too, with pale, sad faces, to be seen
gazing with alarm and apprehension, on some men here and there-husbands-
brothers-sons-that either had or were likely to be induced to "follow the drum;"
and the tale of wretchedness, broken homes, and heart-br ak, 'were'to be' read so
legibly on the tearful countenances of others, that Charles, as i walked among
the, crowd, needed no dictionary to'translate the agony but too palpable.
It was, in' fact, a country fair-day, 'and the sergeant--Sergeant'-1jtely, by your
leave; of the Royal Kensington Grenadiers,. to give himhis full title, without any
invidious distinctions-had been so well aware of this, that  plans were .so
inwoven with the business of the fair, as to have monopolized no small share, of the
interest the day created.
With the keenest of eyes the wily sergeant Went to and fro, as restlessly as'Satan
wanders about "like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour."  It was his
eye that- beheld Hodge Naylor having a' "tiff " with his pretty sweet-heart, Bally
Brown, and followed up the' black advantage of 'the moment so well, that the
shilling, the beer, and the cockade had been accepted by the smartingountryman
ere he had time tq cool his rage, or Sally time to withdraw him from the recruiting
officer's clutches.
It was Sergeant Kitely that overheard "Missis" Clatter belaboring her half
tipsy husband with her tongue so mightily, that there was litle difficulty in making
himself master of. the carcass, of " jolly" Dlick Clatter, bricklayer ("ljolly," s his
comradJes in~ their' ups called him ;) fo that while sally 'Brown would hae No ery
ber eyes out, and seek for another lover whichi doubtless she did,) " Missis"' Olatter,

1

with her heart wrung and her spirit broken, must'fain betake.her to the workhouse
with her two young children, .the one to become a mendicant, the children n
process of time t; sgi1 the ranks of crime, which -in those ' glorious tines of the
war" annually drew its contribution from the helpless infancy and the plastic
childhood that was left to want and wretchedness,,having no ':other means of ex-
istence in the arid' world before them. Oh, the sergeant was a clever tactician,
and prided hip self on his skill in livingg" the silly birds with his "chaff," as he
honestly admitted it -to he..
It was Sergeant Kitely-he, and none other,-that stood by the window of'Dame
Morris's cottage, and overheard the poor weeping mother pray to God for her son,
that he would eschew strong, rink and repent ; pray-for she was a widow, and
Robert a fair'young lad barely twenty, who sat dreamily in a chair, after.an orgie
the previous night with several " gay" young men, who had a desire to be thought
fine, dashing, "live-har4" fellows-she, I say, was a widow; and.he was the oldest
child of' her love, the support of three young children,:and her only hope in life--
pray mightily, and then fling herself in an agony of sorrow at the lad'A feet,
beseeching hi to be warned; in time,;and to repent of his courses ; to which,
though he felt a pang for it, the youth--who would not "be: a "spooney',a "milk-
sop,".tied to an old woman's' apron-strings for the world-turned a dea fear with a
laugh.
It was Sergeant Iitely that-heard and witnessed this, who said to himself with
a elnugkle, ",Aha! my lad, you'll be mine before night." And so he was.
.Towardsthe afternoon, Charles had arrived-in front. of some: booths pleasantly
shaded by trees, through which peeped the gray tower and spire of; the church;
and at a little. distance off ,Charles. stood aloof, and' with a keen glance surveyed
the whole,.taking every incident, as it . occurred at a glance, and his heart ached
none. the less for what he thus mastered.
In front of a crowded booth, in which-crowds were dancing, singing, and drink-
ing, while the bustle, noise, and confusion of the fair rose in discordant echoes
around him, were placed a number of benches, on which several farmers'
lads, and laboring and working men set, while a gaily dressed brother sergeant-
the joyial dog, who sang such funny songs-martial,:humorous, bacchanalian, and
anacreontic--was at the moment- treating them to a celebrated, chorus, beginning
with "Why; soldiers, why ?", and so on, to, which the gaping crowd listened with
raptures, and in honor of which they drank their ale, and clattered their drinking
vessels, as if they werpabout to charge the enemy, or had just returned victorious
out of some tremendous battle.
Beside thsseforms;stood a youth (Dame Morris's son,) whose flushed cheeks and
dreamy eyes expressed the result of potations taken probably to drown the.memgry
of his, mother's prayers and remonstrances,-his elder sister's tears, or the lisping
intercession of his younger brothers, and so had rushed out for excitement,
Hefound it, sure enough. He was reeling- up towards thebooth in question
(Charles was watching him,) and, as two or three who knew him hailed him with
a' tipsy welcome, the glittering eyes of the sergeant' fell upon him, and he in-
stinctively knew that this was his, moment,. In the; morning the infatuated Robert
might' repent, and even. bid the;dashing Sergeant Kitely "go to there devil ;" but
if he (Sergeant Kitely) missed him now, he muttered, " he would forgive him," and
the morning would come too late.
here's a ay, smart, well-built fellow, now, who would make tone of the smartest
soldiers in hi Majesty's arumy, God bless him !"-,here the sergeant "saluted''-,
".with clean limbs, a quick eye, and a form as straight as a May-pole. ,I'll warrant
him an. o cer's commission in a. month., Glad to: see you, my lad.;". and the cordial
sergeant held out his hand to him, which was taken.
" Thaukee-thankee," stammered Robert; "but I don't mean to 'list this time;
I ain't going to be an officer yet-haw, haw    'ad"         .ck    t
LA What !' cried the sergeant, striking an attiude an  fallingn ac'.se  to
contemplate him-" what L is itpossible that the courage I can see glowing sin

II

Af .41.

-,
i


r

t
a
3
n
A
S
ri
it
Sc
w
so
ri
pm
su
le
cl
la
at
sh
(f
wl
ne
co'
wi
ab
ca
wi
tht
at
Ne
ex
im
cot
pih
po,
gei
pal,
bo
a
hint
be
toj

I
1
t
6 a
I

H16                     n   TW1I :BRoflER
.          :fare'will alow 'you tothrow away the chan'd? wliolitfhine aiid giory now
open fdr. you? Is it-possible-that a dtank fitted to cobi ainid-ae ',to'ride on horse-
back.at4lie head of °a-coinpaiy of -grenadiers; truipets souring drums beating,
{olor hying, ;the-foe before you,'vietory' waiting, glory to crown you,'wealth and
titles' ready'td be showered: upon you=-is it possible, I ask, tiat yog can refuse
such an oppottunity-??  .  -'    ;-    .,
"Why, how'do Ii know that there issuehfan opportunity ?"' deuded 1obert,
with a wink at his friends on the forms, as though he was ' idding them look on
'and see:how capitally he would: inongphis the curiniig sergeant. "Come, tell me
.how- Iamto know that ?"
" And;why bean't you an'officer at the head 'of your oipany?" suggested
another, who sided with Robert.'
"Why, because I tell youso,"said the sergeant, replying td;Robert, but evading
The- second query. 'Do ;yot suppose thatJ I'a servant o fiis Majesty anotherr
svalute; could ,be gmigy of: a liel?
y, as to that, hiccupped'Robert; ' I know nothing -bout it."
' Take my word, then, that;the life 'of a soldier is the fitiest thing in existe c ;
-penty of food, ,music,'and{good quarters.  -  .
i "Giles:Gosling do tell another story' though,'T'said a' se46nd peasant," that as
for the grub and the music it may be"so or not, buit he don't forget to say as there
1be'plehty of flog  "
"Tan~tara-'ra-ra- ada-ra ra !" went the drum at the segeant's signal ihdt# e
shrill music of'  fifes rose melliflousl r, quite drownn g he awkward "exposure
about to be made.                                        . -   .
t'Giles was a fool and a 'blockhead," said the sergeant. 'What can you exbedt
ofta:-man who is always snivelling after home, instead if making' sveetheart and-
wife of his ' Brown Bess ?'-that's his musket, yotu'know," added the sergeant,
with' the,,most obliging condescension. ', Come; let me fasten this.pretty ockade
in your' cap.-touch. the' king's money,' and T'I'l insure yo  commission in a
month.'
- "And what'll they do at home ?", asked Robert, gravely
' Confound the clown "  muttered the sergeant.  "What the devil does it
signify to me? Do at home ?" 'he 'loudly":said. "Why, live nobly on, the fine
plunder you'll be able to-send them from Spanish cities."'
"Ah! it's a long way to gd for it,""tbrted Robert.'-
"' Think -of the pretty girls-when quartered in a country town-think of the
women ready to fling themselves into your arms," urged.the sergeant: " Our pro-
tress, through England is a triumph, as in war it is one entire conquest. What
d'ye think of that, nor?"'r'a
:Why, that you're a good hand at 'trotting' a fellow with yourse'ethea "
-ha! ha            a       n
"No soldier ever wants a sweetheart, I give you my wor of honbr)" continued
the'sergeant, volubly.s "Why, now, I 'myself, though not so likely 'a" fellow as'
you, I have had women'pull caps for me-
"Like enough," interposed the peasant;speaking drily.' "But"they do say no
soldier never keeps a sweetheart long' when he gets her, Mister Sargent ; and that's
not our west country plan, I can tell you."
"Manners and customs differ, my man," replied Kitely ; 'but," he added, apart,
$ if 'I had you at the triangles, you old fool, I'd prove it. Ah ; yes. Hu  ! ha
- l! 'Oh! why that's' as it may be ; and, 'as I said beforp,"-he pursued loud;
.-..it's Ab a -Matter' of opinion  Here, Sergeant Beeswing let's have a can of
your best 'aleptherb.- At all events, this'smart fellow-What's 'ygufr hame, if I may
be so bold ?"                     "
. "IRobert Morr'is/"'iTeplied' the youth; somewhat surprise at the question, bu$
flattered by the great attention paid hin. I
" aThe, :Rtobert"dorris, here's your health,'' said Kitef, lifting the foammin"
tankard, to his lips i.nd taking -a sparing' draught ; -for brandy-and-wate~ was th

THE   TWIN    BROTHERS.                         17
soldier-erimp's-general beverage--" and wishing his Majesty had a thousand more
fellows like you to serve him. Drink !"
"Thank you kindly," and Robert drank deeply. "Here's wishing the same."
Just -then; a sturdy. little boy ran up between the sergeant and hisintended
victim,.and clasping Robert round the knee, the curly pate, whimpering, said,
"Bobby, do'ee come home, cousin. Jane sent me to say as mammy be crying-
do'ee come-"
" Cousin Jane's a fool," was the reply ; but he, bitterly, regretted the words the
moment they were spoken.
"So your mother makes a pet of you,,does she ?" said the sergeant,; with a grin.
"And a pretty. cousin I suppose sends to look after you, eh? Ali! well, it's a
pity."
"What's a pity ?" demanded Robert, furiously, and ashamed. of himself.
"Why, that you are not more of a man," was the, dry response.
The sympathy which Charles felt this momenton behalf of the poor dupe was
almost irresistible, and he pushed his way through the crowd towards them, as
Robert disengaged the boy from his knee,;and, with aninsulted dignity-that would
have been comical but for the tragic result that lay couched beneath, drew himself
a step or two back, scowling on the speaker.-
" I am man enoughfor you," retorted the flushed and angry youth, " and good;
enoug-h to make a soldier-aye,,;or an officer-"
" 4Thy, so I said," insisted the sergeant. "'Do you say-done ?"
" I say ' done !' " shouted Robert ; and his palm fell. with a smack on Kitel 's.
Charles stepped forward. ;"Don't take it," said he to Robert. " Wait till the
morrow, and think of it-better."
It was too late. The ,man who hesitates is lost. As Robert, struck with the
words, was a moment'mute, the shilling was in hishand, the colors fastened in his
cap, the drum set up its noisy roll, and the fifes were triumphant in the "Con-
querig hero comes ;" and Dame Morris was robbed of her son.
" The devil take your soul," said the sergeant, turning -a face upon Charles full
of the most malignant and. diabolical hatred. " If I don't have you in my clutches
before very long, my name's not Sergeant Kitely ; and so look out, my boy."
But Charles had not heard the words. He walked away hurriedly homewards,
pondering deeply, as well as 'other thoughts would. permit him, on what he had
seen, at the same time that Robert was hurried away to take the necessary oath.
CHAPTER VL
ILL' NEWS...
IT was with no lighter heart that Charles turned himself homeward th w
he started forth. . He had not seen in his walk anything that was cale
renew the brightness which had begun to fade away so blackly, and theshadows
deepened on his soul, as the still and, purple evening succeeded the flaming gold of
the setting sun. . The noise and the murmurs of the crowds he had quitted 'died
away, and the familiar trees and church-tower of his own pretty village met his
look without infusing into him the slightest sentiment of cheerfulness. Hisheart
beat fast as he approached the.pleasant, lane where ithad so often bounded at the
sight of Ellen in her snowy frock, with her, exquisite face lighting upwith joy at
his approach.. All was sombre now, and he rned sharply away without having his
old tenderness turned into emotion by a glimpse of her. She was not there. She had
not returned probably from her gay Liverpool friends. She was possibly the life
and soul of a happy group at the present moment, and. thought, very likely, as~it,
'2

.


j                     IltR^.r . ae-wv  ..e  r« ..,...u...«..: z ' F

I
I
C
1
a
s
(
n
C
al
t
a
N
in
co
*p1
PS
W4

i
U
su'
a
C
t
R
ti
S
1V
ill
Sc
w
le-
t
h
ft

tie -of him who had been her adorer as though he had never existed for her. It Is
not an easy task for a man to surrender up at once every tie that has become to
him a portion of-his existence, and Charles was no exception to the rule. But he
would never kneel at her feet more. lie would never sue for a love that was like
water-light as air-unsubstantial as the morning mist, and vainer than the
shadows of a dream.
Yet how beautiful she was?  Vividly, life-like she started up before him, her
dress transparent in the purple twilight, and her eyes like radiant stars bending so
fondly their glances upon his own.. Much reading of heroic poesy, and the old lore
that has made love an immortal theme with the poet and th e romancist, had cast
him for a long time into a world far other than the world of work in which he
daily and honorably toiled. His visions were such as vista a poet in his sleep.
Sounds came in his dream like the melodies of  lolian hars-like those miracu-
lous sonnatas that the great.composers had written when awaken from a dream of
Paradise. Pictures such as artists, now immortal, have c nceived -spread them-
selves before him, and he was suddenly and rudely awaken from his life-dream--
neither poet, musician, nor artis, even in f1icy, but an humble worker -a man of
intense feeling, whose heart had been shamefully scorned, and who no longer be-
lieved in the existence, far less the power, of love. His heart at least acknowl-
edged its sway no more. Ashes alone were left of its past fires.
It is quite possible, after all, that Charles, to a certain extent, exaggerated the
nature of the outrage (for he would look on it in that light) which Ellen had been
guilty of towards him, because she refused-and laughed at his objections while she
did so-to abstain from going to what, next to a handsome beau, most pleased her,
a ball. He made no allowance for the long course of habt which had familiariz-
ed her with such things. He did not think whether he ha not been as unreasona-
ble as he felt sure she herself was. Lovers generally do think each other in the
wrong, and themselves in the right ; under the circumstances, hence arise bicker-
ings, quarrels, self-tortures, separations, and much self-infflicted misery ; for of all the
egotistical sentiments which affect man or woman, none is greater than that arising
from the passion of love. What faults they can see in others, yet own to none
themselves ! How pitiless they are to the offender, how f411 of tenderness for their
own feelings ! Alas ! they are very often egregiously in eiror.
With dark and bitter feelings, Charles therefore pulled his hat over his brows
as he passed the old frequented spot, and went on homewards, unseen, as he thought.
But it was not so. Under the spreading branches of a great beech stood Ellen,
gazing after him ; and as she saw, that he averted his face from the once beloved
spot, and saw the shadow on his handsome-countenance, tpe idea of losing him for
ever struck her heart like an ice-bolt. She did not know till then what a hold he had
got of her affections, and unconsciously she wrung her hands!together in the bitterness
of her anguish, like one that mourns the deepest loss a h man being can sustain
At this moment, had he known it, Charles would have felt himself fully avenged.
It was with a slow step, a tearful eye, with her bright face all clouded with
sorrow, that she in turn walked homeward ; for she had returned from Liverpool
ere the noon, and made sure-that he would be there to r ieet her to "make it up",
with her, and to part from her in the evening with a fond kiss of love---and this
was the wretched result. She retired to her chamber, add would have wept ; but
her pride came to her aid, and repressed her tears. He could not love her so
much, she thought, or he would not have been angry at such a trifle. " But per-
haps," whispered hope, " to-morrow evening he will come;" And then she smiled
again, and felt glad as she looked'on her beautiful face in the glass.
Charles meanwhile arrived at home, and found his mother sad and mournful enough,
listening vaguely to the consolations which Rose was eadeavoring to force into
her beliefs She started and uttered an exclamation of joy when Charles entered.
He' embraced her tenderly, and as he received, in anwrt  his query, the infor-
mation that his father had not yet returned, his apprehe siops became awakened ;
but he had received no repetition of his presentiment. No fai-ther harm as yet had

THE. TWIN B.RO.THERS.

"19

happened to his brother.; but the yearning that he felt to he near him rose into an
impatient agony.
he evening wore on, and while they waited in.monotonous silence for old Mar-
.tin's return, his well-known footsteps struck upon the ear. Rose sprang to the
door, and he entered it-alone!
" Edward !--Oh, where is Edward, Martin ?" asked his wife.
The weary old man shook his head, as he took his accustomed chair, and wiped
his face and eyes with his pocket-handkerchief. "I don't know much more than I
did," said he, "and he must certainly be on board the ' tender;' but I could -not
get any boat to go with me along side-the boatmen were all too much
alarmed."
" And have you no news at all for us, dear uncle ?" asked Rose.
"Yes, father," said Charles, "'tell us what you have done, have heard, have
seen. Tell us that, andlet us see what must be done.
"Speak, Martin, dear," said Mrs. Palmer, "have you any news, in God's
name?"
"A little,-and better news than I thought," said old Martin, again wiping his
eyes. " On inquiring, I found that Edward had not got to Mr. Louis's house or
he would have been safe ; and I was told that cries for help had been heard in the
night, and that the press-gang had carried off some persons. Edward must have
been, one of them.o.
b1 Yes, Martin--yes," broke in his wife. " But go on-tell me the little that is
good, for this is bad enough."
" Well," continued Martin, while Charles listened most intently, "I went with
him to the magistrates, and told him my case, and that he was my    ren-
tice----                                                          p
"Yes-_yes, father, I understand that," urged Charles, hastily ; "and what said
the magistrates to you then ?"
"They told me that as I had two sons, I might spare one for my country," re-
turned Martin, despairingly.
" Cant!" cried Charles with scorn; " the cant of patriots that are paid for
maintaining what is -termed the 'government.' Well, father, for all that, there
was the law in your favor, if there be law at all. What did they say to
that ?"                              S.
" I said 'so, too," Martin went on, " and insisted upon that point. They seem-
ed struck with that view, and I was told that inquiries would be made, and I add-
ed that I would pay for his release, if they would be moderate with a man
'who had lost one of his best workmen, and the means of his small prosper-
ity-P- P
"Well-well," said Charles, impatiently ; " pray-pray go on ?"
"Well, that-that was all ;" and Martin Palmer bent his face in his hands and
sobbed, murmuring, " My boy, my boy ! where are you'?"
"4Think, dear father," urged Charles, "is there no more ?"
" I forgot to gay," returned Martin, lifting up his face more cheerfully for '
moment, " that Mr. Louis, who is influential there, told me he would not, let the
matter rest, and see that everything was done that could be done ; but, oh I there-
.is no hope--there is no hope."
"I think there is a little still," Rose quietly said, during a pause;- - " what we
must now do is to know as much as we possibly can of him, which will guide ia
the better what to do."
-  "Excellent, Rose!" exclaimed Charles; "you are right--you are always in the
,right,! Would that more resembled you I" and there was a constrained bitterness
in his tone at the last, words.
- .ose blushed, but continued, though she knew what his meaning was.  'The
next is to submit to what we neither foresaw and could not avoid with the, best
;rignation, and pray that heaven will protect him."
" Yes, Rose, my child," said the mother, " that we will do with all our hearts.

-18

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

hi
be
to

le
101
Zvi
b
of
t
e
x
D8
l-
e
ILI
IC
Io

,. - --      r  ,..     v.f   ,.tiyk. ,3

0


(

0

i

I
I
t
at
{1
c
a
b
ti
ei
S
in
se
w
10
A
ri'
PT
Su
le-
c1:
la;
at
sh
(f(
wl
ne
cot
wi
ab
cat
wf
the

1 have prayed for him," she added, in a low voice, "with al the strength of my
soul."
"'And I think I have a plan,'l began Rose once more.
"A plan !" exclaimed Charles ." let us hear it ; that is j ast what I want to hit
upon myself, and cannot."                    '  .     s
"Nor can you do anything in it, Charles," returned Rose, very tranquilly, "ex-
cept remain at home in quiet, and comfort your parents,-and be as patient as Jos-
' Yes-yes, it is easy to say patience," cried the impatient youth ; "but if you
knew how intense my dread-my--But why should I do you the injustice of
thinking your anxiety less than my own. Pardon me, Rose, and let us hear of
your plan."
"It is to go myself, said Rose.                    t
"Yourself! Go where ?" was the general question.
"iTo Liverpool-to the tender, which you shall tell me allabout."
"You are mad," began old Martin; "you are mad, girl. Why, I
" They do not press women," said' Rose, smiling. "I will find the means.--
There's a way to every will; and if you can trust  to me, I will bring you back
news'ofEdward, without running any danger that a se man's wife does not
run.''
"Well, I am not afraid of you, .my girl,", said Martin comnmendigly-; "and-If
-a little money can get you a boat to go alongside the tender,' you shall have it. I11
write a letter for you to take to Mr. Louis, and if he does! not go with you, 'he
will, perhaps, put you in the way to do so. 'As for me, he insisted that I should
return home as soon as possible, and, beg of you,. Charles.not- to go too near
the town. It is dangerous now, for the ' press' is hot, and en are scarce."
Sd it was agreed that Rose should go ; and, that night .hey retired to rest a
little relieved after Rose and Charles had held a long and uninterrupted conversation
-together.
CHAPTER         VI I.,
THE TNDER.
TuE tender, which was in effect one prominent feature of the system  of
"pressing," or kidnapping men for the navy, is certainly th# very antithesis of its
name, and signifies only some old useless hulk or other, 'storm or battle-beaten,
'which'tended or waited' on the wants of a war-ship in the matters of men, stores,
&amp;c., as necessity dictated.
It was into the low and foul forecastle of the tender that' Edward;and his com-
'panion, 'still bleeding and faint, were driven 'after the boat come alongside, and its
prey dragged rather than lifted 'out.. The' siekeing smell; =and the close atmosphere
of the place, -brought on the-faintness which the air of tie river had begun to
dissipate in a slight degree. With about as little tendernes as slavers show when
stowing their 'holds, the two were brutally bundled' below, to die if they liked, or
to find awhat accommodation and rest, if rest was4to be hal, they could. A dirty
piece of sail-cloth, or some such matter, was also handed them, which some, more
compassionatee than the rest; bound round their heads,:for, after all, dead men would
have been useless'; and for the raging tirst which soon 'ban to affect them; a
pitcher of water, whose nature the imagination was 'happil = ignorant of, had been
.left and herded there with'a dozen others , they were left i 1 the darkness to brood
'upon their' fate.                             - ''
Their thoughts were dismal enough. .I2dWard was ahrqost xiiad with veratin
and~a'larm, for, from' what he 'had heard, and' now knew, his release was one oftthe

TH E TWIN. BRO rHERS.

21

most hopeless matters under the sun. No entreaties, no prayers, no influence that
he could command (even if ;he. could command any,) would avail him, and he could
only think of the anguish and terror of his.loving Rose,-his brother's pain,-his
parent's grief,-his happy, hopeful prospects for ever destroyed and gone, as if with
the last winter's snows.
With throbbiiig head and aching heart, amid the curses of some,.the wailing of
others, and the desperation of some one or two, who had less to lose in the world
than he, did Edward fall into fitful dozes of sleep till the morning came, when the
surgeon was-to come on board and examine them, in order to draft them  off to
H. M. gun-brig the Harpy (excellently named carrier of a crew to slaughter,)
whose compliment of men had been much lessened by demands made upon her in
turn, and a "brush" or two that she had been engaged in, with the enemy in the
Channel. - Edward would have given something to have been crippled in any way,
as this would at once have insured his release, but he was far too likely a man to
suit ;. and when with the rest he went on deck at the hoarse. summons of the
boatswain, it was-as.men go to the scaffold or.,the hulks, without .a fragment of
hope that anything would step in between him and his fate.
The scene on the deck was sufficiently striking to catch his attention, and his
wounds, though painful, were neither dangerous, nor would his condition permit
him to think on that subject. On the one side lay the beautiful Cheshire coast
reposing in the broad sunshine ; on the other was stretched the splendid town of
Liverpool. A little distance off in the river was anchored a taut and trim-built
gun-brig, whose exquisite proportions caught the eye in 'a moment, and he was
thinking of liberty and home, when a rude and sudden thrust drove his thoughts
away, and sent him almost on his face on the dirty deck of the tender.
"This here young fellow,". said the leader of the ipress-gang, "run his head into
the noose, to cut this here other captive out," pointing to the man Edward had
hastened to assist, " and.fought like-a devil, your honor."
"So much the better," was the officer's comment; "he'll do good service for the
King, I hope."
"Come, my man,t strip,".began the surgeon, coolly,
Resistance was s9 hopeless, the chances of escape so utterly against him, that
he could only calculate upon what the future might do in his favor ; besides that
there were plenty around him to drag his clothes off his -back. He took off his
coat and shirt, and the surgeon with a critical eye proceeded to examine the fine
form before him.
"What a magnificent deltoid," said he, in the tone of a connoisseur,. pointing to
the development of Edward's shoulders and muscles. " Its quite a picture, on my,
word.'
"You'd ha' said that, your honor, if you'd seen the way in which he floored a
couple of"our chaps : they went down like a brace of sixty-fours."  And the man
laughed, as though he rather liked the -display Edward had made.
." He'll do," said the surgeon ; " pass over ;" and he pointed to a group that had
already gone from under his hands; 'and Edward without ,a word picked up .his
jacket, and obeyed.' Within another hour he had mounted the side of the gun-
brig, and was rated on her books as a landsman, who was to be drilled into the
duties of a seaman with all possible speed. His wounds were dressed, his clothes
changed ; and he wore the canvass trousers, the striped frock, and the round jacket
of a man-of-war's-men, before noon of the third day of his better experience had
expired.
The real hardships of his new life, physically speaking, now commenced in
earnest. He had'to be taught the whole 'technology of the seamen's art; how to
hand, reef, and steer ; and his teachers were not the most polite and delicate that
he , had come near inc his life. If anything, they were a leetle too strong in the
richness of their vocabulary,-the high relish of their oaths, the earnest physique
with which they enforced orders or' directions with a piece of " twice-laid." But
they were not devils utterly : seamen are rdeither cruel nor unkind to each other,

'20

Jo

at
Ne
ex)
inc
coo
Pa
poi
gei
pal
boo
at
wol
hihi
be
to[

I?

THE TWIN BROTHERS.


1
I
I
1

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

l
r
t
a
II
a
b
t
r
ci
1A
sh
w
lo
a)
i
-8©
w
to
sh
wii

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

2 3

There are more of the active sympathies of humanity ,wake in their breasts,
perhaps, than exist in any others ass; and their rude tenderness, grotesque but
rofuse generosity, and reckless bravery, are become proverbial matters. The
lonely and perilous life. of the ocean, which puts a number of men together for a
length of time, has a tendency to consolidate friendships ; and they thus know how
to appreciate.the companionship-in which they are thrown..
With the philosophy of a man who was determined to make the best that he
could of the worst condition he can be placed in, Edward resolved to adapt himself
to circumstances, and see if he could not draw some honey out of the sting. He
was admirably calculated by his frank and winning manners to make friends, and
an hour had not passed ere he was on excellent terms with his messmates. Among
them was one Jack Pipes, a thorough sailor, who had beep rocked in the cradle
of the deep" from a very "babby," as he phrased it.
Jack soon mastered the secret of Edward's grief, and sincerely sympathized with
him ; and in order to dissipate it, he took him about the vessel through.every part
that he could, explaining and informing him of the names and uses of all that he
saw. There was a novelty about this which pleased Edward, and the desire for
information being strong within him, he forced himself to take an interest, as much
as he possibly could, in matters nautical ; and found in the grizzled old seaman,
who thus became in a manner his tutor, the utmost facilities--for Pipes had a
thorough sailor's love for the ocean, and believed that a vessel of war was the
essence and ideal of mechanical beauty.,
Certainly there are few things more beautiful as works of art, and few things
more perfect specimens of order and arrangement, than a battle ship, be she large
or small, a twelve or fourteen-gun brig, or a royal three-decker, with a triple row
of cannon-a battery that is often more formidable than the stoutest ashlar fortress,
and which, having dealt death and destruction in one place, is borne away with
ease to another : and there reigned on the snow-white decks of the Harpy a system
of order that contrasted most agreeably with the hideous and repulsive aspect of
the tender.      .
A group of men assembled in the forecastle in the afternoon drew Edward near
to them ; and he found that they were watching the coming up the river of a fleet
of merchantmen,.whose stately appearance, with the swelling sails stretching from
the decks to the mast-heads, and extending, far on either side, struck him with
admiration. The transition in the conversation, which left matters of immediate
moment to those more foreign, was speedily made in favor of those ships ; and
Livespool, her marts, ships, and commerce became the staple of an interesting con-
versation.*
" How those heavy old tubs roll about," observed a sailor. "One would think
the frigate in convoy would have to race round -'em and whip 'em up, or they'd
drop into Johnny Crapaud's mouth without the asking."
" A fiddle-head and a round starn," added another. " What can you expect
from these merchan'-men-  -"
" Steady there, my lad ! steady !" sung out Jack Pipes, eyeing the last speaker
with a sardonic grin. "-Who talks about craft as he has never seen ? Some lubber
that's only known a collier-brig boxing about between the Tyne and the Thames,
and looks on a long-boat as a young boy, tha'll grow in time. There are as noble
ships, and as daring mariners, sent from that port, my lads," he added, with much
emphasis, " as ever swam the seas, or trod a deck ; and I myself remember one
who got the name of the 'Ocean Racer,' because he used to handle his craft in all
weathers-blow high, blow low--just like a 'Flying Dutchman'--"
"And was you on board as her mate ?" asked a sailor, with a quid in his cheek
about the size of a small paving stone, and with a " tail" that could have felled an
ox, if it could have been unshipped from the back of his head, lashed as it was
with oakum and black ribbon.
"Aye, that I was," replied Jack, " and Icould tell you a yarn of her sail ng-"
-" A yarn ' a yarn I" exclaimed several voices, delightedly ; " side out fra bend

boys, and pay away, Jack Pipes, good luck to you." Instantly Tom took his seat
at the foot of the bowsprit, and while the shadows of the awning sheltered them
from, the noon-day sun, the men clustered eagerly round him ; and Tom, without
preface or apology began his story, which we shall endeavor to do as much justice
to as lies in our power. Casting- one eye gravely along the deck to where the
officers were parading the after.part of the brig, and clearing his throat with a
tremendous hem ! preparatory to the introduction of a startling cube of cavendish
tobacco, in order to lubricate his mouth, and combine enjoyment'with information,
Tom Pipes began his yarn, to which we will devote another chapter.
CHAPTER VIII.
T HE YARN OF THE LIVERPOOL ,SKIPPER.
"You see shipmates, when I was a manakin, something bigger than a quart-
pot, I had already smelt salt water, and the waves of the sea had been blowing
over ny cradle before I was rated as a powder-monkey on board a letter-of-marque,
though that's neither here nor there. ?The Tobins were then among the greatest
ship owners in Liverpool, and dealt in black contraband-that's Guinea-birds, my
lads, niggers black for the plantations, palm oil, ivory, and gold-dust,o-and one of
the crack craft that they wasp most proud of answered to the hail of the ' John
Tobin,' and was commanded by Captain Jack Deadeye, who feared neither man nor
devil, and loved a gale of wind better than a capful, if he could only run before
it, and a stiff nor'-wester better nor a calm. Lord! how I have heard him rap
out when we did get into them still latitudes, and sitting on the taffrail whistling
for the breeze ; and when it came, and freshened up, and began to sing, how he
would rub his hands, and crack on canvass, sail after sail, to the very trucks, till
the mast bent like whips, and the craft went over the sea, fairly leaping out like a
young dolphin   "
" I dessay he used to spend a good many spare spars and Russia duck," observ-
ed a hard-featured topman.
" You may say that, bo," replied Pipes, " and not so much as you'd fancy after
all. Ue had a way of trimming her when the top-hamper seemed likely to give
way, and it was just, shifting the helm a point or two, and at it again ; but what,.
ever the damage was, his quick passage a' most always made all ends square, with
a trifle logged dowgy in his favor. Captain Jack Deadeye was a broad Dutch-built
little fellow, and no great beauty at the best of times-But avast ! I'm getting
to t'other tack."
" Aye, aye," said a listener, " stick to one course, mate."  . r
"Well,' resumed Jack Pipes, good-humoredly casting a look, and giving Ed-
ward a nod, as the latter in his awakened interest closed in with the group-" well,
you must know that sometimes the wind sets in to the Channel here, blocking up
the Dee and the Mersey just for all the world as if there was a great sea-wall
built, and a whole fleet of merchantmen outward-bound have been boxing about
for nigh-hand a month at a spell, which consarn, d'dye see, was a clincher to the
owners, and ate into the profits of the voyage most preciously. This style of
thing happened on an occasion when I was Captain Jack's cabin-boy, and the
John Tobin lay at anchor in the ' Channel out of dock there, with her canvass
down, ready to trip and be off, only, d'ye see, the wind set in such a steady nor'
wester, as by the glass deemed likely to last many days before it blew itself
out.
" Captain Jack had a s'picion of this," continued Pipes, giving his quid a turn,
and discharging from his-mouthi, through the port-hole, a jet of amber-hued saliva

ne
cot
Wi
ab
cat
th
at
Ne
exj
iuc
pla
pot
get
pal
boo
a *
W1
wol
hind
be I
to

It 1

y

22


I
1
t
a
et
S.
1
w
g)

that would have discommoded a shark, had.there been one at hand to receive it ;
and so, d'ye see, he had set all hands at double duty alow and 'aloft, and led the
stevedore the devil's own life of it with the stowage of the cargo, for i spite of
everything he meant to make a' run for it, and if he could but once round the
bluffs and headlands at the Channels entrance, it would have been all right. All
day long there had been a stiff, steady, squallish wind blowing, and as the evening
came on matters did'nt mend_; but howsomever, there they were all aboard, only
waiting the word to trip the anchor,,and 'sheet home,' and drop with the tide, if
the wind wasn't bang a-head so strong as mayhap to have borne the. craft up to
Runcorn-gap. The tide was on the turn at five in the morning, about the same
time as the daylight began to wander out, and the mate, a Cornish man, and as
thorough a seaman as ever broke biscuit, but a tartar for all that, was on deck the
whole night waiting for Captain Jack to come aboard.'
" Now the fact is that the skipper had been bousing his jib pretty taut with
some old messmates at the ' Capstan-bar,' a, tavern kept by a buxom widow in
Red Crose Street, somewhere beyond the Goree warehouse yonder ;" and Pipes
pointed with his finger in the direction indicated. " Well, there I sat squatted in
the bow, minding a bag of sundries as I had been to his house to bring, waiting
for him to weigh ; but bless you, the company was too' good, and the grog too
plentiful; there the half-dozen of blow-hards-and drink-hards too, for the matter
of that-kept roaring and bellowing away till long past midnight, and the landla-
dy' herself got tired of 'em-and she was as nice a craft-eyes like sloes, and lips
like roses after the rain- However, about two o'clock in the, morning one or
two takes it in their heads to knock off, that is, by doubling themselves under the
table all at-once, and taking out a caulk, just as they tumbled off tlieir chairs."
" In-hebriated, Jack, I s'poses," said a marine, with a strong metropolitan as-
piration of the h;; and a highly congeited'air of polished superiority.
"Well now," replied Pipes, turning 'upon the speaker- a loon of comical per-
plexity and furtive fun, "if that means as they had stowed each under his belt as
much liquor as would make the whole of the watch 'see twice as much as they do
generally, you are right, and shiver my timbers ! they was in-hebriated, as you calls
it."
" After sharing hands, and so on, and making one or two wild bolts,,and bring-
ing-up, suddenly, and-tacking through the passage and the street, we (that is Cap-
tainJack' and me) made for the dock's side, the Princess's, away yonder, and
as -there was a short cut through St. -Nicholas's Churchyard-the one as you see
yonder,"-and Pipes pointed to an old tower which indicated the site of the-said
venerable edifice, at the- foot of Water Street,-" why we made for it through
Bunnel's Weind, and in the hazy moonshine, with my heart in my nouth and
trembling like a leaf, I found myself crossing the churchyard ; Captain Jack, as he
stumbled over the grave,stones, whistling the ' Black Joke,' and thinking no more
of Davy Jones or his crew than I was of King Bomba or the black birds of para.
dise on the costt"
- " Cross a churchyard at night !" said a sailor, with a.thrill.
"I say, Jack, is therea ghost in your yarn ?" then demanded another, in a tone of
awe.
"There is, bo', and I saw it to," answered Pipes.
A murmur of admiration and astonishment ran round the group as Jack Pipes
proceeded.
" I heard the waters plash, and the winds sigh, and the gray -church looming
like a three-decker in the hazy blink of the moon, and my heart was in my mouth,
for I thought of ghosts, and of nothing else, d'ye sed; and though I .didn't care
for the sight of any living thing, smash my taffrail, if that warn't all too much';
but the skipper, with a stout'twig in his fist, held on, and lurched now and then
rather heavy, when all at once "
" Yes.-yes!" said' the seamen, wrought up to a pitch of excitement,.

24

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

al
in
so
w
lo
d(
rii
Pr
su
le.
cli
la'
at
sh
(f
awl
ne
cot
wi
ab
cal
wi
th
at
Ne
ex)
inc
COB
pla
pot
get
pal
boc
hin!
be
to

THE -TWIN BROTHERS.
"All at once I saw a flash and heard a roar, and then, shipmates, from behind
a grave-stone, rose a tall figure, all in white--."
"iMy eye, Jack !" interrupted a mariner, whose teeth chattered as his fancy re-
alized the description. '"Didn't you make sail ?"
"I couldn't stir," said Pipes, " my feet were lead. It- gave a cry-a howl like
a catamount, and held out its arms to the skipper, who said, ' What are you ?'--' I'm
a sperrit,' says a voice,.-' Then vanish, and be d-d,' - said Captain Jack, hitting
the ghost a crack with his stretcher thatsounded' like the sheet-block falling on
Sambo White's coco'. 'Vanish,' says he ; 'you've no business to be out of your
grave,' says he, ' at such an unreasonable hour;' and down it dropped with a yell
that might have waked all the sleepers, while a second figure flung off a sheet, and
scudded away for.the bare life."
" Why then, Jack, the ghosts turned out to b:e-"
"They proved to be a couple of footpads," said Jack ; "and glad enough I was
as it turned out. We got out as the watch came in, and made for the pier-head
with all speed.
"'Boat, your honor?' says a man coming ups
"' Halloo ! why it blows a few,' says Captain Jack.
"'It does so,' said the boatman, ' and it'll do so for a month, and not a craft
will be able to leave the riv er-"
"' That's a lie, any how,' says the captain : ' for I mean the John Tobin to go ;
so get half-a-dozen boats, and man them,-and if it's to be:done, we'll do it;' and
so, when the captain got on. board, hawserswere passed forward ; the capstan
manned ; the, Anchor tripped ; the jibs trimmed ;.and with lanterns lighted, and all
hands out in the boats, the ship was fairly out in the Channel before the day was
well out. He paid the watermen liberally, and they left us to tack, and box-haul,
and beat our way as we best could; and we did it, for in four-and-twenty hours
she was snoring away under every stitch of canvass ; and while a matter of fifty
sail lay snug in the river, we were running down the Irish Channel, and soon fairly
out to sea."
"Well,'l continued Jack, "You may be sure that there was a pretty bobbery
among the merchantmen, when: they knew we'had got out during 'the -night, and
they couldn't start a single tack, for the weather got worse, and the greater num-
ber put back into dock again, and days and weeks went by, while we were at the
Bonny river, getting 'our palm oil and sandal wood, ivory, and so on abtad, with-
out 'loss of an hour ; and I should say that ten days suffices to unload, stow a fresh
cargo, fish up our cracked spars and-the rest of it ; and wasn't we all glad when
the John Tobin made sail again for England, for of all the 'farnal hot places 'as ever
I was in, I never was under such a sun."
"And, how did you stand the voyage, being such a little 'un, Jack ?" asked a
brother tar.
" I s'pose I was borne to it," replied Jack ;' " and there was' a few old salts
aboard as were' as wild as fury when they saw that I was neither sea-sick, nor
afraid of taking a turn aloft, and didn't tumble into: the scuppers. as the vessel
-made~a lurch ; and somehow Captain Jack took a fancy to me, and larnt me navi-
gation on the passage, when he wasn't colting me with the bight of a sheet or any
loose coil he could lay his hard fist upon-But hold hard !-getting abroad
again."
"Aye, aye ! steady helm, old Jack, and crack along," rose up around him in a
tone of warning and encouragement.
" So I will," responded Pipes. " Well, we sighted-England, after having been
away for a matter of little more than two months; and after we-were fairly in the
Mersey again, what d'ye think we saw, my lads ?"
" Not the ghosts-or the footpads," said several laughing voices.
"No," replied Pipes ; " but a whole fleet of the merchantmen-and almost
every one on 'em the very same as we had left, when we made a~Start with the
morning tide-all turning out and going down the Channel with everything they

.(1.-,            "a _Y+a+ ." tmm       w+v*+lal'n               V+ya.e:w.-a-,      ws+w.-.se........+q.,          y -r, .t,. w.+-..rv  e.:y...r.+.. v....-r      +ss.       '        .              ....
.      _ .              _                _                                                                                                        .                             ^-rn±ii °^"n '-i°"rir *s             .calm.


THE TWIN BROTHERS.

I

I
]
il
Si
iN
w

could draw. We had actually made the voyage out and home, while they had
been kept in by contrary winds ;* and if Captain Jack didn't make his guns roar,
and waste powder, while the crew made themselves hoarse with 'cheers, for every
vessel they passed that day, I'm no man but a-porcupine, that's all. I've a notion
that he made the skippers wild enough to have made a barbecue-of him, if they'd
got him; and he didn't spare his bragging, I can tell you: and after all he could'nt
be much blamed for it, seeing as he'd done what all thought was just impossible ;
and this just placed him A 1 with his owners, who gave him a piece of plate, and'
a dinner, and I don't know what-"
The shrill piercing, and painfully acute cry of the boatswain's whistle rang sud-
denly in their ears. Every man was silent and on the alert, and then the hoarse,'
thunderous sounds of a voice that had become damaged by contention with the
elements followed : " Cutters ahoy ! Away there! Bear a hand, you sea-dogs !
Look alive, my sons !"
While Edward was wondering what this command meant, half-a-dozen men, clad
in snowy frocks and canvass trousers, with belted cutlasses by their sides; sprang
over the side into a boat that swung by the " davits " or smell cranes which held
the boat suspended. " Overhall the fall I" followed next. - " Lower away !" and
with an officer in the stern, the men took their flashing oars, and at the words
" Shove off! give way !" as by magic the blades clove the water, and with the low,
slow, steady stroke peculiar to the man-of-war's-man, the boat was propelled to-
wards the Liverpool side.
,This incident, which was common enough to those aboard, was a fresh novelty to
Edward ; and the picturesque appearance of the seamen in the boat, the regularity
of their pulling, and the noiseless order of the whole, inspired him with a certain
amount of admiration of the rigid and, faultless discipline feigning around him,
even though he was likely to be a sufferer from the extreries to which it was
carried.                  .                          I
The group on the forecastle resumed their conversation when the bustle on the
boat's departure was over, and various criticisms of a profoundly professional
kind were unreservedly made upon the " yarn " which Jack Pipes had told them.
Some few admired the seamanship, but. condemned the rashn ss,'of Captain Jack
Deadeye, while one or two, more sceptical, would fain have ronounced the whole
a " bam," a forgery, a cheat, a falsehood, in fact; if they had dared to brave the'
storm of indignationthat such an open assertion would undoubtedly hav aroused ;
for the story-teller on board ship is a man of too great imp stance to be treated
with any undue disrespect.
"I s'pose as how you doesn't believe in the ghosts ?" sai one disdainfully to
another, more doubtful than his comrades.
"Ghosts ! Why, didn't Jack say himself as they warn't gl osts, but land-sharks
under false colors ?" was the reply.
" Well, what of that?  More -likely to be true ; and I dessay as how you'll say
there's no church yonder that hails as St. Nicholas, seeing ashow you can sight
the tower this immediate minute, eh, you swab ?" scornfully r joined the other.
This confirmation of the truth of Jack Pipes's yarn was o' so decided a nature
that no farther dissentients ventured an opinion, save what was in every way
favorable ; and Captain Jack's plan became now supported b a variety of curious
eases in point, though their relevancy would have seemed so ewhat doubtful to
any one that was particular as to the literal exactness of the testimony offered.
"Talking of, Captain Jack Deadeye," observed another, "reminds me of a skip.
per we used to call the ' Star-cleaver," from the way in which he used to make
t'gallan'-sails, royals, sky-scrapers, and all serve him. If a squall came on he
never stopped to take in canvass. ' Crack on,' says he, ' and  we'll get out of this
before the scud comes on.' And then if the squall did cate him, he go so far
* A fact of a simnlar nature is recorded in " Gore's Liverpool Directory " as having actually-oo.
urred.

20

a11
so
w
de
ri'
pr
su
le:
cli
la.,
at
sh
(f(.
wi
ne
co?
Wi
ab
cal
wi.
th
at
Ne
ex]
inc
coo
pla
poi
gei
pal
b&amp;t
a+
wolt
hinl
be
to

THE   TWIN BROTHERSS
ahead, and the wind would be so much weakened, that he hardly ever got into any
great harm.
"'Sides," added a second spokesman, "it's so easy to send them flying jigger-
imaree things down ; and I know it's a good Yaihkee plan that of outsailing the
wind, for there's many a good ship lost by clueing up, and waiting till it comes
upon you, and you're in the middle-of. it--"
"And then it's too late to shorten sail, and down comes your top-hamper, my
boy, and then cut away is theword," suggested a bystander.
" It may-hap so, and may-hap not," said Jack Pipes, ; " but all I know is,.that
I've given you atrue log, and that's more than you can say for all the galley yarns
you have ever uncoiled."
The " yarn " party was over. The "pipe to dinner" was every moment ex-
pected, and the cry of "scoldings'" had already sotinded from the cook's caboose.
Edward, separated for the time from his companion in misfortune, who was' in a'
different part of the ship, began, after the-interest of the, scene he had been a sharer
in was over, to think of his own hopeless fate, and the depressing reaction was
almost unbearable to him. He sighed bitterly, as his head sunk on his breast,
while leaning against the bulwarks.
A kindly hand patted him on' the shoulder; it was that of.Jack Pipes : "Come,-
cheer up, my lad," said he; "«it's of no use to sink into a fit of-the doldrums ; and
the bustle of a cruise will do you no great harm, if shot and wreck do not cut
your life-lines. Better times will come, and you may yet lie up snugly ashore.
Rely on Jack Pipes to help you if he can. I have seen more than one likely lad
turn out a happy-go-lucky fellow."
"Thank you for your consolation, and for your kindness," said Edward. "If
anything can be a satisfaction for lost liberty, it will be that of meeting sympathy
from one whose hairs have grown gray in the service."
"Aye, aye, my lad, they're grizled enough," began Pipes.
"Halloa,!" shouted a sailor, "here's Mother Dobbins in her bumboat, with a
cargo of greens for the copper, and fresh eggs for the middies- "
"And sink me if'there isn't the prettiest girl with her in the starn as I've ever
lapped eyes on,-since I left Bet Skylight at the Point," added another ;1 and a
group gathered once more together.
"Bet .Skylight, besides having a face like a full moon, with all the colors painted
.on it that go to the mixing of a bowl of punch, would make about four of her,''
interposed another, with the air of a connoisseur.
"EAh ! Bet was a fine woman for sartin, and could carry a press of sail !" added
a fourth, 'admiringly.
"iAnd a power of licker, too," said a fifth. '"By the same token, too, when in
drink she was as playful as a young kid. I shall never forget the rattling she gave
my box of ivories with a back-hander once for snatching a kiss of her. Zounds!1
how she swore in defence of her vartue, as she called it."
The#men were, not wrong in the conclusion they came to. In the stern of the
shore-boat there certainly did sit as pretty a young girl as ever touched the im-
pressionable heart of a sailor, and they all looked on her with undisguised admi-
ration.
"I do think the young creature is a piping of her eyes," exclaimed one, in a tone
ct sympathy. "I wonder who she is in chase of. It is one of the new hands
aboard."
Edward pricked 'up his ears. He advanced to the side, and turning deadly pale,
staggered back against Pipes. Too well did he know that pale and lovely face.
" My cousin Rose I" murmured Edward, in a tone so low and broken that only
Pipes was aware of it.
The sailor had heard all Edward's story, and saw at a glance what it all meant.
" Come 'below with me, my lad," said he, " and you shall' chatter with the bravo
1MB8 in our mess-room, and I'll take care that no one interrupts you."
" Oh, thanks! thanks I" said Edward, following him below.

,1


4'

I
i
a
b
ti
X
A
of
Si
m
W

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

29

CHAPTER IX.
THE sHORE-BoAT-os           A RI v s.
: WE must retrace our steps for.a short time, in order to see how Rose came to'
have been so far successful in her adventurous plan of obtain ng a passage .to' the
dreadful war-brig, when the whole had so discouraging an expect, and trium  ed
over difficulties which seemed to be insuperable.
Faithful to her purpose, Rose the next morning took a tender leave of her
"mother" (asshe always; called Mrs. Palmer) and of the wo ried old man, and ac-,
companied by. Charles, who Went part of the way for protection and company,
made for Liverpool, by way ofKirkdale, where, taking leafe of her, with many
a charge, and many a message -to his brother Edward, Rose , $ounted a coach that-
then passed by, and in an hour descended at one of the great hotels, in Dale
Street, from whence she had to make her way to the  house bf Mr.. Louis, which-
lay between the docks and the river, in Trentham Street. Towards that direction
she inquired her way. Mr.:Louis was well known, and the difficulty lessened.
Rose felt no fear, and but little fatigue. She crossed the several bridges of the
docks, the water-gates, where a sound and a rushing roar, like that of a 'small cat-
aract, showed the dense weight of water sustained, by the mighty structure, espe-
cially when the tide was low, in the basins. She marvelled 4t the numerous rows
of shipping,:lying side by side; the forests of masts on all ha ds, where the white
sails here and' there hung down in graceful folds. She noted the din of traffic, the
busy hum of men, cargoes loading and unloading, and the thousand distracting
but interesting sights that a ramble around the docks of a g eat sea-port perpetu-
ally offer. Finally she arrived at her destination, and round Mr. Louis at
home.
- The worthy timber-merchant, on hearing her name, and D(arning her business,
which a few minutes suftioed to do, received her with a paternal cordiality that in.
one respect placed her at her ease.- - Introducing her to his $ife, a kind, ladylike
'woman, who beldstate in a little parlor which looked riverward, both insisted, as
a preliminary, that she should take some refreshment before doing aught else, to
which Rose very sensibly acceded, for there was very likely a long fatiguing day
before her, and she was bent upon going through it, at any cost.
While partaking, then, of the refreshment so cordially offered her, she told her
story with such a simplicity of air, that-rendered her bereavement ten times more
pathetic than ever ; and the woman's heart of Mrs. Louis w ,s won to her at once,
though her method of cheering up Rose's ,depression had. the triteness only of a
woman of one idea.
"I hope I shall give you but little trouble, Mr. Louis," said Rose in continua-
tion, "and I only called to gather from you all the intelligence you can give me
respecting my poor cousin-Edward"-here she-broke short off, to stifle her emo-
tion and a hearty rising sigh.
"My dear," he returned, in a friendly tone, "I am sorry that my information is
not of the most cheerful kind ; Edward, I have ascertained, s on board the ten-
der, lying in the river---"
"The tender-!" exclaimed Rose, a little surprised.    \
"-Yonder is the tender," said Mr. Louis, pointing to a dark, dismasted hulk,
lying apparently, under the farther shire, but in reality, midway in the river.-
"That old battered piece of timber is called the tender ; and from thence, if he be
not already-removed, he will be taken, fora cruise, at all events, in yonder wasp of
a gun-brig ;" and farther up, idly, but gracefully rocking at her anchors, he show. -
ed Rose the "-Harpy," with her -elegant spars and intricate tracery of cordage,
drawn with the fineness of a spider's web against the sky, as a back-ground,

Rose was very pale as he spoke. " Is there, then, no chance for his release:?"
Mr. Louis looked very grave, and shook his head in the negative. '" Ifear not,"
said he, "' and regret it the more, as he was such a promising -young man, and the
son of one I have respected for so many years. - I have made all inquiry, and
pressed his freedonri as i'favor on the magistrates," continued: Mr. Louis ; "but
from the evasive nature of the answers - I received, aid the great demand there
is for men at the present moment, I fear there is not a shadow" of hope."
Rose:felt a dreadful:faintness seize her, as she beheld the only chances left this
destroyed. Up to that moment she h'ad vaguely believed in the existence of some
of those events that,"like'auling Providence, at -the last moment interfere to save
when least expected.-But here was a man who was friendly disposed .in every
way-who had, in fact, exerted himself-who wdald not willingly bid her relin-
quish hope,,if ever so, small.-+-here he was telling her that none remained for her,
or Edward, or any one. 'It was a' dreadful.blow, but she bore it well.
" I must see him," said she, rising to her feet.
"My dear child--" began Mr. Louis.
"I must see him--if only for a moment," and her looks. grew wild and voice
harsh.
It is piot possible," he said.
"iIf only at a distance," persisted Rose,--.--" I shall die if I do not-; and die I Will
not, if it pleases heaven, until I do, Oh'! Sir," she cried,' in accents that pierced
.his heart, "if you have tpity on-, a poor heart-broken "girl,:ldnds me your as-
sistance,-or show me' how thisis to, be done," 'and she seized-his- hand. -
".Can't you possibly manage it-for the poor thing, my dear  John?" said Mrs.
Louis, weeping out of' very sympathy.
"Not a boatman willventu e-eqt to 'them, I fear," was',his despairing reply,
when Rose again broke in.
"'I -have some money with me, sir," she said. :"' Can the offer of a reward not
induce any of them to go ?"
"I should not be sparing of a little money myself; for the lad's sake,' replied
Mr. Louis. "But the dread:of the -' press-gang' is greater than self-interest, and
the boatmen know that they would not be safe fromthe-grasp of those constantly
looking, out for them' Liberty to' the poorest is so priceless-..'."
" Alas ! and what must be the agonies of Edward" e claimed ' Rose, clasping
her hands, " to be deprived of his-to lose home, liberty-all--'=to -be lost to his
parents-hisIbrother-to me I' and sinking in'a chair, she gave way'to a fit of
passionate tears she ho longer had the power to repress.
The ,scene was' distressing, and Mrs. Louis was greatly agitated., Mr. Louis
had taken his telescope,"and at the open window of the'little parlor' had pointed
it towards the Cheshire coast, towards whichhe turned his eyes with an attention
that seemed' to have been -most vividly awakened by some 'object or other that. en-
grossedhim. At last turning away, and closing his glass, . "I have it," he said,
cheerfully ; "I think it can be done, after all.'
" Oh-lF sir; heaven will bless you!' Thank you-thank you !" cried Rose, in a
transport, her tearful eyes all in a sparkle again. " Oh ! how very good 'you are
ir !"
"Cheer up, cheer tip," said Mr. Louis, gaily : " yes, you shall see him, but in-
deed you must be contented with that-."
"And not speak to him ?" and the face of Rose grew clouded again.
"I don't mean that," he said; "but you must make up your mind to part with
him for awhile---"
"I'll try," replied Rose ; " and I think-I- could do it cheerfully, if I saw him,
and spoke to him, and-and took leave of him," continued Rose, stoutly ; "and
then I could hope for his return ; but I should hope for nothing, if I knew noth-
ing of him, you see, sir."
" Well, my child, resume your hat and shawl, and follow me," said Mr. Louis,
getting his own hat. " I know that I can get across to the ferry in a custom-

al
in
so
w
lo-
de
rni
pr
su-
le
cl
lat
atA
sh
(f(
wi
ne
cot
Wi
ab
cal
WI'
tht
at
Ne
ex]
inc
cos
pla-
pot
get
pat
boo
a(
wol
hint
be
to ,

t

TUE TWIN -BROTHERS.

,  .rew.vt...... .. 'rv. ...ps...,i.-riicsctacllNh- :--:F rs...a. w:s.. ,r.


*1
I
l

.THE. TWIN BROTHERS.

I
i
t
a,
ei
N
A
S.
w
-g
in
so
w
1o
dCE
ri
pr
su
le:
cl:
la;
at
s
(f(
wi
ne
col
Wi
ab
wi
at -
Ne
ext
flu
cot
ple
-0

THE T WIN BROTHERS.

3]

house boat ; perhaps it will hail the tender in passing, when we shall know to a
ertainty where your lover is. Nay, don't blush, my pretty Rose," he continu-
ed, patting her on the shoulder ; "there is nothing to be ashamed of in honest
love."
No Sir," responded Rose, who was quite ready and a little impatient, "I know
there is not, and I am not ; and so--"
" And so we will hasten,"- said Mr. Louis, as Rose bade a kind good-bye to Mrs.
Louis, and thanked the old lady for her attention, and for her sympathies on her
behalf.
Walking smartly until they came to St. George's Pier, Er. Louis spoke a few
wordsto a waterman, who wore the jacket and hat of a custom-house officer. It
so happened, that the boat lay then at the steps, and that ie was going to be ta.
ken on board a vessel just then coming up the river ; and to oblige Mr. Louis he
promised to land him at the first ferry, but more he could not do, as his time would'
not permit him. This was done, and both crossed the river, but too far down to
hail the tender, or recieve any information regarding those on board. Giving the
men a' gratuity for their trouble, Mr. Louis took Rose's ar  under his, and direct-
ed his steps to a ferry some half-a-mile away up the shore, and opposite to where
the gun-brig lay, where they soon arrived.
" I thought so," exclaimed Mri Louis ; " there's Mother] Dobbins in b' r store.
boat going to the gun-brig. Hallo ! boat ahoy!. Mother-Mother Dobbins," he
.shouted, as the large flat-bottomed .craft, laden with vegetables, linen, milk and
purser's "stores," which was just-putting off, held back a moment, and a ruddy.
face dame stepped heavily ashore, as -our two friends hastned to meet .her; .and
in a few hasty words Mr. Louis told her the whole of . he -matter which had
brought them there, and at once enlisted the tenderness'of the old woman in their
favor.-
"Mother Iobbins," as she was familiarly called, was an old farmer's wife, built
in the same scale of breadth as her boat,-a female of many petticoats, great
weight, and much importance. She possessed a fund of irscible good nature, the
.former quality being easily aroused by the jokes of the young mischievous men-of-
war's men ; but she was capable of doing a generous and  disinterested action, and
had more than once befriended the scapegraces who might by some overt act have
got themselves into difficulty-sometimes.into danger.
"1 can't take you on board," she said to Mr. Louis. in reply to his application,
" but the pretty girl I will. Lord ! it makes me think of Black-eyed Susan going
to see her William after a cruise. You see, Mr. Louis (fdr.the builder was well
known,) the brig's under sailing orders, though p'r'aps they don't know it yet on
board, and the captain has forbidden any of the " male seats," as he calls 'em (he's
a zion of nobility, they calls him ;) but as for the lassie, bless her pretty face-..
Come int my dear, sit in the.stern ; and do you, old chap, go in and have a chat
with my good man in the cottage. We shall be back in hlfran-hour or so. Shove
off, old Jack-shove off. There, dry your eyes my pretty," she continued, ad.-
dressing Rose, as the boat fell away, and with two powerful sweeps was being
pulled to the ship; "dry your eyes, my darling, and you'll see your lover. Here
we are alongside ; and now do you follow me ;" and mounting on deck without
ceremony, led the blushing Rose forward, when, descendinginto the mess-room, over
which Jack Pipes held sway, Rose with a throbbing. heart was pressed to her
lover's bosom..

CHAPTER X.
T HE INTERvIEW.
"RosE, my own, own darling," exclaimed Edward, when they werE alone,
Mother Dobbins being busied with the purser, and Pipes at his post,-" Rose, my
own love," and he strained her to his heart, " bless you and thank you for this
meeting.. I did not think I should ever have seen you again, and this has lighten-
ed my heart of a great weight of sorrow."
"1Oh Edward ! dear Edward !" said Rose, "I never felt the force of my be-
reavement till this moment. - To hold you thus, and to know that in a short, short
time I shall be torn from you, breaks my heart, and I feel that I am not so strong
as I ought to be under the circumstances-."
"Is there, then, no chance ?" asked Edward, hastily.
"None, Edward, none," she sobbingly returned. "Mr. Louis has, with a gen-
erosity worthy of him, done all that possibly can be done : but they throw delays
in the way, and raise all sorts of frivolous objections, and want men, they say.-
Besides, I hear that the vessel is to sail  "
" To sail!l When ?" demanded . Edward.
" Soon ; to-day, perhaps, or to-morrow-"
" Listen, Rose," he interrupted, his face darkening under the force of the indig-
nant passion which moved him.. " I feel that I cannot submit to the tyranny of
this act, which places me in mortal array against those I know not, and have
never received or done an injury to. I shall endeavor to escape-"
" Escape !" replied Rose, trembling ; " but how ? will it not be dangerous? Can
it be safely done ?"
" I do not know," was his answer ; " but as well perish in endeavoring to be
with you, as perish hopelessly far away from you. Besides, I cannot bear to be
parted from Charles. I have had such restless dreams of him. How is he ?" he
added, abruptly.
" He is quite well," replied Rose, " but much dispirited and cast down. He
knew the same night that something had happened to you, for you appeared to
him, he.said, as he was going to bed
"As he was going to:bed," repeated Edmund, dreamily. " Aye, the sympathy
between us is as mysterious as it is true," he murmured ; " and it must have been
at the time that I was struck senseless by-one of the ruffians who attacked me;
for I have a vague consciousness that the activity of.the soul was not suspended,
and that I did indeed hold a communication with him."
" It is almost awful," said Rose, in a subdued voice.
"And my old mother-my poor father," said Edward, "how did they sustain
.my absence? Do not disguise anything from me. How did you leave :them at
home this morning ?"
" Very sad-very sorrowful, Edward ;" and Rose here told him how the old
man, on Charles relating his vision to him, had hastened to town the next day,
and with what result ; adding, also, that she had decided to do so, and the success
which attended her.
"My- brave Rose !" exclaimed Edward ; and once more clasped her to his
breast. " Am I not much altered, Rose ?"
" You are paler, and you have suffered," replied Rose, gazing more earnestly in-
to his countenance than before ; and then she saw that under his hat he wore. a
bandage, and that his forehead was bound with strapping where he had received
two or three cuts. "Good heaven !" she cried, " you have been wounded---"
"It's not much," returned Edward, with a melancholy smile. " It's.---"
" Sorry to interrupt you," said Pipes, suddenly putting in his head at the sliding

80

i
t

(0

,                            -


32

THlE TWIN1BROTHERS.

I
C
a
b
ti
N
A
S:
M
w
i
so
[w
lo
de
ri
p
le-
cl:
la
ato
sh
(f(
wi

THE TWIN BROTHEU.8.

;t7

entrance, " but you must bear a hand ; for the little warbler must soon go ashore,
and the boatswain will be round in the twinkling of a handspike ;" and again he
closed the entrance.
"Must I go so soon, then, Edward ?' asked Rose, convulsively.
"I fear so," he replied, sadly; "but I was speaking of escaping--"
" Yes," she tremulously said,; ' but it will be attended. with great danger, will
It not? I tremble for you, dear Edward."
I do not tremble for myself,": he replied, "but for you-for all that is so dear
to me. - Oh II cannot, I cannot submit to this, and yet I know not what I had
better do."
"Do nothing,'Edward," said Rose, "if there is the slightest chance of making
your condition worse than it is. They do tell such dreadful stories of punish-
niento - -"
",Aye, my Rose," hebegan, "and what is worse, the most dreadful stories that
they tell have good-grounds for belief."
"What do you mean, Edward ?" asked Rose, her alarm roused afresh. " What
will they do to you?"
" Whythey will not do anything more to me now if I am submissive and obedi-
ent, andiwill kill:and slay when they bid me; and put arms in my hand," returned
Edward. " They exact nothing but the most .implicit obedience, and then all is
well."
"But if you are taken in the act of escaping ?" asked Rose, " what will they do
to you then, Edward ?"-
"Punish me as a deserter," he replied.
"Punish you! How ?" said Rose, turning pale.1
"By hogging, perhaps, was his answer.,    -
" Merciful God 1" exclaimed Rose, ".that must surely not be."
"And that is not all," continued he, with savage playfullness.t
" Not all! Alas ! what more can they do ?"
"They can hang meto the yard-arm of the vessel-so I have been told," said
Edward ; " and they.can, do no more.".
Rose almost fainted from the added terrors which this probability gave to tl
fate of her lover. That he, so handsome in form, and so good in hart, should be
flogged like a hound, o'r hanged at the yard-arm, for the very natural attempt to
escape. from a capture that no law, iot even that of expediency, could justify,
seemed too appalling to be true. And yet it was so ; and she felt it fartoo intensely
to believe otherwise.
" Oh, 'Edward ! Edward !" she moaned, " what a fate is our's I"
" Aye, dear Rose, and what a fate is that of many, who like. ourselves, full o,
the impulse of fresh, young, loving hearts, are torn asunder at a stern and merciless
mandate which tramples every feeling of humanity under foot, and. recognises no
right save that of the strongest.and the law of conquest.".
" You must:not -attempt to escape," said Rose, hurriedly.
"No !" and Edward smiled. " WhyoRose, there would be nothing.to run from,
if it were not for lash and halter, and men might take a trip to sea as a healthy
exercise : do yousee that -"'
"But you must- promise me not to attempt it," interrupted Rose. - " I shall
have no.rest, no. sleep, no, peace.. I will bear. all your absence, Edward. I will'
love you, think of you, be your own Rose, praying for you when far away, but do
not, do not, think of escaping ! Promise me that, I beg of you !"
While she spoke, both sitting on a 'sea-chest, in., the darkened space, his arm
being round herrwaist, and she drawn to his breast, Pipes hi d entered unheard.
his quick ear.detected the word ""escape I" and his mind, accustomed to judge the
desire 'of freedom urging a young man from former scenes, told him at once Ed-
war d's enin Pipes, a~s they started on seeing imu, " I h ard what was said ;
and do you, my pretty lass, listen to the wrords of an old sailor, who would~willingly

CHAPTER, XL
LEAVING   aog.
WE left Charle , after having-parted from Rose sauntering slowly back; but
he felt no desire to return homejust then, The'poie and hubbub of the fair co-
tinued from the previous ;day, and crowds filled the boohs, the taverns, and the
streets; through which'Sergeant Kitly, within sfluttering;ribbons, perambulated,
with drum andf-fe, and lied his trade with a pealthtlmest would have called
commendable, if it had not been of so equivocal a hature ; buthis .uceep wasi
nomeans despjqab, to jtlge by the rout that, with cockades n.their Batttred
'felt hats, staggered '9 a sort of h.lf-tipsy gloryater him.
The sght of this riap, pomponss, self-sufficieri, silent, and' fill f  ile, renew-
ed at once all Charles,'s dislike to the:prpfession; and the recQsctiqn. the scene
he had witnessed the previous ;day, when tle; sill Robbert Morris fe1 into the
toils, came upon him with a freshsense of repulsiveness. He was passing,. ward,
with his hat draw ,a little over hi Prows, his foeh d dark with a frpwn, and his
step sickened, he by an active ianceuvre,- the ,ergeant, bo-ght his. burly
form in the way, and they met face to fpe, Evidently this was done intentionally
on the part of the soldier.    '      3'              'x           .{  ly
3

tc friendly with .you. both, seeing as I have no kith or kin left me, and haye taken
a tikig to you," noddig at .dward, "for the sake of a face that reminds me
of a little sister I once had... Tke my adyike, submit to what can't be helped,
and dopt thipk of. maing a 'run' of t. Depend upon it, it will enA badly."
"Listen to him  Idhard,"paid it se  asLiten to this kind old man, who wil
always aid and  sit' you.
" If Jack Pipes can stand between you and harm, he'll do it," resumed the
sailor. " And a for helping and assisting, ipy pretty dear, why' to be sure I will,
bless your sweet eyes and so ceer up. What can't
It'll only be a cruise. -
" 0  ye, Edward, ft' will be' better to submit," said Rqse  " Tell me that you
think so.
"If you think so, Rose," said'; Edwad, deectedly. "I will prondse you to
submit to any fate rather than add to your grief."
"It is:because tt iichces of begae  '' began Rose.
" The chances now, mnterrup     pipes, " are ninety to one against yon  The
sentries aredoubled.."- The brig is under saying orders to the seuth, 'Portsmouth, or
Plymoutlh   'toie Mediterrauen, mayhap ;u yo  w1 be able to write to fl
lasrsif i "  do,                                                rite t
dh ! do, do, Edward," 'criedRose, "and I will reply to you,
-" And now, my lad,'/ coptinued Jack, " time's up, the bumboat- wonlan- s on~the
start, ,nd has "guietly'passed the "word forrard for you; ;and so-a d so-give your
sweetheart a kiss,,and bid her' 'eepher heart gp, and pray to'the Commander aloft
that He will let his cheruljs keep'  atch for you, as the song says ;" and so saying,
he walked away displying a taste 'that ;gas of the most tender and refined nature.
The part ng between the lovers was saddening enough and tears interrupted
their kisses.  The fervent "od bles you !" was spoken, the last embrace given,
and Rose wasin the boat--her eyes, blinded by, a milt of tears--while Edward
continued to wateh it to the Iast.
"The        r lessening boat nwiling rows to'land;
''Adieu !If she'brled :aid  waved 'her lily- hand."

ne
cot
Wi
ab
ca'
wi
the
at
Ne
ex
in(
cot
_pi
get
pa}
bo
.a,
wo
hin
be
to

0

t


1
t:
a
b.
ti
N
11
d .
w
e
at,
ne
co
w
lo
ca
L.
rii
pi
le-
Ce
la
at
sh
(f(
wi
ne
cot
Wi
ab
ca
wi
ti
at
bo

TflE TW;N -B ROTHERS.

'THUn-TWIN'' TROT IERS.

"Soh, my fellow,", said the sergeant, with a flourish df his rattan, "would a
likely youiig chap; like oi1, choose to serve the king, and win for yourself fame
and glory, a commission, and a commp nd, eh ?"
The flashing eyes of;Charles, and the stern look which fixed upon the ser
gant's face, told the latter that the reply, but for obvious regions, would be more
emphatic than the negative shake of the head with which Charles received his
proposal.
Soh, so !" said the sergeant, with an oath. "-Zound , have we a rebel here,
that he looks so black upon his sacred majesty's officers? Do you turn your nose
up at the service, young fellow, that you look so cursedly supercilious."
If you inean to ask' me whether' I am fool enough to le caught by your chaff
and your glitter," retorted Charles, "I should fancy that you need not long'wait for
your answer. I am neither drunk nor starving ; and as for #ehonor of the service-
wyu it's in good keeping, I 'dare 'say,;n  respect it, in its representative, accord-
ingly."  And while expressions of approbation-from several, whom the altercation
brought round, arose, Charles pushed  and hurried on.
a You lily-livered insolent," said the sergeant,' between his teeth, and greatly
disconcerted, for he thought to have got better off with onie of his rude and broad
retorts; but the play was against him, and, with. a bitter oath of vengeance, he
swallowed his chagrin and went on.,
Charges was leaving the town, ly the Walton path, Khen a pretty road-side
cotta  caught his attention, and as window and door were open, he could scarcely
hel     ing in ;'and there, seated dejectedly on a chair, with his throbbing brow
resting everishl on his hands, sat Robert Morris. Charles recognised him at
once. It was a neat cottage, tastefully but hunmblyi.furn shed. The mother was
busied with her household work, casting now' and. then  look of anxious sadness
'uspon her sonthe pride of her 'age-while two or threi younger children were
playing but not noisilyas if intimidated and afraid, hy the back-door, which opened
into a little trim garden. A young woman, of about' eighteen,rpale and rather
pretty, but worn with anxiety and deep trouble, was tryhik to persuade the lad to
take some tea, which sheheld out 'to hiu' n'basm. ; buhe only shook his head,
and made no reply. Charles saw that his grief washintese, and settled; that the
recollection of his ridiculous excesses weighed upon him, and that the reflection of
the day succeeding his debauch were of the most agonizing kind. It did not seem
that he had confided to them the secret of his fate. The heaviest blow of all was
yet to come, and Charles lingered without, anxious to, know the result, yet dread-
The roll of the drum, and the squeak of the fife, was heard in the distance, and
apparently coming that way. The youth started. His cheeks were blanched, and
his lips white, and his appearance would have moved the compassion of the hardest
man.             .'mt'te'tata'adarO
"Robert," said his mother to hin, soothingly, "take the tea, tat's a dear b oy,
it will do you good ; and we will forgive the past, and hope and pray for the future."
" All hope is over for me, mother,"' he said,.in a d hollow voice.lher
Jane tremulously placed the tea on the table, and affectionately puttingher
hand upon his' shoulder, said, "What makes you say that, Robert?  There is
always hope, you know."f                            i    the foorreply.
He took out of his pocket a crumbled cockade, and tlug it on  r, in rlyh.
That,and the aspect of his face, told them the whole store of his error, his fatal, his
irretrievable error. The mother and Jane gazed on othadreadful token as though
it were some poisonous' snake; and, indeed, the analogy. Would have been but too
true a one. Neither spoke ; but with a shudder they sat down in stupified and
despairing silence.
The children, young as they were, appeared to be completely awed at the sight
of the silent grief they witnessed, with a strag fear tOne hdo-olittlr'in halfrwld
to:its mother's feet unheeded, while the gir? jl y tohldohemtersao,

a5

and the little boy, at ast taking courage, walked towards his brother, and saw'-
the cockade.
" That's the pretty ribbon the soldier gave you yesterday," said the boy, stoop.
ing to pick it up, when Robert,gavea starton his chair.
" Don't touch it," almost shrieked out Robert. " It is even dangerous. Don't
touch it-let it be. It has-done for eme,. and touching it is dangerous for any.
"Well, good folks, a pleasant day to you," said the sergeant, entering at the
moment. .I am come to tell my young friend here that, time's p.p, ' march' is the
word, and the order for advance to the depot is given. Say good bye,' my boy,
andei rout 'for Liverpool."                                    s   t
"Liverpoql?" muttered Charles,, to himself, as a fancy,.he gave no utterance to,
struck -hi.
Why, how's this," continued the sergeant, "here's your gay ribbon on the floor.
,What ! not chicken-heaited, eh ? pooh ! nonsense ."
,he se geant picked up the cockade, and spread it out, with a great show ofeare
and pride. "Give me a pin, mother," said he, with a sort of free and easy air," and
let's fsten his colorsto him. He'll be proud of them some day, and sowill.you too."
"Ohsir" pried, the mother, " what's this you've done ? and what has made you
rob me of. myboy.?-
R Ib you of your boy !" said the sergeant. "Nonsense. Give me a pin."  He
then finned it on Robert's jacket, and turning round, said," Come, come,, don't
take on. You see the king wants soldiers, and pays liberally for them, besides the
chances of .advancement ; and when he comes back to you, he'll be a brave soldier
who will be telling you of the things he.has:seen-'"
" L would rather, he was.in his grave," said'the mother.
"See him a month,hence," continued: the segeant, "when he's got his handsonie
uniform on, and his sword by his side, and gold epaulettes on his shoulders ; when
e's drilled and the rest of it; when-damme-when he's a soldier, in fact ; and
then you may. be proud of him---
"Oh! that he had never been born ," moaned the widow.
" Why,.that's unrateful in you, mother," said the heartless sergeant. " Would
you spoil fortune wlien she's ready to make a great man of him"?" .
ButDane Morris was stupi Iedt She sank into a chair,:and with the ypunget
child in her arms,,placed herhands over her face, and gave vent to. a grievous
mon an  i, pallid 'as death,.and speechless, only hung on Robert's sboulders,
and gazed lovingly in his face...
A shiver ran throughall the 'limbs. of the do med youth.
Mother, mother,".said he, hurriedly; "kis nie-forgive me--bless me-a d
say'good bye.,. I have been a bad son, and ,may be ,a worse man. It's best as it
is. Speak to me, mother-speak you, Jane."
But Dame Morris had'grown hght-headed, and began to say that she would -all
upon Mr. Freshvill,,for he might help her ifIhe would The grin.an ,hd .indu-
ence ;i and,- besides,. he. had a relation a. major,  captam', or songething;of that
kind, in the army. It might be of, service, it might not; but, at all events! a
chance however small must not be cast away. And- Charles, as he overhead
them speak of the father of Ellen, wondered how it wasthey knew him.: It turned
out, however, that they were tenants of Mr.' Freshville, and  e sighed ,t the
thought of how useless any such appcation would be..
In the meantime Robert had. kissed his ipother, embraced Jane, and witl a
dreadful cry of heart-wrung anguish, had rushed forth from the house, while the
poor woman still sat muttering to herself that she would have him released, apd
the sergeant, marched off with his -prize.
"Ie'll be a soldiervhen he comes, back." .Charles overheard Jane, with her
ghastly face, say. "Alas! will he ever come back?  Few of them 'do"
- Yery few, Jane, and those who dio return, crippledl for life, see unloving objects
enough then, and'depend upon human char-ity for their hard-doled alms.
tu the price ofa glory, however, and must be paid," said Charles ; and I~e in
tunwent his way thinking of his brother~ Ed ward, and what'success Rose would hai'e.

34

0

a
wo
hin
be'
to

~ .


!-

1
P
1
I
C
8
a

TIR TWIN 'ER OTH1ER8.

a
ti
11
A
v
'V

THE TWIN .BROT-HEIRS,.

37

I
a

al
in
w
10-
d
L
ri,
pm
su
le
cl:
la
at
(f(
wi
ne
col
l
oi
;e
ai
01
Rol
)0(
ia
)e
O

CHAPTER
TUE 'E'AR'Y~
PRomnn   does the Harpy leap over the 'billows, with every sail set ,every sheet
drawui the officer at hiss postthe helmmai at his wheel., the inster at the "_on,"
the men at their stations ; proudlywith hertowering 'piles of enowy ",dudk"
swelling to'the breeze,:dos thebeautiful fabric cleave the brne. White were the
gently rising decks, with the well-defined lies, of the caulkers markingn them;
white were' the spars that 'todered'aloft and athwart': while brazen'bits, e -lays -
pins, bell and binnacle, added to the polished 'ariety of her crowded up er  e,
and!cabin-entrance and'companions were adorned with the;same bjjlhant y shipping
metal.   .
Perhaps hothing-can be more coqettish, in her light and airy beauty, than a
small, neat, akauto vessel;of war, with bier}"vouptuou  folds of white linen, and
her delicate tracery of stays, running-gear, and t pering yrds:aid mast, leaing
aft? withijust the afr of a lively' girl w o j ruling away from you, and yet turps
her head back to beckon you on;,ad youfellow, just asthe moth does to the t4per
--and are scorched. Nothing cart 'be imagined'mnore -severely graceful than' the
Harpy appeared on this day that'bheath a scorching stin, and in a breeze that
sang again, she went bowling down Chsnnel.   '   '
She wears armlets, too, magnificent jeweller,-fr is there not around her masts
a gleaming array of steel battle-axes, pnd are 'not the flashing l oarding-pikes so
mndhy pendants to this beauty, that; like Amphitritetoys with the'oce i born; and
reclines upon the waters as on a couch ; not even a flutiing 'rillbon in the head-
dress being absent ; for atthe masts, and.frota the. gaffs, float the' blue, and red,
and white silken ensign of'St. George, with lon pendantshike 'whip .
And her jewel-b©x is also opened: for mar, that. serried row of .guns which
peep out of the pbrt-holes, like children at hid =ap.-ek, andwh}eh 'are qefinadhy
the white'interior thatis 'set off, lozenge-like, by' . lack streak running round
the hull,where those sparkling teeth show'langhiigly, s{ which 'laugh would
seem to be very charming, were it not so 'liable to chapgeint&amp; a snarl, and a, bite
-a fatal bite. There is the same, profusionofjewel ery(t6 carry on the pieta-
phor) scattered about this coquettish' 'arpy toa ; fr above the decks ;- for
pistols ; pikes, and grappling-irons are in'her tops, with chests of small-ajms ready
to replace any of the lost,-for theEfarpy is 'profuse, and 'very careless.
After all, she is beautiful, but just as beautiful as thesnake is, with its hues of
green 'ad gold, that lies basking 'iithe simn, or like a slumbering' tigress., Touch
her, waken= Ier,and the fiury leaps on, you with 'a fiery breath; ,nd kisses you
with'her'iron pearls, and you are no more ; or the snake coils up with-a lyss, and
with a forked tongue,-envenomed breath' and fiou eyes, hepps on you, coils round
you, erushes you!' To wakenr the',i$arpy, is' to reuse up the very sister of the
arch-fiend-the ls aguihary Bellona' herself  '
She delights in i-in flaming dridnaon, in the hues of. flnie and blood.  he
revels in such a, torchlight and amidst sich flashing wine, amid, with disheveled
dress-rent'saIs, to n"rig gihg, apdn tossing her arms .wildly aloft,:she whirls; and
dances, and shrieks, as dreadfl hoUttand levimbrands, and'fiery nieteors seem to
-rush as from'within'her,-tinging air and ocean; nd, st  lke Bellona, mad with
leis wild orgie, she re'oices even-the,mgreshepis rent, tattered, and torn as under.
Dressed in their witedks, ,ith 'white fiocis, on th breasts of which was
enibossed the' foil-aachhr,,with the legend" "arp'"beeth thewaist, 'tigh  ned
by a belt ready to su" epd.sword, axe, or pistol 'ia loose silk neckkerchief flut.
tdr'  in-the wind, a  the head coveresith'anatty,low-crpwned,'small-brimoied,
glhzi  hat, on the ribbon of which the.tlrpy was repeated, while from the back

of-the head{ (in most cases), descernde .nearlyto the small of the back a thick queue,
or " tail," lashed and " turn-l'aid' t( the consistence of a h andspike--these, with
a pair of purser's lops, cgmpldadcostume which made the crew appear part
and parcel of theornamergts ofthe Harpy on that especial day. Blue, and white,
and gpld, varied the costume qf the captain, and the officers'; and the gigantic
bo'sun, with his: hairy arms, bared,: and his silver whistle suspended rud 3his
negk, mstat not. be omitted in thi} eatglogne of the Harpy's full dress ball cos-
tume.
Ifnthe Ijiarpy, however, with her, crew of dare alls, with her "bulldogs," her
boarders, her nimble topnlen ,her reeyles  .waisters," and her mnimi powder-mon-
keys, who, {children as theywere, had it;flashing under their goses by the hoin-
if the Harpy wor ean air so winnip, so holiday-like, so munh like youi- sweetheart
going to merry-makirng, it was not to conceal the fierce and robyist joy thafseemed
to, pervade every fibreef her frame. Her timbers trembled for joy ; she was geigg
to meet her .groom--like a bride decked for marriage-aid she would salute. him
with an embrace from which nothing could unclasp her arms. She was going into
battle ; and, byheavens.! if'oak and;iron, cord, and woven cloth could rejoice, she
sailed rejoicingly, lightly, gajlyr-like thosp courtiers of the past regimes who
would go to a duello the next morning, perfumed, and dressed in their richest,
handsomest suits of bravery, after having parted, with smiles and stately bows, from
their intended opponents on the previous night.
It did not require much at any time to -compel such a metamorphosis of the
Harpy as would have staggered you, good reader. Her laughing air would harden
into a sardonic grin. She would tuck up her vestments~in a trice, and out of ev-
ery jewel-box would issue thunders lightnings, and a hail of iron as deadly as ever
broke out of Egypt. Her resounding batteries would pour forth volley upon vol-
ley ; like so many huge forges opening their furnaces, -the vivid combustion was
seen a moment in eruption, and next felt! tier roaring, like a monster in a fit of
rage;,.quelled .the elements. Only the hungry waves- thirsted for her.; but though
gaping, and torn to,the very water's edge-being one huge and bleeding wound-
still she defied all,;,  still the defiant. cry arose ; still the commandof" Fire ! fire f" was
heard ; and even when rolling, disinasted, not a single particle of her noble and stately
-spect of the :past hour visible-she was gay, rejoicing, and buoyant as before.--
One immitigable burst, one broadside, one final blow, and then she wpuld be alone
on the;sea, herenemy in the depths-.--or rather,,her bridegroom strangled-for in
her horrible amours she was insatiate ; and then she would roll heavily into port
again, he~r' tor flag;flying from a staff raised where it could, and anon she would
re-issue foith, gay, brave, and beautiful, and, plunge into her furious Bacchanal
orgie with' as much, zest as ever! And if her paintings, her rogue, her v million,
her plumage, were soiled and disfigured, she would come forth in green. nd gold,
in azure and crimson, with a younger look than ever-a younger loot-but one
more immodest., ,Qh! how this Ilarpy longed for such another lover, such another
bridegroom, to jll with her stifling ,embraces-to kill with.her kindness
Like a vultur , she scented the 'attle, afar off. The brows of her commander
expanded. . The broad chests of her tarry llerculeses-her children-grew still
wider} as they stretched forth their arms-and toyed with her adaamantine jewels, and
bedecked, themselves with them. How.she strained tack aigd sheet, sail and stay,
and checked the eager bending of, her masts, like .a racer :approaching the goal,
whenthe foe. came in sight! low she plunged on, dashing the haughty- waves
withhanghtier ,bound!I. How she answered, even when most eager, the slightest
touch of her helm-the smallest pull upon brace or sheet ! How she sang in ev-
ery'vibrating cord, converting the whole into an .Eolian harp, and sounding a
battle .nare l' How the, men clustered at.the guns, and trifled with the monsters,
alone would toy withchildren ! Then, with :t    oarding- settings triedd up-..
bristling like a w lf at lhay-and the hammock-cloths on her bulwarks, with her
sails shortening, like a boxer stripping, to his work, how she would range herself
'p, and coquettishly give a salite with an unshotted gun, as much as to say,

II

36

h
b
t

0


C
C
V
t
a
e
p
b
W
hl

THE -TWIN BROTHERS.

THE TWIN BR-OTHERS.

i
r
o
a
b
t
II
A
ai
S
w
i
10
d
w
lo
L
ri
PI
s9
le
el
la
1
at
sh
(ft
wl
ne
01o
i
a
0I
t
ie
IM
m(
o:
)i

89

" Fire first, gentlemen -fire first. The Harpy always receives the first blow, and
then-look to it !"  Such would be her significant aspect.
Just like a lovely young girl with perfumed 'garments, odorous hair, and cheeks
with the slightest touch' of the rose in them, entering the' ball-room, so was the
Harpy. Then when the inspiring music rose up, and made the llood palpitate,
and the heart throb, and kindled the eyes with a dazzling light, and made the cheeks
crimson, so would the Harpy color up, and 'thrill through from her ;keel 'to her
'very truck-from stem to stern.
Look now at the beautiful 'girl, abandoning 'herself to the fascinations of the
dance. Her hair is tossed from its arrangement, her garments float- in the air,
which they' perfume in passing (and the 'Harpy leaves . on the air a perfume of
burnt powder;)' and so-in a very shoit time afterthe music of the "ocean-dance,
the sword song had begun, would sheyield herself up to the fierce trance, and care
no more for appearance; only rejoicing 'in the delirium which warmed her in the,
fight. More analogies would offer but we must omit them now. - Hurrah ! she is
going to join the fleet, and meet the foe'!
"g This is certainly a fine introduction to a dissertation on the horrors of war,"
Inethinks I hear the reader say.' "For my part, friendly reader," I reply, that
"just now I cannot, for the'life of me, help it."'-
C HA PT ER      XII I.-
MAKE SAIL!
" CRAcK on ! master, crack on !" cried 'the impetuous young commander of the
-1arpy to his sailing-master as he paced the quarter-deck, and gazed anxiously
around the horizon before them ; for the sea opened to infinity on one hand ; but'
the white cliffs of England lay yet on the larboard bow. " Crack on'! more sail!
Hew beautifully she behaves herself, -from eight up to ten knots! Crack on ! and
a fresh pull at the braces; there."
They had rounded Cornwall, had anchored in Harnoaze, and were 'out now to
join the Channel fleet-for the French were out, too-and there was to be a trial
of strength ; and though'the Harpy on this occasion; was playing the part of an
aide-de-camp, so to speak, it was, fondly hoped, they might pick up sohe French
gun-brig, some corvette, 'some frigate, with whom they might have a "brush," as-
the old "salts," the "smell powder,"' the tarry ",bull-dogs"-- almost Harpy born
-would term a sea-fight.
'Edward, who had been stationed in the fore-part of the ship, made himself as
much at home as he could among his new comrades ; and his frank good temper,
added to the general disposal of his allowance of grog among 'his' messmates, ob-
tained him speedily a number of friends, each of whom vied with the other in
teaching the landsmen the duties and technicalities of their profession : and this'
they did:the more readily that he showed a desire to learn, and a tractable but'
bold disposition, which latter quality they admired the more. To this was added'
the patronage of Jack Pipes, onwhom all looked with respect and deference,; ow-
ing to his seaman-like qualities, his long experience, themany battles in which he
had fought, the storms and tempests he had braved, and the wrecks he had' more
than once escaped..-
'The men, too, were far above the common class who were so often drafted 'iti
these vessels-men of no character, thieves, drunkards,' nd even felons. e The
crew of the Harpy were a. picked :lot, and their captain was proud of them --.
Good character was a recommendation even to a pressed-man : and when thie first
hardships were over, Edward, whose hopes began to revive (he hall not yet been

in battle, nor storm, nor did he hear much of the horrors of a French prison,)
sought in every way to adapt -himself to ,circumstances : and if the cruise was to
be short, why there were chances in his' favor ; and so he submitted to that dis-
cipline it had been worse than useless to rebel against, for .to it was added the
power over freedom and limb, over life ind death. And so dreaming of his sweet
Rose, thinking of his home and parents tenderly, and of his brother Charles often
with anxiety, he was borne along in the beautiful craft, with his gay and reckless
companions-borne he knew not whither, nor for what destiny.
There existed-a singular anomaly between the two services-the army and the
navy. In the former, service ,was not compulsory till, the man, of his free-will,
took the shilling and the oath; and,:in spite of the flowery and delusive' pictures
of the recruiting sergeant, the majority knew well enough its hardships and suf-
ferings. While this was free, its tyranny and cruel treatment were of the most
wantonly flagrant kid. To flogy to imprison, or to shoot, were, especially in -the
former, matters of common, hourly o urrence, and the soldier's 'llfe was rendered
unbearable ?' ivlile, on the other hand, !f the naval -service was compulsory, and
men were dragged from their homes,- their treatment, exceptunder- very exception-
al circumstances, was infinitely better. There was little flogging (in comparison,) '
or putting in irons, or hanging, except for direct mutiny or desertion. 'The, fam
tigues' of'marching, bivouacking, of enduring hunger and -thirst, and heat and cld,
wet and drought, were not-known'; though' some martinets in the naval service
tortured their ien with horrors of unnecessary exercise in shortening and making
sail, and so on. But the sea-service was largely popular ; and the love of change,
and of adventure, so natural to nan, might be one reason; but the great differ-
ence in treatment on the whole' must have been the 'chief one. This 'cannot
soften down the dreadful pictures at home of ruinedhearths, widowed women, des-
titute orphans, poverty, and wretchedness attendant. Those things were patent
enough, and all the mechanical beauty of the Harpy or a whole fleet of battle-ships,
cannot diminish the fact. But 'to return.
" There's mischief in the captain's eye, my lads," said a grim, scarred veteran to
his mates around the windlass, as he' folded his arms across his broad chest. 'The
fighting gear of the Harpy is not put out for nothing ; nor have the boarding-
traps been overhauled for the purpose of picking your teeth with the pikes."
"She is a real galley-nipper, this little craft," added a topman, who had just
come from aloft. " The master-at-arms is overhauling the arm-chests yonder'; and
old Tempest, the boatswain, is below, looking up his active lumber. The gunner
is freshening up his spunyarn, to make linstocks ; and there's the armorer with
his mates at the grindstone, sharpening up cutlasses. It will soon be,' 'Stand by
your guns!' I can tell-"
"Right, boy," said Pipes. "I smell powder 'already !" and the men laughed.
"I wonder if we.shall overhaul the Channel' fleet to-night," remarked a sailor,
who had, with a keen eye, bee gazing over the waste of foam that moaned and
hissed in the coming distance.
"f she makes-such long legs as she does,-and on this tack she's a regular
witch to walk, I can tell you.--we shall come up to them hand over fist," replied
a topman. "They say she makes elevenknots and more.
"I 'spects as how we're a-taking out papers to the admiral," surmised another,
who was considered as a sort of sea-lawyer, who generally guessed wrongly, how-
ever, and whose imagination was very vivid.
"That's to tell him, from the long-shore nobs, how to ,trim the ship, and lick the
doe, I s'pose. Much they know about it, and a pretty bobbery they'd kick up if the
lords c'missioners were obligated to sit over the powder magazine, while the red-
hot shot was walking slap through her timbers," replied Pipes, scornfully---
" Halloa! the leaf'nant speaks."
" Give a pull at those weather-braces forrad !" was thundered through the speak-
ing-trumpet; and a dozen ready hands immediately obeyed.
"JHow do you feel about this, mate ?" asked Pipes, as he walked up to Edward,

98

b
t

-

,-.a ..    ,.   ,.   ... ..i   tr +      "     ,_..,ww   .+.... .. t..    v.--  ,ga..,v:a. yaw ;.aw iiAk .. t.t+. v      ..  vi ary,,+.r.:a~  3o-+rt.* ,^.uaw+Fi'i"yvaxcrvA  wrwtrl4.Mw,"".Y+pP , fE-+wt~ s  .xe sm            a+n.6Ht .q"E,,-+4.."", o-  1r,     a*att b.-... +r' -"c.     ,. ...vMk,,..  w..w    . t'Aie .+,R:.G *r :at   ; 1s+i-aKr w: r.J'".Ei""+e.r   ..... s.rr.rama


40

THE TWIN BROTHER.

I
a=
4,

THE, TiWIN ]3.RQTI{EB8.i

41

I

a_
b,
ti
IN
A
S.
M
w
a2
ig
8o
w
lo
de
L
ri
p1
su
le
el
la
at
sh
(fi
ne
cot
wi
ab
ca
wi
th
at
Ne
e
cot
ph
po.
gei
pa:
bo
a
hi
to.

who was gazing wistfully at.the fading shores ; while the speed of the brig, by a
skillful shifting of the helm, was sensibly increased, and she tore on like a dol-
phin.
"I scarcely know how I feel," replied Edward. "I don't think I am a coward ;
bnt I confess I feel a terrible sinking of the heart when I, think that - soon this
beautiful fabric more like .a holiday plaything than an armament ofwar may be
dealing out death and destruction upon unoftiending men -"
" Avast thire !" broke in Pipes: " as for-unoffending, I don't see that drift .so
leafly; The French are our nat'ral{horn enemies," he added,, with all the blind
prejudice of a seaman of the "old school ;", "and though it's hard lines enough to
reckon up a, poor fellow's reckoning with shot or steel, it comes -to this,-we
must kill or be killed; and I've no wish to see the inside of a French prison-.-"
"Nor they an English one,.:I suspect." said Edward..
" And for that reason," replied Pipes, gravely; "when we do come into action,
the Lord ha',mercy on us all,+and, that's my total cdf the reckoning,-for there
-  'ill be the most 'farnal tussle a ever you seed ;= and so throw all that overboard.-
You fights for 'England, home, and beauty;' as the song says.",
"I shall fight against my will," returned Edward ; " but what must be, must,
and it is very useless to argue the question."
Jack Pipes gave a nod confirmatory ofthis opinion, and coolly said to himself,
as he walked across the deck,"If that young fellow flinches nuder the first fire,
he will eat it the next broadside ; for as quiet as he is--or I'm no judge-..
Howeve-, there's no telling ! Thunder and lightning ! how she does race away !"
This was said as the:Harpy,- with a tremendous bound, consequent on a slight
alteration of the wheel, met an enormous sea, which would have pooped her, had
she not as if by instinct, lifted, up herbows and dashed like a pugilist into. his ad-
versary; cleft it in two, and, plunging into the pathway thus made, glided between
two green nioutitains of water,'that went seething past,. only to unite again at the
stern, and to gather their forces for an assault upon some vessel less able to resist.
It was this position, quite unexpected, that lifted her to an angle of forty degrees,
that disarranged even the " sea-legs" of the most experienced ; for the warning
cry of the officer to " Hold on everything !" came at the moment that .Pipes was
rolling in the watery scuppers, and half-a-dozen hands were penned together in a
coinper at her bows.
The cook rushed on deck to see if the brig was tumbling overboard, and lament-
ing the loss of sundry articles of crockery .that were "expended" in compound
fractures about the floor of his sanctum ; and sundry bumps suffered by those be-
"   low, followed by a few direful polyglot oaths, told that the wind was freshening
and the sea rising.=
The sun set redly, and the clouds gathered their forces, and there was every in-
dication of a gale; but not a-tack was started,, not a reef taken, not a sail short-
ened. On, on went the Harpy, fierce, glad, and gay ; and when the watches were
changed, and the gale was fresh, when the wearied ones sought sleep, shaking their
heads in the expectation of being called up,'she still sailed on with all set, and the
darkness which, fell;over the ocean was only broken by the light of the battle laa-
terns, which herecand there illuminated the deck.

c

I

CN1APTER XIV
THE ENGAGE ME-NT..
Ean fext morning dawnel,the gale had not increased, but Edward saw that
during his absence from.deck some of the lighter sail -had been furled ; but these
were again shaken out, and as the Harpy was steering in another tack, her speed
was not so great. Evidently, sle was yin the, neighborhood of the ground- she was
estined for.
The captain. and his officers were oti the quarter-deck, and an earnest .consulta-
tion was held among them. Edward with his mates were at their posts; and a si-
lence reigned;among the men, broken only by whispers. Was something import-
ant going to happen? IYid they expect the enemy ?
A voiceas from the clouds reached the deck. " sail ho 1" 'it- cried in a clear
tone, which came distinctly to -every ear. This was from a man stationed in the
fore-top.
" Where away ?" demanded the captain from the deck.
6dut onpthe. weather-quarter, your honor !" was the reply. "The'e's a light
scud just lifting over It."
The captain was peering through, his glass in the direction indicated, but was
unable tonakethlie saii out. He lifted up, his head :towards the mast, and said]
".Can you; make out  the rig ?"
"'Tis a 'renchman, your ",qIr !", returned the man, " by the out of the sails
and the trim of the yards., Si's under easy canvass, and, a frigate chock fullof
teeth. .A pleased; murmur arose from 'all.
".Al1 hands mpkg 'sail!" was the cry, and.then followed directions for turning
the head of the Harpy inthat direction, which a few minutes served to do. This
was in her favorite sailing point, and she did not belie her reputation, nor the ex-
pectation of those on board.
"'Fore George !" said the captain, his glass to his eye, "She begins to lift up
now, and the fellow is quite right Beat to qurarters !"
Thisshort, sharp, and decisive command was followed by the whistle of the
boatswaim arid the roll of the drum. Without another word of command being
needed,,each captin of the gun, with his ien, were at their posts in a'thrice ; and
the apparent confusion of 'an instant was followed by a pause, order, and stillness,
when very man and boy on board was.at his allotted place.
Orders were now given to clear the decks, to knock in the bulkheads, to open
the magazine, and to take the arns that were ranged round the masts. The board-
ing settings were up, the cannon-balls piled in their" places, sponges' and' ramrods
handled; guns loaded, and the linstock lighted ready for ,the:work.
" Six-and-twentyteeth, said the sailing-master ; "and the 'fellow is stopping
his ship for work like a man. Shaht I get the yards slung; your honor ?"
"Yes," replied the captain; and bear a hand about it, too, for he- seems to
mean mischief, and has a heavier weight of ?kentledge than we carry, and more
men. Get your marines, ready, Captain Copple," turning to, the officer of the
corps, "and fill the tops. Ready fore and aft!"-
"Aye, aye, sir !" was .the ready but;subdued response.
The Harpy was still sailing,,but' her handsome;eterior was becoming very
menacing. The sails were furled, the lower yard slang, and every preparation was
made to pounce upon the victim."
" Doctor, to your post," ordered the captain ; and the person indicated.descended
into the cockpit; where, his assistants, with their open i6hests, were already waiting.
In the meantime the stranger had laid his sails flat,:'and theh furled them. f As the
ISnglisli flag vas waving on board'-the Harpy, the French tricolor opened its rust-


i

THE TWIN BR0THEI1S.

I
a
1
C.

THE, TWLN BROTHERS.

43

Ia
b
ti
N
A
a
w
el
ri
12
he
in
so
w
10
co
di
wri
t
Ne
cx,
i
Ca
at
ei
I
ab
ca
wo
ths
be
to.

ling folds in the breeze, and neither word nor sign indicated any pacific inten- /
tion
A gun from the frigate was heard booming on the water.
" He's asking us to surrender, I think," said the captain, with a scornful smile,
as he grasped a heavy sword, and put his pistols in his belt. " Steady, my men,"
he continued ; " you see your-Work, and I expect'fbu'll do it. Let them hear us
speak. Fire a gun forward there" .Bang it went : and itnow became a strug-
gle for the"weather-gage
"Fire at the first flash," said the captain; and then silence deep as death reign-
ed throughout the -brig.
Edward was stationed on the forecastle, at a gun over which Jack Pipes was
captain, and was armed like the rest with pistols and cutlass, his boarding-pike'
within reach-for the guns must be worked first-and,"either to board or to resist,
the pike'was a most effective weapon. "
The men had flung their jackets off, for the most part, and had on only their
shirts and trousers. The slippers were kicked off and cast below, and with no in-
cumbrance they-waited for the first deadly sign. Every gun had its man, with a
lighted match ready,.the latter stooping down with his eye on the-Frenchman. The'
flash came.
"Fire !"  God, what a roar ! what , a deafening, horrible clangor ! What
crashing followed, and what frightful shrieks ! The fight was begun. Some bleed-,
ing forms already lay on the decks.. Some lives were already gone. Both vessels'
now fired broadside after broadside ; and the wind fell; till the sails' hung as in' a
calm. The faces of the men became dark with bldd and powder ; their counte..
nance grew fierce and savage. The thunderous discharges hurtled and crashed,'
and the crew of each gun worked away like so riauiyends.
The Harpy was in hertglory. She was rejoicing, "even as her fine'rigging was
cut, her white sails burnt and torn ; as her spars" were snapped, her bulwarks
smashed, her sides riddled, her men bathing het decks with blood' in that fierce
baptism of fire. Fast and sharp did broadside follow broadside, and nearer and.
nearer came the vessels together.
" In the tops there !" shouted the captain.
" Aye, aye, sir," replied the ready voices.
" Stand by with your grapnels !" he cried again. "If he means to embrace us,'
we 'will help him to hold. 'Bear a hand with that tackle on the fore-yard-arm.-,
One of the slings is disabled. Master, look to It.'
G" A ye, aye, sir !"  And through smoke and fire, and the furious cannonading
that ceased not for -an instant-a cannonading that swept the decks of both, and
broke and battered the hull and bulwark, and tore away masts and stays--by mu-
tual consent they laid themselves together in order to commit as much havoc as
possible, and then, with one wild and frenzied cheer from those of the combatants'
left, sink into the depths of their ocean tombs.
"Stand by, to repel boarders !" shouted the captain, springing into the rigging,
sword iti hand. " Stand by' on the starboard quarter !" and a body of men, armed'
to the teeth, rushed, at the order, to the post they were directed to with loud cries,
of defiance..
" Give it thom- my lads ! One broadside more," continued the captain, waving'
his sword, "and they will be alongside, morecrippled than they expect."  The
broadside roared, and fresh shrieks arose.
" Where's the master ?" demanded the captain, hurriedly, looking round him.'
"Here, sir ! -here your honor !" shouted' the master, in reply..
He was clinging to a stay, with his foot on a splinter of a mainmast, nailing the'
colors, which had been shot from the ensign halyards,0to it; This done, he slid
down on deck,
" Bravely done, old friend !" said the captan : " it's wai-m work."
" Man the gangways-! Stand by there, boa~rdei-a !" shouted the master, suddenly
He was grim as TYulcan, but cool and collected, in casting an eye to the 'injuries

masts, sails, and 'rigging .received. "Man the gangways; .for he's coming down
upon us."
"We are ready for him. Keep your fire alive,,my men. There goes, the last'
of'his sticks over the side !'
"I am thinking, your honor, if this shaving' goes on a little longer, .as we'll
both be a pair"of sheer hulks," observed the ,master,-with a laugh, as a terrific
broadside with more fatal effect, swept the deck with its witheringareath.
"Heave 'the' grapuels ! heave !" -cried the captain. "So, well swung ! '-He's
going to board us1' His deck swarms with men! ,, Down from the tops-down
all!" and instantly-the tops:were deserted, and the men clustered' forward, as the
deck of the Frenchman was visible to them, full of; men, dead and . wounded, and
covered with ruinous confusion.
'"Away there, boarders !" 'shouted the Commander., ".Clear the decks of-them !"
And as'fifty or sixty men leaped from the Frenchman,:andcut through the netting,
and clambered' where they 'could, the, "bull-dogs," of the' murderous: Harpy,
with pike and cutlass; thrust or cut them down ;! and those who were :not driven
back on-their own decks, fell:into the sea.; The strife was now more .desperate
than ever. The great guns were silent, and shot and steel'did the rest of the san-
guinary and unnatural work.
" Stand by to board !" shouted the captain after this advantage springing to
his own forecastle. "Norris!" he called to his lieutenant, "Board on the quar-
ter. Make headway amidships. Give a pull on the grapnels, and, my lads, and
the Frenchman is your own. There's-;no going back now ;" and while the men,
with ready hand, seized on the slack of the grapnels, which had got entangled in
the rigging of the foe, the two vessels were .now chafing their sides against each
other, and the slaughter grew greater.
The state of the fight was now reversed, and the English,, instead of; defending
their decks, - were in turn, theassailants,, having made good their footing on
the decks of' the foe, pouring over the side a cataract of steel and shot, and hunyan
beings, eager, savage, arid merciless, were stabbing, shooting, killing, neither giv-
ing nor asking for quarter.
The musketry of the-larpy's marines here assisted them, though the withering
fire of the Frenchman had decimated the numbers of the former;' and ,the strife
on the deck was'sickening in the intense fury withwhich it raged. , The deeks
were slippery with gore, the scuppers ran with blood, and the wounded, mingled
with' the slain,'died 'with shouts of "Vive 1' Empereur! '' and " God save the king I
for it had now become impossible:to remove the wounded away.
In the waist of the French' frigate, the .two bodies met.; and,,as the English
sailors were leaping down, a couple of carronades from the .quarter-deck were
fired with such'effect,.that for a mpoment:it was thought, that-every man was killed,
and the fore-part of the 'ship itself riddled like a seive.. This was a Mistake ; for
instantly after,:a deafening cheer arose, and .loud above, the din was heard the voice
of the captain shouting,, "Ahoy !,'there, you Harpys, forward I Weave ahead, sea-
dogs?  Show them your teeth, and let them, feel your bite !"
The cheers redoubled. The infernal din increased. 'The. sharp crack of pistol
shot-the oath-the -blow-the sound of the,;cloven skull, and the fall of the body
on the deck,,assisted the diabolical .melee.- Still more ;of the Harpy's crew capre
tumbling over the side ; 'and though ths Frenchmen fought with the' most dp
termined courage, they gave. way insensibly before the furipusardor they encoun-
tered.
The French captain-foremost in the battle, and seen everywhre--seemed to
be struggeling to meet the captain of the Harpy. Fierce,, and yet 'calm in his
orders, he rallied his men around him, and the fortune of the fight; as yet sus-
pended in the ballance when both the chiefs met, and thenext moment were joined
in fierce conflict.
:Jack Pipes had been severely wounded and struck down. just as .hs leaped on
the desk, and his life Was not worth ane minute's purchase, when FEdward, who had

42

:'

..w-r . awn . c-,.-..- ...-,.. «. .,x .. e.. a.. ..  ....._,.. ..b.. n. a. .u..r .t.:a  ,ii...,  ara,.i...,* .,, .wvdaw.i.-,.+h ., .arm..ea.a.^,A.a..asb.u NUnf+uw., rr  .r «+ v . .. ,....  w  .., aa..+sd +ah _: "t  , it, e.",  ,aidt wt^. F 44+ ,... st.'.*4n Ntar'.P'.  inn/a, .(a.a e1 rc74: '.,# x'v±bY, .Y:( . r '4a"wf4  ,rw 1  f..-ww     ariww.. e.n .a
"                                                                                                                                    f


I

t
a
a
b
ti
11
'P
ei
S
Sc
w
lo
di
L
ri
pi
SG.
s
le
cl
la
at
sh
at
II
ca
th
ex
pi
p0
ge
pa
bo
we1
hirj
be
to

TEHE TWI.N BR OTH ERS.

seen this, dropped from the -'g'ging, pistol:ii'had,:and shot down the"as aiiadn
who, with a boarding-pike, was about to finish him. Roused up in defence of'
he friend; hldiiig his loadedfstoi din his' hand but Without patting a finger on
the trigger, he cyt and hewed away at all that apprdached him, till the cry of
"oShe's sihkidg-the Frenihman} is sinking !' startled all; and the voice of the
English dhptain was heard, "'Back to theiHarpy  Bear i hand, iy lads 1-back,'
and, ut anay the grapnels and lashings I" !?.
With an'beedlean effort of.strength, Edward lifted up 'Pipes, drew him. over
h ( shoulder; and stige'1 td th'e gangways; hehad but time to heave him :over,
the Harp'1 #ie, and to make a eay whidh failed, when the vessels patted, and
Edward knew no' iore till he feihad hiinselif, Wounded and half-stunned,'lying-on a
mattrass in the, cock-pit of his own brig.    '.1-'
-The Frenchnman aMsdik, and, with the remhant ;of'her drew, went down some
twenty of the- ar y';iniei; making in all a' lss'of some 'eighty men  while it
was ednjeetii d thatthe Frenchman, in the battle, and subsequent fate, must
have lost 'high u dnf three huridred.
"Water I for Heaven's lodeIl-=water I" was Edwad's fist feverish dry as he
recovered:
CHAPTER XV.
'xHE MEETING AND TAE PARfilNG.
AFTER Rose had!etpirued and detailed to Edward's family all she had done,-
tieir parting, his lit messages, -and so-oil,-the'first (stupifying pang of grief gave
why before those hopes, which human nature, iii its vacillation and its. re-action,
will cherish in spite of all: and pearly a weekhad elapsed since Edward' was first
taken away from them, wile by little and little, Martin and his :'wife recovered
their tranquillity, but i-edoubled; if-possible, their love for Charles ; while -Rose,
anxious to second whas  efned likely to be productive Of some good, went cheer-
fullya"bout her hdusehol 'duties,: and thought 'how' she could best serve Charles
'utsCharye     coding, thoughtful, and melancholy -was, clearly to all, an al-
tered creature. lfe went to his labor as usual, but not to work ; and, he would
uitw it to take long walks in the relds, carefully avoiding the quiet lahe-and shady
beeches, whichremihded him of so much that he had lost. By turns the image
of Ellei; with'her face of-f fascination, would appear to hitn, and anon the loss of
his brother totallyilestroyed the ordl strength- which he possessed. With all
his'good' sens; and With  lknowledge'of the necessity of submission, this weighed
upon 'him like a tesistless fate. - How it was he knew not. He :felt it to be sot
and he. could not shake off 'the, strange and depitessing shadow of a nameless fear
that weighed'.o heavily upon him.'
One afternoon'he was returning home from a long 'ramble, depressed-and inelan-
dhdlly beyond endurar ee. - His fancy had 'taken a lond flight into the mo-e bliss-
ful days' of the past, 'andlis-heart was heavy with tfie very weight of a tender.
hess whose sensation' wai a compound of- pleasire" and anguish. There was- a
soft and enervating stillness all around him. Gray towers, slumbering in the sum-
bier air, cotitrasted With the lazy and luxurious nodding of the trees, whose
branches softly sahg a gentle tune, to which rivulets flowing across the meadows
forined an accompaniment. The birds"were singing in the hedges, and the " hums
of. the giasshlipei' Was heard front the waving'grass. It was the time, the place,
where young lovers mi ht 'meet and tell the secrets of each othei's hearts, and
Oharles felt the inihen'6 tie i&amp;scene catryiiighirai back to'the blissful hours when
1Mllen's arm ti'embled on his -oWn; and ah' emotion full of pleasure anid of anguish

if

I

filledhis breast. The strong yearning swelled in his bosom, and the hyteri rose
into his throat.    ,
f'Never, to: see her !-never :to meet her more 1" he murmured., dNever to love
hers orto be beloved by her] W1i it then do I here,'Where life has become. mo-
tiveloss, and all its promised fruit gone in blight, and the ;bud !withered- before it
blossdmed ?  Better away, better be with Edward, for I can defend-him and he
me.: At least;weeshall have the satisfacion of .being near each =other, And that: is
all which is left me 'now'1  He paused a!rlioment,. and, leaned. on thestile, casting
a vacant eye" on Woodlandand lea, p where .farroff hamlets sent their thin smoke,
or lifted up their spiresinto theair: -but the picture:gave him no repose.
S":False, and faithless,and scornfutl asshe is,". he continued, " why doI still con-
tinue;to be bound to hef-to yearn for her-.-to wishsher. other than she is? .when
she can never be aught to me but-the creature of a memory, whose blissis marred
by the bitterness that was last poured into the cup.?' Ho# .I would' have loved
her i ' How -J did love her j can now tell :by-the, deepsorrrow which, i feel for
her 1 She-fills my dreams -at night, apd' her waying? hairnplays. op ny cheeks.
Her white arms are'round -ny neck, and: her vQice of, music vibrates in niy ears
still-still like the old bells of childhood ; and when I wake, the-vision ehaages,
goes and comes, takes other hues. and shapes. ,Would I were ,away--4fr away-
neyer to hear.or meet her more."    -, -
Standing by the stile; to(cast one(mental look into that past whieh had flel
like water' out of the hand from heaven, again- the;faceeof Ellen was' before him,
and thi 'time the look was imploring, the eyes dims:with.tears, the -hands :clasped
together in supplication ; the lips' rosy,dewy; odorous, were parted4ascif  to breathe
his name. At;this vision his heart throbbed,-grewlarge in his breast and a sob-
bing rose a moment in his throat.- -4'Oh 1"'he murmured, "Ellen, wert: thou: but
as nowin fantasy-thou appearede, before me, how woteld( daspthee-r--"
He reeled back a step.from the stile, as, turngio'-4'ounds at ;the squndrof a..light
footstep, he encountered the -fade of Ellen;. which, alas for the dreamy lover  -was
not s it ,had shown itself toihis excited fancy. 'No -.':it wasi very l&amp;vely,!but--the
eyes werenot'tender.;t the lips were rosy, but not open,'as-if speaking'is; name,;
her form, clad as,of old in its girlish white, was like that of a fairy tripping over
the-giass.. She was cold, composed-a verf'wdinan, in the'pride that -masked her
face; M ice, and hid her cracking.heart.  He" saw  only ,the exterior-'-nothing
They saw each other face to face ; for, in fact, the one had not expected to-meet
the other-:;and the sudden shock brought back to her ii an.instant her bid -ten--
derness,iand-struckthe' deepest; chord of her: love. .A Word, asign"would have
broken the barrier' dow  ;. but -though Charles grewdeadly White, 'and though his
lips trembled, and his eyes swam, that sign, those, words, were neither made nor
uttered ; '.and the'reaction came over her too., She laidher .hand ou her -breast a
moment, as if to 'still'some tremendous tumult as if' to quiet some raging impulse
in her heart.' She, too, grew pale,; but 'pride, that: demon;to' which ma  and wo-
man sacrincesfall that' is'nsoble; good,,and 'benign, whispered, to her- ;andsshesaid
to herself; ".No i  he shall never 'know what-I suffers  ' ,  .
Piide, that' parts the fondest and the dearest- -pride, that kills every earthly
happiness-pride, that creates a'gulfbetween those who would'iacy.'down their
'ivas-for eah other---pride came to-her 'aid--the poo' :child ;toe lisr aid,!.rather
'to confirrtr her misery. She 'drew .herself up' :grandly,; she.maado .no- motion,
uttered- no word, b6utstood there .like' a fair' 'but. frwnmng. 'statriescarved, in
Charles saw this : but he only saw the marble exterior'.tk the face+-the.frigid
.airthatdeemed-to -conter-t itself' -ntorairesistance :againstany sentiment of itender-
ness that old memories and his presence' might have had upon her: Headi4.not
judge her quite fairly; then;' bit in thiese matters wbpa can? ile -felt: a profound
gief-: and Jhete he was -moregeiierous, and felt- it.iote Iorb her thaan for. -hirnseZf
ie experienced this deep gricf and sorrow, because it was sad that suyoung,

I

11r

l2    nor-r,
. -.N  s.war.r...  _ ,...._   , ......  .o ,. .,. .. r,'r ..a.,. ..  .rr ,. n., r.av +.o.. -llE.  -  aw. ..  xr  s .,wrc,",d, mac.,  teen a+ro r .ar.,xva.rm.etw.:rwwww rr+Ya..wwex w.. ,.nr  ~ ,.   . w. .   -...-._....r. ,a1;  .-l; =a  r,  v  vn,   RM+ s h{'.. ar yr L+. -,  h.  + 6Y=; ud       .y.rv7 h4..x ^.r o .d..t rfl  o   _        s.w    ,

44

45

T  4' it' VI  n B A  ,' 11 1-It'S:


0

I
:.
i
t
la
II
a
b
1,
g
E -
lo
L
ri
pi
St
le
ci
pa
sh
(f
co'
W
ab
ca
at

.T HE TWIN .B RO.T H E RS.,

beautiful, and gifted a creature, should harden herself against the holiest impulses
of humanity, and out of an execrable pride borrow an armor which went far to
convert the woman into somethingoless than human. With a heart like hers, why
should its wells'grow arid=?-with loveliness.,like hers, why should it be withered
in the dthrnace' ofrher 'haughty passions ?  If she was not a highborn lady, the
same-feelings;,with their cause and efiect,-hold good in the humble peasant girl;
and this:is.why I am.so minute indetailing the anatomy of this antagonism be-
tween them, which asingle breath might have blown away.
She etfoughtthe looked. haggard,'and worn,.and anxious. Her heart beat at
this, because sheknew-it' was all for her sake:that his fine eyes were dulled. "'Oh,."
she thought, "if he would but speak !". At the instant a manly voice called -out
Ellen ;" and:    n' ,.with a handful of wild field aid hedge flowers, came -up
the path. He was a soldier---an officer ; a tall, handsome man of some six, or
eight-andthirty, sun-burnt and- scari-ed, but erect in bearing, bold, and stately.-
'The undress' uniform, the;sword,-sash, and cap added to his fine person a' sort of
picturesque.grace which the :quick and jealous glance of Charles instantly wit-
nessed;.and as a matter of course, whatever had been generous in his thoughts a
moment ago, gave way.
The- officer came up to the'stile; and gave a slight start at seeing the sombre
youthful face on the other side it. With a smile, he said; "Now, my friend, per-
mit us to pass you;" just as if he had been speaking to any common creature,
and not her lovers and his rival (as Oharles thought.) Hemoved slightly aside.
There was:such an' imploring agony-in themute look which Charles lifted up to
her face, thatagain she wavered and shook : but Charles noticed,: or .fancied he
did, that her glance-wandered, with a supercilious air that bit deep into his soul,
from his own.well-formed:but simply-clad person to the' faultless exterior of the
dashing officer. TheJatter leaped lightly over, and with his powerful arms lifted
Ellen off and placed her on the 'path, within a foot of Charles.
"Good -good---evening, Mr. Palmer," she said,.hesitating.
"What 'ldo you know this ,young rustic, then ?" demanded the officer gaily, and
a rapid-glance was passed from the one to the other as some discrepancy struck
him. a
"Good -evening-eMiss," said Charles faintly, and his frame "quivered from
head to foot. This, thei---and:Charles eyed the officer-this, they, was her part-
ner at the ball-the attraction that drew her to -Liverpool-this, then, was his
successful: rival!  s
" Why, zounds ! what's the meaning of these lackadaisical looks and tones ?"
said the officer,-witha laugh.. "Have we had a lover in the case?  Does the
gay , the beautiful Miss Freshville encourage the admiration of clowns, too, what-
ever their class of -degree ?: Take care, my dear-take care"
A red spot=mounted to the cheeks of Charles at the word " Clown."  It left
them again as:the fondand-familiar expression, "My dear,""followed.
"Oh, no," she"replied with- a laugh that thrilled through him with the effect of
a,mortalbblow--and that laugh otherwise so melodious, was like that of a hyena.
" Oh, no," she said, " he is only, the son of a neighbor-that's ' all. Good eve-
ning !"-.and she turned to him with all the courage she could pluck up, and truth
to say,-poor Ellen was in no little embarrassment as well as pain.
"That's-all,!" murmured Charles, as- he stood with pale and livid face before
them both, the officer puzzled, yet laughing, and then cheelping himself as he saw
the dreadfullybpale face of -the- poor lad, who, withhis hat off hanging listlessly in
his hand, which he had removed for air to cool his throbbing forehead, looked like
the hero of;some tragic-comedy.!-
."-:1think.this is a serious matter, upon -my faith," said the officer. " What does
it mean; Ellen.?"
- "Depend -upon it," -she-rreplied, " It's i-thing-is it, Charles ?" and she turned
:to him.- H~e-fancied that- -she 'was not so collected as she desired to have it
thoughts. 2                                              --

T.HE T-WIN -B BROTHERSS

47

S"That's all !'A he murtured. "It is nothing !" said he, mechanically repeating
her words after her. " It is-nothing-nothing! Nothing now, nor ever will
be-
, "My good fellow !" said the officer, "explain yourself." -
"God protect'your Ellen;j' said Charles,- wildly ; 4and may you be to"another
what you have not been- to me:.-Farewell! - I' will crossfyour path no more !" and
with a bound he:cleared the- stile:and hurried away.
" Indeed, I think' it will be better so,"'the officer observed to her as he went on,
while the ghastly smile on her lips, and the -horrible faintness at her heart, proved
that she sustained herself only by a heroism that would be great in a better cause.
" I think so, too," he said. " I'll tell you what it is, my, pretty niece, you must
not smile too kindly on these poor lads.' 'Your beauty will drive them crazy, and
a smile or s a nod finishes the work. But come, let us complete-our-walk; to-night,
you know, I must join my regiment, which to-morrow is on the march.
Noe
CHAPTER XVI.
CAUGHT AT LAST.
IF Charles had been pursued by a fiend,-haunted by one of those fabulous
creatures, who, half woman aid half serpent, lure men by their supernal loveli-
ness, and win their soul and body, and then disclose all their horrors,"as they de-
stroy the victim they have secured, and unfold the hideous folds of their demoniac
forms, till maddened- with terror, the great gulf of everlasting death opens broadly
to the eye of the soul,-if he had been; listening to' the song of such a syren; and
was fiCeing from the glimpse he -had caught of the evil nature to which this fascin-
ation had been bound, he could not have hurried -away with a more tremendous
dread than=he"did then.
° ' That 'he 'had parted from-her once and forever, in the full and implicit belief
that she=knew him not-valuedhim not-and loved: him not a whit, but rather
played -and trifled with hini, was' perfectly true. 'He admitted it'  to himself ; but
he had not calculated on her obtaining so crushing a triumph over him; It was a
humiliation that abased him to the lowest depths of misery, and to 'meet her again
after that second parting, was what, in this life, he promised himself could not be.
The topmost Alps were not farther removed from the lowest depths of the ocean
than he was parted from: her. Let her go, the heartless one, till, some day, the
penalty of her falsehood would burn into her ,heart like fire, and let him' go where
he would be beyond all chance of crossing her path. Better be ' with the dead
than here. Better be ih danger and peril with' his brother than here. Yes ! he
would go! He would so effectually break the link this time, that all 'the powers
of the'universe should never- lnitd it again.
She was happy, too-happy in her way ! He laughed- with a fierce bitterness,
as he' thought-heaven;forgive him !-that her light and wanton conduct would
lead her at last to, ruin and perdition !  What else, could; come to her ?-
What could the coquette expect? :;-What but one conclusion 'was to: be dr wn
from all the conditions she 1had created for herself. Alas forther I 'aid alas; too,
for him ! He could not but be sorry that so-vast a love ' as his should- go unre-
warded--be so :unappreciated.
Over field and meadow, green lane and dusty road, he had passed ; and once
more he was at Kirkdale. The: thought of the'recruiting sergeant flashed across
him, and- the recollection of parents-home-all- were forgotten. Did his ear be-
lie hirmi- Did he still hear thie beating of the drum?- Wasthat the shrill fife

hil
be
to

)'I

-46

}
L
.'
".et.  ,1  r

r
-


L i  f  "

V {

48

that rose on the air ?  T naring the, angle of a street, he stood before Sergeant
,it elyad.his party.
It was then that, with all his desperate determination boiling up in his heart,
that he felt the blush ofesa ie brninghis. cheek at his' want of knanliness-; for
to 'e so taken at 'hiswQrd, as:it Yre,. filledlhins;with.a nnspeakable Aismay' 'He
had:not hargained for, this ;;'andthere Was an :eviliaspect about 'the easy means
that in no way accorded with the violence of his intention. But he :had onie 'too
far.tQretract.. He had pledged himself to himself,) and he 'felt. bond to redeem
his Yo w- He:pluckedup courage therefore.
"SBergeant I" said he,;in a hurried,hoarse' voo6 " a word with 'you. Onl tbr
aanYomen.6"                                                      Ol
The sergeant started and;turnedr ond. He wasp used to reading faces. Pas-
sion, rage, indecision,--.all'thesewere his;agencies: he knew.ihei wells '"Caught
at last !"9mautteed toihlinse k a ::. }  ".,  ''.
" Well, my lad," said he, suavely : ''"what is it ?"         ~
" I-I !" gasped Charles; and then he stopped.
" What!"aexclaimed the sergeants" you intend to serve the king, then'? I'm
glad of it; and you'll be an honor to the profession of arms."
" Do they send soldiers out of the country by ships ?" asked Charles.
"To be sure ! It's abroad the honor; an : the glory, and the fighting lies," was
the answer.
"If I enlist, can I be put.on baQard the 1Rarpy ?i' asked the other.
" His Majesty's ship Harpy !" cried the sergeant, surprised.  Why, what do
you want to g oo:bopord of her forr?"ns'upie           "   yht
"I haye got q brother:on board,"' replied Charles, laconically:
' Yolipteer or pressed man?"  ked Sergeant Kitely.
"Pressed !?' said the young man; with a pang.
"Humph.! Well:!" ejaculated the sergeant' .what then ??'
" I should like to join him," said Charles,,laconically-
"[ Join hind1 (Well "nti -  th.
"Jon  umn{  el,"  oninud sergeantn, "   that's }v'erylikely. But, why,
him in particular ? Tie,fieldof glory is            e     kwideeonely--B.ut"
" For which I care about as much as you do," interrupted :Charie . ' We, are
twirs, andbaveuever'been, separated frdm=childhood.r If, thereforeit is 'possible
to do this,, why it's:quite'possible for you to adds another recruitto yourinuinber "
"'Ah, J see' The sergeant put rhis finger along .his nose. _imiing, unprin-
cipled, but ,nqaestionably energetiei'the 'white dealer in ;mee saw here a= chance in
'his favor.  -e felt'for a-longitim0 rankling; in his' breast the scornful look, the dis-
dainful words, and;the 'former, interference of Charles when the son of poor Dame
Morris was inveigled ; aid, like a manrthat lays u  wrongs to usury; he remenm-
iered' this. -Besides, Sergeant Kitely was revengeful ;. and !this was'ra passion
very dearto hii;-moiehe could cherish and enjoy as aluxury.. Still there was an
objection in the}way.. '   .   a'      '" ,'
"You can't join him now," said he.
"Why?" demanded 'Charles, half alarmed.
Becarase they're nigha couple of hundred miles away from this--at Port..
mouth,"' Was ' the rep ly.  r
"Then' ajili cannt,4I You: is that, you:will have one inan the'less than I thought
you would:have ;''and Charles tu'ed !away.   ,
t'Stop !I'lltell 'youn*hat you can  do;" said the sergeant, lastily.
" What?' was the laconic query4 and Charles turned round,ibut did not ap-
pear 2ow to he as anxions as;before'
" I want one man more to fill up my number," said the sergeant ; "and I am
just ithinkiing-..-" I           .
"That:I don't accoumnedate your? interrupted the youth:
"Nay I ,bt hear me. As soo   i as my number isoamplate, the7 are to be sent
on lkoard',the LIerpy." / The sergeanit made&amp; a old stroke here,whd I would 'have-
pledged his "honor" on it.

T $. T.  N .)JVOiT WI S.

{p ti
v'.
i
;3
y
# 1
rt
FL
G
3
i
3
F4
N
t1
L
1
t
l
it
1
tr

TI1 TWIN - BR6T HE'RS.
" And if I--if I enlist?" began Charles.
"You will be on board the same ship with your brother in a week; and," added
the sergeant, sotto voce, "that may or my not be true, but it won't be the less
true that you're nailed ; and the devil himself I don't think will be able to un-
clench them for you. Now,. then,' he added, aloud, " hold out your hand, and
take your cockade."
 " The first I will ; the latter-not yet. If you want to settle the matter, and
make me your own, you had better let me take the oath at once."
"That's true'! ._Odd's i1uskets'- and bayonets !" swore the sergeant,," that's
true ; and here we are before the magistrate's; house already. Follow me!"
Charles followed his conductor into the office of-the magistrate, where, in com-
any with some:other reetuits, the- oath was taken, and the cockade fastened on
im., Now Charles belonged no more to himself. He had sold his heritage, his
right, his will, his body, for less than a mess of pottage., It required a strong
heart now to supporthis 'thoughts ; a little bustle in the-office for a moment dis- -
tracted hi  ttention.
The oll y jovial sergeant was obtaining a warrant for a deserter, Robert Morris
by name, who, two days ago, had.quitted his regiment, and was supposed to have
gone back to his mother's house.,
Here was another chapter in.the history of human wretchedness for Charles to
study. Robert Morris, the son of the widow, hunted out as a deserter !-to be
flogged or shot? Doubtless he would know more, for he, miserable fool, was one
of the initiated, and might it not:' be his own turn some day of recklessness or
other,?
Yes-he had witnessed the opening chapter of' that story.   He now be-
held the second chapter opening. What would the third and concluding one be
like?
The warrant was granted with coarse jests and low witticisms : and Charles be-
held at once half the veil of the lie rent ,away with which the sergeant had be-
guiled his anxiety.:, It is true he 'had himself suggested to him the way in which
he was to ,be 'deceived ; but the deceit= was so fai agreeable that he would willingly
believe it with all his heart. To join his brother would now be a balm for every
suffering. Taking the sergeant aside, he said, "Youdo not deceive me-I shall
g on board the Harpy?"
" Upon my honor !"' was the answer.
"And, if possible, I had rather be off at once to the depot ?"
At this moment the 'jolly sergeant, with the warrant, went" forth in order to
-hunt. up his victim.
"You will be 'a general, sir !"- said 'Kitely. "Damme! I like your pluck. How
eager you are to serve his Majesty'!"'
As Charles was marched with his comrades on. towards Liverpool, within an
hour- after, they passed a corporal and' two soldiers, with muskets 'and fixed bayo-
nets on their shoulders. 'Between the two latter walked a haggard, head-bowed
man, handcuffed, and clad in tattered garments. 1 A -woman followed behind. It
'wasthe deserter ! ' It was the-son of the widow-Robert Morrs ! and the woman
that followed was the heart-broken cousin. But of them, more anon.
14

I

1 . ;
}.
t
3
T I
3
Y

1
r

",r  _  _  , .      ..- r    a.,,,,  u--.   - .=-,b.s"wW,.fi .vmr e. ., e rxa o..+ar.,.".+ wew.-v.-w .rs.n ...w... _ ., ........r              _.P __-...-.s      ---r     -   -       -_   ,         ,.,,,-,..,,. .,.-.,,.,_ ,.  .
r'     ;  :    ..s.",      .1,,. ~r"..-aw-+........ .i.+_  -,+   .,+.._-.._.....r..ay..wr-" -.,,ir« 3t6*.,a.scw, : - M"w°Y.  ? iv:             _ k" .ii : . 'isth i x 2w  «iS  H 1K,
r.                       :.+r.u.E fs.r"airw.r  .ar,.,., 6w4s.-..,  ^.°,"ru.r " . r."a


'fN Il

it

.THE TWIN BROTHERS.,
ChAPTER XVIL.

ELLEN'S REICO RSE .
GREAT was the consternation next day, when after a night spent intenxiety and ter
ror, a letter from Liverpool came to the house of the Palmer's, telling -them that
(Jharles had taken the irrevocable.step,--had.enlisted,-and by the time they re-
ceived it would be far on his way to join his brother. He had left them withorit
a word s a farewell, an embrace, a kiss. He had left them for ever I Ungrateful
-unkind boy!    ,
The anguish of'the:old man 'was like a stroke of paralysis. He wept, but spoke
not, stirred not., In the mute apathy of an overwhelming anguish that is too vast
for any words to express, he only saw the bleeding artery which had been cut ;
and in the cutting of which his two noble, brave lads,-the light of his eye, the
pride of his manhood,-were lost to him for ever.
It was a sad, harrowing spectacle, to:see the hale man mute in his great sorrow,
sitting like an inanimate mass in his easy-chair. - Tears trickled down his venera-
ble cheeks, and his trembling hands would:writhe and turn in one another convul-
sively every now and. then. A partial imbecility had struck him ; and, for the
time, he did not appear-to - recognize any round him. Occasionally the names,
"Edward !" "Charles !"- would 'break on his lips, showing that his stricken fancy,
in its dementia, clung to them.
The aged mother wept, and, like Rachael, mourned for her children ; 'for to her,
indeed, they were not ! She could never see them again-never-never-never
more. Oh ! the dreadful pain of that .agonized moaning, and the wrinkled hands
wringing themselves in the stupendous despair that forgets there is God above all,
or that there is a final meeting, even though the parting. here be for ever ! Oh 1
the.pain of beholding age dumb and frozen in its grief !-to listen to the broken cry
--the exclamation--the prayer-s-the poor broken-spirited, bowed-dowe mother gave
vent to !
Rose had to endure all without shrieking, fainting, crying, or wringing of her
hands. She had been stunned too at the news ; but when she saw the old man
sink into {his chair, and heard the poor mother's wailing, her strong heart,
though it was strained to cracking too, supported her. A moral courage of the
noblest kind came to her. aid and sustained her.'. The sense of duty made her
strong, and the charge left on her hands by Charles' sad but affectionate and de-
spairing letter, demandedevery energy. She summoned them, and they came.
Indignation .sustained her-and her indignation was directed against Ellen
Freshville. It was not difficult for her woman's apprehensions to light on the
cause of the-poor lad's reckless and miserable resource. She never beheld her own
sex placed in so contemptible a position ; for too well assured-that Charles had ,a
heart as loyal as it was affectionate, the coquettish .trifling of which}Ellen had been
guilty was as clearly at the head of the: offence as it was despicable, and Rose re-
solved to see her; and, in feminine parlance, "tell her a bit of her mind.".
In the evening she desired a neighboror, two to stay with the old people while
she went out awhile, which was done with willing kindness. The doctor had been
called in and had left some soothing draughts; but Time only would heal the
wound, and cure the sickness of the mind ; and this Rose felt as well as he could
tell her.
In the evening, therefore, she put on her mantle and hat, and passing rapidly
out of the village, crossed the church and madd for the green lane and the beech
trees, where she knew Charles had been accustomed to meet Ellen.
Why Rose should have expected to see Ellen in this particular spot cannot well

rit Y.
Fi3}
P
TY .
-at v
.S
yf ('
ay?
a  P
a
Ty  a
5 a
.6z ;,

'HE TWIN3ROTHERS.

51

be told, unless she trusted in one of the numerous chapters of accidents ; nor was
she in the wrong,--for charming, but pensive and pale, there Ellen certainly
was.
They had often been accustomed to meet in the best of friendly terms ; but
Ellen had never seen such a light in Rose's.eyetbefore, nor had she remarked such
a color on her cheeks.
"What have you done to Charles, Ellen ?" demanded Rose, with an abrupthess
q,       almost fierce, in reply to Ellen's salutation.
"Doneto Charles!" responded 'the haughty beauty, by her coquettish instinct
thinking that this was an overture of peace, and deeming that here came the mes-
senger to bring her his submission to her feet. "Done to Charles ?" and she gave
her head a, toss.'  He has been telling her of our meeting 'last night, she
thought.
" Yes!" said Roe: "I repeat, what have you done to him ?"
" Why, what do you mean by such a strange -question, my- dear ?" said
El!n, half laighing. ' What in the world do you think I could have done to
him?"r
"Ellen !" said Rose, with startling gravity; " this is no. time for airs and aflfe-
tation. The question is. far 'too important-too dreadful-"
"Dreadful! My God! what do you mean"?" cried Ellen, in affright.
"  mean that, if you never cared for him, that 'it can be of no further conse-
(        quence tp you,"' continued Rose, bitterly; "for all that might have been done to
heal the breach between you comes too late."
"-What do you mean, Rose ?" once more demanded Ellen, with blanched
cheeks.
"And if," continued Rose, remorselessly, " you 'did love him, your affected in-
difference, your scorn, your torture of his affectionate heart, has -dhe its work,
and he is as much lost to you -as he is to us ; lost without relief. What have you
done to him ?, I insist upon'ap answer."
"Tell me what this means," 'said Ellen, trembling ; "for I cannot say I under-
stand you -.something-dreadful   "---"
" We shall never-never see him again, Ellen," said Rose, bursting into tears,
and now sobbing unrestrainedly.
The deadly pallor-that increased on Ellen's face, and drove every drop of blood
out of her cheeks, was awful to behold. She became rigid as stone, and the
fires seemed to die away in her beautiful eyes. The change was beyond credi-
bility.a                               e  ot
"Stop-a moment," she said, in changed voice. " Ler,  e .utiderstand-you
-  Let me think--lost 4 'to me-to you!1-to all!=-Never se       u-him-
more&amp;--" 'She kept, repeating with her white trembling lips. " Rose, for
pitf's sake, do not torture me, but speak plainly at once.",.
" Did you love Charles or did you not ?" asked Rose emphatically. " This is
not the moment to trifle, not the time to hesitate, not the instant to deceive your-
self or me. Did you love him, Ellen ?"'
"I-did !" replied Ellen, in a thrilling whisper.
"Unhappy, foolish, mad girl !" exclaimed Rose ; "then you have, in your
wretched use of your beauty, sealed your own unhappiness and wrought your own
punishment."
"I loved him as I loved my soul, Rose !" cried Ellen, in a voice broken with
intensity. " I' loved him so utterly, that till this moment I never knew how
deeply; and now words-words will never, never tell how. great was my love.
And now-now that I have told you all, confessed all, and would give anything to
have him here to tell him sc, let me know the worst !"
" The worst is, Ellen, th it he last night enlisted-that he last night left this
place without returning home-that by this time he is far on his journey, never
perhaps to return."'
" Gone 1-left me t-enlisted !" shrieked Ellen. " Rose, do you want me to fh

i

- #  f

...,  c_..:y. ... .        n   -..-.".,...    _ pr, ,...wx...x"+Y.z  ,r rs .*w .  - c..-..   A..,n..w.-M.r.u,+Le w s w s rim       w'a.r+AWrw.++.  .;rwdvi.: i i.:.vi:a f  : w:k1 :".:wt'i.7 '.1 5"YS" 1.   iy ' ;p:"!S''  8i "Y:a+- ;.+"m.,..- ....
'                                                                I


s ~t ~  t I

THE,.TWI NT      RQTH.ER S.
dead at your feet, that you tell me this?  Miserable, uiidorne, unhappy-girl, that I
am. Enlisted!"
"It is too true, Ellen !" said Rose, sadly.
"He did not know me l' she cried : "he did not know tlat I would have done
anything, for him-that.I.loved hig! 'Oh, that' but a word  one word--had been
uttered by either, and this would not have been !"
Rose was terrified at: the, storn of passion she had evoked, and 'dreaded lest
this tempest of -tears and agony would add some paroxysm dangerous to the poor,
foolish: girl,.for whom she now,indeed, began to feel..
"Last night !-did not return home !-last g1 t "pursued Ellen. "Oh God!
Oh Godl, I see' it 'all; he must have gone after parting froi me-
,      acting rom you " said Rose. "What, did you see lim, then ?-speak, to
hi.m..
'I saw him-and. I spoke to him; but I saw him with averted eyes, I spoke
to him-with a changed voice, I disguised my looks, and hid my heart from him ;
and now- --"- and Ellen, sinking on the grass, pressed her hand upon her fore.
head, and burst into a fresh shower of hot tears, heedless now of 'll Rose could
.Say.,
I siall aie!'I shall die, Rose ! I loved,'I worshipped him! 'I shall go mad!'
His father-his mother will curse me.!- Oh, heaven !-Oh, heaven,! what-what
shall I do?  How can I meet them ? What is to be done?   Rose, dear,.good
Rose, ie my friend, and help me in this trial."
" I know not," said Rose, "unless your father has friends and influence. ~We,"'
she added,'sorrowfully, -" have, none ; and 'both Edward and Charles are gone,
and only myself, helpless and alone, left to the old people?"
"My father I",murmured Rose. " Influence !-and-what did you say?
Well, we sh l1 see,! Come with me, Rose, comer with me ;" and she hurriedly
rose up, dragging the young girl by the hand.
"Wh     are y  going?" asked Rose.
" To kneel at their fee-toaask-their pardpro for-having been so_-wicked., To
beg their prayer and blessing. If I cannotetfect his release, he shall feel that I
ve him :with a strength that shall atone for all that I have made him suffer-"
" But, Ellen-" began Rose.
" What?" said, Ellen.
" Who knows what may be his fate?  It may be too late'!"
Let us pray to God- to avert the evil," replied Ellen.
That night,after a scene of great and hear-rending anguish, Ellen aftei- having
obtained the forgiveness-a,nd the blessing of the old people,.and taken a more than
ordinarily affectionate leave for the night of, her father; on her ,return home and
going to bed-that night; Ellen Freshville, with a change of clothing, and a little
money in her purse, quitted her father's house and tlae=home of her childhood.

TRHZ TWIN BEROTHER5.

48

CHAPTER      XVIII.
THE DESERTER.
IN spite of summer weather, the evening winds grew gusty, clouds gathered i10
the north-east, and the air grewchill and sombre, as the night deepened over-head.
The -heavy sighing of the breeze was indescribably mournful, and accorded well
with the sorrow of those who thought at home of' those far' away.
Dane Morris was seated by her lonely fireside, with her head bent over her
bosom, and her haids clasped together on her knees." On those knees had she,
many a time and oft, nursed and' dandled the poor lad, who, in the infatuation of
the hour, had surrendered himself to the temptation which had borne him away to
the dreary bondage of a soldier's life.
'Jane sat opposite to her, and the same gloom had infected her. She had grown
paler, thinner, and sadder. The blight had fallen upon that little household, and
there was no avenue by which any cheering ray could come near to them more.
Half of what had made life lovely and attractive was gone. The youth of her
heart was torn away. The support of the household was gone. In addition to
the pangs of bereavement, they had to sustain the greater' one, if possible, of pen-
ury. There were three little innocents sleeping in their humble beds. What had
the future for them 'but beggary or crime?
It was with this phase of sorrow that the mind of the mother was engaged. It
was in tracing the lines of this hideous portraiture that her maternal heart was
throbbingly following the frightful labyrinth ; to the streets, to the workhouse, or
to the prison. What else, in their helplessness, could they expect?
'he She had applied to Mr. Freshville, and the stern and arid old man had told her
he could do nothing; that her son was a fool, and a "do-no-good."  The King
wanted men. Roburt' had redeemed half his errors by becoming a'soldier ; so the
old man said. It was useless to apply. She must submit, and make the best of,
the bad : and, as for him, he had nothing, to do with the matter.' He did not
think how soon he would have to mourn for his own loss. He had no idea that
he should soon be tearing his own white'hairs, and lamenting the loss of his beau-
ti}ful daughter, who told him, iii a hasty note that she had gone to seek her soldier,
and to join her fate to his, whatever that fate might be.
A nd the widow mourned. It was a very da!,k bleak, sorrowful world for her,
poor soul, now; and Jane could offer no consolation, as she wanted it greatly her-
The solemn winds, to the poor girl's fancy, sang war-cries, and echoed the sound
of cannon and musket-shots. She heard the tramp of men marching to the
charge. She heard their shouts, theii- groans; their dying moans. She saw her
own lover shot'down, Oh, God ! temper the wind to her,.for it was very chill
and bitter ; and she shuddered.
The winds sobbed, as people do in grief. The rain fell, like tears from over-
charged eyes. It pattered against the little casement; and swept with a hurried
rush over eaves and roof. - Heaven pity all in the storm this night, she said to
herself; and she prayed that God would protect the poor lad who had loved her,
but whose headstrong will and passions had wrought the web of his own doom.
The day had brought its duties, and with it a feverish attention, that awhile
distracted her' mind from its sombre occupants. But when that day 'was over,
when the work was done, and night brought ease and leisure, how was 'it spent?
There was 'no relaxation, 'no cheerfulness. She had 'not to prepare the supper, to
attend to Lobbert'gslightest wish, to-'be anxious that he should be pleased. 'She
had nothing but her own thoughts, and, of a truth, they. were not the beft  things
for a poor loving girl's heart to be occupied with.

3"
3"

I .tt=
I;

ab

0


I

,TH:- TWIN DBUOTHE1RS.
The aecustomed chimney corner was vacant. Would it ever be filled more --
for she tried to hope, and oh! the weary, weary pain of attempting that against
conviction. 'It was empty now ; and had she not dreamed her waking dream of
her lover lost, dead perhaps, lying on the plaion,.With the wind singing his dirge,
with that of many another rash, brave lad, and the rain drenching his corpse?
But what could he heed of that: now ?-
" When he comes back," said the sergeant, ".he'll be a soldier, and you'll be
proud ofhim."                                r
So she. would, and be very :proud ,of him too, if he did but. return. The ser-
geant had. assured her so. Well, there was a little comfort in that. reflection, and
she made the best of;it, as. all' women in tribulation do.r
Would he come back? ,What's that?  Both started with pale faces and eager
eyes,,,the mother and the niece looked on each other---pale with dismay and anxiety.
"What's-that?'f Something tapped at the;,window. Could it be possible?
But no. : The wind sobbed: aloud. The rain beat heavily. That was all. Their
faces grew blank. Their eyes fell again.
But the tapping is renewed  It grows importunate-loud. It is now at the
widow-now at the door. What can it be ? who can it be!,
"fMother 1" says the niece ; "Mother " says poor Jane trembling from head to
foot ,  ,5,       '
Jane 'responds the other,. shaken to the very heart:  '
- "What, canbeetheret, Openy!"
Each says.so:simultaneously- and each, out of the very wildest hope, dreads -to
move. But they must, for the knocking grows- louder. The, latch is tried, but
the door is fastened.within. It will not give way.; . ,. .
They getup. Theygo with tottering steps to the door, and both say-4their
souls, a§ it were, hanging on the reply-botheall' out breathlessly  Who is
there ?"       ,".
"It is me-it's Robert !' is the reply.
With tremulous hands; the door is unfastened. A figure, wearied to death,:dusty,
soiled, in a tattered and sordid garb, totters, "n,.and the door .'shut quickly, and
locked.
" '" My Robert I--oh, my Robert !" sobs Jane.,
My .son 1 My child! . .Oh God, protect, him!." sobs the mother.
What. wild and thrilling agonies of fear andl love moves them now! They em-
brace, they sob, they cannot speak; only the:names are mentioned, and the man
cries like a child.
"My dear boy !--my darling Robert!" says the another, When she can; speak ;
what have they done to you ?"
"They have made me mad. They have made a devil of me. They flogged me
like a dog-lashed me like a hound-for what they call a breach of duty; .and, as
heaven is above me, I onlysinned in ignorance. I endeavored to, do all I could ;
I was sober,attentive, respectful, and I committed a fault without knowing or in-
tending i.They flogged me,d-n themI" he said. through his gnashing teeth,
"and I deserted!l"
Dame Morris did not .know, why she shuddered, and felt a greater dread than
ever. Those with whom he ;went must now be far away. -Ie had been, flogged !
His poor back-had been wounded with thebrutal whip ! She did notknow the
reality.. She did not know that it was even then raw and bleeding.. She did .not
imagine thatsthe torture of the condemned were even then being: undergone by
him, She had him back, and he would leave. them, no more.
But to flog him, so young, so ignorant, so willing ! Why, they must be-human
devils ! 'They must be very brutal, these officers, these gentlemen, these nolemnen.
these ducated, polished, ien, and make no allowance for anything ! . Not a .bjt:!
Why should they ? Of what consequence is the sufferings of these, human xna-
chmes to their superiors ?
He told them a terrible tale of siuffering. it reqdiired no adiornmetto heighten

f

1
2
Q 6
i
i

t
F}
7
tI
5
i}
C5 C%
t
Ys
51
H
S
9
{
z
i
T
,i
it
5
z
4
2
i

THE TW IT -B1OTHERS-.
the simple picture of torture which it was his ill-fortune to have undergone. In
the necessities of life there are many phases of suffering and endurance, and, gen-
erally speaking, men do not -complain and grumble at them, because -they are
among the categories of things which:all must meet with the like chances ; but
those things inflicted wantonly, and with all the rigor of an- unmitigated barba-
rity, heightened by skill in the .multiplication of torture, which is truly infernal,
it cannot be expected that patience will hold out ; it cannot be desired, even, that
a despicable submission to such can come within the scope and limits of human
duties
"You must hide me, mother I" he said ; "you must hide me! I must lie like
the squirrels in , the winter."
" Hide you! What for ?" asked Dame Morris.
"They will send in search of me !'r he replied.
." And if they find you ?": asked Jane, as Rose before this had asked her lover;
Edward.
"They will flog, imprison, transport, or perhaps shoot me," was the answer.
"To desert in time of war is a capital crime," he added, with. the emphasis of a
jurist.
"Capital crime!" :murmured Jane, and she smiled.
In the grotesque association of words and meanings, even in the tremendous
moment, something that is irresistibly absurd will strike the active fancy, Such
was -now the case.
Robert smiled too. "Capitalcrime I" he repeated. " It is not capital, my girl
as we should say, ' clever, excellent,' or ' well managed.': Ah, no ! I havelearn:
ed a good deal in ithe few days I have been'away; and, it means an act for which
you must pay with imprisonment for-life,:the hulks, or the penal settlement-.
you see I've picked up a few fine words,; with large meanings to them, too---or
with your life," he added, correcting the deviation he hadmade.
This was confirming the vague, dread, .both :the females felt. They knew he
could not hope to escape withoutsome risk.'
They bathed his bruised shoulder with oil. They tenderly aided him, up into
an old loft where he might lie hid and remain until the rumor and the.search, if
search there would be, was over. They ^began to feel lighter-+despite the
bruised back and the degrading punishmerit-for they had him back, spite of
all.
a"Is Sergeant Kitely about yet ?" aked Robert, as he went up the ladder-like
staircase.
" Yes;" replied both, in a breath.. "Why?"
"Then I am not safe," he added. " He will know me directly."
"-He must not see you," .said they, encouragingly.
" I must leave here, I tell you," replied Robert _
" Not to-night," they urged, tenderly.
"To-night ! 'I couldn't walk half-a-mile farther.' No, but to-morrow I must go
farther away." -'And.he crept to his pallet.- And if he slept it was because na-
ture was exhausted. It- was more than his 'mother or his cousin did ; but they
were much happier.

a,
Y,1
£r
K 4
I

;i

r
b
QS
Y.


43I

.  .
;i F.. _Z
C Ste.
vt
f

T"HE TWIN BRO DHEk
CHAPTER XIX.
4rHE CAPTU RE.
THE next day and the next passed by, and Robert is still in hiding. They hope
with all their souls that the sergeant, with his drums and fifes, will leave the
neighborhood, as they cannot be at ease- while he is near. If he only happens to
pass the door, and cast a glance in at the window, Dame Morris 'and Jane turn
quite pale, and tremble for the safety of the poor wretch up-stairs.
By and bye it is rumored that recruitingis over in-,this quarter, and not a ves
tige of a soldier will be seen when the week is past. 'They arse more hopeful now
They fear lessand less, daily ; but there is no certainty. Robert, who had in-
tended to change his hiding-place, changed his mind. His frame was not equal
to the fatigue. The strong and insurmountable feeling-of self-preservation, that
had nerved him to so difficult and tremendous a task, had now, quitted him. He
felt his bruised limbs at ease. ' He was at home. 'He would 'remain there ; and so
he did.
But woe to their hopes. The jolly sergeant, who has a sinister smile on his-
deceitful lips, sudden  appears, and there is with him a corporal,' and a couple of
files of soldiers armed with muskets and'bayonets. What'do they want?  Dame
Morris, in mortal agony, thinks.she can answer that question, but she will not. It
would be too terrible to admit the full force of the hideous presentiment that had
crossed their threshold, and once more, like a spectre, taken its abode on their
hearth, darkening and blighting everything within the circle of its influence.-
' They are looking for Robert !" this spectre would 'whisper though the mother
would stop her ears, and deny it. "Take care of him, mother! Take care of
your son !".it would go on, the haunting spectre. "And :this time, if you lose
him, you will never have him back !-never--never again !" So ran on its deadly
mutterings.
It was undoubtedly very trying, this sort of life. ,'It was harassing to be always-
startled by a strange step at the door, to feel the heart sink when a knocking sum-
moned Dame Morris or Jane to open, since they expected to see before their the
armed soldiers in search of the missing man,, who were hunting the deserter,. in
order that they might flog the flesh off hissbones, as a' warning to others ; and'
this wretched nervousness only increased , hen -the jovial sergeant and his' party
appeared, and it was rumored-that they were looking for no other -than Robert
Morris. Then their terror reached its climax ; and it was resolved, in' a consulta-.
tion that Robert, his mother, and his cousin held, that he should escape a second
time that night, and seek a shelter elsewhere.
The day wore on heavily, and all longed for the evening, since only under its fa-
voring shadows could the escape be made. , And there were yet several hours in-
tervening. The strange step redoubled their terrors., The neighbors at the
door suggested the armed power, which to them was more potential ,than the de-
cree of fate, awakened their dread, and intensified every fear. They were un-
strung, nervous, and all of a trembling terror.'- Such a condition is one of the
most pitiable, perhaps, that can afflict a human creature, for as it attacks the af-
fections, the pain must necessarily be sharper and keener. -Honr after hour pas-
sed by, however, and the dreaded soldiers came not.f May heaven prevent them
for awhile longer, and then they will be at ease !
It was afternoon. Jane had gone forth to procure the co-operation of a distant
neighbor. Charles was at the time in conversation withi Sergeant Kitely. The
o~lly sergeant was obtaining the warrant of arrest ; and with' her heprt at her
pits very action almost suspended, Dame Morris sat by her fire, while Robert,

R9
4
Q{
4a

I

r..
rr2
1§.3
raj
br
t   t
to
i'.'"1?rt -
s.=
ter:
4- ,
Nei  r
1 t
R
hi at
.  f

t

- i+M.A" F+S:1e k ^ tC.'KRW.I  4MFk'  °+i"YSity,3Pt+r?" ' w"..vsc"+# w;  sa +' 4' :t,.-'+ y'"'ki ffz.'Y*'

21  x                 '      J-"r       T     .'" ,        ai!° tee'     .as     k-C  {s; '.i 1   3
''  ,..._  __                     i'ay f.._,..          .   i., !P _. --zP-.   FF'_'^   _....'-,.    ._.._ ..._  ter..         -

pale and shaken with his own deep dread, lay-still in hiding in the little loft, his
heart filled with apprehension
Hark!!what is that which makes the poor widow faint to the heart, and blanches
her aged cheeks. It is her fancy, perhaps. No, for this time it is "tramp-.
trami.! tramp !" and the 'unmistakable sound of heavy feet, in "the unison of a.
military step, comes with a vagte nienace to her ear. They halt at her door! 'and
the heavy grounding of the muskets, and a knock, deep, single; and impressive, are
heard.
" Oh ! my boy-my boy V" she murmurs. "They are here !"
The knock is impatiently repeated. :What can she do ?  She may not open,
and cannot resist. The latch is lifted. The door is fastened. Itmight not have
been done so purposely, but by some instinct she had put the bar across when
Jane left the house.
The latch is tried. The next moment the butt-end, of a musket sent the frail
bar in fragments. The door flies open. The scarlet coats, the gleaming bayonets,
the brown firelocks, the stern, silent men are there. No vision of terror can equal
that awful reality. The jolly sergeant, with a jest, enters ; a paper is in his hand.
It~is the warrant.
"INow, dame !" he said-" now, mother ! I want Robert Morris."
",He is-Ahe is- --" 'she began stammering.
"'He is here," said the sergeant, "It's no use, old lady ; I'nm not to be done.
Look alive, lads!' Ferret himouta!" and as she falls in a swoon on the floor, one
man, more humane than the rest lifts her to a chair, while two others, disregard
iig' the cries of the little child en, mount the stairs, the loft-ladder, and finally
come forth, dragging the livid and unstrung victim  with them. In a dead, dead
faint lies the mother, and heaven is merciful to her. The poor lad casts a glance
of tenderness and despair upon- her, and his hands are pinioned without a word.
They are gone forth Ore' Jane, who has completed- her arrangements with a
neighbor, has time to return. Downcast, with a vertigo that' made'the brain
swim, and blinded eyes, and stopped-up ears, the corpse-like man staggered on be-
tween his captors. All was ber for ever.        e Adie, brother ! rae ye well,
Jane!' The red whip, a round of ball, and a grave in some obscure corner, that's
My' end now !" and so brokenly swept this fancy in his brain. It was thus' that
Charles saw the poor fellow pass him.
Jane was hurrying home, had turned the corner of a street, when she saw a
crowd of people, men, women,.and children, moving forward, and caught the glit-
ter of bayonets. She stoodstill,'as if-she had been changed into stone. What
-fedr was it that spoke his name-that 'showed him snared and caught, if it was
not that instinctive truth that carries a foregone conviction with it, and which is
incontrovertible? 3It muse be Robert! Her leaden feet moved with difficulty,-
the blood that stagnated a moment moved again in her breast-she tottered fors
ward, and with a piercing cry, uttered the nane -of "Robert!'
He gave a start, and halted too.
" Forward !" said the corporal---" March !"
A chariot with blazonedj panels was going by at the moment. It bore fair
women, 'who cast only 'a listless, heedless glance at the crowd, and the. cry 'of the
girl only told them that there was a great strife of horror near them. "But these
people Were not of' their class; -they could not spare sympathy so absurdly mis-
placed, and, what was mdre, they did not. The carriage rolled 'on, and the per'
fumed occupants thought of their own little woes, and magnified them accord-
ingly.                                                               r
There is a lady, however, with a fair pale face, full of pity and tenderness, look.
ing on, for in those livid lipst and-iopeless eyes-in the cry of the pooi- gir,'she
read a sad, sad story, and it reminded her of a spn she herself had1 far, far away in
the Indian army; and 'she went by sighing heavily, praying for' the two Wrecked
creatures she could not otherwise help.
There was the gratre, pompous tradesman at his shop door, and at an open win-.


, a;

,THE TWIN     BI OT.H ERt.
dowa stood_ sothei' clspng: er baby boy themore tenderly to her bosom at the
moment, for in some fr-off years to come (though, may God forbid-it!) sho might
have to miourn.forhim.;'Ther wasaa gentleman on .horseback,:Who looked pen-
eply for a moment; but' th rer'was -Janet hanging to Robert with, )ringing
Ia ds,; and there was Robert's young brother crying aloud, poor 'little fellow ! and
demanding why the-soldiers took his brother away.
'orward!. March!" said thecorporal; but heedless of' all Jane had hurried
forward, and casting both her arms round Robert's neck, would not let go, and
they were obliged to use a little gentle force to separate them. It was done amid
the most heartrending shrieks--But why dwell farther -on a picture so full of
abhorrent ums ?        '       '

CHAPTERR XX

PICKING UP.
Ir is not necessary here to detail the weary. life which Charles led after he had
been surrendered into the hands of theferocious drill-sergeant,'whosetlessons 'were
administered witia sternness that made the, man thin' now and 'then that the
rattan which that subordinate. -fficer wielded,;would, instead of flourishing 'in 'the
air, describe a flourish more: than once upon his 'shoulders. If. such had been the
case, there would have been little help fo:rthe outrage. Charles. beheld it done
morethan once, and only avoided its himself by an attention to the minutims of his
new duties, which won noappreciation from the mechanical individual who mould-
ed him into a-rmachine to be. mo:ed at will,.to act with the steady, correct,
a d unreflecting regularity of. a. steak engine, and to be just as destitute of senti..
ment.    .
Je bore all, did all, learned all, with an apathy that 'was, perhaps, better for
the perfect state of his drill than any application, on. his. own part would, have
been.. The same;feeling, too, or rather the absence'of +all !feeling, on -that sconen e
made him blind and deaf to the rude gesture,the harsh..:voice, the repulsive ' man'
ner, of the impassable individual to whom he had been consigned.,. The exigences
of the case.were such}asspeedily to releasehim from;this daily torture, and he
was soon drafted' into his regiment, so far as'the manipulation went,-a,"perfect -sol.
dier, -who lacked nothing but experience and a battle.
He had not long to wait before he knew that the promises of the recruiting'
sergeant, Kitely, as regarded the Harpy; were among the number, of .those admir-
able fictions that worthy never ,hesitated to perpetrate. Thesullen fury with
which Charles brooded over this was stifled by the uselessness of complaint orre.
sistance, and the first thought of desertion was .speedily scattered by witnessing
the fate of Robert Morris, whom he -again saw at;his -parade-ground, brought up
to receive the punishment.of his defection, a court-martial having pronounced up-
on him the sentence of two hundred and fifty lashes, and the drafting, after into a
foreia egiment,,      I   A
The eep, unutterable loathing which Oharles tpok to. his profession was con-
solida- and indurated by the horrible scene he, beheld., The first lash sent a
thrill of sickn es and horror through his, being. He'beheld the'lash grow clogged
with lumps of flesh, and the spattering of the blood}seemed to have converted the'
air into a moist and sanguine medium, which ;transformed those around him
into so .many several .incarnations of the horrible,,, and the executioner, into a
fiend.            ...  .  -
While the head of the soldier fell on his breast,, and the doctor stepped to feel
:he pulse, which, under the excess of the lash, had become still, Charles had fallen
un the ranks, and was carriedaway fainting. He was. told that the mutilated man

I

{.
II
4
I:t

Then from the lips of the sleeper' a light but agonizing .:mu-mur flowed; "Ed-

I

f
"
r         ,
: -4
i      ,,;3
'' t
z
ft
1

-14

W TWINBRQTH'E R s;.'
had' been taken down, An, inrt mass, carried into the hdospitat and'rthere.put under
the hands of the doctorto be cured!  From there he would be brought;out;to;re-p
ceive the reside, if all had not been administered; atid that'thenche-*ould be sent
abroad, to be killed by savages or die of; a swamp fever. Le saw poor 'Morris,
then, no more.
That same night, while Charles lay in his bed still laboring under, the
sickness, of heart !that revolting spectacle ;had Created, he dreamt of his absent
brother..
The confused shadows increased, multiplied, grewinall their varieties'of interest;
their attractiveor repulsive forms,.their fantastic or familiar aspects, before the
active and creative fancy could suggest or adapt ; and dreams, that;in as singular
extremewere marked with  the vivid hues of life, 'crowded- around hin, and the
communion, which the psychological-construction of, their moral nature rendered
perfect, but not to be explained, was once more entered into.
Over plain and forest, mountain and river, rock and fell, the winged minister
swept, and he:beheld 'a great sea spread and trodden out before him, ';There was
light in the sky, and the green depths were, translucent, and a soft halcyon breeze
passed over the-surface,:and filled the light sails of boats. dotting the distance,
where the;fisherman, or the'bold pilot, were plying their perilous but usefUl avo,
cations._t
Then came the boom of a gun, sounding a harsh dissonance on the dancing
waves; objects, at first indistinct, grew broader in their outline, and the white
sails of ships were seen growing larger' and larger ; then a fleet of stately men-of-
.war appeared, with sails set, the cannon in serried ranks pointed, and ready run
out, the men at-the guns, the officers at:the post, while the flag of St. George in-
dicated that they were English.
The gun was echoed by another ; r and1 with the flag of France flying at the
mast-head, the regal lilies having given place to the tricolor, the fleet of the French
marine:hove up above the.horison, and both came to meet each ; other with aspects
calm, pictateeque, and beautiful, rather, like floating 'swans, about to exchange
friendly greetings and good wishes, thanto belch forth fire. and death- into.%eaeh.
Then began the .thunderous cannonading, and the fires of; a sea-fight ,lighted, up
a lurid gloom that the gathering smoke produced and the eight. menthat manned
every gun grew grimand bloody, and .black, with the furious work. There. were
masts crashing, men shriekingwith:'pain, or breathing deep curses, and they met
on the.,bulwarks with cut, and thi-ust, and stab, and deadly shot i. and the ships
were riddled, looking like char-ed.;cinders, and baring' theit fractured ribs like' the
spectres of vessels that had'. 'been destroyed, and yet haunted the scene of their
terrible conflict
.Then, amid awful cries, one of the battered battle-ships;riddled and: broken
from the bulwarks,to the water, gave a great groan, a terrible plunge; 'and amidst
cries of victory and dread, she 'plunged'-into the depths of the sea, and was seen no
more.                                             .   -.
SFrom' 'the decks 'of 'nothet ai'ose dense volumes of smoke-'and flame, which
, climbed around niast and' rigging arid eagerly licked the air with, for'ked tongues
of fire, From end. to end rose criestfor help, andidesperate men. leaped from the
side into the waves, and those that were not killed by shot and shell, died for the
most~part by drowning. 'Then boattwer~e lowered and :put fof-th in order to pick
up such as were still enabled ito sustain 'theruselves by swimming, or bficlinging to:
pieces of the wreck that 'were floating about in all directions.
SThe attention of the sleeper was iThen drawn to'one, whose foi-m and face, flecks.
ed 'with blood, and blackened with .smoke and powder, was helplessly':Bloating
about, and whileithe eyess were closing in the fastness 'of death, the relaxed, and
flaccid limbs, as if tangled with sea-weed, which tied -and fastened theiii up, re-
tarding their action, were being ttossad from side to side. This fOrm was droWn-


TH.E TWI( BI OTHERS.

ward-! mybrotherEdward-!" he seemed to cry aloud, but none heard the stifled
exclamation.
And the deeper struggled in his vastieffortsto plunge into the waters-tainted
with,=the hues of carnage--to ,save him; but he felt as if chained down by
some resistless power, and his mental tortures were tlhus increased a hundred-
fold.
Presently a boat came up, and strong arms willingly stretched themselves forth,
and grasped the drowning man in the very nick of time. Into the boat the form
was puled, and with the rough, yet tender roughness of'seamen, he was lifted
through a port, and carried down into the cockpit, where restoratives were ap..
plied, and-his hurts looked into.
The active sympathy which had thus placed before the twin-brother, for a second
time, the risk whih the other had gone through, was now, from the veryfact of
his safety being assured,:weakened. The outlines of the ruddy waters, the blazing
ships, the 'foundering hulks; and the.taking of those in tow which it was possible
to do by:the survivors, now grew faint and dim. Presently all vanished, and a
deep refreshing sleep:fell over Charles, as the quiescent mind surrendered itself to
the calm influences now impressed upon it, so that .the :next morning he awoke
cheerful, feeling assured that Edward lived, and that danger was once more aver-
ted from him.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE BIIVOUA.
MANY inonths hadanow passed by. 'Edward'had become a sailor- --was held to
be one of the smartest hands, and boldest, bravest men on board the Harpy-; but
he ,was also known for being as kind as brave, as temperate in language as in all
else, for which he would have been despised by his messmates, if they 'had not
known the innate manliness of his disposition;-and he was respected and beloved
accordingly. -Besides, Pipes, who was held up as a high authority in all matters,
owed his life to him, and the brave old man loved him like a son-a fact that told
more in Edward's favor than even his own admirable qualities could have done.
Rose had been enabled to shed a rayof joy-on the darkened lives of the old people,;
for Mhost-simultaneously.came letters .from Charles 1 nd Edwardistating that they
had been in battle, had been wounded, and had recovered, and expressing 'hopes-
thatif the war closedsoon, as it was likely to do (thoughthe American war broke
out soon after), they ,would return to the -bosom of their family.
Of Ellen Freshville no news had been heard; and the old man, like a raging lion,
when he knew of her love for Charles, and that it was solely on his account that
she quitted-her parental roof, found no measure in the indignant terms with which
he denounced. and execrated the son of the village carpenter, as he called Martino
Palmer,-a-'course that produced just the amount of satisfaction that might have
been expected.=
Charles: was in Spain =meanwhile, soon after the taking of Badajoz (and the
battle Qf'Sdaamanca) and thanked God that 'he had been spared any share in, or'
sight of, the fiendish atrocities that had' been committed there, where men, women,,
and children were indiscriminately butchered:in: cold blood;, the episodes of this
unutterable storming being the most infamous that blacken the chronicles of war,
and illustrating lu'hues the most dreadful the extent -to which the unrestrained pas.
aionisiof lust, murder,'and conquest can uirge men to go.--: ..-.
-'The capture of 'Madrid,.and. the retreat ofu Joseph- Bonaparte: from thence, was
succeeded by a series of battles and victories of more or less consequence to the:
armes tlere engaged; and in several of which Charles was' compelled to take his

K;V
5-
x
4
w
. ,s
's
s
y

share, with a repugna1ce the greater, that his naturally gentle and even womanish
nature was not deficient in' that courage which can face danger and 1eath with un-
ehalken:ndrves ;.nd he :ias invaddition,,on the best possible terms with hiss'com-
rades, froxnais readiness t'V oblige them in many acts of. kindness and good nature,
which, under the peculiati citcumstances they are rendered,-enhance their value so
greatly; and ponsolidates.the good understanding that should always exist among
a community of men.
The Ehglish army under Wellington was Oncampndionthe Plains of Vittoria,
and the enemy under Marshal Jourdan rwashsit great force arrayed against, them,
and the battle was likely to be one of the most important and desperately contested
of any that had yet been fought. - Upon its issue.depended the mightiest results;
and as both were equally confident and daring, and there was an enormous quantity
of cannon in the field, the sacrifice of life waslikelyto be immen'se-a very second
ary 'consideration to the generals, whatever it might'be to the men.
Night had fallen 'upon the-tented: plain, and'the blaze 'of watch-fires, spattered
for miles inlength, indicated 'the lines. of the two great armies.- Silent and still
as wre'the heavens, with only the inelancholy wind' sweeping mournfully over
head, and now and then opening the.flags as they hung listlessly'fto'the poles, there
wass confused 'muimur,: wiehr iingled'-with the occasional neighing of'-horses,
the challenge of the sentinel, the tramp of -men going'their -rounds, the 'rush of
mounted officers, wrapped =in cloaks, who ;were, reconnoitring the different posts,
the clang of aris, together .with those varieties of sounds 'which will gather and
arise whei:vast bodies of=menare gathe~ed'inrlarge assemblies.
The.scene was picturesque enough, beneath' the pale, soft moonlight, and the far-
flashing fires of' the' bivouacs. 'Here were 'pitched-a-eluster of white: tents, where
the officers iested and slept ; there, was a troop of horse, picketed; and looming
sternly in the obscurity of the distance might have- been seen the serried lines of
the slumbe rin~gcannon, ready to{open their :fiery throats 'ahddischarge their deadly
messengers'with all the a effect' that consummate skilland a slaughtQrous impulse
could suggest. It :ws ta- scene on which the' imagination' could dwell 'with a
significant,moral and' with vety sad and solenin deductions; But' sleep now
visited most 'of the 'weary ones; and if they dreamt, it 'was- mostly of home;'of
those beloved, or lost and far a ay.
Among;a group, whose-axis were piled around a watch-fire, and around which
the wakeful sentinels'traversedto and fro, wrappedup in his-niilitary coat, and with
his head pillowed on his knapsack, was Charles Palmer. He slept not. His busy
fancy was far toovivid'to woo that slumber which was 'so delicious' t. his tired
comrades. Something had°so utterly' 'driven it saway, that he lay on his elbow
end peeredsamiong, the distant "shadows justlwhere' the light of the fires- mingled
with the partial darkness, and where he fancied he had seen a shadowy form pass
with a'ligli butseiriouhstep   '
'Yes'; bf- the'side of}the '°treamnlet, beneath-the nodding beeohes, wandering on
the flo*6rgtnarge of those'singing waters 'with birds andssunshine above his head,
the rapt youth'wa'bnonrie away, and with' him, clasped to his side, walked the pham.
torn of his th'cughsEllen ! If A had  repudiated'her,;his heart clung to . her.
'What had thus carried him back to what was a fallacy and a falsehdod?
Had he beheld that face anywhere since hequited hoane? Had some strange
fortune, by a change,'Fthrown her across his path?
'lb 'heave s, there 'it 'is again1!i' he claimede' with a: sudden start.
" Why comrade, what is;the maltter-with=you ?' demanded a soldier, who turned
.  oui d .sChadnes startled hihp by his vice '   '
" Did you see anything ?-did any one pass ?" asked Charles, 'in breathless
anxiety ,!Fog&amp;6ther.' ,
"Pass? No! You must have been dreaming," was the reply,- j" dreaming and
tkiiikihg ot ti d" light of other days'"
" I hav4'ndt legt" ' said Charles'; but the words the man hadjust quoted had,
.for him, a deep meaning.-

al

Y
=r
v,'
to
^
«!k
i
yyid
Sj
_
y{
M1
'{
A
3

.
;,
_         F'
T .
T t
3        , !
S
;3
1    t;i
{
i
f   t ''

.i   ;
J
!_

r  _                     "                 yY .. " r                                   r
4r.         t              ,.      r             _ _ 1     4       3                               ;     .i


182

T It ' TWI N -R0T RiBR-S.

" "All thesame," responded his comrade ;:"'for when one is thinking of home, or
of one's sweetheart, one dreams just thesame:' comrade- i '
"'Yes," returned Charles, after a pause,-during which he' still followed the form
with his eyes -till;it vanished ; and then falling back, with a sigh, "Yes,'yes, I sup-
pose, it'is so-: onlythat some'.are more vivid than others".'?  .
s'rWhy,,you have not seenanything, have you ?" asked the soldier, in a tope of
surprise.
' IL have-that-is,'I'think II have," returned Charles; 'and some might take it
as an evil' omen -as a messenger of death."      -a ''
'Every bullet has its billet, comrade, and some of us will get it to-morrow
without ever a message being sent," was the philosophic reply. :" After 'all, what
does itmatter 7" 'r'         :
" Well,"'said Charles, moodily, "'perhaps very little in the end."
" All the same to'.me," spoke a young andsingularly handsomen soldier, who, by
his wild-and tameless excessespandby the ardor with:which he had plunged into the
heat 'of.the fight on more than one occasion,'seemed really to have 'conceived a
disgust at life ;.:the result (if such it was)' doubtless of some event that had ren-
dered it:unbea-rable to him.                              .-:
Hewas aimere ladin age and appearance, and yet his temples were-fringed with
gray.hairs. With an impunity that: startled some:of the stoutest topers of the
regiment-and there were not wanting plenty, whose feats of excess would have
done credit t&amp;6 one of the: Homeric; heroes- in. their. drinking exploitsr-he could
swallow the most heady wines; the'most fiery spirits and iin such undiluted quanti-
ties as would hive beeni followed, in. niostt cases, with :intoxication, 'if not ,total
stupefaction ;'ibut owing -to some derangment-of 4the nervous or mental system, his
excesses had-no'effect upon him  His boyish, pallid face, so beautiful, struck one
withthe terrible melancholy{ which was expressed upon it. His eyes had a dull
sombre fire in them, 'which told that when he did sinkif he was not killed in bat-
tie- it would be once sudden and unannounced. He -seemed to- fearnothing, to
lose; or hate. nothing,,to be' frightfully indifferent: to everything living or dead.
"All the same," he' said,. with weary air. - "It would be barely achange.".
There was a mystery in his;history, suggested by his slight aristocratic-looking
face and frame, his manner, his words, his own, individuality. It must have .been
some dreadful:, event'that' placed the. winter :of sixty .on that head of barely a
score,-that out of the heart of, a boy, cast out -by a frosty winter, the genial
smniner :of his youth.
" There! there.1" cried Charles, once more suddenly, drawing the attention of the
men where 'it had been' fastened by the reckless words, -and which now. followed
the finger-of Charles, that pointed to some object he alone .(so they asserted)
could' see.   ;.             .t
The figure of a woman hovering on the outer circle of the bivouac was certain
ly very distinctly!seen. ; With parted lips, and'eyes that seemed starting out of
their sockets,'.Charlesraised himself still; higher on hist arm,and fixed his IQok
upon-this form, that with a slow step' passed :on, now vanishing, behind some
projecting mass of arms, or lost in the shadow of a tent, and- again crossing the
bars of fiery light. ..
"Do. younot sed anything now ?" he asked.
" I see nothing," was repeated by one and another, in turn.
The moonshine fell-'on theftace, once more, lit {as-white, clear,., and certainly
more' pha'ntom.like than real. 'Then it vanished again.. '
"Whose tent is that yonder ?" asked Charles, pointing to one some consider'
ble distance away:  'i'
"Major Freshville's of the -th foot," was the answer. " Djdn't you , now it ?'
nsked his eorn.radein turn.{.               '
No, he did not kimw it-had never heard the name,.that he remsmnbered.; but
he found thiat if he had&amp;no knowledge of one fact, it conjured up a hest 'of recol
lections.

.

I
Ir

63

Freshville ! A tremor ran' through all his frame as a train of conflicting fancies
came crowding confusedly upon him. His first impulse was to hurry after the
figure ; and his next was, with a proud submission, to fall back again on his arm.
"What matters it ?" he murmured.
His eyes fell on the gloomy, but, fair,'and how'fearfully white face of the young
soldier, who had spoken of life and death with a kind of scoffing impiety, that at
the moment shocked Charled'; but hei read in it so vast a tale of human wreck
and misery, that he was ashamed of his own sorrow, for here was a greater.
And sorrow, be it known, is a sacred thing among the most reckless.
d' Do you then careso little what comes of 'the morrow ?'" said Charles to him
in a low tone.
"No more than I do for the smoke -that comes from the  corporal's pipe," said
the  youth;.
"It must be something'very sad-"
"I 'have'a silent"sorrow' heie,"'exclaihied the youig soldir;,'with a wild, short,
scoffing laugh,laying his hand Abohi Heart.
"Tell ustwhat it i;, Dick;will you ?"'said a comrade, in reply. " Aye, tell us your
story, lad, if'=you -caa't go to sleep. I' think Charley, here has-seen a ghost, that
he looks so white about it, and has roused me up. iMay I never, if here's not two
or three more turning-up. Zooks! lads,' this is bad preparation for a, day's work."
And another Was added to the'gi-oup.                                . .
Well, let young' Dick, here, tell his'story," suggested.the first. "I'll tell'mine,
if there's any storyeto tell--it's: short and sweet--but if his be long enough to
send us to sleep again  "
"Why, we'll thank him," broke irV a fourth,
- The young man, who turned from one to the other, a face on which some strong
emotion was working, paused a moment/ and then said, "Well, my lads, since to-
morrow will end all, or- else 'I must try'some other means-But pass 'me your
brandy'fiask, and let's har ;plenty in it' and I'll tell you'a stoiy, such as has not
aften been told rounda watch-f i-"' and as two  y 'three flaskowere Landed readily
to the soldier, 'Dick' as he was. fainiliarly termed, after' having taken a deep pull,
and placed the flasks beside him,"signified he was ready to commence.
'Their curiosity'was greatly excited, and silently a dozen' men gathered round,
leaning on  their arms in a cidrle ;  the majority' of 'whom, lit their 'ipes, in order
to give a deeper relish to the story, which every one had an idea must contain some
element or other of 'mdst absorbing 'interest.

"i'H ' WI* BROtH1C tit i

31
_i
x
ti
Ott

jog,=

"r
e      ,.     ,
.                                                        r

,
:C   Ida
k
f    i 1

.,      t                     ,

;.
vj   J
f'
ny
j  i
iEjj
y'+ r,7
iJ
_  1
r
,iY.ti:


TUZ    TWIN     RQTI     8.
CHAPTER XXTI-.
THE YOUNG SOLPDIlR's STORY.
"GENERALLY speaking," began the youth, " stories }lave what is called a
moral to them ; and if you don't know what that means 2 shall not stop to tell
you--     .n
"Yes, yes, we know," ran in low murmurs round. -                 , '
Well, mine had no moral, because it comes too late," and his voice thrilled as
he spoke; "and if it had its uses would'be very doubtful.  .,.=.
"It matters very little who or what I any' he -continued. . " I have lain in silk
and purple, and'grew up as pne born to command. : I went to. college, and very
likely you think I was a wild, harum-scrum devil of, a. fellow-boating, driving,
hunting, gowning-and-towning, it-cultivting women, wine,,cardsrand so on,-as
you may have heard that young fellows with plenty of, money do. Well, if you
think so, you are mistaken. I was a quiet studious young man. I might add:
noral,"-and his sardonic laugh jarred as before,; "and it.wouldt have been per-
fectly true. I loved books, study, and peace, was a gool scholar, studied music
and the arts, fenced like Angelo--there is not a man ii;the army, perhaps, that
can play at the small-sword with me-and quiet as an infant,, I still had a spica
of a wild, tremendous, explosive fiery, devil nme.;
I fell in love, ha! ha ! with a little doll of a girl about my age, that was seven-
teen, and for whom I would have taken m  heart out of my bosom.- She was sa.
frail and fairy-like a creaturethatI could have put her in my breast to shelter as,
one would a little bird ; and she ldved -me with suc strength of faith, that had,
I been Don Juan himself; there was such lavish trust in her, that. she would have.
converted me from a-debauchee into a true, honest man.
"She is 'as still now as a frozen rill-slee Ani like the streams in winter-she.
will never waken again.  and his head fell., on his .breast, though his eyes, which
ere burning with the rpain of his:strog agony, were not moistened with a tear.
Theyhad dried at- the very oi-ntains.- it              e in -
I dare say more than one among you kgW  hats ,to. be'm.love, my Lads,
Here is Charley, for instance," and our hero gave a start ; " he, I imagine, can
understand me."=%
" Yes-yes !" again murmured the soldiery;- " we know it."
" Yes !" he repeated somewhat scornully; all very well that, but different men
have different ideas of love. Some are sensual and depraved, and with them.
love is mere pollution and a mis-comprehension of the sublime passion ; and I
have met with but few that could understand it. as I did, but it was with me a
portion of life-of existence !
" Yes, with me it was different ; she was a lovely little trusting flower, the daugh-
ter of a very worthy, honest tradesman, who loved her like the apple of his eye ;
but she was worthy of a throne, and I would have given her one. As it was I
could make her, I thought-fool that I was'!-honored, great, wealthy. She is
poor enough.now, and so am I!.
" Our dream of love was delicious, but very brief. She eloped with me, and as
the Lord God'liveth, I meant her no harm-for I made her my wife ;" he added
this with a solemnity that startled the soldiers, who were not often moved by any
strength .of expression.
" Yes, she became my wife !" he continued.
" Your wife !" ejaculated one or two of the men. " Thundpr and lightning, here,
Dick, give us your hand, my boy 1" and a cordial grasp was given. ." We thought
you trifled with the little child."

.
-
.- -
,'
-

"INI

I
yI
It

THE TWIN -BROTHEIRS.

65

"My parents heard that I had eloped with the child of a tradesman," the soldier,
heedless of this, went on ; "and threatened the poor old fellow with'ruin "and
annihilation. . It would not have taken much to have broken his heart, for it was
half gone already; but what was done could not be undone ; and I thought iiy
father and mother loved me too well to thwart me, and 'that 'I -had only to bring
her home to give her another father and mother,:who would love her like her own.
"I meant to have put her back into lis bosom, and said, 'Embrace your daughter,
but also ;embrace my wife, and you can love her still!' but that day never came.
I believed, however, tery firmly in it, and I was happy living in a little Eden of my
own, far from the turmoil' of life, and expecting then my little baby hourly.
" My parents prevented this," hel continued, after a convulsive pause, during
which he drew his hand over his brow several times, as though things were crowd.
ing into his brain, and confusing him with their multitudinous variety.
" Yes, they hindered all. We lived in Wales at the time; and when my baby
was born, and she put it in my bosom, and laid her own sweet little-head like a
blossoming flower beside it,J1I-I prayed to God for her, for both, and loved thejin
more and more. Then I made up my mind to return to my father's house.
" One -day I went to my little home, after walking, or fishing, or something, and
I-found her-gone-both gone ! Oh! then the sleeping devil within me -woke up.
I learned from the' people of the 'hise that a stern man, and a proud, 'pale woman,
richly dressed, drove up in a splendid chariot, drawn- by four horses, and carried
her off-robbed me.of my wife and tmy child. This man-this 'woman; were my
parents.' I travelled'night and day, and arrived at their house in town.
" I demanded my wife ; they called her a designing, cunning girl-and they said
something worse of her than I deuld bear, and I silenced them, and made them
turn pale and tremble. I demanded my child.-" They knew nothing of either. I
cursed them both, and quitted the house, never to return to it more.
"I'need not tell you how long after, or by what means, I traced my Alice through
stages of wretchedness and penury, till I found both mother and babe, my wife
and child, dying on a mean pallet, in a parish woikhouse.
"I could have, called curses from heaven and fires from hell to' avenge this
immitigable wrong ; for what had this pale, crushed, tender dove done to win such
an atrocious injury? But when I saw her pale, thin cheeks, and heard her moan-
ing, and saw my wasted babe on the half1starved breast of the woman I adored,
as devotees adore heaven, I stilled my soul-I shed no tears-I heard her utter a
cry of joy and pain, and then the thin helpless hand wandered over my head, as I
laid it, kneeling by her side in that horrible hole upon her breast beside my child.
"Little Alice,' I said, 'little Alice, you and your sweet baby shall live here no
longer.'
"'No, George-no,' she said. Oh, her thin lips, how they trembled ! 'No,
George, dear, we shall not live here long-not very long  qive me that brandy,
my lad !" said the soldier abruptly.
"iTo lose a parent,-to lose a mother one 'loves,-to lose a friend one is
devoted to,-to lose a dog that has been your companion for years, is all painful;
what was it to this ?" continued the soldier. "When I heard what she said I had
a terrible foreboding of the future. Was it for this I had sought her? Was it
thus my parents had shown their love? Was it to see her die that I had moved
heaven and earth to discover her? If tears were rain, and not the bitter and acrid
shower which scalded my face like a caustic, roses would have sprung to life around
her dying pillow ; and that golden hair so dabbled-
"'Tare my head in your arms, my dear George,' she said, faintly. 'Take my
child in your arms, too. Kiss me-kiss the baby. You love us, do you not?
God bless you ! God protect youI Do not separate us. Do not forget us. I
Lhave borne much-but I loved you so dearly; and I forgive every one, as I hope
to be forgiven !"
The rough soldiers turned away, and one or two wiped their eyes furtively. A
few sturdy but suspicious " hems" sounded niggardly, and they averted their face.

f.
1 yy
it
Sf t-.
t
iF
Lf  '
,T
)f
F
f
i
f {
-r
:f
t

r
1
l

f,   j  ,}
' j
r
Y i  t
Y '}, i
, t
?.  '
_                    - z+
.         - , " % 3
_^CS! _
tw t  _
ra7
j  i
_.    .f tl
J,  .
+ -- .             ,.1, w
-Ydi


Iii

6                    L .  ' WWIN   B1RIO'THERUS.
LiMtle 4lice,' I said,  're you;going without net?  Well, I won't wait long.'
"'$1 and onjy going before you,' shl said ; and I felt that she was speaking the
truth. 'I am going before you ;-,clasp me closer, let me feel your lips ;-lift up
my ;head,--put any baby's mouth oto mine-and-and so she died,,my lads ! and for
an, hour after I held her baby in:my bosom till I felt it cold. It was dead, too I"
There was-a ;long, deep, impressive pause, and again he went ,on.
"They made my heart desolate, wrecked, and void; and I-I, in turn, desolated
their household, and wreaked their :peace for fever. As they had. two passions to
feed and fqster-.--be most boundless love for me,:their only child, anda pride; which,
God forgive then, they 'dad also given to me, and the latter the greater, they sacri-
iced me to that prideA .;Well, I trampled on their pride. -They knelt tome in i
the 4i'st and ,ashes of hgrnility, and I scorned them. -They offered me a bride,
the fairest in the land,.and Ilaughed at them. They could not give me little Alice,
and I had nothing else to ask for. I had a grand funeral from that workhouse for
my wife and child, ;and I put my name on her coffin-lid, and after that day I forgot
1hat 1 had a name'or parents, :and I knew that I had avenged Alice, for their house
is a house of mourning andthe world is to them, as to me--a sepulchre.
"And this is the reason, ,ay boys, that I don't care for anything that comes or
goes, that happens or that does not happen. !I want to be dead. I want to sleep, for
ny eyes barn so that at night Idon't close them ; I only see little Alice;,my golden-
haired little wife-and I only clasp in ray arns My dead baby, till the drum or the
trumpet wakes me up, and then I have only the bullet that hits me to look for. It
has not come yet., but to-morrow. will have better luck ! And so hand me the
brandy !"
He tools a deep, deep draught, and a strong hectic "hue came into his white
cheeks. The soldier s were deeply shocked, end their rude emotions made their
hearts throb painfully in their-broad chests..
"Ifnone of yog can match that story,":said the soldier, "go to sleep, and don't
disturb me:; I am going to ream of my Alice-and her child agin;" and he fell
back on his side, and apo rnfnl wind swept wailing by, as -if it had been the oice*
.L the dead.-

4
3s''1

'3Z TWIN BR'OTHZRS.

.n

CHAPTER XXIII.
-T11E  3     .TL5.
Tirt hill reveile startled the sleepers. 'Fromn line to line ran the roll of the
thrillinvdrums, and the whole army was Aroused from'the sleep of the long 'night.
The men made a 'hasty breakfast on the ground, and folding away their great
;coats, 'buckled them behind in their ruishal places. ' The lines were then :formed ;
a~nd in an incredibly short space of timerthe whole British army was in Carms, and
'with bounding heart;ready and waiting ifor the battle.
'Then, while flags were'proudlyifloating in' the air;---while videttes'were hurrying
to the heights where the commander-in-chief had posted himself,-while the aides-
detamy were hearingg 'from post to post, bearing orders of the- greatest conse-
quence,--while the impatient war-horse was champing his bit and pawing the
ground,-then roseithe wild blare of the stirring 'martial music,,with that electric
effect which transformshman, we know -not how or why, into something fierce, bold,
and hardy enough to dare Deatb even, in'his own iron den.
The wild magic adences th4t rang with such a fierce ?melody, and to which the
beat of the hollow drum added an inspiration that was almost delirious, sounded
cross the wide plain; and ever and anon thedeep slogan of the Irish regiments,
as they ranto-batlle-eager,in' the'old-proverbial phrase of,'the Greek poet, "to
grapple wit'h' g ory naked"-increased the excitement felt:by those who were' yet
'standing on their arms, waiting ifor the word to go forwardrd"
When 'the thrilling, blood~titring melody of the Scotch'bagpipe drove the light
and limber mountaineer bounding like a buck on his native braes; and with eredt
forms kindledcheek=and tfladhing ey's the  honts of their clans :re-echoed those
of fang h-a-ballagh " and 4thewhole mingled in 'one huge human roar, when the
fetartling3 "harrah 1" of the English soldier told that he too was going intofaction
with a-'step as light as though he were. going to the dance; and:then one 'awful,
reverberatingearthquaking roar told that the artillery had begun its destructive
'work, and theybatle raged with =fury from end to end of the plain; while in a
dense and iaiid ciiopy of smoke,'that sink heavily over the combatants; the sharp
horrors of the atrife 'Were for a while 'obscured.
The greaticannon soon did their work : whole battalions were swept down, yet
their places 'Weie filled up wherever it was Necessary to concentrate men. And
oolly on the heights Sat the 'commander-in-chief on horseback, glanding through
his glass at the-progress of the fight, ordering 'the voids to be filled; the broken
gaps again rendered*a fAlir and 'serried 'mass, sending men to take this position, to
capture that batch of the foe, with as much compunction and just as quietly as if
he were playing chess, and the enon he lost had as little blood or sense 'of pain in
'them as those made 'of ivory.
'The :cannon ceased after a while.; for those that were not captured were remov-
'ed, or else aftera.vain effort, and the literal waste, of hundreds of dives, the .im-
pregnablepoint was given up as',impracticable. Then began' the 'chargesiof the
regiments of horse, hurling their weight of man and horse upon all in their way,
as:though they were'the missiles forced from some' superhuman engine 'in {a. guise
as'graddly terrible as fatal. The battle grew the deadlier and fiercer, when the
bayonet charges were begun, for they now grew intermixed; were 'hand to, hand,
or point to point; and the battle raged, and roared, and thundered, as troop after
'roop :went madly en,--as sheet 'after' ssheet of. vivid flame was feilitwed 'by the
(thrillieg &amp;shof shower of shot,--and =as men dropped down around,as the corn
drops from the sickle of the reaper in the harvest-field, and the shouts of tnen
grew wilder'and 'louder. " Like bloodhounds, they had got the 'scent of blood, and

b
s'
'
iY
A
E
EY

i4
t

I

l


~c8          TIlE -TWIN BROTRI9.

they seemed to be borne on with a resistless force that nothing could withstand,
till they fell in heaps, and choked up the way : and then the scene was more sick-
ening, for horses brained dead men, and tore their limbs, and mangled their
corpses. War, and Glory, and Death had a triumphant orgie in that field of car-
nage.
Charles has escaped as by a miracle. The youth whose story so moved him has
been shot through the heart, and lies at his feet=with a face so calm and smiling,
that he seemed to have at last attained the happiness life refused.to promise him.
The name of "Alice"  ias the last breathed on'his lips : and Charles, had time to
cast his coat over the boyish form; and to think of that love, stronger than death
which he could have felt, but which the loved object refused to accord him.
In that hail of death, officers and men have suffered severely, andt of the.first
scarcely one is left ; so that the remnant-of.this slaughtered regiment is now added
to another, and Major Freshville on horseback leads them on, His bright' blade
gleams, and his noble horse bounds like a hunter over a;barrier-a barrier of dead
forms.
" Fo  ard; my lads 1-forward I" he cries, waving his -sword and pressing on:
Char  on them !---hurrah !'
And "Hurrah ! hurrah :hurrahl1" rings:triumphantly from the throats of the
terribly excited men, who have stood for hours retaining, their post, and are now
deciding the fate of the battle. They give .no'way, though cannon, andhorse, and
foot-have been trying to oppose them. They give no way-and just. no*they are
advancing. "'Hurrah 1";
Major Freshville is a brave, but a rash. man. . He leads his companies into a
fire which seems likely to annihilate them;; but hewill ndt go back. ",Forward !"
is the-cry, and forward they go. A film comes over the 9yes of Charles, but it is
a film of blood. He begins to feel the same tigrish instinct :moving in his own
veins and arteries. He is being. carried away by the ardor of the fight. But
Major Freshville is in danger.
His horse-is shot dead under {him..  He falls in the melee. The bayonets
ofY the foes, with a'dull jarring, grating sound, crash and clash, and, then find less
resistance, and make far less noise, as they cleave and split the hearts of those who
are to baptize their bloody points. From the bayonet to the stock, the musket is
wet and red; and Charles is, fighting :like a gladiator over the body of the pros..
trate officer, because his name is Major Freshville chiefly, and because he has re-
cognized in him' the officer he met with Ellen on the day of their last, meeting:
and even in the roar and amidst the slaughter, he- has time to think of this.-
"Thabks,. my lad, thanks!" says the officer, who has been saved hy efforts the
most tremendous and determined, and mountinga horse that was then flying. past,
" Thanks'! if we live after the battle, come to me to my. tent ;": and setting his
spursinto the noble -animal, on they.go again like a whirlwind.
Three times did the-battle seemlost and won. Three times had either side ap-
peared to giveaway, but they rallied-together again, and seemed' determined to die
where they were rather than retreat. The great plann is wet, but it is not the
rain of the spring, nor the dews of the summer night. Little rills are running
about; and ,joining others larger, deeper, wider,. till the rills are a river. But the
river is not 4a 'river of water,-it is river of blood l'Out of that sanguine irri.
'gation, 'what fruit shall grow? what rank'weeds thrive?. Not corn, or pastures, I
trow.
TIhe regiment went into the battle nine hundred strong ; nine hundred bright,
blazing bayonets, and not enough were- left in Charles's' division to make 'up three
companies: Well-might a soldier call the slaughter most graphically a ".butcher's
bill."            .
The battle was fought and over. The arm of slaughter was wearied. It was
a "-glorious victory." It led to other fields of fight, more butchieries, but also to
"glorious 'victories" in .succession!
.The Ediglish took one hundred and fifty-one pieces of cannon, four hundred and

)TIH E TW IN- I OTHER R'S.

,09

fifteen wagons and ammunition, all the enemy's baggage, provision and treasure,
with their commander's, baton of ai Marshal of FranceI They never said ho*
many men lay dead on the field the next day.
CHAPTER XXIV.

'4

T  O K C -o o =PI T .

T   E cock-pit of the Harpy was on more than one occasion the scene of many
revolting spectacles; such groans and shrieks were wrung, by the "very intensity
of pain, from the lips of men to whom the fear of death or the dread of a wound
were things little heeded. Some there might be found in the "'sick bay," this ship'9
hospital, where the doctor and his assistants -work like butchers in a sham les,
cutting up joints-some with broken limbs dangling by the skin, others with the
intestines torn away, others again, with part of the face shattered; and, after a
battle,a warm reek of human blood would issue from that hideous butchery ; a
mist,'hot and clinging, would rise, vapor-like, from that gory chamber, which would
have filled a spectator with horror and loathing. What can be imagined is other=
wise unutterable.
It was Edward's turn now to submit to-one of these accidents of battle, which
only missed a vital part by the merest chance ; for during one of those actions
which almost daily took place, he had' been struck down beside Jack Pipes, to the
great horror and concern of the latter, who, stooping down, said,
"How now, bo'? Not hove down yet, I hope, eh ?" and taking the flaccid hani
of the bleeding youth, he bent down his head anxiously to see if he was really
dead or had fainted ; but Edward neither spoke nor opened his eyes.
"I'd rather have lost a limb myself," said the seaman, with great feeling; " fca
a braver heart, nor a better fellow, never broke biscuit. Here, Sambo White !*'
he added, turning to a 'gigantic negro who stood beside the gun which had just been
discharged at the enemy, "lift up his feet, you woolly angel, steady and gently.
Bear a hand! 'Out" of the way there, you clumsy lubbers !" he sternly added,
address ug a.,couple of seamen who were about to stumble against them. " Steady
Sambo'- you nigger--"
"Sa abo am steady," returned the black, with an air of offended dignity.
"Sam},o am no nigga. He colored gempleman, sar !" and with a very slight
exertic q of his tremendous strength, he tenderly bore Edward towards the nouth
of the cockpit, while Pipes -assisted, bearing Edward's head and shoulders undet
his var t hands, and down, delicately asian infant, they carried him.
" N ane of that, doctor," Pipes suddenly -exclaimed, as the surgeon was about
to ue his horrible-looking instruments for the amputation of Edward's arm, which
had leen shattered ; " no -meddling with the lad's flipper. Sink me; if I don't
think. 't's unchristian to go cutting, and slashing. and sawing so. If you'll be so
good ir, as'to lash a tourniquet round it, I'll answer for his recovery all the
"Pihaw !" was the impatient exclamation of the surgeon who had become blunte
by onany harrowing scenes." "Pshavl the arm is'too hopelessly injured ; how-
ever, if you think you can save him, do so--I shall not hinder you' ;" and he
turned away abruptly..                            .     ..           ,
" lere, Sambo, my son ; for, after all, your blood's red like my own, and your
bmart's in the right place ;-here, Sambo 1" said Pipes, his eyes moist and dim.
" May I never drink another can, if I-don't-think the heart of'the doctor there is
m hard as a capstan or a cannon-ball. Just take my bandanna off, will you, darky ;
and let's see if we can splice or lash up the poor lad'sarm. I should'iit like to

.1

'4lo

e

£9

I

rYi fs

r li.y  htQ
lag,
"',ha_'!.- w,' .raa.,+ r  r, r*.


'4..'."

"

'4

T39 TW1ri BRO IHT3RS.

"lip

meet. that pretty.sweetheart. of hi. againif he bas.lost a flipper,,and not have
joue something to prevent it. 'So,'Sprbo-.---so,,my ladi-"--"and speaking, thus,
with a delicate dexterity, the negro took the, neckerghief; ,and as Pipes, laid .some
splinters along the broken arm, the degro tied them up, and soon the arm was
securely bandaged, and then obtaining for Edward a sleeping draught, Pipes had
him placed in a berth, where, despite.the throbbing and the pain of his arm, the
young man fell into a long, deep, sleep, from which he awoke refreshed.
We need not dwell upon the slow and tardy recovery which took place, to the
infinite delight of Jack Pipes,' but-,proceed'tqra more interesting episode of our
story. A year had already elapsed, during which they had scoured every nook
and corner, of the English seas,'had fought. a ozen battles, and once.or twice had
put into a foreign port to  'refit, to get stores, and sometimes to leave tokens of
esteem inthe shape of- fire and sword, in an, enemy'scountry ; and during all this
time Edward had not heard from Rose, from home,, nor from his brother ; and
there, were times when his 'heart-grew sick, and his hopes sank, at the probability
that time and death,, absence; and. forgetfulness, might. break for ever those ties
which had been so very dear -to mhim.
The Harpy had;in obedience to orders, left her Mediterranean station, and was
carrying despatches=of some consequence to Sierra Leone, so that now she was
running down the African coast with a. favorable wind, occasionally obtaining
sight,of the dusky shores where some branch of the formation of the 4tlas chain
lifted, up itsdusky and stricken brow to the fervid rays; of the sun, .or towered
aloft, sublimein its tranquil grandeur, as a pinnacle jostling with the stars. f
Edward wad pow in anew element, breathing a strange atmosphere. He had
left: the blue waters, the soft breezes, the azure skies of the..Mediterranean, and
was now in a torrid, zone, where in the deadcalmfof, a day, whose sky was a can-
opy of copper, hot as an oven, suffocating and enervating, he saw a sun in the sky
that burned with such fierceness as, to any one incautious enough to, brave it,
would strike.a deadly fever to the brain: with a single ray.,
They were' cruising among shoals, and bars, and. blights, and Watching suspi-
eious Spanish and French craft with low black hulls,.thatwere engaged;in the slave
trades at the mouths of rivers. They breathed thspdeadly, air of waters where; the
dense vegetation- knitted and. intertwisted overhead,: rotted and, rotted in the
water, which, as it.flowed. on, stirring up the stagpant slime, where noisowue and
deadly thingsdurked, and the savage and the serpent,co4pned together with the
poisonous exhalations of a most infernal climate, to attack thewhite man, to ar-
rest the progress of his daring spirit, to limit his step, to kill him in every con
ceivable way, and by .fevers. of' every ghastly kind.
The Harpy had. tradsacted business'.at SierraUeone, and having taken on board
a considerable quantity of ;gold dust, the captain, in pursuance of instructions reT
ceived from the government1,proceeded again for sea, and a rumor spread, through
the brig that they were in search of a notorious.Spanish pirate slaver, who, under
the command of a, daringcreole'-of Brazilian extraction,;had defied all the cr-
sers on. the coastforalong.time past. The reputationof. this lawless: rover for
seamapslip and hardihood, was' coupled ;with ,characteristics of a darker nature;
It was statedthat he;had committed.the most wanton:cruelties-; that whole crews
had been compelled to walk the plank. If there happened to be any females, on
board any of the vessels so unfortunate as to cross his path, they became hi4
property,.or, a. prey to the bxutalities of his crew, So horrible were the deeds
Ieilad done, that a. determined effort.was decided upon: for the extermiatuon of;
this .band of marauders, and a the duty of doing- this devolved uppn ,the  arpy'
whose crew calculated upon a princely share of prize money,;'

CHAPTER XXV.
A CRUISE IN A LAiQOON.
Tu Harpy was hugging the shore under easy sail, on the banks of the Quorra,
peeping into those innumerable creeks and hiding-places which alkcund at the,
entrance of African rivers ; but not a sail was visible. At last they happened to
enter into a vast lagoon, which they had not yet explored, and where the fantas.'
tical tropical scenery, the-singular beauty of the broadening waters, the blinding
sunlight which ;dashed- upon it, and the great numbers of' verdant islets, that, like
pictures in a dream, appeared and disappeared, tended to give a sort of drowsy
attraction to a scene more' beautiful than anything ,dward had hitherto seen ;
and holding his breath with delight, he. glided' with his buoyant- vessel over the,
magical depth of those marvellous waters, rather realizing. some illusion of the
fancy than being concerned in the barefact of every-day life.
Clustered in groups beneath the awnings, the men were assembled upon the deck,
anxiously discussing the subject of their cruise, and holding, as many different-
opinions upon it.
"Here's the place, howsomever; to, meet 'Yellow Jack' " observed a grizzled.
seamen: "for in the most beautiful corners of these 'farnal lagoons,;you goes to'
sleep in warmth and sunshine, and wakens, with slimy damps all over you, and
then down you go,-a few hours raving, and shark 'and alligator finish up the
count.: That's the way to tottle up an African cruise."
"Well, for my patt, we shall have better fun, I hope,. messmate," said a light
and agile boarder. " I have heerd that in same of these black. craft, besides a-
pretty good lot of gold dust, there's a good haul of dollars and Portugal pieces to
be found snug in the 'tween-decks. But avast !-what have we here ?"
All at once a sort of small village appeared at the extreme end of the bay, and on
a strong' and' rudely-constructed fort the yellow flag of Spain floated proudly.
Primitive as was the architectural style of these houses, all built of .timber and
matted in, here and there evidences of cultivation were to be seen in fields and.
wellestocked gardens ; and the breadth and extent of some of the- structures- indi-
cated a station of sonie importance. It might, be a mere trading depot for ivory,
gold dust, and palm oil.: It might, however, be the head-quartery of a slave
merchant. The captain and crew of the Harpy had the more reason-to believe this
from the bustle they witnessed' among a group of persons ashore, and from. their
having seen, from aloft, the tapering and. raking mastsof some craft from among
the trees, which appeared, however, to remain in perfect security among those
"keys " and retreats,, mostly inaccessible, and known only. to those- who had. be.
come familiar with them, when engaged: in their nefarious, traffic, or in escaping.
from the hot persuit of a king's' ship.a
" I say,'Danvers,"'said the captain to his lieutenant;"it strikes me that we are
on the ,trail of this creole cut-throat. Take the boat. and go ashore, with. my
compliments to the governor, and if he; is curious to know what brings us here,.
tell him that we want fruit and' water, and some provisions, but not a hint-as to
what we really seek."
" Aye, aye, sir-;" and the lieutenant, touching' his. lat, was lowered with 'his,
boat, as the brig saluted the Spanish flag, which the fort returned in compliment;
to the ensign of St George, that hung. listlessly over the' taffraiW;gand bending
to their oars, the rowers, in their neat frocks and broad-leaved hats, and neat black
belts, in which cutlass and pistol were stuck, pulled to a rude jetty, and followed
by the coxwaine, the officer advanced tona, sentry and asked to see the governor.
"Don Jose--yonder," said the sentinel, pointing to a long low building surround-

e

TEE    .T;WI;       Q

i

_F

*

I


," s I:' .
A
{l

72

TIfl T WIN - B R 6Tflt~ItS

_;
+

_ .r ss.  ,,j.{4  :rs b. '  '+i 4ywX ' ,'h      .i

TII :TWIN BROTH-ER S.

73

CHAPTER XXVI.
A NIGHT ATTACK.

ed by a verandah. The officer went in the direction indicated, and his observa'it
eye beheld a range of log huts, such places as he had heard slaves were packed in
previous to their being bound and stored on board ship, and he did not for a mo-
ment doubt but that he rambled through the streets of one of those demoniac colo-
nies devoted to the pursuits of the slave trade, and prepared to defend the
iniquitous traffic with their heart's blood.
The governor, a bloated; ruffianly looking Spaniard, surrounded by his council
of half-a-dozen armed men, who looked more like the crew of some pirate than a
decent municipality ought to look-areceived the officer with a sort of bullying
civility that was as disagreeable as suspicious. The desire . for frmts, water, and'
provision-the last in the shape of pigs and poultry-was granted ; and two or
three times that the brig's boats passed to and fro sufficed to, complete an arrange-
ment that was rather intended as a blind than otherwise ; and the lieutenant hav-
ing mastered more than Don Jose, the liquor-loving governor, would have desired,
returned on board the brig, ;that again stood for the mouth of the lagoon.
Among these half-dozen of mien Lieutenant Danvers had observed around the
council-table of the undignified looking governor, there was one whose striking'
appearance excited his curiosity in a peculiar degree. - Tall, commanding, young,
and eminently handsome, with=curling, odorous locks, a silken moustache, an eye
that had a satanic gleam in its intense depth, and a smile that was as fascinating
as a woman's, but which, when it writhed under a sense of irritation, had a wither-
ing and bitter curl in its inexpressible menace. He wore a costume of barbarian
elegance, half oriental, and his feet were clad in boots of buff-colored, Spanish
leather. Pistols richly mounted were in a silken sash, and the handle of a yata-
ghan *as prominently displayed. He wore superb ear-rings, and rings of great
value decked his fingers. , A singular air' of deference was shown towards him,
and the lieuterant, by putting "that and that together," as the saying is, came to
the conclusion that he stood in the presence of no less a person than the creole
pirate, or slaver captain, himself. From this arose another conviction, namely,
that the tall and raking masts of the vessel they had seen so slily hidden among
the trees, were none other than those of the swiftest sailor that had ever on that
coast hitherto given the slip to all that attempted her capture.
This stranger thus spoken of was curiousin his questions, speaking in a hun-
ga franca which Danvers knew, and which is more or less known on all foreign.
coasts ; and while asking a variety of questions that might give a clue to the true
reasons that brought a brig-of-war to so unusual a spot, and pretending an utter
ignorance of nautical matters himself, gave it out that he was sailing in a Spanish
trader (which his uncle commanded,) and that he stopped on shore with his friend,
the governor, while the trader made a stretch down the coast, to speculate a little
farther in the business which had brought them to this quarter.
All this failed in mystifying the lieutenant, nor did it deceive the captain of the
Harpy ; and accordingly they set down the whole of the handsome senor's unasked
communication as so much irrelevant matter that was to be read in the reverse
ratio. By this time the- brig had gained the opening of the lagoon ; and bringing
her to, they cast a couple of anchors, attached to buoys, ready to be slipped, and
impatiently waited for the night to fall.h                            t
"Do you think, master, we can surprise that fellow who plays such a pretty
gameS at hide-and-seek, out yonder ?" said the captain to his old favorite and,
teacher.'r
1 Ayeaye, yer honor,-I'll engage it," was the answer. "A. couple of boats,
well manned and armed, and 'I'll back my warrant against a biscuit the task is
done."
" Pipe away the boats, then," said the captain.'

,,

t'
,  r
iF :
.z
-t
.^ ;
IK' f
i      ' '
i',s  i
, .i
r.;;{:
}, E
rt (  l
(' t' .
'S'-; t
Y
_
= i-
,s
f"' yYA
_
'   t ,
, . i -
,G-

A COUPLE of the brig's boats, with some twenty men in each, seamen, marines,
and offices, all. well armed, provisioned for twenty-four hours, with rockets and
signal-lights, the crews filled with expectation, were shortly after proceeding with
.muffed oars, beneath the dense shadow of the mangrove bushes on anisland shore,
and through a channel which had not yet been explored, but which these fearless
men ventured into without hesitation. Edward was in one of the boats, but
Pipes, much against his wish, remained, with the others, on board. The lieutenant
commanded one, and the sailing-master:the other.
Strange was the aspect of land and water, and the depths of air around them.
The lucid heaven of the tropics, filled with zodiacal lights, broadened above with
an expanse and depth not observable in other latitudes. Monstrous and sometimes
terrifying exaggerations of palms, mangroves, and trees of.huge girth and growth,
-lifted up their proportions on the shore ; while the water, first clear as light itself
grew gradually thick and turbid ; and as the darkness deepened, the were con-
pelled to pull farther out in the almost tideless stream of waters, to avoid the
snake-like roots and twisted stems of enormous creepers, that suggested huge and
horrible serpents, and then the,putrid exhalations that rose up in a pestiferous
mist became as sensibly felt as seen. There was something revolting about the
whole.
" Baccy is the best thing for these here fever damps and fogs," observed a
seaman, as he turned a quid in his cheek. " Something's alleys wanting in these
cussed whereaways."
"Take a cigar, Mr. Spurrel," said the master to a midshipman who sat beside
him. " What old Tempest, here, has just said is quite right ;" and the cigars were
lighted. "Pull away with a willI" he suddenly exclaimed. Do you think the
Harpy's boats were meant to be buoys, stuck in the middle of an African creek,
for a slaver to make fast to ?"
The quick, stern tone of the command acted upon the men like an electric shock.
The long, steady strokes of the rowers were just as before, but it was evident that
a strength ran from the arms to the very blades, by the greater progress made.
" Look out a-head there for a light," continued the master. "These fellows,
secure in their hiding, I guess, will be hanging out as many lamps as if the craft
was lighted up for a ball-room, just the same as though we were in port, and the
war time over. That's it, men ; that's it. Can an  of you see Mr. Danvers's
boat ?" he added, peering into the moist, dank darkness.
"No sir, no," several voices murmuringly replied. " I think, sir, as the leeft'
nant's taken the other leading of the stream," suggested another.
"I hope we sha'n't get separated, though," said the master, somewhat more
quickly. "What's that? Rest on your oars, men. Mr. Spurrel, your ears are
young, sir. Just construe me those noises if you can."
With the muffled oar-blades dripping on either side of the boat, the men one
and all listened with an intensity that increased, and even grew into alarm, as un-
accustomed sounds, that now stormed the senses, suspended the very pulsations of
the heart, and gave to the darkness, the mystery, and the deadly atmosphere that
encircled 'them, a kind of awful charm.
The sound which rose so clearly upon the ear was that of a dull, drumming
noise ; and so continuous, so regular, and so monotonous was this sound, as to
convey only the most disagreeable sensation 'to the listener. At intervals, and
conjointly with this -noise, arose that of mingled laughter and shrieks, rendered

,
a
r
TM
''
..
i"
.
.

t
t:
:f t5
Pf
r {
cry
1

t

,r   ' ,
t' ;    ;#


74

SH E TW-IN B RO'T R-Rrg.

somewhat indistinct by the distance, but rendered at the same time with such
clearness, that there was no possibility of mistaking this for the babble of waters,,
the sighing of the woods, or the cries of wild animals. A superstitious man would
have said that the devils were holding revelry, or that the natives were at some of
their unhallowed rites, which came to precisely' the same thing. Whatever it
arose from, the result was, that a nameless terror struck the men, whose whispers
indicated to the master the fears that beganto fasten on them.
"Give way, my lads," said the master. "It grows cold, and I should like to
warm. myself aboard the slaver. Together,.and with a- will!", and once-mord the
boat shot away, while' the master, thinking. some explanation, necessary, con
descendedto give it, and:sodissipated some of that nameless-dread, while they felt.
"I know what it is," said the master; with a shudder. "'I once heard it before,
when a younker on the Bonny river. Some of the black fellows are cannibals-
that is, they eat each oter.-"-.:
"The onnatural brutes ," exclaimed the strokesman, with an oath.
"Exactly so, Master Tempest," assented the master. "You wouldn't like to
eat a slice out of your messmate-never mind which-don't look about for the
tenderest-tougher than powdered beef, any one of them, and tarry too---"
" I'd rather eat a chain cable, and pull the bolts out of the brig with!-my teeth,"
responded the sailor, with a grimness: of disgust and horror that raised a laugh,
and so dispersed the rest of the terror the men-at all' times superstitious-had at
first felt.
" Well," resumed the master, "that's what they're at now. One tribe has had
a battle with some other tribe ; and the conquerors are going to- have a feast
They'll sell the prisoners-to the trader, andfthat's what the slaver'shere for=--"
"There,,my lads, look !" exclaimed an oarsman, involuntarily.
An opening appeared between the high and sheltering trees which sloped to the
water-side. In the-middle of thisopening a huge fire blazed up, fed. by pine-wood,
and kept constantly supplied. Above this was something like a- scaffold, and
appended to flesh-hooks, suspended over this blaze, were three or four mutilated
human beings, some'of which might even yet be alive.. A thrill of fear once more
ran through the seamen.
The sound of that horrible drum added to the sickening features of this scene
of blood and barbarism. Scores of men, with wild yells, danced, and capered,
flitting between the spectators and the light, like so many spectres--like so many
fiends, rather-for their naked, forms, their fantastic ornaments, their yells and
screams, the drum still monotonously sounding, the .leaping flames, the victims
hung, and cut limb from limb while yet alive,-allthis combined to create a scene
which might have suggestedan idea of pandemonium.
Far across the line a boat full of men was seen pulling and the'tracery of the
slaver became visible.-
"One can hardly think that these brutes canbe worth the blood and the money
they cost," muttered the master. , " Qive- way there, men. I'm sick!--I should
like to drive into them with a.howitzer- --"
" Boat ahoy, there!" hailed a man- at the. bows
"Aye, aye 1" continued the master, half' apart. "I thought we should get- to
Danvers before long. - Isappose he's been looking at this pretty sight. hail him
again, my man."  This was done.
"Hoi !-.hoil" was:the hesitating response, in a tone, an accent, and a language
so different, that his suspicious were aroused at once.
"Zounds !" exclaimed the master,-" zounds:and-the devil! that's not Danvers's
boat. I say, Master:Spurrel, there's a- screw loose here.; and I'll wager a button
that the smart scoundrel has a suspicion. Egad I it would; be conical enough if
we were both of a mind;and while we are looking, for the slaver, for the crew of
the slaver to pluck up, the impudence to board the brig. Look to your arms, my
men.-and, corporal--"
-" Light ahead I" sang out -another voice., - There's the slaver to leeward of the

'ti
C

-$;~
---~--

0~

-TH:E TWIN BROTHERS.

,75

nangrove:'bushes,, y.der,;" and certainly the sharp oali e of beautiful craft was
naw distinctly beheld
"See if it isn't the Eddystone, you- booby," growled the officer, who had already
beheld the- twinkling' of a lamp far over the surface of rippling waters : the light
from which came soft and silvery towards them. The effect was as exquisite as a
pature-a picture soon to be;changed.
"Corporall" said'ithe impatient master.
" Yes,,sir-a" replied,'the corporal, who hd:a party of marines under his care.
"1Just speak to that boat, will you, by firing a musket over his head. I should
like to see, the color of the fellows eyes.".'
"Beg pardon," said; the midshipman, with a respectful remonstrance,---" if we
fire, we-,may alarm the slaver ; and if we get alongside .first, the, fellow may be
short-handed,; so=you see, sir
"I see there's sense in what you say, younker ; so give way, men, with a will.
Hurrah ! here we are alongside. Now, my lads, one Britishcheer, and up you. go
like cats!"
As the cheer rent the air, however, a sheet of flame broke from the side of the
slaver),-followed by the mar, of her guns, and the shrieks of wounded men.
,-
CHAPTER XXVIIH
THE   HAR.PY s1,R)ISED.
THE iHarpy,.shrouded by-darkness (but so secure in her. watch and armament
a 'ainst surprise, that the idea of an attack never for a moment entered into-the
mind of either her commander or of-Jack Pipes, who had-the look-out forward)-
the Harpy was-rocking quietly on the sluggish. waters: .Glooin-the, dim gloom
from.that terrible miasma -reeking upward from stagnant waters, and rotten vege.
nation, hung' above her: 'A battle lantern or two-threw a light n the decks, and
afew meny clustered here and 'there in groups, formed shadowy picture in the
obscurity, to, whichthe-imagination would have given a strange animation.
The officer of the watch, cigar between-:his-lips; promenaded the white, quarter,
deck; thinking-of home, and friends,.and drawing his night jacket: tighter round
him, as he felt the pernicious damps strike him.. The captain was = below in his
cot. One or two of the sails hung in motionless festoQus from the yards; A few
men on the/:forecastle wee smoking their pipes, spinningfarns,, or drowsily
shivering in'the bitter'cold of a-tropic night, such as congeals the marrow, in those
terrible African:creeks and: rivers.
Pipes was walking to and fro, accompanied by Sambo White, and taking his
station by-,one of -the-cat-heads, refreshed hitnself by a puff, or two of his short
dudeen, while listening-to the negro's reminiscences of his past life.
"And so you were aIprince-eh, Sanibo ?" he said,
"A prince in my own 'country," said - the stately black, stretching out his hand
towards the land, which forest and jungle hid from: view, and speaking in that
broken dialect peculiar to the African; "and .1 had 'warriors, and councillors, and
I led men to battle, till one day-" A spasm crossed his face, and he .waspsilent.
"Ah! 'I see how it is, messmate-.though hw a man who has been. a prince
comes to' be the messmate of a foremastman gives my ideaa sort of a twist, d'ye
see, I, can't unravel. I sees; you- got a liekin,'.after lickin' others, and, were-
" My mother, my sisters, and myself were seized, and ironed, carried to the shaere
and branded' When I saw my mother shrink under the red hotiron,"continued
the African, his form dilating, " I broke from my links, and- h eat the brains- of,

-1

, #
;1
x          ,
? a
:°
t
i
!  '
'{       ,
ii
R3
S

I

1  _f
Yn
T
.y .i
,S
xt
- ;i
L
G
fI
y sS

4
It
i~f
U-

n
hb

e
.

S '  -     a


,'E -TWIN BROTHERS.

8'TIlE -TWIN BROTHERS.

the man out with his own iron. Then I killed my sister, and laughed at my
captors. They strapped me on the deck and cut my flesh away,:and would-have
killed me, only the captain thought to lose me Would be to lose too much. I had
nearly scuttled the slaver, tdo," he' added, sententiously, "but they found it out in
dirne."
me"Hem !' said Pipes, who was puzzled in what 'manner to receive this latter
information ; and whether he ought not to reprehend a man who conceived the
atrocious desire of scuttling a ship,'and drowning the crew, whatever they might
be.
"IUallo ! what makes that warp quiver ?" exclaimed Pipes,'whose hand was on
a turii taken round the bitts, and finding in this a relief from his perplexity, he
peersdinto the shadows across the waters of the lagoon, and in a whisper that was
short and stern, added, " Sambo, give a squint here ; your eyes are better than
"Natives ! boats !" said the negro the next moment. "They are the enemies
of my people ;" and his sharp teeth glistened. "They have two boats full of white
"Stand by, here !" said Pipes; ' my lads, bear a hand, there's going to be a
scrimmage. Pikes and hatchets !"-and, as a dozen of the brig's crew leaped up
to the bulwarks, Pipes ran aft, and conveyed his suspicions to the officer of the
watch.
"Call the boatswain!-pipe all hands !" said the officer ; " beat to quarters !"-
and the shrill call of the boatswain, followed by the sonorous cry of " All hands on
deck !" and the sharp rattle of the drummer's call, woke the ship up from lethargy.
The officer then descended into the cabin.
"TWe are surrounded by a crew of savages, and the slaver's boats, sir," he said
to the captain, who sprang out of his berth in a second, and who, donning his
dressinggpown, seized h sword and pistols, and was on deck in a second, followed
by his officer.,sw
The ienrwere at their posts. Every eye was on the alert, and bent anxiously
out on the waters. Not a thing could be seen. Not a canoe-not a boat-not a
human being. Were these the creations of fancy ?  Neither Pipes nor Sambo
were much used to dreaming with their eyes open; and all this time, as the men
with light steps leaped to their posts, the silence of death,-ominous enough, per-
haps,-reigned around them. Where, then, and who were the dreaded foes that
th reduced crew of the Harpy had to do with?
Pipes rubbed his eyes, spat on his hand, and griped his cutlass. "If these ben't
the devil and his imps, Sambo, they're pretty much like them. They say old
Davy is king among these cannibals, ttoo.".
They are clinging to the chains," said Sambo. " They are mounting the side,
now . Get some shot ready to drop !" Still, and all breathless and expectant, the
crew from one end to the other, waited. As yet not one foe was visible.. Sambo's
whisper had, however, ran round, and reached the ear of the commander.'
The captain bent over the side; and beheld a worried mass of black forms, lightly
leaping out of the spectral canoes and boats that had so far evaded the watch as
to have made themselves fastnalongside, and a flush crossed his angry cheek.
There was insolence as well as deadly murder in that attack.
"Ready with the iron," he whispered. "Heave, men, heave !-let fall " and
crash, and splash, the metal fell, breaking almost every boat. -"Run out the guns !
-fire !" he added, loudly.
The fire ran round the brig, but little mischief was done by the discharge. This
was succeeded by a horrible yell-a murderous, sanguinary cry ; and black men
and white, -armed with all manner of hideous weapons, leaped on the bulwarks,
and began to cut, and thrust, and hack with demoniac shouts. No disguise needed
"Into' the sea with them, my men !" shouted the captain. " Don't -spare the
rascals ; use pike and cutlass, aiid leave the guns 1"

What light there was now for the ghastly strife, besides the one or two lanterns
at the poop, arose from the pistol shots that were fired with deadly effect, and by
the sparks which the steel of the combatants gave forth as they crossed and met ;
and the desperate condition of the aggressors, whose numbers, their cries, mingled
with oaths, and the darkness Maggerated(certainly, man to man, they doubly out-
counted the.crew of the Harpy) the loss of their boats, or canoes, and the know-
ledge that they had no quarter to expect, rendered themas formidable as dan-
gerous. In fact, such audacious attacks as these, where there was no lack of a
certain reckless daring, was calculated, generally to carry the aim intended.
So furious, therefore,-and on the whole, so unexpectedly overwhelming was this
night's surprise,,that the savages had gained the decks, and the armed 'crew of the
slaver, forcing the blacksto bear the brunt, of ;the first resistance, that though the
latter, were slaughtered i- misses, the slavers,, as yet, had experienced but little
harm. Between the twofires the savages began to confuse.the melee, and, as the
crew of the brig: gathered themselves.in a firm and compact mass,: and gave way
to the first rush, the cool bravery, the steady front, the thorough. workmanlike
style in which the. men-of-war's men wielded their weapons, neither yelling, nor
blaspheming, nor gesticulating, that they began 'to change the aspect-of the fray
and the blacks were beginning to be driven overboard by a well-directed charge
of pikes, seconded by the seamen's small arms ; and here, too, the marines on- the
quarter-deck began to thin the numbers of the pirates'that had as yet made good
their footing.                ; .
"You circumventing jackanapes, take that !" said Pipes, parrying of the blow
of the sweeping scimetar, and in turn making his cutlass bite deeply into the skull
of his foe. 'You; come and catch, weasels asleep, does you?  Go it, Sambo, my
prince ! Shiver my:top-lights, that's walking into them !' for wieldinig'a handspike
with all his enormous strength,,the African felled the three, or four that were
within reach of his'-tremendous lever; the resistless swing with which it; cleared a
E lane" for his shipmates to follow,.being fatal to those whom the heavy weapon
struck.
The fate of the battle, however;. was .likely to go againt the Harpy and her
gallant crew, when the sound of,.a :gun was heardI and a cheer that restored hope
to the panting captain and his men, Who fought with the greatest,.gallantry,
announced that help ws at hand. The crew replied to this cheer with a heartily
good will, andrenewed, their exertiotn to 'the great chagrin of the slavers, who
saw that they had but one chance' left them. . This ;they were preparing for.
The masts of the slaver slowly made their appearance in the tortuous waters of
the lagoon'; and asi the flag. she wore was:down, and the Union Jack floated at her
gaff, the prize thus betrayed itself., IMeantinme a boat, one-of the Harpy's, manned
and armed, was. also seen;approaching, and the master, grim as a Triton, and
evidently meaning mischief, was seen: in the stern animating his men.
"Hurrah . cried the captain: " hold your ground, my men ! One charge more,
and the decks are' clear !'r and the last despairing chance was hazarded, with an
increase of fary, and fire, and;slaughter.
"Fight, amigos! fight, you'fends !" crieda voice, which.Danvers, as he gained
the side, knew to belong to the handsome looking reprobate he had net at the
governor's, and who was thecaptain of the slaver.
" Ydm fight with a rope round your:neek !" and at the instant, Edward grappled
rith the slaver captain..

z i4

C
,t
t s

A
e

'th

I   :                            ..I                                        ,
{{gg t^ '"" * yi   *  '"   e  t'Yt     .1

'T6

I,


I''   i'. Y7

CIAPTER XXVIH.
'=OW TT  'SLAVER    WA  8'TA KE   .
LET us now see how matters proceeded onboard the slaver, who, better prepared
for the reception of the harpy's boats' or keeping better watch, 'had opened a fire
on the boat in which the mastercommanded with such fatal results 'as to kill three
or four, and wound others. :But tliere was 'this lieutenant and his boat in the
meantime ?  Of that, nothing could be seen, and there, was neither time nor
opportunity for -consideration or "the solving of'a'Aonbt., .It was every man for
himself; and, in turn, the boat's.crew of the briig were 'on the decks, and making
good their footing on the slippery planks.  .
" At them, you bull-dogs l At them, Harpy I"" shouted the master; speaking
wrathfully, and mingling blows with his curses.
The attack was, however, in favor ,of the than-of-war's men, who -drove the
greater number of the laver's crew below ; but despite their weakened amount of-
men, owing to theirdeaptain having headed some fifty;desperadoes at hour before,
in order to make an attack upon the brig, there was still a numerous body to
oppose them.
Edward, who had fought fiercely in the first batch that 'went over the sid ia
happened-to pass the master. " Harkye, my man," said the latter'; "just press
forward, and cwt away' the hawse and warp, Or whatever 'she be fastened with.
Take an axe,'and-do your wpork like 'mat. Do oyou," he continued, as Edward
rushed forward, and addressing a couple of nimblestopmen,'"'do you sheer aloft,
and loose, the fore-topsail ; thats;my sons,"-wand downlhe:sprang off-the forecastle.
"Mr. Spurrel, sir !" he continued, while using both cutlass and pistol, " make your
way aft, at any cost ; keep her head to the-wind, as .he gathers way ; hug it, sir,
as if--take that, you buccaneering rascal!-'hbg it, sir, as if it was your
sweetheart ; and--who's got the blue light?"  2
"Here sir-here!" replied the coxswaim.
"Send it up, and let's see what sort, of gentry'wehave to deal with., By heavenly
they're signalling themselves -howsomever  " and, as he spoke, with an unerring
aim, he levelled his pistol at ,a wildlydressed ruffian,iwho, busied with a chest' at
the foot of the',mast, had'just sent up t-arocket that illuminated'the 'savage picture
of strife, and cast a fierce redglareonthe ship.' rThe astounded combatants,.sur-
pised for, a moment 'by the =unexpected 'light1'paused Ito gaze on each other, and
calculate their probabilities, disadvantages, and' so- on. ' The ; man so selected by
the master fell dead On the 'deck. ..'
'rhe blue lightof the Hay at the same inst At went whizzing upward, and the
livid glare so soon succeeding the deep crimson of the flashing rocket, gave' all a
hue still more startling, till a cry from some of the Spanish crew drew attention
elsewhere.
For a moment the combatants beheld each other ; "and the quick eye of; the
master, and the midshipman, the stern order, the noiseless bustle.of the brig's best
fighting-men, who, with tightened belts, bared cutlasses, and pointing pike or pisto,
showed how they were equipped for the nght,-detected what advantages were to
be derived from this momentary "light thrown on the subject."
"Drive 'em below, or overboard !"  s'ted the master, leading on his men to
where the slaver's crew, with savage faces, and threats still more ferocious, made
a stand. " Hurrah ! mv sons of thunder-down they go! Batten the hatches!"
The fight was renewed, but a lurch given by the slaver showed that Edward had
succeeded in cutting the hawsers, and the vessel, as she bent over to the light
breeze, was brought to thE wind as had been directed ; and then allowing the sail

pz4i
I

I

THE 'TWINf 'BIR'OTHJKRS.

'g9

to fill, the battle was half fought, and the victory almost won. Still, the rovers,
brought to bay, fought like maddened wolves.
" I think, sir, they're going to bring their black chaps out to eat us," quoth
Tempest. drily. " If they makes a drill of me, I'll be -:--"
" What's the =matter ?" said the master, interrupting the expletive that was .on
the tongue of the panting tar.
"There goes the goigs, and yonder's the canoes. Shall I point this gun, and
Jet drive at 'em ?" he added, with a grin.
"Yes, yes ! Throw up another light there&amp;, coxswain," replied the master.. " I
wish to heaven the boat 'would come up. Rally round here, my lads. One more
charge---and,.coxswain, lets have a light E 'Blaze away 1"
" Aye, aye, sir" responded the coxswain, and again the light, like a Lucifertah
star,-stood a moment inr the heavens, burst, =broadened, and cast a phosphoric
effulgence, with an effect that would have been admired in a pyrotechniam display.
At present, there was no time for applause.
"Now, at 'em--one, and all. Down, or into the 'sea !" A deafening shout,.a
rush of men, the clash of steel, the sharp rattle of pistol-shot, and the next moment
not a Spaniard was to be seen on the decks.' A dense mass of-canoes, beyond
couut, were then seen putting off from the shore, and stealthily skirting the bushes,
in the direction of the Spanish prize.
To-their great joy, from behind the thick foliage rose the gleam of another blue-
light, and faint sounds of approaching 'cheers were also'heard-those cheers which,
given with that hearty good-will that characterizes the English seaman, whether he
is going into the battle or out, going to a wreck or to assist his friend, always give
such a fervent encouragement to those beset 'by peril.
"That's Danver's boat," exclaimed'Spurrel, rubbing his hands joyously.
" Now, Tempest, my man, take care, and don't waste the shot," broke in the
master, curtly. "Hit the niggers ; for I guess, if the murderous savages can hit
any of us, they will. Wait for the word."
"Kill and eat us all," added Sambo White, with a brevity of style and manner,
that, backed by a knowing nod, expressed no two opinions on the subject on his
part, at least.pi
With those horrible cries, that so frightened Robinson Crusoe, as also many
other hapless creatures who have been menaced by the ferocious savages ill fortune
at any time cast them among, the floating phalanx, as if certain, of success, or un-
conscious of danger, came boldly on.
The flotilla was almost abreast of the vessel, and closing in as a discordant war-
whoop rose. It was clear enough to the meanest capacity, that an instant massacre
would have been the doom of those on board ; and the master gave one of his grim,
dark smiles, as he heard the cry, and glanced from the gun towards the advancing
foe.
" Fire !" he said. " Let them have it !" and for an instant his fierce nature,
aroused by a sense of the peril they were in, knew no mercy.  Fire ! Tempest-
fire !"
The iron agent, of death delivered its deadly message in a sheet of vivid flame,
and the roar of the cannon was echoed by the sharp, shrill cries of pain and torture,
by the crashing of the canoes, and by the hissing and plashing of the water that
was ploughed up in all directions by the frightful missiles. Simultaneously the
Harpy's boat came alongside, and Danvers and several of his crew leaped on deck,
and a few hurried words and a few cordial grasps were interchanged.
Just then, a seaman came to the lieutenant, and said, " Please your honor, them
fellows below are kicking up a pretty rumpus-they're trying to get at the
magazine---"
"The deuce !" exclaimed the startled master, seizing a musket, and, poininng it
down the hatchway in the direction of some menacing sounds, he fired without
further hesitation, and was answered by a groan and a cry for mercy from those of
the slavers who had fled below.

c

f
"a

f
.
]
b

n

I

,,_
.
r'  t
Cy'
:.F j
s
3   r
t
4 r
)} . f
y j9?
1 4
7


.,. _ i ,      . L  r     _ 1 a -

80

THE TWIN BROTI1ERS.

"Mercy, eh ?" growled the officer ; " half-a-dozen of you men go below and see
what they're after. Report to me at once, and let a couple guard the magazine,
for I suspect they, have a pretty good supply of powder to blaze away with."
This command was obeyed (the savages, as many as were left, having dispersed,)
and it turned out that the extreme resort of the master had.,been needed, for aifew
of the most desperate had actually cut through the bulk-heads, and the smoking
match was trampled out within a yard of'the magazine door. The captives were
then securely chained, plenty being at hand, and the brig now became the subject
of anxiety.
"I expect the Harpy's .in danger," said Danvers. " I saw some boats passing
in the distance, and heard a musket. It strikes me,.a part of the gang mean to
attempt her.".
".Eh! just what I thought," replied, the master. " Well, we must out boats,
and make these slavers pull. Two or three fellows with a brace of pistols can keep
'em at it, and a man to steer in each. We must tow the craft I suppose, and keep
her on with what sail thisdeadly-lively air will lend us. Piff ! warm work, this,
eh, Danvers ?"                                                ,
" It is. I'llgo in the first boat, and leave you to manage the craft," and down
he descended.
" Very well !" said the master, and called out aloud, " Pass the hawsers forward!I
Aloft, there ! Let fall the t'gallant sails !- So! she begins to feel the breeze."
And thus they came up to the Harpy at a critical moment.

VP1J TWIN 13UOTHERB.

4n

CHAPTER XXIX.
T HE SLAVER - PIRATE'S       DOOM.
By the time that the battle-lanterns of the Harpy'were lighted up, and the decks
blazed as with an illumination, showing them incarnadined with blood, while here
and there groups of bodies, with ghastly wounds in them, were strewn about in
heaps, dying where they fell,-by this. tine, the brig had been cleared of the
savages, the slavers all dead, drowned, or prisoners, the vessel of the latter was
alongside, and yet a desperate hand-to-hand fight, in which neither one could
receive assistance, was continued between the gaily-dressed captain of the slaver
and Edward. The former knew but too well that he fought with a rope around
his neck, and the mad thirst .to be amply revenged, and to do as much evil and
mischief as he could, raged in his bosom, nerved his arms, and, though bleeding
from a dozen wounds, to exhibit a strength and a ferocious tenacity that might
have commanded admiration but for the vile causes these passions espoused, stil,
with a fierce smile, he -continued to ply Edward.
.Active and agile,. skilled by this time in the use of his., weapon, bold and quick
of eye, he was yet no match for a man whose strength was that of a gladiator,
whose mastery of every point of fence amounted to an accomplishment not easily
rivalled ; it is therefore no wonders that Edward gave way before the flashing
Damascene blade. which the rover wielded. To all cries to yield, he only laughed
his bitter laugh of scorn. lHe had already slain some, and desperately wounded
several with his own hand ; and some of Edward's messmates were closing round
him, with the intention of disarming him, when, with a bold sweep of his glittering
sabre, Edward's cutlass flew a score of feet out of his hand, and the next moment
would have been his last, had he not-in retreating stumbled, while, in so doing, the
rover's blow fell short, and, meeting no resistance, so embarrassed him as to bring
him on the deck, when, seizing Edward by the throat,.the fight became like that
between two, bulldogs, neither of -.which will let go while there is still left the
smallest power of holding fast. Edward put forth a strength not weakened by any
previous wounds or loss of blood, and heightened by the imminence of the-peril
which surrounded him, but to little purpose ; while the dark and handsome face of
the rover, distorted by hatred and revenge, with fiery eyes and frothy lips, glared
before him. The left hand of the ruffian was on his throat, and the 'right hand
stealthily drew a stiletto, that, like an asp, glided out of his breast, and with its
deadly.point seemed to menace;the unlucky. Edward. He thought of home-his
parents-Charles-and his beloved Rose, and a silent prayer was uttered. The
blow was, however, stayed.
"Hallo, my hearty ! Sharpen your knife elsewhere ! Odds bobs ! my messmate's
ribs are not intended for any such sheathing as you seem to count upon ;" and with
a gripe of iron, Pipes-who had just stepped over the gangway-seized the
murderous arm, and gave it such a twist as extorted, a groa-n front tne now captive
captain,-while the murderous weapon fell on  the deck. Following up his
advantage, despite the. blasphemies and struggles of the baffled foe, Pipes held his
arm, lustily calling out, "Bear a hand with the. darbies, there, armorer; this fellow
will jump overboard, and turn intosa shark, if he's not fast. Soh 1 belay all that ;
and now you may ease your mind with a bit of swearing, if a prayer for your
sinful soul is of no use." Turning round, then, with an air of indifference as to the
hereafter of the ,rover, Pipes helped Edward upon his feet, saying : "Well, Ned,
bo', how is it with you now? What cheer ?"
Queer, Jack, queer. I was nearly done for ; and I owe my life, as well as a
limb-ad---.'

0

s
L.
7l

-
[t
-

=
:
"  -;
' ;;
=.
l
., _ .
a r .
,;};  ,
a _.s_


+ j  ma..}'  da;v. g~   'iCRY k.Tv  +;

s2

" Stow that. Come down below, and let's have a can of grog. I see ; it's pipe
all hands. Lord ! what a tussle we've had. By all the fiddlers in Portsmouth,
we've got a prize-"
"A. prize !" echoed two or three, who overheard him.1
"What, you've unplugged your ears, have you ?" isked the sailor, with an ironical
grin. "Well, yes. That black craft--and aclipper she is too--is well stored
with--"
"With what, Jack Pipes ?" demanded an impatient sailor.
"About forty or fifty of the:prettiest black armlets you ever sett eyes on---
and this Pipes accompanied with'a knowing wink.
"Armlets !_ what, in thunder, are you driving at now?1
" To hold niggers with, in the slaver's hold," said Pipes."
" Pshaw !" ejaculated the other, walking away in disgust-speedily diffused
however, by the orders to "Splice' the main brace !-grog ahoy !"
" For all that," whispered Jack, as he went down with Edward, she is a prize.
There's more gold dust and stolen plate aboard than would give ev rf man of us
his six months' pay, prize and carouse, after the captain and officers had taken
their whack."
On examination of the slaver's vessel, it was found that though her cargo of
living ware had not been completed, sufficient were found chained in ier unhallowed
hold to constitute a lawful prize, and to condemn her in court according to law.
In her cabin', however, was found a victim to the rover captain's turpitude, in the
shape of a young nun, who, having been beguiled from her convent, had by force
and fraud became the victim of his passions ; and such a story of horror did the
dying creature relate, as moistened with the human dews of sorrow  he eyes of the
captain, his. chief officers, as also those of the, Harpy's chaplain, and the 'more
callous-hearted doctor. The captain, thertefdre, determined to put as many men
on board the slaver as he could spare, and despatch her, with her treasures, to
England ; while he took the rover to Sierra Leone, to be tried for piracy, slavery
murder, and a lono catalogue of crimes, not only proveable -from the Idepositions of
the dying Spanisi nun, but from others on board, who had been forced, from the
fear of death, to join the desperate crew, and who were now ready to bear witness
against the ruffian upon oath.
aAmong those selected,; from their bravery, their, good dispositi n, and for the
dpendd ce which could be placed upon them, were Edward and his 4ld friend Jack
Pipes; and by noon the next day, the prize, commanded by Danver ,accompanied
als by the brav little Spurrel, parted from the Hlarpy (and the fearful African
coast) with joyous cheers, the one setting sail for England, and the other still
lingering for a while on the spot.
The trial- of the magnificent bravo (for such he was;) a spoiled, desperate prodigal,
was not dzelayed. 'Thle same ease, but accompanied by such ribaldry ,and fearful
mockery, the same bravado, the same contempt for captors, ju lges, death, and the
future, marked hin throughout his trial as had characterized him before. As his
life had been, so was his death likely to be; for when the ug story of a short life,
and the episodes of his crimes, were detailed, the, sneer of a-demon was on his hand-
some lips.
When, however, he was sentenced to be hanged for piracy, &amp;c., according to
British laws, then the full-vedom of the fiend broke out. He cast himself upon his
guards, and dreadfully mutilated one; he bit, and. wrestled, and tore like a wild
beast, and when he had necessitated:thd strength of half-a-dozen men, having literally
disabled six others to mastei- him, a horribly unnatural calm fell over him.
"Hang me '--me with the blood of an hidalgo in my veins-never !"
And- disappointed justice-earthly justice, at least ; for the following morn-
ing, when his gaoler went into his well-guarded and carefully-examined cl, ther
he ly on the floor (wit chainte limbs, hi fce black, the eyes disteddwt
the reader. He had, despite of every precaution, strangled hmelf 7y a rcsi

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

88

to lie peculiar to- men of the class to whom he had attached himself. This wa
often resorted to in order tobaffle the last exaction of the law.
We must now return to Charles, whom we left on the field of battle, among the
wounded and the slain, and where the vulture ande the wolf,.and the robber of the
dead, appear simultaneously.
CHAPTER XXX.
THE NIGHT OF THE-BATTLE.
THE "night after the battle" must suggest momentous matter,-must be fraught
with vast changes, affecting friends and foes, homes, hearths, and altars,-the
people and the state,-to neighbor nations as well as foreign foes,- the immortal
as well astthe mortal. Where is the;bounding strength, the bold manliness, the
elastic nature, tried in field and fray, that turned back at nothing.? Where is the
herculean -framie, the intellectual 'brow, the frame of Apollonian! grace, the reckless-
prodigal, the hoping, half-despairing lover? What has become of the pomp and
aiusta       o    oruswar, wen masses, ithe sunshine of the golden morning,
youtirrus  attl trumps, hte theosound of martial music, leaped to battle as
youths-ruish to play, as men hasten to meet the. belyed ? Where are the cannon,"
thehorsemen) the serried phalanxes, the brilliant staff, the cool old officers the
wary generals, the plumages, the banners? Al'aihdbod       ons    age
heaschare  ragnet,   ,roenwah n dAll vanished :.bloody mounds, mangled
heaps, charred fragments, broken wheels, dismounted cannon, overthrown baggage
and other waggons, dead horses, dead men ; dying men, with wolf, and ,vulture,
and human devils murderously marching beneath the moonshine-that is all left.
All left for you, aged parents  at home, who will no more behold the pride of
your old hearts ; all that is left for the, pale maiden, that droopeth from the day
the news of that deadly battle arrives; all left for friends and relations,' brother
and sister, except the mourning you have to wear for the dead, and the sombre gap
that is deep in each heart ;-all, all that is left-and, alas ! what a mere handful
of ashes is this all!e e    '      '
Long and level lies 'thep lain, with its sinister and unequal line marked on the
horizon. The pale, weeping moon mounts up,-with a splendor that seems dimmed
with tearful mists, and it reveals here and there such sights of horror, as, detailed
in words, would shock and horrify. Here man and- horse, in furious charge fixed
midway by the fatal shot, have fallen, and rolled, and never stirred more. Here
some, hall~stripped corpses lie,.because there, are wretches- who prowl about the
field, like vampyres, and, with unhallowed appetite for plunder, strip the dead.
Here are broken wheels,and yonder a dismounted gun-carriage ; here a startled
steed, neighing' for his. pale, rider and bleeding to death, utters perhaps his. last half-
human cry, " startling the ear - of night."  Yonder, horrible ,and obscene, is the
wolf come to the prey that he smelt afar off. - Down the air, rushing like something
fromnplat o laclouds,comes the vulture, seeing and scenting prey from high.
From place to place soon echoes the hideous scream, and the more hideous howl
and bark of the wolf,.while  break and jaw drop gore. fIt is:a frightful carnival
night; and there is light  cast down on the whole from fulgent moon andsstars.
And over that field among the dead, besides wolf and vulture and the sacrilegi-
ous robber of the slain-the murderer of the wounded as yet not dead--there
wandered wailing women, seeking for the corpses of those they loved, or hoping
with all the strength of their souls that they might be found, evendifs_
eyet livin. They boie tears, and. held, and solicit ou nd a edene beond h
ravenous enemy, no matter whether mnan, beast, or bird, and they saved a life at a

t   ar
{I
r

-
-.

a
s'

'tso
)th

_             . ,...c ....,--,-

i
:i
,"

i

,r $ TWIN BROTH-1iWS


84

THE TWIN BROTHERS.

moment when it would seem forfeited to the fates ; and that life was theirs ever
after ; and with what right no one that lived'or loved, or has, been in peril and
near to death on a stricken field, can question.
A strong, brutal form might have been seen kneeling here and creeping slowly
there, moving from place to place the cursed ghoul!1 busily engaged n striping the
dead. He wore the loose Cossack breeches and a hideous fur cap. His shaggy,
red beard, the evil glassy eye, the bare arms, the sleeves, tucked up, butcher-like,
for free action, were stained with blood. In his hand he carried a heavy wooden
mallet ; brains, and blood, and human hair were clotted on it. Valuables, swords
spoils of slain men, were in his girdle. A huge wallet, swollen into a sack, was
slung on his shoulder. This had been a brave harvest to him. The wretch came
with the wolf and vulture, and the three worked well together : each took what
he wanted, and all were satisfied,
That flitting forn which Charles had observed from the watch-fire,-the phantom
that _his imagination had converted into Ellen's face and shape,-was :in reality
the poor, devoted girl herself ; who, by dint of almost incredibl exertion, had
discovered the regiment to which Charlesbelonged, and which, in fact,-was com-
manded by her own relative, Major Freshville (to whome she, had not ventured to
reveal herself) ;;and from a distance, with a depth of devotion that was the grea-
ter from her former neglect and coldness, she- watched over him ; willing, if possi-
ble, to do him some real service, ere she dared to claim from him al remembrance
she could not but fear had been obliterated by her insufferable coquetry. It is not
necessary to explain how she crossed the seas, followed the track of the army, and
hovered upon its skirts on the field, and penetrated its very heart, ason the previ.
ous night. A little money, aiding the generous devotion-of a womat,-who, when
she is devoted and determined, can overcome everything,-had brought her in
safety and honor. Assuming the office of nurse, among others, which the exigen-
cies of the war necessitated, she became attached to the company in that capacity ;
and thus, on the night after the battle, she, too, was traversing that drenched plain,
with far different purposes to the creatures we have enumated ; and having
known that her lover was not found among the survivors, she set forth on her
perilous and almost hopeless errand, determined that while she could stand she
would search ; and, failing in that, would lay herself down to die,-the only atone-
ment she had in her power now to make.
She sees the form of the stealthy assassin going among the dead. She had
heard the murderous blow, too ; and, passing groups of sobbing women who have
found their dead, some internal instinct tells her that yonder, too, her own Charles
lies low, and that the form over which the wretch is bending 'must be his. She,
hastens onwards, just in time; and, with a shriek, she goes betwen the victim
and the brigand, who. for atmoment, shrinks back appalled,--the w iite form looks
go like a 'spirit. She glances upon the prostrate form, and recognises Charles in
an instant..                                                         .
" Spare him! he lives ! he lives !" she exclaims, and is on her kne  beside him-
With a horrible execration the man recovered his courage, and hi brutality was
only stimulated from his having been at the first moment frustrated and startled as
by a shadow.
"Out of the way !" he said, grinding his teeth, and menacing.
" Mercy ! if you be a man,"-she cried."
" Get out, youfool-! What signifies to the dead ? Consume you! do you want
the plunder for yourself? Ah1 by thunder! we'll have no shares here. Out of-
the way ! All !- all!--1'll have it all "
A pistol lay at the ruffian's foot. The man was lifting up his frightful weapo,
and the glaring wolfish eyes emitted rays of such diabolic fury as f oze her blood.
A pistol lay at his foot ;-with a blind impulse she-seized it,-loaded or not, she
knew not ;-she pointed it at him. iluis villain was none other than our old
acquaintance, " Slip-the-wind."                             ,,
He laughed hoarsely ; it was like the 'croak of a bird of prey. '~ 11l brain you

fff
K
!    r             i                   .  i      i
y,/  1tt   '             yR14? t          P'         -   r L A Mfy     n

THE TWIN B3ROTHERS.

85

fire seize you, for a meddling fool---" Whether the pistol was cocked or not, she
did not know. The same instinct made her point it to him, and her inexperienced
finger found the trigger. The weapon had fallen from the grasp of a dismounted
dragoon, who' lay under his horse, and it was both loaded and cocked ; she drew
the trigger desperately.
"All!" she said: "take all!"
With the report was mixed a hideous cry, oaths, blasphemies, and shrieks of
pain ;' and the ruffian fell, his bowels torn to rags with the discharge. As Ellen
sank, half-fhinting calling upon her lover, and clasping his head to her breast a
party of mounted soldiers come up, and one descended at her cry. She fainted
on hearing that Charles still lived. In half-an-hour, while life still lingered horri-
bly in the mutilated form of "Slip-the-wind," he was fighting with wolf and vi-
tare: but they had their prey.
CHAPTER XXX.
DEvoTION REWARDED.
"CoNDUCT us to Major Vreshville's tent," said Ellen, faintly; "I have a matter
of great consequence to inform him."
" This poor boy had better be. taken to the rear, so that' the doctor and the
nurses can attend upon hiim," suggested one of the patrol.
" Yes, yes-you are right," assented Ellen. "Take him-I'll go with you; but
I must see the'major, too. Be very tender with him; he is-he is-wounded I"
"Well, I'm going to the tent with some reports," said a dragoon, good-humor-
edly ; " so come with me, my pretty one ; and as for the lad-he's a sweetheart of
your's, for a guinea. Eh, my lassie ?"
Ellen blushed through her pallor; but with an impressive firmness, and sonie
courage , she said, pointing to Charles," He is all the world to me !"
" Why, bravely said," observed the trooper, pleased with the frank acknowledg-
ment ; " and, for your sake, we'll take him as tenderly as an infant. And so, my
lads, hoist him on my horse, and I'll hold him in my arms; he's not 'so heavy. So!
that will do."
And thus Charles was carried away tenderly enough by his strong, rough-limbed,
gentle-hearted friends ; and Ellen was about to follow the:soldier towards the tents
that now rose white in the moonlight, when she hesitated, and as Charles was be-
ing borne away, she turned round, and advancing towards him, seeing his pale and
inanimate face resting on the brave soldier's shoulder, she said, 'No, with him
first-I must tend him !"
"As you like, my girl," returned her proposed guide. "You will find no diffi-
cultyin seeing the major, if he's not badly wounded-I hear that he was hurt ;
dud so God protect you ! Good bye, comrades !" And with a cordial salutation they
parted, the clear moonlight revealing fresh scenes of awe and terror, of devoted
love, and of ghastly murder and death.
Charles was placed in a bed in a large commodious tent, set apart for the sick
and the wounded; and Ellen, aided by the surgeon, had the satisfaction of seeing
him revive, and of hearing the medical officer say that, though desperately wound-
ed, he would survive-maimed, injured for life, it may be; but as it was, thete
was room for her to be thankful,-and Ellen was, for the first time in her life, per-
haps, really so. He lived, dreadfully wounded in the breast-every sear in front!
He lived ! that wyas quite enough.
Follaving the surgeon, was a soldier belonging to Charles's regiment. "Ahi 1'
he said, " there's as brave a fellow as ever shouldered a musket ! The say he's done

3.

a
C-
.at
ts.
"]
)fle
RtlL

t

4
('
1
:'.
,,
III
... .
i
'_
.. .
rr; ,.
y-,

+~J~

'te ttK
tai      ' S
1     i?
f
dy  i YI


86

Tlt TWIN BI[OTHERS,

prodigies of valor to-day ! I believe it ! I know him well," continued the man ; " it's
Charley Palmer, of Major Freshville's company. -Why, he saved the major's life
in the battle, so I heard-it was in everybody's mouth--"
The surgeon .had beard how the young: soldier had been found, Turning to
Ellen, he said, "He will have cause to thank you. You have saved the lifg.of one
all speak well of  "'
Saved his life!1 What words for Ellen.! Here was a claim on her lpver's affection
at once. But that this lover should also have saved her uncle's, an' fficer, influc.
tial-so her fancies ran-this~constituted for her a right to ask his interposition.
What she had determined on doing' on her own account, she would now do. fQr
Charles; and thus she quitted the tent, and crossing the field, by gu rd and picket
-and the same silent picture of death and'desolation, of life and hope, now ming-
led with these elements also-she sought the tent of her uncle with feelings too
full for utterance, and yet she had a touching tale to tell. Wht if he were
too disabled to hear her?
It was easy to find the tent.  That was -not the difficulty. Cound she find the
major ! One moment she stood hesitating at the entrance after the sentry had
permitted her to pass ; the next, she had lifted up the folds of the tent, and was
beside his bedstead-now used sofa fashion-exclaiming, "Uncle ! dear uncle ! pity,
and .help me !'
The wounded officer had been dozing upon his camp-sofa, his bruised arm band-
aged, and his military cloak flung over his fine form; and it was  ith an air of
amazement, as if startled by the appearance of an unexpected form-4-the idea that
the sense is deceived, and confounding .the remembrances of past events with the
present-that he beheld Ellen rushing in, and calling upon him for pity and help.
"Ellen !" he exclaimed-" Ellen-Freshville, is this you ?"
"It is-it is indeed ! I  "
"Good heavens ! I can't comprehend it ! What does it mean ? What does-
But no, I must be dreaming ?" and he drew his hand across his eyes like one who
would disipate a vision, or concentrate the wandering faculties on a graver point.
"Stop !" he said, half rising, and drawing his cloak about him ; " stop a moment ;
I am quite confounded. Now-now tell-me all--"
"Ah !" he exclaimed, when she had told him of the fervid, love of the carpenter's
poet son,-when she had explained to him the deep sincerity, the truth, the hones.
ty, and stedfastness of his nature, and had shown the black and blurred spots in
her own vain character-those faults she had seen when it was dreaded that sorrow
and repentance came too late-" So, this, then, is the youth whose heart I saw was
in agony when you met him so lightly by that lonely stile, and. who, scorned and
contemned, offered a life to his country, when you refused his heart. You have
done a bold thing, Ellen. You have done even a reprehensible thing. You, a
young girl, to leave your home, your old father in solitude and terror ! Wilful and
wayward ; if there was not, after all, something heroic in your own devotion, and
that this wounded soldier was worthyy of your love, I would move no step in the
matter, but have you-sent home."
"I do not go without him," she said in a low but determined voice. "Where
he goes, I will go. Where he lodges, I will lodge. H  Ile shall be to me all:I hope
for or desire, wounded, sick, dying, or dead. If he will take me, hfs home is mine,
his father mine, his country, his God mine, wherever over the world he may here-
after wander.'
"ChildI child ! how you talk," began themajor,
"Pardon me, 'dear uncle," she said; " if I have done wrong, I have sought to
repair it. I owed him an atonement ; I hope I have rendered it. He himself has
claim upon'you:-
-" A claim !-upon me 7"' ejaculated the officer.
" Yes, for in the battle to-day he saved your life."
SI .know that a brave .young man did so," said Major Freshville, eoinewha*
-surprised.

3 '

T.H,E TWIN    BROTHERS.
"It is he ! it is my Charles !" cried Ellen, eagerly.
" My Charles !" echoed the other, smiling. "Upon my' word, you are going on
at a pretty rate, Miss Ellen. However, if it be really he, he shall not lack a friend-"
"And I, uncle-" said the hesitating Ellen.
"Why, as for you, troublesome baggage 'that you are, you have shown that
there is in your nature something more.than the mere impulse of girlishness ; so
that if I take care of the one, I must of necessity do the same for the other-"
"Oh.!how shall I thank you !" cried Ellen, tears of joy and-gratitude overflow-
ing her eyes.
o not thank me yet. But," he added,, in a changed tone," your position
must be changed-your. garments-your. oice-c-
t han nothing uncle, I implore you.!".she said. "Let me be still the nurse--
nurse  There are not many women in the camp, and there are
not.many men in lghospital-alas4 too.many lie on the plain."
"Yes !,I know that full well," iepied the major, in a tone of deep feeling; "still
this must be arranged. I can send you to Lisbon,.and,"he, also added, "there you
will meet my wife ; 'and for the rest, hope that soon you and your lover shall be-
hold England."
Why dwell upon the joy, the delight, the rapture which filled the bosom of the
poor invalid, when he found that the devoted nurse, the heroic woman, that had
saved him in battle (and who unconsicously had avenged on the person of "Slip-
4he-wind" the outrae which had robbed.him of Edward), that now, with tears
and prayers, begged to lje forgiven for herpast scorn' nd indifference, was none
oher than Ellen--]Ellen 'beavjtiful as ever, though worn and paler than usual-
Ellen, morebeloved'than ever ; for the prize had become doubly dear to him.
e of    officer, was nt fined to mere profession. The man who
saves a life is raised up to an equality  with it, let his former station be ever so
low; but there was intelligence of soul and good yeoman's blood in Charles's veins
which rendered him something more than a   ymere pasant.
w3y the influence of the major, Charles was despatched to head-quarters with other
drafted fo diremovaletod men; and, beg placed i the list of the latter, was finally
ngland, Ellen's return being easily accomplished.
-I-

S.

a
Li,

of
:

ono
)th

I

i_
i
t
F

3

4. '.
}
r
,   '  ,
_
i
3'
r f
}.
xj
" b
r;
J rr J
p't'
.
Z
tl
Y


181

THE TWIN. fROTlBE.K*

CHAPTER XXXI.
THE BURIAL       AT SEA.
THE sailing qualities of the Spanish slaver were such as to astonish Pipes, whc
clung tenaciously to the prejudice of his race, viz, that nothing could beat English
oak and canvass, manned 'by British tars, whether in sailing or fighting ; but he
was forced, with some chagrin, to acknowledge that the Bonita was a clipper that
could hold her own with the Flying Dutchman, even, and sail right in the wind's
eye.
They were, however, unlucky enough:to fall in with a portion of the thannel
squadron when almost within sight of'port, and less than a day's sail from it ; and
as the enemy was out in great force, a general engagement was appre ended, and
was indeed .sought for eagerly on both sides, French as well as English. The
Bonita, therefore, on joining the fleet, received additional guns, men, and officers.
A chaplain was also added ; and, for the'time, the slaver's vessel became a regular
man-of-war, and had her station assigned her in the fleet,.which had now a stately
and formidable apearancefally arrived. The ene  hove in sight, and the eager
vessels, like majestic birds of rare and wondrous plumage, with steel talons and
fiery throats, prepared to meet each other. The decks were cleared of all that was
likelyto incommode the men at their guns. The cabins had their bulk-heads
knocked away. Guns were' run out, yards slung in chains, boarding-nettings
traced, magazines opened, and, armed from head to loot, the picked men of every
crew waited with anxiety for the signal to engage. As usual, Edward, Pipes, and
Sambo were at the same gun. 'The signal went forth, the mighty cannon bdomed
and thundered, 'And, with awful flashes of vivid fire, the work of wild havoc began.
Soon tall masts toppled ; soon scuppers ran with bjood; noon wrecks strewed the
sea; soon ships began to reel, and stagger, and founder, and sink ; soon grim,
black wrecks, with red rivulets coursing their sides, went foundering, water-logged,
with rudders shot away ; soon others began to welter in fatal fires ; .soon the
magazines exploded, and rent men and-timbers into burning atoms, till dismembered
limbs, bleeding and charred, fell out of the air into the waters, and made stout
hearts sick with the horrible ugliness of the sight.
This time again the English fleet was victorious, but it had paid for the triumph
by an appalling loss of men and ships for the French had fought with that desperate
bravery characteristic of their greater battles; and the knowledge that this was in
a manner one of those decisive combats which settle the fate of a people and a
nation, urged them to efforts that were stupendous, and so produced so prodigious
a sacrifice. It was really avenging the victory.
This time Pipes fell terribly wounded on deck, and was in turn assisted into the
cockpit by Edward and the friendly negro. . The poor fellow had been shot through
the chest, and at one time the hemorrhage was so considerable as led Edward to
fear that death would be so instantaneous as to preclude those last words and
solemn farewells, men who have been upon such friendly, even brotherly terms, in
storm and battle, love to give. He rallied, however, and as he opened his waning
eyes, their softened expression fell on the two anxious faces before him. As he
stretched out a hand to each, and read their concern for him, a smile broke on his
rugged face, softening those grim lineaments into something almost beautiful, and
he said, but faintly and with an effort,-
" They've cut-my-life-lines now-messmates. I'm adrift, d'ye see, and want
a bhoy, or a life-boat-and it's-getting dark-very dark. Where are you Ned,
my boy ?" he asked, in a hurried and changed tone, which denoted a crisis.
"Here," said Edward mournfully,-" here, by your side."

_{II[?
IY         ,  , 5

.,

TRI   'WINI    BROTtIERS.
"That's-that's right," gasped the old seaman; "I've got poor Sambo's hand
In mine. 'Tis a, warm, stout hand---is-Sambo's-be kind to him, Ned-for m
sake. You're-you're close--to me, do you say ?-"
"1Close to you," replied Edward, much affected at the tenderness which the
rugged sailor manifested towards the negro, who, to tell the truth, received but
little consideration from the other sailors ; " close to you, Pipes, old friend."
"That's right-stand-by, and. steady," Pipes continued  W'vesodb
each othr i  a--worse skrimdg    th thi    bttnud."We've stood by
eac  oterin--woseskrmig -hn this--but my-cruise is up-aye, all
pup. There'll be.a grand court-martial aloft-I hope the Lord High-Admiral will
not be hard on an old tar that never turned his back on either--fre - a w
--not that I've had many of the latter, 'cept the French, and theriend- orenemy
enemies-d'ye see. Some-water,-    r-e
A o little was handed to him, which hedrank with some difficulty, and the shifting
shadows on his rough face told that, death, was asppochn, and ithwsith
an inexpressible groan of pain that he lay back.
"You'll find my baccy-box in--rfh-pocket, and my-old knife and ki
--you'll share my-prize-money, and-pay-with Sambo-here-and your      an
heart. I've-no-tie, as I knows on-and so-and so-"e-
Here his, trembling fingers related awhile, and a film came over his eyes.
old smile, however, played on the mouth. , ,m        ev      i   s    is
"God bless you, bo'-Sambo-you dark beaut  I'm out of soundings-good
byeoldshimat-lff nd  ros hi bws-rake-him ! hurrah!I" and shouting
these latter words,-in a delirium which indicated that the spirit was then in the
midst of one of those frays where' so much of his life hadp rit assen,-bthe
spasmodic action he -sat bolt upright, andee                ase,-y,
bpaso wio acry or groanand waving his hand round his head, sank
The brave old seaman, the honest, single-hearted kindly old tar,;
Edward felt that he had lost one of the truest and baest of frndst as dead ;and
present had ever raised him, or that he was likelysto find in he futuathe ast and
grief was- deep, sincere, and sacred. The African, was even more affectedwthan
ward. Long used to be the jest and laughing-stock of thea men, he.hadfound
one man that had awakened the keenest human affection-i hs dee  d hart-
one that had sympathized and befriended him; and oo Smsdeep wild hearte--
the side of, the'corpse, weeping like a child, when the officers of the vessel made
their rounds ; and Edward then gently led the dark and docile  -  away d
Within an hour or two after, the bodies of the' slain were gathered together on
the deck, each sewn in its hammock ; and the corpses of those that had died of
wounds below were also added to them, Pipes amongesrest. he muffla ed oms
with here and there a head or arm discovered-the shapeless mass ofewhat had not
long ago been bounding animal life, so still and blood-bolted-the offwhatshd noe
bare-headed, and standing in a reverent silence around-the chaplofficers and crew
stole, reading that august and sublime service, which "commits the bodies of our
dear brothers here departed to the deep, to be turned into corruption, looking for
the resurrection of the body, when the sea shall give up he ded"-a  this had for
effect so powerful upon Edward, that shrinking in the back- d,-all this had an
sought to restrain his tears, which streamed through the fingers, into which he had
bent his face ; and while poor faithful Sambo blubbered aloud, the solemn  had
at sea was completed.

r

I
g

Ic
lei
Vic
u:
,ert

e
t
ne
th.

.o
clo

_  n 4 ,   .,,,  y=,"  ,              ;      ,

**I

..u M  '
'                                                                 --   '


s90D

TAR TWIN BiOT7IERS.

ins
t . ff
yrA  "_
Wr
KVr c
=yL        .
f  a
31  t
t   zt
TM
p  F
T t
xti3       S
4    ingy .w  '.
a -yT°y

t I -"    fi;  1 '

TRHE TWIN BROTHT ERS.

01

CHAPTER XXIII.
NWS FRO. THE ABSENT*-
ALMOST at the same time, soothing tie anxieties of those in the home of the
Plmers, in the home of te less submissive and irritable father of Ellen, and to
the still more desolate hearth of poor Dame Morris, came news of the absent ones.
Wounded and iIl  ut still happy beyond t1he power' of words tq convey, Charles
took the earliest opportunity of writing'to his parents, stating his hopes soon to be
with thew, Yai d relating, in a postcript, tt;ose, how bravely Ellen had retrieved
herself, aid= gven to his love ;sp loftyngppgreciption. 'hat mysterious and in-
explicable relation, too, which existed between the twin-brothers, seemed to produce
a lettertfromrMdward simultaneously wih 'that df dharles ; and the home of Martin
Palmer, so long deficient in its, old cheerfilness and mirth, began to put on an
appearance of joyousness. ''he 'old man at once appgayed to have become a dozen
years younger,, Mrs. Ialper prepared for ther eception of 'both' her sons, as her
strong maternal hopes, that converted a wish into a reality, argued for the best ;
and on the delicate countenance of Rose,long so sadly subiige to her 'ate, the
roses began to bloom once anore. Tliey were now eagerly expectant: none knew
the mon ent when the' bloyed ones, so long absent, might cross the threshold.
B3loth had been wounded, both -had done their duty,and of oth the most gratifying
pi'aises had been heard-.                       ,
Fram the day that the wa ward Ellen Freshville had quitted her father's .roof,
From theiday thatethe wa
the stern old man had lookd wth a wrathful gnd vindictive eye upon the family
of the Palmers. F 'or one of iem had,s" beautiful daughter sacrificed her name,
his pride, and'aU the brilliant hopes which the ,selfish and ambitious man had
formed. For a "life full of vicissitude, 'peril, anl of vulgar c9ntiniencies, this
maiden, so delicately nurtured, bad surrendered all the conforts, and luxuries of'a
home eminentlyattractve, -where she reigned sole and undisputed mistress. It was
with some sense of uneasiness, of pity, and of pride, however, that Martin Palmer
and his wife beheld the usually hard and .pitiless parent of Ellen enter their house
on the following day, holding a letter 'inhishand. His strongly marked features
betrayed an unusual emotion ; and though the firm jaw and the shaggy eyebrows
had the same repellent power in them as before, his voice was softened, and in his
eyes there was a milder gleam than Marin had witnessed for a long time.
" Have you heard from your son Charles ?" lie asked, after a pause.
" Yes-yesterday,", was the answer.
"I have heard als from my daughter. I-I have wronged you ! Forgive me !"
and he held out his and to the astonished - carpenter, who took it, saying,'"I am
'glad you have heard, from Miss Ellen,-and Ihope that you will find now that we
were not to blame-"-
"Yes--yes," lurriedly said Mr.Fre hville; "none to blame but myself. But;"
added he, with a firmer accent, "let them;return,, and I will make them both happy.
'My brother, Major Freshville, whose life yogr son Charles has savedVspeaks of his
bravery and goodness, as Ellen does of his devotion, and of her love that nothing
can alter. I resist no longer. I am an' old man, and must learn to forgive before
it is too late ; and to-day I send her my pardon, granting all her prayers, and
sending her such immediate means for .ner return as may be necessary. Not a
word now-not a word. I cannot trust myself to speak-only, do you write to
Charles : tell him to hasten and look on me as a second father, if he will, for I now
see that nobleness of nature belongs to no one class more especially than to another.
Good-bye-good-bye. I have a good deal to do-much to learn-muc to unlearn
and forget ; if it be not too late, I will do so !" and leaving them al lost in sur
prise and joy, Mr. Freshville abruptly departed.

._      _. - -  -  1

Evidently he had s me weighty and hurried matters that pressed 'anxiously upon
him; for striking oat of Walton, and entirely from the 'direction ofthis own house
he made for Kirkdale, and without word or question sought out the cottage -of
Dame Morris, which (being his own) he was not 'long 'in finding. 'He pushed. open
the door, and a more wretched scene had not often met his eyes.. Ragged and
dirty, the younger crying for food, the children lay about the floor. Sunk in
apathy, her aged. face furrowed by privation, and her eyes red with weeping,' the
poor woman, deprived of Jane, bereaved of her son, her support and her, pride,
despite his follies, looked the very picture of misery. She saw and knew Mr.
Freshville in a moment, and feebly rose from her chair.
" I cannot pay your rent,.Mr. Freshville,"' sbe'said, plaintively.
"You once called upon me on behalf of your son, Robert Morris; did you not ?'
he began, without heeding her words.
"Yes, sir, I did," she answered, with a sigh. "Yes-I thought-L-but he was
taken from me-dhe had deserted-he was-punished."
Evidently the letter she had received brought:little comfort.
" And I refusedto listen toyou, to hear you. I have been punished for it ; but
if I had I could not have aided you. That makes no:difference," continued IMr.
Freshville ; "and I might have made my refusal a little less harsh, at least---"
"Oh! sir-but :I don't know what to say!", began the widow.  -
"Say, at least, nothing about your rent; and"take-'this for present wants,"-and
he handed her a guinea., Heedless of her exclamation; he went on. "Have you
heard from him at all since his departure? Do not thank :me. I owe you. some
thing, at least. I owe much more to many," he added, apart, "than I fear I ever
can pay. Have you had-a letter ?"
"Yes, sir, yesterday," returned the surprised widow; who, knowing the nature
of the man that stood before her, was. utterly bewildered by his words and liberality.
"Thank God!                        y Pray let me see it !" he exclaimed, breathlessly  ";Quick 1so
that he can be written to at once."
Dame Morris, despite the 'hope which sprang up in her bosom, could not help
shaking her head, with a mournful air, as she advanced to the chimney-piece; and
taking a letter, 'creased and soiled,, out of a little chinacup-his cup-which stood
thereon, handed it to her visitor in silence; who, putting on his spectacles, hastened
to read it, with an,, attention that showed he was really in earnest, whatever his
motive might have been.
"His fate has been a hard one.! his lot a sad one, Mrs. Morris !" he said, after'
having read it ; and refolding it, toordown some particulars,-and theiddress,'into
:his note-book. "However, let us hope that it will not 'last long.' He has been-wrecked
and wounded ; but he has a tender, trusting, loving heart beside him, I'll tell you
what it is-your sex shames ours ; and if it was only for my daughter's sake, Iwill
try and reward his young wife's constancy and affection (for he has ma-rried his
cousin Jane, you see, he says,) -and I will see, at once, about purchasing his dis-,
charge. If I have been a hard man- apd that I feel I have in too many instances
I hope I have the 'courage to acknowledge faults, and the grace. to be sorry for
them. Get those young ones fed, cleaned,: and clothed-" and he glanced con-
miseratingly around him.
" Oh ! sir, you give me a new life-you make mhe hope," began.Mrs. Morris ; but
gratitude is oftentimes not very'eloquent; uand she could only stammer her thanks.
"Hope !"' echoed t1he old man almostot gaily. " Ihope I-do miake you 'hope.. If
there's hope in a .gnarled old trunk like,-me°,what may you andyounger ones not
hope for. So no more on that score. I'll find employment for your two boys, and
the others shall go to school;'and'we'll soon: change all thisM--" +
" May heaven bless you, sir-I" faltered the poor widow.
" Now, write the letter' for your son, and bring it to my house to' be forwarded
as soon as that is done ; and if you can't write, get a neighbor to do it. Leave
the rest to me. Be certain that before Christmas conies you'll see him at home

e
.r,
al

el
Cl
is1
rn

£{
A
I   t
eJ("} _  -

01
.ot

~t
ri
i".

e
75
7
3
d
yK
T
r
"k
}E
"
;
J
t
4
S
'           b'
?g,
, ':


31

92

. THERTWIN BROTHERS.

free, and all right, I hope. And now-and now-good day."  And hurrying out
of-the cottage;to avoid the torrent of gratitude he knew was coming, the old man,
with a lighter heart than he had -carried for many a day, hurried back home, and
engaged himself in the several pieces of business he had undertaken, like a man
who knew the priceless value of every moment.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
THE MEETING OF THE TWIN-BROTHE RS .
SoMs weeks after this, there was a great commotion at Portsmouth, for the cre .
of the " Bonita" had been paid off, had received their prize-money, and, marvello- .
to say, were their own masters, in spite of many fears to the contrary. But.fortue
was favorable to them ; and Edward, with Tom Tempest and Sambo White,
presided over a huge festival, given among the crew of the old Harpy, previous to
exercising the right of his discharge, and restrained his impatience to see Rose and
his parents, in remembrance of old companions in breeze and battle, whom he was
never likely to see again ; for one thing he had determined on, viz., that he would
no more tempt the dangers of press-gangs or crimps ; but, having discharged his
part in many important engagements in the war, live for the future for himself.
This his discharge gave him the right to do. Besides, he was now a rich man.
The revelry of seamen on shore, after a long and protracted cruise, especially if
successful, has been so often and so well described, that we may be spared any
further attempt-at detailing the present scene of jollity. As a whole, the picture
was something like the following
The largest room in the " Admiral's Head" was occupied by some sixty or eighty
noisy, elated, bronzed, and jovial tars. The groaning tables were covered with a
profusion that certainly made up for many a past " banyan" day ; and air, earth,
and sea had been ransacked for the prodigious feast. The Indies (East and West.)
the continent, and the islands of Greece, Sicily, and Madeira supplied them with
spirits, wines, and scarcest liquors ; but the general tendency was in favor of
punch,-of which vast China bowels were continually being brought in replenished,
and emptied with a gusto that soon raised the guests to an hilarity fitted for
" fiddlers'-green."  Dancing was demanded ; and while coaches brought shoals of
the fair sex of every hue and shade, all the fiddlers in Portsmouth were-engaged ;
and, after one toast given to the memory of " The Harpy, her commander and crew
(living and dead,") accompanied by cheers that were not unlike their own can-
nonading, the more orderly aspect of the company gave way to that of riot ;-
dancing, singing, courting, drinking, fighting, and the rest of it, made up the sum,
It was now that Edward, accompanied by Sambo White, who was also going to
London, found an opportunity to steal away and seek the coach-office, where he
had already secured places. From all, he had parted on the kindliest terms ; a few,
not so far gone, called for vehicles, and insisted on going with him to " head
quarters".and seeing him off, " getting under way and making sail," -and the rest
of it ; and with all that noisy, vigorous, and showy demonstrations. which sailors
are so devotedly attached to, our hero was conducted like a conqueror to his
coach.                                                             ,
"1You're not going to turn into that there crib of a cabin I hopes, Ned," said
Tempest, rolling a great quid in his mouth. -,"Why, old Jack Pipes wouldn't have
owned ye. Mount aloft man,.and con the craft. Mayhap, your helmsman may
want a hint."
And Edward, in obedience to this hint, mounted the coach, on the top of which
the Union Jack, fixed to a pole, was flying. Beside him got Sambo; and a

7

G

THE TWIN BROTHER$.,

93

glorious crowd of tars,hurrying to. London for their prize-money and liberty, filled
the remaining seats. They had a fiddler, plenty of provisions, while bottles of rum
were freely handed round ; and amidst an incessant shower of rude wit, good-
humored badmage, and sundry oceanic expletives, which were often grotesque iii
their imagery, Edward, with a sense of freedom, with a buoyancy of hope freshly
revived, and cheered by the reflection that whatever he might have suffered, was
now over, and that he was at last on his homeward road. Home ! how thatdear
word brought the old faces fondly before his mental vision once more.
It also happened, that on this very day a Lisbon packet had landed several
passengers, male and female.: Among them was a man, young, worn and pale,
whose appearance denoted that of an invalid, while somethingabout him indicated
the soldier. By him, withanair of most affectionate solicitude, hovered a beautiful
young woman, pale too ; but-both smiled when they encountered, each other's eyes ;
and there was, despite the look of wanness and suffering in the man's face, sufficient
to show that it was of' a temporary kind-that rest and nursing would soon restore
to him his old vigor and elasticity, while every hour appeared to produce in his
companion the most gratifying change for the better. - Both had evidently suffered
much ; but it would seem as if- their sufferings, were about to be among those
forgotten things which heighten the enjoyment of the present. They, too, sought
the, coach, into which both entered.
A strange unimaginable thrill ran through Edward's breast as the cdach door
closed on the last two comers, whom he could not see ; and this sensation filled
.him with emotions so conflicting, that he could not.comprehend the nature of those
fancies working so vividly in his busy brain. Nor indeed would the gay, spirits of
.his companions afford him much leisure. Finally, with one continued round of
cheers, the coach bore away its cargo, leaving the rest to return to the. revel, or
follow the example of the departing ones with all convenient speed.
How pleasant were these charming English roads, through pasture lands, breezy
uplands, over wooded heights, through verdant hollow,-and by ivy-covery villages,
where the homes nestled like birds under the sheltering wing, when compared to
the trackless sea, the stormy nights, the. battle plain, the storm and siege ; for
those without, and those within, had experienced each of these, and they never
thought that the loveliness of an English landscape could have beet so perfect as
it now appeared by comparison with scenes and places so diametrically opposed.
Charles-for it was :he and Ellen who were within--experienced the same.
yearning as his brother did, and dreaming as little of being near to Edward at that
moment as he would of being in Nova Zembla ; yet there ran through his soul'
some consciousness that spirit called to spirit-that a mystical and magnetic com-
munication was passing between them. He knew that in sleep. this would be more
definite ; the active, waking functions of the body kept this current of communion
at bay, so far as to embarrass its direct run and tendency. He sought to sleep,
but the very fact that he sought that while the frame was not prepared for it,
drove sleep away. He could close his eyes, but this was the signal for opening
them again, with an acquisition of wakeful vigor that made him give over the
attempt in despair, but which did not calm the irritation of his spirits. Even the
presence and the conversation of Ellen, her, tender attention to, his.comforts (for
he was yet her patient-brave girl that she was!) could scarcely soothe him.
Towards evening, the coach rattled along the great road into town. They were
in London-the queen of cities !-the mistress of the world!-the mightiest capital
since the coronet had faded on the brows of Rome! Along Piccadilly to the
White Horse Cellar, it flew among cheers and greetings-for.seamen were in high
favor with 'the populace--and our jolly tars returned their cheers with shouts as
deeply sounding as had ever echoed along,the decks, or when cannon thundered on
the deeps. The living load dismounted, and the men approached and reeognised
each other.
" Edward !-dear brother I" cried Charles.

T
1
ag
1G
ti
Ia
g
!lt
C11
ri
on
ice
fi
, cl

Ur,
e
rs.
a
at,
:1k:
rts.1
S."]I
one
oth

Ilk"


THE    TWIN    BRQ-TIHERS.
had once possessed- resided at the table, and saw that proper devotion was
shown to the punch, the wedding, and the mistletoe?  No-the, reader has anti-
cipated us by uing these things already, and therefore, we will merely say that
all of these things, ,happened, and that. a h ppier party rarely groups together
than that which congregated on te  evening of the following. Christmas, at the
mansion of Mr.Freshville, on the occasion of the weddingof that respectable old
gentleman's daughter.,
193 ZN.,

4

i#

10                B

6

f
'
s n
{
4
.        ,

The -Enchanted         Plants.. Being
Fables in Verse, by MADAME ,MONTOLIEU, on
the various Sentiments personified in the Flow-
ers and Plants. 32mo, cloth binding. Price
35 cents.
The Songs of the Affections. By
Mas. HEMANS. A selP''tion of beautiful pieces
from the works of this gifted writer. 32mo,
cloth, gilt. Price 35 cents.
Pope's Essay on Man. To which is
added his celebrated Universal Prayer. 32mo,
bound.         Price 15 cents.
Also, an edition of the same with Miscella-
neous Poems, Epitaphs, etc. 32mo, cloth, gilt.'
Price 35 cents.
LETTER-WRITERS.
The Pocket. or Popular Letter-
Writer, containing a great variety of original
and selected Letters on the subjects of.Love,
Courtship, Marriage, Friendship, Relationship,
Cards of Invitation, Business, etc., etc., with a
selection of Correspondence from standard au-
thors. Also, a Dictionary of Poetical Quota-
tions from the standard poets, alphabetically
arranged., for the use of ladies and gentlemen.
32mo,                   Price 35 cents;
In making up this volume, the aim has been
to present all the ordinary forms of correspond-
ence, clothed in good language, and worded in
accordance with the rules of English Grammar.
The selected letters have been chosen with a
view to illustrate the ease and fluency so neces-
sary to render any correspondence pleasant;

SONG BOOKS.
The Eolian Songster. A collection
of the best Sentimental, Patriotic, Naval, and
Comic Songs, accompanied with Music. 16mo,
Price                paper cover 35
cents.
United   States Songster. A choice
collection of the most Popular Songs. as sang
by celebrated performers. 32 mo,
Price 20 cents ; paper covers,
The    National American          Song-
ster, containing a great variety of Popular,
Patriotic, National, and Sentimental Songs.
32mo,     . Price 25 cents.
The 1Negro Melodist containing a
great variety of the most Popular Airs, Songs,
and Melodies, Coii, Humorous, Sentimental,
and: Patriotic.  32mo,         Price    25
cents.
The New Popular Forget-Me.
Not Songster, containing a choice collet-
tion of Ballad Songs. 32mo,         Price
25 'cents.
The New Negro Forget-Me-Not
Songster, containing a choice collection :f
Negro Songs, Ballads, etc., as sung in concerts.
32mo,        Price 25 cents.
[For other Song Books see "DIME BOOKS."]
JEsop's Fables, with upward of one
hundred arid fifty engravings. 82mo, cloth.
Price 50 cents.

Sent by mail, postage paid   on receipt of price.

ooks Published by U. P. James, Cincinnati.

r         t   d -  -                                 ..

. «  ....a-+.  -.- w^,y+a.r+"w..+sw w+...-.+-.. .+a t ar                        a                                   1p'ai to ' 7 c++'e  :a  ,tstr=n aT'.e .aL:'.Ya  tc, ^ ".

The Course of Time. A Poem. By
ROBER' POLLOK, A. M.. With a Memoir of
the Author, by Wm. Livingston Frall, Esq.
A copious Index and an Anialvsis prefixed to
each book. ,32mo, cloth binding.   Price,
50 cents.
Few modern poems exist, which at once at-
tained such acceptance and celebrity as Pollok's
Course of Time. Originally issued without a
naine. preface, or any other appendage, its lofty
themes. exciting spirit, melodious verse, and all-

..
_

while the Dictionary of Quotations, a new feat-
ure in works of this class, will afford many
opportunities of poetical illustrations of the
writer's ideas.
The Instructive Letter-Writer
designed for the improvement of .ladies arcI
gentlemen, containing a -voriety of Letters on
Business, Love, Courtship, Marriage, Friend-
ship, and miscellaneous subjects ; adapted to all
ages and circumstances. 32mo,
Price 35 cents.

i
i
E

powerful effects upon the reader, completely I
silenced criticism, and secured general and last-  American  Fashionable Letter-
ing popularity.                            Writer, original and selected, containing a
variety of Letters on Business, Love, Court-
Lady of the Lake. A Poem in six ship, Marriage, Relationship, Friendship, and
cantos. By SIR WALTER SCOTT. Last revised  VALENTINES, with forms of Complimentary
edition, with an Introduction, Glossary, and Cards. To which are prefixed directions for
copious Notes, by the Author. 32mo, cloth  Letter-Writing, and Rules for Composition.
bindiag.. Price   50 cents.                32mo,               Price 35 cents.
" There is a richness and spirit in this poem  Ready Reckoner';OR,1FRAL CAL-
-a profusion of incident, and shifting brilliancy  RAdy Recon er; OR, indoL CAL-
of coloring that reminds us of the witchery of CtATOR; giving the amount in dollars and
Ariosto-and a constant elasticity and occa- cents of any number of articles from one to one
signal 'energy which seem to belong more par- thousand, at any price from a fourth of a cent
ticunaleney  e author now before us. -Jea- to ten dollars, and equally applicable to many
ticularly    t    hf-other species of calculation, as is shown in the
frey.                                      explanation. To which are added many useful
Paul and Virginia. From the French. tables and forms. Half bound. Price 25
By J. B. H. Dx SAINT PIERRE. 32mo, cloth, cents.
gilt. Price 35 cents.

i
i

y  .r r   +     t l
O-A  1     "                 + ,


Kentucky TragedyI A history of
the Bloody Renconters, Street Fights, Battles,
etc., extending through a number of years, in
which many persons were killed, and others
seriously wounded, known as the " Hill and
Evans's Feud," in Garrard county, Ky. By
LIEUT. J. J. THoMPsoN. 8vo, paper cover.
Price 25 cents.
Knowison's Farrier. The Complete
Frrier, or Horse-Doctor. A Treatise on the
L'iseases of Horses; written in plain language,
which those who can read, may easily under-
staid. The whole being the result of seventy
years' extensive practice of the author, JoHN
C. KNowLSoN. . Many of the recipes in this
book awe worth one hundred dollars each, and
the wLale are new to the world. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
Life of Rinaldo Rinaldini, the
celebrated Captain of Banditti. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
Life of Murel.' A History of the De-
tection, Conviction, Life, and Designs of John
A. Murel, the Great Western Land Pirate; to-
gether with his system of villainy, and plan
of exciting a Negro Rebellion. Also, a Cata-
logue of the names of 455 of his Mystic Clan
Fellows and Followers, and a statement of their
efforts for the destruction of Virgil A. Stewart,
the young man who detected Murel. To which
is added a Biographical Sketch of V. A. Stew-
art. Illustrated. 8vo, paper cover. Price
25 cents.
Life of' Dr. Richard Jennings,
the Great Victimizer-giving a History of his
Robberies, Poisonings, etc., etc.; accounting for
many strange and inexplicable disappearances,
robberies, etc., which have taken place in vari-
ous sections of the country. 8vo, paper cover.
Price 35, cents.
Morgan's Masonry. Masonry Revealed
and Illustrated by ELEVEN SEcEDING MEM-
BERS, showing the Origin, History, and Nature
of Freemasonry ; its Effects on Government
and the Christian Religion. With a Sketch
of the Life, Abduction, and Murder of Wil-
liam Morgan. And a Key to all the Degrees
of Freemasonry.   By ONE OF THE CRAFT.
8vo, paper cover. Price 3s cents.
Melodeon, The : A choice selection of
Songs, Duets, Quartettes, Rounds, and Marches,
with a History of Music and Musical Instru-
ments. Imperial 8vo, paper cover.Price
35 cents.
The historical part of this work is illustrategl
by many engravings, mostly of ancient musical
instruments, showing the manner of using
them, etc. And it contains 46 pieces of pop-
ular music, which would cost over five dollars
at the sheet muusic stores. o
Mock Marriage, The; or, The Lib-
ertine's Victim; being a Faithful Delineation
of the Mysteties and Miseries of the Queen
City. By CH AntES P. BIcKLEY. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents,.

Syi  * Al't

15

Miller, The, and his Men ; or, The
Secret Robbers of Bohemia. 8vo, paper cover.
Price 25c ents.
Mystic Vial, The ; or, The Last Demoi.
selle of Charrebourg, and Qther Tales. By the
author of " The Heirs of Randolph Abbey"
etc. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
Oakshaw ; or, The Victims of Avarice:
a Tale of Intrigue. By WM. T. CoGGESHALL.
Paper cover. Price 25 cents.
Oswyn Dudley; or, The Bandits of Ita-
ly. By MRS. MARY.E. HERNDON. 8vo, paper
cover. Price "50 cents.
Rebel Scout, The        a 'Romance of the
Re  olution. By ARIA ASHLAND. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
Sketches of      nci cents and     Ad-
ventures in the We t. With numerous
fine engravings. lmperi 1Svo, paper cover.
Price 25 cents.
Smuggler's Dau         tern The, and
Other Interesting Tales. By '1. S. ARTHUR,
CAPT. MARRYAT, MRS. S. C. HALL, MAXWELL,
CHAS. LAMB, Miss MITFdRD, and other popu-
lar writers. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25
cents.
Swedes in      Prague ; or, The signal
Rocket, a Romance of the Thirty Years' War.
Translated from the German of Caroline Pil-
cher, the celebrated authoress and ti-aveler. By
JAMES H. HAAS. 8vo, paper cover. Price
25 cents.
The Trapper's Bride ; or, Spirit of
Adventure. By the author of "The Prairie
Bird." 8vo, paper cover. Price ao cents.
The Tor 11ill. By HORACE SMITH,
author of "Brambletye House," etc., etc. 8vo,
paper cover. Price 50 cents.
Will Crittenden; or, The Lone Star
of Cuba.    A  Romance.   By EDWARD     J.
HANDIBoE. 8vo, paper cover. Price      25
cents.
Zingra, the      Gipsy.    By ANNETTE
MARIE MAILLARD. 8vo, paper cover. Price
50 cents.
One of the most entertaining works of fiction.
The interest excited in events narrated is never
allowed to flag, being sustained by constant
action.
DiME BOOKS.
Complete Fortune-Teller and
Dream-Book; or, an Infallible Guide to
the Hidden Decrees of Fate; by MADAME CoN-
NOISSEUR, first of the Seven Wise Mistresses of
Rome. Being a new and regular system of fore-
telling Future Events by Dreams, Moles, etc.
Price 10 cents.
The Bravo of Perth;i or, Voorn, the
Robber nqntaininlg the surprising Adventures,
Depredations,'incd-Miraculous .Escapes of a
bold and resolute Scotch Outlaw of the sixteenth
century. Price 10 cents.

Sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price

4

Books Published by U.- P. James, ,Cincinnati.'

i

t
!y yi
1

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

i


I,
_;-

Ile     ,  }y  ^ sJ     "     ~sw   .  -7'x'_    4 S
..~zn 1  ' t .     l If.4YSr 4 #-'S^y,  .  - "  _' s J5 w~E,  - i

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

LE ON IE S T. JlE
c4(
CNl
0
~ TBRI 1DflEWilL
104
c4
0l
c4
04
c
}.                 cC
W R I TEN  BYAc
ina H llst T  I,
04
AUHROTEFML0E,  "ITM  FFT,"AO
x0  RI0R  H  AAAGR'SRVNE""TEERY C
0                  0c
DOED"   __LI ____ND__AOW   INTH  IF  O
T EWDO    LTT"AD TE'PPLR
PRITE   A  THE IOTN ADOB T OYII
C
I1NITTIIT  fI~lhT!D c0
K II IEN  IEU  lhl~lI~flic(
0            86.e
b/ ATO OF"PEFML  E,  VCTM  FFT,  CM-
90                         0R ANRRRRRRRRAAA9ARAR
1I;OTEKNK  ILSRVNE""IEERY 0

/

,
..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .


  
             
         
       
   
