
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Swordmaster of the Santee, or, Hirl, the Hunchback .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7628
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The swordmaster of the Santee, or, Hirl, the hunchback 
            
               1*i

l

-'1

REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THEm
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY
FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION
le                    "I

r'

r  ;

i
IFTWA                      T                    l

"                                                                                                                                                                            o
" %}Syi    . =.-t- r_'_ -'   'L ', x ._i riey  r yy  i ,  x'";i s  xZF  i  ,.^,v:L 7-  .U'.ar_;"   'v .  n..+na-r'  t:   ,'T  " "+    " ,n , .      "--. r,.,,t± "~:_ ::.' - "vr  .  r  A li
y4
l  '

A


i
.   ,
a 1w -- ,
i

SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE:

OR,

!id; the  unhbik.

D R,J.  H.

R o3TN-I S 0 N.

NEW YORK:
FREDERIC A. BRADY, Publisher,
No. 24 Ann Street,

THE

f
At
1 1
S i
I
,
r
S
. sy#
,  1+1
1 1
l
f'
1 {
1
p
J
1
,   1

:__

:I

f

i

I   r     j,

/ *

i'1
V


)

;'

.1;

coz Alw C$w*runiiikof.flu the~te;.

f  iA    1 i1
      r$1
t  i~~i I

HIRL, THE HUNCHBACK.

I
CHAPTER.I.
THE FUGITIVE.-           -
The clattering of horses' feet, the ringing
notes of a trumpet, and the shouts of dra-
goons, suddenly disturbed the solitudes of tie,
Santee. A man with bare head and stream-
ing hair was seen to leap a wall and run
rapidly across a glade. Toiling up a rugged
ascent, he paused on the summit and looked
back upon his pursuers ; for the horsemen
were evidently such.  A glance sufficed, to
show that they were rapidly gaining ground.
A feeling of utter hopelessness for a moment
chained him to the spot. Large drops of
perspiration rained from his forehead; the
blood whirled wildly in his veins ; his chest
rose and fell violently ; and he panted like a
dog overheated in the chase.
The thunder of the dragoons rolled nearer
and nearer ; the sound struck ominously upon
his ears.
"Colonel Somerton and his dragoons !" he
muttered, drawing the palm of his hand across
his hot brow. "Brave as a lion and impetu-
ous as a whirlwind ! he, mu-t be fest of foot
who baffles him. I have dared his vigilance
once too often. How madly he rides-leap-
ing walls, fences, ditches, rocks, and fallen
trees! He is down-no, he is up ! It was but
a depression of the ground that hid him from
view. They see me ! I mu-t on !"
He ceased, pressed his hand to his beating
heart, and added, bitterly :
"I must on; but where? The hounded fox
may find a cover, and the hunted stag may
turn upon the pack ; but I can do neither."
The fugitive darted down the hill, an4pres-
ently reached the bank of the Santee, the
waters of which at that spot were deep and
rapid. He hesitated ; it required a strong
and bold swimmer to dare such a 'current.

The voice of Colonel Somerton came echoing
down the hill :
"Forward, men ! forwardI The villain is
ours!"
That shout quickened him to another effort.
lHe bounded froi, the bank, was submerged an
instant; but. rising, struck outfor the opposite
shore. The stream bore him downward with
irresistible force. le battled with the waters,
parting them with his strong, nervous arms.
Somerton'spurred his horse, and attempted
to follow ; but the animal soon lost his footing,
and was swept from his eourse. His dragoons,
less heated by the chase, or more prudent, re-
mained on the bank, watching anxiously the
progress of their leader, and the manly exer-
tions of the swimmer, who, notwithstanding
the difficulties with which he was obliged to
contend, finally effected a landing, far below
the point from which he bad started. For a
short space he lay exhausted upon the earth ;
then, staggering to his feet, shook the water
from his saturated garments. By this time,
Somerton was in the middle of the stream;
there was no time to be lost. He ran up the
bapk. Before him was an open field, with a
wood beyond. Hope animated his breast, im-
parting strength to his over-tasked limbs. If
he could cross the field and enter the wood,
he could defy pursuit. Stimulated by this
thought, he leaped a high fence. and was mak-
ing good progress, when, to his dismay, he
again henrd Somerton thundering after him.
.The wood was too distant to be attained. At
the right of the field there was a tract of
broken, ledgy ground, which be believed would
embarrass the movements of his pursuers,
and toward which he now turned, like the
wounded stag, which at every step loses a
portion of its strength with its flowing blood.
By efforts that seemed superhuman, he reach-

o0,

"'
r A =1
4-

I

4

A'
t+
'1
I',

..

r

-4 11 - ww wo-

11-.

t
i
w

I
/

t


'7

_              '
"'V

a

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

ed the more rugged country, and perceived,  In contemplating his face and carriage, the
with satisfaction, that his maneu Ar' was at- observer lost sight of his apparel, which was
tended with success ; for Somert n followed of grayhome-manufacture. His i-ound-skirted,
with more difficulty and less spedd. The in- Quakerish coat, and long waistcoat, were un-
stinct of self-preservation that had glde'd the buttoned  and thrown open, exposing his
fugitive on, grew stronger ; his eyes gleamed throat and breast-the latter beirg still agit at--
with new hope. Mounting a.] dge,. he turned ed by his extraordinary efforts to escape his
to observe the more cautious iding of Somer- pursuers. "r
ton.                                        " It is to be regretted," said Colonel Somer-
The clatter of sabres in another direct n, ton, with a sigh, "that one born on American
caused him to start with surprise.  Looking soil, ahd gifted with such a goodly frame of
to-the left, he saw a party of horsemen emerge manhood, should-"
from the forest, and galloping across the open " Should what ?" interrupted Deering, his
space, effectually cut off his flight. ,  cheeks aglow with strong emotion. "'What is
Fortune," he exclaimed, "deserts me in my crime ?"
my need !"            ,'                    "Let posterity give it a name !" retorted
."Yield, or I fire !" cried Somerton, draw- Somerton, turning away with evident aver-
ug a pistol, and spurring up the ascent. sion.
"Spare your powder," answer d the man,   " Jim Giles,"said Captain R'ainford, address-
calmly, seating himself upon a rock.  " I am  ing a short, stout dragoon, mounted upon 'a
unarmed, and shall nio longer struggle to de- white horse, " take this fellow up behind you."
prive you of the glory of capturing a man " With all respect for your '"hority as a
whose only crime is a desire to restore law 'sperior, I can't do it," replied Giks, touching
and order to this distracted country."     his cap.
"Of that we will hold discourse in good    "And why not ?"; asked Rainford, sternly.
time; but at present you are a prisoner,I' re-  " I've followed you often in the thickest of
plied Somerton, reining up his pasting steed. the fight," returned Giles, deprbcatingly, " and
"Unable to resist, I can only submit to your never showed my back to the inemy, nor stop-
authority," returned thd man, in a. sgblued  pod to question wh- ther a thing was right or
and quiet voice.                           not, when I had your order for't ; but i'll be
"You are called Deering ?" said the colo- hanged if I'll ride on he same animal with
nel.                            /          an out-an'-out traitor'and villain, who valley
"Men style me thus ; but it matters not," freedom no more nor he does a cast-away quid
replied the man, moodily.      /       -, o' terbaecer ! Try me for mutiny, put me un-
"Were you born across the watyr, or were der arrest, or t'otherwise treat me, and I'll sub-'
your trade less despicable, I might sympathize mit to your honor's judgment."
with your misfortunes," answered Somerton. While the honest dragoon was thug express-
, Then,.to one of the horsemen--who had by ing his sentiments, Deering's face underwent
this time reached the spot-" Captain Rain- several changes, being by turns pale and red.
ford, mount this person/ behind one of your " See," muttered Somerton, "in what de-
men, and conduct him to'campl By no means testation you are held !"
allow him to escape. I shall hold you answer- " Heavens !" exclaimed Deering. " Must
able for his safe keeping."  /   /         this be endured ?"'
"Perhaps," rejoined Deering, with a slight By this time Jim Giles had dismounted.
curl of the lip, "you had better secure me " Cap'n," he added, taking off his cap and
with fetters !  There are so few of you, and flourishing it by way of emphasis, " I'll give
you atach po much importance. to my per- up my critter with right good-will, and will
son.".                                   lead him or walk along ahind ; but as I said
He glanced at the grim circle of dragoons. afore, bagon t me if I'll ride in partnerships
Captain Rainford bit his lips, while Colonel with him! HRavin' fired my gun, I fall back
Somerton regarded his prisoner with more to' load."
attention. 'he latter slowly' arose to his feet, Sergeant Giles 'was soniewhat addicted to
displayingdproportions'that Somerton could proverbs and the epigrammatic style. His'
not but admire. In height, he must have speech was usually interlarded with axiomatic
been above six feet, with a muscular devel- sayings, which made him to a certain degree'
opment which could not be faulted. His figure I oracular and dogmatic. It was seldom that
was straight and martial, with a notable breadth he uttered three consecutive 'sentences with-
of shoulders, a prominent chest, and arms like out exhibiting this particular trait of cl~ac-
a gladiator's.  is features were regular and ,ter. Although Sergeant Giles was quaint and
pleasing, but marked with care, and softly eccentric, his genial humor and approved in-
tinged with melancholy. Ilis head was bare- tegrity -rendered him a general favorite in'
his dark brown hairohanging in wet masses Captain Rainford's company. "HonestGiles,".
over his neck and brow. '                 as he was often called, had been in the front

t
a
j
i
i
I

of many a battle, wis cool under fire, and had him, dead or alive ? Have we not hunted him
more than once been intrusted with secret across the country like a game beast, and has
service, attended'-with much personal danger. he not as often eluded us ? I venture to say
Being such a man, it will easily be understood  that there is not a more subtle and dangerous
that he escaped the censure of his superior on fellow in the South than this same Deering, or
this occasion-his refusal to obey being justly wh'ttever he may choose to call himself. Gen-
attributed to that zeal which made him so good eral Green, you remember, mentioned b m in
a soldier.                                his last dispatches to Washington, and has
Captain Rniford -looked at Deering, and given particular instructions to all the prti-
pointed to the empty saddle.              san officers in this part of the country to nake
"I understand," he said, and mounted.   short work with' him, if taken. You are not
"To camp 1" cried Somerton, in the brief, wont to be tender-hearted, Somerton."
sharp tones of habitual command.             "The man- shall die. I can do no more I"
Deering grasped the reins mechanically, and answered the colonel, dryly.
with depressed head moved onward with the    " Feeling is good in its place ; but pity for
dragoons.                                 such a villain is as much out of place as Sa-
Somerton and Rainford rode side by side, tan u ould be in the pulpit."
conversing as they went, while Giles, taken  "It may be so, Rainford, but he's a fine-
up by a comrade, said many wise things con- looking fellow, nevertheless ; and, though I
cerning the enormity of receiving British gold execrate his, charact er, he shall have fair play,
and espousing British sentiments to the detri- even to the foot of the gallows."
-ment of one's native country.               " Which qI hope he may soon reach-which
It was a dark period in Revolutionary his- I trust is no offence to your honor," inter-
tory. Gates had been defeated at Camden, posed Jim Giks.
the Carolinas were overrun with hireling sol- "Silence !" cried Somerton, in a tone that
diers and those native enemies called tories, hushed every voice, and the party pursued
whose tender mercies were cruel,, and whose the way to camp without farther conversa-
inroads w4re a thousand times more terrible tion.
than thos9 of the foreign invader. The South-
ern campaigns had been unfortunate for the              CHAPTER II.
patriots. Their half-starved-poorly.armed         J U D I T H  R E D M O N D.
troops found it hard to withstand the tide of  Deering was thrust into a log-cabin, around
reverscsthat was setting aga-nst them. The which a strong guard was posted by Sergeant
demon of Destruction stalked abroad. Harm-, Qilcs, who took not a little pride in showing
less citizens were hanged at their own doors himself, by his watchfulness, worthy the trust
by fiends in human form. The land was trav- reposed in him  by Captain Rainford. The
ersed by British spies, who betrayed the move- structure in which the prisoner found himself
ments of the American forces, frequently mar- was one of a kind quite common at the time
ring their most promising combinations, and in the colonies, built of large timbers hewn
snatching victory from them when it seemed on two sides, interlocked at the ends in aman-
in their grasp.                           ner to give much firmness to the fabric. It
" While I deprecate his crime, I pity his had evidently been used for the purpose of a
fate," said Somerton, making a movement of prison before, for the long, narrow windows
his hand toward Deering.                 were barred with heavy stanchions of oak.
"I have no sympathies to waste on him,"   The rays of the descending sun crept du-
answered Rainford, shaking his head. "Such biously in through the apertures, falling like
miscreants richly deserve the halter."    bale and staiitled shadows upon the rough
"True, true!" returned the colonel, pen- floor. ' Some straw was heaped in a corner.
-sivel'. "There is no help for it-he must A deal table stood near the centre, upon which
die!"                                    lay various irons for the limbs of those who
de.uld to God that the same halter that were thought to deserve them, either by their
deprive  him of his miserable life, could en- crimes' or delinquencies.
circle every tory neck in the Carolinas at the  Deering contemplated them with an inter-
same instant!" exclaimed Rainford.        est rendered peculiar by his situation. His
"In pur ze'al,we must not forgetto be just," cheerless meditations were interrupted by
resumed Somerton. "The unfortunate man Giles.
must have some form of trial. I would not " Colonel Somerton wants to know, he
ha'g a dog"Without evidence."             said, bluntly, " if he can do anything to make
"To the devil with your scruples, colonel !" your short stay among us sort o' comfortable,
cried Rainford, impatiently. " Is not the as 'twere ?"
ensure of testimony already filled to over-  "'A kindness I scarcely expected, answer
flowing?  Have I not passed more than one -;d the prisoner, quickly. " Yes, there is-"
night in the saddle in vain attempts to take  Deering stopped.

4

" j+ "  ym  1 1 '

4

--5-_

;
'i
;+
,
ti

"i'
II

- - , -, - AgQ-

i

'.

1
i

f
L


6

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

"Is what?" queried' the sergeant.      curbed the strong impulse that wasupon him,
"bNothing, my good fellow-nothing. 'Twas and did not, reply to one who disdained to hold
but an earthly, selfish thought," returned converse with him in his low estate.
Deeifnouhveart.                           Colonel Somerton entered the cabin.
"''Ifyou have airthly thoughts, you'd bet-  "Deering," he said, without harshness, "I
ter put the rein, on 'em at once, and not let have r cived within the hourinstructions from
em. go gallopin' to etarnity with ye like d~ General Greene to use every reasonable en-
detachment of our horse," responded the ser- deavor to capture the spy whosername las been
geant, who took no pains to conceal his dis- so often heard in these parts ; and, if successful,,
like for the person whose safe keeping he con- to execute him with no more delay than de-
"ideyed himselfresponsible.              cency requires. But nothwithstanding these
"Honest Giles, do not trouble yourself orders, l,"shall myself examine you, and if you
about matters that concern myself and God, can answer satisfactorily the questions I shall
only," responded Deering, with a slight tone propose, will send you to General Greene, to-
of rebuke.                              gether with a true statement of the same."
"Perhaps," continued the sergeant, "you'd  "Proof!" muttered Rainford, contemptu-
like something' in the satin' an' drinking' way, ously. "Are not the proofs abundant-over-
as you've had a long chase and a- long whelming ?"
fist."                                     Rainford threw a stern glance at the prison-
"I thank you, soldier, but I need nothing. er,Rand contracted his brows' tSoierton.
I believe," he said, smiling bitterly," it makes retired from the cabin without replying to his
little difference whether a man dies on a full doughty captain. He had gone but a short
or an empty stomach."                    distance when Giles overtook him, saying:
"I reckon you'll know as soon asilost of  " Here's a lady that wishe's to see your
ns I" said Giles ; "though you shall have a 'honor."
longer breathing' spell than poornHale had. " Conduct her to my quarters," said the
Spies are a kind o' cattle that don't- flourish colonel, absently.
amongg the Continentalers. dHaste makea     "If your honor will take the trouble to turn-
waste,' it is said, but ' delays are dangerous;' your head a little, you'll see her without that
and when you've flred, go to the rear to load" delay," add d Giles.
The sergeant drew himself up, and made   In obedience to this suggestion, Somnert on
his sabre rattle ominously,              looked to his left,.and beheld a female, timid-ly
"A s ! a sr !" repeated Deering, with awaiting his notice. Her appearance arrested
emotion.                                 him at once, and engaged his entire attention.
g  fWhen caught is banged; when hanged is  During changeful and active life in fiend and
good for nothing," said Giles.           camp, he had met many women worth     of
Sergeant " said a voice at the door.  admiration ; but the lady who now stood be-
"At your honor's sarvice' quoth Giles, fore him, in the matter of personal prestige,
with a military salute.                 was superior, to them all. Hecr figure was
"Do not forget my instructions,"said Rain- graceful beyond description, and her air such
ford, "but attend to their with the utmost, as to' command immediate respect. She was
fidelity. Admit no one without my orders." closely veiled, but the silken tissue did not
"Or the colonel's, your honor ?"       conceal the lovely outlines of her face. Her'
"tOr the colonel's," added Rainford. "Does complexion was wonderfully clear, her eyes
the prisoner wish for anything ?"        brilliant, her mouth of exquisite delicacy, her
"He says not ; but you can question him neck slender, and her bust shapely to perfec-
yourself."                               tion.
"No, Giles, I hold no discourse' with trait- Someron observed, with the quick and
or. Were he a born Briton, I would lay up critical eye of an artist, that her hands end
no unkindness against him; but, having been feet were small, and her arms-such portions
nurtured beneath the kindly suns of the South, of them as'were not concealed by her dress-
I cannot find t in my heart to excuse the un- white and rounded. A pleasing appreciation
naturalness of his conduct. Inform him that of the charm of beauty insensibly stole upon
to-morrow he will share the fate of Hale and the doughty warrior, unconsciously keeping
other victims of British cruelty. The evi- him mute and motionless. The voice of the
dence against him is overwhelming. The very lady aroused him from his waking trance.
shadow of doubt flies before the accumulated  "Do I address Colonel Somerton ?". she
mass of testimony. Hope there is none, save asked, her voice flowing like silver ripples
in such spiritual consolationaa       -   naq
pabl of eceiing.                11If you seek the person you have done me
The spy stood motionless near the window ; the honor to mention, you need, look no far--
and though he started and changed color more thor," answered Somerton, with a bow. 11 ow
than once while the captain wais speaking, h. can I serve you ?"

7,

OR, flIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

I-I have a request," she said, stammer-  "He was on the right side," answered the
ing, I,which-"r                        officer, with dignity.  "Hale died for his
"'Walk to my quarters, lady, where you country, but Deering will die for the love of
may be free from inquisitive eyes, and I will British gold."
hear you with pleasure. We are not," he    " Do not-do not believe, it !" cried Mies
added, with a smile, as he enteredan unpre- Redmond, wildly. "God knows his purity of
tending, and weather-worn tent, " soroyally purpose."m  soul, Miss Redmond, I regret
lodged as some of his majesty's officers ; but I  "tUpon  y suMs emnIrge
trut that the Continenta  older knows as the circumstance tha  acd him i my power
well what is due to your sex as the most loyal since it wounds you so deeply. But duty
subject in the land."                    duty is  exora  land dis-
" I doubt it not," answered the lady, with  e sepped hastily to heorand i-
dingy an'as, and accepted the proffered but id not dare trust himself to speak fur-
camp-stool.  1                     I iltherCondththis ley,"isitor.he      i
"Now, lady," said Somerton, gently, I will      "to the sioner."
listen to your petition -which is already sergeantlappearve them. together?"inquired
granted, if it be not inconsistent with my
g ' nGiles.
duty as a colonial officer."                 ism
tdy' sh said, th effort. man now in        " How long " continued the practical ser-
"      sDeering ?" interrogated Somerton, in a geant.
tone of astonishment.                      Somerton looked inquiringly at the lady
"It is to that unfortunate person that I  "A few miserable, miserablcmoments
refer," responded the lady, in a voice nearly she murmured.
inadbeGis would have continued his %aterroga-
"Ldy, I have seen you but a moment, but tories, had not an imperious gesture from the
the thought that you have aught in common colonelwsilenceddhim. Hedtheewa y  h
with him gives me real pain," said theccolonel cuabn, honored th such com angs
"I know that the mark of Cain is on his    He's in there, miss," he said, throwing
forehead ; that he' suffers.-most injustly suf- open the door.  'soo1  esuimat dark, g but your
fers I" she cried, with touching energy. bg'ght eysalson ndkye int misshm enuh.r Go
"It is indeed the mark of Cain; for whoso- strainer g dand'atn, which opens with a
ever findeth him may kill him ; for which act aninrdom'tw        ihopensfwithera
ther   dethe free Wn arra  of the Commander- latch. Ton non  usaif it    al 1the
in-chief of the Continental Army. I pity his Be as expeditious the feller needs, a parson more
misfortunes, detest his trade, and can do same to ye     felle   ny. a   wonder,"
nothing for him.".                       nor he does female company.   I wonder,"
Somerton arose and paced his little tent, in added  aendthoseduhn the lady,shown g
evident perturbation.                    opened a" aen arsmdteld, oak w ~nd louponmthesad"hwong b
for him life and liberty, tough I believe him  be? Tom, mind your busnea d scipne
deserving of both. I would see him."     esdr       on . There  ustraishplant
"Might I without indelicacy  ask"-Som-   on toes outwardly, and wh up straight  n
erton began, but checked himself for fear of yur y toes, oubtrlndxtwhien ouvdn
wounding the fair creature before him.  oueerin he r axght fo tf ; looked up
A burning blush mantled &amp;ir cheeks.Dernharalitfofa;loedu
"My name, Colonel Somerton, eis Judith quickly; then sprang forward and seized th
Redmond. Deering is a friend-a true friend, extended ded f tueam cr.dak
I believe-but nothing-nothing more."                 he eea  ne    a n prk-
"Pardon me, Miss Redmond. It was no ened path a" he exclaimed, kneeling and press-
vulgar curiosity that prompted me to question ing the passive hand again and again to his
you. You shall see the spy," answered the lips.
o gar hurriedly.  "eArise, M                     y  friend- arise!  Not to  me, but
colonel,hurel.,.tHevnnel"hesiwtdepeoo.
" Even a spy may be a man of honor," said to Heaven kneel,"shesaid, with en I knee emto thee, I
the lady, in a faint voice. " Remember young knDearest,ovele"  wene   to tpy, a
Hale" se aded.kneel to Heaven I" answered the. spy, in a
"Lady, the allusion is unfortun-te," ron- n that thrilled to her soul.
" aSomerton a cloud appearing upo    o   L     your  n   re     di r   dn
brow.   a                                 oemnly   from earthly considerations. Let
"He was brave and generous, and died like not myo coming diet your thoughts from
a hero, !" she exclaimed,                their proplcanl"

Ii

-      Y
y i
F  t
_Sp3aS }
"  two     '
J
aGi
s        3
}
i
a          t   rf      'ice
. ' i i1   (1
3         ''
SP , '
J \}   r    ;
+           I:
h j

v.

il
2

-
f
Z
-'                       .
1             _       _ )

-

-_   -   ..,r:r-    ,.rs       .,      -    -Fn          .T ""w    ,+ 5 .'axrK a+c          w+ia+s;w+ara+R,"pc . _.r"-..r m,       , -- .-

-.,.   .  ..   ,._._.r.,.,_ __   _.    1J ,,, "' '-i  !r":....i.-,   ;"E' i'sc....+ ee^. h, tsr  ,.(_  , t^4.+''" 3#rr--...,              ' .1i..u   's

~l
t


."I

N ' V

-5

-Ix
9  ' .
t '.  ,
I'j

'X'HE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

"What less earthly than thou can I think
of?" *aid the spy, with enthusidsm. "Angelic
goodness prompted this visit. Who but thee
would have sought a wretch destined to die on
the morrow? Thou hast sweetened my cup o
bitterness, till the direful potion of death has
lost half its horror."
"How.dreadful is your position!" replied
Miss Redmond, with mournful vehemence.
Alas, Guy, for your memory when all is o- er !
Had you forfeited life in the cause of freedom,
this parting would have been less painful ;
but .to ge out of the world covered. with the
ignominy of a British spy, gives me'inexpres-
sible pain. 0 Guy, is there no escape?
Have you not some powerful friend in the
Continental Army-or is there not some means
by which you can scale these wooden walls-
elude the sentinels-and leave the gallows be-
hind? If I were a man,-I would find some
way-hit upon some happy invention-or, de-
-vise some subtle plan of cheating even Fate
.itself; if it led to such disgrace.  I would
"move heaven and earth with my endeavors !"
She paused, and pressed her burning fore-
-head with her hand.
" Judith, beloved Judith, you torture me
,And yet," he added, " it is something to know
'that I have the sympathy of the best being
on earth I I thank thee a thousand times for
-thy. tender pity."
" Strange, incomprehensibly strange, that a
'soul like thine should spurn the claims of
country 'and-patriotism !" said Judith, looking
earnestly at the sorrowful face of her lover. .
"Mercy, Judith, mercy! Thy words cut
.like the sabres of Marion's men-ay, deeper ;
.for they reach to thesoul itself." .
" A British spy1" gasped Judith. "Guy
-Deering, can this be you?"
There' was a world of agony in these utter-
ances. Neither for a time could speak.
" Can I ,endure this ?" muttered the spy,
presently. ' Shall. I .go hence and make no
-sign ? Imust-I must !"
"Guy Deering,- you are struggling with
some great. secret. Speak it, in Heaven's
.name ! if 'it will relieve the darkness of your
fate and name.".                 o you
She took his ha.nd,'And turned her beautiful
face upon him in ineffable entreaty.
"'Tis past, 'tis past I" he murmured, huski-
ly, and with a faint and fading smile. "I am
-I am strong again.' Now, dearest,' talk not
.of me,-but of -thy darling sblf. If I shake oft
this outward form of humanity, I will like
again in thee. My immortal nature shall find
a habitation in the fair temple of thy own
spirit, and mysteriously incorporate with thee
-become a conscious part of thyself. This
is Love-the first, the last, the ethereal, the
-eternal. Thinkest thou, my own, that death
can tear us asunder?"  '

Deering' drew Judith to his breast, and the
rays of the setting sun fell upon both. Hie
.pale features -were lighted with enthusiasm,
while hers pictured wonder, fear, and trust.
f    -"              -
'CHAPTER III.
HIRL, THE HUNoClnAot.
The soft and mellow haze of twilight was
descending upon the:camp, when the clear
challenge of an American sentinel rang out
upon 'the air:
- ".Who goes there ?"
" A friend."
"Stop, friend, and give the counersign."
The person thus challenged was seated in a
cart, which was drawn by a sorry-looking horse
-the thinness of which seemed to attest to a
long penance of fasting. The driver of this
animal was far-from prepossessing in appears
ance. He was of large, frame, but his figure
was rendered disagreeable by a painful stoop
and a monstrous protuberance between hit
shoulders. We cannot describe him better
than by simply affirming that he was a hunch-
back. His face, which otherwise would not
have been ugly, was made repulsive by a
wound upon the right cheek, imperfectly con-
cealed by a patch. He had apparently pass-
ed the prime of. life, for long gray hairs flu-
tered over his forehead. He wore a sut os
homespun, brown, better adapted 'for hard
service than show. His patriarchal head was
protected by a round cloth cap, which bore
unmistakable impress of long use.
A large powder-horn and ball-pouch hung
under his left arm; while 'beside him in the
cart, braced against the rude seat, was one of
those redoubtable weapons denominated the
king's-arm.'
Instead of stopping his horse when chal-
lenged, he jogged on, jerking the reins, and
muttering
" Go 'long, Crazy ! go 'long! A'n't afeard
o' nothin' you see hereabouts, be ye ?"
"Halt I". shouted the sentinel, raising his
musket.
" Git out the w y,' you ragged critter.
Don't you know b tter than to be standin'
right :in the way of a hoss and cart ?" cried
the hunchback, petulantly.
" Stop, or I fire !" said the sentinel, warn-
ingly.
'" Whoa, Crazy, whoa!" said the old man,
stopping his bony beast with much tugging
and sawing upon the bit. " Don't pint that
-gun. at me, you reckless divil! Why in the
name o' conscience don't you fight the inemy
instead o' your friends? Nobody'll coma
anighst ye bimeby, if you go on in this ry.
dicerlous way. What in time you want ?"
"' The'countersign, you old' fool-the coun.
tersign !" roared the sentinel.
" Hey?  What? Speak louder, if you

(/J
-M
nj
O

11
If

/

. 

8

i

r

I

i
k
I

\                                                        i   l
\\\                                                         '
F ^'_
y" l,,ai
_                                                    ..v-..rr ......-    -.. .
Y L-Y^ .nWhp' , h+ Y-neW V. A-.~.I-hKU+db'W Asif tY fl

a


i

'N

lV

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

c

A rT
1:
4
4t

c

:v --- -

11

want anything. Been deef these twenty years
or up'ards."
The hunchback cocked his head upon one
side with that earnest vacuity of expression
indicative of the unhappy infirmity which he
had avowed.
" You heerd well enough jest now !" snarl-
ed the soldier. -
" What perduced it, did ye say ? God, I
s'pose, or it might been natural, leastwise.
The old woman says 'twas done by one the
Smith gals a singin' treble in my ears when I
led the singin' ; but that don't look reasona-
ble to me. Washington in the camp ?"
Tie hunchback looked at the sentinel with
an air of such perfect simpli ity, that he could
not refrain from laughing.
I reckon you know a precious sight about
military affairs, oil mn. Do you s'pose the
great Washington goes canterin' about the
country like an itinerantparson or a common
whipster."
They say he's a mighty good fighter, and
makes- the redcoats run like a flock o' sheep."
,Enough of this, old gentleman ! Give me
the countersign, or move off."
" My name's IIirl-old Hirl, ill-mannered
folks call me."
"Confound him!" muttered the soldier.
"What do I do ? Used to be a blacksmith ;
am a swordmnaker, now. Made quite a lot o'
weapons for Marion's men. Cut up old mill-
saws and si :h. Let me in, will ye? Can't
stan' here fooling' much longer."
"I've a mind to fire on the old chatter-
box !" said the sentinel, beginning to be an-
gry again.
"'Yes, I'm right handy with tools ; can put
-          an edge on your sabres that'll cut a hair.
Sog3r-feller, that bagonet o' your'n is blunt
as your thumb. How can you stick sich a
thing as that into a Britisher? Might as well
carry a b 'an-pole."
Losing all patience, the sentinel strode up
to the hunchback, anI1 seizing him by the col-
lar, howled in his ear :
"The password! the password !"
" Why the divil didn't you say so in the
fast place ?" screamed the old man, fretfully.
"Come down to bring a few sabres to Wash-
ington to, hash up the redcoats with. Guest
he'd swear some, if he knowed how you'd kept
me outside with your imperdence."
" I asked you for the countersign ten min-
utes ago.'"
"I hain't got it ;" and if I had, I wouldn't
deliver it to nobody but the gineral. I ain't
a man as seeks arter signs of no kind." '
At that juncture, Captain Rainford, who
had heard a part of this dialogue, stepped for-
ward and demanded of the proprietor of the
horse and cart what he wanted.
" I want to see the officer in command," an-

swered the hunchback, peevishly. " Been
bothered here nigh on to half an hour, and
I'm sorry to say, mister, that the regerlations
here is a disgrace to the Continent il Congress
Havin' heerd that there was a great scarcity
o' weepous among yeri1 jest whipped Crazy
into the cart, and hurried right down with a
few o' my best razors, that'll shave a Britisher
'thout lather or hot water. Come and look at
'em, sir. Or, perhaps," added the hunchback,
reflectively, "you'd better take me right to
the gineral."
Then to the sentinel:
" Watch that cart, there, for you don't seem
to have nothin' else to do ; though if I's boss
here, I'd keep ye a shoulderin', and orderin',
and presenting' till you could scurcely st-m' on
your legs. I shall speak to Washington about
the gineral looseness hereabouts, in p'int o'
disciplyne."
" You've brought us some blades of home
manufacture, have you, my good man ?" said
Rainford, smiling.
"He's brought the High Hills of the Santee
on his back, I should think !" muttered the
sentinel.
"Yes, major, I'ye brought ye some good
'uns that I'll warrant to do the business, if
properly used."  Then to the soldier: " You
feller with the musket, you can have the pass-
'word now, if you want it; though little good
it'll do ye, for I's bound to see your com
mander, anyhow. Marion ! there, you hay
it ! I hope this'll teach ye to mind your own
consarns, and treat the friends o' Cgngress
with respect. Come 'up, Crazy, come up !
Guess, on the whole, we'll take the cart right
along, for somebody might steal' the razors,
you know; and I should be pesky loth to have
'em swingin' on the wrong side, hashin' up
our folks 'stead o' the Britishers."
" You are very welcome, my man. Bring
your horse and cart inside the lines. Whiat's.
your name ?" said the captain, eyeing his
strange visitor with considerable curiosity.
" My name is Hirl; though ill-mannered
people call me Old Hirl, Crazy Hirl, Deef
Hirl, and so on. You can take your choice,
major. ' In times of peace I was a smith ; but
now I'm a swordmaker, and can sharpen up
your tools to a turn, if you like. Any news
.stirrin' ?"
" Nothing of importance, excepting the cap-
ture of a tory spy," replied Rainford, care-
lessly.
" Come'long, Crazy ! The old gal's gittin'
tired. A spy, eh ?  Well that's good news !
You'll string him up right up, I s'pose ?" said
the hunchback, with a business air.
''He will be executed to-morrow morning."
"This is a nice creetur o' mine, major. You
wouldn't think she's 'leven year old next
Fourth o' July ?"

4'
I
T

4/;

to

... ..
r

p,

O

R
(
, _
E
'r~


4,

12

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

The kunchback looked complacently at his friend, your offering is very acceptable ; for
meagre mare.                             some of our poor fellows are but indifferently
" You rc mistaken, my friend ; I should armed. You could not have.brouglht a more
think her twenty instead of eleven," replied welcome gift. Sergeant Giles," he added, rais-
the capta ii, shortly. ing his voice, " carry these weapons to the
" You're no judge o' horse-flesh, young colonel's quarters. Here is Somerton himself.
man. What did you say this seller's namo is, Colonel, this worthy countryman has brought
that's goin' to give a tight-rope performance a timely supply of trustworthy blades. Our
in the mornil' ?"                       dragoons will make terrible work witl them,
The man, with the hunch on his shoulders if you will give us a chance at the enemy."
gave Crazy a lap across the nose, and watched  Somerton took one of the sabres from the
its effect, while 'waiting for an answer.  cart, and, approaching a camp-fire, examined
"Deering!" replied Rainford.            its workmanship, and balanced it in hsliand.
" Deering !" exclaimed Hirl,, exhibiting He then turned to the sword-maker, looking
much surprise. -" Then you have trapped him  him ever with a searching eye. The some-
at last. Poor lad! podr-lad ! I used to know  what pale and disfigured countenance, and
his father right well; and this boy, too, who the sto ped figure, passed a critical ordeal be-
was ever a generous and hearty youth. Pity fore the colonel withdrew his regards.
he took to sich courses; but it runs in the  " So you forged these weapons, old man ?"
blood, I s'pose."                        he said, at length.
Do you live in his father's neighborhood ?"  "My name is Hirl," said the hunchback, in
Rainfr inquired.                        a shrieking voice. "It is Hirley, rightfully ;
"Our houses are in sight of each other. but ill-mannered people have shortened it, -
'Twill be a heavy blow to the old gentleman, callin' me Hirl-Old Hirl, Deaf Hirl, and last-
who hasn't a grain o' sympathy for the British- ly, Crazy Hirl."
ers. He'll have a heap o' questiois to ask about "Speak loud, Somerton ; the old fellow is
this poor, misdirected creetur. 'Twouldn'tbe rather deaf," suggested Rainford.
no more nor a Christian act, I reckon, jest to  " Speak in my left ear if you want me to
take a look at him to see how he bears it, and hear ; for that's the most-active of the two.
ask if he has any message to send to the old The doctors say the drum of the right ear
homestead."                              is mightily out o' repair. Been dreadfully
The old man looked pensively at the ground. flirtedd, off an' on. It's bad enough to be
"lHe has a father and mother ?" '  .   'hard o' hearin'; but I've (had the rheumatics
"Sartin, sartin-most folks has, I believe, in my j'ints, the neuraligy in my face, and the
Haven't the matter ofa peck of oats, have ye, brownereeturs in my threat pooty much the'
that I could give Crazy? The old jade has most o' the time since the breakin' out o' the
trundled over.a good many miles, to-day. By war."
the way, speakin' of this unfortunit youngster,  " You seem to have an ugly wound on your
I really think it's my duty to see him,.tthough right cheek," observed Somerton, mindful of
it '11 harry up my feeling's woundedly."  the man's infirmity.
Hirl spoke in a tone that carried conviction  "Yes; got that in a bit of a scrimmage
to the mind of Rainford.                 with a gang o' tories up to our place t'other
"If such are your'feelings," he said, "I day. My wife Eaid if the creetur 'd struck
will mention the subject to Col. Somerton, who hard enough, 'twould been nighabout the in-
will readily give you access to the prisoner." stigation of my life.. They tell me, colonel,
"'Thankee ; though the job isn't to be cov- that you've ketched Deerin'-4t last. His folk
eted. These sabres that I brought down you live clost to my house, and I jist telled the
shall be welcome to, jest for the sake o' liber- major here-"
ty ; and they may be the'means of makin' a  "I'm a captain of dragoons," said Rainford,
market for more. If your bagonets or swords dry .
want sharpening , John Hirl is the man to do it, " That I's afeard I should have to go and
although he's ruther skeery 'bout takin' Conti- s e him. ' His father is a staunch Continental
nental money as times are ; for Congress is  congress man."              -
poor as Job, and there's no hard money in  e  "His father a patriot ! Can it be possible ?"
country."              -                 exclaimed Somerton. " There will be grief
While the hunchback was talking, Rain ord for him to-morrow night. Unhappy father !
was examining the weapons which he    ad -unhappy son !"'
brought m h'is cart. They were not elegant  Somerton spoke with an earnestness that
in form,.nor cunningly polished ; biut they testified to his kindly sympathies.
seemed rightly attempered, and were ground  Then in a lower voice, to Rainford :
to a keen edge.                            " Captain, it is a painful duty that devolves
"In a strong hand," said the captain, on us; but we will execute it fiAithfully, no-
"these blades will do fegful execution. My cording to the usages of war."

-  I
i   _A'
.:.

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

13

"Our country demands it of us. It will be anything in the woman line; hut such a
no more than an act of common humanity to nightmare as this will afflict the prisoner afore
allow this worthy, thpngh simple-minded man his time."
to see him," returned Rainford.            "The duty of a    oldie and offer is to obey
" We sometimes have the most to appre- orders," quoth Giles, with not a ltle dignity.
hend from simple-minded men ; although, in "Tom Thornton, face to this mountain of a
this case, I confess I can see nothing but ap- man ; Old Harry, face to Tom  Thornton.
parent honesty and singleness of purpose," Now, Tom, it's expected that the samee el,1
answered Somerton, again scrutinizing the come out as goes in. Observe the critter well,
hunchback, who now stood warming his hands so there tl be no mistake. If the spy should
over the fire, after the manner of old persons give us the slip, we should be disgraced forcv-
whose blood begins to flow tardily through th  ' er and a day."
shrunen vins."I've got eyes as well as another; and he
vIt's a stout arm," mused the colonel, "for is blind indeed who don't know a sh' ep from.
an old man; "but I suppose those swelling a swine. a    Phen, to Hurl : "Friend, you carry
muscles come of his trade. What a mountain a heavy pack. Pass in, in God's name; for
he carries on his back ! Where's Sergeant it's my opinioncthat the sight of ye will do
Giles "          c~.more to reconcile the spy to death than any-
Giles ?"                            ..mr
"Here, your* honor !" answe d that indi- thing escon lifted the latch, pushed open the
vidual.' Prompt as a cannon-ball," laughed Som- door with his foot, and the hunchback went in.
I erton.                                 The former heard two voices a long time as
"rAm callers on hand,ikeshop-worn goods," he moved slowly to and fro in the little entry,
Ssaid Giles.                             both being different in volume and character,
You see this old gentleman "           and easily distinguishable.
SWith a bomb-shell atween his shoulders ?"  When the old man at length appeared, his
I couldn't see him, I shouldn't be able to air was absent, and he kept shaking his head
see the Hills of Santee in shiny day ! With like one in doubt. The spy himself attended
your honor's permission, he don't know much him to the door, and said : " Good-night."
of the art of war, avin' throwed up his forti- Thornton looked at the hunchback a mo-
fications ahind instead of afore."       ment, made an affirmative motion of the head,
Honest Giles touhed his cap, and stood and let him out.
straiet Gile htcoryhedpig. cpn"You've had a long chat, Old Harry," said
strais name is Hirley; and he has permis- Sergeant Giles, who was wasting him outside.
sion to s me theispy .Y ou have charge of the  "My name is Hirl, or more properly Hir-
prisoner to-night. Be careful that the same heyv; though ill-mannered people call-"
man comes out of the cabin that goes in. I  "Never mind "the ill-mannered people "
have not the faintest suspicion of the honesty interrupted Giles, impatiently.  "Tell me
of this garrulous old man ; but it is a good how you found the prisoner ?"
plan, Sergeant Giles, to deal with an honest  "Ruther malantholy, and down at the heel.
man s yo wold wth  roge."I don't think lie wants to be hung at all, not
"The man that thinks to deceive Jim Giles; a bit on't. He don't look as I expected in
your honor, brings his sack to the wrong mill. the least. It don't seem possible that lie's
I. haveo b saddle to fit evenyghorse and hea a old Mark Deerin's son, and I'd oughter know
known' east that gives me a fall. Come, him as well as anybody. But then boys grow
Hari' or Old Harry, to te right face -- out of one's mem'ry very quick. No possi-
march oOlHar,                            blity o' mistake-is there, corporil?"
"Follow the sergeant," said Rainford. "He The hunchback applied the digits of his .
will provide you with food and quarters till right hand to his head in a perplexed and re-
to-morrow, if you are disposed to pass the flective manner.
night in camp."                            " Mistake ?  The matter's as plain as the
"'Bleeged to ye, capn! Will talk with ye pack on your back !"
more 'bout the woepons, presently." w      "I don' know-I don' know ; but I s'poso
With this reply, the hunchback went shuf- you do. He wasn't so glad to see me as I
fling after the martial steps of the sergeant. thought he'd be ; and, to tell the truth, n wasn't
They sawa female gliding from the cabin as inclined to acknowledge the 'quainlance at
The sa a emae gidig fom  e c, masfust. I've got to think about this -a spell,
they approached it. She moved away swiftly, fore I  got to hink ot t."
and her graceful form was soon lost in the afore has makenougheatodecei  adozenlike
obscurity." w now, sergeant ?" said Tom' Thornton, you," affirmed Giles. "He that trav ls far
as Giles appeared in the narrow entry of the knows much."
cabin. " You've brought a different grist to  "Stay in camp ? 'Bleeged to ye ; but arter
our hopper this time. We don't object to , seen' this boy, I ha'n't got much appetite

J

t
-                                                                                                              't
,. f
__    _                                  .,,
1 +.                   ..a+wM/}'Raw  .-   . i p..    -v. .9YY _  _ _.+MVnY iM++ .^ .Rt aa  aYNH TN Yfw4 ..  s  _ iT ...-.. ....  . ..    .

"

If/

t
i
r
1"

1r

',

,
.-...         ....-.  -_._.-.:.=s.:%...a "".                   ..               .v+.=_...r+:T .-yMYw +.  1rn                                 '"...rlliw 40'.     __

{
f


4

14

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

16
vi
If  :

15

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACH.

for't. I'll take Crazy, and jog to the nearest        CHAPTER IV.
farm-house, and call round ag'in some other  IN WHICH THE SPY DENIES His IDENTITY.
time to sharpen up your tools. The kurnil's  "Come with me, Captain Rainford," said
welcome to the sabres.. If 'twasn't for the Somerton, a few minutes aftertedpaur
rheumatics, I'd stay and help ruse 'em; but of the sabre-maker.    r the departure
I'm a gittin' too oil for a soger., You see, a, r " If you propose visiting the spy," replied
man o' my age hasn't much to fight for-for Rainford, with hesitation, "I hope you won't
I can't, san it a great many years, in the insist on my company."
course o' natur'. Whoa, Crazy! The old     "It is my wish!" returned Somerton, briefly.
gal had the scratches lest fall, but she's got When! the two Continental officers entered
nighabout shut of 'em now. Jes' slip the bri- theeabi ,they found the prisoner sitting ab-
d1e into her mouth, corporil. Apt to cesther stractedly near the barred window, at the ex-
bridle when I leave her by herself, Crazy is." tree end of the little compartment. A single
The hunchback clambered into his crt, candle burned dimly on the deal-table, cast-
and was tugging at the reins, in an endeavor ing a faint and flickering light upon the per-
to turn, when Captain Rainford passed, in the son of the spy, who received his visitors with
performance of some official duty about camp. a faint smile, saying:
e made a momentary halt, and said :       "Ex
"Sgo you leave to-mghlt ?9"E-xense my rising, gentlemen ; ceremony
"s  o  ev  onght?                  is unnecessary here."
" Yes ; I'm deef as a haddock in the right,  "Our visit," answered Somerton, "is one
but I can hear pooty well with the left," of humanity. We have our orders from th
screamed Hrl, whose unfortunate ear' con- chief in command ; but we desire to be just
tinually involved him irmisapprehensions. as well as prompt."
"Did you see the girl?" asked Somerton,  .11 Be seated, gentlemen, if you can find the
in a voice loud enough to be heard on parade. conveniences, for so doin g.My accommoda
"Yes, Hirl; though ill-mannered people-" tions are not of the best," said the prisoner,
"Confound the fellow !" muttered Somer- with slight bitterness of manner.
ton; while flainford interrupted the hunch-  "Our errand is not to remove any feeling
bask with:                              of doubt in our minds in regard to your iden-
"Pshaw, old gentleman! You have a mar- tity, or our guilt," resumed Somerton, in a
velous faculty of perverting everything. The calm and serious voice, drawing pencil and pa-
colonel wishes to know if you saw the young per from his pocket, and approaching the table.
"Ah ! This is a kind of informal examina-
"Yes, I saw him obut don't ask me no tion," said the spy, arising and composedly
qucsti~ns-for the poor~lad, has kind o' be- snuffing the candle.. "I would offer you ad-
wildered me, as 'twere. I don't know what to ditional light, but none know better than
say, I'm sure. One thing's sartin, he's give ourselves that I am but a passive agent
moer a powrfu Imatoolnde ea'te to rr a here."
Sasoger; for I'm too; tender-hearted to string  "You do not deny, sir, that your name is
up a feller ereetu. as if he was a dog, and Deering ?" continued the coloiiel, preparing
nothin' better. Good night, kurnil ; good to write.
night, corporil."                '         " I beg leave to corieet you. My name is
fa"Is the prisoner calm? Does he bear his not Deering," answered the prisoner, quietly
fate like a man ?" 'inquired Somerton, with  "I advise you, young man, not to trife
"mHe'ale no              .           with one whose only regret is, that you are not
"Heelmer nor he'd oughter be, I should innocent," returned Somerton, reprovingly.
say; a pesky sight quieter nor many that ha 1 " The person who informed you that my
less on their minds," replied Hrl. me is the one you have mentioned, was mis-
"Does he exhibit no remorse-no despair ?" ta en," answered;the spy, firmly.
"Yes, she's a good mare, 'leven year next  "It was yourself that told me you were
spring. Can trot her three mile an hour called Deering," added the colonel, with a
'thout ,wettin' a hair.' Go 'long, Crazy! I frown of displeasure.
Stan' a smart chance o' gettin' the rheumatics fr Never " exclaimed the accused.
being out so late. Get up, old gal !"      "I assure you, unfortunate man, that you
The hunchbacksee-sawed the bits across will gain nothing by subterfuge so shallow !"
the lank jaws of his mare, the wheels began retorted, Somerton, with earnestness, but with-
to turn, and he lumbered away-musket, out anger.
powder-horn, deafness, pack.' and all       No man that knows me, can truly say that
I ever resorted to dishonorable subterfuge."
The spy was standing within a yard of
Somerton, perfectly calm and collected, with-
out bravado, or an apparent purpose of con'-
tradiction.

1" Do you deliberately deny that you ac- ed Somerton, who could not conceal his con-
khowledged your name to be Deering ?" de- temponitend to put me to death"
minded Somerton, in a voice that was every  The spy looked steadily at the officer, who
"I do!1" was the unhesitating reply.    answered :
"You see,' interposed Rainford, querulous-  "You will be executed to-morrow morning
ly, " that your sympathies for this person at nine o'clock."
are wasted. ie   disputes a most obvious    "In your report of this transaction, whose
fact. He will next deny that he was chased name will appear as having suffered the ex-
by out- dragoons, swam  a river, and was treme query     military     and with b-
caught by     "Tequryosptgrvlun'it                                              e
"If Captain Rainford puts his statement in coming impressiveness.
ea  tby  .Rinfrd  utshisa tme  ineoThe nameof GuyDeering, the British
the form of assertion, I do emphatically deny "Tenm     ofGyDrngthBiis
it," answered the spy, with an unpretentious spy!" replied the colonel, again passing the
positiveness quite surprising and baffling to candle before the face of the prisoner.
positiamnes.ut  uprsga                   " I trust, before the hour you have men-
"It is folly to -pursue this investigation tioned, that it will be proved I am not Guy
further," muttered Rainford.              Deering."
furThese are audacious and unwise denials,"  "Banish the thought!  It is impossible.
said Somerton, with a sharper tone of rebuke. As a Christian and a man, I would press upon
"What is the name of the lady who visited you the necessity of preparation for a journey
you about an hour since ?"                 so long."
"No  lady has honored me with her pres-    "Colonel Somerton," replied the prisoner,
ene to-night," was the prompt response.  "I cordially thank you for your kindness.
"Too cool ! too cool I" cried  Rainford, If you could think better of me-if it were
lau"ohing. c                              possible for you to look with less aversion
aomerton was annoyed, vexed, disappoint- upon one who has never injured you-"
ed. Repressing the hasty words that were      injured every hes t  he oone youo-
ready to-fly to his lips, he went on.  .  hnie ined evry hoeston i hae  o no
Pr:sonrwaisyunae"nis                        Oemoeqsto            Hvyunt
"ax Henderson,"what  answered name ?spy.  frequently, persistently, carried intelligence
Colonel Somerton took the candle from the  from the American lines to the enemy.?"
table, and held it near the prisoner's face,  The man who called himself Max Hender-
which he examined with the closest attention.  soi grewver palpablyoadlchesto  setmikeo
Thisescrutinyhe extended to his person gel-  a sea. He turned from Somerton, and took
There can be no mistake, Rainford," he several hasty trs across the room.
said. " This is the same man we captured  asked, husily, ordin  not my answer be the
His garments are still wet."               sy
"There is not a reasonable doubt of it," re- same.n
plied Rainford.                               True!T true P' responded Somerton, struck
"If you are not the person that we take by the candor of the reply.
you to be, how came you to be an occupant   " Come life or death, ignominy or escape,
of this cabin?" interrogated Somerton.    you can know no more of me than now.
" I will not answer that question," was the There is a seal on my lips that only One can
unsatisfactory reply.                     remove; 'it will remain, whatever may hap-
"The voice, the height, the features, are the pen. In this world, Max Henderson expects
same," muttered the colonel. " This seems no justice. But go, gentlemen-go!   If I
one of those cases where, deception is out of bring no proot of my identity, my blood will
the question."                            rest upon you. Let God judge between in.
"And yet," said the spy, "you are not sat- the day when he shall make up His eternal
isfied. You detect, you sense, you feel some- awards."
thing ; it is not a certainty, it does not each to "God and the Continental Congress !" said
the height of suspicion - but .yoi are un- Rainford, by way of amendment.
e "  "Your language, sir, is strange and contra-
"asyMisguided man ! Falsehood will not avail dictory," added Somerton. "I honor honest
youn; on the contrary, it destroys that sym- boldness, even in an enemy ; but abhor false-
pathy which otherwise your fate might have hood as much is I love truth."
drawn forth. Despicable as I know your em-  The grating of a saw and the strokes of a .
ployment to be, I confess that I am unpleas- hammer crept with a muffled sound through
antly disappointed in your character. Your the walls of the cabin. The spy fixed his
assertions are puerile, absurd ; and when your dark, searching eyes on Somerton.
position is considered, almost shocking," add- o " The preliminaries of death," he said,

/  /

r

1 ,
*1

I
t
t
C. Fs  1
T
~s     t
r

t,
#'.

"                       tM
t

.

n

R
:

s'  '
,,  t
Y'


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

t  ,fr f1
f4'

"follow fast on the heels of your examina-
tion."
A bitter smile swept over the prisoner's
pale lips.
The colonel colored, and exhibited confu-
sion.-o
" Your generosity," resumed the spy,
"might have permitted me a few hours for
repose, uninterrupted by those dire notes of
'preparation, without stain upon your patriot-
ism."
"Repose, indeed ! Innocence itself could
not sleep in a situation so awful !"
Somerton spoke with the solemnity he
really felt ; while the prisoner's handsome
face lighted with some inexplicable emotion.
The wonder and bewilderment of the colonel
increased, communicating corresponding feel-
ings to the practical Rainford.
" We gain nothing," said the latter ; " and
the interview is becoming uncomfortable."
"Good night, gentlemen! We shall meet
again in the morning," said the prisoner, with
his peculiar look and smile.
" Whoever 'you are, I am sorry for you,"
answered Somerton, slowly following Rain-
ford from the cabin.
Sergeant Giles was standing near the door.
"Sergeant," the colonel began, " you saw
the hunchback-"
He suddenly checked himself, adding, in a
lower voice :
" Pshaw ! what nonsense ! There can be
no mistake. 'Tis the last trick of a gamester
who plays for life. Drowning nen catch at
straws."
As the officer walked away, he was followed
by the dissonance of the saw, and the 'dull
sound of the -hammer. He turned and be-
held, with an involuntary shiver, men raising
two posts with a transverse beam. He hur-
ried to his quarters ; but could stillsee, in
imagination, the skeleton frame looming grim
in the moonlight.     -   '
" He that takes the devil into his boat muts
ferry him across," quoth Sergeant' Giles.
CHAPTER V.
THE   EX ECU T,1 ON.
Day dawned, and the Continental camp
shook off its slumbers. There was a stir
among officers and- men. Somert6n looked
wearily from his tent. ' He had passed a
troubled night. When, after tossing a long
time, he finally fell'asleep, his repose-was dis-
turbed by the same train of thought that had
kept him wakeful. He dreained of -is pris-
oner, the young wornan who had visted' him,
and Old Hirl, the hunchback.
The colonel arose, :depressed by' a heavy
consciousness of the disagreeable' duty which
the day would bring. Leaving his quarters,
-,e took a solitary walk around the outposts

of the little camp, still pursued by thoughts,
of Guy Deering, and the contradictory char-
acter of his last interiew with that misguided
person. As he slowly returned, he was mt
by Rainford.
I" I wait your orders, colonel,"lie said brief-
ly.
"There is no need of haste. Let him have
as much time as possible," Somerton replied.
" That was not thought of by our enemies
when Hale as minded the cart," returned
Rainford.
" To their shame be it spoken !" exclaimed
omerton. Then, after a pause : "Have you
s en him this morning?"
" I just looked in to see if he was there,'
"How did he appear? Wa3 he less coi
tradictpry than ]ist night ?"
" The same! 'the same! There was no
change in his deportment."
"1 I regret'it ! I hoped that solitude and
reflection would bring him-to reason."
"On the contrary, he was firmer-in his in
credible assertions than before. I really be-
lieve he thinks to escape, even at this late
hour. Truly, his composure is incompre-
hensible."
" Possibly," said Somerton, " it may arise
from a mistaken notion of duty."
" That is quite probable ; for the greatest
criminals have sometimes been the wildest
fanatics, dying-as they imagine-martyrs to
right."
--Go and ask him," enntinued the colonel,
thoughtfully, "if he wishes thio consolations
of religion."
"'The very question I proposed. He laid
his hand upon his breast, and replied that
he already experienced such consolation with-
in him."
"It is passing strange!  Send Sergeant
Giles to inform him thdt he 'has but dn hour
to live."
The sergeant being near, was immediately
dispatched on this errand, which he fulfilled
with all that military alacrity on which he
'prided himself.
"Well?"'said Somerton, interrogatively,
glancing at his messenger.
" He said," replied Giles, "that it was more
time than he expected ; and he hoped it would
be more than sufficient to prove his inno-
cence."
Captain Rainford, never celebrated for his
gentleness, on hearing this, made use of sun-
dry expletives bordering on profanity. Even
the-patient Somnerton seemed annoyed by this
reply.
" Did-he express any desire to see a clergy-
man ?" that officer demanded.
" When I ventured to hint, your honor,
that he ought to have a parson to tinker up
his conscience, he shook his head with a sol-

p1
/
)I
,6

C)
,0

z
0

A

N)

(

/-
~ ~'    r

I

.     .         j3igcr -

16

{
f

r i  J 11 l
r
I

t

ao

. , _..o.e ,.    ash   ...     oar =            :a: ti 6 rsu.~     .    ...w   "  woer"  .1"..r^ '    «  y .


y
x
4

'S

1'
G.

(.

1;L

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

emn sort o' smile, and said : ' If I've neglect-
ed my soul till now, it's sartinly ,too late to
save it ; but if I've attended to it, it will not
be desarted at the hour o' death.' Them was
his words, and every one of 'em seemed to
weigh the matter of a pound."
'I have done my duty !" exclaimed Somer-
ton. " Captain Rainford, muster the dra-
goons. An hour is the utmost grace that can
be given. If Tarleton should get wind of
what is going on, it wouldn't be strange if he
should attempt to rescue. He and Cornwal-
lis have been closeted more than, once with
Guy Deering, no doubt."
Soon the blast of a bugle was heard,, follow-
ed by the clanking of sabres, the rattling of
spurs, the neighing of horses, and the heavy
tramp of dragoons. A part of the brigade
was drawn up in the form of a hollow square
around the gallows that had been erected the
previous night. Inside this phalanx, A cor-
re ponding number of more lightly aimed
troopers were paraded on foot. All being
ready for the terrible drama, a deep and ex-
pectant silence ensued.
Presently, Sergeant Giles entered the cabin
with a file of men, and brought 'out the pris-
oner, upon whom every eye was instantly
turned. His face was somewhat flushed when
he first appeared, but it soon became pale
and calm. He advanced firmly and stood in
the fatal square, when he paused, and looked
slowly around. His glance rested upon Som-
erton.
" Tell Colonel Somerton," he said, " that
I would speak with him a moment."
His desire was at once made known to the
commanding officer, who reluctantly ap-
proached.
" Mr. Deering," he said, °".I have been in-
formed that you have something to say to
me."
" Much! much!" answered the prisoner,
with emphasis.
" Say on, then, for the time is brief," said
the officer.
"'Brief, indeed!" said the spy, quickly. "It
would seem that there is but a short quarter
of an hour before me.   Although yonder
orb" (he pointed to the sun) " will rise and
set millions of times, I shall not see it set or
rise again. How should you feel, colonel, in
my situation ?"
"If," returned Somerton, earnestly, " I
were dying in my country's cause, with no
stain o' my name, I should feel that the smile
of God was on me."
- "I comprehend," said the prisoner, color-
ing.
"Mr. Deering-" the colonel began.
" I have told you that my name is Hender-
son," interrupted the spy, in a decisive voice.
" Henderson or Deering-for it makes little

19

difference what I call you-if you have aught
to communicate, come to the point and be
brief. I am disposed to be humane ; but with
me duty is imperative."
Before answering, the prisoner partially
turned, and looked anxiously toward the San-
tee, the murmur of whose waters could be
heard. Somerton noticed the action, and said,
warningly :
" Young man, I solemnly believe that you
are beyond human aid. If Tarleton and his
legion were to appear this moment, you could
not be rescued alive. A volley from my men
would end all before the foremost of our ene-
mies could come to the charge."
"I do not expect Tarleton," responded the
prisoner, with a smile that seemed a niockery
of death.
"Do I understand that you have spoken
what you wish to say ?" demanded the Conti-
nental officer, authoritatively.
" No, no !" exclaimed the spy, with a vehe-
mence that w'as in striking contrast to his for-
mer quietness.
"' In Heaven's name speak, then, for the
time draws n ar!"
" God forbid !  Never, never !" he cried,
with more feeling than he had yet exhibited.
" Your terrible situation has disordered
your mind," replied Somerton, in a troubled
voice.
"It may *o appear to you ; but possibly
the time may come-"
He stopped, and looked, once more to the
south.
- " Some false and deceptive hope still sup-
ports you. Reject it- abandon it-fling it
from you as the enemy of your future peace.
Employ the few remaining moments in
prayer. Yonder is the chaplain of the brig-
ade ; he looks anxiously this way. Permit
me to summon him. He waits but for a sig-
nal, and I will give it."
The colonel waved his hand, and the indi-
vidual referred to quickly approached. In
person and outward appearance, he bore small
resemblance to one's idea of a man of God.
He was a large, wiry-looking personage, with
brawny hands, thick neck, and swarthy fea-
tures, which, instead of that softness and meek-
ness generally supposed to characterize his
profession, were hard and severe in their ex-
pression. Instead of prayer-book or missal,
he carried a ponderous sword, and wore be-
neath a leather belt a brace of pistols.
The risoner regarded him with a faint
smile an was about to refuse his services,
when so e new thought changed hi, purpose.
" Hum brey," said Somerton, " but a few
moments a e left to this wretched man. Do
for him w at man may do for his fellow-man
in a stra' like this."
"I an do nothing of myself," answered the

S

t       -

4

/r
1,
't
I

s     ., d   .+.    _

!.

s
' Y              J

i
1
.i
7

_. ... _ ~ (                            ?-rr. _  afro-L. 1Ir
..a                  -                4F               wn's1" rMy y, ,,,.-",,.rr'n /                     1^  ' ' M  149f ''sku+M;

-    -         -       I                         I                           --             -         -


jt --   -       i  ,-     , 1
1,4r     I

20

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

chaplain; "but if the Lord blesses and directs to the uncomfortable  feelings that oppressed
my efforts, his mind may yet be fixed on that him.
which concerns, him most." Then to the pris- "My doctrines are those -of the patriarchss
oner: " The crime for which you are to suffer and the apostles, of the saints, and of the fa-
is truly heinous, but the mercy of God can thers, and the holy martyrs, and the Conti-
reach the vilest creatures."             nental Congress, and George Washington, and
"This is comfort, indeed !" retorted the spy, all good patriots, and the tairtecn colonies, and
bitterly,                                every other Protestant country."
"iYou are justly doomed to -death," con-  " George Washington !" muttered the spy.
tinted Parson Humphrey, sternly ; "yet late " A good man-a good man !"
repentance is better than none."    .      " Ay, and the leader of the armies of the
L eave me, worthy man ; this matter is to Continental Israel. As Paul said-"
be settled between Heaven and myself. No   " The Captain of our salvation did not wear
doubt thou art honest, but thou canst do me the sword," said the prisoner, abruptly.
no good." "Had it been the will of God and Congress,
"But I can direct thee to One who can, he would have carried both sword and spear, I
even He whoa-fashioneth. one vessel to honor doubt not."
and another to dishoner. Improve these pre-  "Alas !" cried Deering, "neither Congress
cious moments in prayer and supplication ; for nor Washington will save me."
perchance the divine ear may not yet be closed " Nor would I, had I the powers of both !"
against thee, having had me rey on the peni- retorted Humphrey, harshly. " Give good
tent thief in the very moment of his mortal heed to what 1 say. Thou observest me not, -
amIy   thif!ct" si  h rsoerde-but continually turnest thine eyes to yor,0hkjr
csaid the prisoner, redden- clearing, as if hoping for aid from- that-quar-
' .ter."
"As Paul said, I judge no man-"         "Time is up !" said Captain Rainford.
"Was it Paul ?" muttered the prisoner, with " Sergeant Giles, attend to your duty."
a perceptible show of impatience.          A sickly pallor overspread Deering's fea-
Somerton bit his lips, and backed his horse tures.
a little from the parties.                 " If thou wouldst indeed serve me," he said,
"Nay, if thou art captious, I can do noth- in a low voice to Humphrey, -"delay the cxc-
ing for thee ; for a perverse spirit ill becomes cution as long as possible."
thy condition, seeing that the word of life  "My authority," answered Humphrey, with
would but go in at one ear and out at the unchanging severity, "is not temporal, but
other-being as water spilled on the ground or spiritual. And if it were, why should I delay
pearls east before dumb swine. Thou hast the footsteps of justice ?"
much to do, and but short apace in which to  "I ask," returned the spy, " but ten paltry
do it; therefore, fall upon thy knees, and, minutes!"
though I detest thy calling, and British gold " Those minutes are God's, and He can give
bath a stinking savor in my nostrils, I will or withold them."
put up such petition as an ignorant and sin- " To me," added the prisoner, earnestly,
ful man may for a lost and dying brother."  " ten minutes are worth ten worlds! Nay, I
"I thank you, worthy sir," returned the will abate the time one-half-grant me five I"
prisoner, casting another of those anxious  " Were it for the good of thy soul, they re-
glances toward the strip of open country that quest might perhaps avail ; but thou givest
bordered the Santee. "If thou wilt speak to no evidence of repentance, and thy urgency
me of thy doctrines,I will patiently hear what ariseth from a natural shrinking from death."
thou hast to offer, though thy appearance is  "Thou doest me injustice ; I swear to thee
more like- that of a temporal soldier than a thou dost ! I can die as well as thou. There
champion of the Cross."               , has been a fatal error, which ashort delay may
The spy spoke with calmness ; but there was correct."
evident uneasiness In his nianner, and the per-  " Wretched man, I fear thy whole life has
spiration was exuding in a fine moisture from  been a fatal error; but as mercy is the duty of
his face.                        -       a Christian, I will speak to Colonel Somerton,
The-Continental colonel, despite his disin- in thy behalf," said the chaplain.
clination to do so, could not but observe him " Leave me !" he exclaimed. " Thy heart
with painful attention, secretly wishing that has never been touched by human sympa-
he was . far away in the discharge of more thy."
grateful. duties. To him, time never passed A soldier advanced and tied the prisoner's
more quickly. He beheld the sands running hands behind him.
apiy, an   the fatal moment approaching.  "Colonel Somerton," said Humphrey, "al-
e ster, upitying countenance of Parson low the prisoner a few moments for prayer."
Humphrey did not please him-adding much    The officer made an affirmative motion of

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

21L

the head. The chaplain drew close to Deering,  " Not long-not long !" muttered Giles,
saying: ,                                 "for one's memory is dull after being hanged.
"Fall back, men-fall back a little. This There is neither device nor wisdom in the
unhappy man would perform his last act of grave."
devotion undisturbed."                      Deering leaned upon the chaplain, and
Sergeant Giles and his menh respectfully re- walked slowly to the gallows ; but his eyes
tired a few steps.                        wandered with, inexpressible earnestness to-
"rKnel - kneel!" whispered the chaplain, ward the Santee. Bending to the ear of his
and Deering knelt with his strange spiritual ghostly adviser, he whispered :
adviser. The latter raised his hands in the  "I heard the tramp of a horse's feet."
attitude of prayer, and began his pious pe-  " Nay, it was an illusion of the evil one to
tition. His low-breathed and earnest suppli- divert thy mind from that which concerns thy
cations were continued some time, and when he everlasting salvation. Fight against it, un-
seemed drawing to a close,    ring whis- happy man," replied Humphrey, in those
pered                                      cold, severe tones that characterized his mi-
"Pray on, pray on ! Thou mayest, per- istry.
chance, bring me salvation in more ways rth-' istry hear it again. It is thou who art de-
one."                                      ceived "
on The chaplain prolonged his invocation.   The spy now stood at the foot of the gal-
'"The parson is long at his prayers," iiut- lows ; the fatal rope oscillated in the air over
~ ,ered'ltinford  " He makes this scene un- his head. A dragoon seized it to adjust it
cessarily t dious."                   about the prisoner's neck, but he recoiled
- --"-It is little that we give him," answered from the contact with infinite disgust.
~-"derto, lokin   at h  rsnr   but it ~- " it is not for me !' he cried, with a glance
is m   ' at we take. If Humphrey's harsh like lightning at the offender. "I was not
surgery c a help him any, I do not mind born to such infamy.
waiting; a little."                          There was a stir and murmur among the
"By Heavens ! the par'son has ceased, and dragoons.
tie spy has  ken up the strain !" exclaimed   ,A horseman I a horseman !-a messen-
the captain                                ger ! a messenger !" ran from mouth to mouth.
This was t ue, for the instant Humphrey Every eye was turned expectantly to the San-
pronounced toe closing word Amen, Deering tee, and fixed upon a horse and rider. The
bowed his hed  reverently, and said        person of the latter was thrown forward in the
"Good sir, thou art more kind than I saddle, as if impatient of his progress, while
thought thee  Now I will ask percy for my  his steed wasi covered with sweat, and east the
self; and, wh'e I supplicate the divine fa- foam in white flakes from his mouth. The
vor, do thou  ast thine eyes occasionally to- generous beast shot forward like an arrow,
ward the Santee, and listen with all the inten- and. thundering up to the dragoons, stagger-
sityof thy seoses."                       ed and fell.
The tableadias now deeply impressive.     ' Hold there: hold, in God's name !" shout-
The men on horseback and on foot; the-gal. ed the messenger, disengaging himself from
lows in the centre ; Somerton and Rainford the stirrups, and waving a letter over his
sitting like st tues upon their horses  Deer. head.
ing on his k ees, with hands secured behind  -'Here is the officer in command," said
him, and the stony figure of Humphrey be- Rainford-    " What has happened?    Make
side him, with the sun streaming radiantly known your business."
over all                                     " There has been a mistake. This letter
J     " " He is longwinded " said the impatient will explain all. It is for Colonel Somerton,
Rainford,at length.  "It is but a pretext to answered the messenger, panting like a dog
gain time  He has not the courage to walk wearied in the chase.
up avd die like a man"  e      gSomerton took the letter from the unsteady
The words of the captain, though spoken in hand that proffered it, and broke the seal. It
a low tone reached the ears of Deering, who read :
spra gS quickly to his feet. He turned with  " MY DEAa CoLONEL . Sta the execution f the per
flasingeyesto  ive  ha~ght rely;  utson now-in your custody.  on labor under a singu'
flashing eyes to give a haughty reply ; but la misapprehension in rep: rd to hie dentity. Guy
changed his purpose with manifest effort. He Deering, the British spy, was seen this morning by me
breathed hard, and his chest heaved.       and several of my officers, at i y present headquarters
"bPrisoner." said' Colonel Somerton, 1 we at Black Swamp. There was no mistake respecting
hlp personality-having, ha~d. full view of him for
have granted you every grace that Christian- some minutes. I ordered six oi my most experienced
men can give."   Then to Sergeant Giles    scouts to pursue and take him. - He'permitted them to
"Let the execution proceed."              approachalmost wthin pistoi-sh dt, when.esting was
I  will  emember it,  col nel,"  a swered hand  derisively, al otb ihin ge  n   h  oet  n  a
-' I will remember it, colonel,''answered soon lost sight of. On the spot whe. e he had stood., sp-
Deering, impressively.                     per was found, on which was writtt 1n in pencil **

/

2?                         A    --1

/                                                                  '~4--Lt :

I,

f

ri

I

l.    ,.'   ..
$  .
P


"                                                                                                                                     r
1'

- -!

THE S WORDMAK
niel Tarleton is coming to take the Swamp Fox.' This
T;    f                  announcemen" struck mec as being very bingular;bu
it was doubtless a piece of bravado on                         partfo
i -   e;,,you know that those who have not the power of injur-
-ing us frequently resort to threats for indemnity
The person of Deering is well knowpi to at least twenty
amen in my brigade; and very nearly that numberare
ready to swear to his identity-as I am myself. Sc
-.              you perceive, my dear colonel, that it would not be
ju't to execute your prisoner without further investi-
gation. Keep him, therefore, in custody until his
4 r                      guilt or innocence shall be more fully established.
"You had better break up your camp and move far-
il'' Sther up the Santee, where roving bands of tories are
committing every species of outrage upon the defence-
..sless inhabitants.                                         FRANcXs MARIONr.
"P. S.-An eccentric old hunchback has recently
{                     supplied me with some excellent swords, of which I
Stood greatly in need. I can commend his workmn..
Ship.                                                                    F. M."
"Stop the execution! Remand the prison-
er, and'place a guard over him !" cried Som-
erton, after reading this pissive
It was observed by Sergeant Giles that this
order was given with much promptness and
"  ;              heartiness, as if that officer was performing a
pleasing duty
The man whose identity was involved in
_                      such doubt glanced at Captain Rainford with
t ia quiet smile of triumph, and marched silent-
ly back to the cabin, in charge 'of the ser-
geant.
The dragoons looked at each other in mute
bewilderment--none knowing definitely what
had happened to change the course of events,
and produce this unexpected reprieve. So-m
erton and Raimford retired slowly from the ,
tx _      groundn, In a state of doubt and uncertainty
quite as perplexing' as that which prevailed d
among the privates.
CHAPTER VI,
9  GOODY   GRINDLE.
"Go 'long, Crazy! go 'long 1"
"Here comes the Bwordmak .r of the San- y
_        ~       tee," said Sergeant Giles, looking up. "A    o'
.; K                   strange old body is he. He carries hit forge
on his back."
"Perhaps it's a powder magazine; it's large
..=enough at any rate," responded Tomn Thorn-"GtuIsy  htyucepn  ln
-                                   ton.
®~~                          Gi, 'p I say ! What you ere pi' alon
that way for? Come, creetur, come             -
f  rThe swordmaker tugged at the reins, and n
see-sawed the bits; and having already pa
the guards "trundled    t'o the spot where the ho
Sergeant and Tom T rnton were standing e
The former, being mis hevio sly inclined and r
something of a wag, s id to the latter        r
"See how Ill quiz this honest old feller," M
Then to the huncbar k, who was dismounting sh
from his cart, slowly and clumsily   " Heerd Hi
ness. Make 'em fc r Craz     but cous      - W
t for the whole bri- ade, 'tisn't likely," answer- fig
e    ri, in a scree ching voice.
/

TI~
"  7

ER OF TIE SANTEE ;
r    i .say,.have you heerd the news ?" shouted
.   "Don't hear much of anything: D      '
- speak in a whisper when you t ilk with  e.
YThe left ear's well enough , far as I know; t
the right one is all toregto bits, as 'twre,by
troubles, and t ials, and exposure to heat, and
cold, and hardwork, and a scoldin' wife, and
one thing and another. What's happened,
"General Washington's surrendered ; and
the Britishers are going to put him into an
iron cage, and carry him to England. Goin'
to be terrible times here, I reckon. The
country'll be swept by sword and bagonet i"
"A little louder, mister- What's the good
o' muttering' down in your throat arter that
fashion? Can't you remember my infarmity
from one minute to another ?" said Hirl,
peevishly, beginning to detatch Crazy from
the cart.
"Don't want me to yell myself to death, dp
ye?  I say Washington's been taken, and
liberty's gone to the dogs, and the Continental/
Congress has been surprised andb    at
We shall all be cut up finer'n smogligtobac-
cer. You'll probably be hashed  ith one o'
your own swords. The best thiiig you can
do, is to hitch up your old hoss, and drive as
far as ever you can, without-stogpin' !"
"id eerd about that airly this mornin',
didn't surprise me an artom. 'I've' got late'
news than that. The general 'escaped, and
a new Congress is in session. comeadown to-
day to sharpen ye up a trifl  Got all my
tools in my cart--anvil, belvs, charcoal,
hammers, tongs, and sich. J4t send round
and tell the men to bring in tjieir battered
weapons, and I'll put 'em in sudh trim as they
never was afore. Stepup,Crazy, step up!
You move as if you's fifteen yea'r old, 'stead
The old man pulled his mnare from the
hafts, and relieved it of the patched pnd
worn harness.
"Nice animal to ride on parade !" said
Tiles.
"No, I ha'n't got one made," replied Hirl,
the most innocent and  unconscious man-
er.
"I remarked that it was a fine dragoon
rse  Them cre bones would do tremenjus
xeeution among the inemy, if you should
ush the critter right into, the ranks."
"Jos' so, I don't like mischevious pranks.
y real name is Hirley-cut down to Hirl for
ort'-but ill-mannered people call me Old
[ir, Deef firl, Crazy Hirl, and sich. How-
mnever, that don't disturb me. I go in for
'ashington and the Continental Congress,
ke 'swords, sharpen the weapons ofrthe
ghtin' fellers, and- mind my own business.
I hadn't the neuralagy, the rheumatics, and

oer pdemies I'd go right into the ranks you, sergeant, to lift your hand against a weak
myself, d cut my bigness through, if it cost old man 1
' me a fi o' sickness. 'I would, by Satan !  "Weak! hand !" stammered Giles. "Not
me fac sf" a'dickes the ouldma, florihin a hand-no, not so much as a finger have I
The fact s,'' added the old man, urishead  laid on his scarecrow body; but discipline or
thesea  rotten Britishers are  . gittin' too no discip1yne, your honor I'll thrash the old
-rampagi us and opstripulols to live with in iron-pounder within an inch of his life, if he
any kin o' decrcyp; and the bloody tories plays any more of his games on me. - What's
t ar ten es worse nor they be. If I's on'y sarse for the goose is sarse for the gander. A
a young an, or if the onnateral eperdemies short horse is soon curried, and a little man
.  would 1 up a little, I'd carve my name on is soon licked."
the eag o' liberty, or worry myself into a  " Howd' do, kurnil ?" cried the sword-
ateverg  iberattempt.maker. "Been having a little sport 'ong
S     Havi ended this determined speech, the ourselves here, all in good-natur', you know.
worim er drew a halter from  among the Showed the corporil how I used to thrash the
varietieof his cart, and fastened his horse to big boys when I went to school. Wild feller,
a cornieof the cabin in whichdf the spy was I was, then, and-though I say it myself-a
aconrn  of                               monstrous favorite 'mong the gals, too. But
.T 's a brave speech," quoth Sergeant that's neither here nor there, and business is
 T    'es;  a bt-lre added  pointing to the old business, all the world over. I've brought
 , ak-" yu carry too much weight for my tools,and I'm goin'right to work. I can't
a   0 die r aho  dislikes  to  go  into  battle  with  fight for liberty;  but I can  hammer fort.  So
-     o  e than a delay's rations."           bring out your damaged weapons soon's ye.
Mke not light of my infarmities!" retort- like. Corporil, jest seize hold o' that anvil,
"ed MeunQhback, with a quick and-Thornton and set it down here."
tho ht-unOacikg look at Giles. "The old   "I'm a sergeant in the Continental army !"
and cbhave enough to bear, without the said Giles, with dignity, standing very erect,
an beof he young and ibl-mannered. But and placing his hand upon his sword.
geies  oe, isunateadt ilo-unner .ook at  " Surgeon, are ye ? Well, don't know as I
this arm,  sill ye ?"                    want anything in your line. The neuralagy
Ths    rdm akr held up a brawny arm.    and rheumatics can't be cut out, can they?
"Thisrmker," e went on, "is fastened In course not. If you won't work" yourself,
o a           er,"nk that's been afflicted with call some o' your understrappers to help me
S  neural  an rheumatics; but there's a pow- put up-that little tent that you see loaded on
erful sig ant o' trengthiin it yet."h     the cart. Shall keep the anvil ringin' all
It woid sem that Giles was of the same n1'ight to-night, 'f there's anything to do-and
op'inin wol    pruentha  lae d aso  pae 'lwrat there is. Tinkered up Marion's:
betwe n l ims  f and the swordmaker.  Brigade in good shape. They'll whittle the
"I remenier once, when a lad," resumed tory fellers monstrous when they meet 'em
Hir, "in the playfulness of my strength, I ag'n."  Then to Colonel Somerton, to whom
seized a lubbaly feller, ahead taller than my. his garrulity gave no oppo tunity of speaking:
self, in this asy-the swordmaker grasped "Hung the spy high ~a Haman, I s'pose,.
the'sergeant 'y the arm with an earnestness hadn't ye ?"
r  that was far om pleasant, judging by the ex-  "He has not yet received his deserts," re-
pression of iles-" and," eQtinued the nar- plied Somerton, without elevating his voice to
rator, "shoo him in this manner ; and not the proper pitch.                  I be-
~    content with his, in mere bravado, gave him  "Yes, it hurts. Uangin' alers hurts,  -
several lusty hwacks with a stick ; the same lieve," said gir, with philosophical confi-
as if I shout lay on to ye with my cart'whip dece, dragging thee  tet frotab
arter this fas ion."                             "   s  been       a    pracing
The eccen ric old man suited the action to mistake," shouted the colonel, approaching
the descript n, and the sergeant, soldier as the hunchback, with an economical design re-
he was, ca ered about with pain; while specting his lungs.
t  Thornton,   d several others, laughed im-  "Eh?    Neck didhi't break?1' I' t give
moderately,                               him fall enough. Died hard, I'll warrant.
"mo mor , old man, no more, or I shall do What a pity 'tis we have to kill off young
you a mish of!" roarno the sergeant, red with men with so much life in 'em, when sich is so
anger and fortification." ra            much wanted, 'stead o' worthless old hulks
Colonel omrton, who had been an un- like me b"
noticed observer of this scene, now emerged    ahe that talks to a post mlus furnish
from behind the cabin, and demanded, with ees said Giles, oraularly
#     asperity :          .                        Jes' so !" responded Hirl who had a won-
"What means this disorder ? Shame upon

"4

-4 ,,i ,.-

-~ -~     1~~~

}t

1
1' ;

{'

,'a   - .-..  .       ..s.r
.

23

OR, FURL TUE EUNCHBACK.


1

s                                               +
THE SWORDMAJKER OF THE SANTEE; "                  _'

1

.4," -
"I'

24

-I,

drous faculty of hearing the, last word, or
something approaching it in sound.. "As I
teld ye, my right one -is tore to bits, and that's
why ill-mannered people-"
"iHullo i" interrupted:Giles. "What in the/
world is comin'now ? Here comes the-tnothert
of the witches ad the; devil's oWn, camp-:
follower.  Wishes are horses when. beggars
ride."'-
These remarks were called forth by the ap-
pearance of two females on horsebAck.: The
foremost was a woman past the,blooia of life ;
while the.other, who. rode -a little in the rear,
was a mulatto-girl of some, eighteen or twen-
ty years. -oth'were mounted upon stout and
4steady-paced animals. evidently used to the
drudgery' of the plantation.' Mistress- and,
maid:immediately' drew: the attention of all
the idlers. About, camp, one of whom volun-,
teered to conduct-her to the person she was in
search;of-the 'commanding officer-in whose
presenceshe-soon'found -herself. If the-colo-
mel had" formed the .opinion that the sword-'
raker, of :theSantee"was the most singilar
individual he had met with inSouth Carolina,
lhe was" ndt inclined to'divide the honor with
the woman before him.: .er dres    nd de
portment,' and- even =her "entire' peronality,
seemed to belong. :to the-.past century. Her
garnments gavelproof of.bothage aid service.
Each particular ariold of. herdtoilet- it would
be'tedioue to describe ;_=but'a11 united to give
"her-the 'prestige of an -antiquated spinster.
Her face-which had, bysom'e ineAns, reced
into the depths-of -a'bonnet of -itumenses e
-prese,ted no:-very' dieagiAble Pointe fir
ecriticisin'to~pobnmee nibn ;t but, Aotwithatand:-'
Wing; waihvdted wlth-a spedies of' ouriess
that dould be felt, 'andnoticed -without the
possibility of description. :;Her' complxion
'waawhite to thedMerge of ghastlines   -while
-oyer her corrugated forehead fluttered coarse,
gray hair, which had crept from 'beneath a'
very  im-ecp With an -ample border bf lace,;
;that, byits simple 'sverity,repelledfafhiliai--
ity. Her heavy eyebrows were' gray, but the
woider- of "her::visage dWits the eyes,' wiich
sh'onealike :'ho dark gems; iipsrthig n weird
light'tolhen entira-face. :Het- black gown was'
short'ana scant,:displaying sinall ankles and
thicksoled -hi hah eled 'shbet. Her' hangs
were'coveredth leather.gaugtletd,'and she:
held therein like one accustomed to- equestrian
" exeircide.'"~ ~     ' :        :     --
:Her rattendant:wai iaswehave'statdaiw
mulatto-girl-altiough# erdid-ndtte'rark'that
she *as ;ieomely,which Wealthe ease: 'her'
features were:quitena'renla:qtlioserof'ther
white lords of the soil, but- fainted "over 'byi
Nature'Mwithai pile,'soft tyelldwr*hici "is
preferablee 'to a- lingy 'ihite. ' e£' curling
locks were partly, cbndealed, by'a 'turban 'set
jauntilyupos 'her' bead. Her g'wi of blue-

and-white cotton appeared to satis her am-
bition as fully as if it had come fro the silk-
Iooms of liqia. Behind her was  package
nearly aslarg as herself, ingenious fastened
to the saddle ,  -
' ojund ,considered these: parties more -at-
tetitively than the swordmaker, w  paused
in the 'raidst of hisf labors to star at them.
The -.elderly fetanale fixed' her kee: eyes on
$omerton,'wlmhbnwed, and said :
'' I waityour eoinands, madam
The ,woman: dropped the reins, engaged
her foot from  the stirrup, and a  to -the
ground, disdaining the proffered ha of' the
colonel.    tbhe"         lr     py
' Can't stop to be helped-allers lp my-
self; No time to spend chilly-shallyi about
useless ceremonies. M  name is Bets Grins'
die. Live a few miles down the rive Half.
sister to-.,Squire Redmond. Tr qu g  om
socksfor the sogers. -Saddled'theEo
trotted up with gyyeller gal Meg. In a  '-
in' hurry! Meg !"-turning abruptly to beo
girl-j-" hop -'down spry- and takp off
bundle."°
Betsey Gripdl1 'moye4 impatirnily toward
her inaid; exhibiting to the loo4er ,n a post
extraordinary hi chin her-gait,     -
, "itches allers~go with a hitch,"  uttered
Giles. " It hasn' been long siee s e rode a
broomstick, I'll bj bou ndl".
- The moyountpof -Meg bei    ra e -dila-
tory,DneeGrindl quickened hem bjsniart
cut of a long rid g.switehhih eh  arried
in hei hand.   '\ .- _
" Lws;t missus ! what a stalin'  u'sn
Alius -i a hurry,, you ani. 'need' I can't'
mov'gno quicke ,  e'issus'!"'exptueated Meg.
' "Really, this is v ry considered,' rs. Grin-
dle," the colonel be an,
- "I'm not, a yni8, sib" repl d the lady,
cprtly. "-I'm plain -lctey.Gri le,.and mis-
tress 'of my, brpthe '4 hpusebi . I didn't
jolt all' thoeway-up era on a ha -goinr' horse .
and "a. richetty sad, 1 jst- to  ara ye say
Thautke,.mum;1' .i yvr}t .ye t :divide.these
things, among ypuraen rufs jh.l 11,.go, tell-
in'eme tleJ're fromv Be,t cy Gri die, and no
coy~ds amush pta' in tom. -M  , you lazy,
sdie, good-for-nothin' Baggage !,-hat areyou
steppintaind't rinutthe espger-fellers for?
Haven't:I tol;you.thousand;t,ipes overthat
time is mn pe4 nrnosMinute nmist, ru to
:waste? :A'nt t he   eIes, o' tine a rollin'
and rollin' as fast as they can ?"
a'    g gkloin' atlhebhandsomnenunicorns, Miss
]essy !''";said pMg,'iogctical y, winking
roguishly at G3s.e '.  , - -.':    --
- w!H~t41e'lar yoiJokat,tlie4uniormrs I i'll
teach. youp ru            wheia the wheel
a' tigne are ro l  pawayrntBeh a monstrous
rate. There's for you, you jade'l -.
Betsey Grindle gave her-dependent'another"

''4,'
}    r,
p
E=
4,
'

a

3i                       U

f  i
r  C
t~
''

w
'z
C)

3                                                                                                           '

)i          ,
i,
r

/

Vi

i
1
i
'

-

f
i
e
2
}(£1 j
f


-  _
:  ..L t'.  iI
.}    A

4'! ',  ... r r v~ y.T~i   .s  b.i -... -l

/
OR, HIRL~ THE HUNCHBACH.

stroke across the shoulders ; and then' pro-
duced a large snuff-box, took a pinch herself,
and then significantly held the box toward
the offending Meg, who made a wry face,
shrugged her shoulders, and reluctantly took
a few grains of the obnoxious powder betweenn
her thumb and finger.
"Nose!I" said Miss Betsey, imperiously.
Meg's hand made a slow journey toward
the orgai so laconically mentioned by her
mistress.'
"She hates it," said the latter, explanator-
ily, to the colonel. "It's a way that I have
of correctin' her faults, which .are legion ; and
the most abominable of which is her entire
ignorance of the motions of the wheels o'
time."      -
"Karshew I" sneezed Meg, which action
was followed by a grin irresistibly ludicrous.
Somerton smiled-the, dragoons laughed.
"Time," observed the colonel,, gravely,
perceiving the hobby of Dame Grindle, "is
truly not a thing to' be trifled with ; for, be
it ever so ill-spent, we cannot recall it to live
it over.",                          '
The swordmaker, meantime, had drawn'
near Betsey Grindle ; and was continuing,
from a closer point of observation, the scru-
tiny which he had begun at a distance.
"Squire Redmond's sister a'n't ye, mum ?"
he said, carelessly  "Have seen ye at' the
plantation, though my face mayn't'be familiar
to ye."
Dame Grindle turned suddenly upon the
interrogator, whose simple words had evi-
dently excited so  interest in her mind.
"Don't rememb   seem' ye durin' the whole
course e' my life. Have so much to do that
I get precious -little opportunity to notice
folks that come to our place."
"Folks well? How's the young .women?
Used' to know Judith. Nice gal! nice gal! !
Knew whQ used to hitch his horse to her
father's door, but I won't call no names.
He's  took to evil courses, they say, since.
British gold oughter be like p'ison to an hon-
est man."
Dame Grindle's ghastly face became, for a
moment, red, and her large eyes seemed to
emit sparks of fire.
"You're not his judge, old man; and, let
me tell you, you're speakin' lightly of one-"
Betsey Grindle'stopped,
" Y,es, you say truly' he was an undutiful
son, although I can say, without p'evarication,
that he loved the gal. 'Twasn't  common
love, neither ; but that-kind that' never goes
out, either by fasting or prayer, but lasts o
the eend. The poor soul used to exclaim: 'If
she on'y knowed me as I.,am! If she eod
on'y read my motives ! But she can't-she
won't !' Ah, Goody Grindle, you'4 ough er
heerd him!"                       -   e

'1

27

By this time the spinster was pale again.
A mist and dimness floated before her eyes.
She gazed at the swordmaker with wonder-
ful earnestness.
"I forbid you to speak his name !" she
said, with emotion.
"My name is Hirl, though ill-mannered
people call me Old Hirl, Deef Hirl, Crazy
Hirl, and sich," piped the hunchback."
"Colonel Somerton," said Dame Grindle,
turning sharply upon that officer, "take
these things away, if you want 'em, and make
judicious distribution of 'em among your dra-
goons. Meg ! stop grinnin', and think of the
wheels o' time that are every minute rollin'
ye to your grave."
" Karshew !" responded Meg.
"In behalf ofmy dragoons, I thank you,
Miss Grindle. God knows the poor fellows
need help !" said Somerton, with warmth.
"Oh, sir, that's all understood! Don't waste
the minutes, for they're 'muazin' short, and go
quicker this year nor they did last. There !
my business with you is done. Good day,
colonel ! Don't say anything more to me,
'cause words don't cost nothin', and stockin's
do. Next time you meet the Britishers, give
'em an extra cut or two for me. That's all I
ask."
The spinster at that moment appeared to
become conscious that many eyes were fas-
tened upon her.
- "Go off, you rude clowns ! Didn't you
never see a woman afore? Ruther run the
g'antlet than be stared -at this way.. Pack
off, the whole of ye, or not another sock will
ye git o' me, if I live to be as old as Methu-
salum. Oughter be fightin', too, when time
is so precious. There's tories and Britishers
enough to keep ye busy'every blessed min-
ute."
Somerton made a gesture to such of the
'dragoons as the scene had drawn together;
and they retired, jnuch amused. - He then
ordered Corporal Thornton to carry the pack-
age to his quarters.
"If you wish refreshments, or if I can do
you any courtesy," the colonel begat
"Don't talk to. me of 'refreshment and
courtesy,' when there's sch doin's through-
out the length and breadth of the land ! Do
you s'pose I can stop to eat and drink, and
hear fine speeches, when there's so much
knittin' to do, and your men eenamost out to
the weather for coats and breeches, and the
Lord on'y-knows who's, going' to make 'em, or
where there -to come from? Mornin', sir,
mornin' !",
"Goodomorning," responded the colonel,
and walked away..
No, one remaind ear'Mss Grindlo but the
swordmaker, who, for the last few minutes,
had been remarkably busy in adjusting his

/
1                               / 4
I""'""I                           .
u  o                        1'

- -                  r ',


"                  h-.sue . ,_...w -4  _, rY3+"a ' w ..  ..v

I

THE SWORDMAKER OF 'HE SANTEE.

OR, HIRL THE HUNC IBA CK.

tent. She advanceddirectI upon him with 'cantlojeTwo armed men were pacin to and
that extraordinary hitch.      -     '    fro be ore it.',         er     g t   n
"'What do you do ?" she demanded,-shortly.  " T  , .r's a prisoner there," said Hi,
" Pooty well, I thank ye. The neuralagy vaguelre.,
sometimes brings me upwith a round tu n,  " It i Guy Deering!" exclaimed Miss Grin-
but I'm quite toler'ble now," squeaked Hir-.  die. y' D
"Meg, you limb, stop lauig.in'."   d      "He is there and. he. is not," replied the
"'Tan't my fault, 'deed, 'missus. Couldn't swordmaker, with a glance at his interrogator.
help it 'f -I's cl'ar white, I's so tickled," pro- "He is there, and heis not I" repeated the
tested the girl, rubbing 'the back of one hand spinster. "'I don't comprehend. Ishe much
and then the other against her gown, and known to you ?    "
wrigglin~g like a fish out of its element.  "" Well, well ; yet in one sense he is a stran-
-" How vexatious !" murmured Dame Grin- ger--He went almost distrusted for the love
die-then elevating her voice till it vied in of JuditiRedmsond."
shrillness to the whistlig of the wind  'Who ,Thekvoice of the swordmaker was less
are you, and what are you about ,here ?" '  squeaking and his language better.
"m called the Swordmaker of the-Santee.- "What! Did he make abconfidant of you
My proper name is Hi'ey.; but illanafnreredi Did he talk  d~ hs mae a colfdan in youis
people call me Hurl, Old Hirl Deaf h rl, Cra- dotage? 'Tis false ! 'tis falsed!"m'
zy Hirl, and 'ich. 'I've brought my anvil "Say what you like, BetseyGXrindle-say
and forge to sharpen  up the weep'nsof the what -you like 1" retorted Hiretulntly--and
brigade. I'm a liberty man, 'mostly, and can falling into his old manner again..t"I  n
hammer  away  from  mornin' till  night,  pbaid  ed  the  youth, and  I  loved, him 'afor  e kn o 'm  r ul '  yt i k n  h t ai o efl B iihg l .  he  took
ao'mmertrouble by th nk'what a powerfu Brits gyould."anrhgan
sight o' mischief my .work'11 do to the' me-  How penetratingly the old' an lookedather
miles o' 'Congress. You've changed a good    ".Thou art a slanderous villain o" muttered
eal since I see' e, Goody  indle-growed the spinster, in an undertone. All  terld
old monstrous ast ''There wa'n't half 'so say-it of him, but I wiin notbei"eAthe
many crows' feet on your fa e a year agq;   Then in a louder, voice h    t.
but your eyes hold their own anazin':! :Lor! h  He is in this cabin! ! Will you-canyon,
what work they used to'make with the sp ks help me save him ?"
when you's a gal!"   mo    .hm i  t      aeGrindle was agitated---her color fre-
'rn HBrl rubed the' palms of his hands to- quently changing.s
get her and laughed good-natredly, sodding  "lie was saved this mornin' from execu-
and shaking his head   Meg cackled in'con- tion, perhaps he will be saved ag'in. What
c E drt   "said                         would'rinleop e'engive  to 'see him  at liberty  1"
ce t -  ' --            'w                  ud y u  i et  s e  m t"   n "  sai ' B  ts~ev Grindle ;~  presenting  ' T he ' eyes  of  Hurl grew  m ore  earching  and
the dreaded snuff-boat_o her'-too-susceptible. bright.gdmeac               g
attendant, who immnediately suppressed' her  '"All "the world-life itself!" cried Miss
mirth           '   ~    cried   rundle, with'singular emphasis.
'You have spoken of Guy Deering," cried  "Blest your good heart, ame Grindle !"
the spitster, directing h'erconveisstioam to'tlie said the old man,. fervently.  e'I think better
hun chback.        '                     of ye for't ; and if I'should ever' meet Guy'
"   ot b name leastwise. 'Tist a name' Deering' 'll     hi ho airne         Gu
tt'p'op'ar he~re"        ''          Judithk wits about~his safety.; It'll lease the
The swinordmaker looked' searchingly  at unfortinitsa-ad'ewho-n             th
Dame .Grindle;"'                          ae-has good "  r  't 0 ' hacter. fuhe
Ishe' alive'?- Ishe a prisoner.?"" ._""thinks 'he's right in ntsay' hractr  I
The swordmakerglanced dautioulyaround. doh't know as he'll havea'ny deeper place in
""Both; both! h'"e answered, in voice that perdition than sdepeothers
made theoman start:      -                r "isome"others-who think contra-
Gni$=herudiefor 'm ,-'" ywise.'. ', _                         thnkC"nra
T1 there hope for him?,; Will he eseape'P"  "Merciful Heaven'! Must I hear this
'Ther'e is hope foialfGoody Grindle ; on- claimed the woman "' Mut Ihe powe o
sequentlv there's hopea'fortl~ iDeeribgl" re- contradi"tin  it  ' owithotthe- power of
'plied H1'rle pressingn                               i t aHoteIsomtip
itn his foot         egi    the gronud how I'sometime'sfear '.a hethmes hope--
-it I~utfbut-=="ar ; oThe;hunehback- zdat herwtousek
mfrut  but  'are "ou   friend'his  ing. His wrinkle  ace beruned with various
friend.?" queried the spinster, with ncreas- emotions.'       bemedharo.us-
igearnestn   ..s .'Fx'           ' =    '," You: are~  tag    en,    de     is
"Yor friend Iam, and lam both his friend' Grindle;'  as n  bei g," addei  Miss
aani iy enemy.i        an, .es                    ently. gI -must auadacill trut
- h     's enem   y         ryou. 'You have raised yon            tt  o near
~Whuelfe ishe?" ''$etsey"Gir~uidyeou            advoice cabinawhere nd  to uchit,,
tremjbled;'She pointed to the cabin s' ,..  rth your hand and  tha' cnrah
r _touh it"

0

"Whatever you say to me, Guy Deering
'shalleear,"-answered the hunchback, with pe-
culiar emphasis.
' Old man, look at me!. Keep faith with
me as you hope to have it kept with you in
the most serious things that concern your life
and happiness. Take this 'saw and this 'purse:
pass the first through a creyice to Deering:
put the last in your pocket for the benefit of
your wife and children. You have said that
you shall work late to-night; udo so in Heav-
en's name ! The noise of your hammer will
drown the noise of the saw. It is but a small
favor for you to grant, but -mueh and momen-
totus iii its consequences to him."
While the womanwas thus eloquently speak-
ing in behalf of the spy, she drew a small saw
and a purse from beneath her gown, and prof-
fered them to the hunchback. He received
the saw, but not the purse. Tears stood in
his eyes.s
" Woman ! woman! take away your gold
I can sarve a feller-creetur without bein' brib-
ed to do it. I can~ and I will."
"And you will give him the saw ?"
"Be as sure that it shall reach the hands of
Guy Deering as that you see it in mine."
"Good, kind, generous soul! God forever
bless you Ah! how can we be conquered
when even poor men like you spurn gold.?"
"Spurn gold !" repeated the old man, with
a s irdonie laugh. "Some say"-he turned
from her to hide his emotion.i "Should I see
the hunted youth," he added, anon, in a shak-
ing voice, "might I ta~ke the liberty to tell
him that your niece thinks a deal of im, and
don't believe more'n half that is said consarn-
in' himV Might I tell him? It would so
cheer him-solighten, as 'twere, his'breakin'
heart."
The swordmaker had by this time turned
quite around again, and stood face to face with
her, with clasped hands.s.
"You ~  ay 1' you may! .ssiire him that
Judith I dmond-that is, to 1 hint that my
thoughtless niece loves him, iuj spite of-of-'
"Hush! 'Sergeanut Giles a mcs the way !"
int posed Hirl, in a wiispe . "'Twas very
ki o'     mistress,"he wen on, in his usua
piping tones, "tobring 'em  o camp, for hal
o' th brave lads haven't a stoakiai' to thei
feet. They leave, bloody tr eks sometimes
mum, when they're pursued y the inemy an
when they're pursue' 'em, oo; all for th
want of somethin' to wear. I hope you'lll
come often on arrants of ma cy likethis, an
the blessin's of the sager lad will fuller ye t
the last day of your life."
"A rare couple! "  utteied Giles, as h
drew near. "One with a contain on hi
back,+ the other with a hi oh in 'her gai'
Pity'they hadn't come toga her  hen rthey'
younger 1"

"Good-bye to ye, Mr. Swordmnaker. Your
sands seem to be e'enamost run out, but you
can do a good 'eal yet, if you' improve the
time. I'm in a terrible hurry, for there's a
power o' work to do when I git home.
"Birds of a feather flock together," quoth
Giles. "They appear to be very well mean-
in' people, but they'd worry me into a con-'
sumption if I saw 'em often.'
"Meg, horses ! Horses, Meg !" said Dame
Grindle.
"Nice 'mulatto gal ! Eyes like glass beads,
and teeth like pearls. What an old witch for
a mistress !" added Giles.
"Meg; hand !"
Meg held her hand for her mistress to mount
from, and received a suggestive stroke from her
switch as reward. She then Ieaped nimbly to
her own horse ; and after casting a coquettish
glance at the sergeant, ambled away after
Dame Grindle.
CHAPTER VII.
THE SWOnDMAKER AT HIS TASK.
The hammer of the swordmaker was heard
till the small hours of the night. Various
kinds of weapons passed 'through his indus-
trious fingers. Battered swords, blunted and
bent bayonets, ,and even damaged pistol and
gun-locks, were sent to his tentfor repairs.
ISeveral good-natured fellows offered to assist
him in his-labors, which proffers were prompt-
ly rejected.
l "Every one to his trade," said the old man.
1  I might as well mount one of your heavy
dragoon horses and go sogerin', as for people
that never struck hot iron in their lives to
'think o' bein' any sarvice to me. If temper-
in' a sword, or restorin' a good edge to a blunt-
ed weapon is so mighty easy, there wouldn't
be.no need o' y trampin" from one part the
country to another. ' Jest keep out o' my way ;
t that's all I'll ask. Out o' my tent, every one
yon ye!"
So the hunchback thumped, and blowed,
" nd filed, and polished all alone. The 'senti-
y nels that guarded the prisoner looked in 'oc-,
i casionally, and when the swordmaker got tired,
f took a friendly drink 'with, him from a large
rt flask, which, whatever fluid It'contained,was
, clearly much to their liking'; for their calls
d became more frequent as the night progressed.
e 'Old Hirl grew elated with his potations; Ang
.l snatches of songs as he 'bent ov  'the tonvil,
d and even ran from beneath hisaijir gto joke
o with the guards,       rio10- .longed' "bo'served
straight lines' in walking, hut performed their
a evolutions about the cabin in a zigzag and
us staggering mailer.    -'  -
t.   " Ah !"  said  Hirl, smacking 'his lips,
's' _" there's nothing' like a little  spe'rit to
cheer' the 'heart and brace up the naryves !

.              ;  _
'  w
..
,
,       , -            -  ,
:,    _  .
'       T+     Lf-_
.. -                        3
y          i
Jr -      y
1              11
Y.) t             ,    S
r 1                .J
';x T     - V           '  'y
_                   _    - _
;gy
-iL }i_
_   -1            _   't
";.-
..,
_         ~          .    ::.er
i                      _'
,r _       _    __
!4 _              '   h
_        F }j     t
s.   -         _
'_ _
i      -
a Y
'          _
'                         i
"   ~ 
Ia
yh     "J.
Ft 4'a          _,      _
3"          _-
__           .
,   ai         _      f
_       . ! r  1 '
-.ter.    __    .
SyF '  t  Y     c i r
_; -

28

29

op

I

aI

'. :''

+'

N        :

t

!

,
'      ,_ .
,;
.

I,

.:                    4Y.
. J.... ,  .. , ...... .,_  ..                _   ,


- I t
X t, t L -     j

I

=              "What ye'bout, Old Hirl? Don't e know
no better'nor to be gittin' in thisway? What
would';the kurnil say if he 'should see ye
Come! iknock'faway at'the weepons. Fix up
the ohoppin' knives for thel&amp;ds."
Th    ise ofthe old"man's forge became
louderthan "ever"'  He seemed to' befio t
w o rk  oftw o m en .  T h e   elatte rin g  a n d '"l n r d g ou . T e s n i e s  i  o  n e r p
F:       1dm    nun-,for either by 'design or accident,
ibadieft theflaska intthei" possession.  Een
henrext looked out, one was leanig against a
o9t in'a sound 'sleep; 'whilethe other was
trying to brace  himai'pwthisrnskt
kingsome mistake in h caut
fell to, the ground, from which i e did notat-
temptto arise.
"Sleeppoor lads, eleep   'mtered the
swordmaer. "It'slittle harmyour slumber  Ill
'do your=country."

CRATER vI' -
A NIGHT ATTACK--TBE CYPRESS SWAMP A
BetseyeGrindle, the spy, ndthe sw'oi-d-
maker, were strangely mt194n-thie mind of
Somerton that night; 'they walked :into the
chambers of his rest, performing all, sorts of
antics there, and -troubling him -not a little.
All these characters were In'some manner con-
nected with. Cornwallis; and Tarlet n, and tory
partisans.. From 'a dreani 'moire distressing -
than its predecessors, the Continental officer
awoke, and sprang to his feet. For a moment
he was conscious of nothing save the darkness
and ,dmness of his tent:. His perceptions be-
coming, clearer, he looked  out and beheld the
dying, camp-fires, and the' dull glimmer of
arms stacked near them. The slow tread of"
sentinels reached his ears. He was returning
to his couch to court 'more refreshing sleep,
when it struck him' that the air was unusually ~

't
OR, HIRL THE HUJNCHBACIC.                 81

3est give, them dragoon creeturs enough on't,  The old 'man' spoke calmly and seriously,
and 'they'll, make Cornwallis startout o' Car-' without-any-gsf *n-br and
olindi like a thief from an orchard."     Witout an sgn inebriationn. -
ohnalikea tief rom.an rchad.""To-morrow night," he, added,, turning to
Hi-l's back was braed against the cabin his work, "ye mag rest on a different bed for
when he made'tthis'r'ivark.               if I, mistake not, thre'll soon be fighting; and
"What you.liiperiri'about ?" asked one Sometonaisnt the man to rui."
of the, sentinels, in a thick and almost unin-  There was a striking change in the sword-
telligible voice; but' straigey enough the 'makers voice and rma nger. His drunkenness
deaf' man heard him,aid retorted :     was gone.'m His countenance had an expression
"'Sentinel, you're di-unk'l 'Keep movin', or of deep thought. He stood a few moments over
you'll be down."mh     o,  an-   '      his anvil, apparently forgetful of everything
_I' ,aiold rnaa ! You can't git one o' around him. Presently he sighed, and took up
Somerton's 'dragoons drunk., The liberty his hammer      ed
principle overcomes'tho drunk'principle." "Thus it must be !" be murmured. "The
Some" principle"was visibly overcoming imputation must remains; the infamy cannot
the physical y stern of -the, sentinel, for his be lifted. Well on~e serves his country in
legs were rapidly growing unworthy of eonfi  one 'way, another in,another.He'is ther best
dense. The swordmaker shook his flask and friend to liberty who suffers most for it."
held it up between his eyes and the moon, in  The swordmaker began to hammer and sing
an absurdiendeavor' to see how its contents again :
had stood their united assaults."Tehuisertemosinsca,
"Aother drop,'old genssalts ' oioqz-     'The hourIs here th moon shines clear,
- "noter rop od gntlm~a," olloquiz-    The sentinels are sleeping;
ed  irl, "another drop ,and then to 'your      Be of good' cheer, and do not fear--
work, 'Don't make a beast o' yourself, old       God hath' us in his keeping !"-
Hirl, :but'tend to your hammerin', and blowin',  The hunchback suspended the strokes of
Sacd let them make fools ofthemselves as will.  his hammer, and sang these lines in a clear,
The hunchback"shook the vessel; the sen- distinct voice, with his face turned to the cab-
tiel heard :the musical sound, and stretched m. '-'
foi i  hand.                  '     -    There was a muffled rap on the wall.
-'rmean; art'e° me" is   ',"      "Then work away while work you may,'
- ,         ?t    e smariners,thhaneroig
said :flirt; playing' with the ,dragoon'simpa-  You must not see t ilheatl beakog d
it~le   oing mouthe fiask an annoyingly long  Old irl, keep atyour blowing."
on're heroes; everyone of ye !" he ram- oThere was another knock on the inner wall
bled on, suffering the sentinel to take the flask. -- The, 'no r   s    u       t
Somiertoin'd ° hero, and; the-eap'n's a hero, ud.e noise of the forge, was .resumed with
no     re a ahero  a  f    e'  eso, undiminished vigor, and continued without in-
and you're a hero: H oora' ,for 'the heroes ! termission' for an hour. The old anrpeat-.
You'l vear' gold shoulder-kn ts one of these  d1sifoanhr.Teod man repea-.
no d al tha gol ir onill e ot:      the last verse of his song, and listened ;
ays, and althe young women 'will cry out : there was no sound on the cabin wall. 'He
Wht a dashiih' soger-boy he is !' non                      nte ai       al    e
Whatiodansoer was i   s!r'pe b   east, from 'him the hammer and the weapon"
gh ngrdaker was inhste,     aitg to he was mending, exclaiming : "Thank God I
pougbing, and reeled into his tent, talking om  as  sdn.
Euselif                       ,   kig o    yasi dne"

ij
7
G'
E l
t ,
" r

'i; '?

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

I
.
-f k
? E

r

'1

V

'4

80

loaded with smoke. The circumstance star-.
tied him at first; b1* quickly recollecting that
several fires were still burning, he believed,
that was a sufficient explanation of the fact.
He did not, howeverie dwagain; but, seat-'
ing himself upon a camp-stool, began to re-
voie new 'plans of operation'agairist the ene-
my. He was soon profoundly absorbed in
these calculations, which possibly might have'
em poed his brain until sunrise, had not
wind' hurled a puff of smoke into his 'ce'
He instantly arose,_ and hearing -a dull and
ominous roa', snatched hid sword and cap, and
ran from the tent.
Glancing toward the cabin where the sup-
positions Deering had been placed for'safe
keeping hesaw lohg tongues of flame darting
from the roof. He bounded toward the struc-
ture, filled with resentment and surprise. He
stupibled over a figure ; it was one of the men
who had charge of the prisoner, and who
roused himself, muttering a drunken objurh
action on whoever had disturbed his repose.
Somerton hastened. to the other side of the
cabin, and found the other sentinel seated up
on the ground, supported by a friendly post,
with a' strong odor of rum about his person.
The tent of the sword'maker remained where
he had reared it, but the sound of his 'ham-
mer had ceased. _Impelled by strong curios-
ity, the colonel dashed in beneath the awning
The swordmaker was lying' upon the earth
He was, to all eaparancein a deepran "uiet
slumber. While the officer was looking a
hima.passing blast turned thefiames toward
the tet, and it caught fire. Beside the old
man lay a pile of weaponsrbearing marks .
his handiwork ; attesting in the most indubi
table manner to his industry.
S"Strange old man " muttered Somerton
Then the thought of the prisoner's danger'o
"Up old man !" he added, seizing Hir
roughly by the shoulder. "Up I the tent i
Burning over your head."
'The s    eordmak  yawned, opened hiss eyes
and closed them agiii
"No quarters-no quarters! Charge 'o
'em !"  he murmured.'
Someirton caught him by the-collar, 'au
raised him to his feet, which awakened hi
He started at the col:onel in perplexity.
"The cabin and the tent are on fire, o
man I' If you are sober enough, andba
collected yoursolf, help- me to save Deerin'i
T     e      been tampered with-or thee
has been gross neglect of 'duty."
Somerton' ran to the cabin door, and 'bur
it open with a blow of his foot. A secor
door still opposed him, and he threw himse
desperately against it ; it fell in with a cras
A current of suffocating smoke met the colon

1- : 3

Si  5 ,

I

in the face, and drove him back. He paused
till the first gush' had passed, and the pent
gases had found 'momentary vent, and was
rushing in again, when the swordmaker-who
had followed him-caught him by the arm.
"Are you mad, colonel ?" he cried. "No
human creetur can live in there a minute."
"Let me go, old man ! The prisoner must
be saved at any risk, however great. It must
never be said that the Americans burn their
prisoners."
Somerton shook'off the grasp of the sword-
maker, and plunged into the whirling vortex
of smoke.
"Deering ! Deering 1" he called, and groped
from corner to corner.
He received no answer, and felt vainly for
the form of the spy. The carbonic vapors
went to his brain and lungs, and struck him
down in a moment.' A horrible gasping, chok-
ing, dying sensation overpowered him. He
seemed to be whirled to and fro like a feather
on the ocean. He felt himself death-doomed
. ands lost. ,There' was a footstep beside him ;
a strong hand lifted hini from the floor. It
was  Hirl, who had plunged after him into the
Tartarean bath of smoke and fire.
'omerton was conscious of, being dragged
a few paces ; that his deiverei appeared to
strike a passage through the wall with his
foot; that fresh' air rushed in ; that he was
, drawn through a narrow aperture, and placed
on the ground outside the blazing cabin. All
t this happened in less time than we have been
't relating 'it; and the colonel, after breathing
" the pure air a few seconds, was fully aware of
d the peril he had escaped, and to whom he
if owed his preservation. But Deering was still
- uppermost in his mind.
" Must he perish? ,Is there no way of reach-
. ing him?"' he cried, as soon as he was able to
a-speak.
The swordmaker was about to reply, when
r1 there was a deafening blare of trumpets, and
is the ground shook beneath the tread of horses.
"A charge'of Cavalry 1-a charge of eaval*
s, ry ! The enemy !-the enemy!" shouted Hirl,
in a stentorian voice.
n    "To horse.!-to horse !" thundered Somer-
ton, recovering his energies and self-posses-
d sion His 'voice was heard above the din of
a. trumpets  and 'the tramp of steeds. Almost
simultaneously was heard the firing of the
ld outposts, In a moment, the camp was astir.
ye There was a hurried seizing of arms, and a
g. headlong rushing'for horses. ~Somerton was.
re ,so'oii in the saddle; but notuntil the enemy
was 'upon the ialf-formed ranks. Some~of the
'st dragoons were overthrown while mounting ;
ad while others fought resolutely on foot, watch-
elf ing an opportunity to vault into the 'saddle.
h.   The' convictt' raged furiously.  Somerton
iel seemed in every part of the field at the same

f -
. .
.".  .
-.
.
f

.,.  4.

L

a; ;f
Y

f

, :_
'r ;  -


y ~4-  [a?    r

*1

Hz
L

'                                              t'4                                                                                                                                                                                    7.4
-                                                              -- "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -

32

THE SWQR1?MAKER O0 THE SAITTEE ;

I

11

\J'         1

s
i

'-        ,
°'"_ ,
_
-ti
;
,s _ ,
Cg_ s

._;i:;
;  "     -     t
,  .,;
,:
f   l
i  i
,i..  '
T.
t :..n
- ___ ,
kr   '
[.  ..L.,


.:4
-   _   ^                   1

t ;.
: ;_,
I
' ,  ,^
.'Y', i

"-
;,
r   _'-_
fns        . .  -.  ..    ...        r__.
icy
' 1' }
t
-- yyjr _ {!
i,
Zj _p
'   F
C   [
!T   Ij
4 S .Y
r(
S "^ k3                             \
f    .
i
}   {
-      t
,1
:.
_,_      ,
-,               a
s      t             ""
r                                          r
#                                   , } .
v"                                  _    _ )
t      Z
11     f"
'   l
s5
'?                                  '=
C +,+ J' '
f   k
J66                                     "
t                                  ,;
._r,           °
'
i1 -'j                                         _
t                                       r
jjt                                     -
y.   {
(
7
,

j' f
i
.y.
i       t       - -             c  '
'7'-    -  .        .,

3                 -

'     - F
.
=       1
',Nc .
t,
-   '
.E.^
.
; 4 t
i--'    F
.      t
sis  T
5 _ a
'.
i

li

u
. a.
, ;.i
'-. 4 ,
t             .
'                                                /
i _.                     -,
$  - '
{Y
# i p }                                                                             "
it "   r """^'--,.J  fit"  ". w. * ^_                                                 ,
j                                   '°e J'

-_I' .  '-  KY ..r ..

I',

l

R. THE

r
i
I

HUNCHBACK.

35

ail

ORli, IRG+;. 1N
of pain, and thought of his dragoons with in-
expressible longing.
"Go, 'long ! go 'long, Crazy !" said a voice,
that was familiar to the Continental officer,
who heard, also, the rumbling of a cart.
" Dontt 'magine you're goin' to a funeral, do
ye? Trhe rheumatics and neuralagy don't
trouble ye, do they,'old galf? Hirrup, I say!
birrup .'
" Tl  swordmaker !" murmured Somerton.
" What does he here? He is a false knave,
I'll swear!"
Meantime, Old Hirl trundled along to the
spot where the colonel was lying, and seeing
him, stopped his horse. Somerton lay quite
Motionless.
"One of the rebel creeturs," said Hirl.
"Cap'n Hadley's boys have made an eend of
him, I reckon. Well, all the rebels must
come to it,, sooner or later. The king's lads
are cuttin' 'em 'up like Satan ! Git up,
Crazy'!"
The swordmaker jerked at the reins, and
the cart rattled on again.
"Old Hirl! Deef Hirl !" cried several
voices ; and these exclamations, and others of
like character, passed from mouth to mouth.
"What you brought us now, old man"
demanded Captain Hadley, turning his sinis-
ter eyes upon the swordmaker.
"Bought a cow? No; there's none to
sell, as 1 knows on ! 'Tain't in my line," le
answered, with a slightly-injured expression.
Some of the tories laughed.
"Makin' fun of me, be ye? A  good 'eal o'
work 'shall I do for ye, if ye go on this way
Not a. puff will I blow for ye, nor a blow will
I strike !" added Hirl, petulantly.
"They don't mean any hurt," said Hadley,
soothingly. "What's the nEws from the rebel
camp ?"
Somerton heard this interrogatory, and lis-
tened with deep interest for the swordmaker's
reply
"'es, he was a great scamp," re lied the
hunchback, pointing to Somerton ;  ut he
'pears pooty well out the reach o' misc  f,
now."
"The old villain !" thought Somerton.
"I asked about the dragoons up t
river !" shouted Hadlev.
"Oh!I They're mightily cut up," replied
the old man,:rubbing his hands with satisfac-
tion. "There's scarcely one on 'em but got
an ugly cut from your fire-eaters, last night.
You made monstrous havoc among 'em, I tell
ye. There isn't twenty of 'em that can mount
a hoe., to-day, 'thout groanin'  You oughter
make another dash at 'em while they're stiff
from their wounds."
"I trusted that man !" murmured Somer-
ton. "In these troublous times on whom can
we rely ?"
to

_             ;  ,:'.l ,'  ;  ;' '1  _ .

'I

!._ t+R  ! %t   k  y-11 r1  _  s  s'W c x $   ,1 +  f'i.'      _
w=    %:,  til'c}.,4'jr"h  ''*~w  ,'" d t'   r    .'s'     '  c  t._r     ,     ls/

I,

"How do they bear the loss of their lead-
er ?" screamed Hadley.
"It works 'em .up 'mazin'! Cap'n Rain-
ford chafes to and fro like awild beast, swear-
in' that he'll have him, -dead or alive."a
"If he gets him, it will be as yosee him,
yonder," returned the tory with a shrug.
" Noticed him as I driv along. The breath
has gone clean out of him, and he lays there
stiff and ghastly. 'Tisn't a pleasant sight
about camp ; and it don't bring good luck to
have dead men so near, starin' at ye with
their glassy eyes." °
The tory leader glanced toward Somerton,
and then turned his face in another direction.
"I hate to have a body lookin' at me, as
'twere, when I work at nights in my little
tent," added the old man, with many dubious
shakes of the head. Then, with his eyes fix-
ed on the prostrate form of Somerton, he
went on: "How have the mighty fallen, and
the weepons o' war perished ! Yesterday
mornin', this rebel was in full strength, and
a terror to the royal troops; now he is cut
down as grass, and the cunnin' has departed
from his arm. I knowd his mother afore the
lad was born. For her sake, I'll jest give
him a decent burial; that is, dig a hole at
the roots of a tree, and kiver him with mo-
ther airth."
"Are you sure he's dead ?" asked Hadley.
"If you's dead as he is, cap'n, you'd thank
sombody to bury ye !" replied the sword-
maker impressively. ," If he's alive, I should
be the last one to get within reach of his
arm ; for he'd strangle me if he was ,,at his
last gasp! Seein' me here wouldn't make
him over friendly. I'll fling him into my
cart, and take him out o' the way ; for the
very sight of his body makes me shiver.
They say he was proper handy with the tools
--his aim was sure, and his blade sharp."
"Well, off with him, and make his bed
somewhere where it won't be seen too much,"
replied Hadley, carelessly, glad to be rid of
a dead enemy so easily.
Imagine the emotions of Somerton upon
hearing this conversation! Horror and in-
dignation struggled in his breast.
The hunchback turned his cart, muttering
s he did so : "If there's a few sparks o' life
in him, the clods '11 put 'em out. Yes, the
clods '11 put 'em out ; they'll put us all out
one o' these days."
Hirl turned his cart and approached the
colonel, mumbling to himself with the imbe-
cility of age.
"Rebels don't live long. It's a wicked
thing to turn against one's nat'ral king."
The wheels of the swordmaker's cart brush-
ed Somerton's garments, who had resolved to
feign death and trust his chance for escape
from the talons of this impromptu grave-C  -

A

t
i
1
r
_      v
Y
s
, t           a
1          fy
1f

!  !

., .

_     . t                        _                                                            -",            tom, [..                              +. p.
...  t,             -  ......_a       .. _   tx   _ {i                        r. :..              -,   ...a.k- .             7           '_      '  ?=rs       F"  "  yt .w'a\

I
.1

T'
Ji

'  I.
,                   ''                         1    4
. ,                       .,
'                      ,                 A                 /r,   ,
-                         1

T

. l'*
;  'el_
.. -
e
__         y
-Si        
"   - j       7,
F
5
;s        .t        ;     v r
r   s
5   -         _
'a
     _ !   "                  li7
n                ?G
,            _    -!!

i

.  ".,ter : .. +.   r ..., . _.,


-~ ,""~'. ~

THE SWORDMAKER OF JTHE SANTEE ;

i
_     i
s !-,F
}. S
F
"    t
S
'( f
}
4            C
!"    t
{            l
+4   t
/I
1{
: ]
31
S
3{
7
' f
-    r
i
.l
r.     }
I
c        '
t.
"       t
3
}
f
_      i
{
x!
i '
1
_      a
F
a
5

ger. The latter descended from his perch, ly. "He never had a guinea in his life ; or
dragging his old musket after.            if ho chanced to git hold -of one, it went for
"There's nothin'," he squeaked, ":ke bein' rum and tobakky as -soon's ho could make
prepared for an emergency. I'll jest prick the swap. Hirrup, Crazy ! Gee ! whoa !"
im a little with the bagonet, and if there's  Crazy slowly put herself in motion, and
zany vitality !in him, it'll make him cringe the cart went squeaking and rattling into the
ag'in; 'for living' flesh don't bear bagonet- swamp.
thrnsts very well."-                       "There goes as brave a lad as ever drew
Then in a whisper, which sounded like a sword, if he'd on'y been on tho right side,"
note of salvation to Somerton -           said the swordmaker ; and, with his musket
"If there'd any life in you, colonel, for on his shoulder, trudged on after his cart.
God's sake don't show it ! Trust in me."
Then aloud, pressing the bagonet against him           CHAPTER IX.
in several places, and dexterously thrusting        I N  T I E $ B  AM  .
it through his clothes into the ground: "No  A ride of several miles, through a danger-
harm in him now, not a bit on't. These here ous part of the country, 'was' before Dame
arms won't never guide hess no more, nor Grindle when she left Somerton's camp. This
draw unlawful sword ag'in the king. Hullo, distancewas to be traversed by a mere bridle-
there, a couple of ye ! Come and tumble this path stretching across clcarings, through pine
lump of mortality into my cart."         forests, and along the borders of swamps.
A shiver crept over Somerton. Could he ,The, sun was journeying rapidly adown the
keep up the deception? Would not the mis- west, and it was not without- apprehension
creants discover life in his body? It was a that she pursued leer solitary way. While
terrible moment for his nerves.           making the visit to camp, a strong and ab-
"Are we crows, that we should hover round sorbing object had occupied her mind, and
-ieh carrion ?" retorted a fellow not far from  kept it from dwelling oq the perils of the
Hirl, who was cleaning his gun.           undertaking;' but that mission having been
"Tumble it in yourself!" said another, accomplished, as far 'as practicable, her
"We ain't sextons, old boy ; we only make thoughts naturally took a diflbrent turn.
work for 'em. You craved the job, and .you Like a bow that has shot the arrow, the ten-
may do it, for all my help."              sion that gave her force was gone, and she
"Well, I can do it myself, and no thanks to was free to notice everything around her, and
yer. Mayhap you'll want a weepon sharpened, to call into suppositions being innumerable
or a lock mended, and my memory.'ll be bet- unpleasant contingencies. In the -learings,
ter nor my hearin'.'"                ,    she expected to be seen from' a distiance, and
The swordmaker leaned his musket against pursued by some lynx-eyed loyalist; and, in
a wheel, and, .taking the colonel by the feet, threading the forest, her fears were continu-
dragged him to the rear of his cart. The to- ally hiding a tory marauder behind every
rice laughed to see how .unceremonioudy he tree. Sometimes she struck several diverg-
handled him.'      ,,                     ing paths, which caused some doubt in regard
"Laugh as you will !" piped Hirl; "but to the right one ; but she generally decided
when a person's dead, that's'an eend to pain, the matter by taking that nearest th,c river.
use him as roughly as you may."           . The ride home was singulrly long. Dame
Then, whispering again to Somerton :   Grindle could account for it in io other way
"Finely done ! You look dead, for all the but by the -supposition that her fears had
world. Don't wince !"                    magnified the actual' lapse of time. The sun
"What an old wolf!" said another, with a went down too quickly ; and twilight, it ap-
show of disgust.                          peared to the spinster, stayed but a moment;
A guinea to a shillin'," cried a dirty cor- while darkness hurried after it with unwanted
poral, "that Deef Hurl can't put him in !" haste.
"Done !" said Captain Ha ley. "At him',  "Missus." said Meg, "I' do b'lieve we're -
old gentleman !"                         cl'ar gone lost!"
"I take the wager!" screamed the sword-  Miss Betsey tried to remove th's impres- '
maker. "A guinea ag'in a shillin'. Remem- sion from the girl's mind ; but, 'unfortunately,-
ber that !"        -                      her manner served to deepen it.
- "The devil! - The old chap hears when     "'Deed; mum, we nebber come die way in
yoti speak o' money !" muttered the corporal. de Lor's world ! Jea' stop an' look down yer !
The hunchback bent over Somerton, put Don't s'pect we come frew no sich place as
his arms under him, raised him from the dat ar-does ye, Miss Bessy ?"
ground, and tossed him into the cart.   -  Meg stoppc'd her horse, and pointed down
"The corporal has lost !  Give him the the narrow vista before them. Her mistress
guinea !" cried several voices in concert.  . also paused, chilled at the dismal prospect.
"Guinea!" exclaimed Ilirl, contemptuous- To go on, was like penetrating a labyrinth of

4
ii

darkness and uncertainty. Her terrors, which
had be   steadily increasing, could no longer
be concealed from Meg, upoa whom they acted
like a battery, each shock of which thrilled
her utterly.
"Oh, missus, I knowed somethin' drefful
would happen when we started on this yer
wil' go su chase. We sha'n't nebber see de
plantati -n no moral ! 'Deed, missus, we're as
good as  botched and murdered by do Pine
Robb r! If them yn erdoneegone, no 'count
wheels o' time rolls us into that black hole,
it'll jes' put do finishia' touch to us, and dat's
the Lores truth!" Meg'a state of mind was
too evi lent to need an interpreter. Instead
of inspiring confidence by her presence, her
company -was likely to prove anything but
-rc-assuring.'
"If you don't choose to follow me, you
can remain behind," replied Miss Grindle, in
as firm a voice as shecould command. She
touhe a her horse and moved on, but with a
dread and misgiving that fell little short of
Meg's.
The forest was at that point more dense,
and thc.soltude more palpable to the feelings.
The path, too, was less defined, and her horse
stepped with his nose near the ground. That
she had mistaken her way, was a conviction
that grew stronger at every step. That she
had ridden far enough to reach the planta-
tion, she could scarcely doubt ; but persons
who begin to feel themselves lost are apt to
persevere in the wrong while there is a single
shadow of hope. She could see no land-
marks to guide her ; she was conscious only
of a black wilderness of trees, which swal-
lowed up her and her maid like atoms of
sand, or two waifs of thistledown.
"aMissus," said the mulatto, with chatter-
ing teeth, "the path am 'tirely gone, an' we's
ridin' 'mong the trees !"
This announcement did not surprise the
worthy spinster, for she was already con-
scious of the fact.
"For once in your life, Meg, you're right.
We've either reached the ead of the path or
lost it. Now don't sit there shakin' like a
jelly, but try and be brave. If you don't,
I'll cut ye up well when we get home," an-
swered Dame Grindle, attempting to spew in
her usual manner.
"Deed, Miss Bessy, if you'll take one
straight hom1e to de plantation, ye may cut
me up and welcome ;dfor, ye see, I can stan
dat, but I can't stan' dis yer."
"Turn your horse, and we'll try and find
the way back to the path," said'her mistress
"Turn de hoss! Lor' lub ye, Miss Bessy
I's turned round ten times in de las' ten miw
utes. It don't make no odds which way we
goes. Dere's trees die way, an' trees dat way
an' trees cberywhere! What's the use tryin'

An't no use. Might as well swound right
away whar we is as any whar."      -
"Swoon, Meg, if you think you'll get out
of the woods by it ; but I sha'n't give'up
without another trial."
Goody Grindle made repeated and con-
tinued attempts to recover the lost path,; but
every effort involved her in more inextricable
labyrinths, until the points of compass were
hopelessly'lost. It was at this juncture that
Miss Betsey proved herself a woman of nerve
and resolution. Doubt in regard to their
situation having yielded to certainty, she
struggled heroically with her terrors, and
tried onet rationally.
Perceiving that she was quite as likely t
go deeper into the forest as to extricate her-
self from it, she proposed to give the rein to
her horse, and trust implicitly to his in-
stincts. This experiment she at once put in
practice ; and the animal, abandoned to his
own guidance, snuffed the air, and smelled
along the ground, starting off at a moderate
pace. Miss Grindle had not proceeded fir
in this manner, when a shriek from Meg ex-
cited new alarm.
" Hush !" said hers mistress, imperatively.
"Your noise will bring upon us the very
danger that you fear."
"Couldn't help it, missus, 'fI's to die! 'a
heard somgbod walkin' for two, free min-
utes, an' I couldn't squiet myse'f no longer
It am right down drefful, missus ! Dar I
don't ye hear it ?"
"For Heaven's sake, be silent! Your folly
makes me angry! It was but a squirrel run-
ning over thec leaves."
Dame Grindleae'sped the colored girl by
the arm, and held it tightly.
i "There! don't speak above a whisper!"
she added.
"Dear me ! how you does take hold. Dar!
dar 'tis again! S'pect it am de Pine Rob-
bere_"
bBetsey Grindle certainly heard a noise that
sounded like footsteps not far off.. She set her
fingers more rigidly upon the arm of Meg;
but physical pain could not neutralize or di-
vert her mental disorder; a tell-tale moan
-hastened the dreaded catastrophe. The foot-
steps which had leen uncertain and cautious,
immediately became decided. A figure sud-
denly separated itself from the darkness, and
t stood beside them. We said that it separated
' itself from the darkness ; but this is not
strictly true, for the form itself was dark : it
3 was a tall, broad-shouldered negro. He seized
. both horses by their bridles, and his large,
white eyes glared up at mistress and maid
,- through the obscurity. Dame Grindle' exp-
e r en t'd but one emotion-overpowering ter-
, ror. The black made a noise like the chatter-
? ing of an ape-it did not sound like human

,w
,. i
,s
.                   a
'                                           ud           '_+   "                 "1   ,      ' .Y   -          - ' eF            .:..                _.... ............ ..sMMlt +rw    ...w----..n::wf#al                          w   c^r.+                                     -

- ..  -W        ,

' 56

37

I'
'I

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

:,

,
i  #f
.f
,,i

.   -                                     _

'4u  ,i~  iii , ', J&amp;     'r '.."  ..: ri= "f -iR  '   x             '1i          V,                  } ',r rt
,             '


-            '-.--~.'--~,        ---.--     _______

88          -THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

i-i -I

89

OR, HIRL THE HUINCHBACK.

A;

speech. Miss Grindle would rather have heard fasten the stirrup-leather, with which he tied
the growl of a panther. After standing a mo- her hands.
ment, rolling his eyes from one to the other, Miss Grindle beheld this operation with fear-
he drew a large knife from among the rags that ful misgivings. She would have turned her
covered part of his person, and holding it up horse and fled froni the black phantom as from
menacingly, mumbled a horrible threat ; then the arch-fiend ; but the bridle was over his
throwing. both bridles over his arma, led--or muscular arm, and onie of his rolling ey s was
rather dragged-the animals after him. Both constantly upon her. Her fortitude was ter-
submitted to this .without the power of renmon- ribly shaken. For a short time she was
trance. Meg sat in the saddle, nearly as white scarcely conscious of what was taking place;.
as her mistress, the fact of the man's color not but presently, a painful pressure upon her
in te least conducing to allay her fears. The wrists, made her aware that she, too, was be--
silence of the forest; the distance from human ing bound. She grew calmer. She saw the
habitations ; the improbability of assistance, negro take the saddles and bridges from the
al concurred to heighten the hopelessness of horses and turn them loose ; and it was then
teir situation,                          that she fully rcilized the extent of her mis-
Miss Grindle, though naturally brave, was fortune. Her unequivocal terror clearly gave
too much shocked by the appearance of the the black a savage delight.
half-savage creature into whose clutches they ." Set down dar, cn de groun' !'' he growled;,
had fallen to soon recover her mental equili- and this order, like the others, they obeyed.'
brium.                                     " Dunno dis yer nigger, does ye, missus ?"
The negro pulled the horses'on, and finally he added, in the same dissonant vote'. " You
entered a cypress brake, infinitely more dismal forgit ; 'dis chile never do. You had me cut
than the pine forest. The horses sank to the up monstrous bad -- run away--live in de
fetlocks in the black mud, and the trailing swamp--steal, kill--do eberyt'ing bad. Hate
mposs on the trees swept the faces of the cap- white folks--hate niggers-hate you-hate all
tives as they were guided through the gloomy do world P"'
intricacies.                                "It's Black Jaffer I" cried Meg, creeping
Presently they reached a thicket too dense closer to her -mistress.
to be penetrated, and .this seemed to be the The ne'gro laughed malignantly.
end of teir journey. A hut of trees and bark Betsey Grindle felt faint and sick-for she
was visble. The negro, still holding the bridles, remembered the slave and his punishment.
set fire to a heap of dry brush, and signed for Jaffer was a Vicious and unmanageable negro,.
his captives to dismount, which they were loth who ran away- from the plantation some
to do. They could now see but too distinctly months before ; since which time tales of his
thefelow' fce and form. As he stood in the crimes had often reached her, inspiring her
strong light of the fire, he looked to JBetsey with terror, even when safe at home. The
Grmndle like Satan himself. In frartne he was name of Black Jaffer had become a watch..
large andl powerful. His naked arms were word of fear to quell disobedient children and
lkbundles of muscles, and hbis bare chest unruly youth. His deeds had been truly hor:.
gave indications of vast strength. His features rible-providing half the stories respecting
were the most repulsive of his race, approach- him were true, which there was no reason to
mng very closely to those of the ape or mon- doubt. He had joined the most desperate of
key. But it was by no means a tame, expres- the tories i and having correct knowledge of
sionless visage, being alive iyith lirce and un- that part of the country, was a useful ally as
governable impulses.                     a spy and leader of pillaging parties. His
Aste spinster gazed at that sooty counte- iron energy and brute courage made him es.-
nance, she had a vague remembrance that she pecially dreaded.
had seen it ? Before dismounting, she resolved To find themselves in the power of this ruf-.
to make an effort to tempt his cupidity. fin, was suffiient to conquer every vestige
"Man or devil," she said, assuming a bold- of courage that remained in the hearts of the
ness which she assuredly did not feel, " con- unfortunate women. -
duct us to Mr. Redmond's plant ation, and "0O Meg ! Meg ! what shall we do ?" gasped
you shall receive ten pounds for your trou- Betsey Grindle.
b.e." De Lor' knows, missus!                                    We' in a dref-
An exulting grin distorted the face of the ful state, wid no way to help ourselves the -
negro. leoked at Meg, and said, in a voice leastest mite. I s'pect ye'd better tell do truff ,
thtmight have come from the throat of a Miss Betsey," answered Meg, looking piteous.'.
"Gitdow, ylle ga!  i don qick~,, ly at Miss Grindle.
Gitdow, allr gl  itdow  qick!" " The truth !-God in His mercy forbid I"
The ogre cauhher by the foot and drag- "eep silent, I charge you ! gla"neg.
god her from her seat. le then made her un- "0O Jaffer!i good ~affer 1 honest Jaffer !'

if

uroaed Mg; takemisss a'back to do  Meg's eyes were now flashing ; and she was
planed  eg;ti tkomiu an' Ia'  emn  wil giea epteful in her anger as she had been abject
mortationy ainnMas'rha yoedon wil' coive in pher cowardice. She was like a wild-cat,
oyr shinygeasee thn wi. Den ie 'out redy to fly at the first aggressor, and worry
ouye Jfiners. a'Dda' he fall. DY lie bb thim with tooth and nail.
stea, youfebkl, anrt'so faek. Yode ishief The beautiful creature who had risen, chan-
teyalks bout."be kilo doaldems        meleon-like, from the gray hair and antiquity
he  the girluwas main   thi appal of Bcetsey Grindle, recalled and soothed by
Bla Jaerl s chukliging thi manne x the voice of her maid, came back to conscious-
psBl y afe statn tock D m aanere  ness with a long-drawn sigh. As she sat in
"Nameibyorln o price, JaGrndl.d gude the strong reflection of the fire, supported by
us toate plantaton shie, Jafe, wihan earn  Meg her pale and delicate beauty surpassed
es tos thpataion," he moved, wit naur essn the common-plnce realities of life. Her first
hardned tand bul. havenoventynaturty egsance of returning sense rested on the black,
poudnd-watnd willutall e ywenuy rewar g whoewas devouring her loveliness with his
pod-t f  yatousill shayllbed Jyour, ringr  gredy passion-fired eyes. Such was the of-
"u tothi feet a'and lourisled hiser logprms. feeo ,his steady stare, that she sprang from
ig towid fetandfiourishnt money Hen ants the ground with a shriek.
reveng onl in fokstwnoe. He kepyont eBlack Jaffer. darted forward, caught Meg by
swamp-tnite olkcHeee you in wit the am, lifted her, and, swinging her light fig-
you!mBlaik you-euato wiv-hei wite, ure toward the hut, cast her from him. By this
todder Balrk Jaffe hayou ies--one ywh t" time Judith had worked her wrists free ; and
These yalords Hwih thlie harshY, meacn .whe the black made an eager snatch at her
manerse wrds, thy were hrhoneng m armshe eluded him by a sudaln change cl
pmann ercmwhichttey rirndue, o- sarmostion. Meg fell ; but, thoroughly excited,
sanli back upon the ground, insensible. Her boundbakSh uapn Jaseer like a inia-reus,
dress- hiad become disordered by the rough ber bl. Segrsehiknslkeatgss
usage of the night ; and this movement dis- crying:.Ms  uit    u!
closed a neck and bosom whiti,~round, and  "Runords Juth! maialyuontenil
beautiful.                    -The wtoreso acdmprenicyuon atgiwre.
Jaffer glared a-t her with stupid wonder ; Thougt, reason  Sprhe nd. Hertfon, wre
then, springing to her side,.tore off her bon- instaintl reesdarke. ofShe fle Her fomenas
net and cap, and held triumphantly up a wig losaffter drkesof teak with a mryomae,
of gray-hair. A striking change came over  Jdfe broe hero  Mehg, winothcyo rwage,
the negro's face. Revenge and hatred gave anth purud he ased ito hethe sm
place to emotions far more dangerous to the wiher boumnds haud thearin fotetrpa
b eing stretched motionless at his. fet. Ahe ig of hergaret hind t flyin  tsilepso
looked down at the pale and lovely counte- tawervadeguie hikm;-bte   ilence ohr
nance thus nexpectedly revealed,, his sooty dato pervding this bareath forestening
bosom swelled with the wildest joy. dMeg he tooigd hinsis reaght and iteningch
arose, the picture of consternation; and, re- wit rgd iesity, egites caugh upthcretcawa
ally aroused to something like action by the eroanohe disieon. es miestrole anfrpt away
peril of her mistress, wrenched her small in another dierdtheonegr Asging stol frth
hands from the leather ligature, and casting spot sths harad tht nrorgitg and pJudith.
herself upon her, broke out in the most pas- ig, ti  a  n  ht npruto      uih
sionate strain of condolence-lavishifg upon            CATRX
the inanimate form numberless endearing INWI           CHHSoDAKTER BEOEX   SIO.
names.                                   IN WCl 1H Soron'Es EOsiEio in ShEXOd-
Black Jaffer rubbed his leaden palms' to-  Coonel Soto' positions inomfsorle-
gether, emitting cries of surprise and exulta- makers aart cas by unoeremnosl pootbe
tiongthat scarcely i-esembled human vocahiza- having bee casets uncereonoly uon' the.
tion. The mulatto girl raised her mistress various idmpiementsi otact with mamtae.s,
-tenderly ; and the glare of the fire fell upon He found himself t coat et halmers
'a sweet young face.                      pincers, bits of ironandlttiud copee all sl
"0O Miss Judith ! them yer locks has been imbs ree i ada pnatilloed oe a smaol
the ruination of ye ! 'Deed they has. What ani yhil he headl wfa pairfbllowedona ci
is liberty good for, 'f ye lose yourse'f,1lose me, ofwire, andinthi nouded ar of Thellows
lose eberyt'ing ? Open your eyes, missy;, pressedagainsteer woudved rfere a mler.
open- your shiny black eyes, that -Meg may tienae offcer wod aveuc ps refered ;- milder
look into 'cm once more. I's been a coward; convyancind ah cocvesruggedt whatan
but I's mad now, and I'll fight for ye as de bearing in mid mute provere," ht submitted
t o     gt      hre ake care, yoauna.nggr  rIl  rite patiently to his tortures, supported by the
deten commandments on your no-'count face." hope of escape.


-- .i,
..I' :r -  : .:.  -se -"   _-. . :.,- .,
i ,

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

i t
1   J
1      x t
*C~P i

_                        ---                                                                                          -~

Old   in shuffled along behind him, with as I:t"hI see 'em! They are two carrion crowsr
muhnn apparent indifference asif-i her going that-are allers found stripping' the dead arter a
hind after a successful-.circuit' in' the way of battle or, a skrimmage. I've seen 'em at it
aosines.                               often, and I've got' a long-stannin' grudge
" Whoa, Crazy ! Lok -out, for the' trees, ag'in 'em. Assassination and plunder is their
old gal. "Mind your steppin'. Don't slop out trade A     m Keep quiet, and trust all to me.
the body by your loose: trivelin'. Look dut  "Hillo, old mant" cried one of the fellows
for that log, dld' creetur ' Gee. I say-ge !" suddenly showin'- himself. dnWhat you mut-
The hunchback cracked his cart-whip, and terin' about?"
raid no more' attention to Somerton -than if - The swordmaker made no answer; but,
h bad been that disagreeable thing which he' cracking his whip, the cart rolled on faster
- feigned to be.                            than before.,
The tory camp was'still' in sight,-and sev-  "I say, mister, what kind o' freight do y
eral idle fellows were looking after him. The carry ?" d te an ind  infret maye
swdrdmaker was an odd figurewihh his old ner.
musket on-his shoulder,.thlehump on his back,  "'Sto I" shouted his companion, "orI'll
his'stooping person, and his particularly limp- sand a bullet through ye, you old scarecrow!
ing and shuifing git. A hoarse chorus of Ain't going' to bury that chap in his rigient
laughter followed Eim fito-the' forest. The ale, be ye t"
trees soon'-hid him from view.             "My name is Hirley; for short, I'm calle
" Be patient, kurnil-be patient !" he said, Hirl, though ill-mannered people calIme Old
it -length. "The pryin' rascals' are sharp- Hirl, Deef Hirl, Crazy Hir , and ich," re-
-.eyod, and we must be wise as sarpinte. 'Tisn't plied the hunchback, in those querulous and
-a- .ather-bed you're- on, by A long shot ; but piping tones that characterized him when lo
it!, better nor hangin', or dyin' by inches in -raisedlhis voice above- a certain key.
the- clutehes of Chribtian Hadley, the rene-  a "You forgit, Bill, that the old fool is deaf
gadeland:rufflan."            ,a           a post " said h who had first spoken.
"Better, far better !" murmured Somerton.  "P'int yourgun at him, Steve: that'nstop
'But relieve me as soon as possible, for, I am  him!" replied Bill.
painfully cramped and shaken."              Both then ran and overtook Hrl, who kept
"Keep still," said Hirl; "there's no know- on as before
in' -what 'll happen. Prudence .is a vartue  "I say; old boy," cried Steve, plucking the
heerd'on by many, but possessed by few."  hunchback by the sleeve, ca dead man don't
The old man -carelessly lashed the bushes need his coat, breeches, boots, and spurs, does
with his whip, and the cart creaked slowly on. he? Can't a rebel go to bed naked, seeing' it's
" One' wheel finally struck against a fallen tree, the last time 1"'
and Crazy stopped.                          "      ,Steve's gittin' to be a wag " laughed his
"I'd better get out," said Somerton.    comrade.
"Not for the world !" answered the sword-  "Don't be in a hurry, friend," replied Hir.
maker, quickly. "I can lift it over; and it "There 'll be time enough for that matter
would be like them crafty-devils to come arter arter we  t the  eoug   r   mat
us, to-put a trick on me, even if they don't near the camp; and Cap'n Hadley don't like
mistrust-"nothin'."                       any plundenih' done 'cept what he has a hand
Hirl put' his shoulder to the wheel,'saying: in "
i Come up, Crazy ! What ye 'bout ?Y Go    "Can't wait! said Bill sullenly. "You
'long !'                                  can do the, diggin' arterwards !"-
Somerton,iuneasy in both body and mind   -"Not a bit on't ! Not a shovel-full.of airth
while Hirl 'withus: engaged, raised- his- head do I throw out, if you're to have th  .igi-
a- trifle; and looked'-over the'side of 'the cart. metitals. Jes'ydig th hole when we git fur
He' sawtwo -ien among the' trees, whbse enough ,-and you may have ll the du iant
stealthy-uov'ements dssuredhim that they had welcome, and ymuch good may they do ye.
a sniisterpr se in view.-. This;discovery My name is Hitl-now mind that !"
gave him a'di ageeable shock. Howr should  "The headstrong old devil " muttered-the
he-warn the swordniakerof- the danger.? -His man called Bill.
unfortuiate, deafness would certainly prevent-  "A  bayonet-thrust wouldn't do him  no
him'from verbally inforniinghin of: what he hartn !" said the' other, in tn undertone.
had  eii.' 'The colonel'krhead-fell back-with 'a  The sworditakerturnedn'hs head, and looked
moa.i ofa    -for, jst-therin'thewheijolted- at the ruffians -in a peculiar manner. There
Nr a       fIb  sfnds' tie .oneus.ion  acted' was a magnetism in his es that,.to  certain
e -V'wi      W   iflowed"         extent, quelled and awed them.:- They'per-
s   e i ab   i  We adfolluwed    he: fitted him.to 'drive oi,  umbin  at the
id4 ii      g eeidd-btiie i e  i-      length'of the why. He finally reached a spot.
iG    ' up -gee u.:'  'ireirated HirI,'add-which, h averred, would answer the purposes
ing in a lower voice..Takinga piek-and shovel from the cart, whieit -

I

V

.t  -         -

(0

.rI

41

he had provided, he threw them at the feet of a violent assault upon the astonished objects
the two tories. , of his resentment. His blows fell on their
"Noiv, my hearties," lie said, "make a hole shoulders-and faces with a rapidity and vehem-
at the foot of that cypress, and you shall have enee that made them bellow with pain, and
the coat and boots.' '   _left bloody tracks on their cheeks, and wher-
The men demurred ; for, since the breaking ever the avenging lash touched the skin.
out of the partisan war, work of all kinds had They ingloriously fled, leaving the field and
become exceedingly distasteful.  It was a the plunder to the victor.
critical moment fur Somert- n, who was in fe-  " Them  are ereeturs," said Hirl, "that
verish expectation' of a discovery.  What would rob a friend as soon, as on inemy,
e&amp;uld the old man do against these wretches ? though they hang like grim death to the skirts
In all probability, they1.would oyerpower him of Christian Hadley's land-pirates; but jest
with the greatest case. As for himself, he had turn the scales, and let the Continentalers
no weapois-nor strength to use them if he come up and the kings men go down, and
ha .   He doubted if he was even strong they'll whlifle over like weathercocks. Skin-
enough to stand upon his feet. The time thus ners is the name they'd oughter go by."
- far consumed in this singular attempt to es-  " There are others," replied Somerton,
cape was to him terribly long, and, in lis "who seem to serve God and 1\lammon, and
wounded and helpless state, rendered pecul  are equally welcome in both camps."
arly dreadful by the conflict of hope and fear.  " Sartin! sartin !" answered Hirl, innocent-
The two outlayvs glineed inquiringly at each ly,  "They a'n't the only two crows that fly
other, and then at the hunchback, who, setting in the air, guided by the scent of carrion."
hisamusket against the cart, was t 'gging at one  " or God's sake don't keep me longer than
of Somerton's boots. One of the plunderers ran isnecessary in this horrid le dilemma !" groan-
and seized the other; but HirI pushed him ed the Continental officer, seeking vainly for
away with a violence that made him spin an easy position among the implements of the
round like a top, and threw after him the boot swordmaker's art.
which he had succeeded in-drawing off.     The latter took up the pick and began to
"I kpew tlie-lad's imotlier," he cried, while use it with all his might.
his pale face fished, "and' I won't 'have his '-"We must mind 'pearances, he said, bend-
lifeless remains abused. The things I named ing his humped back to the work with a will.
-on: shall have ; but if ye git more, you'll "The ground must be broke, and a mound
Have- to fight Old Hirl, the Swordmaker of the raised, and somethin' dragged along, the
Santee !"                                ground."
- There was a wonderful energy in his voice,  Somerton watched the operations of the
considering his age, and an ugly glare in his swordmaker, with an intensity of impatience
eyes. In' his'-excetement, he mounted the cart that can be known only to one in his situation
nimbly, and, while the tories were muttering -fearing every moment that Flanders and
and whispering, stripped off the luckless colo- Martin would return with. birds of similar
new's coat ; which was not an easy task-for feather. Hirl toiled like a hero. The wound-
Sumerto was heavy, and hung With a dead edman marveled at thehvigor of his arm,
weight on- his hands. Having accomplished which exhibited none of the tremulous weak-
this, he rolled up the garment, and tossed it ness of age. He scooped a shallow hole, in-
toward the fellows, with a strong expression to which he thre~w limbs of trees and rotten
of contempt. They growled and complained, wood, upon which he shoveled back the earth
and approached the cart with dogged deter- in the shape of a grave. This done, he made
niinatioct.                              a trail in the leaves with his feet, as if a heavy
The old man sprang down, caught his long body had been drawn over them.
musket by the muzzle, and, with a single   He glanced at his work with an air of satis-
sweep, prostrated both the thieving rascals faction, placed Somertons coat and boots in
He stood over them with glowing eyes and the cart, scrambled to his seat, seized the
heaving chest.    -'                     reins, and choosing the most open way, drove
" God only knows what keeps me from mak- off.'                        '
in' an end of ye 1" he exclaimed. "Both    "Crazy, Crazy ! what ye 'bout ?' he said,
rebel and royalist would approve the deed. in a quick, sharp voice.
Don' think Christian Hadley would inquire The sorry-looking mare pricked up her
who give ye your desarts; for he wouldn't. ears, and started off rapidly. The change in
I've. seen ye at your work-you, Bill Flanders, her gait was as extraordinary as anything that
and you, Steve Martin-and long to try one o' had happened during the morning. Somer-
my sabres on your vile bodies I"         ton, at the imminent risk of having his brains
Thd'swordmaker's anger grew stronger as dashed out, raised his head from a coil of
he went on. No longer able to control him- wire to assure himself that the high-boned
self, he seized his heavy cart-whip and made Crazy was really capable of such speed. But

k,
4
[V'
z       '-
I

.-. \L, ,.      v                                    + ta..;,'yv=Yry  }, . r' -   ih;T.c a'     ..;. Y"ti=t                             .         ..,
i

1           f

A


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

the marvel had only begun ; the odd creatu
bits of iron, in company with hammer, tong
and anvil, had a merry dance, to the supreme
worriment of the person who ought to hav
been a corpse, but wasn't.
"Good heavens, old-man ! You might a
well put me in a mortar and pound me, as t
jolt me over the ground in this way ! Th
devil's in that mare !" cried the colonel, pit
eously.
"Yes, she is possessed at times. Used t
call her Mary Magdalen on that account. G
*'long ! Hi !hi !"
The eccentric creature seemed to be trying
to run out of her harness. The trees dashe(
by the cart, apparently like race-horses. A
steeple-chase was nothing to it. 3omerton
was obliged to grasp the sides of a vehicle
with both hands.
"On'y 'leven year old !" shrieked the old
man above the din and clatter. " On'y 'leven
year d "
The wounded officer looked up appealingly,
and saw.Hirt sitting unconcernedly on his
perch, with a rein in each hand, his musket
between his knees, and his great cart-whip at
his feet.
The morning sun shone on his hump, mak-
ing it look like a hot shot, or a bomb-shell at
a white-heat.
" People that don't know nothin' 'bout
houses, think she's fifteen ; but I know her
age to a day. I can trace her generology in
a direct line. Her mother was a long, slab:
sided, weasly-lookin' animil, and her sire was
the most vicious 'creetur that ever broke halt-
er or slipped-bridle. Crazy's low in flesh
this summer, but jest turn her'out a few days,
and give her a pile of oats, and she'll show ye"
a trick or two when your business is pressing '
and there's danger afore, an' ahind, an' all
round.",
. Hirl stopped so suddenly, that every article
in the cart, the colonel not excepted, plunged
forward against the head-board. -Shriek after
shriek came from the forest ;'it was a woman's
voice. T'he hunchback sprang;fr'om hips heat
like a rocket, and the colonel saw him running
swiftly to the left, with his musket. His
curiosity rose above -his pains. He saw fig-
ures half hidden by the trees, and the flutter
of female garments. The forms came nearer ;
they were women flying from pursuers, and
the cries he had heard were uttered by them.
The swordmaker flew wildly to meet the
fugitives, who were no other than Dame
Grindle and her maid Meg. The cause of
theirterror was immediately manifest; the
two marauders, Martin and Flander&amp;, were
hotly pursuing them.
" Go on, gals! Go on !" said Hirl, passing
them, and stopping 'behind a tree. "Go on,

re and I'll have a settlement with these skin-
us ners."
's,  "'Tis the swordmaker ! 'tis the sword-
ec maker " exclaimed the suppositious Dame
re Grindle ho had resumed her gray hair and
cap, an  etreated again into the almost myth-
as ical dep hs of her bonnet.
o    "It am de debble,- more like, missus, id
.e all dat yer on his back !" asserted Meg, on
t- whose mind the startling incidents of the
night and morning had made deep impres-
o sion.
o   Both paused, partly from exhaustion, partly
from bewilderment. Possibly they feared that
g the old man could not contend with the two.
d While they stood panting and gazing at the
hunchback with swimming, dizzy incredulity,
 he aimed his musket and fired. When the
e smoke cleared away, neither of the villains
were to be seen, but footsteps' were heard
3 growing every moment less distinct. Judith
thought she heard groans, also, but was too
much disturbed to dwell long upon the subject.
The color receded from her face, andthe
swordmaker hastened to place his arm about
her waist to support her ; for Meg, in a military
point of view, was quite demoralized.
"Strange, strange, that I should encounter
you here !" murmured Judith, sighing and
trembling on the verge of unconsciousness.
" Nothin' extr'ordiner, Goody Grindle. My
trade carries me everywhere e'enamost," an-
swered the swordmaker, drawing Judith closer
to him.
"True! true !"~returned Judith, recovering,
and reinenbering the character in which she
was figuring. " There ! that 'll do, my good
man," she added, returning to the Betsey
Grindle voice and manner.
"Don't waste precious time in holdin' up a
woman when there's no danger of her fallin'."
" In the name of God-" began the sword-
maker, with remarkable earnestness.
Judith looked at him wonderingly.
" I mean - why is this, Goody Grindle ?
What in the name o' reason are you wanderin'
here for? Why ain't ye at home, at the
spire's ?" j
" We's jes' been el'ar done lost," interposed
Meg. " De Lor' only knows what missus has
underwent, and what I's underwent. We's
seen de debble hisself; and we's been chas I
Golly gracious, how we has been chased !"
The swordmaker trembled like a leaf. I is
face was pale as snow.
" What's the matter ?" cried Judith, wh se
sympathy for others was always active.
11 He's goin' to swound, I s'pect," sugg ted
Meg.
"In the forest-all night-alone!"    e
stopped ; then resumed, in his accustomed
manner. "'Twas right lucky, my stumblin'
upon ye, gal. Somethin' mighty unfortunit

48

might happened. Don't never expose your- whistle resounding through to wodsaud
self so ag'in, Dame Grindle."             him to stop,gieternsoJuthadrn
Judith glanced timidly at the swordmaker ; abruptly into the forests we  so ccentri,
she wished to say something, and she said it.  This maneswasmnt wre so     tic,
"Did you give him the saw ?"           that the colonel was not surprised at thiscon-
Her voice was low and tremulous, and it duct; but the young woman sent a wishful
was marvelous that the old man heard it.  and perplexed glance after him.
" The Lord be marciful to mne, yes!t 'Twas " Has he deserted us ?" she said.
treason, as 'twer   cf but for your sake I did it,"  "He is an erratic being," replied Somer-
said il, musingly, and shaking his head.  ton ; "but I trust he will return."
"Ily sake !" repeated Dame Grindle.      The officer, by the aid of Meg, raised him-
"Sartink! I never could refuse a woman self to a sitting posture. The rough ride
anything . When I went a courtin' my wife, had shaken him severely, and caused some
Sary Ann, she'd on'y to roll her little black bleeding of his arm, but in reality had done
eyes at me, and smile kinder soft, to make him no injury; starting his stagnant circu-
me run my legs off for her."             lation, it ad tended to revive him. His ob-
[ The parties had by this time reached the ject wa to watch the swordmaker, whose un-
cart.                                     comely figure he could see moving among
"Don't be talk' 'bout sweethearts and the trees. He saw a man emerge from a hazel
sich vanities, when the wheels o' time are thicket, and hasten to meet and shake hands
rollin' at sich an awful rate o' speed," ad- with Hirl. The manner of both was cordial
monished Dame Grindle, with reproving se- and hearty.
verity.                                     "'Tis hei I could swear it h" mattered
" Yes ; the wheels have been goin' pootty Somerton, shading his eyes with his hand.
fast," said Hirl, pointing at the cart and the "The same straight, athletic frame ; the
muddy spokes. " They couldn't roll much same-"
faster, I reckon. Got a wounded officer here,  "Did you speak to me, sir ?" asked Judith.
if there's anythin' left of him; he's nighabout  The colonel neither heard nor heeded her.
shook to bits, I'ii afeard. It's the kurnil. His mind was occupied with she man with the
You know the kurnil, don't ye?  Seed him  swordmaker. The interview was short, and
at the camp when ye carried the socks. By Hi'l came back at a quicker pace than he left
the way, them socks oughter be mentioned them.
. in the dispatches. Shall speak to Washin'ton "Cap'n Hadley," he said, in answer to the
'bout 'em, if I happen to run athwart him. inquiring looks of Judith, "is out for forage
Kurnil, you must take in another passenger. with a dozen of his trustiest marauders. They
Meg, scramble into the cart, and hold the are well mounted and comim' this way, prob-
kurnil's head in your lap ; the poor feller. is ably on a visit to Squire Redmond'S planta-
terribly hurt, I s'pect. We must' take him  tion."
down to Squire Redmond's to be nussed."    Dame Grindle-it is convenient to call her
Somertoni remembered MissRedmond's thus-wits much affected by this information.
visit, and his hAggard face flushed. -   Her agitation was at once apparent to Ilir.
" Goody Grindle, you'll set on the seat with  ,"Don't tremble, Dame!  'Tisn't women
me," added Hirl. Climb up the best way you he's arter, but cattle and provender. I'm
can.  Give me one o' them    little hands. sorry for the squire, for they'll make a  rean
There! that's it. Now, we'll drive to your sweep of everything' to eat, drink, or wear.
brother's plantation." -                  But, my word for it, neither you nor the gals
The swordmaker cried " Go 'long !" to shall be armed. I know tht Judith is tm-
Crazy, and the mare started off like a race- orsome, and Miriam ready to lfaintasthe
horse contending for the highest honors of sight of a story or a red uniform alwayss,
the turf. H-ir prudently put hisarm around that was the case when I used to know 'em at
Dame Grindle to prevent her from falling, the breakin', out o' the difikilties), but I reck-
It.was very kind of him, indeed. The wheels on that Cap'n Rlneord '11 send down a few
turned and turned ; the axles creaked and of his drago'ns to spile the sport of Christian
creaked ; and trees and bushes went flying Hadley and his cut-throats.llurnil, we must
past. There was a great deal of sunlight on hide you in the bushes till' carter the party
the old man's back, and some on the spinster's passes; ffor dyou se'wud'  epoe  o
face dkt                                  him  to nd  a  rebel  that's  jest  been  buried
fae                               ridin' in my cart."
CHAPTER    XI.                 "Can't you drive fast enough to reach the
IN WHICH THE SPY APPEARS.         house first?" Sormerton asked.
1ir -reachcd a narrow wAon-road where  "Yes, we might do that, but 'tis easier to
the traveling was less precarious. Instead of hide you here nor there ; for, if the creeturs
increasing his speedlie went slower. A shrill have their way, they'll s'arch the house from

-1

i         r.-
j 1, -

42

i
p 1I

I
I;

'__"  -  .m-'^"---..,. -  ...r_.eo-ar~r ..m~~e i.ss-.   .,c..w. ;,n,~ ..aa~~a +.a~s.:, _ ._hr _...  . __

'sw_ _

'  vra..«      . + ... ,. ^     ..... ^='='"""rc- .. i   '  ' +ap-.X siFa"'wc eev.^va . .., s.    . .. ,.  ,. ...

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

_,

,s
'-,
"  ; ,
-
i  ,
__  _ 1

f
_                  s.
Ili.

/

',,
.    _                                                   -
;.       -                                     .


t?

k A

-I

t .4.
1
-a1 ~J
}{(~-

44

top to bottom for plunder. Now, 'twouldn't  "Then you are his friend-rel  -  his friend?"
be 'grecable for you to be there at sich a she said, with not a particle of Dame Griendle's
time."                                   shrillness. Whether lie heard by instinct, or
"Your face isn't one that Hadley, or his whether she spoke in his left ear, or whether
men, will soon forget," observed Dame Grin- a woman'shvoice is more readily heard than a
dle.                                      man's, we are not able to state ; but Hurl
"Do as you like ; I trust entirely to your clearly understood her.
judgment,' replied the colonel. "Assist me  iI bel 1v-I think I am. I was, Ieastways,
fr. i the cart  d I'll show you that I'm  afore he touched British gold."
worth two ad hepn yet."                     "Do not say so-do not, I beg !" she an-
The swordlmakcr put his right arm around swered, letting his hand fall. g    an
aSomerton, and helped him to the ground; he  "You have a leetle-jest a lectIe faith in
was able to walk quite well, and, steadied by him-in him, the hated and the hunted :r"
the old man, made his way to a thick cluster  "I have, or if I have not, God knows that
of young pines.                           Judith Redmond has; and what she believes,
"Lay down and keep still, and nobody '  I believed; and what se thinks, I think."
find ye," said Hiri; and with these brief in-  She bruh d tears from her eyes, then
structions returned to his cart, where Dame added:
Grindle and Meg awaited him with feverish   "He escaped! how much I thank you!
impatiene-.                             Did he give you no message for me or my
" Now, Crazy," he added, with remarkable niece g"
c   -eerfulness,hvonrideringdthe circumstances,  " Dear dame," answered the swordmaker,
"we'll see  'hat  pou can do."         in tones that were s ft and moving, though
Theluncbacr sprang to his sat with won- not quite steady, "Guy-Deerin' whispered to
derful alacrity.                          me before he went, and said : ' Tell her that
"ild on to the sides o' the cart, yeller my soul is continually kneelin' at her feet,
girl; cing to my -arm, dame. Ho, Crazy! and pourin' out words of eternal gratitude
Git awiy, creetu' anditaway !" And the rick- and ove. Tell her that her faithin my mo-
ety vehicle creaked and clattered along the ti-ves, though it be-nd larger than a grain o'
road With surprising rapidity. Had Judith mustard, is sufient to thrill me with inx-
Redmand not been warned that Christian pressibie emotion.t'
Hadley was behind, she would have been ter-  While he was speaking, Judith gave him
rifled by the fui'ious driving of irln; but, her hand again.
for reasons well-known to herself, there was  " Oh ! ofh! Did he say that? Iow well
no person living that she feared more than you repeat it! I could sgnd and hear you
then ory leader,                         say it for an hour-for the sake of my niece."
An a short time they came to  a clearing. "And I, for the sake of the pootty dear,
The swaordmaker drew up his mare.         could keep talkin' it over a whole day. But
" I can go no farther," he said. "1Cross time must be improved for other purposes.
this clearing in a direct line to yonder tree, Warn the squire; tell him to arm all tiesig-
and Squire. Redmond's plantation will be in gers and make his house his castle. There!
sight. Malte haste ; but don't run too fast, or go, dame, go !"
you'llbsit tiredaout afore ye git there. Gals,  " Right, old man, right !" replied Judith,
I've observed, a'n't over an' above long-wind- with a sudden revulsion to the Grindle style.
ed at a race. And dame, good dame," he "I declare if 'tisn't near noon ! Lord, how
added, in a gentler voice, "be very keerful of the wheels o' time are rollin' us away ! We
yourself, and don't be ketched out ag'in o' shall soon be clods o' the valley."
-nights for time best spy that ever trod the  11Not so fae' as dem yer-wagin-wheels," sug-
airth. Guy Decrin' wouldn't slept a wink if tested Meg. "Lens' what a hosesdat,"nane
he'd had never so good a chance, pervided is !"
he'd knowed that you-that Judith's a'nt was  Old Hirl jumped into his cant, turnd.it,
wandcn' about in the woods, exposed to all and with another admonition to the females,
kinds o' danger. I say it for your Food, and trundled away in atwinkling.
I'm sure Guy Deerin' would say it  yu him-  Meantime, Colonel SomertonJay in the pine
self, if he was here.         I         copse in no cheerful mind, suffering from ox-
Dame Grindle's face was crimson; there hiaustion, hunger, thirst, and pain. Ile was
appeared no suficient reason for the same, too much of a soldier to despair, so made the
buth fact was evident. She took the old best of it; and after listening awhile for the
man'hand by a sudden impulse. The con- coming of Hadhy, was on the point of falling
trast between these two hands was notable- asleep, when a cautious tread aroused him.
one was so large, the other so small, and the He beheld with alarm a man in a slouched hat
small hand trembled less than the large one, standing within a few yards of him. The hat
which was strange.                       was drawn over his brow in a manner to part-

{{i
ti
i
f
.f
1
4
a
E
t
i
i
i
i
i
1
k
FF4
f
k
i;
.a
i
a

ly conelis face, and a large, coarse camp-  " I would capture you, if possible ; but if
cloak covend most of his person.aThis fig- I could not take you alive, I should-"
r ostod quite motionless, looking at the  "Take m e dead !" added the spy, suddenly.
wounded officer.  m      s       gI will not coin a falsehood to s.lve my life,"
Well, s r ?" said the colonel, not knowing said the officer, sternly r
whait e~sc to say. itwhat's your business ?"  The spy did not instantly rcplb, but threw
Forat reply, the intruder raised his hat and the pistol upon the groundwithin reach of the
Threw open his clok.                    colonel, who looked at him in amazenient.
tGuy Deering !" exclaimed Somerton, with  "Your life," said the spy, "would avail
a feelingr of tin, ask less, for he saw a brace of mc nothing. Should the real C(hiy Deering
cay dry pis ols protruding from  the man's ever fill ito your hands, pass th  mercy to,
poe'.ets.                                hscei.
"By that name you have called me, and by  " Unaccountable man ! vou still dny your
that name you would have hanged inc!" an- name !" exclaimed the Continental officer, still
swered the spy.                           more perplexed. " Who are you ?"
Andjustly, Ibelieve !" retorted the offic r.  " A riddle that you cannot cmprehend. I
"If I a       b the man you take et  be," said am and I am not; I am guilty, and I am in-
the spy, tming hold of one of his pistols, nocent. Believe, me, you will never, never
"you are certainly placed in an embarrassing know me! Our ways lie different. Ilat-ed
situation. Aclrdingto your viewsI should and infamy, cursing and iitternecss are be-
be your iot dead y enemy . Look! I cock teen us. At the bar of God, olyshall we
this pistol, thus, and I have only to aim it at see each other as we are. u
you, thus, ani ]tr~~es this little !i'-e of iron, He stopped, and looked upward With~ an ex-
to put you forever beyond the possibility of prssion half stern, half melancholy.
hanging Guy Deering."   dh p                "Your cause," he added, presently, "is
TheninGcocked the p tol, but instead of failing. Royalty will soon trium.l'1. Tarle-
turning its muzzle on So    ,erton's person  ton is on his way hither with his terrible le-
pointed it at a tree. The colonel watched the gion; he will surprise the Swamp Fox and
movement with suspicion.                  .you. Theris mischief and danger on every
mYou can murder mc, no doubt, for I am  hand. Thee will be sorrow on the Santeo;
unarme and wounded," he said.            houses will burn and blood will flow. The
"But wre ayounell, mounted on your swift scouts of Christian Hlad'ey will not sleep and
horse, an.l armed from head to foot, and I a a dog cannot bark in your camp without being
wretched fugitive flying for life, you would heard by an enemy."
not hesitate to spur after me at tic hazard of  "And you can, speak of this," interposed
your neck !" interposed the spy, quickly, and Somerton, indignantly, "with calmness "
with bitterness.k                           "Hark ! Hadley comes down thle wagon-
"Nothing could be truer!" answered the road. Lie still, and farewell !"
undaunted Somerton. "Such would be     y   The spy slouched his hat o er his eyes, and
d   unted                                turning, disappeared with a qumk and mcas-
h spy regarded him with singular earnest- ured step. A few minutes aft ward, a party
ness re~ a s coked; e eased the of mounted men passed is ace of conceal-
mmer carefully down, and returned the meant at a gallop.
weapon to his- pocket.,CHAPTER XH.
"You are in my power, Colonel Somerton."                 PTE D      ETN
"Iti; too true!"                             AN  UNEXPECTED       MEETING.
The spy again drew the  istol from his pock-  Judith and her mid crossed the learning,
et, slowly,                               and reached the tree designated by    Hirl.
" Honestly, colonel," he added, with a sar- They could see the plntaton as hriad told
c"tIe sil, colonel, use dded, ti 1ashall them, but there w'as a long stretch 'of ottom-
mastie smile,  pwhet use do yotinleand to traverse before they could reach the
"I think you will shoot me with one of house. Through this bottom-land meandered
these pitols !" replied so:nertmn, calmly.  a small brook, upon the banks of which grew
"Such is your firm conviction ?"  y    various kinds of bushes, some to considerable
"Before God, it is  " said Somerton, so- altitude. Judith was hurrying on, when Meg
"   . B  G    i   !suddenly stopped her. When the young lady
Let us m angy.the .ase, colonel. Let us sharIy demanded the reason of this, Meg
" Lt u etngethecas, clonl.  et scould nly stammer:
imagine that you have found me in the woods;' "o  o Miss Judith !   Miss Judith !
you, on your war-horse, wh sword andpid Luckilyshe pointed toward the brook, and
tond    " g   w   oJudith, following the direction of the finger
on foot "                             - with her eycs, saw Black Jaffer -peering from
The man's breast worked with emotion ; his the bushes, and eagerly watching the road
voice was clear and deep.

w  ..      - -.-----_.., .---,.o..sa++,eua .o~t~x s....e ~  u~a.s+ir.. -.-.,  ,--_  - ,- _

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

45

OR, lIRL TIE IIUNCHBACK.

t
1~   I
I
t
i
t \
r

1f4     {        Df1X1

Y                    ,

i


e.

I-.

f

it,

46

THE SWORDMAKER OFTHE SANTEE

P               leading to the, house. This was a discovery,
indeed  It was well for them it was not made
;'                 too late. Judith sensibly beat a retreat with-
out so much as a shriek or a fainting-fit, and
Meg had just enough discretion to keep close
(~  ~4~.to her mistress. The runaway black was cvi.
gently there for no good purpose. He was
either waiting their return, or making a sur-
vey of the premises with a view to plunder
and pillage ; very likely he had both these
objects in contemplation. It was necessary,
to avoid Jaffer, to make a long detour to the
Santee, and this they undertook to do, which
could have been accomplished with time and
patience, had not a new difficulty prevented, t
which took the shape of Christian Hadley and p
a dozen of his lawless followers, who-having t
arrived as near the plantation as' was thought s
safe,*'halted in a growth of express to makea ii
reconnoisance on foot. On account of this t
-        circumstance, mistress and maid found them- t
selves between two perils, neither of which e
were anticipated. They could not traverse w
the open space between- the      sses and 'a
plantation without bemg seen, and they could s
not very well make a circuit around the party L
by reason of a cane-brake in the rear; so be- in
tweenJaffer and Christian Hadley (who was p
not a bit of a Christian),, they were placed in p
a ver   embarrassing dilemma. It may be th
thou  by some that pretty young ladies who h
"  ,1.R " 1 fascinate folks in novels, cani do without food ut
and drink without a-great deal of inconven- ly
enee, and sojourn in a wilderness or exist in to
t              a dungeon almost any length of time without to
change of garments, and look interesting all h
be applied to   oo com    n oinioe anb     th
mg in their case untrue ; for they were really
the worse -for fasting and running like dis- I
tracted. creatures -through the tangled thick-
ets of the forest. Judith was not so ethereal gu
as to rise albve the wants of nature, and long ne
Abstinence was telling upon her strength.
;  i  $' {Our heroine would have eaten heartily, if all
"   ' .  f'she had had a chance ; and it would have been, rep
considering the exertion yet required of her,
-    ,;l   -       a very sensible thing. But little of the prim- wvit]
ness and precision of her assumed character A
remained, so far as apparel had to do with it. Gu
Her gown was rent in many places ; her high- Da
r  heeled shoes and yesterday immaculate hose,
' " ~were soiled with the black mud of the swamp, of
T"'                    and her not ample skirts, short as they were, ly
were wretchedly painted with the same un- at
z   4 °              lovely pigment. Neither mistress nor maid mig
would have ben thought angels in a drawing- But
room at that time. But fear is a marvelous que
blunter of appetite and fastidiousness. Both  .A
might possibly have forgotten the pressing She
demands of appetite, had not weakness ad-    "
monished them of the fact. Hiding like par- sore
bridges in the bushes, they heard nothing for com

nd time but the thumping of their own hearts.
By-and-by, Judith's natural courage revived,
and she began to debate the best method of
reaching home. It was precarious moving in
any direction ; but Judith felt the imperative
necessity of warning her father and his house-
hold of the calamity that impended. Fears
for her personal safety were in a measure coun-
terbalanced by an unselfish solicitude for her
friends.nShe remembered that she had been
out all night, too, and that the greatest anxi-
ety must ie felt for her safety, which her press
enee would at once relieve.
She watched the cypress-trees and the bot-
tom-land a long time; but Jaffer kept at his
post, and she could see the horses of the
ories grazing near thecanebrake, and a man
standing guard over their movements. Jud-
th commenced a cautious retrograde toward
he wagon-road, where she had parted with
he sword-maker. Meg, though quitedejecth.
d, was guided by her superior judgment
ithout question.. They climbed a hedge,
nd stood in the road. They had gained .
omething,- being farther from both enemies.
looking up the wagon-road, Judith saw a man
n a slouched hat and blue camp-cloak, ap-
roaching with hurried strides. Her firstim-
ulse was, to fly ; but something familiar in
he gait and person of the new-comer cared
er to remain-irresolute. The mflnmsaw her,
vtered an exclamation of surprise, and eager-
* advanced. Various emotions chained her
the spot. She would have been troubled
designate the predominant feeling of her
.art. She felt pleasure, surprise, and fear.
Guy Deering sprang to her side, and took
he unresisting hand in his.
" Judith," he said, "this is a pleasure that
did not expect."s              u
"You know me, then, through my die-
ise ?" she said, with a faint glow of happi-
ss.
" Love-cannot be deceived; it looks through
disguise as though it were transparent,"
plied Deering.
'Andy' t I have passed for Dame Grindle
th those hose eyes are not of the dullest.
quaint   d hunchback, who knows you,
y, believes me, for all the world, to be
me Grindle."
" One does not always know the thouih.s
others," said the young man, gazing ft d-
at the sweet face that was already blushing
his earnestness.  "The    a y1 swordmaker
ght have been wiser than you thought him.
t tell-me, Judith, why you are thus ms-
rading?'      ,       u        s
A glow on the maiden's cheeks deepened.
reflected before answering.
It seems to me," she said, "that you know
thing of this without my telling. It
ne to ine-no one has told me-that there

47

., -.TTT     mri' iTTTThT'tflA C Tt

'OR, HIRLTHE x
is a mysterious connection between you and
the old man Hirl. He gave you the saw, he
refused gold, and a strange emotion shook
him as I appealed to his sympathy for the
spy.,
"It was not an ingenuous question," an-
swered Deering, in a deep and kindly voice,
"to ask concerning this disguise. Yes, Judith,
I know what you have done. The old man
whispered it to me through the cabin wall,
and my admiration and gratitude were such
that I wished to lie down at your feet and die
for you. Did the old churl tell you ?"
"Churl! For shame, Guy! Call him not
such a- name," exclaimed Judith. "He is a
noble old man, and a deep. - He saved you, he
saved Somerton, and he has saved me ."
"1Sich a hoss as dat ycr mare is, nebber was
seen! She goes an' she goes as though the
debble hisse'f was in dem legs o' hern !" in-
terposed Meg, who was disposed to be elo-
quent respQecting Hirl's mare. "He's jest the
queerest old grandaddy! Sometimes le
squeaks like a fife ; den agi'n, his v'ic rus
el'ar down into his stomich like a bassoon.
Sometimes he can't hear t'under den, bime-
by, he'll hear de soft little vice o' Miss Ju-
dith. 'Deed he will !"
Guy Deering smiled.
" Those bright eyes were not given the
wench for nothing," he said; then turning
seriously to Judith, added : " Why are you
here ?  Were you not instructed to cross th
clearing, and reach home without delay?
What has happened? You could not haye
been intercepted by the stories, for they wen
not that way. They should be concealed i
that wood."
" We encountered a horrible danger. Tha
black demon, Jaffer, of whose enormities yo
have heard, and from whose hands we escape
last night, was lying in wait down in  te
tom-lad beside th e brook. Weh atemt
cog    rudb      h   iebtwr       n epted by the outlaw Hadley. This is why
am here. Now it is my turn to question
Why do you tarry in the midst of danger
There is a price on your head! You a
like Cain ; he that finds you may slay yo
0 Guy Deering! was it for this that I lovi
you, with your noble powers, your genero
impulses ? Hpow could you, aopt aies
famous? If you must indeed be an eney
freedom, why not enter the ranks and fig
like a man for your cause ? One may respe
an open enemy."
Deering's head sank lower and lower,11
his chin rested upon his chest. He sigh
and looked at Judith as one asking pity a
mercy.
"6 Spies," he muttered, " are the indispe
able attendants of  ar  hey arehemin

camp of Washington, and in the campon
Cornwallis. If we do according to our con-
sciences, what matters our employment ?"
" Leave me, Guy Deering! leave me for-
ever !" cried Judith, with sudden vehemence-.
"Never come into my presence again. You
are infamous ! you are infamous!"
Judith shrank from Deering, shuddering
and angry.
Deenn s face grew pallid.  All the life
seemed to have gone out of his athletic body.
There was nofnoisture in his eyes ; they were
eald and glassy, and fixed vacantly on Judith.
His hinds hung at his side dspairingl -,He
heard the words "Infamous ! infamous !"ring-
ing in his cars. He knew what voice uttered
them/; that was what struck him to the heart.
While he felt the steel, he would have kissed
the hand that struck.
Judith grew handsomer, taller, stro _,
prouder, braver, and more adorable. Pres-
ently, Deering raised his hands with the .
palms turned entreatingly to Judith. The
3 motion was teribly eloquent.* She inter-
preted the meaning.
"Spare you? No! Have you spared me?
Have you not turned my love into a curse?
Have I not borne contumely and reproach
for you ? 0 Guy Deering ! if you had died in
the battles of liberty, I should have been,
g spared this agony-this blushing, burning,
blighting shame !"
u   The spy raised his hands higher, till they
? appealednot to the human but to the super-
le human"-God.
t Judith stood panting and flashing at him
an like lightning. -
n I have done with weakness," she went on.
at " This confession from you and its lame justi-
u fication has opened my eyes. I will pray for
d you-I will try to forgive you; but with my
t- consent we shall never meet again. Go, Guy
d Deering, to those miscreants in whose unholy
,r- service you are, and forget Judith Redmond."
I   The measured gallop of horses was heard.
u: Deering did not heed it. He felt that no
r? greater calamity could happen.
;re  Tramp ! tramp ! Clatter ! clatter ! The
u. sounds rew nearer.
ed   " Go !" said Judith. "It may be those
us whom you would not care to see."
La-  Deering did not stir. Judith looked up the
of wagon-road, and saw two horsemen ; they
;ht were Sergeant Giles and the chaplain.
et    "Go! go !" cried Judith. "They are ene-
mies indeed, for they are from Somerton's
till camp. To me, they bring safety, to you,
ed, death!"
ad    " Death!" repeated Deering, in a hollow
voice. "Yes, it is death ; I have received
ns- the sentence from your lips. Let them come ;
ted I care not for life."
ti~ "What!I will you not obey one request of

_.c.  .... + - e.  _ .  _.. -.a... -c -  arrf,.-- '. '-nt +.~vc . ' - wu~  .-  .. a-"'--"' ___- -

'I
'I
ii

i,
'r
S '
k
F
dy
ti Y
t
S
",    xs
i -

's                                                                     J
.a:

c,

t

'  ,
;
,
r

is .


-"S.  -                '~lof- -    '

- --- -'----

48

-ii
43  4
t   4  J

/
r
ii
s
t
s
ti
G
io
. th
g
R
to
idl
au
to
ha
ul
ru

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

mine?   Is this your love, that'you stay when in' !-the lad whose palms have sicl\ an itch-
I bid you go? Would you revenge "ourself in' for British gold i" rapid Giles, with a
on me by .lying at my feet?'   ~        great flourish of virtuous indgnation.,
"Revenge? No, no " I      would not give  "Is this so ?" demanded IIumplrcyl stern-
you such pain," answered the spy, his gener- ly' turning his hard, impassive face upon Ju-
ous impulses recalled by her words. lie dith.
glanced along the narrow vi.ta of the road,  ."It's little satisfaction that you'll git' of a
and saw Giles and the chaplain. Judith woman,. parson. A, wild goose nevcr laid a
pointed imploringly to the forest. lHe gave tame egg," said the sergeant, banging his
her an earnest, mournful look, andggatheing sword against the pomirc of his saddle.
his cloak about him, and drawing his hat over "Be not over-hasty, sergeant, for the wo-
his brow, walked swiftly away..          man hath not yet spoken yea or nay; and
there may be some error in thy judgment.
Let us act in to fear of God, and Gcor-e
CHAPTER XIII.                Washington, and the Continental 'Conarcss.
THE SERGEANT AND THE CHAPLAIN       Hold thy peace, while I question her in a
"Who's that runnin' away ?" demanded the proper and becoming fashion." -
sergeant, with more than usual bluster, as he Then addressing Judith: " Be not stricken
euphii horse, by a powerful pull at the with fear, worthy spinster; for the solders of
Wle, close to Judi1.                    liberty scorn to take advantage of woman's
"Dear me ! how reckless you sojer-lads do weakness. Tell n:. truly - and thy candor
ride ! But, arter all, it's a good thing to be shall not go for nothing, should the colonel
in a hurry, for the wheels o' time are rollin' think it his duty to inquire'into this matter-
at sich a rapid rate. We shall soon be clods was it indeed that man of Belial, Guy beer'
o' the valley, sergeant," said Judihli, in a ing, that but now fled from hence? A lie,
cracked voice, and with a highly instructive though it promise good, will do thee harm;
manner-                         .         and truth will do thee good at the last."
" Confound the wheels o' time and the clods  "Goodness gracious, Parson IIumphrey !
D' the valley ." quoth Jim Giles, in military what a sarmont you're 1 r achin' ! As for the
'age. "I see a man dash into thetroods as matter of being' skeered, you might saved
we were coming' this way, and I want to know yourself the trouble of talkin' about it. The
f you're holdin' correspondence with the in- Lord love ye ! do ye s'pose Betsey Grindle is
my-."                                    afear~l of a blust~ rin' little sergeant and a
"'Twas a friend ob .de family, I 'spect," slow-goin' parson ?"g
aid Meg, wriggling and grinning.           Sergeant Giles scowled terrificall -but
" It's a swift pair of heels thisit can't be over- Humphrey's countenance did not change in
aken !" said Giles, stoutly, and, striking his the slightest particular.
purs into his horse, dashed off in the direc-  "I could told ye at fust, if you'd only ask.
on that Deering had disappeared, with more ed'me, that 'twas as honest a lad as ever walk-
peed than caution,.and to the no small haz- ed that left me as you come thunderin' up.
,'d of running against a tree, orbtransfixing Whfy, that was young Deerin' that used to
.msclf upon a limb. IIe was absent but a come sparikin' my Niece afore tk..:ngs come to
ew moments, and came back in a great men- sich a dreadful pass as they are now. Ali,
al heat. Planning himself directly before me ! how the world changes! The wheels o'
oody Grindle, he frowned in a sinister fash- time are rollin' us away, and we shall soon be
in, shaking his finger at her mysteriously clods o' the valley"
fI set ye down for a mischief-makin' witch  " Woman, you either know a great deal, or
e fast time I put eyes on ye, and now I've you don't know much !" cried Humphrey
ot proof on't. I'll report ye, mpm, to Cap'n  " A wise man knows the fool, but the fool
ainford and the colonel, provi4in' he ever don't know the wise man," said Gilcs, unbend-
irns up ag'in, he was good' enough to say, ing his brows a trifle.
the most rebuking manner he could as-    "Goodness, parson ! you look as though
ae,                .                   you could- put a whole rigiment to flight,"
death'serercant! you'1 scar' Miss Bessy added Judith-vho, to do her justice, took the
death" " cried Meg.                    character of her -maiden-aunt with remarka-
"Of what grave crime do you aetuse the ble truthfulness to life. "Proper glad you
od woman ?" inquired the chaplain, who and the sergeant have come, for;I've got a
ad ridden to the spot more deliberately, and nice little job foi you to do-a couple on 'em,
pd till this moment sat gravely and silently for that matter. The fust is, to go down
"Of trsepwhere you see them tall cypresses, and cut
Sthi reason, Parson Humphrey   Who do up about a dozen tories that are led by that
au thnk, my gentleman, was' that was run  wicked oreetur, Christian I'adley."
in' away?'Twas the spy, sir !-'twas Deer.  The sergeant began to cool, and the chap.

- ~

i .

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.                                 d9
lain looked searhingly toward the cypress youi -spurs into them great hulks o' losses,
growth.and fly right straight at the inemy, to cut
"You're so bold, and speak up so sharp an' to slash, totbagonet an' to stick, to shoot
and courageous to two lone women-one of an' to smash, to lance an' to gash, till the
'em nothin' but a yaller gal-that you're ca- 'Merican eagle flops its wings. and crows itself
pab'e of anytliiu', and won't mind that hand- into fits ? Ali, if I was on'y young an' aetvve !"
ful o' men more'n you would a handful o' " Brag is a good dog, but Holdfast is bet-
hazel-nuts. Thea, there's Colonel Somerton ter," sneered Giles.
bleelin' his life away for nothin', when he  Hiri took up his musket, examined the
oughter be at the squire's in bed, with a room lock, and then limped round a little, appar-
full of army-sargeons round him."         ently self-absorbed, or lost in some erratic
fulloo wmaen, younods 11stonish me !" fancy that wouldn't let him rest. By-and-by,
." Good woman, your wore came out, or rather leaped suddenly from
"Don't 'good woman' me; for the Bible this abstraction, and, turning abruptly upon
says, ' there's none good-no, not one.' The Humphrey and Gis, shrieked
colonel was saved, and no thanks- to you nor "Why do ye stay when oery minute is pre-
the fiery sergeant, but to the Swordmaker, of cious? Back to Rainford, and tell him Som-
the Santee, who brought him away from Chris- erton ist alive, and that he (Rainford) is ex-
tian Hadley's camp in his cart, as fit for noth- peetedto do duty for both! Back, nd tell
in' but to bury. 'Pearances are deceptive, himwto charge upon the camp of the stories in
and so was the colonel."                 the-swamp while adley is away! Tell him
" Sergeant Giles, we're stupid fellows," suid to give no quarter, but to swing the sabre
Humphrey, thoughtfully. " We've been tak- without mercy; for they are robbers, mur-
ing this loquacious housewife to task, and it derei's, all !"
turns out that ,she has more useful informa-  Th16 swordmaker paused-exhnausted ap-
tion than the whole brigade. Worthy dame, parently, by his extraordinary vehemence.
can you inform us where to find Colonel Som- Eaeh of the parties looked at him with sur-
erton ?"                                  p    esise.
The chaplain glanced uneasily toward the  "Tell him, also," resumed JRd, "to send
cover of the tories. By rising in his stirrups, a dozen troopers down to Squire Redmond's;
he could catch a glimpse of their horses on for his house is beset, and he and his are in
the margin of the canebrake.              danger !"
"He's about a mile from here, by the side "Are these your orders or the colonel's ?"
of this wagon-road, on the right; but you demanded the sergeant, coolly.
needn't trouble yourselves-Old Hir'11 look  "The colonel's, answered iIirl, quickly.
arter him. IIe's one o' the wonderfulest old " And if I've repeated 'em once to myself,
men you ever see. He isn't handsome ; and I've repeated 'em forty times, so I could de-
there's a bunch on his back most as large as liver 'em word for word; and I b'lieve I've
the sergeant. What he undertakes he goes done it. I was going' to find Cap'n Rainford
through with. But the wheels o' time are myself, but there won't be no need ou't now,
rollin' him away, and he'll soon be a clod of if you 'tend to the business as you ought to.
the valley."                             Don't fear 'bout Somerton, for I'll te'  him to
"Ile bath need of a long spoon that sups the squire's in my cart, s , is there's a chance
with the devil !" quoth Giles, mysteriously.  to do it. So, scamper ; ' stscamper  "
A shuffling step was heard, and the hunch- The chaplain rode closehioeJudith,o th
back was discovered turning down the road. bending from the saddle, whispered into the
He evinced no surprise at seeing the parties. great bonnet that disguised the pretty face.
"1Hurry up, old man," said Giles; hurry   " Can this man be trusted?  Ought we to
up, and open your budget !"               deliver this message, think you, good woman?'
But Hirl was not in a mood to hear readi-  "Ie is an oracle! Follow his directions to
ly, and advanced, muttering :             the letter-for I know enough of him to have
"Allers in trouble-al'ers! Fust it's one the strongest confidence in what he says."
thing, then another. If 'tisi't neuralagy, it's  "Truly, his mind seemeth greatly shattered
rheumatics ; if 'tisn't rheumatics, it's agur, or and befogged; but the Lord sometimes uses
some other eperdemic."       -           feeble instrumentalities to accomplish mighty
He stopped near the sergeant, and leaned works; so I will even do the old man's bidding
on his long musket.                    J in muchdaaste."
o"Fine times these, when the sojers o' lib-  While this whispered conversation was go-
erty has nothing' to do but ride about. Now, -ug on, the swordmaker limped round again
'f I's one o' Somerton's dragons, I wouldn't in . circle, dragging his musket after him.
be loiterin' about when there's sich an al- "My name is Hirley - Hirl for short-
mighty host ,of mean creeturs to be carved. though ill-mannered people call me Old ar,
Why in the name o' Washin'ton don't ye drive Deef Hiri, Crazy Hirl, and sicll. No matter,.

'4 I

t
S's 1
E
'
7
f
;'     i
i'  41]
f
1
i ;   s71
'. 77
# 7
1
77      [
V
'      i
if '
{   tt
1  ,
i
1
i
F
e        e
S*
(1
{
1
'M
' ti
Y
' '  y
.
f
i
s
= .
'
2
t   ,
,'
,,
1,
I'   i
;
;   /
s 7
:7
' . YF k
a
_
,t
r , tT;
r

'-i

.  "r          -.

I


60                TI

'HE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

Jik1
14
f    ty
,,I  r
ti   x -4'

  no matter  hau live jest as long for't. are not exaggerated, but when his nose is of
'Tisn't every one can put sich a temper into the flattest, his forehead of the lowest, and
steel as I can, or sich an edge to a sword, or his lips of the thickest, with a savage nature
sich a pint to a bagonet."               to match, and a long knife in his girdle, he is
"And 'tisn't every one that has sich a hump positively repulsive. The colonel was of this
on his back!" said Giles, turning his horse opinion, and grew stronger in it as Jaffer drew
and following the chaplain, who was already nearer, dilating his nostrils, and smelling like
in motion.                                a hound. Somerton thought of the pistol
"Ride fast, boys, ride fast, and deliver the that Henderson had dropped beside-him, and
colonel's message jest as I told it to you," ad- stretching out his hand, grasped it with a feel-
monished Hirl.                            ing of relief.  It was primed.  Cautiously
Humphrey checked his horse, and asked cocking it, he concealed it beneath the skirt of
Judith, over his shoulder, if she was safe in his coat.
that exposed situation, alone ?             Jaffer scented game. Lifting his black and
She pcinted to the swordmaker, and said, half nude body, he peered into the pines. His
with a smile:                             white eyes rolled Gvith sudden eagerness, for
"I have a-protector."                   they rested upon the gold epaulettee and bright
"To the death! to the death !" muttered buttons of the officer. Cunning and cupidity
Hirl; and the chaplain and the sergeant gal- were instantly at work. That the officer was
loped away.                            ,  wounded, he assured himself by a closer ap-
proach, and so far as he could determine, un-
CHAPTER XIV.                  armed. There was a period of doubt with
nLACK JAFFER FINDS SOMERTON.        the negro ; the doubt did not arise from any
Somerton reflected a ,long time about his want of purpose, but related wholly to the
chance interview with the man who persisted colonel's ability or inability to defend himself.
in calling himself Max Henderson. He could A glance at the latter's bandaged arm, satu-
not divest himself of the idea that the char- rated hair, and begrimed and haggard face,
aster in which that person had been taken, settled everything in the mind of the black,
was the true one ; in short, that he was a spy who now assumed a most sinister attitude.
whatever) name he might choose to assume. Ie hid thrust forward a large, bare foot, laid
The colonel's heart, despite his high notions his right hand on the handle of his knife, and
of duty, warmed a little toward him, and thrown forward his muscular body   A white
tried to find reasons for his conduct. His row of shovel-teeth gleamed tlirorlgh 'two
first impressions were the clearest and the inches of red lip. This animal looked apish
best-for the more he speculated, the more he and horrible. There was no need of speech ;
became confused.                          his purpose was patent all over him.
Hearing some one coming, he sat up and    Somerton watched him with a steady gaze,
looked from his covert, thinking it might be He "saw the muscles of his arms begin to
the swordmaker. But it was not ; it was Jaffer swell and quiver, and knew that lie was about
who, tired of watching, was on his way back to fly at him. His pistol came from its
to his lair, having reached the road by a hiding-place, and to a line with the great
secret path,.trodden only by himself and a few bundle of animal in a second, and the report
other runaways.   Jaffer was not in good followed as quickly. There was first a roar,
humor, having been twice disappointed-once then a howl, then much crashing and flound-
the' previous night, once thit day. He was ering in the bushes. Somerton thought he
returning, growling like a mastiff robbed of was done for, but after rolling about, and
his bone.        '                        somersaulting a little while, Jaffer got up and
At the spot where the swordmaker had went moaning away, the courage entirely
stopped his cart and helped the colonel out, taken out of him.
there was a little trail of blood, that had  Somerton sank upon the ground entirely
trickled from the latter's arm. The negro's exhausted. For a time he lost consciousness.
eyes rested upon this trail, and stooping till He neither heard Giles nor Humphrey come o
he resembled a great black dog, he followed go, though they passed close to his conceal-
it. This was unpleasant. However brave a ment. The voice of the swordmaker was the
man may he constitutionally, there are situa- first thing he sensed. The empty pistol in
tions in which he may feel nervous. and un- his hand, the trampled and stained grass, and
comfortable without reproach to his manhood. the bushes beaten down, assured the old man
Loss of blood and weakness robs a man of a that something had happened. Re-took the
portion of his firmness. Somerton ebuld not weapon and examined it, muttering-
remember that he ever experienced such a    "He's been here ! he's been here ! It was
singular feeling of awe and repugnance. A  well for' the colonel. Come, sir," he added,
full-blooded black is seldom a very agreeable in a louder voice, "rouse yourself-rouse
.object to contemplate, even when his features yourself! I've come arter ye,'and brought ye

'' d
i,
i,
i
't
i
. "(
I
,
i
s
t
,!
t
,s
9
03
r;
i
i
b

T

OR, RIRL TIlE HUNCHBACK.                               51
somethin' to put life into ye. 'Tis brandy,  " Orders ?" he repeated, inquiringly.  "I
kurnil , take a good swig on't."          have given no orders; nor have I been in a
The officer eagerly drank from the flask condition to for the last twelve hours."
whichIlirl hell to .his.lips. It was like drink-  "Jes' so! But I remembered that you teld
ing in new life. He felt a warm glow in his me to keep sayin' 'em over so I did," said
stomach and blood, and presently an en-    lirl, wit h a chuckle of satisfaction. "I fell
couraging exhilaration of spirts.         in," he went on, " with the serg, ant feller and
"It's a good medicine," said the sword- the parson, and sent the whole budget by them.
maker, "if it isn't used too common ; but Sez I. 'Tiw kurnil wants ye to charge right
like fire, it becomes a hard master when it into the thickest of them tories, an' cut an'
one gets the upper hand. Now your eyes slash, an' smite an' smash, an' lance an' gash,
begin n o flash, and your heart begins to glow, till they take to their heels like a streak o'
as natur' intended it. What's been goin' on ? daylight arter sundown. And tell 'em,' sez I,
It looks round here as if a bear had been 'that the kurnil says, that the miscreant' (that
turnin' summnersets, and bitch-poin' about was the tarm that I b'lieve you made use on)
giner'ly."                                -' that the miscreant, Hadley, with a small
Somerton sat up and endeavored to explain force, is lurkin' about Squire Redmond's
what had occurred.                   1    plantation, with a view to run off his cattle,
"It was black Jaffer !" said Hirl, shutting and losses, and p'i'aps steal the gals, too ; an'
his teeth hard together. " I hope you split you'd better send down a handful o' men to
his rascally heart, for a wickeder creetur never disparse 'em.' I told 'em to tell the cap'n not
run away from a plantation or hid in a swamp. to be consarned about ye ; for you'd be taken
But where'd you git this leetle weepon ?"  care on at the squire's soon as you could be
The swordmakr twirled the pistol in his got there." -
had.                                        "I think," answered Somerton,.with a smile,
That's the strangest part of it. Though "that you remember my o -ders much better
you were a Yankee, you couldn't guess. It than I do myself! However, I don't really
was the spy who escaped in some unac- think I could have given better ; so I'm obliged
countable way from the cabin last night. to ye, Mr. Swordmaker, and hope they 'll be
Yes, the very man that swain the river and obeyed."
led me such a chase. Yes, the man that I    "Yes ; I used to have a, famous mem'ry
hunted down like a stag, and would have when I went to school. There wasn't a boy
hanged like a dog, found -me here and did not could remember how many floggin's they got
kill me, though he stood over me armed, and well as I could. You see, I carried 'em all in
I utterly at his mercy. Nay, more, lie left my head(same as I would a sum in edition.
me a weap on which saved me from the clutch- For instance: so many knocks 'cross the
es of that execrable black. Now, sir, what knuckles, so many twacks over the head, so
do you make of all this ?"                many cuts 'cross the back, so many tweaks o'
"I make neither head nor tail on't. P'r'aps the ears an' nose, and so many reg'lar dressin'-
he wasn't Guy Deerin' at all, and you ketched downs.  Take another leetle gulp, kurnil.
the wrong dog by the ear when you caged It's jest the revivin'est thing in case o' sick-
him  up; though his conduct was mighty     ness by sword-jabs or bagonet-sticks that was
queer. If he'd been an honest lad, he wouldn't ever interduced .to the public. 'Tis, by Sa-
run a step at sight of you and your drago'ns." tan !"
" I'ii not sure on that point, old man. Sus-  Hirl lifted the officer from the ground, talk-
picion is sometimes-as bad in its consequences ing the while in his quaint way
as actual guilt. The cry of 'mad dog' was    "Now if you feel weak, as 'twere, 'n the
fatal to poor Tray.  Set you out in the j'ints o' your limbs, I'll whip ye right square
field, with forty rods the start, and let my on to my bac, and take ye away, as Sampson
fellows dash after you, shouting ' A spy! a trotted off the gates of the Philistines. You
spy!' and you'd be likely to take to the bush, can set on my hump, if you want to, for it's
guilty or innocent. I mean t. say, that the firmer nor the Bank o' England, and has al-
fact of your running wouldn't be sufficient lers stuck to me, thus fur, like a brother. It's
evidence to hang you."                   a parmanent institution, and there's no danger
" Right, sir right !" said Hir, with nota- of it's slippin' down or turnin', like a saddle.
ble earnestness, his mind wandering, appa- Natur' buckled it on tormented tight, I tell
rently, to some other time and place.     ye."
"I've sent your orders; kurnil, word for  Somerton laughed, and felt better for the
word, as well as I could remember 'em; and brandy and the talk.
my mem'ry, considerin' my age, is oncom-    "'Twas a wonderful !liction at fust, 'spe-
mon," he added, while Somerton was yet won- mcially when I see it growin' bigger an' bigger
during at the impressiveness of his last re- every day Sometimes, I didn't know whether
mark.                                     I b'longed to it, or it belonged to me; but

i,;t
I'.
A'
'
p

+'.
*1
.
-i
'I
. ,
U'i

I"

-y..         1           -                   ,

:mss    r.....' -_.-.: ± er sa.ie  .. ._ w._..         _

i
r
-     -                                       ..

s

.
n : .rv. y+ ' t' _ y. .x .n ,as-.aw.: ..x.t.ewr 2 +vc+c.+xa.yy:..+w_ ba.rw                      ;      "'
'9Mwhyxi.-%dwtcWiMW.c: +y[a i+l RN iS                                       Q!  ).7+i AA uZM1t wuNxfri'Wr iu  )q._
1
YTl-                                                           r


TIHE SWORDMAKES OF THE SANTEE;

-C.
j
~F,
N .fi
x    F   4   ~
N'

OR, HIRL TIIE HUNCHBACK.

53

finally I sorter settled down under, like an ant  "Stop one moment, friend Giles. The rider
carrying' an egg, and Idon't know howI should should t go faster than his horse," said the
git along 'thiout it now. I've had doctors an' chaplain. " Old man," lie added to the
doctors; but 'twa'n't no manner o' use. Some swordmaker, "what is the name of this wound-
of 'em snickered and said they didn't know  ed person for whom you wantan escort?  Our
whether 'twas best to cut me off of it or not; force, you perceive, is small. we can ill spare
and they seureely knew which part to save, if a single dragoon."
they tahkld me,."                 1"It's nobody but the kurnil !" cried Hirl.
By this time the swordmaker had got the   " Coloniel Somerton! Why the devil didn't
officer to the cart, and into it. They rolled you say so ?" roared the sergeant.
toward the plantation; but turned iito a by-  "Nay! thou shouldst not take the name of
road, just before they came within sight of it. the Lord thy God in vain!I" remonstrated
"We shall have a good chance from here," Humphrey.
said iirl, ' to see your drago'ns show their  "Jes' so !" said Ilirl, shouldering his mus-
grit and their military p'intss;and we sha'n't ket. " I know d you'd think it worth while
have to wait long, neither, 'less I've miscal'- to pay a little at! ention to the kurnil, w+ho's
lasted the distance. If there's anything that I out yonder in the cart, as mild as a lcmb, as
like to see, it's a charge of calvary"    patient as a suckin' dove, and nighabout as
Somerton smiled, and regai'deI the uncon- weak. This way, you fiery dragons , Don't
'scions face of the swordmaker with interest. tread onto me with your rampaganous eree-
At the expiration of half-an-hour, the clat- turs ! You se I can't gb so fast as I used to
ter of hoofs announced the approach of the could when my legs was strangers to the
expected party. Leaving the colonel,Hirl rheumatics. Lord love ye, sergeant, if I was
ran to the middle of the road, and hailed the as I was twenty years ago and up'ard-and it
dragoons as they came up 'They were led by may be nigher thirty, now I come to think
Giles-the chaplain attending, as a volunteer. on't--'d buy jest the smartest erectur in the
Theredwere thirteen of them, the latter in- way of four-footed hoss, that could be found
eluded.                                    in the whole length and breadth of the lanm
"Hold up, so lad I cried the swordmaker, and I'd saddle him, and I'd bridle him, and
addressing Giles.                          I'd git me a sword, and a pistil, and a gun and
The king's busimas requires haste, and a bagonet, and a hoss-trumpet, and I'd run
you'll lease get outh' the road, my fine old sich a rig, and blow sich blasts up an' down
gentleman," replied the sergci~nt.       the Santee, that the goddess o' liberty would
"I like not to hearyou speak of the king's jest throw down her cap, and tread don't. I
business," said the chaplain, gravely, "for would, by Satan !''
we are in the service of God, and the Conti. In making this stirring speech, the sword-
nental Congress, and George Washington."  maker stopped short in thepath, and got so
'Gosings, leadthe geese to water," re- excited, that he came ncar stabbing the ser-
torted Giles, with great ,wisdom; "but par- geant's horse with his I ayonet. For apno-
sons don't lead the dragons to a charge, nor ment, he appeared transformed into a declama-
dietate to old campaigners.. Old hunchback, tory old dragon.
stand from under I"                          "Go 'long, you old crazy-head ! You'll do
The last period, of course, was directed at some mischief yct uith that toad-sticker. I've
Hirl, who, planted firmly in the road, with his beerd ye talk afcre, but I never see ye do
old musket, with its long, ugly bayonet, nothin'. 'Tisn't talkin', my old man-moun-
seemed to dispute farther progress.       tam, that gives us the victory; but the rcal
"The greater haste, the less speed, if prov- give-an'-take, rough-an'-tunble fightn' that
erba ye must'have !" retorted Hirl, cormpos- does the work. Toddle on, mister ; toddle on."
edly. "If you'd on'y be patient, and hear   The old man limped forward with such zeal,
what a body has to say, afore castin' your that the parties were soon beside the cart.
wise saying's into his teeth, you'd save both " How are you, brave lads ?" said the colonel.
time and breath-maybe, a blunder or two. " Upon my word, I'm glad to see you ! I've
I want an escort for a wounded man, as fur as had a hard time einee I was captured by Had-
Squire Redmond's."                        ley; but, thanks to ths good' man, Im in a
"Out o' the way, swordmaker! 'We can't fair way to lead you to victory again i a fcw
stop for wounded men'; for our business is to days. My wounds, I toyst, arc not very se-
make more o' that sort. Captain Rainford is rious."
by this time ridin' full tilt through the tory  "'We'd given ye up for lost at the camp,"
camp, and there's great doing's in the cypress- replied Giles.  "Rainford felt mighty lad;
brake  I'm aching' to lay hands on Christian and so we all did, for that matter.  The cap'n
Hadley; so give us a clear course, that we said he'd s'arch high and low but he'd find ye,
may sooner be at the work of crackin' skulls,' deal or alive. He was ready to huk me-"hen
which is a good business when well follered." told him that we'd fell in with the hiuie!.

62

I"'

back, and you's alive. . The orders you sent spirit was aroused. Ie felt mechanically for
arc be i' obeyed. Before this time, Rainford hI *sword, but a twinge of' p an in the arm
is hacin' away at the tore. that was wont to wield it, reminded him of
"I thank you all for your solicitude on my the humiliating fact that he was wounded and
account. Now, sergeant, ride down yonder; helpless.
and feel of those felows in the eyDresses. fT de royvrists yielded ground, and were
When you have put themf to flight, conic to fi 2~  dripven from the cypresses into the
me for further orders. A,, here is Clain opcai space between them and the cane-brake,
Humphrey! Humphrey, ow do yors.d-:"    where they made a brief stand. Being hotly
As well as the Lord wills," siid the  p- ressed, and some of their number slain, they
lain, grimly. "I'm a rough soldier of the ut spurs tohtheir horses, and sought safety
cross and of Washington, and ought not to in flight. The grim figure of the chaplain
comlain of troublesand trials that endure was observed by Somerton to be the first and
but for a day ; and which will, in the end, most headlong in pursuit.
bring joy and gladness. Colonel, with your  "He wields the sword full better than he
permission, I will charge wth the sergeant; preaches the word," said the colonel, with a
for, it is my belief, that steel may be used in sniile.
a good cause, and, when wielded stoutly and  The old man stood grasping his musket
prayerfully, put the men of Belial in salu- with both hands, his face turned with intense
tary fear, causing them to look more heed- eagerness toward the scene of the affray.
fully to their ways, and to keep in view the The remark of the officer aroused him.
latter cd of the wicked."                 " Yes ; he fights the battles of the Lord in-
Tte sergeant ma e movement to go.   r.ight-down nirnest. See ! he is close at the
"Don't be in a hurry, soger-ereeturs ! heels of Hadlay. I shouldn't wonder if he
Guess I'd better make a little bit of a speech 'took the creetir' Observe that weapon o'
afore ye smash into 'em."                 his glitter in the sv'.n ! l1\ is as powerful as
Hirt mounted his cart; and holding his old the sword of the spir;' f'" the cleavin' asunder
Hirne his a ahis nmusket in thie of j'ints and ma1rr, r ti.ssh and sinews. The
other, sids                              tories have reachli the road, as many of 'em
otiery drago'ns, your inemies is yonder. as are left. And now, kurnil, we'll be mov-
They are wrong, and you are right. They in'. Can you set on a hoss ?"
Thyt for plunder-you for liberty! There's  "What hore ?" asked Somerton, dubiously.
abgreat difference in your principles in the  "Crazy, of e urse ! A mare's a hoss, I
sight o' God, and that's everything in a fight. s'pose," replied Ilirl 'beginning to detach
Remember all you've ever' herd about the Crazy from 'the cart,f while the colonel con-
goddess o' liberty and the eagle a' freedom."  sidered the animal with not a little distrust
"The hunchback his turned parson !" mut- and uneasiness ; for, the creature's bones'
tered Giles.                             looked uncomfortablyf'near the surface.
"He might have said something not as      "Good heavens!'? exclaimed the officer ;
much to the point," sai. Humphrey.        " the beast can't sustain my weight."
"Come on, boys a" cried the sergeant, and "If   ou break her down, you'll be obleeged
of went the dragoons.                    to pay damages, that's all. She's too vally-
able a creetur to be throwed away, as 'twere.
But you'll find her backbone pootty toler'ble
strong, I reckon. I 11 lead her up aside the
CHAPTER XV.                  cart, and you can tumble on from the wheel.
A T T E PLANTATION .If you can stick on, you'll do well enough.
Somerton and the swordmaker watched the If I had a saddle, I'd offer it to ye with pleas-
progress of Giles with interest. At first, he ure ; but she isn't as sharp as a knife, kurnil,
was hide by trees; but presently breaking and you may find a harder seat afore ye die."
cover, hie was in sight  f 1bth them and the  With a wry face, the colonel mounted Crazy
enemy, and pressed forward at a gallop. The from the cart ; and the valorous knight of
dragoons were met at the margin of the cy- La Mancha never cut a more sorrowful figure
press growth by a volley of pistols and mus- on the famed steed Rosinante.
kets, but dashed in upon the stories in g llant "Y our sweetheart oughter see ye," said
style. The latter had had sufficient warning Hirl, with a quiet chuckle.  "Hark lie add-
of the sergeant's approach to mount and pre- ed, quickly; "they're at it again ; there's
i   pare for resistance. As the dragoons en'ere I fightin' in the road. Come on ! I'll throw
the wood, Hadley cheered his men, and a down -the fences, and we'll go across the
sharp conflict followed. Somerton heard with fields "
impatience the shouts of tie combatants, the  Somerton submitted to this arrangement,
ringing o' tshres,hand o "e' oially the rever- and followed the old man with as much phil-
berating sound of inus.ietry.  his martial osophy as he could call to his aid. With
iJ~i                          -

kI
Iz '
!    $

_VIP



1


A

4         -ow..  s '. -  "   .  .  .t,'r ~~:,  'h. .  ..

TIE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

X r   Sf
'1

Hirl limping along .efore him, he crossed a as if an enemy had met him at a charge
field, and found himself presently in the road bayonet.
leading to Redmond's residence.            " Colonel Somerton is welcome," she said,
The din and confusion in the forest had with a friendly smile, anal a graceful courtesy
greatly increased.                       to that officer. Then, in a hurried, half-whis-
"Something new has happened," said Som- pered voice to Iirl "It seems that my wor-
erton. " All that noise is not produced by thy aunt has been masquerading.  If you
Giles and his twelve men."               value her friendship, or my good-will, do not,
" You are right, kurnil; others have joined in any manner, refer to any knowledge you
the battle Look ! the fiery drago'ns are re- may have of her conduct since yesterday."
treatin' from the woods.  They come this   " Be at your ease," answered the sword-
way! The tories are gittin' the best on't, maker, in the same tone. "I comprehend-
What does it mean, I wonder?"            I'll obey youi. wishes."  Then, raising his
" That Hadley has received reinforcements voice . "My name is Ilirley ; Hirl, for short,
from his camp. Perhaps the whole nest of though ill-mannered people call me Old Hirl.
them are retreating before Rainford."    Deef Flirl, Crazy Hirl, and sich."
"Right, kurnil! I can hear the muskets  "Mt Aunt Grindle," resumed Judith, "is
of your brave lads," answered the sword- eccentric in her notions, and peculiar in her.
maker.       .-                          disposition. Remember not to allude to her
"But what is that ?" exclaimed Somerton, visit to Somerton's camp, nor its charitable
casting his eyes in the opposite direction.  object, nor her subsequent meeting with you.",
" It is the advance guard of Tarleton's  " Don't be afeard ; I can take a hint about
legion, by heavens!" cried the hunchback, as quick as any individooal in these parts.
with startling energy.                   You's proper skeerd about the old lady, I
"Old man, you have a singular faculty of s'pose? Well, no wonder. When I found
knowing the movements of the enemy," re- her, she's in as sorry a plight as any livin' she
plied the colonel, suspiciously.         I ever fell in with. She was scootin' about in
" Hurry, kurnil, hurry, for there's no time the woods like a wild creetur, with scurcely a
to lose! Them fellers restin' on the skirt o' rag o' clothes on her. Bless your soul, Miss
the wood yender b'long to Tarleton, and Judith, she was nighabout tore to bits !"
there'll be hot work. No tellin' who'll occu- " I was not aware," answered Judith, blush-
py Redmond's house by sunset."           ing, "that she was reduced to such an extrem-
"We need Marion!-we need Marion!" ity."
exclaimed Somerton.                        " Goodness gracious ! you hain't no idee
"You shall have him! The sergeant and on't. Why, the tories got hold of her, and I
the chaplain, with as many of the dozen as guess atween you and I, they made sad work
survive, come clatterin' arter us. Well, you'll with her."
need 'em as a body-guard. The best thing   The swordmaker cast a sidelong glance at'
you can do is to post 'em round the house to Miss Redmond, whose vexation was apparent.
keep it from ben' plundered, till the day is " She's a mighty queer old body," contin-
decided."     u-ned Hirl. "She talked 'bout the wheels o'
"You take it for granted that there will be time and the clods o' the valley, cut up the
a battle."                               yaller gal with her switch, and made her take
"I do," replied Hirl. " I know there'll be snuff for lookin' at the sogers."
a battle.  Already Tarleton exults in the  Judith smiled. The swordmaker went on in
thought of victory ; but Marion, sir-Marion a more confidential tone.
and his men will rob the dog of his bone, and  "You can keep a secret, I s'pose, miss ?
he'll go away growlin'"                  Sartin; I thought you could. Well, I don't
" I hope your words are pr6phetic; but if mind tellin' ye that Goody Grindle took a great
Tarleton comes to the scratch, I a sure you, shine to me. Expected every minute she d
old man, I'll have a hand in it. 'Though I pop the question, not knowin' that I-ain't in
had twenty wounds, I would not lie in bed, the market, nor haven't been for the last thir-
and hear the conflict, without guiding and ty year. You'd oughter seen her a settin' on
aiding it by my presence and authority "  - the cart aside me  Lord ! she snuggled up to
Giles and the chaplain rode up, panting, me like a kitten to a warm chimney !"
with numerous marks of the skirmish on their  Hirl looked archly at Judith.
persons. Somerton ordered Giles to collect  "'Tis false, oll man !' she retorted, in a
11s many of his comrades as he could find, suppressed and hurried tone. "Do not de-
and await his further commands at Redmond's, stroy the merit of .a good action by mean and
whose house they were now near. As the petty slander. I thought you were better,
swordmaker was climbing the eminence on sir!"
which it stood, Judith suddenly appeared be-  " Yes, I am some better ; but not so better as
fore him. The old man stopped as quickly I was  The rheumatics and the doxology wor-

ct-1%y tQ,

54

55

'ry me woundedly; but I git along very well,  Judith relinquished herbplace to the chap-
for the most part, with the help o' Crazy."  lain, after whispering  "Be cautious, sir, I
fI say you slander my aunt foully !" ex- beg of you; which admonition evidently re-
claimed Judith, scarcely knowing whether to erred to something previously communicated.
weep with vexatio, or laugh) at the old man's "Meg! Meg! you trollop! is everything
ridiculous story. She glaned at the hump ready ?  Lawful sakes! He hasn't got an a-
on his back, his gray hairs, and bent figure, tom o' blood in his veins, not an artom ! I do,
and wondered at his sglfcomplacency.    believe the wheels o' time will roll him into
" She's a sharp one, is Goody Grindle ! But the valley afore we can git the lint scraped.
Lord love you, what a breath !"            The wounded officer stopped short on the
The blood rushed tmultuously to Miss threshold, and looked fixedly at Dame Grin-
Redmond's cheeks. She darted a keen, angry dle. The mystery and bewilderment that had
look at the old traducer.                crept into his brain, were manifestly in no
"oThere's something' extr'ordiner about it, manner lessened. He glanced at Judith, then
but I've alters noticed that an old maid's at Meg, then at the swordmaker, then suffered
breath isn't by no means up to the markinthe himself to be conducted in by the chaplain
wayo' sweetness,"                       and Giles.
--oirl squinted mischievously at his fair corn- This way, my bold Continentalers," added
panion.                                  Goody Grindle, who was clearly one of those
"Now yours, Miss Judith, is like the scent persons intended on all occasions to do all tho
of new-mowed hay, and flutters from your talking and bustling about, and be perpetually
pootty mouth like the softest south wind."  busy. "I've got the nicest bed made for him !
Judith laughed.                        I hope, colonel, that your gun-shot and bago-
"You can both slander and flatter, old net wounds ain't mortal. But life is but a
man !" she cried, flitting lightly away to meet span.'We shan't none on us be here long.
her father, who was approaching to welcome The wheels o' time are rollin' us to the clods
the colonel.                            e' the valley. We shall soon all be clods;
"Colonel Somerton," he said, taking that you'll be a clod, and Ill be a clod, and both
officer's hand, "everything that I have is at Britisher and Continentaler will be alike at
your service ; but God only knows how long last. Dear me! lay him down on the bed and
I shall have shelter or substance to offer to take off his boots. A tnh bdon'tlo  ant boots
my friends."                             and spurs on, when all the blood in h rs system
' The times are indeed troublous," answer- has been drained out of him by the rotten
ed Somerton, ad, might prevails over right. tories. I hate 'em as I do saks!"m'
But I trust that ,the colonists do not fight  Goody Grindle made a dive at Somerton's
their battles alone, and that there is One coat-sleeve, and ripped it open with a large
greater than man to sustain and grant them pair of sjiears from the shoulder to the wrist,
the victory."                            before  e had time to decide whether le was
"Such is my belief," replied Redmond.  the subject of a hostile or friendly assault.
"Here comes my aunt," said Judith, look-  "Ileaven be good to us!" Whe rattled on,
ing significantly at Iirl ; then, as if suddenly rolling up his shirt-sleeve.  "What a  ut
recollecting herself, ad led..           they've made in his-white arm e
" How stupid! Your silly conversation,   "My good woman," said the chaplain,
old man, had nearly made me forget to warn gravely, "I have some small skill in surgery,
Colonel Somerton."                       which-"
"Speak to him as I, help him from the    "Well, I should think it might be very
mire," replied Hirl.                     small, indeed !" interrupted the impetuous
Judith availed herself of this hint, and whis- spinser. "You have that look. Meg! lint !"
pered to Somerton, while pretending to give  "I was going to say," added Humphrey ,
him the support of her arm. What she said with a frown, " that I had some little skill in
appeared to perplex him, and he stared at her surgery, which, by the blessing of God, has
in a very singular manner for a gentleman of been of great service to the poor fellows 0f
his approved gallantry. Something mysteri- our brigade. If it be the pleasure of our
ous had got into his mind, that he could not commander, I will even try my hand upon
conveniently rid himself of.             him."
" Do, brother, for pity sake, make haste !"  "Meg! salve !" cried Goody Grindle, with
cried a sharp, imperative voice-the real a decisiveness that admitted of no compro-
voice of the real Betsey Grindle. "The poor misc. In short, she dressed the arm herself,
man will bleed to death afore you git him into bandaging it neatly and well; for the spinster
the house. Bless us, how pale he is ! Judith, knew what she could do and what she could
child, you're doin' more hurt than good. How not. The contusion upon his head was treat-
do you a'pose your foolish little arm can sup- ed with equal adroitness and skill, and Som-
port sich a great giant of a ontinental soger ?" erton was greatly relieved by her ministra-

t-
ly
a: l
.}7 2   1
1
h
t
Y     "
7
Yr
2
S)
i 1    1"
It "     }
EEy
I!
4     1
1

I

.n
,f

t
'ji

i+a. aa'i... .''yes%-w.da.4c. v6..". .:.c: a: sA.at7...4=x +ai..sw+:m... ,+% caed ..w.i+.a ..i..niu"  s+ss'.aa. aa .......  .

- 'S

1
I

i A

;t
r
t

i
!
't
, ,
G  .
P4'
I

i
-


r
'                            ,

56

ti(
sh
in
M
of
an
th
fo
off
las
t                       pit
;    r!                his
an
pa
ex
at!
rof
as
an
dli
er,
of
an
ly
pr
th
dri
oft
${                  ret
Th
dia
nes
ma
Th
Foi
qu
his
Th
-Col
bet
-                       wo
ton
S  3  l* T _

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

ons. To Humphrey, who looked grimly on,
he suggested that he'd "better go and make
ounds on the p'ison Britishers, and leave the
omen to take care of such cases as the colo-
el's."
He retorted that his trade was not war, but
t se name of God and Congress he oee ision-
'y struck a blow for freedom. To which
iss Grindle made answer that she approved
his conduct, and hoped that he would pray
ad fight, and fight and pray ; for a cause
at was worth praying for was worth fighting
r-which sentiments tended to assuage the
fended chaplain.
CHAPTER XVI.
IN WhiCa SOMERTON IS MYSTIFIED.
Somerton was glad to be left alone. The
st twenty-four hours had been with him a
riod of peculiar trial and danger. He had
en wounded, and in the hands of an un-
tying enemy, deprived of those cares which
s situation required, without medical aid,
d stretched upon the cold earth in an ap-
rently lying state. After a perilous and
citing escape, occupying several hours, he
length found himself beneath a friendly
of, upon a soft, inviting couch, with kind,
tentive faces looking in upon him.
The vomluilitJ of the, to him, inexplicable
a  - crindle,*had interested at first, as well
perpiexed him; but, presently, weakness
d sleep overpowered him. Dame Grin-
e's voice seemed to grow lower and low-
and recede in the distance; the hump
the swordmaker looked like a mountain in
mist, so far off that its summit could scarce-
be discerned ; the sergeant vanished with a
overb ; the chaplain went down through
e floor, or up through the roof, like a grim
agon, he could not tell which ; but the form
Judith Redmond now came, now went, now
urned and floated around him fantastically.
he soldier slumbered. The old-fashioned
l marked three hours of time. The dark-
ss of night had set in., A crash of musketry
ade Somerton start suddenly from his sleep.
.e sound called him to duty and to danger.
r a moment, he believed himself at his
arters, in camp, beset by the enemy.
' Mount, boys! mount, and at them !" he
uttered .
A soft hand was laid upon his brow, and
head pressed gently back to the pillow.
.e clouds of sleep were dispelled, and the
ntinental officer beheld a fair creature
endingg over him.
" Is it you? Is it you ?" he murmured.
" Yes, it is I," said a soothing voice.
"Alas! fair girl, you will make more
unds than you will heal!1" sighed. Somer-
n.

" You are pleased to be as gallant in lady's
bower as in the field," answered his charming
nurse.
" I am a soldier, and have not learned the
follies and flatteries of the courtier. My life
is an earnest and precarious one, which the
vicissitudes of my calling may at any time
shorten. I have neither leisure nor disposi-
tion for vain compliments. I trust I shall be
pardoned when I say, that our first meeting
made an impression upon me that I cannot
forget."
The young lady retreated a step, and look-
ed at the colonel, inquiringly.
" What did you observe, sir?" she asked.
"That our short and singular interview
produced feelings, that to me are new and
strange."
" Interv  -A do not comprehend."
His lovely nurse contemplated him as if she
feared he were losing his senses.
"Do not distrust my prudence, Mss Red-
mond. I will keep faithfully your secret; but
it pains me to the heart that your visit had
not a worthier object. I hope it was pity
alone for a human being in distress, that con-
ducted you to one condemned to death, and
branded with deserved infany."
Somerton's voice was low and earnest ; lie
watched Miss Redmond s couintSnace with
feverish anxiety.
"Be quiet, sir; your mind is distempered.
Believe me, all that you are saying is but a
dream. - This. to my knowledge, is the first
time you ever beheld me."
Miss Redmond had the manner of perfect
truth. Somerton's countenance changed.
" I am sorry," he said, with a disappointed
air, " that Miss Redmond should fear to trust
me, and resorts to prevarication with one
whose honor should not be doubled by her."
"I assure you, sir, that there is some mis-
take," she said.
' Mistake ? Impossible ! If I dreamed all
this, I am dreaming still. The dream must
have commenced at my quarters, at the mo-
ment when you came to request permission to
see the spy, Decring. The illusion went on
when Deering denied that he was Deering.
The burning cabin, the surprise, the man
riding at my side, my capture, my wounds,
my sufferings, my escape, were all of a piece,
and arrant deceptions each ! Pray, Miss Red-
mond, may I not be permitted to believe that
you are real, and that this scene belongs to the
waking part of my existence ?"
The colonel raised himself on his elbow,
and fixed his eyes piercingly upon the chang-
ing countenance of Miss Redmond.
"You-you confuse me beyond measure.
I know not what to say ; but rest assured,"
she added, with some hauteur, "that I never

;=.
0

zj

T 5
1
s
l
1 f
I i
ki +
t t
f t
1
G
i
k
1
1
1
8
f
j
f i
F
4
F
E
. e
i
''
t
t
5 .
1
4 q
_S
1
3

'"  .'
t  ._...
,,t

+                                                                                                                    '                                                                                                                }
, i
_
5
i
.-                                       t
7
1
X
-r
....    __:=w!       .s     APF!o"3. ;  4R }1 tlY  na .°."_w '". %s.. ar xLY3C::,FM .. v                                                                            i                                                                        _

y                                                                                                        ~                     .v .         ,,  .                                                                     ,
ry 1

-             -    --- -

-

jz.x
Au
II
i ,I
(I f  I
/L

-'  - ,  2 :


OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

aI

I

II

visited Colonel Somerton's quarters for any
purpose whatever, or at any time in my life.
This conceit comes of fever and pain."
"I am mad, perhaps i" answered Somerton,
with an ironical smile.
"It is not singular that your mind should
wander somewhat after the scenes throutch
which you have recently passed," observed
Miss Redmond, quietly.
"I am mocked.!"
" Who mocks you ?"
"Deering, the swordmaker, Dame Grindle,
and you ! Yes, you, you mock me !" exclaim-
ed the colonel, impatiently.
" Nay, nay, good sir ! Be patient, and all
shall be as you say. If it be your pleasure,
I will assent that I have been anywhere you
wish. Be good, and take some of this liquid
which my aunt has prepared for you; it will
benefit you, I am sure."
" I am neither delirious nor wandering,"
replied Somerton, with empressement, " and I
will spare you the trouble, my dear young
lady, of treating me as if I were such. Par-
don me, let me understand you. You were
not at my quarters?"
"Consequently, e was no interview be-
tween us?"
There was not."
"You deny the whole transaction?"
,"I deny what you affirm."
"Then, by Heaven, I am mad !" cried the
officer, with vehemence.
There was another crash of musketry near-
er than before. The house shook-the panes
of glass rattling in the sashes. The well
known dissonance aroused the colonel's mar-
tial ardor.
"That volley was fired by my dragoons!"
be said. "There is a fierce engagement not
far from here. I must fly to my brave fel-
lows. Lend me your arm. Give me my coat
and sword !"
"My dear sir, you are wounded; you can-
not mount horse or wield weapon," remon-
strated the young woman.
I can do both! This couch is a bed of
thorns while I can hear my dragoons at work,
and not be with them."
Thc officer sat upon the bed, his feet rest-
ing upon the floor. le stood up and found
himself weaker than he had expected.
"I will compromise with you," said Miss
Redmond.   " Here is my father's dressing-
gown y put it on, and I will assist you to a
window, where you may see as much of the
conflict as the darkness will permit."'
"I believe I am in your power, Miss Red-.
mond, and I surrendered at discretion ; only
substitute my coat for the gown-for I hate
*dressing-gowns. The sleeve is cut open, but
you can pin it. You comply. Thank you,

miss ! How deftly you women handle us
awkward fellows."
" You love your buttons, colonel, as well as
a young girl her mirror. You are sure you
are quite rational? You won't harm me?"
Miss Redmond, with some lesitation, as-
sisted him to a window that looked toward
the Santee.
"IIHarm her !" muttered the officer, as he
walked by her side.
"Fear not," he said, raising his voice. "I
am rational, and truthful, also," he added, in
an aside tone.
The young woman heard him, and seemed
to feel the implication deeply.
From the window, Somerton beheld an ex-
citing spectacle. Some barns and several
negro huts had been fired, and the flames
lighted up with vividness the space between
Redmond's residence and the river, which was
now the scene of a fierce nocturnal conflict.
Parties of horsemen were seen charging this
way and that, sometimes in the full glare of
the flaming buildings, at others in the faint
and more distant gleam of the fiery illumina-
tion. There was a dropping fire of muskets
and pistols, while sabres clash d, and the re-
sounding notes of bugles rolled across the
field. The combatants swayed and wavered
to and fro. Now the tide of battle flowed
his way, then ebbed back with a sudden im-
pulse. Half-naked negroes were seen run-
ning to and fro in the foreground of the fight,
and riderless horses dashed frantically from
the melee.
Sergeant Giles, the chaplain, and a few
armed blacks, with a half-dozen dragoons,
constituted the sole guard and protection of
Redmond and his household. Dame Grindle's
voice was heard admonishing the slaves to
stand'their ground, and do their duty, on pain
of after penalties.
Colonel Somerton looked out upon the.
chaos of battle a few moments in silence.
"What do you make of it ?" asked Miss
Redmond, timidly.
"Rainford is engaged with the headlong
Tarleton. Those, are his fellows in the bright
coats. They are better fed and clothed than
our lads, but not so hearty. I hate scarlet
coats! There is a sort of vanity in them that
suits John Bull, but which I can never for-
give."
"The dragoons are giving ground ; they
are being overpowered by numbers," said
Miss Redmond.
" Yes, they are yielding ; but they dispute
every inch as they go. There! ~that was
Rainford's shout ; he hurls his dragoons once
more against the heavy ranks of the enemy.
Now, there is hot work ! They slowly re-
treat, pressed backward, by the solid masses
of Tarleton's legion. How vexatious to be

~  4(  ~ .~j k..  ,  '
A  l n

M".'"'^'"-

* e .,It
.   l

TK

59

I,
I'
'O
t~ i
}

t

q

,.

a


1.

THE SWORtDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

'I.i
"It   It
n x1 C  .a

here, when I should lead yonder! See ! the " How fiercely the battle rages !" cried the
tide of battle flows toward the wood. They young girl. " The redcoats have not even
have fired more huts.   Who said Marion found time to plunder the premises."
would come to our aid?  Some one said so.   "Hark!" said Somerton.    "I hear the ',
I remember! 'twas the swdrdmaker.    The crackling of flames !"
old man knew not what 'he was saying. If    "It comes from the burning stables," she  ' N
help arrive not soon, all is lost ! Some of the replied.
royal troops come this way. There go their "It is the house !-it is the house !" ex-
pistols at the sergeant and his handful of men. claimed Somerton.
Those negroes begin to fly at the first shot.,  At that moment, a musket-ball -shattered a
Slaves are poor fighters. The sergenrit and pane of glass, and passed-through a scarf that
his men draw their heavy sabres. Note the the young woman had thrown over her shoul-
chaplain! He chafes like a war-horse under ders. Despite his wounds, Somerton sprang.
the curb bit. Giles is as good at the sword- up and drew her from the window.
exercise as at proverbs. He rises in his stir-  " It were sad," he said, "if blood like thine
rups and dashes at the red-coated rascals be shed in this .conflict. Come ! let us go.
with a cheer. Gallantly done, sergeant, gal- How silent the house is, save that ominous
lantly done ! My sword, Miss Redmond-my roar. I have not heard a footstep within
sword !"                                  since we entered this apartment."
"'The stables are on fire !-the stables are  "It is a dreadful night! , Yes, we will go.
on fire !" exclaimed Miss Redmond.       How close the air is!"
The smoke of battle and of the burning   She opened a door, and they passed into a
buildings hung like a black canopy over the hall; it was full of smoke; they were forced
plantation, as if to shut the terrible scene back into the room they had left.
from the eye of Heaven. The glare and con-  "The window !-the window!   Let us es-
fusion and clangor, the tramping of horses, cape by the window !" said Somerton, to
the shouts, groans,'and imprecations of men, whom  excitement had  given  momentary
all conspired to render the spectacle fearful.  strength. Miss Redmond approached it and  ]
Somer'ton was much excited ; he beat upoi drew back with a shriek. Black Jaffer stood
his breast, crying:      .-upon the outside, with a long knife in his
"'Oh, for one hour of Marion ! The thun- hand, and a frightful grin upon his apish
der of his brigade would be musie! - This face. An apparition more grim and threat-
sight makes me dizzy. Where are you, Miss ening cannot be imagined. Even Somerton
Redmond?    Give me your hand. The lights recoiled.  His breast was swatlred with a
are gone out."                           coarse strip of cloth, which was stained with
The colonel put his hands to his head, and purple spots. Somerton remembered, with a
his fair companion, seeing his condition, has- shiver, his adventures with the brutal crea-
tened to place a chair for him, into which he ture the -'previous morning. He weaved his A
sank, quite senseless,                    weapon, crying: "Burn! burn! burn!"
A strong light from the blazing stables
--                     bathed the face and form of the black giant,
rendering him the most fearful spectacle of
CHAPTER XVII.                 the night-revealing, as it did, in his heaving
L O VE AND  F IFRE.           chest and working features, the demonic
The colonel revived presently, and asked passions that possessed him.. h
hs trembling companion:     ," Jaffer ! Jaffer! let us pass !'"'implored the          f
"What do theynow ?"'                   girl, holding up' herhands to the black.
The sergeant is driven away, and- our    "Burn! burn! fire in dis corner--fire in
friends are cut off from the house. A guard dat ; fire 'bove-fire b'low ; fire on roof-fire
1 placed over Aunt Grindle and my sister, in de cellar ! Burn ! burn!"
and my father is fighting side' by side with  le laughed like a devil.
Giles. But they cannot break through the    "Doors fast-rooms full o' smoke-choke,
thronging ranks of our enemies. Oh, sir! smother, die! Jaffer will have revenge !"
wawilbecome of us ?"1                  "Miscreant!" cried Somerton. "Begone,
Miss- Redmond wrung her hands with an- or I'll throttle ypu !"
guish, and turned anxiously to Somerton.   Jaffer chuckled, and waved his weapon
Her dark hair hung disheveled around her triumphantly in the red glare. Thre was no
pale face;she was the picture of beautiful answer to such pantomime ; it was dire and
e   sness.                              final.
The wounded officer tried to rally his   "My God !" groaned Somerton, "I never
strength to save her nd himself,         knew what helplsness was beore.  Miss
"Can we not fly?  Can we not escape from. Redmond, I would die for von : but, alas! I
the rear of the house ?" he asked, quickly. cannot save you. Iad it 'not been for me,

" I   "M._ i,, .  A-!s  r'"  i1ta-         -  L ns . a A  ...  A.

0

-~1

61

you might have escaped. Lovely girl, I have blazing roof teblindting flame c   t
involved you in my own fate."          bmakei  rog  the falseood.
"Let us not yet despair ; there may bWhim shore this fai temple be sullied
other ways of escape.  If you are strong    -th  lel9 hiwords that involuntarily cs-
enough, follow me," she answered, with heroic ewith i alie "weodta     ol   arysps..
courage.caehilps
"Strong !" repeated the colonel. "I have   " I am true ! I am  true !" she said, in a
the trength of a madman; cnedbut for this faint and scarcely articulate voice.
tltedgh arm woudand onde black " Name it not in this fearful hour. 'We are
Satiae lim I~ would red1one             doomed ! It is written that we shall die to-
Togtler they sprang from theroom. The gether ; the solemn ccretal is laid an«ay with
las Tobete they spa, aso the eft itas the the records in the archives of fate. It dors
last object they saw, as they e  The words not thrill me with anguish and dfsy 'ai, for I
" Burn! burn !" followed them like the hiss- shall go hence with an angel, whlo will lead
wings of a serpent. They fought their way   me to the door of Paradise."
through ofh skent. hey fhal;tere w         "Forbear ! foibear !" in plorcd il o young
egress-the doors were locked, l   te  no irl in a pitvioving voce- "31re is a
had said. -there was a flight of steps lea ing  mistake-a fatal, fatal'mistake ! I ani i et-I
to the upper part of the house.            am not-"
"Let us up!" said the colonel.  "Surely    The roof creaked and trarbled ; the wind,
" Le hsup " sid te clonl.  re y 1 * thru hthe  iderens te fire had
there must, be'a window above from which we rushing through the wide rentst fr had
may east ourselves. Any death is better than aad, drove shatftsiOlf.imeagdhwith  3en
this.",nh                                          il   lesri~       erwt ~spr
thi-s. edmoxd was nearly overcome by the son, and his ga'mmnts withered in the intense
sn.f ed.ting fumes that every instant rushed 'heat. le scarcely felt Iain ; the irs1'irrtion
sot and choking intoheer lungs. Somerton  of love raised him atoee suffcrirg.
threw his left arm  around her, and assisted  " My life," lie aeid, " is nct in myself; it is
her to ascend the stairs. Both were obliged inot thee l only the  Sec re  so  m
to pause a the top.                        nt;Ife       nyte.~rbs             uha
"'Which way ?-which way " asked Mss thy smallest finger,ir.d m'N fksh sh all suffer.'
"edmond fanty. ?a                        " We are dying!" she mmn mid.- "You
"Any way with thee, Judith !-any    way must not die in an rcrror. I1 n   I
with thee  "                                " Error ?" intcrruptcd Smertcn. "Ilove
"Judith?" she repeat; "Judith ? Ah! thee!      How can there be en crier? It is a
he-he--"                                   sudden passion, 1but dep, dqecp, and; change-
Whtevr she itedlad raesd as no weigh S1he attempted to raisE erTelf to ,Teply,
Whtvrsewudhv               adwsntu-ls "I-fterd ; she fainted, anct rested a d hIer to- t he he t and smoke eenlqucr dtbe) 3 i11
on the arm- of Soinerton-  lie carried hrt-btteha       n   mk     ogec      c~il
ward a window, but the    eat cracked the and put out the sweet candle of hr ecrselous-
glass, and the flames darted' through it be- ness. Whatever the thought that agitated
forces, adched it.ame drtreatd rouhe roof her, it wi's likely to perish ora icsscd-
blaed an tremled .er histread looking somerton was n~dcwzd with a str'onge te-
ehblazed and trembled over his hea.r and the nacity of life.  his wounds no lorgr troubled
up, he could see th burning like tinder. Thestairs were him. 'The soul within was str;'nger bm  lfcsh
by this time on fire. Jaffer had done his and fire. -le breathed in the emoke uhcre
wor thortioufre. Jafer feard to de- another would have dicd or sunk irsensible,
work thoroughly.   Somerton fearedf'oMiss to beecaught up by the ip rms ni r  dcoured.
scend them  lest the light drapery ofb Mis  toe caughi coath   fid wrapped itvothe
Redmond   should be seized upon by the pctorer off his        i coat and wraped etabout the
flames, and the catastrophe hastened.  ti person of is eand.     e i-at the
drew his helpless burden to a window at the dragon with ahis hands forle foug t thefmomint
end of a corridor. To his consternation, it dragon ae, t  nh fo ter  ' n Eerrg rof.
was latticed -with stout oaken bars; it tdilie 11pced hise   ao h to the ati ceid hotof
been thus secured to repel enemies\ Ile tried lepae1 i   ot    o h   sto   idsot
to force off one of the bars, but it obstinately erith d strugg  dand r 1h theis throat;ihe
defied his strength. He plunged his' hand wrtectoru        and wle  dthrIw himself
through the lattice and broke a pane of glass. of proectionor his o elnfovted thren asealof
Fresh air rushed in and revived the young  ire, and was tossed to and fro on the hot bil-
woman.
",We shall not part company," murmured lowus.th                          fom   f
Somerton. " I shall perish with the woman I  Tiere were huried stps;1 te inot e
love."                                    Deiitesy         emdt     lneit       h
The recollection of her denial of a palpa- fiery element and bear him  away. YEs, i
ble fact, flashed like lightning through his was Deering! That thought was ,strongly

ry .+'
'r
i'
{
,.
,
2
. f
tt
I
-
j      !
tt
(;
1           ,
,a
ii
M,
; '-_
.
t
;,
2Ij   Y
7
l
(
I l
t
1
.  y(
I
c
" t'
f
f
.f
1 i.
1'
f        I
e
h'
t         '
!j       , i
Sr       , f
tt
4
i t
, ,   t c.
,t,
r
I
' }
.                  T
,{     f
1
r,           r
;
r"
"                       1
a
,_  _  7  ,.,  _. ._...      _   ........ _....._.._.,.

low"

aY                                         .i

,',...bFYI.- ' weiuej .m.rs  Warr:=,C-".iJ an.b. .o..y..aii+. 4i ! +a.atr L.sw.,..xiw; y.-

-

'
i



62

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

r f
f      r
t  i       t  A  r
a      -   t

defined. The man'was invulnerable ; he part-  "No, no! I loved her at our first  t-
ed the blazing sea with his arms as he had ing."        oameet-
parted the waters of the Santee. He tried to  "At your first meeting I" muttered the
articulate the name of his companion, and to swordmaker.
break from his arms. Then eame'darkness-    "When she came to gain admission to the
then black phatasies-then rest--then a gasp- spy..",
ing, fluttering, fluctuating sense of existence. "Did you tell your love ?"
The first object he saw was the swordmaker.  The old man did ndt speak as usual. His
"Where is she ?" he cried.'            voice was less shrill, less in control.
'Who ?" demanded the swordmaker, hoarse- "it concerns you not, good man. I have
.\.                                      uttered many wild things, since the sun went
"Miss Redmond! Judith -- Judith 1" an- down. I scarcely know what I have said."
swered Somerton, hurriedly.          f      11"And she ?"
Was she i   the build ?" asked Hirl, in  "She ? She is a saint !"
agasisgdoardc yes.iTrue, true ! But one saved, and that not
Ye, ot  fd-yes. This is dreadful !"  Judith. But stay!1 stay?! there may behp
The colonel arose to his feet.          yet.ehope
"tWhere are you going ?" asked Hirl, de-  With these words the swordmaker darted
taming him by the arm,                    away toward that part of the field where the
"tTo perish with her I" he replied, with de- conflict could still be hoard, though gradually
termination,                              receding, leaving Somerton alone.
"Have I lived and hoped for this ?" ex-
claimed the swordmaker. " The roof has fall-
en. Too late-too late to save her !"                 CHAPTER, XVIII.
" Then I will cast myself into the burning  WHICH SOLVES A CERiTAIN MYSTERY.
pile. I swear to you that I will not survive  Somerton was till in an exposed position.
her"O mOccasionally a horseman crossed the space
"0 misery ! 0 torture " muttered the old between him and the burning mansion, whose
man, bending lower and lower beneath the red coat sufficiently indicated to which party
weight on his back and the heaviness of his he belonged. However deep the colonel's sor-,
soul.  Perhaps," he stammered, "you-you row, it did not overcome his instinctive dread
loved her ?"                              of captivity, or extinguish his inherent love of
"I did, old man! Where is he who saved liberty. He moved into the bushestbehind
mec? Bring the villain hither. The wretch ! him, as much to avoid the sight of tbe tot-
to take me and leave her !"              tering walls of Rcdmond's house, as the too
"Were you together ?" asked Hirl.      near approach of an enemy. le saw, a few
"Together, old man I What power on earth yards distat; a negro hut, which, sheltered
could part me from her in such a moment? by trees, had escaped the general destruction.
I shielded her from thd flames ; I covered her- He hastened toward it, for he longed to be
with niy garments and my person; I battled alone, where he could abandon himself for a
the fire with my~ naked hands. Speak, dotard, time to those emotions that asked indulgence.
speak! Who saved me ? I will kill him for The door vas openhewena   nugeheed
his kndnes !"a spectacle that more than surprised him-
The swordmaker staggered to a tree, and that for a moment caught away his breath
supporting himself by the trunk, seemed to and volition. The fair girl who had shared
weep. He raised his head presently, and an- his danger-the terrible peril of that night-.
swered :                                  was reclining upon a rude scat, supported by
" A strange man dashed through the smoke Goody Grindle.
and flame, and saved your life at the risk of  Somerton clung, gasping, to the log-wall,
his own. le came forth scathed and blistered by no means certain that te was not the sub-
by the fire !"                            .yn    en   eti    hth    a   o  h   u-
"His name-his name                     ject of a tantalizing dream.
"His nam -hi  na e?"["0            M iss  Redm ond  !" bhe  exclaimecd,  when
"I noticed not his face," said Hirl.    he could master his voice. "Is this indeed
"A singular conceit crossed my brain ; I real ?  It is too, too much jo  Is"
thought it was Deering, the spy."          He staggered forward and took her hand.
Why should 'he wish to save an enemy?" Yes, it is I   I am saved! But you-I
queried the hunchback.                   have suffered for you, thinking you lost. My
"That is what perplexes me. Alas, fair friend, through what a scene we have pasd !"
Judith ! Old man, you know not how this she answered, in tones so hurried and tremu-
mournful calamity affects me."            ous as to be scarcely intel igible.
"Peace !" cried Hirl. "Think yours will   "I had sworn not to outlive you ; I came
be the onlyheart wrung by this grief? There here to weep for you, and to die! But God
may be others who love her better."      gives me the cup of joy, and His hand draws

I

°r
r
,_
_                                                                         '-
'
.1
Y

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.
me back from the gulf of Despair. 0 Ju- she was woundedly put to it for something to
diThat name again " murmured Miss Red- m      Id 'st let Somerton's dragoons back at
od. T n!                                awhile with their sabres. But we a'n't all
nPardon, pardon the familiarity I  My alike. Some has the gift o beauty, and some
gladness is such that I cannot restrain myself are flung together most any way, as if only
to the unmeaning conventionalities of life," for temporary use. Dear me ! I can hear the
replied Somerton, sinking at her feet through fat's going' t become youfeel  ow,chidonly
weakness anid emotion.                    Wa'    on't    eoeof us,te      od ol
w  e faints -miowfearfully e is burned! knows! hEvery 1ng fallsdon me, and alleys
And for mne-for me, whom he mistakes-for did.Thr'nodytdoorsynti'
for me, who am unworthy." but m                 blessed self'. 'Weub, colon 1, you arc
e msordaku sod atthe door, but Som-, urned, I do declare.      uthy, for oodOus
erton did not see him.                    dd' o     ootwe       o  on    h    os
"iloity toity !-stuff and nonsense! There's  as afire?  Jaffer there'? A runaway ! He
other things to be thought of. The British- hasn't forgt at cuttin  e  at    '1b
er8 are up and doin', and bagonets and butch- a ong whi  doe he dow  so  he   on
cry pervails through the land.  Barns are wrath ;' and I don't care how soon he finds
afire, housen are burnin', women and cliii- himself among the clods. I vow I don't know
dren are fbu in' and cryin', the Continentalis what I shall do for 'intment ! Not a salve
are in full run, and Liberty trembles in the nor a doctor-stuff of any kind can I lay hands
balance! There's good lads and true dying on.'                       Miss Grindle,"
on the field, with neither mother, wife, nor  Trouble not yourself, good  s  re,
sweetheart to close their eyes. Lord ! Lord ! said Somerton.  d I sh t oe oarse
what a world it is ! The wheels o' time are garett   u  n  n   sald    eleog.
rollin' and' rllin' us, and we shall soon bea to1Dame G dlel in a trice, and  thout any
clods o' the valley."                     afcaino       ~iny    lpe     f    lne
cYour garments are charred, your hands petticoat; and, before the colonel had divined
blistered, your arms blackened and wounded her purpose, it was thrown over is head, and
ia your unequal conflict with the fire !" cried she was tying the stout'trings close up under
the young woman.     " 0  good aunt," she his arms. The effect of this novel costume
added, "here is work for you. Hasten to as- was irresistibly ludicrous.1MissaRedmond
aist him."                                and the swordmaker began to aug1; an
"Dear groodness ! how hard you look at Somerton, after surveying himself with a
each other ! I do believe there's been shilly- doubtful expression, was forced to join in their
shallyiu' and love-makin' atween you two-  merriment.
even when the wheels o'time were revol you  "Really, Miss Grindle," said that offer,
away, as it were, by fire. What puts sich no- deprecatingly, "I much doubt whether this
tions into young folks' heads, and makes 'em  becomes me."  cares
co forgit that they're born to die,, that life's oil-u"LodItmwh aest, tcoo n?  iece, stand
sartin and death sartin, and that the subluna  up and let m  have that coat under y  It's
rys anid temporal are transitory and f hdin', his, aand I'll die if 'tisn t! lie was fool'
and don't last long, spin 'm out as you will  eugh to pull it off and put i  oy
Lawful goodness! what a snarl we're in! wasn't h     a  ths ow le     and   wood
Here we be mixed tip with guns, pistils, burn?   Well, that's jest like a man! I won-
swords, and bagonets, losses and riders der the wheels o' time don't roll 'em all away,
margin', and fighting , and cutting , and worry- they've got so little judgment. What a rag it
in, carnage and bloodshed, burnin' huts, is! This 'counts, child, for your coma' out
houenandbars, estucton  ' popetywith a whole skin. It saved that doll-face and
house, and barns, destruction property, neck, and them, baby white hands. But I'll
love, and liberty.".                      nca     'ht'rtetiot:t'lsw
F" Jes so, Goody Grindle-jes so," said the pin it on right over the petticoath:it'- show
swordmaker, from whose features all traces of what his rank is-which is sometin'-if he
emotion had vanished. "1As I've-said afore, should be taken prisoner.said Hirl, "1it's'ma-
if I's on'y younger, and had less responsibil-  '  ' iGoy     aide,  it'  'a-
ity iy ry shuldes  "zin' eur'ous, Goody Grindle, that' a handy
Call things by their right names, Mr. body like you never got married. Seems to
What's-your-name ; for there a'n't an artom me you could fell afoul of somebody that would
o' sense in calling a hump a responsibility," had ye."
interrupted Goody Grindle, sharply.         Marry come up! that I could ; and they
"Donit make sport of my infarmity," piped hadn't Christmas pudding's on their backs, nel-
Hiirl. "Natur' put it there, and I've got to there poor man can't help it, aunt," sug-
bear it."                           t       ge   poor mnd.
"If Natur' put it there, I must say, that gested Miss Redmond.

Y

f

t
4  , .
+ rI

d  1
t
r
{-
t"
SsSS ;)
!  IAWs
Sp       '
{ ~3
t
,rv

. "  A  , 1       _N . ,}n.aaw ... w.   .w++ atM .'% 'WRt1:.r(.,VTLM1MRwC                   M f^M.JlDT9V4h'R'Y.tT W1sM. .n'+.1 .%. ..Y,  .+        ."N         "   n4   ..v  . "  ""_ .v ,  ".

1 T-T:


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE,

0

" I didn't say be could, chit! But he could
have it amputated. I'd have my revenge
on't, I'll warrant, if I had it. I'd set the sar-
geons at it, slap dab."
' "It involves the spinal column, aunt," said
Miss Redmond.
"1Who keers for the spiral column ! I
don't. It's Tarleton's columns that I'm afeerd
of. Poor Judith! I'm worried e'enamost to
death about her."
"Judith ?" repeated Somerton, inappre-
hensively.
" Goodness, Miriam! here's more'n forty
holes in the back of your gown. Stand up,
and let me pull it into shape. Odds my life !
how cur'ous! Here's a 1,ttle strip round the
waist as fresh as when it dome out the draw-
er !"
Miss Redmond blushed ; Somerton's arm
had puduced that phenomenon.
"Miriam !" echoed the colonel ; "Miriam !"
"What ails the mau that he keeps repeatin'
things like a Igrrot?  Lord, niece! why do
you tremble so ?"
"I tried to tell you," stammered Miss Red-
mond, greatly agitated-" I attempted to in-
fori you that I was not Judith, but Miriam."
"NotJudith, but Miriam!" echoed' Somer-
ton, dubiously. Then a joyful light broke
.over his countenance.
"-Forgive me! oh, forgive me !  Before
Heaven, I meant not to deceive !" protested
Miriam, hiding her face.
" The deception," ans-vered Somerton, " was
my own. Forgive you? Angels do not sin."
" There isn't an angel in the thirteen colo-
nies !" affirmed Goody Grindle.
" I must differ with you, madam," replied
Somerton.
"How ludickerous to stan' talkin of angels
in a woman's flannel petticoat ! Neither of
my nieces are angels, and they won't be, in a
hurry-though I've seen worse-lookin' gals.
She'd got her wings scorched to-iight if she
had been, Miriam would. They do look mon-
strously 'like ; and if I's a man, I'd lief make
love to one of 'em as 'tother. Much as I can
do to tell 'em apart. It's the fortinest thing
in the world that this one squints a little. I
should be bothered to death to 'stinguish 'em
if she didn't." .h
" Squint, aunt!'*
Miriam looked at Goody Grindle with some-
thing like consternation.
"I haven't observed anything of the kind,"
remarked Somerton.
"Noticed it the fust time I seen her. The
gal's eyes are a good 'eal,out o' plumb-some-
times," corroborated Hirl.
"-Go 'long, you old camef" retorted Dame
Grindl'e. "Child ! child ! vhat makes you
tremble?  What is the matter?    Colonel
Somerton, what have you done to my niece?"

" I have done what mortal man may be
pardoned for doing," he answered, with a
warmth and earnestness that appeared quite
uncalled for to the practical aunt.
" I fear," said Miriam, " that I have forfeit-
ed your esteem." She looked timidly into
his face.
" Pardon me, dame," replied Somerton ;
and, stooping, whispered in Miss Redmond's
ear :
" I swear to you it is the happiest mistake
of my life ! Be assured-be calm. Judith is,
perhaps, beyond my reach; but you, you I-
may hope for. God has not left me to de-
spair.
"There !" said Betsey Grindle, dryly, "I
can understand the phenomeny of the gown
not bein' burnt around the waist !"
CHAPTER XIX.
DEB HADLEY'S CABIN.
We return to Judith, whose sudden and
continued absence had created the greatest
alarm and anxiety among her friends, who
hailed her return with joy- after she had
been escorted by the swordmakcr within a'
short distance of the house.
In answer to the hurried questioning of
her father and aunt, she said that she had
been to 'Somerton's camp; to carry a few ar-
ticles of clothing which Miss Grindle had pre-
pared for the use of the soldiers ; and her ab-
sence would scarce have been remarked had
she not unfortunately become lost in the Pine
Forest, where she passed a night of perplexi-
ty and terror, from which she had, been re-
lieved by the friendly interposition of Hirl,
the Hunchback. She did not of course refer
to Deering ; and therefore, the real design of
her visit remained a secret, as well as the dis-
guise she had assumed. The times were so
fraught with adventure, so crowded with stir-
ring events, that the members of her house-
hold found little time to rebuke her rashness,
or talk of the risk she had incurred. In those
days, stagnation was unknown, and incident
followed incident in rapid succession; and
while Judith was yet engaged in relating such
portions of her mishap as she thought pru-
dent, it was announced by the frightened
slaves that there was trouble in the cypresses.
This, startling as it was, proved a present re-
lief to Judith ; for each hurried, as 'by one
impulse,-to'-positions from which they could
best observe the conflict. Then came Somer-
ton to make a new diversion, and put the phi-
lanthropic fingers of Aunt Grindle to active
service. That officer, having sank into a
slumber, as duly mentioned in the order in
which these events occurred, Judith availed
herself of the temporary lull of indoor ex-
citement, to seek that rest which her weary
and worn condition rendered imperative, while

t~i
0I
0
to

64

i,
t
t
5
3
j
i
Iz
I
i
7
'i
1l

S    {}  . 3
"niy's                  K,.j.h

t
".                         -
_
r

r!
S
r
ri
S

-      :1

I    ..- I - - _

9


I                                                                                                      . -v Y

rr

I
1   +Ts
x  r

her sister, Miriam, was left to watch at the
bedside of Somerton.
The din of battle aroused Judith, banished
the idea of further repose, and caused her to
hurry with the other members of the family
to learn the reason of this new and more thrill-
ing interruption. Soon the huts and barns
began to burn ; and she beheld the same
startling spectacle of warring horsemen and
flashing steel that Somerton and his fair
guardian witnessed from the window. Judith
and Goody Grindle were standing upon the
lawn at the left wing of the mansion, when
the attack was made upon Giles and his hand-
ful of dragoons. She was clinging to that
decisive lady, watching with filial interest the
emotions of her father, who, mounted upon a
fine horse, had joined the sergeant, with such
of his slaves as he believed would be of use,
when she was unexpectedly seized by rough
hands, and with Dame Grindle and Meg, hur-
ried to a distance from the house. When the
dragoons began to fall back upon the wood,
-and the scale of battle seemed no longer doubt-
ful, Dame Grindle was released, with many
jests and much merriment at her expense ;
for she had acquired such a habit of talking,
that nothing under heaven but a complete ex-
tinction of her being could stop her, when
fully launched upon the sounding sea of lo-
quacity. Judith and Meg remained with their
captors ; and presently the former saw, with
inexpressible sorrow, the flames curling from
the roof of the paternal ngansion. She thought
of her sister and Somerton, and begged the
ruffians around her to go to their rescue, who
heard her appeals with the utmost insensibil-
ity. While she was making these useless en-
treaties, a man in the uniform of a British of-
fieer approached. It was Christian Hadley,
that to'y-leader, whose name was at that time
held i} universal dread and execration by the
friends of freedom.
Judith knew him.; they had met before, and
parted with anger on his side, disgust and ab-
horrence on hers. He had paid suit to her in
his rough fashion, before he had become so
stained with crime and blackened with vil-
lainy. More than once in the past had he
placed himself in her path, and added terror
to repugnance. Of late, they had not met,
for he had been busy in making himself infa-
mous to all posterity ; while she had seldom
ventured from the paternal roof. As the war
rolled nearer, and finally encircled them, her
fears of Christian Hadley had grown stronger,
and secretly she had long expected a visit
from him at the head of his marauders. The
moment of vengeance and triumph had ar-
rived. The grim partisan stood before her,
not to sue but to command.
Judith saw exultation in his eyes, and knew
too much of his character to attempt to move

,. Y4,

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

f

67

him. She fixed her regards upon the burn-
ing house, and affected not to notice him, al-
though she was trembling at his presence.
" Well, Miss Juditi, what do you think of
this?" he asked, with a sneer. She gave him
a haughty, indignant glance--a mute answer
that annoyed him more than words.
" You see the fate of rebellion and rebels,"
he added. "I told you long ago that it would
come to- this, but you spurned the prophecy.
If you'd ,taken my advice, you wouldn't be-
hold to-siight your home in flames, and your
household-scattered."
"Infamous !" murmured Judith.    -
"Infamous ! 'tis mighty well, Miss Red-
mond ! Your pride and scorn become you ;
but both will be humbled.P
" Whatever rigor or cruelty you may offer,
I beg of you not to speak, but to spare me
the sound of a voice that is hateful to me.
To see you and to- hear you, are two misfor-
tunes from which I pray Heaven to deliver
me."
" I am a British officer, Judith Redmond,
and have the king's commission in my pock-
et," returned Hadley, pompously.
"Say, rather, that you are a traitor, a rene-
gade, a marauder, a swamp-robber-anything
but a true and honest man!" cried Judith,
with a warmth of indignation that proved how
deeply she felt the truthfulness of what she
uttered.
" Traitor, renegade, marauder, robber !"
repeated Hadley, with a frowning brow.
"The terms are too mild ; they fall in-
finitely below my meaning," added Judith.
" If I am such-a monster, you have reason
to expect but little mercy from me," said
Hadley, with a menacing look.
" I anticipate from you all that is unmanly,
dishonorable, and evil, if God does not deliver
me from your hands."
" You shall not be disappointed in your
anticipations. I swear it!" replied the cap-
tain, his face reddening with anger.
" I have not tried to excite your compas-
sion, for I know how vain and hopeless would
beo the attempt. I put my trust in One strong-
er than thou. To Him will I make my prayer
and not to thee," answered Judith, impressive-
ly.
" I will not keep you long in suspense.
Men, put her upon a horse. Two of you
mount and attend me."
Miss Redmond, seeing the futility of resist-
ance, allowed herself to be placed passively
upon horseback. She was then escorted from
the scene of the late events by the captain
and two of his fellows-a proceeding much
against her wishes. Meg was taken up behind
one of the men. - Fear had thus far kept her
silent ; but now, finding her tongue, she began
to bewail her fate bitterly.

I

4

7

ii,

r.,

s

__
. w..
..i+f+ +sr rim-- -     -  ' wa._ -            ..m      ,.    .         ,  .


OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

68

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

'1
1
't
Y .
1ri

f '
f          45
fJ

" We's jes' the same as dead, missus ; el'ar
done killed and murdered by dese yer n
'count tories !" she- said, turning a piteous
face upon her mistress, who made a feeble at
tempt to console her.
" No use to talk dat ar' way, Miss Judith
for dar ain't no sense in it. Dem yer wheels
o' time dat Miss Bessy talk 'bout so much, is
jes' turning' round mighty fast. It wouldn't
s'prise inc an artom, if we's clods of de valle3
afore de risin' of de blessed sun. Jest t'in
o' dat ! An' we's so young, too, and might
live so many years, if they'd on'y let us be!'
The tory behind whom she was seated, per-
ceiving her state of mind, took pleasure in
increasing her terrors during the remainder of
the nocturnal ride, by various appalling threats
and ingenious artifices. This journey lasted
about an hour, and wound eccentrically
through the Pine Woods by a narrow path,
at the expiration of which time they arrived
at a log-cabin, through the crerices of- which
the glimmer of a fire could be seen. Hadley
threw himself from his horse, and knocked
loudly with the hilt of his sword ; which sum-
mons wasinstantly answered by IL woman's
voice within.
"Who are ye, and what do ye want ?  This
is a fine hour to come disturbin' a lone wo-
man, who is neutral to both parties and hasn't
nobody to protect her, them as should be her
defenders bein' out o' the country, and gone
the Lord only knows where, for I don't, though
it's caused me oceans o' trouble and worri-
ment."
How much longer the woman would have
gone on, is pr blematical; for both lungs and
tongue seemed'in excellent order for running
a long time. Hadley interrupted her with :
" Come, come, old lady ! Hold up and be-
lay ; you're wasting a good deal o' breath, for
it is I that knock."
"Is it my son Christian ?" she demanded ;
and instantly there followed a rattling of bolts
and bars, and the door was opened.
Judith had felt somewhat encouraged when
she heard a female voice ; but when its pos-
sessor stood before her, her hope in one, of her
own sex receivegl a shock. Mrs. Hadley was
not a model of feminine beauty, -being of a
large and masculine frame, with an abundance
of bone and muscle,- prominent cheeks, a large
nose, gray eyes, eyebrows, and hair, and a
mouth of unusual calibre, rendered less at-
tractive by the lobs of most of her teeth. The
united expression of the various features of
her face was coarse, -shrewish, and deter-
mined.            -
Her garment      eique and striking in
their comb action. Ove a red-flannel' petti-
coat andt e remnant of awaist,nhe wore a
nwin's coat uttoned close to the throat, which
gave her a decidedly stiff and military air,

.&amp;:-- raf  ,  T ''   ".i - . ",4 ..  -^ iej. iz°   "w'V"ti

69

*1

r This incongruous article of dress was black,
o contrasting pretty strongly with the red pet-
s ticoat below, and the gray, stumpy hair above.
- She held in her right hand a stout oaken stick,
for defence or aggression.
,   " Well, -son Christian, what do you want,
a and what do you bring with Tou'?" she asked.
s   " What have I brought, mother Hadley?
t My sweetheart, old woman !" said the captain,
with filial familiarity.
' "Which one is it ?" quoth Mrs. Hadley,
t elevating her eyebrows, and squinting first at
Judith than at Meg. " Is it the yaller or the
white ?"
" This hop-o'-my-thumb little woman is the
f one,; but I warn you that you won't find her
the most 'tractable body in the world. She's
handsome and proud, and hates me, I flatter
myself, as cordially as a young lady ever hat-
ed her future husband," replied the captain,
I making a bearish attempt at playfuhiess.
" Hoity-toity !" exclaimed Mother Hadley,
placing her aims akimbo, and looking sharply
I at her prospective daughter-in-law. " Hate
my son Christian? How dare a gal hate my
son Christian ? How smart he looks in his
new regimentals ! A reg'lar officer, too, in
the British Armv., - Tote her in !"
Judith, who had'dismounted, was now cob-
ducted into the cabin, tremblin 'with fear.
"You are a woman," she E id. addressing
Mrs. Hadley, " and I throw myself upon your
protection. Shield me from hese wretches,
and heaven will' reward you for your kind-
ness."
" Wretches? That's what I call a sharp
beginning, I vow ! Wretches, indeed! Debo-
rah Hadley don't have no wretches about her
primises. Lord, Chris ! what did you bring
sich a baggage as this here for? I'll die if
'tisn't one o' Squire Redmond's darters ; and
the' Redmonds are the rankest rebels in the
country. Now, no son o' mine shall marry a
rebel !"
"It's no use talkin', mother ; I took a shine1
to lher long ago, and my mind hasn't been set-'
tIed and happy since. I know that she scorns
me, but I can't help it ; the more she disdains
me, the more I'm fascinated. If I ha e her
when mn, temper is up, I love her again when
g     own," answered Iaaley, moodily.
" What a simpleton'!" muttered Mother, Deb.
"And he stands six feet two inches in his rigi-
mentals; and a prope' lad to look at-with'
his red coat, and sword, and gold shoulder-
knots! What gal, that isn't a r bel, could say
No' to my son, Christian, with his sword, and
red coat, and gold .shoulderiknots, and his
commission in his pocket?"
Whilemaking these remarks, Mother Deb
was 'surveying Judith in a very critical and
determined rhanner, and with a face sharper
in its expression than the captain's sword.

"I beg of you to teach your son-if your I ful. That his fechgs were interested in Ju-
son he really be-that maidens do not marry dith, was obvious. That he loved her truly.
on compulsion, and cannot be forced to ac- was another thing that by no means followed,
cept husbands obnoxious in every respect-  He had, to use his own phraseology, "set his
much less one whose hands are stained with mind on her," and desired her more than any
blood, who wars upon the country that gave other object. Resistance and disdain had in-
him birth, and whose crimes are odious to creased his passion, adding to it an angry and
mankind."                                 resentful vehemence strangely and paradoxi-
Mother Deb was extremely shocked and ex- ally spiced with a wish to humble and con-
'      asperated at this rebellious 'disposition, and it quer her.  If we can imagine a man both lov-
was some moments before she could give ut- ing and hating, at the same time, the tory par-
terance to her feelings.                  tisan would approach nearest to that character.
"This before my face !" ,she screamed.    His maeuhine mother watched him with
" This to my son Christian, with his red coat the eagerness of a tiger anxious for the safety
and his long sword, his gold shoulder-knots of her whelp. She was watching the symp-
and brave cap ! Well, it does seem as if them toms of his disease, in order to find the best
that turn their back agin the king was give method of cure.
over 'to all manner o' wickedn'ess. Trust her  "I knew her when she was a little girl,"
to me. I'll take the starch out of her."   said Christian, in the tone of one commencing
In the abundance of her wrath, Mrs. ILd- a touching Jeremiad.   She was the best-
ley caught Judith by the arm and shook her. lookin' in the whole country, and her manners
This indignity had the effect to arouse Meg were different from others of her age. I fixed
from her imbecile stupor of fear.          my mind on her then, and it hasn't changed
"Come! none o' dat yer !" she cried, brist- since."
ling up to the virago. " Don't spect to make  He paused before Judith, with an expres-
her lub dat no 'count cretur in dat way, does sion dark and sinister. He frowned on her,
ye? Better mind what ye 'bout ; for Mas'r as one might frown oh an enemy.
Rednon'-'ll hear o' your doin's, and cut ye up  "I remember, girl," he said, "your scorn
right smart."                              of me."
Mrs. Hadley made a pass at Meg with her    " My son Christian," interposed Mrs. Had-
stick, which she fortunately dodged ; we' say ley, "in his royal red, and his commission in
fortunately, because; had it taken effect, it his pocket, should bear no gal's scorn."
would have produced, no doubt, a serious     " Mother," answered  Christian, sternly,
fracture of the skull.                     "you don't know what it is to be bewitched
Judith, never having found herself in a like by a woman-to hate and to love her at the
situation, was at a loss what to say or do. same time."
The events of the last twenty-four hours had  "Fudge and fnstian!" retorted the practi-
followed each other so rapidly, that she was cal Mrs. Hadley. " You're gal-struck, that's
quite bewildered and pushed from her mental sartin. When love goes into a lad's head,
equilibrium. She was the subject of much   sense goes out. How different I'd act if I's a
dread and terror, but coutl not clearly realize man ! If a young woman didn't take a no-
the new cordon of circumstances that hid sud- tion to me, I'd jest hold up my head-and say
denly closed around her. She was aware that I wasn't in irnest, and hope she wouldn't be
she was in the power of a villain, whose de- sich a fool as to think I was. That's the way
sires were too well seconded by a masculine to sarvo 'em! But here you are, whini' like
and unscrupulous woman.    A part of the a dog with his ears fresh cropped, and all for
time her mind was in such a state of chaos, the love of Squire Redm and's darter."
that she could scarcely decide whether she   " I thank you! Speak for me-speak for
were sleeping or waking-'twas all so strange, me, good woman," said Judith.
so sudden, so fraught with dreadful conse-   "I am not the good woman! The good
quences. Two things she desired most sin- woman lives opposite!" retorted Mother Deb,
cerely : to be relieved of the presence of Had- bridling. "Look at me, you proud minx ."
ley, and to rest, to, give her mind time to re- Judith mechanically obeyed, while the vira-
gain its tone.                            go drew herself up with the dignity of a mii-
tary hero.
CHAPTNR XX.                     " A'n't I a proper-made woman, with a
DAME HADLEY AND BLACK JAFFER.        proper face and a proper form, and commen-
Captain Christian Hadley, of the Royal sense lto match?   What do you want of a
America.s (for by this high-sounding title he better mother-in-law than I am ? Yotn might
affected to call his band o'f marauders), 'paced s'arch the whole thirteen Colonies, and not
up ands down the cabin some moments, with find another sich."
steps too unsteady td be strictly military,  " De good Lor' knows it !" n uttere l Meg,
pondering the subject of his misplaced love, keeping her eyes watchfully on the stlck.
and study ng new tactics to make it success-  " These walls are mine, and this ruff over

-in

"                           A     -

ien'.wr+w;wawrsa sae. iu+nrr ax.++.d'i..i.Glnnno..ews, +w .  ,. ". ,._

l
: 1

r

1i

I

1   }
!1
t
f
I 1 t
i              -
1
LU'
ty
,E
r3 ,
V1
I f
1                    tw
}         1
I        }
}
y                          f          .
l  s
t
H
i
a
E
F
__
-      r.er'

Stet
.  x
r1
L  .
tit,"
1

_7x                                                               J.-                                                                                 1,

,, . -         --A.- --- - ---' -  ,        - . J'r -  - .  _-  -          i                                                    I

s
_ ^


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

your head, and the little clearin' outside, and I " There ! that puts life into me. There's
all that pertains to the primises ; and here nothing like liquor to give a man pluck when
you shall stay as long as my son Christian there's mischief to be done. I always drink
wants ye to stay, and is so miserable about ye. when I go to fight the rebels, or to rob their
A soger and a great man is Christian ; and he stables, burn their houses, or to use rope and
wears the royal red, and he fights the battles steel. I hate the Redmonds, father and aunt,
of the king with the Royal Americans. Think kith and kin, all but Judith ; and sometimes
of the honor, gal! Think what it is to be the I hate her. The e have been high t mss to-
wife of an officer, with knots on his shoulders night, mother. Tarleton has cut up -'mcr-
and a long sword by his side, with a troop of ton's dragoons ; Rednond's plantation is in
jolly boys to march arter him, to tramp hither a blaze ; Somerton isdd, and Rainford has
and thither, to ride to and fro, and do his retreated to the Pine Woods ; to-morrow he
biddin', though the wind blow high, though  will be-hunted down. Then comes klarion's
the wind blow low."                      turn, and the Carolinas will be swept lcar of
Judith could not refrain from gazing at this rebellion. You may hang the ro) al banner
singular woman, with newly-awakened curiosi- on your cabin, and no hand will dare rt move
ty, her incongruous garb, her air, her atti- it. All things shall h'e our own way. We,
tude, and her original manner of speaking, all who are branded murderers and renegades,
struck her as being unique and wonderful. will become the first in the land. We' shall
She began to study how she should manage be no longer infamous, but be exalted to the
such a creature in a way to subserve her own places of rulers, magistrates, and military
safety, but with very unsatisfactory results. heroes."
The woman was an anomaly. She was famous   Hadley now walked rapidly, much excited
among the tories of that section, to whom her by the picture he had drawn.
cabin was at all times open for shelter, and "My son Christian," murmured Mrs. Had-
who had dubbed her " Captain Deb."       ley, "with his rol al red, his long su ord, his
" Hoorah for Cap'n Deb !" cried one of the gold shoulder-knots, and his commission in
horsemen, who had escorted Judith.      his pocket! Lord ! what a proper lad."
"Them is sentiments !" affirmed his com-  " Keep her, mother, till I come back. If
rade, with strong' admiration.           you let her go, you'll never see me again, with
Judith resolved to be artful.          my' sword, and coat, and shoulder-knots.
. "We must become acquainted," she an- Bring her round, if you can."     -
swered, with more amenity. " What you say  "I'll bring her round whether she will or
ought to be reflected upon. You are a woman no, for the sake of my son, Christian !" pro-
of too much sense to wish me to do anything tested Mother Dcb. "It's my opinion that if
in a hurry. This is a subject to be considered she's bewitched ye, and you can't get over it,
between us, alone. I should not be worthy that you'd better bring a parson and have the
to fill the place you propose, if I acted with knot tied, will she, nill she. The country and
undue haste. I am fatigued, dispirited, and all it holds is ois. The rebils is flyin', and
suffering from the effects of excitement. Let the royal standards push on and on, and who
me retire, and seek that repose which my is king but Get rgie ? Time will reconcile
condition so much requires." .           her. I know uhat gals is; was a gal myself
"Squire Redmond's darter, you're a hypo- once ; but that was afore I married your f th.
rite ! I can see hypocrisy inyour eyes. You er. They take on at fust at a disapp'intmcnt,
may deceive common people ; but you can't like, a child that's lost a sugar-plum; but
'possum Cap'n Deb, with her black-frock .but- presently they come out bright as a hum-
toned up afore, and the red-petticoat hangin' min'-bird. You want her; and what my son
down aneath. I've got one thing, mistress, Christian wantslie must have."
and you'll find it out ; and that's 'cuteness."  "I thank you! I thank you !" Now I know
Mrs. Hadley snapped her thumb and finger, that you love'me !" cried Christian, eagerly.
and looked at Judith as playfully as a cat at a " You have anticipated my purpose: it is for
mouse.                                   a pratin' parson that I am goin'. I despise
"Mother," said Christian, morosely, " I've the whole brotherhood ; but I'll have one be-
made up my mind what to do ; both love and cause it's the custom. But what odds-what
revenge urge me to it. I'd do different if I odds ?  Have I not slain men in battle, and in'
could, but can't. A cursed spell is on me-a midnight forays?  Taking a wife by force is
power I cannot break urges me onward. I not murder. You want these lads, mother ?"
know not whether 'tis passion, or pride, or the  He pointed to his companions.
devil ; and, perhaps, it don't matter."    " Want 'em ?  Cap'n Deb want two sogers
The captain stopped abruptly, and demand- to help her keep a slip of a gal that don't
ed a glass of rum and water, which Mother weigh over a hundred pcund, nor stan' over
Hadley hastened to give him. He drank a five feet and an inch in her high-heeled shoes !
frightful quantity, casting the vessel upon the Away, lad, away, and let your two boys toddle
floor when he had drained it.            arter ye."

.
{'
3
1

"Yes, mother," said the partisan, and
looked wishfully at Judith, who was bearing
this scene with what philosophy she could.
Possibly he felt a faint hope that she would
say something encouraging. If he did, he
was disappointed ; for she remained silent
and unobservant of him. His face was first
mournful, then angry ; he stalked from the
house with an oath, followed by his two at-
tendants. Judith heard them mount their
horses and gallop away. She was glad ; the
sound of their departing steps gave her inex-
pressible relief. She was left with one of her
own sex, and to her ingenuous and hopeful
disposition, it seemed impossible that she
could not melt Mother Hadley's harshness.
Time was worth too much to waste, and she
assailed the woman's better nature at once
with every moving argument that she could
think of; but she was made of sterner'stuff
than she had imagined, and her eloquent ap-
peals fell fruitless on the flinty substance of
her heart. She grew irate, at length, and
showing her a couch, peremptorily ordered
her to bed and to sleep.
- The log cabin was a common affair in those
days, and made a very comfortable home for
the early settlers. Mother Hadley's was di-
vided into two compartments ; one for sleep,
the other for all the ordinary purposes of life.
" Go in, gal-go in I" said Captain Deb, de-
cisively, pointing to the door of the first-men-
tioned room. " Go in, and #ream of bein' a
lady and the wife of my son, Christian, with
his royal red, and his long sword, with plan-
tations and slaves, and the confidence of the
king."
There was no help for Judith. The wo-
man's strength and determination overcame
her weakness and weariness. She and Meg
were pushed into the narrow room. It had
not even a window to admit the light of the
sun, or of the moon and stars. Tle slender
tallow candle which Mrs. Hadley left them
burned dimly, making dark and fluctuating
shadows on the walls.
Meg and Judith seated themselves upon
the bed, and looked at each other inquiringly
"We's done gone lost," said the former en
couragingly. "The Continental boys is whip-
ped,\the red-coats hab got de whole world, de
plantation is burned up, Mas'r Redmon' i
gone de Lor' on'y knows where, Missy Mirian
and de colonel am cl'av perished, and de Lib
erty am jes' nowhere 1"
Judith did not answer the lanentations o
Meg, 'simply because she knew not what t
say. She allowed her to go ofl, and gathe
all their griefs into one mournful heap.
" Whar's de use talkin' 'bout freedom
We's got too much of it, I s'pect ; got d
freedom to wander all over de world 'thou
house an' home, or plantation, or niggers

freedom to hide in de'woods, and to skulk
'bout like no 'count runaways. Don't want
nebber to hear no more 'bout the sentimental
congress, Mas'r Washin'ton, and de spread
eagle. Lor! Miss Jjidith, jes' give me a good
house to live in, an' plenty to eat and drink,
an' a squantity o' good clothes to wear, and I
doesn't keer for all de liberty ye could crowd
into Carliny."
Meg rocked herself to and fro on the bed,
and grieved over the fallen fortunes of the
Redmonds.
" Where's de hominy and de cornnkea?
where's de bacon and de egg? where's dd
singin' and de fiddlin' at night on de old
plantation? Who'll take keer o' de corn, do
cotton, de sugar-cane, and grow de indigo?
Dear ! dear ! de world's jes' come to an end,
an' we's poor critters, de best on us. Dey
say King George heself is comit' 'cross de
water to settle in de Carliny State. Golly,
missus ! Won't he cut up de libertymen !
He rides in his carriage an' four, the king
does, with a crown o' gold on his head, and a
power o' money. Better gib up, missus, an
turn tory wid de rest of 'em. I'm done gone
an' made up my mind to be a Britisher."
The door was heard to open in the other
part of the cabin.
" Be quiet,"said Judith. Both put their
eyes to a crevice to see who came, and both
were shocked at the sight of Jaffer, the run-
away, on the threshold. Captain Deb con-
fronted him with her oaken staff, erect and
stern. Clearly, his looks did not please her.
He was laboring under strong excitement, un-
armed, apparently, but sufficiently terrible
in his half-nakedness.
The two looked at each other a moment in
silence, as if each were trying to. discover the
1 vulnerable points of the other.
" What sent ye'?" demanded Captain' Deb.
" And why do ye open doors and come in
'thout knockin', like a prowling' thief of the
night?"
Jaffer cast a sullen, half-menacing glance
at Mother Hadley, shut the door, and slipped
the large wooden bolt into its place. His
person was now fully revealed, and formed as
- unpleasant a picture as the, eye could well
e rest upon. There were wounds and scratches
s on his hands, arnms, and face, which added
n much to the grimness of his aspect. Mrs.
- Hadley maintained her ground, but held her
staff more firmly.
f " Are you a dumb devil.?" she added, sharp-
o ly. " Has your thick tongue forgotten hu--
r man speech ?"
"She's here ; Cap'n Chris brought her."
?   He looked eagerly aboutthe room.
e   "Who's here, thick-head !" asked the wo-
it man, fearlessly.
;   "The gal - Mas'r Redmon's gal-Judy!

t                           __.-

70

,;:

;A

71

L1
(i
I)jl
V ,
I

- J4      F'

Yrz

-  77 71

willi6w, J ,

i


-ir

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE:

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

'Tother one's burnt up," replied*the negro, in
a muttering, jerking voice.
" There's no' Judy' here ; not for you, least-
wise. So if that's the arrand you come on,
you can turn and go back, and say Deb Had-
ley sent ye."
" Seed the cap'n take her from de planta-
tion. -Black Jaffer follered-tracked him like
a dog--run like a wolf with his nose to de
groun'. Cap'n stop here--leave Judy-go
way."
Jaffer glowered ferociously at Mrs. Hadley.
" What have you to do with my son Chris-
tian, with his sword, and his shoulder-knots,
.and his royal red? What have you to do
-with white natur, any way, white female natur
in partie'lar ? Out o' my cabin ! out into the
night, which is your own brother, and'into the
.swamp, which is your habitation.''
"Th er ! in yer !" growled Jaffer, pointing
to the door, the other side of which stood Ju-
dith and Meg, trembling with apprehension.
Mrs. Hadley promptly placed herself be-
tween the black and the point indicated by
his sooty finger.
" She's fbr my son Christian, and you'll
pass over my body to git her. I know your
malice, that you hate the Redmonds, and have
.sworn vengeance on the whole family; but
you'll do no murderin' and devil's-work here.
I'm Deb Hadley, and if you harm me, my son
Christian will hang ye higher than the seven
stars."
Imagine the sensations of Judith and Meg !
This danger crowned all the terrors of the,
night. They trusted in the prowess of the
brave woman, who was manifestly disposed to
resist the ruffian to the last.
The black stared at his antagonist a full
minute without moving a muscle of his great
body ; then chuckled, and looked inquisitively
around the room, as if in search of something.
His eyes stopped on a stout piece of rope
trailing from a peg near the door. Nearly
.over his head where he was standing, was a
strong iron hook, with a leg of venison sus-
pended' upon it, which he detached and flung
upon the floor. Seizing the rope, he made
one end fast to the hook, and formed a run-
ning noose of the other., His expression dur-;
ing this time was indescribably sinister, and
his sidelong glances at the woman were full of
evil.
"What now, Satan ?"
"He, heI ho, ho ! hangin' is the thing.I
Glad ye mentioned dis ver !"
"You're drunk, beast:!" retorted Mrs. Had-I
-ley, who felt uneasy, but was careful not toi
exhibit signs of shrinking.E
-" You's seen rebels hung, ole woman; good
for dem-good for you, too. He, he ! Jafferi
'hang Cap'n Deb, an' live here hisself !"

His nostrils dilated, and his eyes rolled in
his head with frightful glee.
"You're a fool !" said Mrs. Hadley. "You
can't hang a person there; the rope is too
long. Put a woman of my size in that noose,
and her feet would touch the floor."
" Come along," growled Jaffer, ." or I'll
throw ye on the fire and burn ye ! tie easy
this yer way ; hard t'other."
This, to him, novel way of hanging Mother
Hadley having once entered 'his head, grew
every moment stronger. No power could
have persuaded him to abandon his purpose.
He felt a phrenzied delight in the perspective
struggles of the woman who presumed to op-
pose his despotic will. That he could carry
out his diabolical design without a sharp con-
test, did not appear possible ; but that was an
item that the black had evidently felt no anxi-
ty about. He trusted to his great physical
strength, and the terror he could inspire by
menaces.
Daipe Hadley had been quietly studying
the human animal, and laying plans in agree-
ment with her conclusions. She saw his mus-
cles quivering with strength and impatience,
and knew that the crisis could not be long de-
layed. She thought of her son, Christian,
and listened anxiously to hear the- tramp of
his horse. To attempt to reason with the
being before her, she knew u as out of the
question.
" You may strangle me, Jaffer; yet, I won't
give up the gal that my son, Christian, told mc
to keep. But I never was hanged in my life,
and I don't know how to be no more 'n a child.
I've give you shelter many a time, and food
to eat when you's well-nigh famished ;' and I
hope you won't be cruel, with an old body
that never harmed ye. There's a drop o'
good liquor in that keg there ; take a sip on't,
and maybe it'll warm and soften your heart."
Jaffer caught the vessel, drained "it, and
hurled it through .the only window the cabin
possessed.
"Now for it, ole woman !" he shouted, put-
ting on all the ferocity of his repulsive fea-
tures.
"Not a bit on't, till you shorten the rope,
and tell me how it's done. If I've got to go,
I don't want to make a botch on't."
Jaffer wound a portion of the rope around
the hook, and pushed a chair under it.
" This way, you witch ! this way ! He, he !
ho, ho !"
He stepped into the chair, thrust his curly
head through the noose, and glared with fiend-
ish exultation at Mother Hadley. The chair
sank from under him; there was a creak and
a crash, and Jaffer hung suspended by the
neck.
Mrs. Hadley had touched a secret spring,

and a trap-door had fallen downward into a
cellar beneath the cabin. le was heavy, and
a sudden descent of three feet gave him a ter-
rific shock, confused his faculties, and drew
the cord chokingly tight. He quivered an in-
stant, clutched at the rope, and tried to gather
his limbs up to obtain a. footing upon the
floor; but, as often as he touched it, Captain
Deb pushed him back with her staff. He
lifted his body with his hands, and begged
piteously for relief.
"0 Lord, misses! 0 Lord! I's only fun-
nin'! Le' mai down-le' me down, an' I'll
go right away, an' neber, neber come back!
) good Cap'n Deb ! 0 good Cap'n Deb!"
In -answer to this appeal, Mrs. Hadley be-
stowed such hearty thwacks upon his fingers
that they relaxed their hold, and his arms fell
convulsed at his side.
"'Funnin', was ye ? you black Satan! Well,
I'm .funnin' now. How do ye like it, ch ?
Hanging' is fine sport, isn't it?"
Jatfer roared, begged, and struggled. His
gigantic frame writhed and quivered 'fright-
fully.
J adth and Meg beheld the shocking spec-
tacle with awe and astonish ent. When, in
the agony of suffocation, h made attempts
to grasp the rope, the remorseless staff of Deb
Hadley beat down his arms.
Judith could scarcely command her emo-
tions, and turned from the sight dizzy and
faint. The gasping respiration of the black
finally ceased ; his breast' no longer heaved ;
his limbs subsided into quietness, and he hung,
without motion, a dark and revolting object.
CHAPTER XXI.
IN WmICII A MARRIAGE CEREMONY IS PERFoRMED.
" The race is not to the swift nor the battle
to the strong," moraligd Deborah Hadley, as
she surveyed the gigantic form of Jaffer.
" The brute had strength, but not the cunnin'
to match a woman. He was an idle, vicious.
prowlin' cur, as likely to shed royal as rebel
blood. Well, I've saved the hangman trouble
and done the country a sarvice. Heart alive !
how I tremble ! I haven't been so nigh my
cend in a long time. But I didn't give her
up ; no, I kept her for my son Christian.
'Twas white natur ag'in black natur, and the
white has carried the day. Well," she con-
tinued, looking at the remains of Jaffer, " the
creetur 'pears to be quite done for. The fool !
to try his wit ag'in Deb Hadley."
The clatter of iron-shod feet was heard.
" It's my son Christian !" said the old wo-
man. "If he has ridden far, he has ridden
fast. This won't be a pooty sight for him on
his weddin'-night, so I'll put it out o' the way."
She cut the rope with a knife, and the body
of Jaffn r fell heavily into the cellar.- She drew
up the door and fastened it. Why the trapI

was constructed in that peculiar manner, with
a stout hook over it, can only be guessed at.
If some of the dark - secrets of that period
could be told, conjecture would doubtless yield
to certainty, and the uses of that contrivance
would cease to be a mystery.
By the time Mrs. l1adley had concealed all
evidence of her work, her son entered the
cabin, followed by a man dressed in a suit of
shabby black, which appeared much too small
to fit his person, wluch was, rather tall and
athletic. His hat was in keeping with the
rest of his externals, showing 'signs of recent
brushing and smoothing. The frayed edges
of the brim seemed to have been polished
with blacking, to keep up its sombre respect-
ability. His neck-cloth was of white cotton,
and of remarkable width. His hair was long,
straight, nearly of flax color, and soberly put
away behind his ears. His whiskers, which
were rather sparse, were of the same hue, and
were noticeable because not generally worn
by clergymen at that time. His face was pale
and lugubriously solemn. Clearly, the man
thought the universal world was going to
wreck and ruin as fast as was conveniently
possible.
He carried a prayer-book in his hand, and
appeared ready for any emergency in the
legitimate way (f his profession. His gaze
wandered somewhat hurriedly around the
room, as soon as he found himself within it,
finally resting, with mild dignity, on Deborah
Hadley.
" Well, mother ?" said Christian.
" All safe an' snug, my soger-boy."
"Nothing has happened '" queried the cap-
tain, with hesitation.
" Much has happened, but the gal is thdre.
I'm sorry you haven't set your mind on a
willin' bride ; but what is, must needs be, and
what has happened, we must abide by," quoth
Mrs. Hadley.
" Verily, I am glad, sistEr Iladley, that thy
mind is so seasoned with grace," said the par-
son, "for resignation is one of the principal
virtues of a Christian. Sure-ly it is refresh-
ing to meet with one, in these degenerate
times, in whom the word is not the savior of
death into death, but of life unto life. I trust,
Mrs. Hadley-"
",My name is Deb Hadley, often an' 'toth-
erwise called Cap'n Deb ; and wry faces, and
highfalutin isn't the kind o' comfort that I
need."
. "Still, madam, I may entertain a hope that
the seed, in your case, has fallen on good
soil. and brought forth the peaceable fruits of
righteousness," lie continued, in an edifying
tone.
"As for fruit," said Debqrah Hadley,
" there's but little on't that's worth eatin' in
I the country. I did'raise a few crab-apples

"           r.            ,y  .  r.. r     '  l      e  , ,    $' T  ,.. '    :.: 4   ti-"sN;R,.F' --h ,""r~~, . T"  \4K  ." .'  ' '5
!              'KA1     a i  a ~ ~ - . .   a ,   . . .  . , . ~ ~ ~ v n ~ , , y i 6 r .   w . r . p w n - f: + ~ i g ~ e w V

,
.
ti
I    I
r
R
r
s
'}

ii

72

73

44{

I
442
x J~

A'

.
,
F
C
J1
.

1.
t.
13
-,r
r
i
kl
r.
r ti3  _
tt
jS
1
1

rt

*, !

iAo--

r  '
ti=

JIM,
1
y.
i
f      x.
r
X
I   y
_     -L b

i


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

*c  ~ i tIi
.   ift  _
9 t i   ,
13. 1

1

(                                                                 I
_                                                      I
PT-
Y                                                                                                                    y e
)'rc

74

one year, but they wasn't of no 'count. I'm abyss, and saw the body of Jaffer lying in a
a plain, matter-of-fact body, and flambergast- heap, as it had fallen. Both shivered.
ed speeches don't greatly affect me. What's  " Mother I you are a  iness !" said Christi-
your name, you solemn creetur ?"          an, in a subdued voice.
"There's but little in a name, as the poet  "For my son Christian, yes. You told me
says ; and ' a rose by any other name would to keep her, and I kepther. The brute thought
smell as sweet'; but if 'twill be for your spirit- to hang me; but I put my wit again his
ual delectation, I will inform you that my strength, and," she added, significantly point-
earthly and temporal appellation is Elijah ing downward with the long forefinger of her
Timothy Holdfast, by the grace of God and right hand, "there he is !"
my terrestrial primogenitors."             "A mere savage," said Christian, "though
" I can't speak none o'the Ingin languages, sometimes useful. I'm glad the scoundrel
but I pooty giner'ly know, what I want, and has got his deserts. It was an oversight not
what my son Christian wants ; which, at pres- leaving' a guard."
ent, is no more nor less nor a harmless chit of "The wretch " muttered Holdfast, with an
a gal to be his wife, to cook his victuals, and expression of disgust.
look arter his rigimentals. Dear goodness! "rWhat ar those steps outside ?" inquired
how your eyes wander about. You ha'n't got Deb.
no buddily ailments, have ye ?"             "Some of my dragoons that I ord-red to
"Woman," answered Elijah T. Holdfast, follow and keep watch at the door. I don't
"I am as one called at the eleventh hour to care to be surprised by prowoin' parties of
labor in the vineyard, and if I get my penny whigs. Come! let's hurry up what's to be
I shall be content."                      done."
" Hdrd money is dyin' scurce in the colonies  "Now has the trying moment arrived !"
jist now, and if you git paid off in it, you'll sighed Judith, who had been a trembling au-
do better nor the Continentalers, a pesky editor to this conversation.
sight ; although a penny for more nor half a  "oCome out," said Mother Hadley, opening
day's work is, to my mind, ruther slim wages. the door, "and don't be an obstinate little
Howsomever, your trad'e don't make no great fool. Here's my son Christian, with his com-
wear an' tear on coats and breeches ; yet I've mission in his pocket, and his sword and a
noticed more nor once that preachin' an' iray- parson by his side, ready to make you his
in' gives an excellent appetite."'        wife-an honor that many a gal would jump
"I'm  aware," replied Elijah, "that there at this night."
are those in orders among us who love the   "Spare me-spare m to-night!    I have
flesh-pots of Egypt, and think more of crea- seen So much that is dreadful that I am well
tu"e comforts than of the building up of ngh mad! Go, fearful woman, andI go you,
ZioP."g                             p     ng   ma.Goferuwoaadgyu,
Away"    w yChristian Hadley I" cried poor Judith, great-
Away with your flummery ! I'll hear no ly excited.
more on't I" cried Christian. Then to the   "Perverse- pervert e as ever !" said the
woman : "How is it, mother?    Have you captain, impatiently.
brought her round any ?  Is she more reon- c"Poor der !" said Meg, supporting and
cd"e embracing her mistress. " If they don't let
"I've held no discourse with her since you her alone, she's done killed. I never seed sich
went away, son Christian, havin' had other works as dis yer. 'Why, she's twitchin' all
matter to take up my time. That runaway over. Spasms, this is-cl'ar spasms "
beast, Jaffer has been here, full of revenge 1"Truly, the maiden is sorely distressed,"
and mischief, wanting' the gal."           observed the Rev. Mr. Holdfast, advancing to
"Did you  t her go ?" demanded Christian, Judith with some show of sympathy. "She
"rcy  cmupneeds a few words of comfort and counsel,
"Marry come up!scr Do    u think I'm a which it is my duty to give."
child, to be scared by thickips and a flat  "Leave me !-leave me !" said Judith, faint-
nose? No, no! I'd give the child to a wolf ly.'
sooner, or a black bear. I withstood him    "Young woman," replied the parson, grave-
face to face, and he threatened me with death. ly,  I came not for thy bodily or spiritual
We had a terrible time, he and I."-      harm, but to unite thee to one who will soon
"Where is he? I see no blood-no sign be great in the land, as lie is already mighty
of a struggle," answered Christian.       - war."
The woman took the candle from a table,   Judith sobbed hysterically, and clung to
sprang the trap-door, and getting upon her Meg.
knees, held the light so its rays streamed i-,  "Don't let them hurt me, Meg! Keep them
to the cellar.                            hacka!-ket them back I"
" Look!" said Deb Hadley, grimly.         "Meep tan' bk yl
Christian and the parson gazed into the dim  can't git her 'way from ye, 'less they cut off

r*-'

I

 6                     OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.
her arms. She'll hol' ye tight, and she 'll  "'Twas something to bring her round, I
die wAh ye, bress de Lor'! Go 'long, you dare say," answered Christian.
miser'ble creturs ! Don't ye see dis yer 'll  " She's fainted, I do believe," added his mo-
kill her ?" cried the mulatto girl, who was ther. " There 1 he's muttering' somethin' to
disposed to adhere faithfully to her mistress. the yeller gal. Come, parson ; a'n't you
" Retire a little, good friends, while I soothe ready ?"                        ,
and prepare her mind for what is to follow.  "She has swooned ; she cannot hear me,
Obviously, she is blinded by Satan so that he said, in a low voice.
she cannot clearly discern the signs of tle  " Perform the ceremony ! perform the cer-
times, nor appreciate the honor of this alli- emony 1" ordered the captain, peremptorily.
ance. We r, ad in Scripture of seven devils " It matters not whether she is sensible or in-
that possessed one woman ; let us hope th it sensible ; it's all the same to me. Mumble
in this case the number is less by at least a over the words,,man ! We can tell her what's
half."                                    happened, afterwards."
"'That will be three and a half-*vhich, in  "It's a sin and a shame !" protested Meg.
my 'pinion, is enough," observed Mother Had-  The parson, as he bent over Judith in an ap-
ley, dryly.                               parent attempt to resuscitate her, sad to Meg:
"That inimber I can exorcise and speedily  "Slip forward your arm under hers, and do
put down, according to the grace that is with- as I tell you."  Then turning to Hadley, he
in me."                                   added:
1 .se any exorcism you like, so it be short,"  "Approach and join hands."
replied Christian, falling back. " I must re-  Christian advanced ; a passive, unresisting
turn to my command in an hour ; and there, hand was laid in his, and a marriage ritual of
is, at least, a good thirty-minutes' gallop be- some kind was hurriedly pronounced.
tween me and the bivouac. Fall back, mo-    "You've got the maid's hand, and not the
ther, fall back, and let the solemn owl patter mistre-s !" said Dame Hadley, when the cere-
his nonsens , in her ears."               mony was completed.
'I have little love for his cloth," quoth  "I have, by -! But what's the odds, as
Mrs. Hadley, "and care not to trust much to long as it is the mistress I'm to have," an-
them who prate so loudly of their own piety. swered the captain, with a coarse laugh.
Where did you pick up this black-coated     Deborah Hadley looked at Holdfast sus-
parrot ?"                                 piciously.
" i ush ! not so loud," cautioned Christian.  " We are husband and wife, are we, my old
"We need him, and therefore must- not give cock ?" queried Christian, with manifest inter-
him ill words-leastwise till the work is done." est in the question.
" You have sharp eyes," resumed the wo-   "I have so pronounced you."
man, dropping her voice, " and a quick wit ;  " And she is legally mine ?"
,but I still say, that I like not the man. There's "I see no way of separating those who have
a heap of hypocrisy in him."              been united by one duly and truly qualified for
"hypo -risy is the universal coverin' of hu- the work. The young woman is as much your
man naturep- responded the captain.       wife as she ever can be."
Meanwhile the parson had taken Judith's  "Then I am content! I thank ye, parson,
hand ; and, subduing his voice to a more me- for your services, and here are some golden
lodious key, said:                        guineas for you. Now I must away, for the
Young woman, it grieves me to see thee Royal Americans by this time expect their
o pose thy will to the manifest designs of leader. Faith! 'tis a brave night's work. I'll
Providence."                              post a guard round the cabin to protect my
" Ther, mother ! did you hear that?  It bride.  Take good care of her, mother.
was good. You have to talk to women-folks There'll be a scene when she comes to herself
about Providence to keep 'em within bounds," and knows wit's happened ; but we've got
said Christian. aside.                    the law on ou side, haven't we, Holdfast?"
" Stuff!" said Mrs. Hadley.               "To think ich a drefful thing should hap-
" The young officer," resumed the parson, pen as dis yer 1" mumbled Meg.
" who proposes the honor of an alliance, is re-1 " Hear the fool take on ! One would think
put Ad to be a deserving, rising young man, and that her mistress was of better blood than my
a staunch friend of the king."            son Christian, in his royal red, with his ing-
" Go ! go !" gasped Judith, making a feeble lin' spurs, his long sword, his gold shoulder-
attempt to extricate her hand.            knots, and his commission in his pocket !"
"1Go! don't ye here missus tell ye to go ?  The captain cast a look half triumphant,
Wish to de Lor' Somerton's dragoons was half affectionate at the insensible form of Ju-
here," cried Meg, stoutly.                dith, then stalking from the cabin, gave some
" Look !" said Mrs. Hadley. " He stoops- orders to the men outside, mounted his horse,
he whispers I"                            and rode away with the Rev. Mr. Holdfast.

d y

rs                                  :.- ..,....
is  ll   _.6  sc  Yl Ya...lt dlr .

_ -   .

)i
t       i
'
r
r

0.  1
ti

i
j

:
'y
1 "\'
t
i
s
i
-1
{L
{ C
1
}'
;
7+,
r   '.
4
t   't
t
l
,!
Sr}
'Y
i li
f
i
t   1
+,     I,,    Y
( }
{{I
I
'
1
f .
'=
'
.,               +
,.r.
t

,
d
/

!                                                        ;                        ., .
J-l r rr       a  aZkAC{        r   +^-,   Nil        i.        -.rk-wa "e   CiF.n.l-iWYFah-.aewr


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

4111flfI
41

OR, HIRL TIlE IIUNCIIBACI.

eCHAPTER XXII.                  Judith's face was the picture of indescrib-
ALL     FOR    LOVE.             able dismay.
In coming back to this hard, conscious world "I s'pect they's done you a drefful wrong !"
of facts and realities, Judith Redmond expect- replied Meg, crying piteously for the sorrows
ed to see the solemn face of the parson and of her young mistress. "The man with de
the moody brow of Christian Hadley ; but, white table-cloth round his neck, mumbled
instead, saw only the masculine form of Mother over a heap o' stuff while you's lain' dead-
Deb, and felt the clisping arms of Meg. She like in my arms, which seemed to pleae de
had an unpleasant impression that something cap'n mighty well. 'Twas an out-an'-ot
fatal to her own happiness had happened, but shame, missus."
coukd not immediately determine its nature.  "Infamous ! infamous!" articulated Judith,
The old woman was chafing her hands, and faintly.
making various friendly attempts to restore  " I tole 'em so !-I tole 'em so! But they
her languid circulation and revive her be- didn't mind a straw 'bout it. I jest held ye
numbed faculties.                         tight, and tole the cap'n he couldn't have ye,
."She's a pooty and delicate dove," she noways.  I's stuck to ye,' Miss Judy, and
said, struck with the peculiar whiteness of her 'pears like they'd had to cut these yr arms
skin, the smallness and perfection of her o' mine off to gct you 'way."
limbs, and the beauty of her features. " She'll " Stop talkin', gal !" said Deborah, impe-
fetch round presently. Gals allers .do fetch riousl .   ,E-oaip-
round arter they've swounded away. A'n't    " The Lor' has give me a tongue to use,
what they used to be, gals isn't. They could and it'll be a dry time when I don't use it.
stan' up like grenadiers when I's of her age ; My mad is up, and I don't keer. Don't go
but now you can push the soft, dainty cree- for to look spiteful at me; for .'s a good 'cal
turs over with a straw."                 'cited, and a'n't 'countable for my conduc-
"(O' Miss Judith! Miss Judith !" moaned tions. You a'n't more'n half woman, noways.
Meg.                                      Whoever seed a critter rigged as you be?
"Don't call my darter-in-law, "Miss Ju- Go 'long, with yer man's black coat and yer
dith,' you yeller image !" said Mother Deb, red-flannel skirf! You's no better nor col-
promptly.                                 ored folks, nohow; and seems to mr like,
" What de Lor' heaven's sake will I call that the days1 '1 be forty-eight hours long
her?" demanded Meg, with a visible show of when Miss Judy calls ye mother-'n-law"
temper.                                     " Darter-in-law," said Mrs. Hadley, quietly,
" Mrs. Cap'n Hadley, the legal wife of my " don't let your w,  al irs.  y,  u-
son Christian," answered Deb, with a look band's mother   el gal insult yourblus~
aonds gesture that awed the                                             th trubl
and gesture that awed the simple-minded   o' dropin' her into the cellar with Black
mulatto.                                  Jaffer. Ppi     m     ecla     ihBak
Judith gently pushed away the woman ;     This threat had a restraining influence upon
and, by the aid of Meg, sat up and looked Meg, who could imagine nothing more tern-
slowly and vaguely about her. Mrs. Hadley ble than the incarceration referred to.
suddenly sprang at her, kissed her forehead,  "Wan," sarcerath, r    r ko
a "d said :                     .-oe"eWoman,"' said Judith, "I know nothing
" Joy to ye, darter-in-law!"            of what you are saying. The ceremony of
"Joy toayegarter- a"  Ji        which you speak is but a mockery, and with-
Daughter-in-law " repeated Judith, like out binding force and validity. No responses
"The lawfully wedded wife my fine son havingbbeen given, and the. profane mum-
" Th lafuly wdde wiflf  y fne oninery being . eai'ried on while I was uncon-
Cap'n Christian Hadley, of the Royal Amer- scious, the transaction possessed no legal
cans !" added Deb, with pride and dignity.  power."
"What does it mean, Meg ?" asked Judith.  "Peace, darter-in-law!  What is done is
"You's done gone married, missus!" an- done, and a thousand parsons can't undo it."
swered Meg, coming at once to the point.   Judith clasped her hands in despair.
"Mrs. Hadley," quoth Deb, with extraor-   "Hist!" said Mother Deb, holding up an
dinary politeness, "what'll you choose to admonishing hand. "Some one comes this
have cooked for your breakfast ? This is way, and at a right smart gait, too."
your house and your castle, darter-in-law; The two sentinels at the door were at that
and you can reign here like George's self, moment heard to challenge some one, ad the.
and your husband, the cap'n, will bring next intantthe door wa pushed open, and
trophies from the war to lay at your feet. Guy Deering rushed in, panting with exercise.
The rebels is whipped, and the liberty they "Hide me, good woman, hide m !" lie ecx-
talked about is gone to the dogs. Cheer up, claimed, hurriedly. "I am pursued by the
de"ry, cheer up !"                       rebel dragoons. My strength is spent, and
"0 Meg! can what this woman tells me be there is no escape unless you secrete me and
true Y"                                 j deceive them."

77

Nerved with sudden strength, Judith arose,
and made a step toward the fugitive.
"I hear the tramp of horses. Fly, wretched
man, fly !" she cried.
"Fly !" he repeated, turning to her with a
bitter smile. " As well might an eagle skim
the air with a broken wing ! I am'hunted
down, have reached this cox cr, and can go no
farther."
Deering rested against the wall for support.
" They come ! they come !" said Judith
and, springing to the door, pushed the stout
bolt to its place.
" Well done, darter-in-law! 'tis a brave be-
ginnin' !" said Mrs. Hadley, approvingly.
Judith glanced at Deering, to see if his
count nance changed ; but lie did not appear
to heed the woman's remark.
"Will you hide me !" cried Deering ; " or
will you see me murdered ?"
e1Ye-, yes ! we will hide you," replied Ju-
dith. " Good woman," she added, " for Heav-
en's sake, conceal him !"
"If you mean it, gal, it can be done ; but
-       it will depend on you, and I a'n't sartin that
I can trust ye. Them that are coming' are
your friends, and how do I know but you'll
.tell ,I for the sake o' your own liberty, and
'ctraY this poor Id to death."
Judith was in a painful dilemma, but quick-
ly decided, between herself and her lover,
whose earnest eyes were upon her.
"If it rests with me, I swear to you that I
will save him !" she solemnly answered.
"Will you'trust her, lad ?" demanded Deb.
"With my life-with my salvation !" he
exclaimed.
The spurs of the dragoons were heard rat-
tling upon the ground as they dismonted,
mingled with the clanking of their heavy
sabres.'
"rFollow!" said Mrs. Hadley, seizing the'
candle, and striding into the sleeping-room.
Approaching the bed, she stripped it in an
instant to its straw-mattress.
"Jump into the middle, lad, and lay down
as close as if you's ready for the undertaker."
"I obey !" said Deering, stretching himself
upon the'mattress.           I
"Play dead well, or dead you'll be," said
the woman, tossing the feather-bed upon hin
as if it were light as air. Smoothing it down,
she laid the pillows and spread the coverings
t    deftly.  The last hurried touch given,- she
threw back the sheets, and snatching  a white
cap from a nail, thrust it toward Judith, as if
her arm was a spear to transfix her.
The girl's face grew deadly pale.
"Put it on !" hissed Deb, with terrible
energy.
While Judith stood hesitating and mute,
there was a thunderous knocking at the door.
" It's life and death," muttered Deb ; and,I

-'    !-',   --~,-

76

t-
P

seizing the cap from Judith's paralyzed hand,
drew it over her dark curls, knotted it under
her chin,*then lifting her in her determined
and masculine arms, placed her upon the
bed, and drew the coverings over her. She
next caught Meg with no dainty grasp, and
seated her on the bed beside her mistress.
" Open ! open !" shouted the voice of Ser-
geant Giles. " Open, old hag, or I'll beat
your nest down about your ears.
" Gal," said Mrs. Hadley,-sternly, looking
at Judith, " if you've got narves, show 'em.
If you play the fool and the coward, he is
lost. Meg! sit still, and do as your mistress
tells ye. If questioned, let her answer ; and
what she says, say you."
" Down with the door-down with it !
roared Giles, whose stock of patience was now
entirely exhausted.
"Comin'! coming! " cried Deb, at the top
of her voice.
"Comin'! coming! " mimicked Giles. "Hur-
ry up, then, old magpie !" Mrs. Hadley de-
liberately opened the door, and, standing di-
rectly in it, demanded the, cause of the dis-
turbance.
" Stand aside, and you shall know our er-
rand soon enough," answered Giles. The
latter and Humphrey immediately drew their
swords, and pushed into the cabin.
. "Keep a good watch outside there, Tom
Thornton," said the sergeant. " If he tries
to escape through the window, cut him down
with your sabre ; if from the roof, shoot him
with your musket."
"Stop, my rough soger-lad, and tell me
why you rush, into a lone woman's cabin in
this blusterin' fashion?" said Captain Deb,
nothing daunted.
" A white glove," quoth the sergeant,
" often conceals a dirty hand, and a danure
face sometimes conceals a deal of wickedness.
Our time is short, and we can't waste it in
idle tulk with a witch-wife like you. We have
reason to think that you have given shelter
and concealment to one of the most danger-
ous men on the Santee."
Giles looked at Mother, Hadley, as if his
eyes were corkscrews to draw out secrets with.
She met his gaze with the utmost steadiness.
" Who might he be?' she inquired.
"The person we seek," said the chaplain,
" is probably no stranirer to you. Do not
keep us, waiting, but deliver him up at once,
that he may suffer even the -fate of Haman."
".Of whom do ye speak ?" demanded Deb.
"Woman of Belial, do not practice vain
and unavailing evasions ; for I do assure you
that we shall search every part of your dwell-
ing so thoroughly that not so much as a mouse ,
in the wall shall escape our eyes," returned
Humphrey.
" I f yospeak of my son Christian, he is

+" 1,
47  y

:1
4'

,r
a
3'

_  k


F
!
.f.
.

I

h
1
1

F qwr4 : ;Q£

{
t
f.Yf'-
z
.    ' ,i
-z

p
,              p


79

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

many miles from here ere this ; and if he was  " Sword and Bible, go flown, and a heap o'
not, but hidden under this roof, do you think good may it do ye," she added, in a voice of
I'd lead ye to his secret lurkin'-place ? If ye sovereign contempt. "
entertain sich a thought, ye know naught of  " Sword and Bible," that is, the sergeant
Deb Hadley. Ah ye rebels, I'd be tore in and chaplain, lowered themselves into the
pieces for my son Christian! Lord, Lord! vault, the first taking the initiative. There
he's finer nor ye all in his royal red, with his was an interval of silence. The rays of the
commission in his pocket, his spurs inglin' candle drove back a portion of the Egyptian
on his heels, his sword clankin' by his side, darkness of the cellar. A solemn voice roll-
and hiss gold shoulder-knots shining' in the ed up through the trap:
moon or shimmerin' in the sun !"           " In the name of God, avaunt ! Down,
"A toothless hound seldom takes the wrong devil,'down ! Come not before the time. I
scent," replied Giles, " but you're at fault this am a Christian minister, and have power over
time, Deb Hadley, either through misappre- the spirits of darkness."
hension or design. We want Guy Deerin',    Mother Deb lifted up both her hands and
and not Christian Hadley ; though the good laughed silently, but none the less heartily.
Lord knows that your son needs hanging ,    " To the devil with thy exorcisms, parson!
and '11 sooner or later come to it. We started Evidently this is, as the doctor would say, the
the spy some ten minutes ago, and a hot chase post-mortem remains of a defunct nigger ;
he's had. We've earthed him, at last, I do and a very ugly nigger at that. Ah, chap-
believe."                .               lain, a peck of common sense is worth a bush-
"Marry, come up ! If that's your business, el o' superstition," returned the sergeant, who
look an' you will, and begone as soon as you had but little reverence for traditions or men,
may ; for I like not your company. Here's a living or dead.
candle, and a good time may you have on't."  " Friend Giles, with all thy proverbs, thou
"A little pot is soon hot, and a small cabin hast a moiety of wisdom. Reason is some-
is soon searched," said the man of proverbs. times the gift of the children of this world,
Keep your post at the door, Tom Thornton. who are often-wiser in their generation than
Now, fumphrey, let's see what we can see."' the children of Jight ; an anomaly which the
Giles took the candle from the apparently unspiritual-minded cannot understand. This
willing hand of Mrs. Hadley.             is, indeed, the mortal composition of a negro,
"Look sharp, sergeant, or you may have who manifestly died a painful and violent
your labor for your pains. Where'll you be- death."
gin, rebel, to s'arch the primises of an honest "'Tis Satan asleep !" cried Deborah Had-
woman."                                -ley. "Tarry long, and he'll wake up and
"A thread too fine span will easily break, carryye, to his vaults below, with a great
Dame Hadley," responded Giles, "therefore groaning' and creakin' of infernal machinery."
overact not your part, for this is a serious  "Methinks," quoth the parson, "that the'
matter, and we shall take you at your word. candle burns blue. Let us get out of this
He slipped the halter once, but this time we horrible pit !"
hope better things.eCome on, parson."w     "Nottill I've seen every corner on't," said
",Of a truth, friend Giles, I am always the practical Giles. "Never saw I a devil
ready ; and though I use these-carnal weapons, worse nor myself. It's liberty that I fight for,
I wield th m in a righteous cause, which re- and little care I for the malice of Satan or the
moves fr im my soul the sin of blood-guilti- power he can muster into the field in the
ness. Lead on, sergeant ; my sword and my shape of tory or Britisher, bond or free, black
strength are at thy service."            or white, dead or alive ! In for a little in for
The sergeant held the candle over his head, much. If you've fired your broadside, par-
and beheld, through a scant flooring of poles, son, fall back ; but I shall make a thorough
the roof of the cabin.                   thing on't, and report Dccordin' to the colonel
"He might as well hide ina lighted lantern or Cap'n Rainford."
as there," he said, then shouted, in a stento-  "In this case, sergeant, thy cold and dog-
rian voice :                             ged intellect hath the best of it ; thou art
" Keep your eyes open, you TomThornton ! right. A man who believes in God, in Con-
There should be a cellar beneath," he went gress, and Washington, should fear nothing.
on, in a more moderate tone, "and another But truly, this dark phantom is horrible !
room in that direction. What a good thing With the powers of darkness I struggle not
is philosophy ; if we stand over a cellar, there with the sword, but with prayer and humili-
should be a way to get to it. 'Open sesame, ation of the flesh."
old woman !"                               Notwithstanding this protestation and ad-
" Anything to obleege ye, my scurvy little mission, Humphrey was the first to come up ;
sergeant," said Mrs. De , with remarkable and he cast behind him glances of awe and
sang froid, at the same time springing the trap, perplexity. Nor was the doughty Giles much

less affected by the grizzly spectacle ; he was
visibly glad to see the trap closed.'
" It would appear," said the chaplain, " ifi
human eyes are to be trusted, that a fellow-
creature has here met his death."
"Fellow-creature !" repeated Giles, with at
strong expression of contempt. " You don'tI
call that black ape a fellow-creature, do ye ?i
He forms, as 'twere, but the connecting link
-atween monkeys and men. There's been no
great mischief done, for the feller's desarved
hangin' a dozen times. If I'mistake not, it's
the body of a desperate runaway from Red-1
mond's plantation, and a great villain he's
been. Vow, parson, we'll search my lady's
bower."
"You'll find as good a lady there as any in
the land !" retorted Mrs. Hadley. " And she'd
been in her innocent dreams afore this, if you
hadn't disturbed her by your thumpin', and
clatterin', and ill-manners giner'ly."
" Chaplain, look well to yourself when a
woman blusters. Open the door, Mistress
Deb ; I must c'en peep into this sanctuary of
beauty."
"a Spare your jokes, sergeant, for you'll
need allyour small shot when the Royal Amer-
icans start ye from your cover. The time was
when Deb Iladiley was as comely a gal as you'll
find in a whole colony of sieh. Beauty is but
skin deep, but wit reaches to the brain. 'Tisn't
for sick as you, sergeant, to be runnin' your
nose into the sleepin' rooms of young women
daintily brouht up."'
" Fling down the nests, and the rooks will
'be gone; so stan' aside, mistress, or oblige us
by givin' that door a fling, that we may have
a stare at that same innocence you have spo-
enf"
"1If ye must be rude, open the door your-
self; but I warn ye, if you insult the young
woman, you'll have to account for it to more
nor one."
The sergeant, having no great confidence in
Deb's veracity, and little reverence for beauty,
did not pause to pull the latch-string, but
burst open the door with a stroke of his foot.
His first emotions on entering must have been
pretty-lecided, for he stopped short and stood
as motionless as one of the old-fashioned bed-
posts, and quite as stiff. The chaplain, press-
ing hard upon him, looked over his shoulder,
while Deb brought up the rear like a veteran
grenadier.I
Judith raised herself a little in the attitude
of alarm ras the sergeant came in ; and it was
at her that that continental hero was gazing.
"How, - in the namedofvHeaven " lie ex-
claimed, " came this dove in this hawk's
nest ?"
" Comparisons," quoth Mother Hadley,
" are ojus. She's here under my ruff, and I'm
her lawful protector."

i" The countenance," said Humphrey, "is
fair and not altogether unfamiliar to my eyes ;
it should be, methinks, one of the daughters
of Squire Redmond."
"Both should band is ; and this is Meg,
the yeller gal that came to the camp with
Miss Grindle. Why one or the other is here,
is more'n I can tell," answered Giles, in some
perplexity.
pr Good friends," said Judith, " what means
this intrusion ? Is it any service to the coun-
try that my privacy should be intruded
upon ?"
"The sin of ignorance is winked at ; and
we dreamed not that a darter of Squire Red-
mond's would be found in this den of toryism
-this resort of Christian Hadley's maraud-
ers," replied the sergeant.
" Since you know that I am here, there can
be no further excuse for remaining. ;The
events of this night have already greatly dis-
turbed me, and truly I need repose. Should
you meet my father, tell him that I am safe."
" If God wills, I shall soon see him ; for he
is with Rainford, in a thousand troubles about
his darters. Tell me, Miss Judith, what be-
came of Somerton ? Was he consumed in the
house, or taken by the enemy ?"
"Much I fear that the unfortunate colonel,
together with my sister, Miriam, perished in
the flames.  Judge, then, sergeant, of the
state of my mind, and leave me."
" Pardon me, young lady," said Humphrey,
" and allow me to ask you if you are here of
your own will ?"
The eyes of Judith and Deborah Hadley
met. The girl was painfully troubled.
"Seeing how comfortably I am provided
for, I think you might solve that question
yourself," she said, evasively.
"She come here like a bird with broken
wings, and it would been a harder heart nor
mine to refuse her shelter. I took her in and
laid her in my own bed, and tried to comfort
the poor thing,; for much she stood'in need
on't," asserted Deb.
" Woman," said Giles, " if you've done this,
you've changed your nature ; and it'11 turn
out, in my opinion, that there's some diviltry
afoot that honest folks don't understan'."
Judith stole a grateful look at the sturdy
Giles ; she heard the stifled respiration of
Deering, andhsilently prayed that the scene
might be shortened. She felt a choking sen-
sation in her throat, and feared she should
faint, unable to sustain such a trying part.
She waved her hand for her two unwelcome
visitors to depart.
"A thousand pardons, Miss Redmond, but
we mustn't forget duty even for beauty. We
believe that Guy Deerin' is somewhere in this
cabin ; hence the cause of our intrusion. We
are makin' thorough search. Chaplain, look

,?

" '.a1--

'4 Vt

i
II
fI
r
(I

a
,

.                                                                                                             '

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

78

}
i :,

" !S

1
r

_y     .,
t
_, t


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

in that box and behind them clothes. I'll
peep under the bed and feel about'with my
sabre a little, jest.for form's sake ; for Cap'n.
Rainford'11 question us up close, havin' 'made
up his mind to give the spy a good hangin',
sooner or later."
"Don't come no nigher Miss Judy !" said
Meg, menacingly. - " I'll -write the, ten com-,
mandments on yer face, if ye do !"
"My yeller charmer, your mistress is as,
safe as if she's in heaven," answered the ser-
geant, gallantly, stabbing thewall under the,
bed with his'sword.
", Odds my life ! what a brave rebel 'tis !
He's hackin' to chips the royal logs of the
cabin. A rigiment of sich would carry' the
house by storm !" sneered Mrs. Hadley, lift-,
ing her gray eyebrows and putting her arms
akimbo.                      .
Judith was nearly ~dying with suspense.
Love, fear, and timidity struggled. within her.
"Rail op,'woman," answered Giles, quietly,.
transfixing a petticoat with his sabre. "Your,
tongue is the worst part of ye, and'll never be
still till your feet p'int up'ard."
"It's the heart, man-it's the heart that's
desperately -wicked," corrected the chaplain.,
"As Paul says-"
11No matter what Paul says ; it's wlhat Rain-
ford says that I care about !" retorted Giles,
who now stood in the door, applying persua-.
sive friction to his head.
" Cruel, cruel soger-boy ! What a, wicked
wound- you've give my bettermost petitidiot,"
mocked Mrs. Deb, with a laugh that was; pe-
culiar both for its silence and significance..
The sergeant hung his head and walked.
thoughtfully from the little compartment, the
chaplain preceding him.
"Keep rubbin' your head, sergeant dear,
and you'll make it allstraight anon. There's
no harm in pokia' about the beds of timor-
somIe gals, and there's glory in stablin'.inno-
cent gowns and petticoats with your sabre !"
" Humphrey," said Giles, abstractedly; '" I,
a'n't satisfied.' That Guy.Dcein' come in, I
feel sart'in ; but that he's gone out, I'n "not
so sure. Come into'the open air, Humphrey,
and we'll- hold a council o' war.' Alb right
there, Tom Thornton ?"                '-
" All right !" responded con.,  '' '
" The butcher looked for his knife when he
had it in his moufb," moralizedthb'dsergeant,
and with Humphrey left the'e4bin ' The two
were heard conferring earnestly togetherr out-
side, while those within awaited 'the' result,
with all-those varied emotions which their re-.
spective positions rendered natural. 
CHAPTER XXIII.:'
. IN THE CELLAR.
Judith sprang from the bed the moment
the door closed upon Giles and Humphrey.

'" You have acted well'!' said Deborah Had-
ley. "Be quiet a few minutt s longer. There's
a wind-mill in the sergeant's head thnt' may
turn him round one revolution too many.
I've got ears as well as another, and must try
to, catch a word'of that buzzing' ; for a word
to the wise is sufficient."
The woman went softly to that side of the
cabin where the voices could be heard most
distinctly. Crouching upon the floor, she put
her ear to the wall. The sergeant and his
-companion were but a few feet distant. The
latter was satisfied with the search ; not so
with -the former ; a mischievous spite was
whiispcring suspicion.
" It stands to reason," he said, If that a man,
be he British or' American, royalist or rebel,
cannot sink into the earth or fly into the air.
Parson,';I've a feelin' that we've been in some
way carcumvented.'
"You were always a fellow of dull and
heavy comprehension, and like a vicious
horse, -ever ready to take the bit in your teeth
and go your, own way ; had it been otherwise,
you would long ago have been a subject of
grace," Humphrey answered.
"11'm nobody's' subject !" retorted Giles.
" I cast off my allegiance when I took up arms
'for Congress."
"'Twould be well for you to remember,
sergeant, that we're far from our broken and
battered brigade, and'our' return likely to be
cut off at any moment by straggling parties
of _tories, or the impetuous fire-eaters of
Tarleton. We've done all that, any one could
reasonably expect. As Paul says-"
- " As I've told you, parson, it is what Rain-
ford says' that I care for, and I would thank
'you to mention no other commander in my
hearin' ; although the officer that you speak
of may be very'good in his way. There's a
little insect in my ear that worries me. I
can't go away content till I've taken another
look. , I was a little too tender of the feelin's
of Miss Redmond ; and, by-the-way, Humph-
rey, I've heerd that there's somethin' atween
her and this same Guy Deerin'; though I
hope to the Lord it isn't true. As a thorough
soger, I should have passed my sabre Aown
through that bed a few times, with all delica-
cy and deference to the fair gal restin' like a
snow-flake on one side on't."
". Truly, thou art wanting in respect to the
sex. It-would frighten the poor child within
an inch of her life to see you thrusting and
lunging at harmless beds and bolsters. Veri-
ly, the 'profession of arms has hardened thy
heart." -
The chaplain clanked his sabre, and, beside
the sergeant, was as Goliah to David.
" Let not your tongue cut your throat ; for
you know there isn't a redder sabre in the
sheath than yours. In battle, you are Satan,

-     '  -t'     -I-

I1

; '
":  1
, z
;,
,._,_
i.
. ,.
_,
, y

4 ,,
c 'r
. e
s
C  x ,  1" .

ITJ
0)
0I
1-4
dz

(f'

9

.e t  A.: '

A
Y           1
'r
f
1           y
!           '
J

I,
ii
't

Y'
.
,. ,,
;   i
_   ,t}

}i      c         r
,.
J  ,               u
Z
.5}
S
1  -  '
e                       {
,
,T p
Y :     t 5
-1
s      r

.AL

r
G
0
,    z


7R4 '  _ e° "  .    ""-   .-''° - -.-" "F it^ " ' ...1'&amp; .,p  --7    -

I

OR, HIRL THE IIUNCHBACK.

"lf

88

"'N

4  -  t' ,,.'

and all the rest of the time a saint. Saddle the
right horse, my man ! As for respect, to the gal,
I'll show her as much as if the's my own
sweetheart. She loves Congress and Washin'-
ton; and if I say 'In the name of CongrEss,
or in the name of Washin'ton,' it will be both
law and gospel. Did you notice, Humphrey,
that the gal had a wide-awake look, and was
sometimes white and sometimes red in the
face? Is it common, too, for young women
to go to bed with their day-clothes on ? And
mark you, sir ! I saw a little slipper peepin'
from beneath the bed-coverings, which strikes
me i out o' the common order, and ag'in na-
tur'."
Humphrey mused, throwing his weight upon
one limb, and then upon the other.
" In the excitement, confusion, and terror
of these times, the common usages of life are
often violated ; however, if you think it best,
'we'll return and go over our work again."
" A thing that is worth doing, is worth
doing well. Let us move off a few steps, and
then come back of a sudden ; if there is any-
thing in the wind, we may find them off their
guard."
The two men walked out of ear-range, but
Deborah Hadley had heard sufficient.- Judith
had observed her attentively, and now gath-
ered from her expression that there was new
danger.
"Come out, lad, come out !" she cried.
"They're coming' back!"
Deering sprang from his hiding-place,
where he had been half smothered. Drops of
moisture were onhis brow. He gave Judith a
look of unspeakable gratitude.
" Sweet girl, I owe you life !" he murmur-
ed, as he passed her in obedience to a signal
from Deb, who 'opened the trap-door.
" Why is this ?" asked Judith. "Was he
not safer where he was ? If so, to save human
life-"
" No, no! The s ispicions of the sergeant
are, already directed to the bed ; he'll probe
every inch on't with his long sabre."
"'Anal if he goes into the cellar, discovery
will be equally certain,"- said Judith, in much
alarm.
" Distress not yourself, dear young lady,
for one who lives in' daily expectation of a
violent death ; one who has counted the cost,
and will not shrink from the payment when
the bill of mortality becomes due. It is plea-
sant 1o know that I have your sympathy, and
that   withstanding I am infamous in Miss
Redn   l's eyes---"
" C  e, for Heaven's sake ! your enemies
are at'the door. Down! down! and God in
his mercy save you."
"The door is fastened," said Mother Had-
ley. " I can delay them a minute." She
thrust the fitful candle through the opening
6

f: i
.!
,f

in the floor. " Look !" she continued, coldly
and firmly. " Behold that carcass ; a devil
once lived in it, but has gone out, not by
fasting nor prayer, but by the rope. Jump
down, and hide under that black lump of
mortality. Pull his great body and limbs over
you. Do not fear him; he is more harmless
now than for any time these twenty years.
Shrink not-all are of a color in the dark."
The spy threw a look of ineffable meaning
at Judith, and sprang into the vault.
" It never shall be said," muttered the wo-
man, " that Deb Hadley hasn't done what she
might for a friend in trouble."
- Then to Miss Redmond :
"Back to bed, gal, back to - bed lDon't
fear their swords, for your person's, as safe
with em, for that matter. as 'twould be at your
own h'arth-st one. Behave as well as you did
afore, and we'll outwit 'em, yet. Meg, you im-
age ! in with your mistress, and see that your
tongue keeps its place."
She closed the trap. The sergeant was by
this time kicking at the door.
" Who's come now ?" demanded Mrs. Had-
ley, ill-humoredly.
" Them that hasn't seen fit to go; so slip
the bolt, Cap'n Deb, and don't keep two hon-
est men on the wrong side of the door."
Deb bustled to the door with an affectation
of promptness, and pulled some seconds at the
bolt.
" Be patient, my dears ; it'll start presently.
There-here it comes !"
" She is too affectionate ; the wolf has crawl-
ed into the lamb's skin !" grumbled Giles.
" Don't mind disturbin' a lone woman, or
frightenin' to death poor Miss Redmond. Don't
be partic'lar, sergeant, because in war-time
murder, an' robbery, an' fright go for nothin'.
Spin this thing out as long as you can, for
presently my son 9hristian'll be here, with his
Royal Americans, and his long sword by his
side."
"The quicker he comes, the better!" re-
torted the chaplain, grasping, suddenly, the
hilt of his sabre.
"Pestilent hypocrite ! you're throwed off
your guard now an' then !" exclaimed Deb,
with an abrupt return of her fierceness. " I
know what ye come for, ye rebel hounds ! The
gal's in there ; go and murder her, if ye like ;
but remember that her father's a rebel and
she's of your own way o' thinkin'."
" Nobody talks o' murder, old woman !
'Tisn't the Continental boys that make war on
women and abuse .helpless gals. Away, you
sparrow-hawk !" answered Giles, gruffly. He
then raised his voice, and added: "'Tis I,
Sergeant Giles, Miss. Redmond. Don't be
afeard. The liberty boys know their friends
as well as they do their enemies. God knows
we wont disturb ye more'n we can help, but

" 1
t"'3

a

LOi

k,
, }
f ii
,
,1
'!
r
J re
3
--
Y
,,.
i',-

4l.,
1

d

.

3
a }
[

i                Yf
JJJ
5
y . ?
s  y-     4
.t   l
,{
s
,   . i
,t, ar
'       °  7

1
t
I cj
_i

( I

.p
'-0 +.. +aL 1. . yoew 'k.-          a    wwMA'ul"..'44 ...++NW'9     ".YYY}+frihae* .xfaMKMt w F asp'dic :.Tc ,+r  a w= . - ... _.cl   _. .-.   r..-. x_

. t   49. "Y   r      /


84            THE SWORDMAEER OF THE SANTEE ;

I

'.1

r'
1.,,'

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK..

the fact is, we a'n't yet satisfied. Rainford is
a devil pf a feller when his blood's up, and
you wouldn't want me faulted, I'm sure, jes'
for neglectin' to murder the bed with my
sabre."
Giles gently opened the door leading to the
suspected quarter.
" I had hoped," said Judith, complainingly,
"that after the terrible excitements of this
eventful night, I should be permitted a few
moments of undistrbed repose."
The pale face of Judith, the mournful se-
verity of her words, taken in conjunction with
her surroundings, brought Giles to a full-stop.
" Poor, dear lamb ! She can't stan' dis yer
muc'h longer !" whined Meg, dolorously. " De
life's jest about gone out her precious body.
I wish to de Lor' dar wa'n't no Congress an' no
liberty !"
"I beg prdon,miss-I really don't mean-
that is, I didn'tcome-" the sergeant began,
but the word stuck in his throat.
"I had' flattered myself," resumed Judith,
id the same deprecating tone, " that the
daughter of your friend, Sergeant Giles, would
find a place in every patriotic heart."
"By Heavens, Miss Judith, you have two
places in mine !" cried Giles. "If you wanted
it fo'r a pin-cushion, I don't know but I should
take it out and give it to fou. But I've got a
stern mistress, whose name is Duty, young
lady ; and, as a soger-lad, I must stick to her
through thick and thin. Duty, miss, says I
must search that bed you're layin' on ; and
on my knees, as 'twere, I beg of you to
rise."
" He's going' to steal the dientical bed she's
layin' on, and lie's going' to drife her up at the
p'int of his sword in her night-gown !" said
Meg, rocking her body to and fro, in much
apparent distress.
"I should suppose that my friendless situ.
ation," resumed Judith, determined to make as
much delay as possible, " would soften the
heart of Cornwallis himself, were he present, to
1 witness my distress."
Giles turned to the chaplipin for assistance,
for Tarleton's dragoons would not have been
so formidable as Judith's eyes.
" The duty is not a pleasant one," said
Humphrey, coming in a prompt and resolute
manner to the rescue, "but we know what is
expected Qf us. Miss Redmond is quitephwar
that we would shed our blood in her defence;
and her plausible words seem to me but an
idle pretext to gain time, for some object best
known to herself.".-
"Whatever may be your virtues, reverend
sir, charity does not appear to be one of them
] am in your power, and you can enforce youi
commands. I really feel- too weak to arise
' r me your hand, Meg ; these gentlemen
.  be obeyed. There must needs bet

85

British spy concealed in the bolster or in the
straw-mattress."
" Beauty is duty, Miss Judith," said Giles,
and the moment Miss Redmond's feet touched
the floor, stalked sturdily to the bed, and com-
menced a slashing assault upon it with his
sword.
" What bravery ! what courage!" laughed
Mrs. Hadley.-     .
The sergeant having probed the bed to his
satisfaction, turned from it with obvious dis-
appointment.
" I thought it meant something," he mut-
tered. " Her manner justified suspicion."
" I hope you are satisfied ?" otLserved Ju-
dith.
" We are convinced that the man we seek
is not here. I trust you will bear witness,
Miss Redmond, that we have discharged our
duty," said the chaplain, bowing, and retiring
into the next room.
" One more look into the cellar," added
Giles, " and I shall be satisfied."
" What !" screamed Mrs. Hadley. "Must
there be more botheration ? Iavmn' give ye
leave to s'arch my house like an honest wo-
man, can't, you go away decently, or must ye
hang round till morning , keeping' them awake
as sorely needs sleep, and burnin' out my
candles as if a lone widder hadn't nothin' else
to do but make 'em."
Humphrey, having the unpleasant recollee-
tion of Jaffer in his mind, added his voice to
the woman's, in an attempt to dissuade Giles
from his purpose. But he was a man not to
be turned aside when once resolved.' Deb, af-
ter some argumentation, reluctantly sprang
the trap.
"Down," said she, "if down you must;
but my word for't, it'll bring ye to grief."
" Give me the candle, hag ! Come on, par-
son."
" Nay," replied Humphrey, " I enre not for
a second look ; and you're such a brave lad
you'll do well enough without me."
," It'll be a fine story to carry back to our
dragoons that an able-bodied parson is afeard
of a dead darkey ! What's a man good for
that's scared' at the sight of a corpse ."
" Say no more, scoffer, for I am with you.
It's little that I care for men, living or dead,
armed as I am with the sword of the flesh and
the sword of the spirit "
The parson swung .is muscular body into
the cellar, and groped about after Giles, who
t poked in every corner with his sword, and
overturned everything that could by any pos-
I sible chance conceal a human figure.
"How is it ?" queried Humphrey, sarcasti-
r call. " Is that little insect still in your ear ?"
The sergeant looked over his shoulder to
n give Humphrey a sharp reply, and, coming
a unwittingly upon the body of Jaffer, tumbled

/

over it. The light was extinguished by his
fall, and he found himself upon the could lump
of mortality, in the midst of a darkness that
was most intense.
" By Heavens! he breathes - his heart
beat s -he is warm!" cried Giles. There was
a slence of a moment, in which the sergeant's
hands and senses. were busy ; then there was
a sudden outcry.
"Here he is! here he is! help, help !"
Immediately there followed a struggle, and
the trap-door was instantly closed. The chap-
lain stcood paralyzed with superstitious awe.
It appeared to him tlhat that .black horror,
Jaffcr, had revived and grappled with his
friend.
"Verily, we are best by the powers of
darkness !' he exclaimed. "Bring a - light,
woman, bring a light !"
Humphrey might as well have been in the
centre of the earth for all the eff et his words
produced. He heard the crack and strain of
. in.b opposed to limb and muscle to muscle,
as Giles and his unseen adversary roll d upon
the ground and tugged at each other in vari-
ous positions.
" Contendest thou with man or devil ?" de-
manded the chaplain, in an excit ed voice.
Before he received a reply, the invisible com-
batants had struggled to their feet and fallen
again heavily.
" For God's sake, Humphrey, help me !"
answered Giks, speaking with extreme diffi-
culty.
" A candle, woman, a candle !" roared the
chaplain.
"1Short'll be the bit o' candle that ye'11 git
from me, and long'll be the time ye'll wait for
it!" screamed Deb from above.
" Accursed witch of Endor !" exclaimed
Humphrey. "As I live she has fastened the
door upon us!"
" Ay, that I have ! and it won't open ag'in
till ye-re fine enough for the wind to blow ye
away."
"What means the sorceress ?" said the be-
wildered chaplain, feeling about in the inky
blackness.
Giles and his antagonist rolled to his feet.
" Avaunt ! man or dcvil, now I have thee !"
and casting himself desperately upon the
twain, seized one by the throat.
" Help ! help !" gasped Giles in a choking
voice.
"Be of good cheer, sergeant, for I am help-
ing thee mightily. I have Apollyon by the
throat, and if he have not an extraordinary
tenacity of life, I will soon finish him."
While the parson was speaking, he who
was uppermost disengaged himself and slip-
ped away, while the throttled man writhed and
twisted beneath the iron fingers that clutched
him.

"Fool!" said a voice from out the dark-
ness. " Wouldst thou strangle thy friend ?"
"Good God!" cried Humphrey.     " What
am I doing ?"
He rehnquished his hold
" By the Lord !" muttered Giles, the breath
rattling in his throat. "I'll have you hanged
in sight of the whole regiment! A moment
longer and my business would have been done.
What in the devil's name possesses ye ?"
" Friend Giles, it was a device of Satan, by
which I was to be made guilty of thy death."
" Device of Satan or not, if I could see, I
would plant as good a blow between thy two
eyes as ever felled an ox !" answered the mndig-
nant Giles.
"It was but a mistake. The best of us do
not always hit the nail on the head, nor is our
zeal at all times according to knowledge,"
replied Humphrey, apologetically.
"Parson, unwittingly youhive done me an
ill turn, which at present I can't forgive ;.but
what voice was it that relaxed your grasp at
my throat ?"
" I know not, if it were not thy late adver-
sary, which seemeth to me unreasonable."
" My late adversary," answered Giles, "was
no doubt him of whom we are in search, and
for the good turn he has done me he shall
hang the easier. I will cover the rope with
silk that it shall not chafe his neck."
"For which he will thank thee, no doubt,"
responded Humphrey, drvly. "Well, we have
him ; the next thing is to get out with him."
"Hillo, old woman ! let up-let up !" shout-
ed the sergeant.
" Do ye surrender yourselves prisoners of
war ?" queried Captain Deb, in a shrill voice.
" Devil a bit on't! so open, quick, or I'll
raise the very old Nick with your shanty.
You've tricked me once, but you can't do it
twice. I've got your tory spy fast and tight,
and advise ye, as a reasonable critter, to open
that trap to let us go out with our prisoner. In
case of your refusal, I'll cut the spy into inch
pieces, as true as I'm a sergeant in the Conti-
nental Army."
" As for the Tad, Guy Deerin, he can take
keer of himself  in a place so black that jou
can't see a hand afore ye. The lad wasn't
made for liangin', and hung he eha'n't be. He
shall burn first ! Ay ! I'11 burn ye all in a
heap, if ye don't stan' back and 'low him free
and unobstructed passage from the cellar. and
ten minutes slart after he leaves the cabin.
What say ye to that, ye hounds o' the Conti-
nental Congress ?" retorted Deb.
" You crow loud for an old hen," returned
Giles, " but it will go bard with us if we a'n't
up there of our own exertions in less tham a
minute."
" Try it, my dears, try it !" answered the
determined Hadley.

't
"f
c
"1 y
i
xl t
.-rye  1
s '
S .
t4. ; r
t   A
{
t '
.s y
t.
"  fi3.
F        'tS:
,S
jr.
.5

1 '
1;
I.

,1
l
.
1 S
f
yF
SJ
3
{
o

i

N4
(I
SR

{y
!{ F
.j
1t
t {
t;
t     1
,a
t

i

{
.f
4

,.-_Y

- -Kaw   _ tux.               1,


.1                      -r

if

86

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

"wChaplain, brace your hands on your knees he again shielded himself with the body of
while I mount your back and push open the Jaffer. With his head close to the ground,
trap."                                   he could hear'very distinctly the stealing foot-
"It opens downward," said'iumphrey.    steps of his executioners moving this way and
"dItimatters not; it -shall open in whatever that. The ominous silence was broken pres-
direction put my strength to it."       ently by an exultant shout from Giles.
The chaplain placed himself as he was in-  "Die, villain! I have ye .at last. Take
structed, the sergeant mounted his batck, plac- that !"
ed his shoulders to the trap, and was lifting , There was a fierce lunge, suddenly. followed
with might and main, when the parson sprang by a piercing shriek from Humphrey.
from beneath him with a roar that would have  "God of hosts I" he cried. "You have
done honor to a full-chested bullock, giving smitten me even as Joab smote Abner with
him a breath-starting fall upon his face. This the hinder end of the spear."
disaster may be attributed entirely to Captain  ." I knew, not," answered the sergeant, draw-.
Deb, who had incontinently taken a kettle of ing forth his bloody weapon, "that the rascal
boiling water from the fire, and turned a part had arms."
of its contents upon the trap, a portion of  " Saviour of winners ! thou thyself art the
which uncomfortable fluid finding its way rascal ! Thy sword has passed ecan through
freely through the crevices,,fell in a scalding my body. Verily, I am spitted like a fowl
little rivulet on the chaplain's extended neck, for roasting. This murder will sit heavily on
"Take that, ye rebels, as an airnest of the thy soul to-night, Jim  Giles, The Lord re-
love I bear ye."                          buke thee, Satan !"
The sergeant, so suddenly deprived of his  Humphrey's voice was as solemn as if it
foundation, plumped directly under the trick- came from the tomb of ten thousand martyrs.
tig stream, and received a warmer tribute of  "I have stabbed you, I do believe, and the lev-
the old woman's affection than the parson ; for il is in the luck ! If you have any last words to
striking him upon the shoulders, it saturated say, out with 'em before your strength is gone,
his garments, and made him dance around the arter which I'll finish the killin' o' that invis-
cellar'for a minute or two like an automaton ible fiend, who is indirectly the cause of this
harlequin. Giles being a soldier, used lan- damnable disaster," answered Giles, consider-
guage on this occasion that all exemplary per- ably disturbed by what he had done.
sons would feel it their duty to condemn.   " Of a truth, I believe it's my left arm, and
Even the chaplain was shocked, and stopped not my body that you have thrust through.
rubbing his neck to reprimand the infuriated The blood is escaping terribly fast."
officer. "If it be but your arm," said Giles, with
"Such oaths," he asserted, with gravity, returning composure, "you have used pro-
"will sink the whole continental army. If fanities too high up in that same graduated
swear you must, methinks you would find suf- scale which you talked of not long ago. For
fieient relief by swearing by Congress or a- simple stab through the arm, ' By Gates!'
Washington, and in milder cases by Green or or 'By Green !' should have answered all; the
Gates, Somerton, or even Rainford, according purposes of pain or anger ; while Washin'ton
to a regularly graduated descending Sale."  and Congress should have been reserved for a
"Have a pint' of bua' water poured on thrust in the lungs or stomach."
your back, and try it ; if your scale don't run  " Were I wounded in battle, maladroit
up higher'n than a kite"can fly, I'll eat my Giles, I could bear the infliction with some de-
sword, scabbardand all."                gree of composure ; but to be hacked to
"Do you surrender?" shrieked Mrs. Hadley. pieces through sheer awkwardness when there
"We'll answer that by-and-by, old woman, is no need of it, puts me in a passion. Truly,
when we've bundled ye on a horse, and got ye here is a great waste- of patriotic blood. I
fairly under way to camp," replied Giles, in a shall probably lay my bones in tis unlucky
towering passion. Then, to Hlumphrey :   vault."
"Draw your sabra, parson, and let us make " Die here ?" answered the sergeant, some-
an end o' Guy Deerin'. Poke about in every what alarmed. "'Tis a thing I object to.
corner, and if you start him, cut him down as You have no right to die anywhere without
you would a mullen-stock. You go that way, orders. I'll. call to the old jade and try to
and I'll go this. He'll dodge round ' right get out o' this darkness.' Hillo, Deb ! let us
smart, but we can't help closin' on him arter out o' this rat-trap. The parson's badly hurt,
a time. I's in hopes to carried him in triumph and '11 bleed to death in a few minutes if some-'
to camp ; but the hag's h6t water has short- thing isn't done for him."
ened his life at least twenty-four hours."  "Let him bleed! I wish every rebel in the
During this colloquy, the subject of the ser- country was bleedin'thrice as fast. If Wash-
geant's vengeance made his way slowly and in'ton hissenf had his jugulers cut, it would.
noiselessly to the middle of the cellar, .wher be God's mercy on a .distracted country."

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

OfWoman,"' argued Giles, who saw the ne-
cessity of rendering her pliable, " you're a
reg'lar trump ; and I never thought the worse
of ye for havin' pluck. To be sure, I've ban-
died words with ye and had my jest ; but
that's human natur', and I'm sure, at heart, I
never meant ye any evil."
The sergeant's voice was quite penitent and
subdued.
" The devil was sick; the devil-a monk wouldbe ;
The devil was well, the devil a monk was he !"
replied Mrs. Deb Hadley, totally unmovedby
Giles' rhetoric.
" You are too hard on a body," rejoined
the sergeant, with affected humility. " You
are too sensible a woman to take'the rough
waysof a soldier in earnest. Come, now ; let's
up, that's a good old soul! Miss Redmond
wants to sleep, and we're content to go away
with our prisoner, besides givin' you a guinea
for your trouble."
"IA cunnin' knave has a cunnin' trick,"
quoth Mrs. Hadley.' " You'like proverbs, and
it were a burnin' shame if you didn't have
enough of 'em when you're stannin' as 'twere,
on the edge of etarnity. You've got a parson
with ye, niy dear, and you won't go out the
world 'thout the benefit o' clergy. So clap
down and at your prayers, for I'm gettin' the
kindlin's ready: and the whole consarn'11
soon be in a light blaze." '
A notable tumult immediately followed
above ; everything seemed relapsing into
chaos. The chaplain was holding hia wound-
ed arm and moaning with pain ; the blackness
of darkness was around them. Fear began to
creep into the stout heart of the sergeant.
" In the name of God !" he shouted, " what
are you doin' ?"
"rPiin' the table, and chairs, and benches,
and feather-bed, and straw-bed in a heap over
the trap, so's to make a jolly fire when it
starts," was the cool rejoinder.
",Heaven and earth !" groaned Humphrey.
"I believe the hag means it. We shall be
smothered here like rabbits in a hole. Truly,
burning is a death crucifying to the flesh.
We had better come to terms at once."
"GTom Thorntonf! Tom ThorntonI" shouted
Giles, at the top of his voice.-
" Little good will it do ye to call Tom
Thornton ; he's been snorin' for the last ten
minutes, and the door is bolted ag'in him, be
sides. - Make up your minds quick, for I'm
jest goin' to clap a coal into the straw-bed!1"
retorted Deb, rattling the fire-shovel and pok-
ing at the fire with the tongs.
" If we allow the spy to pass out unmolest-
ed, what assurance have we that you'll keep
faith with us ? Two to one, you'll shut the
door in our faces and keep us here till your
son comes, with his knaves at his back," in-

87

terrogated Giles, perceiving that the advan-
tage was wholly with the woman.
",Do as you like and nothin' on compuj'on.
Trust me, or fare worse. My son Ch   ian
will soon be here, and a fine bonfire he'll see
if he comes not with haste."
"Hark'ee, Mother Deb! Let Miss Judith
vouch for your good faith, and the rogue
shall go in peace ; but for God's sake don't
keep us here till the poor chaplain bleeds to
death."
"I will-I do vouch for her 1" answered
Judith, earnestly. "I feel assured that what-
ever treaty you make with Mrs. Hadley, will
be strictly carried out ; I pledge my word
that it shall be."
" That's the voice that I like to hear ! The
matter's settled. Cap'n Deb, I surender !
Guy Deerin', you sly, invisible fiend, luck
has stood your friend once more. You've
heerd what's been said, and how we're car-
cumvented. Mother Deb hovers ye as if you's
one of her own chickens. I'm sorry, mister,
you've got into such a brood, and if you ain't
hanged for't, it'll be no fault of mine."
Deering had arisen, and was standing near
the trap.
"There are few things that we see with the
same eyes," he answered, in a suppressed
voice. "You and I, Sergeant Giles, do not,
and may never understand each other.'
" I don't know as I greatly care to have a
better understanding. One thing, however, I
should like to know, and that is, why you
didn't let this blunderin' parson strangle me ?"
said the sergeant.
" My motives I have little time and less in-
clination to explain. When we meet again-"
" May it be at the foot qf the gallows 1" in-
terrupted Giles.
" You are, indeed, an unforgiving enemy,"
added Deering, sadly.
" Love of country is in my blood," quoth
Giles. " I hate everything that is treacher-
ous and underhanded, as 'twere. I've done
my best to take ye, and I think you won't ob-
ject as a triflin' favor to say as much, should
you chance to fall in with Rainford, which is
very probable."
vI can testify," responded the spy, "that
y e'have hunted me like hounds. Ay ! it ha%-
been the same thing over and over for months
*-flight and pursuit, pursuit and flight. I
*shall die one day, I doubt not, ignominiously ;
scoffed at by neighbors and kinsmen, despised
by those whose principles I respect."   -
" Then I eihort thee to turn 'away from fol-
- lowing after strange gods," said Humphrey,
with emphasis." As Paul says-"
" tAs I've often told ye, parson, it's what
Rainford says that does the business," retort-
- ed Giles, abruptly.

p

or
' V
axe ..
y;

c11

'f
1?
U''
't~    -

-{
S
i

y

k i-W

i                        ?=

1
777777


" A r::   *41'.   t .

88

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTE

The trap-door sprang open with a creaking,
dissonant sound.
"Farewell," said Deering. " Iforgive you
as much as man may for the strait to which
I have this night been reduced. To the an-
gel who saved me from your misguided wrath,"
he added, as he sprang from the vault and
stood beside Judith, "I shall ever, 'ever be
,grateful."
" Speak not of it, but fly. I have listened
to the pleadings of mercy, for the pains and
penalties of thy trade shock me, and may not
be lightly borne by weak human nature. De-
part, Guy Deering, if the way be clear, and
let us mutually -pray that we may meet no
.more in this mutable world."
The accents of Judith were low and touch-
.ing.
The spy stood before her with an expression
'of indescribable melancholy.
"Such a prayer, beautiful Judith, I cannot
'offer. Thou hast been the one solitary ray of
happiness that has shone, through the dark
-cloud of my life."                  ,
"Marry, come up!" exclaimed Deb. "You're
makin' love to my son Christian's wife! But
that's not the game for you, lad. Come! it's
time you was movin'. I'll open the door soft,
so's not to disturb Thornton, and then, my
fine royal British boy, ti'ust to your legs."
" The wife of Christian Hadley !" murmured
Deering,.with less surprise than Judith ex-
pected to see him exhibit. "What mockery
is this ?".
" Stay not, I entreat!" cried Judith. "You
have heard the truth, terrible as 'it is. The
-door is open. Hush! sp itk not1"
"Come, my gallant boy!" whispered Deb.
" There's nothin' 'to 'f h'r. This half-clad,
half-starved beggar of a rebel'is sleepin' like
a swine.. Step over 'him, And good lick.to
Deeri g looked tenderly at Judith, mutter-
ed " God"bless you !" and. the next.moment
'his steps we heard in the forest., Five nin-_
utes-lster; Gil-es;the chaplain, and the drowsy
Thq pton, 'mounted their horses and scamper-
ed a*ay. The latter loitered, and in a spirit
of mi ief discharged a pistol into the thatch-
e'd rot'of the cabin before he followed his
companions.

!,LJ                                                         OR HIC .111THE'

"At nothin', child ! it was mere bravado ;
and to tell uswhat he would do if he had a
chance. But the day of sich unnat'rals is
short, whiph is some comfort. Darter-in-law,
you're a brave girl; and it's a thousand pities
that you don't love my son Christian, with
his right royal red, and his commission in his
pocket."          ,
" Speak not of him-. Have I not enough
to think of-the destruction of my home, the
dispersion of my friends, and the doubt that
involves the fate of Miriam? Woman, the
north and the south are not farther distant
than your son and myself."
"I know that we aren't all made up alike,
darter ; and what's wholesome for one is rank
p'ison for another. But it's a matter o' time,
gal; all a matter o' time ! A great doctor is
Time ; he brings round his patients arter
awhile, curin''em with doses of days, months,
and years. I've seen them as wanted to die,
reconciled to their fate, and made to rejoice
in it."
"I hear somethin'," said Meg.
" There's allers noises hereabouts. The
dead and splintered branches creak on the
trees ; the leaves go scurrin' afore the wind,
and rabbits and squirrels scamper across the
woodland paths," answered Deb.
"It's none o' them yer, but the rumblin' of
a wagon," replied Meg.
"Meg is right, I think," said Judith. "I
certainly hear the rattle of whee!s."
" I hear it; your young ears are sharper'n
mine. It seems as if we should have no rest
this blessed night ; fast as one goes, another
comes. Listen a minute !"
All were silent.
"Whoa, Crazy ! A'n't agoin' to r-un your
head ag'in a cabin door, be ye ? Hold up,
ne'tur !"
"It's the Swordmaker of the Santee !" said
Deb, joyfully. '- He's a simple-minded, harm-
'less old boy, and '11 do nobody any mischief.
He has often passed here with his horse and
-cart. He's pooty old, and has a monstrous
-hump on his back ; but is no fool for all that.
We've had many a good talk together about
the times, the king, the war, and the liberty."
Judith's heart beat fast with expectation.
She felt a secret assurance of assistance.
"Who's without?" demanded Deborah,

I

harshly.
" Yes, I've been out," answered the piping
CHAPTER XXIV.                 voice of Hirl, the hunchback. -9 I'm here
THE SECRET OF GUY DEERING.        with Crazy and the cart. Been down 'mong
"There goes, the- last of 'em!" said Mrs. the Royaf 'Mericans, sharpenin' up the tools
Hadley. "I hope to goodness they'll fall in of the lads. Open the door, Goody, and let
,with the Royal Americans.   Short work in the old man.,
would my son Christian make with sich fire-  The bolt flew back with uncommon sheer-
brands." ,                               fulness, and the bent figure of Hirl crossed,
"What did he fire at?" asked Judith, still the threshold.
-anxious for Deering.                     "You'll never find the door o' Deb Hadley

/

si  s
qi
''f't

closed ag'in ye. What news, old man?. How
goes the battle?  Are they fighting' still?
Ha e they annihilated Somerton's brigade?"
" Yes, I've come to your aid. I seed your
son Chrstian in the thickest o' the skrim-
mage ; and proud he looked in his royal red,
with histlong swo  d, his gold shoulder-knots,
and his commission in his pocket ! Lord !
Loid! what a extr'ordiner boy ! Ah, if I'd
had sich a offspring! But it wasn't to be;
no, it  can't to be."
" Dear, dear ! what a pleasant way you
have with ye ! So you seed -my son Christian
a facing' his foes, and a cuttin' 'em down like
thistle-leads. I wish his old mother could
been there !  The liberty's dead, don't ye
think 'tis ? and the royalty's all alive."
"My name is Ilirley ; Hirl, for short,
though ill-mannered people,-"
" Confound the ill-.mannered people that
speak ill of one that speaks well of my son
Christian'! Odds my life ! seems as if I could
smell fire."
" Fire !  I's smelt dat yer dis seven or
eight, ten minutes," cried Meg.
" You can't put it out !" screamed Hirl.
"The thatch is a 1 a blaze. I seed it come-
ways off. My stars ! if'this pootty young
woman isn't Miss Redmond. How on airth
did she git here? Well, it makes no odds ;
you can ail tumble into my cart, and if there's
an' animal that can take ye over the ground,
it's Crazy. She's 'leven year old, but she be
a smart one, I vow !"
"A curse on that sleepy dog ! he didn't
fire his pi-tol for nothin . The roofs in a
blaze!  When the sun rises, Deb Hadley
won't have a place to lay her head."
The woman looked defiantly up at the roof,
down which puffs of smoke now began to
drive.
"Let it burn, Goody Hadley. There's
timber in the forest to make another, and
willin' hands among the Royal 'Mericans to
build if. Cheer up, old mother ! don't never
complain till you have the neuralagy and the
rheumaticss, and are as hard o' he.arin' as a
whale at the bottom o' the ocean," answered
Hirl, rubbing his hands, encouragingly, and
obviously mustering a great deal of philoso-
phy for the benefit of Captain Deb.
"It's easy enough to make comfort for
'others, old man, when you're goin' on smooth
yourself! But I'll have it out of 'em for this.
My son Christian shall cut 'em up, and hang
'em up, too. What a world 'tis, when men
forgit their 'leigance to the king, and go run-
nin' arter liberty and Mr. Washin'ton, Con-
gress, and others !"
The injured woman seemed on the point of
appealing to Heaven for help -against rebels
and 'wrongs.
" The cart's ready ; you women folks can

jj    r  , -7       CY,,  .,. a. .anq+w~ .r..i.  x  _.r+..iyrl~r.&amp;^cau  .r'tcbPP::1k
t             '                                                              -

i  -:

'6  t'

HUNCHBACK.                           89
jump right in, and away we'll trundle. Crazy's
a great creetur to go ! I'll take ye to a place
where a dog won't dare to move his tongue,"
replied the swordmaker, gently leading Ju-
dith from the cabin.
" That's right, grandaddy ! Be keerful o'
my son Christian's wife," said Mrs. Hadley,
approvingly.
" No, I can't hear no fife. Can't hear a
bugle 'less -it's pootty near. One o' my ears,
you see, is tore all to bits. IHeerd the groans
o' the wounded, though, when Tarleton tackled
Somerton's drag'ons. Bless me! how the reb-
els fit !  That devil,-Rainford, made a great
swarth right through the kurnil's calvary.
There was two royalists to one rebel ; but
I'll die if I didn't think, one spell, that the
rebels would git the best on't."
" No more o' that, if you want me to ride
in your cartI" cried Mother Hadley.' "Woe
is meI what a sad sight to see it burn.
What'll Christian do for the housekeepin' and
the wife? D'ye think I can leave it, man,
without grief ? And where will ye go ? What
spot of airth is there where D b Hacley can
find another home ready at, hand ?"
" Trust your brave son for that, and hop
into the cart. Miss Judith can set on the seat
with the old man, and you and the caller
creetur can stow yourselves 'mong the lug-
gage ; there's plenty o' room-plenty on t.
Come,:Goody, bear a hand! Don't be nus-
sin' your troubles; they'll grow fast .enongh
without care."
Deborah Hadley, with much complaining
and muttering, finally mounted the cart, and
rode away with her face 'turned sorrowfuly
to her burning cabin.
" You'll know how good it is, now, to be
burned out," said Hirl. " Many, beside your-
self, have been' made houselcss this night.
Squire Redmond's house, and stables, and
negro huts have turned to ashes since sun-
set."
"Tell me, good swordmaker," said Judith,
with trembling eagerness, "if you were near
during that terrible scene ; and can you give
me any information respecting my sister Mir-
iam ?"
"Thank God, I can !" answered the sword-
maker, with 'a fervor that made Deborah
Hadley start. "She was rescued from the
flames ; she is safe."
" Heaven bless you, old man, for this as-
surance I You relieve me of an op presive and
terrible anxiety. And Colonel Someton ?"
" He was saved, too. How young gals take
to handsome uniforms! Now, if it had been
an old man like me, no one would took the
trouble to ask about me. But that's natur', I
s'pose."
" Judge not so uncharitable, worthy sword-
maker," replied Judith. "Kindness is seldom.

't
t
',
IA
6''

1 :9
-  3

twr ~+.. .x*Aiit i.aw irr  _.!            '+P'sl4sdig     n .+ aa egt..rs-  ,c.-   n.. r,-   .... .ter       .        -


THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;'OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

forgotten, and I trust my memory is good.
But where are you driving us ?"
To a place where you'll be safe enough,
I'll warrant."
The swordmaker touched his mare with his
whip, and she started- at a pace which soon
took them to the end of their journey, which
was an unfihfished and deserted house on the
marin of the forest.
It was built by a rebel," said Hirl, "who
left it half done to go a sogerin', and it's ten to
one if he ever comes back."
The first beams of morning were glittering
in the east, when Judith followed the sword-
maker into the dwelling. The first object that
met her view was Miriam. Goody Grindle,
who as usual was performing the office of
nurse, had fallen asleep upon' her post ; she
was brought reluctantly from her dreams by
the hurried footsteps of Judith, as she sprang
tot embrace her sister. Glancing about the
room, Judith saw Somerton approaching from
an obscure corner. There was a flush upon his
face, and unusual vivacity iin his expression.
The young lady extended her hand, saying :
"Surely, colonel, you have been the subject
of magical arts, else I should, see you en a
couch of pain."         -r
" I think I may affirm ,safely that I have
been under the influence of necromancy since
I rode in the swordmaker's cart to the present
moment."
He looked at Miriam expressively, who
averted her eyes..
"Not to your'harm, Ihope," replied Judith,
smilingly.
"To my everlasting good, I firmly be-
lieve !" he answered,,with a fervor that was
quite enigmatical to Judith.
"Don't look so puzzled-like, child 1" cried
Goody Grindle, who -was by this time wide
awake. " There's been queer doin's this night.
Bless us, Miriam! you needn't wink and blink
at me to keep me from talkin', for it's my
nature to be continually runnin' on. The truth
is, Judy-and the truth must come out when
I have anything to do with it-the colonel's
been and made love to Miriam, thinkin' it was
you;. and I'll perish if I don't think she's ac-
cepted him, burns, petticoat, and all, jest as he
stands."
At this juncture, Deborah Hadley, who had
stood in the back-ground, advanced,-and con-
fronted Somerton.
"Dear goodness ! here's a pair on us, I
should say. War sort of mixes up things
don't it ?" she said, with a.comical leer thai
was quite irresistible.
Somerton glanced at his novel toilet, for he
still wore the petticoat that Betsey Grindle, in
her superabundant kindness, had invested him
with, and joined heartily in the laugh that wa
raised at his expense.

" You're an odd figger to make love," added
Deborah ; " and it's the luckiest thing in the
world that' yqu, didn't set your heart on my
son Christian's wife."
"Wife ?" repeated Somerton, vaguely.
"Nothin' less nor more," answered Deb,
stiffly, then turning to Judith, added: "Ihave
pleasure in introducin' to you and everybody,
my darter-in-law, Mrs.'Judith, Hadley, wife of
Christian Hadley, captain of the Royal Amer-
icans, with his commission in his pocket,
signed by the 'king himself."
" What's the lunatic talkin' about ?" queried
Betsey Grindle, her pride beginning to mount
to her face. " This is my niece, and the wife
of nobody, much less of that infamous tory,
Christian Hadley, the mention of whose name
makes her pale as a lily."
" Ask the gal!" retorted Deborah, defiantly.
" She won't deny that she was brought to my
house, that a parson was sent for and came,
and the ceremony was performed."
"What means this, Judith ?" cried Miriam.
"Speak, Meg !"
" They've jes' done gone married her, whe-
ther she would or no. I heerd the whole cere-
mony ; but goodness, Miss Merry ! she was in
a dead faint, an4 I-don't believe sensed a dozen
words of it. I sot there a holdin' on to her,
and I prayed ; and I prayed ; and I prayed
that dem, yer wheels-o' time would roll 'em all
into eternity together."
"Know you anything of this ?" asked Som-
erton, looking at the swordmaker.
"I know what- they say, kurnil, and if the
marriage is binded, DebHadley has got a nice
darter-in-law."
Judith was by this time nearly insensible,
and Miriam and her aunt were hanging over
her in great alarm and bewilderment.
"These wrongs must cease," said Somerton,
with energy.
" And they will !" muttered the sword-
maker,
" Long live the king !" exclaimed Deborah
Hadley.
" Who'll take that masculine woman by the
shoulders' and put her out doors ?" demanded
Betsey Grindle, appealing to no one in par-
ticular.
" Yes, who'll do it ?" repeated Captain Deb.
" What'sthat ?" cried Meg, suddenly.
-   There was a pause. The distal t blast of a
bugle was heard ; the mellow notes drifted
into the open doors and windows like soft bil-
, lows of harmony.
t "I should know those sounds," said Som-
erton.
e "'Tis the blare of a trumpet ! said Mrs. Had-
n ley, quickly. "A guinea to a shillin' that the
i royal Americans are coming , with my son
s Christian at their head. What think ye, old
Hirl?"

" I can't hear much, but jedgin' by wha
little I can hear, I should say a company o
hoss was coming' this way at a clean gallop,
answered the hunchback, qietly. -
"Be they friend or foe ?" interrogated Deb
"I should think they might be one o
tetherr !" screamed the swordmaker. "In the
course o' natur' they must be for or ag'inst.'
".Any fool knows that !" replied Mrs. Had-
-   Icy, complimentarily.
The bugle-notes grew louder and louder, and
the heavy tramp of horsemen drew nearer
Manifestly every person in the dwelling await
ed the results with anxiety. The matter was
. soon settled ; Rainford dashed up to the door
at the head of his dragoons. Seeing Somer-
ton at the window, he threw himself from the
saddle, and hurried to greet him.
" My dear colonel," he said, "I scarcely ex-
pected this pleasure, although I have been in-
formed of your escape from Hadley, and his
ruffians, and of your being conveyed to Red-
mond's plantation. I knew the house was
burned, and feared the worst."
" Providence has kept me alive, gallant
Rainford, and I hope to ride again to battle
by your side. How is it? Are our poor fel-
lows cut to pieces? Have the dragoons lost
heart and courage ?"
"They have been roughly used, and are
terribly harried with fighting overpowering
numbers. But -the stout lads are good for
another day. A few hours' rest and a hearty
meal, will put most of them right ; but' some
of them are done with eating. Well, that's a
soldier's fate, Somerton. Whom hve you
here? Ahi! I see bright eyes, and others that
are not so bright. What is that masculine
creature in the black coat and red petticoat?
She looks like the devil's dam."
"And such she is ; she is the mother of
Christian Hadley," replied the colonel.
" Infamy enough for one woman. I see a
face that I know-that sharp'female, Betsey
Grindle. But who are those pretty creatures
who look as much alike as two peas in the
same pod ?" '
" The Redmond sisters," answered Somer-
ton, glancing at the twain with evident pride.
" The Redmond sisters," repeated Rainford,
- , musingly. " My gallant colonel, I shall watch
you ! With such fair nurses, I fear your'
wounds will not heal by the first intention, as
surgeons say. Well, Love and Glory are yoke-
fellows."
"'A rough soldier has little time for senti-
ment at such a crisis as this," replied Somer-
ton, coloring.
" Time ? you've taken it by the forelock, ere
this ; if you haven't, you've neglected your
. opportunity ; that's all I can say. Here's the'
swordmaker, too. A queer old body is the
swordmaker I By-the-way, I have rare news

Dj

t for you: Marion's brigade is thundering up
f from the swamps of the Santee. We'll drive
Tarleton into the river, and send him back with
banners trailed in the dust. This is not all ;
as I came up I saw a man running across a
r field. I put spurs to my horse, leaped fences,
e ditches, and gates, ana finally'captured him.
" Whom do you think it was? It was our old
- friend, the spy."
",The'spy !" said the colonel, with a start.
" The spy !" repeated Hirl, in a voice more
indicative of consternation than surprise.
"The spy.!" gasped Judith.
s " The same," replied Rainford. " And you
r may rest assured," he added; significantly,
"that he'll never be caught again."
" Have you murdered him ?" asked the
swordmaker, huskily.
- " A continental soldier, old man, never com-
mits murder," retorted Rainford, haughtily.
" Tell me, oh tell me, sir-have you-have
you-" began Judith, with strange vehe-
mence.
" Lady," answered Rainford, "be lives.
Giles-sergeant Giles, bring forward the pris-
oner."
The word was passed along ; and after some
commotion among the dragoons, Giles and
Thornton appeared, leading the unfortunate
Deering, whose arms were pinioned tightly.
His face was calm, pale, and melancholy. He
did not notice Judith, but a shudder passed
over his person when he saw the swordmaker.
For an instant he was affected, but presently
confronted Raiaford and Somerton with self-
possession.
" Rash, misguided man !" exclaimed Somer-
ton, sorrowfully. "I had hoped that we should
never meet again, and that the past had
taught you wisdom. You have tempted Prov-
idence one- time too many ; nothing can save
you."
" Of what am I accused?" demanded the
man, with an unflinching eye.
Judith looked anxiously from one to the
other of the two men.
"Every child on the Santee could tell you
your crime. The name of Guy Deering is too
well known," returned the colonel.
" My name is Henderson-Max Henderson."
" The same subterfuge and falsehood!"
cried Rainford, contemptuously.
" It is my duty to assure you that this will
not avail you," added Somerton, with firmness.
"I have not the slightest hope that it will,"
re lied the spy.
The swordmaker stood watching the latter,
and Judith ; his countenance. expressive of the
deepest interests
" Ah my boy, my poor boy, why didn't you
keep out o' their elutches arter you left the.
cabin ?" exclaimed Deborah Hadley, with evi-
dent sorrow.

.                  F ~             1''tY --

0

';-

I

'1
-     - s

/5
s'
II
j

a
F.
L
._ ,  p"'

4

{
' 't
ti-

L

:

,t
:' '
.
; ;
r;,,

s

,

s
1
{t
a


F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -

THIE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE;

"Do you hear that, your honor? She ac-
knowledges that he was at her cabin, to which
I can swear ; for I saw him there, and should
have taken him, if the chaplain and I hadn't
been carcumvented by that she tory. I can
testify, too, that she called him Guy Deerin'
more nor once. Lord, Colonel! we can swear
his life away in no time," interposed Giles,
with much zeal.
" Woni-in," said the spy, looking steadily at
mother Hadley ; " I have entered no cabin of
yours in the lat twelve hours. I have been
too busy to avail myself of the shelter of a
roof."
"Cool enough ! cool enough!!" said the ser-
geant, with an incredulous shrug. "Don't
know nothin' 'bout bemn' hid in the cellar, I
s'poise, nor what happened there, norhow you
got away at last ?"
"I protest, gentlemen, that I am utterly
ignorant Qf all this," answered the accused,
impressively.
" He knows no more about it than a child
unborn ! As for being' at my cabin, that was
mor n a week ago," asserted Deb, promptly.
"This lad isn't no more like Guy Deerin' than
a cheese is like the moon. His name is Hen-
derson, and nothin' else. Dear me ! I know d
the Ilendersons years ago, man and boy, wo-
man and child."
1Good mother," said the spy, calmly, "let
us have nothing but the truth, for I am placed
where the truth will serve me, as well as false-
hood; and neither can avail me aught."
-And it's the truth I've been tellin', which
I'mallers ready to tell for friend or foe. Who
can have the heart to bring sich a fine-lookin'
man to the halter?  But men become despe-
rately wicked when they forgit the king and
run art'-r liberty, Mr. Washin'ton, Congress,
and others."  -
Deborah shook her head regretfully, and.
sighed.
The swordmaker advanced a step toward the
accused, who said, quickly, in a deprecating
voice:
"Nay, old m'an, I conjure you not to speak !
The few feeble words that you could say in
my favor will not affect the fate that is reserved
for me, in the smallest degree. Your testi-
monymightinvolve another. For God's sake,
be quiet!"
Rainford and Somerton exchanged a few
words in low tones. The former then gave an
order in the same voice to an officer near him.
Judith cast herself at the swordmaker's feet,
and seizing his hand, cried :
"Oh, sir, ifyou can say any thing in favor
of this wretched man, I entreat you, by all that
you love, to say it!"
"What can I do, child ; what can I do ? I
am neither Somerton, nor Rainford, nor Wash-
ington," answered Hirl, mournfully.

" Do you know this lady, sir ?" asked Som-
erton, pointing to Judith, and fixing his re-
gards steadily upon tlie spy.
" I have reason to believe her to be Judith
Redmond ; but never had the pleasure and
honor of her acquaintance," he replied.
Judith arose, and gave him a reproachful,
sorrowful glance.
" It is Judith," said the swordmaker, in a
voice so changed that every one involuntarily
looked at him.
"I have heard much of her goodness. May
God bless her!"
Judith was bewildered. What did this
mean?   Was it a generous concealment to
save her name and fame ; or was it a justifiable
subterfuge, resorted to to weigh in his favor
by embarrassing the question of his identity."
An officer approached Rainford and said,
" We are ready, sir."
" Ladies," said Somerton, "you had better
retire into the house, and lose the doors.
The further examination of the prisoner will
be conducted more privately."
" Such is not your purpose," said Judith,
with empressement. "You have something
terrible in view."
" Mister," said the swordmaker, addressing
the spy, " what might be the matter with your
hands and arms? It 'pears like as though
you'd passed through a furnace."
Somerton heard the words,. and glanced at
what he had not before observed-the hands
and arms of the prisoner.    His manner
changed in a moment ; he sprang toward
Deering, saying :
'," I conjure you to tell me how you received
those injuries ?"
The man's hands were blistered and char-
red, and his coat and linen hung in scorched'
threads from his arms.
"Question me-not," replied Deering.
"I insist !" continued Somerton, emphati-
cally.
"In rescuing two human beings from a
burning building, I received these wounds
from the angry flames," answered the spy, un-
assumingly.
"I knew it! I knew it!" exclaimed Somer-
ton. "It was you who bore me from Red-
mond's house-it was you who saved Miriam.
I had an unaccountable apprehension of it at
the time, although my bodily faculties were
paralyzed by suffocating gases."
" Captain Rainford, I am ready ! I thank
you that this time it is not hanging," said the
prisoner, with a faint smile.
Sergeant Giles took him by the arm to lead
him away. Some ten rods distant, a dozen
dragoons could be seen in line, under arms.
While Somerton stood deeply affected by this
development, General Marion and two of his
aides arrived at the scene. His coming was

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

hailed with universal cheering by the sol-  Every face was turned with supreme naton-
diers.                                    ishment to the swordinaker.
Rainford then proceeded to relate the cir-  " Consider-reflect! What will you-~what
custances of Deering's capture, and the un- can you do ?" remonstrated the spy, with
satisfactory results of his examination, both thrilling earnestness.
on that and a previous occasion, with the ex-  "I will bring here the man who has borne
tenuating fact of the rescue of Somerton and the name of Guy Deering. I will place before
.Miriam.                                   these gentlemen the real Guy Deering."
General Marion examined the prisoner at-  Judith began to tremble : somcth:nigin the
tentively, and appeared impressed by his voice of Hirl was turning her sudden joy in-
brave bearing,                            to terror.
"About his identity, there can be no mis-  The old man stood up erect; he cast his
take," he said. This is the same man that I slouched hat upon the ground ; he tore off a
saw on the morning that I wrote that letter wig and false beard ; his gray coat andl hump
that prevented the execution of an innocent dropped from his shoulders,.and Ilirl, the
person."                                  hunchback, was transformed into the exact
"pThat cannot be possible," replied Rain- counterpart of the prisomr.
ford ; "for th's is the identical individual that  There was a simultaneous outburst of as-
we had in custody, and who mysteriously es- tonishnient. For a short space, io one spoke.
taped on the following night."            Judith glanced anxiously from  the sword-
" You must I e deceived by a resemblance." maker to the prisoner ; doult and perplexity
The general fixed his keen eyes on Ju- lingered but a moment on her face.
dith, whose distress he had noticed.       " Twin brothers !" exclaimed Somerton, lost
"'Yount woman," he said, suddenly, " do in admiration and wonder.
you knowv this man ?"  -                    "Fatal, fatal magnaimil y !" murmured the
There was a dead silence.               spy. "I should have drained this cup alone."
" I am answered," said Marion.            The swordmaker stretched out his hands to-
Judith was terribly pale.               ward his brother, exclaiming : "If there is a
"Is he or is he not called Guy Deering ?" Guy Deering in the n orld, I am he ! If there
resumed Maricwith a directness and energy y has been a spy between the British and Ameri-
that it was impossible to evade.          can lines, I am that spy !"
Judith attempted to speak; but her voice  The prisoner rushed into the open arms ;
dried in her throat.                      he could not immediately command his voice.
" There is no such evidence in the world as He raised his head presently, and, d sengag-
that !" said Marion, in a suppressed voice.  ing himself, said :
" Gentlemen," said the prisoner, solemnly,  ' " Why should ye,  o are our judges, dis-
" I acknowledge that I am Guy Deering !"  tinguish between us, to throw the greater
4 That settles'it," observed Marion. "Had guilt on this man?' If lie be guilty, I am
he saved a score of men from a building to equally so."
which his own perfidy applied the burning   Rainford coughed; Somerton turned away
,brand, there could be but one fate awarded his head, and there was a perceptible unsteadi-
him. It is the will of Washington."       ness in Marion's voice, when he said to Judith:
"You confess ?" queried Somerton, ner-    "Miss Redmond, which of these two is your
vously.                                   lover ?"
"I confess to the name-not to the deeds."  She pointed mutely at tfe swordmaker.
" Let us not protract this scene," observed  "This, then, is Guy Deering; or, at least,
Marion.                                   the person who has been thus called,"' added
"Say   once more," continued Somerton the general, "But as both have acted in
gloomily, "that you are Guy Deering."     concert, there can be no difference in the guilt
"Say it not-say it not !" cried the sword- of the parties. It is extraordinary! 'lhese
maker ; "for it is a foul, yet generous lie. men have not the faces of knaves."
Your name is Henderson; and the universal   " A thousand, thousand thanks, brave gen-
world cannot change it, if it spoke in one con- eral !" cried the spy, fervently.
centrated voice, and called you Deering. You " This requires looking into, Colonel Som-
shall not-shall not die !"                erton. There is, questionless, a mystery here
" In t he name of Heaven, be silent !" en- which we do not rightly apprehend," contin-
treaedathe prisoner.                     ned Marion, his keen eyes glittering upon the
Judith's eves wandered wonderingly to Hirl,' brothers, as if to pierce the se.eret of their
the hunchback.                            lives.
" Silent ! the angels forbid ! It is time to " General," said Somerton, pointing to the
speak. I will not permit the sacrifice. Your man with the blistered hands, " I owe him a
noble soul shall not go -out of the world in the life ; ay, not one, but two. Do not put it be-
blackness of infamy."                     yond my power to show my gratitude."

I'

L'

V .

~1
E
I

.a

,.         -° +s7:...   - ..r..:+.: .6i...i.+5: .w+..a"-.kmss.ww.:ce  +w+wo,+iw Grr a.s: rA.i.:t. ,.a. o ----    "; ~ ._ .

I

i

I

I

I
"    S

i
.
i  '
=
.

4

A t
-
.'

f t:,2r

IF


_ __ .__-_____-                                .

94

-
4z-
1

Marion shook his head gravely ; but made wife has your son Christian wedded ! Repent,
no answer.                               woman-repent, afore the wheels o' time roll
"Ye whom Nature has formed with such ye to the clods o' the valley !"
wonidrous similitude, answer me this ques-  " The light is breaking upon us, I think,"
tion : which of you was captured by me, after remarked Marion, cheerfully. "Look yonder,
swimming the river in a desperate race for Deborah Hadley, and tell me what you see ?"
life ?" demanded Somerton, his curiosity deep-  The woman shaded her gray brows with her
ly excited.                              hand, and gazed down the plantation ; she saw
I rwas that unfortunate," said the  sword- a charge of cavalry, and redcoats and royal
maker.                                   Americans flig i  dire confusion..
"And I," added the 'other, "was the old "Marion's brigade !" muttered Deb. "May
hunchback who rode into camp soon after, never one of 'em die in bed ! May they starve
with Crazy and the cart. I gained admission miserably in the swamps, or die festerin' in
to the prisoner ; but, despite your precautions, their wounds, without mother, wife, or cor-
the same man did not come out that went in." trade to soothe their Partin' moments !"
"I comprehend," said Somerton.           "Curse not " said the chaplain, who had
"After leaving the camp," said the sword- thus far been a silent but interested listener.
maker, "I drove rapidly to i.Jack Swamp,    "Here come some of my men bringing a
where I showed myself without the disguise of prisoner," said Marion.
Hirl, the hunchback. The sight of me pro- "Tis my eon Christian !" shrieked Mrs.
duced that letter, and prevented the execu- Hadley, "and his royal red is redder with
tion of my brother."                     blood. Ye barbarians ! to kill one of the
"Hold I" interposed Somerton, thought- king's annointed, with histcommission in his
fully, addressing the last speaker. "It was pocket !"
you 'who took me from the tory camp in your  The -woman sprang forward and threw her-
cart ?"                                  self upon her son, who was- brought in upon-
"It was ; and it was my brother Max who a litter by four men, who set it down near the
afterward found you 'n the thicket, and gave general. One of them  touched his hat, and
youthe pistol with which you wounded Black said :
Jaffer."                                   " We bring you the notorious Christign
'- It was you, Guy, who drove the cart ?" Hadley, whom justice has at length over-
said Judith, with a flushed face.        taken."
"It was I, incomparable Hirl! .Did you   Hadley's eyes rested on the brothers Hen-
think the,'simple trickery of disguise would derson, and rising upon his elbow, he shook
conceal your identity from me ? It was to his fist at them with inexpressible rage and
methat you gave the saw, and that beautiful hatred.
message ; it was I who left you on the margin  "'Twas ye who betrayed me !" he cried,
of your father's plantation, as Old Hirl, to re- with startling vehemence. Then to his moth-
turn, presently, as the spy. You forgot your -or: " Woman, woman, behold the traitors!
assumed character, and you branded me as they are rebels, rebels ! They have made us
'Infamous.' It was I, 'Guy Deering Hender- their playthings and theirtools. But for them,
son, that you saved this night at the cabin, Marion and his men would be restin' quietly
with the self-devotion that ought to elevate to-day in the swamps of the Santee."
you among the saints. It was I, too, who   Just then Somerton observed something roll
took the character and name of the Rev. Eli- from the pocket of the swordmaker, and pick-
jah Holdfast; and, -whatever be my fate, ed it up. It was a bullet that was hollow,
know that the marriage was a mere mummery, fastened in the centre by a hinge and spring
without the least legal force. It was thus, 0 nicely adjusted. He opened it quietly; it
Judith ! that I watched over and befriended conta led a slip of paper, which lie readand
you."                                    passed to General Marion with a smile of in-
"And so, sir, you deceived my son Chris- telligence.
tian, and played him false when you ought to  The swordmaker saw the movement and
stood hig friend ! I believe, at heart, that ye sprang to intercept it, but it was too late.
are rebels both, and have been puttin' your  " I meant," he exclaimed, with earnestness,
pranks on us all the while, and bringing the "that the secret should perish with me. I call
inemy to pick off the royal Americans. 0 ve you both to witness-you, General'Marion,
double-faced boys ! little did I think,.when I's you, Colonel Somerton, that I have done my
tellin' ye the news from time to time, that duty; that I have not betrayed my trust ; that
you's runnin arter liberty, and Mr. Washin'- I have not yielded to a cowardly love of life,
ton, Congress, and others !" cried Deborah that I am not infamous !"
Eadley, in a towering passion.             The swordmaker turned with heaving chest
"This is your darter-in-law with a ven- to Judith, who held out her hands, and said;
geance !" screamed Goody Grindle. "A nice "Forgive, forgive !"

THE SWORDMAKER OF THE SANTEE ;

4

1
l

OR, HIRL THE HUNCHBACK.

95

" We will one and all bear, witness, that the pocket. My boy Christian ! my boy Chris-
Swordmaker of the Santee has nobly discharg- tian !"
ed the trust reposed in him by one whose  "She has a motherIs heart,' affirmed "BT
name I will not here mention," answered Gen- sey Grindle, with a touch of feeling. "Te
eral Marion, with a fervor that testified to his poor creetur is bound up in the inian, I dare
sincerity. " He who adheres to duty under say, bad as he is. Here comes your father,
the blighting imputation of dishonor, is indeed nieces, and ue shall have a good deal to tell
a true hero ; and you, Miss Judith Redmond, him. But will take it at our leisure, gals ; and
if I have interpreted your feelings aright, my word for it, he won't say' nay' to the olo-
cannot place your trust in one more worthy, nel, or Guy Decring, or Henderson."
than he who has passed to and fro among us  Miriam blushed, and Judiths face glowed
as Hirl, the hunchback."                 not a little.
"Marry, come up ! I believe the gal's gone  " Men," said Marron to those who had gath-
cd fell in love 'thout lettin' her aunt know it. ered about them, " say nothing, conjecture
Well, we must be happy while we may, for the nothing, concerning thcse men. Let what
wheels o' time '11 soon roll us away," said Bet- you know, and what you do not know, remain
sey Grndle.alike untalked of."
seGrndle.t me take away my dyin' son, and that's  The dragoons cheered heartily, and with-
all the favor I'll ask!" cried Deborah Hadley, drew to their several posts. That day Tarle-
glancing fiercely around upon the officers and ton and his troops fled for life, and Liberty
men.v-                                   made a great stride ia South Carolina. The
"mMen," said Somerton, " convey the wound- brothers Henderson did not then and there
ed man wherever the woman shall direct."  cease to be useful, but performed good service
" Into the house with him ! i'ito the house for the patriot cause till peace once more vis-
with him, ye murderers-!" said Deb. "Sad ited the land. However great theobligations
is the day when my son Christian is brought under which he put his beloved country, the
to me with so little life in his bod y. I believe Swordrnaker of the Santee felt them more than
they'll have it all their own way-them that repaid by the hand of Judith Redmond, who
run arter liberty, Mr. Washin'ton, Congress, no' er more called him" Infamous ;" and Cole-
and others. But he shall be buried in his nel Somerton and Miriam often afusd their
royal red, with his long sword by his side, his friends in after years by tales of Hir, the
gold shoulder-knots, and his commission in his Hunchback.

A

3,
V_
) --Z

,
1
{ "'
r '  ."  i
r       1

.,

e                                                                                                                                               1
t                                                            '
Yd                                                                                                                                          ,
,s  ',         .   d    !C*_,,,°   .:-: . . ..;ice'. ..we    ,-- .;n: .r  '  Vim.;; w..w W t.+ ..';c[.o-o.k'w=a  . _a:  +s,.,:ia.r§ 'a.S.A . .: : v:e,.:a...er .o::., ...   =-,r    ._.Q .. .,.T.,.-..-tea, ...++. ..-., .,..  ,_       .-., _..        . _, --     '
.                            Li


-   - ::bn L ' -4. ;    c_..   .  a  +.y

-         4         -        -

I'
MORGAN;
on,
THE KNIGHT OF THE BLACA FLAG.

CHAPTER I.
"He was the mildest mannered man
That ever scuttled ship or cut a throat ;
With suchtrue breeding of a gentleman,
You never could divine his ieal thought."
-BmroN.
" Yes, noble lady, I am dreaming-dream-
ing of the day when I shall wear the spurs of
knighthood, be kind to my inferiors, courteous
to my equals, and acknowledge no superior of
my own sex but my God and the king !"
The spot where these words were spoken
was in a wildly beautiful valley in Wales, a
rocky, wooded dell, which lay beneath the
walls of an ancient castle, wh'se lofty grey
towers and rough battlements gave token of
its power, well garrisoned,-to 'withstand the
siege of an army. And it had withstood more
than one siege ; for its lordly gwnor, the Earl of
Caermarthen, had been true to Charles the
Martyr, scorning Cromwell and his bloody
protectorate, and now gloried in the favor of
the reigning monarch, Charles the Second.
The castle stood high among the craggy
cliffs which border the western coast of
Wales ; so near the sea that the roar of the
. ocean surges could be heard in its halls, when-
ever the spirit of the storm awoke them from
their slumbers. And down from amid those
crags, crossing the winding pathway to the
castle, where a rude bridge spanned it, rushed
the main fountain of the Towy river on its
foamy way to Cardigan Bay.
The speaker was a young -man, not far past
his twentieth year, in the flower of strength
and manly beauty. His fine form was plainly
but neatly clad in a fashion which indicated
his vocation to be a military one. A sword
rested in its scabbard on his thigh, and a dag-
ger was in his belt. A peaked hat with a
broad brim shaded his white forehead, over

which drooped a single ostrich ferither, as black
as night. ,From beneath this hat, his hair de-
scended-in glossy brown curls down upon 'his
shoulders, in true '.'cavalier" style, and the
lower pa   of his"finely-featured blonde face
was co ered with a . soft. and curling - beard,
which had neyer known the desecrating touch
of the razor or scissors; the one a most
barber-ous, aiid'the other, a most .treacherous
and Delilah-ian weapon.
That the young man wore arms, in that time,
was sufficient toprove that he either was of
gentle blood, or else in the service of one of
the nobility.  His manner to the lady, whose
questioning had elicited the words which oc-
cur at the opening of this story, was humble
and deeply respectful ; but yet he permitted
his blue eyes unabashed to gaze upon her
truly glorious beauty ; and though the color
came and went upon his face like the blushes
of a bashful maiden, there was no tremor in
his voice when he replied to her. She had
ridden up to .iim, followed by two attendants
of her own sex, while he stood leaning against
an oak by the side of the rushing stream,
in so deep a reverie that he had not heard her
approach.
I said she was very beautiful. Nor did I
err. Her noble bust was well displayed, as she
sat upon an Arabian courser of snowy white ;
and though a look of cold and haughty pride
somewhat marbleized her perfect features, an
illuminating smile so softened them, when she
spoke to the young man, that to him she look-
ed like an angel.
" Thy aspirations are lofty, Master Henry,"
said she, with a smile at his words.
" Very, lady ! so lofty that few ears will hear
me utter them. Excuse my folly in speaking
of them."
"Nay, I did not say it was folly, Master
Henry," said the lady, quickly, for he seemed

1" '

Q '   r

-    I--; -r,

Mi

ztFr          'r       '
E                    E _
s             '      I
F'
:  t           '

7
i
a     4
T
,
;:       {4

4  1
t

tr
as
u


REPRODUCED FROM THE COPY IN THE
HENRY E. HUNTINGTON LIBRARY

FOR REFERENCE ONLY. NOT FOR REPRODUCTION

717


  
             
         
       
   
