
    ----CITATION----
        Robinson, J. H. (John Hovey) (b. 1825). The Lone Star, or, The Texan Bravo .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC7613
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The lone star, or, The Texan bravo 
            
               V

---OR,--
TEE 1113             i iy

!  uL aidAa t~t fi

;r   _

BY DR. ROBINSON,

BOSTON:
F. GLEASON'S Psii5HIN        lAL{'§
CORNER OF BROMFIELD AND TREMONS STI$ i'
L,, 8
Entered  accordingto  Act  o o  9yres,    k  y a  8 2  &amp;  . "~~*~ ~
of ,tee J)serict &amp;oeert of ' fameaet e.4

I

9
t     e                    cif                                                          4
.       %  r,:
R                     tCt  x

t  , .
r  '
r
"_
nyr
. .

;
', r ,
~ Y
i
4   z
" ,'     V.
1                  _
Y
'ti            I;   ; I i
4 Sj'
_   ,  '4
[[{;Y  +,.
°4 a      ,
1
f "            .
"  .'
b,
9Fi"                ^
r'i '        r
f,
f
_4

iii    .  (  ,y  t..
,    a  .   ~  ez.7 ,   J r
d    }IS
F'
s
P.

!   ,          _                              -
y y .  -
^ :'+        _
-1'F
xt'i                                        i
.{,
tit          e'           -.     _
l1 ,°
.jh1          S Ce ly=        -        :(GN      r   r
.f   t tf--  ter   s' }Say '. _           y j       .
'XrEi'             it                 7     -      ,


d ty -Y ,1    -YL  -       iAr B   '  ;. #  .            '*  :   a       x
PudrsHua    V    -a    following hove itte Wa or'gl ally publihed in Tu           oa Umon,
d ig ut k hojg r°mary deeply interesng proftctons emanating from that so ee. The FLAG
a attained toecirculation unrivalled in newspaper literature ; its contributors form a corps of the finest
,at in the fn, and its romances, tales, and poetical gems are of a high order, and such as enrich the
tumns of no rt er publication.
The following is the Prospectus of the FLAG:
TifEFLAG OF -OUR UNION,
'AN ELEGANT, MORAL AND REFINED
d7 S  ISCiELLANE'OUS FAMILY JOURNAL,
t polite lteiature, wit and humor, prose and poetic gems, and original prize tales, written
pressly for this paper, and at a very great cost. Published every SATURDAY, by
F. GLEASON, corner of Bromfleld and Tremont Streets, Boston,
S. FRENCH, 151 Nassau, corner of Spruce Street, New York,
A. WINCH, 116 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
BURGESS, TAYLOR &amp; CO., 111 Baltimore Street, Baltimore,
A. C. BAGLEY, 10 West 3d Street, Cincinnati,
± . K. WOODWARD, corner of Fourth and Chesnut Street, St. Louis.
f is generally acknowledged that the 'rLAG is now the leading weekdy paper in the United States, and its
rar contents are allowed by the est jtidgesto be unsurpassed. -In politics and all sectarian questions,
1 strictly neutral.  Nothing of an immoral nature will ever be admitted into its columns ; therefore
king it emphatically,
A PAPER FOR THE MILLION,
AND A WELCOME VISITER TO THE HOME CIRCLE.
e o noa  the 'foreign and domestic news of the day, so condensed as to enable us to give the' greatest
etI -mount of intelligence.  No. advertisements are admitted to the paper, thus offering the entire
which is of
T THE MAMMOTH SIZE',
4    n traction and amusement of the general reader.   Anu        ed  corps of contributors are
age, and every department is under the most finished andperfect system that-experience can
mormoneyr produce. Lacking neither the means nor thewill, we can lay before our hundreds of
Aft of readers an.
, I                      R    r., R         . A..       A
_resent circulation of which far exceeds that of any other weekly paper in the Union
K...
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
,I subscriber, one year,  .   .     .      .            .    -    .     .        s 00
O sab brs,     "          .      .     .      .     .      .     .      .        5 00
f;  cc                                                          500
X1-                                                 .   '              -00 .     2
'One cogy of the FLAG Or ofn UNiON, and one copy of the PICTORIAL DRAWING-RoOM
*&amp;       o9a9 ye4n for  .     .    .   '   .     .      .                        .'   4500o
~ neria&amp;ly in dtsance.
*funther redico   s ae from' thie above terms.
~~rs  or postmasters are requested to act as ants, and form clubs, on the above ,ternte.
R A orders should be addressed, POST PAiD to 'thO)UBIsHER oF THE FI.AG or ovR UNIN.
~~~13"a     b-b~sdat any ofi~'e~e'dpt              nteUie        tts and of       pae

CHAPTER I.

THE ALAMO-WALTER ETHINOTON.
-  first- beams of the morning sun were had been tendered him for the seb6di
S       'uting the "Lone - Star."  A man of addi-essing a patriotic speech to"theoovrn
about forty years of age, wea ng the uniform of .(which took the place of the provisional o
aTexan officer, was standingmotionless upon zuent) at Washington, mounted his hor
the margin of a prairie, not far fromi:the: Colora- without loss of time rode towards Bkar.
do river; it was-the 'general-in-chief of the forces  For'several mornings he had ieairth = i
raised to. repel the invasions of the "Napoleon guns which ,were to assure the fr e4 fe
of the West," and shake off a despotism revolt- cause of .Texasthat the Alamo.',waag"ny
ing to men deeply imbued with republican sen- hands of Travis and his men. At the J e
timents. -"The general had. received tidings to which we'hase referred, he was ietbeg
from Colonel Travis, in command of Fort Alamo, listening with;intense interest to catch th
San Antojio ds Bexar,,that he was besieged by thunder of the distant ordnance.
overwhelming numbers, 'and. could not long   It. wasin vain that he bent forwardiandp1
mnaintai bis: position unless reinforcements were hisi ear to the ground;' the sound hi helg
speedily sent to his relief; and he had added have°een so welcome did nit rebek Jai I
that while to.Alamo held o'ot and successfully was theg hour when he had been biddyat
resisted the enemy, ignal guns should'be fired pect the signal guns; and he felt..ssure
at sunrise ev g morning.                   his seiser of hearing, rendered acute==bar
The coloneehad\r deended his promise, and practice, had not failed inthis Finstanee
for many crsecu1tive days the booming of dis- a dejectedeountenance he retdne&amp;4to the s
tant,car on had been Iteard rolling rover ,the *here he l d:left-his party, .mounted kiUe
prairieswith   uopufEl sound, as ifheralding and went forward in the4ire6tioingoF
. the fate of the devoted ga rison. General fast as 4raeticable..:
, 9    ,ton ate  accepting 'the coujiand, which  Frly on the following imrnig
t                                                             p  gip

4           -

$          of           .      u
    ,J

t
x  ,
i ,
f

,           r
t;  Yn  ry   ',

RANDa


8                              THE TEXAN B LAVO.
itened anxiously for the signal,but with no bet- the horsemanand dashing a tear rom his eye.
tersuccess. While thusengaged other sounds " Peace to their souls in that land where there,
attracted his attention. He heard horses. ap- is no oppression, and where the white flag of
proaching at a gallop, and in a momentthey peace waves eternally."
came in sight ; two in number.  The foremost  "Amen, from  the deepest fountains of n y
was ridden by a white man of goodly figure ; heart," responded the stranger.
the other by a negro of gigantic proportions.  " Would to Heaven they had listened to me,"
Both 'were begrimmed with powder, dust, and continued Houston, sorrowfully ; " blown up the
noke, and their clothes were torn and stained fort and retired to Gonzales. , But far be it
with blood, while the perspiration was streaming from me to reproach them; they acted as they
m the flanks of their overtaxed steeds.   thought fgr the bqst, and no doubt left narks of'
The general instinctivelylaid his hand, upon their prowess ipon the enemy.''
.ide arms as he hailed the approaching horse-  " They fought nobly, sir:",
ens                                          s  "By what 'miracle aid',you and your servant
' Are yau Aiends, or foes ?'escape ?"
Either," responded the man in advance, in  " Those who seek death, seldom find it," re.
Scoreless tone.  "A friend, if you intrude not turned the horseman.
my rights-a foe, if you wrong me."        " Are you then weary of life ?" asked, the
" That is aeeording to the great law of s- general, regarding him attentively.
tre," answered the general. "It is'the motto  "I have sought an honorable death on many
i$ ee sons of the forest.   But be more a hard fought field; .let that be my answer.
dit     Do you eight beneath 'the red banner At the -Alamo it was my fortune to save the life
Lone Ster,' or where the flag of the of a young Mexican lad, and for that service I
o  Mexie isthrown out to the breeze ?" was spared the general massacre.  ' 'egret it
I.   f6btnthe Aamo," replied=the other.  but little, for when I fall I would fall' th ems
9 a i  , am" exclaime&amp;the general, in my hands, with my face to the foe aid;not
'' '   asju,'distening!to hear the sigi be slaughtered like anox by some paltry eoiard
,who would=fear to meet me in' fair :fight:: My
'o     t wi liten lIong ere yo hear them; brave dompanisns were cut down around me by
el*othn  rare silenced forever, }and the gal- scores, unitil iiot -one remained but''this faithful
es$   that anned   then:ace cold in African idho .i with meandIfcould only look
on andwitness' the indiscriminate slaughter, and
't tei name ,of Heaven; telme ll without call on Heaven for.dengeance."
telapitaied: the general, greatly excited.     " A day of reckoning shall come I" cried the
#What has been thefate of Tmavs, 'and (rock} general, grasping'his sword hilt, whilehisnether
M 1wie, and their brave followers ?"    lip trembled with indignation.  I will melt
i JeM    , sil" said'the horsemank, clenching the tyrant face to faces and punish him 'for his
Jis i    d al "setting 'his teeth' hard together. sins."
Tieyehaebeenmimirdereddin cold blood, and    " Thenews I bringihrould rally every 'man
Mteithey had    ipitiated."'                 in Texas, capable of'bearingv;hs."
sd"gThowmnj, eseaped the slaugher?'' asked  "It should ; but there sre  if ituuiae' divi-
dl Ygeneev&amp;iin a suppressed voice:           sions among us which-bring lus'mbre misfo tunes
y        ,l~uad servhat, and'a womafl with' a than any other cause ; but hank Heaven, there
She       m.arms, a+all tht:tirive to tellthe atrethose who will follow n 'to battle, and do
osry' 4f Mex oatsdeplicity."         '      all'thatstlasir countryindotlg garinest patriot-
" A band of braver men never trod the linreat demand."
eatk' saihe general, tdiaing suddenly front~  Have 'I the honor'of'addr'esting thegeneral-
in-chief of the Texan army'?"

THE TEXAN BRAVO                   9

" My name is Houston, sir."
"   ;A name already well known to fame ; but.
there are those 'who affirm that you are opposed
to prosecuting an energetic war, such as the
I-esent cisis requires." I
"Let those who assert'tlat I am opposed to
decisive measures, shoulder their guns:'and fol-
low me; and he who'is the 'first to, turn back,
let, posterity brand him a coward, and a traitor,
to his country."
"I pel dve not all the tales I have l heard
That youlare a brave man, his been proved to
the world. I shall keep myself advised of your
movements as much as possible, and when there
is fighting to be done, I shall be near you to
take part in it."'
" Your bold bearing, your free speech, your
soiled and blood-stained garments all assure me'
that you can fight. May I ask the name of one
who' braves death so fearlessly'?"
"My name can be of little 'consequence to
you, but it were uncourteous not to give a fitting
answer.  I am  called Ethington ; but I care
not to besnown, or would be known only by
my deeds."
" Brave men should not give place to mis-
anthropy, because, forsooth, the lady of their
love has proved fickle or unkind. Away with
melancholy, sir, for fortune seldom forsakes one
not to return again."
"The advice is frankly given and well meant ;
but I regret to say that upon one like me, it is
thrown away. I hope, in return, that you will
never live to'tarnish the fame which you have
won, and that you may finish the bright career
before you with honor unsullied by a single act'
of cowardice or indiscretion."
"The word cowardice is offensive, sir. What-
ever changes time may produce, it will fail to
make me a coward," said the general, contract-
ing his' brows.  " You shall have war, and war
to the knife.  I say it-Sam Houston says it-
and no man can say these lips ever uttered a
falsehood."*
" Texas looks 'to you for aid in this trying
* angae like this has been attributed to the hero'

crisis ; Heavin grant that sheloo not in vain'.
Adieh, general, and when next 'we meet; ma
it be where the _bannerof, the "Lone L Star '
wav s-triumphantly on the field ofbattle.)
Ethington touched his ca' and moved' ;1,.
followed by the negro.' Houston, gazed  after
him for: a 'moment, and then turning slowlj
walked   aek to his p,' 'with the sorrefulgiym:
telligence th t the Alamo had fallen, and the
devoted garrison was no more.
[sEE ENGRAvINo.)
"Felix," said Ethington, to his colore#l ser-
vant.
"Did you spoke to dis .ullud gemblema-,
masse?" said the latter, rolling up the whites
of his eyes.
"Do youknowwhere we are ?" asked Ething
tQn.
" In.course I
" WelJt where are we ?
" In Texas, aceordin' to de rules ob jography
as dey manifest theirselves to de invisable senses
ob dis enlightened nigger,"
"No        you thick-headed fellow. I mea
in what p    lar locality are wd }";
"Now you begin to 'press yourself to de un
derstandin' ob dis here' indervidooal; but
can't tell you noffin about it; 'kas why I never
studied dar fine arts. Why didn't you ax de
big capen' wid de elephants on his shoulders ?'"
"Epaulettes, you mean."
"What's de odds; dey all magnify dar same
ting, 'cordin' to de' enlightened views ob din
'telligent darkey."
"We must be near the Colorado river," ad&amp;$
ed Ethington,, musingly.
"Now look a here, massa. I'm got enuff ob
dis fightin' bisness; and I motion dat we love
Mexus and Texico by dar fust .boat. Why
don't you disremember dat didgssionate
white gal, and go an be as you used to Was ?"
"Be careful how you speak of Andrea St.
Aubert, Felix. Her name, in my presence
must be spoken with respect.".
" She'll be dar death oh dis niggr" ,id
Felix, with a sigh. " If it hadn't bee for hr,


to

THE TEXAN'BRAVO.

wouldn't been here in all dese scrapes,,
in' like wild eats, and I at your heels, like-'
to;be killed any iinnit."
I did not ask you to follow me; I gave you
youx choice to go or stay." ;
y  Daore you am to blame, for you knew dis
dgkey feller wouldn't ;leave you. Whar you
go, 4Ardis nigger goes   dark's no rubbin' it
t; no how you can fix it. Yah, yahl? heah,
" You are a faithful fellow, Felix, and it goes
against my better feelings to lead you into dan-
ger. :Should you fall, I should, in some meas-
lire, feel that I was the cause of your death.
det.e more I give you  free  permission nto  leave
me and seek a place of safety.. As for myself,
I seek excitement, danger, battle and death."
"You .an't be killed no  ,;you might as
dell give it up fust as last. 'thy wasn't you
killed at the 'takin' of Bexaror Goliad, and at

other great fights dat you've been in ? As for
leavin' you, I have 'spressed myself fully on
dat 'portant subjeck, and de natur' ob my sen-
timents remains darisame through all changes
ob dar climate and wicisitudes ob dar weather."
The parties rode on in silence for some dis.
tance. The sound of water was at length heard
and they soon reached the Colorado, whose banks
were fringed with broad woodlands, broken into
bold bluffs, or covered with grass, bordering
upon prairies and affording pasturage, where the
wild mustang, the deer and the buffalo were
often seen.
The horses were turned loose, and Ethington
and his servant took peaceable possession of a
small cabin near the river, which had evidently.
been occupied by some person qfiite recently.
Felix kindled a fire, and Ethington took his
rifle and went in quest of game, for neither had
tasted food since the previous day.

t

I-

'4'

determined never to return, but to unite hi
fortunes to the Texan patriots who were stra
gling for their liberties, and die like a brav
man fighting to the last.
The cup of his short-lived happiness was dash
ed to the earth, and he desired to 'live no long
er. His negro servant refused to ,desert' hin
and had shared all the dangers' of his reckless
career since entering Texas. He had been I
many engagements, fought- boldly, and exposed
himself rashly to the enemy ; but strange to rd
late, had, miraculously as it would almost seeri
escaped death; and to crown all had passed
through the terrible tragedy of the Alant ,
scathed, while over one hundred and eighty me
had fallen.
Walter Ethington was about; twenty-foW
years of age, and had been pronounced "ban
some " by the ladies, who are competentjudg
in such matters, as every man of gallantry"'
allow. In filgure he was rather above the e
dium size, straight as an arrow, firm  and mar
pendent in his bearing. 'lHe was 'bz'avelin b
tIe, and his voice was the first t9 cheer oni

,.     ,               ,;
.

T will be understood by the perusal of the
foregoing chapter, that our hero had met
with some severe disappointment in matters per-
taining to the heart, which had driven him from
his home and friends, and made him a reckless
wanderer in the wilds of Texas.
The particular circumstances which had led to
these results shall be made known to the read-
er in due time. It is enough for'the present
purpose to say that he had been deeply enamor-
ed with a young lady, by the name of Andrea
St. Aubert, and for a brief period had firmly
believed that his passion was reciprocated.
Miss St.. Aubert was endowed with rare
beauty of person, and those excellent gifts of
the mind which are calculated to charm and
dazzle those within the sphere of its influence.
Walter Ethington was at length, as he believed,
undeceived in relation to the object of his idol-
atry (for his love fell little short of adoration).
He obtained such proofs of her inconstancy that
he felt all was at an end between them. Ad-
dressing her a hasty note, full of reproaches for
her perfidy, he left Louisiana, his native State,

CHAPTER II
RIDGLEY--OLD KENTUCK--THE SCOUTING PARTY--A SKIRMISH.

I


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

thickest of the fight. Without farther de-
tion of our hero, we will proceed with our
ory.
.aving examineddis rifle to see if it were in
roper order, he followed the general course of
river through a dense forest of live oak and
, occasionally interspersed with the ash
sycamore, pausing atitervals to watch the
ters-hurrying on to be discharged into the
if of Mexico. Emerging from the wood after
an hour's walk, he stood on the border of a
all, rolling prairie, green with. grass and
bbery. At that moment he saw a deer
etly browsing at the distance of about three
dred yards.  Ethington was a good marks-
,and though conscious that it was a long
pt, resolved to fire without incurring the risk
losing the opportunity by attempting to get
[arer.
ie discharged his piece without loss of time,
a had the satisfaction of seeing the deer run
hort distance and  fall. Having reloaded his
e, he was proceeding to take possession of
gajgetwhen the sound of paddles, dipping
and regularly into the water, reached
The bank of the -river was but a few .paces
miihim, but when-he "reached it, a small boat
_t uohed the shore, and a tall man had leap-
pt, ;eavipg.aa lad seated upon the middle
grt  ilue person who had landed. was pro-
Jhypast thirty years of age; not very fleshy,
tisular enough to: indicate much physical
gtheHis features, though tanned: by, ex-
gie, were rog4ar, strongly marked and1old
0ei expresdon. His apparel was of coarse,
e-made fabric; clloulated more for service
show. His cap was of skin, and though
t an ornamental one, served ,all the purposes
the wearer. .In his. hand he hold that indis-
eable attendAt, of the backwoodsman-.a
The oit who still occupied the boat, ap-
to be;a meretlad, of perhaps thirteen or
een years,;and Walterdid not trouble him-
to bestow much noticeupon him. The man
p idpe  thebank an appronced Ethington,
Agai $   ee  but I regret to see you

have not profited by my advice,'7 he said, with
some coldness of manner.
"I have not, neither did I intend to," re-
plied Walter. "Why you take the liberty to
interest yourself in my affairs, I know not ; but
I will assure you, as I did at our first meeting,
that I thank you not for your interference. By
some means, Heaven knows how, you have ob-
tained some knowledge of ny past life, and have
presumed to make use of it under the mask of
friendship, disinterested, and all those, fine
things; but you are mistaken in your man. I
know my own mind, and am pleased'to follow
my own inclinations."
"Headstrong boy, how long will it be ere
you listen to the voice of reason ? Whatever
friendship I might have professed to feel for you,
on ghe occasion of our first meeting, was real
and not affected, and is in nowise diminished
to-day. What if you do not understand the
motives which have impelled me to interest my-
self in your welfare. Judge me as you find me,
according to my actions, and not according to
your own prejudice. Go back to Andrea St.
Aubert, whom   you have basely forsaken, and
upon your knees beg to be forgiven, and rein-
stated in her favor."
"Never, sir ! I have had sufficient proofs
of her inconstancy, and to speak farther upon
this subject will be to offer me- a personal af-
front."
"Were Andrea, St. Aubert, to declare with
her own fair lips that She: had sacredly kept her
faith to you, would you believe her, or would
you not ?"   added  the  stranger,  somewhat
sternly.
" How could I believe her, sir, when I have
the evidence of my own eyes. Leave me ; I
tell you I will hear no more. Go and give
your advice to yonder. beardless boy,; he will
perhaps listen to you. When I need your
counsel, I will seek you out and ask it boldly ;
until then, do not forget that we are strangers."
Walter spoke with much energy and bitter-
ness, and when he had ceased turned his back
towards the unknown and was walking away.
'e QO word more before we part. You are;
in danger," added the man, earnestly.

WALTER ETHINoTON, THE TEXAN BRAVO.--SEE CHAPTER I. WAGE 9.

A


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

So are all men; but I have ceased to fear
danger."
.taut it is near-even at the door, to use a
scriptural phrase."
So much the better ; let it come.   Any-
thing is better than monotony and inactivity."
There are those who seek your life."
"Let them take it ; for it has lost its value."
You will not be warned ?"
"I thank you not for this officiousness.  Per-
haps your offers are well meant ; I know not
and care less. . I am not in a reasonable mood,
and have no desire to be otherwise. I have be-
come indifferent to all the common affairs of
life. Deceived where I trusted the most, I no
longer lay myself liable to deception by. trusting
again. Unloved where I loved the most ten-
derly, I no longer bestow my love upon those
who are no better, and but dust and ashes, like
her and myself. , If I appear rude and ungrate-
ful, you know why I am so, and thus have the
reason of my ingratitude and rudeness. To
warn me of danger is time lost, for it is what
you term 'danger' that I seek ; and if you will
inform me in what direction to find it, there will-
I hasten to meet it, and feel a pleasure in doing
80.
"The rash boldness that has signalized yu
in the hour of battle, has attracted the attention
of the enemies of Texas, and a certain number
of them under the command of one tGaroia, a
desperate fellow, have devoted themselves to the
task of destroying.-the 'Texan Bravo,' as you
are styled among them," said the unknown,
without heeding the remarks-of Ethington.
" That'suits me well;" replied Walter, with
a smile. "It will afford me excitement, ands
give me an opportunity to merit the name they
have bestowed upon me.  Let them come-the
'Texan Bravo ' is ready ; my life shall cost
them a dozen of their best men.   Sorrow  to
him who comes within the range of this rifle, for
these 'sights' never cover their object in vain.
And' see, if they venture to close quarters, here
are my pistols and bowie knife, ready to receive
theym  while my arms have ' the physical power
of eco such cowardly- fellows."

"This is sheer madness," said the stranger.
"To say more is useless. I abandon you to
your fate."
"Allow me to ask the name of such a disin-
terested friend," added Ethington, somewhat
sarcastically.
"My name is Ridgley," replied the other;,
then walked thoughtfully towards the boa,
pushed it from the shore, stepped in, took
seat in the stern, and paddled down the stream
with the lad.
Walter looked after them a moment, and then
went to take possession of his game. Cutting
the choicest portions from the deer, he placed
them upon his shoulders, and retraced his steps
to the cabin. Felix now performed his part,
and very soon they were dining upon roasted
venison, which emitted a most savory odor, es-
pecially for the olfactories of a hungry man.
When Ethington had satisfied the demands of
hunger, he laid down by the blazing fire and
slept. He was not long permitted to enjoy this
luxury uninterrupted. lHe was aroused from'
his dreams by Felix, who affirmed that he had
seen a man in the vicinity' of the cabin, who ap-
peared to reconnoitre the premises without being
seen. This suspicious individual, he further-
more asserted, was a Mexican, and was lurking
about for no good.
Ethington endeavored to assuage the fears of
his servant, telling him that his imagination, ex-
cited by the horrors he had recently witnessed,
had transformed some wild .animal into a Mexi-
can scout. But in this benevolent effort he en-
tirely failed. Felix could by ,no means be in-
duced to believe for a moment thV he had made
such a mistake.
Our hero now recalled the warning words of
Ridgley, and resolved to watch for 4he appear-
ance of the object of his servant's alarm. f Hav-
ing prevailed on the latter to lie down and take
the rest he so much needed, Walter took his
rifle, and from the crevices on either side of the
cabin, commenced his vigils.
For a long time he kept his eyes fixed upon
the surrounding woods without making a v'dis-
coveries. This monotonous employment -soon

15°


16                             THE TEXAN BRAVO.
1k ,01keffect upon him; the lids fell slowly over  " How many does your company number'?"
RP_                                                 twety
la drowsy orbs, and he lost all consciousness of  "Only twenty-five now; the res on em are
sing events.  He was awakened from    this in the chapparels and on the prairies, where they
happy state of somnoleney, by the sound of fell fighting like true sons of Kentucky."
'lilwy ,footstep  He looked up and beheld a     "You and your 'Rangers ' were at the tak-
man in buckskin breeches, short hunting frock, ing of San Antonio d Bexar'?"
eQOi11, ans d a seal-skin cap, stooping forward  "Right, strange  and there was warm work
r:the cabin.                           there, I tell you; for the place was defended by
SWhere are you from, and what is yourpur- eleven hundred men.  We were at the battle
pe o ?" enlaimed Ethington, cocking his rifle. preceding it, at Conception Mission, and did
"I was raised in Old Kentuck, stranger, good s rvice. Was you at the taking of the
I'm half :hos .and half alligator.  I belong .to Alamo, stranger'?"
Se o' the smartest, nations on the face of the  " I was, and was there also when it was lost,
i rtl. -ve se.-a haw tobaccoc" said the in- and witnessed the butchery of my brave com-
truder, in anff hand way.                  rades in arms."
 u we,     IYou don't mean to say that the Alamo has
3+1donSuse t eed,  but I believe my,,
black fellow" oes" said Walter.             been, re-taken by the Mexicans'?"
;viGet up, snowball," added the Kentuckian,  "It's too true, my brave friend, and those
gig. -  eliAju-sh  - -with hupwho fought side by side with your 'Rangers,'
mg Feli gpash   i s foot.  Get u,,,
out        e Cavendish, and set the meat will hear the thunders of battle nonmmre;"
''id o   '    'a     u   y   a   a              The bold raner was speechless with surprise
'qs~e.MIM as hungry as a shark.g.p
"Did you -'dress yourself to die coltud pus- and grief, and uttered not a word until Ething.
soD4M ,id y   'Felix rubbing his eyes in astonish- ton had given the particulars of' the sad affair.
h                     iet.ylih                 e then swore by the State of Kentucky, and
'         o    fdk        o        v    optathe " 'tarnalest great IRepublic in the world,"
tste~of ldKentuek." Then he added, turn- to avenge the death of those who. had been
in~ to;Eithingto; "Stranger, have yu been treacherously slaughtered at Fort Alamo.
io   gtheigginst'r         ,     yGo yer deth, massa Kentuck I" exclaimed
Seves d      ms      therely.Felix, who, while cooking the venison, did ,not
"eerin  an fihts',?"                     forget to listen to the conversation.
n               hA few."                     "Whee is your company'?" asked Walter.
u             dfre?"" A                            few  miles below, restin' a little after
"a. u"t      an                            hard service."_ Our hero now   informed him,
Cut off a sparrow's-head at three hundred about what Felix had seen, and the ranger ad-
vised him to have their horses brought in, to
ee ,i;                            guard against their being stolen by any scouting
I have an   can do it.  I'm a whole team  parties of the enemy that might be lurking about
aad dog urder the wagon. Did you ever that vicinity. This advice was too reasonable
h hr     R        ns                 to be slighted.  The animals were o99 caught
entangers                       '    "  by  Felix, and  with  the  assistance  of  the  Ken -
They ae perfect osses, stranger, and I'm tuckian, secured in a proper manner in front of
the alligator as commands 'em.  Do you see the. cabin.
tls li 0owpiece of steel?  It carries ten balls  When Ethington awoke in themorning, after
to the pund, and is satin death"*  .        a refreshing sleep, which he had very -tuP1
a~red hatCatai Ewn Cmeonof heneeded, he was greatly astonished at finding a
s~ a~5 rdhaCptiEwnamrnoftegold chain of elaborate, workmanship vw and
s4e ii~ution had a rife tat carried tea balls to lightly about his' wrist; wi1 M  smaljkpiec4pf
paper attached to it.

TIE TEXAN BRAVO.                  17

Ire recognized the ornament at 'a glance, for
he had in happier days given it to Andrea St.
Aubert.  But how came it in its present situa-
tio ?  By what magic had it been returned to
him'? Perhaps the paper would tell. He has-
tened to examine it, and :found only the follow-
ing words traced in the fair hand of Andrea:
"This chain once possessed inestimable value
for one ; but has now lost its worth, and I res-
tore it to the original' owner."
This was, all the paper contained, and there
was no signature, but the chirography could not'
he mistaken.  As Ethington gazed at-the chain,
the past was recalled with such vividness, that
he found it exceedingly difficult to govern his
emotions.  He heard once more, in imagination,
the soft voice of Andrea, beheld her face' in its
dazzling beauty, and, her figure in its exquisite
grace. He shed tears as he thought of her love-
liness both of person and mind, and grew indig-
nant as he' remembered her inconstancy.
"0, Andrea !" he exclaimed, "fair, but.
false, may Heaven forgive you for the anguish
you have caused me."
Ethington's thoughts naturally led him to
consider by what singular means the chain and
note had beeh returned; but upon that interest-
iag point he was obliged to content himself with
mere conjecture. He finally settled down into
the opinion which appeared the most reasonable,
that Andrea had employed some person to re-
store' the ornament, and 'that person had faith-
fully performed the commission.  Walter would
have pondered upon this subject all day, most
probably, had not Captain Wion, the ranger,.
who had left the cabin at sunrise, now returned
with the' information that a scouting party of
the 'enemy, numbering some ten or" fifteen per-
sons, were in the neighborhood.  He had ap-
proached the spothere they haad passed the
night,  and" discovered  them' engaged in prepar-
ing arid eating their morning meal.
'If I'd had but half a dozen of the Rangers
with mes said Wilson, lookm  wistfully at his
rifle, ift o'Wlsn    ok
rie, "  Afo'em would have escaped to eat
another breakfast."

" Have the enemy ever ventured so far as
here before ?", asked Ethngton.
"Seldom or never; but they're gettin' un.
commonly bold now. The affair of 'the lIamGo
gives the 'tarnal critters the idea that they+e
conquered all the country; but they'll fi4d
themselves mistaken when they get a fair speci-
men of Kentucky sharp-shootin',' What do you
say to having a brush with the rascals'?"
"Nothing could be more agreeable," replied
Walter, "for I have reason to suppose that I
am the object of their pursuit. I. have been
told that some of our enemies have taken pat'
ticular offence at my mode of fighting, and have
sworn to accomplish my death."
Then you are the hoss they call the Texan
Bravo ?" rejoined the ranger, quickly.
I believe Ilhave been thus called," answer.
ed Walter; "but it is a title I never coveted,
for I have not, and do not seek notoriet*  I
wish to remain unknown, and such bae been m
desire since I passed the boundary of my native
State."
" I have heard about your fightin'," said
Wilson, "and they say there is .a great deal of
the wild hoss in you, with a small sprinklin' of
the Kentucky alligator and snappin' turtle."
"Yah, yah ! heah, heah ! What a ner'
speciment ob human natur'!" exclaimed Felix,
displaying two rows of ivory.
"In what way do you propose to, fight this
scouting party, Captain Wilson ?" asked Wal-
ter.
"I will tell you the plan I have thought o1;
you and I will mount the two houses,: and ride
near enough to, attract their attention, and t4h9
fly from them as though we were riding for.dear
life. Thinking we are frightened,, they will
mount and pursue us pell-mell. We will, male
a break directly for the cabin, take our bosses
inside, shut and bar the door, and then;shopt
them down through the crevices as fast as:they
show their heads."
"The scheme pleases me ; - let us hastento
put it in execution."
" Go it, mass debbil I'"' muttered Felix, oi
greatly elated at the prospect of a hard fight. '

I


18                 THE TEXAN BRAVO.

"But first, let us see if we.can get the horses
inside this door," added Walter.
Upon trial, the door was found large enough
to admit the horses without difficulty.  The two,
then mounted, and rifle in hand rode off, the
ranger leading the way. A ride of ten minutes
,brought them within a few hundred yards of
thscouting party.   Turning a little towards
'the prairie on the right, they came suddenly in
sight of the enemy, whp set up a great shout,
and sprang instantly upon their mustangs, which
wer e standing saddled and bridled near them.
Ethington and Wilson now turned and fled, as
iad been agreed upon, and thereupon ensued a
siniring and scattering of the wildest and
most exciting kind.  They put their mustangs
8t9 their best.speed, and a dozen escopetas were
discharged in as many seconds ; but the balls
ell short, or whistled harmlessly by the pur-
* uedT.
"Hurrah for Old Kentuck !" cried the ran-
.    and slackening his speed, brought his rifle
Siface and fired.      A stout fellow tumbled
from' his.seat, and the riderless mustang, not
owingwhat else to do, kept on with the rest,
aso&amp; deing relieved of his burden, made the best
hedeag of any.    Ethington, not wishing to be
outdonietby the "alligator from Kentucky,"
followed his example with equal success.
These feats greatly enraged their pursuers.
They yelled with redoubled energy, and urged
nu their mustangs with new zeal; but the large,
fine animals ridden by Walter and the captain,
easily kept out of range of the escopetas.  In
o±der toprolong the sport (for such they con-
sidered it), they had diverged considerably from
a direct course towards the cabin, and they now
Mw, with some alarm, that several of their ene-
nuies were making directly for the place of their
sitreat, apparently for the purpose of cutting
themn 6ff; which event would leave them only
the alternative of trusting to the fleetness of
their'horses, and throw Felix into their power.
Both of our friends perceived the importance
ef frustrating this design, lest the negro should
pay the penalty of their rashness with his life ;
a caltvnitjt which Ethingon would have greatly

regretted, and a poor. reward for the fidelity
which had induced him   to follow his unhappy
master into the swamps, chapparels' and prairies
of Texas, to urge war upon a people destitute
of honor and humanity.
6" Let us charge through the foremost of the
cowardly curs !"  cried  Ethington..  Turning
the heads of their powerful horses in another
direction, slinging their rifles upon their backs,
and grasping their pistols, they bore down upon
the Mexicans at an increased speed. This sud.
den manoeuvre took them by surprise, as they
had not supposed it possible that two men could
have the audacity to charge a dozen.
Before they had time to reflect much, upon
the subject, Ethington and the ranger were in
their midst, overturning several of their small
mustangs by the violence of the charge. Firing
their pistols at the nearest, they dashed on with.
out a wound or a. scratch,-and in three minutes
from that time were safely in the cabin, much
to the satisfaction of Felix, who had heard the
screaming and yelling of the enemy, and. ex-
pected every moment to see them thundering up
to the door. The horses were led in, the door
barricaded in a proper manner, and other pre-
parations for defence made. These necessary
preliminaries were scarcely accomplished, when
the 'enemy came in sight,,.upon the most open
side of the little fort--that which bordered upon
a small prairie or tract of pasture land. They
halted about two hundred yards from the cabin,
and appeared to be holding a council of war.
"See the 'tarnal critters !" exclaimed Wil-
son, angrily; "huddled together like a flock o'
sheep. If they were Kentuckians or Texans,
we shouldn't stand no chance at all of our lives;
for they'd pull this'log hut down about our ears
in a twinklin'. Let's -give . 'em a touch of
American shooting."
"Go it, massa Kentuck !" cried Fehx, get
ting somewhat excited witli the idea of knock'
ing a Mexican out of his saddle, without giving
him time enough to say an are, or a pater nos
ter. Their, rifles were thrust carefullyy through
the crevices which were to serve as port holes
The Mexicans were busily engaged in talking
shouting and gesticulating.

THE TEXAN BRAVO.                                     19
'' They are calling upon us to surrender," upon the cabin, doing 4o other in'uythanun
said the ranger, with a laugh.  "And hear ing the cabt,     fly mooerril, anduritni
them; they r   rmsn     s odua      "erigth splinters fly merrily, and frightening
te;they are promising us good, usage."  their horses:
"Hadn't we better surrender ?" said Wal-    'I wish we eoud pick off the leader," said
ter, gravely, looking at Felix.            Wilson.   "The rest of them  would then go
"We got enuff ob dat !" replied Felix, with about their business."
a dismal shake  f the head.  "Dis nigger's   "That will be difficult ; for the one who ap-
going to fight."                           pears to be the leader, keeps himself covered by
"Look though  our sights!" cried the ran- his nen," replied Walter.
ger. "Each pick his man and pull trigger."  Again the deadly rifles were levelled and
o sed    r ai           f   ; th- sent forth their leaden messengers with uner-
cracked simultaneously; two of them fell from  ring certainty.  Astonished beyond description
their saddles, and a third gave evidence of being by this specimen of Texan marksmanship, the
badly if not mortally wounded. ,lHe was lifted scouting pryweldterhre       o   theh
fro hi hosecariedfarherfro  th  ca-e  scotmgparty wheeled their horses to the right
from his horse, carried farther from the cabin, about face, and were soon beyond the reach of
and laid upon the grass. The enemy now reebfire-arms.
treated about a hundred yards, brandishing   Walter, with that reckless courage which had
their weapons, and uttein  all kinds of impreca- characterized all his movements since -he haod led
tons upon our h roes.                   that singular life, proposed that they should
Their courage yow seemed to revive a little; mount their horses and pursue the retreating
dshyalled  fiosloads   th  ,and party; but this rash movement was opposed by
discharged their escopates against the logs, Wilson and Felix, articularlyb) h   atr
shouting bravely, and scampered  ack t     h   elad    eihatiuaryb        telatr
shtotin bravely, and spered a t flteir who felt anxious for his own safety as well as
last position out of rifle range, as they flattered his master's, consequently the idea was aban-
themselve..  The balls showere- harmlessly doned.


.a
.
-      ;
' ' .
e
,f              '!

A RUSE DE

GUEIRE" THE CONFLICT RENEWED.

A°a short time several of the enemy appeared
bearing a white flag; and not daring to vend
tine very near, by screaming and hallooing,
gnified that they wished to carry off their dead
angounded. This they were permitted to do
withodt(interruption; but the business appeared
to proceed very slowly, and they returned sev-
eral times, when it might reasonably have been
supposed theycould have accomplished the task
in less, than half the time.
Supposing that the fighting was ended, Felix
Began to unbar the door, under the impression
farther precaution was unnecessary. He
l4 scarcely removed the fastenings, when there
was a sudden rush from the woods upon, the
rear of the cabin, and. renewed shouting and
firing. While the others had been attracting
the attention of Ethington and his comrades;
these had been advancing cautiously on foot in
another direction ; and now threw themselves
against the door with a violence that burst it
open instantly. The two foremost fell dead
upoh the,threshold before the rifles of Walter
and the ranger, and the head of' a third was

dashed in pieces by a tremendous blow from
Felix.
The ruse having proved thus successful'
thole who had been ostensibly engaged in carry'
ing away the wounded, now came running to
the assistance of their companions, and a most
desperate and bloody conflict immediately en
sued. The numbers of the enemy ha(not been
correctly estimated ; for, notwithstanding those
that they had lost, and those rendered incapable
of fighting by their wounds, there were still
eleven to contend with our gallant fellows.
" Strike home I" cried Ethington.
" Hrra for old Kerituck I" exclaimed Wil
son. "Give it to the 'tarnal critters 1"
"Go yer deth, massa debbil I" yelled Felix
exerting his gigantic strength in a manner which
defied all opposition, and forced the enemy to
give ground inch by inch, leaving several of
their numbers hors du combat, and some who
would never fight again.  As there was U1
room enough in the cabin for them to use their
clubbed rifles with sufficient effect,, they were
thrown aside, and that fatal weapon drawn, e

well known in the south and southwest-the
bowie-knife-and the work of slaughter com-
menced in earnest.
It was fortunate for our heroes that all the
enemy could not enter and fall upon them  at
once; otherwise the conflict might soon have
been brought to a close.
The horses, frightened at the struggle going
on about them, became restive, reared and
plunged, and finally broke through the Mexicans,
who were forcing themselves in at the door, and
gained the open air, leaving more room within
for the fight to go on.
This sudden movement of the terrified beasts
somewhat disconcerted the enemy, but soon
proved for their advantage ; in a moment after
Ethington and his friends were completely hem-
med in, and there seemed but little prospect of
tieir coming out of the melee alive. Each did
his best, and with the much dreaded bowie-knife,
dealt those deadly thrusts which tell so fearfully
upon the body of an adversary, and which baffle
so effectually the skill of the surgeon.
But the strongest arm is not iron, and must-
feel at length that weariness consequent upon
long exertion ; and it g,ew evident that a con-
flict so unequal could not last 'much longer.
The Mexicans bgme more cautious as their
numbers decreased, and though they fought des-
perately, observed more prudence in their as-
saults., Felix and an athletic fellow had grap-
pled with each other in an embrace which was
to yield only to the embraces of death, on one
side or the other, and were now upon the ground,
struggling with all. the fury of mortal late.
They rolled over and, over, writhed, twisted,
and mutually strained every nerve, while two or
three of the enemy stood with uplifted swords
to put an end to the conflict when an opportu-
nity should offer ; but the evolutions of the com-'
batantsw'ere so rapid, that t hey could not strike
without endangering thercomrade.
At length the stronghand of Felix found its
way to his adversary's throat, and ,closed upon
it with all its muscular' force. The efect was
mstantoneos; the arms of the Mexican relax-
etheir: hol, is face grew purple hiis limbs

straightened out, and the next moment the
knife of the African- was sheathed in hisleit:
The conqueror cast the body from him, aiosa
with a triumphant shout, and engaged with ro
more with unabated ferocity and energy; ff
his frame seemed proof against that elheston
which his master and the Kentuckian begainto
feel.
At that critical juncture, when the fatedfthey
day hung doubtful, a new shout was suddenif
heard to mingle with the confused sounds of'thh
fights--a voice clear as the tones of a 'silvetl
trumpet, and fiercer than the neigh of a"i
horse.
Ethington glanced toward the door, and b
held the towering form of lidgley dashing aside,
the enemy, as if they were mere children in his
way.
There's for the death of Travis, and Crock
ett, and Bowie !" he cried, dealing a blow with,
a good sized hunting axe, which he wield
with case, with his right hand, at the medtio
of each name. The fighting instantly ceaaed
and those who could do so, fled, without loss io
time. Six of the eleven were left behindyj3
fording ample proofs of Texan prowess.
"Up and away !" cried Nidgig.    "    er
is not a moment to lose. Aanta Anna, at t
head of five thousand men, is marching tower
Harrisburg. The van of the armyris aIr e
within an hour's march. If you would fight cr,
Texas, join General Houston without delay."
"Are you sure the blanketed oritte9s' e
comm' ?" asked Wilson, eagerly,' who "with
Walter and the negro had sunk down well i
exhausted, after the fight.
Yes, 1 am sure ; and a few days will
eide the fate of' the 'Lone Star,' re2U4
didg ly.
"Not if the hed many suehossyas
are," added the ranger.  There's a'qC ti
of the alligator and snappin' turtle-about'
with a wholesome sinklin' of Kentcky.a';
mounts. Shouldn't wonder if you was rir s ie
them parts
]1:iduley imade  answer to the comrngi-if
ry speechesof Wilso: $thiigO' o4&amp;gl (1
m a       g   a  e      amG

CHAPTER III.

THE TEXAN BRAO.1

21


22

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

slked the former if he had any knowledge Walter joinedhis companions, more thoughtful
t he means whereby the chain had been re- than usual, even for him. .
tyre t lyut;his pride kept him silent upon the Felix had caught the horses, and was waiting
sject.   With a cold and" formal bow to our his master's re-appearance, in order to depart.
leoiidgley departedpa
r    d           ed as abruptly as he had   " Now," said Wilson, "I will lead the way,
and in a few hours we will be with the Rangers.
Ethington, notwithstanding the service which The ground is rather rough and broken, and I
t0; strnger had rendered him, felt relieved can go as fast on foot, as you can safely travel
wren, ie had gone, for he feared he would again on horseback."'            .
19pir to Andrea, the object of his unhappy pas-  Ethington agreed to this arrangement, and
rniand the cause of his leading a life so wild they set forward down the river. When they
u.lergatic.  He dared not trust himself to hear reached Bastrop, they found that the Rangers
a name mentioned which he could not deny was had already passed -over, and were awaiting
S1dear to him, lest it might revive and, add Captain Wilson on the opposite side.  They
Mw etreigth to a sentiment which he had sworn were a fine company of men, well-mounted and'
po conquer, though he could not hope to forget. acdoutred, and were nothing daunted by the
It was with feelings of peculiar bitterness news of the hostile movements of the enemy.
4hat he beheld once more 'the man who 'had With three cheers' for the "Lone Star,'" they
coldly accused him of baseness. in connection vaulted into their saddles and were 'soon in m.
1$tl 9 iss St. Aubert.  Whether he was a real tion.  Before night set in, they joined the
fied, E hmgton had not yet decided; but forces of General Houston, who was marching
t   bt he was brave ,he could no longer doubt, towards Harrisburg to intercept the enemy and
e~h d now seen him fight with heroic cour- offer him battle.
yvalter had apprehended that Ridgley The country was now completely alarmed,
take advantageof the service he had and helpless women\ and children were leaving
lred, to speak to him   again in relation to their hitherto peaceful  homes to seek safely'in
Ssbje     their two previous interviews; some other quarter. To add to the misfortunes
, wags agreeably disappointed when he saw of the times, the Convention siadjourned with
tern pad walk towards the river, with his the greatest precipitation from Washington to
~ il  pnhis shoulder.                                                             t
g tiluch xhued   aiHarrisburg, in order to secure their own safety;
ustand smarting or possibly because they believed it their duty
S     he paiof several slight wounds, he could to do so, that the 'only semblance of a govern-
~t. rot the desire to watch him, and see ment in Texas might not"fall into the hands of
3  ehayhe directed his footsteps.  He arose the dictator.
snd followed him slowly to the bank of the Be this as it may, the flight of the Conven-
4loxa4doand observed his movements-saw tion greatly increased the dangers of that period,
stppinto a boat aad paddle to the opposite inasmuch as it weakened the' confidence of the
bank; he then leaped out without loss of tie, people,and prevented the gathering of reinforce-
soon as his foot touched the shore, he saw ments for the army.
who had accompanied him on the ocea-   Elated by their recent victories, the enemy
o  of their econd. interview  emerge from a were advancing in three columns to crush for-
t    %et f wlosever the hopes of the young republic. The
pen~ closer scrutiny, Ethington perceived centre was led by Santa Anna in person, from
two horses fastened tlere. Ridley led them  San Antonio  de Bexar, intending to  pas
ro th *4m listing his youthful companion to mount, through Gonzales, San Feliyeshd Washington;
n4l the  aped upon, the other animal himself on his route to Napaoche. The Wothergton .'
ind mi a moment the parties were lost to vie*. columns, under Urrea and'Gaon'; wee hiareh.'

I

THE TEXAN BRAVO.,

4

23~

ing forward by different routes, to effect a junc-
tion of their forces at the Comanche crossing, at
Trinity river.
Santa Anna, hearing that the Convention had,
adjourned to Harrisburg, changed his plans
somewhat, and marched directly towards that
place, with a view to the capture of the new
government. The Texan army now numbered
only about five hundred and twenty men, but
was increased to seven hundred strong by the
time they reached San Jacinto. Previous to
that event, they had received the disheartening
news, that Fannin and his men had been in-
humanly massacred at Goliad. This piece of
information the general affected to treat with-the
greatest contempt, and assured his little band
that it was a fabrication of the enemy, in order
to frighten them into submission ; although he
entertained no doubt in regard to the 'authen-
ticity of the report.
This policy on the part of Houston proved of
great advantage, inasmuch as it prevented de-
sertions among his men-an inevitable result,
had the astounding news been allowed to spread
through the camp uncontradicted. The general
did not reach Harrisburg until it had been re-
duced to ashes by Santa Anna. The army
halted near the smoking ruins, and looked upon
them with stern and threatening visages.
"Look!" said Houston, to our hero ; " see
the work of the tyrant and the assassin. What
man is there among us who will not fight, after
beholding such a spectacle ?"
"He is a craven indeed who will not fight
for his liberty, his wife, his children, or his
sweetheart," replied Ethington.
"We are but a handful,". returned the gen-
eral ; " but we will meet the enemy and con-
quer, or never leave the field alive. I will give
yonder brave fellows a battle-cry which shall
endow the arm of each with the strength of three
of their adversaries. Let those who love Texas
follow me in the approaching fight, and if I'
shrink or falter in my duty, may Heaven pun-
ish me upon the spot by the ignoble death I
should so richly merit."
" The man who fought so daringly at the

Horse Shoe, can never be justly suspected of,
cowardice or want of decision," said Walter.
"Without stooping to 'flattery," answeed
the general, with a smile, "'I can well affoNd to
repay the generous compliment.; for the'bofl
deeds of the ' Texan Bravo ' are well knowniStoe
me. I feel assured that you will set  our, me4
an example that will contribute towards the, suc-
cess of our arms. - But," added Houston,.ma
friendly voice, " I learn with regret-hatine
dark spirit of misanthropy has settled  up
you; and in fact, that you are weary of cis-
tence. This is not as it should be. . bravO
and chivalrous young fellow like you, shoudnf
rise above disappointment, and be able tolook'
misfortune unflinchingly in the face."
"I thank you, general, for your kind words
and benevolent intention, and I will only say
in reply, that in the hour of battle, you will find
me at my post."
"I doubt it not, sir," returned the general,
kindly.
"There's a great deal of the wild hoss in him,
with a choice sprinklin' of the alligator. and
snappin' turtle," remarked Captain Wilson,
who joined them at that moment.
"We shall soon need all those excellent
qualities," said Houston, good naturedly. "I
will answer for him and the Rangers."
"When you march us up to face the enemy,
general, the voice of Old Kentuck will be heard
the loudest in the fight," rejoined Wilson, earn-
estly.
"'Spress yerself !" exclaimed Felix, exhibit-
ing a choice collection of ivory.
"'Be silent I" said Ethington.
"Can he fight ?" asked Houston, regarding
the athletic frame of Felix with evident admira-
tion.
"There isn't a better man among us when if*
comes to blows," replied Walter.
"Heah, heah !" or something of that nature
was heard to escape the lips of the African.
"He's capable of eating three Mexicans at a
meal without butter or salt," observed the cap-
tain of the Rangers.
" Promulgate-go 'yer death,' masda Ken~


TR   TEAN BRAVO.
d Foua-? F fx "llowyour idees to be- only field pieces with which h Texans had been
supplied), which succeeded in turning the M
rft some farther conversation, the general ican infantry, forcing it to take sheltering
orders for the army to supply itself with hea y'growth of wood.
y, # r .ys; rao       is requisition. having  l+'ailing to bring on a general engemna
n co                    ers of t       e he had intended, Santa Ana fell back
ar  tossed the  aouBufalo, prepared to fifteen hundred yards, and began to strengthen
Se enemy. Santa Anna was ad- his position by erecting fortifications near the
 ," ng to cross the San Jacinto, and Houston Bay of San Jacinto. lany of the Texan officers
u position in a popse, determined to were in favor of giving battle without delay
,Teies farth  progress.                  but the cool head of Houston overruled th
henmy approached        nd     ndupon premature movement, and another sun was des-
Swith a brass twelve pounder ; but.their tined to set and rise on the yet bloodless field
soon silenced by two six pounders the of San Jacinto.
(                                       acnt'

4; - -

t+ i .  r c. ,  . °+

CHAPTER IV.
WIKOFF-A CHALLENGE-MARIANNA-A RIVAL.

sentinels, the dissonant ringing of anss, asni
sometimes a hum of voices, was borne to pi
ears upon the whispering winds, from the eO
my's bivouac. Ethington's thoughts were no
engaged with those objects upon which  ;s
tention' was apparently fixed.  Andrea  St
Aubert, with all those advantages offmind anp
person which had made him her h     ieA for
shipper in days that were gone, Swas once mor
the subject of his meditations.
Grieved and disappointed as he hadbean b;
what appeared to him her heartless perfidy, h
could not deny that she was still dear to ggn
and that he often found himself dwelligwit!
strange fondness (or infatuation) upon thie  gst
He mechanically drew from   his, poet th
chain, which had been'so mysteriously  rel
to his possession. He signed heavilyy  hi
eyes wandered over the shining links, ,r hq. re
membered the evening when he hadplayfuil
thrown it over he snowy neck of Andrea
While he held the chain in this hand,  w
occupied with these reflections, a hand 4w i
lightly upon his shoulder.

HE defenders of Texas rested upon their
arms. When the sun went down, and
for some time after, the enemy's twelve pound-
er thundered upon their position, awakening
the echoes of the adjacent hills and woodlands ;
while the balls spent their fury upon the shel-
tering trees, splintering their. trunks and lop-
ping off their boughs.
After doubling the guard and taking all the
precautions which a soldier of his experience
thought necessary to prevent a surprise, the
general-in-chief wrapped himself in his military
cloak, placed his saddle for a pillow, and feel-
ing that he had done all which duty required,
slept the warrior's sleep, undisturbed by the
random shots of the enemy, dreaming of victory
on the morrow.
The gentle moon rode up into the starry skies,
and the goddess of silence at length waved her
misty wings over the two armies.    Walter
Ethington felt but. little .inclination to sleep.
Seated upon one of the field pieces,'he had kept
his eyes fixed dreamilyupon the dull camp fires
of the hostile troops. The steady tread of. the

p:               r
'  2


26                              THE TEXAN BRAVO.
Ethington turned sharply towards the in- fight ! I should always reget it,
Cruyergre'i, I assure you.
Y} er                                     After the battle, meet me on the bank of on.
"It has been told me that you are weary of der river, na tha eetme of the oak of yo
life," said the latter, abruptly.           without a friend, just as you choe.S w There is a
"Excuse me," replied Walter, coldly. "I delightful plat of grass there, and a fall upon it
Rve not the honor of your acquaintance."    would not be likely to break   a bon
"You shall not long labor under that disad- may form a very easy couch foyour ones, and
vantage," added the other.  "It is very possi- the last accounts of life upon'"
ble thatyqu have never heard my name men-      Of all times this would suit me best," re.
tioed;butit s pobaleshold  ou  uri ple tigton." The moon, aided by the
this night and the next twenty-four hours, you stars, sheds light enou  for the  byhe
will never forget me during your life. My nothing can be gained by wastingtime. ow
name is Wioff."                            ever, I accede to your terms, for to-morrow I
"Well, sir, what is that to me ?" said Ething- would fight for they 'LonerSt, and awn
~ton  imptienly.even from an insolent adventurer, might prevent
I am the lover of Andrea St. Aubert, con- me from assisting in a struggle where every arm
. sequently your rival; and I am happy to add, is needed."
your favored rival," rejoined Wikoff, bowing   "Remember the lace of  et'   f
profoundly.                                 notlosat        e  o' fmeetimg, for I would
profondly.not lose the opportunity of punishing you for
"I regret that she has made so poor a choice," having at one  m i you          to
retorted Ethington, calmly.                 the hand Qf Miss St. Aubert;" pife ci   o e
"Is that all you have to say ?" asked Wikoff, sumption I can never pardon." apieceofpre-
Etneeringly.oo                                                h
A   I have to say here-;but  /       Ethigton's blood boiled with indignation,
g  t I amet san hwllepabut cross yonder and he partly raised his hand to strike down the
ge'wit m, ad Iwil seaktoyou in anoth- Intruder;, but, mastering- his feelings with a pow
i Na ," saidEthitigton, with difficultyrestrain- rfu effort, he turned his back upon Wikoff and
x   tb   deep r   inent whichthe stranger's walked froihim. An ensuing laugh followed our
g istola, anner had awakened, hero, and worked up his fury o such
're'dpitl, r rifles.?"asked Wikoff.     that he was about to retracehise psan
tr    " replied Walte   "I an wholly chastise the offender on the spot; butupon
SIditereut as to the weapons."bu-
Str pistols, then."                      lookingin the direction where he had left him,
-            he had dsappeared.
fery. well. H
her  w   ell "  .Here was another wonderful link in the chain
the time ?"              of mystery which had been recentlycs   bu
sooner the better, for I am impatient thelcareeryw f  tha    he rc yeast about
Souish your insolence. No man has yet tons of Ridgc        hegcon The stand ad
4ar    t tspe   the name of Andrea St. Aubert the singlar audacity and     n    t    n
ma aerl 'you haepeue to p nucec                     uaiyan malignity of the new-     -
manryuhave presumed t pronounce corner, Wikoff, were quite as inexplicable. The
t't-ight   That you are some worthless ad- last advnt    fure     new foodeforicablecThen
entire I doubts ft; but I will             n    e   uenurshed new food for retion,
a s chasie your rogance, and tame your same, when Captain Wilson joined     i.
etbt       o      ih"I have been looking for you," said the ran-
re  t    o-mi.w nght, if'you survive ger.  Wanted to have some confidential talk
:'..  ppocncofc."Wioflaid partic-n withyou nd           ehp     s yu    dh    a
t iis Mtress itponi the last words f the sentence, sistance"  p asskyuadiend, as-
aidtfiehti dded with' a sinister smile, "It were  "Ver well catiIa       t:~srie
pity to rob you of tiie glory oft antipatd you have only to co mad me," rephied Etig
ton.

THE TEXAN BRAVO.
" Mr. Ethington, Iam anhonest Kentuckian, bridge, and warn Lee of the danger that threat-
although somewhat rude and bearish, no doubt ; ens, and endeavor to fix upon some means of
bug    bewhan withaand come to the giving them early intelligence of tie hattler"
subject uppermost in my thoughts at once.   "The idea is a benevolent one, and -i you
About two miles beyond Vince's Bridge, there will permit me, I will accompany you."
neat farm house, owned and occupied by a  " That is the favor I was about to ask  ap
man of the name of Lee, who some years ago swered the ranger ; " but you have antcipat0
married a fair Mexican Woman, and now has a the request."
son grown to manhood, and a daughterof a t sAr    g themselves thoroughly dir
sevnten.Maianna, for so she is called, is and the captain left the bivouac,- and dirfeted
oe      se bewitching girls that must be seen their footsteps towards Vince's bridge, thir
in order tobe appreciated. Such dark lan- both armies had passed over in attaining'their
is ing eyes, and such figure!i Why, it present position. They crossed it without
Od Kntuck; an that is saying a great terruption, and silently pursued their way t
dea. To ganessir, from the dazzling -orbs wards' the residence of Marianna Lee--the maid'
arnn hav done       ore for me than all the en whose gentle witchery hiad cast such a spe11
tas of the Mexican army'; for they have over the senses of the daring Kent  an.
inflicted wounds of such a nature as can't be  They traversed a few hlf cultivate . s
healed by the common treatment for gunshot skirted by flourishing woodlands, and after v.
ounds.The Mexican women are very pretty, ous turnings and windings, and petratu
sirnotwithstanding the men are such villanous thick growth of hickory, emerge4 ito
fellows; and Marianna has just enough of the clearing, upon the farther side f which,~
Mexcanstye o beutytomake her one of the under the shelter of some tall chestnuts, *too
Mexican style of beauty to maethhosofM.L.
most enchanting girls living."              teh~      fM.Le
m  wo uldnc a vi s  yu surrender at  discre-  As they  approached  it,  they  were  muei a
tion Captain Wilson," said Ethington.       tonished at hearing a confused hum  of v4i
Certainly would, if I thought I could proceeding from within. Advancing more
ma e honorable     but there's the rub."  tiously, the ranger took the lrty to ec
_,You have made love to her, doubtless'?" tre the  interior as much as. practicable ,throu
The word hasn't never been mentioned be- the windows. Fortunately for his purpose=
tween us, sir., If I have made love a t all, i curtain had been but imperfectly drawn, ail
been done with my eyes, for I haven't dar- had ample opportunity for gratifying a pardon
ed to ope1r my lips on the subject. I can face able curiosity.
e tooeny a ive o  a taste of Kentucky  -A scene met his yiew which, as he 'oxpresse
ski, by ave ginver been able to tell Marian- it, "riled up his Kentucky  blood."-Fo]
a    e that I love her; the very thought of it Mexicans, either deserters from the enemy,~+
a     e    rsiration stand in drops on my banditti which had followed in the .ake of t
foretheaderspxcites me. more than did the victorious army, were cosily seated benet'i
re    f Bexar, when only two hundred of hospitable roof of Mr.Lee, eating and drinking
us fought our way from house to house and his good things, and having matters, preti
enemy. But much their own way. The master of the hour
wat I wish to say is this ;'if we  shoul4 be beat- sat with folded,  14aus, adu eni ro,.t
en to-morrow, the robbers of Santa Anna will yards from' his unwelcome guests while h
eun t- e whole country, sparng  either age wifeand Marianna, with pale and anxious fa
or s;and Lee, who has thus far refused to strove to entertain then without  igau
mvanich, will be among the first to suffei-. for .offence.  They called  vocieosy4
Have made up my mind to: cross Vince's a ,gardiente,anwhni\wsfrsedte

Y" 'J


'HE ITf&amp;A~ BRAiVO.
;;,,;tythenist ja          drssdof the They sprang up, drew their daggers, and made
r        unself cara a cara (fa e to face) a iurious attack upon their host.  Their first
3,    anna evidently atiipating a pleasant Mexican oaths were scarcely uttered  whn the
e~   W~le another cried out in an insolent  oor asburst open, ad Ethington and the
ti uardient"
toi~ ; " usra un vaso de a nte"-- ranger rushed in upon them.   Lee had already
glass of hrandy.  Mr. Lee informed prostrated one of the ruffians with a blow of his
was -no more in the house,'which fist, and when our two friendsmade their unex.
mi avlent passion, and set him          to pected entry, the others ceased offensive opera.
the handle of his dagger in a very tions at once, not a little nonplussed and coa-
ea en ngmanner.                           founded at the appearance of two such formida
u' (in     the gallant who had drawn his chair ble looking Americanos.
asrianna, began to say fine' things'  "Down with them !" shouted Wilson,    a
lrno      n  Spanish fashion- being ably seconded by Ethington, the valiantes
,ifar fromnproving agreeable, annoyed were soon curled up upon the floor, with no
Excessively. She arose to other wounds than those inflicted by the clench.
but he insisted that she should re- ed hand.-
i e    o cron his   oliteness,   " What shall be done with them now ?" said
a              inse   tis that his timid companion Ethington.
enI smoke a eigarreta    that the ladies of   Wilson made' a motion towards his pistols-
sn oked ; that such lips seemed to be but Lee shook his head, saying that in his o-
nunles  they hield a roll of the ion such a procedure would be unnecessar  as
~rax  tthey would'robably go their way peaceably, if
Jt e    i  vai thatnMarianna protested'that permitted, and doubtless, never trouble them
r4held- cigarett ,s in abhorreiice; thecourteous again.
0e rig o one for himself and another for  a"I can't forget the Alamo,"       t
d     ea                                            o    t      a     repliedthedrdufdotstiflingvolumes'of  r
choked h    g vmoke, ger, "and if we shouldn't whip the scoundrels
t            d                            to-morrow, you'll be pretty sure to have :more
the     ile  garetta 'from1 her in dis- trouble with these brave senores  but if
4 'ANand w th tears gathering in her bright e                        snohs '  bu; ifyou
st;  whtersgatheringinherghyes, say let them go, I wont object, though greater
g obe excused, which" the gentleman o.   1                                     r   r
t        exue         hhhgentleman o         villains never escaped their just deserts."
r4 4to do ;conditionally.   Inasmuch as the      The 'discomfited dons were allowed to    t
igarrettawas obnoxious to her 'li°sp she would   th 's
ceiainy  '           -upon :teir feet, and were 'respectively kicked
ertainly have no objection to receiving a salute into 'the open air by Wilson, who appeared to
. _i r    m so p ~er a person''s himself, take great 1 leasr
siio     r    ned hr'mre than thetonoervdsurin the exercise; and Ething-
±:; and raised     e ire of her ath   ,a n the ton observe d ha  te f o
r'father toa                        ae h f      a hefelo    who attempted 'to
.  h                ter° oa n        hefarMaianna smoke acigarcie
tc   iw   h Ihe could no longer restrain       a double ti                       garreceived
" in a e                  ou    porionof punishment.
s' 4  Yan '.he exclaimedstarting fiom his"   Wheq'        s
at   esisfomIhsillWstrhaenle!                     quietness' was somewhat restored, our
.I ido   i   ine     y son the hero had opportunity to o ervet
~4!"Adt~nhe addted aing his fashingtetyo                           bee the obj ect of
es       gues to se ngers passion at his leisure, and was glad..
TV- dav  akenough of  s  cabelleiros. I  se      he;c    rs.adnot been overrated
o' '1i'r adI                           y him;, and' .in fact, ' he soon came to the cn
I 6der you to elusion 'thathe prsohal advantage  r     d-
aaout  ly                        edthe eaptain' description.' Her symmetrical
he      l                o           e  re         neither too short nor too tall, not lacking
tee~   aqarelfo  helat af otr, ndinemopoit nor yet so pethoric 'at'be

I

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

29

4
l

handsome, oval face, and above all, her dark, held in mortal aversion, which was amply recip-
and eloquent 'eyes, made Ethington think of rotated by the former.
Andrea St. Aubert.                            Immediately the cheerfulness of Mariana
The pallidness produced by her recent terrors, disappeared, and all parties felt embari-assed
had given place to a slight flush resembling the and ill at ease, save the new-comer, who with a
ruddiest carnation of a blush, which rather en- careless " good evening," seated himself as near
hanced her beauty than otherwise. The cere- the young-lady as possible, and began to eon-
mony of introduction to the father, mother, and verse with her with a freedom that 'was quite
daughter was quickly gone through with, and provoking to the1 Kentuckian. With :an 'easy
the latter, though evidently embarrassed, was and off hand manner, he talked of every subject
soon led into an agreeable conversation ; while of interest, favoring the ranger with many con-
the captain, so valiant in the hour of danger, temptuous glances and cutting innuendoes.
had suddenly become as silent as a bashful    " Do you vegetate in these parts, stranger?"
maiden. Strange are the doings of the winged he asked, at length, addressing himself to Wil-
little boy with the bow in his hand, and the son.
uier of arrows at his back!  -              " I calculate I don't," replied the latter.
Mrs. Lee was still in the prime of life, and  "Belong to the army, perhaps?"
enough of beauty yet remained to show that    " Perhaps I do," rejoined Wilson, drily.
the daughter was fairly entitled to hers. The "Every brave man goes to the field to fight fk*
James they were informed, had started his rights. I take it that you don't belong to
that very evening to join the forces of Houston, the army, Mr. Cogshell," added the ranger,
and Mrs. Lee bespoke the kindly offices of the emphasizing the name, which he designedly Mp&amp;;
ranger, should her boy be wounded while, con- bounced wrong
tending for the liberty of Texas. Wilson felt  "My name is Cogswells-and I do not abeog
himself but too happy to promise all that she to the army. The ranks are so full.of  age
could desire, and a grateful look from Marianna bonds and ragamuffins, that it's noplacefor
more than rewarded him for his protestations, gentleman," retorted Cogswell, sneeringly.
and caused the tell-tale blood to mount preci-  " If the Texan army is cemposed of such
a            sun-burnt cheeks.                aterials as you mention, stranger, I should
pAs th      ig advanced the captain -ot the think it would be the very place for you, said
As the eveningavn  cehecptag         e
better of his timidity in some measure, and ven- the ranger, eyeing Cogswell savagely.
tured to make a few common-place remarks to       fight on my own hook,     rejoed th
Marianna, who replied so courteously that he other.
wa -igl  eli ghted.                      "If you'll jest take your hook and comec with
Matters were progressing  thus pleasantly me, I'll give you a specimen of Old Kentuck
when there was a new arrival, which marred that'll make you see stars and other heavenlt
when there wa                       bodeesa"raddedwhWilson.
all the captain's pleasure, and caused a deep bodies, added Wilson.
p1                               "  emember there are ladies present, iei
frown to appear upon his usually open lrow.    "REh     t
The last comer was a man about Wilson's age posed Ethmagton.
and size; but possessing none of his frankness " And the fairest the Lone Star' can boa
.of character,-and but a small share of his manli- of," said the ranger, with a desperate effort.
nsangodlooks.                             'Cdogswell frowned more darkly than ever, an,
He was introduced as Mr. Cogswell. Ething- darted a furious look at thecaptain.d k
ton noticed that the two exchanged glances Marianna was much agitated, and looked m
which were anything but friendly ; apd it was ploringy at Ethington.            men
quickly apparent to him, thata i athe  persoae swillhave no uarreinggentleme,


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

ture from the latter, Marianna arose and left would be sorry, and Marianna Lee wouldn't
the room, while Oogswell sat glaring at the Ken- trouble herself to shed a single tear for you."
tuekian like some half-taned animal escaped    "When I fight," replied Cogswell, Colorn
from its keepers.  Approaching his face to Wil- "it shall be in the daytime, and with friend
son's, he said, in alow, determined voice: - present to see fair play.  One thing is certain
" This is no place for you. The man who you will hear from me sooner than will pro
comes here to see tie bright eyes of Marianna, agreeable. I am your enemy to the death and
will have to deal with Tim Cogswell"         as such, we will meet again."
"'And do- you think to frighten an alligator  With a low and insulting laugh, Cogswel
from Old 4Kentuck with such silly bravado ?" arose and left the house.
-.replied, Wilson, in" the same tone. "If you   " He fears the Kentucky rifle," said Ethin
have anything of that kind to say, meet me with ton.
'the rifleor the bowie knife, and settle it like a  " He's a coward, or he wouldn't have refused
man. There a-e plenty of places hereabouts such an offer," replied the ranger.
where such a thing can be done in a quiet busi-  The conversation now took a more agreeale
tress sortof way.  And perhaps, come to think turn, and Mr. Lee- earnestly strove to make is
on it, the affair might as well be arranged now visitors forget the unpleasant incident which had
a~s any time. We crossed a field, not a great just occurred. .Promising to give him the very
,iitfance from:here, which would be just the earliest intelligence of the fate of the battle, out
thing. Isee you've got your shootin' iron with two friends departed, and directed their foot-
tou; suppose you take it and follow me.   If steps towards the Texan bivouac.  The camp
u should pop me over, my lieutenant would fires had gone out.    A   deeper silence rested
be promoted, and there would be one Kentucky upon the motionless figures of the weary soldiers,
lad the less, and I shouldn't be standin' in any- broken only by the slow tread of the entinels
Jody's way.  On the other hand, if you should who kept sleepless vigils over those who were to
be sped, why, it's my candid opinion nobody decide the fate of the  Lone Star "so soon.
1               -s

1

r

L11APTER          .
TE-BATTLEeoruSAtcdJACINTOM
H1E sun of the twentieth of April arose was only one voice that could i s  i tio
With undimmed splendor, aid his beans like spirit, and set his stout limbs in notion.
withundimedThe defenders of Texas were under arms, un -
were reflected lightly from the burnished arms Te                     rm
o te h e patient for the enemy to advance; but all was
The general-in-chief was already in the saddle, quiet withinthe Mexican lines, and they.showed
the banner of the " Lone Star " was floating no disposition to come to an engagement.
proudly and defiantly in the morning breezes,  The general consulted with his officers on the
and the columns of Texas were forming min te expediencyofatcighe         nm.     o    o
order of battle.                             the six field officers who constituted the conclne,
While these stirring scenes were progressing, opposed the idea of an attackwith all their w
Hoidston was seen confrring with a well known er, representing that the great disparityof num
personage who passed in camp, by the name of bers, the advantages of the enemy's position,
Deaf Smith;. a man with a brave heart, a strong and his superior discipline, rendered the, meas
hand, and willing to execute the commands of ure too hazardous to be thought of.  Two only,
his superior officer, even to the death. In a werein favor of the movement, and not: fearful
moment after, Ethington saw  Smith, with two of the consequences. of advancing in an opA
olished axes, standing at a little distance from  prairie and charging a disciplined army with
he fast filing ranks, with his eyes fixed steadily raw soldiery and two hundred bayonets.
the       general, as if awaiting some important  Having learned the opinions of his officers
order.   g                                   the general's next step was to ascertain the fel
oAre you going to fight with two, axes ?" ings of his men.,. They were found ready an
asked Wilson, somewhat sarcastically, as he willing to fight the enemy on  his own groud
,since they evinced no disposition to leaveta
Ba       Smith heeded him not ; for there   Considerable time had elapsed in these d ,


-06i

THE TEXAN BRAVO.
liberations, and it was three o'clock in the after-  In a moment, all eyes were directed to the
noon before the Texan troops were ready to towering figure   Hous    who apered h
move forward upon the enemy.                 front of the Texan linesmou nt
Once more they wheeled into line, the first erful horemounted upon a pow.
regiment, under the command of General Bur-    "Fellow-soldiers, count
leson, forming the centre ; the second undergo   ietows      es   countrymen., and friends
leso, frmin  th  cetre;thesecod uderof liberty, upon you rests the last hope of the
Colonel Sherman, the left wing; while the ar- 'Lone Star.' If you   e    the  e  of the
tillery under Colonel Hockley, and four com- rights of Texas will be serd, any, thel
panies of infantry, under Lieutenant Colonel return in peace and covered with glory, to your
1  Millard, took the right.  The whole of the Tex- wives, and sweethearts ed butho gl, you
an cavalry numbered but sixty-one, and these, never leave thisiel ealvutif you fail, you will
commanded by Colonel Lamar, occupied the ex- fate of Travis and hisvme.  uthe
treme right.                                   'At t''          i   e.
tree rght                          Atthis juncture, Deaf Smith was seen spur-
When all was in readiness for the attack the ring his horse madly towards the general swing-
general gave the order to Deaf Smith in a low ing an axe triumphantly over his head. Pull-
voice. Immediately he leaped upon a horse ing       his panting steed with a force that brought
which stood near him, and with his axes gallop- him upon his haunches, he addressed a few words
ed furiously away towards Vince's Bridge, fol- to the commander-in-chief.
lowed by Felix.                                 The latter drew forth his sword, and while it
The shrill tones of the fife, the clear, ringin  polished steel gl himed   and  whe its
notes of the bugle, and the din of the drum were added insae viea whihando  la dn the in,
iiow heard along .the Tea   iewihwr          iet       voice which rang out. along the like
noonear motong and  Texan lines, which were like the toneslof a deep-toned trumpet  -
soon in motion, and moved steadily until within  "Fellow-soldiers, ou  aetise    ome
two hundred yards of the enemy's breast-works. the dictator-odis yiou have thirsted to meet
'0aetain' Wilson with the Rangers had taken behold theor as cmemo 'T tr    ;antd 
hiss .sition oin                the rgto  h  ea  nat - h our has come®  The tyrant is before
hi*ot o    n the right of the Texan infantry you;" there' is no retreat ;  ou must lig ht.
nd'dvanced on foot.    Ethington shouldered Vince's Brid is cut reaw -     nmst rgh
is~i'ile and jdined'them, resolved to " do his is ours.  I ask no manto    ireor exert him-
,devoirtl~ke a brave man, strike another blow  self more than I do.  H  o  worlexerthhim-e
for liberty;'and avenge his fallen comrades who hin   e and       Le who would; fight, e"
lept ini the 'smouldering ruins of the Alamo,  As the geeal      dipeaing, h :turne
and t Goiad.h'                         general ceased speaking, he turned
dt ia,- 'oss  n  adhis horse's head and shouting to his men, bore
Tenu nsy hssesd   an alliats  ."from  Old down into the teeth of the foe, while a loud and
~' 1menuok I"  aidCapainWilsn.."Yoderangry mm'tnir' like, the voice of many raters,
are bur, enemies.- You have got good rifles in arose fro  the Texanhlinesa  he y wae
K rdhand, and know how to use them.  Don't and fro an instant,and then followedtheir'lead-
until you are sure of your man; for we meet ers,each arm inspired with the strengtoow of three
tbe feone to three, and that's considerable of his enemies.piredembe the    Alao! re-
bd ; 'but do your'duty, and we will whip them  member the Alamo   !andthe heart o      re
they wonit forget the Rangers whileth     T     r   e    aio.    ndtehar of every
mtey wnforget thefRaners  whithey re- Texan swelled with indignation, and their eyes
is anything of an airthly nature."          flashed with fury as the battle-cry passed from
Tiseloue t andh s hou l- - patriotic 'speech mouth to mouth, inciting alto deeds of prowess,
wanen. i    ,     -      '.e                e almost without a precedent in the annals of
war.
'K "Here comes the general,-riy lads," added  Tahe enm         reevdtels       oeo     h
the captain. "Listen, and'let us hear what he "Lone Star," rawneived thelat horer. Afthe
in oig t sy?                 ,   heditance of sixty yards thyafire

f

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

upon the advancing Texans ; but their aim was c1
bad, and most of the leaden hail whistled harm- g
lessly overtheir heads.
" Steady, men i reserve your fire until the li
word is given 1" thundered Houston, and well
each man obeyed.  When within pistol shot of t
the Mexican columns, the word "fire " was r
shouted along the Texan lines, and al deadly b
volley was poured into the enemy's ranks, pros- I
trating them as the winds shake off the leaves a
in autumn.   .                               t
When they had discharged their pieces, they
did not pause to reload them, but rushing for--
ward upon the foe, broke them over their heads.c
This done, they drew their' pistols from their
belts, fired them" with terrible effect, and then
threw them  at those nearest them.  Then un-
sheathing their bowie-knives, they clambered'
over heaps of the slain, and plunged them to the
hilt in the bodies of those in the rear.  Thus
the work of slaughter went on, and the red
demon of carnage rode triumphant over that
prairie, so peaceful and bloodless an hour ago.,
The right and left-wing of the Mexican army
gave way before the irresistible -harge of' the
Texans; but the centre remained 'firm, and
strove with desperate energy to withstand the
shock. At this critical period Santa Anna pre
pared to charge the   Texan infantry at the
head of five hundred of his best mtn.  Houston
instantly pei-ceived-the danger,.and rallying his
men and putting himself at tmir head,-stood his
ground manfully, and shouting the battle-cry
once more, ordered themn, to fire.
"Take good aim !" cried Wilson to his Ran-
gers, and the command was well obeyed. When
the Te-ans poured forth their leaden storm once
more, but thirty-two out of the five hundred
who had prepared to charge them     remained
among theliving; aid they were instantly made
prisoners.
A  terrible panic  now  seized the enemy.'
They saw their comrades falling on every hand,
and felt that they had never encountered such
determined foes before.  Masses of the dead,
presenting a horrible memento of war, lay piled
up where their front ranks had received the

charge of the Texans, and' mounting over this;
hastly breastwork, those who remembered the
Alamo, plunged their reeking blades into the
giving men who fought behind them.
The prowess of hirelings was not proof against
he valor of soldiers who contended for human
ights ; they broke and fled, and the slaughter
ecame more fearful still.. Towards Vine's,
Bridge, the routed remnant of the dictator'a
rmy fled ; when they reached the spot where
hey had crossed, by straining every .nerve,
urged on by the flashing steel of the Texans,
and their mad battle-cry, their onsternation
cannot be conceived when they saw the stieai
rolling darkly on, spanned by no- bridge 'by'
which they could escape the fury of their con-
querors.
Some, with cries of mortal terror, threw them-
selves into the water, which, before they had
sunk for the last time, and while the pains of
suffocation yet held tihetni was stained witli. th
blood of their coinpaniioins in arms ; an hen
they went downto rise no more, the fi b1 -
ls that marked the spot where they: disapepOO
ed, were red'as the currents which had  arme
their own hearts. "Remember 'te e1no,'
were the last sounds that greeted the ears of'the
despaning wretches.
At the place where the bridge had 'been cut
away, many turned and fought, while' some fall
ing upon their knees, criel out in tone  at
long haunted the ears of Ethingfn, that they
were not at the Alamo. But what did that
avail with men who felt that they had}been
wronged past reparation, and by the' 'trea#tnen
which they had received from their foes, no lon;
er held to the usages of civilizd warfare
Excited by the scenes of the fight; and'"re°
calling what he had witnessed at 1d''i.t Alaaii
with a vividness but too real, Ethingto cheered
on his comrades and was foremost mnt herie
Side by side 'with Captain Wilson, 'atd followed
and imitated by the Rangers, he did his devoir
nobly, and when he. shouted the battle-ery, it
thrilled like electricity through the heart of
every man who heard it. Once when the en.
sign who bore the banner-a star on a red


84,                            THE TEXAN BRAVO.
round---was wounded and fell, ,he  uh
the    ne and with  '        ,  e rushed to here to fight," answered the stranger,
t e  own hand restored it,  "The d         u          ragoue  guty.
and struck down the daring fellow who had ata "Three ty is  ours !   shouted HoStr !"
tempted to capture it.                      A    rteenes three cheers for the Lone Star W
After the flight to Vince's Brid       - As the general spoke, the faithful horsbely
dent Occurred which well nigh proved fatal cto reeled and fell ttheoughthe  had beenruey
o  heagrnessoto.followu   h            by seven musket balls, but had nobly borne h
n ch heyagnedtofow up the advantage master until his last drop of blood was
fro the Rangers, and found         separated and sank down at the moment victory was co
fo thRagran     ond himself contending pletely won,.                        a  on
singly with overwhelminpgelymwon.
ming numbers.    Half a     The hero of San Jacinto
score of Mexican lances were instantly levelled wounded at the commencement of te  be,
at his person.  Ethington saw the danr but bund        n the mencemnts wthe battle
wasnot terrified. D   h      ad ngrdubutchad scorned to heed his hurts      w   e
e p d . w atut e  w n  t long  held  in  w as  so  m uch  at  stake  l e  w as  quickly  assisted
contempt, and was quite will to yield up his upon another steed, and the "three times three"
slife upon.awlfogtfedthefetietre?
 smiledgil uh f                  were given with right good will; and the fright-
-;  ie mild gimy upon his foes, and resolved cured, wretches who  hdsrvvdte coficht
.nhi fall to give them good cause toresovdndwtcswh           ha  survived the conflict
his        ie h   he cad o remember heard it with awe and wonder, for they knew bnt
retain.duringthe  conflict he ad  aged to little of'the enthusiasm of men who had devoted
anrufrom he clit,he dashedaside many their lives to the cause of freedom.
a thrustifromsharlance an btli btonet        thungonpaused and looked over the prairie
e  critical moment when the exertions of it was covered with the bodies of th  la
one could nodhope longer to be successful, the Horses and men la  n h es   v   er  i in
thigton had heard once before in The dead and th     eapsin  every direction.
t  our ;of b attle, reached his easaidtalhule dying were mingled con.
the hour o  battle, rached hisears amidst all fusedly together. In the distancafwtriie
tedm of conflict ; and immediately the                                   ce a few terrified
dn of  i                           tall  fugitives were  running.hither  and  thither,  enyg ov
ws see csattering the foe to daa                            ee:       t
hergtadtthletthe          hefreo      i  n      oigto conceal themselves in the prairie     w~
aided, army,. floebyeianthcaewd:to
followed by Felix and the captain of  As the excitement of battle passed away,   to
the Rangers. Ridgley gained the side of Ething- feeling of ecitemen took possssed of  i   th
On~~~~~~~ anfesaselatsgaegrun      ofd compassion took possession of Ethinr"-    in
ton, and his, assailants gave ground.toadheerdhislmnflyosayhe                              k
Go yer death, mass debbil!" cried Felix. slaughter.  eyh                               ki
Iurrasfor itMexicus and Texico !"           "Look there,                                  w
.,Jndebted to                     k"saidCaitao Walt
Iebe       you for a second favor," said ing u ward with hisdyp   son, point-       s
e hagton,. as Ridgley pressed to hi ieadrieph "l  bloody. sword.~ Walter v
e   i   as    e     re       his side, and raised his eyes and beheld two enormous ravens
"e                                      - Dn'tspeak of it," replied Ridleeing over the Scene of conflict, with their  hi
pDn'the   akoistu"gre i  r       coldly, beaks turned to the west., Wilson and several  w
}  p nah oit    r   r m hi   r w   n   t r i g o   h  rangers  raised  their  guns, to, fire  at,  the   w
attention to another part of the field-  birds oisingr a e theaw
soi atrls            a
am not so churlish as not to thank o y   "Hold !" exclaimed the          eti-.      vi
for your bravery," added Walter.            cally  " Th  ome     the general propheti-
'ant no thanks,  oungmn      Icm      thmac        oenia good one ;,it denotes         see
" anntugman.    came the maresoft/e empire westward."                  th
ho
ed
by
ha

THINGTON walked slowly towards the
t  bivouac of the previous night, to which
e soldiers, wearied of the work of slaughter,
ere returning in squads, without much regard
order. It was' now night, and our hero
ought of his appointment with Wikoff. Stretch-.
g himself by a fire which the Rangers had
ndled, and ; ordering Felix to awaken him
hen the moon had arisen, he was soon lost in
eep, dreaming of the horrors of the day, and
pry possibly of Andrea St. Aubert.
Faithful to his charge, the African awakened
s master at the time designated. Captain
Filson was seated near him, repairing his rifle,
which had been somewhat injured in the fight.
thington had already made him acquainted
th the strange appointment, and asked his
rvices, which were offered with that genuine,
ough rough cordiality, which characterized the
nest Kentuckian.
Provided with proper arms, they now repair-
I to the spot indicated by Wikoff. They stood
the waters of the San Jacinto-waters which
d quenched the flame of more than one life

that day. Occasionally there floated past them
some mournful remnants of the fight-.a hat, a
cap, some fragment of a garment, and anon a
lifeless body. While Ethington gazed upon the
inanimate clay, as it was being borne onward by
the current, he asked himself if it had ever 'en
shrined an immortal soul, and if so, what was
the fate of that soul? He turned from it with
a sigh, remarking :
- " How many that feared death as the greatest
evil, have found it since the sun crossed the
meridian ; while I, who have regarded it as a
friend that comes to hush up the sorrows of 'the
feverish heart, have been spared. Strange that
the bolts of death should pass me by, and spend
their force upon others. Inscrutable are the
ways of Providence."   I
The moon was looking down upon the river
with a tranquil light. The hour seemed :too
quiet for bloodshed, and was better suited to
meditation and serious thought, than to the busi-
ness which had called our hero aid his friend to
the spot.
Wikoff did not make his appearanceana

CHAPTER VI.
THE DUEL--AUGUSTUS HENRIE.


86                             THE TEXA
Ethington paced slowly up and down awaiting
him, while Wilson seated himself beneath an oak,.
thinking, doubtless of Marianna Lee. At the
expiration of half an hour, the figure of a man
emerged cautiously from the copse of trees. It
was Wikoff. He appeared disappointed when
he saw Ethington, and stood irresolute; but the
keen eyes of the ranger were fixed upon him,
and he instantly signified that they were await-
ing him.
"So you have survived the conflict ?" said
Wikoff, approaching Ethington.
" My presence seems to justify that conclu-
sion," replied the latter, coldly.
'It strikes me that you didn't expect to see
un, observed the captain.               '
" No matter what I expected," returned
Wikoff.  "I am here, and ready to proceed.
Have you brought weapons ?"
" I have," answered Wilson. " What dis-
tance do you propose ?"
"Twelve paces," said Wikoff.
" Arrange it as you will," added Ethington.
makes no difference to me."
The Kentuckian now paced off the ground.
"On which side do you intend to place me?"
asked Wikoff.
4 :Upon that nearest the river," replied the
" And.is that a specimen of your fairness'?
'  potest'against it, for my adversary will have
all the advantage of the light. No, sir, I will
not stand up tq be shot in that way. Measure
the ground in another direction, or let me have
hQ,.other side !" exclaimed Wikoff, with a scowl
Y  ftdisapprobation.
Don't show too much of the snappin' turtle,"
said Wilson, briefly.
"You had -better comply with his wishes,"
suggested Walter. The ground was now meas-
ured off according to the directions of Wikoff,
pad the parties tooktheir places. Wikoff found
fault with the weapons which the ranger had,
brought, and concluded to use his own; and
~his ,wa also agreed to by Ethington. Wilson
was to count three, and the word three was to
he the signalto, fire,

N BRAVO.
Ethington appeared as calm as usual, and be-
trayed no anxiety for the result. He had be.
held all the preparations unmoved, and in fact
with total indifference.- Not so with Wikoff;
his cheeks which were flushed when he first ap.
peared, were now pale to ghastliness; while a
sickly and sinister smile rested upon his lips,
Deadly hatred and hostility were vividly traced
in the expression of his whole visage. Though
his arm did not shake when he took his stand,
and tle weapons were placed in his hands, he.
was evidently suffering from some emotion, anx-
iety or fear.
" Now, gentlemen, do not fire until I have
pronounced the word three," said Wilson, tak.
ing a position equi-distant from the parties.
" Have you any word to leave for Andrea St.
Aubert ?" asked Wikoff, in a sneering tone to
Ethington.
" Captain Wilson, I am ready," said Walter,
calmly.
"Are you ready, sir ?" asked Wilson, turn-
ing to Wikoff.
" All ready," responded the latter, with, the
same sinister smile.
" Then, gentlemen, remember the directions,
and fire. after the word. three, for I want this
thing to be done fair, and in a way that wouldn't
disgrace Old Kentuck itself.4
Wilson paused a moment, looked steadily at
the parties to see how they bore themselves;
and then proceeded, apparently well satisfied
with the deportment of Ethington.
"Gentlemen, I shall now give you the word:
One!"
There was no change perceptible in the fea
tures or attitude of Walter ; but his antagonist
grew paler, if possible, and smiled more fright-
fully.
"Two!"
Instantly Wikoff fired, in defiance of all the
rules of honor, before the word three had been
spoken. Ethington's arm fell to, his side, the
pistol dropped from his grasp, he tottered a step
and sank to the ground.
.With a hasty imprecation uporz Wikoff, who
turned and fled, the ranger ran to his friend and

raised him from the -earth. Walter looked up t
into the face of the Kentuckian, smiled sweetly,
and immediately became unconscious. Wilson
took him in his arms, and bore him swiftly to-
wards the Texan encampment, where a surgeon
was hastily summoned.
When Ethington's mind regained somethingI
of its former lucidity, he found himself in a dark-
cued room, lying upon a comfortable bed. He
heard soft footsteps and whispered words, like
those breathed in the chamber of the sick. A
young lady was seated near his bedside, whom,
upon closer scrutiny, he discovered to be Marian-
na. Our heras conscious of being very weak,
and was sensible that he must have been very
ill. He glanced silently about the apartment
once more, but saw no familiar object, with the
exception of the maiden.
" Marianna'?" he said, in a feeble voice.
Instantly a gleam of satisfaction passed over
the face of the young lady.
"Then you remember me, at last !" she ex-
claimed.  "I am glad to see your consciousness
returning. Yqu have been very ill, and we
have sometimes despaired of your life."
"And, I am indebted to you for much -good
nursing, and probably my life," he added.
Marianna was about to make a reply, when
the door was opened, and a youth entered with
light and noiseless footsteps. It needed no se-
cond look to assure him that it was the same
that he had seen 'with Ridgley, though dressed
in different style. He now wore a black frock,
and pants, of fine fabric, and which fitted very
neatly to his person, and became him well; -and
together with a light buff vest, silk neck tie, and
Byron collar; all adjusted with a graceful negli-
gence, gave him rather a dandyish appearance.
Walter was prejudiced against the lad at the
first glance, and though he could not but ac-
knowledge that he was very good looking, he
turned his eyes from him, mentally resolving to
notice him as little as common courtesy would
possibly allow.
" To this kind youth you are much indebted
for your recovery," said Marianna. "It is
SAugustus Henrie, a cousiA' of mine ; who,
38.

though he has his eccentricities, is a very b
cellent lad at heart. I assure you, Mr. Etbing4
ton, his attentions have been unremitting.
Ethington reluctantly turned his eyes towad
the youth again.
"I am very much obliged to you, my youna
friend, I am sure, and hope I may be permitted
to acknowledge the kindness in a more substin-
tial way," he said, with considerable effort.
Augustus Ienrie averted his eyes ;modestly,;
and appeared confused; buttrallied immediately#
and replied with tolerable grace and assurance:
"To tell the truth, sir (which they say mst
not be spoken at all times), I have done bit'ra
very little to contribute towards your recovery,
or happiness ; and to my fair cousin, Marianna,
you owe all your thanks."
Walter fixed his gaze once more upon the
large, dreamy eyes of Augustus, and deterinm
ed yet again not to like him.
"I evidently owe a debt of gratitude: to seao
person or persons, and I am content to- pay the
larger share to Marianna. Will that do; .in
lad ?"
"I am content," replied Augustus.  "But'
how is this'?  I did not expect to find your-i
tional. It gives me great pleasure to see:yop
thus."
"How long have I been' ill?" asked Ethingf1
ton, turning to Marianna.
-"-The battle of San Jacinto wassfought th'ee
days ago," she replied.
"It has not seemed as many hours."
"Probably not, which is a very good thing,
as you were not sensible of your sufferings and
danger."
"Have I talked very wildly'?" he asked,
anxiously.
" You have talked considerably, and that
question reminds me of what the physician told
me ; that I must not permit you to talk much if
you should recover your consciousness. I must
now enforce obedience."
"I shall endeavor to submit gracefully," he
replied, with a faint smile ; " for to tell the
truth, I do not feel very strong."
Augustus now withdrew, and Walter was

'HE TEXAN BRAVO.


TER- TEXAN: -RAVO.

to-be alone again-with, his fair nurse. He
kaslk smiling:
" Isaoulds like that boy better, if lie were not
or f\ppishb"f
He's a good-hearted  creature,"  replied
aianna; "and I hope you will beceoie very
eo&amp;iendst"
Dhington nowi inquired about Captain. Wil-
on, abdlearned that. he had been wounded, by
hot; from any unknown marksman ; and that
efithfu;1elix:was unremitting in his atten-
Marinna would. allow; him to. ask no more
Astibna;andhe was; forced to content:himself
itswhat informationhe had gained. Wearied
xitthexe tion of- talking, ho: sank into a re-
reshing sleep, the first he had experienced for
seera days. He awoke in. the:course of the
nsiing night, anadsaw. Augustus, watching he-
ide him. He took. some medicine from- his
hafid attendant, and, did not awake again
peilsiepr(morning; when the youth. was still
ing#,ythe bedvery-patiently.
Ethington observed him for a moment through
is aif shut lids. h  was, sitting by a.,small
ableswihis elbow. upon it,? and his forehead
mpsing. inthe:palmof his hand. , His features
here regular, quite pale, though very comely to
op id(nnaid some. strayringlets of his long,
lack, curling hair rested.upon.his cheek.
aDpi the antipathy whichaEthington had
taken to Augustus, he was candid enough to'
wdmit there was something interesting and at.-

tractive about him, which under other circum-
stances might. ,have won. his friendship; but he
could not forget that he had;twice seen him with
Ridghey. Walter's heart accused him, of ingrat.
itude.. Had not this. youth befriended him,
and passed many sleepless hours by his couch of
suflbring 2 He resolved to conquer his, pre-
judice.
In a kindly voice he urged the boy to retire,
or allow Felix. to take. his place.  Augustus
assured him that he felt no weariness, but if he
preferrd. the. society of his colored servant, he
would leave hin. Ethington answered that he
must. be sadly in want of sleep, and under the
circumstances- he should prefer Felix.  The
youth withdrew, and as his light, and symmetri..
cal figure disappeared, Walter sighed, and felt
that he was ungrateful to the kind and unpre-
suming lad.
Felix manifested unfeigned joy. at the pros-
pect of his master's recovery, which: he. had
hitherto despaired of, and declared-his fixed in-
tention of punishing Captain Wilson for leading
him intodanger.  He said he should " 'spress
hisself freely on that subjeck, and teach Massa
Kentuck to promulgate," in a different direc-
tion.
Ethington-now. learned, with much satisfac-
tion,. of the 'capture of- Santa Anna.  Felix
described very minutely his appearance, and the,
interview with General Houston, in which, he
styled himself, in the, true spirit;of arrogance,
the "Napoleon of the. West."

T   IME   passed on.  April came with its
showers and sunshine.  It was a warm,
clear day ; the sun had passed the meridian.
A man was standing upon the east bank of the
Nueces river, looking thoughtfully into the
water. Just above him, on the right, was a
thick chapparel, and below was a broad strip
of bottom-land or interval.
He turned slowly and walked towards the
latter, and approaching the water, commenced'
washing out his rifle, While he was thus em-
ployed, another person appeared at the extremi-
ty of the bottom-land, and after scrutinizing him
for a few seconds, advanced, though not without
some hesitation.
"Washing out your shootin' iron ?" he ob-
served, when within a few yards of the individual
first mentioned.
" Yes;" replied the party addressed, gruffly.
"It don't require much penetration to see
that."-
" I think I shall follow your example," added
the other, nothing daunted by the very courte--
ous reply.

"As you will; there is plenty of water."
" So it would seem," replied the new-coiner,
somewhat testily ; and immediately set u
cleansing his rifle.
The other party completed his task; and sit-
ting down upon the grass, observed the stranger
with considerable interest.
"Perhaps you belong to the R ng rs?" h
remarked, at length.
" Perhaps I don't," was the briefirejoinder:
"Did'you fight at San Jacinto?"
"I can't say that I did particularly. I look
out for number one, principally."
"That's the rule I go upon, and I find it
works very well. I hope you wont be offended
if I ask your name ?"
"You seemed to be rather short with me just
now, but I don't mind telling you my= ide.
I am called'Cogswell."
" A very good name, I am sure.  Iii retiil
for your politeness, I would say that xhymname
is Wikoff."
"Rather interesting news," said'Cg wll,
squinting rather comically.'

CHAPTER VII.
WIKoFF AND CoGsWELL.


0                THE TEXAN BRAVO.

lyikoff smiled, and asked if he had been long
in that part of the country. Cogswell replied
that he had not.
"It appears somewhat singular,"   added
Wikoff; "that you do not take part in the
struggle now going on between the Texans and
t   Mexicans'?"
"I have business enough of my own to at-
tend to," answered Cogswell, with a scowl.
Some enemy to punish, or possibly some
fair girl to woo," replied Wikoff, lightly, at the
same time watching the countenance of Cogs-
rell with the greatest interest.
With a quiet smile of satisfaction he saw the
blood rush tumultuously to his face, and knew
that he had touched the right chord at last.
- " Stranger, you seem to be rather inquisitive,
but in your last remark you wasn't far from the
truth. I have an enemy to punish, and there
Us a fair maiden I would win."
"Spoken like a brave fellow   and a true
ran 1" exclaimed Wikoff, with warmth. "I
perceive that you are made of the right kind of
material. I see plainly that we are destined to
beome good friends, and who knows but we
iny be of mutual service to each other ; for I
also have an enemy to punish."
. ive us your bread-hook !" said Cogswell,
with some enthusiasm. "You're a smart chap,
ap#. we shall get on,well together."
" Very happy to make your acquaintance.
Our meeting appears to be quite providential.
I am glad you do not belong to the Rangers."
. Ihate the Rangers, and the captain more
than all."
IJgguess your secret ; he's your rival, doubt-
I own up to the charge," responded Cogs-
"Now this is a very singular coincidence, sir,
for the man whom I can endure least of all men
living als6 belongs to the Rangers,. or at least
eis:with then. The captain's name is Wilson,
I believe ?"
"I have met him," contioned Wikoff.

"lHe's much attached to a harum scarum
fellow, sometimes called the 'Texan Bravo,'
but whose name I think is Ethington."
"That's my man," added Wikoff, contract-
ing his brows fiercely.
"He was wounded in a duel, I heard, and
came near dying. Perhaps you're the chap
that drew trigger upon him ?"
'I have rio wish to deny it.. I only regret
that my aim was not better. Sit down here,
and I will speak plainly. I once loved a maid-
en; her name was Andrea. St. Aubert. A
favorable opportunity offered and I declared my
passion. The result you have doubtless antici-
pated. I was rejected. A short time after, I
saw her with a young gentleman. . I inquired
his name, and was told that it was Walter
Ethington, a favored lover. This information
filled me with indignation, and I resolved to
break up the engagement in a way that would
be deeply humiliating to both, more especially
to Ethington. I accordingly set my wits at
work, and succeeded as well as I could have
wished. The particulars of the plot by whIch I
accomplished my purpose, I will not at this time
divulge. Grieved and mortified at the-supposed
perfidy of Andrea, Ethington carne to Texas and
joined in the struggle against te dictator of,
Mexico.
When the surprise of Miss Aubert had in
some measure subsided, I again ventured to re-
new the old subject, and was more decidedly
rejected than before. Soon- after this event she
suddenly disappeared, and it was rumored that
she had gone to visit an uncle residing in Texas.
Determined to carry my point, I immediately
came hither, resolved that if I cquhl not sue-
ceed in winning her affections, to be near to
prevent any explanation between her and her
lover."
"And perhaps do more than that," added
Cogswell.
"That is true ; I would," replied Wikoff.
"I cannot tolerate him-he is a serpent in my
path. I would place my. heel upon him and
destroy him."

I

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

F

There is every chance for you to do so,'
answered Cogswell. "The Rangers are en
camped only a couple of miles below here, and
he is with them. It would be easy to surpris
him in his walks, and-"
"I understand ; but there is a colored fellow
with him, who scarcely ever leaves him, and it
would be more difficult to deal with him than
with his master."
"Serve him the same way," said Cogswell.
"And what will you do with Captain Wil-
son ?" asked Wikoff.
"Just what you would do with Ethington, if
you had him in your power. Have you found
this Miss St. Aubert yet'?"
Wikoff hesitated a 'moment, and then an-
swered:
"I have reason to suppose that I have ; but
I will not speak of the subject at this time, for
reasons of my own. If Ihave found her, I will
keep my own secret, for the present. And now
let us devise some method of carrying out our
mutual wishes in regard t6 these two men, whom
we consider our enemies."
To this proposal Cogswell readily assented ;
the two then proceeded to plan a nefarious
scheme for the destruction of Ethington and
Wilson.  The conversation continued for a long
time. The parties came to a very good under-
standing, and appeared mutually pleased with
each other. But Wikoff was evidently the
shrewdest of the two; he had the deepest knowl-
edge of human nature, and sufficient skill to
make a mere tool of Cogswell.
When everything had been talked over and
arranged in regard to their future proceedings,
they walked towards the spot where the Texan
Rangers were encamped.
It will be well for us to remark in this place,
that after the capture of Santa Anna, most of
the Mexican forces had withdrawn to the west
side of the Rio Grande ; but quietness and or-
der was by no means restored to the frontiers
of the Lone Star. Bexar was still harassed by
marauding parties-of the enemy, and by lawless
banditti, who carried on a kind of guerrilla war-
fare, to~the great annoyance of the inhabitants.

The Rangers had accordingly been stated
- there to punish offenders, and preserve pae
l and order. It will be seen by the foregoing
e that our hero had recovered from his wounds,
and had accompanied the party to whoi he had
become attached, and whose dangers he had
t shared at San Jacinto.
As Wikoff and Cogswell neared the encaui
meant they advanced with more cautiousness, and
when they came within sight of it, conealed
- themselves from observation in some museiit
bushes.
f   It happened to be the hour on which the
Rangers were wont to parade ; accordingly they
were formed and went through various eolia-
tions in fine style, , after which they practised
target shooting.
Whether Wikoff and Cogswell did not expe-
rience sensations of shame at seeing those braves
men disciplining themselves in warlike arts, in
order to defend their country and repel tyraniiy,
we do not know ; but it is certain tht they
should have felt such emotions, if theirsouls get
retained a single spark of patriotism.
At a short distance from the company sted.
Ethington, observing their evolution  with-1
terest ; and near him was the faithful Felix'
"There," said Wikoff, pointing at ,1ie for-
mer, ",you behold my enemy."
"And I must say that he is not a bad lok-
ing man," replied Cogswell. "Thoujh like
him not, he has a fine figure, a pleasing cunte-
nance, and the reputation of being rashybred ;
qualities which are very likely to make him a
dangerous rival.
Wikoff muttered something' indistin 4e-
tween his teeth, and glanced indignantly at hi
new friend.
"You do well to try to get him out of tine
way, if Andrea St. Aubert is inclined to love
him," added Cogswell.
Wikoff bit his lip and remained moodily sent.
The former resumed.
" That straight, independent looking fellow
is the captain of the Rangers. He is as hateful
to my sight as the 'Texan Bravo' can',. to
yours. He bears upon his person a  oudof


.0j."ing; niay the second one prove .more
des   d diadly.. And then---"
The 'most difficult part of the business re-
,n i erto be done;" interrupted Wikoff.
# e  What is that!?" asked Cogswell.
"T'o win Mrianna Lee."
Cogswell sighed heavily, and gave utterance
rething that sounded like an oath; for he
fajtuh astness ofthe-remark.
4ilAt that moment Felix was observed to leave
i  ;a wster's side and walk up the river. He
passed the spot where Wikoff and his ally were
n9 #1d, singing a favorite negro melody.
od f Let'us-follow him," said Wikoff, and the
wythy pair immediately left their hiding-place,
Ti4 eted upon the suggestion.' Felix saunter-
ed on for the distance of half a mile, wholly un-
esejiusthat :his.movements were watched.
Let us seize hin,'" added Wikoff.
' *greed," said the other, and both rushed
pt peliz ;and caught him by the arms ; he
*aiggWe violently, and shook them off. - Wikoff
jstmtly levelled his rifle &amp;t the African's head,
and threatened to shoot him, if he.did not sub-
ilpeeea ly to their wishes. Felix looked at
4 twppesentedri-fle with alarm, and asked what
they: vted.
So e awith i, and do not resist," replied
Wikoff.  "Tie his hands, Cogswell, and if he
, ;will shoot him."
(ogawell;took the belt which he wore about
y  i     t  , an d  Approached  Felix.  T he  latter
es Magds, and when the former was
"i'At y near, seized him  with A powerful
grasp and instantly thrust his- body between
WieF and lmaelf.

bN BRAVO.

4'

"Fire, massadebbil --go yer death !" cried
Felix, while heimade ashield of Cogswell, who
struggled in vain tofree himself from the strong
arms which held him. This demonstration on
the part of the negro put Wikoff in a rage, and
he would gladly have shot him down without
remorse, could he have done .so without danger
to Cogswell; but he:could not, and it was in
vain that he tried.
"Knock him over the head with the breech
of your rifle; crack his skull !" exclaimed
Cogswell,
" rSpress yerself ; promulgate," said Felix,
watchingithe movements of Wikoff attentively,
who, resolved to follow Cogswell's advice, now
cautiously approached the negro with his weapon
upraised.
The moment came for which Felix had waited;
he raised his great fist, dashed Cogswell to the
earth,.4nd with a shout sprang upon Wikoff.
With his left hand he arrested the descending
weapon, and with the other struck a tremendous
blow against the forehead of Wikoff, who fell
down like an ox that was stricken with a butch-
er's axe.
"Go it,, white folks ! Yah, yah! ,Heah,
heapi!" The next moment at culledd ,nder-
vidooal," resembling Felix more than any other
person, was seen running very rapidly towards
the camp of the Texan Rangers.
When Wikoff and Cogswell .recovered some-
what from the shock which they had received,
they raised themselves slowly upon their elbows
and gazed lugubriously into- the faces of each
other.

1     T r     G   - t    (     t
5 Y  '   A    XF?         "
f     ( t
t
T "       t ,

F the reader will consent to accompany us to
San Antonio de Bexar, we will make him
more intiinately acquainted with characters who
have hitherto been kept in the back ground, or
only casually noticed.
We are informed upon credible authority that
the only places occupied by a white population
in 1821, were the Spanish posts of San Antonio,
Nocadoches and (loliad, comprising in all about
three thousand inhabitants. Not long after, in
consequence -of the inducements held out to set-
tiers, there was an extraordinary influx of em-
igrants from the United States.
Many of those who sought homes in the new
country carried with them slaves. Mr. Ridgley
was among the early emigrants from the great
republic. He haid settled at San Antonio, and
accmulateda handsome property by industry
and attention to business.
It is known that in 1832 the people pf Texas
formed a State Cpnstitution, and tried to obtain
from the MXkican Congress an :admission into
the :confederacy, as an1 independent State. The
refusal resulted in an appeal to arms, and after

that period, San Antonio de Bexar hd3 uIlit
tle rest and tranquillity ; it was subject eii_
tinual alarms and invasions from.the enen
and fell into their possession several times.._
Mr. Ridgley, having taken an active:pa In
the war policy, was obliged on several; occasions
to seek safety in flight, and bore arms  gsinst
the invaders more than once.
When the enemy were driven out, he retri-
ed to look after his affairs and repair damaes;
for war always leaves the imprint of his destgy-
ing handuppon everything which falls i d 4s
way.
Mr. Ridgley owned an elegant unasio4t
San Antonio, which had miraculsusly escaped
destruction during all the vicissitudes fi the
sanguinary struggle, and we now find him oc-
cupying it with his family.
It was the evening of-the day sueeeed g the
events of the last chapter. A gentle-moon ad
bright silvery stars illuminated, the reh of the
overhanging ski s. Two young odies we e
walking -arm in arm in the ;gardei at ehog fto
Mr. Ridgley's establishmeht.  Both wer0 a

CHAPTER VIII.
ANDREA ST. AhBERT-THIE RING.


4

THE TEXA
little above the medium height, well-formed
and graceful, and bore a striking resemblance
to each other. One was Andrea St. Aubert--
our heroine-and the other, her cousin Rosalia,
Mr. Ridgley's only daughter.
"If I thought," said Andrea, looking timidly'
at her companion, "that I had overstepped the
bounds of maidenly reserve and modesty, I
should indeed be deeply mortified."
"My fair cousin," replied Bosalia, earnestly,
"highly endowed as you are with good sense
and noble sentiments, it is quite impossible that
you should or could have done aught to cause
you a single sigh of regret or blush of shame.
"'it is said that each one of us has an angel, and
that he keeps a record of all our worthy actions,
and I am sure there has been something good
accredited to you by his ready pen long before
 this hour-.-thoe very deeds which you are now
disposed to blush and cry about."
A. tear of gratitude moistened the dark eyes
of Andrea ; she. pressed her friend's hand in
silence.
Nkid 4I been placed in your circumstances,
uin; I should have attempted to do just
ttyou accomplished 'so nobly.' You have a
deep conviction that there has been a cruel mis-
i 4^  standingon 'the part of-of-"
Walter," added Andrea, softly.
' On=the part 'of Walter," said Rosalia ;
"resulting from the jealousy or malice of some
9eon unknown. As your conscience acquits
Bitf'giving any realcause of offence, you -have
titjyout duty to be friendly to him still, and
lieti, iftpossible, the, reason of his strange de-
sertion of one so dear as you must have been to
3ihy Ir I believe that few young gentlemen
6a see}you without-"
"Rush,'osalia ;  don't flatter me," said
Audea    A.                        ..
"You have learned that he still loves you,
tkongikfully of thea opinion that you were false
't'yeurprofessions of attachment. In the hour
'Mit jo'bitter disappointment, you came hither
'to@ind'bit consolationiyou might in' y friend-
'#hip; thsit was not- wrong, certainly. 'Soon
safterlyoui learned, by various ways and inean's,

.N BRAVO.

that- your false lover was here, fighting in the
Texan army with rash daring, seeking death in
the thickest - of- the fight, doing prodigies of
valor, and providentially escaping unharmed on
most occasions. All that took place 'afterward
was done with my approval, and the consent of
my father,, your uncle ; for he said, 'it was a
pity that two young -'persons who loved each
other, should be separated by a trifling misun-
derstanding.' Believing as he does in your in-
nocence, be assured that he is too proud and
noble to compromise you, in any manner what.
ever ; and if the truth were known,-has been
rather severe with Ethington than otherwise.
I am certain that he required your lover to re-
turn and ask your pardon upon his kftees."
"I am sure he ought to," replied Andrea,
with a smile.
"And I predict that he will, when the truth
is known," added Rosalia.
" Hark !" said Andrea. " I thought I
heard some one climbing over the wall.".
"Where ?" asked Rosalia.
"There-in that direction," answered An-
drea.
" Let us walk towards the spot," said the
other.
" No let us retire to the house, rejoined her
cousin ; but Rosalia drew her along with gentle
force towards the spot indicated.
"Don't be alarmed, fair ladies,' said a voice.
"Pardon this intrusion."  The figure of a tall
man emerged from the shrubbery which grew by
the wall, and stood before the two girls. He
lifted his hat and bowed very low.
"Come away," whispered Andrea -to her
companion.,
" What is your wish, sir ?" asked .losalia.
"To speak a few words with Miss St. Au-
bert,'' replied the intruder. ' Will you dome
the favor to retire a moment, that I may address
her alone ?"
"No, sir, I will:not ; she has no secrets that
she would keep from me. If you have aught to
say, speak on, or leave us instantly."
"You are pleased to be severe with me,"
said 'the man.

THE TEXA
"Do you know   this rude person ?" asked
Rlosalia, turning to Andrea.
"1His voice sounds familiar. I should say
that I had met him  somewhere ; but if so, I
have no desire to renew the acquaintance," re-
plied Andrea, with a slight shudder.
"You hear what Miss St. Aubert says," add-
ed Rosalia, firmly.
"I do," returned Wikoff, with another bow.
"I once presumed to speak to Miss St. Aubert
on a certain subject. She was pleased to dis-
courage my hopes, and I submitted to my fate
as best I might. Since that time I have strug-
gled with my .unhappy passion, and I trust.I
shall overcome it; at least I shall trouble her
no more with the recital of my love ; it were a
useless task, and painful withal, and I came not
hither to speak of it. I have come to bid her
adieu forever."
"It is Wikoff !" exclaimed Andrea, trem-
blin violently.
"Yes, it is that unhappy man,"     sighed
Wikoff.  " Suffer me to kneel but one moment
at your feet-to press your hand once more to
my lips, and then you will be spared the pain,
of seeing me again in this world of vicissitude
and suffering."
While Wikoff was speaking, he advanced
quickly, caught the hand of Andrea and sank
upon, his knees, pressed it hastily to his lips,
and seemed loth to relinquish it.
"Go, sir, go !" cried Andrea, much disturb-
ed at this unlooked for demonstration. " Leave
me, I entreat of you, and let me never behold
you again ; your presence makes me miserable ;-
I cannot be happy near you."
Wikoff released her hand, and arose from his
humble posture, while our heroine clung ner-
vously to Rosalia for support.
" Duty to God and to you, Miss St. Aubert,
prompts me to say a few words more before I
tear myself from your presence forever. There
.is a certain person-I will not speak his name
in your pure ears--once favored with some por-
tion of your regard, who now vilifies your name,
and speaks it and causes it to be spoken where
it should not be heard. I have heard the name

N BRAVO.

45

of Andrea St. Aubert coupled with the rude
jest and ribald song in yonder camp, and my
blood has boiled to punish the villain."
"You mean Walter Ethington !" cried An-
drea, in tones of real anguish.  " You speak
falsely--it cannot be-it is not his nature."
"Alas," added Wikoff, solemnly, " how
prone is the trusting heart to deception. Far
be it from me to disturb your tranquillity of
mind, or trample upon the hopes which you still
fondly cherish. Time will test my friendship
and truth, though it cannot heal the wounds of
a broken heart. I could have wished, and have
wished, and do wish that this man whom you
have dleigned to love, were more deserving.of
your affections. He deserted you basely-most
basely-and seemed insensible of the happiness
of being beloved by an angel."
Wikoff paused, passed his hand suddenly
across his eyes, and then added, still more int-
pressively :
"Had this youmig man been worthy of-you,
I could have resigned all hope =of winning your
affections with half the internal strife it is cost
ing me ; but let that pass ; the ways of Heaven
are inscrutable. .Peerless Andrea, idol of my
soul ! I bid you adieu."
Wikoff bowed once more, and turning quick-
ly, disappeared from view.
"Courage," said Rosalia, supporting Andrea,
who was nearly unconscious, so much had she
been agitated by this strange scene. " He has
gone-we are alone."
"Forgive this weakness," said Andrea.
" The sight of that man always makes me mis-
erable. I instinctively shrink from him ; he
terrifies me ; he is evil; I know it by intui-
tion."
The young ladies now walked slowly towards
the house, Rosalia striving to re-assure and
comfort her friend with gentle and hopeful
words. Soon after entering the parlor, Andrea
discovered that a ring which she had worn upon
the third finger of her left hand, was no longer
there. She communicated the fact to Rosalia,
remarking that it was the only article in her
possession which had belonged to Ethington.


46                             THE TEXA
" Wikoff took your left hand," said Iosalia.
"And he has taken the ring," replied An-
drea; '. for I had it upon my finger when I
went into thegarden."
Inthis opinion, MissRidgley fully concurred;
she had observed that the ring was rather large,
aid couldeasily be slipped- off. This circum-
'.tance paused our heroine much pain, for she
highly valued the ring, and knew not what use
Wikeff might make of it ; and indeed she was
et a little vexed at his presumption in daring
to possess himself of it in such a manner.
While, she was reflecting upon this subject,
Mr. Ridgley made his appearance, bringing
news of considerable importance.  He had
.,,ard that there were a large number of Mexi-
cs, flitting sup and down the Nueces river,
watching for an'jpportunity to plunder San
oAntgnio de-hx'r.
"But tfe Texan :Rangers are encamped near
ts" said Rosalia. "Are they not sufficiently
dtiknto, defend the place ?"
" They are 'but -a handful of men, although
th r number has been doubled since the battle
ofMab Jacinto,:and the enemy are said to ex-
s edthem: greatly numerially---two to one, at
least,"replied Ridgley. "They are stimulated
ly h ehope.of plunder, and will fight better,
probably, than Mexicans are wont without this
Wwperful incentive. 1 had hoped that since the
decisive affair of San Jacinto, we should have

4

N BRAVQ.
peace ; but it would seem. that we are doomed
to disappointment. We have now to deal with
what appears a lawless banditti, having no other
aim than bloodshed and indiscriminate plun.
der."
" We must trust in the Rangers, my dear
uncle," said Andrea.
"And in God," added Ridgley, solemnly.
"Was it not.stipulated by Santa Anna, that
all his forces should withdraw to the west side
of the Rio Grande !" asked Rosalia.
"It was ; and the promise has been in a
measure fulfilled ; but those who are now -boy.
ering about Bexar, like hungry wolves, care
little for stipulations and :agreements ; - they
know no law but their own wills. They respect
no governments, ither human or divine, and
their masters are their own unrestrained desires,
If they would come out and attack us boldly,'
we should fear them but little, and have no
great difficulty in defending our own ; butthey
will watch their time -and fall upon us like'
thieves in the night,"
" Is the danger then so great ?" continued
Rosalia.
" I would not alarm you unnecessarily, but
leave you to draw your own inferences from
what I have stated."
Soon after-this conversation the family retired,
each unusually thoughtful, and anxious for the
future.-

WALTER ETHINGTON was consider-
ably surprised when Felix returned and
related his adventure with Wikoff and Cogs-
well, whom he described as accurately as possi-
ble; and our hero was not much at a loss to
determine who they were, and the object they-
had in view. Some portion of Walter's mis-
anthroiy had worn off, and he was heartily glad
that his'faithful friend had escaped so well. He
strongly advised him to be careful in his future
walks, always to go armed, and never venture
out of sight of the camp. He requested Felix
to relate the affair to Captain Wilson, and both
agreed that Cogswell and Wikoff must have
been the parties concerned, and that some mis-
chief was evidently in progress, which it was
their duty to guard against by every rational
means.
"Both, of them have sought to take our
lives," said Wilson, "in an underhanded and
unmanly way.   Cogswell was, no doubt, the
unseen marksman who wounded me. after 'the
battle of San Jacinto, and Wikoff acted the
coward and the assassin by firing before the

word was given; a circumstance which canhe
near proving fatal to you. I do not believethe
story of his being a successful rival.-If his
suit had prospered with Andrea St. ;Aubert,
why should he be here, and -why wish to destroy
you?   Depend upon it, he is - a :disappointed
man ; for success does not. produce revengeful
feelings. Look at the case of Cogswell;Marl-
anna did not favor him so much as she didtame.
He perceived that he was losing ground, and
that I was rising in the esteem of Marianna in
proportion.  You know   the result; be, has
sought my life ever since with as much zeal iS
Saul sought the life of Iavid. Now'these~t o
fellows- Cogswell and Wikoff-are equally
mated-; they are both consummate villains, and
it is our duty to keep our eyes open and not let
them have it all their own way."
"I coincide with you in much that you have
saidd" replied Walter.
" It's my settled conviction," added Wilson,
"that this person who calls himself, Wikeff, is
the cause of all your. misfortunes  IfEtime
proves mehwrong, then I will give up 411elainis
to being an alligator from Old Kentuck."

CHAPTER IX.
AN UNEXPECTED EVENT-OUR HERO A PRISONER.

All


THE TEX

" You mean well, Captain Wilson," answered
Ethington, but he added with a faint smile, and
extending his hand to the captain, " we will
continue the subject at another time."
" Felix," said the latter, when Ethington had
walked away.
" Here's dis nigger," said Felix.
" Do you know what caused this fatal mis-
understanding between your master and Miss
St. Aubert ?""
"Yes, sare, I do'sen't know," replied Felix,
gravely.
"I like your master, Felix, and wish to make
him more happy, if possible. If you know
anything about this affair, don't be afraid to tell
me."
"'Twouldn't be safe, massa cap'en."
"Nonsense, speak out."
"He cotched her walking in de garden wid
anudder feller, I b'lieve, and dey 'peared
mighty fond ob each udder, cried and kissed
when dey parted."
"Well, go on, Felix."
" Dat's all,,massa Kentuck ; couldn't 'spress
myselff more 'tiekerly on that subjeck."
r_.So that caused all the mischief?"
r  Ob course."
Yes, sare."
"Gotothe d    -l."
I'se jest a gwine. I'll take yer; compli-
ments along.  Yah, yah ! Heah, heak!
"You're a great nigger, Felix," added the
captain, good naturedly.  "You're worth your
weight in gold."
"'Go it, massa Kentuck, promulgate, 'spress
your phelinx, heah, heah ! " and Felix left the
'captain, not a little flattered by his off-hand
etoirgh rather dubious compliments.
The Texan Rangers were encamped but a
short distance from San Antonio, and late on
the evening of the following day Ethington
talked into the town. As he passed from
street to street, his thoughts recurred. to thtg
pst, note especially to his recent adventures in
the land5of the'" Lone Star," bis various extra-
erdin'ary escapes, and the kindness.which he had
~received on several occasions frord strangers.

48

pensive character of his meditations soon had
their effect, and in a little time Walter was in
the misty land of dreams.
He was awakened at length by the discharge
of fire-arms, and loud and continued shouting.
He sprang to his feet, at a loss, for a moment,
to account for what he heard';.-then the sharp
crack of the Texan rifles reached his ears, and
he divined at once that the town had been at-
tacked by Mexican banditti.
The confusion, and firing, and outcries,:rapid-

again together."
Heavy, hurried steps were now heard upon
the stairs, and Ridgley'dashed into the chamber,
considerably excited, and judging from his dis-
ordered dress, fresh from a scuffle of some kind.
He paused suddenly when he beheld Ethingtpn
and seemed confounded.
Our hero was the first to recover himself.
"Ibelieve I was in time to be of some service
to this young lady," he stammered.  "What
means this confusion?  What has happened ?"
he asked, still confused and-embarrassed, and

AN BRAVO.
THE TEX
He recollected the features of the gentle Mari.
anna, and of the strange lad, Augustus Henrie,.  ly increased.  Guided by the sounds, Ething-
who, with the former, had watched over him     ton hurried towards the scene of tumult. In
in hours of pain and unconsciousness.          leaving the camp he had not neglected to take
The antipathy which he had felt towards the  his pistols, and he now  congratulated himself
youth, in a measure subsided before he had     that he had done so.I
parted with him at Mr. Lee's; but he was still   While he was dashing up one of the principal
inclined to look upon him as a vain, effeminate  streets to mingle with the combatants, he heard
lad, who would never attain to any great de.   shrieks and cries for assistance, proceeding from
gree of manliness, and who was more fitted by   a dwelling which he was passing.  He paused,
nature to the employments of the other sex than saw lights flashing from the windows, heard
those of his own.                               voices, and the sound of rapid footsteps within.
The reason of this will be more apparent       To run through the open gate and enter the
when it is announced that our hero had always   open door, was the work of a moment.  With-
entertained a supreme contempt for effeminate  out hesitation he mounted the stairs, still direct-
youngsters, and dandyism  in general; but we    ed by the outcries, and the noise of the struggle
will not do him the injustice to lose sight of the  which was evidently going on above. Passing
fact that Walter--despite all his previous preju.  through' a dimly lighted chamber, he entered
dices-was really attracted towards Augustus,    one perfectly dark. As he crossed the thresh-
and if he did not absolutely like him, he at    old, the light from the adjoining apartment
least pitied what he considered his want of     fell upon the figure of a tall man bearing a
manlier qualities, and now when separated from  female in his arms ; and as the latter struggled
him, felt the loss of his society sensibly, much to regain her liberty. and cried for-help, it fur-
more than he could have anticipated.            nished s flicient proof that all was not right.
While Ethington thus mused, time flew -on     Ethingtok therefore coolly knocked the man
unheeded.   The night had been made pleasant    down with the butt of a pistol, and caught the
by a bright moon,. but of a sudden dark clouds  female from his arms.  The instant the aggressor
rolled up into the skies and obscured its beauty. fell to the floor, another party darted from the
But Walter was conscious of no change in     room, and ran.hastily down stairs.
the surrounding  elements; looking intently       Walter bore his now nearly unconscious bur-
within he had not observed the changes going    den to the light.  He looked unto her face ; her
on without.  Having no desire for human com-    eyes met his, she uttered a faint cry and became
panionship, he seated himself \upon a bench ina insensible ; it was Andrea St. Aubert.-
sort of square or plaza, near the centre of the   "Strange fatality !" exclaimed Walter, gaze
town.  The place was quiet and the solitude     ing fixedly at the - fair object once so greatly
pleased him. .The stillness of the spot and the  beloved.  "Unhappy chance- that brings us

I

AN. BRAVO.                             49
placing Miss St. Aubert, who now 'showed signs
of returning animation, in an easy chair.
"I thank you in the name of Andrea," re-.
plied Ridgley. "Where is Rosalia ?"
"I have seen no other female," said Ething-
ton. At that instant there was a great crash
in the next room. Ridgley caught the -lamp
from the table and ran in. The cause of the
noise was soon discovered; the man whom Wal.
ter had knocked down, had recovered his sense'
and made his escape by leaping through tle
window. Rosalia had fainted at the moment of
Walter's appearance, and was found in the
apartment unharmed, though very much terrified.
Sheregained her courage instantly upon seeing
her father, and hastened to minister to Andrea..
"The danger has passed, I believe, of what.
ever nature it might have been," said the young,
man.   "I hear the sound of conflict near us,
and I will therefore hasten to join my brave eome
panions."
"Our house has been assailed by rnmans,"
replied Ridgley.  "You have rendered me an,
important service, which I shall be sure to;rep
member. The object of this attack I seaicel f
know, for I have not yet had time to olleet' r
thoughts."
Without trusting himself to look in oat
Andrea, Ethington descended' the stair. The
door was still open as he had found it, but upon
the steps lay the body of a man, apparently
dead. Walter bent over him, looked at the
face, and felt quite sure that it was Wikeff;, but
wishing to be quite certain of his identity, he
entered the parlor where a lamp was burning,
and returning with it, examined the features.
He was correct in his first impressions; it
was indeed Wikoff. One hand lay across his
breast, and upon the fourth finger sparkled a
ring with upcommon brilliancy, as the rays. Hof
the lamp fell upon it. Ethington could not re-
press an exclamation of surprise, as his eyes
rested upon the ornament, for he recognized it ;
he A-kpce given it to Miss St. Aubert. .,ow
e fnger of this man? Was the
~d~ionv~1ichcrossed the track of his
thought.


THE 'TPlXA'N BRAVO.                              51

TI TFX    1,AVO.

Wikof's chest heaved convulsively, and he
gave signs ofreturning'life. Walter dashed the
lanip upon the ground with a muttered impre-
cation, and with a frowning brow walked hastily
from the spot.
fPetbaps," he said, "he received the wounds
uposhia person in defence of Andrea ; perhaps
sheplaced that ring upon his- finger with her
own hand.'   And the thought nearly madden-
edhlu
Itis a singular fact that lovers always look at
the dark hide of the picture, and that which is
really the=most unreasonable, appears the most
reasonable to their distorted fancies. There
.ie other inferences which Ethington might
hae drawn upon finding Wikoff in that vicinity,
badly aid perhaps fatally wounded;, but his
imafIkd; ino bidly active in conjuring up images to
make:himself miserable, was satisfied with, its
fist eelusions, and so made no effort to ex-
plain the matter in any other way.
Feelinigitore wretched and tired of the world
than he had for a long time before, he hastened
'4"o thespot where the firing and shouting were
Niitheard. He wt s soon among- the combat-
ani, fighting with atl his accustomed daring
and bravery.
Suddenly he was prostrated by a blow upon
the head  He knew no mire of the fight-he
head no longer theloud ringing"voice of Wilson,
orthe crack of the Texan rifles. It was broad
. d  i  before he was again conscious, of exis-
Stei~aig e found himself lying on the ground,
boun ,ain aand foot. Around him lay several
Mdicans wrapped in their blankets, sleeping.
He attempted to arise to a . sitting posture, but
could not.  The bands upon his wrists gave
him intense pain, and he' felt very faint and
miserable. He reconnoitered:the spot as well as
he ould in a horizontal position, and perceived
that they were surrounded on-all sides by a dense
chapareL  At' a short distance was a tent,
and judging bf the sounds that occasionally
cam&amp; from it; Ethington concluded th    n-
Staied= wounded men.

Though suffering much pain, our hero was:
forced, to lie unnoticed for two hours, when-a
man came from the tent and' approached ,him.
He was not a little astonished at seeing the in-
dividual who now stood beside him, for in him
he recognized Cogswell, the lover of Marianna
Lee. He was industriously smoking a cigarillo,
and contemplated the prostrate figure of our
hero with the cahmest satisfaction.
Ethington asked him to loosen the cords a
little, as his limbs were now considerably swol-
len ; but Cogswell declined to comply with this
reasonable request, assuring him that if he were
to do anything in the premises, he should' make-
his bands tighter.
"Miserable renegade !" exclaimed Ething.
ton, indignantly. " I should have known that
a creature who will fight against his country-
men, will not show common humanity towards
a fellow-being,"
"Here comes a gentleman who will doubtless
entertain you more agreeably than I can," re-
plied Cogswell, with a malicious sneer.
Ethington turned his eyes with difficulty to-
wards the person indicated, and saw his antago-
nist in the late duel at' San Jacinto. His head
was bound up with a handkerchief, and he was
deadly pale from loss of blood.
"Well, sir, you are not with the Rangers
now !" said Wikoff.
" It is quite unnecessary to inform me of that
fact," replied Ethington.  "It is very evident
that I am not among men of honor."
" Did you ever'see this ring before ?" asked'
Wikoff, holding up his finger.
"I saw you lying -senseless upon the ground
last night," retorted Walter.  "' You were in:
my power, but I 'scorned 'to take advantage of'
your helpless-condition."  '
"You were very humane," rejoined Wikoff,
changing color.  " But what do you say of this':
ring ?"
" Perhaps , you  purloined it;' I  d anot  know  ;
a man without honor is capable of any meanness

if Miss St. Aubert bestowed it upon you, she
was certainly very unfortunate in the-choice of
a friend.  But you have yet to explain the
cause of being found: insensible upon the door
steps of the house where the lady resides."
"That has little to do with our present busi-
ness. Suffice- it that you have always been- in
my way, and were so last night ; but it shall
soon be beyond your power to mar my plans or
baffle my purposes. Look up at the sun; it
never shone more brilliantly ; gaze your fill and
say ' farewell;" for you will never see it rise
again."
"Dare you then lift your hand against my
life ?"
"The 'Texan Bravo' shrinks from   the or-
deal! I thought it was death that he was seek-
ing?"
"I fear not death, when met honorably ; but
I never sought it at the hands of a villain who
would make my demise the means of carrying
out his nefarious schemes, and bringing down\
ruin upon others. I can die like a man,; but
remember that the Texan rifles will avenge my
death.  Perhaps you never saw one of the Ran-
gers look through the double sights ?"
Wikoff grew a shade paler, and Cogswell
shrugged 'his shoulders significantly at the men-
tion f the " double sights."  Both knew'the
fatal' significance of the words, for the sharp
shooting of the Rarfgers was proverbial; and it
is a well known fact that great numbers of the
enemy who were left on the field in various bat-
ties were shot through the head.*
Wikoff and Cogswell now walked away to-
gether, while one of the Mexicans, more humane
than they, loosened' the cords about his limbs,
which gave him great relief. Presently there
* General Green, in his history of'the Mier expedi-
tion, informs us that after the battle of Mier he visited
the building where the wounded of the enemy were
inder surgical treatment. He says: "One hundred
aid thirty-six of the enemy's wounded were stretched
out on the floor, many of whom had been shot in the
head, and their brains had oozed out, from the size of
a marble to that of one's fist. It was a horrible sight."

was considerable bustle in the camp. The sol.
diers (if we may thus call them)were got utder'
arms by their leader, the identical Captain Gar-
cia, who had led an attack against Ethington
and his two friends on the Colorado.
Our hero's feet were now set at liberty, and
he was marched out in front of the marshall
band by a file, f' men. Ethington understood&amp;
these preparations well; it was evident thathe
was about to be shot, and he endeavored to com-
pose his mind, and fix his last earthly thoughts
on the only Being who could now assist ad sus-
tam him.
In the brief space that was allowed hi  r
meditation, he reflected upon the stormy events
that had been crowded into his life since he had
left his native State, a reckless and hopeless
man. As he could discern in the portents of
the future no brightening of the sun of his des-
tiny, he resigned himself to his fate without a
murmur. Although existence had no charms
for him, and he had often sought death, yet he
could not but feel and confess to himself that he
was not wholly prepared for the great change
which awaited him.
The near prospect of dissolution brought
with it clearer views of man and his duties. He
began to doubt whether misanthropy was not t
crime in the sight of God, and if the last few
months of his life had not been sinful in the ex-
treme. But there was now little opportunity to
discuss such questions; he stood face to face
with those selected to be his exeeutioners--a
band of lawless and savage-looking fellows, ap-
parently dead to all the finer susceptibilities of
human nature.
A man now came forward with a handker-
chief to bandage his eyes, but Ethington shook
his head, saying proudly:
I-have often faced death, and' I am no-
afraid to face it once more. It is the coward
soul alone that shrinks from beholding the ter
rors of death."
"Proud to the last," murmured Wikoff, who

1
I
E


5v                            THE TEXAN 1RAYO.
ha  approached and stood contemplating our appeared and spoke a few words to Wikoff, and
her with a triumphant expression.           the latter conversed with Garcia in a low voice.
And were you so presumptuous as to imag-  The conversation, debate, or council, or what.
insd  A moment that you would see my spirit ever its nature might have been, lasted some
,unbend, and my manliness give way ?" exclaim- time, and was carried on with much warmth.
ed Walter, who overheard the remark.    "I    The sun was high in the heavens, and shone
kw that such was your hope and expectation, down upon the parties with glorious brightness,
bit bothWere vain. I shall die a4 have lived-  The winds breathed gently among the flowers,
a man. I am ready."                         and dallied with the undulating grass that grew
The file of men retreated a few paces, and# upon the plateau. But in the air, and among
lef   hington alone- -a mark for the escopetas the flowers, and the grass, and everything that
of a cggardly foe. He drew  himself up and whispered of life and beauty, there was a savor
looked at them without flinching.  Cogswell re- 'f death.

CIIAPTER X.
COGSwELL AND MARTANNA-A LOVE sCENE.

air of one who is resolved upon some important
measure, and does not mean to falter in its en-
cution.
His features never looked more repulsive and
forbidding to Marianna, and she heartily wished
the interview at an end. She was about to edl
her mother, when her quondam lover requested
her to be seated and hear what he had to com-
municate. She reluctantly complied, and Cows.
well mustered all his eloquence and ingenuity to
make a final impression upon her heart. Vain
attempt ! useless expenditure of words!
"You have long known, Miss Lee," he be
gan, " that I have ventured to raise my thouglits
to you, and to come to the point at once, that I
entertain a sincere affection for you; I have
now called to hear, from your own lips, the de.
vision 'of my'fate. To be brief and plain-for 1
am a man of few words-will you become 1%s.
Cogswell?"
"To be brief and plain, I decline," replied
Marianna, firmly.
"May I ask your reasons ?" continued Cogs.
well, with assumed calmness.

W        E will now return to Marianna, whom
we shall find comfortably domiciled at
San Antonio de Bexar, Mr.. Lee having dispos-
ed of his property at San Jacinto, and removed
to a small estate which he owned at the place
we have mentioned. Marianna rejoiced at this
change of residence for several reasons ; and one
of the most prominent was, that she' hoped to
escape the society of Cogswell, whom she dis-
liked and feared.
It was the evening of the day upon which
Wikoff and Cogswell met for the first time.
Marianna Lee was the sole occupant of a small
apartment fronting upon the street, while the'
other members of the household were either not
within doors, or busy in another part of the
house.
There was a heavy tread upon the steps, and
soon a gentle knock upon the door. Marianna
hastened to answer the summons, and met Cogs-
well upon the threshold. The -blood forsook
her cheeks, her heart beat' faster, and it was
with difficulty that she could restrain her emo-
tions. ' Cogswell entered with t1y determined'
,d4

s ,   : ;

j


THE TEXAN BRAVO.              55

54               THE TEXAN BRAVO.

"There are many, Mr. Cogswell-Ineed not
enumerate them-spare me that task, suffice it v
that there is a want, of congeniality of dis-
position and temperament," said Marianna, in as t
gentle a manner as possible.
" Could not that objection be overcome-be h
melted away by time ?"p
"I think not; I can extend no such hope ;
it were wrong to do so."                    e
"I can well guess-the cause," said Cogswell,
with much bitterness. " It is because I have f
a rival.  Captain Wilson has stolen away the'
regard which you once entertained for me ; and r
your blushes are my witnesses that I speak the
truth." 
"The person you have named never injured
you in my estimation,'' returned Marianna,c
with some asperity of manner.  " I regret to bej
forced to tell you that I never entertained any
deeper sentiments of friendship for you than I 1
now do."
'"And that is saying but little, I suppose !"F
he retorted, giving his fair auditor a searching
t" You are right, sir. There is no reciprocity
between us. - I should niot make choice of one
like  yog for a friend, much less for a lover.  Do
tiot be offended ; you have wrung this confession
from 'ni' Learn wisdom; when a maiden says
nay,' do not' press her farther, that you iay
enjoy some portion of her respect, if not her
love. "This subject, I now hope, is put to rest
'forever, and.you will do ine a kindness never to
dude to it again, in any manner."
"You deceive yourself, Miss Lee ; you have
mistaken my character ; your perversity does
not discourage me. It is time that you should
know me better; if you cannot love me, I will
atleast teach you to fear me. I have a power
odvr you and 'your lover which you do not
dream of."
"'And do you threaten 'those who find it im-
possible to love you ?" exclaimed Marianna,
with dignity.
"I was saying that I had power over your
1friAes' which you do not know of,' or compre-
hend," he added, knitting hiis 'bi-ows;.

"And if you have this power you speak of,
will you use it against a.youthful maiden ?"
"I will! I call heaven and earth to witness
hat I will !" cried Cogswell, angrily.  "You
latter yourself, like others, that you are safe
here ; that the Texan Rangers can defend the
lace against the attacks of the enemy."
"Banditti, you should have said," interrupt-
d Marianna.
" Call them what you will, I care not ; the
act stands the same. The- destruction of San
Antonio de Bexar is decided upon ; before
many days it will be a heap of steaming ruins."
If anything were wanting," retorted Marian-
na, with burning cheeks and flashing eyes, " to
make me regard you with deeper loathing and
contempt, it was what you have now uttered.
Above all living things I despise a traitor !"
" That is bitter language," said Cogswell,
biting his lips.
" Let us part now; relieve me of your pres-
ence, I beg of you," responded the ' maiden,
rising.
"Hear me out."
"No, I had rather see you out."
"You are witty at my expense ; but my turn
will come anon. Who will be your protector
when Bexar is wrapped in flames, and its streets
are full of blood-thirsty men, to pillage and
destroy ?"
"I pray Heaven I may not be so much de-
serted by God as to accept protection from' a
traitor. I would sooner share the fate ofthe
Alamo,". said Marianna, with spirit.
" Listen ! Just beyond the Rio-Grande is a
beautiful rancho, of which I am to be master.
You have only to say a word to be its mistress,
and San Antonio shall not be harmed. And
more than this-Wilson's life shall be spared."
" Go, sir ! I will make no terms. If all
your allies are like yourself, San Antonio will
never be conquered. As for Captain Wilson,
if he cannot defend himself and maintain his
position, it will be because he has forgotten San
Jacinto. "
" I perceive that you love to talk of San Jar
cinto; it gives you pleasure. But remember

my words-the time draws near-San Antonio
will burn-will become a heap .of ashes-and
the Rangers shall be swept away with the besom
of destruction. Reflect one instant ; will you
prevent this awful calamity ?"
"Shall I light you out, or will you force me
to speak to my father?"
Cogswell trembled with rage, and with a mut-
tered curse and -a frowning brow,. prepared. to
depart. He paused a moment on the steps,,
and darting a threatening look at Mariaina,
exclaimed :
You shall regret this insult ; my words are
prophetic. I will make them true. Bexar shall
burn, and--"
Marianna closed the door and did not hear the
conclusion of the sentence, though she could
well guess its import. She retired to-her cham-
ber, feeling truly wretched,- and gave way to her
emotions without restraint.  That: she feared
Cogswell, she could not deny ; and his threats
had terrified her greatly, in addition to the re-
pugnance she had always felt towards him.
Soon after Walter Ethington's departure from
camp, Captain Wilson gave orders to Lieuten-
ant Cameron (a tried officer and soldier who
had shared the dangers of various battles) to
double the guard and take other precautions, as
he had reason to believe that an attack upon the
town was meditated by a band of the enemy that
had been seen upon the west bank of the Nueces.
Having given the lieutenant such instructions as
he thought necessary, he called. Felix, and pro-
ceeded towards San Antonio.
"Now, Felix," said Wilson.
Open your ears and hear what I am going
to say," added the captain.     -   -
" Locomote yer sentements-'luminate de
natur ob de subjeck," responded Felix.
"You see I am going into the town ?"
"I know what for, massa ?"
" Name it, you colored specimen."
"He, he ! keep- cool, massa Kentuck ; don't
go for to bein' hard on dis nigger feller ; you're
a gwine up to see dat harnsum white gal; heah,
heahl"

"Right, Felix, for once in your life."
"Don't blame ye, massa ; I used to-go to
see a white gal once."
Y'ou?"
Ob course.
"Come, Felix, be careful,"
Yes, sare."
"Do you see this rifle?"
Does I see dat rifle?"
" Yes."
Ob course I does."
"Well, take it, and I will tell you what I
want you to do with it.
" Splanify . de natur ob de case, massa
cap'en."
Wilson walked on a little while in silence,
while Felix followed close at his heels.
"Now," he resumed, stopping just within the
town, "I want you to stand here with the rifle,
and if you hear any disturbance, or see anything
that looks like an attack from the.enemy; fire,
and then run to the camp as fast as. you can,
and turn out the Rangers..}
"Yes, sare. I'll give ye a tall speciment ob
runnin' ; I'se good at dat."
." I've no doubt but you will do the running .
part well; but you must tell Lieutenant Came-
ron what you have seen as soon as you reach
camp."
"Well, what'll dat be ?"
"Why, you rascal ! your skull wants',rasp-
ing down. How should I know what you will
see or hear?  It may be one thing, or it may
be another, and perhaps just nothing at all."
"Dat' 'luminates de cocoe ob dis nigger; I
magnify's de hole at a glance. But wouldn't
it be safer not to fire till I get to de camp ?"
" Snappin' turtles, and Kentucky alligators i"
cried the captain; "your head is bullet proof.
It might be safer for you, but not for me."
" You can't be safe wid dat Miss Marianna,-
no how ; dem bright eyes ob hers will' do de
bisness in less dan no time, if not sooner. Dare's
a great deal ob de Magnificent fluid in dem top
luminaries. Yah, yah !"
With a good-natured laugh the honest Ken-
tuckian repeated his injunctions and walked on;-


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

in a fewinutes he found'himself blushing be-
neath the battery of Marianna's eyes. - Before
leaving camp, he had deliberately, resolved to
speak to her in relation to the subject nearest
his heart, but now that he was face to face with
her, he was unable to say a word regarding the
matter uppermost in his-mind.
Marianna received him with uncommon kind-
ness, and after some preliminary remarks and
many blushes, she proceeded to relate what had
passed between Cogswell and herself; repeating
in detail, so  as she could recollect, all hehad
threatened con   ing the destruction of Bexar.
Captain 'Wilson ''tened with breathless at-
tention and rising indi ation.
"It appears, then," s''d the latter, "that
he has joined the band of Me 'can outlaws that
is hovering about the Nueces rive . His threats
are by no means idle, and no doubt he intends
to do all he has spoken of. I thank you sin-
cerely for the confidence you have reposed in
me, and it affords me inexpressible pleasure to
have the means of protecting you in my power ;
also to feel assured that you have no-no-"
" No what ?" asked Marianna, innocently.
" No friendship.for a man capable of such
baseness," he added, greatly embarrassed.
"I always feared him, and      instinctively
shrank from him.   But tell me if you really
think Bexarin danger ?'"
"Bexar can never be taken," said the cap-
tain, earnestly, " while half a dozen Texan
Rangers live to 'look through the - double
sights.'* Rest assured that when Cogswell
marshalls his forces about the dwelling whose
roof covers Marianna Lee, that we shall be
near."
The captain spoke enthusiastically, and was
repaid by a timid yet grateful look from the
maiden     .
"Our foes are cowards," he resumed. "They
turn:pale when they hear the report of a Texan
rifle.  They.know.that we are devoid of fear,
A' The most important of all iMannnvres we uun..
derstand betterr than any nation en the face of the
earth, aakdthai is to'look through the double sights
with a steady arm.-Gea. (Gen,.

and' can fight better than any other foe they
ever faced. Lot Cogswell presume to cross this
threshold, no matter if he be followed by an
hundred of his Mexican allies, he shall perish
ignobly, or retire baffled, and burning with
mortification."..
Your bold , words   re-assure  me,"  said
Marianna.
r " If I dared," added Wilson, desperately,
" to say what--what-"
" You have said what twice, captain," re-
marked Marianna, demurely. " Shall I call
brother James ?"
"No-yes-by all means-certainly not,"
stammered the captain, dreadfully embarrassed,
and an awkward silence ensued.    4
" I had thought," resumed Wilson at length,
and then quite broke down; and Marianna was
so much confused herself, that she lost her
presence of mind and could not say a word.
The captain choked and went on again.
" I can face an enemy," he said; and stuck
again.
" Certainly," murmured Marianna, who now
really felt called upon to 'say something.
S"I can face an enemy, but find it impossible
to say-that is, to express, what I would like to
on all occasions," added Wilson, with an effort
such as a drowning man makes to catch at a
straw.
Marianna was now trembling and blushing
very much, and still trying to look 'perfectly
unmoved. and composed.
"I thought James would return before this
tune," she managed to articulate.
Mariannar-" continued the captain.
"Yes-" said the maiden.
"Did you say yes ?" he added, wiping the
cold perspiration from his forehead.
" Yes," said Marianna.    =
"Is it possible that I am  so happy as to
be-
" What ?" asked the maiden, dropping hers
embroidery and scarcely knowing where she
was, or' who she was.
"Aliaors and Kentucky      losses .  ex-
claimed Wilson, frantically. " I'm a blunder-
ing schoolboy. The fact is, I love you."

THE TEXA
"Dear me !" said Marianna, striving to hide
her confusion.
"Yes, dear you," answered   the captain,
turning from red to pale, and from pale to red
in an incredibly short space of time, and taking
her hand very cautiously and respectfully.
Marianna burst into tears,. and felt that her
heart was beating very fast, and that her cheeks
must be dreadfully crimsoned, especially after,
the captain was so bold as .to draw her towards
him, and-, but for her sake we will not'
finish the sentence.
The " ice," as the saying is, was now-"bro-
ken," and a mutual understanding seemed to be
speedily brought about. If Marianna trembled
and wept, it was not because=she waspunhappy;
while the captain was filled with wonder at- the
progress he had made, and was ready to believe
that he was at camp asleep and dreaming pro-
foundly. He had just begun to think there was
some foundation in his dreams, when -Mr. Lee
and James appeared ; a' circumstance, which,:
however agreeable it might have been at any
other time, certainly did not wholly harmonize
with his feelings now..
Beside, his extreme modesty and bashfulness
left him still in doubt as to the state of Marian-
na's affections . What would have seemed am-
ply sufficient to a more experienced man in love
matters, appeared enigmatical and of dubious.
meaning to him ; though on the whole he felt-
very well satisfied thlit he was getting along
so finely ; and we presume the discerning
reader is pretty much;of the same opinion:
Other subjects were now'discussed by the
new-corners, and the threats which Cogswell 'had
made against the peace ,and safety of San Anto-.
nio de Bexar was fully talked over. By this
time the ' captain had forgotten Felix, and- the
solitary vigil he was keeping. The moments
winged themselves rapidly away, and the small
hours of the night approached.
Suddenly there was the crack of a rifle that
reverberated sharply from street to street ; and
brought the captain to his feet, as though he
had received a powerful shock from a galvanic
battery.

N BRAVO.                                57
"Bring out your weapons I" he exclaimed ;
there is danger near ; perhaps the town is
attacked."
Marianna's cheek grew pale, and she thought
of Cogswell's threats. The captain's trepida-
tions vanished at once. The sound of the rifle
and the prospect of a fight, aroused all his war-
like blood and quickened his energies. He
could now speak firmly and calmly, and express
his wishes without difficulty. The bright eye
of a niaiden might abash him, but from the eye
of an enemy he never shrank.
"Hark !" he exclaimed.    "I hear the
tread of 'armed men ; they approach the house.
Hand me out one of those rifles. Miss Lee, do
not fear-keep out of the range of the windows ;
extinguish the lights."
Wilson stepped to the window the moment
the lights were extinguished, and looked outs.
The street in front was full of men.
The captain fell back and spoke to his two
companions in whispers. "There are men in
front of the house ; they are preparing to enter ;
be ready to give them a volley. Marianna and
her mother had better retire to a situation less
exposed."
They now heard the gate, which gave access
to the little yard in front, opened softly. They
were obviously meditating a surprise.
Young Lee was no longer able to curb his
curiosity; and followed Wilson's example of re-
connoitering from the window. He. laid his
hand nervously upon the captain's arm, saying
in a voice not above his breath:
"I see a figure that resembles Cogswell.
And look ! those with' him are Mexicans. I
know them by their jaunty rig, an  '    r
if by no other means. Cogswell is disposed to
keep rather in the back ground, and pnt his
fellows forward.R
"ie's a coward," said Wilson.
"Do you know what I think he's here for;
with those ugly chaps ?"
" I don't," replied, the captain.
" I will tell you; 'tis to carry off Marian-'
" Do you think he will do it ?" asked the
ranger, significantly.


58                              THE TEXA
"If he does, he'll have to carry off several
of us,or settle up our earthly accounts for us,"
answered young Lee, firmly.
' Can you see' him now7" whispered the
captain, looking anxiously forth in the dark.
"I can't ; he has stepped back. What does
thisdelay mean, I wonder ?"
"' Surrounding the house, most likely. Lis-
ten! "they are trying the door."
he door was shaken gently at first, and
smore violently anon, by those without.  The
parties within waited long enough for these pre-
parations to assume form sufficiently offensive
to warrant them in acting on the defensive,
when Wilson urged the propriety of firing upon
them. His companions were not averse to this
proposition, for James had been anxious to look
thiroigh the sights for the last five minutes. -
" You see a cluster of fellows there by the
gate'?" said the ranger.
"Yes," said Lee, "and we will thin it
out."
"A.fine chance for a shot," continued Wil-
son ; "let us improve it."
The moon whose light had been. hitherto
deeply obscured by clouds, now shed a momen-
tary gleam upon the swarthy faces of the group,
revealing dimly their outlines.  They stood,
carelessly leaning upon their escopetas, as if
waiting some signal from their companions at
the door, not dreaming that their presence was,
suspected by the inmates.;
"Give ,them your lead!"    whispered thel
ranger.
The report of three rifles breaking suddenly
upon the stillness of the night, and upon the
unsuspecting ears of those without, gave a start-
ling indication that they were discovered.
A sharp cry of pain was heard, a few half-'
uttered exclamations and curses, and when the
smoke had cleared away, not a Mexican was to
be seen ; but very soon there was a A shower of
balls against the house, perforating the walls,
and shivering the glass, doing no other injury.
It was in vain that Wilson strained his eyes
to catch a glimpse of the figure of Cogswell; he
took good care not to expose his person.

LN BRAVO.

There was an interval of silence, and a sus-
pension of offensive operations on the part of the
belligerents ; they were doubtless holding a con-
suitation.  But the temporary calm was of short
duration ; a general attack upon the dwelling
speedily followed, and it was very certain that
those within could not long defend it when there
was such a disparity of numbers.
Doors, windows, and every assailable part was
assailed simultaneously.  Lee and his compan-
ions fought with heroic courage ; they passed
from window to window, dashing back their
enemies, and putting forth efforts that seemed
well nigh above human capacity.
Wilson thought of Marianna, and as he be-
held the foe. fast gaining ground, the thought
was fraught with unspeakable agony. - She
would unquestionably be torn from him, and
irrevocably lost to him at the very crisis when he
was sure that he had some share in her affec-
tions.
In every-assailant he hoped to meet Cogswell;
and grown desperate at length, he loudly called
on him and dared him to an encounter ; but
there was no response,, and Wilson cursed his
cowardice.
The enemy were pouring in at the window,
and for the first time the bold ranger experienced
a feeling of despair. He thought of Cameron,
and would have given his right hand to have
heard the steady steps of the Texan Rangers.
"Where are my brave fellows !" he exclaim-
ed.  "What can keep them away so long'?"
At that critical juncture, to render the scene
more - deplorable, Marianna and her mother
rushed into the apartment closely pursued.
The ranger threw his arm  about Marianna,
and with his good sword defended her bravely,
making his own fearless bosom, a bulwark for
her defenceless head. The hand that had felt
weary but a moment before, was endowed with
double energy ; for the gentle being whom he
now pressed to his heart had restored all his
strength, and fired his daring soul with uncon-
querable determination.
S" We are lost !" cried Lee, " but we will
perish doing our duty."

THE TEXAN BRAVO.              59

"Yes, we will all die together," said Mrs.
Lee. " Our separation will be momentary, our
re-union speedy."
" Yield !" cried a voice from the mIdle of
the assailants; " yield, and we will spare your
lives."
"'Tis Cogswell!" exclaimed Mrs. Lee.
" No, villain ! we will fight it out," replied
Lee.  "We will not yield    our defenceless
women to you; they prefer to die honorably
with us."
"Desist !" shouted Cogswell once more;
"every moment you endiangerThelives  of those.
you love."
S"Meet me like a man,"     cried Wilson ;
"come forward, and letus decide this matter'
face to face.','
" Never !" replied Cogswell  "The:affair
is already decided.. You are surrounded, and
cannot hold your ground three minutealonger..
Relinquish your hold upon that girl, whose life
you are recklessly exposing, and I will withdraw;
my men."
The ranger's blood boiled with indignation,
and he made desperate efforts to cut his way
through the levelled lances to reach Cogswell.
Suddenly there .came   sounds that made
every heart leap and every ear tingle.  The
points of both lance and sword fell to the ground ;
for the trumpet tones of Cameron were ringing
upon the air.
"Forward, my      lads-forward--steady-.
now give it to the swarthy d-ls !"
The deadly crack of the. Texan rifles fell like
sharpest thunder upon the senses of the assail-
ants within the dwelling ; they rushed simulta-
neously towards doors and windows, struck with
a frightful panic ;, and many of them fell pierced
with rifle balls while forcing themselves out.
"Was there ever sweeter music'?" cried
Wilson, as the rifles continued to utter their
voices of death.
"Never, since the world was made," replied

Lee. "Cameron and the Rangers forever!,
God bless them !"
"Those without are flying," said James.
Captain Wilson sprang to the window, still
supporting Marianna, and shouting the name of
Cameron. The well-known voice of their com-
mander reached the ears of the Rangers, and
they cheered him to the echo.
In an instant Cameron sprang in through a
shattered window, and Wilson wrung his hapd
in expressive silence ; the hearts of all parties
were too full to speak.
The dark face of Felix appeared in the win-
dow
",Go yer death, massa Kentuck !"
"All safe, Felix," said the ranger, in a low
voice.
Where's massa Ethington?"
The captain's countenance fell, and he looked
inquiringly at Cameron ; the latter shook his
head. The African glanced from  one to the
other, and his large eyes displayed a frightful
quantity of white.
f Here's a scrape for dis nigger " he ,ex-
claimed. "You'd better all on ye be dead, and
dis child better be dead too. Why don't, yer.
'luminate de subjeck, some on ye-?"
"We can't," said the captain. "I.would
most gladly, if I could. I trust he is: safe,
however."
"I shan't 'spress my idees till I know. sui-
thin'-'tickerlar in regard to de natur ob do pd-
cooliar carcumstances ob de case," replied Felix,
ominously.  "But if dis darkey," he added,
war to promulgate any 'pinion, it wouldn't
be ambigerous to de happiness ob dis occasion"
Lights were speedily procured,- the dead and
wounded removed by the Rangers, and such
precautions for the general safety taken ad the
ease required. The enemy were completely
routed, and the bold Texans had the pleasure of
receiving the heartfelt thanks of the people of
Bexar, whose homes they had defended.


PON the following morning Felix was seen
A y wandering: about with a melancholy and
dgjeeted iair. ,His master could not be 'found,
and no one could give any. information respect-
rg ihis fate.. Ridgley communicated tothe cap-
;ta what had transpired at his house the night
,previous, and how opportunely the young man
-had appearedto do him an importantservice;
l had hastened away to join the. 1ngi-s, and
that was all he knew of his movements on that:
All agreed that he was .either captured or
lain ,and as his body could not be found, they
had goed reason to suppose that he   'a
F. iaoner.                              °
4    eliz was walking up and down in the
ity'of the Texan camp, with a sad counte-
:apee, hbe beheld the lad he 'had seen at San
,aeinto(and who: always seemed to be near
Ridgley).approachingS
" Well, Massa 'Gustus," said Felix, "the
Mexicums hab cotched Massa Ethington at last."
" So I have heard," replied Augustus.
"What do you intend todo ?" A -

" What am I-gwine to do'?".
" Yes, Felix "
"I know what I'd do, if I could."
" What?"'
" I'd' send .dat white gal dat disappinted
him, to deplenopeteraitry for life," said Felix.
A 0, youwouldn't be so bad, I know," an-
svered.1Augustus,. promptly:  "Perhaps she
deserves ,itthough;" he added, quickly.
SIfshe-don't, nobody does."
There's no knowing what girls will do,"
sli ~A   stus.   .
si fDat's a fack ; dey isn't to be trusted, no
how."
I suppose you will try and 'find your mas-
ter, Felix'?" said Augustus, looking searchingly
:t the African.
"You may bet yer life on dat, Massa 'Gus-
tus. If dis child can't find him, dere's no live
nigger that can."
" I like your spirit," added the lad.  "I
have half a mind to go with you."
"Y ou?" exclaimed Felix, rather contempt-
uously.

THE TEXAN BRAVO.              61

.                           +_                    tt       ,                   . .
+ °'          '                                 ,
e,
. f       e"         f - i    t                 '  S
1          3_         1
7 t     r                                   +f t f       ' t    ,
.                                           f
, i d   5           u        t                ,            r    t    i
T'                                      /
f       "
,k i    i  _                                                  r              t

"Yes, me," answered Henrie, striking him-
self lightly upon'the chest with his gloved hand.
"Well, you look like it !" added the negro.
"Heah, heah !"
" Why do you laugh, Felix?"
"Why does I laugh ?"
" Yes."
To hear such a dainty little fellow talk ob
gwine wid me. Yah, yah !"
" It's not always the largest person that can,
do the most, Felix. You know where there's -
will to'do good, there's always a way'"
"So I've heered ; and you showed a heap o'
kindness to massa when he  as6ii  deA. e
speak ob you bery offessincethe sA b een heie
He said he couldn't keep yliuout ofj(his mind;
on no 'count whatsomev'r "
"iDid he really say that?  asked.,ugustis
earnestly.  " I thought he didn't seem to like
me very well for some reason."
"Well, he .got ober dat, and felt bery lone-
some and solemcholy ase 'you -wasn't here.
I've heered him call MassaN 'Gustuis many a time
in his sleep."
Upon hearing these words the features of the
youth were lighted up with a strange gleam of
satisfaction.,.
" Ah, well, it is pleasant to' be remembered
by those whom we .esteem,'j said,Henrietwiti a
faint smile. - " It makes the heart feel;lighter.'
"iDo you tink cullud persons hab hearts,
maissa?"
"There can he no doubt of it," replied 4u
gustus.  "I have known song very respe tale
negroes whose sensibilities-were as acie,
parently, as a white person's. In regard .o
your master, I hope you will'leave no means*
untried to aid him.  If you need any pecuniary
assistance, I shall be most happy to assist you."
" Tank you, massa, but I don't need nothin'
in dat line," answered Felix.
Wishing the latter success, Augustus turned
an walked to the camp of the Texan Rangers,
and was met on the way by Captain Wilson,
who manifested much pleasure as well as sur-
prise at the unexpected event.
" You areo," said th6 ranger, " probably aware

CHAPTER XI
TEE SCOUTING  PARTY.

of the fact that Mr. Ethington, the brave gen-
tleman, to whom you showed considerable kind.
ness, is missing, and was doubtless captured
during the skirmish of last night."
"Yes, I -know," replied the youth, " and
have come to ask what you intend to do'?"
"I will tell you, my lad, with pleasure. I
shall take a "few of my bravest and trustiest
fellows, and follow the enemy as far as an In-
dian follows the trail of a marauding war-party.
lt never shall be said of an alligator from Old
Kentucl, that he deserts a friend in the time of
his extreme need.  No, no ; that wont, do; I
ust shoulder my rifle, take their track, cross
the N(ces, traverse prairies, forest and chap-
pi el&amp;in search of my friend."
t givesme pleasure to hear you say so!"
AexclaimiedAugustus, warmly.   "I knew you
were of a bold and chivalrous nature."
"Whether that be the case or not, the man
whom I am going to seek is the soul of soldiery,
the heart of honor; and I will never forsake
him; while there is a chance, however' small it
nay be; of serving him. If I cannot avert his
fate, 1will incur the risk of sharing it, if I can
do nothing more ; friendship requires as much as
"Jossibly it is too late to. if-u' ny essential
service to him," added Augustus, in a low
voice.
"dry true.   He has been an object of par.
ticalar dislike to our enemies from first to last;
and it is greatly to be feared that they will make
otwoik with him; more especially if the
man called Wikoff and the villain Cogswell have
anything to do with the matter.
You think this Wikoff whom     you have
mentioned, is an enemy to him ?" said Augus-
ts-
' most bitter and uncompromising one ;
for you see there is a woman in the scrape."
. "I have heard that he loves my cousin An-
drea," returned Henrie.
"Yes, and that makes all the trouble.  It
appears that Ethington was sure enough of the
girl, and loved her tenderly, until some fatal
misunderstanding,'the nature of which I do not

tiR+i '
:'.


62'                 THE TEXAN BRAVO.

exactly know, and never could find out," ob-
served Wilson.
"It is to be regretted that he never tried to
have the difficulty explained," resumed Au-
gustus, thoughtfully.
"He did not like to say much about the sub-
ject.; and- the fact was, he said it never could
be :explained ; but. it 'is my opinion that this
same Wikoff had an .agency in the affair," an-
swered the captain.
" Have you seen Mr. Ridgley, this morning ?"
",I have, and he told me of the unwarrant-
able attack ort his mansion, and of the service
rendered by our mutual friend, Ethington. It
appears that Mr. Ridgley is Miss St. Aubert's
uncle ?"
" Yes."
' You know her, then ?"
"Very well, but not quite so well as I wish
I did," said the youth, with a sigh.
"Why, my lad, you are not in love with her,
are you?"
"0, no; but I like her very well when she.
pleases me."
"Is she handsome ?"
"Rosalia thinks she is."
" Well,'what do you think ?" .
" My opinion isn't worth much on such mat
ters ; but I should say that she had a fair share
of beauty, though not much more than usually
falls to the lot of young ladies.  She has regu-
lar features, and Rosalia says a very good figure,
but I imagine I could find fault with both."
"Rosalia is Mr. Ridgley's daughter ?"-
"And consequently my cousin, also."
"Well, I hope it will all come right ultimate-
ly."
"No one desires such an event more sincere-
ly than the youth now before you," added
HIenrie, sighing.
With mutual good wishes the parties sepa-
rated, the captain to make the necesssary prepa-
rations for pursuing the enemy, and the other
to follow the bent of his own fancies, whatever
they might be.
Cameron and a half-dozen of the boldest and
hardiest of the Bangers were 'selected to carry

out the object in view, while, the company was
left in command of the second lieutenant until
they should return.  The captain did .not con-
sider it safe to take more men, as the town might
be again attacked, when all would be needed in
its defence.
Well armed, and feling fully prepared for
any ,emergency, the little party set off on the
expedition, followed by the good wishes of those
who remained behind. They crossed the Rio
San Miguel, and directed their course towards
the Nueces. Felix had joined Wilson and his
brave fellows, greatly elated with the prospect,
of being ,of anyservice to his master.
It was found 'a matter of some difficulty to
trace the enemy.  They were obliged to pro-
ceed slowly,.and 'with the observance of much
caution, to prevent a'surprise by large parties of
Mexicans who might be scouring the country in
that vicinity. During the first half day's travel,
numerous signs of the retreating 'enemy were
seen; .but after passing a small tributary of the
Rio Frio, they discovered that they were no
longer guided by the landmarks that had direct-
ed their footsteps previously.
The region which they were now entering
differed materially from that behind them, being
covered with dense chapparel and stunted trees,
interspersed;with -fonds and small salt lakes.
After spending considerable time to find traces
of the"enemy, and tle night approaching, it was
thought best tocam iii the neighborhood, and
prepare for a more thorough and earnest search
upon the following day.
Wilson and Cameron stood apart from their
companions. With folded arms and thoughtful
faces,"they watched the shadows of night steal-
ing over lake and chapparel.
" An hour like "this casts a spell upon my
spirit," said Cameron.  "I love to see    e
glare of day fade and give place to the im
placid twilight."
"I have similar Afeelings," replied  ' on;
"but I like night best when more advanced to-
ward the small hours, and the moon and stars
are mildly beaming."

THE TEXA

Cameron made no reply, and the parties re-
mained silent. Wilson was the first to speak.
" That's a heavy rifle of yours," he said,
glancing at the- weapon upon which Cameron
was leaning.  "I dare say it has been of ser-
lice to you in its time ?"
" No money could induce me to part with it,
because I 'have proved its metal on many occa-
sions. Did I ever tell you of an adventure that
I had once.near Red river ?"
" You never did ; I should like to hear it,"
said Wilson.
"Several years ago," resume Cameron, '"I,
was hunting near Cross Timbera; not far from'
\Red river. -The Indians 'were then 'trouble-
soine, and frequently committed their depreda-
tions upon the frontier settlements ; but Iwas
fond of hunting, and cared little for them, will-
ing to trust to my own courage and ingenuity,
in any emergency that might occur. I carried
this same rifle, and was called ' one of the best
shots in the country.
"Many people said the4,piece was too heavy
for common use ; but' I.was accustomed to it,
and it didn't feel burdensome to me ; and when
I fired, it was sure to do the right 'thing, for
what animal. could carry offain unce, and a half
of lead, skilfully sped on pitsr errand? .t a.-
"Having discovered -'Indian signs one day, I
thought it best to change my hunting ground,;
and so put a considerable distance between my-
self and the spot, andhencamped&amp; on a wide prai-
rie, bounded on the east by the' Cross Timbers.'
Not long after this event,. I was sitting on the
bank of a small stream, "resting-my weary limbs
after a long and fatiguing "hunt, when I was
fired upon and slightly wounded
" I was .fortunate enough to discover the
marks:nan, who proved to be an Indian, of what
tribe I do not now remember. I instantly shot
him dead, and then perceived that he was not
alone ; for one of his brethren was with him,
who made good his escape. , Time passed on,
* A continuous series of forest, varying in breadth
from five to ten miles, and extending in a direct line
from the source of the Trinity northward to the Ar-
kansas river. ,

BRAVO.                                    63
and I was undisturbed in my amusements for a
long time.
One day not feeling very well, I returned to
my camp sooner than usual. I laid down and
tried to sleep, but couldn't. I felt uneasy and
nervous, and so arose and went out on to the
prairie. The grass was now very tall, and the
hot suns of the season had dried it until it was
crispy, and rattled as I walked through it. I
ascended a gentle swell and looked around me.
The scene was a grand one. On one hand were
the 'Cross Timbers' dimly seen in the distance,
resembling a dense wall of wood built by human
hands ; while in every other direction the prai-
rie stretched, away until lost in the' distance.
The sun was getting low, and looked like a sun-
set on the sea. As - my eyes wandered from
point to point, they were suddenly fixed upon a
solitary figure several hundred yards distant, at
the foot of the long swell or roll upon which I
was standing.
" He stood in an open space,. and'at first I
wondered how that could be, as the grass was
so high:in every other place ; but the affair soon
explained itself.
 "More careful observation showed me that the
solitary figure was an Indian, and his object in
plucking up the dry grass was evident'; he was
going to-fire the prairie ! It was doubtless the
Same fellow that had escaped at the tine when
I had , been- fired at. He 'had discovered my
retreat,.and was about to revenge his comrade
in a signal manner.               .
"MThe wind was blowing fresh towards me,
and if the grass was once set on fire, no power
on'earth could, save me, for the fleetest horse
could not run fast enough to escape its devour-
ing flames. A terrible dread of that kind of a
death cane over me. I stood like one fascina-
ted, and gazed at the preparations of the savage.
He stood in the middle of the open space he
had made, with a blazing torch in his hand.
Innumerable thoughts rushed through my mind
in an instant of time. I was never so complete-
ly paralyzed and ,stupefied before in my life.
The power of thought seemed the only power
left me, and that was stimulated to an unnatu-


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

ral degree. The past, present and future were
reviewed and speculated upon in'that brief and
broken fragment of time in which the savage
stood waiting for the brand to burn up more
brightly before he thrust it into the grass.
"Yes ; my destiny was to be burned !  Some
hunter or traveller would find my body charred
and blackened;. and others, after a time, would
pass my bones bleaching in .the sun. I shud-.
dered ; my eyes felt hot ; my tongue was dr;
and I imagined that I felt the flames creeping,
over me. If it hid been a danger that I could,
have battled with, or if I could have seenaiy
chance for escape depending upon my own exer
tions, it would have been different; bi it now all
I could do was to stand and'staf
dreadful of all deaths in the face. Youmnst re
member that all these ideas and reflections
rushed through my brain in the shortestiappre
ciable space of time ; for you must:know that
the sudden prospect of great danger'fomwnihlf
there is no apparent mode of escape, imparts
to the brain a horrible faculty f h
which the mind at rest can form no possible on=;
-eeption.                          '
" I closed my eyes in despair, and commend
ed my soul to God; but it was irnptsible ford
me to close my vision against the one greatand,
absorbing idea in my mind-that df'being burnt'
up like a vile reptile that crawls t1e  6s,
"My lids enclosed again, and asthe y
my eyes rested upon my trusty rifle  it was the
first time I had thought of it, for the distance
was great between me and my enenbut'
it looked like an old. friend, and the only one
that had power to save me.
"I embraced the thought that thee lfgh 6
my rifle called up, with joy--a species"ofy,
which is nearly overpowered by an antagonizing
feeling.,
"One chance still remained-a small chance
it was true, but still a chance ; and despair
cannot completely paralyze and subdue the heart;
while even one faint hope remained. I lifted

the instrument upon which hung'my destiny.
As my glance ran over the intervening distance,
I felt how desperate indeed was my prospect of
life, for an hundred good marksmen might try
their skill in vain, in aiming at an object so far
off. Then I remembered that my weapon was
of uncommon calibre and weight, and would
'throw a ball farther than any I had ever seen.
I recollected also that I had loaded it that very
day with uncommon care, and for a long shot.
w  The Indian moved the torch, and was about
to  affplyrit ib':the.combustible material; there
was      un time to .ose  The rifle came to my
shoulder ,quick and' firm  and I braced up my
i erves for asteadygaim with a strong effort of
S'ill4' I looked through the 'double sights,'
{'ad ntheiiuzzlecovered the Indian's head.  My
heart}iemed to stop .beating, held in the grasp
of that terriblesuspenIt was but an in-
stant then:thesrifle entt:ts ounce and a half
of lead on its mission with a crack that was un-
usually'=loud aidI,sharp,' and a recoil which
thirewiei backafewidaces.
u  Thesmoke curled away, but I dared not
I1lok.I -,passed. nmy hand slowly across my
'forehead, for my brainwM.gthrobbing painfully.
Every rinment I §pectd to be greeted by a
deni em.smoke from thedburning prairie, and to
the. hsing'of ther'shing flame ; but noth-
'ig of they kind occurred and I ventured to
1ookJoowards thespot where the savage had,
stood ithgihs torch;Itgok courage, reloaded.
f'iy rifle; and hastily walked towards the place.
j  I reached Yit-e-theIndian lay upon his back
' .'thbrand, hal etiniished, beside him; an
,oun~e .and a half efofleadhad passed through his
4pd ""ITsank ,down overpowered with gratitude,
'an the various emotions which such an incident
wacalculated to inspire.. That was the great-_
est shot I ever made, and probably shall never
equal it again.  Can you wonder that I 'am at-
tached to the rifle ?"
"Not at all," said the captain, earnestly.
"I should never part with it, if it was mine.'

ARLY in-the morning Captain Wilson and'
Lieutenant Cameron, leaving their horses-
with their.companions, left the camp oi footto
reconnoitre. Being w1acquainted'with the.
habits of their enemis t ey apprehended little'
or no danger in suchaapvement, ands o
separated.     -   'nd                   ,
Wilson struck off tothe right, and'pkrsued a
north-westerly direction over a ruoghanmnii
biting tract of country: 'often obliged fore4
his way through musqu   ushessothiklymat
ted with vines that itw  a work; pf some; ,i=$
culty to proceed.  At length  e reached .aor
open region, and was' abbe to go.forwary 1i'ht
less exertion.
The wide' rolling prairies, characteristic of
most of the country between the.Nueces and the
Colorado, were no longer seen. The captain
entered a narrow defile, and after following it
for some time, ascended a sharp hill, at the foot
of which lay a sluggish looking lake, with some
sickly vegetation growing upon its margin.
Near this sheet of water he discovered signs of
a party of horsemend

J pna closer inspection he felt sure that the
treats mere produced by the small feet of the
mustang, commonly used among the Mexicans.
To 'p t the matter beyond doubt, he followed
the tracsla; considerable distance, and as the
soil ,in:that place was sandy, the impressions
wivere4tju4t istinct.
1ing satisfied himself that they were inade
aya. pa4y of Mexicans, the captain of the Ran-
gers aabout to retrace his steps, when the
7 ot l'ggrses' feet at full gallop caused him
to turn his'- attention in another direction.
Thrge Mexicans mounted after the fashion of
thc country, upon mustangs, were advancing at
1ie top of their speed.  Two of the party had
lassos in their hands, ready to throw with that
terrible precision acquired by long 'and constant
practice, while the third held an escopeta in such
a manner, that Wilson was led to expect im
mediateacts of hostility.
They abated their speed as they neared the
ranger, evidently fearful of the effects of the
rifle which laid across his arm. Perceiving that
a direct approach would be likely to prove fatal

CHAPTER
.CAPEcu  or WIL5ON 'SHE 'YORTS

64


66                THE TEXAN BRAVO.

to one or more of them, they began to ride
around him in circles, and at.a considerable dis-
tance from each other, hoping to confuse him
and so distract his attention, that the fellow with
the escopeta might, by a sudden movement, get
within shooting distance ; but this idea' proved
how little they knew of the disposition of the
Kentuckian. So far from being embarrassed,
or having his attention divided by their ma-
noeuvres, he beheld them with perfect calmness
and self-possession.
He had been in many engagements, and
smelled gunpowder too often to be thus easily
frightened. Momentarily the assailants lessened-
the diameter of their circles, shaking theirlasos,
shouting, and scattering the sand at a great,
rate.a
Though the ranger dreaded the lasso, he re-
solved to bring down the fellow withthe escopeta
first, if possible, and then deal with the others
as circumstances might permit. He patiently
waited his opportunity as the circle narrowed;
but the object he had selected for his mark seem-
ed to mistrust his intentions, and kept. his mus-
tang continually upon the move.
Tired at length with this continual watchful
ness, he let the breech of his rifle fall to the
ground, determined to suffer them to exhanust
themselves with their efforts.  Seeing him thus
standing, calmly leaning upon the muzzle of
his rifle, the Mexican checked his-aillinal, and
raised his weapon to his shoulder.
Knowing the Mexicans to be poor marksmen,
and the distance being great, the ranger had no
fears for the result, and tauntingly shouted to
him to fire. He obeyed, and the ball struck;
the ground several yards from the captain.,
Cursing his poor powder and want of success,
the Mexican scampered away to reload, leaving
his comrades to shout and threaten, and shake
their lassos to their hearts' content.
In a moment the cowardly fellow returned,
his courage somewhat increased by the report of
his weapon. It was now apparent that he in-
tended to try his luck again, with the additional
improvement of getting a little nearer. Urged
on by the taunts and sneers of his companions,

he gradually approached the Kentuckian.  He
stopped his mustang, levelled his escopeta, and
threw himself forward in the saddle ; but Wil-
sonr was too quick for him; he had not practised
rifle shooting for nothing in the wilds of " Old
Kentuck."   Before the finger of the Mexican
had touched the trigger, a leaden messenger had
pierced his heart ; he sprang up into the air,
and fell to the ground never to mingle again
with the affairs of earth.
The mustang shook himself, smelled the body
of his master, and with a snort shied away from
the spot. But with Wilson the worst was to
come; the fellows with the lassos would now be
upon him in a moment, as his rifle was empty
and they had no more to fear from it.  He sprang
to reloading as fast as possible, but before the
powder had reached the place of its destination,
or the ball had followed it, a lasso was flying
through the air, the fatal noose directed towards
the captain's head.
He avoided it by a dexterous movement, and
before he had well recovered himself for another
exertion, the - second lasso was suspended over
him.  He could not wholly evade it; it caught
his right arm in his attempt to ward it off, and
he wad dragged several yards before he could
extricate himself.
And now succeeded a terrible struggle for
life and death.; the skill with which they han-
dled those execrable instruments of strangula-
tion, requiring all the agility, strength, and
presence of-mind of the Kentuckian to prevent
the object in view. He drew a pistol, but amid
the rapid evolutions which he was obliged to
make, it was difficult to use it with any kind of,
accuracy ; and he' only had the satisfaction of
inflicting a slight flesh wound, which served to
stimulate his antagonists to fresh exertions with
their infernal lassos, which, despite all his en-
deavors to the contrary, he began to believe they
would eventually succeed in fastening upon his
neck, when his fate would be sealed ; this ob-
ject achieved, the mustang would be spurred into
a gallop, and himself dragged at his heels until
life was extinct.
With this tragical prospect in view, the joy of

the ranger may in some measure be imagined,
when in the scuffle and confusion, he caught a
glimpse of Cameron looking through the double
sights. Before he could breathe twice, the fel-
-low most active with the lasso was knocked out of
his saddle by an ounce and a half of lead, which
crashed through his skull, scattering his brains
in the face of his companion.
Struck dumb and powerless with surprise and
horror, the latter became motionless in the very
act of throwing his lasso. Wilson caught the
other pistol from his side, and in a moment he
lay beside the body of his friend.
"God bless you, Cameron !" exclaimed Wil-
son, sinking exhausted upon the earth.
"Just in time," replied   the lieutenant.
"You were having a hard time with those in-
fernal contrivances, he added, pointing at the
lassos which were made fast to the saddles, and
were now trailing upon the ground as the mus-
tangs moved away and began to nibble at the
tufts of grass that grew here and there.
" Alligators and snappin' turtles ! I can
deal with anything better than those lassos,"
said the captain, wiping 'the pe-spiration from
his brow.
" They are greatly to be dreaded when there
is a proper field for their use,"  answered
Cameron,,
" What a relief it was to ' see you with that,
implement of death to your faee," added Wil-'
son.  " I knew I ivas safe"when I caught a
glimpse of you looking along thesights; it was
the most joyful emotion that I ever experienced,
for I was dreadfully worried and put to my,
trumps, I can tell you."
"I can form a. tolerable idea of it. I was
placed in a situation somewhat similar myself.:
I was on a prairie between the Rio Frio and the
.San Miguel; I stood looking at the 'western
skies, lost in a pleasing reverie.  While in that
position, I partially forgot myself, lei my rifle
slip from my grasp, and fall upon the grass at
my feet. I did not immediately pick it up, and
it was lucky that I did not, for before the lapse
of three minutes, I saw a Mexican chap approath-

ing at a fast gallop with his lasso ready to whirl
at my head.
"The moment I put my eyes on him, I
thought I could play the 'possum a little. .I
did not so much as look towards my rifle, but
dropped right down upon my marrow bones,
held up both hands, and begged for mercy in
Spanish with all the eloquence I could muster
for the occasion. You see he thought I was
unarmed, and advanced boldly with an expres-
sion of malice upon his face that I shall never
forget should I live to be as old as the most
venerable of the patriarchs.
"I continued to cry out most piteously un-
til he got pretty near me, when I caught my
rifle from among the grass, and aimed it straight
at :his villanous countenance. It's my opinion
you never saw a fellow sto more suddenly than
he did, and his dark visag grew as white as a
pale-faced girl's. I let 'hii- enjoy the surprise
for a few' seconds, and theJ blazed away. If
you should ever pass.over that spot in the sea-
son of the year, you will find the prairie grass
growing very rank there in a certain place about
six by two. I rode his mustang into camp that
very hour, and that is the ena; of the story."
"And it's my opinion," answered the cap-
tain, that we had better ride those animals
yonder, back to our brave lads."
"All right," said Cameron, and the mus-
tan s were speedily caught and mounted. The
one that had filst been freed from his rider, had
strayed a considerable distance ; but Cameron
found him and led him by the bridle ; in this
manner they safely reached their companions
before night, who had begun to feel alarmed at
their long absence.
The following morning the party resumed
their way, passing over the same ground which
Wilson had traversed the preceding day. After
a hard ride, they encamped on the margin of a
small salt lake, near which, was a tolerable
growth of cypress, oak, and elm, and plenty of
pasturage for the horses. While they were
busily employed making preparations to pass
the night as comfortably as the case would ad-
mit of, Ridgley suddenly appeared among them,

THE TEXAN -BRAVO.              67


'1

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

mounted upon a stout horse, which gave un-
mistakeable signs of being over-ridden.
Each man -ceased operations in surprise, for
no arrival could have been more unexpected.
Ridgley threw himself from his steed, and beck-
oned Captain Wilson to approach.
" I bring news for you," he hurriedly said.
"The enemy are all around you; you cannot
go forward and you cannot return. If you
would save your lives, let each man takehis axe
and fall to work erecting a suitable defence.
Cut down those oaks yonder, and other trees of
- a proper size, and.build them up into a fort or
something of that kind, which you will know
how to construct better than I can tell you."
" What makes you think the danger is so
pressing ?" asked the ranger.
" Because your enemies number more than a
hundred, and are bent on your destruction,
They are moving slowly towards you, confident
that there is no way for you to escape," replied
Ridgley.
"Can't we cut our way through them ?" con-
tinued Wilson.
"No ; it were folly to attempt it. Lose no
time, but follow my advice."
" But' they will starve us out," added
Wilson.
"Perhaps assistance will reach you before
that time," said Ridgley.
" What will you do?"
"I shall take care of myself, and possibly
do something for you; at least it is better for
one to perish than nine brave fellows.  Shall
"you follow my advice ?"
"I think I shall; it can do no hurt at all
events to put ourselves in a state of defence.
If no enemy appears, after waiting a proper
time, we can push forward again."
"But what good will you do by advancing
fartherttowards the enemy's country ?  The suc-
cess of an expedition like this, depends upon its
secresy.' You, it would seem, are already dis-
covered, consequently can effect nothing on ac-
count of your numbers."
" There is much-reason in what you say," re-
turned the captain. " If the enemy are really

on our track, a part of our object is' already
bafted, unless we can manage to elude them and
leave them at fault."
i'If you are attacked,-I know you will make
a brave defence, and hold out to the last," re-
sumed Ridgley. " As for our friend Ethington,
I trust we shall be able to serve him' yet, if
they have not already put him out of the way.
But I must leave you. Adios, capitan !"
Ridgley sprang to the saddle and clattered
away as fast as the nature of the ground would
admit.
" That's a brave fellow," said Wilson to Cam.
eron, pointing after the retreating figure of the
horseman.   "He is every inch a soldier."
"Then he is a man for the times," replied
the lieutenant.
" He is," was the emphatic rejoinder.
The two officers now consulted together for
a few moments, and then tha captain addressed
his men as follows:
" My bold lads, it would seem that the Mexi.
cans are on every side of us in great numbers,
and contemplate an easy victory over us, we be.
ing but a handful of men.  The-person who has
just ridden away, has brought the news, and he
can be relied - on. We must disappoint our
enemies, if possible, and to do so, we must erect
some kind of a defence. Let every man of you
fall to work with such implements as we may
have, axes, hatchets, etc., and construct a log
fort, in which we can use our rifles with good
effect, while we are, at the same time, protected
from the balls of our enemies."
This short speech was well received, and the
men instantly began to work. Such as had
axes, felled trees, and others dragged their
trunks to the spot selected for the rude struc-
ture, to which they intended to give the name
of a fort.
The black and post oak were principally em-
ployed for this purpose, being locked together
.at the ends by notches upon each side, which
gave firmness to the fabric. Leaving the work
going on. very rapidly, Wilson and Cameron
went forth to reconnoitre, and bring in some
game, if possible.

They made a long detour around the camp, v
but saw nothing to excite suspicion, and began f
to question the soundness of Ridgley's advice.V
They were fortunate enough to kill a deer, and
returned to their comrades pretty well convinced t
that the danger had been greatly overrated by b
their friend. But they thought it best not to
express their views on the subject, and so fell to
work and assisted the men.
Before the sun was up in the morning, they
had the satisfaction of seeing their labors nearly
compl ted.  The walls were erected, and the top
covered over with getimber, which could not
be easily fired. Notches had been cut in the
logs previous to their being placed, which, when
they were fitted into the structure at the proper
height, gave the fabric the appearance of being
pierced for loop-holes, after the fashion of more,
elaborate fortifications.
The Texan rifles were to play a conspicuous
part through  those rough apertures.   The
horses were next to be cared for, and it was
unanimously agreed to leadthem to the opposite
side of the lake, where there was good pasturage,
and let them shift for themselves. This proposal
was duly carried into effect. The finishing
touches were put to the fort, and the Texans
were prepared for an enemy. Their numbers,
all told, amounted to, nine-the captain and
lieutenant, six Rangers, and Felix. The men
were in good spirits, and longed to test the
superiority of their weapons over the fire-arms of
the " blanketed nation," as they contemptuous-
ly called the Mexicans.
In asserting that the men were in good spirits,
we perhaps ought to make one exception. 'There
was one among them, evidently advanced in life,
who had been in, many skirmishes with the In-
dians, and who had never, as the saying is,
"shown the white feather " on any occasion.
He was a daring, iron-sinewed fellow, always the
first in mirth and danger.  But now the sound
of his laughter was not heard ; his jokes and
sallies of wit no longer infused life into his com-
panions ; he worked on in silence. It was in
5

ain that the men rallied him; they brought j
orth no genial sparks; he was deaf to all their 
well meant jests.
When the fort was completed he stood near
he captain, contemplating it with a gloomy
brow.
"Parker, you look sad. What ails you,
man ?" said Wilson, laying his hand in a famil-
ar manner upon his shoulder.
"A strange feeling has fallen upon my
spirits " replied Parker, in a low tone of voice.
'Every time I look at that fort we have built,
I cannot shake off the conviction that I am
ooking at the spot where my grave will be
dug."
"It's nothing, my brave fellow, but hard
service and want of rest," returned the cap-
tain.  " Sleep two hours, and you will wake up
all right."
"No, captain, no sleep can take away the
impression that my end is fast approaching. I
have often heard of people having such a feel-
ing whei death was very near. Look there,
captain, where the sun-shadow falls across the
door of the fort ; 'at this hour, on the morrow,
it will rest on the mound that covers me. Don't
think I am afraid, for I am not. I never was
a coward-I never was away from my post
when there was fighting to be done, and never'
shall be while I can look through the sights ;
so don't attribute this feeling to weakness, but
to the kindness of that great Being who does,
not wish to remove a -sinful human creature like
me without warning, but gives him a chance to
reflect a little on his past life.
"It's very singular," said Wilson.
" I grant it, but you will know by this time
to-morrow," replied Parker, and the conversa-
tion was dropped.
Hour after hour passed, and the men grew
impatient, for there were no signs of an enemy.
Both Cameron and Wilson feared they had
wasted valuable time in useless labor, and re-
solved to move forward in the morning, if no

68

69


/1

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

70

enemy appeared. Just before sunset, all their
,,doubts in regard to the expediency of what they
had done, vanished. About an hundred mount-
ed Mexicans appeared on all sides of them, ex-
cept that bounded by the lake. The hearts of
the boldest among the Rangers beat faster at
beholding such overpowering numbers ; they
felt, and justly, too, that their case was a des-
perate one.
" Here's work for us, boys," said Cameron,
calmly. " We must fight or die, and perhaps
do both," he added, in a lower tone of voice.
" Felix?" said Wilson.
"Yes, massa," said Felix.

"Can you use a rifle ?"
"I can 'spress myself in dat line."
"Well, here is one ; it belongs to your mas-
ter-the bravest of the brave ; see that you do
not disgrace it."
"Go yer death, massa Kentuck."
"And you go yours."
"I shall 'luminate de subject ob makin' de
daylight shine frough. I shall fight like de
debbil."
The Texan Rangers silently took their places,
and with their trusty rifles grasped firmly in their
hands, awaited the assaults  their enemies.

CHAPTER XIIL1
TIHE CACEL AT LAREDO-'THE MEXICAN MAIDE1.

E left lthington in a critical position.
\AJ\,Ir His fate seemed inevitable.  Armed
men were drawn up in order before him, who
waited but the word of command from their
leader, to terminate his existence ; but that or-
der -was never given.. The consultation among
the three most proaninent characters of the
group ended, and hasty preparations Were made
for a march.
The whole party were soon in the saddle and
moving forward in the direction of the Rio
Grande. The sudden change in the aspect of
affairs surprised our hero not a little. By
some strange dispensation of Providence (for he
was disposed to consider it providential), he had
been snatched from the very jaws of death, and
reserved for a destiny known only to the great
Disposer of events.
He was placed on horseback with the rest,
and strongly guarded.  Wikoff and Cogswell
kept a little in advance of the cavalcade, deter-
red either from shame or some other cause from
keeping near Ethington, for which he was grate-
ful; as their society would have been an inflie-

tion he could not have endured calaly. Whethsi
er Ethington felt that degree of gratitude to as
higher power which most men under similar cir-
cumstances would have felt, we are not prepare
ed to say ; but it is certain that the 'startling
incidents of the day produced a long train of re
flections which were not without their benefieild
results upon his mind.
He thought of Andrea with less bitterness,
and his whol being was pervaded by a more
forgiving spirit towards her. He was even dis-
posed to regret his hastiness in leaving her. o
abruptly, without first seeking an explanation.
The many imperfections in his own character
had never appeared so palpable. Though his
heart was softened by the spell of his betters
angel, his courage and natural energy of charac._
ter were not yet subdued.
He felt within- himself the same energy to
overcome difficulties, or to Meet a foe, that had
heretofore characterized him and given him the
name (among his enemies) of the " Texan
Bravo ;" an appellation which, though not en-i
tirely deserved, could very well be applied to


THE TEXAN BRAVO.
; for the Texan soldiery was considered by "Do you know why I have come to you in
he Mexicans as little better than organized this cartel ?"ty
bands of banditti and villains, and our hero the "I have no desire to know."
most daring and desperate among them.         " I will tell you; I am going to see Miss St.
While he rode on in thoughtful silence, he Aubert."
Qften heard himself made the subject of conver-  "Indeed !"
tion by those around him, and had the honor  "Si, senor; and that is not all."
knowing that he was considered a dangerous " Well ?"
an, and as sanguinary in his disposition as any  "I shall bring her to Laredo."
bravo that ever walked the streets of Venice in " If you can."
Times long gone.                              "That will not be difficult. Ican do it with-
Before the expiration of the day, he learned out consulting her wishes, if I choose."
hat they were on the way to Laredo, a Mexi-  "What shall you do when you have brought
an town on the east bank of the Rio Grande, her here ?" asked Ethington, striving to keep
estined to figure somewhat, sometime after, in down the indignation which the insulting man-
e annals of the Mier expedition.          ner of Wikoff was fast exciting.   a
Leaving a large post oak bog (in which Gen-  "So shrewd a person as yourself, I should
ral Somerville afterwards got mired with his think, might imagine the rest; but as you
en hundred and sixty men, horses and packs) choose to .be so stupid, I will try to aid your
,n the left, they pushed rapidly forward and perceptions a little," added Wikoff, his eyes
reached Laredo after three days' travel. Dur- sparkling with devilish satisfaction.  "L shall
g this time Ethington was. treated with as be wedded to Miss St. Aubert upon the very
uch kindness as he had reason to expect from  hour of our arrival, and you shall witness the
o' people.  The moment that they drew rein ceremony."
Laredo, 4e was thrust into a carcel, damp  Rthington looked at his manacled hands, and
'n_ dirty as any of its size to be found in the then at the' malicious face of Wikoff; he was
terior of the enemy's country. He was not regretting that his limbs could not be at liberty
Iy ineareerated, but heavily ironed and poorly for one moment only.
ed. When he had been a few days in the car-  Wikoff seemed to divine his thoughts, nd
hewas visited by Wikoff and the Alealde. was pleased that his taunts had the desired
he former had recovered from the effects of effect.
Wounds he had received at Bexar, and was  "I am aware," he resumed, with provoking
ow'ready o engage in new schemes, as well as coolness, " that you have yourself aspired to the,
carry out the plans which he and Cogswell honor of Miss St. Aubert's hand-a happiness
concocted on the banks of the Nueces.   which is in reserve for me only. I am a man
The threatening scowl which had always ap- offeeling; I pity you, I'm sure. It will be a
~eared upon his brow whenever he confronted consoling reflection, and serve to beguile the'
hington, seemed to have grown deeper and tedium of a long hour, to know that the woman
ore menacing in its expression since they last whom you have loved, is about to be wedded to
"Bu        '-one who has rendered you such important ser-
"Buenos dios, senor," said Wikoff, with vices as the individual now before you has had
P othe pleasure of doing; also that tje fair bride
Z ..hope you will always speak that lan- will soon be near you."
pae" remarked Ethinton.                    Walter was too full to- reply. The name of
'~ Wy so caalleo?'Andrea called up emotions which made him truly5
Beause you have forfeited all right to your wretched. Every\ word connected with her
ioter'tnge, relid ur'hro           stung him to the quick. No species of anzoys a

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

7V

ance and torture could have been more success-
ful than that adopted by Wikoff; and the latter
perceived the fact and congratulated himself
upon his cunning.,
He left the cartel, well satisfied with the pain
he had inflicted, and resolved to render his suf-
fering still more intense.
Although Walter had been willing to believe
a short time before, that Andrea had possibly
given Wikoff some encouragement, and perhaps
some trifling mark of 'favor, a revulsion now
took place in his mind, and he was strongly in-
clined to the opinion that he would be obliged
to trust more to stratagem to bring about his
wishes, than to the usual mode of wooing a fair
lady.
Knowing him to be a villain, and wholly unfit
to be the companion of one like Andrea, not-
withstanding her infidelity to himself, Ethington
now felt an eager desire to escape in order to
baffle him in his designs, if for no other reason.
In the event of his effecting this object, if
he should be able to discover that Miss St. Au-
bert had really entertained any friendly feelings
towards him, he would contrive some way to
warn her of her danger, and thus discharge a
duty which he felt that he should owe to any,
female similarly situated.
Ethington's unexpected. meeting with An-
drea, had called up many emotions which he had'
known in the past. When the' first .shock of
surprise consequent upon that unexpected meet-
ing had passed away, and he had thought calm-
ly and rationally upon the subject, he was quite
sure that he had judged -too hastily in regard to
any cgnection which she might have had with
Wikoff's object in being near her on the night
of the attack upon Bexar,
Without pausing to notice the different'
phases of thought and feeling which agitated
him -by turns, we will reiterate the fact that he
was now fully determined to make strong efforts
to regain his liberty.
The next time the turnkey visited him he
complained.of his chains-that they hurt his
wrists and' ankles, and needed to be more skil-
fully adjusted, or changed for others less objec-

tionable.  By dint of fair words he prevailed
upon the turnkey to send the blacksmith to ex-
amine the obnoxious portions of the chain, and
if he thought proper, to make the desired alter
ation.
So much being conceded, he hoped he should
be able to manage the rest without difficulty.
The smith came, and was left with our herb
" Well, senor, what's wanting'?" he asked;
throwing some of the more common implements
of his trade upon the'floor",For a reply, Ething
ton managed to get his hand into his vest poe
et and take out a piece of money.
"My jewelry does not fit well," he said'
with a significant smile.  "You will oblige m'
by taking out those iron rivets and putting lea
ones in their places."*
".Jesu, senor 1" exclaimed the smith, app
rently horrified at the proposal
"It is easily done,'' added Ethington.
"Ah, Dios !" he added, not forgetting
pocket the money. " What would be' done'
me if I-should be discovered !"        - '
"There is no need of being discovered " co
tinted Walter.
"But If they should chance to come in 6
catch you with your chains off.   Gracioe
Dios !"
" That they will not do ; I will be careful.
"I .should be shot in the plaza ; Si -'
cierto "-yes, for certain.
"7Tonteria-nonsense ; you willdie in yo
bed, with your friends all around 'you. '8
I have more of the dust."
The turnkey entered and interrupted this
teresting conversation.
"Mi Dios !'' cried the smith, pretending
examine the chains. " These things must
fixed; precicoes-it is necessary ; they w'
kill him. I will go and get sonie inre suitab
implements and return."
With a significant wink at Ethington,' t
a Some would bribe the blacksmith to make the
leaden instead of iron rivets, which, when blackeni
with charcoal had much the appearance of irati, yh'
they could be easily taken out or returned. Onen
would bu;' a leaden rivets; and forisome- time the~i
wvas practised-Mier Expedition.

i


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

worker jin iron left the carcel-to come back
"after the lapse of half an hour, duly provided
with leaden rivets, which were properly placed,
Maceording to our hero's wishes.
It was about dark when these operations were
completed , and after receiving a liberal reward,
the smithdeparted with a pleasant "buenos
SoQ/pes "--good night.
. The outer door of the cartel had scarcely
closed upon him, when Ethington's jewelry was
lying ;harmlessly beside him. So far, all had
;gone, well; other steps were now to be consid-
ered, and he lay awake a long time during the
eight, concocting various plans of escape, very
few of which, upon mature consideration, ap-
peared feasible.
When the turnkey brought him his black
bread and water the next morning, he was still
undecided. While he was examining the car-j
eel, and puzzling his brains for expedients, a
Mexican female was ushered into his cell.  The
urnkey drew  back, closed the door, and the
two persons thus left cara a cara, regarded
pseh other with'profound embarrassment.
The young lady was very pretty, and wore
e silken ribosa, that covered her shoulders 1
m4neck, with charming grace.i
" Good morning, senorita," said Ethington,
the language of the country, and bowing very
IoW.                                       d
The bright-eyed beauty blushed like a peony, n
ta  gathered her ribosa more closely about her
;Qnely person.                             s
" You are an American ?" she said,.or rather, 1
isked, timidly.                            c
Walter replied in the affirmative, and with e
smile politely pointed towards the only seat
the cell.
" Ave Maria!" she added, glancing about
be little cell.  "What a close place, and
rhat irons they have put upon you, senor
" They are very ungraceful, senorita. Should
'ou be afraid of me, if I were to take them sa
'No, senor ;" replied the fair visitor, color-
g; " think not-'why should I?"
"Sure enough I why should you !"~ said ci

THE TEXAN

Ethington. "Now, fair doncella, tell me what
you wish ; or more properly, the object of your
visit?"
" Not to harm you, senor."- replied the
maiden.
"Ah, I can well believe that," answered
Walter. " The heart of kind woman is the
same Jall over the world. When she visits the
prisoner, it isusually to do the work of an angel
of mercy."
" Muchisimas gracias-thank you ; it is
kind of you to say so. Do you know any of
the Texan Rangers ?"
" I know them well; I have fought, side by
side with them many a time."
"There is one among them-"
The maiden hesitated and looked down.
" I read part of your secret, I think. There
is one among them whom you know !" added
Walter.
Si, senor."
"Perhaps he is fond of'you," continued the
other, softly. "May I ask his name ?"
" Cameron," said the maiden.
"Lieutenant Cameron-a brave fellow ; and
ho is honorable, too. 'If he has made any prom-
ses, he will keep them."
" Bueno !" said she, and seemed well pleased.
" But tell me, how you came here ; I will sit
down here and listen very patiently; I shall
not be tired."
And Carmencita-for that was her-name-
at down and remained quiet, while Ethington
caned against the wall and told her how he was
aptured, together with some of the principal
vents in his history.
"You were at the Alamo, then ?"
"I was, doncella."
" You saved a young man's life there ?"
" I did."
" That was my brother," said Carmencita.
" How fortunate that I did so ; because it
ai d you so much grief."
" And saved your life ?"
" Yes."
" And shall save it again," added'Carmen-
ta, firmly. " I love him very much, and I

am grateful to you, because you saved his life.
I am sorry that you are so unhappy. Was this
Andrea you have spoken of, so very cruel and
deceitful?"
Ethington sighed and remained silent.
"You look sad ; it was very wrong of her to
deceive you. But let us think of getting you
out of this gloomy carcel."
" I am not averse to that, though having
formed so agreeable an acquaintance, I am not
so anxious in that respect as I was." .
",You may be obliged to stay here some time
yet to enjoy it," replied Carmencita, with a
laugh. " But you must be patient ; I may not
be able to do anything for you in one day, or
two, perhaps, yet you are safe."
"I seem to be safe,'"' said Walter, looking at
the damp stone walls.
"Yes, but not in that sense. You shall be
at liberty before a week. Remember that I am
your friend, and protectress. Colonel Savrie-
gro is expected here daily."
" And who is Colonel Savriegro !" asked
Walter.        F
" Mi padre-my father," answered Carmen-
eita. "When he returns to Laredo, you shall

BRAVO.                                     75 I
be set at liberty, and before that time if pos-
sible."
Ethington expressed his thanks in graceful
terms, and saw, with a sigh, the door of the2
cartel shut out the charming figure of his new
friend.
Misanthrope as he had been, and still was,
he was not insensible to the worth'of the other
sex.  He felt that it was an amelioration of his
sufferings to have the sympathy of one gentle
heart ; and if he sighed when the darkeyed
Carmencita passed from sight, he was sadder
when he could no longer hear the light echo of
her footsteps.
Musing upon the tones which still lingered
like some sweet perfume with which the senses
had been momentarily regaled, he repeated the
burning words of England's noblest bard:
"I have not loved the world, nor the worldme,--
But let us part fair foes ; I do believe,
Though I have found them not, that there may be
Words which are things-hopes which will not de.
ceive,
And virtues which are merciful, nor weave
Snares for the failing; I would also deem
O'er others' griefs that some sincerely grieve ;
That two, or one, are almost what they seem-
That goodness is no name, and happiness no'dream."

. ,
_


THE TEXAN BRAVO.                '7

HE life of a prisoner is a dreary one un-
der the .most favorable circ mstances.
An unconquerable desire to be at arge, and
master of his own actions, takes possession of
im,and haunts him night and day. He sighs
fer the pure breezes and the bright sunshine.
r}The dark walls grow darker every hour, and his
'chainsmore irksome. He envies the birds their
freedom, and sometimes feels that he 'would ex-
change places with the humblest insect that
creeps through the crevices of his prison.
Despite an occasional visit from Carmencita,
Walter felt depressed, and a rapidly increasing
desire to escape. The idea was ever present,
and fixed itself most deeply upon his pind, that
ndrea was in' danger. He could not exorcise
The uxiety by reverting to her infidelity to him.
truth that she was still dear to him could
not be wholly disguised. He owed her the same
kind offices that he owed to all human beings.
If she was in danger, it was his duty to warn
and save her, even as he should do for any
female under heaven. That she was in dan-1
ger, he was now fully convinced; the threats of
Wikoff had proved as much.

But he was in prison ; he could not fly to
warn and, aid her. Reflections of this nature
will serve to explain the great.secret of his im-
patience. But we would not convey the idea
that he. hoped aught from Andrea;,for he did
:not. To him she was dead, and there could' be
no resurrection.
One day the turnkey thrust another prisoner
into his cell. His plea for doing this was that
the cartel was full, and there was no alterna-
tive.  Ethington expostulated, but it availed
nothing.
" He is a very harmless fellow," said the
turnkey ; " and you will like him. He is so
peaceable that I put no irons, upon him, you-
see. Ah, Dios!, I wish they were all as docile."
If the new-comer was" docile," his appearance
greatly belied him ; 'for Walter, after a hasty
scrutiny, determined that a more ugly looking
fellow never respired wititin the four walls of a
prison. He was a Mexican, and seemed to
have been picked .up front among the lowest of
the robber hordes that infest the dark valleys
and gloomy mountains of Mexico. His face,

that portion of it not lost in a wilderness of
dirty black beard, was frightfully seamed with
scars, received, he only could tell where and
under what circumstances.
His apparel had been rich and showy in its
day, with the full complement of silver buttons
and red stuffs ; but its gaudiness had long since
passed away, and it now, exhibited only a large
amount of filth and raggedness. He had a
strong odor of vino mescal, and was enjoying a
cigarillo at the moment of his entry.
"He's as gentle as a lamb," added the turn-'
key.
-The fellow drew forth his cigarillo, grinned
horribly, and bowed..
"What's his crime ?" asked Walter, not at
all liking the tout ensemble of his prison-mate.
"He is suspected' of- holding treasonable.
communication with los Arnericanos," said the
turnkey, and retired.
The worthy gentleman took possession of
Ethington's couch of straw without ceremony,
and smoked away at the stump of his cigarillo
with admirable nonchalance, eyeing our hero all
the while with much attention.
"Will you have a cigarro ?" he asked.
Walter declined the proffered civility.
Ah ! lo que es el mundo! ah, what is the
world ?" he exclaimed, in a sentimental way,
though in a voice far from musical. - " It's a
miserable world," he added, " a very rascally
world."
" Perhaps, so," replied Walter.
"I know it is," resumed the fellow ; " I.
shouldn't be here, if it were not so ; no se,
senor."
From the instant Ethington saw this man, he
had felt a conviction within him that his object
in coming there was not a good one'; that (to
be plain) some evil was meditated against him-
self. His sinister expression, a certain villanous,
twinkle :in the eye, his easy devil-may-care
familiarity, all tended to strengthen his suspi-
cions, and put him upon his guard.
"I have heard, senor, that you are a 'des-
perate fighterT he remarked, after a silence of
several minutes.

Walter thought it best to encourage this idea,
and therefore replied:
"Yes, I am a match for three Mexicans."
'You must be very strong.- What do,you
eat?" said the new-comer, with a shrug of the
shoulders, and a facetious expression.
Raw flesh t" answered Walter, gruffly.
"What kind, senor ?"
"I prefer a tender Mexican," replied Wal-
ter.
"Mi Dios!" exclaimed the fellow, nth a
scowl.  "Los    Americanos   are cannibals !
Well, I have heard so. Do you love to fight?"
"Prodigiously !" said Walter. " If these
chains were off, I should like to try it with
you."
His prison-mate perpetrated a strange laugh
resembling the growl of a young bear.
Walter's suspicions were now fully awakened,
and he resolved to watch the Mexican closely.
In order to do so, when he believed himself
unobserved, he closed his eyes after . little
time, and feigned sleep. The prisoner address-
ed him, but Ethington made no reply.
"I have fought in various places, senor"
he said ; but there was no response,
"I have received my share of wounds, too.
I have deserved well of:   country, and yen
see how Iam rewarded. As I said before, it is
a rascally world."
Walter's breathing was deep and, natural.
His chest heaved as a, sleeping person's , chent
should ; but his eyes were not quite shut.=It
was near the hour of night ; the sun's beams
were receding rapidly from the prison, and made
but a faint track of light across the bars of the
grated windows. The first mist of twilightcam
stealing in.
" You are bad company, senor ; I believe you.
are sleeping."  Our hero respired heavily,'and
made a slight spasmodic movement, as sleepii
persons are apt to do.
The man laid aside his sombrero, which
he had worn till now, threw, aside', the~,sht
stump of his cigarro, and scrutinized W t~er'l
features particularly; As he bent fgrw~rI to
get a better view, the latter perceived elian,

CHAPTER XIV.
THE "RASCALLY WORLD "-rE EsCAPE FROM        THE CARTEL.


I

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

18

die Of' a small -dagger concealed beneath his tually as he could.  While he was performing
frock.  Suspicion now deepened into a convic- this friendly office, &amp; small whistle rolled from
tion amounting almost to certainty.  Walter the pocket of the Mexican.
yawned'heavily, and brought his hands into a    " No doubt this has called your fellow-rogues
position where he could suddenly cast. off the together many a time," said Walter, taking it
iron clasps from his wrists.                 from  the floor. ,"Perhaps," he added, after a
The new-corner relapsed instantly into a list- little reflection, '"I may make it useful."
less posture; but when our hero feigned to      The assassin began to show signs of life, and
slumber soundly again, his former vigilant ex- Walter thrust a handkerchief into.his mouth to
pression returned.  He arose noiselessly to his keep him quiet.  He then divested him of his
feei, and laid his hand upon his breast over the frock or tunic, in the best way he could, with the
dagger.  But he 'hesitated ; a certain kind of assistance of the dagger.  He .transferred the
fear seemed to hold him  fast and root him to garment to his own person; and shortly after
the spot.                                     the trowsers, silver buttons, grease and all,
Possibly the reports which he had heard of changed owners in a similar manner, while the
the strength and courage of the man before him  broad sombrero graced his brows.
made him' falter in his purpose. The strange - The assassin now gave indications that he was
words of Walter himself might have had their sensible of what was taking place. He attempt.
effect.  The natural ferocity of his nature began ed to arise, but was disagreeably baffled by the
to triumph bver his scruples.  Before him  was jewelry.
work in keeping with the events of his past life.  '-"This is a bad world, senor, a very rascally
o him there was an excitement in the shed- world!" said Walter, quoting the language of
ding'of human blood that possessed an infernal his "docile " friend.
charm. -.He 'grasped the weapon whose silver    " People are so ungrateful !" -added Walter.
hilt peeped from his bosom and glistened in the "See what you get by serving your- friends !
feeble light, His massy chest was agitated with Ah, capitan, the world is full of ingratitude !"
the powerful emotions at work within him, and   The man shook his fetters desperately, and
Walter could discern its unnatural heavings. growled down his throat.
His nostrils dilated-; his lips were compresses  "I hope your employers paid you something
upon the teeth ; his eyes flashed like glowing beforehand, for I dare say they 'would not
furnaces,  He thrust one foot forward,. and scruple to cheat such a peaceable fellow as your-
stood on tip-toe.  The weapon was drawn forth, self.  I hope, also, that you saw a priest before
another step was nade, and the assassin's breath you came on this ugly business.  I am strongly
was ;concentrated in - his lungs for the fatal tempted to try this dagger's edge.  You would
wGoke.                                        oblige me by indicating the precise spot where
Walter suddenly arose to his feet, grasped that organ representing the human affections'is
his chains firmly in his hands, swung them aloft, supposed to be located."
and brought them.down upon the head of the      By close scrutiny, Walter was able to per-
villain with all the power of his muscular arms. ceive that the villain was excessively terrified,
The effect was instantaneous and decisive. really believing that his last hour was come;
eThp assassin was crushed to the floor with the for in his opinion a desperate fellow, like the
force of the shock, and lay motionless and sense- " Texan Bravo," would not pass over so good
Iless:'  The weight of   the 'chains, and the an opportunity to gratify his sanguinary disposi-
btreangth applied, might have prostrated a wild tion. He would have begged humbly, abjectly
bufihlo upon the prairies.                    for his life, had his tongue been.- at his com-
Ethingon immediately transferred his irons mandl; but as it was, ao could only lift up his
to liia'fellow-prisoser, and secured him as effee- manacled hands in mute entreaty.

THE TEXA

Walter now resolved to make an experiment
which possibly might be the means of regaining
his liberty, and perhaps; on the contrary, might
add to the rigor of his imprisonment. He placed
the whistle to his lips and blew a shrill blast.
In a short time he heard steps approaching, and
presently the door of his cell was opened by the
turnkey.
Walter drew the sombrero over his eyes, and
jostled him in such a manner, while he was en-
tering, as tQ knock the light from his hand.
" It is done," he whispered, "let us go."
"Jesu, senor !  So soon ." exclaimed the
turnkey.
"Yes, it is all over; .come away," and
Ethington caught him by the arm, and hurried
him.along the corridor of the carcel towards the
little court opening upon the street. They
stood before the large door of the prison ; the

N BRAVO.                                79
keeper fumbled in his girdle for the key; but, it
being totally dark, tried several, before hefound
the right one. They passed into the court, and
a gate was yet to be opened.
"Was it easily done ?" asked his conductor,
as ho placed a key in the lock.
" Quite " said Walter.  "One blow, and
all was over."
"Life is short," moralized the keeper.
Very, and changeful, too," answered Wal-
ter.
The key had already turned in the, lock of
the outer gate, when the first rays of the moon,
which had just arisen, fell across Walter's face.
"Ah, Dios / whom have we here ?" exclaim-
ed the keeper.
For a reply, Walter knocked him down, and
pushing open the gate, ran from the career as
fast as possible.

40


I         THE TEXAN BRAVO.                                   81
"That is no doubt their intention," replied their companions, that their ammunition had not
Cameron.                                 been wasted.

HE night drew on apace and flung its
silent shadows over the land of the
" Lone Star." Prairie, lake and chapparel
were wrapped in the dreamy mists of the hour.
The gentle winds had departed with the sun,
and left the leaves at rest. The wild melody of
birdsfloated no longer upon the fragrant air.
The little lake near the fort seemed to slumber
in the stillness.
Men," said Wilson, "a serious contest is
before us. But we are well protected by these
rough yet firm walls of wood, We have for a
long time been trained to war, and each of us
knows what is required of him in a case like
this. In our hands we hold the weapons which
have sent terror among our enemies more than
once. No men living understand the art of
using them better than we. The Texan Ran-
gers are well known and dreaded, and we will
not throw a stigma upon their well-earned repu-
tation. Yonder you can discern the bivouac of
our foes ; they are cowards when matched with
equal numbers, and revengeful when the superi-
ority of numbers gives them an advantage. They

will destroy us to a man, if, they can, and the
fate of the defenders of the Alamo and of Goliad
tells us what we may expect. Let us remember
that we were at San Jacinto, and do our duty
to the last. ( Surrender, we will not ; I, for one,
would sooner perish where I stand.".
"And I also," said Cameron ; " and I also,"
responded every one.
" Shall we wait for them to attack us ?" ask-
ed Wilson ; "or shall we give them a taste of
our metal; ,they are within reach of us, as you
will perceive."
"Perhaps we had better keep quiet until
they make a demonstration," replied Cameron.
"They are, preparing to do it now," return-
ed Wilson.    " See, a small party have mount-
ed their mustangs to see what they Can make of
us at a nearer point of view.  They are armed
with carbines and escopetas, I should judge.
They hope the darkness will render their bodies
rather indistinct marks for our rifles. . They
expect to draw our fire at but little personal
hazard, and thus determine our strength."

"See if you can count them," added the

{
l

CHAPTER XV.
TIHE ATTACK ON, THE FORT.

I

captain.,
"There are about fifteen advancing.- I won-
der how many empty- saddles will return; it
would be interesting to know. I wish the moon
would'hurry up.  How still it is; such a hush
this frequently precedes storms. I would
give something to know what those fellows are
thinking of. Perhaps the fear of death has al-
ready fallen upon some of them with all its chill-
ing mystery."
Parker, who was standing near Cameron,
turned towards him with a strange though quiet
smile, faintly discernible in the feeble light
which crept in through the pierced walls.
"I should think they might feel some dismal
forebodings. If there are indeed presentiments
they should have them; for they are so near
their dissolution," added Wilson, impressively,
"that the angel of death might crush them with
his wings Is he flies over."
"I will pick off the leader," said Cameron.
Good heavens ! how tardy the moon is 1,"
"We can see well enough to answer our pur-
pose, I think. Now, men, see if you can cover
an object with your steel barrels. Let your
barkers speak up sharp and disturb the diges-
tion of some of those fellows !  Cameron, give
yonder chap an ounce and a half."
" It shall be done, captain," said the lieu-
tenant.
"Go yer death, massa Kentuck," added
Felix.
"I can cover him," added Cameron.
"Then give it to him."
A single report broke the silence; the fore-
most saddle was emptied, the party drew such
denly up and were motionless for a brief space ;
but that brief space was enough. The Rangers
instantly pounced in their fire, with what effect
they could not well judge ; for the darkness of
the hour and the smoke served to cover the
retreat of the survivors; but it was quite cer-
tain from the speed with which they returned to

This prompt and probably unexpected re
pulse checked the ardor of the assailants for the
time being, and the Rangers began to believe
that they shouldn't be .molested again during:
the night,. but they were doomed to disappoint-
ment. Just before the dawn of day there was
a general assault upon the fort. Advancing upon
all sides, save that towards the lake, they, dis-
charged their carbines, and received the fire of
the Texans. Some of- them  reached the ° fort
and clambered upon its flat roof; others passed
them up'dry sticks and every combustible mate;
rial that they could obtain. After several at-
tempts, a dense smoke curled up from the roof,
and presently a flame, which soon streamed up
into the skies, reflecting fantastic shadows upoi"
the lake.
During the time occupied in producing: th n.'
result, the Rangers had not been idle ; they
had employed their weapons with deadly 'efl'et;
but the darkness that is always the precursor of
day, proved their enemy.
"They can't reach us," said Wilson, "un-
less they burn us out, and these logs"are "t01
green to afford them much chance of thatt"
"They begin to give back," renriaked'Cam-
eron. "The Texan rifles terrify them. ,HalW
what was that ?"
"I heard nothing new," replied Wilson.
"I smell fire !" exclaimed Cameron. "Look
up'! they have kindled a fire over our head.
The infernal heathen wish to burn us alive."
"Keep cool-they can't do it !" cried Wil
son.  "The logs are too wet to burn-it will
go out of itself. Give it to them, men--e
lively-blaze away  wherever you see their
heads-be sure that every shot tells."
"The 'Lone Star' forever !" shouted the
Rangers.
Wilson paused and looked anxiously up; b
fire was indeed spreading.
"I thought it was too green to burn," : _
observed, while a painful shade of anxiety crps
ed his face.


Green wood makes the hottest lire wh
fairly started," said the lieutenant. "Th
have kindled it with dry sticks and bark."
-'Look -a heah, massa Kentuck," observe
Felix. "Jest let dis darkey feller out, an
he'l fix de fire in no time, and perhaps less da
dat."
£ ":Nonsense, Felix ! they'll fix you, mor
likely," returned the captain.
'"I isn't a good mark, mass cap'en," h
answered.-
"And whynot ?" asked Wilson.
"'Kase I's so near de cullor ob de night,
rejoined the African..
" They'll see the whites of those two eyes,'
remarked Cameron.;.
'I wasn't 'dressin' myself to you," sai(
Felir, with dignity.
"I fear to let you venture out," added the
captain."
SI'll 'spress myself and luminate de nature
ob de subjeck ; I'd rudder be shot dan to burn,
mama Kentuck ; dat is de pecooliar state ob my
indervidooal senterments."
",What can you do out there, Felix'?" asked
Wilson,,after looking again anxiously at the
flames, which were fast increasing in volume.
"Fyrow off de combustionable sticks, and
pitch de Mexicums to de debbil," replied Felix,
firmly. "Now open de door and let me out
quick, for de flames begin to promulgate like
tinder,"          . one
Wilson cast one more hurried glance upward,
and then said :
" Go, and if you are killed, we shall lose one
of h best niggers in the world."
Ltot me look out in that direction before
you unbarthe door," said Cameron.- "Now's
your time-all clear-let him out," he added,'
immediately..
Ay !" said Wilson-" open it is-go it,
Felix."
' Go yer death !" crud the latter, and dash-
ed out into the open air where the bullets were
fiarig like, hailstones. In a moment he had
gr fme4the ends of the' projecting logs, and
drawn himself to the.. roof. Two of the enemy

en were still there, feeding the flames with dry
ey sticks and bark which their comrades threw up
to them. The African sprang towards them
3d with irresistible fury ; one he felled 'with his
Ld fist,' and the other he caught in his athletic
en arms and threw from the roof as he would have
thrown a billet of wood ; another moment and
re he was scattering the blazing brands in all diree.
tions.
le A loud shout arose from the Mexicans, and
a shower of balls whistled about him as he spun
the flaming materials away with his foot. The
" task was done; the negro swung his old hat in
the air-shouted at the top of his voice :
"    " Go yer death, yer debbils !" leaped down
and was instantly pulled into the fort by Wilson
d and Cameron.
"Heaven bless your woolly head !" exclaim.
e ed the captain.  "There's considerable of the
Kentucky alligator about you, after all. You're
a brave darkey, and I'll bear that in mind.".
"'Spress yerself-pile it on," said Felix.
It being near dawn, the enemy made no
farther attempts to fire the fort, but kept up a
continual discharge of carbines and escopetas,
covering themselves as much as possible behind
trees, rocks and shrubbery to guard against the
fatal effects of the Texan rifles.  The chapparel
served their purpose very well, and the firing
was most frequent in that direction. Occasion-
ally a bullet would find its way through a cre-
vice, and its strength being spent, roll' harm-
lessly upon the ground, or strike the opposite
wall with feeble force.
The Rangers were impatient for the daylight,
that they might use their weapons with more
fatal results. The darkness melted away before
the approaches of the sun. The red light swept'
along from  the ruddy east, and revealed the
scene of the contest.
Several figures were discovered lying upon
the earth whose eyes received no light, and
whose bodies felt no warmth from the dazzling
beams. They had fallen in the conflict ; their
ears were deaf to all earthly sounds, and the
passions which lad hurried them to their fate
were extinguished forever.

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

AN, BRAVO.

88

I

f

THE TEX
Parker stood near Wilson reloading his rifle,
which he had just discharged. The latter turn-
ed to the former with a good-natured smile :
"You see that your presentiments amounted
to nothing," he remarked.  "I hope you feel
quite well now?
"It is not noon yet," was the calm reply.
"If I should fall, bury -me here, and say to my
friends that I did my duty."
Parker ceased speaking, and threw his ram-
rod upon the ground. - In the very act, of plac-
ing a cap upon the tube, a ball struck him upon
the breast; he staggered, and Wilson caught
him as he was falling.
" It's in my lungs," said Parker.
'The captain tore open his vest, and the blood
was bubbling slowly from a wound in the right
breast. Wilson had seen many wounded men,
and knew by the peculiar red color of the vital
current that it came from the lungs.
"Don't mind me," added Parker.    "You
can employ yourself better; it's of no use. I
knew it would come to this."
The kind-hearted ranger did what he could to
staunch the blood, but it was a vain attempt.
He placed some blankets under him, then re-
turned to his post and encouraged the men, who
were endeavoring to pick off those who had
taken a position in the chapparel. It was cer-
tain death to him  who exposed his person ; an
unseen messenger was sure to find him.
In a short time Wilson was by Parker's side
again. He was suffering intense pain ; at every
respiration the blood welled forth afresh.
" How do you find yourself'?" asked the
captain.
" It goes hard with me," said Parker.
"Do you feel as though you were going'?"
continued Wilson, taking his companion's hand.
" Sinking fast," murmured Parker.. "Isuf-
fer much--I had hoped to have gone easier."
"Can I do anything-do you feel prepared ?"
added the captain.
"'As well prepared, perhaps, as if I had
been permitted to lives longer. War is not a
trade that fits one for heaven," was the reply,
spoken with much effort.

" You have fought for your country," said,
Wilson.
" Yes, in the past;Abut now I am fighting
with an enemy that cannot be conquered," re-
plied Parker.
"The angel of death is strong," said the
ranger, wiping his eyes.
"Yes, he tears me," added the dying man,
painfully convulsed.  "His fingers are at work
here-here,"-laying his hand upon his chest.
Cameron now drew near, and leaning on the
barrel of his rifle, looked sadly'upon the face of
his comrade in arms.
"You see how it is," said Parker, in a faint
voice. "I am paying the last debt; I
bound to the unknown country ; the last enemy
is pressing hard upon me."
"We are sorry to part with you," replied
Cameron, solemnly.
For a short time the dying ranger was unable
to speak, and the angel tugged away at his brave
heart. He then raised himself upon his elbow
and spoke again:
'I'm going on the long march," he added;
"a road which all the world must march over.
I hear the tattoo of death; I go to my last
quarters!  God bless you.--farewell."
Parker feebly pressed the hands of his com-
panions, his lips moved as if in prayer-he
looked at Wilson, smiled, and joined the great
army which no man can number.
An hour before noon they buried him there,
and the sun at his meridian crept in, and his
beams lay across the grave.
,The enemy having lost many of their I umnf
bers, observed much caution in their offensive
operations during the day, but upon the ensuing
night several determined assaults were made,
which were promptly repelled by the Texans.
Attempts were also made to fire the fort, but
providentially their purpose 'was baflled by,; '
shower. Finding that they gained nothing by
this mode of warfare, the Mexicans now resolved
to reduce the brave band by famine.
But little was now done on either side, and
the assailants waited patiently for. hunger to
perform what mere force of arms couldunot.


84                              THE TEXA
The Rangers saw with feelings of the deep-
est solicitude their little stock of provisions
wasting rapidly 'away, and' finally disappear.
Their new enemy was now the most formidable.
They began to suffer from hunger and thirst,
more particularly the latter.
"Something must be done," said Captain
Wilson one day to Cameron.   " Our brave fel-
lows begin to suffer."
J41, know it," replied the lieutenant; "and
I Piavethought of a plan which may perhaps
succeed."'
" Lot us hear it," replied the other.
It is this," said Cameron.  " When it be-
coanes dark to-night, I will leave the fort and
endeavor to make my way to the other side of
the lake where we left our horses. If fortune
favors: me, I shall reach Bexar and bring you
relief.  A few shots from our gallant boys would
dispirse yonder cowards. like sheep."
"'But the great difficulty of your plan is to
leave the fort without being shot down or taken.
They intend to starve us out-that. is evident ;
and' they are watching us as a cat watches a
mouse. It 'grieves me to see a brave man haz-
ard his life in such a way, for the chances are
against you, ten to one."
" I am a are that it is a hazardous under-
taking, cap 'n; but one will be more likely to
succeed th   all of us.  I am resolved to try,"
replied Cameron.'
"No, I will go. I planned this expedition ;
I have led you and our companions in arms into
danger, and it shall be mine to make an attempt
to extriicate them," said Wilson.
I' wil  not consent to it,"'replied Cameron,
earnestly. "' I claim the right to incur the risk.
Remember Marianna."
"I have thought of her," answered the cap-
taini  "And there is a name you have spoken
wish I have not.ifoi-gotten. "
' Yes, Uarmencita ; but her remembrance
must not deter me from duty ; it should rather
stimulate me' to acts of heroism,'' rejoined the
liisenit.
~eeiving that Cameron' was fully ibent upon
putting his ytlan into execution, Wilson ceased

LN BRAVO.

to press the subject farther; and when the night
came, the former made preparations to go forth
on his mission.
"This rifle," said Cameron, when ready to
make the attempt, " I will leave with you; for
if anything should happen to me, I should not
like to have it fall into the hands of our ene-
mies ; it has'done too. much good service to
merit such a fate. Will take this weapon that
belonged to poor Parker. Now, my lads, let us
shake hands all round, for perhaps we may
never meet again."
"It is useless to tell you to be cautious,"
said the captain, "for .I know you will exer-
cise all the prudence that mortal man can. If
you shouldn't be successful, and we should
never see your face again in time,'what shall we
say to Carmencita, should we happen to meet
her by some singular chance ?"
"That I was true to her to the last ; that
will be enough ; she will know what it means,"
he replied.
"Word for word," responded Wilson.
"It is quite dark now and I need delay no
longer."
The door was opened cautiously; the manly
form f Cameron passed out, and all was still.
They listened breathlessly, but no sounds came
back to tell them of their comrade's fate.  They
ventured to hope that he had baffled 'the vigil-
ance of the enemy and reached the opposite
side of the lake in safety.
"I think I can see some object in the water,"
said one of the men.
" So can I," said Felix.
"Where?" asked Wilson.
The first speaker indicated the spot with his
finger.
" I see !" exclaimed the captain, energeti-
cally.  " It's Cameron; .he is swimming across
the lake. . His rifle is lashed upon his back, and
he strikes out boldly ; but I fear this sudden
burst of moonlight will betray him."
"He is still within gunshot of the enemy,"
added the other ; "they could riddle him  with
their bullets in a moment."

44

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

"He's a strong swimmer," said the captain,
"but I fear the chances are greatly against him..
Hark ! I hear the centinela alerta of the senti-
nels.  Cameron has gone down; but he breaks
water and appears above the surface again. He
is yet undiscovered ; I believe he will suc-
ceed."
The parties watched the brave swimmer until
he passed round a 'small headland and was no
longer visible. From each.heart there went up
a silent yet earnest prayer for his safety.
In the long catalogue of human miseries there
is none more dreadful than the, agonies of in-
tense thirst. The Ranges had already begun
to feel its horrors; lips were parched, tongues
hot and dry. If they slept, they saw in their
dreams delicious streams of water that mocked
their thirst.'
But necessity is the mother of expedients';
with such implements as they had, the men be-
gan to dig a hole withintheir narrow precincts.
After much labor they bad the pleasure of seeing
the excavation gradually fill with dirty looking
water; but they drank it-eagerly and with grate-
ful hearts.
Their-courage now revived, and the enemy
heard them cry viva la Texas, with an energy
that surprised them. Wilson declared that the
muddy liquid was the sweetest water he ever
drank.
We will not follow the devoted band step by
step in the sufferings which they experienced
for the next two days. We -will not describe
their hollow cheeks and sunken eyes; nor paint
the inroads of hunger upon constitutions natu
rally robust. But there were no murmuring
heard. Stern resolution and defiance was- writ
ten in legible characters upon every face. Each
spoke hopefully, and no one thought of sur
rendering.  Each remembered the fate of Tra
vis and Bowie, Crocket and Fannin. When
ever an enemy came within range, he instantly
covered the sight of a Texan rifle ; and it way
next to a miracle if he escaped.
On the night of the second day' after the de
parture of Cameron, the assailants made a des
perate attempt to storm the little fort. Be
6

lieving that the Texans must inevitably be in a
poor condition to fight, they resolved to defer
the moment of triumph no-'longer.
The Kentuckian encouraged his companions,
and determined to beat them- back 'or perish.
All was done that the most exalted courage could
suggest, or the most dogged obstinacy inspire.
The men fought with the desperation of de-?
pair ; but hunger had enfeebled them, and con-
tinued watching, anxiety and  exertion ha,
wasted their energies to' an alarming degree.
None were more daring or efficient than Feli
'He used his master's rifle with great effect, an
manifested a spirit of determined bravery.
"My friends and comrades," said Wilson
"the worst has come. We must either bea
them off, or never see another sun rise. The
will probably overpower us at last ; but we w
die here and leave our bones to bleach beside
those of poor Parker. Our countrymen wil
not forget us, and the Rangers will avenge o
death. It is not so hard a thing to perish figh
ing for one's country as cowards imagine. Th
good soldier rises superior to pain; he feels b
one slight pang and all is over."
"They are all around us," said one of th
men.   " We can keep them out but little lo
ger; they will either burst in upon us, or bur
us up."
"If the Rangers were only here," replie
LWilson.
"We'll fight 'em to the death !" exelaime
the other.
S"Here dey come like de debbil !" said F
lix. "Good-by, massa Kentuck."
The enemy were now attempting to force tl
door. At that instant, the surrounding count
- resounded with rifle shots, and the battle-cry
- 'the " Lone Star" drowned the shouts of'the
- sailants, and found many an echo among t
y hills and gorges.
s    " 'Spress yerself ! Go yer death !" eni
Felix.
"The Rangers, by heavens !" exclaim
- Wilson. "Thank God, boys, we are saved
- ".Does ye hear dat ?" added Felix, joyfull


THE TEXAN RAVO.
- volley after volley was heard   from  he   ,"He's here," said a voice, and Cameron h'
Rangers."Dat's what does de good." self pressed forward and grasped the outstretch-
'Furgfor Texans and Old Kentuck !" ed hand of Wilson.- "I met our noble lads on
9ou  tWilon.                               the way," he said.     "Ridgiy had already
"#90enemy are flying in all directions," warned them of our danger, and they were has.
saidoue of the men.                           tening to our relief; but ,they would not have
"Oh   course,'' added           positively. reached us in time to have been of any service,
Dy'd whip 4e debbil !"                    if I had not fell in with them and guided them
"Itere   they come !"  added the captain. on by the shortest gand ,iost practicable way.
"tpenthdoor, me."                          dYoiu        reareshientnd 4'st,. and, thank
door was :quickly unbarred; the brave God you can nowssleeti   afetyt'''he added
eos rushed out into the open air, and em= 'glancing proudly at the R angers;.,
braced their comppanions with feelings ofjyn n     x"    wf' {.     ;   g r       smie o
p-atitude that no pen can describe."            -    s   ns r Wi s        ae, frsmilell
t P.rin            ow leein        ,forI   el
here's Cameron'?" cried Captain 1 - remembe howstli          'fo
re srne d                                          fuhts  i  atin  4l    merhw e-"'Texan "'Ranrs foghtat
as h,                                                 w brave company cm n  up t' Sn  a to we  ushed Sant Anna for
I. _   1 r       rt                 In  sin s" ,'  ?,,Mr 'y  -" i' t. . z.,F

-rt     1    s,
.  '
t
,       i
S    i     ,
.,
P(
f

, ,

/
I4
fi.3/    _i

THE FINALE.

E left Walter Ethington running.from
the cartel.  Hehad not-,proceeded far,
before the cries of the.turnky had'turned out
the guard and many of the citizens of Laredo.
Our hero was surrounded just as, he reached the.
plaza ; for not being acquainted with localities,
he had taken the wrong direction. He'prepar-
ed for a determined resistance ; but'the guard,
were brought suddenly upon him ,at a charge;
bayonet, and he was marched     back toy the
carcel.
As he was conducted to his cell, he met the
personage who had attempted his life.  His head
was bleeding profusely, and he ,had just been
relieved of the "jewelry." He favored our
hero with an expressive glance, and took occasion
to remark, with a malicious grin:
That it was a very rascally world indeed."
As it was his turn to triumph, Walter bit his
lips with vexation, and made no reply. In a few
moments he found himself established in his old
quarters, and provided with a new set of irons.
much heavier than the former ones. It was use-
less to repine, and he bore his disappointment
with as much stoicism as possible.

Carmencita did not visit him forseveral da
and he began to wonder at, her long absen
At length she came.
"I began to think you had forgotten ia
he said, with a smile.
"No, senor ; I seldom forget my promise
but youbegan to despair, it would seem, and
tried to escape.without my assistance," she
swered.
"I attempted to regain my freedom,"
turned Walter; "and I think you will pronoul
the trial excusable, when you learn ,that I
rowly escaped assassination."
Walter then related the particulars of, there
cident which led to his futile endeavor to reg
his liberty.
Carmencita was greatly shocked at hear
this, and declared her determination to lay
matter before those whose business it 'was1
look after such things.
" My father has returned to Laredo,""
added; " and I have obtained an order fory
liberation. 'In a few minute yon will be l
from those irons."          '

CHAPTER XVI.

.1

0

S       r       .i          d

+L
7


THE TEXAN BRAVO.

While she was speaking, the smith appeared,
snd relieved him of his irons.
"I feel like a man again," said Ethington,
s he spurned the irons away with his foot, and
Felt that he once more had the entire control of
is limbs.
" I sent information to Bexar by a trusty
messenger," continued Carmencita, "concern-
ig your condition. The bearer of my message
as fortunate enough to meet those who were
interested in your fortunes.  They await you a
hort distance from Laredo. You will be con--
ueted to them, and the debt of gratitude which,
owe you, will, in some measure, be' liqui-
ated."
"Fair   Carmencita,"  replied - Ethingtorn,
how shall I express my thanks ?  And what
hall I say to the brave Cameron ?"   .
" Just what you please, senor," she "answer-r
d; " except to tell him that he is - not for-
atten-"
" He will be glad to hear from  you;,I am
iite certain that I have heard him speak your,
me. CaptainWilson used to rally him about
dark-eyed senorita," said Walter.
~akmng his leave of Carmencita with many I
apressions of esteem and professions of friend-d
he was provided with a mustang, and con-;n
ted from Laredo with great secrecy and des-
onder are your friends," said the guide,
ter a gallop of an hour.  "I need go no h
rther."                           '.
nton rode forward, and in a few mo-n
rnts, to his surprise, beheld the tall figure of
dgley; and near him  was Augustus Henrie, R
sse as usual, and looking as foppish as ever. e
r hero advanced and took the extended hand t
Ridgley without reserve.                 p
" Your efforts to serve me," said" Walter, in
have disarmed me of prejudice. I confess t]
Fself your debtor."
4The account may be balanced at your lei- sa
re,; replied Ridgley, smiling.   -      a
1n relatkieto you, my young friend," add- sa
Walt 4-mrning. to Augustus Henrie, And T
mig his small, white hand, " I scarcely know hs

what to say. You have served me with singu-
lar fidelity and disinterestedness."
"But never was so fortunate as to be much
of a favorite," replied the youth, with a smile.
" I will be frank," rejoined our hero, with a
slight change of color.  " I will confess that I
did not formerly feel very friendly towards
you."
" You were inclined to think me rather fop-
pish, I believe, Mr. Ethington," returned Au-
gustus, -good naturedly.'
1' If I were ever so unkind asto do - you in-
justice, I.trust you will pardon me; for I regret
m y. ingratitude very sincerely " resumed Wal-
ter.
' -ith pleasure, sire- With my smooth,
beardless face and slight figure, it was perhaps
natural that you should think menwanting in
many manly attributes ; we will'let that pass."
" I trust it willcure me of the foolish habit
of judging by appearances' added our hero.
"I cordially hope Rso,"said Ilidgley, earn-
estly; "for the very habit has caused all your
unhappiness."
"Tou allude to Andrea St. Aubert," re-
plied Ethington, quickly, and with less cor
diality.  "Upon that subject you know' we
never agree."
"I have;heard that you once loved my cousin
Aiidrea," rejoined Augustus.
"You heard truly, my good youth. I loved
her most"devotedly; but do me the justice to
)elive that I would not have broken off the con-
nection without sufficient cause."
"I have never sought your confidence," said
iidgley, " but I ask you now in the most
arnest manner, and entreat you by any grati-
ude or friendship which you may now be dis-.
osed to feel towards me, to speak plainly, and
form me why you left my .niece, Andrea, in
he abrupt and strange way which you did ?"
"I will do as you desire," answered Walter,
adly.  " Upon a certain evening I witnessed
a interview between her and another lover. I
aw them part with mutual tears and embraces.
'he sight maddened me past endurance, and I
ave not been happy a moment since that fatal

r'

hour. Can you wonder at my misanthropy-
can you reproach me that I am miserable ?"
" He can do better than that," replied Au-
gustus.  " He can inform you that that young
man was her brother, who was to leave her that
very hour to return to his class in a northern
college."
The party had dismounted and were standing
near each other. At hearing this unexpected
announcement, Walter's cheek grew ashy pale,
and he turned his eyes wildly toward Augustus.
Springing forward, he, caught him by the arm,'
exclaiming':
"What is this I 'hear! What strange words
would you utter ?'
The youth was much agitated, and unable to
reply immediately, and Ridgley spoke.
"The lad speaks the truth. Andrea St.
Aubert is pure as the angels. She was incapa-
ble of wronging you  ,Natures like hers are
elevated far above such deceit. An enemy has
imposed upon you."
" Repeat what you have said,", added Wal-
ter, shaking the arm of Augustus with consid-'
erable impatience. " I would hear it repeated
from your lips."
" It is true-true as holy writ," stammered
Augustus, greatly discomposed by the vehemence
of Walter.
"And that man was her brother !" cried the
latter, flinging the youth from him. " Then I
have wronged Andrea St. Aubert past forgive-
ness ; my headlong haste has  made me the
most unhappy of men. I have been duped-
cruelly duped."
"You have," resumed Ridgley, " and Wikoff
is the man. It was by his agency that you were
induced to doubt her and seek proof of her
guilt. He sent the false friend to you who led
you to the place of the pretended meeting."
"It must be so," returned Walter.
"It appears to me," said Augustus, "that
you were a little too precipitate. You should
have seen my cousin Andrea, before you broke
off the engagement. A word from her would
have prevented all this long protracted misunder-
standing."

"Very true ; but that time has passed an
cannot be recalled. I can only lament my
error, and punish the villain who has deceive
me by cunning artifices."
The revulsion that took place in the mind, 6
Walter was very great, as well as unexpected.
To hear that Andrea St. Aubert was innocent
was indeed a relief; but with the gladness con
sequent upon such a discovery, there was, minx
led much self-reproach and bitterness. He per
ceived that he had been deceived and wronge
by an artful rival, and while smarting under th
suposd ,grievances, had cruelly wronged on
a( dear to him as his own honor.
As he rode forward' towards B'exar, accom
panied by Ridgley and Augustus, and the half
dozen. neigbhdrs who had volunteered to assist
the former, lie was a subject of the deepest re;
morse.
"Did you really feel any friendship for An:.
drea ?" asked Augustus, unconcernedly.
"That's cool !" said Walter, coldly. " Yo
are not very deeply' versed in matters pertain-
ing to the affections ?"
"I don't care to be, if it makes people se
desperate," retorted Augustus.
"Wait till your beard .grows," added Wal-
ter, with a smile.
" That will be a long time," said the youth,
passing his hand over his smooth chin.
'I think so," answered our hero.
On the following day the party were agree'
ably surprised by meeting the Texan Raugral
who were moving towards Laredo, fully ,deter
mined on Walter's release. It was a' leasan
incident to our hero, for he felt a. strong ,
tachment for Captain Wilson and . ieutenari
Cameron,'. as well  as  their' bra e fellows
Ethington was rauch affected at theft recital
their sufferings, and the friendship theyliar
manifested for him.  The order to "right abou
face," was given, and the Rangers gnoved 't
wards Bexar in the best of spirits.
Felix was nearly wild with joy, ndfonnd
exceedingly difficult to "''press hinsf't"o?
that occasion. Walter did not forget to lyave
long interview with Cameron, in which the nai

THE TEXAN BRAVO.


91

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

Carmencita was often repeated, and the
butenapit. appeared in excellent humor, while
urlhero was a greater favorite with him than
ver before,
t was observed soon after the party~ had
ossed the Nueces that Felix was nowhere to
seen, and his master began to feel anxious
ihis safety.  Presently he joined them at a
alop;,swinging his hat and much excited.'
" Yah, yah ! heah, heah ! I's ,gin it, to
i I" he exclaimed, with an uncommon exhi-
ition of ivory and whites of the eyes.    ,
'What have you done ?" asked Walter.   s
Killed da debbil!" replied Felix.
ILet us follow him," said Wilson; and the
a     a tain and Ethington spurred their horses after
e African.  In a short time the latter( drew,
p on the piece of bottom-land or interval, to
ich the. attention of the reader :has been be-
ore directed.  A man was lying upon:the grass:
ear the river. Walter threw himself'fromhis.
orse and bent over him; it was Wikoff.
The pains of death had already seized him.
here was a , dark spot upon his forehead ;-a
le  l had entered there, and the life-drops
ere oozing slowly out.
W"hat }means this ?" exclaimed Walter.
"It w ans that I am dying," said Wikoff, in
faint voice.y
He'sgot de debbil, massa, said Felix.
" Served him right," added Wilson. ,
S oyer death !" cried the African.
'tush "said Walter.     "The man     is
1Y'rn I
It prows dark-earth is fading away," said
Vik ff.   I am not ready-would to God I
sound livepfor a day.!"
'You' itbe a corpse before five mutess"
[d   Wilson, bluntly.
of{ dried to rise upon his elbow, but could'
t. Hist expression grew wild, and his eyes
mln.   ;
" Andrea St.. Aubert is innocent ; she loves.
©u still, l e said, in a hollow voice.
These were his last words.  Death stopped
ns   trance, and his eyes glossed' over forever.
RIe stood sient a moment as if listening to
#

the sound of the angel's wings, as he conducted
away ai erring soul.
"Thus ends the career of a villain !" said
Wilson.-
"Yes," replied Walter, with a sigh ; "and
may God forgive him."
Y " You manifest a more Christian disposition
than I: ever expected you ;would," returned the
ranger,. as they moved away from the spot.
yAs theyrode torejoin their ;friends, Felix
turned in the ,saddle anditshook his fist at the
bodyofWikoff.
"what mdegou d ai 3:,Y.aked :w~ter.
#  'Kase I had achance" said Felix.  "'He's
made trubbil en'ff  $ 've "spiessed do natur ob
my convictionson dat subjeck  He 'sulted dis
:cullud pusson once on datEvery spot."
"Do you think,.  aid   alterto Augustus
Henrie, ', that I'scould have.aniterview with
Miss St. Aubert ?  ."
"For what purpose,?" he asked.
"To.confess my fault, entreat her to pardon
me,and sayfarewell. :.Will you .be 1ay mes-
senger to Andrea?"
"I will;" replied the youth..
"This very hour ?" added Walter.
1 This.eryhour," said Augustus.
Gogthen, rmy good youth, and I will await
your return here at the camp. Do not keep me
longinsuspense, because my feelings during
your absence will not be of the' most enviable
kind."
Promising to be expeditious, and use all his
influence with Andrea, Augustus departed upon
his mission: After the lapse of an hour which
seemed an' age to Ethington, a colored servant
brought a note from  Mr. Ridgley, stating that
Miss St. Aubert had reluctantly granted his re-
quest ; but begged that the interview might be
as brief as ,possible.
Our hero directed his steps towards Mr.
Ridgley's mansion, agitated by emotions which
no man in his senses could have coveted. He
felt as a person might be supposed to feel who
has committed some great crime, and is on his
way to the confessional to unburd1m  his con-
science. ~

"How   would Andrea receive him? how
should he appear in her presence ? was there
any hope that she would pardon him ?"
To none of these questions could he return a
very encouraging answer. The man who fought
at San Jacinto trembled violently when he en-'
tered the dwelling. of. Mr. Ridgley. He was
conducted to the parlor and kept waiting a few
minutes in a state of trepidation bordering on
insanity.
He heard the door yopen and light footsteps
advancing; ,h ventured tosraise'his eyes; and
Andrea St."Aub rt~stdod beforehim'.Shehad
lost nothiigf tht d  hazlihg beauty whioPdi-
tinguishediie  fiinllth r'f her sex.
ter averted his=gaze,"and'was too much-embar-
rassed to s      eakiiin idiately.
"I have, -pres  a d ihe stammered,  Miss
St. Aubert, t*G hi an interview."
Andrea man
" I have ometco       my.error. I do not
expect you to forgive me, but I do wish you to
witness my contrition ,andshear mey avow how
deeply I regret; whatahas'happened."
"Augustus has tokdiall," replied Andrea,
striving to suppress her emotions.
"I have suffered much," continued Ething-
ton.
"I know  it, Walter, and I freely forgive
you. You were more sinned against than sin-
ning," said Andrea, in a gentle voice:
"I thank you from the deepest fountains of
my heart for this condescension-!" exclaimed
Walter.  "You will forgive me, then ?".
"For the sake of Augustus," saidrAndrea.
"But your kindness is limited to }a certain
extent ; it leaves me nothing to hope from your
love, and I did not expect it," resumed Walter.
"To please Augustus," added- Andrea.
"Dare I believe what I hear !" he exclaim-
ed, advancing and taking Andrea by the hand.
"To -please Augustus," repeated Andrea,
with ' smile.
The next moment-no, that will not- do ;
the blushes of my heroine shall be spared. I have
no right to describe what ensued. Who will
dare embrace the mistress of his heart after a

reconciliation, if it is to be put in print and pass
before the optics of an hundred thousand read-
ers! It is not fair ; such moments of 'apture
belong wholly to those who experience them.'
"As you have done so much to please
Augustus,",said Walter, after an interv T" of
expressive silence, "be good enough to ring
the bell and send for him, that I may 'thank
him as he deserves."
Andrea wiped the happy tears from her eyes,
and left the room. . In a short time Augustus
and'Mr. Ridgley appeared.
nou I have had an excellent advocate,"
sad  Walter, embracing the youth warmly.
y Through your intercession, I have been made
the happiest of men."
"It's a pity I am such a dandy," rejoined
Augustus.'
" I thought you had forgiven and forgotten
that," added Walter, with a smile. "Where's
Andreaf I wish to see you both together,"
"You shall," said Augustus; and instantly
throwing off his cap and outer garments, our
hero saw both Augustus and Andrea in one.
"Andrea St. Aubert !" exclaimed Ethington,
recoiling with surprise. "Is it possible that I
have been so stupid !"
.'Spress yerself ! promulgate-luminate de
idee !"  cried Felix, rushing into the room.
"Yah, yah ! heah, heah !"
,Walter turned towards Ridgley and attempt.
ed to speak ; but his heart was too full.
 She is unequalled," said Ridgley.
"I feel that I am unworthy of her," replied
Walter, greatly wrought upon by the singular
denouement.
"But tog;'please Augustus," said Andrea,
archly.
"Yes," replied Walter, earnetly, "to please
Augustus, I would undertake a pilgrimage to
Jerusalem."
It is unnecessary," added Ridgley.
I can now understand how, a certain chain
was restored to me," added Walter.
"I was her agent in that transaction," an
swered Ridgley.

v

THE TEXAN BRAVO.


92

THE TEXAN BRAVO.

Gentle reader, we will dwell no longer upon Rosalia was engaged to the second lieutenant.
these pages. Andrea St. Aubert and Walter       Cogswell was never again seen or heard of in
Ethington were shortly after united, and the that part of the country.
Eangers danced at the wedding.  Captain Wil-   Why should we linger to say that Walter and
onf improved the opportunity to enter into a Andrea were happy'? It were useless to make
arrangement with Marianna Lee.  There the remark, for true love has the power to strew
:as ipuch joy and hilarity upon the occasion, life's rough pathway with fadeless flowers.
and 'I'elix was never more "salubrious " in his  Time has written its years upon the record of
life.                                        eternity.  The empire- has rolled  westward,
Not long after this event, it was rumored that and the "Lone. Star" has become one of a
'ameron was about to follow    suit, and that glorious constellation,

THE END.

I

[1ROM TILE FLAG OF OUR UNION.]
Sw 5ERIL COTTAGE.
BY JOSEPH C. BAKER.
CHAPTER I.

ONE of the dearest reminiscences that comes
through the long vista of the shadowy past, is
the remembrance of Sweetbrier Cottage, and its
dear old inmate, Cousin Patty, as she was fa-
miliarly styled by the circle of us young ones,
who loved to congregate within its loved pre-
cincts, and listen to the tales of years agone
that our kind hostess was ever willing to relate;
and many times have I caught myself with wide-
ly distended eyes and gaping mouth, drinking
in, what I then thought marvellous accounts,
but which I have since discovered to be stern
reality.
Methinks even now I behold the kind old
lady ensconced in her high-backed arm-chair, and
presenting by no means, a small pattern of good-
natured humanity, for she completely filled up.

her throne, which was of ample dimensions ; and
as it was moved out on the porch in the- calm
summer twilight, with us grouped around our
empress, I thought no place could be more envi-
able, and I am sure we have never since tasted
such unalloyed happiness as in those dear days
of our innocent childhood.
To describe that group as it then appeared,
would We almost impossible, for all were of such
different dispositions and appearance ; but an
universal harmony always prevailed. The lead-
er in all our pranks, the wildest, most unaccoun-
table little creature in all that little band, was
Nelliiaywood, a black-eyed, curly-headed girl
of thirteen summers, who was scarcely ever known
to proceed with any degree of studied propriety,
ps a skip, jump, or perfect run was always pre-

.        t    I         2
t


9                            SWEETBRIE
ferred by her to a steady walk ; she was a
merry-hearted, sportive), fawn-like creature-but
ala! the world has sadly tamed her now ; and
the very' opposite to, though her firmest friend,
was the gentle, lady-like Mary White, whose
dark, hazel eyes were at times lit up with such
a glow of enthusiasm as was totally at variance
with her usual calm, steady system of deport-
ment. She was continually trying to bring the
giddy Nelly into some degree of subjection, and
as often failed ; for as wellmight she have sought
to chain the fitful breeze that came with' cca-
sional wild bursts through the bower'of 'eet-
brier, that gave the name to our 'littleaiirylik
cottage, whose walls, as they gleamed here and
there through the twining vines, were always as
white and spotless as the driven snow.
Carrie Lane and her twin sister,' Lizzie, were
often there too, and the sweetest little darling.
in the world, and the pet of Cousin Patty and
the whole band, was Lilly Raymond, the tiniest
little mortal for twelve years that could well be
imagined, andsright appropriately was she called
Lilly, her clear white complexion, light blue
eyes and sunny hued locks, could be compared
to nothing else than that pure and gentle flower ;
she appeared too good for this dark world of sin,
and by far too frail to battle with the rough
waters of life ; and it cannot be wondered that
she was our darling, and always claimed the fa-
yorite seat on the low stool at Cousin Patty's
knee, with-the old lady's left hand playing with
her soft silky curls, while with her right she
made from time to time such appropriate mo-
tions, as was to us the very perfection of elocu-
tionary evolutions. Lil's brother Frank and
myself were seldom  absent from' the circle,
though the girls, especially Mary; often throat-
ened to drive us forth, if we did not ieave off
our rough ways and teasing tricks, lbut we al-
rays had a: zealous champion in the frolicsome
Nell, who would often join us against her gen-
tler companions, though one coaxing look from
Cousin Patty was sufficient to still our most
boisterous mirth, and through her influence the
boys were allowed to remain.        .     .
The cottage was situated ir the nuidst of on~e

R COTTAGE.

of the loveliest valleys of 'Penn, surrounded
with its pretty garden, large fields of grin,
grass and wide-spreading orchards of the choic-
est fruit, while beside it was the little white
barn with its red roof and tiny dove cot, Brin-
dle and Cherry chewing their cud in the ample
barnyard, and the turkeys; chickens and ducks
keeping up an almost deafening cackling when-
ever old Dinah distributed their evening food,-
making ierself'scaacely less noise than the feath-
ered recipients of her: bounty.
" Now jes stop det%1iatchens, yer nasty old
;goba" he indigiantl eclfaims, s she makes
a =dive a   ithe offendr rwtitthehoe handle
which luckily f6his tbacl he lhas tlie instinct to
avoid ; while         sth t  hr  ttention to other
equally as. culpable liedsliant the little ban-
tum rooster comes infforlhisiefarieEfreprimand,
for she stoutly.declarehli ' iI5ody wouldn't
tink he was no lashifir o aiiisiis no how, show-
en off such pi g  anersh, *hd' Ise "ighty shuar
dat Dinah giv um  a better broughten up dan
dat."
Our-merry band now, as usual at this hour,
approached the cottage, and Nell, who had been
gaily chatting all the way down the lane, but
keeping her hands behind her, suddenly leaped
up to Dinah, as she was closing the barnyard
door, and heaped upon her woolly pate an enor-
mous wreath of oak' leaves ind cabbage roses,
and she, full of surprise, blushing no doubt, if
we could only see through her ebony complex-
ion, with a low courtesy, wished us "good eben-
in', young folks," and with her towering crown,
walked every -majestically towards the dairy,
greeted with a wild burst of merriment from us
all, and even her mistress stood atthe little gate
shaking her fat sides with a hearty fit of
laughter,
Instead of being angry, the good natured
negress soon came forth with a large vessel of
milk and cups, still bearing the crown, and de-
claring herself " de queen ob night," and with
-her shining black countenance illuminated with
her white teeth and rolling eyeballs, she was
certainly  a fit emblem   of the empress of
darkness.

Having with all possible pol
and acknowledged our treat, we
invitation , entered the mansion o
Cousin Patty took her seat at'
upright piano to play a count
which she occasionally indulg
we were bounding through th
figures ; this being ended, and
exertion, though Nell declared
dance half fast enough, we sat
rest, and then took a walk irn
the old lady, to see the bird nes
that morning, and watch the hu
tracting the sweets from the honi
we returned to the' poreh, the
setting sun had died away, a
chair being brought to its accus
as usual grouped ourselves ar
the last to settle herself, and hat
glee, obtained permission to gi
a good scream, to which ample
dered, she nestled down by the
ally gritting her teeth, shrugging
and dealing sunday pinches anc
me, to see, as she said, if a boy
It was a beautiful evening in J
came rustling through the sweet
a delightful' fragrance, shaking
around in a perfect shower, and
was faintly discernible in the
Nell for awhile had left off pi
the girls, was coaxing Lilly i
which she was rather loathe t
presently turning up her little
timidly'exclaimed :
" Now, cousin Patty, do tell 1
were married;-' the girls persu
and you promised to tell us lon
" 0 yes, do, that's a kind,
all exclaimed ; we will be so q
A shade of melancholy for
on her countenance, for cans
felt a pang at our hearts ; but
it with her happy smite, she an
" Well, I suppose, I must,
been so patiently waiting. B3u
to call up the bright visions of

SWEETBRIER       COTTAGE.-95
iteness received tell how our loveliest dreams have faded ; yet
at the owner's from experience we must all learn, and like the
f happiness, and bee that flies from flower to flower, we may ex-
the high-backed tract the sweetest store from the plainest blos-
try dance, with sous, and even the bitterest cup may contain a
ed us, and soon drop of honeyed nectar.
e most intricate  "Now all of you know I was born in this
all panting with very cottage, and many of your parents have sat
that we did not in this same old porch, and ours perhaps was a
on the porch to merrier band than your own, though time has
the garden with somewhat settled us now."
t she had found   " O yes," said Nell, " I often hear mother
mming bird ex- talk about those happy days, and she says you
eysuckle. When were almost as great a romp as I; now I won-
last rays of the der, if I will ever be as stout as you, Cousin
mnd the dear old Patty ?" and she laughed merrily at the idea.
tomed place, we   "Perhaps so, sauce-box ; well, we gambolled
ound. Nell was in these green fields and sheltering woods, until
ving, in her wild we passed the sunniest hours of our existence,
e one laugh and and were fast verging into womanhood, when'I
justice was ren- received a pressing invitation to visit a maternal
chair, occasion- aunt in a neighboring city. As you may suppose,
ig her shoulders, I was almost crazy to go, but my parents at
1 punches out to first were not willing ; they thought their daugh-
could take fun. ter would be better in their own quiet home,
une, the zephyrs and right well did they judge. But it was other-
tbrier, laden with wise ordained, and at my earnest. entreaties
the pink petals joined with Cousin Anna's, I was permitted to
the white moon go. No happier heart than mine ever beat in
clear blue sky. maiden's bosom, or gayer hopes or wilder vie-
nching, and with ions gushed and -trembled in youthful breast,
nto something to as I set off in the coach with my uncle for his
to acquiesce, but city residence ; as I bade adieu to, my parents,
sunny eyes, she companions and the old homestead, I cried and
laughed till I was almost beside myself with a
us why you never combination of joy and grief. I had high antic-
aded me to ask, ipations of happiness in my  new sphere of life,
ig ago."        in the great metropolis, and sorrow at leaving
dear cousin," we all my dearest friends.
uiet."             " The journey was a pleasant and agreeable
an instant rested one, and when I arrived at my new home, I
ing which we all was received with every demonstration of kind-
quickly replacing ness and hospitality. My aunt was very like
swered :        mother, though as became a city lady,.more for.,
since yoif have mal in her dress. She had the same warm heart,
tit is a sad task and received me with almost as warm a kiss;y
oui- youth, and' being so situated, I was soon as happy and as

'r.. M*


96                SWEETBRIER COTTAGE.

much at home as in our own cottage.. The time
passed on in making and receiving visits, at-
tending places of amusement, and all the rou-
tine of a city life, which, being new to me, I
enjoyed with all possible zest.
"Among the most frequent visitors at my un-
cle's house, was Harry Campbell, a young law-
yer of rare talents, amiable disposition, prepos-
sessing appearance, and in my eyes, really hand-
some. Ever gentle and obliging, he performed
with willingness every little act of kindness we
requested. He was on very familiar terms with
the whole family, and being the first young
gentleman into whose company I had been so
often thrown, and having such ample means of
judging his qualities, it is no wonder that he
found favor in the sight of a girl of the age of
seventeen years.
"The happiness I always experienced in his
absence, the longing for his return, gradually
unfolded to me the knowledge that I loved ; the
sensation was new to me, and perfectly inde-
scribable. I would hurry over this part of my
narrative, for in your happy innocence, you
kitow not the tender feeling, and may you nev-
er know it to your sorrow. I will not tell how
my love for him was to my heart what the sun-
shine, dew and gentle zephyrs are to the open-
ing blossoms ; how the delicate leaves of the
bud unrolled themselves 'neath his smile, and
gave forth their fragrance for him alone. Now I
had indeed commenced to live ; I was a woman,
a trusting, loving woman, but 0, how the dream
of my heart faded !

"That I was beloved in return, I could not
doubt; his every glance seemed to speak in that
language to my heart, but never being alone,
we had not an opportunity of expressing in
words our true feelings.  I soon'made a new
discovery ; my cousin also loved Harry-a wild,
passionate love had taken possession of her heart
which she could not control, nor even conceal;
a change came between us. Before we were
confidants in 'everything ; now each strove to
hide from the other the only thing she had to
confide ; but Anna soon guessed my secret, and
jealousy -sprang up in her heart, and she put
forth all the little arts of which she was mistress
to win his love, and not possessing a disposition
with which the concealment of her passion was
compatible, I soon knew all, and thinking that
I might be mistaken in regard to his feelings
towards me, and that Anna was the favored
one, I strove as far as I was able, to crush the
all-absorbing power of my first love, and avoid-
ed intruding myself upon their presence, and
turned my attention to others.  Harry, observ-
ing my reserved and backward deportment,-
deemed me cold and unmindful of him; and be-
ing left alone more frequently with Anna, he
was not long in finding out the feelings with
vhich she regarded him, and which she did not
endeavor to conceal. Seeing that he had wound
himself around her heart, and as it is so pleas-
ing to know that we are beloved, which knowl-
edge seldom fails in some degree to win a re-
turn, his heart warmed towards her with the
strongest friendship.

CIALPTER II

"B   the hour of trial was at hand.  Harry
had received letters from the south, pertaining
to pressing business that required his immediate
presence. He was alone with my cousin and me
on the evening that the uminons' reached him,
and told us of his inte ded journey, and that
the period of his return Was indefinite. I can-
not describe the effect the unwelcome "informa-
tion had upon us; it came so suddenly that we
had no time for reflection, and this was his part-
ing visit. Anna burst into tears, and I, not
wishing to expose myself, and endeavoring to
crush the rising emotions, after a few hurried
words of regret, arose and.left the apartment.
The proceedings of that hour sealed my destiny.
Anna, unasked, made a full confession of what
should have been her heart's dearest treasured
secret, and he, thinking me cold and haughty,
from my studied indifference, and seeing the ex-
tent to which matters had gone, made her a
proposal of his hand, and    of course, was
ecepted.
" This I learned when I had summoned sufli-
dient courage to return to the presence of him I

loved so profoundly- --but he had gone, and I
should see him no more, until he returned to
wed another.
'; The dark, wild thoughts that took posses-
sion of my breast in that next hour, can never
be known ; my sweetest dream was fading, my
brightest hope gone; and the light of life seemed
almost extinguished. While I laid motionless,
burning thoughts were ryhing through niy
heartait seemed almost bursting, and I became
so oppressed that I could scardely b the; a
flood of tears brought some relic, and . I was
enabled to consider with more cal ness acnd rea-
son what course to pursue. I det mined from
that hour to hide every trace of m unhappy
love. I felt that I must have been m taken,
and that he had never regarded me with warm-
er sentiments than those prompted iby friendship ;
and my sincere wishes being for hia happiness, I
vowed to live for its promotion, even at the sac-
rifice of my own peace of mind.
" I came that evening from my own little
sanctuary, a changed being--I seemed to have
lived years of sorrow in that brief hour, but the


98                           SWEETBRIER
greatest fury of the storm was passed, and a
momentary calm had in a measure succeeded.
I ascep led to the parlor, and seeing Anna with
a face radiant with hope, although fairly shud-
dering, I approached, and embracing her, wish-
ed her joy. She gazed long and earnestly into
my countenance. .I quailed not beneath that
searching glance, and seemingly satisfied, she
pressed me to her bosom and wept tears of very
happiness.S
" How strangely, our hearts contrasted, as
we stood that night clasped in each other's arms;
her head was resting upon my breast, and I
wonder my beating heart did not -whisper the
sad tale of my sufferings in her ear. The same
cause had occasioned such widely different ef-
fects in our bosoms-her's brimming full of joy,
gladness and delightful, rapturous anticipation-
mine of woe, darkness and -blighted hope,-not
one ray to inspire me with even a tolerable fu-
ture ; how well I sustained myself in that try-
ing hour, I cannot tell, but from that time for-
ward we were the fondest friends. Anna told
me her every hope, which I endeavored to en-
courage, for I would not have had another
heart seared like mine, for worlds.-
"The months rolled rapidly by, and had
numbered nearly a year, before Harry returned,
and when he did, themeeting with his betroth-
ed was not as warm as I thought it should have
been, but she was happy in his presence, and
saw not the want of affection. I had schooled
myself for the first meeting with him, and not
daring to trust myself alone, it was in the pres-
ence of the whole fanuiy ; and he little thought,
as I carelessly, though in a friendly manner,
welcomed him back, that my heart was crushed
and hopeless. The day was fixed for the mar-
riage, -and I had consented to be Anna's brides-
maid. ,I decked her in her bridal robes, and
thought ahe never looked more lovely, her eyes
beaming with the joy that reigned in her heart,
and governed her every action. A  wreath of
orange buds clasped the veil that fell over
her snowy, well rounded shoulders, and shaded
her dark curls ; a fragrant bouquet was fastened
at her bosom, and-the rich perfume of the deli-

R COTTAGE.

cate flowers was not sweeter than the hopes
that animated the heart beneath.   All was
ready, and I approached with them the altar at
which my happiness was to be sacrificed ; the
guests were all excitement, the rustling of silks
and fluttering of fans was by me unnoticed.,
I mechanically performed the office of withdraw.
ing the glove and other customary duties of the
bridesmaid, and was nerving myself for the last
effort. The ceremony proceeded, Anna plight.
ed her vows in calm, happy tones, but harry,
as his eyes met mine, which were fixed earnestly
upon him, faltered, and replied in a low confus-
ed tone. My suspicions were verified. I could
bear up no longer, and as the nuptial benedie.
tion was being delivered, I sank upon the ground
before him Who had implanted such a thorn
within my breast, and he alone suspected the
real cause of my fainting; the others ascribed it
to the close air and want of ventilation, and re-
moving me-to a carriage, bore me with the par.
ty home.
"It was now no home for me. I returned to
my own cottage, and in the quiet duties of a
country life endeavored to find the balm to heal
my 'wounded spirit, and in a degree succeeded,
though my lightness and elasticity of spirits had
vanished, and my kind anxious mother would
shake her head and say she knew Patty would
not be benefited by her city residence.
"I had been but a short time home, when
Anna wrote and earnestly entreated me to
come -to her, she was unhappy ; I could
not resist her pleading, and I went, though I
fain would have remained at home. When I
arrived, I saw all things were not right ; she
shed tears as she embraced me, but they were
not of joy, for a shade of mournful sadness ha
settled on her countenance, and I saw her sn
ticipations had not been realized. She uttere
not a word of complaint, but my woman's nature
divined the cause, and from the bottom of a
heart I pitied her.-
" In his home where a husband should fin
his only true happiness, Harry was discontent
-the steady love of Anna: was a reproach t
him, for he could not return it, and he felt tha

I

bW E TM  IE

r
C  TTTm r rsTirir          ivr..n. . r .,.,:..

he had basely deceived her ; and such being the
case, he mingled more with the companions, in
whose company, by reason of his active life, he
was ,thrown; the intoxicating glass had been
raised to'his lips, and he was a marked victim
of intemperance.  How many a poor weak
youth has yielded to the tempter beneath the
guise of ruby wine, and having been entangled
in the meshes of the lurking snare, gone down
to an outcast's grave. .,0, when will the accurs-
ed demon, which is laying waste our beautiful
land, be cast out from among us, and our hap-
piest hearthstones cease to be made desolate'?
Widowed and broken hearts, blighted youth and
withered, decrepit, gray-headed, old age sinking
slowly into the tomb, are crying oft to Heaven
for vengeance against the foul, hydra-headed
monster. How my heart bled for Harry and
poor Anna too,-she never murmured, but tried
to win his love by her devoted attention.
"One evening Harry came home earlier than
usual and found me alone; it was the first
time since his fatal marriage,-and dropping on
his knees, he told me of the deep love he was
consumed with, and that I was the object. I
endeavored not to listen, and tried toi rise and
leave his presence ; but I was 'spell-bound, and
had not the power to move, till summoning all
my energy when he begged that I should fly
with him and be happy, I repelled the insulting
proposal, told how ardently I had loved him,
and when he became another's how I had crush-1
ed that feeling, which he should also have done,
and turned his attention to her who was his
proper care, and had the only right to claim:his
affection; and since he had plighted those vowsI
which could not be broken without the great sin
of foulperjury, he had highly outraged my feel-
ings by the utterance of such a proposition. I I
hastily left his presence, and without a word to f
Anna as to the true cause of my abrupt depart-'
ure, I started home on the following day. 't
" The knowledge that my love had been re- f
turned, was soothing to my heart ; and though s
it had been so unfortunately interrupted, I re-

R   CTTAG.                                99
mained true to him, who alone had ever been
able to call forth that affection without which I
could never marry.  I never saw him      again,
until I was summoned toeconsole his broken-
hearted widow, and look upon his disfigured
corpse arrayed for its last resting-place;long
and passionately I mourned athis untimely end.
I felt that it was not sinful to allow my love to
break forth in weeping, now that his spirit had
winged its way from earth; and I sympathized
with Anna as none but I could do. Weprayed
together, and scalding tears coursed down, our
cheeks, for we had both loved with ardor and
truth.
"I remained long enough to see my poor
cousin and her little one follow the husband to
his narrow bed, and once more returned to my
country home, never to leave it till the ,angel of
death shouldmsummon me to traverse that dark
valley over which he holds dominion."
Wiping a tear from her eye, Cousin Patty
earnestly entreated us for her sake to think
kindly of pld maids, and never to join in the
uncharitable slanders against them; for, al.
though so often sour and crabbed, we know not
the blighted hearts that have sustained that title,
nor the sorrows and trials they may have nobly
borne.
We all readily assented, and if she was a
specimen, they must be the dearest old creatures
in existence. Mary White decidedly averred
that she would never marry, but live a life of
single blessedness; and Nell declared that no
masculine should ever tame her. Why, the de-
ceitful creatures were not worth wasting a
thought upon. When we arose to depart night
had thrown around us her dusky mantle; and
having each culled a bouquet of Cousin Patty's
flowers, which we thought always had a sweeter
fragrance than our own, we proceeded on our
way, lighted by the flashing fairy-like lanterns of
he fireflies, that, like so many stars dropped
from the blue expanse, gleamed from the road-
ide thicket and hedge.
It was the last time that undivided grup mt


4r
?.x,00

Sweetbrier Cottage-; the: ;next day Carrie
Lane-was taken ill, and ere the winter folded
around his snowy mantle, she fled to her'angel
home ; and thus was the first link of. our little
chain of friends severed.  And as the years
wore away, we one after another parted, till
that band snow widely scattered.
Mary White, in spite of her proposed old
maidenhood, married our Lilly's brother Frank ;
and Nell, after running a brilliant and fashion-
able season in New York, - married a. dashing
.rake, and is now, sadly tamed.
Lizzie Lane also became a steady matron, and

our beautiful Lilly is still a maid; tall, grace.
ful, and handsomer if possible than in her child.
hood, and not half so frail in appearance; and
though she still visits Cousin Patty, and tells
her that she is going to follow her example,.yet
there is some one who is laboring to coax her
out of that notion, and will one day persuade
her to embark upon the sea of matrimony; and
he fondly cherishes the idea that he will be suc-
cessful, and has sly visions of Lilly as a charm-
ing little wife, and those scores of nothings
which, all combined, lift two fond hearts united
in wedded bliss, to the height of mortal felicity.

THE END.

SWEETBRIER COTTAGE.


  
             
         
       
   
