
    ----CITATION----
        Washburn, Katharine Sedgwick. Perfect Love Casteth Out Fear .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8233
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Perfect love casteth out fear 
            
               Br THE SAME AUTHOR. Lovers of art and Italy will read with keen interest this fresh story. -Boston Traveller. THE ITAILIAN GIlll, By MRS. KATHARINE SEDGWICK WASHBURN. I2mo. Cloth. S1.50. Is a brilliant and charming love story. We cordially recommend it to our readers as a work that cannot fail to interest and charm them, not only by the clearness of the story. but by the sparkling and ar- tistic manner in. which it is treated. - Boston Gazette. LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON. iI'            PERFECT   LOVE CASTETH   OUT  FEAR. BY KATHARINE SEDGWICK WASHBURN, AUTHOR OF "THE ITALIAN GIRL," "INA," ETC BOSTON: "EE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS. NEW YORK: "EE, SHEPARD AND DILLINGHAM. I875.   Coalgnrt, Jatawh   ^ikWbgoic  Ilaslbbtn,   Stereotyped at the Boston Stereotype Foundry, 19 Spring Lane.             TO MY FRIEND XI d'O.    PERFECT LOVE CASTETH OUT FEAR, CHAPTER I. "ARGE and handsome stone house was bril-  liantly lighted on the evening of which I write; it was a country mansion, of modern date. The doors and windows were wide open; from them flashed forth the lights, throwing bright spots and dark shadows on the green lawn, which stretched out in front of the hon rmo6st as far as the eye could reach. The foot of the lawn was skirted by graceful willow trees, which hung over a river winding its slow, serpentine way around the place, and binding it in. From the piazza of the house one could catch glimpses of this pretty Hou- satonic River through the trees. As the moon now shone on it, silvering its limpid waters, it seemed like a bright thread flung down by the kind hand of Nature to lead to some blissful lurking-place for lovers. It -was one of those exquisite endings of a July day, soft and still; no breath stirred the atmosphere; tall poplars stood motionless, like sentinels on duty, at the stoae gate, which opened into the avenue leading to the 7   8        PERFECT LOVE house; a delicious fragrance of roses pervaded the air, and filled it with their sweetness. It was a night to dream in: the drowsy landscape was illuminated beyond where the lights from the inside of the dwell- ing fell, by swift flashes of summer lightning; mo- mentarily the skies' curtain was withdrawn, immeas- urable depths of dazzling brilliancy were revealed, unveiling the mysteries of eternity to mortal eye; then, again, all was blotted out by as sudden dark- ness. On the porch and piazza of the house stood knots and teteda-tetes of people, watching with more or less intentness the heavens, by whose blazing fire- works they were brought into vivid contrast. One of the most prominent of these groups was the host- ess, Mrs. Sinclair. She was rather comely than hand- some in appearance; if one might hazard a guess upon a subject so delicate, about thirty-three years of age. Her costume to-night was a rose-colored gazede-cham- bury, covered with the most delicate thread lace; dia- monds sparkled from her neck and ears, as also from her white hands, which were rather ostentatiously spread out upon the railing of the piazza, against which she leaned with studied grace. Did one stop to consider it, perhaps she was rather too much dressed to be in perfect accordance of taste and harmony with the surrounding scene, or with that simplicity of toilet which seems to suit with nature's livery in the coun- try. Yet one could not deny that Mrs. Sinclair's dress was elegant, and that it became her. By her side stood a gentleman. He was tall and decidedly fine looking. Was it the unnatural light that fell upon his face, or was there truly discernible -there a strange sternness for one who was so young in   CASTE7T' OUT FEAR.     - appearance? Surely there were firm, unbending lines ' about the mouth, and resolute pride in the glance of his eye.    . "How did you find me out?" said Mrs. Sinclair, turning away from the view, and looking up laugh- ingly at him. "Can you ask, with. so many varied lights crossing your path?" he. answered. "No, but tell me truly how you found me out." "As you were not under a feigned name when first I had the honor of making your acquaintance, you could not long preserve your incognita. I sought for and soon found the clew to your country residence. Do you not remember you challenged me to it when we parted-?" "I wish only that it had been a more difficult task, that I might have put your gallantry to a severer test. I see you will not allow me to flatter myself that I was the object of your search." "It would not be flattery, but truth, should you be- lieve that after my visit to Newport, made so agree- able by yourself, I would willingly seek your society again." "O, doesn't mademoiselle look like an angel?" exclaimed a little boy in rapturous tones. "Look, mamma; they dazzle like your jewels, only there are more of them! If I had bought them all out of Tif- fany's shop, they could not have been prettier.". All eves were turned to where mademoiselle was seated; her chair was in the shadow of one of the. pillars that supported the porch; her jet black hair was filled with fireflies, which the boy had imprisoned there by placing them under the lace veil, which was   10 .-      PERFECT LOVE' -  thrown carelessly over her head. The Princess Sche- herezade herself could not have looked more enchant- ingly beautiful, when she wooed- the heart of her inconstant lover, than did this Spanish girl thus at- tired. The tiny lanterns of these fairy creatures were lighted as if in rival zeal to reveal her beauty. Her large, dark eyes shone forth from ler oval face, the contour of which was classic, but more of the Sevign6 than of the Greek style; her figure was majestic; her hands were large, but perfectly formed, and white as marble. She, too, wore upon them rich diamonds; the same precious stones were in her ears, and on her neck they seemed in consonance with her whole air. They'did not strike one out of place, as those of Mrs. Sinclair did. Her dress was black lace, caught up with wild autumn flowers. "She is indeed handsome!" said Mr. Leigh, turning back to Mrs. Sinclair. "A type of beauty one does not often meet with in America. She reminds one of the beautiful Benares of the East. Who is she, pray?" "To tell you who she is," Mrs. Sinclair replied, "would be to catch an ignis-fatuus. She is a friend of my daughter's. Miss Sinclair has very original friends." This was said with a silvery voice, -under which lay hidden something that to the unsophisticated ear sounded very like satire. Mrs. Sinclair's voice was indeed exquisitely soft; it purred around you, lulling all unkind suspicions to sleep. When with her, no discord- ever jarred upon your ear. All the strings she touched were attuned to music. She would have held it as unpardonably coarse to speak hastily, or even   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        " to raise her tones in anger. The more impassioned her opponent became, the more gentle and subdued grew the measure of her vpice, until she made one almost ashamed of showigreat or strong feeling. Often, when her companions had een carried away to urge their real convictions with eager warmth, they left Laura's presence with a sense of disgust at their own ill-breeding; for Laura Sinclair's dis- praise was sweeter in sound than most people's praise. She prided herself upon her many virtues, the depth of her feelings. She thanked God that she could be true -" perfectly true." She perhaps deceived her- self as much as she ever deceived others. She be- lieved in herself, and had made her excellent husband believe blindly in her; she had completely inthralled him as her willing slave. "I was not aware," said Mr. Leigh, borne on by the gentle under-current of Laura's tones,--"l was not aware that you had a daughter; at least, one old enough to choose mademoiselle as her companion." "The seniorita would not, I imagine, feel compli- mented at the insinuation implied by your words to her age. The young lady I refer to is my step-daugh- ter. I have but one ehild,-little Johnny,-whom you made such a friend in Newport. He -is never weary of quoting all your sayings. He is a youthful Boswell to your wit, and would doubtless. immortalize it if he could; but I must call Mr. Sinclair. He surely is not aware of your arrival. He will be delighted to meet you again. O, there he is I the poor dear, trudg- ing innocently down that path, - that is just like him, - as if he was ignorant of the existence of humanity at large, or any of our guests. I suppose he is searching   12       PERFECT LOVE for the derivation of some Greek word. Let me take your arm; we will go to meet him, and afterwards, as a reward for your chivalry, I will introduce you to Miss Sinclair. They say she is very lovely." "' They,' stands for the world in general--does it not? Your particular praise would to me be of more value as a recommendation to Miss Sinclair's charms." "In the world's vocabulary," answered Mrs. Sin- clair, with two or three notes of laughter, which almost always accompanied her words, causing them to float softly on the air, " the plural tense, you know, is often used for the single, as well as the very singu- lar praise bestowed upon people. The 'they say,' repeated once or twice, establishes a reputation for wit, beauty, or talent, which to me' is exceedingly amusing. It is like one instrument marshalling in a whole army--admiirers, of course, in the case we are alluding to. George, dearest,"-for they had now arrived in the path which Mr. Sinclair was tread- ing, -." here is Mr. Leigh. Was it not charming of him to coma? You must insist, dear, upon his staying with us." Mr. Sinclair was genuinely glad to see Mr. Leigh. HeI was always pleased with everything and every one that pleased his wife. He saw the world through the lens of Laura's mind; not that Mr. Sinclair was not en- dowed with intelligence of his own wherewith to form his judgments of people and things. On the contrary, he was a man of learning, and possessed knowledge enough of the world-; but he had surrendered himself to 'Laura; he was wholly in love with her-in love as men. are when they have cast their last die; for :f love is the first and the last hope of a man's life. The ,   CASTETH OUT FE,AR.       13 first love is fresh, wild, buoyant, and sweet as the fragrance of violets in spring; it fades as quickly. The last love is eager, serious, tenacious; it has the scent of the cypress, which passes not save with life. "Leigh," said Mr. Sinclair, "I shall insist upon your staying with us. Where have you put up? as the benighted creatures of these parts term it." "I left my trunk in the romantic little inn at the other end of the village. To confess the truth, [ was so charmed with the air of the place that I have passed the whole day wandering around' in search of new beauties. Since our late war, it can no longer be said of America that she has no history, or no heroes, when every New England town is strewn with their monu- ments." "It is truly reshing," said Mr. Sinclair, "to hear any one speak s warmly fobr America. She has be- come such a pot-pourri of foreigners as to have half lost her nationality. It is rather the fashion nowa- days to run her down." "That," broke in Laura, " is because she runs her- self up so fast. However, I am wrong. I have shot my last arrow at her; for," she added in a lowered Voice, "my brother gave his life for our country. He bhad always said he would willingly offer his life to redeem slavery; and when the time came, and he was put to the test, he did not fail. I am proud to have borne his name; he was a dear, noble-minded fellow!" Mr. Leah- looked at her with sympathy; her hus- band's glance was full of admiration. Mr. Leigh's. expression, however, soon changed to one of mystified surprise, as it often did in his intercourse with Mrs.   "       PERFECT LOVE Sinclair. He observed that there was no enthusiasm in her tones; no lighting of her eye as she spoke, only more- sweetly modulated notes than ever; a perfect complacency inl the heights of her own nature, which could so well comprehend and appreciate the purity of another's actions. Mr. Leigh was measuring Mrs. Sinclair. He looked upon women as psychological studies. He believed that they had not, and never could have,- any other interest for him. Laura was unconsciously, perhaps, striving/for his admiration. "John," said Mr. Sinclair, addressing a man servant who passed them on the path, " take the dog-cart, and go down to Howard's, and ask for Mr. Leigh's trunk. You see, Leigh, we mean to get you by foul means, if we cannot by fair ones. So we send our scouts to seize bag and baggage." "And," said Laura, " you shall be at liberty to roam ; about at your pleasure; but you must give us your parole that you will not run away until leave be given you." "That is, after my chains are riveted, I am free. When I would stay, I am to be allowed to go. Is it not so?" "Certainly. In a woman's tyranngy lies her strength." "To the fair, perhaps all means are fair," said Mr.. Leigh, musingly, as if to himself. They were near- ing the piazza. Laura passed under the porch with Mr. Leigh. "Come inside," she said, casting her eye over the company gathered on the piazza. "I promised you your recompense in an introduction to Miss Sinclair. You shall pick her out yourself." They stood in the doorway of the parlor, looking   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        15 into the lighted room. There were groups of ladies and gentlemen conversing more or less eagerly with one another. Mr. Leigh looked around him. One of the circle immediately arrested his attention: it was a young girl. She was leaning negligently back in a large, crimson damask easy-chair; her-hair was golden in hue, and full of ripples, which caught the light, and held it captive there; her face was very colorless: her cheek soft and beautifully rounded; her eyes, which were upturned, were deep blue, and had a drop of liquid light in them which made him who looked into them feel that they might " lead him - God forgive them!- some other way, some other way." At the moment of which we speak, a young man was looking down into them. They made a striking pic- ture - the two. Mr. Leigh paused to gaze at it, as it fixed itself indelibly in his mind. There was some- thing which particularly touched his imagination in the grace and delicacy of the girl's form, as she lay with her head carelessly against the pillowed chair. She seemed so slight, and to fill so small a portion of the chair; Mr. Leigh took her to be about eighteen years. She was twenty-two. The person who seemed so deeply interested in the conversation he was holding with her was dark- strikingly dark. He appeared forgetful of the pres- ence of any one else in the room save her whom he was addressing.  His voice was low, his look plead- ing; hers was luring. She did- not avert her eyes; she looked full into his, and was apparently jialf in- terested, half amused by his impassioned manner. "Come," said Laura; " have you discerned her?" "Is that Miss Sinclair?" asked Mr. Leigh, glancing   '16  ,  '  PERFECT LOVE again'towards the young girl. "She reminds one of Dante's description of Beatrice; and he who is seem-. iagly so absorbed in the lady, looks like pne of Dante's countrymen." "You mean before she attained to Paradise," said Laura, laughing. "' I know a maiden fair to see. Beware, she is fooling thee!' Odd that you should have hit upon Beatrice's name. That is the Count Persigny by her side. He is a brother of Admiral Persigny. Most of the celebrities turn up here. If you only wait long enough in this remarkable village, you will see all the crowned heads of Europe pass. I only wonder that Louis Napoleon did not seek shelter in New England., We should all have been glad to welcome him. He could have taken Mr. Scott's villa, who has just run away from his place on account of uncongeniality of temper with Mrs. Scott. In which case, Beatrice might have proved a distraction to his majesty's mind. We could have enacted a new drama, L'Empereur s'amuse.77' Mr. Leigll waslistening to Laura whilst they ap- proached Miss Sinclair's chair. "We are about to be interrupted," the count whis- pered her in Italian. ' Tell me that thou dost not mean what thou hast said, or I shall be miserable all the rest of the evening."  1 " I will, perhaps, tell you so to-morrow--not to- night," she answered in the same language; but she spoke aloud, as if there were nothing secret between them. "Beatrice, my love, here is a friend, who is about   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        17 to immortalize himself and you by inditing a poem to you. All that the divine poet has left unsaid, Mr. Leigh will say-he finds you so like Dante's Bea- trice! Miss Sinclair, my daughter, I have the pleasure of presenting Mr. Leigh to you!" The " my daugh- ter " was pronounced with a peculiar sweetness, which lingered upon the words, making them even sweeter than the rest of her sentence; it could not escape the ear. Laura turned away, and spoke with the count, who looked ill pleased at the interruption he had met with. "Let me console you," she said in Italian. They both moved on. "Your mother, Miss Sinclair," said Mr. Leigh, dwell- ing slightly upon the word, " has given me a riddle to solve as difficult as those pronounced by the oracles. I have guessed it, and have won my recompense." "I cannot, like Hamlet, answer; and would it were not so, you are my mother! for Mrs. Sinclair- is not, as she has perhaps already informed you, my mother. What did you guess? and what was the riddle of which you speak?" "What," said Mr. Leigh, fixing his eyes scrutiniz- ingly upon her face, " would you think a fit reward for one who, having merely been informed that a Miss Sinclair existed, that she was in this room, should immediately, as if by inspiration, select her from all the rest of the company as the identical person? Her Christian name, you will tell me, might have been a guide to me; but no, I had not even that clew." "You mean,".she said, elevating her brows, " that had I a kingdom like Brunahilda, or beauty and power without bounds like Turandot, what grace would I grant to such a knight?" 2   18       -PERFECT LOVE "No, I mean, were you yourself, as you are." "Let me first know what you would think the high- est reward."         . "Ah. the highest! There you change the whole aspect of the question. I should think that would lie in the satisfactory -sense of one's own intelligence, which had surmounted so great a difficulty I " Miss Sinclair was piqued; she had not awaited such- an answer. She had expected him to say that she had the beauty of Turandot, or at least something equally gallant. Mr. Leigh was handsome, earnest, interest- ing; he did not look like the/'men you meet every day; he had a proud curl to his lip, which denoted that he was not easily pleased. All this Miss Sinclair had taken in at a single glance. She felt that she had something that was not ordinary to deal with - some- thing to win        - "Do you really think,' she said, veiling her eyes slightly, and looking at him through her long lashes as she spoke,- it was a way she had, and made her look very enchanting, --that that is the highest reward? A vain belief in yourself, a conceited con- gratulation in your own chance cleverness? Had another told me that of you, I would not have listened to him I " "Pardon me. I certainly do think that a sense of one's own power is the greatest privilege that can be accorded to a human being. There lies not necessa- rily either vanity or conceit in this belief. No great man would ever have been great without it. Do you ride oh horseback, Miss Sinclair?" "Yes," said Beatrice. "Do you ride well?    , CiSTETH OUT FEAR.        19 "Is that apropos des bottes? Yes, I ride booted and spurred, and am a sort of female Rarey." "Then you have felt the delightful superiority of dominating a grand, proud animal. I have sometimes thought, when an intellectual difficulty was over- come, a scientific problem made clear to one's mind, that it was only comparable to that feeling. dne rides for the moment over the world; one has mounted above one's fellow-beings; now, will you not sympa- thize with me in my self-gratulation?" "I do not know; I cannot agree with you. I think that there are greater privileges in life than those you mention. Certainly," she added a minute after, cast- ing down her eyes, " certainly much sweeter ones." "Will you not name them to me?" he said, looking at her earnestly. She knew, dithough her eyes were down, that his were fixed upon her. "Do you not hold love at a higher-estimate than a sense of intellectual strength?" she said, in a low voice. "Love!" hie answered, with' a tone of mingled bit- terness and raillery; '.no, I cannot count love as a very high sentiment. It is an instinct common in animals, as in human beings. Call it, if you please, a fancy flitting through the mind, as a butterfly flits through the air; for want of some resting-place, it settles upon one flower rather than on another." "You are cold," she said, interrupting him, "-cold and cruel. Love has been the guiding-star of every one who was great, and you know it. It has been the burning seal placed on genius, and its impression was immortality. Poets only sang through its inspiration, and artists painted by its light. I hate men," she   ,20       PERFECT LOVE said,--a faint color tinging her cheeks, as she spoke, -  with an earnestness wlhich-a few moments before Mr. Leigh had not given her credit for, --" who are cold." " Then she added with a tone of contempt, "All Ameri- cans .are so." ",It has been," he said, apparently not heeding her last remark, " the blight of all those who have been governed by it. It has singed the wings of the earth- born, who, mistaking its poor blaze for the fire of the sun, have fallen dead in its false flame. It made a weak sonnetteer of Petrarch, it blasted Byron's youth, and sent Raphael to an early grave. It has been, ever since man was born, the bane of his life." "Some great men,"' she said, " have judged differ- ently from yourself. Mark Antony thought love worth losing a world for; --I envy Cleopatra her power more than any one's in the world." "You should rather envy the woman who could give a world to her lover. Still, I must refute your argument by holding that the greatest men have lived entirely independent of the passion of love, although in its truest sense it may have impregnated their lives." "I have yet to learn who these greatest of men are," she said, looking-up archly at him. "Is he who is so eloquent in pleading their cause the. Arthur of the Round Table?" "Christ," he answered, withl firmness, " was the best and greatest ofthem all. No one can deny, I believe, that he led a passionless life; and yet the great passion of it has shaken the world for eighteen centuries. Socrates and Marcus Aurelius had other passions than those of love. Their passion was to make their fellow-   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        21 men great and good, and to conquer themselves a nobler .conquest than that of the merely vulgar victor. Do you not agree with me?" "Xantippe and Faustina, were they never wooed and won?" she answered, laughing. "Poor things I What dull times they must have had!" "I imagine," said Mr. Leigh, " that they were mere circumstances in the lives of these men." "Perhaps, if you could, you would make us all mere circumstances.'  "N6," he replied, echoing her laughter; "only I would make circumstances independent of you all." "I thank you in the name of my sex." "Your sex is too powerful to need the weapon of satire in their defence." At this moment. a young man sauntered by them. "Harry, come here," said Miss Sinclair; " this is my brother, Mr. Leigh, my only brother. I love him very dearly. He is entirely different from myself. You two will never meet in mortal combat. Harry will agree with all your creeds and doctrines." "Whom are you conspiring against?" said Laura, who had just approached them. "Three is the mystic number; there is one too many for a flirtation; two too many for concentration. I always imagine some mischief is brewing when I see three people put- ting, their heads together; three such clever heads, too. ' "I suppose," said Harry, " that by limiting con- spiracy to two heads, you would gladly chop it off. Instead of Laura, we could call you Nera, or Nerona. Mr. Leigh muqt withdraw from our trio; he mars the plot."   rz 22      PERFECT LOVE "Come, then, with me," said Laura, covering her discomfiture with a laugh. "I will present you to our Houri. Mademoiselle de Blois, of French and Spanish blood, half hidalga! half Corday." Mr. Leigh fol- lowed Laura. :"Beatrice and she," Laura continued, passed last winter together in Rome. They- sat to a distinguished artist, as Night and Morning. You have been basking in the rays of the morning; now you shall try the shades of night. I call them Para- diso e l' Inferno! Take care-of yourself, my friend. Man was shut out of Paradise for being too desirous to hold it. You will certainly run the risk of being turned out of the opposite place. Mademoiselle de Blois, to whom I am already introducing you, has cer- tain slight peculiarities of temper, against which I would put you on your guard. She once threw a friend of hers, who had the misfortune to displease her, out of the window; if by chance she does not fancy the expression of your face, she may, for the time being, satisfy herself with an amiable desire to kill you. She has aristocratic prejudices, and favors the count's suit to Beatrice. Miss Sinclair is, I believe, betrothed to Count Persigny, although she has reasons of her own for not announcing her engagement. The count is desperately in love with her; so have all her lovers been. She slays with her smiles." Laura's -voice was growing more and more musically cadenced. Mr. Leigh listened to her with interest; there was a cer- tain monotone in it that soothed the nerves of the lis- tener. As Mr. Leigh, and Laura' had moved away from Beatrice, an ill-concealed expression of contempt had passed over Harry Sinclair's face.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       23 "You ought not," said Beatrice, pleadingly,-" you lought not, Harry, to speak to Laura as you do." "Why not? I should like to know in what manner I have bound myself to silence? The very sound of her voice is odious to me." "Her voice is perfectly melodious, Harry." / "Confound it and her! I hate her feigned sweet ness, and you are doing all you can to make me indulge in the same pleasing sentiment towards your- self." "What do you mean, Harry?" said Beatrice, her face flushing. "You know very well what I mean. I have told you a hundred times that if you had any true pride, dignity, or sense of self-respect, you would long since have accepted the home I offered you when my father married again. It would not, perhaps, have been as luxurious as this, but it would have been a prouder one for you. The frame might not have been so rich, but to my eye it would have set off the picture much better." "Our father, Harry," she said, half averting her eyes, as if not willing fully to meet her brother's, "you know, he could not live without me; it would have been unnatural conduct on my part-wicked- ness towards him."' "Nonsense I You hate to look the truth in the face; you always did. Father is completely captive to that woman. You know that as well as I do. Had you come to me it would have been no harder upon him than losing you by your own marriage, which he was about to do at that time. Your affection for him did not impede your movements then."   24       PERFECT LOVE "It is cruel of you," she said, her voice trembling, "to speak to me as you do. I was very young then; I was only fifteen." "Truth," said Harry, " is generally cruel; that is, to the greater portion of persons in this world; to you, Beatrice, it seems to be a sort of Antichrist." '. Harry, you do really hate me, I believe," she said, the large tear-drops swelling in her eyes. Had Harry not been her brother, he would have noticed how beautiful they looked there. "And," she continued," I love you so dearly!" "You love words, my dear sister, better than you will ever love any man I hate words, and I love actions as I hope I shall some day love a woman." "Why do you say I do not love you?" she went on imploringly; " you are the only person. I do really love, you and Coralie. You .are hard, cynical, and unloving. I clingo to you just because you are the only thing our mother left for me to love. You ought to love me, if it were only for the same reason." "I do not admit that any false sentiment compels me to love you. Yolr inherent virtues should be the only guide to any man's love, and the sole guardian of it; but it is talking Greek to you to discuss love. You fling it around you as you might mustard seed; and believe me, it will taste bitter enough to you be- fore you have done with it." "If," said Beatrice, avoiding an answer to his last words, I do not comprehend Greek as well as you do, I understand other tongues far better." "Yes, my dear, the language of love, too. I know you have that by heart; but the roots of the language, the true sense of that, or any other, you do not pos-   CASTETH pUT FEAR.        25 sess. He who is acquainted with the source and derivation. from which they spring may be prouder of his knowledge than one who can express one's'self in them with native volubility. By the way, when shall I have the honor of addressing you as Madame la Contesse? or Signora la Contessa? Your title will be like Etruscan ornamentation on an American vase; effective, perhaps, but, it strikes me, rather out of place." "Coralie is aristocratic to the very tips of her finger nails. You do not find fault with it in Coralie." "Mademoiselle de Blois was born in the fetid at- mosphere of aristocracy, and educated amongst its enervated classes. I do not consider her responsible for her tendencies, any more; than one born of con- sumptive parents would be for having a hectic flush." 'You would not say so much to her. She hates the vulgarity of the American money-maker, the only aristocrat we have!" "We have," said Harry, " the noblest aristocracy; the only one that any person who dare call himself a man, or rather a gentleman, can have-that of edu- cation."  "Go and say that to Coralie!" "I will say that, and much more to her." "Yes, of the latter part of your sentence I doubt not. Farewell, Harry. I am going to entertain our guests; perhaps some day you may ask of others, and not obtain, what your sister would so willingly give you gratis." So saying, she walked away in the direction of her friend. Her brother followed her. As she approached Coralie, Corahe was conversing with Mr. Leigh. Coralie   26       PERFECT LOVE turned from him, and exchanged glances with Beatrice. Coralie elevated her arched eyebrows with a look which Beatrice knew was meant to say, "Is all well between you? 1 Beatrice cast down her eyes, with a demure expression about the corners of her mouth, that answered, "No; he has been tormenting me, as usual." Coralie;turned from Harry Sinclair as he came forward to address her with a softened look upon his face. "Go, monster," -she said, laughing. "and kneel down at Beatrice's feet; then come and ask, if you can, for grace. You -have the loveliest sister in the world; that ySi5 can ever look at-any other woman is a mys- tery tone.;' "Life"is full of mysteries," he returned, laughing. In the mean while the count had taken his place by Beatrice's side. Mr. Leigh had, amoment previous, entered into conversation with Beatrice; he now joined Laura. The company was beginning to break up, carriages were rolling up to the front door; they were to bear away the different parties to whom they belonged. The distances were great that most of them had to go; the night was growing dark. "We shall not be alone again," said Persigny, in a low voice, to Beatrice. He spoke again in Italian. ' Beatrice, wilt thou not say to me one word to keep as the fragrance of a flower about me, during the vigils of the night?" "What shall I say to thee?" she answered in the same tongue, returning the look in his eyes. "Tell me that I need be jealous of no one." "Not even of Harry?" she said, mischievously. "Do not jest. I am not in a jesting mood. I feel   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        27 the blood of the Borgias in my veins, and would will- ingly poison the cup in which any one of your ad- mirers drinks." Beatrice glanced up at him. He looked feverish with excitement.      . . \ "Do not be foolish," she said; "I have no ad- mirers." "Thou placest admiration in the heart of him that comes, -and despair in his that goes. Since I knew thee I have become a poor dastard. I, who never feared to meet a foe in open combat, now trem- ble at the sight of each new suitor who presents himself to thee. No one can remain indifferent to thee; and where we please, there is danger of being pleased." "That," she answered, coolly, " is a sentiment that I might feel annoyance at thee for expressing, for thou mightest find it easy to be pleased. There are beauties here more in accordance-with thy Italian na- ture than I can be." "That is false, and thou knowest it. The Italian turns to the sunlight of thy hair, as does the sun- flower to the sun. Thou hast the nature of a child of the south; thou art warm as Italy's skies, fragrant as the flowers of my native soil, and variegated in thy charms as are her sea-bound shores. I love thee, Beatrice." "Thou hast said so to another; how shall I be- lieve thee?" . "Look into my eyes for thy answer." "Hush, some one is coming." "Give me a sweet good night," he said, passionately. "Good night, dearest," she responded.   28       PERFECT LOVE "Well," said Laura, after the departure of the guests,"' they are all gone, like the blind mice, leaving their characters behind them; and if we chose, how many tales we could tell! but instead of that, we will draw the curtains of the night around us, and rest after our prolonged exertions. I am quite sure that they are not now dealing so charitably by us I How handsome Harry looked this evening, Beatrice!" "Harry is always handsome," Beatrice answered, a little tartly. ' Good night, young people," said Mr. Sinclair, taking up his candle. f' Early to bed and early to rise.' I will leave the rhyme for to-morrow evening." Coralie rose. "Let us all go," she said. "Good, night, count. Good-night, Mr. Sinclair. Good even- ing, Mr. Leigh." She glanced at Beatrice. ' The count and Laura had wandered on to the piazza. Laura wishedtto take one-more look at the moon before retiring. She had more gladly chosen Mr. Leigh as a companion of her sentimental mood, but he was at that moment talking with Beatrice. They seemed inter- ested in what they were saying. Coralie went up stairs. Beatrice and Mr. Leigh were left alone. Bea- trice saw the propriety of her taking leave also. She knew her friend would rebuke her if she did not do so. Beatrice shrank, with infinite pain, from her brother's ill opinion of her. Often she felt hopeless of ever obtaining what she would have so joyfully possessed his respect;' but Coralie's she had not forfeited. Coralie did not know all of her life. Por- tions of it she had related to her; even these had been, unintentionally, perhaps, colored for Coralie by her self-love. Corahe had not passed through it by her   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        29 side. Harry had. 'Thus Coralie looked at her friend as at a picture over which new and varied costumes were ever shifted, changing the pose and expres- sion of the painting, but rendering it always equally enchanting and artistic. Coralie saw Beatrice's faults without feeling them. They were to her, as yet, but slight blemishes upon that ideal soul which she thought she saw shining through Beatrice's starry eyes. Coralie fancied that with one stroke of a magic wand she could erase them forever. Thinking, then, of Cortalie's disapproval, Beatrice- stood, half uncer- tain, whether to go or stay. "To-morrow," she said to Mr. Leigh, "I will be your Ariadne, and guide you to all the lovely hidden spots on our grounds. Many of the trees were planted when I was a little wee thing. They have grown up with me, but I fear they have got nearer the skies than I. Longfellow calls the trees, so charmingly, 'half- way houses ' for the birds, between earth and heaven. I do not exactly know where our half-way stations lie. Sometimes I think in our resolutions, in our pur- poses; sometimes, perhaps, in each other's minds -I mean in the opinion we form ,of one another." "But the bird's flight," he answered; " is always far beyond even the loftiest tops of theselearth-rooted branches. If we followed them into those cloudy regions, we should lose the realities of our friend- ships." "Yes," she said, with a half sigh, " they wing their way into the clouds; so our imaginations waft us also above the realizations of life, if we think too well of each other."   30       PERFECT LOVE "Can we think too highly of one another?" he asked. Beatrice- had passed, without answering, into the hall. Mr. Leigh naturally followed her. "Light my candle," she said, holding it up to hint under the hall lamp. The light of it shone down into her fair face as she lifted it to his gaze. Her eyes fell beneath his glance; the candle slipped inadvertently from lher hand; Mr. Leigh picked it up, replaced it in the candlestick, lighted it, and handed it to her. As he did so, his hand accidentally touched hers. He, ap- parently, had not noticed it. Beatrice colored; he saw her color rise and deepen, as he looked steadily at her. "Good night," she said, keeping her eyes still rooted to the ground, "and pleasant dreams. Everything you dream the first night you pass in a new place is sure to come true." "Good night," he answered, and he turned back into the parlor.   C S TE TH OUT FEAR.       31 CHAPTER II. u"Q^^:00OD morning," said Beatrice, half opening fiw^  Coralie's door, and glancing gayly into the room. "You look like a sibyl, Coralie. Do not move until I get my pencil and sketch you." She ran back, fetching with her, a mo- ment after, a box of pencils and a large album. ;' There, you have changed your attitude. However, you look equally striking now; I think I prefer you so," she said, turning her head, and bending over her book. "Not one stroke," exclaimed Coralie, " or be it at your peril. I will not be drawn - painted or photo- graphed; for myself, I shrink from any likeness of the flesh where the soul, which is also, perhaps, ephemeral, cannot enter. When I die," she went on, with increas- ing earnestness, "I shall not die; but when I cease to be, I wish no trace left behind me to tell that I have been. I have always fancied the idea of being drowned. It seems as if one would be more thoroughly annihilated thus. The thought of corruption is terrible to me, or that this sentient being should bloom in ver- dure, in flowers to be gathered by thoughtless passers by. No, I should like, to be resolved back into, some element. But you, Beatrice, look like the Aurora, with your golden hair floatinqg like a mantle of sun- light over your shoulders. If I were an artist, I would   32       . PERFECT LOVE immortalize you. You would be adored in my Spain, ( Beatrice!" "And I should adore adoation," said Beatrice, with a sigh. ' "Should not you?"      A "I should hate myself for receiving it, and despise any person who gave it me." "Why?"questioned Beatrice. "I should like to be a goddess to every one." "Because I should feel hovr deceitful I was, and how infinitely small was the person who was deceived byme:."  "Then you would not wish to be great, Coralie?" "Yes, in myself, not for others." "Would you not like to be immortal - I mean in this world - if you could?" "That would be a great bribe," said Coralie, smile ing; " but'l believe everybody imagines what would be their ideal of happiness. It seems to me that mine would be to do some grand deed, and then forever disappear. I should not care if I were forgotten. My work would remain."  She paused a moment, and then said, "Which do you think the nobler; the mother who sends her son to the battle-field, or the son who gives his life for his country? The mother who forgets herself to work out what is highest for his soul and for hu-manity; for nothing on earth equals a- mother's love."- "Your mother adores you?" said Beatrice, looking at her friend with genuine admiration. "Yes," said Coralie, her eyes growing, large and luminous as she spoke, "yes, she loves me with a great, true love. S:e trusts me implicitly, My mother has a noble soul. She knows that I am but /   CASTETH OUT FEA R.       33 lent her; that in the end I must be free. I would gladly give .my life for my mother; but without free- dom life is worthless. She grants it me. She gives me what ought to be allotted to every one in a wider sense than it is by nature - a chance in' this world. If I fail, it lies in myself, not in my circumstances; for this boundless gift of self-sacrifice, my heart lives with my mother." "I, alas! have no mother," said Beatrice, heaving a heavy sigh; "and, Coralie, I believe I hate freedom. Now I will let you behind my curtain, and show you my ideal of life. I should, above all things, like to be a great enchantress, like Cleopatra, Aspasia, Mary Queen of Scots, Armida, or -" "O, for shame!" broke in Coralie. "But as I cannot, I would be beloved, at least, as one may be loved in these modern times --admired, courted, and envied. I would while away my youth with passing pleasures. I would give out nothing of my true self. I would keep myself hidden within my- self, that all these years the world might not guess at my inner thoughts. They 'should not drip away in exhalations to those around me, lest thus my mind should lose its fragrance. I would keep it closed to every eye; then, when bright youth had flown, when I fancied the time had come, I would make one great bouquet of my meditations, and offer it to the wonder- ing world." "It would be too late, dear Beatrice. You would have thrown away and wasted the noblest opportuni- ties life held for you. The light that you had so long excluded from others' eyes would become as darkness to yourself." 3   34       PERFECT LOVE - Indeed}" said Beatrice, "I should but have im- poverished my powers by giving them out before." "Tell me," said Coralie, taking her friend's hand in hers; " look me in the eyes, and tell me, Beatrice." Beatrice raised her eyes to Coralie's. It was as if a bit of summer sky had looked into dark, flashing clouds. "You frighten me," Beatrice saidt, drawing back, and laughing. "You look like the last judgment, Coralie.  ,          , '. Tell me, Beatrice, would you prefer to -put into 'a casket golden grains which sparkle, but do not warm; l which dazzle, but yield neither comfort nor consola- tion; and offer those to the world which, in return, would give you renown and fame? or would you rather sow one single seed on the path of the wayfarer, which might spring into a tree of shelter, or ripen fruit which could refresh the weary wanderer? I believe," she said, with increasing earnestness, " that one single thought given out in the right time may quicken in the soul of another, and grow into an immortal flower there. Why, then, should you selfishy shut it away in your own heart?" "I cannoti think always of others," said Beatrice. "Then, -]eatrice, do not think to live in their memory. It is in forgetting yourself only that others will remember you." "iTow do you know," said Beatrice, " that Homer and Shakespeare forgot themselves? Yet the remem- brance of thein is eternal." "By the greatness of what they accomplished," Coralie answered. "Suppose Michael Angelo, instead of saying, ' I will set the Pantheon in the air, had vr ,rlL;l                     .   CA S TETH 'OUT -FEAR.      35 said,'I will place myself upon a pedestal:' do you think the world would have gathered with one accord to worship at its base? No, indeed I no, in truth!" "He has," retorted Beatrice, " dwarfed the rest of humanity by his colossal conceptions." "No, Beatrice;: say, rather, that he has given to them gigantic models, which should, at least, arouse great aspirations. There, see what I have executed whilst ove have been quarrelling I Do you remember how it is told, that when the Duke -of Ferrara asked Titian to paint Laura d'Este, whom, for the sake of her beauty, he had loved when she was a poor, obscure girl, he said to the great master, 'Paint her so beauti- ful .that none will hereafter ask why the duke made her his duchess.' Thus," she added, gayly, "I have made your face so faultless that no one shall question why you were Coralie de Blois' friend." "Upon my word," said Beatrice, peeping over Coralie's shoulder, " if the picture were less pretty, I should say, I had never heard of such unmitigated vanity in my life." Then hiding herself a little be- hind Coralie, she asked, "What did you think of Mr. Leigh last night, Coralie?" "I found him very agreeable," Coralie answered, rising to finish her toilet; and standing before the mirror, she looped up the thick glossy braids of her dark hair, and placed amongst them a large damask rose that she took from a vase. "And you say," said Beatrice, looking at her half incredulously, " that you do not care for your appear- ance. In one moment you have made yourself per- fectly irresistible. I do not wonder that Harry is wild about you."         -  " -   36       PERFECT LOVE Coralie took the rose'hastily from her hair, and placed it in the lace which fastened her white -morning-dress at the throat. "I adore flowers," she said; " they are the fugitive poems of nature. Heine is, for me, the only poet who ever wrote flowers. Some of his songs are just like their lives; they bloom and pass away, leaving an evanescent fragrance, the memory of which is sad and sweet." "Do you think him handsome, Coralie?" - Heine?" "No; you know I meant Mr. Leigh." "Yes; he has inl his face strength and power, which, in a man, is the highest type of beauty. I do not think he would be easily played with, or easily pleased." "He does not believe in love," said Beatrice, turn- ing away her head; " he is as cold as ice." "You must expect that in your country, from your countrymen," Coralie answered, carelessly. -"America is a great refrigerator," said Beatrice, petulantly; " and I like warmth. I cannot do without it. I think it infinitely sad to live in a country where one is constantly in danger of freezing to death; for my part, I would rathero die immediately at the foot of Mount Vesuvius, than live long-drawn-out years at the summit of the Jungfrau."  "It seems to me," said Coralie, " that there is little fear of that evil just at present. I should say there was sufficient of the burning lava of Italy's volcano in Persigny's fervor. Surely he cannot be accused of a want of fire."  "No," Beatrice answered, keeping her head still   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        37 averted; " but one does not want to be perpetually in a flame. If, as they say, heat is creative, too much of it may prove destructive." "Ah, Beatrice, one cannot fly into the light without singeing one's wings. The thunderbolts that Semele sighed for consumed her; and the lamp with which Psyche thought to illumine her life left her in darkness and despair." "I am tired of everything," murmured Beatrice. "When is your engagement with the count to be announced?" asked Coralie. "I do not, know - not yet. I do not think Harry fancies him for a brother-in-law. Harry was angry with me about that last night." "The count will take you back to live in Italy; there you will have all that you crave--light, warmth, and color. Harry's opinionr Will not be all in all to you then." "I would not be separated forever from Harry," she said, turning a shade paler. Then she added, with a quivering lip, "I love Harry, Coralie. I do not know why I love him so intensely."' "From the perversity of human nature, perhaps," said Coralie, mischievously. is No, Coralie, no; that is not it. I love him because in the midst of all his abuse of me, of all the pain he gives me, I see the truth, which he accuses me of never see- ing., I know Harry is in the right. He has always been in the right; only a bed .of roses is so much pleasanter ;than one of bare boards! and Harry's precepts are hard; they often hurt the flesh as well as the heart. I cannot imagine any one's not loving Harry." Then she added, after a moment's pause, "' Could you not   38       PERFECT LO VE love him, Coralie? I mean after a long and tried devotion." "No--the monster. Every time he comes here he makes me furious. How dare he speak to you as he does? How dare a man ever be discourteous to a woman? I have often seen myl father in such passions that he would break the furniture to pieces; but- I never heard him say a word that was not full of deli- cacy and courtesy to my mother; but in this country, the men seem' all more or less, coarse to me." "Harry is not coarse," said Beatrice, flushing. "I would not allow any one to say that of him." "It was -rude of me. I will never say it again of any American without your permission,' said Coralie, with a gentle graciousness which was calculated to allay any bitterness of feeling which lher words might have caused; for in the passion which flashed from Coralie's - eyes there was a mingling of rare sweetness, which made her peculiarly attractive, and accounted for the influence she held over all who approached her. "Have you ever been in love, Coralie?" asked Beatrice, wonderingly. - "That is a naive question,"' said Coralie, " but I will answer it as fiankly as it was asked. No, never." "Could you fall in love, Coralie? Tell me, hon- estly."  ' I do not think I could," she said, after a moment's pause. "  hy should one love a man? What happi- ness would that bring me? I told you I worshipped freedom; love is slavery." "Love is unselfishness,' said Beatrice. "If you are sufficient unto yourself: you will lead a narrow life, and keep to yourself the best thing a woman has to   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        39 give. Perhaps I have learned some of these precepts from your own lips, Coralie." 1 "The love you speak of, Beatrice, is generally selfish, founded on vanity, self-love, and a passion for what is new, fresh, and attractive. It cannot outlive coldness, infidelity, unkindness, or any change what- ever. Wherever it feels its power, it is a tyrant. No, thank God, I need not be dependent upon the love of any man. I can imagine loving intellectually, soul to soul; but to be linked to. one person for the ordinary interests of life, to me, would be insufferable; to live upon the chance smile or sigh of one poor human being seems to me narrower than the fate you would choose for yourself.' "I would rather live a narrow life, then, than a broad one," said Beatrice. "I should be satisfied to hear the words ' I love you ' pronounIced in my ears in every language under the sun; then I would choose the one which sounded to me the sweetest to hear it in forever." "He laughs who laughs last! and so she who loves the best loves the least. Put your own interpretation upon my words, dear Beatrice." "There is Mr. Leigh," said Beatrice, drawing back from the window, " wandering alone down that new path papa has lately had made. I wonder what time it is. O, Coralie, it is so late, please loop up my hair." Coralie took the long golden locks between her fin- gers, and begn to arrange them, with artistic grace, around Beatrice's head. "Everything you do is well done," said Beatrice, glancing in the glass opposite where she had placed   40       PERFECT LOVE herself. "You think me vain, Coralie; but I was more pleased the other day, when Harry said that if I was, not his sister, he should fall in love with my hair, than if any other man had told me he was in love with it. I will put on my white dress, white is so sweet and fresh in the -morning; and besides, I should not like that Mr. Leigh should think you more bewitching than I." ' What"Mr. Leigh thinks is perfectly indifferent to me," said Coralie, " and," she added hastily, "I think it ought to be so with you too." Beatrice was already out of hearing. She did not catch Coralie's last words; she was hastening to her room. - She hurried on her white gown, and was already on the way down stairs, when Coralie closed her door. Coralie turned back to her tablet She took up the album in which she had just sketched her friend. She- gazed earnestly at the likeness. Taking her pencil, she deepened the shadows around the eyes, rippled more closely the waves of the hair, drew down- slightly the corners of the beautiful full lips, and then, sighing involuntarily, she closed the book. She went to the window and looked out; her eye fell on the path which Beatrice had but a few minutes ago alluded to. It was a lovely place, thick with bloom- ing magnolias. At the farther end of it, half hidden  by a large oak tree, she discerned the figure of Mr.' Leigh. At a little distance from him stood Beatrice, her graceful form relieved against the dark foliage of the tree., She had a white rose in her hand, which she was holding up playfully to him. He did not seem eager to have it, for the rose was still in Beatrice's hand. Coralie saw her stoop down and pick a flower, which   CA S TE TI  OUT FEAR.      41 grew in the grass. The rose she placed in her belt; the flower she had gathered was an immortelle. She apparently spoke more earnestly. Mr. Leigh bent for- ward and looked at it; he took-it from her, and placed it in a little book which he had taken from his pocket. They lingered a moment more, then they came to- gether slowly towards the house. There was another besides Coralie, who, from a window above, had been witness to the same scene. As he turned away from the window; there was fire in his eyes. He strode several times violently through the chamber; then looking at his watch, he descended the stairs which led to the breakfast-room. ,The family were already collected around the table. "You took an early walk," said Persigny to Bea- trice, as he assumed his accustomed seat by her side. "I see the dew is still upon your rose," pointing to the rejected flower in her belt. "It may be a tear, count. All is not dew that glit- ters on roses," said Laura, with malicious sweetness; forhe too had caught a glimpse of the tete-d-tete in the ga5ten, and had her suspicions, the moment her eye rested on the count, that it had not passed unno- ticed by him. ' Mr Leigh," she continued, "more clev- erly than chivalrously, remarked the other day that prayers were women's mental tears. Have you been praying, Beatrice, and making a rosary to suit the count's religion?" "I never- shed tears, either 'mental or physical," said Beatrice, coldly. "You forget," said Laura, " that there is the tear of repentance, which, skilfully made use of a second time, might unbar- the gates of a new and earthly   42       PERFECT LOVE Paradise, more alluring than that of the poor Peres."' "I have nothing to repent of,' Beatrice answered, shortly. "O 1!" said Laura, with a lengthened surprise in the tones of her voice.- "Do you take coffee, Mr. Leigh?" "I take anything that is offered me." "Do you?" said Laura, with a slight elevation of her brows. "That is a dangerous confession. Did you enjoy your wall, Mr. Leigh, this morning? Soli- tude is so sweet in the country! I doubt if Adam had troubled himself much at his loneliness if the beautiful Eve" this was said with a side glance at Beatrice--" had not made her appearance to put him in mind of it." "The melody of the serpent's tongue," said Coralie, who had overheard Laura's remark, and well under- stood its allusion, " was the only jarring element that I ever heard of in Eden." Coralie's manner was so quiet, that an indifferent observer had never sus- pected her of hurling a missile in her friend's defence; but Laura's quick apprehension took it in at once. She flushed purple, and laughed two or three notes of her silvery laughter. "Will you not take some honey?" she said;" it is so sweet i " "Thank you, I find it too luscious for my taste." Again Laura was baffled. Laura intuitively dis- liked Coralie.  Coralie, with one glance of her pene- trating eye, had fathomed Laura's character the first day they met; but' to Coralie's face she was ever cour- teous, and admiring in manner. "Don't vou think, dear," she said, addressing her husband, " that it   CASTETH OUT' FEAR.        43 would be well to have breakfast a little earlier? Then we should all be tempted to try the morning air. They say it does so much good! a bath of - sun-light would. meltus all into good humor. I dare say, the count would be the first to follow my- prescription, for sunshine is the great remedy against every evil- in his country. Is it not so, count?" "The count and everybody under my roof must fol- low their own inclinations," said Mr. Sinclair, rather nervously. "I shall be glad of any sunlight, come at what hour it may," said the count. "To an Italian, as you acknowledge, it cannot come-unwelcome." -Coralie observed Persigny's excited manner, and judging that something had gone wrong between Beatrice and himself, she sought to distract the atten- tion of the others by entering into an animated -dis- cussion with Mr. Leigh.  Beatrice seemed discom- forted; she did not speak, save to give a few curt answers to Persigny's remarks, which were made in a low undertone in Italian. Evidently it was not in- tended that any one save herself should hear them. Suddenly wheels were heard coming quickly up the avenue. Beatrice, only too glad to put an end to the constraint of the breakfast table, sprang up with an exclamation of pleasure. "O, these are Harry's horses; I know their tread I Let us go on to the piazza and meet him I The day is so perfect, it is a shame to waste it in the house. O, Harry," she called out, as he drew up to the door, O, Harry, I am so glad you have come 1" There was an expression of almost child-like joy in her voice, which, although addressed to her brother, gave to Per-   '44       PERFECT LOVE signy a jealous pang. As Harry jumped from the carriage, throwing his reins io the groom, Beatrice ran forward to meet him. She put up her face to him to be kissed. Her attitude at the time was graceful. She knew it, and wondered if Mr. Leigh was really too cold to envy Harry at all. Harry did not seem to value the privilege at so high a rate as another in his place might have done. He responded to her loving greeting rather indifferently, and passed on to the piazza. "I have come to take you all to a picnic," he said. "The -day is just of the right kind- neither too cold for sentiment, nor too warm for friendship. I have prepared everything; so that woman's ready excuse, of not having known beforehand,' should not prevail. The artistic proportions of my turn-out are rather impeded, as you perceive, by the various arrange- ments of sherry-cobbler traps, ice-pails, &c. Come, Beatrice, decide; it is time we were off. Order up some kind of a team to carry those whom I do not transport. I assure you, Mademoiselle de Blois, that I 'mean transport in the most modest sense of the word." 'What shall I order?" said Beatrice, hesitating. "Harry's barouche holds four. Will you go, Laura? and papa of course." "Will Mademoiselle de Blois honor me with mount- ing my box? No answer? Silence gives consent. You need not count on those other two seats, Beatrice. I have already engaged to stop on the way, and take in the Miss'Ellises. I wanted to get up a show of real American beauties for Persigny." -"I do not think I will make one of your young ,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        45 party," said Mr. Sinclair. "Put' me out of the ques- tion. Old folks are in the way on merry-making occasions. Laura, you must go to matronize the young people. Takeo Johnny to keep you company." "I hope Mrs. Sinclair will allow me the pleasure of driving her," said Mr. Leigh. "Thank you; you are a true knight, and come to the rescue of the condemned.. "Then," said Beatrice, "I am out. I shall have to beg of the count the favor of a seat in his curricle." "You know that it is always at your disposal," he answered. The carriages were quickly ready, and the party set off in good spirits. Corahe was seated high of the box by Harry's side.  "I am perfectly happy," said Harry, as they drove off. "I have succeeded in obtaining your ear for at least ten minutes." "That depends upon what it has to listen tc. If you utter one word that it does not care to h3ar, I spring from this box." I "Really, Mademoiselle de Blois? You almost; -empt me to put you to the test. Suppose I were to te'll you that I loved you?" ^' "I would not allow you -to say it. I would jump -from twice this height." "At any pace I was going at?" "Yes, at the very fastest trot you could put your horses to." Harry whipped up his horses. "I love you," he said, " in spite of your threa;s." Coralie rose half laughing, but apparently ready to spring. Harry was frightened.   4C       PERFECT LOVE "Upon my honor," he said, catching hold of her hand, "I will not say one word more to displease you. Sit down, for pity's sake!"' Coralie resumed her seat. Tell me," he said, ' what would ostracize a man forever from your divine presences Would taking lessons of a ballet dancer do it? Would mixing a strong cocktail-? making love to one's grandmother, do it?' i "Of course. What folly I All and each of them would succeed in doing it."     \ ' Then, you may be sure, I shall not plead guilty to any one of these offences. You are severe upon oth- ers' morals. Mrs. Sinclair has a favorite tale, with which she prejudices -every one in your favor, of your having murdered a friend of yours. Is it true?" 'It :is the only act of my life," broke ih CGralie, "that I am heartily ashamed of." "Really?" said Harry, with an exclamation of pro- found surprise. "I did not go so far as to kill her. Although I con- fess it was by accident that she was rescued from the river which ran just under my wisndow, and into whilch , "You threw her from your window?" ' Yes.; She had exasperated me to the last degree. I gave her warning three times; and then, when she continued to goad me on, I could not stand it. It is painful to me to speak of it. I was very young, and I had the most ungovernable temper." "I rather like to hear of it; it shows fire ;" and Harry looked at her with a mischievous light in his eyes.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.'        47 "You ought not to like it. I have repented of it' bitterly." "Did you ever succeed in killing any other person or persons?" "No; but I am afraid I have desired to do so some- times," she said, archly. "I do not doubt that," he said, watching he flash- ing eyes as she spoke. "Tell me the truth-- id you ever feel like killing me?" "Often." "Kindly signalize the occasions when I have tempted you to break the sixth commandment. "When you speak unkindly to your sister, I long to place my stiletto through you. I always wear my dagger. It is one I inherited from a Spanish ancestor. Would you like to see it?" "Do you carry it with you? Show it me." She drew from her belt an exquisitely wrought poniard; the hiltrwas jewelled; it dazzled in the sun- light; the blade was steel, tempered to perfection. Harry examined it with interest; then he returned it to her, saying,- ;' I would prefer to have it aimed at me, fatal as the stroke might be, than to have a certain word of one syllable pronounced by your lips. Confbund: it here ve are at the Ellises; and there is mother Ellis spying out of the window." As they drove up to Mrs. Ellis's door, Perpigny's curricle passed them rapidly. Beatrice's golden hair was streaming in the wind; her veil was down; she did not raise it as she passed herfriend; she feagred lest Coralie's keen eye should detect any, change in her expression.   48       PERFECT LO0 VE, "Drive: quickly," she said to Persigny. "Let us pass them. I should hate to take Caesar's dust, if it was blowing in my face." "Hang it! 'said Harry. "Persigny will kill that horse I     - "A pleasant drive to you," Coralie called out. "Thank you," Beatrice answered; and on they dashed. "Beatrice," said Persigny, "do not be so, chary of thy words. Thou 'hast scarce spoken to me since we left thy father's house, save to tell me constantly to drive faster and faster. It seems as if thy spirit was fevered with impatience: :it will not brook a moment's repose." "My head aches violently," she answered; " and the quick motion soothes it. The air makes me feel better. Do please drive fast!" "I am sorry, my beloved, if' thou hast any pain. I would not -have spoken so hastily had I known it. Thou wilt be well in Italy, sweet. All things will be well there. Ah, how I long to claim thee mine -all mine! It will not be long now, dearest -will it? Ev- erything in this country has a saddening effect upon me. The very sky seems to chill me." Beatrice flushed. From the ribbon around her waist she drew- unconsciously the rose which she had placed there in the morning. She began pulling off its leaves, one by one. Suddenly she stopped, and replaced it carefully in her belt. "Give me that rose," said Persigny, recalling with a fresh pang of jealousy her interview with Leigh in the early morning.   CASTHETH OUT FEAR.       49 Beatrice -sheltered the rose from-his grasp with her hand. "Fling it away, then. I hate the sight of it." "Why?" she said, looking up in his face, innocently. (It was her most bewitching expression.) "What has the poor thing done to incur so bitter a feeling'?" "It has planted a thorn in my heart which has ran- kled there for hours." "Pull it out," she said, pityingly, "and I will throw away the rose. I, too, hate it." She flung it from the'carriage. "-I watched thee this morning from my window, I saw thee gather that rose, and thou didst offer it to another." "It was an honorable occupation," she said, her lip curling. Then she-added, "And what if thou didst see me pick a rose? It seems to me a harmless thing to do. If a scorpion in thy mind lurks under every leaf, it is not my fault. Must I abcount to thee for every innocent act of my life?" "Do not look so angry," he said, pleadingly; "al- though in thy anger thou art divine. Beatrice, may I speak to thy brother to-day?" "About what?" looking up in his face, as if she really did not understand what he meant. Persigny was angry now. Beatrice could not but return him, in her thoughts; the compliment he ltad but just paid to her. She could not contemplate her lover in anger save with something of the admiration of old. "I only said it to vex thee," she said, putting her hand in his, "I do know what thou meanest; but pl1ase, dear Lorenzo, do not speak to Harry to-day, If thou wilt only let me tell him, I will promise thee 4   50       PERFECT LOVE -to do so the next time that he comes down to our house." "I would not appear meanly in thy brother's eyes, Beatrice. What can he think I want here, if it is not to obtain thy hand? He gives me looks at times that, as a gentleman, I, can scarcely take from any man; and were he not thy brother-" "Do not quarrel with Harry," she said, earnestly; "he is reckless, and - " "Is he?" said Persigny, his eyes firing; " by Heaven, I fear to meet no one. It would not be the first time - and where there have been two to face each other, but one has left the field." Beatrice 'recoiled from him. Persigny saw the movement. More calmly he added,-- "Do not be frightened, Beatrice; he is thy brother - that is enough."  "Harry would- not fear to meet any one, either," she answered, with energy; " no, not the devil himself." "How very coarse!" said Laura to Mr. Leigh. They happened to be, just at this moment, behind Persig- ny's carriage, and' as Beatrice had raised her voice, they had caught the last words of her sentence. "This arises from associating so much with foreigners. Per Dio! Diavolo! and all those expressions, sound so differently when spoken in Italy by the Italians. Peo- ple who travel ought to remember this;" "If it comes to that," said Mr. Leigh, who had be- gun to think Laura a little less amiable than she would have had him believe, " surely Dante's Italian devils-- pardon me the use of the word - are much less digni- fied beings than Milton's fallen angels; for, althougli the authors hail from different places, it is to be presumed   CASTETH OUT' FEAR.       51 that each one imbues them with a certain amount of his own nationality." "I thought," said Laura, in her most suave manner, nettled at Mr. Leigh's becoming, in however indirect a way, an ally of Beatrice, " that the true genius of writers consisted in their entire abandonment of the prejudices of birth, education, place, and private feeling, and in the power of completely throwing one's self out of one's own personality into the char- acters, lives, and passions of foreign natures." Mr. Leigh began to feel the delicate scratch of the finely pointed claw under the velvet. "It would," she continued, "seem very strange if Shakespeare had made Romeo, a passionate son of the south, to express himself like a cold English stripling. He would then have parted with Juliet, giving-her a hearty kiss, telling her to be of good cheer, that they should meet shortly, and in the meanwhile to eat and sleep well! And Othello, instead of smothering Des- demona, would have gone out to smoke a cigar, have come in again in a bad humor, and have locked himf- self in his library for the night - voild tout." Mr. Leigh laughed. "-That, I should call rather a Pre-Raphaelite conception of the sketch you have so admirably drawn. Shakespeare, however, 'was many- sided. Like a finely-cut prism, in whatever country he lived, he could gather the light from the rays of the sun, and transmit them, in variegated beauty, to the picture he was painting. His palms scarcely needed transplanting; they grew in the rich soil of his mind. But take minds as high, as strong, as grand as his, but perhaps less gorgeously apparelled, and see if, with all their far-sighted genius, they ever   52       PERFECT LOVE become other than their country has made them. MilD ton, for instance, is always pure, grand, cold; wrapped in his British mantle, he sits alone and aloof from the rest of the world. Dante's Divine Cbmedy is colored by his Italian soul. The religion of his country, its asceticism, its superstitions, its materialism, breathe through the whole ,poem. Goethe is German through- out. Shakespeare only is universal; therefore we cannot cite his genius, save as exceptional." "Genius," said Laura, somewhat contemptuously, "is always perverse. Heine says well when he writes that ' wherever the eye of genius rests, there it beholds Gehenna.'  "Wherever the eye of genius rests," said Mr. Leigh, his ow kindling, " there it beholds Paradise! It is well for corrupt men, like Heine, to show us the decay in their hearts, lest we might mistake their mirage for pure waters, where we could slake our thirst. Genius, the immortal light of the soul, the sun-lit goal of the great I without goodness as its guide, it is like a marble mausoleum filled with dead men's bones; nay, worse than that, it is an infected marsh, through which you travel, enchanted with the glorious verdure, and inhaling all the time its deadly poison.7 "Well," said Laura, laughing, "I must confess T should never stop to ask whether a genius was good or no. If he had written over his cage, Genius, that would suffice for me, By the way, have you found out yet that Mademoiselle Coralie is a genuine genius of the rarest species? It seems that one day, when she was about sixteen years old, after sitting for a long time in a rhapsody, she suddenly cried out, Mother,   CASTErTH OUT FEAR.        53 I am a genius!' Since then all her friends have em- braced this belief; and, as for Beatrice, she "is quite beside herself if you express the slightest doubt on the subject." "That," Mr. Leigh answered, "I should take as a proof of Miss Sinclair's truly generous nature, and of her disinterested; affection for Mademoiselle de Blois. It is not everybody who cares to discern superior qualities in their friends. The fire of the star may dim that of the earthly light." "Miss Sinclair would not, I imagine, be very much elated if she heard you compare her to a -candle. She was the reigning belle of the Italian court last winter, and she intends shining with equal lustre next season in New York." "To shed any light whatsoever," Mr. Leigh replied, smiling, ' even though it be an artificial one, is more than most people can boast of. However, believe me, I never thought to question Miss Sinclair's light. To me it seems very beautiful and luminous." "You have been so agreeable that 1 regret to see our ride come to an end." said Laura. "Here we are at the picnic grounds. O, that is just like Harry Sin- clair! He has invited a crowd of people to meet us. There are those eternal Miss, Morrises; there is the handsome Harry devoting himself, as usual, to the genius; there is Beatrice, with her betrothed, who prides himself upon being a sort of second Leonardo for grace and beauty. They make a striking contrast, the two; she is so blonde and he so brunet. "'It would not be indiscreet, then, to ask if Miss Sinclair is engaged?" "Beatrice," said Laura, ' never likes any one to   54-      - PERFECT LOVE interfere, as she calls it, in her affairs. She is partic- ularly sensitive upon this point; but she will not, I think, if you question her, deny her engagement. It is easy for a woman to make a confidant of her gen- tlemen friends, men are so much more secretive than women; they have so much higher a sense of honDor. Men are better than women, and a thousand times less petty." "One would not willingly believe that. It is said that there never yet was a great or good man, who had not a!superior wom'n for his mother, and I like to believe it is so." "And vice versa," sfid Laura, laughing. "Un- happily there have been a vast number more of bad men than good men; consequently there have been  many more bad women than good." Laura had, by this time, joined a group of people under the trees. "How are you, Miss Morris? You do not know how picturesque you look under those pine branches. Miss Morris, permit me to present to you our friend, Mr. Leigh." As Laura moved away, she intentionally caught the fringe of her shawl in a bramble. Mr. Leigh untangled it for her. "She is an awful bore," she said, in an undertone; " escape from her as soon as you can." Harry had chosen a charming spot for his pic-nie- an extensive grove on the borders of a lovely lake, partly shaded by green mountains. The air was filled with the fragrance of the pines; the ground was thick strewn with their brown Needles; the lake, which it bounded on one side, glittered-in the sunshine as if a myriad of bright shafts had been hurled into its soft bosom. Three row-boats, with colored awnings, were   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        55 fastened to a miniature wharf: from one of them floated the American colors; from the other two, the Frellch and Italian. Corahe had wandered down to the shore. Beatrice, seeing her there, had dropped Persigny's arm, and presenting him to one of her female friends; who stood near him, glad of an excnse for leaving him, hastened to Coraho. Harry joined them. "How prettily those little boats ride on the water!" said Coralie. "They continually rise and fall like hope and disappointment in the human heart." "They should not fall, then," said Harry; 'u for does not the poet tell us that ' hope springs eternal in the human breast?' and," he added, with a mischievous glance at Coralie, "I suppose even your humble ser- vant has no right to question so high an authority." "I abhor Milton and his doctrines," said Coralie/ vexed at Harry's presumption, and feigning not to have comprehended his meaning. "I would far rather be our atheistic Voltaire, than Milton with all his false views about divorce, and I know not what." "What do you know about Milton, indeed?" said Harry, firing up. "My quotation is from Pope." "More, Sir," answered Coralie, quickly, "than you know about Voltaire. It is much easier for a French- man to enter into an Englishman's soul, than for an Anglo-Saxon to understand a Frenchman's manner of seeing and feeling things." "I should hope so," said Harry; "on that ground I will not dispute with you. Voltaire, indeed! The difference between Milton and Voltaire is as great as is that of a God who creates, and al surgeon who thrusts his dissecting knife into a subject:"   56 i      PERFECT LOVE "I am wild with anger," said Coralie, her eyes flashing, though she could not help laugling. "Do not -speak of Voltaire, sir; never mention his name again to me. Talk df a God who creates! Voltaire made men out of a thousand ignorant brutes." "Did he? ) said Harry, laughing; " his power was truly greater than I thought for." "His influence still exists; his spirit still governs France," she went on, excitedly. "In rather an unruly sort of way," answered Harry. "What are you quarrelling about?" said Beatrice, interrupting them. Then she said, rather hurriedly, but trying to appear indifferent, ":Harry, what are those different colors tied -to the boats for?" One of them is for love of my own nation, and also to honor my guests. The second, the French colors, are as a special compliment to Mademoiselle de Blois, and the third you, Beatrice, need scarcely ask whom they are raised for." "I cannot imagine what you mean," she said, evad- ing her brother's eye. "Everybody is wondering what they are for; it is very disagreeable to me." As Beatrice said this; she approached the boat; she pulled down the Italian colors, and rolling them care- lessly around her finger, "They will make pretty col- lars for Zoe," she said. You would make a cowardly admiral," said Harry, contemptuously. - In striking your colors to get new friends, you may make more deadly enemies of the old ones than vou' reckon upon.'" "I am brave enough, at any rate," retorted Beatrice, "not to fe'ar to look an enemy in the face." And she walked away.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        57 "Go and ask her pardon," said Coralie, almost coax- ingly. It was hard for Harry to withstand Coralie's com- mands at any time; still more so now, that they were given so irresistibly. "I will never ask pardon of any one when I am not iat fault," he answered. "In my disputes with Bea- trice, I am never to blame." "Vain man!" said Coralie. "You will die of self- conceit." ' So saying, Coralie walked off in a different direction from that which Beatrice had taken. "Mademoiselle de Blois! Contesse! Coralie!" he cried, under his breath; but she was implacable, and would not turn. Harry did not follow her any farther, but went back, and sat down musing upon a large stone near the shore of the lake. Mr. Leigh was standing alone at a distance from the rest of the company. He was sheltered from their view by a high rock, against which he leaned. iHe seemed rapt in thought, and was apparently not aware of Beatrice's approach. She waited a moment near him, and then she said,- "Are you a misanthrope, a hater of man, as well as womankind; a philosopher; or what are you, that you keep so aloof from us all?" "You know," he answered her, jestingly, "that when Socrates assumed the name of philosopher, it was in contradistinctiQn to that of the Sophists, who called themselves ' wise men.' As, then, a 'lover of wisdom,' I would willingly, if I might, accept the tribute of your last title." "And why?" she said, looking up questioningly   58       PERFECT LOVE into his face. "Why should being a lover of wisdom teach you to avoid us?" "Because," he answered, as if amusing himself with her perplexity, "another distinguished philosopher tells us that solitude makes one austere." "And do you think austerity a virtue?" "Sometimes, yes." "Not always?" "No, not always." "Do you love solitude?" she inquired. "I love its fruits." "Pray, what are they?" She was looking very earnestly at him. "I should say, the fruits of solitude, or rather its fruition, was the completion of thought in any form -such as poetry, painting, sculpture, intellectual ef- forts of any description, science; all those works, in- deed, that fill the world with glory and beauty, and make it seem at all worth living for." "Do you not think people at all worth living for?" "It seems to me," he answered, * that those people who are really worth living for should be sufficient unto themselves. Therefore they would not need the sacrifice of another's life." "You call it a sacrifice? You love freedom?" "Better than anything this earth can give." Beatrice sighed. "When," he continued, "a man has learned to be independent for his happiness of everybody, then alone has he conquered himself and the world." "You ought to marry Coralie," said Beatrice, look- ing wonderingly at him. "You do me too much honor. Mrs. Sinclair tells   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        59 me that your friend has proclaimed herself a genius. Surely I could not reach so high." Seeing Beatrice looked vexed, he added,- "Mademoiselle de Blois certainly has the look of one. Her face reminds me of an inspired Pythoness." "Did Laura say that? It is just like Laura. It is not true, or rather, if it were true that she once said so, she is as ready to laugh at it now as anybody else would- be. She told her mother afterwards that she was mistaken; that she was no genius. Coralie is as noble, good, and true as she is beautiful. She would never fail one in any emergency," said Beatrice, her eyes dilating, and the color overspreading her face with the warmth of her friend's vindication. "She would fight for any one who was unjustly attacked. She would not mind, I believe, killing any person who spoke ill of one whom she loved; and besides, she has genius. And some day it will not be she who will have to tell the world of it." Beatrice stopped; 'she had for a moment forgotten herself; she was never half so fascinating as when she had this earnest pleading in her eyes. Mr. Leighwas j5 watching her face with an expression of real interest.  She saw it, and, veiling her eyes with her long, dark lashes, which were in such contrast to her golden hair and fair complexion, she stood before him, the flush not yet passed from her cheeks, a picture of maiden loveliness, rivalling Titian's pencil. "' I am tired," -she said. "This spot is lovely. If I sit down, will you sit by my side?" "I will stand, and listen with pleasure to anything you may have to say to me." "Why will you not sit down? I do not," she said,.  I   60       PERFECT LOVE glancing- for a moment up at him, "I do not want perforce to look up to any one. Everybody must accord to you the distinction without having it ex- torted from them." Then she added,- "I do not mean, you know, on account of your height. Did Mrs. Sinclair tell you anything else, dur- ing your drive, about Coralie? - about us, I would say? "Nothing that I especially remember. She told me a great many things that were interesting to hear." "Did she not say anything in particular about me?" questioned Beatrice, fixing him with her eyes. Surely you and Laura can have no secrets. Tell me honestly what she said."- "She said, I believe," Mr. Leigh replied, laughing, '(that you were very fair, and that Count Persigny was very dark. Surely that was not high treason- was it?" "Apropos of what was she speaking? asked Bea- trice, endeavoring to keep down her rising color. "Of your engagement, I believe." Beatrice had turned away her head; her heart beat fast. "My engagement with whom?" she asked, quickly. "I am not engaged. The count," she went on, hur- riedly, " was engaged to a friend of mine in Europe - an American lady. The engagement was broken, and, as we were travelling at that time, he joined us, being in need, I suppose, of change of place. The count is very handsome, very agreeable, but he is the last per- son in the world, I should think, any woman who cared   CASTETHK OUT FEAR.       61 very much for her own happiness would be apt to marry." She remembered what she had just said to Mr. Leigh; and she added, as if inadvertently,-- ' One must look up to and wholly respect the man one chooses as a companion for life." Mr. Leigh recalled it also, but he was certain that she had forgotten it, and that what she now said had no possible connection with what, a moment before, she had spoken to him. "The count would be very wretched if he heard your opinion of him." "Why should he? inquired Beatrice. '"A man,' he answered, " does not care to have the scales in which his character is weighed ascend with his lighter qualities, and fall with those that are wanting."' "Then," said Beatrice, ' he must make himself wholly a man, that the ' Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin  be not written over his head." Beatrice was for the moment feeling what she said. Chameleon-like, she was reflecting Mr. Leigh's mind. Mr. Leigh could not but think her very beautiful when she spoke earnestly. Her violet eyes took darker and more vivid shades ; her soul seemed beaming in them. "In times past," he said, as if half musing to him- self, " women must have had wonderful beauty. The ancients immortalized them and worshipped them as goddesses; and even the Catholic Church grafted her power on the hearts of men by substituting for idols the idolatry of a woman. It was, perhaps, uncon- scious, but it was a grand tribute to your sex. It is strange that there have been fewer great women than   62 -      PERFECT LOVE great men. What is it that is wanting? Is it physi- cal force? Men, when they have left names behind them, have carved them on the rock of ages; women have but written theirs on the shifting sands of time, and the waves of life have washed them away. Wo. man's greatness seems to have been inspiration; man's has been wrought out with the chisel of thought and labor." "Do you care for beauty?" asked Beatrice. She knew that she was beautiful. Had she not often in Italy been called la divina Americana? "Beauty,", he answered, enthusiastically- " it is the divinest thing in the world!" Beatrice did not think him so cold at that moment. "But," he added, with somewhat more of his usual reticence, " it is only powerful as it is symbolical, the  outward rendering of the inward life, or rather when it takes possession of our imaginations as such." "I do not know that," she replied, archly. "The Venus of Milo probably never dreamed of a fine ac. 'tion, and you cannot deny that her type is perfect." iAh I but she is the expression of what is noble, just as when you read of a noble deed; it may move you to intense feeling. Yet it is not the action itself, only the relation of it, which impresses you. So a perfect statue makes you dream of and believe in an ideal nature? '" "Is not the Venus of Medici," Beatrice answered him, " exquisitely lovely? Yet she does not look very capable of heroic deeds. She cannot even impress them upon the fancy." "I should not linger long to gaze at her. She is ephemeral in my memory, as is the too oppressive /.   CAS-TETH OUT FEAR.       63 fragrance of some flowers. The artist who sculptured her had nothing, at least in that moment, that was im- mortal in his soul. If the impression of his genius has endured for centuries, it is that it was wrought in -im- perishable material." "Then," she said, with a deep-drawn sigh, " you do not really care for anything that is not perfect. How difficult it would be for any one to obtain a place in your friendship!" "Where is Beatrice?" "Beatrice, Beatrice!" re- sounded through the air. Steps seemed approaching towards where they were. For the first time the awkwardness of her situation struck her. She was tete- a-tete with Mr. Leigh in a secluded spot, which seemed as if they had chosen it to be apart from all the rest. Beatrice gave Mr. Leigh a quick, questioning glance, as if she said, "What shall I do?"Then, hearing a branch crackle loudly near where she sat, she started up. In so doing, her foot shipped on the moss-covered rock. She thought to recover herself, but in trying to do so, she fell. In a moment Mr. Leigh was at her side. "Are you hurt?" he asked. ' Do not attempt to rise. If you are in pain, lean on me." She looked frightened, and very pale. She did not answer him. He lifted her up. She felt how strong he was as her light figure lay for a moment in his arms, just for one moment; for in that time she had regained her self-possession. "I am not hurt," she said. ": Can you stand?" he asked, loosening his hold upon her, and placing her gently upon the ground. "Wait   "      PERFECT LOVE a moment until I take off my coat and place it under you." "No, no," she answered, placing her hand upon his arm. How white it looked-as it lay against the dark background I Mr. Leigh saw it; Beatrice could not but notice it also. It lingered there a little longer than was necessary to reassure him that she did not need his coat. In the nmean while her friends were seeking for her. The picnic collation had been pre- pared, and Beatrice was missing. Coralie, Laura, and Persigny had been aware of her prolonged absence. Persigny, ever since she had left him, had watched her jealously. He had soon after found an excuse to disembarrass himself of the companion to whom she had presented him.  He had seen his betrothed wander towards the shore. He saw her take down the colors of his country, which were floating from the boat: and then his eye had followed her, as she had left this spot and wandered away alone. At first he was too proud to follow her steps. By and by his jealousy getting the better of his pride, he had joined the different groups scattered about the woods, in hopes of finding Beatrice amongst them. It was then that he had also missed Leigh from the assembled company. Goaded by the suspicion that they might be together, he set out in pursuit of her. He had searched far in vain, when on his return he suddenly caught a glimpse of a white dress. Immediately' imagining that it must be that of 'Beatrice, he had noiselessly ap- proached the place where he had seen it. He heard a man's voice; he recognized it as Leigh's. Wild rage was kindled in his heart. He could not hear what they said. 'It was enough that they were to-   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       65 gether and alolle. As he came nearer, he no longer guarded the sound of his footsteps. It was the pines breaking under his tread that Beatrice had heard. Persigny did not see her fall, nor did he a moment later see her in Leigh's arms; but he had seen her hand resting upon. his rival's arm. He pushed the branches that separated him from them violently aside, and, stepping between them, he said to Mr. Leigh, with ill-suppressed anger,-- It This is my right, sir!" Beatrice turned deadly white at the sight of Per- signy. Mr. Leigh evinced not the slightest emotion. He resumed his place by Beatrice's side; taking her hand firmly in his, he drew it under his arm. Turn- ing to-the count, he said,- "Pardon me, sir. Miss Sinclair and I were together. She is under my protection until she asks to be placed under that of another." Bowing coldly to the count as he passed him, he led Beatrice towards her friends, who were just approach-- ing them. Much surprise was expressed at seeing her. "Where had she been?" "Had she been lost?" "What had become of her?" She said that she had met with a slight accident. She had fallen; Mr. Leigh had picked her up; and that as her foot had hurt her, she had stopped to rest. Although Beatrice attempted to laugh off the whole affair, it was evident to Coralie that something more had happened to her friend than she had related. Beatrice found the tables spread under the trees. The company proceeded to eat their dinner with a keen relish, such as a day passed in the open air alone can give. Claret and sherry-cobblers of Harry's mix- 5   "       PERFECT LOVE ing soon made most of those who were present forget Beatrice's accident, all save'three, Beatrice, Mr. Leigh, and Persigny. Corahe had been even more unkind, Harry thought, to him than usual. He sat apart ill rather a gloomy mood. Corahe was the life of the party. She laughed with every one. She declared that the wing of the chicken, of which she had par- taken, had flown to hbr head, and that this accounted for her gayety. Corahe was really endeavoring to cover Beatrice's silence. The guests lingered long on the grass after the -dinner had been eaten. The woods were growing darker every moment. It was only as the twilight shades were settling down on the opposite fields that the party broke up. Harry was loaded with thanks "for his successful entertainment. Beatrice, as- the company began to separate, saw Mr. Leigh leave the grounds to get the carriage. She thought that he would probably drive Laura home again. She saw Persigny follow him. They spoke for a moment apart; then Mr. Leigh had continued on his road. She wondered if Persigny had asked Mr. Leigh's pardon. She hoped so. His angry manner in the morning had frightened her. The carriages were in readiness; shawls, mantles, parasols, and pails r had been gathered up and pitched into the different vehicles; everybody was prepared to start. Per- signy's curricle stood waiting for Beatrice to take her accustomed seat in it. Harry Sinclair's barouche was just behind Persigny's curricle, and Mr. Leigh's car- riage was in front of his. "Where is Harry?" said Beatrice, looking around. Harrv was not to be found. Beatrice ran back into   CASTETH OUT FEAR.         67 the woods; there Harry sat on the stump of a tree, apparently with no idea of moving. "O, do come, Harry!" she exclaimed; "we are all waiting for you." ; Go,"' he said, gloomily, " and tell Coralie you have seen Marius sitting on the ruins of Carthage." "Nonsense, Harry! do not be so foolish. I will not deliver any such ridiculous messages. We want to go home. You put every one out by such silly behavior." "Go and deliver my message. I will not budge until she comes herself to answer it." "The count is furious, dear Harry! I want to drive home with you," she said, in a low voice of entreaty. "Please, please come." "What is that to me, selfish girl? So you are going to put Coralie with him, to repair yourself from his first blast of temper I This is your boasted bravery l You do not care for any one save yourself." "O, Harry!" she said, the ready tears springing to her eyes. "Well, I am going. You are always cruel to me. It is for that that Coralie does not love you." She went quickly back. Every one had left except the three carriages belonging to Elmswood Place. Beatrice spoke to Coralie in a low voice. "Dear Coralie, I entreat you to go to Harry. He says he will not stir until you come. Go for my sake. He is not far off. He is sitting on a log, and sent you a foolish message about Marius." "Where is the horrible creature?" said Coralie. "I would not go for his sake, if he were to sit there to eternity; but I will go for yours."   68       PlERFECT LOVE O O, thank you, Coralie!" Away Coralie ran into the woods. She was gone but a moment; time enough to have said, - "Come, sir, immediately; you are wanted!" Harry had risen, and followed her like a lamb. He helped the Miss Ellises into his barouche, and then he put out his hand to aid Coralie to mount the box. "It is not necessary,"' she said. "I will make one leap of it, and I am up." "Impossible!"' cried Harry, laughing. -But Corahe was in'earnest. She was just preparing to spring, when Beatrice touchedher on the shoulder. She turned, and saw a look of entreaty in Beatrice's eye that she could not resist. "I would like to drive home with Harry," Beatrice } said. "Certainly," said Coralie, yielding her place. "Whom shall I go with?" "With the count," Beatrice answered. Take my seat." "I am sorry for you, count,'" said Coralie, turning back to his carriage. "Take me as a pis-aller. ' Si je ne suis pas la rose, j'ai vcu pre' s d'elle.' " The, count was too much of an Italian entirely to conceal his feelings. He gave one look of reproach at Beatrice, at the same time that he extended his hand gallantly to Coralie, to help her into his carriage. She accepted it, and they all set off on their way - home, in very different frames of mind from those with which they had left it in the morning.   CA S TE TH OUT FEAR.      69 CHAPTER III.        B HsEE Miss Ellises had not a very lively impres- sion of their drive home from the picnic. Miss Amy Ellis was pretty--an American type of the prettiness belonging particularly to young girls. She liked Harry Sinclair better than perhaps she would have liked to confess to herself. Harry had always been on pleasant terms with her. He had jestingly paid her a thousand compliments, all of which meant nothing more than, "You are attrac- tive because you are young and fresh. If I play with you because it is pleasant, you must not take me in earnest." But this day of the picnic he had had neither eyes nor ears for any one save Coralie. Amy Ellis had seen it, and she had felt it. The Misses Ellis were no sooner deposited at their door than Harry, springing to the box, said to Beatrice, to whom, during the drive thus far, he had spoken but a few words, just enough to make the young ladies feel as little awkward as possible,-- "May I ask to what I, only a brother, owe this unheard-of honor-- the choice to sit for one hour alone by my side?" "I would always rather be with you than with any one telse, Harry." "That is not true, Beatrice. You know I hate lies. Why you should choose to regale me with them, I do   y 70     - PERFECT LOVE not understand. Why don't you say, right out, hon- estly,' Because, Harry,I am tired of my late con- quest, Persigny, and I want to win a new one, Leigh.' Do you remember, when we were children, we read Miss Edgeworth's Helen together? How often, in looking at you since then, have I thought of General Clarendon's words to his wife, 'Beautiful creature, half of thy charms would I give for truth.' 'I would not have limited myself to the half of them. How- ever, I suppose that the fine compliment paid to your beauty will cancel the incivility of the remaining part of the speech." "' Harry, you do not believe in anything I say or do - do you?" Why should I? You can scarcely do or say any- i thing that is straightforward and honest." "O, Harry," she said, genuinely sobbing, " do not be so cruelly hard on me. You could not, if you had any heart at all." "I do not wear my heart on my sleeve for daws to peck at." "Who pecks at my heart?" asked Beatrice, angrily. "Every man who comes near you. Of course I mean every man who has any claims at all to being a gentleman; or, rather, they have pecked at it until there remains nothing now save the semblance of a heart, which deceives mankind as Praxiteles' cherries once did the birds." "At least," she said, "I have so much left that I would not for worlds give you pain, as you do me, by making such unkind-speeches." 'Don't you know," he said, thrusting back the hand that she had placed in his, " that it is well to be   CASTETH OUT FEAR.     ..  71 off with the old love before you are on with the new? Don't you know that, if nothing better, honesty is at least the best policy? If I were Persigny, I would shoot Leigh; and if he were a man he would do it." "Why, what, pray, has Mr. Leigh done to him? He could not help picking me up when I fell; that is all. 'I do not know what you mean, Harry. Mr. Leigh has never said a word to me, or even given me a look, that any one could take umbrage at."' "You never do know what I mean. It is strange, as we were both brought up together, and speak the same language. Perhaps I should have made myself more comprehensible, had I said if Persigny were a man, he wotfid shoot you." "I will tell Corilie every word you say to me," said Beatrice, sulkily. "She will hate you for it. She always said you were a monster." "Tell her what you please, and let her say what she pleases. I care not, so that you might resemble her a little more closely." "Come now, dear Harry," said Beatrice, putting her arms coaxingly around his neck, ' please do not say anything more to me. You make me perfectly wretched. 'Do just speak one kind word to me before we part. ,\ never can sleep when you have been cross to me, and I want so to sleep to-night, for I am tired." "I am only your brother, so that all these allure- ments havy no power over me;" and he drew away from her. L     . Beatrice' drew back, too, into the corner of the car- riage, and covering her face with her handkerchief, she cried tears of vexation and sorrow. Harry touched   72     .  . PERFECT LOVE   , up his horses. He did not speak to her again until they reached his father's house. As he handed her from the box, he whispered in her ear,- . "Your tears have -done nobody any good. They have only succeeded in making your eyes red. Red  eyes are not becoming to any one." "Won't you come in and make up, dear Harry? I do not care whether my eyes are red or no, if you do not leave me in so vexed a mood." "That is another of your false speeches. No, I will not come in; no one cares whether I do or not. But I have sufficient truthfulness in me to confess that I regret it is so with all my heart." He sprang into his seat again, and drove rapidly away. Beatrice stopped a moment to look after him; then she turned -he latch and went in. It was quite late. She ran up stairs to wash her eyes. Instead of this, she sat down on the sofa and looked out into the night. Then she began crying again.  Pretty soon some one knocked at the door. ' Who is it?" she asked. "Please, miss, the mistress says that supper's on the table"  "-Tell her," said Beatrice, " that I will not take any-  ,thing. I am tired, and I shall not be down to-night." She shut the door, and locked it after the servant, Presently she heard Coralie's step. Coralie rapped at  ; her door. Beatrice did not answer. Coralie went down stairs again noiselessly. She thought Beatrice was, asleep. Beatrice sat quite motionless, always gaz- ing at the deepening shadows on the lawn. She was   [ thinking of many things - of her past, of her present, of what. Harry had said to her, of the count, and of Mr. i ,  +  7     CASTETH OUT FEAR.        73 Leigh.  Both he and the count were young and hand- some; both were manly; but what a difference be- tween  them! The count was wooed only by the passing passions of the hour._ He made no resistance, but let the current df life bear him along with it. He little recked where it-should carry him. The -other stood like a firm rock, against which the waves might dash, and the shifting sands gather; they stirred him not. One believed in pleasure, beauty, and love, as the mainsprings of life; the other in action, strength, and work. They rose now before her - the egotist and the idealist. She turned with a sickening feeling of pain from the thought of her engagement to Per- signy. How had she frittered away her heart, and all that was best and noblest in this world! What had she to show for all these bright years of her youtbl- save a path strewn with misery for others, and mo- mentary triumphs of vanity for, herself? At Rome, where she had passed the previous winter, the count was the handsomest, the most fascinating, the weal- thiest, the gayest of all the young -men who fre-/ quented society. She had reasons then, although the engagement was as yet private, to believe that his faith was pledged to another. All the young girls she met had striven for his attentions. Beatrice's vanity was put to the test. The count was struck by her beauty. Flattered by her manner towards him- self, there was excitement for Beatrice in carrying off the prize which had been already partly, if not wholly, won by another. The count had at first paid her some attention. This was not enough for her. He had fallen desperately in love with her, had aban- doned his betrothed, and soon after followed Beatrice    ^i4       PERFECT LOVE everywhere, until, her head turned by his homage, she had thought herself in love with him, and had affianced herself to him. After a while his very intensity of love had wearied her. It was not ex- citing, whilst she was yet outside of the harbor of  matrimony, to have no doubts or fears. To be told all day that she was perfect, and that all she did was divinely done, made her impatient. She loved power and passion; but both of these the count accorded to her without an effort on -her part. Now her mind went wandering over the scenes of the day. With the blood mounting to her brow, she recalled the moment when Mr. Leigh held her so firmly in his arms. ,Was it, indeed, possible that he could not love? that her beauty-was nothing to him'? He had looked at her once as if he was not wholly indifferent to it; but if he knew all, what would he think of her? He who dwelt so much on noble deeds, would he not thoroughly despise her? Coralie would be more his ideal of what a woman should- be than she could have been, even under far more advantageous circum- stances. Corahe was truly noble. O, how she wished that she would love Harry! not only from selfish motives, for she feared Coralie's charms, but she so hated to have poor, dear Harry unhappy; and had she herself not done much to alienate Coralie's affections from her brother, by always finding fault with him, and telling Coralie of all his cruelties to herself'? Yes, everywhere she turned she met with perplexities and self-reproaches. She did not deserve to be happy. Harry would scorn her more than ever, and even Coralie would abandon her /friendship if she knew ' everything. The night wl s growing darker and   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        75 darker. Beatrice heard the doors opening and shut- ting down stairs. Then they were bidding good night in the hall. She heard Mr. Leigh's voice and the count's. Was it her excited imagination? She did not know, but they sounded strangely altered to her ear. She listened as they came up stairs. Each one had entered their separate chambers, and fastened their doors. NowI she could discern Coralie's tread. She stood on tiptoe outside of Beatrice's door. She was evidently waiting there to know if Beatrice was asleep. She passed on. Still Beatrice sat at the window. The house grew more and more silent; even the noises of the night seemed hushed. At length the clock struck twelve. The moon had just risen, and was beginning to shed its silver light over the trees and the lawn. Then it sailed slowly behind a cloud, and all was enveloped again in the myste- rious gloom of the night. Suddenly Beatrice started. Every pulse in her body beat. She was sure she heard a step; a step, too, muffled, as if it did not mean to make itself heard. She arose breathlessly, and crept to the door. She listened. Surely the stairs creaked. Should she call some one? She feared to leave her room. Another distant creaking. Then she thought she heard a bolt carefully withdrawn.  She went back to the window, and peered out through the dark. Some one was descending the steps of the portico. It was a man. The moon unveiled itself for a moment, and showed her the count. Could he, too, not rest? Where was he going?  He was not leaving her home forever? A quick blending of feelings took posses- sion of her - remorse and regret. She was frightened, too, at the thought that she should never see him   76 5      PEkRFECT LO VE again. Would he kill himself?  In her fright she flung open the window. She was going to call to him. The noise arrested his attention. He paused and looked up. : She withrew hastily from the window. He passed on. Before she had time to re- flect upon what she should do, she heard another foot- step; but this seemed to come from another direction. The moon now shone out brightly. She could see far down the road. She saw the count turn into a side- path, which was more concealed than the others from the outlook of the house. Mr. Leigh came forward to meet him. Yes, Beatrice could not doubt that it was he, for she knew his tall figure even at this dis- tance. She no longer stopped to think of the step she was to take. A vague terror impelled her. She threw her dark cloak about her, drew the hood close over her- head, and, creeping to the. door, glided noise- lessly down stairs. She hurried to the by-path, which lay most in shadow, towards the spot where she had seen the two forms disappear. Presently she heard indistinctly their voices. She leaned against a tree for support. So great was her agitation that she feared she could go no farther. Her strength seemed failing her. What if she should faint, and they should find her there? That must not be. She nerved up her courage again, and drew nearer. The moon was now quite overcast. The foliage, too, was thick here. Well as she knew the way, yet in her present confusion she feared at each step to betray herself by missing the path. She could not yet see the gentlemen, :but their voices now sounded clear and distinct on the night air. The count was speaking. "I love her," she heard him say. "I am here to -y   .    CASTETHt OUT FEAR.       " offer my life for her." There was no answer. Bea- trice put her hand over her heart to still its beating; then, after a pause, the count continued: "-Do you think that I would be coward enough to stand tamely by, and see another rob me even of one look of her eyes, or a touch from her hand? She shall be mine - I swear it -although I pass over the dead body of another to obtain her." Still there was no reply. Why did Mr. Leigh not speak? Beatrice felt as if she must cry out that she wa's there. She could not bear any 'longer this terrible silence. Some one was pacing heavily too and fro, for the leaves cracked under his foot. She could not see which of them it was, but she felt sure that it was Mr. Leigh. "Why do you not answer me?" said the count. scornfully, evidently becoming every moment more wrought up. "Because," Mr. Leigh replied at last, " it scarcely seemed to me to be my place to answer you. Whethe'r the lady, to whom you allude, shall be yours or no, is a question, I should think, that lies entirely between herself and you. At least, I have nothing whatsoever to do with it; and if this is the only reason for which you have demanded of me a private- interview, I shall take pleasure in bidding you good night." As Mr. Leigh said this, he stepped out from under the trees into the path. It was apparently his inten- tion to leave the ground. Beatrice shrank breathless behind the large trunk that sheltered her. She now had a full view of Mr. Leigh arid the count. The count had come forward. He stood directly in front of Mr. Leigh. He raised his hand; something glittered in it. "We do not leave this spot," he said, angrily, until   78       PERFECT LOVE the questiof, which has so little interest for you, is more satisfactorily settled between us. I have weap- ons for both. It is not the first time that I have placed my own life, or that of hay adversary, on the die of a moment's chance."7 So saying, he handed Mr. Leigh a pistol. Leigh took it, and examined it carefully. "Shoot," he- said, calmly. "Neither is it the first time that I have faced an enemy's fire. If I did not shrink from them when they were so numerous that I could not count them on the field, surely I do not fear to meet one, single-handed."  ' You wish to place the brand of a murderer upon me," said the count, in a low, menacing voice. "Follow your own inclinations," Mr. Leigh replied; "I certainly shall follow mine. You cannot force me to combat. I have no reason for wishing to take your llfe, and I know of none for which you should desire mine." "You may not fear to take your chance on the battle-field, but the duellist's hand is more swift and sure. Fight with me now, or you will be forever branded as a coward." "There is but one judgment that I fear in the world," said Mr. Leigh, " and that is my own. I be. lieve it-to be useless for me to stand here any longer to discuss this subject with you. Therefore, once more, I will bid you good evening." Leigh turned again to go. He had not taken many steps when a bullet: whistled past him. It fell, and lodged in the earth just at his feet. He continued on his way without turning to look around. Beatrice had heard the report of the pistol. She covered her face   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        79 with her hands to suppress the scream that rose to ,her lips, and sank to the earth. Mr. Leigh did not hear her; he passed by. The count heard it. He recognized the voice of Beatrice. He hurried to the spot whence the sound had come. -He saw at first nothing save a heap of dark clothes, for Beatrice had fallen back, with her head, against the tree. For the noment the shock had rendered her insensible. The count bent over her in speechless agony. His first thought was, that he had killed her. He began calling her frantically by name. She opened her eyes, and looked up at him. When she saw who it was, she shrank away from him with horror. "Leave me, for pity's sake," she said, in an almost inaudible voice. "I am not hurt."' "Beatrice, my beloved, for the love of God, tell me that thou art not wounded. My own blood shall pay for it, if I have spilt one drop of thine." He threw himself down on the ground by her side, and covered her hands and her dress with his kisses. "Speak to me," he cried. "Leave me," she said. "Would that thou hadst killed me! I hate thee!" .  The count recoiled a moment from her; then he took her in his arms, and pressed her passionately to his breast. "Let me go," she said, faintly, "O, Lorenzo, let me go!"7 She struggled in vain. "-Tell me first that thou lovest me; then I will free thee--not till then;" and he held her more strongly in his grasp. "No, I will not tell thee so. Let me go. I have told thee the truth. I hate thee." Beatrice saw by   80       PERFECT LOVE the dim light the look of anguish that passed over her lover's face. She added in a softened tone, "I will not marry thee. I regret deeply that I ever gave thee my promise. I did not do it in heartlessness. I thought I loved thee. Go, for pity's sake, and leave me my freedom. If thou lovest me truly, as thou sayst thou dost, thou wouldst wish me well. Let me go, dear Lorenzo, -and I will love thee better than I now do. When thou art far away I will write thee." The count loosened his hold of her with such vio- lence that she nearly fell again to -the ground. He walked up and down for a few minutes with great rapidity. He struck his hand against his brow, as if' to make clear his thoughts, and, if possible, to induce him to believe that the words she had spoken were true; then he came again to where she was. Placing his arm around her waist, he passed his hand over her face, holding it back to look into her eyes, as if to penetrate to her soul through them. The moon shone on her face; it was marble pale. "Is what thou hast said," he asked, "the very truth? Dost thou indeed mean what thou sayest? Wilt thou not be my wife? Dost ithou hate me?" Beatrice felt that it was no time to tamper with her- -lover. He looked desperate. She was frightened, but she could not now recall her words. The count' was still looking into her eyes for his answer- those eyes that had so often answered his. They did not now turn from his gaze. He read his fate too clearly in them. He had not believed that they could be so cold and lifeless to him. "Beatrice, for the love of God, speak to me." "I do- not love thee," she said, slowly; " not enough     CASTETH OUT FEAR.        81 to be thy wife. It grieves me, Lorenzo, for thy sake and for mine, but it is better for -us both now than IW that it should come when it was too late. Thou wilt t  forget me as one who was not worthy of thy love, and :  I will remember thee as one who loved better than most men can, who was kind to me, and who was m' Italian dream." The count stood one moment irresolute; then he leaned forward and pressed a long kiss upon her lips. It burned into her soul then, and often afterwards did I'-. the memory of it haunt her as something terrible, from ?ii which she could not free herself. He loosed her then i:  from his arms. "Regret! Italian dream!" he murmured, between I  his teeth. "Beatrice, thy life will lie with a heavy curse upon it." "Do not say so," she cried;" take that back, Lo- renzo. For mercy's sake, do not leave me thus--not with a curse upon me.'" O," he answered, bitterly, " as surely as fate it will descend upon thee. Farewell." She put out her hands to call him back to her, but he, passed her so swiftly that she could not stop him. He, too, had gone. Beatrice was alone.' She glanced around and shuddered, fearful of her thoughts, and of the loneliness of the place. She gathered her cloak tremblingly about her, and hastened towards the house. The door stood open; she shut it, bolted it carefully, and went up stairs. She paused breathless at Coralie's door. She did not dare enter. She turned into her own room, and, flinging herself, dressed as she was, upon the bed, buried her face in 6   82       PERFECT' LOVE the pillow. How should they all meet in the morn- ing? What would the count next do? Would Cora- lie suspect anything? These were the thoughts that perplexed her most. At last, as the day dawned, over- come by fatigue, she fell into restless slumbers.  4     CASTETH OUT FEAR.        83 CHAPTER IV. WHAT have you been doing?" said Coralie, standing fresh as the morning by Beatrice's bedside, and looking with astonishment at Beatrice, still in the dress of the past even- ing, her hair dishevelled, and her dark cloak half enveloping her. Beatrice turned uneasily upon her pillow with a stifled sob. "What is the matter?" said Coralie, leaning over her. Beatrice spread her hands before her eyes, as if the light hurt them. "Is it a dream?" she murmured. a Is what a dream? Rouse yourself, Beatrice, and tell me what has happened."  Beatrice's glance followed that of her friend,. Her disordered locks, her cloak, instantly recalled what had passed. "O, Coralie," she said, "I am so wretched! Tell me, what shall I do? Where shall I fly to get rid of my- self? to forget my thoughts?" "The first thing you must do," said Coralie, ' is to brush out these tangled locks. Arrange them. Make your toilet as quickly as possible. Rub your cheeks to put some color in them; then come down stairs. We have finished breakfast, and everybody is wondering what has become of you." i "Where is Mr. Leigh?" asked Beatrice, quickly.   PERFECT LOVE ' "He is atthe breakfasi-table. It is the count,' Cora- lie added, mischievously, " who is missing now." "Where is he?" said Beatrice, looking distressed. ; I am not his keeper; but I suppose, although he has not been seen this morning, that he is in safety." "Where can he be, Coralie?" she said, clasping hero hands. "Dress yourself, and you will be more apt to ascer- tain where he is."   - "' Leave me, then, to myself, dear Coralie." Coralie gone, Beatrice looked in the mirror. Aghast at her appearance, she proceeded to follow Coralie's advice. She looped up her hair, which, even in the state of anxiety in which she was, she could not help stopping to admire. It had fallen in long curls over her shoulders ; and as the rays of the sun came radiant into the room, they lit upon it, and sparkled in it like gold. How often had she, in her rage against Harry, thought of cutting it off, just because it was the one thing about her that he admired, and placing it, with- out'saying a word, upon his table (she had read that the Duchess of Marlborough had done so), let him thus know how much more she cared for him than for her beauty. She was glad now that she had not made that sacrifice to her ungrateful brother; besides, he would not care for it; he would not have - gathered it up as the duke had- his wife's, and preserved it all his life long for love of her. If Harry had had any affec- tion for her, she would, not have been the faithless, heartless girl she was. But she had grown up under Laura's influence. Laura was jealous of her father's love for her,: and envious of the attentions she re- ceived. As for her friend, she had found Coralie /   CASTE TH O UT FEAR.       85 too late to be of aid to her. Poor Beatrice! she sought to throw the burden of her faults on other people, who would not feel them as she did. No sooner was she dressed than she hastened, with a beating heart, to the breakfast-room. As she entered, she scarcely had the courage to raise her eyes. "Well, Beatrice, where have you been, my dear?" said her father. ' It seems an age since I saw you. You were not down at tea. I feared you were ill." "No, sir; I was only tired." "The night air never agrees with you," said Laura. Beatrice thought by the sweetness of Laura's voice that she meant something particularly pointed. She seated herself at the table, and asked for a cup of tea. Laura poured it out. "I will give it to you strong," she said, " to prepare for any coup that may come. Tn remede en avance!" ' Do not talk in French," said Mr. Sinclair. "I hate French twaddle. The only good thing about the French is their dishes, and they had better have Eng- lish names." "Your father forgets Mademoiselle de Blois is of half French origin. I suppose he thinks, Beatrice, that ' the willingest sin you ever yet committed might be absolved in English.' I think Italian would be a lan- guage better adapted to them.  However, in the broad vernacular, ' everybody to his taste.' " "Here is your bracelet, sister," said Johnny, run. ning into the room, and holding up a heavy gold band --one of a pair that Beatrice alw-ays wore. 4 I found - it clear down in that new path." "Give it me," said Beatrice, looking much embar- rassed. She had not missed it before.   86       PERFECT-LOVE "Come into the garden with me, mamma," Johnny, insisted. "First clasp it around Miss Sinclair's arm, you little detective,' said Laura, laughing. At the same time she rose to go with Johnny, Bea- trice raised her eyes, and glanced over at Mr. Leigh. His seat was opposite hers at the table; his eyes met  hers with a strange questioning expression in them; hers fell before it; again she looked up; his eyes were still fixed upon her face ; she colored, and turned away her head. A moment after, the man servant entered. He held a small silver tray. On it Beatrice saw that there were letters. It was not the time for the arrival of the mail. Beatrice felt instinctively that the " blow" which Laura had heralded had come. She put out her hand almost involuntarily; for surely one of them was for her. Thomas had handed them both to Mr. Sin- clair.  "Letters in a foreign hand," said her father, peering at them through- his eye-glass; " and without any post- mark. How is that, Beatrice, my dear?" "Give me mine," she said. "It seems you are a clairvoyant, my dear," he said, handing her one of the letters. Beatrice felt herself grow faint; but this was not the time to lose her- presence of mind. She immedi- ately, recognized: the handwriting; it was not neces- sary for her to study it to know whence it came. Mr. Leigh had risen, and was looking out of the window. Beatrice broke the seal, and read, -. "When you receive this letter, I shall be far away.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        87 It will not matter to you where I go. I shall see you yet once again. May all the happiness which you can find, after what you have done; be yours. "LORENZO."- Beatrice folded it with a choking sensation in her throat, and put it in. her pocket. "There, Beatrice," said her father, throwing ever his letter to her; " that seems to concern you more than any one else. I never myself' could see the fascina- tions of the count; but titles, like military buttons, turn the heads of our young folks nowadays.,' Beatrice openedl the letter. It ran thus:- "DEAR SIR : I regret that I must leave your hospi- table roof without taking farewell. An affair of the most painful nature carries me away. Begging that- you will pardon my abrupt disappearance, and pre- senting my best memories to madamn, your wife, with many thanks for the kindness I have received, "I am, dear sir, "Yours truly, L. PERSIGNT." "What the devil carried him off so like a whirl- wind?" continued Mr. Sinclair. "I never yet saw an Italian but he had the look of a perpetual conspiracy. I never was alone with- olle of them that I did not expect every moment to be struck by some concealed weapon. I do not myself care for these volcanic natures. The fire that comies from them is rather excoriating. What do you think, mademoiselle?" "I think," said Coralie, A that some of them are   88       PERFECT LOVE good, and some of them are bad; some of them are very charming, and others very disagreeable. I al- ways found the count high bred, and very much of a gentleman." Corahe had risen from the table to cover her friend's confusion. "Come, sir," she said to Mr. Sinclair; "you prom- ised to show me where you were going to plant your row of maples." Beatrice rose also. She joined Mr. Leigh at the window.   What are you thinking of?" she said to him, in a low, sweet voice. "You seem even more preoccupied than usual this morning."' "I was thinking," he answered, " of my sister, and wondering- if the skies of Switzerland were half as beautiful and as blue as those over our head, I can- not but wish that she were here to enjoy it with me." "Have you a sister? Why did you never speak of her before?" "Because it is always a subject rather of pain to me than of pleasure. My sister and I have been separated for several years. One of the dearest objects -of my life is to bring her back to live with me." ' Do you love her?" asked Beatrice, looking won- deringly at him. "Would that seem so very strange to you?" he an- swered, smiling. "Yes, I love her dearly-better than anything else-in this world. At least-." He paused, and bent his eyes upon Beatrice's fair face. "At least what??" she said, catching her breath. "At least I believe it is love. I would sacrifice   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        89 anything that is dear to me for her sake. Whatever object or aim I might have in life, if I thought it would truly be of benefit to her to have me renounce it, I Would do so," "Why would you do all this for your sister??' "Partly because she is noble and good; partly be- cause our mother confided her to my care befobre she died; and. I would not fall short of my mother's belief in me." "What is your sister's name?" asked Beatrice. "Grace. It is well suited to her; for graciousness and gracefulness are her peculiar attributes." "Grace Leigh," said Beatrice, musingly; " it is a pretty name.' "Leigh is not now the name my sister bears." "Is she married? or a widow?" "No; but at the death of my mother, Grace was very young--a mere child. Although I was some years older than she, I was not yet able to assume the responsibilities of a home. We had an aunt whose husband was dead, and who was childless. She adopted Grace, giving her her name. Grace did-not then un- derstand how painful it would be to me to have her bear another name than that of our father. She read- ily acquiesced in my aunt's desire; she regrets it now equally with myself, but she could not wound my aunt by reassuming our name, after having borne hers for 4 so lonog a time." a And you," said Beatrice, " is it of no account to give you pain? I would rather that my aunt should suffer.', i' Old persons," he answered, " cling to forms and habits with more tenacity than the young. What is a   90       PERFECT LOVE passing grief to one is almost unendurable to the other; and women who have formed no settled tastes, who have no particular object in life, are broken-hearted if you rob them of any personal interests they may have." 4 Men's hearts are not so easily broken," she said. "Men, thank God! have something else to do 'be- sides breaking their hearts. They cannot afford to nurse their feelings. Their first work is to render themselves as impervious as possible. What would you think of a surgeon who, when he was obliged to cut off a limb, should sit- down on the bed of his patient, and indulge himself in a fit of weeping?" "I should think him very tender-hearted; and I should love him- for his gentleness. O,'"'she said, look- ing around, ' they have all gone and left us. Whilst we have been discussing about cold hearts, the morn- ing has grown as warm and lovely as is possible. Will you take a-walk with me down by the river's side? See, the water looks like liquid sunlight through the trees I Come, and thaw yourself in it." They wandered down to the river; it was, indeed, a lovely morning; the whole landscape was bathed in light; the very flies seemed golden-winged as they swarmed in the air, and filled it with their buzzing. "Is it not exquisite?" said Beatrice, as she seated herself on the soft grass, and, leaning forward, dipped her hand into the water which was rippling by. "Would," she added, with a sigh, "that this water were Lethe." - "Why so?" he answered. "Deprived of memory, what should we be but creatures without souls?" "Remorse and repentance," she said, " would not   CASI7ETH OUT FEAR.       91 then trouble us as they do now. I think it would be pleasant to be like the birds, to fly from one bright branch to another, onward and forward, forgetting- where we had been, and not listing whither we were bound, and, in our song drowning all power of thought." "You,' said Mr. Leigh, " do not look as if you had anything more to regret or to repent of than the birds have. Shall I wish you such a life? I do not know whether it would be a kindness or not. For my own part, I would rather suffer infinite pain than know only pleasare." !"That is strange," she said; "happiness is so de- lightful; and I am sure it makes people better to be happy. When happy, one feels kindly to all one's fel- low-beings; like helping every one on the way: like giving to everybody out of one's cornucopia. Don't you know that if there is sunshine, the sun yields it to the earth, the earth to the air, the air to all nature? O, yes I wish me a happy life. It will serve, perhaps, as an antidote." "An antidote to what?" he asked, earnestly. "To what some persons would wish me," she an- swered, shuddering. "Did you know," she added, after a moment's pause, "that the count has gone? You did not like the count.7" "Pardon me, I did not dislike him. He was the type-of a certain class of men." "Classify him for me, and tell me where you place him." ' I do not think I shall be justified in so doing." "Yes," she said, "I give you free leave to say any- thing you will. I entreat you to do so."   92       PERFECT LOVE "The coupn loved you; therefore to you I cannot speak of him as freely as I would of any other man." ' Why do you say he loved me? We do not seek to make what we love miserable." "That seems to me,' said Mr. Leigh, -"to depend very much upon the character of the person who loves. Do you recall the story of Pericles's beautiful daughter?" "No; tell it me." "A young butcher, of aesthetic tastes and with high ideas, fell desperately in love with her; and one day, as he saw her passing in the street, unable - so the tale runs -to control his feelings, he ran out of his stall, threw his arms about her, and kissed her. Wild with anger at the insult, the young girl rushed into the presence of her father, demanding instantaneous death to her bold admirer. Pericles listened calmly to her accusation, and then answered her, ' Iy, child, what punishment wouldst thou adjudge thy enemies, if thou wouldst- sentence with death those -that wish thee well?" "But," said Beatrice, "had he really wished her well, he would not have insulted her." "That was his manner of loving. Some men love generously, and surely there are those who love self- ishy. Some love passionately, some coldly; some outwardly, others inwardly ; some by instinct, and some by propinquity. We could count a thousand different ways of loving, and each one might, in its way, be very intense." ' Cold love," she said, " cannot be very intense." "Why not? Is not ice as powerful in its impres- sion as fire is? If you hold it long enough in your   C,4STETH OUT FEAR.        93 hand, does it not burn you? And you will confess that the heat it produces will be more agreeable than if you held a live-tcoal in your hand.' "I cannot refute your argument," she said, laughing, "because you are cleverer than I; but I know it is not wholly true." "You are right. It is hardly justifiable to win an argument, as a lawyer often does his case, by tortur- ing the truth and splitting a hair." "Confess," she said, coaxingly, " that you do like warmth better than coldness." "I do, indeed," he answered, warmly. "Have you really known me so long, and do you not know it?" "But you seem cold. You look so cold sometimes that it freezes me. I feel as if nothing one could do or say would make any favorable impression upon you; and I so long to please you!" she- said, looking down at a flower that she was dipping into the river. "Isn't it sweet?" holding it up to him. "Do say that you like flowers." "I love flowers,'" he said, his eyes dwelling upon her beautiful face. How fair it looked in'the morning light Such fairness was surely the type of purity and truth. "And," he added, 'I love beauty, and hope, and faith - and - I love love.7' "Do you? 7' she said, looking up surprised at him. "Yes; do you doubt it? You are unwilling to give me credit for any good qualities."  "I fear,7' she said, averting her face, "that I am too anxious to set them all down to your account." "You are laughing at me." "No, indeed," she answered, putting her hand quickly on his arm, and then withdrawing it again;   "       PERFECT LOVE "do not say that. You know that no one could laugh at you. I was thinking that if any:woman really cared for you, she would be perfectly happy, because she would find you without faults." "Do not, in your turn, say that," he replied, ear- nestly. Beatrice thought it might be her imagination; but he seemed to bher at the moment that he spoke to change countenance. He pressed his hand over his eyes as if to shut out some painful object. "Are you not well?" she asked. "It is nothing; there are times when the very thought of love is hateful to me ; when I cannot even bear to hear it spoken of. It is folly, perhaps, but it is something that I cannot conquer. No one can argue with me upon this subject as I have argued with myself. It may make me ridiculous in your eyes." They walked on for a while in silence. "Were you ever in Europe?"' Beatrice said, at length. He started at the sound of her voice, as if his thoughts had been distant, and he had forgotten her presence. - "Yes; I was on the continent for a year. JI went out to see my sister." "Then she has been there for a long time?" "My sister?- My aunt took her abroad about six  years ago. They have been travelling there ever since. They spend their winters in Rome." "What is the -name of your aunt? You did not tell me the name your sister bears," said Beatrice, under her breath. At any other moment Mr. Leigh would have remarked the alteration in her voice. ,' Le Roy. It was originally a French name. My aunt's grandfather settled here many years ago. The   / CASTETH OUT FEAR.        95 name was Anglicized to Le Roy from Le Roi. I think it: is my aunt's foreign blood that leads her to prefer a European life." "Grace Le Roy l" said Beatrice, with a suppressed scream. Then shbll added, more quietly, "I met her in Rome. I knew er quite well." "Did you, indeed? It is strange that I did not hear of you throCgh Grace.  One does not meet every day with exceptional natures like yourself. It is true, Grace does not write me, as she once did. In- deed, I am grieved to say that it is a long time since she has written at all. Her silence has caused me much anxiety. Had it been possible, I should have gone out to her this spring." "She looked delicate," said Beatrice. "Yes; Grace is never very strong. I am anxious about her health."  "She is very lovely." "I am glad you think so," he said, with earnest- ness. "I am glad that you knew her. You will un- derstand now why I love her." "Yes," said Beatrice, rising and beginning to walk  homewards. "I wish we had known her better," she murmured; " but just as we began to be friends, we left for Paris." As Mr. Leigh and Beatrice came up the path which led to the lawn, they saw Coralie sitting under a tree in full view of the house. By her side was Harry Sinclair. Corahe wasg writing a letter, apparently paying no heed to Harry's presence. "Wait a moment," she said, looking up at last, " and I will read it to you. It is an answer which I intend sending. See if you like it." And she read,-   96       PERFECT LOVE "DEAR FRIEND: I received, with the greatest pleas- ure, your sublime and tender essay upon love. I can- not, unfortunately, like yourself, write in the style of a master; but with that: humility which becomes my sex, I will seek to send you an answer which, I hope, will be to your taste: First, I loved you to madness; secondly, I loved you very much; thirdly, I loved you a little; fourthly, I did not love you at all; fifthly, I hated you to ,madness; sixthly, I hated you very much; seventhly, I hated you a little; eighthly, I did not hate you at all; ninthly, I ceased even to think of you. With the greatest respect for the manifold virtues of your character, and appreciation of your generous philosophy, "I remain, dear sir, "Your devoted - BROTHER." "Brother underlined, that he may not think it is written in mistake," she said, making a dash with her pencil under the word. -How do you fancy the style?" "Did any one dare,"1 said Harry, " merit such a let- ter from you?" "From me?" she said, her eyes flashing. "1 should simply have killed the creature. He was en- gaged to a friend of mine. They were both French. He, being unable for a long time to obtain any means of support in this country, accepted every benefit that a man could receive from her. She worked for him; saved him, at the expense of her own health, from star- vation, from - suicide. She succeeded, at last, in ob- taining patronage for him. When, at length, he was   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        97 well established and earning an easy livelihood, he wrote her a letter explaining his views of life to her under the following heads: First, that he did not be- lieve in the duration of love; secondly, that he would not risk, on the die of marriage, a friendship so true and real as theirs; thirdly, that he prized friendship higher than love; fourthly, that his career as an artist would, by the monotony of marriage, be deprived of its inspiration; and, fifthly, that no man had a right to ask a woman to make a sacrifice to him, in accepting a life of hardship and poverty; which means, make sacrifices for spiritual reward-look for no earthly recompense." "Does your friend love such a terrible monster?" said Harry, laughing. "She loves him, poor thing, because she believes in love, and she has nothing else to love; and, I suppose, for a hundred other like reasons, without any sense in them. For years she has never had a hope or as- piration save for him. She has loved him through selfishness, through unkindness, through neglect; and now that his cowardly hand has dealt the last blow, she writes me to knowwhat she shall do." "And you have told her," said Harry. "Your let- ter is splendid. Do you think she will have the cour- age to send it?" "Yes, she will send it, and you will see that it will bring him to her feet. When he thinks he has lost her love, he will want it back again. That is all the phi- losophy lovers can extract .from love."  "All is well that ends well,' said Harry. "Indeed, no! She loved unfortunately. She must suffer the consequences. The only sweets that can 7   98       PERFECT LOVE come to her is the revenge she will have upon his heart, if that can be accounted as any consolation. When I see the misery caused by love, I thank Heaven for the path I have traced for myself." ' All men are not base," said Harry. "They do not all merit your anathema!" "They are all more or less selfish," Coralie replied. "They love for their own sakes; seldom for that of the object beloved. Women, unfortunately, love best what they suffer most for. I do not know whether this suffering may not be called selfishness, too." Mr. Leigh and Beatrice had joined them. "Will you be our umpire?" said Coralie, turning to Mr. Leigh, who had heard the last part of her remark. Beatrice, whose mind was still full of what Mr. Leigh had said about love, and impressed with the sombre hue that the mention of it had apparently cast over his thoughts, spoke quickly, to change the current of the conversation. a O, Harry," she said, we have had such a pleasant walk! the river was so beautiful! You ought to go down and take us all rowing." "Wait until the evening," said Laura, who was leaning over the railing of the piazza. "Le clair de la lune convient aux sentiments tendres! Come here, Mr. Leigh, and let me, for once, be your cicerone to some of the spots rendered sacred by all sorts of memories." She descended the piazza steps to meet him, and they walked away together. "I heard a strange tale about Leigh to-day," said I-arry. "The story may serve you a good turn, Bea- trice. A, fellow told it to me who was in Europe at the time it occurred."   I        CA S TETH O UT FEAR.       99 "("What can it be?" said Coralie. "You excite our I curiosity. There is, at times, a look in his eyes that makes me believe he is connected with some tra- gedy." "And this, I assure you, is one of the most tragic kind; it is worthy of Alfieri's pen. It seems that : when Leigh was in Naples, he went to stay with a friend of his, who, two years previous, had married a Neapolitan girl, and, fascinated with herself and lier country, he had settled down there. It was, I under- stand, a mariage de convenance,' made, against her will, by her parents. Leigh and he had been school- mates, and afterwards had passed through college together. They had always preserved their friend- ship for one another. Well, the wife of his friend was very beautiful, and being, of course, very Italian in her nature, she fell desperately in love with Leigh. As soon as Leigh became aware of her sentiments to- wards himself, he left his friend's house. She fol- lowed him, and falling at his feet, she told him of her passion, and entreated him to fly with her. When she found that he was inexorable, she took from her bosom a vial of poison, and swallowed it in his presence. She lived but long enough to be carried to her hus- band's home, where she begged Leigh to take her. She confessed the whole romance to her husband before her death." "He behaved splendidly," said Coralie. "Who?  The husband, or the beloved?'" "Mr. Leigh, of course." "I pity the poor husband," said Harry. "I do not. What right had he to marry a woman   100       PERFECT LOVE who did not wholly love him? He might have fore- seen his fate, which he richly deserved. Your story illustrates just what I was saying a moment ago. All your sex are incurably selfish." "It seems-that Leigh was not so. The role he played ought at least to free him from so severe a judgment." 'His name," said Coralie;" like Abou-Ben-Adhem's, will henceforth lead all the rest in our hearts. He is very interesting, very superior in every respect to the generality of Americar. men; and besides, he has 'air noble!" "L'air noble!" said Harry, contemptuously, angered by her remarks, which had been made partly to vex him. "I like that. A greater set of scrubs than your foreign noblemen are I haye never seen I I would rather be a free, independent American workman of any class, both for looks and for self-respect, than one of your puffed-up European titles." "You talk like a child," said Coralie, amused at the storm she had raised. "You do not know what refinement of thought, sensitive honor, and delicacy of action, an aristocratic b:rth confers. It is an inex- plicable something that tke inheritance of centuries of money could not gild one with in this country. There is nothing more abhorrent to me than a rude democrat priding himself opon his self-sufficiency and his want of real education." , "Then," said Harry, " all I can say is, that the noblest work of God is abhorrent to you." "Hear him!" said Coralie, laughing. "I affirm that the noblest work of God is a man whose intellect   is refined and cultivated by attrition with the most delicate souls; one who is elevated in all his feelings and aspirations by long association with what is high! How can the son of a candy-maker or pill-inventor boast as much?" "I never yet," said Harry, truly exasperated, "heard of a single man who was thoroughly great, who was noble by birth. What do you think of Socrates, Shakespeare, Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, Franklin, Burns, Milton, and a galaxy of other names that have lighted the world for ages?" "Nonsense! I could give you a whole list of nobles who have left greatness behind them, beginning with Alexander the Great, and ending with Alfieri, Lord Byron, or who you will."     ! "Perhaps Leigh will yet head my list," said Harry, "for he is about publishing a book, and a devilish clever thing it will be." "Why will you use such horrible words?" said Coralie. "You make me ashamed to talk with you." "It is the last time they shall offend your ear I promise you.- There comes Leigh. If he was not with that woman, I would go down and havena talk with him. He is a noble fellow, whether he has blood to back him or no. Hallo! she is actually going into the house. I will go and speak with Leigh." Beatrice, who had listened with breathless--interest whilst Harry had related the romance of Leigh's life- in Italy, had given no further attention to the discus- sion between Coralie and himself. Forgetful of all else, she sat with her hands folded on her lap, looking abstractedly before her. Now that Harry had left   102      . ERFECT LOVE them alone, she watched him till he was out of sight; then, turning quickly to Coralie, she said, under her breath, and seizing hold of her friend's hand, - O, Coralie, what shall I do? She is his sister." Whose sister?" Grace Le Roy is Mr. Leigh's sister. I cannot stop to explain it to you now, but she is his sister." Well, my dear child, you cannot help that. Does he know everything about the count, and Grace le Roy, and yourself?" "O, Coralie, I lured the count away. He loved her; and now I have broken her heart, and his, and everybody's. Mr. Leigh loves her better than any- thing on earth." The tears rolled down Beatrice's cheeks as she spoke. 'Are :you sure of that?" said Coralie, looking searchingly into Beatrice's eye. O, yes, he told me so. O, Coralie, what shall I do?"  The next time you are alone with Mr. Leigh, tell him the truth. If, after you have told him all, he still remains your friend, your conscience will be clear. Do not steal his friendship. It seems to me that it is worth purchasing at the price ofloyalty and honesty. If you lose it, the sooner the better; for you will only have had what rightfully was not yours to keep--what you had borrowed under false pretences.   Believe me, Beatrice, you will never repent of' being true." "But he would hate me. I tell you, Coralie, he loves his sister with all his heart. He has no pity upon human frailties. You can see, from what Harry '.#  -        CASTETH OUT FEAR.        103 told us, how cold he is. Any other man would have loved that lady, or, at least, he might have feigned love, if only to save her life." n "And what," asked Coralie, " would he have valued her life at afterwards?" "O, I know, Coralie, we are all human. Folly is sometimes wiser than wisdom, and she was unhappy and beautiful." "She was a poor, misguided creature. He felt it, and he sought nobly to set her back upon- the right path. I honor him for it. Better a thousand times that she should have died than to have lived a life of dishonor."  "You are hard, Coralie--hard as he is. I do not see how it all is, but I do not feel like an Amer- ican. I cAn understand how she loved him. I could have killed myself, as she did. Harry does not know- what love is, nor do you, Coralie-nor-nor Mr. Leigh." "Perhaps not. But it strikes me that' true love should prove itself by disinterested actions. What memories has she left to him? She has made the very name of love distasteful to him. If she had for- gotten herself to remember him, could she have given him such inexpressible pain? She has left a picture before his eyes which will- forever haunt him. This indeed is not love, as I understand it; it is misled pas- sion. No man can feel gratitude for such a selfish sentiment." "In truth," 'said Beatrice, recalling the conversa- tion she had lately held with Mr. Leigh, "nowr I remember he spoke of love as if he hated it."     I     104      PERFECT LOVE A few minutes after, Mr. Leigh and Harry joined the two girls. Laura called them with her silvery voice to come in to dinner. She was particularly eager that Harry should dine with them, but he would not accept her invitation. After making an arrangement to row with them the following evening, he bade good by, and drove off.    CASTETH OUT FEAR.        105 CHAPTER V. THE next day Beatrice shunned the society of every one. Laura she did not wish to be with; she feared her soft satires; nor with her father, lest he should make some of his innocently frank remarks upon the sudden disappear- ance of the count. She felt instinctively that Coralie was beginning to analyze too closely her character. Coralie, quick in her impulses, had been drawn to Beatrice at first, attracted by her charms of manner and person, as she would have worn with pleasure a beautiful jewel. Beatrice satisfied the artistic part of Coralie's nature. She had for her something. of the fascination that she possessed for her admirers of the other sex; but of late Corahe had begun to feel a want, a something that pained her, and jarred sadly against her sense of perfect rectitude. -She would scarcely say to herself, much less to Harry, that she began to have some understanding of his feelings towards his sister. Coralie did not need Beatrice's love, as Bea- trice needed hers. Corahe was strong to combat against life alone. She gave much, even intensely, in sympathy. She did not ask what she should re- ceive in return. There, where there was trouble and sorrow, she was ready with gentle acts and tender- ness. She would expose herself to difficulty or dan- ger to do any one a good turn. The object accom-   106       PERFECT LOVE plished, her mission was over; then she turned to, some one else, who might need her aid and her svm- pathy. Corahe was young to know so much as she did of the trials of this world. She was young to dedicate her life to others; but-it was instinctive with her, and she had that peculiar power, which is given to only a few, of drawing out the secret sorrows of the heart. She did not seek the confidence of others; everybody confided in her. Everbody leaned on Coralie. They asked her advice, her help; she gave it freely. Bea- trice needed some one to lean on. She borrowed strength from the stronger nature that was near her. Corahe was the only woman whose admiration and love she cared for. Now she feared Coralie might fail her. Coralie did not know all her past. What would she think, she who believed only in singleness of purpose and honor, if she knew all the false, heart- less subterfuges of her life? and, above all, the last falsehood she had told to Mr. Leigh? Harry, whom she was so proud of, for whom she would have sacri- ficed more than for any one else in the world, Harry knew her better than anybody did. He had always condemned her conduct. He would not listen to palliation or excuse. And Mr. Leigh, whom she so admired and 'looked up to, the only man whose opin- ion she had ever feared, she believed that she had given to him the best and deepest feelings of her heart. But Beatrice had fancied more than once that she loved. Carried away by an intense desire to ,please, there, where there was an obstacle in the way, there she must conquer and overcome. So long as there was uncertainty of the feelings of another, so   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        107 long was she interested and excited; but once the field hers, her arms were posed. No longer uncer- tainty and fears to incite her to victory, the excite- ment palled, and the glass through which she looked at her victim had altered its power of reflecion. Mr. Leigh, she repeated to herself, was, as Corahe said,  "different from all the rest." She had never before come in contact with so earnest a nature. Those out- ward charms, by which she had invariably captivated, had for him but a secondary attraction. She!knew she could not, with him, rely upon her beauty I She must be what he would respect, not seem it. She felt now that if he was indifferent to her, she did not care to live; and, with the blood beating in her brow, she ' recalled the many acts of her life that he would bitterly censure, if he knew of them. Nay, was there any one act of which he would approve? Strange thoughts crossed her mind. She fancied she could go to him, and, laying her whole career before him, ask for his pity, his friendship, his love. She might do this, and then begin a new life--turn over fresh, unsullied leaves, and write upon them a better, purer future than had been her past. Yes, all might be erased, all save that one part which told of her winter in Rome; that he could never pardon. If: she left that uncon- fessed, and later - later, she said to herself, with beat- ing pulses, as his wife, her sister - they should meet one another, he would then know all, and he, too, would curse her. Everywhere she turned, the light was filled with darknessj and this for the first time in her exist- ence, for Beatrice had been the darling of fortune; she knew not of struggles and sorrows, of loneliness and desolation, of disappointment and bitterness of the   108       PERFECT LOVE soul, of suffering and self-sacrifice: she had opened to the world like a brilliant flower. No one expected anything of her save her color, her beauty; they were there to admirei not to demand. She was one of the few chosen ones of prosperity; no shadow was ever to darken her- path. Beatrice had not said these things to others, nor distinctly to herself; but she felt them with the arrogance of youth and beauty. Now, on the threshold of happiness, she paused and trem- bled. The. young and ardent are not long baffled by fear; their sense of power is too securely felt within themselves. "J'attends mot astre," is not inscribed upon their shields; they are their own stars, and they illuminate their own way. Nor did Coralie, as was her custom, seek her friend. She shrank, unconfessed to herself,-for;had Coralie been aware of it, however painful it had been to her, she would have faced the truth,-- she shrank from searching her friend's heart. Coralie, independent as she was, would not willingly have relinquished the genuine enthusiasm she felt for Beatrice. fortunately the afternoon of this day was to be passed in ma;king visits. Laura owed many return calls, and their daily drive was to be given up to these. The big barouche was ordered for three o'clock, and Beatrice, who had had that morning but a fugitive tUte-d-t6te with Mr. Leigh, looked forward to the hour mentioned as the 'centre of happiness for that day. The carriage came. Laura, Coralie, and Johnny. tucked in between them, occupied the front seat. Beatrice and Mr. Leigh sat vis d-vis to them. With Laura's eyes upon her, Beatrice could not talk to Mr. Leigh of anything that particularly interested her.              .         .   CASTETH O UT FEAR.       109 When Beatrice glanced opposite, and saw the hand- some face of her friend, her eyes the mirrors of frank- ness and truth, Beatrice felt a pang of envy. She envied Coralie her freedom of heart. She envied her also her loyalty of nature. She thought that Mr. Leigh could not but see it, too; and if he knew how noble she was, how far above other girls in simplicity of character, in intelligence, and in spirit, would he not naturally fall in love with her? Beatrice was well aware that if Coralie surmised her own feelings for Mr. Leigh, she would not for the world seek to please him; but she had not dared confide them to her. Now she would be withheld by her pride from so doing. Beatrice wondered that all men who looked at and listened to Coralie did not fall in love with- her. The reason that they did- not, had she stopped to reflect, was easy to find. Coralie wounded the vanity of her admirers by her indifference to their praise or their blame. Beatrice flattered hers, not with words; that would have been derogatory to that confidence she felt in her own natural attractions; but both consciously and unconsciously she did so by every look she gave, by the very intonation of her voice. Had any one accused her of this, she would have been indignant, and have -answered that she could not be responsible for what people felt. Never- theless, she was responsible. Corahe was to-day full of life and animation. She was apt to be much more interested in the subject that she was ldiscussing, than in the person with whom she discussed it. Mr. Leigh seemed interested and amused by her conversation. Laura chose to think that she had absorbed him, and therefore, when appealed to, she only answered by   "O     - PERFECT LOVE some soft sarcasm. Coralie paid little heed to these remarks.      I "Do not kick my lIoe," Laura said to Johnny, irri. tated by Coralie's coolness. "You will not- improve its beauty by kicking-it." "Mademoiselle lets me kick hers," retorted Johnny, who was an ardent devotee to Coralie's charms. Coralie took his little hand into her large white one. He was a noble-looking boy. Coralie often felt sorry for him, she thought Laura's influence so unfortunate. "Remember," she said to him, "you have always promised me to be a little man. Men do not kick ladies' dresses; they sit very quietly by their sides, and listen, without interrupting, to what they have to say." "Sometimes, though, they do something more than listen." "What then?" asked Coralie.- "They are not always quiet when they sit by sister's side. I have often seen them kiss her hand. I don't L wonder, for it is so pretty. I kissed it, too, and it was soft as velvet. I should think they'd love to kiss yours, too. It isn't as little as Beatrice's, but it's just as white, and just as soft." t ' Well, sir," said Coralie, lowering her voice;, "now I will tell you another thing-that men never do- they never repeat anything they see or hear."  I wish I was really a man," said Johnny. "I know what. I should do. I should ask you to be my wife.". "Perhaps, in that case," said Coralie, laughing, "I might alter my resolutions. I, too, wish you were a man, Johnny," Beatrice, who had heard the boy's observation about /    C4ASTETH OUT FEAR.       1" herself, had turned scarlet. Surely fate was against her. She glanced anxiously towards Mr. Leigh, to see what impression it had made upon him; but it was evident that he had not paid heed to the child's words; for he was looking abstracted. She felt grateful for this. Why did Laura bring Johnny? Even Johnny knew bad things about her. She was afraid he would say something more; she knew if Laura heard him, far from stopping him, she would be glad of the em- barrassment it might cause her. This was a new phase of torture which she had not calculated upon. How she wished the drive was over! The carriage drew up at the Ellises' gate. Whom should they see on the croquet ground but the two Miss Ellises, their brother, rather an ungainly youth, who had been desperately smitten with Beatrice the year before she had gone to Europe, and whom she had allowed to sigh at her feet when there was nobody else to court her. He had proposed; was of course refused. Poor fellow! after all Beatrice's kindness to him, he was not prepared for the blow: he had written a letter to Beatrice after this affair,' telling her that his last die was cast; that henceforth life was without any value to him. Beatrice had not seen him since this correspondence until now. It was rather an awkward meeting on both sides. When Mr. Ellis shook hands witlh Beatrice, he colored to the roots of his hair. Beatrice looked away. Then there was the renegade Harry, forming the fourth to the croquet party. As he helped Coralie from the barouche, she gave him a cordial shake of her hand and a look of hearty approval that almost made him regret seeing her. He had gone to Mrs. Ellis's that   :112      PERFECT LOVE, afternoon quite desperate; he must drive on the road at least that led to where Corahe was; he had stopped there to Whiile awayv the time that hung so heavy, and that must elapse before the evening which was ap- pointed for their rowing together, when he looked for- ward at least. to a -short interval of bliss. Miss Ellis, only too happy to have Harry by her side- for what- ever reason, was rather ruffled when she saw the bril- liant Coralie descending from the carriage. Harry, pleased to please, and, permitting the fair Miss Ellis to place a momentary balm upon the many wounds inflicted by Coralie, had been making himself more than usually agreeable. Now his family had come, to put an end to all their pleasure. So thought Miss Amy. The bright bubble that had been floating be- fore her eyes all the afternoon had burst, and was dissolving intoi thin air. Laura, who aid not fancy great originality of char- acter,-who certainly did not fancy having the winds taken out of her own sails (for she prided herself upon her conversational talents),- would have much pre. ferred the sw et-tempered, unremarkable Miss Amy for a daughterlin-law to Coralie. She had made Harry furious several times by telling him so in different ways, adding that she herself preferred a gentle breeze to "a whirlwind in petticoats;" she was surprised :that any one of refined feelings should have a different taste. Beatrice and Coralie were urged to take a hand at croquet. Coralie, always glad to join in anything that would give pleasure to others, was about to accept, but a look at Beatrice told her that all her anxiety was to get through with the call as quickly as possi-   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       113 ble. So Coralie ,said she was very stupid at games, 'and begged to be excused. Then she admired the flowers, the view, the trees, and, indeed, everything there was to admire. Harry admired her all the m6re for her power of being pleased. Beatrice, finding her position near Mr. Ellis one full "of embarrassment, - he having been immediately upon her arrival attacked with a deeply-dyed fit of the blues, -made an excuse to move away, and had stepped inside to look out of the bow window. Mr. Leigh was conversing with the oldest Miss Ellis. How calm, thought Beatrice, as she gazed before her, was the scene! Green fields lay placid in the sunlight,bounded by distant mountains; nature was so still. Whilst she felt. such a gnawing restlessness within, she was obliged to appear quiet; when all her pulses were beating violently, she was ever repeating to herself the question,-- "Will he love me? I must have his love. I may be unworthy of it, but it must be mine! Hitherto every desire of my heart has been satisfied; every- body whom I wished to please has been at my feet; but only he -only his love can satisfy me." These thoughts passing again and again in her mind; she had forgotten how rapidly the time was fly- ing. Laura's call had come to an end; she had risen to take leave. "Miss Sinclair," said Mr. Leigh, who had approached her unperceived, "Mrs. Sinclair is going. I am sent in quest of you." She had started at the sound of his voice; it thrilled through her; then she blushed because she had started. Beatrice had forgotten of late to use those 8   -14       PERFECT LO VEK arts by which she secured her captives. Her natural charms were much more seductive. "I was looking at the landscape," she said, "it is so perfectly peaceful, and wishing all hearts could be so entirely at rest." "Would that they might," he answered, following her eye as it rested on the soft meadows that lay stretched out for miles before them. "Is Laura in a hurry?" she asked. "Mrs. Sinclair is never in a hurry," he answered, smiling. Beatrice thought she understood the expression in his eyes. She replied to it laughingly,-- "I know it is ill-bred to be in haste. I mean, is she going right away?" ' No; she is going wrongly away, since it would be so much pleasanter to remain." "Do you like this place better than ours?" she said, leading the way to the carriage. "You must know that I do not. My only regret is that I am obliged to leave it so soon." "Come, loiterers,' said Laura, who had already t taken her seat in the carriage. Q Mr.* Leigh and Beatrice hastened forward. They bade good day to the Ellises, and got into the barouche. "Poor young Ellis I said Laura, as they drove off. "He has had a very severe attack." "Of what?" inquired Mr. Leigh. "He looked in very good health; he seems an honest, straightforward - sort of a fellow." "Poor fellow!" said Laura, looking over at Beatrice. "'The most dangerous disease in the world; and an aggravated form of it, as I understand from his mother.   .             CASTETH OUT FEAR.       115. Beatrice knows about this maladie du coeur better than we do. She can describe it to you in all its different symptoms. When was he first taken, Beatrice?" ' Beatrice," said Coralie. coming to her rescue, "has not yet embraced the profession of a doctor; therefore she can probably tell Mr. Leigh less about it than I can, who am a sort of amateur physician. I should say that Mr. Ellis's complexion betokened any. thing but disease of the heart." ("You take things au grand serieux, mademoiselle," said Laura. "Really, one does not attempt to kill with pop-guns." "No, madam; but sometimes they have been known to do a great deal of mischief." Laura relapsed into silence. They drove on to the. next cottage. Fortunately the family were not at home; for by this time none of the party were in the best of humbrs. Beatrice thought Laura was cruel, Mr. Leigh pitied Beatrice, Corahe was angry with Laura, and Laura was somewhat vexed with every- body. They arrived at the house for a late tea. Af- ter tea, Beatrice and Coralie retired to prepare their toilets for the boat. Beatrice's mind was full of but one thought; she dwelt upon Mr. Leigh's last words to her whilst they were at Mrs. Ellis's-"My only regret is that I must leave it so soon." Was he going? and soon? What would the place be then to her? Since he had come, he had been the sole object and interest of every hour; since that first evening when he had been presented to her, how much had:hap- pened! and how her destiny had changed I  The count--she' had been of late so preoccupied by Mr. Leigh that she had entirely dismissed him from her   "6S      PERFECT LOVE  memory, and yet it was but a few weeks ago that 'he had been -so much to her. What had become of him? - She had not heard from him since othat night. How little did he suspect that Walter Leigh was the brother of Grace Le Roy! Suppose he should meet Mr. Leigh again; that he should kill him; it was evi- dent that he would be glad to spill his blood. She must see Mr. Leigh, and speak with him alone. She did not know definitely what she wished to say to him, but he must not go. This evening, she thought, there was small chance of, their being left together; for Coralie and Harry would be with them.- Corahe had not yet gone down stairs; Beatrice could hear her singing in an undertone in her chamber. Beatrice, too, waited in- her room. Harry, when he had made the moonlight appointment, had not calculated on the late hour at which the moon would rise. Beatrice feared this might delay him;, but the night was tempt- ing. Hundreds of stars shone in the clear sky; they brightened the landscape, and seemed outvying each other in the light'they shed. Presently Beatrice heard the tramp of Harry's horses on the avenue. She wrapped herself in her white camel's-hair bournois, and, calling for Coralie to " come," she ran down to meet?arry. They soon (all four of them) started on their romantic trip. Laura leaned from the piazza to wish them good speed. She was invited to accompany them, which she politely refused. Both Coralie and Beatrice were glad that she did notjoin them. Harry was overjoyed; it was always difficult to know what Mr. Leigh felt. They walked down the lawn, chatting merrily; their voices floated back on the night air, and caused Laura a restless sensation.   CASTETH  OUT FEAR.     117- "Life," said Coralie, " on such a night as this, has no realities. The material part of it disappears. It seems like a picture, of eternal youth. Forgetful of the past and the future, we ask not whence we came, nor whither we go. Sometimes one must confess that this sensation is pleasurable, it is so delightfully with- out responsibility." "Well," said Harry, laughing, I confess that I never expected to hear so light a sentiment from your lips. The idea of your desiring to shirk life is indeed delightful." "Do not," she answered, "congratulate yourself. It is only the atheistic part of my soul which betrayed itself unconsciously." "*It is Heineism," said Mr. Leigh, " with which' every woman's nature is more or less imbued, Whilst' mankind is hurrying on to its goal, they stand bv the wayside, wondering ' where the fire is that once burned; and where is the wind that once blew.'" "Nonsense!" said Coralie; " women are far cleverer than men. Men ought to blush when they reflect that for thousands of centuries, amongst the millions and billions of those that have existed, the few great ones that have really lived can be counted upon one's- fingers. If women had but the advantages that you have awarded you in a hundred different ways, they would have shot like so many constellations across the heavens, and set the world in a blaze long ago." "By this time, then," said Harry, " it would have been burned up, and we should not have had this pleas- ant walk together. Long live women's wrongs I " "That does not follow, by any means," said Mr. Leigh. "If we mingle Mademoiselle de Blois' the-   18 :i    PERFECT LOVE pries with a little of Darwinianism, we should have en- . toyed ourselves in a higher state -in an atmosphere  arefied by spiritual and intellectual affections, ' the  attest' being ourselves; we should surely have sur- 'ived in a loftier sphere."               t "Mademoiselle de Blois," said Harry, ' does not,   /! nfortunately, believe in natural selection.' !: "I believe in a thousand better things, though," etorted Coralie, that you have not the grace to be-  Leve- in."  "Such as?" inquired Harry. "Give me a list of hem."                          : "Not to-night," she said. "I believe too thoroughly i this lovely evening."                 The path was growing so narrow that it was impos-   i: ; ible for four to walk abreast. 'l "Take my arm," said Harry to Coralie.  u"No, thank you; I can walk alone." "Savage at heart as an Indian; walk, then, in Indian  le."    i       ' "Yes," she said, gayly; ' I like the idea." Mr. Leigh had, at the same time, offered his arm to eatrice. She accepted it. They walked for a few    ' oments in silence. Coralie and Harry had gone on. eatrice and her companion could hearthem still laugh. ig and quarrelling together. At length their voices ed away. Beatrice broke the stillness around them.  i "You said to-day that you were going away soon." "Yes; I have lingered here, perhaps, too long.   - ome in what- forms they may, I cannot. approve of    - elding to temptations. The old proverb says, Make    ] Ly whilst the sun shines;' that is, whilst you are    ' )ung, do something worthy of your youth, if you   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       119 '/ would look for any harvest when you are old. One could forget, here, all one's good resolutions. It is reaping heaven before you have toiled for it. This is one of the loveliest spots I ever was in." "I am so glad you like it! You must not leave us. You can work here as well as anywhere else. You have time to think here. Thought is not thrown away; and, besides, you can help others. You have helped me since you have been here." "You, Miss Sinclair?  I should as soon think of helping the Peri on its way to Paradise!" "Nonsense! as Coralie says." Then she added,- more earnestly, "It was, - Laura told you so the other day, - it was the tear of repentance that opened the gates for the disconsolate Peri. I am afraid I have need of. that. I have been very thoughtless, very careless, very heartless, I sometimes fear. I want to be differ- ent. When you speak to me of your sister, I feel that you love her because she is good. It is so beautiful, to be good! I should like to resemble your sister." "My sister is indeed lovable -not better than you," he said, smiling down kindly at her. "No two flowers can: be perfectly alike. Grace has not had the talents placed in her hands that you have had. To be rarely gifted is to have a dangerous preference sh'wn one by Providence, who tries her favorites. I sup- pose she is anxious to persuade herself that she has not been guided Jby blind caprice in her choice. -We are not unlike her in this respect; for there, where we have placed our affections, we constantly ask ourselves for assurance that we have chosen well; and often, where we know we are most deceived, we even seek still to delude ourselves. Is it not so?"   120' ,      PERFECT LOVE -, { Yes, I believe it is. It is natural. that we should not- wish to take our statue off of its pedestal." "And," he said, "we, are always seeking for a statue for our pedestal." "You cannot think that,' she answered, reproach- fully; "for. it was but a few days since that you said the highest ideal of life was to live alone." "I think you misunderstood me. I said that one ought to learn to live alone; that- one might not be dependent upon others for one's happiness. Surely, that does not prohibit living with those you love. and being a thousand times happier with them than without them. I meant only that if we looked upon comfort and pleasure as our sole aim in life, we should accom- plish little of its great work." "I think I understand you. But all people are not strong enough for this complete abnegation of self; and besides, God did not mean it; for it is said ' he set the solitary in families.'" ' No," he answered, " it is not really good for man to be alone. -It makes him morose, and perhaps self- ish. - There is no sweeter belief than that ' happiness was born a twin., How-beautiful this grove is I That , birch there is a solitary tree; it looks enveloped in this mysterious gloom, like a druidical priestess in her white robes. She will, perhaps, tell us whether she likes a life so far away from all her kindred." "It looks to me like a spectre," said Beatrice, shiver- ing and drawing closer to, her protector, a It might be the ghost of isome avenging spirit haunting this place. Henceforth I shall always be afraid to walk here alone at night." "You speak as if it- had hitherto been a favorite haunt of yours."  w -,    CASTETH OUT FEAR.       121 "No," she said, breathing quickly, whilst her heart beat fast; " no, I am not very courageous. I never was here but once, very late at night: then you were here too, but you did not see me." "You mean on the night of my rendezvous with the count." "Yes: I saw you both leave the house at so strange an hour. I knew the count was angry with you. I was terrified, and followed. I heard your refusal to fight with him. I cannot express how grateful I felt to you, how brave I thought you, how H-"She paused. "It seems to me," he answered, " that there is enough of misery in the world, without placing upon 'your soul, or upon that of another, the taking of a life -" "The count," she said, interrupting him, " did not, however, have the same high sense of honor." "I think," he answered her, " we should look upon people more from  their point of view than from our own. The count has been brought up with very differ- ent impulses and feelings from ours. He is a military man, a nobleman, an Italian. He believes it to be dis- honorable not to settle any difficulty that might arise between himself and another at the sword's point. You must remember that duelling is the fashion in his country; that his name would be tainted with coward- ice there if he was not ready to shed his blood even for a trivial offence. If you reflect upon these things you cannot blame him, or judge him harshy. Be- sides," he added, " the Italians are a passionate race." "Yes," said Beatrice, "they are so. When you first go to Italy, their impetuous manner, the various emotions of their faces, their jealousies, and their rage   122       PERFECT LOVE, seem splendid;, and there is a picturesque element, that pleases the fancy; after you become accustomed to it, it reminds one of those foys for children - a ship tossing on a gutta-percha sea." "That is too bad," said Mr. Leigh, laughing. "As a nation I love them. All that intense enthusiasm, that instinctive harmony, that earnest sympathy with the beautiful- it makes of them poets, painters, and mu- sicians. We need these exotic races, as we need flowers, birds, and the green trees. What would the world be without them? and even the revelations of science without art? or a sense of the beautiful in us? But here we are at the river's side. Both the boat and our companions have vanished." "I catch a glimpse of Coralie's white scarf through the trees. but they have rowed around the bend. They are not far off, only the river winds so that it takes time to make the points." Mdr. Leigh called, "Sinclair, Sinclair!'" "Hallo, Leigh!"Harry shouted back; " we will be there soon."' Beatrice still leaned on Mr. Leigh's arm. "Before. they return, tell me," she said, hastily, " tell me that':: - you will not go." She looked up in his face beseechingly. She was beautiful as she stood thus, shrouded in her white cloak. Mr. Leigh could not resist that look in her eyes. Ever since he had first seen her, he had been drawn to the young girl even more than he dared con- fess to himself. She had seemed to him that night, when his eyes first rested on her, like the impersona- tion of an exquisite poem. The oftener he had seen her, the more had he been captivated by her feminine   CASTETTH OUT FEAR.       -123 grace, her charms, and what he believed to be the truthfulness of her nature.- At first, the loneliness of her position under a step-mother's roof, and one who. did all she could, subtly, to undermine the admiration that would naturally be felt for her, had, attracted towards Beatrice Mr. Leigh's interest and his pity. Later, ho had resented the count's monopolizing man- ner of treating her. The romantic places in which they were, thrown together served but as a frame to set her beauty in; and it must be confessed that he was flattered by the preference shown towards himself by one so lovely. Mr. Leigh -had never beenin love. He had given to her; who had died for him, a passionate regret, from which he had in vain sought to free him- self. The memory of that most unhappy woman bad haunted his imagination, and had made it distasteful to him since then to be much in the society of women. He had early been thrown on his own resources. Left entirely to his own guidance, he had become a stren- uous judge of his own actions. He had thought much, had studied the characters of those with whom he had been thrown, and he shrank instinctively from all contact with what was not the highest. Ardent in his youth, he had gone forth to the great battle of life with a belief, above all things, in goodness and in truth. On his banner was inscribed purity, 'the highest love, and, the noblest deeds. He was met with artifice, selfishness, and meanness. He had been thrust back upon himself, and he had grown some- what hard, cold, a;nd bitter. Hitherto he had guarded his heart from Beatrice's attractions ; now he surren- dered himself to the impression of the hour. "Miss Sinclair," he said, " if I could believe that   121 ',PERFECT LOVE my remaining here would give you even a moment's satisfaction, I feel I should be tempted to forget stern duty, to show the white feather to all my former vows, and to Stay." ' Suppose I were to tell you that you were doing the best of actions in staying; would you stay?" He felt that the balance was falling. He looked at Beatrice; her hands were clasped over his arm. He placed his hand over hers; her hand trembled. He held it firmly in his own. He drew her towards him. "Beatrice," he said, "I love you. Will you be my wife?" She did not answer; but her head dropped upon his shoulder, and she burst into tears. She was hap- py, happy beyond her own belief in what could be. Never before had she known a moment of such unal- loyed blis. She could not speak. "'Tell me; dearest," he said, " that I may not de- spair. Tell me that a new life is opening for me; that the past is forever buried, and that a future bright with love, hope, and faith is ours. Strong as you believe me to be, I could not bear it now -to be deprived of this ray of light that has burst upon my path." '"I love you,': she whispered. "I love you with all my soul; believe it, for it is spoken from my soul." The splash of an oar; and Harry's boat shot around the bend in the river. - Beatrice started from her lover's side; they turned their steps quickly towards the bank.  Mr. Leigh bent towards Beatrice, and whispered in her ear, "Beloved, mine now; forever mine." "Forever," she answered, under her breath.   CA STETH OUT FEAR.       125 He helped Beatrice into the boat; then, taking the oars, which lay idly in their rowlocks, he and Harry plied them in even strokes. The boat moved rapidly down the river, and they had soon lost sight of the spot where Beatrice and he had lately stood, and changed forever the destinies of their lives. i    126.      PERFECT7 LOrE CHfAPTER VI. I- 'f {o HE evening was so tempting that our little i 1 party lingered long on the river. They Mji , were waiting for the late moon to make her -! appearance. Beatrice was silent; she was dreaming of her new happiness. Coralie sang; her voice was full and rich. It floated in delicious melody over the water, and filled the night with music to -Harry's ears. "Sing once more," he said, imploringly to her. Coralie sang again and again. At length-she looked at- her watch. "Not yet," said Tarry-; " time does not enter into our programme to-night." "Time, perhaps, does not, but the morning may," said Coralie, laughing.  ' Let us wait a little, Coralie," pleaded Beatrice. "No, I matronize this party of rebellious spirits; home we must go." "Let me pray, too, for a reprieve," said Mr. Leigh. "You could not be so cruel as to turn back now." "You must give me credit, indeed, for firmness," Coralie answered, " to make me stand against such a band of petitioners; but Epicurean-like, I must rise from the banquet while pleasure is at its height." "Then,' said Harry, " at least, you confess to the   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       127 weakness of wishing to remain. The night has won that triumph over the day." "Iwill confess to anything you wish, if you will only land us." "Will you?" said Harry. "Would that I'might take you at your word." Harry turned the boat, and they rowed homeward. Coralie sprang unaided on to a rock which jutted into tlhe water. Harry secured the boat. Mr. Leigh gave his hand to Beatrice. She looked up into his face. The branches of a -tree hung thick where she stood, and half shaded her form. He raised her hand, and pressed it fervently to his lips. Coralie insisted that they should take a short cut home. They waded through the long grass, the sleeping poppies, and the starry marguerites. Beatrice put out her hand and gathered one. She scattered its leaves about her, "un peu, beaucoup, passionnlment." It was the last leaf; it lodged in Walter Leigh's bosom. "Good night," said Harry, as they reached the door. "It has been a perfect evening; thank you all for it." "Good night, dear Harry," said Beatrice. "Good night," he answered back, cheerily, " and pleasant dreams to each of you." Coralie and Beatrice' hastened up stairs, for their skirts were heavy with the night dew. Scarcely had Corahe had time to loosen her clothes before Beatrice opened her door, and glided into her chamber. Her hair was let down, falling rippled over her white gown, as Coralie loved best to see it. "I have come to tell you something," she said. "I know it already,", answered Coralie.   128       PERFECT LOVE "Then you saw us," said Beatrice, blushing deeply. "I saw you in the boat, as you saw me," said Cora- lie, smiling. "Then what do you know, Coralie?" "Of your engagement to Mr. Leigh." "Are you a sphinx, Coralie?" "Not exactly, but I can read your face; I read it when you entered just now." "Coralie, I am exquisitely happy. I love him." "I trust you will always be able to say as much," said Coralie, with a half-suppressed sigh. I' He is all that even you could desire for me, Cora- lie. He is noble-minded, handsome, intellectual. iHe is everything that a woman could wish for herself." "I think he is," said Coralie, warmly. "I have been much struck with Mr. Leigh of late." "Why did not you love him, Coralie?" "As it has turned out, it is fortunate that I did not; and who knows, after all, but that I do?" "No, Coralie, I know you do not; but please do not be so cold to me. Come and put your arms around me, and tell me you are glad I am so blessed. I will be good, Coralie," she pleaded, in a child-like voice. "I will never again do anything that is wrong. I have been heartless, O, how I regret it now! He will make me good. You believe it-do you not? O, -dear, dear Coralie, do speak to me! I wanted to be perfectly happy to-night; and now, it is only a few hours, and you have marred my happiness; for, next to him and Harry, I love you, Coralie. Do you think Harry will be glad? Perhaps he will love me better now, he likes Mr. Leigh so much! Dear Harry I To love one person wholly, Coralie, makes you love the    CASTETH OUT FEAR.       129 rest more. I never knew before what it was to love; I only thought I did. How terrible it would be to be married, and not to love with all one's heart and soul! That might, you know, have been my fate. It must be so with many people, just from ignorance. It makes cold chills run through me to think of it. How perfect it was to-night! Your voice is beautiful, Cora- lie. If Mr. Leigh had fallen in love with you, instead of me, what should I have done? O, how I wish you would love poor Harry! Kiss me, Coralie." "Did you tell Mr. Leigh about his sister?" asked Coralie.         -        . Beatrice answered by putting her face in her hands, and sobbing like a child. Coralie knew then that she had not had the courage to do it.. She felt sorry for her friend. She went up to her, parted the beautiful bright locks that hung over her hands, and kissed her brow. Beatrice flung her arms passionately about Coralie's neck. "O, Coralie," she said, " he would forgive me, if he knew how I suffered for it. He loves me. If I thought he was in pain, I would forgive,'him anything. no matter what he might have done." ' Yes, but he would not be so lenient to faults as you would." "You think me very light - I know you do. You do not respect me, Coralie. O, how I wish you re- spected me and loved me as I do you!" "Now you are going to be married," said Coralie, "you will not need me any more. All I have to entreat of you, as a last demand of friendship, is, that you will be open with your husband; conceal nothing 9   130    -  PERFECT LOVE from him. Never fear to confess a fault; and to merit his love. make yourself worthy of it." "I shall not forget what you say, Coralie. I feel grateful for it. I shall try to follow your advice in everything. You say I shall not need you. That is very unkind. I shall need you more than ever." "You will have your husband to lean on. You will go to him with all your perplexities and troubles. He will give- you all the sympathy you want. Make his heart your homk; make it your altar. I shall not remain long in Ithis country. You know I am here, at the best, a bird of passage. Had it not been for you, I should long since have winged my way to the other side." "O, Coralie, if you go to Europe, we shall follow you, and Harry, too. He could not live without you." "I should be sorry to hear him say so much. No, Beatrice, your brother is a man. If he has a passing fancy for me, it will'pass entirely with my absence; out of sight, out of mind. Is it not fortunate for us all that it is so? Although Harry and I have had many words together, I respect him as thoroughly as any man I ever knew." s"I. am glad, at least,- Coralie, to hear you say that. Your respect, I know, he would think more of, than of most persons' love. Good night, Coralie; and, as Harry says, pleasant dreams." e"    *      .    CASTETH OUT FEAR.       131 CHFAPTER VIL. HE morning rose brilliant; and as the sun fell on Beatrice's pillow, mingling its rays with her golden hair, she- waked with a fresh flush of happiness upon her cheeks. -Her last thought, as she had closed her eyes. had been for her betrothed. and she had fallen asleep with his name parting her lips. The blushing seal of love was still upon them. "How sweet life is!" she whispered. "-How ex- quisite love is I I feel as if I must tread on flowers, drink nectar, and sing with the birds." She looked about her. Was it a dream? Her spirit seemed so full of light I Everything around her was filled with radiance. No more restless tossing on her pillow, no more harassing doubts. He loved her. With him by her side, she should be blessed. His love would be more to her than the praise of all the rest of the world. Her beauty should be for him. He had never told her she was beautiful. Did he not think it? Would he not tell her so, as all her admirers had? It would be sweet to hear it from his lips. Admiration grew dull and stale when it was a matter of course; but his had not been easily won, and the prize was of value. With many such thoughts running through her head, Beatrice arose and made her toilet. She chose her most transparent morning dress. It   132'      PERFECT LOGVE became her delicate icomplexion: she viewed herself in the mirror with pleasure; and surely a lovelier farm could scarcely be reflected. Could so much youth and beauty pass away? Could it fade, grow old, or die? No; like the flowers in the morning, the glory of the sun. was upon it; and when the shades of night should fall around it, then also the eyes that had rested upon it with love should be closed, the hand that gathered its fragrance would be cold. Beatrice could well be pardoned for lingering a moment at her glass. Then she hastened with an eager, trembling foot down stairs. She stepped lightly into the dining- room. No one was there. She sat down. Presently she heard Walter's voice. She held her breath. He was talking with some one in the next room. Then she heard her father answer, with his droll, half-laugh- ing tones, - "Well, Leigh, I don't see but I must accept you for a son-in-law. You are- certainly more to my taste than any foreign contribution would be. Girls do not always know their own minds, and Beatrice is not an exception to the rule. She's a little like April weather, fair, but changeable. However, if you let her have her own way, I dare say she won't veer around again. Opposition makes women headstrong." "I hope I shall prove worthy, sir, of the gift you bestow. I have not asked your daughter's leave to speak to you, but I could not feel that I had a right to call her mine- until I had obtained your consent." As Mr. Leigh spoke, they came towards the parlor. Beatrice rose, she felt some natural embarrassment at meeting Mr. Leigh for the first time after her engage- ( Ho   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       133 ment in her father's presence. Walter and she ex- changed one quick glance of love. "Well, my dear," her father began, "Leigh has been asking my blessing, and telling me that he is fascinated with you, like the rest of mankind. I give my blessing gladly to you both. Come here, my little girl. You and I," he said, putting his arm around her waist, and drawing her to him, "have been more strangers to each other than we used to be. She's the picture of her mother, Leigh. I have a right to feel some pride in her--have I not?" he said, looking fondly at his child. Mr. Leigh thought her father's pride was indeed justified. "But your mother," Mr. Sinclair continued, " never had but one lover, and he was her lover until he laid her in her grave." "And I mean to have but one," said Beatrice, crimsoning. Mr, Sinclair cleared his throat. "Laura," he said to his wife, who at this moment opened the door, "come here and congratulate Leigh." "Upon what?" said Laura, looking surprised from Mr. Leigh to Beatrice. "Why, upon their engagement, of course.", "O!" said Laura. Laura's "O1" meant a great deal that she did not choose to express in any other way. "Well, why don't you give them   both a good embrace?" "Is that a rule?" she said, elevating her eyebrows. "I might, perhaps, not object to beginning with Mr. Leigh - mais celui qui viendra apres." Beatrice looked distressed. Mr. Sinclair detested   134       PERFECT LOVE foreign languages. Her use of them was the only thing that he did not find perfect in Laura. "I wish, my dear," he said, " that you would oblige me by speaking in your native tongue. You know that I hate tinsel." ' Well, darling," said Laura, "a fair exchange is no robbery. If you will give me that pair of diamond and emerald ear-rings I saw at Tiffany's just before we left town, I will promise never again in your presence to use: a French word.'- "Agreed," said Mr. Sinclair. "They shall be a talisman between us.'" "Don't you think," said Mr. Sinclair, hesitatingly, as he and his wife left the parlor,-" don't you think, Laura, that you are just a little hard upon Beatrice?" "Hard?" said Laura, feeling deeply aggrieved, but maintaining her accustomed placidity of countenance.. "Well, I do not mean to be hard on you, but it seems to me that you unintentionally hurt the little girl sometimes." "Iurt her! Laura exclaimed, suavely. ' I do not know by what name you call all that I do for Beatrice. Have I not had- her friend Coralie here all this time? And surely Mademoiselle de Blois does not exhaust herself in pains to please me., Have I not, at the risk of being severely censured by the world, looked askance at her? Weli, to say the least, her amusing herself at the count's expense!" "Laura, dear." Yes, Charles. You never open your eyes very wide.- You are the dearest, the most innocent of men; and Harry -have I not tried to make the house de- lightful to him?"   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       135 "The noble boy 1" said Mr. Sinclair. "The thought of losing both my children made me feel melancholy for the moment, Laura." "I am sure I should have been too happy if he had chosen to stay with us. Young men are apt to have Bohemian habits. When Harry has tried the world. he will probably be glad enough to come back to his father's roof." "I hope so," his father sighed. "Dearest," said Laura, "don't be low-spirited. You have Johnny. Is not he sufficient for your love and pride? I hope, darling, that you will do all you can for Johnny. Harry and Beatrice have each a for- tune independent of yours. You would not let our little Benjamin come off with an empty cup in his sack?"  "1 shall do all I can for Johnny," said his father. "And for me?" questioned Laura in her thoughts. "And for you," said Mr. Sinclair, drawing Laura up to him. "There is nothing in this world of mine that is not yours." "You are too good to me, dearest," she said, kiss- ing his hand. "Breakfast is waiting for us. Lovers are neyer hungry, but, like the rest of us, they must go through the usual routine of life: if it were not so, poor Beatrice would have many a death from starva- tion staring her in the face." ",Do not say these things, Laura, dear. Beatrice is a young thing; as she grows older, she will grow wiser." He thought to himself, "And how much she looked like her mother to-day." "You will never grow any wiser, I am afraid," she said, raising his hand again to her lips, and leado   136       PERFECTS LOVE ing tho way to the breakfast-room. Breakfast over, -the family separated as usual. -Beatrice ran up stairs to get her hat; Coralie stood for a moment on the piazza alone with Mr. Leigh. "Will you not congratulate me, Mademoiselle de Blois?" he asked. "There is no one's good wishes I would so gladly have, in this country, as yours. When one is so poor in relations as I am, one longs, in the happiest time of one's life, for some kind friend, who will wish you God-speed." "I wish it you from the bottom of my heart," said Coralie, extending to him her hand cordially. "I never before," said Mr. Leigh, "had in my thoughts connected myself with any person's happi- ness. In looking forward to the future, I had always, pictured myself single and alone. It is strange how all changes suddenly around one. I had no regrets  then at the thought of a lonely life. Now it would make me infinitely wretched to go back, even in imagination, to the path I have left behind me. My new, happiness is making me egotistical. But you are one of those to whom involuntarily .one opens the heart." "I am glad," said Coralie, " to hear you speak as you do. Beatrice surely has rare attractions. I shall be happy when she is taken out of the atmosphere around her.'" "So shall 1," he answered, frankly. "It is insuffer- able." Coralie laughed. "You have given it the right term," she said.- "I have 'itied Beatrice." Mr. Leigh, in the excitement under -which he was, did not stop to consider Coralie's words, as he might   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        137 have done at another time. He did not note the chary praise she bestowed upon her friend -chary, that is, as coming from her lips, and to him; for she and he set less value than most of the world do upon outward charms, and Coralie knew  it. Beatrice joined them. "Will you both come and enjoy the morning air?" she said. Coralie pleaded as an excuse her sketching. Mr. Leigh said he was surely at her disposal. As they went down the walk, he offered her his arm. Coralie remained where they had left her, following them with: her eye; then with a heavy sigh she turned back and went for her drawing-book. "Do you remember," said Beatrice, shyly, " the -last time we were here together?"  "It is not so long ago," he answered, "that I am likely to forget it." "O, yes, it is," she said; ' it was one of the first days that you were here. It seems an age to me since then. You refused a flower from my hand. I shall never forget it." "I would refuse nothing from your hand now. Will not that make amends?      ' "Scarcely." "Then I shall have to confess to you, it was cow- ardice that held me back.  I did not dare trust myself to take it. I was not sure then that you were free." "O, you were very cold," she answered, archly. "You denied the power of love to me many a time. You drove me nearly distracted with your theories." "I have renounced them all." He took her hand   138       PERFECT LOVE in his. "Beautiful hand!" he said, pressing it passion- ately to his lips. "' White as snow, and smooth as monumental alabaster.' Shakespeare did not exag- gerate in his descriptions of beauty." "I thought you did not care for these things?" she said, questioningly. "1 do care intensely for them." "Do you? You never said so before." "I had no right to tell you you were beautiful. I felt it always. It would have been an insult to you had I told you that I admired every motion of your face and form before you had given me any claim to your life." "I have been insulted very often, then," said Bea- trice, laughing. Mr. Leigh looked serious. "You do not perhaps know the pain you give me when you say that." Why does it give you pain to know that I have been praised?" she asked. "Not that, but the thought that any man should feel that he had a right to praise your beauty gives me pain, Surely that is not strange." "Othello," Beatrice replied, "said these things would not make iMm jealous." "And yet," he answered, " you will say Othello was of a most jealous disposition; but all men are not of the same mind, you know. Jealousy seemsto me to spring from a doubt in what one loves; that, again, reflects back upon the person who is jealous; for a rover of what is true and high could not love what he doubted, what he feared was faithless and false."   CASTE TH OUT FEAR.       139 "But," said Beatrice, ' fancy may rove; love must be free. Every one has some ideal. When you think to have found it, you find instead that you are disap- pointed and deceived. Then you seek farther. This is not, necessarily, fickleness - is it?" Beatrice was, unconsciously, pleading her own cause. "It seems hard," he answered, " to accuse it as such; but fancies are dangerous things. These are the ex- cuses, douthtless, that George Sand, Byron, Alfred de Musset, Alfieri, Alcibiades, the Duchess of Albani, Henry the Eighth, and a thousand others of like ver- satile affections would bring to palliate their lives." "But is there not," she insisted, "some truth in it? You cannot force love." "There is, perhaps, some truth in everything; some. excuse for every one. It is for us to reject the false part, and hold only to the true. No; you cannot force love; but it seems to me that a reasonable being will pause and reflect before offering what should be the immortal part of him to another; and besides," he continued, L"one would not willingly make others wretched. Generally one cannot promise one's love, and take it away again, without giving great unhap- piness." "Men do not suffer as much as women do,'7 she said, hiding her face on his shoulder. "Men do not die for love; women--" Mr. LMigh did not answer. Beatrice saw him change color; she had hoped to draw from him his confidence with regard to that other love; she longed to know how much he had felt for her. They sat for some moments without speaking. Beatrice knew what he   "O       PERFECT- LOVE was thinking of; she drew her face closer and closer to his. "Do not look so sad," she said. "Do say that you love me."' "I love you better than anything on earth," he an- swered, folding her in his arms-" "better than life; dearer than any hopes I ever held of love."'   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       141 CHAPTER VIII. THEN you do not mean to marry at all?" said Harry to Coralie one morning, as they were seated together in the boudoir of Mrs. Sinclair's house. "It is sad to think of so much youth, beauty, and passion forever wasted." "Youth, beauty, and passion wasted l" she ex- claimed. "What a phrase! As if anything could be wasted in this world! Beauty is the flower of our life, youth is its strength, and passion is the power of using both of them for great purposes." "Whatever you may say," he answered, ' to me it is inexpressibly sad to see a creature like yourself refusing the best gifts of the gods; for lowe is God- like - " "When offered by yourself," curling her lip with a slight expression of scorn. "By Jove, I did not deserve that!" said Harry, jumping from his chair. "No, by Heaven, I would rather' know you were happy with another than see you growing old without love, without enjoying the divinest of earth's happiness I " "And suppose I think other things more divine?" "Name them to me," he said. "Such as art, poetry, immortality upon this earth, if one might obtain it;, only I should not care- so much   "2    -  PERFECT LOVE for that as for the work that produced it--abnegation of self-- devotion to others." "You could have all these things, gilded by love," Harry answered. "Love should be the frame that would hold them, and bring them into brighter relief." "But I have never yet found any true love in this world." "Have you not?" he said. "That is a sad confes- sion to make. One must, indeed, be a sceptic, a pes- simist, or a misanthrope to hold such beliefs." "No, I am none of these; but, perhaps, I have seen the sadder side of life. However that may be, I know that I have seen truly: women's affections betrayed; men's deceived; love either scorned, tyrannized over, or coldly accepted, vanity and selfishness eating like a canker into it; indiffere nce    there was passion; dull disappointment and bitterness of spirit, where there was hope and trust - these are the prob- lems that I have been called to solve, and I thank God that I have not at least to live to be deceived." "Then you never mean to marry?" he asked again. "I have not said that." "You will drive me mad!" said Harry, striding furiously through the room. "What do you mean? Do you intend selling yourself for wealth? for a mis- erable fortune that you must leave in this world when you quit it, and no obole of which will gild your pass- port into the other?" "I have not said that either," she replied, quietly folding her arms. "Then what do you say? Will you honor me with declaring what your intentions are?"   CASTETH OUT' 7FEAR.      .143 "Yes, if you will honor me by stopping to listen to them." "Do so, then, for God's sake!" 'My present intention," said Coralie, "is not to marry; but, should it be my destiny to meet with , ome person who would offer me a great position, one Wvho would not ask for-love, who would need compan- ionship in some grand enterprise, who would give me the power of extending help to others, I might accept such a fate for the good that I could do. You -do not know," she continued, her face kindling with enthusi- asm, " what it would be to me to assist those..who have been crushed by narrow circumstances; for often tal- ent, sometimes genius, has been extinguished by the want of means to keep it alive. That would be a noble mission."  "And are you in earnest?" he said. "Do you mean that you would kill your soul to give subsistence to a few wretched cowards who have not courage to face the fight. For your body, it matters not; for that, however gorgeous it may be, must perish: but would you thus annihilate your heart? Do you ima- gine that light could come of such darkness? Swear to me!" he said, almost breathless in his excitement, - "swear to me, Coralie! I have a right to call you thus, by my blasted hopes, by the love I have given you; for when a- man would make a woman his wife, even though she does not grant him her love in return, yet her head is forever encircled in -his memory by a sacred halo. Even should he take another to be the compan- ion of his lonely life, memory cannot erase her/who was the first, the chosen one; her' whom above all women he would have taken to tread the path of sor-   "4       PERFECT LOVE rows and joys with: him until death should part them. Therefore, Coralie, you are mine, mine by choice, mine by rejection; and you cannot remain indifferent to my prayers. Swear to me," he said, kneeling at her feet, " that you will not so barter the imperishable part of you;. that you will live alone, rather than ever en- tertain the thought of joining your fate to that of one upon-whom you cannot bestow your entire love." "Rise," she said; ,' it is painful for me to refuse you what you so earnestly ask; but I cannot promise what I may not fulfil." He caught her by the hem of her garment; he pressed it to his lips; he clasped his hands; they trembled. "You shall not go," he said. "I will not stir from this spot until I have received your promise. What I have loved better than anything on this earth shall not desecrate itself; it shall remain sanctified in my re- membrance. Coralie. as there is a God above us, you shall not go from here until you have sworn it. I will give my labor for those who are oppressed, but worthy. Send them to me; for your sake they shall never meet with a refusal; but you must remain to me the bright, unsullied ideal you have ever been." He paused. Coralie did not answer. "Do not make me ashamed of my emotion." Then he added, with a smile,- - You know me. I have made a vow. I will remain in this kneeling posture, here in this place-yes, for years. Let them all come and find-me here. Like St. Simeon Stylites upon his column, so I remain fixed to this floor until you retract your words. I have sworn  it- "-' , , A   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       145 Coralie sank into a chair near where he knelt, half laughing and half crying. "Importunate boy," she cried, " you have forever chained my life and my ambition." "DO I understand you,- then?" he asked, grasping. her hand. "Have I your solemn promise?" "You have," she answered. "We understand one another. You know when I pass my word, it is for- ever. However I may regret it, I will never break pmy promise to you." "' It is enough," said Harry; " more I could not ask. You have my eternal gratitude." A few minutes after this conversation, as Harry was leaving the house with a beaming face, he met his father. u"May I congratulate you, my dear boy?"Mr. Sin- clair said to him. "You may, sir, for I have not been so happy, I do not know when, as I am this afternoon." "Miss De Blois is a charming girl, Harry." "She is, indeed, sir." "You know I have a prejudice against foreigners, but I would make an exception in her favor." "On what account, sir?" a I mean, of course, as your wife. I never was more glad of anything than when Beatrice got free of that titled fellow, Persigny." "But, sir, Miss De Blois will not be my wife, It is not my fault, for I have asked her a hundred times. She insists on refusing me. I ought to add, that she has never given me the slightest hope, inor any right for such continued pertinacity on my part:; but I agree with the knight of old, who declared 'that he would '-     10   "6      PERFECT LOVE rather hear a No from his lady's lips, than Yes from any other woman living." "I like your courage, my boy, and I give you God- speed." "'There never, sir," said Harry, " was a fellow that needed it more. Good by, father; I am off for the day. ' "Good by,: my son. I have nothing to wish for JohIny, but that he may be as much like you as pos- sible." Harry sprang into his wagon and drove off laughing, and waving his hand to his father.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       147 CHAPTER IX. "^^;]':EAREST,': said a voice near her,--it was the voice Beatrice most loved to hear,- Ike, "dearest, will you not put on -your hat, - S\ and come with me into the sunlight?,' She rose, and taking her hat fromr the sofa, she went out with him. They wandered down to the river. It was their favorite haunt ever since the night that they had pledged to each other their faith by the river's side. "O, Walter," she said, as she slipped her arm into his, "I can scarcely dream of a time that I was not engaged to you. All life has changed since then for me."  L "You have grown-serious of late, my beloved. Is it my grave nature that weighs upon you?" "Serious, perhaps," she said, " but not sad. I am happier, far happier than I ever thought I could be." "And yet you were born for happiness. It seems to me as mnuch vour element as the air is that of the birds. You would be bereft of your inheritance if it were taken from you. God forbid that you should ever cease to be happy.", "As long as you love me, I shall be so. Shall you love me always, Walter? I mean always as you do now'?"   1i48&      PERFECT LOVE. "I believe," he replied, " that true love only grow3 stronger through time." "And yet," she said," "the world says that people cease to be in love when they are married." t' I have never been married." he answered, laugh- ing; " but I fear not to be put to the test." "If you had been Arthur," she said, looking up wist- filly at him, " would you have loved Guinevere through everything? "Arthur,' he answered, " probably did not love 'through everything.' He loved the ideal of what he had loved. It was pain to surrender that. It is always infinitely bitter to part with our faith in what we love; but once entirely lost, the object of our past love be- comes to us, not as one that is dead,- for the memory of those is often sweet,- but as something that never existed. The remembrance of it in time is entirely blotted out. This is the unconscious revenge that the soul takes upon a soul that has betrayed it." "O, what a terribler belief!" said Beatrice, clasping her hands. :"You are, indeed, inexorable. - How could one forget what had been all in all to one? No matter how unworthy it had proved, by the very sufferin it had caused it could not be forever forgotten." "I do not think so. The influence upon one's life might be permanent, but the object of it would be erased. The effect could well remain, whilst the cause disappeared. ' I imagine that had you met IKing Arthur, after he had been separated, say twenty years, from his queen, and had he mad6e of you' his confessor, he would have told you that his mind dwelt not at all upon Guinevere, neither upon her lost charms nor the wrongs she had done him."   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       149 "And I am convinced that he would say no such thing," said Beatrice, earnestly. "He would tell me that the agony she had caused him had never ceased to gnaw at his heart: that the image of her grace and beauty, during all these twenty years, had haunted him day and night. and that he never saw another woman but that he felt how far short she fell of her whom he had loved so wholly." "Not even my beautiful Beatrice?" said Mr. Leigh, smiling; then he added, taking hier face between his two hands, "I would rather have one word of friend. ship from a true woman. than all the love that a false woman, however beautiful she might be, could give. Now tell me, .dearest, will you write to Grace? I feel as if I had been of late a treacherous brother to her, in concealing my happiness from'her, even a day- she who will be more glad to know that anything good had befallen me, than any one else in the world would be. Will you write to her, Beatrice? I can- not send a letter without a line from you. My plans are, or would be, might I form 'them, to leave you now." "To leave me? ' broke in Beatrice, growing pale. "Only for a short while, dearest; and then, on my return, if I might hope that there would ble no delay to our marriage, I should like so to arrange my affairs that we could leave immediately after for Europe. I hlave received a letter from my aunt, which has caused me some anxiety, telling me that Grace is not well, and saying that it. would be a comfort to her to see me. Had it not been for the hopes of having you as a travelling companion, I fear I should not have thought it right to leave my business in New York; but you   150       PERFECT LOVE have made me play fast and loose with my once stern principles." "Do not say that you must go," said Beatrice, look- ing up imploringly in his face, whilst the tears started to her eyes. "Stay here always; I mean until wei can all go together." "I cannot," he said, smoothing back the bright locks that had strayed upon her forehead. "If I go now, it will be that all the sooner I may not go at all.' "But,^ she said, "I cannot be left here. I feel as if something would happen to you - something before our marriage." "Nothing will happen, dearest. Tell me if you ac- cede to my plans. Let me, at least, go with that r sweet consolation. I never could understand the use of long engagements. Life is so short, that if we truly love, we would- catch all the sands of time that are fly- ing so swiftly by us, and make them ours. It is better to be together than to be separated." "It is, indeed," Beatrice answered, with burning cheeks. "But, O, I wish we could both of us suddenly die. I should like to have the lightning come and strike us together, as it did those two lovers of whom Pope wrote so beautifully. How happy they were! They only lived to know each other's love. They knelt no distrust, no sorrows."  "And we will know none, my beloved. I do not -mean that life glides by without any sorrows. Could it be so, it might harden our hearts. But trouble may soften and subdue our lives, not sadden them; and if one wolpld only feel it, there is so much that is glori- ouw in ourselves --the power of thought, the sense of ,   , .. -    CASTETH OUT FEAR.        151 strength, the appreciation of nature, the love of our fellow-beings." "Yes," said Beatrice, " but people are hard, selfish, mean, and unkind. Everybody-is fighting for their own petty ends, and in the midst of the great purposes of life we are put out by the smallest trifles. So many things seem to be governed by chance, it almost makes one' believe that there is no God, no eternity for the soul. Coralie says that weought not to bother our heads about these questions ; that all the thinking in the world will not solve the problem whether or no there is a Providence, or what is to become of us, that it is sufficient to act up to the light that is within us, and to do right, not asking whether or no we shall receive a reward for it at the end. I do not know; it seems to me natural to be good for the sake of some: thing." "In what your friend says there is truth. We can- not force our convictions upon others. In one sense each of us must trace out his path alone, and leave to the uncertainty of the veiled hereafter to make answer to our questioning spirits. But were we certain that total annihilation awaited us, still there cannot be a doubt whether or no it would not be better to be the highest that we can here. To be a race of mortal gods would surely be better than to be savages or animals. Is it not so?" "Yes," she answered, dreamily, "I suppose it is." "We have wandered far/' he said, " from our harbor of love, into the vast sea of doubts. Be the other world what it may, the sense of this present one is so ,strong upon me, that I would not leave you, Beatrice, without some certainty in regard to our future. Shall I ;                       . . "  , ':.   152       PERFECT LOVE I return soon to claim your hand? I would not," he added, laughing, " come within your category of those people who are mean, selfish, and unkind; so that I. cannot' press my suit as I would otherwise do. I leave it to your heart to plead for me; but remember that I await my sentence, and that is always a time of anxiety and pain." She put her hand in his. "I will do whatever you wish," she said. "I should love to be married up here in the country. It is so much sweeter than in the great, bustling city. Be- sides, it is her6 that we first met and loved one an- other. Coralie leaves us soon; she is going back to France. I shall want Coralie to be at my marriage." "Then it shall be a month from .the day I leave; and I may write to Italy that we are coming?" "When do you go, Walter?" she said, nervously. "I should like to pass next Sunday here, and go to town on Monday."- "And to-day is Friday. That is only two days more." "Friday is a fatal day, to count from," he said, laughing. "Do not say thfat. I am terribly superstitious." '. Give me a lock of your hair," he said, lifting one of the braids that had fallen on her shoulders, " and we will tie a true-lover's knot in it that can never be undone. Your hair shines like burnished gold; as the -sun strikes it, it dazzles the eye." She undid the braid, and let it fall loose over her dress. Walter looked at her lost in admiration. "You cannot accuse me of wearing false hair," she said.-               ,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       153 "No, nor of anything that is false,' he replied pass- ing the bright locks across his lips. "I do not know that," she answered, half sighing. Then she said,-  "Sometimes I feel afraid of you, Walter. I fear that you will demand a great deal in a wife." / "Not more than you can give. A man would be demanding, indeed, who should ask more." ' But sometimes I fear that I am more ornamental than useful. I may disappoint you in some things." "In a month and three days from now I will tell you whether it is so." "In a month and three days," she repeated, as she drew her reticule from her pocket, and taking from it a delicate pair of gold-mounted scissors, she severed the lock that her lover was holding. It fell on his hand; he wound it around his finger. "It is thus," he said, "that you have bound my heart with a ray of sunlight."' Taking out his' diary, he folded the hair in it; he wrote on the page on which it lay,- "The 13th of August, Beatrice Sinclair." "Thank God, that will not long be your name I " he said; " but I shall love to look at it written there in after years, when I hold this bright curl in my hand. You will always rise before me just as you are at present. There are moments that are photographed in our minds; the impression remains forever." "Promise me to love me always as you do now," she said. "Promise me thatyou will never believe any- thing you might hear about me; but that you will first come to me, and ask me if it is true."   154      PERFECT LOVE "What could I refuse you? I promise you all and everything." ' "Lura will be very angry,' she said, smiling through her tears. at him, "at this sudden arrange- ment. I mean she will be angry in an under way. She never speaks crossly. It is a great deal worse to take cold, cutting satire from one's lips. '0, very well! do as you please,' she used to say when I was a child; but if I did as I pleased, she would not some- times speak to me for a week at a time, excepting papa was present. If he was away, when she was obliged to ask me for anything, she called me ' Miss Sinclair.' I often used to feel as if I could not stand it- as if I should run away." "I wish you had. Why did you not go with Harry?"  "I could not bear to leave papa," she answered. (Had Laura been. present, she would have added, And the thousand advantages that I could enjoy in papa's house.') "I love Harry better than anything except Coralie and you -better than he loves me." "Harry is a noble fellow. He is hlandsome, clever, and brave. In these three things, he is like his sister." "I am not brave," said Beatrice. ' I do not want you to think so much better of me than I deserve. If I thought anything would lose me your love, I should be the greatest coward in the world. Harry is truly brave; he would not fear to look any one in the face, no matter what he had done. 'He is just worthy of Coralie; an-dCoralie is worthy of him. "And who is worthy of you?" asked Walter, look- ing at her with love and devotion in his eyes.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       155 "O, -I do not deserve such a happy lot as I have. I know that too well." "A11 my devotion," Ihe answered, "-shall be yours; ,all my prayers are for you, Beatrice; and if I once longed to be great for greatness' sake, now I would gladly be so for yours, that I might lay it at your feet. Woman is, indeed, the inspiration of man. You will be my loadstar, dearest; the beacon that shall lead me onwards, I trust, at least to something beyond the dead, mediocrity of life. O, Beatrice, I could not willingly die, and feel that I had done nothing for my fellow- man. You will think, perhaps, that T talk like a vain- glorious boy; but this has been the dream of my life by day and by night; for this I thought to live alone, to dedicate my youth and my soul to my work. It is saddening to see so little aspiration beyond that of money-making in this great country. Material pros- perity has eaten into America like a canker. With the exception of the few names that gave lustre to her during her late war, of those who offered their lives to6 wash out her stains, there are not many' who seem to care whether she goes to waste or no. Where are our writers, our men of science, our poets, our artists? Contented, for the most part, with a miserable medi- ocrity, they early sink into insignificance. It is true that not unto malny is it given to be truly great, but let us kindle all the light that we have, let us strive for more, and, as I said before, even if the end be here, let us live and die struggling to be gods." ' That is true," said Beatrice. "Ah, Walter, I wish I had known you all my life I I wish I had grown up with you - all would have been different then."   156      PERFECT LOVE "No, dearest, all would not have been different. We are influenced, in some degree, by those who are near us, but bur characters are essentially our own; ;  we must shape them for ourselves." "That cannot be so, Walter; for- how often do we hear people say that they owe everything to another's influence over them! I am sure we feel it in the cir- cumstances and the associations around us, as well as in the daily contact of our friends and companions. It is said that the beautiful Madame R4camier was kept pure and strong against all the temptations that sur- rounded her by Montmorenci's influence over her. Do you count that as nothing?" "I do not; say that one may not be withheld from specific actions through another person's influence, but the strength or weakness of man's nature depends upon himself. Peter was doubtless influenced by Christ, but he followed the dictates of his own weak' heart when he denied his Master. Circumstances may very materially affect one's character, but they do not in reality change it." Hike to think they do," she 'said; " it is such a  comfort to lay your sins at other people's doors. You do not know me yet; but marriage, alas! is a micro-.," scope through which faults that lie entirely hidden' before grow terrifically ugly. Laura blindfolded papa when she married him; the bandage has not yet fallen from his eyes; I am afraid, however, that I am not half as clever as Laura." "It is to be devoutly hoped that you are not," he -said, gayly. "Had you resembled her, I should not have loved you as I do now; ard without this love, I fear my heart would be but a barren place."   CASTETH  OUT FEAR.      157 "Ah, you would not have found me out, then, Wal- ter I " she exclaimed, suddenly, looking up at him with moistened eyes. Then she put her hand over his mouth. "Don't say a word more of praise to me," she said. He covered her hand with his kisses.   8     PERFECT LOVEl CHAPTER X. "WILL you not speak one kind word to me, Harry?" said Beatrice to her brother. It was the first time after her engagement with Mr. Leigh that they had been entirely alone together. "Does Leigh know of your affair with Persigny? " Harry asked, looking scrutinizingly at his sister. " You take for granted what you have no right to do," said Beatrice. "Besides, I do not know what you mean by my affair." "Affair I-" said Harry. "Well, I should translate it as engagement- betrothal, if you want me to make use of a more poetical term." "I never said I "was engaged to him," she replied, reddening. "Perhaps, if you had a wife, you would - not relate to her everv single deed of your life, every passing thought that you had ever had, before you were married to her." "0, yes, I should ! I should think it the only claim I had upon her affections and her faith for the future.'" " And I think it foolish to give useless pain, to awaken suspicions and jealousies in the heart of one that loves you. 'Let the dead past bury its dead." "All I have to say, then, is," exclaimed Harry,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       159 "that you take good care to keep your ghosts from walking at night. Appleton, Sidney, and Persigny would make a ghastly triumvirate. A husband's eye might not be regaled at the sight of them." Beatrice covered her face with her hands, and burst into tears. "O, Harry," she cried, " please do not torture me! I did not mean to do wrong. I am sorry for all the past. I would so gladly blot it out! I love Walter, and I do not want to make him  wretched. It is enough that I am so." "You wretched?" said Harry, laughing. "I like Leigh as well as any fellow I ever met, and all I can say is, kaat I could wish him a better fate." Harry turned away. Beatrice, too, turned away,. with a heavy heart. "As I have sown, so I am beginning to reap," she thought to herself. She went quickly back to Harry. "Do give me one kiss," she pleaded, lifting her sweet lips up to him. "Harry," she said, tinrning pale, "you would not say anything to Walter." "I shall tell no tales," he answered, scornfully. "You break my heart, Harry." "You do not mind breaking others'. So long as you yourself are exempt, all is right. My own heart is as brittle as yours. Leigh is coming. I will go and look up Coralie." The flush of pain had scarcely passed from Bea- trice's face when Walter joined her. His own was beaming with happiness. He had but just left her :ather. Mr. Sinclair had agreed that Walter should   160       PERFECT LOVE claim Beatrice's hand at the end of a month, and that immediately after their marriage they should sail for Europe on their bridal trip. "And so, dearest," said Walter, "all is settled, and ' I leave you with a more tranquil heart. I told your father-that' you would set your seal to any prom- ise he would make. Was I right?" Beatrice answered by a silent glance of love from under -her lashes. "' You will be my bridesmaid--will you not, Cora- lie "' said Beatrice, that evening, when they had retired to their rooms. "You will stand up with Harry, Coralie?" "I shall be on the ocean before that, Beatrice. I have remained here much longer than I intended. It is time now that I was gone." "It would make me too unhappy," Beatrice began, "if you were not at my wedding, Coralie. I shall feel as if everybody turned their backs upon me. It is but one month. Harry, I fear, will not come if you are not there. Harry is so hard upon me I O, Coralie, do not refuse me this last favor. Do not let my wedding day be a sad one to me." Corahe was touched by Beatrice's manner. "You are changed, Beatrice," she said, " since first I saw you. Then I could- not deny you anything, because I admired you so much.  Now I cannot, because I pity you."              - -Beatrice, in the pride of her new-born joy, did not ask Coralie what she meant, but she knew well. "And you will cross the ocean with us- will you not, Coralie'?" clinging still to Coralie, as if her presence would shield her from all sorrow.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.      - 161 u No," said Coralie. '"It is useless to ask that of me. . You know my habits. I shall go alone." "Ah, Coralie, you are inexorable; -but, at any rate, I have obtained the request which is nearest my heart." " !,   162       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XI. HE two following days, the last of Walter's first visit, flew by on roseate-houred wings. The lovers were never weary of telling each other of their love. They were days warm and brilliant with the sunlight of life, both from without and within  days that passed away all too quickly. The Monday morning had come on which Walter was to leave for New York. The family had taken an early breakfast, preparatory to his departure. Bea- trice rose from the table. Walter followed her. lie folded her in his arms. "Farewell, dearest," he whispered in her ear. "God grant that it may be the last farewell you may ever hear from my lips." Beatrice could not speak. The tears were on her cheek. He kissed them away. She stood at the open window, watching the& carriage that bore him from her, her eyes still dimmed by tears, his last words still ringing in her ears. Did it mean that she should never see him again? Alas I she was once so light of heart, with no object save to please, and to be easily pleased! Now all was changed. She loved, loved wholly, and was, she knew, wholly beloved in return. And yet her heart lay heavy, like a stone within her. Would she, if she could, cast off his love, -and go, forth free and happy? No, a thousand titmes s   CA STET  OUT IFEAR.      163 no! Better a heart heavy as lead than one without his love. That could not be. This month of Walter's absence dragged wearily by for Beatrice. The shafts of Laura's satire were let loose upon her, and, feathered as the points were, they stung. Little Johnny teased her. Coralie and Harry seemed to avoid her; or was it her conscience that imagined this? Be it as it might, Beatrice felt sad and lonely. She longed for Walter's return with all her heart and soul. The post daily bore his let- ters to her, and hers to him, but the hour when the mail was due seemed almost insupportable to her. An encounter with the count was what she most feared; or a letter from Grace to her brother, revealing the name of her lover. Impossible as she believed this to be, - for, she said to herself, a woman's pride would necessarily leave unreVealed the tale of an unhappy love, - but the imagination is fertile in schemes of self- ' torture. Beatrice had not-yet learned to repent of any of her heartless actions. Only as they might be"dis- covered, and deprive her of her happiness, were they hateful to her. Anything seemed preferable to her than that. She longed to leave this continent, where she felt sure the count was. Even Europe, where she was to meet Grace, she now looked forward to as a relief. She would throw herself upon her mercy; tell her how entirely she loved her brother. Surely she would not willingly see him miserable. O, she would have pity when she knew how much she loved'Walter.. Often the weary waiting of the day passed; poor Beatrice's head ached so, that she would wander outSinto the cool twilight alone, to breathe the fresh air. Then, again, a thousand feverish anxieties would assail her,   164:      PERFECT LOVE and she would run hastily back into the house, to be where the family was gathered together. She would listen-at the parlor door. Within there was laugh- ing and talking. as if there were no fears or troubles in life. This, for a moment, would reassure her. Surely nothing could happen when all was so tranquil about her. But there, againj was the gnawing pain at her  heart. Beatrice's bridal dress had arrived from New York. It lay *spread out upon her bed, - a white satin, cov- ered. with white tulle, looped with orange-blossoms. The veil of thread lace, with the bridal wreath, were there. They looked pure, like new-fallen snow. Rich gifts were soattered everywhere about her chamber. Corahe had given her a beautiful cross of large Orien- tal pearls. As a remembrance from Coralte it was deairto Beatrice; but its symbol she did not fancy. -Pearls," she thought, as she looked at it, ' pearls are tears!" He-was coming. He had written it. He was to anticipate by a day his return. O God, were he' but come! I ow she yearned to see him once again, to have him hold her once more in his arms! She asked not then what might come. This certainty would be enough. Every approaching step had begun to startle her. Should it be to bear her bad news? No; the ' day came and went without bringing any unusull event. The night, with its long, dark shadows, passed too, and at length the dawn broke. -,Its glorious light burst into Beatrice's chamber. Beatrice watched it from her bed, where she had passed so many restless hours. It brought peace to her heart, and she sank asleep with the assurance that before the sun had set   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       1 165 he would bee with her. There was a stir in the house. The bridegroom had, arrived. Never before had Beatrice seen him. look so happy, so handsome. Her heart beat wild with pleasure when she looked at him. Now he was there, nothing more could hap- pen to separate them. Mr. Leigh was struck with the change that a month had wrought in Beatrice's appearance. He could not exactly say where this change lay, but something of the bright bloom of youth seemed to have passed. She was white as a lily, and in her eyes there was a thoughtful expres- sion that he had never seen in them before. To him she was more beautiful than ever. The night of Walter's arrival, the night before her wedding, Beatrice sat at a late hour alone in her room. - There were still many things:to arrange before she left her father's roof. There were mementos, gifts, love-letters, alas, how many! even locks of hair, which still remained in her secret drawer. She had delayed attending to these things until the last moment, because she shrank from the pain and the shame that a reviewal of them would cause her. How her cheeks burned now, as she looked at them! Each one of her lovers' letters were carefully tied up in separate parcels. She took her scissors and cut them into the minutest pieces. There was no fire- place in her chamber. She examined the fragments of paper to see if they were entirely illegible; then she threw them amongst the-fubbish on the floor. She opened the window, and the wind scattered the hair that she held in her fingers. "Thank God, that is forever gone!" she said, as 'she shut down the window again.   166',      PERFECT LOVE The lockets and rings that were strewed about she would give to her favorite maid. They were not of great value. Ninette knew some of-her mistress's weaknesses, and she would not inquire too closely whence they came. But there was one ring rich with diamonds. What could she do with that? It was Persigny's last gift. She could not give it to the girl. To-offer it to Coralie, even though she should not surmise where it came from, would be an insult. She could not take it with her. No; all that once bound her to him was to be destroyed forever, if pos- ,sible o She would present it to Johnny. 'Johnny C Could keep it until he, grew up. Then all memory of what had been would have vanished. Beatrice had never worn the ring. Persigny'had given it to her after Walter came. She had not wished then to wear it. And now all was disposed of, save the count's letters. They had been written to her after she left Europe, before he joined her here. She had for- gotten,:until she re-read them, how much he loved lher. His love was not, perhaps, always couched in the most lrespectful language. O, how her face flamed as she read it now! It had not struck her so when she had received the letters. What would Walter say, if he could see them? How he would despise her! She 1 should never feel secure until all these burning words were turned to aslies. She would wait until the morning, and burn them in some room where there was-a fireplace. She feared, if she set them on fire here,: some danger to the house, or that some one would- smell the smoke. She threw them back into the drawer and locked it. Then she lay down and   CASTETH OUT FE4AR.       167 slept-slept peacefully for the first time after so many weary nights. The day rose brilliant. So did Beatrice. She came running down stairs a few moments before the break- fast hour to greet her lover. She stood in the porch. and looked out. The sun's rays lighted upon her beautiful hair, and seemed to form a halo around her head, Walter thought then that she looked divine. He longed to kneel at her feet, and tell her so. "Are you happy, Walter?" she said, looking up into his face. "Perfectly, dearest," he answered; and in that per- fectly there was such fervor of expression that Bea- * trice's heart smote her.     X "That was all I wanted to know,' she said. "God bless you, my beloved!" He' drew her hand in his, and placed a ring upon her finger; it dazzled in the morning's sun. "It h'as a hidden fire in it," she said. "Like my heart," he replied, pressing the jewelled hand to his lips. Beatrice colored to her temples. Corahe had asked permission to dress Beatrice for her wedding. "Shut the door and bolt out Ninette," said Beatrice; "you know you have promised to do everything for me to-day. Make me look as well as you can, Coralie; I want to be lovely in Walter's eyes to-day., I should like to have Harry pleased, too; perhaps it would melt his heart towards me to think, too, that 1 was going so far away I And O, Coralie, dear," she ran on, as Coralie looped up her hair and fastened the orange. flowers in it, " all that I have ever said about Harry I   1-i68      PERFECT LOVE and his cruelty to me was when he had made me angry. Be sure and not lay it up against him.', "I shall never lay up anything against him. You are exquisite," said Coralie, standing enraptured be- fore Beatrice; " beautiful as a picture " Corahe was beautiful, too, in her rose-colored silk; but she thought only of Beatrice. 'I am glad you are satisfied, Coralie, dear; you believe I shalli be perfectly happy-don't you?" : I hope so, Beatrice. Your face is aswhite and as soft as your satin dress." "I feel so fiightened, Coralie! You will stand very near me ' won't you? What is that coming up to the door?" "It is the carriages," said Coralie, looking out; " it is late." "Is it?" said Beatrice. "I am almost glad, it will so soon be over." Coralie threw her white cloak around her, and they descended the stairs. They found the family already waiting for them. "Beatrice, my darling, I will take you with me," said her father. "Laura, Mademoiselle, Leigh, and Harry, you call drive down in the same coach. Johnny -can mount up on the box." No; Johnnly is not to be groom to any one," said Laura. "Well, pitch him in, or crowd him in between you, then." "No; be can't be crowded in, either. Take him with you." Laura was dressed in green silk, covered with point lace. She had sent to town by Mr. Leigh for her remt   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       169 emerald and diamond ear-rings, so that she could no longer, in prohibited French, tell her husband that Johnny would ecraser her toilet; but she looked ap- pealingly towards him, and he lifted Johnny into the carriage with Beatrice and himself. Laura's carriage preceded theirs, and they drove off. Mr. Sinclair sat with his eyes fastened upon his daughter. "So like her mother I " he murmured;, "it brings it all back to me." Beatrice stole her hand lovingly into her father's.  T  The village church was already full when they ar- rived. Everybody was on tiptoe to catch the first glimpse of the bride. Beatrice took her father's aim. She cast an agitated glance around her.  Behind Beatrice and Mr. Sinclair was Laura on Walter's arm, and next to them walked Coralie and Harry. They were not arm in arm. Harry looked at Coralie: they were together, bending their steps towards the altar. Yet, alas, how separated lay their lives! Soon Cor- alie, whom he so dearly loved, would be far away, and he should see her no more. Then the church, the people, the minister, swam before his eyes. Harry took his place, scarcely knowing where he was. The ceremony had begun. Walter and Beatrice knelt to- gether. Beatrice trembled perceptibly. They arose man and wife. The organ pealed forth the " wedding march." As Walter and Beatrice came down the aisle together, the children of the village stepped from the pews with baskets of flowers in their hands; they scattered them before the feet of the bride. Beatrice trod on the roses. -She did not stop for the -congratulations that were awaiting her; only, as Walter helped her into the coach, she turned to Harry   170       PERFECT LOVE and said, "Kiss me, dear brother." Harry bent for- wardd and kissed her tenderly. They drove quickly home. The house was soon filled with the guests who had followed them. IThe table was decked with fruits and flowers, and they sat down for the last time, probably, that they should ever again be all together. Every one, save Harry, was in good spirits. The bride was beautiful; everybody admired her. i Her health and happiness were repeatedly drank. The breakfast had been served. and was finished. They still all lin- gered around the table. Each one seemed loath to be the first to break the circle. Suddenly a thought flashed through Beatrice's mind. She glanced ner- vously at Walter; she caught his eye; it was full of love. She flushedscarlet. How could she leave the table un- perceived? Those letters that she had purposed to destroy- she had forgotten them. In the hurry and agitation of the morning she had not once thought of them until now. When she went to change her bridal dress she knew Coralie would be with her. How, thep, could she burn the letters? She could not go into any one's room; they would be sure to see her, and to suspect something. Should 'she give them to Ninette to bring with her? No; she would not trust her with them. She would like to escape friom the company now. Laura made a move. Beatrice took advantage of it, and rose hastily. ; "Are you not well?' said Walter, looking at her anxiously..    -  "Perfectly well - yes." The guests strolled, some of them on to the piazza, some on to the grounds. Beatrice ran up stairs. She looked timidly around, lest- some one should follow her.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       171 She hastened into her room, found the key of her private drawer-that drawer which once contained so many of her treasures. There was nothing in it now save those letters. She grasped them; finding a matchi upon the bureau, she went to her door and listened again, to be sure that no one was coming; then she started for her father's room. Hush I that was surely Laura's step. Beatrice drew back. Between her chainber and Mr. Sinclair's there lay an entry, and the apartment which Waltel had always occupied during his stay at their house. His door stood open now. Beatrice glanced in. His valise and his rug lay, strapped up, on the sofa. How should she save her- self'? She would not, for worlds, that Laura should see her. Breathless, she took refuge in her husband's room. Sheshut the door noiselessly, and locked it. There was a large, flat-topped stove in the middle of the chamber. She lit her lucifer, applied it to the letters, and saw them wither away before her eyes. Again she heard steps. Her heart beat violently. Suppose that Walter should be seeking her! She hastily crisped the burnt papers in her hand, flung them into the stove, and, turning the key, crept on tip- toe out of his room into her own. There she sat down a moment to recover herself. She was just in time, for she heard Walter's step. He paused a moment at her door. "Beatrice," he said. She held her breath. He passed on, and went into his room. There were still a few things that he had to put away before leaving. He opened his window and looked out at the landscape that he should not see again for so long a time. How happy he had been here!  Here he had spent the only blissful hours of his life. He closed   172       PERFECT LOVE the window again. He took up a cigar that lay, half smoked, upon his table, and went to the stove to throw it in. tHis eye was arrested by a shrivelled sheet of paper which was on the top of the stove; it was burnt black, and yet it completely retained its form. On looking at it with some curiosity, the writing was still clearly legible. Walter was well versed in the Italian language. He saw the words "Carissima, divina faciulla."' Casting his eye to the bottom of the page, it ended, "11 tuo Lorenzo." Walter's pulses beat quick. Odd that he had not seen it there, before I Still more strange that the wind had not blown it to ashes long since. His first impulse was to read it all. His second thought, that, although open, and half de- stroyed as it was, it was still a letter, and as such it was sacred to him. He was about to take it up. As he pressed, it in his hand, it broke into a thousand atoms, and scattered to dust. He uttered an exclama- tion of surprise. Beatrice heard it, and wondered what it meant. Then she went down stairs. It was not long after that the company left. Coralie and Beatrice retired to' her chamber. 'Beatrice was to change her bridal costume for her travelling suit. Beatrice felt light of heart. All that lay between her- self and the past was now erased. She was Walter's wife. She was about to leave the place where Walter and Lorenzo might meet; and for the future it was not well always to be prophesying misery. Sufficient unto the day was the happiness thereof. Grace would forgive her; she knew she would. ': Coralie, dearest," she said, as Coralie loosened the * Dearest, divine girl.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       173 orange blossoms from her hair, "you will not forget me - will you?" "I never forget," said Coralie, "nor yet do I re- member; I take changes as they come. There is scarce breathing space enough, as it is, to accomplish all that lies before one,"'         -- "Yes; but, Coralie, you will think of me some- times?" "No one, Beatrice, will be more glad of any good that may come to you. ' No one would regret more truly than I if anything unhappy should happen to you. But I go now to others who need me more." "You give me cold comfort, Coralie. And Harry, - shall you never think of him?" "Yes, sometimes. He has never disappointed me. Your brother is a noble-hearted, generous man." "Then you do not love me at all, Coralie?" "You are the only woman I ever loved, except my mother. Be faithful and true, Beatrice, and I shall not regret that I gave you my love." ;' I will," said Beatrice, half crying. "Do not shed a tear. This is your wedding-day. Smiles belong to it, as the sunlight does to the flow- ers." "Quick, Coralie; they are calling me. O, dearest, I know I shall see you again. Say you shall miss me." "I shall miss you," said Coralie, the tears gathering in her eyes. "Farewell. and God be with you. There, I will not follow you down stairs; you will have plenty without me to bid good by to. Here, Ninette, take the signorina's bag." "Good by, dear, dear Coralie. I love you dearly." They were all waiting to take leave of Beatrice,        .    174 '      PERFECT LOVE She held in her hand the jewelled ring for Johnny. She was" fond of the little boy. She put her arms around her father's neck, and burst into tears. Home had not'always been made very pleasant; but it was home. Her father was much moved. "Good by, Laura," she whispered, kissing her. "If I have often been cross and disagreeable, I am sorry for it now. Good'by, dear little Johnny. - Don't for- get sister."         ' "No, I won't, for I love you,;' said Johnny, clinging around her and crying. "Here is a present to remember me by, Johnny. Keep it until you are a man, and wear it then, or give it to your lady-love." Laura saw the gem sparkling in Johnny's hand. She would' gladly have accepted it for herself; but she could not refrain from a satirical remark. "Les debris -de Vamour," she said, laughing, as she looked at it. Beatrice turned away with a flushed face. Laura's farewell word, at parting, had been an unkind, cutting one. Her last kiss was for Harry. He put his arms about her. "You will write me, brother dear?" she whispered. "I shall always love you. Don't forget me, darling." "God bless you," said Harry, with emotion. "God bless you both." He helped her into the carriage, shook hands with Walter, bade them once more farewell, and closed the door. Ninette mounted on -the box; he shook hands with her, too. Beatrice leaned out, and kissed her hand repeatedly to Harry. The window was opened from above. Beatrice looked up; her eyes were   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       175 filled with tears. Coralie bent forward; she flung a bulnch of flowers down to Beatrice: Beatrice caught them in her hand. She smiled back her thanks to Coralie. "God bless you," Coralie murmured, as she shut the window again, " and may all go well with you."   176       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XII. l OOSJ[EHE day following Beatrice's departure saw tiv wk ^Coralie also on her wav to New York. She SV-^  had taken passage in the ship that was to --'-- sail twenty-four hours after that which bore Beatrice and Walter across the ocean. Harry had hoped to be allowed to accompany Coralie to the city, but this she positively forbade. He had seen her off at the station. When he bade her good by, Coralie had observed how overcome he was; and she could not but confess to herself that she felt anything but indifference, as she looked, perhaps, for the last time, upon the face of her friend, beaming with affection, -kindness, and truth. As he lingered for the final word after the car whistle had sounded, Corahe had said to him, - "Go now, or you will be left." "Would that I might," he answered. Spirited as Harry was, he had accustomed hm- self to yield implicit obedience to Coralie's wishes. As he turned once more to wish her "Godspeed," she had seen the tears in his clear blue eyes. She wished then that, without giving him hope, she might say one affectionate, word to him; but it was too late. Had Harry known how little Coralie's boasted phi- losophy had failed to console her in these first few hours after their parting, he would have been some-   CASTETH OUT FEAR.-       1" what comforted in the loss he suffered. After the cars had borne Coralie out of sight, Harry had turned back to the now lonely village. All its light seemed suddenly departed. EHe had scarcely known until now how completely he had loved Coralie. To catch a glimpse of her dress through the foliage, to hear a word, even though it were a cold one, from her -lips, lhad been for months past the object for which he had lived. Now her presence was withdrawn, what should he do with all the weary hours that seemed to stretch out like an eternity before him? Nothing any more would have interest or zest for him. Wild and des- perate desires shot through his brain. In the mean time he was driving his poor horses at a tremendous pace. He did not see the villagers as they turned back to watch him, and shook their heads. Presently he reined in his horses, and trotted them slowly over the hills of Berkshire. He began to reflect. "I am young," he thought to himself. "Life to the young and healthful man, unless cut down in his prime, is of many years. Surely I am not-to waste my exist- ence in idle grief and pining because a beautiful wo- man, full of nobility of heart and soul, would not love me. What had I done to merit such an immortal gift as her love had proved to me? I have asked a sacri- fice of her; she granted it. I am-a man; shall I, too, not show a man's strength? She shall be loved, at least, by one who was not wholly unworthy of her, even though she never know it. My love shall be consecrated to her. No untrue action shall sully this love. Coralie deserves a pure and noble affection; therefore I will rouse myself, and strive in the great race of man to man. My goal shall be, not; her heart, 12   178       PERFECT-LOVE but my3 own consciousness of well-doing. And when I. die,- for die I must,- I shall say with my last breath, ' Coralie, no human life is in vain, if it give strength and purpose to another; thou didst this noble work by me; therefore thy life was not in vain.' Beloved Coralie, if you live alone, you will live to some glorious end. If you give that inestimable treas- ure, your love, to another, I will rejoice with him for he will be worthy of the blessing he receives. Cora- lie, give me courage," he cried, " to be brave." Beatrice and her husband had sailed. The places that they had so lately filled knew them no more. To the ennuiad passengers on board of the ship the bride was the object of much interest. They would wait for her appearance upon the deck, as the great excite- ment of the day-; her costume, her grace, her delicate beauty, the devotion of her husband. Whether he was most in love with her, or she with him, were subjects of unfailing interest. And when, at last, they landed, many of their fellow-passengers had a cordial word, and outstretched hand, and warm wishes for the happy couple. What more, indeed, had these two to wish for? Love, youth, beauty, and fortune were theirs. They were setting out on the very threshold of life, with its choicest treasures. Any stranger who had passed them would have turned to look again at this interest- ing pair. It was not often that one could see two peo- ple so well mated as they. They looked so happy! It was not a loud, boisterous happiness, but an inward con- tentment, that shone outward, irradiating their faces, and making them a blessed sight for the eye to rest upon. So they passed on, blessed in each other's love. 2      CASTETH OUT FEAR.       179 Old places that they had both visited before were new to them now. The pain that had long lingered in Walter's heart had left it; the dark phantom of love that had haunted him was buried in the past. "Beatrice," Walter said to her one day, as they sat together in their room, in Florence, -"Beatrice, my beautiful wife, you have gilded my path, and strewn it with flowers. Make it not, nm beloved, too bright and too fragrant, lest life should become too dear to me, and this earth a paradise beyond the hope of an- other world." "It is you who have made life sweet for me, Walter. I have been perfectly happy since we have been to- gether; and yet," she said, hesitatingly, "I would gladly go hoime again. Shall we go home after three months, Walter? I have travelled so much that I shall be glad to settle down somewhere- anywhere with you." Beatrice had a feverish fear- of meeting the count, if she remained in Italy. "Yes," her husband answered, " it is pleasant to wander for a while in the great museum of wonders which this country opens for us. Nature and art have crowned Italy the queen of the world. Yet, bewitching as she is, I would not willingly live here. I would rather, a thousand times, be born to the inherit- ance of freedom that America bestows upon her chil- dren, than be an Italian, and have my name enrolled in the brilliant hierarchy which is headed by Michael Angelo and Dante. The future is ours, to write on its pages what we will." "And you will write something indelible there-   180       PERFECT LOVE will you not, dearest?" she said, caressing his hair. "I should love to be the wife of a great man." "Greatness unrecognized by the world,' he asked, laughing, " but existing all the same, perhaps even the more for that very reason, or a transitory celebrity, run after b- the ignorant and vulgar, the demigod of the day, to-morrow dead?" I' Yet, Walter, you yourself have -said that the praise or blame of the world was a great criterion." "I should have added, if yielded by time. One great thought, though it were forever hidden in the soul, is better than to be the literary lion of the day. I do not mean by that that a man should forever rumi- :nate in idleness, but nothing is more destructive of an ideal than to court popularity as an end." "But suppose," said Beatrice, " popularity to be accorded to you ; you surely cannot refuse it?" "No," he answered, ' but you need not, for that reason, seek to have more of it, or even keep that that you have. Labor not for applause; do the best, the highest, that you can. If workers would have such a standard, I do not say that they would rise to immor- tality, or even to greatness, but surely in seeking to elevate themselv s they would elevate others. It is contentment with mediocrity that kills." "I believe you al e right, Walter; but O, it is so * natural to love to c etch even the passing breath of fame! Success, "however fleeting, is seductive. Be- fore I knew  ou, the ,e did not seem to me such con- temptible things to strive for; before I knew you, I loved flattery; admiration, devotion, and all the sheen of this world." "And now?" he asked.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       181 "And now, I love you, Walter." ' To-morrow," he said, ' we shall see Grace. How I long to look into her dear face again! after yours, the dearest in the world to me." Beatrice withdrew her arms from about his neck; she walked to the window, and looked out. One day more. and they should be at Rome - Rome, where she had passed so eventful a season last winter. She believed the count was still in America; he had always spoken as if his intention was to go to Can- ada. Yes, he meant to take her there. They were to have been married about this time. She shuddered to think of it; she had other reasons to confirm her in the belief that the count was still in -her country. Ever since he had left her father's house, she had searched the lists of the departures in the steamers leaving for Europe. -His name she had never found there; consequently he was on the other side - thank Heaven for that! How should she meet Grace? Wal- ter must not see his sister first; no, that might be fatal. O, how she wished- that her past was a clear page, that She had nothing to fear! She glanced over at Walter. How quiet he was! His conscience wIas pure; he had nothing to conceal from her.  She turned away again, and leaned her hot cheek against the window-pane. A gentleman passing under the window looked up, and exclaimed,-- "Belissima!" Beatrice smiled, and drew back; then she felt ashamed again of her own vanity. It had given her pleasure to'receive this coarse praise. How miser- ably weak she was;! She went over to where Wal- ter sat.                  i   182      PERFECT LO VE "Walter," she said, earnestly, "make me like your- self." "I would rather, if I could, make myself like you, darling." "Do not say that. I think you are perfect." Walter laughed. "I ought not to be pleased by such flattery; but I am so perfectly imperfect that I cannot but love it from your lips."  "'Love anything- I do," she said, eagerly. "I want to be loved with all your heart and all your soul." And so you are, beloved one."   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       183 CHAPTER -III. J I HE following day saw Walter and Beatrice on their way to Rome. It was the beautiful month of October; the whole atmosphere was full of glory. As the cars swept by the fields and vineyards, they seemed, in the light of the sun, to be on fire; the white and purple grapes shone like opals and amethysts through their green drapery. '"How exquisite it is!" said Walter to Beatrice. "It is a pleasure merely to breathe. I do not wonder that the Italians deal in superlatives ; everything here is, indeed, most lovely! most beautiful! It is impos- sible to define it simply. There certainly is a fullness and grace in their expressions, which must spring from the harmonious beauty around them. It makes them poets by nature; the sea and the sky created them artists. Surely the fartler we have become separated from these tropical natures, the less have we sought to render in words, or in any form, the per- ishable beauty of thought." "I wish," said Beatrice, "that we might use the thee and thou of the Italians; it is so much sweeter than our cold you." "Yes, it is far more tender; it is the outer entrance to the inner shrine, which is sacred to the very few whom we really love. The distinction is' a very charming one. That reminds me," said Walter, after a moment's   184 ,     PERFECT LOVE pause, i' of something I 'ad meant to ask you. Did Persigny at any time occupy the room I had whilst at your father's house?" At the name, so unexpectedly pronounced, Beatrice had started; she colored deeply, "No," she answered; "he occupied the chamber over yours--that one with a balcony that you said reminded you of Juliet's chamber." ' That is odd," he mused. Beatrice would have questioned Walter as to what he meant, but she shrank from any allusion to the count with a reluctance which she trie d to persuade herself was morbid. Walter continued his thoughts to himself. "-How odd! It must have been a love-letter which the count had accidentally left. The maid had gath- ered it up with other papers, and burnt it in his stove. It would be as a betrayal of confidence to speak to Beatrice of a letter that had fallen by chance under his eye. He certainly had no reason to feel kindly to the count, but all the more he owed it to him not to prejudice her against Persigny- for the count had surely been an admirer of Beatrice. He had said he loved her at the very time, it now appeared, that he had been writing words of love to another. It was like the versatile nature of an Italian." Beatrice kept her eyes fixed on the view from the window; she was wondering what Walter thought " so odd." For the first time that day, she felt glad to be, approaching their place of destination; the change from  the cars wouldbe a diversion to both their thoughts. "Look," she said,--"look, Walter; there -is St.   CA SFETH OUT FEAR.       185 Peter's I How it towers above the city! Other cities are roofed by the sky ; Rome by its cathedral. Ah, it is not half so beautitul as that emotional monument of grandeur and grace, my beloved Cathedral of Milan! Like the boldest Alpine mountain, it stands in perpet- ual purity, pointing eternally to the skies. It is, in- deed, a fit temple to worship God in. St. Peter's is like an imperial exchange, a gigantic palace, or a museum for'the 'Caesars." The cars came to a stand. Walter looked out. "' No firiends to meet us here. We shall take them entirely by surprise. I shall lay the blame of all this upon your head, my little procrastinatress." "Yes,"' said Beatrice, faintly. "Let us avail ourselves of the first carriage we can find, and drive immediately to the hotel." It wats seven o'clock before they were well depos- ited in their apartment at the hotel. Walter looked at his watch. "Shall we drive to Grace's, or would you like to walk? It is a lovely evening. Rome is beautiful by the mystic light of the night. Perhaps it would do you good, after being shut up all day, to walk there; the distance is short." "I am so tired, Walter!" she said, wearily. "Are you tired, dearest? How thoughtless I am! Of course you are fatigued after such a long journey. I will call a carriage, and be back immediately." "Do not leave me," she said, nervously, putting out her hand to detain him. "Do not let us go to-night. I feel frightened at the thought of seeing Grace for the first time. Wait, dear Walter, until to-morrow." And Walter waited. \ O   186 /      PERFECT LOVE On the following day, at, an early hour, Walter and Beatrice were on their way to his aunt's apartment in Rome. They rang at the door. / Are the ladies in?"Walter -asked of the man servant who opened the door. "Yes, sir; they are at home. ' Beatrice felt herself turn faint; she longed to cling to Walter for support, but she feared to awaken his attention. "Who shall I say wants to see them, sir?" "' "Show us into the parlor," said Walter, "and tell them that a lady and gentleman wish to see them on business." The;'man turned a suspicious glance upon them. With that intuitive instinct peculiar to domestics, he observed the elegance of their. air and dress, and, -obsequiously bowing. said,- "Step in, sir. Mrs. and Miss Le Roy I am sure will be down immediately." Mr. and Mrs. Leigh went into the parlor. It was a richly-furnished room, adorned with objects of taste and elegance. /Over the piano hung a portrait of Grace. It was beautifully executed, taken three quar- ters length - a young girl in, a soft, cloud-like dress, fastened with blue ribbons. It was a delicate, pensive face; brown hair brushed back from a faiDbrow; gen- tle brown eyes. "How like her!" said Walter; " and yet the artist has not rendered her justice. Grace has a more tender expression in her eyes than these have: to me she is very lovely." Beatrice stood near Walter; she cast a hasty glance at the picture.-     CA S'TETH OUT FEAR.    '  187 "She has, indeed, a lovely face," she said. "He might have been true- to her," she thought. The door opened. vMrs. Le Roy and Grace entered the parlor. Mrs. Le Roy extended her hand to Walter with an exclamation of delight and surprise. Grace sprang into her brother's arms. The tears were in her eyes when she freed herself from his embrace. In the first excitement of seeing Walter, Grace and her aunt had entirely-forgotten the presence of the lady who was with him. Now Mrs. Le Roy looked with increasing surprise at the beautiful young woman by Walter's side. "Miss Sinclair, if I mistake not," she said. Grace, who, up to this moment, had only eyes for her brother, turned and saw Beatrice - she who had stolen from her her lover, who had left no allurement untried until she had completely won his heart. How she should be here now, in the company of Walter, she knew not. She had not time to collect her thoughts, only she felt a bewildered sensation, as if something strange and unexpected was about to happen - some- thing that she unwittingly shrank from with pain. Beatrice had lost her presence of mind. She had not moved since they had entered the room. She was pale as marble. She stood waiting for Walter to speak. ' This is my wife, Grace," he said, taking Beatrice by the hand. "Your wife!"Grace repeated, as if mechanically. "I knew that you would scarcely believe I was married. did I not come to tell it you with my own lips; I who leave so often sworn fealty to a single life and old bachelorhood. But you will find some day,   188       PERFECT LOVE. Grace, that the strongest resolutions are but as reeds before the magic wand of love. Beatrice," be said, looking at her with fond pride, " and I have often talked of you together, when you little dreamed of us. I should have written, but we thought it would be a thousand times more delightful to surprise you, and that a welcome without preparation would be doubly worth a welcome with it.'" Grace did not answer. She hid her face on her brother's shoulder, and burst into tears. He stroked her cheek gently. "Why, Grace," he said, " we hlave been such stran- gers to each other of late, that I did not think you would care whether your brother was married or no. Why have you not written me, my little girl?," Walter feared, from Grace's emotion, that he had taken her too unexpectedly. He looked anxiously at his aunt. "Pray take a seat, Miss Sinclair," said Mrs. He Roy, in her embarrassment- "I ask your pardon, Mrs. Leigh. Let us"talk together, and give Grace time to recover herself. It is such a long while since she has seen her brother!" t "Do call me Beatrice," said Beatrice, nervously watching Walter and Grace. "Grace," he whispered, " you will love Beatrice for my sake."  Grace raised her head, and hastily wiping her eyes, she answered him, - "I would do anything in the world that I could for you, Walter."  Walter led his sister over to where Beatrice was   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        189 seated. Placing her hand in that of his wife, he said, gayly, -- ' I have nothing more now to wish for, since I have united the two beings whom I love best in the world." '"Tell us everything about yourselves," said his aunt, seeking to cover the. awkwardness of the meet- ing. "What sort of a voyage did you have?" "We have had perfect weather ever since we left -New York. Beatrice and I began to believe our- selves special favorites of Providence, and that, in- stead of wandering in the dreary planet earth, that we thought we were in when we started on our journey, we had been transferred to a new Eden. I really never have known such a succession of- uninterrupt- edly beautiful days as we have enjoyed. Every twi- light whilst we were at sea, the sun sank like a great red ball into' the ocean, and in the morning it shone on the almost unrippled surface of the water, making it like a burnished sheet of gold. Often it seemed as if' we were sailing through rose colors, so rich were the dyes reflected from the clouds." "And then?"  "And then, when we touched land, all our wishes were bent upon our arrival here." "When did you reach Rome?" "Last night; but Beatrice was so tired that we de- ferred our visit until this morning. It was a strange sensation, to be so near you, anc] yet that you should not know it."' Grace, in the mean while, had taken a seat near Beatrice. 'Neither of them knew how to break the silence.   190       PERFECT LOVE "Won't you take off your hat?"- said Grace. "You will stop to breakfast. Come into my room, and lay off your mantle." "Thank you," said Beatrice, rising. Grace led the way through a long suit of rooms. She opened the door of her boudoir. The walls were covered with blue silk, the doors and windows hung with white silk curtains edged with blue tas- sels. The ceiling was frescoed with Albani's designs of Cupids. On the gray and white marble pavement \ lay rugs of soft blue velvet, with roses, which looked as if they had accidentally been let drop by some happy hand upon them. These Grace had painted. Tables of inlaid mosaic, and graceful objects of all kinds, were strewn about the room. "How pretty!" involuntarily exclaimed Beatrice, looking around her. "I recall that I was shown in here the first day I called upon you." "Were you?" asked Grace, absently. She was dwelling on the happy hours she had passed in her boudoir with Lorenzo. She seldom or never entered it now. It was too full of painful remem- brances. Here she was in the place where they had exchanged their vows, and face to face with her who had robbed her of his love - Walter's wife! Rumors had reached her of Miss Sinclair's engage- ment to Persigny. How was it all? Was it a relief to feel that she was nothing to him now? or was it a greater misery to know that she stood there as her sister - Walter's bride? Beatrice's eyes were fastened questioningly upon Grace. This was not the same fresh, girlish face that it had been when last she had sat here with her. Bea-   CASTETH OU'T FEAR.       191 itrice's heart smote her. Did not the count once possess great powers of fascination for herself? She who was surrounded by the admiration of the world, all the better could she understand that a simple girl, un- touched by the world, like Grace, should have loved him, should, perhaps, even love him yet. "Grace," she said, beseechingly, "I want to speak with you." She took her hand in hers. "You will love me, won't you, for Walter's sake? I love him with all my heart. I have done a great wrong-to you, greater than I dare to think of." Grace's hand was cold. It trembled in Beatrice's. Beatrice went on. "I want you to forgive me, Grace. It is for this that I came across the ocean. We are sisters now. It would break my heart if you felt unkindly towards me, Walter loves youl so dearly. I never really loved the count. I have no excuse to offer for any- thing I did. I was goaded on by my vanity. I have suffered so much for my heartlessness! Promise me, dear Grace, that you will never speak to Walter of this, it would make him so wretched." "Does my brother not know," said Grace, " that you were engaged to -to the count??" "Yes," Beatrice replied, coloring deeply. Since she had begun by falsehoods, she must continue in them now. "' Yes, he knew of my engagement; but he did not know that the count loved you first; that I tried to win him away from you. O, be generous, Grace, and give me your word-that he shall not know I m;de you unhappy." "Believe me," said Grace, " nothing will ever pass my lips that could hurt you in Walter's opinion.?'   192'      PERFECT LO VE ' Thank you,' said Beatrice, still thinking more of herself than Graces Beatrice longed to ask Grace if she knew anything of the -count now. She felt that she would be more at peace, if she was- assured of his absence ; but she did not dare ask her. Grace seemed bent on reserve with regard to him. Beatrice took off her hat, and arranged her hair before the mirror. Grace thought her beautiful. She did not wonder, as she looked at her, that Walter and Lorenzo had fallen in love with her. "You will love me, will you not, dear Grace?" said Beatrice, turning to her with her most-radiant smile. Grace did not answer. She feigned to be interested in searching for something, and not to have heard what Beatrice asked. How could she tell her she would love her? she who had caused her to shed such innumerable tears, who had taken all the light and youth out of her life, and had changed its sweet- ness to bitterness? "That is a photograph of Walter, when he was very young," she said. "I thought you might like to see it. Have you any likeness of him?' "-No, I have none," replied Beatrice, looking at it closely. "How interesting a face he had even then I This must have been taken when he was a mere boy." "There is another," said Grace, "that was struck when he was last in Europe." ' Give it to me!" exclaimed Beatrice, eagerly. She gazed at'it intently. His last visit to Euiope had been that one in which the mysterious romance of his life had taken place, and of which he had never spoken to his wife. These, then, were the features   CASTPETH OUT FEAR.       193 that she had loved. Had she, perhaps, held one of these cards in her hand, given by him, and had she studied the face as Beatrice did now? No, he was true and loyal. He would not play with the feelings of others. "Let me keep it," said Beatrice. "I shall love to look at his earnest face when he is absent from me. It will be a talisman to me." Grace handed it to -her. "Walter was not happy then as he is now," she said. "He looks so happy-dear Walter! Make him so always, Beatrice. He deserves it." "I have a brother whom I love as you do yours. He is not as gentle as Walter is; but he is charming, and he is noble-minded, too.  His name is Harry. He is in love with a beautiful girl who does not love him." "Poor fellow!" said Grace, with a sigh. "How few," she thought, " there are that are happy! Bea. trice was, and she did not merit such a blessed lot. Why was it bestowed upon her?" Every theme of conversation that Beatrice chose seemed inadvertently to touch upon some painful chord in Grace's heart. Beatrice, too, felt it. "Do you read much?" she asked, thinking to divert the current of Grace's thoughts. "I have not read much of late," Grace answered. "Do you play?" "I have not opened my piano for months," she said, wearily. Again Beatrice's heart smote her. She wondered if she had stolen from the poor girl all the pleasures of her ordinary pursuits. But Beatrice could not now 13   19i,      PERFECT, OVE feel depressed since the terrible meeting that she had so long been anticipating between Grace and herself was past, and/without danger. Grace would never betray her to Walter. The natural dignity and reserve of- Grace's manners made Beatrice feel that she would not easily reveal to any one the secrets of her heart. . "Let us go now," said Grace, " and join Walter and my aunt. They will miss us." Beatrice was glad of any excuse to be near Wal- ter, and they went together in search of her husband. Her heart beat quick when Walter turned upon her a look beaming with love. "Go with Walter," she said to Grace, "and show him your beautiful boudoir; it is so long since he has seen you, I am sure he has a thousand things to say to you that cannot be intrusted to our ears. I will- stay and make friends with my new aunt." Beatrice did not fear now to leave Grace alone with Walter. Walter followed his sister.           ' "This is, indeed, fit for a bower of love," he ex- claimed, looking around as she opened the door of her boudoir. "I imagined that the apartment we had taken at the hotel was in good taste until I saw this." 'You must remember," she said, smiling, "that everything there is bought to stit the different tastes of the many, whilst we seek onl to please ourselves'; and therefore there is more in ucement to make it pretty." x"I trust no one save a brother is allowed to'enter this sanctuary. It looks like a temple dedicated to love.-' Grace blushed painfully. "Scarcely any one ever   CA4STETH OUT FEAR. '19 comes here," she said; " this is my parlor, but I much prefer to sit in my chamber."  t "Do you not receive a great many calls?" "We have a great many visits, but we do not re. ceive many of our visitors." "Why not? Do you fancy so secluded a life?" "I like to be alone; and aunt kindly likes best any- thing that pleases me." "What do you do with yourself all day?" "I used to study and read a good deal." "And now?" "And now  I think." Walter laughed. "Should I be too intrusive if I asked of what you think?" "Of how 'I can make myself; in the future, most useful to the world." "And what is the conclusion you have reached?" "O, I have a plan for teaching - " "You?" said Walter, surprised, interrupting her. "I rather fancy the idea, for there is nothing to me so fearful as a purposeless life. As a general rule, men by necessity have occupation of some kind. Women are contented, too often, to dwell in the discontent of petty accomplishments and trivial occupations, which can neither fill their lives nor their hearts. But I confess that you, with every hope of youth smiling upon you, should have formed such a project for yourself strikes me as odd."              / "What shall I do?" she said, folding her hands hopelessly. "Had you asked my advice long ago, I should have said, Become an artist. Aunt has been showing me some of your paintings. They have high merit. To ,   - 196 PERFECT LOVE tell the truth," he said, laughing, "I scandalized her by hardly believing they could be the work of any but of an acknowledged celebrity." i"Yes, those are mine." "With so, much talent, then, you have your career planned for you."- - Ah, but there is not sufficient incentive in amateur painting." "You can sell your pictures that sharpens the am- bition of an artist." "There is not motive enough for that, either," she said. "I am not obliged to do it. No one is depen- \ dent upon me for their support. Whereas, if I teach, there will be those who will need my instruction, who, in time, I hope, would depend upon it. I wish I was not rich, Walter i " "Why not give lessons in drawing, for which you have such remarkable aptitude. You can marry a poor man, and help support him." "I shall never marry." "But if you fall in love." "I shall not fall in love," she said, turning away her face to conceal the color that crimsoned it. The more closely Walter watched his sister, the more he felt that there was a change in her since they had last been together. She seemed to him changed both mentally and physically. Her gay, glad laughter he heard no more. The girlish look was gone, too. There was a languor in her expression and movements athat he had never seen there before. iHe did not choose to seek her confidence, bdit her reserve pained him. "I want you to be happy," he said, drawing her to him. "1 am so happy myself that it would doubly   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       1 grieve me to know that one whom I 18ve so truly was not happy also." "Nothing that I know of, dear brother, could make me so happy as the assurance that you are so." "And your own happiness;" he asked. "T did not think of that." "You are most unselfish; and this," he added, " is the secret of true happiness--to forget one's self, Would that most of us could do so! Would you like to come and live with us, Grace? To have you with me has always been one of the dreams of my single life. I never thought that I should have a wife; now it will be all the sweeter to have you there. You will be a companion for us both." "My aunt could not live without me," she answered. "But suppose 'my aunt' and your aunt should come too!" Grace made no reply for a moment; then she said,- "Perhaps your wife would not care to have such a large family thrust upon her." "Beatrice," said Walter, " would love to have you for your own sake, as well as for mine." "We will talk over all these things another time, dear brother." That evening, when Walter and Beatrice were back again in their own apartment, Walter said to his wife, - "I feel anxious about Grace. She looks delicate; and although she seeks to conceal it from me, she seems sad.  The flower that I left so blooming two years ago has been touched by the frost. I do not know what can have troubled her young life, but it is evident that a cloud lies over it. Pray God she has   198       PERFECT LOVE met with no disappointment in her affections. Surely, where Grace loved she would be beloved in return. She has too much pride to give her' heart unasked; but should she have been deceived in the character of one whom she had loved, Grace would not trifle with her own feelings. At any cost to herself, she would give up what she could notl approve. I know her well. She was brave as a little girl, and her courage will not fail her now." 1 "Did you ask her anything about herself?" said Beatrice. "I asked her no questions that it could- hurt -her pride to answer. I wish that I might see that glad smile upon her face again. Did she seem cheerful when you were alone together?" "I am not intimate enough with Grace to be well acquainted with her natural manner. She seemed to me very sweet and kind." a Yes, that she always is," said Walter. "She cannot be, happy, you know, dearest, as I am," said Beatrice, nestling her head on her husband's - shoulder, "for you are only her brother; to me you belong until death do us part."  "Yes, dear one," he said; " and were it not a self-' ish prayer, I would pray that I might never know what it was not to have you mine." "You mean you would pray to die first. Do not say that," she said, with the tears in her eyes; "I could not live without you, Walter." - Perhaps she will open her heart to you," he said, musingly. "I believe I never could forgive any one who had done an unkind act to her ,"--Beatrice trem- bled,-" she appeals to me in so many ways. You   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       199 will do all you can to make her happy- will you not, de6arest?"  "I will try, Walter,- she said. So Beatrice and Walter passed much of their time at his aunt's. Mrs. Le Roy had been urgent that they should stay with her; but Beatrice had said to Walter, when he asked her if they should not comply with her desire, - "' Then we shall not have our delightful walk home in the evenings, and I should not be so often alone with you, Walter. Let us stay where we are." And Walter, glad to do anything -that pleased his bride, readily acquiesced in her wishes. He made many proposals of excursions to Grace, but she al- most always found -some excuse not to be one of the party. Sometimes Walter felt that there was not that union between his sister and his wife that he-could have hoped for; but when he spoke to Beatrice of it, she laughed, and told him that Grace and she were the best friends in the world. Walter drove with Beatrice daily to the beautiful Campagna.  They visited together the inexhaustible wonders of Rome ; they purchased rare objects of art to adorn their new home in America; and had it not been for the constant anxiety that Walter felt for his sister's health, they would have been days to him of unalloyed happiness. To Beatrice they were blissful hours passed with Walter by ler side. Accustomed as she was to excitement and to the adulation of the world, she never knew ennui or the want of society with him. She could not weary of listening to his criticisms upon art, his illustrations of the monuments of the past; he made clear to her what she had not   200      PERFECT LOVE otherwise comprehended; he illuminated for her every subject that they touched upon. "I am happy," she would say to him, "'exquisitely happy, Walter." And as he looked at her he thought nothing on earth could be more beautiful, more radiant than she. f \5   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       201 CHAPTERl' XI V. T was the hour of twilight; the streets in Rome were just beginning to be lighted. In the dimmed light of the day, mingling with the artificial light of the city, the pope's guards, as they hurried to and fro, looked like big red and yellow autumn leaves blown hither and thither. Women, who had been belated, were hastening home; officers were idling on the marble steps of the cafes, and filling the air with the redo- lence of their cigars; loiterers were stopping to gaze in at the brightening shop windows, where was osten- tatiously displayed, in a manner best adapted to attract the traveller's coin, the varied assortment of Roman scarfs, Roman gold, and Roman pearls. Walter and Beatrice were arm in -arm; they had lin- gered on their way at a shop window. On their evening walk to his aunt's, Beatrice had led Walter a circuitous route, that she might point out to him a rare ornament which was on view in Castellani's show-case. "Is it not artistic?" said Beatrice. "Signor Castel- lani told me yesterday that it was an exact copy of a brooch that Agrippina wore." "Artistic, but not beautiful," said Walter, laughing. "It was probably-an invention either of Signor Cas-- tellani's or of Nero's. Who -knows but what it was presented to Agrippina by her charming son, to cele-   202       PERFECT LOVE brate one of his bloody triumphs? In the midst of her sufferings, she needed some such compensation. Jewels are bright consolers of women's sorrows. Does my little Beatrice envy the great empress her barbaric gem?" 'I never heard you before say so many unkind, satirical things in one breath," she said. "I should think it was Laura herself--no, I will not say that even in jest." "No, seriously, darling, if you like the ornament, you shall have it; only I do not wholly fancy Agrip- pina's taste." "I would not take it nlow if Signor Castellani would give it me."  "But if I gave it you?" insisted Walter. "I would not accept it on any account. I would not wear it-if it was not your choice." Beatrice had raised her voice, as she always did when somewhat excited. An officer passed hastily, and turned to look at her. Her appearance always attracted attention in public; she was accustomed to being stared at in the streets, particularly so in foreign countries. It was a tribute to her beauty which was not distasteful to her. Seeing a gentleman in an offi- cer's costume with something more than ordinarily striking in his air, Beatrice turned, too; she dropped Walter's arm, and leaned for support against one of the pillars of the shop. -Walter, preoccupied with what she was saying to him, had not noticed any per- son passing. He was alarmed; he knew nriot to what to attribute her emotion. lk?  .     7 '       \, The gentleman remained on the sidewalk a moment looking at them; then he went into a cafe that was near by. s '    CASTETH OUT FEAR.       203 "What is the matter, dearest? You frighten me," said Walter. "Take me home," she said, faintly. "i Do you want to go to my aunt's, or back to the hotel?" "Call a carriage,"' she said. "I cannot walk." Walter hailed a fiacre that was passing; he helped her into it; she trembled in every nerve. "Drive quickly," he said, -" to the Hotel di Roma;" and he sprang into the coach, and closed the door. "What is it, my darling? Lean your head upon my shoulder; there --be quiet, .and you will soon be better. Where do you feel ill?" Feigning again! How could she tell him that she felt perfectly well in health, only that she was fright- ened and agitated because she had seen the count,. and she feared the count's just anger? "It is my head," she said, " it aches so fearfully." They soon arrived at the hotel. As they passed through the court-yard, the porter looked out of his lodge. There has been a gentleman," he said, with a smile, " inquiring for the signora." "Did he leave his card?" asked Mr. Leigh. "No, signor; he inquired if the signora was married, and what her name was. He said he had the honor to have known the signora when she was a signorina. I knew it was your signora," said the man, bowing, and smiling again, "because he inquired for la bella bionda.' *, "Confound his impudence!" said Walter, as he * Beautiful blonde.   PERFECT LOVE opened the parlor door; "if he was not an Italian, I would knock him down. The fellow thought th6 com- pliment to my wife would please me; not unfortu- nately a race of gallant men, but of men of gallantry. However, I suppose they think it amounts to pretty much the same thing. Who do you think this incog- nito was, Beatrice! " "I can't imagine," she replied, under her breath. "You_ don't think it could be your brother Harry playing us such a prank as this ? Who knows but he may have followed the beloved Coralie across the water ? "It would be just like him," she answered. "So it would," she thought to herself, "but it is not Harry. Would to God that it were !?' "Is your head relieved?" he asked, adjusting the pillows of the sofa under it. "Yes, thank you; I feel better now. You will not leave me - will you, Walter ? w she said, anxiously. "For always ?" "No,' smiling faintly, "I meant this evening. You won't go to see Grace ?" "Of course I shall not leave you, dearest." He had taken the cologne, and was bathing her brows with it. "Dear head! " he said, as he smoothed back the hair he loved so well. "Is it dear to you, Walter ?  She longed to tell him everything in that moment; and then she said to herself,- ' What would happen? I should lose him forever." "Inexpressibly dear," he answered, bending over her and kissing her eyelids.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.   205   She turned her face to the wall; by and by she fell asleep. Walter looked lovingly at her flushed face. "She will be refreshed when she wakes," he said. He arose gently, and, taking a book, he resumed his seat by her side. He turned the leaf. She started. "What is that noise ? " she said. "I was reading a book, and turning over the pages. I am sorry I disturbed you." " There are no letters ? " she asked. "No, darling. Shut your eyes again. The rest will do you good." "Promise me that you will not leave the room." " I am rooted to this spot." "I do not know why I should feel so tired," she said; and she closed her eyes again. When Beatrice went to her dressing-room that even-. ing, she found Ninette, as usual, waiting to assist her with her toilet. Her maid's face wore a look of ill- suppressed secrecy. Beatrice saw that she had some: thing on.her mind that she wanted to tell her. "What makes you bustle about so, Ninette? My head aches. I wish you would not make so mich noise." " , madam, I saw the count to-day! " "Well, what is that to me ?" said Beatrice, tartly. "For Heaven's sake, Ninette, don't be so excited about nothing !" "He looked so desperate, signora.' "Did he ?" said Beatrice, with indifference, whilst she unclasped the large solitaires from her ears. "Yes, signora. I was looking out of the window, and I saw an officer leaving the hotel. I was sure that it was he. You know he always had an air different 206       PERFECT LOVE from the other young men who came to see you. Well, he looked up; I crouched down; then I looked out again; he struck his sword against the pavement with an oath- O, such an oath! a 4 That will do, Ninette. I am tired to death. You can go to bed.. I shall not want you again to-night. Put out the candles; theyThurt my eyes; and ask monsieur if you shall bring him a cup of coffee. No,' she added, hurriedly, fearing Ninette's garrulity; " now I remember, he has had his cup of coffee." Ninette retired, deeply mortified that her mistress had not taken more interest in her tale. She knew more of her signora's secrets than Beatrice surmised. There had been times when she had even gone so far as to-look through the key-hole ; but she was an ingra- tiating little creature; she had won Beatrice's heart with her Roman tongue and her Trasteverina eyes. Beatrice had always promised the girl to bring her back with her to Rome; and the -crafty Ninette shrewdly suspected that, although she had not changed her route, she had changed masters. No sooner had Ninette left her alone than Beatrice gave way to her feelings. She sat down, leaned her head in her hand, and began crying. What would come of all this, she did not know; but the sooner she could got away from Rome the better. What excuse could she plead? Then she rose and crept noiselessly -to the glass door which separated her room from the parlor. The glass was so arranged that she could perfectly see into the parlor, but any one on the other side could not see into the chamber. Heavy damask curtains were looped back on either side of the door. Beatrice was fearful lest Walter should leave the   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       207 parlor unawares. He had passed his word to her that he would not; but it was not so binding a promise but if he wanted a cup of coffee, or a cigar,a he might not step into the saloon for it. He must not leave the parlor. What if the count should be lurk- ing in the entry to meet him? She stood looking through the door at her husband; the light fell upon his face as he read; how beautiful it was to have so open a brow, a face so noble and true! Hle closed the book, and sat for a moment as if wrapped in pleasant thoughts. He leaned forward, and smelled the flow. ers that she had placed in the -vase near him. Her glove lay by it. He raised it, and pressed it to his lips. "Walter," she said, in a low voice. "I am here, a prisoner of war, or peace, at your. will. What ransom shall I offier for freedom?" ' You have given your parole," she answered, laugh- ingly; " you cannot go at all." "All right. I shall be more wary next time. I did not know you were so strict a sentinel." She went back reassured. Fatigued with the emo. tions of the evening, she fell into gentle slumbers, dreaming that Walter was bending over her, and assuring her of his love.   208       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XV. ET us take our breakfast in our parlor, ' ^^  Walter. It will be more cosy than the restaurant; it will be a change; and then, too, I can play at housekeeping." O "It will, doubtless, have an unlimited amount of- advantages. Beatrice proposes, and Beatrice dis- poses."y "Let it be so, with all my heart, if it be of your heart," she said. - How sweet the morning is!" "I am thankful you are well again. You look as fresh as a benzoline rose. Whilst you are studying the bill of fare, I will run around the corner, and get you a bunch to match your complexion." "No, please, Walter," she said, hastily; I do not want any roses,:'  "There is a dark-eyed Florentine calling out "ca- prices" with her Tuscan tongue. She is just under your window. Shall I hail her?" "No--no; thank you. You have told me that I have enough of those already." "Shall I order breakfast? I feel in -a mood to do something." "Yes, if you will." Walter rang the bell. "Bring everything that the restaurant has in the eatable line," he said to the t'    CASTETH OUT FEAR.       209 servant who had answered his call, "and lay the table in the parlor." "Will monsieur take oeufs au gratin, oeufs pockies, oeufs d la coque, omelette, bceuf da-a-mode, boeuf aut Cha- teaubriand, boeuf hachiis, biftek, rosbif, des petits pois, des rognons, du poulet rot2i?" "Everything you have, as I commanded," said Wal- ter, gravely. The man made a quick retreat, to avoid bursting out laughing. "Ce beau monsieur a un bon appotit et une bonne digestion," he soliloquized. "Walter!" exclaimed Beatrice, a are you mad?" "Madly in love - yes." "With the restaurant? This is the most reckless extravagance." "One must be pardoned for being extravagant once in one's life." The men entered, and spread the cloth. Beatrice was highly amused to see him retire every two or three moments to preserve his dignity. He loaded the table with the dishes, appearing and reappearing each time with a new delicacy, which he announced with sententious gravity. "Now," said Walter, when at length they were alone, "I insist upon your partaking of everything before us. We are to-day to make our reputation as 'Inglesi.' The next time that a conspirator against my peace of mind calls, he will undoubtedly receive- as answer, that' non ci sono alcuni Americani I' This Machiavellian policy of mine will put an end to any further inquiries as to the ' bella bionda I' If this cav- "   210       PERFECT -LOVE alier 'should, after all, turn out not to be Harry, woe to him, the porter, and my bride!?; The servant entered again. This time it was not to serve an entre-met, but to deliver the letters which had just arrived. He put them down by Mr. Leigh's plate, and retired, "Both for the beautiful blonde;" said Walter, cast- ing his eye over the addresses, and handing them to Beatrice. Beatrice glanced hastily at them. She colored scarlet to her temples. The blood left her cheeks. It mounted again and again to her brow. She bent over her cup. "From Laura and Coralie," she said, trying to steady her voice. , I am so glad to hear from home!" "One of them has no post-mark," said Walter. "Can your friend, too, have arrived in Rome, incog- nita? The mystery grows interesting." "I gave our banker my direction the other day; probably he has enclosed it, and redirected it." "Then how did you know it was from Coralie? Can- you see through the paper?- Have you the power of bewitching every thing, as well as every one?"  "I know the shape of Coralie's paper," she said, coloring ,again. "Read me what Laura says, Walter." She threw it over carelessly to him, and placed the other letter in her pocket. Walter broke the seal, and read, - "DEAREST BEATRICE: Your father being deep in an ancient volume entitled ' The Influence of Alexander the Great over Bucephalus,' which, he thinks, may   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        2" be applied with success to the modern race of horses, he writes by proxy; and I, as you will readily per- ceive, am that proxy. Since you left us, we have lived in almost unbroken quiet. The bride gone, you will .say, must necessarily have left us as dreary as Hamlet with Hamlet"s part left out; but, fortunately for us, we still think there is some interest in life, although our bridal days are over. The absence of your friend, Mademoiselle de Blois, has also made a great void in the place. Your brother Harry was quite desolate after her departure. Since then r have met him  driving with Miss Amy Ellis, who looked supremely happy; so I take for granted that he has decided, if he cannot hlave the sunflower, to take the flower without the sun. Les hommnes se consolent, my dear, sooner than their fascinatresses care to be- lieve. I was stopped the other day in the street by Miss Percy, the female telegrapher. She was most anxious in her inquiries about you. 'Do tell!' she said; 'is she happy? I have seen her running about ever since she was as high as them buttercups; and to think she is married!' There is none of that timid hesitancy, that shrinking delicacy, in these children of nature, that stands in the way of their appeal for knowledge. ' Facts,' 'facts,' as Mr. Gradgrind says, are all in all to them. So when you write, ' do tell' if you are happy: as to the uninitiated, these questions are somewhat difficult to answer. "I have worn the ring you gave Johnny ever since you left. It is an addition to the hand, as well as a reminder of yourself, which it is .very pleasant to have about one. I tell Johnny I will give it up to him when he takes a bride, the subject of brides being of   212       PERFECT LOVE intense interest to him ever since 'sister' became one. He sends you his love, and hopes you will come back soon.' By the way, I forgot to say that your erratic friend, Mademoiselle Coralie, has not sailed, as she intended. She found some dear friend, or desespoir, because her husband, who was treasurer in a bank, had absconded With a sum of two hundred thousand dollars. I hear that mademoiselle has re- mained to console the wife, and to restore to her arms her renegade husband, and that she has also hopes of washing the dross of this earth from his soul, and of yet returning it to its pristine purity. "Mr. Ellis is actually engaged to a girl who has been making love to him for a whole year. The on dit is, that he made her a frank confession, telling her that he had no heart to- give,- a certain Miss Sinclair having robbed him of it long since,--but that what there was of his affections remaining from the wreck were hers. She did not demur, but accepted the naufrage. I have no more news to tell, save that I had a call from poor Sidney, the other day. He was looking particularly seedy. I could not help laughing to myself when I thought what a funny match he would have made for the elegant Mrs. Leigh. He was, as usual, perennially depressed, and spoke of your being the wife of another with tears in his eyes. I did' all I could to wipe them away,- of course I mean metaphorically speaking,-but he was, I must con- fess, an exception to the rule, and would not be consoled. Poor Sidney I If you were to sow his seediness, I wonder what would come up. ' Seedny,' as Johnny used to say, do you remember?-when   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       213 4 he was little, and you were the fiancee of this 'Seedny?' "Forgive this idiotic strain, and believe me, dear Beatrice, ever lovingly,   I 'i Your mother, "AURA. "P. S. Give my tender remembrance to 'Walter,' if I may call him so." Whilst Walter had been reading this letter, he had raised his eyes several times to Beatrice. Her back was turned towards him. She was arranging the flowers in a glass; the color had suffused her face and neck. Walter noticed the pink streaks on the white throat. "Your beloved mother!" she said, contemptuously. "I never gave her the right to use that name I " "Come here, dearest. I want to ask you some- thing." Beatrice's ear could detect a chatge in her husband's voice. It sounded gentle to her still, but grave. ' Wait a moment till I wipe my hands. They are wet and stained with these stems." She ran into her chamber. She threw a hasty glance in the mirror. Her face was scarlet. It was the more striking in contrast to her accustomed pallor. She poured some water into the basin, and dipped her face in it; but it was in vain. The blood seemed as if it was burnt in, in spots. She opened the window to cool herself. The air blew fresh upon her cheeks, but it did not abate-the fever in them. She could not let Walter see her thus, and he was waiting for her to come. She quickly closed the window, and drew ,.   214-      PERFECT LO VE down the heavy shade that was above. She ran over to the other window, and pulled down that also. "Come in here, Walter, dear," she called out to him. "The man will soon be in to remove the dishes.,", Walter came into their chamber. He sat down upon the sofa. - "Come and -sit by my side, dearest."  She came, and seating herself near him, took his hand in hers, and began fondling it. Walter could not resist the magic touch of those beautifhl jewelled fingers. One glance at them, she thought, would break down the most strenuous philosophy;' but Wal- ter did not return her caress. "What does Laura mean?" he asked, " by running you as she does about your admirers. I see no fun, no wit, in it. Her letter is insufferably insolent, from the beginning to the end. You -should not allow her to write you as she does." "How can I prevent it, Walter, dear?" "By giving the lie to all her mean insinuations by letting her know  that these are not matters of familiar jesting. Were you ever engaged to any one before you accepted my hand?" "I have a great mind to keep you on the rack," she said, archly, " for putting me such absurd questions. Have I not told you a thousand times that I never loved any one but yourself, Walter?" "Then write and tell her so., How dare she couple your name with this fellow's, - who is it?" he said, turning  impatiently to the letter, -" this Sidney, whom she calls your fiance! I will write her myself. i ; : ',   CA STETH OUT FEAR.       215 She shall feel that she cannot insult my wife with impunity."' He rose, and walked several times through the room. Then he went to the table, and drawing the writing materials towards him, he began his letter. "DEAR MADAM: ' Beatrice stole behind him, and placing her hand playfully over the paper, she said,- '"She would never forgive me, Walter, if you wrote her thus. Laura does not like to clash against peo- ple. She is more amenable to flattery than any one I ever knew." "She must seek it then," he said, "from other sources. I shall not flatter her." "No. But, Walter," she continued, still keeping her hand over the words he had written, I would ot . like to make Laura angry on papa's account. As hi:vife, I respect her. And then, besides, it does not make things so, because she says them." "But if there is a thing to me in life that is wholly contemptible and detestable, it is lying." - Beatrice quailed. "You cannot exactly call this so, Walter, because, if she writes it to me, we know' that it is not true.' She does no one any harm." "She harms herself, and she does you harm. Even badinage on these subjects is inexcusable. To say the least, it is both out of' taste and indelicate. But false statements admit of no possible palliation. It is best that I write her, andput an end to it at once." "Please, dear Walter," she said, putting her arms , A             .   216   -   PERFECT LOVE coaxingly about his neck, " do not do it, for my sake. I will say everything myself to Laura, all that you may judge right and advisable; but, as I told you, I would not for the world wound papa's wife." Alas! Beatrice knew well that, Laura's temper once fairly roused, her vanity hurt, she would leave noth- ing that had come within her knowledge, in Beatrice's disfavor, untold to Walter. The keen edge of her satire, sharpened by truth, might forever dissever the Gordian knot of Beatrice's happiness. a I can refuse you nothing," he said, with a sigh. There was a knock at the door. Who could it be? Beatrice felt herself grow cold and numb with' appre- hension. The door opened, and Grace stood on the threshold.                  t "Why, Grace," exclaimed her brother, "did you fall from the skies? Surely a visit from you is as rare as those of angels. But come in, dear: we will not frighten you away with reproaches.7" "I came," said Grace, " to ask Beatrice and you to drive; to beg you to come. Don't turn the tables upon me, and refuse to go. It is a beautiful day, and I felt like driving. Will you come? Aunt is waiting in the coach."- ' You go, Walter," said Beatrice. ' Not without you." Walter felt remorse -for hav- ing clouded Beatrice's brow even for a moment. "We have had," he said, " a lover's quarrel. Like the Geno- ese pears, they are ' bitter-sweets.' Come, darling," turning to Beatrice, "I will not go without you. Get your mantle; we must ndt keep aunt waiting." ' No," said Beatrice, pleadingly; "I want an excuse for staying at home. Papa will' think me perfectly ^.                   .    CASTETH OUT FEAR.       217 heartless if I do not write him, at least, once a week. I promised to keep a journal for him. I have not yet sent a word to Harry. And I must answer Laura, you know." "Well, Grace, then I am off with you." "I will bring him to you safely again," said Grace, as she left the parlor. Walter turned back to say one parting word. ' Don't be vexed, dearest, at anything I said. You were right about your father's wife. Good by. Give me one sweet kiss for forgiveness' sake." Beatrice lifted up her face to him. "Come back soon," she whispered; and she added, hurriedly, "Forgive me everything." She watched them from behind the curtained win- dow as they drove off; then she' went to the chamber. and parlor doors, and bolted them.; She looked breath- lessly around her, as if she almost feared that, notwith- standing the precaution she had taken, some one might surprise her. She drew from her pocket the letter which she had told Walter was from Coralie, and read it. "DEAR MADAM: Pardon the intrusion of one whose existence you have doubtless long since forgotten, and who would not now recall himself to your memory, were it not that he believes he is in honor bound to do so. I have, madam, in my possession letters of yours which I cannot destroy, and which I will only deliver personally into your hands. When this is done, all that has ever been between us will be forever can- celled. You would deeply oblige me if you would let AA   218       PERFECT LOVE me know on what day and at what hour you will re. ceive me. a Believegme to- be, madam, "Your respectful and obedient servant,         "A' L. PERSIGNY. "' PALAZZO DEI POATICI." Beatrice stood for some moments as if transfixed; then she lighted a candle and set the note on fire. "O, my God!" she exclaimed, passing her hand over her face as if to collect her thoughts; " why did I ever come here? What fatality led me to the very place where I should be sure to meet him? What shall I do? Get back my letters? Yes, I must have them at any cost. O, Lorenzo, what misery has your love caused me! Never to be at peace! Ever to be stretched upon the rack of fear! Your curse has truly descended upon my head. If I could but escape from Rome -get away from this terrible espionage. If I went now without my letters, he would always hold me in his power. I should never rest. He is pas- sionate, revengeful, fearless. * He might do anything to Walter. If I see him, perhaps I can pacify him. I will appeal to his pity, to his love; for he loved me, not disinterestedly, as Walter does, but surely he loved me; and if he loves me still, he cannot refuse to give me a proofof'his love. But how shall I see him alone? How can I communicate with him? O, if it were only over, and I were free again! free from this dreadful chain that I feel ever about me. If I have my letters, as he' says, all will be as if nothing had been. If Laura says anything, I will deny it, for she knows nothing to a certainty; only," she thought to herself, o ,          ,.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       219 the color reddening her face again, -" only she may have seen something." She sat thinking of every subterfuge by which she could obtain an interview alone with Lorenzo. -She could send Ninette with a line, telling him to come. She hated to do it; the girl was an Italian. There was nothing that she might not suspect her mistress of. To do:Beatrice justice in this, she did not so much think of herself, as that she could not bear that Ninette should suspect that Walter was wronged. But now that the count was actually in the same city with them, hating Walter bitterly, as he necessarily must - do, should Beatrice refuse to receive him, he might avenge himself upon them both by enclosing her letters to her husband. These letters had placed her imagination in new tortures. She tried to remember what she had written in them, that she might palliate the expressions of affection, of love, that were in them, The recollection was too painful. Suddenly she looked at her watch. They had already been gone an hour. What would Walter think if he returned and found that she had not touched her pen? She opened a sheet, and began her letter to Laura. "DEAREST LAURA : I received your kind letter, for which I thank you. Walter read it aloud to me. It was very amusing. I have little time for writiing. I have not yet written to Harry or to Coralie, we are so busy sight-seeing, and all our spare hours are taken up with Walter's sister, Grace, who is very sweet and lovable. In order that I might even indite you these few words, lest you should think me too ungrateful, I have let Walter go to drive without me. Is not that   220       PERFECT LOME a rare act of filial devotion? I am glad papa is so interested in 'Bucephalus.' Tell him I hope he will learn from it the art of training a perfect horse for me, that I may ride every day next winter in the park. -He knows that I dote on horses. "I wish, dear Laura, that you would not allude henceforth in any way to my escapades. Walter - knows everything; but it vexes him to hear about it, and I cannot bear to vex those I love. "You ask me if I am happy. Yes, I am, as you say of Miss Ellis, a supremely so.7 Tell papa he need, not repent having given me to Walter. I am glad you wear Johnny's ring. It must look very pretty on your hand, which is itself very pretty. I leave all descriptions of travels ;until we meet, of dress and ornaments until I can show them to you. We ap- plaud our own taste in believing we have purchased some of the most attractive things in Rome. I sup- pose Dante got his idea of the ' Eternal City' from Rome. We have had perfect weather ever since we left you. We shall turn up, like bad pennies, about the time we said we should; so it will not be long before you see us again. Prepare for us a warm welcome. Walter accepts with gratitude your kind message, and returns to you his deferential remem- brance. Excuse the lack of interest in my epistolary style. I will seek to make up for its brevity in length of detail when we are together again. When travel- ling in Europe, one must write either too little or too much. A kiss- and my dear love to Johnny, to papa -my tenderest greeting. "Believe me, dear Laura-"       f   *;.^*'    C.4STPTf OT T EAR.      22 Here Beatrice paused, and held her pen above th paper, as if uncertain what to add. She disapprove, of her letter. What would Walter think could he rea it? As she cast her eye over it, every wor^ jarre' upon her; for often as she had of late been led to pre varicate, she could not willingly accustom herself t, falsity. There was something true in her nature tha she still clung to. Yet she must appease Laura She knew well the signature that it would best have pleased her to receive--"Your loving daughter.: Hesitatingly she wrote, "Yur- " Again she stopped "I cannot," she said         l She drew her pen through the word, and lingere( over it. "Yours lovingly " wasg too warm, Laura ha( often caused her such bitter pain; "Yours affection ately," too cold. She heard the wheels of a carriagE entering the court-yard. Could they have .returnec so early? Hastily she bent down, and wrote, "You] daughter Beatrice." She folded the sheet, placed il quickly in the envelope, sealed and directed it. She had not more than time to do so before Walter opener the door. "I am here before you expected me," he said. The look of self-discontent that her brow had worn a moment since vanished at the sight of Walter. "Not before you are welcome, though," she said extending her hand to him. "I have been lonely with out you." "And I without you." "But you had Grace." ' Yes, but I did not have Beatrice- cruel heartel one! Did you find time to write your letters, or was   222       PERFECT LOVE the hour of absence passed in reproachful discourse with your conscience?" "I wrote to Laura." "May I read what you said to Laura? :' ' I have just sealed my, letter, Walter. Shall I open it again?." - No, indeed; tell me about it. Was it only severe? no roses amongst the thorns?   , "Ho w unchristian you are, Walter!" "How uncatholic, you mean," said Walter, laughing. "I accept your sentence; for with Mrs. Sinclair I do not feel like making use of great finesse." "You will forget your quarrel before you see. her again. Tell me, all about your drive, and all about Grace." ' - Grace has taken me for her physician, and I have (prescribed excursions about Roome. To-morrow we have planned to go to -some distant ruins. You are one of the necessary ingredients did I do right in making an engagement for you without consulting you?"' ,',Of course, quite right; only to-morrow, Walter -" "What for to-morrow? You will not condemn nme to go again without you? Look, I will bribe you with this cornelian which I found on the floor of Caracalla's bath to-day. Whether it is ancient or modern, I can- not discover." "It is beautifully cut. I will have it set, and wear it in remembrance, not of Caracalla, but of you.", ' ' How agreeable," said Walter, 'i are these reminis- cences of a past! Where memories are so fresh, the chain of life seems less unbroken. That is what en- dears us to Rome -the imperishable links that bind us   CASTETH OUT FEA R.      223 to bygone ages. We cease to be units, and become as the interwoven threads of a canvas on which the great drama of humanity is being enacted." : "And upon my spirit the heaped-up centuries of a great past lie like a dead weight. I do not care for Rome, Walter. I want to go away and forget it," she said, suddenly nerving herself to break the spell which seemed to her to be entangling her more and more in its meshes. "Why," said Walter, looking up in surprise, " we have but just come to Rome." "We have beenlheere a whole month, Walter." "To me it seems but a day, I have been so happy here. One could gladly dream away one's existence in this Hades. Why is it that you yearn to leave it?" "I do not know. I believe it is that I would keep you all to myself. Here you belong in part'to Grace, and then-" " Poor Grace! You surely are not jealous of her, pet. Often I find that I am reproaching myself that I am not more to her. Grace is sad!" "Grace is cold," retorted Beatrice. "She' has not made everything for me as happy as she might have done,." Walter looked pained. "Do not mind me," she said, caressingly. "I am cross to-day. You know, long ago I warned you that some time you would find out how unreasonable, wilful, and capricious I am. Be indulgent to me, and let me stay at home to-morrow, Walter, dear." "Do as you please, darling. I regret it for my own sake, as well as for Grace." "Now don't scold any more, you bad-tempered /            "     '  ;4   224       PERFECT LOVE ' Walter. You know how I adore you. You take ad. i vantage of it to tyrannizie over me. There "s a book;  interest yourself in: that whilst I go to let Ninette arrange my hair as you best like it." "Then Ninette shall not touch it. I should prefer it rippling over your shoulders, like Titian's, love." "I should make a pretty picture." "You would, indeed."       ^ "I should be mobbed in the streets," she called out, gayly, as she ran into the next room. Walter sat a moment wrapped in thought. "She did not mean it," he said to himself; " it was but a passing word, losing its significance as quickly as it found ex- pression, like bubbles that break as they touch the air." Ninette was patiently awaiting her mistress. "You are good to me," she said, as Ninette let down her hair and began straightening the rebellious locks. "You are patient and kind, too. Now make haste, Ninette ; monsieur is waiting; and put it up carelessly, for monsieur does not fancy it drawn tight." Whilst Ninette applied herself to her task, Beatrice drew from her pocket a pencil, and with a beating heart wrote, - "COUNT PERSIGNY: I have received your letter. I shall be at home to receive you to-morrow, Tuesday, at three o'clock. Do me the favor to be punctual." She did not sign her name. Through her many per- plexities, Beatrice was growing more prudent than it was natural to her to be. : ' There, that will do. Give me my blue silk; it is monsieur's favorite dress. And, Ninette, I. should like you to put on-your hat and take this note to   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       225 Palazzo dei Portici. Just ask at the door if the count is in, and leave it, without saying anything; and if afterwards you want to do any shopping, or to go anywhere, you need not come right back; I shall not want you again to-day. We are not going out. Mon. sieur and I expect the count." This, she thought, would be a good way of blinding Ninette, for she would be absent, and would not know whether or not the count was with them; and saying that she and her husband would be at -home to receive him, she hoped would avert all suspicions. She felt lighter hearted now. Her way was growing more clear. She looked at the time; it was two o'clock. To-morrow at this hour the count would be here in an hour from that. At four o'clock this hateful torment would be past. In the evening Walter would have returned; her letters would be destroyed; they should have a happy time, together. She would urge him to leave Rome immediately. She would say that the climate did not agree with her; it did not with a great many people. "How beautiful you are!" said Walter, looking up from his book as she threw open the folding door. "I am glad if I am so in your eyes," she said, that radiant smile of hers breaking over her face and making it to look as if a sudden light had flashed over it. ' I will take your dress, and your eyes which match it so closely, as a remedy,--similia similibus I they shall dissipate my blues. Grace does not seem well; I found her particularly down-hearted to-day. The thought of her will not leave me." "Walter, dear, I am so sorry, so grieved, at what I 15 ,  ^   '    226-      PERFECT LOVE said about Grace. Indeed, I did not mean it. I think I set too much on warmth. I fear I often think more of the manner than of the real feeling that is beneath it. Harry always said I did. Grace is everything that the heart could desire. I have been very ill- tempered of late; will you forgive me?" One of Beatrice's peculiar charms was, that she had, by nature a sunny temperament. It was easy to ac- cuse herself of faults that she did not possess. "Will you forgive me) sir?" she repeated, putting her face smilingly up to his. "Perhaps so. Will you undergo a penance for my pardon?" "That depends." "Then I will call Ninette, and grant no forgiveness." "How can Ninette save you?" "By sewing on a button to my glove." "I will sew it for you, Walter. Why, you would shame me forever by asking such a trifle of Ninette. It is just that light kind of punishment I would wil- lingly take." "' No; here is another button coming off. Decidedly I must have Ninette. I am afraid of putting that ill temper of yours too severely to the test. Ninette!" "Don't be ridiculous, Walter. Give it me. Ninette is out."       - "Where has she gone?" Beatrice turned away her head. "I sent her out. I wanted a trifle." "Ninette is too young, too pretty, to be wandering about the streets of a foreign city alone." "She cannot be always shut up Walter; it would be too dull."    i   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       227 "That is true; but she walks out constantly with you. You might take her to drive with us some- times." "That she can," she answered; thinking to herself, "Must I pass through life with lies upon my lips? I hate myself I loathe Lorenzo for it." "By the way," said her husband, "have you any clew to the mysterious knight as yet; he did not call when I was out?" "No; I had almost forgotten about it." "It could not have been Harry; he would have turned up before this. I forgot to ask you what was the news from Mademoiselle Coralie?" "O," said Beatrice, striving to keep down the mounting color, she repeats what Laura tells me in her letter, that she has not sailed for Europe; that she is well; that she has not seen much of Harry since wev left."' "She is one of those women, once known and com- prehended, in whom one cannot cease to feel inter- ested. There is a fearless look of truth in her eyes which challenges rectitude in others." "Her eyes look so because truth is in her," said Beatrice, warmly. "Coralie is as true as steel." "Such a friendship as hers is worth having." "It is, indeed," said Beatrice, wondering, mean- while, if her own eyes looked true. How often they had been praised as very beautiful! -They had been called starry eyes, cerulean as the .skies of Italy. Walter said they were "sweetest eyes were ever seen." Could these sweetest eyes be false? "Read something to me, Walter," she said. "Anything you will; our stock of books is small,   PERFECT LOVE  Here is a volume of Mrs. Browning-' The Lay of the Brown Rosary.' Would you like to hear it? " "No; I could not bear to listen to it, it is so sad. 'She has lived and foregone him 1' What a dreadful destiny." " 'Bertha in the Lane, then," suggested Walter. No, no; she loses her lover, too." "Here is something applicable to Italy, about the nightingales; shall I read that?" " 0, worse still! The pangs of jealousy are added to a lost lovei What dreary things you select, Walter. They freeze the blood." " Well, dearest, you choose something, and read it aloud to me. Sad things do not strike me sadly when I feel happy in myself. It is only when they accord with the state of one's own heart that they seem to me to affect the spirits. I love to hear you read; your voice has music in it." "I do not like sweet voices. I should be afraid of its being like Laura's." " There is no danger of that. Every note of hers is a falsetto. One car} imagine that had the Laurelei been lured from her fatal rock to sail away with some brave young mariner, she would have won his soul to per- dition by just such Pielody." "You do not like Laura dearly," said Beatrice, mis- chievously. "If it were not," he replied, ' for the throwing away of a strong sentiment, I fear I should hate her." "Harry does, as it is." "I do not blame him; he. has, perhaps, even more reason to dislike her than I have. It is not to be wondered at that he left his home; it would be too   I   oppressive to breathe always in such a rarefied at- mosphere." "It is fortunate," said Beatrice, laughing, "that papa is not of your opinion. Papa dotes upon Laura." " To see things clearly, it is necessary to remove them to a certain distance from our vision. Laura is too near to your father to perceive her defects." "And I," thought Beatrice, "am too near to you, Walter." " Too near and too dear," he mused, as if he had divined her thoughts, and were continuing them aloud. "And now, once again, tell me, dear Walter, when shall we turn our faces homeward, or, at least, away from Rome? Why not pass the next two months in travelling? Grace would go with us." "I doubt it. Grace has an inertia about her which belongs neither to her nature or her years. I wish, darling, you could persuade her to come with us 'out of the unknown gloom' into the sunshine of your presence; I am sure she could not refuse you." "Will you go, then ?" she said, pleadingly. "Of course, if you sincerely desire it." I do," she said, with beating pulses; "I wish it with all my heart." " Then, dearest, you have but to set the day of our departure." 230       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER xV I. ' -'--RT was precisely twelve o'clock on the fbllow- g O  ing day when Mrs. Le Roy's carriage drove I(^  i ^up to the HLtel di Roma.  "B There they are," said Walter. ' This is the last time I will go without you. I cannot bear to 'leave you alone, and I cannot bear to go without you. You have a woman's prerogative; will you not change your mind?" ' No, no, dearest, I could not get ready now; and besides, I really must write those letters " She put her arms around his neck, and raised her lips to his. "Beloved one," he said, folding her in his arms, "now adieu, and au revoir." He ran down stairs. Beatrice went to the door, and stood gazing after him. He glanced back, and gaye her a look of love that shot a pang to her soul. She turned back into her parlor; it seemed suddenly to have grown lonely. How she wished she could have accom- panied Walter i It would be at least five hours before lis return. O, what dweary hours! She would write until the expected visit of the count. It would help pass the time and the fit of nervousness that was upon her. She sat- down, opened her portfolio, and wrote, "Dearest Papa." Then she got up, and walked the room. Presently she resumed her seat, and, drawing   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       231 forth a new sheet, she began with "Dearest Harry." For a few moments she sat gazing absently before her; then tossing aside the paper, "I will write to Coralie," she said; and she recommenced writing, for the third time, "Dearest Coralie."  Then she paused again. To Coralie, of all persons who, she knew, under no possible combination of circumstances could, ap- prove of what she was about to do. Coralie's face rose between her and the paper; her eyes fastened reproachfully upon her friend. No, she would not even attempt to write to Coralie. She thrust the letters into the table drawer, and, taking up a book, she tripd to fix her mind upon it: it was useless. Throwing it impatiently from her, she rose, and walked again and again through the room, each time, as she gained the end of it, drawing her watch from her belt, to number-the minutes that had flown. Then she caught up her embroidery; that might still the, restless nerves, and give her occupation. Had Walter seen her now, he would have believed 'her to be, in refutation of her own assertion, " as useful as ornamental," so rapidly did her fingers ply their work. Alas! she stitched into the canvas thoughts and feel- ings that would henceforth, she knew, make the sight of her work odious to her. "Don't you want to go and take a walk?" she called out to Ninette. She hated to have her go,-and be left even more lonely. But it was nearly half after two; the count would be punctual; she would not for the world that Ninette should know that she received Lorenzo alone. "1 should, indeed, like to go if the signora can spare me, and monsieur would not mind."  ,   232       PERFECT LO VE "No, Ninette; monsieur will not care. The day is lovely; I am writing; so I shall not miss you." - "At what hour would the signora have me return?" "At about five o'clock. Do not be late, Ninette. Monsieuir\ does not wish you to be out late. Don't look around at any one, walk modestly alopg, and no- body /will molest you. If any man speaks to you, don't g answer him." "No, signora." And now Ninette was gone, too; the moments were passing fast; the time was approaching for the inter- view with Lorenzo. Beatrice listened; she thought ,she heard her own heart beat; she must not allow her- self to" be so agitated ; she would try and think of something else. How could she? The clock rang out three strokes; Beatrice's watch was just two minutes behind it; a knock at the door ; she made an effort to rise, but her limbs failed her. "Come in," she said, faintly.   [ The knock was repeated. "Come in!" she reiterated, trying to force herself to speak louder. The door was opened; the servant appeared with a card; she glanced at it. "Show the gentleman in," she said. A moment more of dread anticipation. - Then she heard a hurried step through the entry. Yes, she knew his tread, with, the click of the sword and his spurs as he moved. Another knock. The door was slightly ajar. . "Come in,' she said, almost inaudibly; but he heard it, and entered. Beatrice had risen; the count and' she stood facing one another without speaking; she v-   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       233 could not define the expression in his eyes: it was one of mingled passion and pride. "Beatrice," he said at last, "is it thus that we meet?            - Beatrice sought to appear calm, to seem natural, and at her ease; yet it was not without some curiosity and interest that she looked upon one with whom she had once been, as she had then atleast imagined, in love,-one to whom she had been upon the eve of being married. Lost in the contemplation of what had passed between them, she did not speak. "There you stand before me," he continued, ' more beautiful, more fitted to captivate, than ever. Has no feeling of sorrow ever crossed your heart? no pang of remorse for the desert you have made of another's life? Have you never recalled your lover to your memory - not even as an 4 Italian dream '?" he asked, his lip curling scornfully. "If you have not, you have but added one falsehood more to your path, which is- already strewn with broken promises. "I am the wife of another, Lorenzo,"-she answered, in a low voice, " and you must not speak to me as you do. I thought, if you had ceased to love me, you would at least respect me." "And were you not," he said, with vehemence, " my affianced wife? Had you not intoxicated me with love? cajoled me with your fond fooleries? - to break from me in an hour, to leave me without a moment's warning?" "Lorenzo, for God's sake, speak more gently I You will be overheard. Lorenzo, have pity upon me! I repent my conduct from the bottom of my soul." "Of what avail is your repentance to me? Does   234       PERFECT ZLOVE it, think you, fill the aching void here?" he said, placing his hand "over his heart. 'Does it still the passionate longing for your love? Does it replace your cakresses- your beauty?" "Lorenzo," she said, wringing her hands, "have mercy upon me!, You have only my permission to give me those letters. My husband is not here to protect me. I cannot, I ought ,not, I will not, listen to your words. It is desecration to his love." "To his! And what becomes of mine? Was it not as ardent,- as true, as sacred, as his? I have cursed you once, and my curse shall lie heavy upon your heart during all your life.' , Beatrice shrank back. "It is'not with impunity that you can blast the hopes, the passion, of one's youth, and then be happier than before, drinking in the draughts of a new love, the love of another, who has no advantage over the one to whom you have been faithless, save that of novelty." Until this moment, Beatrice had been blanched with fear. Now her cheeks and temples flushed scarlet. "You shall not say so," she said. "Walter has the advantage of being noble, generous, unsuspecting, and true. He has the advantage of being beloved by me, and which may, perhaps, count as one, even in your eyes, of being my husband."      : The count bit his lip; the blood rushed to his brow. "Be it so," he said. You have chosen between us. Here are your letters, the expressions of your eternal love, with which you once honored me. I have come to surrender them to you; I have come to yield all claims to your love, to give up even the vain con- solation of sometimes reviewing the assurances of it  *  -       i   CA4STE T'H OUT FZEAR.     235 that are here in my hand; but I am not generous enough to renounce all this without a recompense. The reward that I ask is easily given. It -is one kiss, the last one from your lips that I may ever have; a memory sweeter to carry with me to my grave than all these dead letters, which are as so much ashes in my hand." "Give them to me," she said, stretching out her hand for them,-" give them to me, and I, in return, will give you my everlasting gratitude, and the mem- ory eternally in my heart of a generous deed done to one who did not deserve it." "Not until 'you grant me the price I demand for them. By the honor of a gentleman, that farewell kiss given to me, they shall be yours; and I will never again ask to see you, nor in any way intrude myself upon your presence; but that kiss I must have. It has' haunted me by day;'it has been my dream at night-; it has lured me onwards, like a sweet hope, ever since we parted,- it shall not be delusive,- to taste again the sweet nectar of your lips. Then, let come what may, I care not." "Lorenzo, you are mad. You ask what you have no right to ask, and what you know well I have no earthly right to give. Do not be cruel, Lorenzo; give me my letters; be content with having done a noble act; that is better than all the kisses in the world given by any womanan." ' Yes, from most women, that is true; but not from one who is as beautiful as the light of the day -from one whom you have loved, whom you love passionately as I do you." "My Godl" she exclaimed, "it is growing late;   236.      PERFECT LOVE give me my letters; they belong to me, they are mine by your promise, by all the laws of honor. If you had one spark of affection left for me, you would not torture me so; if you were truly a gentleman, you would not keep from me what is not yours. It was, 'then, under false pretences that you obtained an inter- view from me." a Give me a- kiss,'" he reiterated. '"You did not once find it so hard to comply with such a request. Give me but one, and I am gone." Her eye turned again to' th clock on the mantel; - the minutes were flying rapidly by; it was nearly four o'clock;: she knew Walter could not be here so soon; but yet, should something extraordinary happen to hasten his return! The letters were, as the count said, easily and quickly obtained. Once more hers, she was free - forever free. "Cruel man," she said, "take what you ask, and give me my letters." She lifted her lips to him: he bent down, and imprinted one kiss upon them. A slight sound was heard: it was as if a door had been gently opened, and as noiselessly closed again. Beatrice started back. "What was it?" she said. She looked around her fearfully. It was nothing. "Go now, for God's sake!'" she exclaimed, as he handed her the package which he held in his hands. He gave her one look of passionate regret, and left .the room without speaking. No sooner had he gone than Beatrice sank upon the sofa, and covered her face with her hands. Suddenlyshe remembered her let- ters. They must be utterly destroyed. She undid the string which bound them; her eye fell on the J   \ CASTETH OUT FEAR.       237 headjing of some of them. "Lorenzo, mon bien aim6," "Mio ben amato Lorenzo," thus they began.  Her fingers trembled as she gathered them together. She hurled them into the grate, and set them on fire. It was quarter after four. She had probably to wait an hour and a quarter before Walter would come. How long it seemed I She wished she could see his dear face. It seemed an age since he had bade her fare- well. O, how little he dreamed that another had touched her lips since then! those lips which should be consecrated to him. She wished she was dead, as she dwelt upon it. As the moments dragged by, her heart seemed to leap more and more to meet her hus. band. She' thought that never in her maiden days had she loved him so, had she so intensely desired to see him. The lamps were beginning to be lighted in the streets - the days were short at this season; the room looked gloomy. She struck a match and applied it to the candles; she placed them on the table, with the vase of flowers between them. There, it looked a brighter welcome for Walter. The clock struck six; then she began to pace the room restlessly, and to go to the window to see if the carriage were coming, and to listen intently for his step in the entry. Ninette had not come, either. It was unkind of Ninette, after so much indulgence, to leave her so long alone. Half after six; still no Walter, no Ninette. The streets looked dark now. Surely they could not have been examining ruins for more than an hour past; and be- sides, Grace was easily fatigued. Beatrice could not understand the delay. A footstep- -hark! "Is that you, Ninette?? "-Yes, madam."   238  -    PERFECT LOVE "O, I am so glad you have come. Why were you So late? I have been alone the whole day. I thought the time neverwould pass. Monsieur has not yet re- turned."   - ' I was detained, signora, longer than I thought for. I am so sorry that you have beenp lonely I I dare say the signora has regretted not- having gone with the signor." "Indeed, I have, a thousand times; it was stupid of me to stay at home I I feel so frightened, Ninette, because monsieur has not come; nothing cap have happened?" "No, madam; no, indeed," said Ninette, laughing away her fears. "You know every one comes a little later than they are expected, and whien one is wait- ing, it always seems later than it really is." ?"Yes; but, Ninette, see how dark it is; and mon- sieur would be so anxious, knowing that I am alone. He never would willingly leave me for so many hours. I did not expect him until half after five; but when that time was past, I began to be worried." "But that is only an hour out of the way. Now don't you fret, signora. You may be sure he is watching the time more closely than you are; for when he is here, he never keeps his eye off of you. I have seen him often, when you were not looking, gaz- ing at you as if you were a dream." Beatrice smiled; then she went and leaned out of the window. "Ninette, I don't see a sign of him. You look, Ninette; you have such good eyes. You know he , had on a light coat."   CA'TETH OUT FEAR.       239 Ninette stretched herself out of the window; Bea- trice walked the floor. ,I Do you see him, Ninette?" "No, signora, not yet. O, yes, there he comes. I know his light coat, and his walk, too. Yes, this is monsieur." "Thank God l"Beatrice murmured, clasping her hands -" thank God he has come!" "O, madam, I am so sorry! I was mistaken. The signor has passed - it was not monsieur." "O, Ninette," she said, bursting into tears "I wish he would come! I cannot stand it any longer. I will run around to his aunt's, and see if they have returned. Perhaps 'they have urged him to stop to dinner; but he would not - would he, Ninette?" "No, madam; don't you stir out. You'll be spoken to by every man on the street. O, madam, monsieur would never forgive me if I let you go out. You, with your beautiful face, alone at this hour!" "Never mind, Ninette; you wait here. Promise me not to leave the parlor until I come. I will wear my thickest veil: nobody will notice me. Tell monsieur, if he comes, that the man-servant is going to bring me back; that I felt worried, and went to his aunt's to find him. Tell him to wait here for me." In the mean time Beatrice was'dressing herself. Her hands moved with tremulous haste. At length she was ready. "I'll be right back," she said. She flitted like a shadow through the streets. She strained her eyes to see if she could recognize Walter amongst the crowd. No; she-hurried on. When at last she arrived at Mrs. Le Roy's, she could scarcely   240       PERFECT LOYE sustain herself; she was out of breath, too. She leaned against the railing of the stairs to recover; then she bounded up stairs, and rang at the door. Giovanni came hurrying along the hall. The bell had been pulled so violently, that he thought some- thing must be the matter. "Is Mr. Leigh here?" she asked. "No, madam; he has been here, but he went'away again." "Are the ladies in?"  "Yes, madam; step in, and I'll tell them you are here." "When did they return?"Beatrice questioned, white with fear. "Miss Grace did not go out; she kept her bed to- day." "And Mrs. Le Roy?" * "She's in. She went to drive with Mr. Leigh, I believe. They returned early on account of Miss Grace's sickness. Won't you come in?" "No, thank you, Giovanni; I must go; my husband will be waiting for me.' She went out, and Giovanni shut the door. It seemed to her as if her feet would not bear her down the stairs. "My God! she murmured," what can have occurred? O, my God! can he have seen Lorenzo enter or leave the hotel? She set out, and ran without stopping until she reached the hotel. She glanced up-at her window; Ninette was not watching. A hope leaped up in her heart: perhaps he would. be there. O, if he were, she would fall in his arms, and be so blessed that words would fail to express it. She cleared the   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       241 stairs, but it was with a sickening sense of despair that she approached her -door. She knew that if Walter were there, he would be waiting anxiously for her; the doors would not be closed, as they were.' She opened the door; there was the parlor just as she had left it, the candles undisturbed in the same place. No one was there, only Ninette crouched in the window. "Ninette," she said, faintly. Ninette did not hear her. "Ninette," she repeated, " has monsieur been here? for," she said, trying to deceive herself, he may have been here, and gone put again to find me." ' No, madam, he did not come." Beatrice flung open the folding doors, and walked into her room. i"Ninette," she called, "come and stand near this door, on the parlor side, I mean; there, don't move," she said, placing Ninette with her face towards the chamber, just at the right of the curtains. Then she went into her room, and closed the doors again, lighted two candles, that the effect of the light might 'be the same as by day, the light equally dis- tributed on both sides. ' Don't move, Ninette," Beatrice repeated, in an agitated voice. She was looking through the glass window, from different positions in her chamber, to view how dis- tinctly she could see Ninette. Alas Ninette stood out plainly against the glass door, as if she were in the same room with her mistress. "Can you see me, Ninette?" "No, madam; can you see me?" "O, yes, Ninette," she said, throwing open the doors 16   242       PERFECT LOVE again.  Ninette, I shall die if monsieur does not come soon.' "But he will come, madam. Loving you as he does, no one could keep him away from you." Ninette unconsciously had started a new terror in Beatrice's mind. Wag it possible that the count had met Walter as he was leaving the hotel, that he had insulted him, and Walter, not proof against repeated insults, had challenged the count, or accepted a chal- lenge from him, and that they had gone to fight a duel? Or had Lorenzo seen her husband unseen by Walter, exasperated by the love she- had protested for him, had shot at him, as he had once before done, when his back was turned? Could Walter be wounded, dying, perhaps dead, and all be so quiet here? Wo ?d not such a disaster create a commotion in the city? O God! he had said -that his curse should lie heavy on her heart all the rest of her life. It already lays upon it like lead. Or, worse still, had Walter entered, unknown to herself, and seen the count there? Could he have remained to listen to them? No, not under any temptation would, Walter be capable of a mean act; and surely he could not be alienated from her for- ever by merely seeing the count there. He would not know but that he had thrust his presence upon her. But the excuses she had made not to go to drive, would he not suspect them in such a case, and believe them all to have been fabricated? There was one thought far more agonizing than all the rest: had he possibly witnessed that kiss? O,' she -exclaimed, ' that would be too terrible! that -ould be a misery beyond what even my faults merited."   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       243 She began pacing the room again to and fro, to and fro, wringing her hands as she went. The clock struck nine. "I shall go mad," she murmured; "I shall No mad if he does not come soon." "Signora, madam, don't take on so. Monsieur has met some gentleman friend; they have gone into a cafe to smoke and chat together. We never dalculate, when we are in company,-how fast the time fies. I promise you that he will be here before ten." "Before ten!" cried Beatrice, in despair. One hour more of uncertainty seemed unendurable to her. Ninette's words of encouragement might have inspired her with more hope, had she not had the wretched consciousness that there were reasons un- known to Ninette which might have kept him ab'sent. Ninette could not therefore calculate against these. "O, if Coralie were only here!" instinctively cling- ing to the thought that Coralie's presence would be a protection to her, and ward off all evil. Beatrice suddenly ceased from  her monotonous tread, and sprang towards the side entrance to her chamber. She noticed now, for the first time, that it was slightly open. As' she had passed the mantel a moment before, she had extinguished the candles, which seemed to stare her so painfully in the face, and, as she turned back, she perceived by the -light- of the hall, penetrating through the crack in the door, that it was not wholly closed.  "Ninette," she said, in a hoarse voice, " when you came home this evening, did you enter by my room?" "No, signora; Hcame through my own chamber, into. your dressing-room."   244       PERFECT LOVE "And have you been out since? Have any of the servants been in since you were here?" "\ No, signora; I have never left the parlor since ou first spoke to me, and no one has been in. I soBild have heard if any one had entered your cham- ber. I was so intent on watching for monsieur, that it made me twice as careful to listen; besides, if the signora will remember well, monsieur has always kept the key of your chamber. Don't you know the day he said you had so many valuable things about, it was best to keep some of the doors closed, and that he would attend to the locking of that one? Since i then, none of us opened it." "Did monsieur ever enter by that door?" "I do not: -know that he did. O, yes, once. I was folding away your dresses, putting them into your trunks, after you had gone out, and monsieur startled me so I it gave me such a fright! for I did not know he was there until he was at the table. He said he was so sorry to have frightened me! He came in then by that door. He was looking for your silver porte-monnaie. When he found it he went out of the same door, and locked it after him." "-Did he?" said Beatrice. ' She went to the door, tried it, and uttered a scream. The key was in the lock, and just on the sill of the door lay something dark. Beatrice stooped and picked it up. It was Walter's glove. She came back into the chamber and closed the door, and with it all the light of her life seemed for- ever shut out. "You can go to bed, Ninette," she said, in a strangely hollow voice.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       245 "I would not think of going to sleep, and letting you sit up for monsieur all alone." Ninette was beginning to feel worried herself. She 'had invented so many excuses for monsieur's delay, that they began now to fail her. The one that would have occurred most naturally to an Italian's mind did not enter Ninette's head -that her master could have been faithless to his mistress, and have gone to see some one better beloved than she. No; her mistress was too beautiful, too kind, even had she been married twenty times longer than she actually had, and monsieur was too loving. "You can go to bed, inette," Beatrice repeated. "I am not frightened now. I know why monsieur has not come; He will be here later." "Are you well?" asked Ninette, looking anxiously at her lady, whose face was livid in the light that the candles threw upon it, as she stood between the fold- ing doors. "Perfectly well," answered Beatrice, quietly. "And you don't mind being left alone?" questioned the girl, surprised at the sudden change in Beatrice's words and manner. "Not at all. I prefer it." "If you want anything, don't mind coming for me, or calling me. I would just as lief sit up all night with you, only I know it won't be long before mon- sieur comes." "No, not long. Good night, Ninette." "Good night, signora." Ninette took her lamp and went to her room.   246       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XVII. 'r^j1 HEN Walter Leigh had parted, with Beatrice, h vr] V he had hurried- down stairs, his heart filled X):'ii with. the picture of her, as she stood looking -, -0-8- after him. He found his aunt's coach wait- ing at the door. Mrs. Le Roy was alone. Grace was not with her, "Where is Grace?" he asked. "Where is B@ Ikce?" replied Mrs. Le Roy. "But, aunt, is Grce ill?"  "She is not very well. She sends word that she hopes to see you on your return. I wished to take Beatrice and you to drive, and on our way home, that you would both stop to dine with us. Is Beatrice also indisposed?" "Beatrice is well, thank God, but she has been so occupied at Rome," he said, taking the -seat in the carriage by his aunt, ,with sight-seeing, and with her near relations, that she begs to be excused to-day, in order that she may write home. If youi will accept of a poor substitute, I shall be too happy to drive with you." "Grace and Beatrice will not think me discourteous," said Mrs. Le Roy, " if I should say it was a pleasure, for once, to have you alone to yourself. When the young people are around, the elder must make' way for them. I suppose they would answer,' You   CASTETH' OUT  EAR.      247 have had your day, we must have ours.' It is all fair enough, but when one has a charming nephew that is not easily attainable, one may feel sometimes like rebelling against even a just fate." -- "Well, aunt, I can return your compliment with interest, for I am most glad to have a tgte-d-tete with you. Indeed, I have been longing for a talk with you. First of all, and which lies nearest to my heart, tell me of Grace. It is useless to conceal from one another, we who love her so dearly, that she is sadly changed, When this change took place, you, who have been constantly with her, know better than I. I have refrained, from motives of delicacy, from seek- ing Grace's confidence. She used to make me the recipient of all her feelings. That was, it is true, when she was younger, and had, perhaps, less to con- fide. A hundred different causes arise to perplex my mind when I try to account for her most unnatural moodiness and melancholy. None of these seem satisfactory to me. When I have spoken with Bea- trice, and have sought a solution from her woman's instincts, she answers me that when Grace and she are together, my sister is cheerful enough." "I do not think," said Mrs. Le Roy, that Grace can ever be called cheerful-I mean of late; and to those who knew her as she once was, although she makes a constant effort to appear so. It has given me more pain than I can express- this change that you speak of; for were she my own child, I could not love her more dearly. She is the one interest of my life. To know Grace happy, gladly would I give up all the comforts of my existence, the one great consolation of it, herself." '    PERFECT LOVE "I believe it, dear aunt. God knows there are suf- ficient causes of misery in this world. The more I reflect upon Grace's life, to me it appears that there are' but two potent enough to affect her mind religion and love. An unhappy, an unworthy love, my heart rejects for Grace. Can it be, I have asked myself, that she is interested in the Catholic faith? that'she is undergoing an inward struggle at renouncing the beliefs of her childhood? of those, too, whom she most loves? Often Catholicism takes an almost incredible hold upon the imagination." "No; that is not it. Grace was engaged, Walter. Her engagement was broken. Since that time Grace has not been the same creature. Before this unhappy affair, she received many offers, but she never seemed to think of marrying. Her head and heart never ran on love, as most romantic girls' do. She was absorbed in her painting, her music, and her reading. When I questioned her as to her admirers, she would laugh, and say, 'When I am in love, aunt, I will tell you.'" "And why was-the engagement broken? And how was it that I knew nothing of it?" "I was partly to blame for that. Grace's engage- ment took place but a few days before she became of age. You know how she shrinks from the world- from publicity. She dreaded any one's prying into her feelings. She said she longed to be happy a litte while, undisturbed by congratulations, calls, parties, or any of the duties which society imposes upon one. "et me be free,' she would say, throwing her arms around my neck,-'let me be free to tell my secret first to my own heart;' and so I advised. her not to write you until the day she was twenty-one. 'To Walter,'   a   she said; ' Walter is a piece of my heart!' But I thought best not, for were she taken to task for her reticence; she could plead not having even written to you." "She was in love, then?" said Walter. She was completely in love. Alas!"Mrs. Le Roy replied, wiping her eyes, "I could not from the first sympathize in this love. k I was cold in the sympathy I gave, distant in my expressions towards her lover. Of all those who sought Grace's affection, he was the one for whom I felt mistrust. Grace, who needs warmth to bring her out, withdrew more and more into her- self. Since her sorrow, she has utterly avoided speak- ing to me of him. I have but to watch her to see that she suffers. I feel more anxious about her than I dare even give words to. Yesterday, after she re- turned from her drive with you, as an excuse to ke ep her out of the house, I asked her to go shopping with me; and they met. I was talking with Grace, when suddenly she became as white as my handkerchief. I turned, and saw the count bowing to her. When she reached home, she pleaded a headache, and since then she has not left her chamber." "The count!" Walter exclaimed, recalling the dis- agreeable circumstances that were associated in his mind with Persigny. "Italian counts seem to be by nature mischief-breeders. What has this count done? Why was Grace's engagement broken, aunt?" "I supposed Beatrice had told you about it.' "Beatrice! Surely, had Grace confided in her, she would not have told me of it. No; Beatrice has never breathed a syllable to me. On the contrary, when I have surmised something of the-sort, she has   PERFECT LOVE averted my suspicions. Then Grace has told Bea- trice all." "I do not mean that. But Beatrice was here at the time it happened. She came, as you know, and passed last winter at Rome. Naturally she was the reigning belle of the season. Remarkable as her beauty would be anywhere, perhaps it was even of a more uncommon type in Italy than it would have been in her own country.- Beatrice was admired, courted, followed by everybody. The count was, I believe, at first one of the very'few who did not pay her marked attentions. He was then but just betrothed to Grace; and although, as I'said, the engagement was not as yet made public, it was universally surmised. In- deed, most of the count's family had' called on Grace, in recognition of the relationship. At the instance of her lover, Grace began to go into company a little. She met Beatrice. They readily took a fancy to one another. Beatrice's beauty soon at4racted more espe- cially the count. He became neglectful of Grace, then cold, until Grace wrote him that all was at an end between them." The count," Walter reiterated. Confused cir- cumstances, allusions to Beatrice, were connecting themselves in his mind. "Good God!" he exclaimed, it could not be Count Persigny." "Yes, Count Persigny. Although he was consid- ered so fascinating, I could not like him. i' had a prophetic feeling that Grace never could find her happiness in him. Shortly after this, the Sinclairs left Rome. So did the count. We heard from time to time various reports about him. Some said he was going to marry the beautiful Miss Sinclair. I was   i  * l   I   inclined to believe it, because he seemed to me to be, in truth, desperately smitten with her. Once, about a month later, a letter in his handwriting came to Grace. I gave it her. As she made no allusion to it, I am ignorant of its contents. Then I heard that he had fol- lowed Beatrice to America. In the midst of these reports, you arrived with your bride. I shall never forget my surprise when I saw Beatrice by your side that morning. When I had time to reflect, I wondered whether it would be a relief to Grace if her engagement might still be renewed; if a hope of his returning to her would light up her heart; but it seemed to have a very different effect. She has been more reticent, more silent, than ever, since you came." Walter did not speak; he leaned his head on his hand, and sat moodily wrapped in his thoughts. He was re- calling many things - things that at first would not take shape or form in his memory. Slowly, as he reflected, rose before him and gathered consistence, conversations he had held with Beatrice. No, she was not engaged to the count; she not only had said that she had never been in love with any one before, -before she had loved himself, -but she had expressly told him that day, that she denied her engagement to the count, that she could not imagine that" any woman who cared very much for her happiness would marry 4im." He remembered, too, how she had said that a friend of hers (an American friend) was engaged to Persigny- an American friend! his Grace! Ah, she did not know that then I Still it was painful, bitterly painful to him, to think that his w'fe, his beloved Beatrice, should have come between Grace and her betrothed, But why, when Beatrice knew that Grace Le Roy was    252 -      PERFECT LOVE his sister,-why, then, had she not spoken of the count's connrection with Grace? Hersilence seemed inexplicably strange; it might have sprung from an overwrought sensitiveness for Grace; it might have been from fear, and out of tender care for himself; for, after that midnight interview between Persigny and himself, to which she was a witness, she would have imagined that Walter's feelings towards Persigny would be doubly irritated and embittered. Then Walter began again to recall innumerable events of more or less moment, but all of which were associated with the memory of the count. He put his hand to his forehead, as if better to collect his ideas. Why was Beatrice so suddenly overcome the other evening in the street? Why had she, ever since then, persist- entlfy refused to go out? Had she, as well as Grace, seen the count? Had he recognized her? And- and the unknown caller? No, it could not be; n o, he would not dare. "Are you not feeling well, Walter?" asked Mrs. Le Roy, seeing that he was so preoccupied, and not knowing to what to ascribe it. "Yes-yes, I am well. Aunt, I do not wish you to think ill of Beatrice. She never was engaged to Count Persigny. I met the count, during my court- ship, at her father's house; that he loved Beatrice I was aware, but -I do not think that she ever encour- aged his suit." "I am glad to be assured by you that it was not so," said Mrs. Le Roy, cordially. Walter sat for a long time silent. He was thinking again, gathering and putting together scattered cir- cumstances. The more he refiected, the more acutely   CASTETH OUT FEAR.'       253 was he grieved. He was not sure that Beatrice's conduct was censurable; but the longer he lingered upon the thought, the more unbearable did it become, that she should have been even the indirect means of breaking up the life and happiness of another. "Do you think I can see Grace?" he said, at length. "O, yes; she is counting upon seeing you. Your visit to Rome has been a great consolation to her. She often says,' Aunt, I am so glad Walter is here!'"  "And Beatrice," he thought. "She does not men- tion her. Dear Grace!" he said, after a pause. "She is very dear to me. Do you think she would be better away from Rome? My hope is, that you will both come with us or soon follow us to America. It is a sad thing for families to be separated, before Death, the inevitable intruder, comes." "Grace has spoken of your desire to me." I Has ghe? And what did she say about it?"? "For the present, she seems to dread any change. Perhaps later it will be different." ' Do you think,'" asked Walter, suddenly, "that there would be any conflict in her mind should the count again press his suit?" "I do not now believe Grace would ever see him again." Walter leaned back again in the coach, taken up'with his own reveries. This was the first time that Beatrice- had for a moment fallen short of his belief in her per- fection. If she had given pain to any one's heart, he had hitherto believed it to be because, beautiful as she was, and replete with charms, men could not help loving her. So long as -she was free, there was hope for all. She had a tender heart., and often had alluded,   PERFECT LOVE  with deep regret, to the thought of having caused suffering. Beatrice was, indeed, as Ninette had said, "Walter's dream."  What wonder, then, that he should look upon her as if she were one? "I want to see Grace," he said. "Let us turn back, aunt, as we have altered our plans. I would not will- ingly leave Beatrice alone all day." Mrs. Le Roy gave the order to her coachman to turn the horpes. As he wheeled rather suddenly, an officer on horseback was just galloping by them. He reined in his horse: it shied and reared directly in front of Mrs. Le Roy's carriage. "Stop, Gabriele!"Mrs. Le Roy called out. Don't you see you frighten the gentleman's horse?" The officer plunged his spurs into his horse's flanks at the same moment he turned to acknowledge the courtesy of the lady in the coach. Mrs. Le Roy recognized the count; she returned his bow with embarrassment. In the instant his eye fell upon Walter, he stared at Mr. Leigh with an expres- sion of fierce riesentment. Walter met his eye with calm pride. Persigny again spurred his horse, and dashedc forward in the direction of the city, "I cannot," said Walter's aunt, her eye following the count, "deny that he is a handsome fellow. He seemed furious at something. ,He rides well. Any one plse wouldhave been thrown by such a plunge as that anianal made. All these military men in Europe have a stiiking air. It hardly seems possible that a girl like Grhce should be taken by extraneous attrac- tions."   - "On the contrary, it is often the case that a woman who has an unflinching love of duty, who feels the   I   strength of her character and conscience, does not seek so much for moral qualities, or rather, not ques- tioning their existence, yields her fancy and imagina- tion to the subtle power of fascination: she is more easily taken captive by superficial charms than one who feels less dependence upon her own nature." "But Grace," sa;d his aunt, "is so pure that she would shrink from contact with any person whose standard was less high than her own." "No; pure gold grows stronger and better by its amalgamation with alloy."  "I am thankful Grace was not with us," said Mrs. Le Roy. "It is a painful experience to be forced to pass as a stranger one who was to have been united to her by the nearest ties." Walter did not reply; he was again searching for the cause of Beatrice's emotion that evening that they were at Castellani's. Would she have evinced any feeling had she been with them to-day? Could the count have been so cowardly as to have threatened his life, and have thus terrified her? When he had seen Persigny at Elmswood Place, he had, perhaps, judged him somewhat hastily; so he had said to him- self. Certainly his haughty manner, and his uncon- cealed passion for Beatrice, had not prejudiced him in his favor. He had ascribed his anger towards himself as actuated by jealousy and fear of rivalship; and even the night the count had shot at him, Walter had excused him in his own mind as partly owing to his being mad- dened by his coolness of manner during the previous interview, which he might have construed into con- tempt; and to Beatrice he had also said what he believed, that Persigny, in seeking to fight with him,   I 256     PERFECT LOVE was governed by a principle of duelling which existed in his country, and that he ought not to be judged as if he had been educated with the ideas of their country. Now, for the first time, a feeling of hatred arose in his heart towards the count. "Did you -like Count Persigny?" asked Mrs. Le Roy.  "I neither liked nor disliked him. My acquaintance with him was very slight." "I thought you staid in the same house for some weeks together." "Yes, but there was a great deal of company there at the time, and I did not see much of the count per- sonally."  Walter relapsed into silence again. He seemed so absorbed in his own thoughts that his aunt feared to intrude upon him by speaking. / She herself was thinking anxiously about Grace, whether or no it would be best to insist upon a change of residence for her. They stopped at her house. "Come in,' she said, "-and see Grace." Walter looked at his watch. It was quarter of three. Beatrice would not expect him yet for some hours; so she would not be disappointed at the delay. He got out, and followed his aunt up stairs to Grace's chamber. "May we come in?" said Mrs. Le Roy, knocking at , the door. "Walter and I? or rather give admittance to him, and I will leave you to each other." "Yes," Grace answered. Then she called out hur- riedly, "Wait a moment." . She had remembered Per-, *   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       257 signy's miniature, which stood in a frame on the table. She seized it, and opening a drawer, thrust it in. "Come in," she said. The movement had flurried her; her cheek was flushed. "Why, Grace," said Walter, glancing affectionately at her, " you look well.!" "I am glad of that; that is the first step towards being well." As she spoke, Walter noticed that the color faded ,from her face, and she looked now far from well. Again a pang shot through his heart as he thought of Beatrice. "You will make up your mind to come and live with us--won't you, Grace?" he said, tenderly; and yet, as he pronounced the words, he felt that he could not conscientiously urge it upon her. To do so, would be to bring her constantly into the presence of one who had despoiled her cf all her hopes; and, as he gazed more anxiously at his sister, he thought, "Suppose she should die! Would there not always be a shadow between his wife, so dearly loved, and himself? Surely it was not intended that happiness should be perma- nent in this life; for could one hold brighter promises of it than he had?"           .   . "I can scarcely return your compliment," said Grace,-placing her hand in his, "and tell you that you look well; for you do not seem at all like your- self to-day."      -  "I have been thinking," he answered, musingly, "of many things." "Tell me at least some of them, if you will," she said. "It is painful to me to see that you do not love my 17   258       PERFECT LOVE Beatrice better. If," he continued, holding her hands in both of his, -" if Beatrice has in-any way hurt you, Grace, it is not in her heart. She would not willingly do wrong to any one. She may be thoughtless, be- cause the world has done all it could to spoil her. and Nature has heaped her favors upon Beatrice more than she has upon most of her children; but when you learn to know her better, you will find how good she is - how true." Grace'iturned away her head; she did not answer him.  "Will you not try for my sake to love her?" he said.. "I do," she answered; "I will, Walter. What you love so dearly must be worthy of love." "In one sense, Grace, everything in this world is a failure; our lives are quickly past; we cannot attain to perfect knowledge in anything; we fall far short in all attainments of what we hoped; our hearts are blighted by sad disappointments; friends are fickle and false to us. At the best, it seems like the con- stant rolling of the rock by Sisyphus, so much force is spent, and nothing is gained; and in the bitterness L of our souls, we cry out, 'Let it end;' but this is not true. No energy, no courage, no love, is lost; that which strengthens our souls, even though it fail to meet with success, leaves its impression upon the earth, and our characters transmit themselves to pos- terity. The nobler each of us is in himself. the nobler will his fellow-beings be; for the influence of one soul upon another is immortal. These are the things that I have been brooding upon. I wanted to say them to you, dear sister."   CASTE TH OUT FEAR.       -259 "Certainly," Grace replied, "if most of us were impregnated with this belief, it would help to sustain us under the greatest afflictions. It helps me to hear you say so; as it is,Rlkis certainly miserably weak to murmur." "It is weak only because it is useless;. we must feel grief, feel it poignantly. As Maicduff says, 'I must first feel it as a man,' but not let it rust away our youth, our powers, and our vitality. We are separate worlds to ourselves, feeling, acting, struggling with an intensity that seems as if it could not die - and it can- not. Life is granted us for the battle, not for repose. It is in- the strife that we become glorious." "I shall think often of what you have said, dear brother." Walter walked to the window, and looked out. "How short the days are at this season! I must be gone. I long to see my darling again. Good by, Grace; you will promise me to be better to-mor- row?" r "Yes, I promise," she said, looking up smiling at him. ' Your words would not be worthy much if they bore no harvest."  W' ill you bid aunt good day for me? Good by, dear, ' he said, putting his arms tenderly about her. Walter shut the door, and turned his face home- wards; for where Beatrice was, there was his home. He quickened-his pace. As he approached the hotel, all the mist that, during his drive with his aunt, had been gathering between himself and Beatrice, was dis- solving. The nearer he drew, the more he felt his heart soften to her. "I am naturally exacting and hard," he said to himself: "What right have I to be   260       PERFECT LOVE so? Thou shouldst be exigent of thyself, but not of others." He dwelt upon the surprise he should make to Beatrice by his unexpected appearance. It was pleasant to bring a look of joy into her sweet face; no cloud should ever linger there, if he could prevent it. How lovely she had appeared as he had left her stand- ing at the landing of the stairs, and looking down after him! God had been gracious to him in giving him the rich treasure of her love -her love for all time. How many there were that trod the beaten path of life alone, without one ray of love to gild it! He had obtained the ideal of his love. He reached the hotel; he glanced up at the windows. Would she be watch- ing for him? It was too early yet for her to await him. He would go in gently; she would be probably writing; he would Ateal noiselessly behind her, and lift the dear face tohis. He passed up the stairs; taking the key from his pocket, put it quietly in the lock, and opened the door. The folding doors were closed; he stepped forward; he saw plainly into the parlor; Beatrice was standing facing the glass door, her head thrown back. It was precisely the same attitude her husband had seen before he left her- before she came out to look so lovingly over the ban- ister at him. It was as if she had not stirred since then. Her lips were raised to meet those of' another. It was as if he were gazing spell-bound into a magic mirror, which retained? its reflections. A man, too, stood near his wife; he was looking down into her eyes, as he himself' had stood and looked into them but a few hours since;-- only he who now bent forward, and received that kiss, was not himself: it was Count Per- -signy I For a moment, Walter was rooted to the spot; --    i!7 CASTETH OUT FEAR.       261 he made a violent effort to move; his body had grown rigid; it no longer obeyed his will. He waited there in silence until he felt that he had -regained his strength; then he turned and went down the stairs, whither he knew not.   1  262'      PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XVI. lINfETTEI had gone to bed. Beatrice put out the candles; then she sat down'gazing vacantly before her. Thus she remained all night. She did not mark the hours now; she did not move, save every now and then to wring her hands helplessly. The morning broke; she heeded it not. By and by the sunlight fell slanting upon her white face, and gilded, the hair Walter had loved so well. She moved away out of the light, as if it pained her. Ninette knocked;-there was no answer. She knocked again and again; no response. She entered. Beatrice did not stir. Ninette stared around her. Where was her master? She went to the folding doors, which still stood wide open, and looked into the chamber. Everything  there was undisturbed. What had happened? "Signora," she cried, " don't look so heart-broken." "I'm going home, Ninette; I'm going home to New York. I do not care for my trunks. You can take allt my things." "Don't talk so, for pity's sake, signora. I don't want any of your things." "O, Ninette, I know it; only I'm .in such a hurry now, I do not know what I am saying. Just pack me up some linen quickly, Ninette; put it in my bag, and give me my plain black silk, and look for my   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       263 porte-monnaie; it is, I think, at the bottom of my trunk. There are a thousand francs in it; that will be enough; and, Ninette, you can stay here. My clothes and jewelry will repay you. You have been very kind to me, Ninette ; I shall not forget it." "a But why can't I go with you, signora? It will be frightful for you to be travelling about alone. You ought to wait, anid get some word about monsieur. I know that you will hear all's right. Miss Grace is dying, perhaps. You know, in this world, you can't count upon anything, and- monsieur may have passed the night there. In his trouble he has forgotten everything else." "I shall never see monsieur again, Ninette," she said, still the vacant look in her eyes. "Now, Ninette, will you be quick? I want to be of. If anybody asks questions about monsieur, say he adored your mistress, and was as good to her as .the day was long. Don't forget that, Ninette."' "Yes, indeed, signora, I -can say that, and not tell a lie, either. But I love you, and I can't let you go alone." "I have not much money, Ninette." "But I can pawn your clothes; I don't want them, and I'll follow you all over the world." "No, Ninette, I haven't time to walt: I must go. I feel restless. Now begin and pack my bag. I should like to see you at work, Ninette." Ninette did not dare to cross her. She unlocked her travelling bag. It was fitted inside with a gold- mounted toilet case. Beatrice covered her face with her hands. "Take those out," she said; "I do not need them."   264       PERFECT LOVE        4 "I won't steal from you, madam, even though you desire it," said the girl. "You feel weak. Let me go and get you a cup of tea or coffee, or some hot broth; it will do you good." Beatrice shook her head. "Go down stairs," she said, " and ask what tine the train starts for Florence. I must leave in the first train; but it is already too late for the morning train, and then, Ninette, dear, when I go out, leaving my trunks and everything, they won't suspect I am going for always. And you take some of my handsome things, sell them, and pay the bill without saying a word, only that we were both called away very un- expectedly, and do with the remainder what you like; it may serve you for a dowry." "I don't want to marry, signora," said the poor girl, crying; "I want to be always with you." "Ninette, you 'are wasting time. Go quickly, and ask about the cars," -Ninette went and returned, saying that a train would leave at midday, but it was a way-train. "I will go in that, Ninette ;, I can't sit here, you know," she said, looking up appealingly at her maid. "It kills me to keep quiet. I am going to see made- moiselle. You will go with me to the station, and see me off. It's half after nine now. Is it not time to be on our way?" "O, no, signora. You'll -starve if you don't take something; do it for my sake." "I could not eat, Ninette-; indeed, I would if I could. Just brush my hair a little. I should not like to attract attention. Put on my dress and my black hat. O, take out that plume, Ninette. How terribly -bright   ,                 .   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       265 those feathers look! Give me a thick veil; the one I wore last night." She walked to and fro. Ninette gazed anxiously at her, and shook her head. "Poor dear! ' she said; " why won't you let me go for Miss Grace; she'd love to come and comfort you with her sweet face." Beatrice shrank back, as if she had suddenly touched something that hurt her. "No, no," she answered, hurriedly-the time was passing. "It is eleven, Ninette --go and call a carriage. It is no matter if we are- too early." But where are you going, signora?" "I am going, Ninette, to Florence, then to Leghorn; from there to Genoa, thence to Paris; from Paris to Havre, and at Havre I take the steamer for New York. I know the route exactly, you see; so you will not be frightened about me."  "But I am frightened, signora; I can't help it." "Do not worry for me. I will get Mademoiselle Coralie to write you, when I arrive safely on the other side. Let us go now." They set forth together. Ninette held Beatrice's bag and her shawl. She had provided that for her mistress's comfort. Ninette hailed a fiacre and ordered the coachman to drive them to the depot for Florence. It was not long before they arrived there. They still. had half an hour to wait., Beatrice could not, as she said, sit stilly she walked nervously up atnd down the platform, whilst Ninette went to the bureau to purchase her ticket. "Give me your address," she said, presently, to her maid. "I mean where a letter would be likely to   266       PERFECT LOVE find you. Who knows but that I may need it. And, Ninette, if you see monsieur, stop him wherever it may be,--remember these were my last words to you, -and tell him how I loved him, and say that I hated the count. He won't mind if you tell him so, Ninette."- Then it was, for the'first time, that Ninette's Italian heart suggested to her that monsieur had been driven away by jealousy. At length the whistle sounded. "Is that my train?"'asked Beatrice. "I do not know, madam; let us go into the saloon- and listen if we hear the men call out Florence." In a moment more' the great double doors were flung open, and amongst a quantity of indescribable names of places, Ninette heard him sing out Firenze. , Yesfsignora," she said, sobbing, " it is time you were off." Beatrice turned to Ninette. "Good by,-' she said. Bending forward, she kissed Ninette's cheek. "Thank you, Ninette, for all your kindness to me. You shall hear from me before long. Good by." Ninette could not speak. She helped her mistress into the train-first class. She gave her one last look of tender gratitude and affection. .The door was banged to by a railroad official, and Ninette, too much overcome to trust herself to turn back, went on her lonely way to the hotel. Beatrice did pot think to look after Ninette. She felt no emotion, she was stunned. She did not con- sider the distance she was going, nor where she should stop, only onward, forward, to see Coralie. The cars fled on- past towns, villages, cities. It was over the Ii   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       '267 same road Walter and she had travelled more than a month ago. Beatrice sank into a corner of the car- riage, taking no cognizance of anything that passed around her. After she had ridden thus for several hours, whilst the train drew up at a new station, she put her head out of the window, and, calling to one of the officials, asked,- "Does this train go through to Leghorn to-night?" "No, signorina." "Are there any cars leaving Florence, that I could take, that would convey me there to-night?" "Is not the signorina afraid to travel alone at night?" the conductor replied, with a most unpleasant smile of admiration; for Beatrice, unmindful of herself; had flung back her veil. At the same moment a young man sauntered by, with Italian eyes, and an Italian mustache and imperial, in servile imitation of his sovereign. "Feramente bella," * he exclaimed loud enough to be perfectly audible, staring at Beatrice. She drew back into her place again. There was-no sensation now of pleasure in the vulgar praise of a stranger. To her it had been the same had he said, "Veramente brutta." t The cars stopped at length at the  Florentine depot; it was late and dark. She looked out; she could not stay there. She should go mad with the pressure of memory. "Who will give me any information?" she thought, in despair. Taking up her bag, she followed the stream of pas- sengers just let loose from their railroad bondage. The official who had  addressed her previously ap- proached her. *-Truly beautiful.   t Truly ugly.   268       PERFECT LOE    * "Could I be of any service to the signorina?" "You are exceedingly impertinent," said Beatrice. "I will report you if you speak to me again." "Per bacco! A girl-of spirit as well as beauty," rmuttered the official, proceeding on his way. Beatrice pushed on with the crowd. There was amongst them an old gentleman; he was evidently English. He looked serious and kindly. She waited ,a minute until he came nearer where she stood. "Please, sir," she said, stepping up to him, "will you tell me where I can find out if there be any con- veyance to Leghorn this evening?" He directed her politely to headquarters, pointing her the way to the directors' desk. No; there was no train until early the next day. Beatrice glanced around her in blank misery. Must she spend the night, then; in Florence"? That was too- terrible! The elderly gentleman whom she had addressed had watched her movements.- There was something in the expression of her face that seemed to need pro- tectiota. He came forward. "Perhaps I may be of assistance to you," he said. "You appear to be a stranger." "O, sir," she answered, "I am alone, called sud- denly home. I have a long journey before me. Would you tell me of a respectable hotel? I hoped to con- tinue on, to-night, but I find that it is not possible." "If you will get into my carriage," he said, "I will take you to a hotel where I am well known. To- morrow morning I leave for Leghorn ; it is my place of residence, and I would willingly accompany you." Beatrice did not hesitate; she got into the coach. He ordered the man to drive to the Hotel Inglese.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       269 "Thank God," she said to herself, " it was not there where she had staid with her husband." She leaned her head back on the cushion; she was faint and ex- hausted. Her companion remarked her pallor; he felt sympathy for her lonely condition, but he did not wish to intrude his presence upon her. They stopped at the hotel. "Will you let me help you out?" he said. "I will attend to procuring your room." "Thank you, sir; you are very kind," she answered, wearily. The servant ushered her into a parlor; there she waited until he returned. ; "Step this way," he said, showing her into a room. She shut the door; then she began restlessly pacing to and 'fro, and wringing her hands as she went. Some one knocked; she opened the door. "The gentleman who brought you, miss, says he is going to take dinner; he wishes to know if you will dine with him." "Thank him, and say I do not care to eat anything; I am too tired to come down stairs. Can you tell me at what hour the cars leave in the morning for Leg- horn?" "The first train leaves here at seven o'clock, miss." "Say to the gentleman that I shall be ready to start in the early train." No sooner had the domestic disappeared than Bea- trice recommenced her monotonous pacing of the floor. It was impossible to remain quiet. Her only help seemed in this constant motion. The hours wore on; she had eaten not a morsel all day. Overborne by utter exhaustion, she threw herself at length upon the bed, and for ashort while became unconscious of her   270       PERFECT LO'VE wretchedness. She waked from this transient rest with a wild start; she flung out her arms and looked around her; then she cowered down again among the pillows, and tried to shut away once more her misery; but it wass in vain. She sought to rise; her limbs were stiff and .cold as marble. Her strength must not fail her now; she had to go pn-- on until she could find some one she loved again; perhaps Coralie; it might be Harry; they were the only two left her. She made-another effort; she dragged herself with dif- ficulty across the chamber, and rang the bell. "Bring me a cup of coffee," she said to the man who answered it; " please bring it quickly, fobr I leave in the first train." "Will the signora have something to eat?" "Nothing; thank you." The man returned with a small tray, a pot, of coffee, a pitcher of hot milk, and a few square pieces of sugar piled on a saucer., Beatrice poured out the coffee, and drank it down, black as it was. It nerved her for the moment to make her toilet. She went down stairs then, to be prepared for the stage-coach that would take her to the cars; they might forget her, she feared. In the hall she met her new acquaintance; he was waiting for her. He aided her to mount the steps of the omnibus. i"I hope you rested well?" he inquired. "O, yes," she said. "Have you had your breakfast?." he asked. "No; I did not care for anything; I took a cup of coffee." "' My dear young lady," he said, " allow me the priv- ilege of an old man.- You cannot continue on your , ,z       t CASTETH OUT FEAR.       271 journey without eating; you must take something to sustain life."  - "I will, thank you, by and by." And she relapsed into silence. "Shall I purchase your ticket for you?" he asked, when they reached the station. -"I should be grateful to you if you would." He placed her in a comfortable seat in one of the compartments. "Take the corner; nobody will disturb you." He came back shortly after with her ticket. "Since we are travelling together, let me relieve you of all the trouble I can," he said, taking her shawl from her and adjusting it to make a pillow for her head." She looked up to thank him; her lips moved, but her words were not audible. She was thinking of the beloved hand that had performed all these kindly acts for her so lately. The cars were moving again; on they whirled. Beatrice, drawn back into her corner, sat motionless, heeding nothing that passed around her. Her thick veil screened her from observation. She gazed vacantly before her into the dark depths of her lonely despair. When they had arrived at Leg- horn, her companion said to her,- "The boat does not leave until evening." "Does it not?" she asked, with an expression of disappointment. "No; but we have proved good travelling comrades thus far, and I am not willing to separate company yet. With your permission I shall take you to my home, where my wife will give you something to eat, and I hope we shall be able to send you, somewhat re- freshed, on your way."   272       PERFECT LOVE "O, no, I cannot," said Beatrice, looking distressed, shrinking from the thought of meeting strangers. "You will not be obliged to exert yourself in the least? he said, interpreting her gesture. "Mrs. Leonard is the kindest of women; we live entirely alone in our little house; nobody will interfere with you." "You are too good to me," said Beatrice, feeling for the instant less wretched at the sense that she had a true protector near her; "I will accept of your hospi- tality-with gratitude." They drove together to a pretty cottage which fronted the sea, with its gable windows. Mr. Leon- ard took out his latch key, and jumping from the coach, saying, -"Wait here a moment," he disappeared into his house. He soon returned bringing with him a dear looking old lady, -so Beatrice thought, - with a face full of motherhood. 'Her husband, during his short ab- sence, had hastily gained her interest for the beautiful young traveller. "Come in, my dear," she said; "you are weary." The voice was so kind that spoke to Beatrice it touched her heart; the tears sprang to her eyes; they were the first she had shed since she had found Wal. ter's glove upon the threshold,of her chamber. She had, indeed, need both of rest and refreshment. She followed Mrs. Leonard into her parlor. "There, my dear child, you will be alone. Take off your hat, and I will see that a room is prepared for you." 7 In a short time she returned, and conducted Beatrice to her chamber. She judged by the look of the sad J '   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       273 face of the young girl that she would prefer that these little offices should be performed by a friendly hand than by a servant. She took off Beatrice's clodk and smoothed back her hair. "'Now," she said, "I will go and get you a cup of broth." She soon returned bringing it. ' Eat this," she said; "you will not refuse me." Beatrice looked up gratefully at her. "I will try; but lately it seems to choke me when I attempt to swallow anything." "I shall not leave you," said her new friend," until I see you take some of it." Beatrice drank down a few draughts. "It tastes good," she said. "I am glad to hear you say so," said Mrs. Leonard; "poor child, your hands and head are quite feverish. You ought to have some one near you who knows how to take care of you." "I know a great many people," said Beatrice; "I am not always so alone." "No, I am sure of that. You are married, my dear?" looking down at the plain gold ring on Bea- trice's finger. "You are very young." "Yes," said Beatrice, a slight flush tingeing her pale cheeks; "I am married."  "Now I am going, and you -shall rest Will you promise me to lie down and be quiet?"' "Yes," Beatrice answered. As Mrs Leonard closed the door, she murmured, "Quiet outward; but who shall still this inward fire that is consuming me? O, Walter, Walter, can you not forgive? O, my God I! what has become of my husband? How he must hate me I 92   PERFECT LOVE No; he told me once that when those whom one loved proved unworthy of that love, they merely ceased to existPfor you; they became as things that never had been. Is that my fate ? 0, how he loved me once! I was the light of his eyes! he often said so. It is ex- tinguished now. I cannot bear it," she murmured, putting her hands to her head, " it will kill me. How I should like to die, if I could only die in his arms, and hear his last words, 'Beatrice, I love you!' --I should not care, then, where I went. My heaven would have been on earth." She sat for a long time, thinking. " No," she said; " then I should be separated from him forever in the other world; that would be too terrible." She shuddered. " And suppose I could forget him. I would rather suffer the sense of acute misery than to be deprived of his memory." She had lain down to seek some repose. Her heart was beating again, so that she could get no rest. She turned to and fro upon her pillow.- By and by some one tapped at the door, and then opened it gently. Beatrice lay quite still, her eyelids closed. Mrs. Leonard shut the door again quietly. "She is asleep, poor thing I'" she said, as she moved away. After along while Mrs. Leonard came again to the room, and looked in. Beatrice roused herself. " You have been sleeping, my dear. Will you come down to dinner ?" Beatrice got up, and followed her to the door. " I would much rather remain here, if you would let me," she said. "Do as you wish, my dear, only you must eat some- thing."   CA sTETH OUT FEAR.             275 She sent up a waiter temptingly covered with pretty china and savory food. Beatrice tried to eat; she could not. She only longed now for the hour toarrive when she might be on her journey again. The even- ing seemed so far off to her; but gradually the hours wore away, Beatrice still sitting with her hands clasped over her knees, looking vacantly out at the rippled sea. -At last the carriage came to the house to take her. Mr. Leonard insisted on accompanying her to the shore. She bade farewell to her kind hostess. " I shall never forget your goodness to me as long as I live. My name is Beatrice  Sinclair," she said, with trembling lips. She did not dare trust herself to pronounce his name. "And besides," she thought, he has ceased to think of me as his wife. His love is dead. I obtained his name falsely; I have no claim to it." -" Some one will write you when I reach home, and thank you, and tell you that I am safe. Good by." Good by, my dear Mrs. Sinclair," said Mrs. Leonard, taking her hand in both of hers, and may God guide you on your way." Mr. Leonard stood on the wharf, and waved his hand as Beatrice was rowed out of sight by the bulky oarsmen. She was in full time for the steamer that was to convey her to Genoa, where she arrived the next morning early enough to take the train that was to cross the Mont Cenis, and bear her to Paris. She reached Paris without any further adventure, where she found that she should have barely time, continuing her route without interruption, to catch the Havre steamer. On she went, by day and by   276       PERFECT LOVE night, taking that fragmentary rest which came in snatches to her for a few moments at a time, scarcely breaking her fast. She thought not of fatigue or hunger. She was impelled by a wild impulse, if not of hope for the future, at least of some cessation to her present agony of mind.     CASTETH OUT FE4AR.       2" CHAPTER   X'-IX. THE season was far advanced when Beatrice set sail from Havre for New York. The voyage was rough. Beatrice lay day after day in her berth. The stewardess urged her to go on deck. She shook her head silently, turning her face to the wall, as if; she did not wish to be disturbed. The stewardess brought her every delicacy that she imagined might tempt her appetite. It was in vain. She said she would call the doctor of the steamer to her. Beatrice absolutely refused to see him. Who this mysterious passenger was, whom the' stewardness reported to be so beautiful and so peculiar, nobody could find out. In lieu of other excitements, the secluded beauty became a subject of great interest. The captain came one day to her cabin. The door being ajar, he put his head in. - "How are you getting along?" "Well, thank you, captain." "Afraid of the storms, eh?" "No, captain." "A little walk up stairs would cheer you up." "I would rather not." "Lonesome, eh?" There was no answer. The captain turned about, and went back.   278     L  PERFECT LOVE "Pretty creature," he reported; " but I can't make much out of her.*" She had'risen from her berth now. All day she sat gazing out of her little porthole into the black waves that dashed up, and broke one by one against it. She was'thinking with anguish of the sweet days of bliss, now forever gone, that not long since she had passed on this same ocean, with her husband by her side- him who had watched over her as tenderly as if she had been a child, who had forestalled her every wish, who had made earth a garden of paradise to her. Day after day she sat thus, counting, by the pulsations of her heart, the bright moments of the past. -There was a hurry and bustle, a sudden rushing through the gangways, cries of, "Land, land!" "We are at home!" "Hurrah for America!"The shouts and noise pierced the state-room door of Beatrice's cabin. She heard them; she started up. Then she returned to her little opening into the sea, and looked carefully out; she could discern nothing save water. Still she could not be mistaken; she surely had heard the well-known cry of "'land." It was, too, a long time, was it not, since she had left the other side? She strained her eyes to catch a glimpse of the shore, but only dark waves were heaving up in the dim dis- tance; still she sat there, keeping her eyes fastened upon the misty horizon. Presently she thought she saw a smell black speck rise from it. She gazed breathless; it grew more and more distinct. Yes, at length it loomed up - the land of her native country. She was nearing the spot where she should find friends -help. She stretched out her arms. "Cora- lie I 'Harry!" she cried, " come to me!" There was   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       279 no answer, save the rolling of the sea against her win- dow. She gathered up the few things she had brought with her, put on her hat, and then sat down, ready to go, watching still the distant shore, as it rose from the ocean as if by magic, whilst steeples and houses sprang from it. It was her own city- -New York. "Arn't you glad to get home?-" said a young, fresh voice, just out- side of Beatrice's cabin. How happy it sounded! Had it never known any pain? never ached with unending sorrow? No, it was the voice of youth and innocence. Beatrice covered her face with her hands, and tried to shut away the voice. She wished she could shut away all sound and sight forever. The talking, laughing, and shouting became louder and louder. Everybody was preparing to leave. The ship had stopped. Puff went the smoke again; another stop; a hauling of ropes and shuffling of planks. They had landed. Beatrice, who had been sitting for hours with her bag on her arm prepared to go, waited now until the first rush was over; then she opened her door, and crept out of the narrow cell where she had been immured alive for fourteen days. Some young men had waited, curious to find out who she could be, and if the reports of her beauty were not exagger- ated. Her veil was drawn tight over her face, and, their curiosity was but heightened by the pains she took to conceal herself. She glided like a phan- tom up the stairs, over the plank. Poor thing! she was more at a loss where to go, in her own town, than she had yet been. It was more lonely than ever not to be going home. What if Laura should know of her degradation, and her suffering? Never: the very thought gave her courage to act. She hailed a cab   280       PERFECT LOVE and drove to the Fifth Avenue Hotel. She asked timidly for a chamber. She had very little money left. She would like, she said, "to have a cheap room, one in the fourth story."  After some time she was shown up to it by an unwilling domestic. She locked her door, and resuming her accustomed hopeless attitude, she sat looking before her until the shadows of the afternoon began again to darken the chamber; then she deposited her bag. took the key from the latch, and went out. It was twilight. She was not likely to be recognized at this hour. She must go home. Home! How strangely it echoed on her dull heart I Home to find out where Corahe was. She was so thickly shrouded by her veil I It was the veil that she had bought to-protect her fair complex- ion from the -reflections of the water, when she started on her bridal trip with Walter. -Now it veiled her from her father's house. She'walked wearily along the pavement. How natural everything seemed! how unchanged! Beatrice felt as if she had come b'ack from the dead to look at the living. Was it, indeed, herself? she, the courted young heiress, wandering homeless, alone, in the darkening evening. She hur- ried forward, up the Fifth Avenue. She stopped at her own door, went up the steps, and rang the bell. The door was opened by a new man-servant. "Is Mademoiselle de Blois staying here?" she asked in an assured foreign accent. "No, miss; Mrs. Sinclair lives here." "Will you kindly ask if the lady of the house will give me Mademoiselle de Blois' address; she did live with her once." "Certainly, miss."   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       281 The man went into the parlor. Beatrice heard him ask the question, and Laura's reply. "Mademoiselle de Blois! How they do run after her! She should have left a man-servant to tend the door in her absence. Yes, here is her card; she did have the complaisance to leave her direction, in case any one called. Here; give this to the person." Laura's voice, and Laura's words! Two months had swept past her also; she was unaltered. "Per- haps she would not recognize me," thought Beatrice. "How long it is since I have seen myself in a glass! I may have grown old and ugly." She took the card from the man's hand and left. She cast a glance back at the house as she gained the last step- -her home, her room, her youth, all gone, and she the wreck of her former self. She got into an omnibus, and rode to Fifty-first Street, Mrs. Van Brunt's. It was there that Corahe was to be found. "Was Mademoiselle de Blois at home?" "No, miss," was the answer. "When would she be in?"      ' The man went to ask. He returned, saying that mademoiselle had gone out to spend the evening. What should she do? Wait? No,-she could not; she must be going again.- Beatrice asked for a pencil and a bit of paper. She wrote on it,- "Come to me immediately, no matter at what hour you return; Fifth Avenue Hotel, No. 300." Coralie would come. She went back, up to her dark room, and waited hour after hour. It seemed late to her. She pulled her bell. "What time is it, please?" she asked of the man who was growling at the toil he had In mounting so   282       PERFECT LOVE high. He felt his heart somewhat touched at her sick look and her gentle voice. it It's eleven o'clock, lady." She sat down again and waited. She heard the gentlemen come up stairs--one by one, and bang to their doors. It was very late. She said, "Coralie has-failed me; and now I utterly forget where I went for her - the street, the house, the number.: I have forgotten everything save my own misery." She began sobbing lowly to herself. There was a slight rustle of garments in the hall. Beatrice sprang up. She listened tremulpusly. A clear voicei "Yes, I will find the number, now that I am on the right floor." The door was opened, and Beatrice fell in Coralie's arms. There she lay almost unconscious. Coralie lifted her to the sofa, and laid her head back on the pillows. Was this, indeed, Beatrice? She looked up at Coralie. They neither of them spoke. Was this 'the blooming bride, loving and-- beloved? Coralie's worst fears were surely more than realized. She smoothed back the once bright-hair from her friend's brow; it seemed to have lost its light now. Beatrice clung to her as if she would never let her go again. "Coralie," said Beatrice at length, faintly, "Coralie, I am alone, abandoned, disgraced. Do not leave me to die."  "Do not be frightened," said Coralie; "I will stay by you, my poor child I " You do not look as if you would need me long," she said to herself. "Coralie, I love Walter with all my soul."- "Where is he-?" said Coralie. --do not know,' she answered, with a low wail. "Have you eaten anything to-day?" asked Coralie, ; . .  ,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       283- trying to show courage, and to distract Beatrice's thoughts, so that she might gather strength before she told her any more. It would be time enough when she grew calmer. "I don't know," said Beatrice. "You don't know? You naughty child, you must eat something immediately." "I want to see Harry, Coralie. Perhaps he can help me."' "Harry is in Boston, I believe," said Coralie. "Telegraph to him, Coralie. Tell him to come. He will do anything for you. Don't say I want him." "Yes, dear. I will do anything you desire," 'aid Coralie, gently, "if you will eat for my sake." "Do with me as you wish," said Beatrice, plain- tively. "It is hard for me to eat. It chokes me. It has been so ever since - "But you are not going to starve," said Coralie, getting up to ring the bell. Beatrice uttered a low scream. "Are you going?" she cried.  F "No, no, dearest," said Coralie, deeply moved. "I am only going to send for some supper." Beatrice cowered down on the sofa, and was silent again. The servant came,  He said that it was against the regulations of the hotel to serve meals after midnight. Everybody was abed. "Well," said Coralie, when he had gone, " since we are obliged to wait until to-morrow morning for some- thing to eat, at least you will follow the other rules of nature, and sleep." "With you by me, I will try," said Beatrice.   284:      PERFECT LOVE Coralie undressed her. She made no more resist- ance than if she had been, as Coralie called her, " a child."  Then Coralie sat down by the' bed, and stroked her head to quiet her. It was so long that Beatrice had wandered about alone, and known no rest, that the sweet consolation of Coralie's presence soothed her spirit. She lay quiet under Coralie's strong influ- ence, and presently she fell into a soft sleep, the first she had known for sixteen days and nights. Coralie did not stir. She watched the poor, wan face with a feeling of almost strange incredulity. Was it, indeed, Beatrice, the brilliant girl, fortune's darling? This emaciated, sad face, with the heavy lines under the eyes? Her hands, as they lay folded over her breast, looked almost transparent, Several times Coralie leaned anxiously forward, and listened. It seemed to her as if Beatrice did not breathe, so death-like was her slumber. The hours of night rang out. Coralie felt fresh courage, as one dfter the other they passed. Every moment that she rested was a gain. It was six O'clock- in the morning before Beatrice awakened. She started up and stared around her. "Coralie!" she cried. "I am here, Beatrice." "And Harry?" "Harry, I told you, was away.' "Telegraph him," she said, clasping her hands. 'u He must come. Some one must help me." -"First, you must have some breakfast; then we-will talk over everything, and Harry and I will do for you all that we can."   CASTE TH OUT FEAR.       285 '; There is no time to lose," said Beatrice, ner-  vously."  "We gain time," said Coralie, "by using it when our faculties are clearest and strongest. Without food, you cannot make any plans that are feasible." "1 ubmit myself to you, Coralie. Please give me broth..I It is easier to drink than to eat." Coralie rang for some broth. She slipped a bill into the waiter's hand. "Don't say it is too early," she said, " or make any excuses. Bring it quickly, and let it be strong and good. If it is not, I will complain of you to the house- keeper, and you will be dismissed." The man saw she was in earnest. Frightened for his place, he withdrew in a hurry to fulfil her order, and in less than half an hour returned with the broth, some rolls, and a piece of butter. i"You will take something, Coralie." "Yes, indeed - of course I shall. I am almost starved. I would not let anything so good go with- out enjoying it. We will breakfast together. I am sorry I did not order some coffee, but it was almost too early to call for a regular meal." She arranged the pillows so as to raise Beatrice in the bed. "There, now, drink," she said. Beatrice sipped a little. Then she leaned wearily back. "That won't do," said Coralie. "You must genu- inely eat, or I shall not listen to anything you may have to say afterwards; and worse still, I will not act upon it, nor telegraph for Harry, or do anything you want me to."   286 -      PERFECT LOVE It was Coralie's way of coaxing Beatrice. Sihe drew the tray towards her, and began eating, with an apparent appetite. Beatrice took-a piece of the roll which Coralie handed her. She tried to taste it. Then her hand fell powerless by her side.  v "I will drink some more broth," she said, "it is so nice., , She took a draught of it, and sank back again ex- hausted. "I wonder where all my strength has gone," she said. "I feel as if I could notisit up." You will get strong again,l said Coralie, " if you only eat and sleep as you have done to-day." "Then I have pleased you," said Beatrice, looking up at her with something of the child-like expression which Coralie used to see in her face. " Yes," she answered, "I am satisfied with you for the present."  "Then, Coralie, go and send a telegram to Harry. Say; ' Come. I want you. Come immediately.'  Coralie wrote the telegram, and ringing the bell, gave it to the servant, with commands that it should be sent right away. "Lock the door) dear Coralie, and come here. I want to tell you all - all." Coralie sat down again on the bedside, and took her friend's hands in hers. "O, Coralie, we'were so happy I He was every- thing to me. He loved me; I loved him. You will believe me now; I have suffered so," she said, raising her hand to her head, " that I cannot be false now. I told him I Alas not engaged to the-to that other.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       287 O, you know who. He found a love-letter at Elms- wood of his to me, written when I was a girl, but as my name was not there, he did not suspect mne. He will recall it now. He thought I was all truth. He despised from the bottom of his soul what was not true. He often told me so. I have been engaged several times, Coralie, but this last was the worst. After I went to Rome, I entreated Grace to have pity upon my love, for-for her brother. and never to let him know my perfidy. She was generous. He did not learn it through her, but I met that terrible man when, I thought he was not there. . Then he wrote, and I said it was from you. He asked for an inter- view. He said he would give back my letters to me. I made an excuse for staying at home, and he came. He was very passionate. He ifrightened me. He said the letters were mine - if if I would give him one kiss, for a last farewell. He would never see me again, and I was forever free. I could not get my letters by any other means; and I feared if he kept them I should never be at peace. It grew late. I was so afraid lest he might return, for they had come near fighting once; the count had challenged him whilst we were at father's'; and he was so brave that he refused to fight. He risked his life a thousand times in our war. Harry said he was recklessly fear- less. So, then, Coralie, I gave that other what he asked for, and- H-kissed him. I thought all was ended then. Afterwards I waited for him to return. O, Coralie," she said, sobbing long, convulsive sobs, "the agony of that time! He. did not come. Afterwards, I found the door of my room open into the entry, and his-glove lying upon the sill. The doors that led   288       PERFECT LOVE into the parlor where we were, were glass. You could see through them from my chamber, but I could not see in there. O, Coralie!" "That will do, darling," said Coralie, gently. "There, now rest."          '  "No. But, Coralie, I shall go mad if somebody does not help me.,'L "What do you want us to do, dear?" "Bring him back, bring him back to me!" "Where is he, Beatrice?" "I don't know," she answered, with the low, hope- less wail, like a child in pain. "Harry must find out." "Where does his aunt live?" questioned Coralie. "I can't remember. If I ,rere there I could go to the house. : But I often sit and try to think. Some- times, Coralie, I forget, their names. Do you think I shall ever find out where they are?" "Well,' said Coralie, speaking courageously, and feeling helpless enough, "we will wait till Harry comes. Of course  vou   will recall the number and the street, afteri you have had another night's sleep."  "Do you think I shall?" looking up trustingly at Coralie. "Is Harry coming, Coralie?" "Yes, dear, he is coming."7 Corahe had as yet received no answer from him, but she felt sure that he would come. "O," said Beatrice-" suddenly, " bring me-my dress, Coralie. Let me feel in the pocket-  yesyes thank God, it is there!- her card -Ninette. She will let us know everything she can." "That is all that is necessary," said Coralie.. She I .....   CASTE TH OUT FEAR.       289 took the card. "Let me go out for a moment. I promise you sacredly to -retfurn in less than ten minutes." Beatrice looked agitated. "You, can trust me," said Coralie.   o She ran down stairs hastily to the telegraph office, and leaning on the desk, wrote, "Send me Mrs. Le Roy's address immediately, by telegraph. Despatch paid on this side. Beatrice Leigh." She directed it carefully to Ninette's address in Rome. paid for it, impressed the man who presided at, 'the 'wires that it was of the utmost importance, and then she hastened up stairs to Beatrice. No answer came from Harry. All day Coralie sat by Beatrice's bedside, for Coralie's pity wag love. She sought to keep up Beatrice's courage.  She ordered her meals to be brought to her friend's room. She tried to make her eat with her, but Beatrice could not. Her long journey alone, in a- state of mind bordering upon desperation, when she had gone almost entirely without food, and had scarcely known an hour's rest, had left her more ill than she cared to confess to Coralie, or to herself. Beatrice would turn her head restlessly on the pil- low, whilst Coralie listened intently for every coming step. "No word from Harry? ' And when Coralie answered, "Not yet, dear," she would close her eyes, and lie listlessly for hours with- out speaking. The day and night passed thus. Corahe had sent a second despatch to Harry. The following morning the answer came. Coralie stood with it .in her hand 19 ^    ,*-                 / S   290       PERFECT LOV E at Beatrice's bedside. It said, "I will be with you at nine o'clock, P.,M. Harry Sinclair." ( Thank God, he is coming!" said Beatrice, her cheek flushing. "Harry will not scold now -will he, Coralie?" "No, no, Beatrice, nobody will scold you, dear." "Thank you, Coralie. He will be sure to come-- will he not?"    '  "Yes, Beatrice." The day dragged by, with the, same weary monot- ony of the two past ones. At a little before nine in the evening, Coralie heard a quick step through the entry. She ran to the door.       " "Thank Heaven, you have come!" she said, in a whisper, extending her hand to him. "Beatrice is here. Not one word. Do not reproach her; express no surprise at any change you may perceive. Go in, ]now."  Harry stepped in, and went up to Beatrice's bed. Notwithstanding Coralie's hasty- preparation for an alteration in'his sister's appearance, he could scarcely steady his voice as he spoke to her. He bent down and pressed his lips to her cheek. / "Do not kiss me, Harry," she said, shuddering, and hiding her face. Harry turned away. He went to the window to ! conceal his emotion; the tears swam in his eyes. "Harry,' said Beatrice, feebly. "What is it, dear?" "Harry, Coralie will tell you all-you will do something for me- Coralie has promised it." She raised herself in bed, and clasped her hands.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       291 Coralie beckoned him to follow her. She led him into her room. The door stood open into that of Beatrice. "Myv God I " he exclaimed, in an undertone. "What is it?" "You must go to Europe," Coralie answered. "To Europe2?" said Harry, aghast. Europe was far away from Coralie. "Yes; either you or I must go." "What has happened to my sister? Where is Leigh?" "You must go, and not return until you find him. Bring him to her or she will die. She has deceived him deeply, but she loved him always. Tell him she is dying. He cannot refuse to come; he must come," she said, authoritatively. "When shall I leave?" asked Harry, not for a mo- ment hesitating to fulfil any command of Coralie's. ' To-morrow; there is a steamer leaving.2 ' To-morrow, Coralie?" "Yes. Beatrice had forgotten, in her troubles, his sister's address. I telegraphed to Ninette and re- ceived, most fortunately, an answer to-day. This is the direction to his aunt's house inr Rome. Thid will tell you where to find Ninette; she may be of assist- ance to you. You will travel night and day. Let me know by telegraph when you arrive on the other side, when you reach Rome, when you find Mr. Leigh, and when you start homeward. A man rarely interprets the anxiety of a woman's mind. A hope in time may save her life." 'u Coralie," called Beatrice from her chamber.   292       PERFECT LOVE "I am here, Beatrice." "And Harry?" "He is herq, too, dear." ( Will he help me?" 'Coralie went in to Beatrice. "Yes, dear; I have found out your aunt's address. Harry leaves to-mor- row for Rome."          "O, Coralie!"She. leaned back upon her pillow and shut her eyes. "Coralie, I am grateful to you and-to Harry. I see everything now; I am afraid to think. All my faults rise before me, like human beings. They have stood at my bedside all night." "Dbn't talk about i,'" said Coralie; " do not look at them. God is merciful. He forgives those who suffer." "Does he surely, Coralie?  "Yes, dear." -Coralie went back to Harry; he was walking the room. What did she want?" he said. "O, only to' know what we were talking about. I would go myself to Europe, but I think, perhaps, I can comfort her better by remaining here. She needs a woman's care." "She does, indeed. God bless you, Coralie." He turned away and continued to walk the floor; then he stopped before her, and said, "Coralie, may I bear any hope away with me?" She looked up at him; his eyes were bent intently upon her. a I should be untrue to myself and to you," she said, "if I deceived you." -She took the newspaper from- the table. ,' You have read the news,?" she said,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        293. pointing to it. "My country is at war with Prussia. Were it not for Beatrice I should set sail immediately for France. My mother is in Paris; but the nearest sorrows are those that need us most." "Well," he said, "and how would that interfere with my hopes? Could I not follow you?" "No, Harry," she answered, gently. "No; I must be free. If the war continues, I' must nurse the sick and the dying. There is too much trouble in the world; too few to minister to it. I cannot think of my own idle happiness; I have no right to it. To be a faithful companion to any man, my time, my tastes, my devotion, should be his. Leave me to work out my own destiny. I am one of the few who can live alone." Harry drew a heavy sigh. "It was mean of me," he said, " to ask for a recom- pense."  "No, Harry; it was natural." "Coralie," called the voice from within. "I am here, Beatrice, dear." "Is Harry there still?" "Yes, Beatrice." "Tell him I love him," she said. "Perhaps he feels lonely." Coralie went back into her room. "Beatrice bids me say she loves you." "I am grateful for any love," he answered. "Good night; I must be off. I have many arrangements to make before leaving. I will go now to the ticket office. Do not fear; if the state-rooms are all engaged, I will sleep on the deck. I shall obey-every one of your directions. You shall hear from me regularly.   294       PERFECT LOVE I will do all in my' power. I will not bid farewell to Beatrice; say it for me." Coralie gave him a look of gratitude. "Good by," she said. He pressed her hand to his lips - and was gone. "O   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       295 CH A PTER XX. ALTER  LEIGH had left the hotel-the home of his lost happiness-on that fatal day, and had wandered out; he knew not where. Everything that life held of hope, faith, and love had suddenly been wrested from him. He could not stop to think. He only knew that he bore with him some knowledge that had blasted his fu- ture ; that the sense of some immeasurable misery was tracking his path. It was dark night, and he was still walking rapidly on. He retraced his steps; the lights of the city struck on his eyes; he turned back again. He came at length on a lonelier road, where the din of the city was hushed. He turned into the Coliseum, and sat down upon a stone. He thirsted for blood; that seemed now the uppermost feeling in his heart. Could he but take a human life! Why had he not killed' him before? If he could but see him lying dead be- fore him, slain by his own hand, it seemed to him that it would still something of his wretchedness. At last he roused himself and looked around him. "What could it do?" he uttered in his anguish. "What could it give back? What could it replace?"If he stopped to think, he feared his mind would lose its balance. Her words of love, her eyes resting upon him full of tender passion, her kisses I Was love all Ofi *   296       PERFECT LOVE a mockery?- "'My God!" he exclaimed, "what was the use of it? What did she gain by it? What was jt all for? She had been free to marry where she chose. Why had she passed through these mocking ceremonies? And could acting seem so real? The first days he had met her; her avoidance of that other; her desire to attract his attention; his own admira- tion; the interview at midnight with that man, when she, unknown to him, had been present; the count's su-den disappearance; her engagement with himself; those days of unalloyed joy: her anxious fears when he left her to make preparations for their marriage; his return; the wedding; the letter he had found upon the stove-- Carissima, diviia fanciulla;" the dark words turned to ashes,- seemed written in fire before 1 his eyes now. Her embarrassment when he had al- luded to it; that evening before Castellani's windows;  the person who had called; the two consecutive days when she had remained at home-it was after that evening; the letter which had made her face burn scarlet;- she said it was from Coralie ;--all these circumstances now rose clear before him, and glared at him like hideous spectres. He groaned aloud. To forget her was all that was left for him. Could he forget?  He could end it all by taking his own life; but that was a mean, cowardly act. The problem of existence could not be solved by ending it. If he was placed in this world, it must be for some purpose ; we must wait until the eynd. Because for him it had proved hollow and false, and its draught had been mixed with the bitterest sorrow and disgrace, should he shrink from  its fatality? No one, save he, could   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       297 dishonor himself. His name and his soul remained untarnished if he core his fate bravely, like a man. To bewail it was miserably weak and unmanly. Had he been true to the guidance of his better nature; he could not have loved, save what had been truly high. He had been misled by beauty; he deserved his des- tiny. For long hours he sat with his head bowed. The gray morning broke, and' still found him resting on thaet stone, immovable as if he had been carved upon it. At length he rose up and glanced about him. Could the day bring with it the same light it used to? O, if the end would but come! Could he not rest? Mighthe never beapy  again? Happy ?  He laughed aloud. What was happiness? A belief i ,what did not exist; a madness of the senses; a bright lie. Where should he go now? He had no habitation- no home.- Should lie wander about all the remainder of his days, aimless and objectless? He laughed again, and his laughter resounded against the walls where he stood, as if inderision of his woe. He staggered as - he listened to it.' It died away; it seemed to him as- if it passed out from the light of his youth, and buried itself in the gray ruins of despair. The city was be- ginning to stir again. He must be gone. He must hide his misery; no human eye should gloat upon it. He dragged himself back towards Rome. He turned into the first inn he saw, and, asking for a room, he shut himself in alone with his anguish. By'and by he thought of Grace; he could not have her nursing anxieties and fears with regard to him. By this time she would have' sent for him-have gone herself to find where he was. He went out into the growing   298       PERFECT LOVE twilight, and rang at his aunt's door. He asked for his sister, and was immediately shown to her chamber. She sprang forward to meet him with a glad cry. "Walter, I have been frightened to death about you."- As she looked at him she stopped short. "For God's sake, Walter, what is it?" she exclaimed. "Nothing," he answered; but that " nothing " fell on the air between them like the dull earth on the grave. Grace sat down and covered her face with her hands. She could not speak to him. What could she have said? "Grace," -he broke the silence,- "Grace, promise me that you will keep well.," "I promise you that, and everything you wish, Walter." "You may not see me," he said," for a long time. Do not fret about me. I am strong; in time, strength gains the victory." "But, dear brother, will you not tell me where you are?" "Yes; I am at an inn on the outskirts of Rome. Do not come to see me; leave me to myself." "  But you will not go away without letting me know it?" ' No; .when I leave Rome you shall know it." They were silent again; then he put out his hand to her; she pressed it in hers. She did not dare to throw her arms around his neck. She felt that there was something in his grief too deep for spoken sympa- thy, or to be comforted by any show of affection. He left the room in silence. Grace'put her head on the table, and burst into a passion of tears. \*          I  ,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       299 "O, Walter," she sobbed out, "you were my pride--the only human love left me. One by one the brilliant visions of youth fade away, and leave us lonely on the shore, looking out over a weary waste of dark waters."   300       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XXI. CORALIE and Beatrice were alone once more. Day after day Coralie watched by Beatrice. "I wish I could do something for others, like you, Coralie. Do not think me selfish. I feel so- weak!" "Get well, Beatrice; that is the best that you can do for any one just now." "But suppose I never should get well, Coralie ; suip- pose I should never- see him again. Do you think he will come to give me his pardon? O, Coralie, I never cared for anything I did, except for fear he should find it out. Now I would give my life not to have given pain. Do you think God will forgive me?" "True repentance is forgiveness," said Coralie. "Coralie, I ought not to have any pride left; but ever since, I cannot bear the thought of Laura's see- ing me lie so low. Laura was envious of my youth. I feel as if it would be insupportable to me to have her know it was a failure." "It has not been a failure, Beatrice. Who is it says so beautifully, ' Our cedars must fall around us before we see the light?' that is, all that stands in the way of truth must vanish from our sight, until that alone rises clear and glorious before our eyes, like the sun." "I see the truth, Coralie; only I have seen it too late." She covered her eyes with her hands.    CASTE TH O UT FEAR.      301 "No, dear Beatrice, truth is not a summer friend; it stays with us through change and sorrow, through the decay of beauty and youth; it gilds our path at the last, and guides us to heaven." "Have I grown ugly, Coralie? I am not thinking of myself." "To me you are more beautiful than when I saw you in your first bloom." "I am glad I am not fearfully altered. If I were ugly," she murmured, " and if he came, he would be disappointed, perhaps, not to find anything as it was. O, no, no," she continued, burying her face in the pillow; " he might find it easier to forgive if he were not reminded too poignantly of the past. Coralie, ought I to see Laura? Perhaps it would be best to drink the cup to the dregs." "No, dear, it is not best; Laura never was kind to you; she, is not a Christian. There is no need of humbling one's soul for humility's sake, only where it can do good to accept humiliation and abnegation of self. I do not think it would do Laura any good to see you." "O, I am so glad!" said Beatrice, drawing a long breath of relief; " it has been hanging over me like a nightmare. By and by you will tell her I was pun- ished; but tell her I was brave, that I did not cringe under it. Laura would be glad to know I was crushed in spirits. O, Coralie, how the feelings of this earth cling to me!" Corahe had sent a note to her friend, Mrs. Van Brunt, when she had first come to take care of Bea- trice, saying that she had found a friend who was in trouble, that she did not know when she should return v   302 -     PERFECT LOVE to lier, that she begged of her not to seek for her, and asking her to pack up some of her clothes and send them by the bearer of her note. So Beatrice, and Coralie lived in the great city of New York ignored and unknown. As the days passed slowly by, the only break to the monotony of Coralie's life was to watch anxiously in the papers for the arrival of Harry's steamer on the other --side: it was beyond its time now, and yet it remained amongst the lists of those ships that were due. There -were reports of violent storms at sea, and various shipwrecks on the coast. Coralie's heart sank as she read of them. Beatrice took apparently little heed of the days that came and went. If Coralie, who felt deep anxiety for her condition, urged her to see a physician, she would entreat Cora- lie with such earnestness not to send for one, that her friend desisted from her persuasion. Once, unknown to Beatrice, she wrote, and asked the doctor to call; but when he came, and Coralie stepped from her own room into that of Beatrice, to prepare her for his visit, she showed so much agitation, clasping her hands, and imploring Coralie not to subject her to his scrutiny, that Corahe was obliged to send him away again. "There is but one medicine that I need, Coralie," she said; " you know what that is." She did not speak of Harry. She did not ask Cora- lie if there was news; but she would turn her head uneasily on the pillow, and ask, "What day of the month is it, Coralie?" and when Coralie told her, she would answer, "O, is that all?" and close her eyes again. Coralie watched her with increasing anxiety. There- was no news yet from Harry, and Beatrice seemed to her, hour by hour, to be fading more per-   CASTETH OU T FEAR.       303 ceptibly. Again she urged her to see the doctor, and entreated her to let her send for her father. Beatrice put her arms around Coralie's neck. "I will send for papa by and by; not now, Coralie. After I have heard something if he--you know whom, Coralie-- if he comes, I shall get well; if not, I shall die; no doctor can do me any good." And Coralie thought to herself that if Harry re- turned, bringing Mr. Leigh, there would be a sudden change in Beatrice's condition - a stimulus that would revive her. But Coralie's heart, brave as it was, sank when she remembered that she had as yet received no word from Harry. ' Would that I had gone myself," she murmured. "If anything happens to him, if he is cut off in the prime of his youth and strength, with the battle of life -before him, his laurels yet unwon, it will be I who have deprived him of his honors and his rights; for manhood is the strife and the victory. Had we been two men together, I would gladly have gone forth with him upon some glorious mission, as comrades in war, as crusaders of peace'; but as his wife, I could not bind myself. Marriage seems to me to shackle the soul; it makes it dependent upon human affection, and, in one sense, upon material comforts, for you can- not go counter in all things to another's tastes; it fixes you to time and place. I would not do him the un- conscious wrong, if I were bound to him, to wish myself free; no, Harry. May God bless you with another's love; for love is the golden cord which binds most of its children to the earth." The current of Coralie's thoughts was broken- by a   304'      PERFECT LOVE knock at the door- -a telegram. Coralie opened it with trembling fingers. It read,- "A terrible passage out. Arrived in Liverpool at five'A. M. En rotute again immediately. H. S." She went on tiptoe to Beatrice's room. Beatrice looked up inquiringly. "Good news, Beatrice. Harry has arrived safe on the other side. He is on his way to Rome." The next day came another message. "In London, five P. M., en route for Paris." For two days similar despatches followed. He was continuing upon his journey as rapidly as steam could carry him. Then came news, saying he was at Rome. Then two days elapsed, and brought no tidings.   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       '305 CHAPTER XXTL. Add'ARRY SINCLAIR arrived in Rome late one afternoon in the latter part of the month of November. No sooner had he refreshed himself at the hotel, than he started out in quest of Mrs. Le Roy's house. -He found Miss Le Roy at home. Grace's sweet, sad face gave him a kindly welcome. She remembered what Beatrice had told her about her brother Harry - how he was unhappy for the sake of a beautiful girl who did not love him. As her eyes rested on his handsome face, with its open, frank expression, she wondered how this could be. Their conversation was constrained and embar- rassed, for every subject seemed in some way con- nected with what was of keen suffering to both of them.' Harry spoke to her of Walter with respect and affection. Then he asked her if he was still in Rome, and if she would favor him with his address? Grace gave it to him as nearly as she could. After' this he remained a few moments longer, talking to her of objects as indifferent to each of them in interest as possible; then he rose, and extending to her his hand with cordiality, he took leave of her. Grace stood for some time rooted to the spot where he had left her. Had he come, she asked herself, to seek Walter? And where was she who was once his beloved wife? Grace had sought not to question her o 20   306       PERFECT LOVE own heart too closely. She had forever stilled its first ' and only passion. It was enough for her to know that she whom Walter had so dearly loved, had been the object of her lover's desire - had stepped between his and her love. She knew nothing of the cause of the mysterious separation between Beatrice and Walter, but her instincts seemed to tell her that he who had once been her betrothed was intimately connected with her-brother's sorrows. Had Harry Sinclair come. now to challenge Walter in the name of his sister's honor? O, why had she not appealed to all that was sacred in his soul to withhold him from such a. step? Or had he, perhaps, come to befriend Walter in his loneliness and misery? to let him know that he be- lieved in him, and condemned her? She longed to fly now to Walter, as she had yearned to do for many a day; but he had requested her not to come to him, and his wishes were law to her heart. Walter was still in Rome, although Grace had not seen him since that day when all was forever changed for him. He had said to her then- that he would not leave without letting her know of 'his departure, and no passing doubt shook her confidence in his word. Grace said nothing to her aunt of her interview with Harry. She made an excuse for retiring earlier than usual to her room, and when shut in there alone, she gave way to her emotions, and wept bitter tears. Harry Sinclair, on leaving Grace, had hastened forth in the direction she had indicated in search of Mr. Leigh. As he walked rapidly along, he forgot to look around him. He passed unheeding the wondrous architecture of Rome. He was absorbed in his own thoughts. The simplicity and dignity of Grace's man-   CASTE TH OUT FEAR.      307 ners had deeply impressed him. How was it possible-- - that, having once loved her, one could be unfaithful to so gentle and pure a nature? Womanly truth and tenderness were mirrored in her eyes. Then his mind turned to Beatrice, so brilliantly beautiful, who had flitted through the sunny atmosphere of youth like a gilded butterfly, now lying broken-hearted -a victim to her own vanity. The image of Coralie that he always bore with him rose vividly before him, noble and grand. To have known and loved her was suffi- cient to guard a man forever from low thoughts and base acts. The memory of such a woman wag a shield against all temptations. Even the pain he had undergone for her sake had been a spur to noble and high desires. He drew near to the place where he hoped to find Mr. Leigh. It appeared to be the only hotel in that direction. He went in, and asked at the office if Mr. Leigh staid there. The porter told him that he would probably find the gentleman in his room, as he seldom or never went out. Harry went up stairs, and knocked at the door indicated. There was no answer from within. Harry repeated his knock, and Some one said,--  'I "Come in."  He opened the door. Walter was seated at a table, which was covered with manuscripts. He was ap- parently finishing something he was:writing; he did' not raise his head immediately. The light fell upon him as he wrote. Harry paused before he advanced to speak to him, so struck was he with the aged look of Walter's face. He' felt as if years,. instead of weeks, had passed over him since last they met. Mr. Leigh lifted his eyes; he rose, and came forward     308       PERFECT LO VE to meet Harry; he pressed his hand warmly; neither of them spoke. He motioned to Harry to take a seat. Harry sat down. "You were writing," said Harry, at length. "Yes; I was trying to colle6t and put in order some desultory notes. I did not know you were on the Continent. Where did you come from?" "I came, Leigh, in search of you- I came for you." 'For me?" "Yes, my sister is ill." "Where is she?" said Walter. In New York. Miss De Blois is with her. Cora. lie would have come herself to seek you, so insistent was she upon your coming, but Beatrice needed her care. She believes that Beatrice has a right to-ask you to come to her." -Whilst Harry was speaking, Walter Leigh had shaded his eyes with his hand; his head was bent; he did not answer. "There is no time to lose," Harry continued. "I am to telegraph immediately whether or no you will come with me. I respect you, Leigh. I would not have consented to ask of you what I believed to be inconstent with your honor - what I would not have demanded of myself." "I believe you," said Walter. "And will you go with me?" Mr. Leigh got up, and walked the room; then he came to where Harry sat. "Yes, I will go with you, Harry," he said. Thank you," said Harry, rising and giving him his hand. "I will hurry to the office, and send 'my de- spatch; then I will return. Be here," he said, look-   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       309 ing at his watch, "just two hours before we are to be off." He left the room, and Walter crossed his arms upon the table, and bent his head upon them. He remained thus for some time; then he took a piece of paper, and wrote on it,- "Mydearest Grace, forgive me that I have not seen you these many days. I had need to be alone. Harry Sinclair is here; we leave together for New. York this afternoon. God bless you, dear sister, and believe me ever to be your devoted brother." Then he gathered up his papers, and put them in his valise. He sat down again, burying his face in his hands. In two hours from the time Harry had said that he would come for him, he knocked at Walter's door. They left the hotel together on their way homeward.   310       PERFECT LOVE CHAPTER XXTT. i"T was a long and tedious voyage to all the passengers. To Harry Sinclair and Mr. Leigh it seemed unendurable. Harry had received no news since he left of those who were waiting for them. He had hoped, on his return to London, to find a word from Coralie; but there was nothing awaiting him. They: arrived in New York more than a fortnight from the time they had sailed. Harry called a carriage. "Shall we drive directly to her?" he asked of Walter. "Yes," Mr, Leigh answered. -Harry ordered the coachman tolstop at the Fifth Avenue Hotel. They drove on in silence. -Was a desire to see Beatrice uppermost in Walter's mind? He did not himself know. The bitterness of hatred and love, anxiety and dread, was struggling in his heart. Harry, too, was abstracted. He was thinking of his meeting with Coralie. Had she thrown him one kindly thought during his absence? Would she have one feeling, save that of gratitude for Beatrice's sake, at his return? Harry believed not, and yet he never regretted that he loved Coralie. The carriagestopped; Harry's heart beat fast; he   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        3" looked at Leigh; he betrayed no emotion; his face was pale and rigid, "We have arrived," said Harry. He sprang out. Leigh followed him. "Wait here," he said to the cabman; and Harry led the way up stairs to her room. He tapped gently at the door. Coralie opened it; she stretched out her hands in silence to both, and placed her fingers on her lips. There was a tender emotion in her face that Harry had never seen there before. "Come in," she said, in a low whisper. They stepped noiselessly inside. Mr. Leigh went to the window. "Who' is it, Coralie?" said a faint voice from within. Coralie made a sign to Harry not to speak; she passed into the next room to Beatrice. Harry could hear her in gentle tones answering Beatrice's ques- tions. "Who is it,-Coralie?" "Friends, dear.?" "Have. they come to see me?" '! Yes, Beatrice." "It is not any one that you said you would send for? It is not the doctor, nor my father -is it, Coralie?  "No, no, Beatrice. Whom would you like best to see in the world?" Beatrice had started up in bed; her hands were clasped; there were burning spots upon her cheeks. ("Who is it?" she said,--" who is it? For pity's sake,' tell me who it is, Coraliel" "' Harry has come, Beatrice." "And who else - who else, Coralie?" "Walter."7   312       PERFECT LOVE There was no answer from the bed. ' Beatrice! Beatrice!" She had fainted. Coralie opened the window, and bathed her temples with cold water. . - I am better," she said, at length, opening her eyes, and drawing a long breath. "Tell him to come in, Coralie." 1 "Wait a moment, dear." "No, Coralie; there is no time to spare." Coralie stepped into the other room. Walter Leigh had his back turned. He was leaning against the window. She went up to him, and touched him on the shoulder. "Go in," she said. "She wants to see you." Walter went in to the bedside of his wife. Beatrice had raised herself with effort. Her poor, transparent hand was extended towards him; then it sank power- less on the coverlet. He could not withstand its silent appeal; he drew it to his lips. "Walter," she said, "it was good of you to come. I deceived you in everything. It is well that all is as it is. I have repented. I was not false to you. I loved you always. I was engaged to that other. I broke my engagement for the sake of your love. I feared to tell you, lest you should ceasebto love me. I gave him what you witnessed - that' last kiss- to bribe him. He had my letters. I waited for you all that night. I knew you knew it, because you did not come." She sank -back upon her pillow. Walter knelt down by her bed; he covered his face with his hands, and groaned. He felt her hand upon his head. "Dearest," she said,--" dearest, speak to me. At   CASTETH OUT FEAR.        313 the last one can forgive. I could not have gone without that. I should not have rested in the other world. I longed so for rest!" Walter- was weeping. He could not trust. himself to speak. "Tell Grace everything. God watched over her. Iwas the cruel means of a kinder destiny to her than she would have had. I have suffered so, Walter!" she said, with a low wail. "Can't you pardon me?" ' O, my beloved!" he cried, drawing her closer and closer to him (the beautiful golden hair fell on his shoulder, her arms were around his neck), "I was no true follower of Christ, or you would not have feared me. I had a hard nature, and my sin has met with its just punishment. Forgive me, my wife." He felt her arms relax their hold; her head dropped upon his breast   He looked ,at her. Her eyes were closed, whilst a radiant smile parted her lips. "Beatrice!, Beatrice!"Walter cried. There was no answer. Corahe had heard the cry. In a moment she stood by Walter's side. He was kneeling by Beatrice's bed. It seemed as if the in- tensity of that gaze must call her back to life. The beautiful head had fallen lifeless upon the pillow, and the hand which Coralie took in hers was cold as marble. Coralie leaned forward, and listened for Be- atrice's breath. She heard nothing.  Hastily she moved to the table. Taking up a hand-glass, she placed it over Beatrice's lips. She removed it. A gleam of joy shot in her eyes as she handed it silently to Walter, and pointed to the gathered mist upon its surface. For days and nights Walter and Coralie watched   314 ' -     PERFECT LO E . over Beatrice; for weeks her recovery seemed impos- sible. With her hand locked in Walter's, she would murmur, anxiously,-      , "Has he come, Coralie? Has he come? or is it a dream?"  "No, dear, it is not a dream. He is here," Coralie would 'answer gently. And Walter, bending down to his wife, whispered,- "I am here, my beloved." S    , k '                \   C4STETH OUT FEAR.     -  315 CHAPTER XXIV. HREE years had passed since Beatrice Leigh was lying ill unto death- years) for Beatrice, rich in repentance, hope, and love. Walter and his wife sat together in their boudoir. The shadows without were deepening. It was the mystic hour of twilight- the hour when hearts most easily reveal themselves. A fire burned upon the hearth. Its flickering light played fitfully over the different objects of the room. It glanced in the ripples Of Beatrice', hair. Walter was standing, gazing dreamily into the uncertain flame. He turned; his eye rested upon Beatrice. Into his mind came the memory of their wedding day-- that early morn- ing, when Beatrice, running to greet him, had stood in the porch-way of her father's house, the sun gild- ing her golden locks, until to Walter it had seemed to form a halo around her head, a symbol of the highest and holiest love. His had been its fruition; and more hallowed was to him now the subdued light that again, to his imagination, rayed in a circle from her hair. He took from his pocket his diary. Open- ing it, he drew forth the curl which he had cut from her head by the river's side, - there,where they had first told each other of their love. It sparkled still. Youth, love, and happiness lingered in its bright threads.   316       PERFECT LOVE "Look," he said. "I have never parted from it since that day! That was the first morning of my life, Beatrice; the day when the sun rose radiant over my soul, and showed me all the beauty of life and love. Its deeper, true meaning has come to me since then, my beloved. The Aurora of one's man- hood is' not the brightest nor the best time, only it is then that, waking from a long sleep, the sun-lit world boundlessly stretched before one, one catches for the first time a glimpse of the glorious goal. Youth knows only his undaunted strength. It is later, when the wrestle comes,--when one learns that it is not alone muscle which conquers,-- that the battle is not of to-day,- that one may never pose his arms. Then it is that life becomes significant, and worth the strife'., "h, Walter!" said Beatrice, looking earnestly at him, "I shrink from myself, when I think what a -coward I have been I It is, indeed, well that we are powerless to carve our own destinies. I wanted to die, that I might escape this fight. Thank God, that though my scars were got in inaction, I shall wear them unto death." "I fear it does not require great bravery to bear these scars," said Walter, smiling. "You are more -beautiful than ever/' "Do not say that, Walter. Do not say that vanity ate into my heart. It corroded my soul. You do not know how despicably vain I was. I never moved, I never spoke, that I did not wonder how much others admired me. -I cared not what pain I inflicted, so that all cdentred on myself, my own heart free. O," she cried, covering her face with her hands, as if to   CASTETH OUZT FEAR.       317 hide the blood that was mounting painfully to her brow, "the beauty of the flesh has become almost hateful to me. Whenever you praise my looks, Wal- ter, it gives me a pain that I have scarcely dared to confess to you. It was not necessary to die for pun- ishment, Walter. Sin brings its own chastisement. I never feel wholly worthy of you. My blessings are all undeserved." Walter stooped, and gently kissed away the tear that was trickling through her hand. "Do not speak so, dearest. I never remember anything of the past, save my gratitude to-God that I have you still with me. Do you indeed believe me to be implacable? If so, I must have profited little by those many days and nights of anguish passed by your bedside." "O0, n nono, Walter. You are all goodness to me. You have long since forgiven me. That I know, but I never can forgive myself. I am glad that I can say it; gladder that I feel it, great as the grief is which it brings." "Let me come in!" exclaimed a little voice from without." A smile illuminated Beatrice's face. ' Great, big Walter, let in the little. Walter," she said. Walter opened the door. A beautiful child, with large, dark eyes, and golden hair, burst into the room. His cheeks were flushed with a moment's expectancy. "I have waited long!" he cried out. , ' "Have you?" said Beatrice, stretching out her arms to him. "We have waited so long for you, my   318       PERFECT LOVE darling l"At the same time she looked up at her hus- band, with a questioning glance. Walter answered it with an expression of fond pride in his eyes. "Yes, he is indeed all that one's heart could desire." "He shal be great, and he shall be good, Walter. Goodness is the best and greatest of gifts. He shall be as true as steel." Her lips quivered, as she added, in a lowered tone, "He shall never deceive any one. How I wish Coralie could see him! If he had been a little girl, he would have been our Coralie, with the exception of that name. I would rather have had him what he is." "You might have called him Coriolanus," said Wal- ter, laughing. "Ah, dearest Coralie, broke in Beatrice, "I wonder why we do not hear from her. It is now two years, and no word of Coralie. Sometimes I imagine eveiy- thing terrible. Coralie's free nature could not be chained in a convent. If she would not love Harry, she will never marry. Of that I am certain. Poor Harry I Since the French war has ended, after those accounts came, telling of her noble devotien to the wounded soldiers, all has been silence. Whenever I re-read those articles, though my heart glows with emotion, I cannot but think how distasteful to Coralie would have been this praise. The deed should live, but I would be forever forgotten. This was Coralie's desire. Yet Coralie cannot be dead I " she said, with a. suppressed sob. "No, she was too grand to pass away, and never be heard of any more. Coralie is not ,   CASTETH OUT FEAR.       319 dead." After a few minutes' pause, Beatrice spoke again: - "I am so happy, dear Walter, that Grace is on her way to us! Grace will love the little Walter. He will have two mothers when she comes. Be all to Grace. Do all for her that you can. She is one of the, sweetest creatures in the world. Her first love was unworthy of her. She has forgotten him. We cannot love what we have ceased to respect. Harry will never forget the noble Coralie. But who knows what may ' come around to him who patient stands and waits'? Ah, Walter," she said, leaning her head upon his- shoulder, and looking up fearlessly in his face, "I have nothing that I would conceal from you now. All my inmost thoughts are yours. 'Perfect love indeed casteth out fear.'" Walter drew his wife silently closer and closer to his heart.    
         
       
   
